

The Bulletin
Australia 1/-, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION - EST. 1880


t --C
- '■-
IJj® Wisp
4 «h >V
Rk A
■«3
AN
,/✓
5MMM!a3HC|g!ti~-i%| Js~s Jk*•. .'I*' 1 *' ■ i,;£-
- » ?"
Bjtot3aagy*9^ai*^:.. - &&. :>i
: ■ :
HlHf
gßp|pWBi|ipii
A-V-
-rtW- !
Mi
sss
W%’mm&
SiHaiiaemsm
m
vmssai
?sa
figflSife
- mmm
■ •>* ;•'
■
i. 4 j:
, ■ y


National Notebook
Superb detail
Tn the past it has always been the
A custom to give Junior healthy, clean
presents, those designed for the elimina-
tion of his fellows —rockets, forty-fives,
25-pounders, battleships, atom bombers,
even atomic cannons. This Christmas
there is a boom in the scientific toy,
the visible “kits” in particular. Not only
can you buy the visible man which
enables one to put together an entire
human male, bit by bit, but you can get
the visible woman, visible dog, visible
horse, visible eye and visible heart.
There’s a good deal of educational
fun to be had in sticking into place
jugular veins, subclavian arteries, para-
central lobes on the brain and such.
But to get the real picture listen to the
blurb on the box for the visible head:
“Words cannot adequately describe
this incredible and truly amazing an-
atomical model. It con-
forms faithfully to the
highest laboratory stand-
ards. Each tooth can be
extracted. The inner ear
is a unit in itself and can
be all dis-assembled to
reveal all its parts. The
eye comes apart to show all its parts.
The complete brain, the spinal cord, the
vertebrae, the organs and glands of the
mouth and throat, and all of the neck
and facial muscles are presented in
superb details.”
On their toes
\ Sydney father of our acquaintance
is still reeling at the revolution in
end-of-term concerts as exemplified by
the eastern suburbs demonstration school
his child attends. Goaded by his wife
and wearing a doing-my-bit-for-the-little
one’s-psyche expression he filed into the
hall with other equally apprehensive
fathers.
He dutifully sat through “Christmas
In All Lands,” “Tannenbaum” rendered
by the third year and “The First Nowell.”
But after brief addresses by the prin-
cipals the pace quickened to include a
one-acter to music composed and played
by an 11-year-old pianist, and ended in
a “Dance Drama —Pictures at An Ex-
hibition.” This consisted of prolonged
and capable miming to the Moussorgski
music that had the entire audience, in-
cluding a nationally known TV person-
ality there in the capacity of father,
rising to their feet in spontaneous ap-
plause.
The entire programme was over at 9
P.m. and the fathers filed out in plenty
of time to toast the end-of-term festivi-
ties. Our father opined that such affairs
had changed radically since his day when
confusion, frustration and fatigue were
the norm.
Inaccessible
F ong since gone are days when you
could take a nice leisurely
steamer from Melbourne right up the
beautiful wooded reaches of the Tamar
to Launceston Town. The Princess of
Tasmania lands you up in Devonport and
the car ferries only go as far as Bell Bay,
about 30 miles from Launceston.
Talking about Bell Bay, where The
Bulletin looked over the mushrooming
aluminium plant last week, it is a devil
of a job getting there from the mainland,
except by car ferry, of course. The first
part of the trip by air from Essendon is
quick enough but the ’plane lands you
on the wrong side of the river about a
dozen miles from the nearest crossing
place at Launceston. This means a good
11 hours’ bus ride, in our case in a very
slow bus indeed, although admittedly
over intriguing countryside.
Mr. West has Something
to Say
IV/foßßis West took the opportunity at
the end of the second performance,
which was for charity, of his play,
“Daughter of Silence,” at Sydney’s In-
dependent Theatre, to make some slightly
bad-tempered and boorish remarks on
Australian theatre, its critics, and the
lack of support by Australians of their
theatre. Mr West told the audience how
proud he was of “these people who had
mounted this play on less than what it
costs to put on a half day’s rehearsal in
New York.” Just as our nationalistic
pulse began to beat a
little faster he added:
“And I’ve seen worse
productions than this
one.”
“Australian critics,” Mr
West told the audience,
“were grudging and un-
generous” when discussing Australian
plays and productions. This may have
had something to do with the fact that
none of the dailies had given Mr West
or the production rave reviews after the
opening night.
Mr West said how much he loved this
country and how he returned here “as
often as I can.” He warmed to his
nationalistic theme by pleading for
special treatment of Australian produc-
tions to help the growth of theatre here.
A PALACE LETTER Page 31l
Rabbits and Prince Philip
•
A Jonah on Actors 6|
The Waifs of Kure 10
Sidney Nolan Artists In
Armor 12 1
Stevenson and Cuba 14
Mr Fogarty’s Silent Spokes-
man 17<
The Great Council of Fathers—
First the Devil Goes to Work 20 j
Callow—Short Story by Hal
Porter 23
Middy’s Christmas .. .... 25
What Acheson Said .... .... 29
Spain Veers Left 30
Dean Dixon’s Mozart 33;
Generation on Trial a Re-
view off John Wain’s
“Sprightly Running” 36 j
Wheat Marketing 40'
Business Marches into 1963 .... 41]
Sunnyside in Oil Search .... 431
@
TANNER ..... 4' j
PLAIN ENGLISH ..... 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 6 !
OUT AND ABOUT 10!
NEW YORK Newsletter 141
BUYING A WINE? 16
AROUND MELBOURNE 17
ROME NEWSLETTER 20
SHORT STORY 23
OVERSEAS 28
LETTERS 31
REVIEWS 33
RED PAGE 36
MAN ON THE LAND 40 j
WORLD OF BUSINESS 4L
FEIFFER 51
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone
27-5971. Melbourne: Phone MF 3341. Bris-
bane: Phone 82691. Adelaide: Phone
W 4121-3.
Vol. 85
No. 4322


It wouldn’t surprise us if one of these
days helicopters are seen alighting on
the roof of Comalco’s new Victorian
home at 95 Collins Street, ferrying the
executives of the company to their
rapidly expanding w'orks across the strait,
in the manner of Mr. Reg Ansett flying
daily to w'ork in the city.
Do It Yourself
lyiELBouRNE's famine of beer cans and
■*■*■*■ bottles has prompted Excise officials
to issue a stern warning against illegal
home-brewing—which only raised the
question of how one can make home-
brew legally. An official explained that
the intending beer-maker must register
himself as a brewer and his home as a
brewery. The annual fee varies with the
amount of beer made, but the minimum
is £25.
Whether his beer is sweet or bitter,
cloudy or clear, flat or uncontrollably
frothy, he has to pay excise at the rate
of 9s. lOd. a gallon, equivalent to about
Is. 7d. a bottle. The regulations also
provide that the following records shall
be kept: a brewer's diary and delivery
store book, a plain delivery book, a
monthly account (presumably of excise
due), cartnote forms, forms of entry and
accounts of beer returned to the brewery.
All in all. the legitimate home brewer
would need to set aside another room in
his house to cope with the paper work.
At the same time, if a few thousand
citizens availed themselves of their rights
to register as brewers, the excisemen
would obviously be panting for breath.
Personally, we‘d like to see a few light-
house-keepers enrolling as brewers just
to test the tenacity of the Queen's men.
Idiot Drivers
T>art of the art of driving a car was
in learning to put up W'ith the
idiocy of other drivers, Mr E. M. Bing-
ham said in Hobart Magistrate’s Court
last week. Perhaps reflecting that the
same divine patience is required in
magistrates, Mr Bingham dismissed a
charge against a young man w'ho had
been exasperated beyond endurance by
a highway idiot.
Twenty-one-year-old Stanley Gibbon
had pleaded guilty to a charge of
having assaulted another young man by
punching him. Gibbon said that he had
been followed by a car with undipped
headlamps and a spotlight. Whenever
he slowed or accelerated, the driver of
the following car carefully maintained
station right behind him.
Gibbon later saw the car parked. He
W'ent over to the driver to complain,
only to be met w'ith laughter. He lost
his temper, he said, and slapped the
other driver.
Background on Russo
HPhe recent flutter over his Cuban
broadcast is a reminder that Dr
Peter Russo once commanded far larger
Australian audiences than he has now
for his occasional ABC commentaries.
He was most frequently seen in print
during the final years of the Melbourne
“Argus” when he contributed highly-
polished, often ironical pieces on the
news of the day. Then for some years
he was without a newspaper platform,
until a brief phase with the Rupert Mur-
doch chain, in the period when Cyril
Pearl was editing the Sydney “Sunday
Mirror,” Russo’s weekly commentaries
were syndicated to Murdoch papers in
other States, but not to his Melbourne
“Truth”. This was odd because Mel-
bourne w'as Russo's home town and the
city where he w'as best known.
One explanation was that the fastidious
Russo refused to have his column pub-
lished in “Truth”, even though it was
little like the lurid sheet of former days.
Russo was educated at St Patrick's
College, Ballarat, and Newman College
at the University of Melbourne. He w'ent
to Japan on a scholarship in 1930 and
studied there for some years, learning the
language well enough to act as interpre-
ter to Bernard Shaw when the playw'right
visited Tokyo in 1933. He later worked
for several Japanese missions abroad, in-
cluding the “goodw'ill mission” to Aus-
tralia led by Katsuji Debuchi, a former
ambassador to the USA.
In his “Argus” period Russo was re-
garded as left-wing, an impression which
may be strengthened by the anti-Ameri-
can tone of his now famous broadcast
on Cuba. In his Tokyo days, it was
otherwise; in May, 1940, he received
from the King of Mussolini's Italy, the
Order of Knight of the Crown of Italy
for his services to cultural understanding
between the two Axis powers. In a pro-
"Nobody believes in anything
anymore
"Religion, peace, goodwill,
kindliness


file of Russo, the Melbourne writer John
Hetherington has described the interest
of Australian security officials in his
subject after he returned to Australia,
shortly before Pearl Harbour. Hethering-
ton, however, omits any mention of the
gong which Russo received from King
Victor Emmanuel.
With Love and Irony
HPwenty-six King William pine seed-
lings were recently brought to
Hobart from a grove of young trees high
on the side of Mt Murchison on Tas-
mania's West Coast. The “King Billy”
and the Huon pine once grew prolifically
in the cold Tasmanian rain forests. They
have almost all gone, ruthlessly used for
their beautiful and enduring soft timber
or razed by the fires which have swept
the stands too remote for the axemen.
Olegas Truchanas led a party of 14
members of Hobart Walking Club to Mt
Murchison. Caught in a swirling mist,
they spent a night in their hiking tents
at 4000 ft. Next morning they dug up
and carefully packed the seedlings, which
have now been planted in suitable places
in Hobart and at remote Port Davey.
A Malayan student from Sydney Uni-
versity on a visit to Tasmania was among
the party which went to Mt Murchison.
Tasmanians may find it ironic that he
was there to help save specimens of their
vanishing softwoods, for it is timber from
Malaya which is most actively threaten-
ing prosperity of the Tasmanian hard-
wood industry.
Tanner
“11l bet Peter Russo thinks Pm
from Security/'
PLAIN ENGLISH
WHEN FRIENDS FALL OUT
an Australian point of view one of the most heartening political
developments in Asia has been Tungku Abdul Rahman’s uncom-
promising efforts to create and launch his Greater Malaysia — an
economically sound, anti-Communist bloc of 10.000,000 or more people
strategically placed at the tip of Communist-threatened South East Asia
and bordering uncertain Indonesia. On the ground the realities to be faced
in launching Malaysia by August of next year are formidable and the
whole area could explode into a violent three-way struggle between the
Philippines, Malaya and Indonesia for pan-Malavsian leadership as the
rebellion in Brunei has shown.
The Borneo Territories are being brought into Malaysia not merely
to add oil to tin and rubber but to add people of Malay stock to redress
the imbalance between Malays and Chinese in Malaya — an imbalance
which will become insupportable in Malay eyes with the addition of
Singapore’s 1,000,000 Chinese.
Despite glib reassurances contained in the Cobbold Commission
report there is undoubtedly a ground swell against Malaysia in the Borneo
Territories and especially in Brunei. Whether trained in Indonesia — as
first claimed—or receiving help from it, the forces led by Sheik Azahari
(who operated from the Philippines) are striking out for independence.
It may not be much of an independence movement but it has some
solid backing from members of Borneo’s Malay tribes, many of whom
are decidedly antipathetic to the whole concept of Malaysia. Nor has
the Tungku’s case been helped by the British who have unwisely headed
the Philippines into a corner over claims to the area where the Sultan
of Sulu’s heirs might as easily have been bought out years ago.
These are merely some of the practical problems in a now extremely
uncertain area which prove once again the folly of some Australian illu-
sions about the monolithic nature of Asia which in reality is as divided
by races, language and political aspirations as Africa. The Brunei affair
is not over yet and it is significant that two countries violently opposed
to Communism — one of them a SEATO member — and both vitally
interested in creating a strong and stable area around them are engaged
. i . O O O O
m bitter struggle.
THE RIGHT TO BE WRONG
JT is probably inevitable that from time to time there will be complaints
about ABC news commentaries in a way which there would not be
about commentaries in private newspapers or on commercial radio,
because although the ABC rightly gives its commentators the maximum
freedom of speech, foreigners often think — as Australian political leaders
must realise — that something said on a Government-financed radio must
have the backing of the Government. This illusion could easily lead to
trouble for Australia in a period of crisis if a commentator says something
contrary to the Government’s policy or, as in the case of Dr Peter Russo’s
remarks about Cuba, something not particularly sensible. (Dr Russo’s
contribution to the discussion of the Cuba situation in which Russia nearly
got away with a dangerous and provocative attempt to move into Ame-
rica s backyard, was to have seen both countries as equally guilty of lying
about details and equally evil.) Foreigners will simply have to learn that
the ABC is a comparatively free institution and that its talks do not reflect
Government policy. It is deplorable that Dr J. R. Darling had to defend
Russo’s right to be wrong and commendable that he did so.


THIS AUSTRALIA
TV
A JONAH ON ACTORS
No work at Christmas
HAL ALEXANDER
Replay fees
MPhe final burying of the TV historical
series “Jonah” last week by Actors’
Equity and ATN 7 in Sydney has under-
lined the dilemma which faces anyone
who w’ants to produce a successful Aus-
tralian television series. The dilemma is
this: if you are good enough to produce
a drama series which is wanted by over-
seas television companies, will you be
able to finish production? Or must you
aim at a mediocre performance which
won't sell overseas but which will keep
you in work in Australia?
“Jonah" was nothing out of the box
but it roused ATA and the BBC in
Britain sufficiently for them both to
make offers to buy the series. But as
soon as AJ N announced the overseas
sale of the series (after about 18 of the
26 had been completed) Actors’ Equity,
led by ex-vaudeville artist Hal Alexander,
immediately put in their claim on be-
half of the “Jonah” actors for re-use
(or replay) fees.
In a series of complicated meetings
and discussions Equity eventually told
their members to cease work on “Jonah”
until ATN had agreed to pay the cast re-
use fees. ATN also announced that it
would not continue the series until Equity
announced that it would not demand the
fees.
When the smoke had blown away a
few things became clear. The first was
that the 100 or so people employed on
“Jonah” were not in favor of cutting off
their means of livelihood (especially with
Christmas almost on them) although they
agreed in principle with Equity’s claims.
The second was that it took Hal
Alexander and Equity four days before
they bothered to consult the “Jonah” cast
on the proposed stoppage. The whole
dispute, except for one general meeting
held very late in the piece, had been
conducted on an Executive and Council
level mostly by non-television actor
members of Equity.
What has been missed by most people,
and quietly forgotten by Mr Alexander,
is that when the three permanent players
in the series, Brian James, Hillary
Bamberger, and Neil Fitzpatrick, signed
their contracts they waived their right
to replay fees. This was okayed by Mr
Alexander at the time: he was unhappy
about it although he allowed the con-
tracts to be signed. But when the series
was sold overseas the replay argument
was immediately raised.
Equity claims a replay fee of 25 per
cent on the original fee paid to their
members if a production is sold to tele-
vision interests in Great Britain. In
America, because of larger audiences,
they claim 100 per cent. Equity also
claims a repeat fee in Australia and
although they have won no ground with
commercial television the ABC pays in-
itially lower fees but pays a replay fee of
50 per cent for the first repeat perform-
ance. (Now that Equity has lost another
replay battle the ABC is understandably
enough objecting to being the only
“bunny” paying the fees. This may in
time raise some problems for Equity.)
But what will give Equity a shock are
the increasing murmurs among its acting
members who believe they are getting a
raw deal from their union. They describe
Equity as mainly operating for the bene-
fit of “chorus girls and beer garden
entertainers.” A hint of what is to come
occurred about six months ago when
about 80 people, a large number of
them belonging to Equity formed them-
selves into an unofficial writers’ guild
to try and improve their conditions.
Some weeks ago Equity members engaged
in television started unofficially meeting
to discuss the conditions under which
they are employed. Again it was dis-
satisfaction with the way the members’
interests were being looked after by
Equity.
The implications of the fuss over
‘ Jonah” are serious. Actors who have
been forced to stop work say that it is
regrettable for the replay issue to dry up
further the few remaining sources of
work for Australian actors. It is not
generally realised how little work there
is for Australian actors. There are at
least two reasons for this: with radio
now concerned mainly with pop records
and news capsules few serials are run;
and there is less professional theatre in
Australia than even four years ago. (One
actor even went so far as to say that the
boom in “little” amateur theatres had
ruined the opportunities for professional
theatre.)
Perhaps the worst thing about the
“Jonah” affair is that this will stop any
other attempts by Australian commercial
television to produce live theatre for
CHRISTMAS THOUGHTS
December 23, 1882
Qne of the commonest of the many
delusions we cherish is that we
are human people. At Deniliquin, the
other day, an unfortunate wretch was
left dangling and kicking in the air
for half an hour before life was ex-
tinguished
lyi'R David Beath of Beath, Schiess
& Co. is president of the Mel-
bourne Association of Ker-ristian
Young Men, and in his clothing
factory David employs a lot of young
women who are evidently heathen.
They must be heathens. They’ve
struck. They’ve absolutely declined
to continue any longer in the service
of this holy man. There are nearly
three hundred of these girls and
they’re all “out” except 20 who can’t
help themselves and are forced by
sheer necessity to keep their noses
t 0 the grindstone of the boss of the
Young Men's Christian Association,
T^ e ,^ e a dipping from the Age
Melbourne: “We are informed that
under the latest wage reductions two
of the smartest girls in the factory
were unable, last week, to earn more
than fifteen shillings, though they
worked hard for fourteen hours a
day.” The facts as stated by the
“Age” have not been controverted.
If the “Age’s” statement is correct,
we say God help the sewing girls of
Melbourne, for the pious president
of the YMCA doesn’t seem inclined
to help them.


TV here. When Actors’ Equity claims
“the minimum percentage of Australian-
made programmes telecast in Australia
should not be less than 55 per cent of
the total time of transmission by each
TV service and when a company does
something to meet this, what they get
for their pains is a refusal to work.
Nevertheless there is a case for re-use
fees which are paid in most overseas
countries. What The Bulletin said back
in July last year still holds: “Australian
viewers will have to reconcile themselves
to periodic stoppages over ‘repeat’ fees”.
Viewers certainly can—but can actors?
PETER KELLY
LAW
BAKER v. GOUGH
When churchmen fall out
Rev. H. W. BAKER
Without turning a head
A Daniel sat in judgment on warring
Christians in Sydney last week. In
the Equity Court, Mr Justice Jacobs, one
of that group of Supreme Court judges
who go to the Great Synagogue for the
opening service of the Law Term, held
that the dismissal of the Rev. Harold
William Baker from his position as
chaplain of The King's School, Parra-
matta, NSW, was invalid.
The Reverend Mr Harold Baker, 57,
chaplain of The King's School, Parra-
matta, since 1937, had come to court to
ask for an order to restrain the council
of the school and the Anglican Arch-
bishop of Sydney, Dr Gough, its e\
officio president, from dismissing him
and revoking his licence as a priest.
For Mr Baker, Mr E. St. John, QC
appeared. Mr St. John, best known out-
side legal circles for his report on the
South African treason trial for the Inter-
national Commission of Jurists, comes
from an Anglican canon’s family. His
brother is diocesan registrar in Brisbane.
Appearing for the council of The
King's School was Mr Norman Jenkyn.
QC (Fort Street High), diocesan advo-
cate for Sydney. Dr Gough had his
own counsel, Mr Alan Kerrigan, QC, who
early in his career had actually taught
at King's as an assistant master.
From the opening of the case the legal
tangles came thick and fast. After a
skirmish about the whole basis of the
case, Mr Baker went into the witness
box. His examination by Mr St. John
was interrupted by a virtual barrage of
objections from Mr Jenkyn. who at one
stage took five grounds of objection
against one single question.
What emerged from the examination
and cross-examination was that Mr
Baker claimed that the school council
had not called on him to show cause
why he should not be dismissed as it
should have done under the chaplain’s
ordinance— and that he held a “par-
son’s freehold”, and hence his licence
could not be revoked unless he was
charged and found guilty before some
ecclesiastical tribunal.
Although Dr Gough was joined in
the case he had not been present at any
of the council meetings, where the chap-
lain’s resignation had been requested and
where he had been finally dismissed. But
while Dr Gough was not at the meetings,
one of his coadjutors, Dr Loane, was
there as chairman.
Mr Baker, who walked past Dr Gough
on the way to the witness box without
turning a head, told of an interview last
year at Church House where Dr Gough
and Bishop Loane asked for his resigna-
tion. According to Mr Baker, he had
been told by the Archbishop that he was
too old for employment in the Church
and that he could look to a university or
the Education Department.
Towards the end of the discussion,
according to Baker’s evidence. Dr Gough
told him: “You think you are indispens-
able and that is a very wicked sin.” The
interview had stressed that a younger
headmaster was likely to be appointed
and that the position of senior men
would have to be reviewed. But a few
days later Mr St. John claimed that the
true grounds for dismissal had been
withheld from Mr Baker and this had
been the constant course of Dr Gough
since the beginning of 1961.
Under cross-examination by Mr Jen-
kyn, the chaplain had admitted writing
a letter in 1960 to Archbishop Gough
criticising religious education in the
diocese and describing one of the church-
school headmasters in Sydney as a
"light-weight”. But no attempt was made
by any counsel to link this directly with
the dismissal issue.
Mr St. John’s allegation on the true
reasons brought a response from his two
opposing counsel on the third day of the
hearing when they offered to call an-
other school council meeting, allow Rev.
Baker to attend and call on him to show
cause why he should not be dismissed
on "fresh and explicit grounds”. Mr
Kerrigan felt that Mr St. John’s state-
ment about the true reasons being con-
cealed amounted to an "allegation of
fraud from the Bar table”. The offer of
a fresh council meeting was rejected by
Mr St. John who said that his client had
been too long in jeopardy already.
In his judgment last week Mr Justice
Jacobs held that Mr Baker's dismissal
was void because it did not comply with
clause 10(a) of the School Chapels and
Chaplains' Ordinance which required that
Mr Baker be given an opportunity to
show cause why he should not be dis-
missed. He also considered that part of
clause 10(a), which allowed the Arch-
bishop to revoke a clergyman’s licence
after his dismissal, was contrary to the
21st clause of the Church Constitution.
After judgment Mr Baker said: “The
time has come for everyone to get on
with their jobs”. But the Archbishop,
Dr H. R. Gough, Bishop M. L. Loane,
and The King’s School Headmaster, Mr
H. D. Hake, were not available for com-
ment.
TRADE
POLAND LOOKS TO US
Paying the wool bill
Traced with a steady shrinking of her
traditional primary produce export
markets in Western Europe and the
European Economic Community’s
mounting common tariff wall, Poland
is beginning to view Australia with grow-
ing interest.
Following her success at the Sydney
International Trade Fair in 1961
when almost all Polish exhibits were sold
—Poland is going for the Melbourne
Trade International Fair next February
and the Sydney International Trade Fair
next August in a big way. Three thousand
square feet of floor space have been
booked at both fairs and the range of
exhibits considerably widened in addi-
tion to textile and metal-working mach~


roes (such as radial drills, vertical drills,
punching machines, etc.) there will be a
range of consumer goods carefully aimed
at Australia’s growing marginal markets
—-vodkas and liqueurs, delicatessen lines,
camping, canoeing and skiing equipment
and even some cosmetics.
Behind all this drive is Poland’s grave
concern over her trade with the West.
Over 40 per cent of all Polish exports
go to the West, particularly the UK,
Western Europe and the USA. The
Common Market’s growing tariff wall
and the UK’s expected entry into the
EEC may shortly leave Poland starved
for foreign exchange and thrusted deep
into the Communist COMECON. This
could well bring tighter Soviet political
control.
It would also lower the standard of
living and. by a ricochet, hit Australia’s
wool trade. For over the last few years
Poland has been buying more and more
wool for its growing textile industry. In
1961-62 Australia sold over £9,500,000
worth of wool to Poland, making her
the ninth largest w'ool buyer. Against this,
despite energetic efforts by the now-re-
called Polish Commercial Consul in
Sydney, Mr. J. Boniecki who has suc-
ceeded in trebling Polish exports to
Australia in the September quarter, the
value of Polish goods sold in Australia
in 1961-62 was only £424,000.
While Poland was able to keep up its
lucrative trade with the UK and West-
ern Europe, Warsaw did not seem terribly
concerned with this 20-to-l unfavor-
able trade balance. But now times are
changing and Mr Wohlfarth frankly
stressed that he hoped a lot more Polish
goods will be sold to help pay for
Poland’s wool bill. Polish exporters hope
to raise their exports to Australia to £1
million a year, which w'ould still leave
us a healthy surplus and also keep
Warsaw a bit further away from
Moscow.
PEACE FRONTS
THE PASSING OF THE
"PEACE" FRONTS
Hard to make Soviet bombs and Chinese
invasions look peace-loving
Dr. J. F. CAIRNS
Never agreed to
tjHHE “Peace” movement in Victoria is
going through trying times. Last
month the Victorian Peace Council an-
nounced that they were to become a
“research and information committee”
only. They advised their supporters to
throw the weight behind Mr Gold-
bloom’s Australian and New Zealand
Congress for International Co-operation
and Disarmament. As this has been
staffed and supported by Peace Council
and Communist Party activists for the
past three years this did not involve
any major change of loyalties. The offi-
cers overlap. But while the Peace Council
has been banned by the ALP for many
years, the Congress enjoying the
friendliest relations with the Victorian
Central Executive of the ALP until a
noticeable coolina set in at the end of
1961.
The virtual winding up of the Peace
Council underlines the growing confusion
and disillusionment w'ithin the Victorian
Communist Party, the increasing diffi-
culties of presenting Soviet tests or
Chinese invasions as essentially peaceful,
and the physical and financial burden of
keeping superfluous fronts going. Once
the “Khrushchevite” Sydney leadership
of the Communist Party had asserted its
power over the “Maoists” in Melbourne,
the Party decided to cut its losses on the
Peace Council, to play down the Aus-
tralia-China Friendship Society, and to
revive the virtually defunct Australian-
Soviet Friendship Society.
But even the more presentable ANZ
Peace Congress might prove to be a
wasting asset. The practice of the Vic-
torian ALP in circulating Congress liter-
ature has now been abandoned. Only
the “Guardian” keeps “Peace activists”
acquainted with the latest campaigns. The
Communist-controlled unions still give
their assistance, but the much more ef-
fective machine of the ALP and the
Trades Hall is being increasingly denied
to Mr Goldbloom. This trend could well
reduce the ANZ Congress to the
pathetic level of the Peace Council, just
before its demise.
The wasting away of the “Peace
movement” can best be gauged from the
“Cavalcade to Laverton” which took
place last Sunday (December 16).
Based on the spurious premise that be-
cause there are U 2 planes at Laverton
RAAF base they must be spying on
someone, the Cavalcade was pushed as
part of the current Communist campaign
against “nuclear bases in Australia”.
Unable to march to Exmouth Gulf, it
was more convenient to drive the fifteen
miles down the Geelong Road to Laver-
ton. Even Mr Goldbloom had to admit
that this was a gesture, being unable to
provide the slightest evidence that the
planes were not, as officially claimed,
engaged in weather observations. But
any excuse is good enough for a “demo - ’,
provided the USA is the target.
The initial preparations went well. The
usual unions and parsons gave their sup-
port. Miss Myra Roper showed by her
backing what a good investment the
Chinese made when they gave her a trip
to Peking. The Sunshine City Council,
ALP controlled, promised the Town
Hall for an evening meeting. The speak-
ers were to be Dr J. F. Cairns, Mr Gold-
bloom, and Mr Race Mathews. The
latter was to represent the Campaign
for Nuclear Disarmament, which had
been sufficiently impressed to give its
backing to the Cavalcade. The Commun-
ist Party’s Eureka Anniversary meeting
on December 7 was to be devoted to
whipping up support.
Then everything started to crumble.
The Eureka meeting was a flop. There
were 90 Communists inside and 25
demonstrators outside, with “Aid India”
banners. Mr Cairns let it be known,
unofficially, that he was not going
to speak, “because he had never agreed
to”. The Sunshine City Council with-
drew the offer of the Town Hall and
the meeting was abandoned. Only two
of the twelve ALP municipalities had
given their blessing to the Cavalcade. At
Northcote, on receipt of the ANZ
Congress letter, the local Labor MLA
Mr Wilkes advised the Council not to
take any action. At no time did the
ALP give encouragement to the Caval-
cade officially. By the time Sunday came
around even the Campaign for Nuclear
Disarmament group was beginning to
wonder what sort of fiasco it had been
dragged into. This may save it from
becoming a Congress appendage.
Sunday was fine and sunny, an ideal
day for a drive. Two weeks before, the
“Guardian” had promised that "hundreds
of cars” were expected at the City rally-
ing point. Actually there were only 93,
bearing banners of mainly anti-American
content. More were to join in Footscray.
But even they would just make up the
hundred. Three years ago there had been
over 3000 at the opening rally of the
ANZ Congress. Now 300 were prepared
to turn out to protect Australia from the
“nuclear embrace”. Messrs. Goldbloom,
Hartley and Dickie must have wished
they were still on one of their frequent
overseas trips, where governments can
provide the cheering thousands who
were elsewhere last Sunday.


1
Vi* ,
H A Vi r»AG N J> .
Pink
for
girls
If she says “gorgeous”, “delightful”, “heavenly”,
chances are it’s Romalo Pink Champagne. A gay,
scintillating wine for joyous times ... for parties,
weddings and ever-so-special dinners for two.
All over the world sophisticates celebrate with Pink
Champagne. Australia's finest is Romalo.,
Trade Enquiries: S. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd.
348 St. Hilda Road, Melbourne
LANDLORDS AND TENANTS
THE BRIDGES TOUCH
Landlords will never he the same again
ARTHUR BRIDGES
Tough
Tt wasn’t altogether a coincidence that
the most spectacular victories yet
scored by the Opposition in the NSW
Legislative Council followed hard on the
election of Arthur Dalgety Bridges as
Principal Representative of the Members
who are not supporters of the Govern-
ment (to use the quaint styling of that
House). Mr Bridges, an old Fort Street
High boy, a non-smoker, non-drinker,
non-gambler and accountant whose busi-
ness interests include directorates on
companies ranging from shoes, refrigera-
tors, insurance through to the recently
publicised Goodwins TV, is a rather
more tough-minded character than his
predecessor, the courteous Colonel Clay-
ton.
Mr Bridges is also a rather more
experienced machine politician having
been at times a Federal councillor of
the Liberal Party and still chairman of
the Ash Street National Club and
member of the State Liberal Policy
Committee. Although he has been in
the Upper House since 1926, more than
half his life, he is still closer to that
relative newcomer, the Leader of the
State Opposition in the Lower House,
Mr Rob Askin, a former bank teller,
than any other Upper House members.
In the long, drawn-out, ten - hour
debate on the Government's Landlord
and Tenant Bill, which led to the
virtual de-gutting ot the whole measure,
there was no touch of the humor in
the verbal struggle between the Govern-
ment leader and Attorney-General, Mr
Downing, and his opponent, Mr Bridges.
Neither of them is given to wit. For Mr
Bridges it was a struggle against a
hill “to perpetuate the injustices of the
|past”. For Mr Downing, rather sur-
Iprisingly, it was a bill to “afford relief
to landlords”.
The result ot the debate and twelve
divisions was an unqualified victory for
Mr Bridges, and the Government had
to announce later that the bill in its cut
jtorm was no longer acceptable.
However, Mr Bridges’ victory was
igained with the help of some supporters
who would not qualify for the National
Club. Six of the Independent Labor
group in the Council, commonly known
as the “Rebels”, voted to defeat the
Government, with one exception.
The Rebel group grew out of the
decision of several ALP members to
vote against the referendum for the
abolition of the Upper House, but has
grown with the help and sustenance of
the Opposition. Obviously they could
not be re-elected except with Opposition
support and the defection of even two
has caused some Opposition rumblings.
The case against the Government’s bill
came down to four arguments: injustices
to owners had to be prevented; housing
was available; rents would find their own
level; and finally if there was hardship
it was the job of the Government to
do something, not the owners.
Even though the Government was
defeated, there is no abolition of rent
control for those premises still subject
to it in NSW. What the effect of the
Opposition victories means is that it will
be easier for owners to regain possession
of their premises.
Although the Opposition had criticised
the Government for not adopting the
Report of the Royal Commission, which
before the last election recommended
general increases in controlled rentals,
it did vote against some minor Com-
mission recommendations put forward
by the Government.
A Government proposal that property
would have to be owned for two years
before eviction proceedings could begin
was rejected and cut to six months. The
section ordering provision for alternative
accommodation for tenants was due to
expire at the end of the year and a
Government move to renew it for six
years failed. So a Government move to
allow waiving of that provision after
eight years' ownership was automatically
dropped. The argument of the Govern-
ment members who spoke was that the
dropping of these provisions would clear
the way for stand-over speculators.
Where the Royal Commission had
recommended de-control of all com-
mercial and business premises, the
Government moved for an arrangement
to allow a fair rent of four per cent, on
improved capital value of premises, but
the Opposition succeeded in an amend-
ment for six per cent.
In reaction the State Government is
planning regulations to answer fears of
widespread evictions. But this has led
to the Opposition charge that in planning
this the Government is circumventing
the will of Parliament.
Mr Askin announced on Monday-
night that if the Government proceeds
with its intention the Opposition will
seek the Heffron Government's dismissal.
The general uncertainty of the situation
will certainly further delay the inevitable
legal test action and block owners’ moves
against tenants for a further few months.
But it is clear that the Landlord and
Tenant relationship in NSW can never
be the same again.
RICHARD HALL


OUT AND ABOUT
THE WAIFS OF KURE
The Hello Children
By PETER COLEMAN
After all the publicity that “the
waifs of Kure” have had, I half
expected when I went there for
The Bulletin last month that the local
officials would suppress a yawn, mutter
something about busy-body Australian
journalists and try to fob me off with a
few figures. The astonishing thing was
that despite all the publicity in Australia,
I turned out to be the first Australian
journalist the local people had ever
clapped eyes on; all the publicity here
has been supplied by Japanese reporters
or Australian philanthropists who
happened to visit Kure. So although it
was a Sunday I found to my dismay
that I was being escorted to Kure by
car loads of officials of the Tokyo
Government, of the Hiroshima Pre-
fectural Government and of the Kure
Council. It was obvious that all this
attention was really a tribute to the late
Mr A. J. Ferguson and the Australian
charities which have raised money for
“the waifs”, but it turned what was to
have been a modest bit of reporting into
a Grand Occasion and it doesn’t make
it easier to get facts from an official
when a dozen other officials are sitting
around listening to his every word.
Another thing: Kure is half an hour’s
drive along the Inland Sea from Hiro-
shima — and that didn’t make it any
easier, either; after a quick look over
Hiroshima, it is hard to feel emotions
about “the waifs” that are worthy of
some of our newspapers. Despite the
kindness of the people or the grace of
the new city built across a fan of seven
rivers, Hiroshima gave me the creeps:
you can’t forget the 200,000 Japanese
who sizzled to death there in August,
1944, and compared with all that, the
Australian children of Kure seemed very
small potatoes indeed.
Since it was a Sunday, and I was that
unspeakably important phenomenon, an
Australian journalist, the social workers
in charge of the Kure centre had, un-
known to me, collected all the Aus-
tralian children together for a party and
sing-song —to make it easier for me to
meet them. They are worried about the
Last month the Minister for Immi-
gration, Mr A. R. Downer,
announced that the Federal
Government is giving £20,000 to-
wards the administrative costs of the
International Social Service in its
work among the Australian-]apanese
children in Japan.
‘As a general rule,” Mr Downer
said, “/ do not consider that proposals
to permit the children to come to Aus-
tralia for adoption would be in their
own interests, even if that were prac-
ticable.
“I would be prepared, however, to
consider sympathetically all the cir-
cumstances of any request by an Aus-
tralian ex-serviceman for the admis-
sion of his child, provided he acknow-
ledged his paternity.”
effect excessive publicity is having on
the children, and their Japanese mothers
or grandmothers are becoming in-
creasingly ashamed of having to display
the poverty of their homes to visiting
Australian philanthropists; parties like
this one are a simple way to show the
children around, and a convenient time
to give them blankets, clothes, etc., sent
from Australia. About 50 mothers of
the waifs were also lined up to meet me,
but at the thought of having 50 Oriental
expressions of gratitude to Australia
passed on by an interpreter, I let that
pass, and the mothers no doubt equally
relieved slipped back into a hall to watch
a movie.
I was told nearly all the Australian
children —about 50—were there as well
as a few other “waifs”. This too was a
surprise. Some statements here have
placed the Australian figure -at 600.
Since the social workers looking after
the children have researched thoroughly
into the facts, are dependent on Aus-
tralian charities, and grateful to them,
there is no reason whatsoever to assume
the figure of 50 is understated. Fifty
it is, although there are more in other
parts of Japan.
At last I saw the children —a room full
of 50 assorted blond, red-haired, brunette,
freckled, blue-eyed, green-eyed children
who look as if they’ve stepped from the
pages of Norman Lindsay’s “Saturdee”
and should be preparing to enter, say,
Fort Street High School. Only the
occasional slanted eyes under red hair
reminds you of their Japanese mothers.
Even so, it is easy to make sentimental
mistakes: I couldn’t help noticing one
very fair, blue-eyed boy in the room,
the noisiest and least obedient. He
looked like a Typical Australian Boy on
an immigration poster. As he rushed
past me chasing a lolly I patted him on
the head in a heavy-handed sort of way,
and the official with me remarked: “His
father is an American at Okinawa.”
(It’s easy to lose proportion in this weird
atmosphere and no doubt some of the
children in the most “appealing” pictures
used in the Australian Press had
American fathers.)
The children had soft drink and cakes
in front of them and were only waiting
for the word go. They had to wait for
me to be introduced formally to them,
and after I gave my Idiot Foreigner
Smile they got going: and I was able
to ask some questions.
IT' ure city was the base of the Aus-
tralian servicemen in the British
Commonwealth Occupation Forces. They
were there between 1946 and 1956.
During the first year there were 5000
of them; at the peak of the Korean War
25,000. After the war the 200,000
people of Kure, never very prosperous
at the best of times, were destitute. They
lived by ship-building and there wasn’t
any anymore. If you were lucky you got
a job working for the Australians; if
you were not so lucky you could
scrounge scraps of food from their
rubbish tins. There were no entertain-
ments for the Australians in the stricken
town except prostitution or “common
law wives”: many Kure women shacked
up with Australians who gave them
about £5 a week. The surprising thing
is that there were only 50 bastards left
behind when the Australians returned
home.
Kure or even Hiroshima are not great
cosmopolitan cities and while mixed-
blood children (“kon ketsu”) have a
rough time anywhere, they have a


PROTECT YOUR PROPERTY NOW...
FIRES DON’T WAIT!
With EPEX Mobile Fire Fighting Equipment any member of your family can be fighting a
fire on your property within minutes of its detection. EPEX units are equipped with a high
output centrifugal pump, reliable motor, suction hose and hose reel, for effective fire
fighting with simple operation.
if
n
:
P
The EPEX 150 gallon Port-
able Fire Unit can be
trailer mounted as illus-
trated, or dropped into the
tray of a medium truck.
150 GALLON
PORTABLE FIRE UNIT
Tank. 150 gallon, mild steel construe*
tion, treated on all inside surface!
against rust.
Engine. 3J H.P. Petrol Engine direct
connected to pump.
Pump. 1J" Self-priming centrifugal
pump, capacity 60 g.p.m. free flow.
Max. pressure 45 p.s.i. at nozzle.
Hose Reel. One hand rewind hose reel
fitted with 100' x 1" hose and spray
nozzle.
Suction Hose. 15' x 2" suction hose,
complete with strainer.
Trailer Chassis. Mild steel construction
fitted with 6.700 x 15" pneumatic
tyres.
Weight. Approx 20 cwt. full, 7 cwt.
empty.
Note: Unit can be supplied fitted with
wooden skids in lieu of trailer chassis
if desired.
Write for information about the illus-
trated unit or the following as separate
units: Trailer, Tank, Hose Reel, and
Pumping Equipment.
Designed and Manufactured by
ENGINEERING PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.
418-428 Burnley Street, Burnley, E. I. Victoria, Australia. 42 1721 (Six lines)
rougher time in the backward” areas
like Kure. After the Australians left,
10,000 people lost their jobs. (Today
there are 20,000 unemployed.) The
mothers could hardly feed or clothe
their children though sometimes their
families would help, sometimes a Budd-
hist priest, sometimes a new husband if
he didn t insist as a condition of marriage
that the bastard be got rid of. In the
streets they were sneered at as ‘'haro no
ko” “hello” children. Kure is also one
of the few areas in Japan where the
untouchable caste of Eta is still concen-
trated pariahs who not surprisingly
tend to be criminals and thuus. If the
mothers did not already belong to this
caste they drifted into it in search of a
husband—and the children turn up at
~ v c .
e ure cenre rom ime to time,
hungry, with black eyes and bruises,
looking for a hand-out.
Take three cases, verbatim, from the
English language files of the Interna-
tional Social Service which looks after
the children s interests as best it can.
‘‘Case A. Steven, 12 years old, male,
fathered by Australian. Mother did not
show any interest in supporting this child
and her whereabouts were unknown
since he was a year old until last spring
when ISS found her. He was raised by
a man who was not a blood relative of
this boy. The man was a sickly day
laborer who could not earn enough
money to support Steven. Steven was,
often left alone at his home. He did
not hke to go to school because he
w ® teased by his school mates as he
was a e^o s child’. He was a likeable
friendly personality and neighbors loved
him ' He , ! leveloped a seductive way to
ff pe ° ple , S . att f.”‘ lon , by f'™ g f candies ’
He even stole little toys from stores or
school and always gave them to older
boys. At times he was asked by those big
boys to steal goods for them. He was
known to the Child Welfare Centre in
Kure because of these problems. His
legal father decided to ask ISS to find
a good family for Steven.
“Case B. Suzuo is a 12 years old boy
fathered by an Australian whose where-
abouts are unknown. He likes to study
but has become uninterested in it lately
because he has ‘no hope’ of being able
to continue his schooling. He has I.Q.
of 144. Suzuo’s family lives in a slum
area of Kure receiving public assistance.
Mother has her common-law husband, a
Japanese day laborer, and he treats
Suzuo very badly. Suzuo was left out
of his home for several nights during
last summer, being attacked physically
by the man. Friends of the man, hooli-
gans, visit the home and talk about their
rough acts in the streets. Suzuo became
interested in the stories and imitated
them for which he was picked up by
police. Suzuo and his mother were inter-
viewed by Miss Ito of the ISS several
times and ceasework services were given.
He became interested in studying again
and the man has ceased to show rough


behavior to the boy. Miss Ito is planning
to continue casework service for this boy
and mother, and to teach the boy
English. For a child with good poten-
tials (with proper guidance), educational
assistance would be the most profitable.
“Case C. 9 years old Austral ian-
Japanese girl had chronic appendicitis
from which she suffered severe pain
three or four nights a week during the
last three months. Her grandmother and
mother are TB patients and the family
is receiving public assistance. Although
she was told she needed to have an
operation, she hesitated to be hospital-
ised because of the expense which her
family would have to meet. Miss Ito
interviewed the girl’s mother and took
the child for medical examination.
Medical assistance for the operation was
applied and she was hospitalised immedi-
ately. ISS Kure office paid for incidentals
of her hospitalisation which the child
was worrying about. Post operative con-
dition is good.”
HThe International Social Service a
voluntary organisation—came into the
story in 1957 after the first Australian
newspaper publicity. They raised some
money, and in 1960 opened a centre
in Kure under Miss Yone Ito, a
dedicated graduate of Japan’s leading
women’s university and a remarkable
social worker by any standards: people
who knew her at school say that even
then her vocation was clear and none is
surprised to hear she has worked her-
self sick in Kure. Now she has two
assistants, Mrs Ehisu of Japan’s Women’s
University and Miss Matsui of Hiro-
shima Women’s College.
Their best help has come from the
agitation of the late Mr Ferguson of
Melbourne and his Adoption Fund. As
a result of his agitation nearly £3OOO
was raised last year from a variety of
church and charitable organisations—in-
valuable though small compared with
what is needed. Last week the Australian
Government finally coughed up £20,000.
They are less concerned with the
adoption of the children than with their
health and education. They are too old
to be adoptable now. They could easily
have been adopted five or six years ago
when the matter was first raised, but the
trouble was of course that our noble
Immigration Laws could not be stretched
a little to let Australian citizens adopt
children with some Japanese blood. The
Americans naturally are less morally
fastidious than the Australians and they
did manage to stretch their Immigration
Act to allow Americans to adopt all the
children of Americans. The Australian
Government can also take comfort in
the fact that the Americans also adopted
some of the Australian children.
But it is too late now. What is
urgently needed is money for food,
clothes and education. You have to pay
for the final years of high school and for
university in Japan, and as the Kure
children have a higher than average
intelligence they could benefit from full
education if they could afford it. Mean-
while, even a pair of shoes is welcome,
As I was leaving Kure a ten-year-old
girl could hardly control her excitement
as she reminded Miss Ito of the blanket
she was promised that day. About 80
per cent of the children are in the same
condition.
ARTIST IN ARMOR
To Irish-Australian charm has been added the
London intellectual's fluency
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Twice a day for several days Aus-
tralian artist Mr Sidney Nolan sat
in the darkness of the theatrette
in Qantas House and, like the proverbial
drowning man, watched his past life
flash before his eyes. This was the film
of his work, made for Qantas as a
prestige gesture, and to join the films
on the two other members of the trinity,
Drysdale and Dobell, which have already
been made.
After each showing Mr Nolan would
emerge from the darkness into the light
of the Qantas building, bespangled for
Christmas, or return to the Chevron
Hilton Hotel. His trip back to Australia
from London, where he now makes his
home, is his first in five years. He regards
coming back as the means of “recharg-
ing his batteries.” That is his phrase. He
might have chosen a mechanical meta-
phor in deference to Qantas, who gave
him a free trip. But, no, he has put it
the same way several times before.
Talking to the Duke of Edinburgh
about art in Perth or sitting in a
theatrette in Sydney may not sound the
most effective way for an Australian
artist to recharge his batteries. But when
Mr Nolan flies off, with a bunch of
Christmas bush in his hand, to New
York to pick up his daughter, who is
studying music at Bennington college,
and then goes on to London for Christ-
mas, he feels that his charge will be full
enough to carry him through the year.
He expects to spend most of it in his
studio at work, mainly preparing an ex-
hibition for the 1964 Adelaide Festival.
This will be on the Burke and Wills
theme. He will return at this time and
expects then to spend about 18 months
in Sydney.
The brief visit now is the first time
Mr Nolan has been here since he became
an artist with a world reputation, and
what is known as a fashionable painter
and since his price went from three
figures to four. He comes back to a
country where success is held in both
awe and suspicion (“He’ll be our first
millionaire artist,” someone predicted)
and where some people, it seems, are
prepared to preach him hard lessons
(‘‘What he should do is stay here for 12
months and do nothing except think").
Against all this Mr Nolan seems to
have built a stockade or a suit of armor
of elaborate theory, theory about being
an Australian, an expatriate, rich and
famous. He has always been fond of talk
and to the Irish-Australian charm has
been added enough of the standard Lon-
don intellectual’s free-wheeling fluency
to make a heady mixture.
It seems almost that there can be a
theory to fit anything. . . . “Australians
seem to have something of a complex
about the past. They still seem to be
tidying up the 19th century. Alan Moore-
head writing about the African explora-
tions, Joan Sutherland reviving the older
operas. Of course, once we have tidied
up the 19th century, we shall be able
to go straight through to the second
half of the 20th.”
Mr Nolan, of course, has a theory on
being an expatriate. “It is quite impos-
sible for Australians to become expat-
riates,” he said. “Once you have suffered
exposure to Australia something of it
remains with you all your life. I don’t
think it is always true of people of other
countries. Take Austrians, for example.
I don’t think that Austrians coming to
Australia carry with them the same sort
of thing as Australians who go to Europe.
In fact, I think that what happens to
New Australians who come here is the
antithesis of what hapens to Australians
who go to Europe. It’s most interesting
really.
“In Europe they are perfecting the
forms, but what has to be said has
already been said. Here they are explor-
ing for the right forms to say what has
to be said. Here the energy is radiating
from underneath. The country is burst-
ing at the seams with activity.”
What does Mr Nolan himself want
to do now?
“I want to continue to gain know-
ledge and skills in order to perfect my
work,” he said. “I do not feel that there
are any new themes that I particularly
want to try at the moment. When I
began doing series of paintings they were


DIRECTOR OF RESEARCH
AND PUBLIC RELATIONS
required by
AUSTRALIAN BANKERS' ASSOCIATION
DUTIES: To plan, organise and control the activities of the Association’s
well-established Research and Public Relations Offices in Sydney
and Melbourne.
QUALIFICATIONS: An appreciation of economic issues, established skills
in public relations and advertising, a dedication to the Free Enterprise
way of life and executive talents of a high order are essential.
Practical experience in banking would be an advantage. Age about
35- 50.
SALARY: Minimum emolument at high level together with substantial
executive privileges appropriate to the important status of the position.
APPLICATIONS: Confidential. Please detail qualifications, experience, age,
training, ’phone numbers and other relevant information.
Apply in writing before 5.00 p.m. Thursday, 3rd January, 1963, to:
Executive Selection Division,
JOHN P. YOUNG & ASSOCIATES PTY. LTD.
Management Consultants,
CALTEX HOUSE, 167 KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
or to our offices in Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
LEARN TO SAIL
at the
SYDNEY SAILING COLLEGE
3 Courses Available
1. FIVE WEEKENDS GENERAL COURSE.
2. EXTENDED GENERAL COURSE.
3. LIVE IN AT THE COLLEGE FOR ONE WEEK
SAIL EVERY DAY (bookings from January).
COUNTRY ENQUIRIES:
Write Sydney Sailing College, 85 New South Head Road, Edgecliff.
METROPOLITAN ENQUIRIES:
Phone, day or night, 32-4492.
If any illustration takes your fancy in this issue please write to
the Manager, who will quote you a price for same.
not fashionable at all, you know. I
hope now to work over the old themes,
striving to perfect them. If I have found
my forms and am striving to perfect
them, isn't Europe then the place for
me? Oh, I see what you are trying to
trap me into saying . . .”
Mr Nolan's reasons for living in
London he now has a house at Putney
with a river frontage are, in fact,
extremely simple. “London is a metrop-
olis,” he says. “A nerve centre for cul-
tural and economic life.” And, of course,
many of his friends often they are
writers are there. He names C. P.
Snow (“I find that once I know people
I can read them, and, you know, there
are people like Snow’s at Cambridge,”)
Anthony Powell and Stephen Spender. He
knows these people and reads them, be-
cause he knows them. Amis, Wain and
Osborne he is prepared to dismiss as
the sort of thing which each succeeding
generation throws up, particularly in
Britain.
“People have been saying for genera-
tions that England is finished, but the
English do survive, you know,” he said.
Of Australians he reads Patrick White,
or, rather, he rereads him, in slabs,
Judith Wright, Randolph Stow. He
illustrated Stow’s “Outrider.” “We talked
first, then 1 did a lot of paintings and
let Stow choose what he liked from
them,” he said.
Fame and money Mr Nolan finds
uninteresting topics on which to theorise.
“Money is a nuisance,” he said, “Only
the lack of money is interesting. I suppose
in a way that with money you can go
where you wish when you wish, but
lack of money never stopped us from
doing that.
“All I have learnt from being a painter
whose works can fetch a high price is
something of the manipulative processes
at work. You can see clearly afterwards
how prices of paintings can go up, and
you can see, too, how they can fall.
“But the disastrous thing is to identify
yourself with the success that goes with
the canvas. You must remember all the
time that it doesn’t happen to you, that
it happens to something else.
“When I paint I don’t paint for a
public. I paint for five or six people. I
don’t say that they are the only people
who understand what I am doing, but
I understand only how five or six people
understand my work. My wife, for
example, comes and goes in the studio
all day. She knows as much of what
I am doing as I do myself.
“Inspiration is just the charge that
gets you going. After that, you paint
and various people you have known,
things they have said and done, come to
your mind. It is, I suppose, dreaming
standing up. And, if you are lucky,
there’s a nice pay-off. Everything goes
well with the painting.”


New York Newsletter
KENNEDY AND L'AFFAIRE
STEVENSON
Stevenson —the appeaser in the secret White House
conclaves
From GEORGE McGANN in New York
The important thing to remember
about Cuba and America, now
that the imminent threat of
nuclear annihilation no longer stares us
all in the face, is that nothing has
changed.
The Russians have shipped out their
rockets and their bombers—or some of
them anyhow; Castro won’t let anyone
into Cuba to check on this—and the
Kennedy Administration has won some
kind of power play from the
Khrushchev mob, which lost a certain
amount of face in backing down.
But the Russian intervention in Cuba
was actually a side issue. Premier
Castro remains as firmly fixed as ever
as a symbol of American frustration and
wounded pride. Cuba festers on Uncle
Sam’s tenderest sensibilities, like a boil
on his neck.
Americans feel betrayed by Castro.
His mountain revolution was observed
sympathetically in the United States and,
with the probable exception of some
Yankee sugar tycoons and others with
close economic ties to Batista, his
ousting of that dictator was warmly ap-
plauded.
Herbert Matthews of “The New York
Times” and other correspondents who
visited the bearded revolutionist in the
Sierra Madres before he entered
Havana, assured their readers that Fidel
and his gallant band were honest
patriots, bent on achieving liberty not
socialism, and certainly not Com-
munism.
But disillusionment was not long in
coming. The sickening mass-treason
trials and mass shootings; the refusal
to hold elections as promised; the ex-
propriation of land and properties
(Cuban as well as American); the hys-
terical arming of the populace to ward
off the oft-proclaimed “invasion” from
the United States; the open espousal of
the Marxist-Leninist philosophy by
Castro and the importation of thousands
of Russian and Chinese “technicians”—
the pattern of Communist takeover in
Cuba was completed long before Russia
set a single rocket into place.
The rockets have gone but Castro is
still there, like a juvenile delinquent
shaming a respectable family.
Uncle Sam had been prepared to
extend an avuncular embrace to Fidel
Castro and welcome him to the family
of American nations. But Castro was
attracted for a variety of reasons to
Moscow rather than to Washington.
Some share of the blame for Castro’s
dramatic entry into the Communist
bloc can certainly be laid at the doors
of the White House and the State De-
partment. The Eisenhower administra-
tion might have done much more than
it did to woo Castro in the early days.
But Americans now feel that Castro
had planned his revolution from the
beginning as a deliberate Communist
spearhead into American soil.
The Monroe Doctrine is a treasured
American fiction. The idea that Uncle
Sam has a moral responsibility to keep
the shores of both American continents
safe from “foreign” invasion is as
highly regarded as mother love in the
great democracy of the north. In
“violating” the Monroe Doctrine and in-
viting the armed forces of a “foreign”
power on to his soil, Castro hit
Americans where it hurts most.
In their anger and frustration, many
Americans have longed from the be-
ginning to “send in the Marines” in the
grand old tradition of Teddy Roose-
velt, and chase Castro and his bearded
followers back into the hills whence
they came.
These Americans, found in strong
numbers on the Republican right-wing,
were most vocal in demanding air
strikes on the Russian bases or outright
invasion of Cuba during the dreadful
days of the October crisis.
The Kennedy Administration, agoniz-
ingly conscious of American commit-
ments to peaceful settlement of dis-
putes in the United Nations, and fearful
of arousing the ancient fears of Yankee
imperialism among its Latin-American
allies in the Organisation of American
States, chose blockade as its initial step
to remove the Russian threat in Cuba.
President Kennedy’s sensational (and
unexpected) success with the blockade
stilled for the moment the voices on
the right crying out for Castro’s scalp.
But only for the moment. The “Castro
must go” forces are as strong as ever
in Washington, in Wall Street, and in
editorial chairs of important mass
publications.
Stewart Alsop and Charles Bartlett
HThis has been sharply emphasised in
the Press furore which developed
over the role played by Adlai Stevenson
in secret councils during the height of
the Cuban crisis. Stevenson, the urbane
internationally-minded Ambassador to
the United Nations, has been the special
target of American anti-Castro elements,
who see in him a “softness on Cuba”
which they find as obnoxious as his
alleged “softness on Communism.”
With the slackening of tension in re-
cent weeks, the American Press has been
burgeoning with “now it can be told”
articles purporting to give the inside
story of the dramatic days and nights
in the White House when Kennedy and
his advisers carried out their momentous
moves in the confrontation with Khrush-
chev over the Cuban bases.
The most sensational account —be-
cause it was widely believed to be the
most authoritative one —of these October
days of crisis appeared in the “Saturday
Evening Post,” a magazine of enormous
circulation and conservative republican
bias, under the joint by-lines of Stewart
Alsop and Charles Bartlett.
The article portrayed Adlai Stevenson
as an appeaser in the secret White House
conclaves who wanted to “trade Turkish,
Italian and British missile bases for
Soviet bases in Cuba” and who opposed


PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
A CHRISTMAS
ppcccNT
I i
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.O., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BUL-
LETIN to be delivered to me each
week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick (vO whichever
method of delivery you prefer.
For those desiring direct sub-
scription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/
money order for months
subscription to THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea): 1 year,
£2/12/-; 1/2 year, £1/6/-, post free; British
Dominions. £3/6/-; other countries. £3/16/-.
N.Z SUBSCRIPTIONS: Remit to Box 965,
Wellington, N.Z.: 1 year, £2/12/-; V2 year,
£1/6/- (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
ONLY ONE MORE
WEEK TO XMAS
the blockade as well as any other mili-
tary action against Cuba. The implica-
tion of the article was that Stevenson
had been clearly out of sympathy with
the rest of the Presidents advisers, and
the President himself, who instituted the
hWiroH,*
blockade.
Suspicion
Principal reason for the stir created by
this article was the co-authorship of
Charles Bartlett, a Washington journal-
ist with peculiarly close ties to the Presi-
dent. It was Baitlett who introduced
John F. Kennedy to the lady who was to
become his wife, Jacqueline Bouvier.
Bartlett and his wife are the god-parents
of both Kennedy children, Caroline and
John Junior. The Kennedys are fre-
quent visitors to the Bartlett home in
suburban Washington.
The suspicion arose immediately that
the President had seen the Bartlett article
or knew of its contents in advance of
publication, if indeed he had not actually
inspired it.
It led to the further suspicion—leap-
ed upon and magnified by right-wing
newspapers and commentators—that the
President wanted to get rid of Stevenson
and was using Bartlett as a means of
preparing the country for this step.
Stevenson, twice candidate for the Presi-
dency on the Democratic ticket, has an
enormous personal following in this
country, particularly among labor and
intellectual left-wing groups, and has
grown in stature since taking on the
it •* j xt *• .
United Nations post.
1
dismissal by Kennedy would un-
doubtedly cause a furore within the
ranks of the Democratic Party which
could affect the President's chances for
re-election in 1964. It was recalled
further that Bartlett apparently had been
used by the President to heip prepare the
way for the removal of Chester Bowles
as Under-Secretary of State when he fell
out with department policies. Bartlett
wrote that Bowles would resign, the
story was denied, then nine months later
he did so.
The Bartlett-Alsop story elicited a
rash of denials of its authenticity from
Stevenson, Attorney-General Robert F.
Kennedy and others in the Administra-
tion.
The President himself went so far as
to write Stevenson an effusive letter ex-
pressing his “fullest confidence” in the
Ambassador and expressing deep regret
over “the unfortunate stir which has
arisen over the statements contained in
the ‘Saturday Evening Post’ article.”
The President also appeared on the
same dais with Stevenson at a dinner in
Washington where the atmosphere all
sweetness and light bathed in a refulgent
glow of after-dinner liqueurs.
D . . ~ , ~ c ,
But IS no secret that the Stevenson
.. , ~
brand of internationalism has implacable
opponents high in the councils of the
Kennedy Administration. Personally,
Kennedy and Stevenson are rot as con-
genia | a pa i r as their strikingly similar
backgrounds of inherited wealth. Ivy
League university educations and liberal
sympathies would seem to indicate. After
Adlai did try to do Jack out of the
1950 nomination for the Presidency at
t h e Democratic Convention in Los
Angeles. No politician forgets a thing
ijv e thaf and Tank Kpnnndv k firsi fnnp
mostand aiways a prSltl politick,
of the most trenchant comments
on * afiaire Stevenson came from the
P en Mauldin, Ameiicas David
Low. The cartoonist pictured Steven-
son ! n a sur S ei % a stiletto sticking out
back, with the doctor comment-
in °’ Judging by the angle, Id say it
came from above.
This may be a serious misjudgment
of President Kennedy. Only time will
tell.


Always ask for
AINSLIE’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd., Sydney
Hattoran Manton Pty. Ltd.
CELLARMASTER'S
CHRISTMAS
REFLECTIONS
I have just finished dinner. With the
smoked salmon we had a bottle of
Seaview Rhine Riesling, fresh, fruity,
and young —and with our meat a
Pichon-Lougueville ’55, a very good
Bordeaux, though I don’t think it was
quite as good as a ’53 I recently tasted
from the same vineyard. But no mat-
ter, the wine was excellent, my stomach
is full without being bloated, and 1 care
not for Cuba, India, Russia, or Dexter.
The drinking of good wine leads to
meditation.
★ ★ ★
VI/hat is the most appealing thing about
wine? Nose, color, taste, body,
finish, balance, tradition. All play their
part: I know that one of my favorite
w'ords is flavor, a word that often
learned friends seem to neglect. And
yet it seems to me that the thing I like
most is talk: the talk about the wane,
the talk and occasional ribaldry that
follow wine, the company that one keeps
when drinking good wine. Do you ever
drink a really first class wine by yourself?
I cannot, for I find that I miss the dis-
cussion and argument that goes with
drinking. Yet it is often difficult to
talk accurately about wine and adequate-
ly to describe a series of impressions.
The w'eH-known cliches spring so quick-
ly to mind that one tries to avoid them;
on the other hand it is terribly dangerous
to shy away from the cliches and fall
into the disaster of the kind of nonsense
of which this is the ultimate “This is
an honest little Burgundy of no great
breeding but I think you will be amused
by its presumption.” I have a friend
who knows much more than I about
wine and yet he always talks “of the
acid coming through.” I have never
discovered w'hat this meant, and I am
dying to hear him say it of whisky, for
then shall I ask “Is it coming through
the Rye?” Edward VII is quoted as
saying “Not only does one drink wine
but one inhales it, one looks at it, one
tastes it, one swallows it, . . . and one
talks about it.” Perhaps that is the
most lingering appreciation of all.
★ ★ ★
ITomer spoke of “the wine-dark sea.”
Was he talking of Retsina, that
Grecian wine that tastes of gum trees?
Or was the sea flowing with the blood
of the enemy? Perhaps they were in
port. Anyway, poets and painters have
long relished the glorious color that lies
in wine; Cezanne, Flegel, Renoir often
used it; the Bible. Homer. Swinburne
and Shakespeare talk about it; the latter
seems especially involved, perhaps he
had a Poetic Licence. But there is
little doubt that looking at wine can
give a lot of pleasure—the straw color
of a Montrachet. the light honey of a
Hunter white, the greenish tinge in a
good Chablis. the saffron of a Riesling,
and the tremendous range of color in
the royal reds. Little wonder the paint
chartists use the names so freely.
★ ★ ★
Speculator and his diary would do
well to investigate the investment
potential of wine. I can hear you say-
ing, “not much future in that, I'd drink
all the profits.” But purely as a specu-
lation, wine, and especially great wine,
would have few equals. Take the case
of a case of Chateau Mouton Roths-
child, the number one second cru of
Bordeaux and the wine that many, in-
cluding myself, think to be the greatest
of all Medoc. In 1960 l bought a case
of 1953, the retail price of which was
57/6 a bottle. Two years later, or
earlier this year, the vintage was still
available but at 90/- a bottle. And
yesterday I saw a price for the 1952
Mouton, J 25/- a bottle (1952 was a
great year, but is not generally reckoned
to be as good as the following year), so
it is safe to say that my case has at
feast doubled in value in two and a
half years. What bank could equal that
rate of interest? So it is quite logical
that in future 1 shall be INVESTING
all my funds in my cellar. Anyway,
that’s my story and I'm sticking to it.
★ ★ ★
is a danger that advertising
could lead to inverse snobbery.
Again and again we read and hear that
you can drink anything you like at all
with any kind of food. This is, of
course, strictly speaking true. You are
master of your palate, the captain of
your sole, and you can damn well please
yourself what you want to drink with
it. Yet I think this is better for the
experienced taster rather than the
novice, and after all he is the advertisers’
target. The general rules that applied
in the past should still apply for the
relatively inexperienced. Drink white
before red, dry before sw'eet, rich food
needs rich wine, and so on. A delicate
fish can be utterly ruined by a rough
red yet so often one overhears the
emphatic “please yourself what you
have; I think that stuff about white wine
with fish and so on is a lot of rubbish.”
★ * ★
HThe quickest way to wine fame in the
eyes of many of your fellows is by
identifying a masked bottle. This effect
is still further enhanced if the vintage
and grape type are nominated as well.
Is this so important, though? Does
this make a man a good judge? Often
it is so easy; you have drunk the wine
recently or perhaps it has some little
features of color, nose, or palate that
bring it quickly to mind. Yet this does
not mean you are an authority. Alec
Waugh said that if he could say with
confidence “this is a Burgundy, and it
is rather old,” and he was right, he was
doing very well. There are judges in
Australia who immediately identify
region and often vineyard before they
start classifying and awarding points.
This is surely unfair, since pre-conceived
ideas and personal favoritism could
influence opinion. The important thing
is that you should be able to tell if the
wine is sound, and that it pleases your
nose, palate and eye with its qualities
and their harmony. It is not always
that man is allowed to be his own judge.
★ ★ ★
is a drink consisting of wines,
spices and other aromatic ingredi-
ents. I don’t have the recipe, but a few
months ago I acquired a loving cup,
c. 1775, made by Bush and Walters in
Bristol and this Christmas it shall be
filled with my version of Caudle and
passed from hand to hand.


Around Melbourne
MR FOGARTY'S SILENT SPOKESMAN
think that it should ever come
to this. Melburnians, who have
always held their noses and seven-
ounce glasses high, this past week
have had to stand in queues thirstily
seeking after cans of Toohey’s from
Sydney, bottles of West End from
Adelaide and, heaven help us, bottles
from any town on earth that will put
water, malt and hops together. Some-
thing like 30,000 dozen bottles of
foreign brews have come into the old
town.
Of course, it is very good training.
It has to be realised that a whole new
generation has grown up completely
unskilled in the delicate arts of
wangling a dozen at Christmas time.
For the very first time they have had
to learn how to be nice to pub
keepers.
Personally I have suffered terribly.
To gain my humble Yuletide supply
1 have endured innumerable appalling
counter-lunches including liver and
mash. To keep right with our licensed
grocer I have bought a year’s supply
of Corn Flakes, Wheaties, and Coco
Pops. Some retailers have recklessly
blown their supplies at once, others
have worked strictly on the rationing
system. It has been reported that one
licensee, at the Kerry Family Hotel,
has been awarded the OBE by his
customers. He gives one bottle to
everybody.
As you learned in The Bulletin
last week there’s an overtime ban at
the Carlton and United Brewery, and
the liquor trades men want such
glorious things as a 35-hour week,
four weeks’ annual leave and a £2
increase in the basic wage. Seeing
that these benefits are possessed by
no one else the Trades Hall could
well be using a monopoly industry,
the one closest to our stomachs, to
start a move for the whole trade
union movement.
Now the interesting thing is this.
There’s no shortage of draught beer.
You can go along to your nearest pub
and buy it by the bucket. It’s the
bottles and cans that have been
awarded the OBE. We Victorians are
peculiar, we get through an equal
ratio of bottles and bulk. Last August
New South Wales consumed 5,783,789
gallons of bulk, 1,773,226 gallons in
bottles. Whereas Victoria knocked
off 2,878,612 gallons in bottles,
2,761,427 gallons in bulk.
Maybe that was because we have
to drink ourselves silly at home after
6 p.m., but there’s another reason.
We are unique in that we have an
institution called the licensed grocer.
Mother always adds a couple of
dozen bottles to the grocery bill.
You might ask who will win this
battle between the brewery, the
brewery workers and the public. My
betting is that it will be the brewery,
in short, Reginald Francis Graham
Fogarty, director and general manager
of Carlton and United Breweries, the
beer czar of Australia. He’ll win
because he has won every battle over
every brewery to date. He has a
brewery spokesman known as "Gin-
ger” Burke, and this has been one of
the more charming jokes of the week.
Whenever you call the spokesman he
says: “As I said before I have no
comments to make”. The real state-
ments come from R. F. G. Fogarty.
For example, he took a full-page
ad. in all the newspapers, which was
a mighty telling one, giving details of
the undoubted benefits received by
the brewery workers. Since 1947-
1948, they have all received three
weeks’ annual leave with five weeks’
pay, and, what's more, a week's addit-
ional pay as a Christmas bonus. Yet
the point that fascinated us humble
workers, who get cups of tea at 11
a.m., was the line about the free beer
issue. Mr Fogarty pointed out that
during the two daily .10-minute breaks
and at meal-time and finishing-time
the employees received free beer.
Apart from the expense of the beer,
this cost the company £43,000 a year
in excise tax.
My friends, the excise on beer is
9s. lOd. a gallon so think it over.
The workers at the brewery are
getting through nigh on 86.000
gallons of beer a year in tea breaks.
Mr Fogarty is tough, ruthless, one
of the most efficient and brilliant
businessmen this town has known. He
sits behind a horseshoe-shaped desk
at the brewery. He seems to get
devoted loyalty from those close to
him. Qualities like charm and tact
are not for him. Reporters on the
tefephofie find him almost un-
believably abrupt. Don’t get me
wrong. He is not an unkindly man.
He is very well known for his good
charitable works.
However, he has a monopoly and
he can use the delivery of beer as a
weapon. Back in 1949 the Australian
Hotels’ Association instructed its
Victorian members to put up the price
of their beer by a penny a glass and
twopence a bottle. The brewery hotels
stayed pat, the others put up the price.
Mr Fogarty immediately stopped
delivery of beer to all hotels who
jumped the price. Mr Fogarty knew
an increase in price would cause a
drop in consumption. The battle was
over in less than a week and the AHA
had to admit an abject defeat. One
man controls the price of beer in
Victoria.
In this dispute he has been accused
of delivering more bottles to brewery
hotels. This he has denied, furiously.
Brewery hotels have been careful
not to stock imported beers, but some
hotel-keepers, and they’re not game to
put their names to the accusations,
have said that they have been warned
that if they continue to sell Adelaide
and Sydney beer their supply of
bottles will be cut. One retailer said:
"Don’t quote me, but Fogarty doesn’t
want Melburnians to get a taste for
other beers.”
Another curious aspect of the whole
thing is that Mr Fogarty has pointed
out that the delivery of bottles has
been very little below that for the
same period last year and the shortage
has all been due to panic buying.
Hotel-keepers still insist that deliveries
are down by 25 per cent.
Panic or no panic it’s mighty hard
to get a bottle. The mystery of the
missing bottles has been becoming
one of the most haunting problems of
our time. As you know, Carlton and
United have absorbed all the breweries
in sight. Before they absorbed the
Richmond Brewery there was a hope
that Charringtons of London would
take over Richmond and start a beer
battle in Melbourne. Mr Fogarty
moved first and bought Richmond for
£2,200,000. Exit Charringtons.
BATMAN


THE CONSOLIDATED GOLD FIELDS
OF SOUTH AFRICA LIMITED
EXTRACTS FROM THE CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS AT THE
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING HELD ON 13th DECEMBER, 1962
The Annual General Meeting of The Consolidated Gold
Fields of South Africa Limited was held in London on 13th
December, 1962. Sir George Harvie-Watt, Bart., T.D., Q.C.,
the Chairman presided, and in the course of his speech said:
Tn this year, during which we cele-
brated the 75th Anniversary of the
Company, I am glad to report that profits
before taxation amounted to £7,030,000
which is the highest figure the Group has
yet achieved. Another satisfactory fea-
ture of the account is that dividends and
interest exceeded £5 million for the
first time. Your Directors recommend
the payment of a final dividend of 3/9d.
per Ordinary share less tax, thus main-
taining the previous year’s total of 5/-
per share but on a capital enlarged by
the rights issue of one-for-ten last Janu-
ary.
Last year I referred to the progress
that had been made in acquiring new
interests in Australia. That progress has
been continuing.
The majority holding we acquired in
Commonwealth Mining Investments still
represents our largest interest and the
company has continued to pay dividends
at a rate of 5%, which considering the
recent business set-back in that country,
can be considered satisfactory. Good
progress has been made in strengthening
Commonwealth Mining’s holdings in
sound growth stocks, and we are con-
fident that this company is now in a
position to benefit when economic con-
ditions improve.
MAJOR STAKE IN RUTILE
The other major new investment to
which I referred last year was that made
in the rutile and zircon industry. This
has subsequently been increased. The
major part of our stake in this industry
is represented by our holding in Associ-
ated Minerals Consolidated. Since last
year this company has exercised its
option over the share capital of Marine
Minerals and has acquired all the out-
standing shares of Z. R. Holdings. In
addition a successful offer was made for
the entire share capital of Titanium
Minerals and the assets of Rye Park
Scheelite were also purchased. During
the year the management of Associated
Minerals has been consolidating and
rationalising the operations of the vari-
ous subsidiaries which now form part of
the Associated Minerals group, and plans
are being put into effect for the improve-
ment and expansion of production
facilities.
While Associated Minerals was build-
ing up its holdings in the rutile industry,
we felt it necessary to strengthen our
position in Wyong Minerals, another
rutile producer in which Commonwealth
Mining already had a substantial invest-
ment. Accordingly, our wholly-owned
subsidiary, Consolidated Gold Fields
(Australia) Pty Ltd. made an offer in
February for 50% of all shareholdings
in Wyong Minerals other than those
held by Commonwealth Mining Invest-
ments. This offer was successful and
Wyong Minerals is now a subsidiary
within the Group. The total rutile pro-
ductive capacity of our subsidiaries now
represents close on one-half of the total
free world capacity. The expansion
programme, which Associated Minerals
now has in hand, should maintain this
position.
Of major significance to the rutile
market has been the decision of several
American manufacturers to produce
titanium pigment by the chloride process
-—a process which depends on the use
of rutile as a raw material. Long-term
contracts, in which Associated Minerals
has shared, have been placed in Australia
for the supply of rutile for this purpose
and demand from other users of rutile
has continued to improve steadily, which
has had the effect of increasing the open
market rutile price during the year by
some 50%. In the case of zircon the
price has remained stable in spite of
considerably increased supplies.
Our confidence in the future of rutile
has been further increased by the events
of the past year and there is every
reason to hope that, with the improved
efficiency of production and price stabil-
ity, our investment in this industry will
prove highly profitable.
MOUNT GOLDSWORTHY IRON ORE
PROJECT
Early in the year our partnership with
Cyprus Mines Corporation and the
Utah Construction & Mining Co. in the
North Western regions of Western
Australia was given the name of
Mount Goldsworthy Mining Associates,
and a strong team of geologists and
engineers has continued the work which
was begun by our own subsidiary, New
Consolidated Gold Fields (Australasia).
Examination of the Mount Goldsworthy


deposits by diamond and percussion
drilling and by underground tunnelling
has demonstrated large reserves of
particularly high quality iron ore. Geo-
logical examination of the surrounding
areas has also disclosed extensive supple-
mentary deposits, and up to the present,
very considerable reserves have already
been indicated.
At the same time work is proceeding
on the examination of the engineering
problems involved in the mining of these
deposits and in the construction of a
125 mile railway to Depuch Island where
a major deep sea port is under con-
sideration.
Negotiations are in progress with the
Japanese iron and steel industry regard-
ing the market for this ore which is
thought will be competitive in price
and quality with any now available to
Japan. It will be some time yet before
our initial examinations are completed
and before we can assess the desirable
scale of operations and of our invest-
ment in the enterprise. Nevertheless,
the outlook is encouraging and I would
refer particularly to the whole-hearted
support we are receiving from the West-
ern Australian and Commonwealth
Governments.
FULL POTENTIAL NOT YET
REALISED
The expansion of our interests in
Australia which we have achieved over
the past two years is substantial but it
must be appreciated that it will be some
time before the full potential of these
acquisitions will be realised. In the
meantime the search for new opportuni-
ties through geological exploration and
through direct purchase into existing
undertakings is continuing.
The progress we have already made
in expanding our activities in Australia,
North America and the United Kingdom
affords encouragement for the future.
Our operational organisation is estab-
lished and we have important new pro-
jects, each with considerable promise,
in all the territories in which we are
active. The significant feature of our
present phase of expansion is that we
are seeking not only to develop new
mines covering a wider range of min-
erals than in the past, but also to extend
our interests into industry. It must be
recognised that it will be some time be-
fore we receive the full return on our
new investments: but there is good
reason to hope that by next year they
wiil have started to make a growing con-
tribution to the earnings of the Group.
HARVEY


Rome Newsletter
THE GREAT COUNCIL OF FATHERS
“First is the work of the Devil ..."
From DESMOND O'GRADY in ROME
The Australian bishop spoke with
pride of the bishops who gathered
in Rome for the first session of
the Ecumenical Council “We hit this
place like a tornado”. His pride was
justified for the two months since the
opening of the Council had seen an
assertion of the assembled bishops’
authority and a corresponding decrease
of the Roman Curia’s power such as few
could have hoped.
The first session showed that the
majority of bishops are aware of the
Church's need for rejuvenation but it
was no foregone conclusion that their
views would prevail. When the Council
was announced there were excessive
hopes in some quarters that it would
bring about Christian unity immediately.
As the Council approached, many bishops
declared that they were not attending it
to rubbers tamp the work of the prepara-
tory commissions but statements from
Rome emphasised the “internal-disci-
pline” rather than the “search-for-unity”
aspects of the Council.
Rome was as sceptical as ever on the
eve of the Council; it was agreed it
would be a great spectacle but as for
any changes in the Church . . . Perhaps
the bishops were renovators but they
were playing against the conservative ele-
ments of the Curia on their own pitch, a
formidable opposition who might lose
the arguments, lack the numbers but
still emerge with victory through their
tactical skill.
The battle was joined quicker than
anticipated. The Council was opened
with pomp and ceremony, then the Com-
missions had to be elected. These Com-
missions are of 24 members, 16 elective
and 8 chosen by the Pope. There is a
commission for each subject the Coun-
cil discusses; when the discussion is
finished their task is to incorporate the
suggested changes in the texts on the
subject presented by the preparatory
commissions which had been at work
in the three years preceeding the Coun-
cil. They are the working body of the
Council and, obviously, are of crucial
importance.
As the bishops had not had time to
meet each other they had no chance of
knowing who was most qualified for the
various commissions. To assist them,
the lists of those who sat on the prepara-
tory commissions were distributed and it
would have been only too easy for them
to vote for these same men. However
these men had been selected by Rome
and according to some they were not al-
ways the best qualified.
When the vote was to be taken, Car-
dinal Achille Leinart, Archbishop of
Lille, rose to speak. Cardinal Leinart’s
opponents refer to him as the “red Car-
dinal”; as soon as he was consecrated
bishop of Lille in 1928 he unleashed an
attack on the mineowners in the district
for their exploitation of the miners; he
condemned the Nazis during the war for
deporting French workers; he encouraged
the worker-priests; he criticised the
French government for the war in Al-
geria and the cruelties committed there
by French troops. Cardinal Leinart said
he refused to vote for the commissions
as there had not been sufficient time to
make a responsible decision. He asked
for a postponement of the vote and the
assembly supported him enthusiastically.
The Council was to be a forum. The
70 schema or subjects for discussion by
the Council had been approved by the
Central Commission in 40 working days
before the opening. The conservative
block of the Curia could see no reason
why the preparatory work, which they
considered thorough and satisfactory',
should not be approved in a similar
period by the Council. The bishops could
be out of Rome by Christmas and the
running of the Church would once again
be in the hands of the Roman Curia. It
might have worked if the preparatory
commissions had become the emending
commissions.
In the days following Leinart’s move
there were frequent meetings of national
hierarchies and lists were prepared by
the French hierarchy, working in close
co-operation with others, which were
widely representative and highly quali-
fied. These lists were successful in the
elections and there was no possibility of
a “Blitz-Konzil”. Reactionary Roman
papers recalled Pius IX’s comment on
Councils: “the first stage is that of the
devil, the second that of men and the
third that of the Holy Ghost”.
The bishops were on their toes,
they were getting to know one another,
they began to feel at home in the
Council whereas they had been given
very little information about procedure
before its opening, the “New Yorker”
article on the battle over the Biblical
Institute had made a number of them sit
up and take another look at the central
bureaucracy of the Church.
The first subject was the liturgy. It
was a happy choice because the prepara-
tory commission had worked well, and it
was more pastoral than theological so
there was little fear that the deepest
divisions among the delegates would
come immediately to the surface.
Nevertheless the lively debate on linking
liturgy with life, on adapting forms to
various cultures revealed the two op-
posed currents of the Council.
The two currents
HThese two currents are variously
A dubbed “progressively” and “reaction-
aries”, “liberals” and “conservatives”,
“renovators” and “conservators”, and so
on. The liberals are most aware of the
Church’s need to bring itself up-to-date,
to take notice of the needs of the con-
temporary world, to do all in its power
to meet the Protestant and other
churches interested in unity. In theology
their attention is turned to the positive
sources, to the Bible and the early
fathers of the Church where their study
can concentrate on the person of
Christ. In this study they use scientific
disciplines such as archaeology but they
try to avoid the rigid Thomistic spirit
which can encase the subject of faith in
syllogisms. Their theological attitude is
more attentive to mystery than to


PROFESSIONAL
PARTYTH ROWERS
ORGANISATION
(Put life into your Party)
We guarantee you'll bs . . .
A gay social success —as host or hostess of the
most talked-about party of the year. A party
of charm and atmosphere that will absolutely
delight your guests!
Complete Party Organisers.
Country or City . . .
. . . No Home too far
Our Fee: 25 gns., plus cost of the party.
CONTACT
Organisers,
85 New South Head Road
Edgecliff
Telephone: 32-4492
The University of Adrlaide
and the W.E.A. of S.A.
SUMMER SCHOOL OF POLITICS
"Australia —A Dynamic Society ?"
Adelaide, January 11-18, 1963
Lecture topics include:
Will federalism work? How lively are the parties?
Is there any real competition in business? Are
trade unions behind the times? The mass media
forces for conformity? What our schools
produce.
Forces tor Change
A new conscience about the Aborigines and the
Asians. Dissent in press and parliament. Arts
festivals as boosts for culture? Trading in the
post ECM world. Making up our mind about the
bomb.
Summing Up
An alternative to the electors' apathy? The
future pattern of the economy. What does mate-
ship amount to?
Details of programme and
enrolment from the
DEPT. OF ADULT EDUCATION,
UNIVERSITY OF ADELAIDE. i
Closing date, January 7, 1963.
Fees: For the week, £4/4/-; one
day, 15/-; one session, 5/-. /
dogma, it implies the need for a com-
munal liturgical life and the permea-
tion of liturgy by local ethos and cus-
toms. They use sociology to discover
to what degree religion penetrates mod-
ern society rather than deploring or
ignoring it. They are alert to the new
and developing nations of Africa and
Asia and, in the political sphere, they
are wary of any identification of the
capitalist world with the Church. As
one old Roman monsignor said: “God
save us from their errors, they’re all
Protestants”.
The attitudes of the conservatives can,
to a large extent, be implied from those
of their opponents. They consider that
the Church should discipline itself for
in addition to the resultant strengthening
of fibre, a display of its unity would
attract the “separated brethren”. In
theology they consider St. Thomas’s
work definitive and of universal
validity. They fear confusion if Latin is
replaced in the liturgy by modern
languages and, in the political sphere,
their most extreme members favour
crusades against Communism.
The conservatives are by no means
confined to the Roman Curia. Perhaps
two-thirds of the 341 Italian bishops
could be counted conservative, along
with the Iberian hierarchies. The South
Americans are usually considered con-
servatives.
The liberals have central Europe as
their hub, but a map of the liberal
bishops’ diocese would swing down to
include Urbani’s Venice and Montini’s
Milan. The Dutch, German, Austrian,
Belgian and French hierarchies are
liberal.
The United States hierarchy, like the
Australian, lacks the precise character
of, say, the French episcopate. Many of
the French and German bishops seem
to leave the running of their diocese in
the hands of subordinates while they
devote themselves to study of, and state-
ments on, major contemporary questions.
The United States hierarchy seems
more concerned with administrative
problems. Their Irish background and
historical circumstances did not favour
the development of imaginative, specu-
lative thinkers. Moreover many of them
were trained in Rome by those who were
now leaders of the conservative camp.
With the emergence of the United
States as the major world power after
the second world war there was a threat
that the United States hierarchy, repre-
senting the most financially powerful
Catholic community, would take the
lead in Church affairs. This was feared
not only because culturally, intellec-
tually and even, in some respects,
apostolically, the Americans were in the
rearguard rather than the forefront of
contemporary Catholicism, but also
because of the coincidence of American
political leadership of the West with
leadership of the Church.
American influence in the Church has
ebbed but the fear of liberals in the
Council was that the Americans would
side solidly with the conservatives. But
although the Americans and many others
may have had conservative tendencies,
they were willing to consider the evi-
dence. That is precisely what they did:
they called in the theologians.
Men who had been absorbed in pas-
toral and administrative tasks for years
found themselves in Rome with nothing
to do but discuss and consider the basic
questions of the Church. This in itself
was one of the major benefits of the
Council. Not only did well-informed
bishops find the extremely frank daily
debates illuminating, but national hier-
archies asked the theologians of different
schools to put their cases to them.
Refresher course
C'erman, Austrian, French and Dutch
bishops came to Rome with their own
personal theologians whose books had,
in many cases, been attacked and con-
demned by certain Roman theologians
who consider that Papal infallibility ex-
tends a long way down the line. Now
the North and Latin American hier-
archies invited the contenders to con-
vince them: one Roman theologian made
a blistering attack on an opponent in
front of the Mexican hierarchy. They
told him he had made serious charges
before a responsible body and asked for
detailed proofs. He could only answer
that he did not expect to be asked for
proofs. A bishop who was a professor
of theology said that he learnt more in
these weeks in Rome than in all the
rest of his life. The intense refresher
course showed results when, following
the discussion on the Liturgy, the pre-
paratory commission's work on the
sources of revelation was submitted to
the assembly.
This was the second crucial point of
the first session and everyone was
aware of it. The schema/text had been
prepared by the theological commission
responsible also for other schema “De
Beata Maria Vergine”, “Ut unim sint”
and, most vital of all, “De Ecclesia”.
The commission was headed by Car-
dinal Alfredo Ottaviani, secretary of the
Congregation of the Holy Office, recog-
nised as leader of the conservatives, and
held responsible for the banning of the
worker-priests, and the condemnation of
other apostolic initiatives in France and
Germany in the last decade.
When Cardinal Ottaviani was ad-
dressing the assembly on the Liturgy,
the president for the day, Cardinal
Alfrink of Utrecht, Holland, one of the
liberals’ leaders, reminded him that he
had exceeded the 10 minute time limit
allowed each speaker. Many bishops ap-
plauded Cardinal Alfrink and from that
day Cardinal Ottaviani absented himself
from the assembly. He returned for the
presentation of the text on the Sources
of Revelation.
It was a fiasco. The bishops criticised
it in every way imaginable: it was
pedantic, opposed to the use of scien-
tific disciplines in Biblical studies,
ignorant of the latest developments, and
unaware of Catholic-Protestant relation-


ships in this field.* The first reaction
was one of amazement that the most
important commission should labour
three years to produce such a document.
A detailed analysis of the make-up of
the commission would explain it; for
instance, although it had eminent experts
such as the French Jesuit Danielou and
the French Dominican de Lubac at-
tached to it, they were in an advisory
capacity. They spoke when they were
spoken to. One of them was asked only
one question throughout the whole
preparation, and he was asleep at the
time.
“A disaster”
HThe query as to how it happened was
A not as pressing as its partner: what
was to be done? There were two opi-
nions: one that it could serve as a basis
for discussion but should be extensively
revised, the other that it should be
scrapped and another text prepared.
While over 60 per cent of the dele-
gates voted for its rejection they did not
quite reach the required two-thirds maj-
ority. That afternoon the high hopes for
the council seemed smashed. It looked as
if it might do a great deal in the pas-
toral field but that it would reach a
stalemate on doctrinal questions. Doubts
arose about the timing of the Council
Arch-conservatives had always believed
it should never have been held at all: one
member of the Curia said “It’s a dis-
aster, all these bishops running around,
how will we control them?” But liberals
began to fear that it had been held too
early, before new attitudes had influ-
enced sufficient bishops.
The length of the Council became of
prime importance. There were 70
schema to be discussed. That on the
Liturgy had taken a month and the de-
bate on the Sources of Revelation pro-
mised to be endless. Each of over 1300
bishops who thought it should be
scrapped could, and possibly would,
speak on it for 10 minutes, then it
would be amended and submitted again.
They were determined to battle the
question out and the Council could ex-
tend into the next decade. International
events, the death of the Pope, could in-
terrupt or lead to a postponement of
the Council. . .
At this point Pope John acted. He
does not attend the daily sessions of
the assembly but the proceedings are
relayed to his desk and he can
watch them on closed circuit television.
He had called the Council with the
eventual unity of Christianity in mind
yet now it was to plunge into a bitter
debate on a text which the majority of
delegates considered should have been
scrapped. Before the debate could start
Pope John announced that the schema
would be withdrawn and prepared anew.
The new commission would be presided
by Cardinal Ottaviani and Cardinal Bea
whose Secretariate for Christian Unity
would co-operate in the work. Two of
the Commission members would be
Cardinal Frings, of Cologne, and Car-
dinal Leinart, whose views could not
differ more from Cardinal Ottaviani’s.
Bishop de Smedt of Bruge had dis-
closed that Cardinal Bea’s secretariate
had asked to co-operate in the theo-
logical commission's preparatory work
on the Sources of Revelation but were
told that they were not needed. A
German Jesuit, Cardinal Bea, ranks with
Cardinal Montini as the major figure
among the delegates. He combines an
impressive Biblical scholarship with
diplomatic finesse. His Secretariate for
Christian Unity established splendid re-
lationships with non-Catholic churches
and was anxious that the preparatory
commission on such a delicate question
be aware of Protestant thought on the
subject. But, of course, a secretariate
ranked nowhere near a commission, par-
ticularly the theological commission.
Now, however, Pope John has raised
it to the same rank.
“A prisoner in the tower”
/Attaviani is not an attractive figure:
” not only are his views narrow but he
is so convinced of them that he is arro-
gant. Powerfully built, he moves his
head stiffly, he has an unsightly crop
under his chin and is almost blind; at
times he seems a blind prisoner in a
narrow tower of orthodoxy. He has
wielded great power for years but in a
few short weeks he saw many of his
supporters w'aver and weaken. With so
many voices raised against him it is
worthwhile recording that some non-
Catholic delegates spoke warmly of his
kindness and consideration in recent
years. He would have been bewildered at
the verdict of the assembled Church,
which to his mind must be nearly here-
tical.
What seemed like a tactical victory
over the Sources of Revelation only
called forth Pope John’s intervention
which was certainly not in his favour.
He then asked the Council to consider
next “De Beatum Virginem” which is
a brief and uncontroversial text which
would have allowed the Council to con-
clude its first session with a great acco-
lade to Our Lady on the feast of the
Immaculate Conception, and would
also have restored some of Ottaviani’s
prestige. The Council did not accept
the suggestion. According to the liberals,
the subjective Marian movement should
be incorporated into the wider social
perspectives of the Liturgical movement.
They decided to move on to an exam-
ination of “De Ecclesia” which Ottaviani
presented, as well he might, with a
certain diffidence.
The score sheet
Council will resume this discus-
sion in September, 1963, but in the
meantime reconstituted commissions will
be at work, reducing the number of
schema to 20, ordering and paring the
preparatory work, and some predict that
the Council will end in December.
A score sheet of the first two months
achievement looks bad. Of the five
schemes discussed, one was rejected out
of hand, two deferred, the fourth has
not reached the stage of amendments,
and for that on Liturgy only the proem
and the first of its eight chapters have
been emended and approved.
More would have been achieved if
Pope John had imposed a definite direc-
tion on the proceedings but he acted
with reserve and let Council find its own
feet. The first session has been an in-
valuable running-in period from which
a moderately progressive current has
emerged which should accomplish the
great leap forward desired by Pope John.
Whether they will achieve this in the
next twelve months remains to be seen,
just as it is problematic whether Pope
John will see the conclusion of the
Council he initiated and which will re-
main linked with his name. But it
seems nothing can thwart the forces he
has set in motion, which mark the end
of the Constantine and Post-
Reformation eras of the Catholic
Church. As Hans Kung. the Austrian
theologian said, it should all have hap-
pened 400 years ago immediately after
the Council of Trent.
There is a traditional image of the
Church as the barque of St Peter. This
barque is on a long journey and never
puts into port on the way. All repairs
have to be done at sea no matter what
winds blow, so it is a rough trip at
times, especially when one is guiding by
stars that at times are obscured. The
Council is a period of repairs which
will be extensive without upsetting the
barque altogether: as a result the barque
will sail better, in a somewhat different
direction, but with the same destination.
Extended metaphors are not to
everyone’s taste: there is yet another
way of viewing the Council. For a
Catholic the invisible protagonist is the
Holy Ghost but they recognise that he
must make himself heard through the
assembled bishops. In this sense one
can comment on this first “initial ex-
periment”, and all future sessions, by
saying that the Church gets the sort of
Council it deserves.
♦While it is generally recognised that the
Bible and tradition are linked, one being
•written and the other oral, revelation, the
preparatory commission’s work tended to
place them in different compartments.


Callow
by Hal Porter
"Had I not been alone in the house I could
have been saved a long ecstasy and a bitter
destruction"
My paternal grandfather was English,
military, and long - nosed. He
married twice, and had seven sons
and four daughters, My maternal grand-
father, Swiss, agricultural, and long-
nosed, married once but had six sons
and six daughters. As a child, therefore,
I was well-provided not only with an-
cestral aunts and uncles but also with
the uncle-husbands and wife-aunts they
had married. Since each of these couples
was abundantly productive, long-nosed
cousins of all ages,! from braggart strip-
lings and chatterbox young women to
india - rubber babies like tempestuous
Queen Victorias with bonnets awry, con-
gested my boyhood. It seems to me now
that what my grandparents imported to
Australia along with fecundity and long
noses was largely noise. Noise, in their
case, can be elegantly enlarged to cover
vivacity bordering on uproar, devil-may-
care wildness, a febrile intensity about—
well, issues of great unimportance From
the most feckless uncle to the most
social aunt, from bread - line - treading
aunts to rich uncles, all were afflicted by
this rowdy insouciance. My mother,
essentially provincial, was nevertheless
gay as a porpoise, and lived like a
windmill rotating to alternate gusts of
firework temper and slapdash charm.
In this uproarious tribal whirlpool I
was odd boy out. A throwback in-
heritance of some less mettlesome blood
braked me. I had the same passion for
decorous behaviour as they had for fits-
and-starts behaviour, for conversations
at full pitch, for gambling and gipsying
about. This perversity of self-restraint
caused me to lag behind, to be a some-
time observer rather than a full-time
participant. Yet, oddly enough, I also
had maximum esprit de corps. Nor was
I niminy-piminy and stand-offish. Japan-
shaped scabs blotched my fruit-stealer’s
country boy knees; my bare soles were
as rind-like as fire-walkers’. I could
swim like a frog, swear like a cow-
cocky, and smoke like a debutante.
These activities, abilities and simulated
ferocities were, however, strictly con-
ventional. In their execution I went just
so far. I drew a line. Other members
of the family always went further and
farther. I would not, for example, kill
snakes as Uncle Foster and cousins and
brothers did by cracking them like
whips. Sticks did me. As well as affect-
ing protective discretions such as this,
and making withdrawals from heredit-
ary bravura, I often broke the wrong
rules. My brothers and country cousins
each had a dog, usually a bossy fox-
terrier or a smart-alec mong with lots
of heeler in it. I had a cat. I found
its relative muteness and disdainful in-
dependence preferable to the ostentatious
servility and noisily neurasthenic de-
mands of dogs. Need I say that I wore
spectacles and spoke in polysyllables?
Not only did I violate the clan code
by visible non-conformity but I was
mentally and invisibly rebellious. This
was harder to swear at. I believed, as
all we youngsters did, that broken-
backed snakes could not die until the
sun set, that warts grew where dogs
licked one, that to gash the skin linking
thumb with forefinger caused lockjaw
which we translated as instant and
eternal dumbness. Along with the mob
I circumspectly believed in ghosts, the
end of the world and Spring-heel Jack.
But then I ran off the rails. As logic’s
advocate I believed, for longer than was
deemed orthodox or manly, in Father
Christmas: his leavings were evidence.
I did not believe in God who had let
me down in the matter of prayers for a
Meccano set. To the terror of the others,
I said so piercingly enough for the vast
ear in the sky to take in the blasphemy.
I became the tree for believers not to
stand by when lightning flashed.
More disconcerting and shaming than
even blasphemy was my most eccentric
trait. I cherished the family caprices
and florid behaviour so much that I
came out of my comparative silence to
exult —in public over what my kith
and kin accepted as one does a birth-
mark better hidden. I let out, to the dirt-
rimmed and contemptuous sons of the
washerwoman, that Swiss grandfather’s
daughters, in order of birth, were named
Rosa Bona, Adelina, Sophia, Maria,
Meta and Ida. I explained that each
aunt’s name, besides ending in A, had,
sequentially, one letter less. My brothers,
failing to shut me up or divert interest
from my humiliating treason, looked
bleakly down their noses. I continued to
rattle on, chattily revealing my dis l
appointment that there had not been two
more aunts born a final aunt, a
fabulous creature called Aunt A, would
have exhilarated me more than my
favourite Sago Plum Pudding. The
family, boorishly I thought, instead of
these cunningly graduated names, used
Bon, Addie, Sophie, Ria. Min Min and
Dol. It irked my senses of order and
aesthetics as much as my sense of
possession to hear my mother called not
Aunt Ida but Auntie Dolly. As a
gesture, although Aunt Rosa Bona and
Aunt Adelina were mouthfuls, I prissily
insisted on using the full names. I was
equally inflexible in not saying Uncle
Whit, Uncle Gat and Uncle Tini to my
paternal uncles who had been christened
Whitworth, Gatling and Martini-Henry
after firearms. My military grand-
father’s other sons were Lancaster,
Enfield, Snider and Mauser.


Though clearly pointing an attitude,
my delight in these absurdities of baptism
was a mere fraction of the magnetism
my flamboyant relatives had for me.
Even a porcupine, I suppose, regards its
own kind as soft and sleek. I overdid it:
my blood-porcupines were powder-puffs
and satin to me.
Each aunt and uncle had at least one
engaging and dashing ability or foible
which still, now years later, when it
comes to mind, enchants my nostalgic
middle age as much as it then enchanted
me. I know now, alas, that behind the
screen of levity and animal spirits lay
concealed human imperfections, guile,
improvidence, stupidity, mendacity,
anguishes of every variety, and even
downright tragedy. But, in those days,
I gaped at everything I heard or over-
heard of their vivid and forthright
doings. These legends, which they
dramatically recounted of themselves and
of each other, so magnified them that
they swaggered and swept by, heroes and
Amazons, along the rim of my mind’s
horizon, casting milcs-long shadows as
blinding as searchlight rays. When
these nobilities appeared before me in
the flesh I could still gape, for I was not
yet ready for disillusion. Reality matched
imagination. About the family, anyway,
I was the Three Wise Monkeys.
T WAS stimulated by Uncle Martini-
Henry’s waxed moustache and
malacca and watch-chain with its shark-
tooth breloque as much as by the saga
of his earlier bushwhacking adventures,
by Uncle Whitworth’s plush-lined pipe-
cases, by Aunt Rosa Bona’s garden
gorged with flowers so large and crisp
as to appear edible. I was captivated
by each of their houses which smelt
variously of strawberry jam cooking, or
furniture polish and Brasso, or cut
lemons, or Eau de Cologne, or boiled-
over milk, or cats and cigars. Because,
indeed, the mind and its shadow senses
do preserve a detailed past, I still recall
the smell of Uncle Mauser's Turkish
cigarettes or Aunt Sophia's glycerine
soap, the exact disposition of Mazza-
wattee tea-canisters and atrocious gilt-
handled vases long ago destroyed, still
feel the Greek key pattern embossing
the rim of Aunt Adelina’s fruit-plates,
still hear Harry Lauder wheezing
Roamin' in the gloamin’ through the
toffee-coloured, convolvulus-shaped horn
of Aunt Meta’s gramophone. These
recollections, and a thousand more, seem
to be borne into my mind on billows of
laughter—laughter never menacing, two-
penny-ha’penny, uncharitable or vin-
dictive, but boisterous, sidesplitting and
absolute triumphant.
I seized every opportunity to stock a
granary of impressions. I picked up
whole and wonderful sentences thrown
carelessly down among cake-crumbs and
tea-slopped saucers; took away and
tucked away luminous smiles released in
happy-go-lucky flights at picnics; carried
off, as it were, armloads of cuttings from
virile and showy plants in a garden
where summer seemed perfect and un-
ending. How cruelly endless now seems
a deadlier season.
As children in a spread - out but
gregariously inclined sept, my cousins
and brothers and sisters and I, during
school holidays, were always anywhere
but in our own rowdy nests. We were
interchanged like home-made tokens of
affection. Those of us who were
suburban were bundled off to country
aunts and uncles; those who were
country bumpkins went citywards. Child-
ren are pickers-up of what adults dis-
card. Each child returned home bearing
objects that, almost valueless otherwise,
were sacred mementoes and doubly
sacred as being something for nothing.
I remember my sisters bringing back
shoe-buckles, wildernesses of embroidery
silks, bone crochet needles, Piver’s
powder boxes, raped-looking dolls, and
fans still releasing from their broken
wings shadows of a scent long out of
fashion and the name of which nobody
knew. At one time or another, my
brothers brought back jars of seedy
lizards preserved in spirits, cigar-boxes
of cigar-bands, a carved emu’s egg,
tortoise-shell pen-knives with broken
blades, a rectangular tennis-racquet and,
on a notable occasion, Uncle Snider’s
elderly banjo. These things were rub-
bish but, like tourist souvenirs, retained
enough glamour just long enough to
garnish the short interval before, coach
into pumpkin, holiday turned back to
workaday.
As the one child in this riotous
shuffling to and fro who was family-
obsessed and a born archivist, I was a
magpie of a different color. I wanted,
say, more of Uncle Snider’s past than an
unplayable banjo. I wanted facts, dates,
the how and why and where, all possible
information about the pasts of the living
gods and goddesses I paid homage to.
My eyes must have glittered as much as
my spectacles when I was given dated
menu cards of P. and O. dinners,
Masonic dinners, mayoral dinners, or
old theatre programmes, ball pro-
grammes, invitations to exhibitions and
weddings. It steadied the wildly spin-
ning world to fix an eye on the fact that
Aunt Adelina had gone to a wedding on
June 24, 1911. It added depth and rich-
ness to my knowledge that she was still
going to weddings. Postcards were
special grist to my enthusiastic mill.
Since my aunts and uncles had been
young in the late nineteenth century
and early twentieth century, that era of
postcard-sending and postcard-collecting,
I had many reefs to mine. It was a
fascinating find, say, that, in Victoria
Street, North Williamstown, on February
13, 1913, Uncle Gatling received a
certain message on a postcard which
showed a ragged negro Topsy, her head
spiked like a battle-mace with plaits,
submerging her face in a monster semi-
circle of water-melon under the words
AH'S UP TO MAH EARS IN IT.
Below her toes which were splayed out
like pianist's fingers, the sentence fin-
ished AT ST. KILDA. Written on the
back in violet ink was:
Dear Gat,
Take a gander at the coon on the
other side! !! ! Just a line to say all the
Jokers will be foregathering at the White
Hart next Sat. about 3. Expecting a hot
time!! Don’t wear that bokker!!!!
Harry.
I begged postcards of all sorts. Sunset
on the Nile, Miss Billie Burke, Miss
Zena Dare, cards of padded velvet roses
and stiffened lace, cards gaudily illus-
trating boarding-house and mother-in-law
jokes. But I was really hunting photo-
graphs footballer uncles striped like
barbers’ poles; Aunt Sophia under an
immense wheel of ostrich feathers, and
horse-collared by a boa; Uncle Enfield,
whom I knew as a well-tailored sphere
with an eye-glass, as a cock-eyed skina-
malink of a boy in Little Lord Fauntle-
roy velvet and lace; Aunt Meta, with un-
painted lips, bare shoulders and a cumu-
lus of hair, emerging glass-eyed as a
hairdresser’s wax model from a nest of
chiffon.
So feverish did I become, repeating
my overtures as monotonously as crea-
tion, that I exhausted family teasing into
recognition of my fervour. Far and wide
I was understood to be some sort of
notary. Spring-cleaning aunts sent me
packets of photographs; uncles put aside
for me dim, henna-coloured snapshots
(Me at Leongatha Woodchop, 1920)
or postcards of magenta-nosed drunks
with crayfish semaphoring from their hip-
pockets which they had dug out of draw-
ers holding the treasures of a lifetime
. . . sovereign-cases, insurance policies,
opal tie-pins, wives’ first love-letters, and
the halves of pairs of cuff-links. Proff
became my nickname, and my bottom
was pinched more than formerly and
more affectionately. On my behalf,
archaeology into their own racy and
cluttered pasts became an accepted past-
time of my aunts and uncles.
Alas!
At the height of my miniature fame, at
the unornamental age of ten, a bee-
keeper stung by his own bee, a lion-lover
savaged by his own lion, I fell in love
with a photograph. I fell deeply, unfal-
teringly and hauntedly in love.


A MIDDY
CHRISTMAS
"If he has everything how about
a Survival Kit?"
"Merry Xmas go on, it's not loaded!"
Good old Consolidated Castings they've done it again!
Mtppy


The photograph came in a packet
of postcards from Aunt Meta. Had I
not been alone in the house, with no
mother and siblings peering over my
shoulder, I could have been saved a long
ecstasy and a bitter destruction. But
alone I was when the postman came,
alone I unwrapped my gift and, among
spangled postcards of Gaiety Girls, and
snapshots of bowler-hatted uncles in jin-
kers and ant-waisted aunts leaning on or
being leaned on by bicycles, alone I
came upon my fate. Nothing can undo
what was done that instant, that day.
I saw the photograph. The door of the
one addled world I had known closed
instantly and softly behind me. I was
in the ante-room to Paradise. Its be-
jewelled throne was mine. I perceived
that all loves I had experienced in the
back-room past were imaginary, were
delusions, were nothing. I had been
wastefully librating above shadows—how-
ever spirited, visions—however garrulous
and hearty, hollow beings, deceptive
shapes, creatures of gauze, dresses empty
of women, names without men to them.
I had had merely a bowing acquaintance
with love.
rpHE photograph was of a girl about my
own age. She was dressed in Dolly
Varden-ish costume. Since she held a
shepherd’s crook feminized by a large
bow I gathered she was being Bo Peep
for a fancy dress party. Or was she Bo
Peep herself? There was nothing on the
photograph to tell. The tilted oval of
hat with its rosebuds and ribbons, the
black hatching of the elbow-length mit-
tens, the criss-cross-laced bodice, all ex-
cited me romantically. But what flooded
into my being to reveal inner depths and
expanses never revealed before was the
illumination from the smile and the eyes.
It did not occur to me that what
really confronted the smile and the eyes
was a camera-like half-a-concertina on a
tripod which was concealed with a name-
less human under a black cloth. No! That
faintly scented smile was for me. Those
eyes, bottomless, and yet of dark clarity,
were looking into me. A gale of voices
whirled through the galleries of my con-
sciousness, aromatizing them, purging
them of all former presences, and calling
out deliciously, “Thou!”
“Thou!”
I was eavesdropping on eternity.
Eternity is time’s victim. Eternity
had scarcely begun when I heard my
mother on the front veranda, at the front
door. With the unflurried movements
of a master criminal I performed the act
that was to destroy me. I put the photo-
graph in an inside pocket. I was con-
scious that the pocket was on the left,
and the divine face deliberately turned
inwards. The eyes looked directly into
my heart which I imagined crimson as
a playing-card heart, plump as an arti-
choke, and composed of a material with
the texture of magnolia petals. I ex-
tinguished the lights in my face, swept
up the other photographs with a gam-
bler’s gesture and, as my mother entered,
cried out . . . oh, perfect imitation of a
frank and guileless boy . . . “Look what
Aunt Meta sent!” Not a word about the
divinity staring into my heart, not a
word. I said nothing then. I kept the
photograph and my love hidden for
seven years. I said nothing ever.
Because my pockets and chest-of-
drawers were subject to maternal inves-
tigation it was necessary to be always
on guard against discovery. I cannot
remember, now, all my love’s hiding-
places when I could not carry her with
me. When I had to desert her under the
paper lining a boot-box of silkworms, be-
hind a loose skirting-board or in the
never-read bible, heavy as a foundation-
stone, I believed the subtle smile to dis-
solve away and those unflinchingly seek-
ing eyes to be shrouded in sleep.
That my idolatry persisted and be-
came more intense was —still is—as-
tounding for, too violently soon, I was,
in years, older than she. In all else but
my worship I changed. She did not
change, although her beauty took on
other meanings; her eyes displayed truths
that, at one and the same time, vacillated
like the opalescence on black oil and
remained steady and mystifying as in-
finity.
I changed. The family changed. Their
lustihood, animation, over-large gestur-
ings and vitality, if one took a quick
look, were unabated. Closer examina-
tion showed the gilt flaking off or a hair-
fine crackle of flaws. Like plates left too
long in the oven some older aunts and
uncles illustrated that they had been
long enough in the oven of life. As
wrinkles darned themselves more closely
around eyes, as hair wore away or be-
came margined with white, as figures
broadened or became juiceless, curving
downwards towards the earth that was
their destination, perhaps what I noticed
most was an increase of braggadacio and
hullabaloo. High spirits were larded with
slangy defiance; hilarity was so constant
that cause and effect were lost sight of,
and no longer had value. No one seemed
to dare to ask, “Why are we laughing?”
but went on defiantly laughing. All those
epic suns that had warmed my earlier
boyhood were declining in a sky flushed
with stubborn anger.
gaudy of these declines was
Aunt Maria’s. For years the fam-
ily had called her The Merry Widow:
singular title to hold among so many so
married couples. Maria’s husband had
been, I endlessly kept on overhearing
and was endlessly told, handsome, rich,
gifted, charming, and so on. I concluded
that the dead were inevitably possessed
of all the attributes the living have few
or none of. Luxuriance of graces seemed
a necessary qualification for death. It was
a tragedy, they all said, that he should
have died two months after marriage. He
and dear Ria, they all said, had been a
perfectly matched couple, madly in love.
At first, I gathered, Maria had sought
consolation in travel; later, in travel and
port wine; ultimately, in less travel, more
port wine, and—they lowered their voices
so that I listened harder and heard more
—and young men. I had seen her rarely.
She had been sensationally made-up. Her
sardonicisms had been hoarsely and
sophisticatedly outrageous. Scent had
breezed from her furs wherein glittered
the mean eyes of foxy faces chiselling
sharpsnouts into their own expensive
bodies; rings bulged her kid gloves; she
smoked baby-blue, primrose and lilac
cigarettes tipped with gold. She was the
clan scandal. She belonged to the fam-
ily, of course, but she belonged in the
manner of some elaborate beast with
unusual vices. These were understood to
age her. Virtues, nevertheless, aged the
virtuous as speedily and inexorably as
vices; simplicities aged to idiosyncrasies,
habits to affectations, lovable quiddities
to boring eccentricities.
As for myself, I reached the stage of
rubbing vaseline on a breath of mous-
tache. I started brilliantine which my
parents regarded in much the same light
as opium-smoking. I whined for adult
caste-marks such as cuff-links and a
wristlet watch. I was, evanescently, of
that self-loving, self-pitying, unbearable
race which invents loneliness and bore-
dom, and in which all the major evils of
humanity are in powerful bud. I was an
adolescent of sour seventeen.
From the arrogant, hysterical, dirty-
minded, unaesthetic and altogether un-
worthy side of my nature, I found absolu-
tion only in my photograph. Since 1 was
thus insufferably older and in my first
long trousers, mother no longer, without
fair warning, rifled my pockets with cries
of “How long have you been using this
revolting handkerchief?” The photo-
graph, therefore, was safely able to stand
constantly at my very heart in a mor-
occo wallet Uncle Lancaster had given
me. The eyes I had looked into so often
during seven years still offered me, from
the midst of their dark moonlight, an
intense, prophetic truth; the smile
seemed still that of one whispering
“Thou!” and promising all affirmations,
all peace, all wisdom, all love.
At this stage, my moustache still un-
awakened, brilliantine still anathema to
my mother, my wrist still watchless, and


the days a passion of ennui, Aunt Maria
came to the country town we lived in.
One Saturday night, while we were
at dinner, the telephone rang. Mother
left the table and the room to answer it.
We heard her squeal ecstatically in the
distance. She returned looking younger
and yet older, and had gone rosy under
the eyes. That rosiness said to us child-
ren, “Rattled!” Since father was away,
mother was at our mercy. The six of us
stared at her in a certain manner. Mother
stared bravely back.
“Aunt Ria’s here,” she said, at last,
over-nonchalantly and not sitting down
again to her pudding. “And stop that.
Immediately. Instantly. I’ll tell your
father. Take that smug expression off
your smug faces.”
“Sit down, mother dear,” we said.
“Relaxez-vous. Collect your thoughts.
Don’t be shy. Speak out. Give us the
dirt, mama. Or we’ll tell papa.”
She remained standing, and said,
“Stop that. Immediately. Or I’ll scream
the house down.” She looked at the
clock with a pretence of vagueness. “She’s
travelling through to Sydney. She’s
staying overnight at the Terminus.”
“Ah, ha!” It was my twelve-year-old
sister. “Is she dee-ah-you-en-kay? Is she
coming to see her poor relations?”
“No,” said mother, and “How dare
you, miss?” and sat down as if there were
nothing else to do. “She says she’s too
tired.”
“She is dee-ah-you . . .”
“Stop that,” cried mother. “How dare
you suggest that Ria . . . how dare you,
miss? She’s had a very, very tragic life.”
Her eyes expanded, and hinted tears,
but she finger-tipped her just marcelled
shingle with gratification. We could see
her inward eye riffling through her ward-
robe. “What’s the time? Is that clock
fast or slow or right? I have to go down
and see her.” Have meant, we knew, am
so excited I can hardly wait.
In the end, as eldest son and deputy
man-of-the-house, I went with mother.
The Terminus Hotel was a hive of in-
activity. The Guests’ Lounge, to which
several palms gave the atmosphere of a
down-at-heel Winter Garden, contained
only Aunt Maria and a young man. They
sat, sunken deep in moquette armchairs,
with the air of people who have been
sitting for a long time.
“My loves!” cried Aunt Maria huskily,
coming alive and hoisting herself upright.
Scarcely less loudly, out of the corner
of her mouth, she also said, “Get up,
you lout, when a lady enters the room.”
From under the horizontal single eye-
brow that served for both eyes the young
man spat a glance at her which I recog-
nized for I had ejected just such a glance
often enough at my mother when she
had publicly shamed me by revealing that
I wrote poetry or bit my fingernails. The
young man, who was handsome in an
unlit fashion, brutally stood.
Most of what happened after does not
matter.
Aunt Maria was —well—fairly drunk.
For a woman of fifty she had kept enough
of her figure. Her black dress and shoes
were in the safely faultless taste that
costs money. Her hair, of the same dead
black as her dress, was astrakhan-crinkled
and had obviously also cost, colour and
design, much money.
We were an unmatched quartette but,
whatever lay under the surface of the
evening, Aunt Maria and my mother
gave no apparent thought to it. My
aunt’s one rebuke to the young man had
vibrated immediately to silence. She in-
troduced him as Ivan Something but,
with a kind of —of marital mockery, ad-
dressed him as Ee-fahn. She disregarded
him almost wholly but not pointedly.
One felt she might, later in the evening,
as she walked much too carefully door-
wards and bedwards, have to stop and
say, “My God! My Ee-fahn! I nearly
forgot him!” as of an umbrella. She had,
so to speak, already walked away leaving
a number of umbrellas.
HTHE conversation was overlapping gab-
ble between the two sisters, and was
family, family, family. They giggled,
they laughed, they shrieked. Diagonally
across their chit-chat Ee-fahn reconnoi-
tred me with monosyllabic information
about weight-lifting. It was Urdu to me.
I sat egg-faced wishing his eyebrow on
my lip. He lowered this eyebrow like a
perambulator-hood, and withdrew under
it to drink brandies. Aunt Maria drank
port after port. Saying “No, no, Ria!
Not one more drink. I’ll be feather-
stitching!” mother had two, three and
then four Cherry Heerings. I was per-
mitted two beer-shandies.
My adoration of family personalities
and goings-on having subsided with
puberty, I was not merely uninterested
in Aunt Maria, but bored, shamed and
revolted. Before me, I thought, were the
classic lineaments of immorality, the
face of sordid fate itself. Its surface
moved as though lined with decayed elas-
tic, it grimaced, it winked, it pleated
itself to laugh, and yet was dead. Its
lips, from which the lipstick had worn
centrally off to reveal a naked mauve,
writhed about. The eyes seemed to flash
darkly but that was an illusion fostered
by restlessness they dared not tarry move-
less under their glistening blue lids.
So, revolted, bored, cunningly attempt-
ing to purchase escape by startling mother
into awareness of me and the late hour, I
took out my wallet and opened it in a
manly way. This gesture stopped mother
in her tracks.
“I should like to buy ...” I could not
think of. the word for a number of
drinks, .. to buy some drinks.”
“The naughty love!” cried Aunt Maria.
“You know, Doll, he’s going to be quite
a good-looker, even with the spectacles.
Dear boy you mustn’t waste your sub-
stance on filthy-rich aunts.”
She reached and took the wallet from
me, took it between forefinger and
thumb by one corner, and held it up,
and waggled it. This was no more than
old-fashioned, ex-girlish playfulness,
Edwardian skittishness, but was earth-
quake and annihilation to me. From the
wallet on to the brass table fell my sec-
ret, my silence, my peace, my dreams,
my seven years of devotion, the photo-
graph with its simon-pure gaze and its
smile that was the unsullied, half-
awakened smile of my first love.
I was too stricken to snatch, to save, to
conceal.
“A dark horse, Doll,” said Aunt Maria
taking up the photograph. “A Casanova.
The girl friend!” And, focusing, she held
the photograph at arm’s length.
“Who? Who is that? Who?” said
mother, hand outstretched.
There is a moment when, for the first
time, Life is no longer seen in exquisite
profile.
Life turns full-face to one, swiftly and
savagely, and unshutters her eyes. There
is nothing to be seen in their recesses but
the evidence of destruction, of negation,
of limitless perspectives of nullity. Peace,
one sees, is perjury. The gods are down-
and-out. The jewelled throne one slum-
bered on, believing in dreams, is nc. more
than a rock in wasteland. The flowers
one thought to have been thrown at one’s
feet are seen to be not flowers but the
rotting wings of shapes that flew ecstatic-
ally into emptiness, and circled in empti-
ness, and starved there, and fell. One is,
for the first time, aware of mortality, and
learns in a flash that death is the one
sure possession.
“Who?” said Aunt Maria, horribly
smiling and smiling at the photograph.
“Look, Doll. Look at the sweet, quaint
little sobersides.”
“Where did you get this?” said my
mother.
“Found it. I found it,” I said, my voice
thick with lies and hate. “I found it in
the drawer. Where the old photographs
used to be. This afternoon.”
“Remember, Doll?” said Aunt Maria
knocking over her wine. “Lolly Edward’s
party. My God, I shouldn't care to con-
fess publicly how long ago that was. You
were Miss Muffet. Remember, Doll?
Show Ee-fahn what a serious little duck
of a Bo Peep I was.”
And the drunken woman with wine-
scummed eyes agitated the dying muscles
of her loose and painted mouth, and
began to laugh hoarsely, and I heard
what I heard, and saw what I saw, and
my heart broke.


OVERSEAS
SPAIN VEERS LEFT
Spanish businessmen have the wind in their sails
From NEIL McINNES in Madrid
The newspapers of the Movement
(i.e., the Phalange, Spanish fas-
cists) and of the syndicates (i.e.,
the State-run vertical corporations) are
this month fulminating against “certain
groups”, that are seldom specified but
are accused of attacking the regime that
issued from the civil war. The ad-
mission that there exists an opposition
in Spain, and that it is influential and
dangerous, is new here. Of course the
nebulous “Communist” threat has con-
stantly been invoked, but critics have in
mind today something much more
respectable (that is, represented inside
the top levels of the regime) whose
agents could be named and singled out
if it came to a showdown.
Listen to Senor Solis, secretary of the
Movement: “We have in front of us
certain political pressure groups that
are perfectly united and firmly decided
to restore an anachronistic political
situation”. A few days later Arriba, the
Phalange organ, wrote editorially:
“Political groups that the Movement re-
duced to silence (in the civil war) are
trying to raise their heads again. Specu-
lating on what you might call the ‘age
of the regime’, they think their turn
has come. They have taken an aggressive
attitude and are seeking to dampen the
spirit of July 18 (i.e., fascism) in order
to defend personal and group interests.”
Similar vague and minatory declamations
occur every other day in the Madrid
papers. Spaniards have lost the habit of
open, public political controversy, so
opponents are not yet designated by
name. This rumbling campaign there-
fore is confusing to the visitor, and to
many Spaniards too.
A wave of strikes
Tn conversation, fascist militants are
A ready to be rather more specific, but
still uncertain of who these foes are. I
have heard them variously described as
“the classic Right”, meaning traditional
non-fascist conservatives; as Christian
Democrats; as “international capitalism”;
and more briefly as “the banks”. I think
that an obscure controversy that took
place here in November enables us to
pin down these “certain groups”, where-
upon we find that they are the same
people as were attacked by the Spanish
Church during the wave of strikes in the
spring. It had been announced that in
November there would be held the first
free elections in the Francoist regime,
free in that there would be no official
candidates: the Spanish chambers of
commerce would be allowed to elect a
new leadership.
Free enterprise The enemy
sounds innocent enough, if not
absolutely negligible. In fact, it is
enormous in the fascist point of view. So
enormous indeed the elections have had
to be “postponed”, probably abandoned,
in the face of the outcry from the fascists
and the syndicates. In fascist theory,
and in Francoist practice to date, em-
ployers and workers are represented
together in vertical official syndicates,
headed by the state’s nominees.
Entrepreneurs have no more right to
officially recognised chambers of com-
merce than workers would have to free
trade unions. Strangulated in this fascist
straitjacket, a renascent Spanish capital-
ism is trying to regain its freedom oi
movement.
Aided by “liberal” members of the
government, it won a first small but
significant victory this autumn: for the
first time Spain was represented abroad
(at a trade fair in Mexico) not by an
official organ or syndicate but by the
chambers of commerce. Free elections
were to follow, in order to give a new
prestige and representativeness to these
associations, hitherto barely tolerated as
capitalists’ private clubs. Before this
threat to the corporative structure of
Spanish society, the fascists reacted
violently. Their enemies are not the
classic Right, international capitalism or
the banks, but something connected with
all these: resurgent free enterprise.
It is clear why the entrepreneurial
class has the wind in its sails today. The
fascist regime, with which it compro-
mised out of fear of Bolshevism, led the
country to bankruptcy; it not only de-
pressed Spanish living standards (a short-
sighted capitalism with no experience of
mass markets was not too heartbroken
about that) but let the nation’s capital
depreciate and isolated Spanish enter-
prise from the modern technological
revolution.
Ruined by inflation, the regime then
had to accept the assistance of American
and Common Market capitalism, to
which it owes its salvation. But these
foreign creditors are insisting on the
liberation of native enterprise from
fascist chains. The first timid relaxation
of controls has given promising results,
and entrepreneurs are pressing for more
freedom, and quickly. The economy is
expanding again after 20 years’ stagna-
tion and the business class feels that it
can bring Spain into the 20th century if
it can kick off Phalangist traces.
Protected and encouraged by the
Americans and Germans on whose aid
Spain’s credit still depends, and by the
World Bank which has written the
national modernisation plan, this class
has another card no less important:
European integration. The regime admits
that Spain’s future lies with unifying
Europe and now tolerates European
Unity propaganda, within limits. Yet
of course the fascists are an obstacle on
that path, while it is the entrepreneurial
class that has the international connec-
tions, and is constantly seeking more in
the shape of financial and technical
agreements with the Common Market
corporations.
Falangist absurdities
\ cquaintance with some of the leaders
and spokesmen of this class prevents
one from depicting them as heroic free-
enterprise men ready to affront the gov-
ernment, the Movement, the Church
and Spanish labor in order to introduce
something we would recognise as
bourgeois democracy. Except in their
impatient denunciation of Falangist
economic absurdities, they strike me as
nervous, as though frightened at their
own daring.
The government they wish to persuade,
from within preferably, to give them
more liberty, especially in the matter of
price controls and retrenchment of
labour. (Fascism has left a crazy and
paralysing tangle of obstructions in
these fields.) But they do not want to
antagonise it, because they are afraid to
face labour alone and regard the Army,


not themselves, as the designated succes-
sor to Franco.
Yet their attitude to the labour
movement is not entirely negative. Some
are willing to admit the restoration of
genuine trade unions, and the right to
strike, as the countervailing force to their
own liberty to innovate and invest as
they wish. And most of them claim to
be confident that, provided the Army
controls the Communist element in the
workers’ movement, they could persuade
the rest of the workers that a revivified
capitalism a la Erhard had more promise
than perpetuation of fascism.
Tt is here that they express, cautiously,
their biggest disappointment: the atti-
tude of the Church. Fervently Catholic,
like everyone well-to-do in Spain, they
are pained that the hierarchy suddenly
recovered its “social conscience' 5
which had lain dormant through two
decades of fascist oppression, just when
enterprise began to be liberated a year
ago. This is indeed one of the curiosities
of contemporary Spain: the abrupt dis-
covery by the Church that there exists a
Spanish working class, that is to be de-
fended by its priests—but defended only
from “greedy employers” who want to
regain the right to dismiss redundant
labour. The Church accepted fascism
and all its indignities virtually without a
murmur; Franco’s economy where wages
were pitiful but no hand could be dis-
missed was apparently just and natural.
But a free market and the right to re-
trench, even if better living standards
are the consequence, are intolerable, and
the Church threw all its weight on the
strikers’ side during the troubles of last
spring. Economic liberalism is abhorred
by Spanish prelates more than fascism.
That is why business men here are read-
ing the reports on the Vatican Council
as attentively as the financial pages: a
defeat of the “integrist” clan in Rome by
Pope John’s men could have its first
important consequence in Spain.
In the struggle between the fascists
and the reinvigorated entrepreneurial
class, the former seem fairly sure to
be defeated, though they are still a force
to be reckoned with inside the govern-
ment. That does not mean that the
second will have won. For this tussle is
being fought out under the watchful
eyes of the Army, which has broken
with the movement’s bankrupt ideology
but is far from converted to the
Christian - Democrat “social market
economy” that the timid capitalist
groups want to import into Spain along
with the techniques and the finances
they are borrowing from the European
Economic Community.
WHAT
ACHESON
SAID
Extracts from the
West Point
speech
The primary business of NATO is
the defence of the NATO area.
The light of history throws special
emphasis on the defence of the European
portion of this area. For there it was
that the Communist coup d'etat in
Czechoslovakia and the Soviet blockade
of Berlin pointed as the first goal of
Soviet aggressive expansion. And for a
very good reason. Measured by basic
material aspects of power—that is, by
natural resources, productive capacity,
and skilled population—Western Europe
is roughly equal to the Soviet Union.
Since the United States, with rather less
people than either the Soviet Union or
Western Europe, has about twice the
productive capacity of either, it is easy
to see that, together, a North American-
Western European Alliance would have
double the population and three times
the productive capacity of the Soviet
Union. For this reason, a prime object
of Soviet policy is to break up the com-
bination of power inherent in the NATO
alliance. That alliance is of the utmost
significance in the times in which we
live.
These are times when the stable and
familiar world of the 19th century has
vanished and we have been plunged into
an age of revolutionary and often violent
change. The old empires which ruled
the world have gone down in the course
of two world wars, and there appear to
be emerging two groups: one, the Sino-
Soviet and their satellites, the other, the
alliances centring about the United
States one with Western Europe, an-
other with Latin America, and a third
with the island states of the Pacific. Of
these, by far the most powerful is the
nexus of North America with Western
Europe.
At present it is powerful in the
material aspects of power of which
I have spoken resources, productive
capacity, and population. In one import-
ant ingredient of power, a non-material
ingredient, the advantage lies with the
Soviet Union. This is the element of
will, the energising ingredient which uses
the others to achieve a purpose. De
Tocqueville saw that democracy itself
carried infirmities of will. “A democ-
racy,” he wrote, “can only with great
difficulty regulate the details of an
important undertaking, persevere in a
fixed design, and work out its execution
in spite of serious obstacles.” This is
true in all conscience, as anyone knows
who has attempted these things in a
democracy. But the truth is that it can
only be done “with great difficulty”; not,
that it cannot be done.
This afternoon I shall discuss the non-
military strands in our Atlantic alliance.
On the military strand I shall state only
some conclusions, without supporting
argument. The basic military situation
which confronts us is that, at present,
only two nations, we and the Soviet
Union, possess substantial nuclear arma-
ments. The weapons and the means of
delivering them have developed tech-
nologically and quantitatively to the
point where unrestrained use of them
might well be mutually catastrophic.
Although today American nuclear power
is very considerably greater than that of
the Soviet Union, this can change.
Khrushchev's Cuban gamble was an
attempt to change it. At the same time,
the conventional military power which
the Soviet Union could bring to bear in
Europe is very considerably larger than
that which the Allies have at hand or
could quickly mobilise.
The facts, as I have outlined them,
lead me to these conclusions: first, it is
essential to increase substantially the size
of Allied conventional forces and re-
serves in Western Europe and to improve
their equipment; second, that to do this
will require the greatest possible unity
between Europe and North America
upon relevant political policies and
military strategy for the defence of
Europe; third, that our Allies must share
fully in the formulation of policy and
strategy, in raising the necessary forces,
and in the decision when and how
nuclear weapons are to be employed in
the common defence, although not in
the operational control of such strategic
weapons. All of these matters are in-
herent in a grand strategic plan which
will be binding upon us all.
It also seems clear to me that, if such
a force were in existence in Europe


WORLD-WIDE
fillgf
REGO.
Table Lamp
TLI2O
100% British Made
light
in every
corner...
Abundant light throughout the
house with the Tilley Table
Lamp. Practical and elegant, en-
tirely safe and self-contained, it
burns for 12 hours on only
pints of ordinary kerosene.
For economical lighting wherever
and whenever it's needed, you can
put your trust in TILLEY.
:I
m
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores. In case of
difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to:—»
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD.
>092 Mt. Alexander Road,
Essendon, W 5. Australia.
now, the European leverage upon
political policy would be great, since
the very essence of that policy is when
and to what extent to resist Soviet
pressures.
The political situation in the countries
of Europe, looked at as separate nations,
gives plenty of cause for concern.
Great Britain has lost an Empire and
has not yet found a role. The attempt to
play a separate power role that is, a
role apart from Europe, a role based on
a “special relationship” with the United
States, a role based on being the head
of a “Commonwealth” which has no
political structure, or unity, or strength
and enjoys a fragile and precarious
economic relationship by means of the
sterling area and preferences in the
British market —this role is about played
out. Great Britain attempting to work
alone and to be a broker between the
United States and Russia, has seemed to
conduct policy as weak as its military
power. Her Majesty’s Government is
now attempting wisely, in my opinion
to re-enter Europe, from which it
was banished at the time of the Planta-
genets, and the battle seems about as
hard-fought as were those of an earlier
day.
On the Continent, there has been an
economic renaissance, due to a succes-
sion of vigorous, radical, and wise
measures, from the Marshall plan
through the various intermediate plans,
to the Common Market provided by the
treaty of Rome. But the political situa-
ton is chaotic, weak and ominous. Four
regimes Germany, France, Portugal
and Spain—hang upon the lives of men
beyond the age when heads of Govern-
ment usually lay down their burdens. In
none of them can one see clearly the
next phase. To the four already men-
tioned, we might also add Italy. In some
the next phase might be one of dis-
integration. Germany is, perhaps, the
most steady.
Then, too, as our European Allies
have grown in economic health, causes
of political irritation with the United
States have multiplied. And I do not
suggest that the fault has been by any
means all on their side. In Great
Britain there was irritation over Suez,
to some degree over Germany, and
among some sections of the British
people, over fear of our nuclear arma-
ments; in France, over Suez, North
Africa, and our refusal to aid in pro-
viding France with nuglear armaments;
in Portugal, over our policy in the
United Nations on Angola; in Belgium,
over the Congo; in the Netherlands, over
West New Guinea; in Germany, over
doubts of the orthodoxy of our actions
regarding Berlin and East Germany.
Here, indeed, are troubled waters in
which Mr Khrushchev has been fishing
hopefully.
Defence of Europe
know from our own experience,.
an experience which is borne out by
that of other Federal States, that
Federalism never stands still. It either
moves toward increasing strength, in-
creasingly managed by the central
authority, or it tends to weaken and dis-
integrate. If the latter can be prevented,
the former will surely occur.
At the moment a decisive turning
point lies before modern Europe, posed
by the application of the British Govern-
ment to join the Common Market. If
this application succeeds, another step
forward of vast importance will have
been taken.
While Western Europe and Britain
are pondering and negotiating this
momentous the United States
should be clarifying its government
policy on the next steps to take with our
European Allies. These involve pro-
posals on which this country must take
the lead. To take the lead, it must know
what it wishes to propose.
One proposal should be to devise,
agree upon, and carry out a plan for
the defence of Europe. A plan itself and
the ancillary steps for providing the
means to put it into effect should be part
of the proposal. A second proposal
would deal with economic and fiscal
matters with the reduction of trade
barriers, generalised for the benefit of
the whole free world, and with the co-
ordination of economic and fiscal
policies essential for the expanding pro-
duction which alone can provide that
environment in which free nations can
exist and flourish. If wisely formulated
and favorably received, the proposals
would put us on the verge of another
great advance in the development of the
Atlantic community, which would re-
quire political agreements and political
institutions of a most far-reaching and
radical nature.


letters
to the
editor
PRINCE PHILIP AND THE
RABBITS
Sir,
In your issue of Ist December you
[suggest that The Duke of Edinburgh
would be horrified by a new method of
controlling rabbits [forcing a suffocating
foam into warrens]. His Royal Highness
has asked me to explain that he is only
concerned with the conservation of wild-
life in danger of extermination. As every-
one knows, the rabbit was introduced
into Australia and therefore there is
every reason for Australia to try and
get rid of it again, especially as it is
obviously such a pest in the country. In
any case, rabbits will almost certainly
continue to exist in manageable numbers
in other countries.
Conservation is a very complicated
problem and it includes sensible control
of numbers as well as the protection of
rare or threatened species. Some people
may not think that conservation is im-
portant but it is important to understand
what it means.
Incidentally, you may be interested to
know that a Rabbit Clearance Associa-
tion has recently been formed on the
Royal estate at Sandringham at Prince
Philip’s instigation.
REAR ADMIRAL C.D. BONHAM-CARTER,
C.B., C.V.O.
Buckingham Palace, London (UK).
TESTING FOSSIL BONES
Sir,
Robert Murray in “Aboriginal Re-
search, A Last Chance” (Bulletin,
December 1) appears muddled on the re-
search intentions of the Aust. Institute of
Aboriginal Studies.
Referring to the method of radioactive
carbon dating, Mr Murray lists three
“methods” which he claims the institute
will use—(l) the testing of the Talgai,
Cohuna and Keilor skulls, (2) the testing
of prehistoric stone implements and
carvings, and (3) the testing of fossil
bones.
Radioactive carbon dating is based on
the presence in organic matter of radio-
active carbon. This is reduced by burn-
ing and the resulting pure carbon emits
electrical impulses which are then
counted.
Were it advisable to destroy the three
oldest human remains known in Austra-
lia, the amount of organic matter left in
these heavily mineralised skulls is so
minute as to render the test worthless.
The Cohuna skull, for example, contains
only 10 p.c. of organic material. At least
two ounces of organic matter are re-
quired to run satisfactory tests.
The second “method” concerns stone
implements and carvings—it is simply not
possible to date these by means of the
radioactive carbon method since they
contain no organic matter.
The testing of fossil bones will pro-
vide a valuable guide for archeologists
but is not a primary objective.
B. MURRAY
Fullerton ( SA).
SOVIET ANTI-SEMITISM
Sir,
I am quite satisfied that in your effort
to whip up anti-Soviet hatred you will
not hesitate to make any charge no
matter how far-fetched or quote from
any document no matter how dubious.
You say that if I pay the costs you
will make available to me the photo-
stats of the originals of the supposed
anti-semitic articles in Lovskaya Pravda,
14/12/58, Prikarpatska Pravda,
24/10/58 (I note you quote from an
article which supposedly appeared on
24/9/58), Padomir Daughava, 13/3/59,
Sovietskaya Moldavia, 23/7/59.
I am a person of slight means but I
will strain them to pay you for a photo-
static copy of the whole issue of the
Padomir Daughava of 14/3/59. I do
not want only the alleged article.
As I understand you to imply that
you or Mr Leibler has a copy of the
paper of that date, a photostat should
not take long to produce.
Finally, I think your readers might
be interested to know in what language
the “Buinaksk Kommunist” is published
and who translated the passage you
quoted. Was it Mr Leibler or did you
have it translated in the office?
JUDAH WATEN
Box Hill ( Victoria ).
Sir,
The selection of quotations from the
Soviet Press included in your rejoinder
to Mr Judah Waten (Bulletin, Decem-
ber 1) must prove very disappointing to
those who were looking for documenta-
tion of the charge of Soviet anti-
Semitism.
All but one of the quotes are anti-
religious, which is quite a different thing
from being anti-Semitic. Of course, no
one would demand documentation of the
fact that there is a deal of anti-religious
propaganda published in the Soviet
Press. But to equate this with anti-
Semitism is to rob the latter term of its
true meaning. According to that
definition every rationalist, tor example,
would be ipso facto an anti-Semite which
is as absurd as it is insulting.
The one bona-fide anti-Semitic quote
given was a most unfortunate choice—
because it proves the opposite of what
was intended. The facts are that within
days of its publication ail those associ-
ated directly or indirectly with it were
severely punished, because anti-Semitism
is illegal in the Soviet Union. The anti-
Jewish slander was published in an
obscure journal (circulation 5011) in a
predominantly Moslem area. A repudia-
tion was published in the next issue of
the paper (why did The Bulletin not
include that repudiation, which must be
available surely to your keen students of
the Soviet press?) and the editor was
sacked. The secretary of the Com-
munist Party District Committee in the
area was also disciplined over the
incident.
In view of this, one is entitled to ask
whether The Bullettin’s new - found
hostility to anti - Semitism is really
motivated by true revulsion to this “vile
and wretched thing” or by an over-
weening passion for “anti-Soviet propa-
ganda”?
PAUL MORTIER
Oat ley (NSW).
[Mr Judah Waten’s letter contains no rele-
vant facts except that it contradicts what
Mr Mortier says in his own letter. Mr Waten
claims that our quotes though anti-semitic
are not genuine whereas Mr Mortier main-
tains that our quotes though genuine are not
anti-semitic.
It is amazing that Mr Waten should
question the authenticity of our documents.
They are taken from the journal “Jews in
Eastern Europe” published in London and
edited by Emanuel Litvinoff, whose moni-
toring services are being utilized by all
world Jewish bodies, including the Bnai
Brith and the World Jewish Congress. Their
authenticity has never been queried by any-
body, including the Soviet Government and
Mr Morder. The Editor, Mr Litvinoff, is a
regular contributor to the “British Left-
wing Tribune”, the “Manchester Guardian”,
to the “Times Literary Supplement” and
to the “Spectator.”
Mr. Litvinoff has kindly sent photostats
to THE BULLETIN which we are forward-
ing to Mr. Waten this week.
It is absurd for Mr Mortier to assert that
our quotes are merely anti-religious for the
following reasons:
1. They are being made within the con-
text of policies against the Jews which in-
clude public defamation of individuals un-
connected with religion, the execution of
alleged economic criminals, whose Jewish
names are being conspicuously highlighted.
As the official International Confederation
of Free Trade Unions’ memorandum to the
UN of October 19 put it: “It must be noted
that, in a country where official anti-reli-
gious policies and anti-religious propaganda
truly affect all religious groups—it is only
with regard to Jews and Judaism that the
theme of subversion, lack of patriotism and
disloyalty is injected into the propaganda.”
2. We are not aware that Australian
rationalists are in the habit of singling
out the religious rituals of a minority with
a long history of social adversity and per-
secution consisting of obscene public defa-
mation.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Hanking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
> O'SULLIVAN
fcA, PTYLTD
Si
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson Sc Co.
Fruiters, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE . MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISiNG CREATORS AND
COFNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Defamatory description of Jewish reli-
gious practices are traditional devices of
all historically available types of anti-
Semitic propaganda. Surely if the propa-
ganda were only anti-religious, it would be
possible to conduct it without using such
scientific expressions as “ticks, loathsome
filthy creatures, etc.”, and to use them in
areas such as the Ukraine and Daghestan,
which are notorious for their long tradition
of anti-Semitic persecutions.
3. The following is a summary of the
facts about the Daghestan Blood Libel.
The article was the last of a series about
the Jews written in Russian and in Kumik—
the local language—of August 9th 1960,
and repeated shortly afterwards in a broad-
cast over the local radio. The article was
signed by D. Mahmoudov—the area’s Party
General Secretary. Mr Mortier does not
seem to appreciate that the author of the
article and the top Party boss of the area
where the article appeared were one and the
same person. The incident revived painful
memories of pogroms in 1926 in the same
area, also provoked by charges that Jews
were using Moslem blood. Daghestani
Jewish protests to Moscow had no effect
until November 4 1960, when the “New
York Herald-Tribune” published a full re-
port of the incident, including photostats of
the original newspaper article.
According to Maitre Blumel, the French
socialist, who is a staunch advocate of
Franco-Soviet friendship, officials in Mos-
cow told him that the Daghestan “Kom-
munist” had issued a statement that the
blood libel article was “a political error”
and that the writer, Mahmoudov, had been
dismissed. But on September 23, “Kom-
munist” announced that Mahmoudov had
been appointed to the important post of
correspondent for the news service
“Rabselcor”.
—Editor.
HISTORY WITHOUT FACTS
Sir,
I am surprised that Dr A. W. Martin
and L. R. Gardiner in their joint letter
(“History Without Facts”, Bulletin,
Dec. 15, 1962), compare “inaccuracies”
in Gibbon’s “Decline and Fall” and Mac-
aulay’s “History” with those in Manning
Clark’s “History of Australia”, Volume I.
Gibbon’s work comprises a breathless
multi-volume conspectus of the whole of
the history (for 400 years a full one) of
war and peace, civilisation, migration and
cultural and religious change over thirteen
centuries of human progress in the West
from the days of Trajan to the Turkish
invasions. It is the greatest, the most
monumental historical work in English.
Macaulay’s “History” covers a brief but
vital period of the history of a great
nation in the throes of revolution and, as
an incidental, the history of Europe of
the time. Manning Clark covers the rise
of a small penal colony during 30 odd
years, during 20 of which it held no more
than 7500 people, nearly all convicts or
ex-convicts living under jail-like semi-
military rule on about 1500 square miles
mainly within the County of Cumberland.
Macaulay’s work runs to perhaps a mil-
lion and a quarter words, Manning
Clark’s perhaps to 160,000, a large sec-
tion devoted to visionary padding it
takes him about 80 pages to get to Aus-
tralian shores. Many of the criticisms of
Gibbon’s “mistakes” were religious in
origin and arose from late discoveries and
it would have been something superna-
tural if he had not made mistakes in view
of the vast sweep of his research, the
unorganised state of libraries, the multi-
tude of languages, ancient and modern,
from which his multiplicity of detail was
culled. Yet modern historians rate him
remarkably complete and accurate.
Professor Bury, indeed, declares that his
immortality depends on his “oecumenical
grasp, extraordinary accuracy and staking
acuteness of judgment.”
Respect for Macaulay, in the light of
the limitation of his resources, grows year
by year. He does not make as many mis-
takes in some volumes as Clark seems to
make in some chapters and when he does
they are not schoolboy errors.
Clark had full documentation of his
period in the libraries available, though
much of its most important collections he
has ignored. He had use of the best of
indexes, research assistance, basic secon-
dary works to stimulate his critical facul-
ties and curiosity. Yet he makes error on
error, reproduces delusory half-truth on
half-truth about matters familiar even to
superficial students. He seems to me not
to understand the protocol and conven-
tions of communication between Gover-
nors and Colonial Office, a weakness
which breeds some of his worst distor-
tions of interpretation and fact. He also
seems to me not to understand what
might be called the comparative idiom
of emphasis in moral outlook and ex-
pression as between past and present.
What is worst of all he seems to me to
pervert the whole of the natural view-
point of the Macquarie era the major
one in his periods by his inexplicable
and complete ignoring of Macquarie’s
statement of policy of convict manage-
ment and reformation and colonial de-
velopment contained in his historic
“Letter to Sidmouth.” It is impossible to
paint the Macquarie era without quoting
from this pamphlet.
I challenged him in my review to ex-
plain his failing even to list this vital
document, but so far he has ignored the
challenge.
I understand that Sir Keith Hancock
advocates the holding of a seminar on
Clark’s book. I am willing to take part
and document my criticisms of the book.
M. H. ELLIS
Cremorne {NSW).
BRAWLS AMONG YUGOSLAVS
Sir,
An outbreak of violence occurred on
December 1, at Paddington Town Hall,
Sydney.
A group of anti-communist Croats
tore down the portrait of dictator Tito
(not the portrait of the Queen as wrongly
reported by a daily newspaper) and a
Yugoslav flag with a bolshevik star. Then
they attacked the official table injuring
some Communist officials by blows, fists,
bottles and chairs.
As this is not the first, and will pro-
bably not be the last, breach of peace
within Yugoslav communities in Aus-
tralia Free Yugoslavs would be very
grateful to any Member of Parliament
who would raise this question: Why can
Tito’s Consul at Double Bay get away
with such gross abuses of his privileges
as organising provocative political rallies
outside his extra-territorial grounds?
Lyenko Urbanchich, Member
Australian Council of Free Yugoslavs’
Sydney.
GERALD LYONS’ SECRET
Sir,
Gerald Lyons’ article on Dr Mannix
(Bulletin, December 1) was indeed a
rather curious thing. We might forgive
the unique exercise in punctuation, and
being told that words rose “into my
mind easily and without effort,” that the
Archbishop’s eyes were “dull, but alert”
and that he had a wry smile “around his
mouth,” about “gentle sarcasm” and “a
gentle shock,” but can we forgive being
led on to read that Mr Lyons has a little
secret, a conversation overheard between
Santamaria and Mannix, but will never
tell us what he heard? May a ghostly
Archibald throw ink around your office
for the next few months.
G. C. FENDLEY
Melbourne.


REVIEWS
MUSIC
DEAN DIXON'S MOZART
By KENNETH HINCE
Mozart Festival. Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, conductor Dean Dixon,
Town Hall, Sydney.
T did not hear Dixon’s performance of
A the “Jupiter” Symphony given a few
weeks ago in Melbourne, but the critics
were united in giving it a reserved kind
of praise. They agreed that he played all
the notes with accuracy, and left out
most of the music.
Now an opinion like this makes mysti-
fying reading to someone who did not
hear the concert, and so I was glad to
have the chance of hearing Dixon repeat
this work in the second concert of Syd-
ney's Mozart Festival last Saturday.
During the early movements of the
symphony I thought I could see what the
Melbourne reviewers had been driving at.
It amounted to a treatment over-charged
with care and restraint not too re-
spectful, but too concerned to eliminate
the physical impact of the music. The
range of dynamics, while nicely cal-
culated within its own scope, had very
narrow limits, and it was not until the
third movement that one heard a decent
and satisfying bite as the bows gripped
the string.
Predisposed to regard the physical res-
ponse to music as important or
attuned this way from experience - I
was reckoning that I had interpreted the
unanimous message of the Melbourne
critics. But the last movement com-
pletely shattered this notion. Before 20
or 30 bars were through, it became evi-
dent that Dixon was giving a view of the
symphony in which this last movement
became the crux of the whole work. The
marked restraint of the playing in the
earlier movements fell into its proper
place within this pattern, as the conduc-
tor was clearly suggesting that he saw
them as preliminary scenes to this great
and unique finale.
This demonstration made the concert
an experience of unusual interest. While
many writers have commented on the
fusion of symphonic and polyphonic
manners which gives this movement its
remarkable character, I have never be-
fore heard a performance which made
the finale the true crown of the sym-
phony.
Certainly this is not the only view of
the work. There was, I feel, a too deli-
berate under-playing of the first move-
ment, a movement whose concise power
and masterful authority deserve more
body and more splendor than they had
in this performance. But it is a defen-
sible, logical and most interesting view,
which deserves to go on record as some-
thing more than an accurate and de-
tached run-through.
This becomes even more necessary
when the technique of performance is
taken into account. The small dynamic
range has been mentioned this broad-
ened markedly within the finale. The
tempos were well set and beautifully
maintained, the rhythm taut and well-
sprung, and the balance of parts clear.
For the finale Dixon chose a brilliantly
fast pace, a shade less than dangerous
but still fast enough to embarrass an
occasional soloist. Yet he carried through
his conception of the movement
triumphantly, in brilliant distinction to
the many more prudent conductors who
are broken by its complexity.
INAUGURAL CONCERT
Orchestral Concert: Sydney Chamber
Orchestra, conducted by Albert
Landa. Cell Block Theatre, Sydney.
An increasing number of concerts are
now being given in the Cell Block
Theatre, making it a concert centre
second in importance only to the Town
Hall. It seats 400 or so people, and so
is an ideal size for performances by
soloists or small groups. When the hall
is full acoustics are excellent. Its one
really serious fault is the metal ceiling
which sometimes emits some disconcert-
ing rattles.
Last week at the Cell Block Theatre
a new group called the Sydney Chamber
Orchestra gave its “inaugural concert,”
which it is to be hoped was the first of
many. The ensemble sound was often
rough and there were a number of slips
by the players, but there seemed to be
nothing wrong that could not be elimi-
nated by consistent practice and ex-
perience in playing together. Much of
the time the playing was quite good. In
particular, changes of volume and other
matters of dynamics were handled very
well. Credit goes to the group’s able
conductor. Albert Landa, whose first
concert this was. His attention to detail
and his vigorous approach to the works
on the programme was responsible in no
small measure for the concert’s success.
The most outstanding performance of
the evening was given by the young
Western Australian musician Patrick
Brislan, who played the horn part in
Britten’s serenade for tenor, horn and
strings. This work calls for musician-
ship of a very high order on the soloists’
part, and also makes heavy demands on
technique; the horn part is one of the
most difficult things ever written for the
instrument, and I suspected Brislan of
being foolhardy when I learnt he was
going to play it. In fact, Brislan‘s per-
formance was a complete success, music-
ally and technically, and merited com-
parison with the performances recorded
by the late Dennis Brain. Brislan is a
very accomplished musician and should
achieve considerable success if he goes
overseas.
Also notable among the soloists was
Dorothy White, who played the harp-
sichord part in Bach’s fifth Brandenburg
concerto with her usual good taste and
sound craftsmanship. In the first move-
ment, in which it is difficult not to play
the main theme slightly faster than the
episodes between the occurrences of the
theme, it was Miss White who contri-
buted most towards keeping the tempo
even.
William Herbert, who sang the tenor
part in the serenade, sang very well
much of the time but too often seemed
to be struggling with his part’s technical
difficulties. John Robertson’s perform-
ance of the solo part in a Torelli “trum-
pet concerto” (actually a concerto for


strings with trumpet obbligato) was never
less than highly competent, but some
excellent playing was offset by some
rather careless phrasing.
Landa, Robertson, and several other
members of the group are members of
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra. It is
good to see them associated with this
venture but I hope that their other com-
mitments do not prevent this group from
putting on regular concerts. It would be
a great pity if lack of regular work pre-
vented the Sydney Chamber Orchestra
from becoming the fine ensemble it has
the potential to be and rectifying Syd-
ney’s lack of a good small orchestra.
Finance may also prove a worry. Even
if there had been no complimentary
tickets, the receipts from the capacity
house would not have been enough to
cover the costs of the concert. Unless
the orchestra can find patrons or bene-
factors it may very well die for lack of
money.
JOHN SMALL
THEATRE
HERE TO STAY
Final Programme (The Night is a Sor-
ceress, The Lady and the Fool, etc.).
The Australian Ballet. Her Majesty’s
Theatre. Sydney.
Daughter of Silence. Morris West.
Independent Theatre. North Sydney.
Ilf hen Miss Peggy van Praagh and The
Australian Ballet opened their Aus-
tralian season here some weeks ago. I
gave off a few sentences of doubt about
the quality and direction of the company.
Nothing is more pleasant than to be able
to say I've been eating those qualifica-
tions ever since.
Each new programme has offered more
things to admire in the company, and it
is obvious that Miss van Praagh and
ballet master Ray Powell are working
all sorts of wonders with a bunch of
pretty talented Australian dancers.
Most pleasing of all is that what I
missed in the beginning the feel for
an Australian style is decidedly
emerging now. There is a strength and
special sensuality which belongs to the
best of our dancers, and in Miss Gorham
and Miss Jones, and Mr Garth Welch,
this quite exciting native quality is defini-
tely there to be seen.
By contrast, there is something old-
fashioned about the European style of
the principal dancers, Sonia Arova and
Erik Bruhn. Bruhn is without doubt an
eminent technician and a noble partner
but he does not seem altogether
“with” the rest of the company, does not
plunge in fully-clothed and reckless of
the consequences of full-blooded partici-
pation.
I am sure this is nothing whatever to
do with personalities or lack of goodwill
simply that we are seeing two diffe-
rent styles of ballet side by side: the
traditional, with its emphasis upon iso-
lated solos and individual exhibition, as
against the emergent Australian with
a self-effacing ensemble which devotes
itself to the artistic meaning of the ballet,
and searches more urgently for satisfying
meanings than is the usual European
custom.
The chief work in this final program-
me, “The Lady and The Fool,” 1 place
as far the best achievement of the com-
pany so far. Here is a ballet that deals
beautifully with a simple subject: a
grand lady passes, is attracted to, and
finally falls in love with and is captured
by a vagabond Fool.
Why a fool so often captures a girl is
an eternal puzzle, this ballet’s principal
dancers deftly answer the puzzle.
The Fool has great charm, he has
physical activity, he has a range of per-
sonality quite beyond the Lady’s ordinary
lovers the soldier, the bourgeois, the
aristocrat.
Miss Marilyn Jones as the Lady, and
Mr Garth Welch as the Fool, gave
performances of the highest quality, full
of fire, pathos, and intellect. Miss Jones
is not merely an extraordinarily strong
technical dancer (the claque who applaud
Miss Arova should watch Miss Jones
carefully some time) —■ she also has the
true star quality, and can invest a role
with dramatic truth. Mr Welch’s Fool is
hardly to be bettered, and I hope this
gifted young pair of dancers will be
developed to the utmost by the company
and its excellent leaders.
Three other ballets make up this final
programme: “Les Rendezvous” a deli-
cious “play” piece about lovers in a park,
in which Miss Kathleen Geldard showed
a beguiling presence and generous gift
for the lyric; “The Night Is A Sorceress”
in which Rex Reid’s choreography
failed the impressive score by Sydney
Bechet, and which even Miss Kathleen
Gorham’s remarkably fluent and an-
guished dancing could not redeem: and
the Pas cle deux and Variations, “Flower
Festival at Genzano,” which allowed
principal soloists Sonia Arova and Erik
Bruhn their sole appearance of the pro-
gramme.
This last is the sort of dancing that
affects me least. I have never been able
to get over the feeling that there is some-
thing rather silly about it all; the short
pas seul, a few bars of music, some
technical feats and much applause.
Another pas, more bars of music, more
leaps more applause. Isn't it all a little
as if Olivier strode out, delivered three
lines of ‘'This day is called the feast of
Crispian” bowed, took tremendous ap-
plause, and retired to the wings,
thence to emerge for three more lines?
1 think this is a fair parallel, and tends
to show this ballet habit as a silly relic
which could well go.
On the evidence, this company is
going to be a great and permanent part
of Australia’s artistic life, and it bids
even so early in its career to become a
company of world standing. I am sure
that now it has proved itself, J. C.
Williamson will be even more generous
to it, and certainly let us hope that Miss
van Praagh's contract is made out for a
long, long term.
Out at the Independent, Mr Morris
West’s play “Daughter of Silence” is
likely to leave one with fairly mixed
feelings at the end of the evening. A
basically simple theme revenge of a
girl on a man who raped and murdered
her mother is cluttered up with all
manner of extraneous detail, and made
to run alongside the marriage failure of
a rising young lawyer, who undertakes
the defence of the girl.
Much of the play is in flash-back, and
suffers from this device's usual defect
that it is difficult to become engrossed
with characters who merely talk about
the important events of their life. Too
many words of exposition and description
are an unfair attack on the audience’s
tolerance, and the mark of a dramatic
apprentice.
Viewed as a ’prentice play, “Daughter
of Silence” has much of worth. When it
comes to life, as in the court scenes of
the girl’s trial for murder and we
actually see the people of the play being
torn apart, hear them confessing, see
them faced with their sins and their
silences and their compromises, then
there are some moments of the best
dramatic pitch. Where Mr West fails is
in his resolution. He has pitched a ratt-
ling good tale, he has taken us into the
heart of a highly-charged situation:
the girl receives a very light sentence, it
is a triumph for the young lawyer and
both he and the girl see that they are in
love with each other. His triumph has
also renewed his wife’s respect for him,
she wants him back.
Sure enough, this could easily be a
glossy magazine story, but well resolved
it could also be quite a play. Mr West
doesn't take his fence, though. He has
the girl go mad, and lawyer and his wife
walk into the sunset. Music up.
When Mr West can measure up to his
themes, he will write a good play but in
this one he hasn’t quite made it.
Production by Mr Peter Summerton
was soundly done, although 1 could not


>
w
It
K
wsmM
mm .a 11
m
a
UK
TH[?
Mail us
COUPON
We’ll send »*'
Austral*^
times a y ea ''
• •
All we need is your:
NAME:
ADDRESS;
CITY: STATE: ”
Anywhere in Australia: 12 issues,
£l/12/6 Remittance enclosed
Send me an account later.
Hand this coupon to your newsagent, or
mail to Walkabout, 18 Collins St., Melb.
« • *
MS 5£2
go along with the mixing of open-stage
and proscenium techniques he used to
change his scenes.
To use visual change of elaborate
settings, particularly with this strange set
by Elaine Haxton, which was all steps
and stairs, flew in the face of sound
theatre, and some shuffling and boredom
was inevitable.
Miss Haxton’s setting, with its back-
cloth consisting of Roman arches, half
honestly dramatic with a sudden end-
dive into “Rio Rita" style, did little for
the play. The elaborate sets of steps, that
anchored entrances and exits rigidly,
were, for me, a hindrance. The play has
so many words, and so little action, that
the set ought to have been as dynamic
as possible.
Acting performances were fair enough,
with Richard Meikle, as the lawyer,
coping ably with some odd lines, and
some even odder psychological motiva-
tions inherent in the play. Mr Don
Philps, surely one of our most rewarding
actors, gives a magnificent vignette of an
Italian political boss.
At the end of the “first” night (the
play had a “gala” preview) Mr West
made a speech from the stage that per-
haps sounded mere arrogant than he
meant.
Inter alia, he attacked Australian
critics as “small, ungenerous, and not
knowing their job.” This would seem to
carry as a corollary that Mr West knew
so much about theatre that he could
judge the quality of critics perfectly. His
play, and his speech, leaves this very
open.
Moreover, from a writer whose play
had just made a powerful point about the
corrosive effect of pity, this plea for
praise came strangely. It seems to indi-
cate that Mr West’s themes do not stem
from any passionate commitment at all,
but rather from the superficial “Boy,
what a situation" approach of the second-
rate scriptwriter.
Do not, however, let Mr West him-
self put you off his play. It has a place in
Australian writing, and ought to be seen
and justly judged by as many as can
afford the modest bus-ride to North
Sydney.
KEVON KEMP
ART
DEVOTED TO THE PICTURESQUE
Russell Drysdale Drawings. The Mac-
quarie Galleries. Sydney.
Bernard Sahm Pottery. Barry Stern
Gallery. Sydney.
drawings for “Journey Among
A Men” recently on view in Sydney,
might possibly be a selection from any
number of Drysdale's sketchbooks be-
cause the illustrative forms so much of
his approach to art. His vision has for
long been almost an institution, land-
scapes and human characters, a universe
of types which have gained acceptance
as the authentic representatives of the
vast outback. On one score his work is
instantly appealing since a warm sym-
pathy for his subjects is never lacking and
an air of mystery is present. In part this
tantalising element results from a partial
raising of the veil which conceals real
character. One never feels the profound
revelations accompanying each line as in
a Goya or a Rembrandt. The search, the
brainy questions have nothing like such
intensity and the realism does not aspire
to the transcendent.
There is one greater problem under-
lying all this—an insufficient realisation
of illustrative and anecdotal ideas in ex-
act plastic terms which alone would give
them the structure they need. Too many
of the forms are summary approxima-
tions especially when shrouded in Drys-
dale's succulent grey washes. His line
can be incisive and looks best when un-
contaminated. However, the lubras,
stockmen’s children, although coming un-
commonly near to being monumental, re-
cede into the halt light of the partially
convincing. There is facility in the
placement and the adjustment of light
and dark areas and one is struck by a
note of elegance reminiscent of the 18th
century school of draftsmen devoted to
the picturesque.
Could Drysdale in fact be the best
representative of the Australian picture-
sque-romantic school?
Bernard Sahm's lively show comes in
the wake of recent activity in the pottery
world. Noticeable in these exhibits, be-
yond the sampling given in his small
groups of pots in the NSW Society show
at the Macquarie Galleries, in his taste
for something akin to the flamboyant.
When much solid attractive work has
gone into stone anc! earthenware utilities.
Mr Sahm lets his head go on a number
of tall standing vases whose concave
profiles carry one's eye along in rather
disarming sweeps. They produce impres-
sions of energetic control of all those im-
mediate contacts with clay, its rawness
and subtle life. In these and the best of
the ramkins, tea and coffee sets, storage
jars a certain excitement is left, which is
reinforced by the warm brown, cool grey
or celadon green glazes, some restrained
decoration and in texture the use (one
might even call the love of) grog.
JOHN HENSHAW


THE RED PAGE
GENERATION ON TRIAL
Or, The Drab Life
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Sprightly Running. Part of an Auto-
biography. John Wain. Macmillan.
4 ls. 6d.
T>y coincidence, I happened to finish
John Wain’s autobiography “Sprightly
Running” on a night when Kingsley
Amis who was so often linked with
him as a literary pundit in the early
1950’s was being interviewed on tele-
vision by Malcolm Muggeridge. Though
both men have followed very different
courses (and are anxious, in their own
writings, not to be linked) they are in
many ways equally representative of a
post-war generation of English acade-
mics-turned-writers, and their peculiar
dourness and drabness do seem to
reflect an intellectual landscape. Only
the day before, I had read Herbert
Read’s depressing article in the Septem-
ber “Encounter” containing the words,
“Creative artists are oppressed by a
sense of the immense futility of their
efforts”, and, though one doubts whether
that is true in Australia, it is obviously
and sadly true in England. Seeing Amis’s
glum face, hearing his note of faintly
pained sensibility, one felt the force of
Read’s words; and now John Wain’s
book underlines them with thick, black
strokes.
Poet, essayist and critic, writer of
successful novels, Mr Wain has had a
busy and thriving career in his own
country, yet neither the pleasure of
achievement nor the enjoyment of recog-
nition is to be found in his book. He
has travelled widely to America and
Russia but his accounts of his travels
are joyless and hysterical: he seems to
be a man for whom suffering, even ill-
ness, are inescapable. The only part of
the book that glows albeit wanly
with pleasure of living is that describing
Oxford, for which he entertains a
passion, yet his descriptions of life there
make it sound horribly forbidding, and
the physical surroundings, “rich, mould-
producing, soft, crumbling,” don’t seem
inviting either.
Mr. Wain’s career provinces, Ox-
ford, Reading University, London lite-
rary life, writing poems and competent
novels, turning to autobiography at 35
is very characteristic of his genera-
tion, and helps, to give the book its
considerable documentary interest.
With admirable honesty, Wain ex-
plores in detail (for the first time, to my
knowledge, in a full-length work) the
exact nature of the life of intellectuals
in present-day England. The poverty, the
squalor, and the sheer toughness of the
existence, are unnervingly described. In
commenting on the reactions to his own
work in the Press, the misinterpretation
and muddle under the smooth surface of
the Higher Journalism, he brings his
knives out in a way that can leave no
doubt of the ferocity of the world he
inhabits. The anguish, the sickness, the
despondency and final despair evident in
this book make harrowing reading.
Struggling to make a living in smoky
English towns, starting up little maga-
zines, arguing about poems and novels in
fuggy rooms over warm beer the
seediness of this kind of life has never
been so thoroughly investigated. Every-
thing that preceded it in Wain’s life ap-
pears, though, to have been so enor-
mously worse that by comparison he is
now enjoying a paradise; the whole of
the first section of “Sprightly Running”—
a most able stretch of narrative des-
cribes a hellish childhood of the kind
which many people of sensibility have
preferred to forget. Not so Mr. Wain,
whose memory is painfully clear: every
kick, every wounding word and slight,
has been with him all these years and he
has spared us none of them.
Like Lawrence in “Sons and Lovers”
he describes the growth of a delicate,
sensitive boy in an industrial town
swallowing up the last of the country-
side. The dangerous, Nazified life of
school is very well evoked (has any
English writer enjoyed going to school?)
and the exact nature of the child’s jungle
life in England is daringly unglossed. We
have read accounts of the miseries of
frail, “different” children who grow up
to become authors before (and how
often!), but Mr Wain is impressively
straight and unpretentious about his ex-
periences. They led him to a philosophy
which he still holds, a philosophy far
from new, and typical of one sus-
pects just about everyone Mr Wain
knows in England today: “It was school
life that gave me a taste of the sheer
nastiness of the life of the ordinary
human being. When I think back over
the unimaginable sweep and complexity
of human history, all those millions of
individual lives which were real and in-
tense and have vanished utterly without
trace, the first thing that strikes me is
the hardness of it all.
“Most of those people knew happiness
at sometime or another, and a fair pro-
portion may have achieved a reasonable
contentment but how few, how ter-
rifyingly few, were permitted to do any-
thing with their lives except throwing
them away on hard, grinding work,
nearly always for someone else! They
were worked, as long as they had animal
strength, and then they were pushed
aside to make room for others.” Calling
his school “stupid and wasteful” Mr Wain
is glad it taught him this pessimistic
philosophy, which has remained central
to his life and his writing ever since.
At Oxford, he became still more
gloomy and Johnsonian about life: there
he met like souls, including the middle-
aged, wealthy and failed author E. H. W.
Meyerstein, the portrait of whom has
been praised by every critic of the book.
Neurotic, perhaps impotent, dirty, un-
tidy, prematurely old, eccentric and
hideous, Meyerstein reads like a charac-
ter out of Gissing, and Mr Wain’s af-
fection for this grotesque creature is in
many ways very English. The fascination
with eccentricity, failure and muddle
seems peculiar to the race, vanishing
with transplantation into those newer
countries which emphasise physical effi-
ciency and cleanliness and mental stabi-
lity. A perfect example of an English
eccentric, Meyerstein is drawn in the
round, suggesting that perhaps Mr
Wain’s future lies in writing picaresque
novels peopled by characters as quaint
and horrible as this.
From Oxford, the author moves to
London, America and Russia, and one
gets an image of a wan, stringy young
poet developing into a red-faced, tetchy,
sweating and irritable middle-aged jour-
nalist, dashing about the globe lecturing,
rushing out articles and missing planes,
perpetually jarring his funny-bone in the
course of chasing up widespread assign-
ments. As in the early part of the book,
there is much bitterness and vitupera-
tion; in “A Literary Chapter,” which
gives a chilling picture of London lite-
rary life, he attacks the way in which his
work has been misinterpreted, and men-
tions articles that have savaged him, with
an intensity that leaves one in no doubt
of his extreme sensitivity and querulous-
ness.
Towards the end of the book, Mr
Wain reprints the text of his famous
attack on Russia and the Russian way
of life in “The Observer”, and his com-
ments on America, a country which has
tended more and more to dominate the
thinking of those English writers who
once openly despised it. Once more, in
his reaction to travel, he shows himself
to be a prototype: though in many ways
unhappy in England, he can't adjust
himself to other societies, feels ill at ease


SYDNEY LACE
BY
E. GRAEME ROBERTSON
Another beautiful book about cast iron decoration in
architecture, this time showing in picture and narrative
beautiful and interesting examples from Sydney and its
suburbs, Albury, Gundagai, Yass and Goulburn. 11 x 8,
216 pages, 215 plates, 11 tail pieces. Handsomely bound
in crash canvas, with gold-blocked leather lettering piece.
Uniform with VICTORIAN HERITAGE. '
£lO/10/-, postage 2/6
Obtainable from all booksellers
Published by
GEORGIAN HOUSE PTY. LTD.
296 Beaconsfield Parade, MIDDLE PARK, 5.C.6,
Victoria, and 646 George Street, Sydney.
when abroad, and obviously doesn’t
travel mentally while travelling physic-
ally. This lack of cosmopolitanism is
one of the reasons why English writing
is so perpetually insular, but does give
it the kind of self-contained strength
which Mr Wain’s book eminently pos-
sesses.
BLIND MAN'S BUFF
The Power Men
By DONALD HORNE
The Kindly Ones. Anthony Powell.
Heinemann. 225. 6d.
A mildly fashionable view now
seems to be developing in Aus-
tralia that Anthony Powell's novels, set
in the English middle class world and
its environs, are incomprehensibly alien
novels of manners. To almost any serious
reader of the English novel the English
middle class world is of course as alien
as mother's milk; it is this world that the
English novel has very largely been
about.
The idea that Anthony Powell writes
novels of manners may come from mis-
understanding of their language tone
and general construction. The language
is what would normally be described as
good English. This means that for some
readers it so dulls their senses and
strains their attention as to become
incomprehensible. The tone is laconic,
but this simply means that you don’t
have your nose rubbed in the mess. The
mess is there, all right, for the events
are very largely concerned with sex,
power and dottiness. But the concern
with these matters is at two removes.
Powell does not try to convey the
emotions of sex, power or dottiness.
(Does he have to? Hands up the reader
who needs that information.) Nor does
he attempt external snapshots of these
private details direct. What he does is
to provide a dry chronicle of the social
ripples and sometimes tidal waves that
come from these emotions and private
details. This method of dealing with
things at second remove fits in with a
more general theme; one speculates
about what is going on inside people,
but w'hat does one know?
There has certainly been a difficulty
about the general construction of The
Music of Time, the sextet of novels of
which The Kindly One s is the last. To
those who look for plot or stage direc-
tions or believe that there is a formula
for w'riting novels each of the novels
might, separately, have seemed merely
discursive. And to anyone who had not
worked out what the novels w'ere about
they might have seemed to be little more
than New Yorker pieces of detailed
social observation. In fact the construc-
tion of The Music of Time is directly
related to its main theme: that the
journey of life is itself discursive,
accidental, largely mysterious, a game of
blind man’s buff.
“One passes through the world know-
ing few, if any, of the important things
about even the people with whom one
has been bound time to time in the
closest intimacy.
“ ‘Valery asks why one has been
summoned to the carnival,’ Moreland
once said, ‘but it’s more like blind man’s
buff. One reels through the carnival in
question, blundering into persons one
can’t see, and, without much success,
trying to keep hold of a few of them’.”
The Music of Time is greatly con-
cerned with friendship and acquaintance.
People blunder in and out, relationships
do not follow preconceived patterns.
A Question of Upbringing, the first of
the six, is largely concerned with the
narrator's relationships with his two
friends Stringham and Templer and with
Widmerpol (who has a chance of becom-
ing one of the great clowns of the
English novel). A picture is given of
an established world. This picture is
then shattered. For those who can
supply their own emotions when they
read a novel there is poignancy in the
few pages in The Kindly Ones when the
narrator again meets Templer. He
hadn’t seen him for years. Templer has
almost forgotten Stringham. The once
despised Widmerpol (now “Kenneth”) is
Templer's friend. (“ ‘You’re a friend of
his aren't you?’ said Templer"). Things
weren't meant to turn out like that at all.
Beyond friendship there is “the
immensely tenuous complex of relation-
ships”. The phrase is used at the begin-
ning of The Kindly Ones to describe the
servants’ kitchen in the narrator's child-
hood but it is also a description of the
whole thing. People come and go,
forming and re-forming in their personal
patterns and in their patterns with other
people. There is no final significance in
relationships only the significance of the
moment and the significance of
memories. Until the last, new characters
are emerging, new shapes given to old
characters, new revelations made about
what people are up to with each other.
But at any time the relationships and
the memories of relationships form a
complex of interdependence for many
people so that what “A” does to “B”
may end in strange effects on “G” (with
side effects on “H” and “I”) and critical
effects on “Z.”
This concern with the complex of
relationships is an important key to
Powell’s technique. Time and again in
the sextet a chapter falls into two parts:
a large section is devoted to what may
seem to be almost superficial discursive-
ness; then there is a sudden crisis, a
breakdown in normal outward social
patterns. Careful reading shows that
the discursiveness is weaving its own


pattern of which the breakdown is a
natural part. Not that any situation can
ever be quite clearly described. Powell
seems to believe with one of his charac-
tors that “action, stemming from sluggish
invisible sources, moves towards destina-
tions no less indefinable.
As well as its universal application,
the complex of relationships Powell
writes about does have a special interest.
His narrator has picked up the kind of
range of acquaintance in which there is
a bit of everything: his six novels are
set between the two wars; so one gets
a small epic of a significant section of
English society in the period when
England was being done for before any-
one knew how very much it was going
to be done for. It is filled with political
and social perceptions about the 1920 s
and 1930 s and they are laid out on a
grand scale. No other English novelist
has taken up this theme so ambitiously
in a single work, or in such detail. Few
modern novelists have attempted the task
achieved by several of the great
novelists of the Nineteenth Century—
of showing a whole society in operation.
More's the pity. The novelist's eye can
sometimes be more percipient than the
contemporary sociologist’s or historian’s,
Hard Times is a better description of the
industrial revolution in England than
any that Marx achieved,
I think I'll leave it at that. One really
has to read the sextet through as a whole
now that it is finished. But one must,
before ending, write a few words about
Widmerpol. How he was going to end up
was obviously one of the things that the
sextet was about. “Beyond belief in his
absurdity,” he ends up very well in-
deed and is obviously going to flourish
in the coming war. He is still a buffoon
and he is still incompetent. Assisting
Sir Magnus Donners in a chromite deal
he mucks everything up because he
wants to injure someone who has been
rude to him. But it makes no difference
to his career. Why should it? He is not
concerned with competence or sanity
but with power and the pleasures of
power. People of this kind often achieve
their ambitions. In a sextet of novels
filled with Power Men (and Power
Women) it was a masterstroke of
Powell’s to make the top Power Man
the central clown.
150 YEARS LATER
Drawings by Will lain Westall. Edited
by T. M. Perry and Donald H.
Simpson. Royal Commonwealth
Society. £9 4s. 6d.
HThis magnificent volume is one of the
A most important pieces of Austra-
liana published for a long time. It has
been produced on a scale worthy of
the historical and artistic value of the
contents, though, as usual with such
volumes, it is a little over-edited by a
variety of people. The general editing,
however, is excellent and the Editor-in-
Chief, Dr. T. M. Perry, Senior Lecturer
in Geography at Melbourne University,
who collaborated with Mr Simpson, the
Librarian of the Royal Commonwealth
Society in London, was the only rational
choice to do the work.
Westall was the artist on board the
Investigator during the circumnavigation
of Australia in 1801-3 by Flinders, and
it is surprising that so much of his work
should have remained unpublished for
150 years. The Royal Commonwealth
Society owns 149 of the oils, watercolors,
etchings, engravings and drawings, of
which most are now reproduced—a few
in color. The rest are in the possession
either of the Admiralty or private in-
dividuals.
Nearly all are of scenes, natives and
the vegetation round the Australian coast
as it appeared to a gifted landscape
artist at the beginning of the nineteenth
century when European civilisation in
this part of the Antipodes consisted of a
tiny group of settlements huddled be-
hind the glowering cliffs which guarded
the entrance to Port Jackson. The
exceptions are a few sketches of the
Cape of Good Hope.
The great value of the work is not so
much in its artistic quality as in its
historical naturalness The artists who
went with Cook and those who gave us
the first pictures of Botany Bay and
Port Jackson were either rudely un-
skilled or apt to conventionalise both
humans and landscapes according to
classical tradition. But Westall, versa-
tile and industrious, both a sketch artist
with an eye for intrinsic detail and a
colorist who carried a soft palette re-
miniscent of Zoffany, has no convention
except truth of statement with brush or
pencil. He invests truth with beauty
and even his unfinished sketches catch
the atmosphere of the scenes he depicts.
Many of these scenes even so near to
great cities, as for example those along
the banks of the Hawkesbury, remain
little changed today. One cannot help
feeling how much we have missed in
knowledge through his devotion to the
bush and the harbor mouths. Many of
his landscapes are just as deserted or
nearly so as they were in his own day.
But the Sydney of his time, the tiny
huddle of 7000 exiles cooped along the
banks of the Tank Stream and in Parra-
matta and adjacent sordid little villages
out to the Mountains, has been lost to
the human eye forever because no West-
all made it his mark.
It has been left to the conventionalis-
ers to produce most of the pictures of it.
They moved buildings which nature or
others hid so that they could be seen,
magnifying those which they wished to
flatter and eliminating or diminishing
according to taste. The few glimpses
of old Sydney as seen through the eyes
and brush of Westall and such obviously
faithful portrayals as that of Wreck
Reef show what has been lost to history
by his devotion to water and tall timber
in the interests of geographical science.
The collotypes for this volume were
done by Van Leers in Amsterdam —
very beautifully. The main fault of the
book lies in the confusion caused by
failure to number some pages and by
the variance of numbers written on the
plates themselves from those added by
the editors. Otherwise it is lavish and
magnificent and only possible through
the financial backing of the Pilgrim
Trust, and the National and Mitchell
Libraries.
M. H. ELLIS
FROM ROBERT CLOSE IN ITALY
She’s My Lovely. Robert Close. W. H.
Allen. 18s. 9d.
goB Close now lives in the piazza of
an Italian village in the Po Valley
about 70 miles from Turin. He lives
there, he told me a few weeks ago,
during the winter, almost completely iso-
lated; the village is cut off from Turin
by the snow and his Italian is limited to
a few imperatives. He writes for seven
or eight hours a day and becomes com-
pulsive about getting the work finished.
“It’s either me or the book,” he said.
Last winter he came close to having
a nervous breakdown but the people of
the village were marvellous. “They’ve
accepted me. I'm one of the mob.” When
he says this you have the feeling that
lurking in the back of his mind always
is Australia’s rejection of him —his con-
viction for obscene libel for writing
“Love Me,. Sailor,” innocuous by con-
temporary standards.
And accepted he is; a very typical
Australian journalist in a very isolated
Italian village. The plump waitresses,
the kids, the mammas and their teenage
daughters, the village dogs and even the
local priest (with whom he is at war at
present because the church bells calling
the flock to mass wake him early on
Sunday morning) treat him with toler-
ance and respect.
Was he ever thinking of coming home. 7
Bob made an obscene gesture with his
fingers. “I was framed. The Catholics
got me. Not on your bloody life,
never.”
“But if you were writing in Italian


would you get a better go here than you
got back home?” I asked him.
“That’s not the point,” he said.
“They’re not hypocrites here like they
are in Australia.”
. . .
Obviously Bob was not happy ,n the
role of an intellectual. He has never had
pretensions to be more than a spinner
of a good yarn, which he is. His gaol
sentence for obscene libel was shocking
and stupid. Unfortunately some Close
defenders at the time tried to build up
t e novel and the author. Love Me,
Sailor was not good literature. It was
not even literature.
His latest novel, “She's My Lovely,”
is similar—a cut-price “Horse’s Mouth,”
The hero, Batty Heywood, is a mongol-
oid Gully Jimmson. “She’s My Lovely”
deals with Heywood’s success as an artist
b Y conning the wife of a wealthy indus-
trialist into buying his paintings and be-
coming his patron. Heywood’s model
chest Jessie he| b tcasi the
ta|ist For , measure there are a , so
a cole of Australians who invent a new
drink ca||ed .. Drongo .. the .. drink that
k drunk , on .. and a pub
There wH| be a market for .. She . s My
Love | y .» It wiu also keep Bob happy in
his j ta ]j an village and the wowsers happy
here bccause he wili never come bome
as | ong as be can make money anywhere
else,
WILLIAM HARCOURT
WHAT FRANNY SAID
A Small Room with Large Windows.
Allen Curnow. Oxford University
Press. 20s. 9d.
Poetry Magazine of Australia. Edited
by Grace Perry. September and
November, 1962, issues. ss. ea.
lyfß. Curnow is the New Zealand poet
who edited The Penguin Book of
New Zealand Verse. This present book
is a selection from four previous books.
The flow of his verse from 1941 to
1961 is smooth. He is one of these poets
who sit very still while their poems flow
in one ear and out the other. Wallace
Stevens, to whom he inscribes a memo-
rial, is another case in point. They are
listening to themselves thinking. No
egotistic rhythm is allowed to disturb
their trains of thought as they pass from
ear to ear. They do not so much make
as experience a poem:
Weeping for bones in Africa l turn
Our youth over like a dead bird in my
hand.
This unexpected personal concern
That what has character can simply
end
Is my unsoldierlike acknowledgment
Cousin to you. . .
It has, as you see, dignity, and can
also have wit:
Cold, limp with winter burial,
And mouldy with excessive rain,
My optimism shows no root
Now that l dig it up again.
But although it uses a variety of
line-lengths it never seems to move.
Within this limitation Curnow can still
hold attention in the stasis of “Self
Portrait” while he looks at a snapshot
of himself as a child and in a meta-
physical reverie on a bee in a blossom
on the long hand of a floial clock
(“Keep in a Cool Place”).
The two last poems in the book, writ-
ten in New York in 1961, one about
activities in an apartment-house opposite
and the other about a continually howl-
ing dog, have more life in them:
Dog, dog, I’m tied up too.
Be my guest my metaphor.
Be fool to my Lear till the neighbours
hear
And maybe open the door.
He is too polite to kick the door
down himself —but suppose he should
come out of his trance would he write
better than he has written in it?
One would not apply completely to
Curnow’s poems the terrible indictment
by Franny of Salinger’s “Franny and
Zooey”:
“They’re just people that write poems
and get published and anthologised all
over the place but they’re not poets. . .
All that maybe the slightly better ones
do is sort of get inside your head and
leave something there, but just because
they do, just because they know how to
leave some thing, it doesn’t have to be
a poem for Heaven’s sake. It may be
just some kind of terribly fascinating,
svntaxy droppings —excuse the expres-
sion.”
One could apply it even less to the
poets of the two issues of “Poetry
Magazine,” since the September issue
has David Campbell imitating Gautier
in a poem about Kings Cross women
(although this and writing exquisite
lyrics is his way of dodging his duty
to write more narratives like “Soeewah
Picnics” and “The Golden Cow”), and
Bruce Beaver giving the bum's rush to
some aged poet (although he should be
writing more pieces like “On the Rocks”
on the opposite page): and since the
November issue has another of Roland
Robinson's transcriptions of the con-
versation of Charlotte Williams of the
Githavul tribe and a nleasant pattern of
movement in “The Thrush’s Song” by
Nancv Cato.
Many of the other poems are slight or
lack force, organisation and concentra-
tion—but I notice that the Poetry
Society which publishes “Poetry Maga-
zine” has its own Critical Workshop; so,
beyond drawing attention to the remarks
of Franny, it will be unnecessary for me
to point any more things out; Polonius
was knocked off, I grow more and more
sure, because in some lost version of the
tragedy he offered Hamlet a few helpful
hints on a play he had heard the Prince
was writing for presentation at court.
RONALD McCUAIG
Joan Sutherland
Joan Sutherland. Russell Braddon.
Collins 28s.
I>ussell Braddon’s biography of the
Australian soprano fails on almost
every count. His knowledge of music,
or even of Miss Sutherland’s opera roles,
is minimal. He, therefore, is not equip-
ped to handle the most fascinating as-
pect of Miss Sutherland’s career, the
development of her style and status as
a singer.
Instead, he provides his own rather
tacky drama by tracing her development
from “ugly duckling” to swan, by blow-
ing up the part played in Miss Suther-
land’s career by her husband, Richard
Bonynge, to standard Svengali size. He
has also excluded no detail of her ill-
nesses. Every throb of the drill as she
goes through the ordeal of teeth-capping,
every blow of an operation with “small,
heavy chisel and small, heavy hammer”
to clear her antrums, is there.
The book was fairly obviously in-
tended only as a quick-selling, personal-
ity story, and the overall effect is prob-
ably a good deal more vulgar than Mr
Braddon intended. But it is highly
recommended to the medical profession.
Father
A Journey with Father. Carlo Castel-
laneta. Macdonald.
“ A Journey with Father,” by a
young Italian novelist, has much
of the deftness and economy of the
Italian film, also the film’s trick of see-
ing one person through the eyes of an-
other. A young man goes with his
almost unknown father from Milan to
southern Italy to attend a family funeral.
During the journey they begin to know
each other again. But it is a painful
process as at the back of the young
man’s mind is his childhood when, at
the end of the war, his father, although
disillusioned with Fascism, refuses to
recant (as his comrades are falling over
themselves to do), and finally deserts the
family.


THE MAN
ON THE
LAND
WHEAT BOARD FACED WITH BIG
DECISIONS ON MARKETING
HThe Australian Wheat Board faces a
big marketing challenge in the
coming 12 months. Present indications
are that the 1962-63 harvest could pre-
sent the board with a record amount of
wheat—a recent estimate was 262 million
bushels, but the early December heat-
wave could have reduced this slightly.
Allowing 52 or 53 million bushels for
home consumption as flour and stock
feed and 20 million bushels for carry-
over, the board will have nearly 200 mil-
lion bushels for export.
In a year such as the one just past
this would not have presented any great
difficulty. But this year there have been
heavy crops in Britain, Germany, Italy
and France. France is already a sub-
stantial wheat exporter, but the three
other countries are usually importers.
Communist China, our biggest market
in recent years, could also present diffi-
culties this season. Overseas reports indi-
cate that China is attempting to buy
another 21 million tons of wheat from
Canada. Still more significant is the
suggestion that the Chinese want two or
three-year terms. All past Chinese credit
purchases of Australian wheat have
been on 12-month terms.
The situation boils down to this —in
a “tight” season of low European sales
(and this could become normal under
the Common Market) and a heavy Aus-
tralian crop, Australia badly needs the
Chinese market if she is to avoid heavy
carryovers.
When China first obtained wheat on
credit from us, critics of the deal warned
that China would seek to make the Aus-
tralian wheat industry dependent upon
her and would then insist on more and
more favorable terms. Regardless of
whether this is being done intentionally,
this looks like happening in the near
future.
Can Australia, with a record crop
pouring into its silos and threatening a
serious storage problem, afford to refuse
China longer and more favorable terms
if she demands them? Canada and France
are two countries eager to deal with the
Chinese on credit terms.
Australia is being forced into the
position that she must compete —both on
price and terms. The alternative is to
control or reduce wheat production; and
the Federal Government, by announcing
a further lift in the price of wheat, has
clearly indicated that it has no intention
of reducing the profitability of wheat-
growing for at least another year.
A small crop and/ or a crop failure in
Europe would have eased the pressure
on the Australian Wheat Board for the
present. This year the board may be
lucky, but if the run of big crops con-
tinues it is only a matter of time before
we are caught with a big unsaleable sur-
plus in storages urgently needed for a
new harvest.
The position is further complicated, of
course, by the political aspects of trading
with Communist China. This is especi-
ally true at present with strong pressure
being exerted to stop Commonwealth
countries selling wheat or other foodstuffs
to China while she is engaged in a border
war with China.
Should the trade ever be cut off over-
night, either by China or the Australian
Government, the wheat industry and the
board will be faced with some painful
rethinking.
DANGER OF ANIMAL AND PLANT
DISEASES INCREASING
A ustralia is the envy of scores of
nations for her freedom from
many of the world’s worst animal and
plant plagues. But in this age of jet-
speed international travel and mass-
migration our freedom is not easily
maintained.
In the last ten years there has been
a steady trickle of new pests and dis-
eases —in the last two or three years
alone NSW has experienced its swine
fever outbreak and Victoria has got
the destructive sirex wood wasp.
The threat is constant. Its magni-
tude is shown by figures released by
the Victorian Department of Agricul-
ture, which carries out animal and
plant quarantine work at Victorian
ports and airports.
The department revealed that its of-
ficers had seized and destroyed 5,000
packages of plant materials from
50,000 passengers disembarking from
160 overseas ships at the Port of Mel-
bourne.
The material was destroyed because
of the presence, or suspected presence,
of pests and diseases which could at-
tack Australian plants, crops or pas-
tures.
A further 500 packages of bamboo
and timber articles were fumigated be-
fore entry for the same reason.
Material intercepted by the vigilant
quarantine officers ranged from apples
to wheat seeds. It included 1350 pack-
ages of citrus fruits, four lots of cactus,
90 lots of tomato seed, 91 lots of garlic
and even two packages of live snails.
There were 502 lots of apples—any
one of which could have introduced the
dreaded fire blight disease. Any of the
citrus could have plagued us with the
disease, citrus canker.
Many of the people who tried to
bring these banned materials into Aus-
tralia in fact the vast majority of
them—did so out of ignorance. They
did not realise the scope of the quaran-
tine ban nor the potential danger of
their possessions.
But every ship brings one or two
smart alecks—people who think it is
clever to “beat the customs.” The “cus-
toms” are often the quarantine men —
and, as everyone knows, it is not hard
to smuggle in a packet of seeds or a
few fruit.
Quarantine men cannot search every
pocket and every suitcase of each ar-
rival from overseas. They must rely to a
great degree on the honesty of new ar-
rivals and returning Australians.
But that smuggled packet of seeds
from Europe or Asia could spell dis-
aster for a whole industry. It makes
one wonder. . . how much longer can
we retain our immunity?
FIXED RESERVE PRICES FOR
MERINO RAMS
fT'HE NSW Sheepbreeders’ Association
has fixed reserve prices for merino
rams to be offered at the 1963 Dubbo
summer sale on February 13 and 14.
The minimum sale price for stud rams
is 75 guineas, for selected rams 40
guineas and for flock rams 20 guineas.
Conditions of the sale provide that
no ram can be sold at auction or pri-
vately on the Dubbo Showground below
the reserve price.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Business marches into 1963
Writing at this time last year, it was fairly easy to
predict that most Australian company activity would
move firmly and expansively throughout 1962 after
the relative complexities and uncertainties of 1961. That
expectation now looks widely justified by a large array of
profit advances in significant sectors.
Better still, a great chorus of chairmen’s remarks give
proof of further acceleration in trading trends. So far as
internal conditions are concerned, we may approach 1963
sanely and confidently hopeful.
If the economy continues to be examined as in process of
recovery from the necessary arrests of November, 1960, there
are no serious hindrances to prevent general improvement.
But that may seem, when all is said, a too negative outlook.
Granted a capacity to handle the present employment
stickiness and future population increase, it will very soon be
possible to start talking about positive growth again. Progress
could be all the more assured if some cautionary tales from
the past year or two are properly heeded.
For there remain one or two rogue elephants around to
tickle us with old yarns of allegedly stimulatory “development.”
Where this has led, and the lessons of other more orthodox
corporate losses, are specially considered in a further article
on page 45.
The vast lapses there recorded have certainly attracted the
public eye, and rightly so. Yet the really important character-
istic of the 1961-62 financial year was a genuine accession to
company strength through a large number of higher individual
profits. The promise next year is of more to come and the
reversal of some retreats.
We cannot evade some still hesitant spots in industry—
home building, chemicals, textiles, for instance. Even here,
though, not a few companies more than began a climb from
their 1960-61 low-points.
Tf we begin the success stories among the giants, Imperial
A Chemical Industries of Australia and New Zealand furnishes
a very bright spot in a group which scarcely looked able to
provide one of the early candidates for recovery. ICI lifted
profits by 43 p.c. to £3,042,000 on sales up by £ll million to
£7O million.
Most hearteningly, a more than proportionate improvement
took place in the second half of the financial year. Directors
were able to report a revival in most sectors of industry.
ICI spreads its tentacles wide, so such comments go to
confirm an encouraging demand picture in a sector thick with
imports and a goodly measure of over-capacity. Formulators
like Drug Houses of Australia do not find the battle so hard:
indeed DHA came up with a record profit and pushed earning
rate up a little.
Those critics who had condemned CSR for stodginess were
forced to swallow their words. Here again, and a valid pointer,
chemicals and building materials showed some advance. The
company benefited dramatically from a heyday in the sugar
markets, with every sign of these gains being held over the
years ahead.
The count of leaders would not be complete without BHP
and ACI. Both had to endure earnings declines for the first
time in years, BHP particularly waging a struggle in a difficult
exports situation. Both are satisfied on the score of a more
helpful 1963. That, with the basic ramifications of each com-
pany, is as sure a sign as any.
It hardly needs saying that a host of traditional activities—
banks, breweries, insurance and assurance companies—held up
magnificently and now go from strength to strength. The
solid side of the economy remains inherently well-founded.
If we are to give credit as well to a wing of business initially
under “squeeze” and constriction, we must now call in the
finance and hire-purchase groups. Here has occured a generally
exemplary setting of houses in order, with beneficial effects on
borrowings, outstandings and earnings.
VTormal prudence and a wiser supervision of lendings pro-
duced tremendously enhanced profits for Associated
Securities, Australian Guarantee Corporation, Deposit and
Investment, Esanda, Finance Corporation and Mercantile
Credits, to name some stars. The importance of these
cleansing operations for the now much healthier motor-vehicle
and electrical appliance industries is obvious.
They were two prime targets for the Federal Government’s
1960 assault. In motors, Larke Consolidated has recently
shown the way a new wind is blowing by a 43 p.c. profit rise,
almost wiping out its 1960-61 fall. Of electricals, it suffices
to mention Ducon, EMI (Australia), Olympic and the
appliance and TV successes of H. G. Palmer.
No one could attempt to argue that the industrial growth
instanced by the above selected examples was uniform through
1961-62 or that there are now no weaknesses in the manufac-
turing fabric. Yet the more closely one looks at the prospects
being revealed by full accounts and chairmen's addresses, the
more internal assurance for 1963 is conveyed.
It is customary, along purely company lines, to reserve heavy
caution for the textile and building fields. Problems in this
place cannot be lightly gainsaid. But it is only necessary to
mention Bruck Mills, Felt and Textiles, Minster (textiles) and
A. V. Jennings, Concrete Industries, James Wallace, Fend
Lease, PGH, Rocla, Humes (building) to see what can be
accomplished.
In this scattered roll-call we have left until last the hugely,
buoyant big retailers. David Jones, G. J. Coles, Woolworths,
Grace Brothers, Myer Emporium and Waltons again illustrate
unshaken aplomb on the consumer side.
A detailed analysis, company by company, would clearly dis-
play a forward press of overall profits during 1962. Perhaps
some erosion of earning rates, especially among those which
used more capital, would also be evident. That, however, and
the current investment emphasis upon earnings yields, must


teach directorates the crucial nature of the most efficient use of
available resources.
There are enough illustrations of that lesson being
thoroughly digested.
We have, perforce, in this brief survey taken results and
tendencies from an exclusively company angle at their face
value. Next week, they and the general economic climate
will be related to sharemarket behavior and its prospects for
1963.
Not to isolate company trends too narrowly, though, one
must never forget to relate them to the perplexing outside in-
fluences that will grow more apparent in the coming year. The
virtues of a decent cost stability and better productivity have
conferred growing advantages lately. We have still to incor-
porate their benefits, and effect more progress in both as we
meet the intensities of urgently higher exports under strenuously
competitive situations. The Common Market issue has been
kept rather quiescent lately: it is still very much alive.
Domestically, expansionary monetary stimulants have tem-
porarily gone to earth—all to the good. Spending on new pro-
ductive equipment is laggard, however—not so good perhaps.
Businessmen, and investors, can contemplate increasing profits,
as we have hinted. There are other things to keep their
eyes on.
ADVERTISING MOVE THAT
MAY FAIL—AGAIN
Suggestions that a “battle is looming” in which an employer
organisation may challenge the Australian Advertising
Council’s role in the handling of Commonwealth Government
advertising seem to have been the outcome of a certain lack
of knowledge of the subject.
It was reported recently that the Australian Association of
National Advertisers “is examining the possibility of setting
up another type of advertising council ... to undertake
promotion and publicity tasks of national importance.” A
similar move was made by the same organisation back in the
early days of World War 11, but met with failure because of
enormous cost and doubtful efficiency. Instead, the first
Menzies Government favored the War Effort Publicity Board,
later to become the Australian Advertising Council, a body
working now under the wing of the Treasury.
It is not generally known, even in advertising circles, just
how Commonwealth advertising is handled. There is a wide-
spread but erroneous opinion that there exists somewhere a
large and costly Government department comprising adminis-
trators, copywriters, artists, checking and accounting staffs and
so on, costing a lot of money. The fact is that a division of
the Treasury (knpwn as the Commonwealth Advertising Divi-
sion) under a director in Sydney and a deputy-director in
Melbourne, with a total staff of about a dozen (iricluding the
office boy) is responsible for all Commonwealth advertising,
whether in Press, radio, TV or miscellaneous media, through-
out Australia. The Advertising Division, of course, doesn’t
undertake the preparation, production and implementation of
advertising campaigns; it merely originates and supervises
them and ultimately pays the advertising bills.
The whole of the mechanics of all campaigns, from the
artists’ roughs to the finished ads, their placing in newspapers
and on radio and TV, and the payment of individual accounts
from every newspaper and radio and TV station in Australia
are carried out by the Australian Advertising Council, a body
of advertising agencies which served the Commonwealth
throughout the war and, at the request of the Federal Govern-
ment, continued to serve it in peace time. The AAC receives
no service fee for all this work, involving, too, the checking
of thousands of appearances and the examination and payment
of thousands of individual accounts. The Council derives its
remuneration from commissions paid in the normal way by the
various media.
Any plan to interfere with such a set-up would have serious
opposition from within the Treasury—and from the Auditor-
General, who once described the association of the Advertising
Division and the Advertising Council as an ideal system of
marked efficiency and economy.
JAPAN IMPORTANT TO
AUSTRALIAN EXPANSION
Tn its latest review, the Institute of Public Affairs states that
it is no exaggeration to say that Australian hopes for
expansion in the current decade now centre to a large extent
on the Japanese market. Moreover, based on Japanese expec-
tations of a continuing abnormally high rate of growth, the
IPA thinks the prospects for Australian exports to Japan look
“exceedingly bright.”
Admitting that plans are one thing and performance another,
the IPA believes that even if the official projected rate of
growth of 7.2 p.c. a year for Japan proves to be too optimistic,
it seems likely that the Japanese economy will continue to
expand at a rate which most other countries would regard as
exceptionally high.
Obviously, one thing that might give rise to some difficulties
in future trading relationships between Australia and Japan
is the large discrepancy in the balance of trade between the
two countries, but, says the IPA, “historically, Australian
exports to Japan have always been greatly in excess of its
imports, and while both have increased rapidly in recent years,
the gap has continued to widen. By 1956-57 exports to Japan
had reached £.139 million compared with imports amount-
ing to £l3 million. In 1961-62 the gap reached £l3B million
- exports of £lB7 million against imports of £49 million.”
However, the IPA thinks this problem of the “gap” may
not be as serious as might appear at first sight. "Traditionally,
Australian manufacturers have always feared an invasion of
their markets by a flood of low-cost Japanese goods with which
they have no hope of competing.”
“But times are changing”, says the Institute. “The 1957
Japanese Trade Agreement included an undertaking by Japan
to voluntarily control the amount of low-cost exports, particu-
larly textiles, to Australia to avoid serious embarrassment to
Australian industries. The agreement has, on the whole, worked
wonderfully well and the Japanese have adhered strictly to
their part of the arrangement. As evidence of this, complaints
by Australian industry have been sustained only in one isolated
instance.”
Again, the IPA says, “the quality of Japanese goods has
vastly improved, although still generally. much under Aus-
tralian costs. But costs have been rising fairly steeply in Japan
(last year by 8 p.c.). This movement seems likely to go on as
standards of living in Japan continue to improve.”
“But what is more important is that an increasing proportion
of Japanese exports to Australia are coming to comprise
machinery, component parts for industry and textiles for the
clothing industry, in other words, goods in demand by Aus-
tralian manufacturers themselves.
“The emphasis today is thus much less on finished consump-
tion goods than it used to be. Of the £49 million of imports
from Japan in 1961-62, roughly one-half was made up of
goods for the use of Australian manufacturers themselves. All
this means that there is now less opposition than formerly to
Japanese imports. The current negotiations for the renewal of
the 1957 Japanese Trade Agreement show an underlying
recognition of these facts and of the profound importance to
both countries of satisfactory trade relationships.”
As the impact on Australian exports of Britain’s entry into
Europe draws closer, the IPA thinks there is certain to be
an intensification of present efforts to find compensatory
markets in the East and that here “Japan looms as the great
hope.”


ill
help
1 m
oil the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
"A Welcome Easing Of
Restrictions To Banks"
A.N.Z. BANK CHAIRMAN’S
STATEMENT
Reviewing the year in Australian banking, the Hen.
Sir Geoffrey C. Gibbs, Chairman of Australia and New
Zealand Bank Limited, states in the Bank’s Annual
Report that there was “a welcome easing of the
restrictions which had applied to the trading banks.”
Bank Lending
for Development
Sir Geoffrey continued:
“The most important
innovation enabled the
trading banks to engage
to a moderate extent in
term lending for nation-
al development in both
the domestic and the ex-
port fields. This change
of policy permits term
loans to be undertaken,
not for consumption ex-
penditure, but to help
meet the demand for
capital expenditure in
primary and secondary
industries, and to pro-
vide longer term finance
for exports of capital
goods.”
Improved Efficiency
of Industry
Sir Geoffrey also re-
ferred to: “The problem
of steadily rising import
prices and, despite up-
ward movements in some
years, the down-trend in
prices received for ex-
ports.” He went on to
say: “The increasing
industrialisation of Aus-
tralia has brought heav-
ier demands for imports
of raw materials and
components for the man-
ufacturing industries. In
addition, because of the
wide gap between export
and import prices, Aus-
tralia faces the need to
ship overseas increasing
quantities of her tradi-
tional exports of raw
materials and foodstuffs
to enable her to import
even the same quantity
of manufactured or semi-
manufactured goods.”
Stable Prices
Help Exports
“One of the most encour-
aging features of the
past two years is that
prices and wages have
remained relatively sta-
ble,” said Sir Geoffrey.
“This price stability
which has been achieved
in Australia is in con-
trast to the continuing
upward movement of
prices in many other
countries and is a most
important achievement,
particularly in relation
to the sale of Australian
products in oversea mar-
kets. There is evidence
to show that Australian
manufacturing industry
is considerably more ef-
ficient and is operating
at a higher standard of
productivity today than
two years ago. Aus-
tralia’s need for expand-
ing export markets plac-
es great emphasis upon
the competitive capacity
of manufacturing in-
dustries as well as in-
dustries providing raw
materials and foodstuffs.
The improved efficiency
of local industry should
enhance Australia’s pro-
spects of success in the
present drive to step up
exports, particularly of
manufactured goods.”
"SUNNYSIDE UP" IN OIL SEARCH
HThe Associated Group must be kick-
ing itself for delaying so long
in following up the show of oil at Com-
bargno No. 1 in the extreme south of
P 55 permit area, where oil has now been
discovered at Sunnybank No. 1.
Combargno No. 1 was drilled to base-
ment of 5985 feet last year and revealed
traces of oil and gas, but was counted
out as a prospect and the group moved
its rigs northwards to try its luck in the
north-western corner of the same permit
area, though without success.
In retrospect the adjacency of Com-
bargno to P 57 in which oil was dis-
covered at Cabawin (January, 1961) and
then later at Moonie (December, 1961)
could well have been taken as a pointer
for more intensive drilling in the area,
the more so because AAO's best gas well
at Pickanjinnie was only about 20 miles
to the north.
Sunnybank was spudded-in late last
month. On December 10 the group re-
ported a maximum flow of 300,000 feet
a day of gas and “a full pipe of clean,
gassy oil of about 43 API gravity,” from
a drill stem test lasting 35 minutes at a
depth of 5860 to 5925 feet.
This news was sufficient to get the oil
search markets moving briskly with AAO
in the van, followed at some distance by
associated companies in the group; fur-
ther behind were those with interests in
neighboring areas but without much
movement in the rest of oil search shares.
The second Sunnybank test announ-
ced the following day revealed some-
thing much more specific, a flow rate
over the same 65 feet interval of 600
barrels a day. (Some 120 miles further
south-east from Moonie No. 10 a flow
rate of 924 barrels a day was simultan-
eously reported.)
This provided further initial steam for
the sharemarket. The best levels were
not subsequently held, but there was
plenty of support and prices were fully
firm once they settled down.
Both the difference in gravity and
color of the oil found at Sunnybank from
that at Moonie support the idea that the
oil comes from a separate structure.
Further, it is intended to drill Sunny-
bank to basement, though on the depth
that basement was reached at Combargno
this should not take long.
Admittedly much more testing will
have to be done to establish that this is
not an isolated structure such as Rough
Range 1 in WA proved to be, but the
signs look favorable enough at this stage
to suggest, as the Queensland Minister of
Mines said, that there is an oil province
on the Western side of the Surat basin.
At any rate the area between Moonie
and Sunnybank now takes on intensive
interest. This is practically all in AOCds
permit area. AAO’s main hope must be
that the field stretches west from Sunny-
bank rather than east and south.
But it cannot have much doubt now
whence come the strong gas flows in the
range of wells it has drilled in the Roma
area.
Meantime, in introducing a hill for the
resumption of land for pipelines (so to
facilitate the line proposed by Union
Oil) the Queensland Minister for Mines
said it would be “just a matter of boring”
before much more oil was discovered
in the Surat Basin. He also said that
£7l million would be spent on oil search
in the State this current year.


IfiillP
m
4
s ’Ag uG'
S Rand'*
OidJk^r,
£ Ran v*[
’**■•»* ANGOVt’S L _ T
YOUR
FAVOURIT
BRANDY
fine Australian
pot-still
THREE STAR
Distinctive in flavour and bouquet
OLD LIQUEUR
__ A superb quality Liqueur Brandy
T
BRANDY
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
PROFITS AND PRIVATE INVESTMENT
1> us i ness men’s expectations of profits
from putting in new capital equip-
ment rather than past or present profits
from the use of existing capital equip-
ment, are the main determinant of the
rate of recovery in private investment.
“It is precisely because the outlook for
profits is not sufficiently encouraging,”
says the Institute for Public Affairs in
a useful article on the adequacy of
profits in its latest Review, “that business
isn’t proceeding with projects of expan-
sion on the scale required.”
It is a pity the article doesn’t explore
more deeply the various factors in-
fluencing this vital matter of profit ex-
pectations, for though it hints that the
present high relative attraction of bonds
and fixed interest investments is critical
to it, the present influence of the rate of
interest on profit expectations is not
examined.
Instead, the IPA leads itself off the
main track to search for a general
measure of the adequacy of profits on
the one hand and, on the other, an
estimation of the role of current profits
from the use of existing capital equip-
ment on the rate of private investment.
It dismisses the latter over hastily by
saying simply that rightly or wrongly
the expectation of profit is influenced by
present profits “if the present level of
profit is not adequate, businessmen will
not only be less inclined to undertake
fresh developments but also the means
to finance them will be limited, the
undistributed portion of profits being a
major source of money for these
purposes.”
But, surely, to give entrepreneurs their
due, they look forward more often than
they look back. Current profits mean
little when looking to future capital
investment at this stage of the business
cycle.
If entrepreneurs were confident that
in a year or so’s time they were going
to make high profits from new ex-
penditure on capital equipment under-
taken now, they would not hesitate to
take the plunge. Profit on current opera-
tions would have only a minor role in
such a decision.
Perhaps the IPA is more on the beam
when it points to over-investment in
industrial capacity in the pre-recession
period as a generally recognised cause
of the reluctance of businesses to under-
take new capital expenditure, for this is
indeed a big inhibiting factor.
Why is this? As a generalisation,
simply because if they take the view that
in a year’s time they will still have all
the capacity they want, there would be
little point in undertaking new invest-
ment in capacity at the present time.
The IPA’s emphasis on the influence
of current profits on business decisions
to incur new capital expenditure does
not, however, make the remainder of its
inquiry into the adequacy of profits any
the less interesting.
In effect the Institute is trying to
assess just what is the appropriate rate
of industrial profits to induce the private
sector to make its maximum contribution
to employment of economic resources,
bearing in mind the general Australian
predeliction for a measure of growth.
“It is not so long ago,” says the IPA,
“that a Labor Prime Minister apparently
believed that a return of something like
4 p.c. on capital employed was a fair
reward for enterprise, although this was
barely 1 p.c. above the current Bond
rate. Extreme Socialist theorists have
gone even further than this, arguing that
profit should be eliminated altogether.
Of course, if this were practicable at all,
it would only be so under a system of
universal State ownership, which these
days nobody wants apart perhaps from
a small number of militant Communists.
“In the free enterprise economies
there is reason to believe that profits
tend, on average, toward a norm which
is broadly acceptable to the people of
the country concerned. Thus, in the
United States, company profits over the
years have been substantially higher than
in Britain and also than the level to
which we are accustomed in Australia.
The strongest attacks on profits in
recent years in this country have,
significantly, been directed at American-
owned enterprises. This does not
necessarily imply that, in the cases con-
cerned, there has been exploitation of
the buying public. The profits made are
probably what Americans would regard
as a fair and proper reward for enter-
prise, risk-taking and efficient service.
The IPA thinks “there are no absolute
standards by which these things can be
judged. A fair and adequate return on
one type of investment may be quite-
insufficient for another type where the
risks of loss may be incomparably
greater. What is a proper return for a
well-established industry, for instance,
would certainly be inadequate to induce
a flow of capital into oil prospecting or
gold-mining. But even if the argument
is confined to averages, it is still difficult
to find standards on which a judgment
of adequacy can be based.”


k
9
§
I
:
i
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
PER ANNUM
FOUR YEARS.
6mth5....61p.a.
12mths..7^p.a.
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
Funds may be withdrawn in a persona! emergency as set
out in the Prospectus
Applications for these Notes must be made on the form
attached to the Prospectus, which is now available from:
All branches of the Company's Bankers, THE BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge H ouse, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Floor, Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
PERTH: 7th Floor, 81 St. George's Terrace.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Baylis Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any of the following Brokers to The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Trustees for the Noteholders are the Bankers &
Traders Insurance Company Limited
CCIS3/AB
Clip and Post Coupon
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the Prospectus with application
forms.
NAME
ADDRESS _
COMPANY LAPSES DURING 1962
Tn retrospect, the calendar year 1962
A will bring back vivid memories of
spectacular company failures.
Not that there have been many actual
bankruptcies, or even that proportion-
ately many Australian public companies
did trade in the red—perhaps only 40 of
any size or national importance of those
balancing after January 1 which have so
far reported.
But rhe dimensions of some of those
losses were of an order not previously
encountered in this country. Four
groups, Reid Murray, Chevron-Stanhill-
Factors, L. J. Hooker and Latec have
slogged it out for the wooden spoon.
Each of these were heavily involved
in “development,” that mystic word
which, as every sober observer said,
disguised speculation. Each was finan-
cing its operations largely with borrowed
funds. A change of legislation regarding
the tax angle on interest payments and
the disappearance of lenders anyhow
quickly paralysed their activities, as the
Federal Government meant it to do.
This brought hardship to many people,
shareholders, debenture-holders, note-
holders, depositors, trade creditors and
employees, but that sort of unhealthy
boom which their activities generated
could not go unchecked indefinitely.
The full extent of some of these losses
is not yet entirely known—Reid Murray
has still to determine the size of “sub-
stantial write-downs on properties”
(following L. J. Hooker's ruthless ex-
ample), although it has announced the
necessity for providing over £1 million
on possible future bad debts, and speaks
vaguely of “possible contingencies at
present unascertained.” These could
make Reid Murray the daddy of all the
losers.
L. J. Hooker had a trading loss of
£600,000-odd, plus £300,000 write-offs
for bad debts and other expenses, and
£1.4 million write-off on realty and other
stocks.
Latec started the ball rolling wdth a
trading loss of £1.7 million, writing off
another £1.2 million for doubtful debts,
and £300,000 (approximately) to cor-
rect the unearned income provisions.
The collapse of the Korman empire
is, in a way, the most serious of all,
because of the interdependence of Stan-
hill Consolidated with Stanhill Develop-
ment Finance, Chevron Sydney and
Factors. The Factors results are not yet
divulged, but to date the losses in this
stable exceed £3.3 million this year, not
to mention those incurred the previous
year.
The market rang many warning bells
on these stocks for some time before
their results became public news, and
has now had ample opportunity to digest
their misfortunes.
Generally speaking, the list of losers
contained few surprises. Davies Coop,
General Industries and Vesta Battery
have had perennial problems. Kauri Tim-
ber, once respected for its long chain of
dividends and heavy asset backing,
doubled its 1961 loss to £750,000, and
must revise its thinking before conver-
sion of £750.000 notes to shares or cash
in 1964.
Only one or two of the smaller land
development companies failed to pay
their way—Land Planning and Develop-
ment and Newcastle Developments.
The independent moteliers survived,
although Hooker was involved in motels
(but no longer is), and of course Latec


w
LIMITED
An issue at
par (£100) of
£500,000
registered
first mortgage
debenture
stock
Per Annum
5 and 10
2 YEARS
3 YEARS
4years
6±% o.a.
Mgsj
METHOD OF INVESTING Application for Debenture
Stock will proceed only on one of the forms of application
referred to in and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus
obtainable from and lodged with
a JAMES WALLACE (HOLDINGS) LIMITED,
123 Sussex Street, Sydney.
■ The Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney Limited any branch in New South
Wales or the Australian Capital Territory.
a Any member of a Recognised Stock
Exchange.
Underwriting Brokers
a RALPH W. KING & YUILL (members of the
Sydney Stock Exchange), 20 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, with offices at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Grafton, Tamworth.
was tied up with motels and a luxury
hotel.
Australian Motor Industries was a
direct victim of the squeeze on the motor
industry, as it was caught with heavy
stocks of cars and tractors. Shareholders’
funds have been depleted in two years by
around £2} million.
Another major manufacturer of heavy
capital equipment, Freighters Ltd, blotted
its copybook for the second time (but
not in consecutive years). Deliberate
overstatement of stock by £lOO,OOO by
an employee, a write-down of stock by
£200,000, and a trading loss of £BO,OOO
has withered investors' faith.
The stumbling of a couple of old re-
spected retailers was most regrettable.
Anthony Hordern's trading loss of
£560,000 (for 18 months) was com-
pounded by the write-off of nearly
£250,000 for non-recurring repairs and
maintenance associated with renovations
and remodelling. The capital profit of
£555,000 on sale of the Hordern Bros
building almost cancels the drain on
shareholders’ funds occasioned by the
trading loss.
The Mutual Stores business in Mel-
bourne has not been rescued by the new
approach of Peter Kaye. Traditions die
hard in Melbourne.
F. J. Palmer, the men's and boys’ wear
retailer, has recognised its mistake in
trying to emulate the ‘'supermarketeers.”
and has written off nearly £250,000 on
its Big Bear venture, and will lease the
premises.
Only one hire purchase financier was
trapped. Pacific Acceptance Corpora-
tion lost £340,000 in trading, and had to
make write-offs for goodwill, possible
losses on real estate and write-downs of
investments for about another £150,000.
The majority of true financiers emerged
with better results in 1961-62 than 1960-
61, and they played a very valuable role
in staking large and small companies
temporarily embarrassed by illiquidity ;
with loans on properties and the taking
up of preference shares and bo on.
Two whaling companies came to grief
for the first time—Whale Industries, and
Norfolk Island and Byron Bay. The latter
will go into voluntary liquidation. They
can only blame the absence of whales.
Albert G. Sims lost about £300,000 in
trading—described as outside its tradi-
tional scrap metal business —and more
regrettably announced that, contrary to
earlier information, it had lost almost
£60,000 in previous years through its
Far Eastern shipping subsidiary.
Completing the list of material losers,
Jayworth Industries, concrete block
maker, reported a loss of around
£lOO,OOO. The home building recession
could be partly blamed, but it would
seem the company tried to expand geo-
graphically before it had proved itself in
the first location.
A summary of the types of business
which one might expect to founder in a
recessed trading year, but which sur-
vived, is almost as significant as the list
of losers. There were very few catas-
trophies amongst the makers and distri-
butors of motor vehicles and compon-
ents, heavy capital equipment or durable
consumer goods, and financiers, and none
amongst public building companies or
constructors.
Difficult economic conditions pro-
longed the evolution of some smaller new
companies to the profit-earning stage,
and hastened the demise of a few other
old ones.
But the grossest losses did not stem
from government action. They can be
sheeted home to the managements’
divorce from reality, excessive optimism,
perhaps delusions of grandeur, miscalcu-
lation. lack of normal business prudence,


and in a few instances criminal negli-
gence.
We have not heard the last of the
losses—liquidation and litigation will
follow —but the realisation that profits
are not automatic in business must be a
lesson well learned.
Surprise for Amal. Chemicals
Tn a week of losses on every hand,
A shareholders of Amalgamated Chemi-
cals Ltd were dazzled by the prospect of
an unusual Christmas box—a cash take-
over proposition.
From a low point of 14s. 2d. earlier
in the year, some holders took a 50 p.c.
profit by getting out at 225. 6d.
Those who hold may receive a
pleasant surprise. For the bid, to be
successful, must run over £8 million
for the 6.8 million issued shares.
The very size of the bid, its sudden-
ness and its cash nature have led most
to believe that it stems from overseas,
possibly America.
The Bulletin tried to pierce the
well-kept secret of the bidder’s identity,
but did not get very far.
The guessing game has seen mention
of Du Pont, Dow, and Allied Chemical
all at 255. a share. Our suggestion
is that it is none of these, but possibly
an American company already well
established in Australia, perhaps not in
the chemical industry. We feel the price
will be around 255.
Valiant progress
/Chrysler distributor, Harden and
Johnston Ltd, can no doubt thank
the Valiant for its current affluence.
Total sales were not revealed in the
1961-62 balance sheet, but from motor
vehicle registration statistics we can
judge the success of this new model.
In January, 1962, when the Valiant
was launched, registration of all makes
of motor cars in Australia totalled
12,027, of which 330 were Chryslers.
By October, when registrations totalled
19,858, Chrysler accounted for 1107.
Harden and Johnston is the sole distri-
butor in NSW for Chrysler, besides hold-
ing franchises for Simca. Dodge and
Plymouth.
Last week the company announced a
one-for-three bonus (the fifth in 13
years) and division of shares to ss. units.
No dividend forecast was given.
Interstate Chrysler distributors of in-
terest to the investing public are Austral
Motors Holding Ltd of Brisbane, and
Winterbottom Holdings Ltd of Perth.
Austral picked up its dividend rate
from 6 to 8 p.c. in 1961-62, and said it
was now in a position to seriously com-
pete for a share of the volume medium-
sized car market.
Winterbottom increased its profit in
1961-62 almost three-fold to £89,303,
although benefiting from the Valiant for
only six months also.
Both these stocks must warrant closer
investigation.
Barriers away
A healthier tone has become evident
in the Barrier stocks. This
emanated from the statement by the
chairman of E. Z. Industries Ltd early
in December that world smelter capacity
is in excess of mine production of zinc,
and prices for zinc concentrate had
therefore risen substantially.
The company has contracted to buy
the 1963 zinc output of North Broken
Hill Ltd and Broken Hill South Ltd at
higher prices. Additional supplies will
be drawn from New Broken Hill Con-
solidated Ltd and Zinc Corporation Ltd
(subsidiary of CRA).
Compared with prices at the end of
October, North’s fully paids have moved
up 3s. Bd. to 195., South Is. sd. to
10s. 9d. and New Is. 6d. to 395. 6d.
CRA fully paids have get over the
market indigestion and are now above
155., and EZs themselves have dropped
recent lethargy and put on Is. 3d. in
6 weeks to 14s. 7]d.
Garrisson at bay
llTith the resignation of Mr P. W.
Garrisson from posts of chairman
and joint managing director of Garris-
son Industries last month, Testro Bros
look more than ever to be masters of the
company’s fate. Testros bought a 49 p.c.
interest six months ago. The market's
measure of faith in this alignment is not
high, the ss. shares having been slipping
back further this last week or so to a
pretty nominal level.
Investors have only the full accounts
for the year to June last, a period under
the old management, to go on. Released
last week, these reveal a drop from 18.8
to 3.2 p.c. in earning rate. Deducting
intangibles, assets backing for the
£304,870 ordinary capital was negligible.
Despite the pumping in by Testros of
‘'bridging’’ funds, the liquid position is
very poor and, with former expectations
of resuscitation from revitalisation of
real-estate interests hanging fire, the out-
look is distinctly unpromising.
the world of business
" Okoy , I'm a shy, flat-chested housewife. Sell me a beautiform bra."


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members o/ Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street. Brisbane. .
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
3 Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members ot the Sydney Stock Exchange
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5957 (7 lines)
43 Northbourne Ave.
City, Canberra, A.C.T.
4 0365-66
Flinders House, Crown St., Wollongong
B 5900
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721
Telegrams and Cables:
“tAGBAM,” Sydney.
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
3. W. GRANT & CO.
549 St, Kilda Road
Melbourne
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Telephones: 51-6243. 51-6245
Est. 1939
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM 2001.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
A land flowing with milk and honey.
Or is it oil and alcohol? December
has always been renowned for the latter
and now it’s getting a pretty good name
for the former, too.
Unfortunately it was on the oil front
that I was left high and dry. There
seemed little point going after shares of
any of the Associated group once word
of the Roma strike was out. I consoled
myself with the 1000 Alliance Petroleum
I’d applied for just a day or two before.
I don’t know very much about Alliance
but as the initial outlay was only £5O
you could hardly say I was going berserk.
It was also nice to see the Roma strike
put a few shillings on to the price of
AOG which I’ve been holding stoically
since August.
But my week’s excitement came not
from the oil market but from Harden
and Johnston. These I’d held barely a
week when along came news of a one-
for-three bonus issue. This gave me the
appearance of being clairvoyant—like the
broker who put out a circular recom-
mending oil shares two or three weeks
ago. But the timing of the Harden and
Johnston purchase was sheer luck.
Admittedly the motor registration fig-
ures made any Chrysler distributor’s
shares look like good buying. But I
hardly bargained on a bonus issue so
soon. For Harden and Johnston to de-
clare a bonus after only five months of the
financial year have passed suggests that
this company must be having a sensa-
tionally good year. Just how good won’t,
unfortunately, be known for some time,
maybe not until next August or Septem-
ber. Meanwhile it could be that the 10s.
shares are still cheap. At 40s. they work
out at 15s. after the bonus and split into
ss. units.
Regrettably Harden and Johnston’s bit
of Christmas cheer did little more than
offset the grim announcements from
Kauri Timber and Vesta Battery. Be-
tween them they were able to put to-
gether losses of more than £1 million,
which were announced simultaneously on
Wednesday along with the latest goings
on in Mr Korman’s world.
All these events, however, were eclip-
sed by my decision to raise £2OOO from
my portfolio for “personal reasons” (as
they say in the best letters of resignation).
No, I’m not buying a Rolls Royce, or
even a Chrysler Valiant. Nor am I set-
tling a breach of promise suit out of
court or paying off the Tax Commis-
sioner. Just personal reasons.
To raise £2OOO meant going through
the portfolio, not simply with a sharp
knife, or even an axe, but with a bull-
dozer. Actually a dispassionate look at
the list revealed a lot that was dispen-
sable. I began by disposing of some of
my spring fantasies, Vesta and Kauri.
Vesta cost me £B4, which serves me
right, and Kauri £ll. I also lost £27 on
AWA. Shipping News obligingly rose
almost back to my original purchase
price, which meant a clear profit on the
50 rights I sold the other week. Aeron,
which I’d simply lost interest in, was
another to be sacrificed, though here I
made a tiny profit.
The losses on Vesta, Kauri and AWA
I offset against Western Mining and
Auto, and General Finance. Both are
good stocks and probably well worth
keeping. But between them they’d repre-
sented a profit of £lB7, so in the circum-
stances I sold. All this selling resulted in
a profit of £6O.
Details of the orgy are: —■
SOLD
400 AWA at 19s. 6d £383
400 Auto, and General at
265. 6d £521
400 Aeron at 12s. 9d £250
500 Kauri at 6s. 6d £157
200 Shipping News at 24s £236
1,000 Vesta at 2s. 3d £lOB
400 Western Mining at 19s. £373
BOUGHT
1,000 Alliance Petroleum at Is. £ 50
As this will be the last edition of the
diary in 1962, I would like to wish all
investors, speculators and other students
of this page the compliments of the sea-
son. My hopes for a more prosperous
New Year go, in particular, to the share-
holders and directors of Reid Murray,
Latec, Stanhill, Chevron, Kauri and
others.
As to New Year resolutions, I promise
not to attack Ready Mixed Concrete
again—provided they earn 20 p.c. to
capital this year. Nor will I criticise the
‘"Herald”—provided it stops being nasty
to Mr Menzies or Sir Garfield. What I
mean to say is ... . What did I mean to
say? MERRY CHRISTMAS.
I’ll begin the New Year with the
following portfolio:—
Cost Cur-
No. ot Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share
400 Mai leys 3/5/62 20/9 23/3
2,000 Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11 8/11
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 26/-
300 Marcus Clark notes 22/6/62 27/6 39/-
100 CSR 1/8/61 49/- 52/-
1,000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9 5/1
100 AOG 27/8/62 55/6 58/6
1,000 AN I 14/9/62 4/- 3/3
400 Waned 11/10/62 12/8 12/8
400 Nightingale 17/10/62 14/11 17/-
400 Functional 2/11/62 7/7 7/-
1,000 Prasby 8/11/62 2/8 2/11
400 Jacoby Mitchell 12/11/62 15/- 15/9
200 Waugh &
Josephson 14/11/62 16/6 16/6
2,000 LNC 23/11/62 2/8 3/7
100 Holyman Woods 26/11/62 1/3
200 Harden & Johnston 3/12/62 35/-
1,000 GMK rights 5/12/62 4/3 4/10
1,000 Alliance Pet. 10/12/62 1/-


A*N*Z BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
ABRIDGED
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AS AT
30th SEPTEMBER, 1962
(Excluding Inter-Bank Balances)
(Expressed in Australian Currencyl
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers
Balances with and Cheques in course of
Collection on Other Banks
Money at Call and Short Notice and
Treasury Notes
Statutory Deposits with Central Banks .. ..
Investments
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit
Loans and Advances to Customers and other
Accounts
Liabilities of Customers for Acceptances and
other Engagements
Bank Premises
LIABILITIES
Paid up Capital of Australia and New
Zealand Bank Limited
Reserve Fund and Profit and Loss Account
Balances
Current, Deposit and other Accounts ~ ..
Acceptances and other Engagements for
Customers .. .. .. ,
£A
20,135,682
41,592,817
8,812,789
44,313,528
127,789,068
85,339,851
246,775,769
43,495,696
11,316,607
£A629,571,807
£A
13,805,000
12,333,169
560,237,942
43.495,696
£A629,871,807
GENERAL MANAGER’S OFFICE FOR AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND, FIJI, PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA:
394-396 Collins Street, Melbourne
PRINCIPAL OFFICE IN NEW ZEALAND:
196 Featherston Street, Wellington
HEAD OFFICE: 71 Cornhill, London, E.C.S
866 Branches, Sub-branches and Agencie*
C. R- Darvall. General Manager
ANZ7Q4 16
RECORDS IN DIFFICULT YEAR
W. J. Manufacturing Co. Ltd has
" done particularly well over the last
two years, periods which can only be
classed as difficult. In fact it was the
boom year of 1960 that saw its worst
result for a decade.
The company's original activities
covered the manufacture of laminated
paper tubes, laminated paper sheet and
bakelite moulding. This was later exten-
ded to cover cotton weave and asbestos
weave laminates, asbestos felt and paper
laminates. These supplied the specialised
needs of a wide range of industry.
It has gradually expanded the range of
laminates and plastic products by a series
of licensing agreements with overseas
manufacturers based either in the UK or
US.
Despite the difficulties of industry gen-
erally the company had a record year in
1961-62. Profit rose from £30,395 to
£44,389 equal to 16.4 per cent on capital
after 7 p.c. pref charges of £2lOO. The
1960-61 earning rate was just on 11 p.c.
These results followed two years of de-
clining results culminating in the £l7lB
profit of 1959-60 which failed to cover
the dividend requirement.
The latest result was after providing
£10,189 for depreciation (£12,718 in
1960-61) and £28,679 (£13,563) for
taxation. Dividend was restored to the
10 p.c. rate paid from 1955 to 1958. In
1959 the rate was cut to 5 p.c., passed
entirely in 1960 but lifted to 7 p.c. in
1961.
The company has made numerous
issues to shareholders since 1952, all at
par. They include three issues on a one-
for-three basis (1954. 1955 and 1958)
and a tw'o-for-five issue (1957). Another
issue in the near future is a distinct possi-
bility. At June 30 last liquidity was tight
and the company faced capital expendi-
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES
£'ooo
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 204 242 216 242 212
less current liabilities 142 127 112 130 178
Working capital 62 115 104 112 34
Investments 26 26 26 26 129
Fixed assets 171 204 230 231 219
Intangibles 26 29 29 26 26
Total captal 285 374 389 395 403
Represented by:
Loan capital 34 40 37 34
Minority interests 1111
Reserves 62 51 60 69 86
Preference capital 30 30 30 30 30
Ordinary capital 192 258 258 258 258
285 374 359 395 408
Depreciation 11 11 13 13 io
Taxation 17 1 14 29
Net profit 28 7 2 30 44
Net profit for ords 26 5 28 42
Dividend 19 13 18 26
Surplus 7 -8 10 16
Earning rate 14.3 1.9 11.0 16.4
Dividend rate 10 5 7 10
Dividend yield (a) 7.3 2.4 7.2 6 3
High price (b) 14/3 21/- 12/6 12/- 16/-
Low price (b) 11/3 12/6 6/6 6/11 11/-
(o) At end of November, month accounts presented
(b) previous calendar year.
ture of £62,000 in the current year. This
involved additional outlay on the area
at Brookvale, developing it as a major
manufacturing centre. Since June the
company has also redeemed 5000 20s.
preference shares in cash for an outlay
of £5250.
The latest accounts show a substantial
lift in investments from £25,685 to
£128,685. This reflected formation of
Waratah Chemicals Pty which acquired
all the assets of the former subsidiary
W. J. Chemical Pty, at Brookvale. The
group’s interest in Waratah Chemicals
now appears under the heading of invest-
ments.
The current year has begun well with
sales up, orders at record levels and profit
on a “satisfactory” basis. But the final
result will depend on solving the liquidity
problem. Last sale was made about 15s.
9d. to show a dividend yield of 6.3 p.c.
and an earnings yield of 10.6 p.c. At this
level they appear fully priced for the
time being. Much will depend on the
interim report due early in February.


CLIFTON BRICK PATIENCE
Brick Holdings, Victorian
brick maker, is giving shareholders
plenty of time to find subscription money
for its new two-for-five issue of ss.
ordinary shares at par to assist financing
of its new tunnel kiln project at Craigie-
burn, which is expected to cost £750,000.
The new shares will be payable 2s. 6d.
on application not later than March 15
next and the remainder by July 1.
The new issue will raise £212,452 to-
wards the project and further funds will
come from banks. Clifton reports a big
increase in activity in the first four
months this year compared with the
same period last year.
TEACHING
ALL SAINTS' COLLEGE
BATHURST, N.S.W.
seek the following teaching staff
for 1963
MASTER to teach MATHEMATICS to Leaving
Certificate standard.
MASTER to teach FRENCH to Leaving Certi-
ficate Standard.
MASTER in charge of Junior School (Primary).
For the first two appointments English to
Leaving Certificate standard is also desirable
but not essential.
Applications giving full details of experience,
together with copies of testimonials, should be
addressed to:
The Headmaster.
Financier’s tide turns
T ike its twin Victorian finance com-
pany Motor Credits, business has
been booming in the direction of General
Credits in recent months. The company
reports its business in the three months
to October 31 was more than double that
in the same three months last year. More-
over profit for the latest six months ex-
ceeded that for the full year to March
31 last and to celebrate this favorable
turn in the tide the company is return-
ing to the dividend list with an interim
payment of 2d. on its ss. shares.
Tweedside grumbles
are often very good reasons why
A a board rejects what to shareholders
looks to be a favorable bid for a com-
pany’s shares. But though directors might
think it most inexpedient to reveal the
reasons, it seems to be their clear duty to
do so —especially when aggrieved share-
holders find their shares slipping well be-
low the bid price or when they have pre-
viously been told not to sell.
A recent instance of a rejected bid
being well above the market price of the
shares was Tweedside Manufacturing,
which got an offer of 225. 6d. for its £1
shares. This was promptly rejected by
the board without reference to share-
holders who, with the price now 16s. 6d.,
are naturally anxious to know what the
board proposes to do to make the shares
worth more than 225. 6d. So far the
board remains silent on the matter.
Divorce Notices
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO; BRIAN WISE late of Leura. TAKE
NOTICE that ELIZABETH BROWNING WISE
has filed petition No. 2842 of 1962 for divorce
on the grounds of drunkenness. If you wish
to defend you may file an answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, by the 25th February, 1963,
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from J. C. PAYNTER, Solicitor, of 107
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: RONALD LESLIE BAKER, late of Lewi-
sham in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that FLORA MAY BAKER has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3028 of 1962
on the ground of desertion during the period
of two years and upwards. If you wish to
defend this petition you may enter an answer
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, by the 14th day of
February, 1963, and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from Messrs J. B.
MOFFATT & SON of 139 King Street, Sydney.
C. A H. HARMS, Registrar.
Missing Persons
Would JOSEPHINE MEYERS late of “Dun-
vegan”, Moore Park Road, Centennial Park,
Sydney, or her daughter BETTY please con-
tact Messrs. Norrie & Norrie, Solicitors, 7
Church Street, Maitland, New South Wales.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 724
ACROSS
I—Veronica’s not involved in this form of preventing
waste. (12)
8— A win without one corn’s beard. (3)
9 Bobby to gather the cricket ball, a novel character.
(11)
11— Cork backed kitchenware. (4)
12— Food for the redback, the truth of which has been
established. (9)
15— Tripe’s prepared for a cleric. (6)
16— Tribes change colour. (6)
18—Give the right and capacity to. (6)
20—He is in superlative command.
(6)
23 — Non-service personnel not to
be confused with 14-down.
(9)
24 Stone work by Jolson and
Buddy by the oval. (4)
27 Croat belles composing dance
music. (6, 5)
28— The Queen takes a consider-
able time. (3)
29 As to touch, mother, it is
manuscript faults in vision.
(12)
DOWN
1— Bubbly second wife of 9-
across is a titleholder. (10)
2 Express giving no directions
to a spinner. (3-4).
3 Behave artistically in only a
little of the Tchaikovsky. (4)
4 Deadly six by his change. (8)
5 Positive military action of
marshland Burl. (10)
6 Fish with a musical tailpiece.
(4)
7 Me in the money? That’s a
concrete suggestion! (6)
10—A deadly sin. (4)
13— A wicked woman hiding
among 14-down. (10)
14 — Gastropod lives up among
Spaniards. (10)
17—Check class to tell aaain.
(2-6)
19—Chopper crook over the alter-
native to an armpit. (6)
21— Hats which make pop rest.
(7)
22 — Ship-wrecked joints. (4)
25 Lincoln coppers are resting.
(4)
26 Hat material detected with
tactile sense. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 723


Feiffer
i kim*
EXPECT MEN)
TO FAIL
ME. THEM
always
ft). I
WHAT 00
hoi; want?
fHEM'RE
BABIES).
I
THE ONILM
MAM WHO
50 FAR
HAStOT
FAILEP ME
[6 MILTON.
/
El/E EM MAN) I El/ER
KNEW FAILEP ME '
m FATHER, MM
BROTHERS?, MM
EI/ERM BOY friend.
/
WHAT ARE
HOP 601M6
TO PO?
THEY'RE
WEAK-
I
MILTON) WILL PO
THE SAME.
THAT'S WHAT
MEN) PO-
FAIU
I
'IW OIVEN HILTON EVERM
CHANJCE TP FAIL ME- IVE
THROWN) TANTRUMS*.
I'VE been) DISLOYAL*
6TIUL he poesn't fail
ME* 1
take mm
worp om ,
mitoh.hell
FAIL MOD
i
1 PIOAOREE MTH HIM
N)0 MATTER WHAT
HE 6AtO. 1 SAH tO
HH-"H(LTOM>HAt ICfK)P
OF A MAM 15 l T
(MOM'T El/ER v
FAIL ME?"
MOTHIMS I PO
HAS ANY
EFFECT.
BE PATIEMT. I
PROMISE HEU
FAIL TO.
i
I'VE 611/EM UP HOPE.
IT'S CKMM6 ME
crazy iaJith ia iom.
I
W POOR
w.
I
WOOL P IT HELP IF
I V\lKiV WITH HIM ?
\


Hell
wonder
howyou
knew
\
topi
Monopole or Midway are his favourite cigars!
But really it’s so simple. Monopole are
Australia’s largest selling ‘classic’ cigars. And
Midways are the clever new ‘little cigars’ that
are packed like a cigarette.
Both delectably mild yet full flavoured. It’s
a pleasure to be in the room with them. And
available in gay Christmas wraps at any
good tobacconists ... Monopole or Midway.
You can’t go wrong!
Monopole Magnums
25 in cedar box 33/4
25 in plastic canister . . . 33/4
10 in flat carton 13/4
4 in flat carton 5/4
Monopole Majors
25 in cedar box 27/6
Monopole Midgets
20 in flat carton- 10/-
10 in flat carton 5/-
Midway
30 in flat carton 7/6
