

The Bulletin
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
ONE SHILLING
JULY 21
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
GETTING OUT
THE BUDGET
,c>“"
t*
L • '**"* D,*« 4
.**•***’


Gigantic jet airliners flash through the sky at almost
the speed of sound, often as high as seven miles up. Air
temperatures 65° below zero, engines working at 450°
above—these are the ultimate torture tests for oils. Every
major jet airline in the world specifies Esso oils for its
aircraft. Esso produced the lubricant that made jet travel
possible.
Esso Research uses the same knowledge and experience
gained in developing this super jet lubricant to produce
better quality motor oils. Esso Extra Motor Oil is the
result. Exhaustive comparative tests show that this oil
more than doubles engine life.
TORTURE
In industry, as in transport, oils developed
by Esso Research protect plant invest-
ments, prolong machine life and reduce
operating costs.
(£sso)
5204/104
i.:;
% '
& X >*> -•
A <t« : A ; -
H
B
■
| • *tr-y #' * f * »
* " ' : :^M»


THE NZ SPIES Page 10
Tall, Handsome and Obvious
•
Goulburn Schools Fuss .... 6
As I See It—-Alan Reid 10
Getting Out the Budget 12
There’s a Large Hotel .... .... .... 16
New Guinea’s Problem Drinkers .... 17
A Page of Endean 19
“Yes-No” George Reid—Australian
Prime Ministers Series 20
Fog at the Top—What’s Happening
to Britain? 24
State Aid to Catholic Schools-
B. A. Santamaria 28
The Ham Funeral —Kevon Kemp 33
The Australian Press —K. D. Gott 37
Crude Oil Price Crisis? 44
Looking Ahead on Wool 61
• .
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
OUT AND ABOUT 16
OVERSEAS 24
AROUND MELBOURNE 27
FORUM 28
LETTERS 30
REVIEWS ...... ..... 33
RED PAGE 37
WILD CAT 41
MAN ON THE LAND ...... 61
FEIFFER ...... ... 63
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone 27-5971
Melbourne: Phone MF3341. Brisbane: Phone
B 2691. Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3
Vol. 84
No. 4301
COLLAPSE OF AUSTRALIAN EDUCATION?
T HIS week’s issue reports two dramatic aspects of the crisis in Aus-
tralia’s school education system. The first is the Goulburn lock-out
by the Catholic schools, the second is the less well publicised decision
by the Victorian State schoolteachers for a strike in protest against the
demoralising conditions in which they work. In their different ways both
highlight what could be the impending collapse of our educational
traditions.
In Victoria the State schools suffer from the greatest teacher shortage
in its history and the Government will not pay the sort of salaries that
might attract more teachers. The result of this is that the Education
Department is getting more and more unqualified incompetent teachers
(one in five is not qualified to teach his subject and one in four has no
teacher training) who are glad to get the salaries that are offering
which in turn allows the authorities to argue that salaries should not
be raised because too many teachers are unqualified and do not deserve
more.
Naturally standards are falling catastrophically and the good
teachers are demoralised. Meanwhile new debased training courses and
teachers’ certificates are rigged up; the syllabuses are watered down;
English, mathematics and languages follow the classics into oblivion
and are replaced by pseudo-practical subjects; and a more or less illiterate
generation is being prepared for a harshly competitive world in which
our survival will depend on good education.
Though the details vary, the position is more or less the same in all
States. What is to be done? The usual solution offered is that the Federal
Government should take over the State education systems. Only the
Federal Government, it is argued, can raise the money required for the
regeneration of the various State education systems, and only if the
Federal Government has the first responsibility will it give education
the attention it needs. This position has an obvious plausibility about it
and the only argument against it is the powerful one that a Common-
wealth system of education instead of the existing State ones would
involve such uniformity that even the present amount of variety and ex-
periment that survives in the State systems would disappear. If' for
example the nation-wide system turned out to be like the present Vic-
torian one the country would be even worse off than it is now.
However, the case for Commonwealth control would be far more
persuasive if as well as taking over the State systems the Commonwealth
extended the policy it has already adopted in the Capital and Northern
Territories and gave aid to private schools. Indeed if the Commonwealth
did take over education, as many people advocate, it is hard to see how
in view of its established policy in the ACT and NT it could avoid such
aid. In such circumstances we could have more money and higher stand-
ards in State schools and a greater variety and experiment in private
schools.
Such a dual policy of Commonwealth control of public education
and Commonwealth aid to private education may seem too revolutionary
to be adopted suddenly. It does however have the advantage of solving
two problems at once.
At the very least and for the time being the Commonwealth should
establish a Royal Commission to examine the whole crisis of education.


National
Notebook
The Bridge over the River Cry
Tt is not easy to tell you of the awful
humiliation Melbourne has suffered
in the past week. Not since the crash
of the banks in ’93 have our faces
been so red. Ever since the crack first
appeared in the King's Bridge the cracks
have been unending.
It has been the King's Sway, the
Bridge ot Sighs, and the Bridge over
the River Cry. Mr Horace Petty, the
Minister for Public Works, is now
Horatio who holds up the bridge. Then,
of course, some have pointed out that
the bridge is not what it is cracked up
to be, and others have said that Mel-
bourne is simply suffering from falling
arches.
To give you some idea of the agony
of this thing it is important to go into
a little history. The bridge is worth
£4,100.000 and it is the biggest bridge
ever built in Victoria. 1 here are 2290
feet of elevated freeway, and. in our own
humble way, we looked upon it as our
equivalent of the Sydney Harbor
Bridge. From the start it was predicted
that it would carry 45,000 cars in 12
hours and it would do as much work
as the Harbor Bridge.
The opening day, April 12, 1961, was
one of pride and optimism. Mr Bolte
said: "I i this bridge we have accom-
plished something very real and lasting
for the community of Melbourne . . .
ours is the fastest growing city in the
Western world. We have to plan, to
make provision for the future. Let us
forget our quarrels and quibbles and get
on with these public projects.”
The Golden Gate Bridge in San
Francisco was opened by a gentleman
cutting through a golden chain with a
blow torch. For our King’s Bridge it
was different. Mr Bolte pressed a button,
a siren wailed, the lowered boom of a
giant crane lifted and at last the way
was clear.
That was last year. Now the Chairman
of the Board of Works, Mr Trickey, has
reported that there are further flaws
in the bridge. It will be closed indefin-
itely, so 45,000 cars every 12 hours have
to find another way into and out of
town.
Meanwhile there is another sidelight.
Johns and Waygood Ltd., which manu-
factured and erected the steelwork, is
claiming £405.000 for work allegedly
in excess of the original specifications.
It took out a Supreme Court writ in
January naming Utah Australia Ltd and
Country Roads Board as defendants. The
company says it contracted with Utah
in 1957 to do the work in accordance
with the specifications for £617,181,
which Utah paid. But Johns and Way-
good claims that during construction it
was required to do additional work. Fur-
ther expense was incurred by alleged
interference by the CRB and the “mak-
ing of unreasonable and excessive tests
of materials”.
The Townley Touch (Coni'd)
nPHE following item, which we reprint
A without comment, was put out by
the Indonesian news agency PI A, after
Defence Minister Athol Townley’s
memorable visit to Bandoeng, Java:
“Clad in a Siliwangi trooper’s uniform
complete with decorations for dis-
tinguished services, the Australian De-
fence Minister attended the demonstra-
tions. The uniform was one presented
to him as a gift by Siliwangi Division
Commander Col. Ibrahim Adjie. Air
Vice-Marshal Omar Dani, meanwhile,
had presented Minister Townley with a
wing which was pinned at the chest of
his Siliwangi uniform.”
Posthumous hero
T>ill Thomas, Melbourne University
political science student and con-
tributor to The Bulletin who died in a
car accident recently, looks like be-
coming a posthumous film hero.
A group of Thomas’s Melbourne Uni-
versity colleagues have started work on
an 80-minute film, the central character
of which will be modelled on Thomas.
The idea of the film is to tel! the
story of the birth of Student Action,
which harassed both major parties over
White Australia and aborigines at the
last Federal election and which has since
been vocal on the Malay divers, the
Portuguese seamen and other issues.
Melbourne Arts student Bert Deling,
who is trying to arrange distribution of
the film, explained that he had written
a fictional story about a typical group
of Australian students, with the central
character resembling Thomas.
Deling, who is scripting, directing and
editing the film, maintains that it w ill not
be purely a propaganda vehicle for
Student Action but will be a serious
attempt at film making the longest
amateur job, he says, made here in recent
years.
Most of the action takes place in
Melbourne, but some scenes will be shot
in The Rocks area of Sydney later in
the year.
Budget for the project is around £ISOO,
and with about £IOOO already raised—
most of it in small sums from the general
public—the movie looks like becoming
a reality.
All of the crew working on the film
are students, but it will be no amateur
job, at least as far as the film quality is
concerned, because the unit has been
lent a £3500 synchronised-sound camera
for the project by an anonymous well-
wisher.
Bill Thomas would have blushed at
the fame. But he would have iiked the
idea.
Ern Malley rides again
HHhe English may be slow but they get
there in the end. In the latest stage
of the Australian vogue overseas the
English have finally caught up with Ern
Malley. It was kicked off by Lloyd
Nolan who reviewed the new edition of
Ern Malley’s poems on BBC television,
and the demand is now mounting.
According to Mr W. E. Butcher, the
enterprising head of Angus Si Robert-
son’s London office, now visiting Aus-
tralia, several other writers, who have
had chequered careers here, have done
better over there. Elclen McLeods
“Cannibals are Human”, for example,
did better in England than in Australia.
Ray Mathew’s “Bohemian Affair” is
another case: its success them has led to
a new edition. On the other hand Robin
Boyd’s “Australian Ugliness” did much
better here than there. But generally
speaking books do pretty well the same
proportionately, in both countries.
Even Kingsley Amis couldn't kill
Xavier Herbert’s “Soldiers’ Women”:
reviewing it under a banner headline in


the “Daily Express” “This book is tripe”,
he wrote. “It will seP thousands of
copies . . and it did.
"Indonesia calling"
“T e Cinema Pendant la Guerre”.
volume six of the monumental gen-
eral history of the cinema by Georges
Sadoul, has recently been published by
Editions Denoel in Paris. In this volume
Marion Michelle who was scenario
writer, cameraman, editor and produc-
tion manager of Joris Wens’ Australian
wartime documentary “Indonesia Cal-
ling”, writes an amazing story of the
film’s “unquestioned importance” in
Indonesia’s fight for independence.
At the present juncture in Australian-
Indonesia relations, and in view of the
attitude of the Leader of the Opposition,
Mr Arthur Calwell, who was then
Minister for Information, the background
of the film, given by Miss Michelle, is
extremely interesting.
Miss Michelle recalls that when, on
August 17th, 1945, the republic of Indo-
nesia was proclaimed, the Dutch
authorities took immediate steps to take
over their merchant ships stationed in
Australian ports, and to send them with
arms and troops to Indonesia. Indonesian
seamen refused to man the vessels.
They were supported in their stand by
Australian waterside workers and asso-
ciated unions, who were joined by
Indian, Chinese, Malay and English
seamen. The result was that the Dutch
ships were unable to put to sea and
remained stranded in Australian ports
for some 18 months.
In “Indonesia Calling”, Ivens, work-
ing under all sorts of conditions and
greatly hampered by lack of funds and
equipment, presented his version of the
dramatic sequence of events. With an
English commentary written by Austra-
lian Catherine Duncan, .he film had non-
commercial screening thro lghout Aus-
tralia.
By “secret and mysterious means”
copies of a version in Malay appeared
in Indonesia at the peak of the struggle.
Java, writes Miss Michelle, was cut off
from the world. Morale amongst the
native population was at its lowest. The
Dutch had been continually warning the
Indonesians that they could hope for no
support in any country. The Indonesians
had no friends anywhere.
All at once, in the most distant villages,
screens were set up in the open fields and
the Indonesians saw “Indonesia Calling”.
Here was the evidence they needed,
which had long been denied them. They
did enjoy the sympathy of so many
peoples in so many countries, in their
struggle for national independence.
Face value
HThe managing director of Kolmar
(Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Mr L. Hall,
writes that in our issue of July 7, in an
article on cosmetics, he was quoted as
saying: “We make cosmetics for many
leading houses from prestige firms down
to chain stores.” Mr Hall writes that he
said: “We make cosmetics for many
leading houses from highly advertised
firms and chain stores.”
"HE MAINTAINED AN AIR OF INDIFFERENCE UNTIL THE ATMOSPHERIC
TESTS STARTED!"


This Australia
STATE AID: EXCLUSIVE
THE GOULBURN LOCK-OUT
FROM PETER KELLY IN GOULBURN
BISHOP CULLINANE
“Not me, the laymen”
Goulburn will never be the same
again. Around the everburning fires
of the pubs, in Greek and Italian cafes,
walking along its wide, windy streets,
standing on its draughty station, people
who have rarely exchanged anything
more than comments on the weather or
the sports results have been arguing
about State Aid.
The best way to understand what
happened is to go back to a letter written
in December 1961 by the Director of
the Southern area of Education for
NSW, Mr C. M. Clayton, to the Princi-
pal of Our Lady of Mercy Preparatory
School, Goulburn. It said: “The matter
of toilet facilities was brought to your
attention in 1957 and subsequent assur-
ances were given that the new toilet
blocks were planned and will be built
in the near future. The Certificate of
Efficiency is held pending firm advice as
to when toilet facilities will be provided
in accordance with the requirements by
the Department of Health.”
Ten days later, on December 11, the
Head Sister of the Preparatory School
wrote back to Mr Clayton and told him:
“We regret that finances of the school
have not as yet improved sufficiently to
permit the implementation of the plans
referred to in your letter”. The Goul-
burn Council was then drawn into it and
notified the school that additional lava-
tories had to be provided for the school.
Although the school had still not re-
ceived its Certificate of Efficiency, it
accepted its 320 pupils at the beginning
of the school year and began operating
normally.
On March 17, at the annual Goulburn
St Patrick’s Day Sports, Bishop Cullin-
ane and Mr L. J. Tully, the Labor
member for Goulburn, exchanged “a
few words” and as a result of Mr Tully’s
subsequent actions, Mr Clayton, on
March 23, issued a Certificate of Effic-
iency to the Preparatory School for 12
months until December 31, 1962.
Mr Clayton, however, also enclosed a
letter with a sting in it: “It is hoped that
some firm advice will be available before
the expiry of the Certificate covering
toilet facilities for the school. These have
been listed in Department Records for
several years as being insufficient for
the number of pupils enrolled.”
There the matter may have ended with
honor on both sides. There is little doubt
that the money would have been eventu-
ally found for the additional lavatories
by the Goulburn Parish. But the Bishop,
who is in fact in charge of the Parish,
decided to dig his heels in. He decided
to ask the Government for assistance;
and he gave The Bulletin the case he
had prepared for the Government.
Tn 1953 the Parish debt was £5562. But
A by June 30 last year it had risen
to £62,311. Like the rest of Goulburn,
the Goulburn Catholic school popula-
tion was growing very quickly. During
this time the Goulburn Parish had
opened the West Goulburn Preparatory
School costing £14,000; extended Our
Lady of Mercy College by building an
additional five classrooms, a storeroom
and toilets costing £40,000 of which
£12,000 had to be found by the Parish
itself; and £27,000 had been spent on
improvements to St Patrick’s Technical
School. All this meant that the Goul-
burn Parish had to find £3OOO this year
for interest plus a further £4OOO to meet
operating deficits in the Parish schools.
In these eight years the Catholic
school population had increased by 53
per cent. from 1071 to 1637. This
growth necessitated more teachers, and
it was more economical to bring teachers
in from smaller outlying districts and
have fewer teachers but bigger classes.
So five primary schools were closed out-
side Goulburn as well as eight “second-
ary” schools.
Because of these factors and because
the Council had also instructed the
Bishop to build extra lavatories he wrote
a letter to Mr Clayton, on May 10,
telling him that from June 6 “. . . we
shall be liable to a penalty of £2O and
to a further penalty of £5 for every day
during which the offence continues.
Since we are unable to comply with the
requirements, either by providing the ad-
ditional facilities or by discriminating
against one-third of our pupils whom it
would be necessary to expel in order to
make existing facilities adequate, it seems
that we should be left with no alterna-
tive but to close the school next term.”
TjUtiAT this meant was that if the Bishop
proceeded with his threat the Edu-
cation Department would have to find
room for about 330 primary pupils in
Goulburn—a task possibly beyond it.
For the first time it was discussed on
the Goulburn Council, Catholic parents
learnt of the contemplated drastic step,
the Premier and the Minister of Educa-
tion, Mr Wetherell, knew of it through
Mr Tully, so the responsibility now
moved from Mr Clayton to the Director-
General of Education, Dr H. S. Wynd-
ham.
Dr Wyr.dham then wrote to Bishop
Cullinane on May 21 expressing concern
“that it may be found necessary to close
the school”, although the Certificate of
Efficiency had been issued. Dr Wynd-
ham then suggested to the Bishop that
“Your Lordship approach the Council
for an extension of time in which to
comply with its request. It is understood
that the Council would be prepared to
give consideration to any reasonable
proposal”.
Bishop Cullinane told The Bulletin
that by this time he was “annoyed” with
what was happening so he wrote back to
Dr Wyndham telling him that the Coun-
cil had been most sympathetic but that
despite this he was still determined to
pursue his course of action. “The real
problem is,” he wrote, “that well over
NEXT WEEK'S ISSUE
• THAT OPERA HOUSE! —
Cover Story
• NEW GUINEA—What the
Foot Report Really Said
• BUYING A SMALL CAR?—
Boadicea
• JOHN PRINGLE — London
Newsletter


300 children are congregating daily in a
place where according to regulations
there are toilet facilities for only 200
... but the fact remains that we are
committing a breach of Ordinance 46 of
the Local Government Act, this, together
with the fact that the Education Depart-
ment viewed the situation as being
serious enough last December to warrant
the withholding of Certification, makes
me feel that it would show a callous dis-
regard for the welfare of the children
to ask their parents to send them to the
school without providing additional facil-
ities. We are not in a position to do this
ourselves as I have already pointed out
to Mr Clayton.”
The Bishop then outlined the Parish
debt and expenditure and finished up
by saying “the school authorities are not
prepared to ask parents to continue to
send their children indefinitely, or even
for a further 6 months, to a school with
toilet facilities which were branded last
March as sub-standard”.
Other letters exchanged by the Coun-
cil and the Bishop in which he repeated
his plan: to close the school unless some-
one or something, other than the Parish,
found the money for the additional lava-
tories.
TTntil this stage it had been Bishop
Cullinane, the Administrator of Goul-
burn, Father J. Keogh, and to a lesser
extent a Catholic, Alderman B. Keating,
who had been running the Catholic pro-
test. But on Sunday, July 8, about 40
laymen attended a meeting called by the
Bishop to consider the repercussions of
the closing of one school.
This was probably one of the frankest
public meetings held between a Bishop
and his flock. Bishop Cullinane was told
by the laymen how ridiculous it was to
close one school over a couple of lava-
tories. It was pointed out to him that
the issue did not only affect Goulburn
but the whole of Australia. If there was
going to be a protest why not close all
the schools. Bishop Cullinane and Father
Keogh were at this stage against closing
all the schools and the feeling at the
meeting was not helped by the Bishop
referring to the “selfishness of Catholic
parents”.
After that the handling of the protest
passed from the leadership of the Bishop
to laymen like Messrs Arthur Rolfe,
J. B. Mullen, J. Parmenter and B. Keat-
ing. At this Sunday meeting it was de-
cided to place the whole issue before
the Catholic parent population of Goul-
burn at a big meeting to be held in the
Lilac Hall the following night. Arch-
bishop Eris O’Brien was to be invited.
In the meantime a “steering” com-
mittee of six was formed which drew up
the now historic motion, subsequently
passed by about 550 to 120 on the fol-
lowing night: “This meeting of the Cath-
olic community of Goulburn expresses
its bitter disappointment at the failure
of the State Governments present
and past to recognise the justice of
the claims of Catholics to a fair share
of the public purse for its education sys-
tem and wishes to draw public attention
to the almost insurmountable plight in
which Catholics find themselves. Recog-
nising that the need for emphatic citizen
action to press the Catholic claim is
urgent, we confirm and support the con-
templated closure of the Catholic
Schools of Goulburn as a token of our
determination to have our claim recog-
nised in a satisfactory manner.”
At the Monday meeting itself, it is
doubtful whether Bishop Cullinane or
the clergy had much influence on the
decision of the parents. Bishop Cullin-
ane outlined what had happened about
the lavatories and the meeting was
thrown open. Mr W. E. Bolton led the
minority group who did not want such
drastic action. There were appeals by
parents (“don't sacrifice my children”;
“don’t throw my children into the front
line”) and statements that it would split
the Catholic community. But in the end
the motion was carried and for the first
time Archbishop O’Brien spoke.
He told the parents it was not for
him to make the decision. He had never
told them how to vote during elections
nor would he on this issue. But he made
his attitude quite clear: “the time has
come for action. We must do more than
complain. We have done that for 80
years and it has not got us very far.”
Without naming them, he outlined each
of the political parties’ attitude on
“State Aid” and obviously referring to
the Labor Party he said: “It never
promised anything and it didn’t break
its promise”. He did say that he had
sent one political party (the Country
Party) a letter of congratulations when
it recently re-affirmed its policy on
interest-free loans to denominational
schools.
Once the die was cast at this meeting
the subsequent events were inevitable:
The six State schools in Goulburn were
expected to cope with about 1900
Catholic schoolchildren last Monday.
On Friday, the Headmaster of the Goul-
burn High School, Mr J. Hinchey. said:
“Whatever we do we cannot take in
more than 200 and promise to give
gainful instruction. Something like 670
could possibly be expected to enrol if
parents wish.” He said the only fair way
to take in the influx was by ballot.*
Most of the reaction to the Goulburn
Catholic school protest was predictable.
State Labor Parliamentarians preferred
silence and the indications in Govern-
ment circles were that the Government
would just play for time. Those who
usually come out with statements on
State Aid for and against did so,
and Cardinal Gilroy, obviously embar-
rassed by the fact that his favorite politi-
cal party had been put on the spot, be-
latedly came out and supported the
Goulburn action.
But this time the “State Aid” question
was different: it was the citizens of the
community who were involved as the
letters to every daily newspaper in Syd-
ney and the reaction in Goulburn
showed. Reporters, radio roundsmen,
and television newsmen had a Roman
Holiday interviewing everyone from
the Bishop to schoolchildren. The sur-
prising fact was that most of those inter-
viewed had an opinion.
Tn Goulburn, the local Labor Party sec-
A retary, and one of the leaders in the
protest, Mr Arthur Rolfe, attacked local
Labor Parliamentarian Mr L. Tully
for “hiding behind” Labor Party policy
on State Aid and suggesting that the
schools should remain open. Mr Rolfe
pointed out that Labor policy had not
prevented the Federal member, Mr
Allan Fraser, from coming out giving
his opinion for State Aid. Goulburn
people told me how the Mayor, Aider-
man McDermott, a Catholic, usually
gave a speech at the annual St Patrick’s
day sports advocating militant action by
Catholic parents but since this issue “he
had been so weighed down by his chains
of office that he refused to comment,
even on the toilet issue”.
The Goulburn Ministers’ Fraternal
issued a statement describing the protest
as “blackmail” although its President,
the Rev. Mr. A. C. King, Dean of the
Anglican Church, also issued a statement
supporting the protest. He told The
Bulletin that he would at least agree
to interest-free loans for denominational
schools. He said that although the
majority of his flock would “probably
be against State Aid” there was nothing
like the depth of feeling evident 10 or
15 years ago.
But the big question in everyone’s
mind was whether the Goulburn protest
would spread to any of the other Catho-
lic schools in New South Wales which
in 1961 were educating 175,384 child-
ren. Meetings were held in Orange,
Armidale, Griffith, and Rose Bay over
the week-end by Catholics supporting
the Goulburn stand. My guess is that
there will not be any more demonstra-
tions and Catholic authorities will prob-
ably restrain parents from taking action
—if they can.
Talking to the Goulburn leaders I
did gain the impression that the Goulburn
protest will not go the intended six
weeks, but will last at least one week or
two weeks at the most.
*ln point of fact 640 children were
enrolled last Monday but between 1200
and 1300 children were left without
schooling.


EDUCATION
...AND A STRIKE IN
MELBOURNE?
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
BARRY JONES
"You deserve it”
HPhe Goulburn technique may be
adopted in Victoria. On Friday,
July 13 th, a move for direct action by
Victorian secondary teachers to inform
the public of the scandalous conditions
under which their children are instructed,
came a little nearer to realization, when
at a protest meeting teachers voted by a
majority of 125 to 101 to go out on
strike for a day.
The motion came after the meeting
had unanimously passed a resolution
calling for a Royal Commission of
enquiry into teacher training, standards,
efficiency and future needs of the
secondary system. At first everyone was
very careful not to blame anyone in
particular for the mess, and sometimes
it looked as though any action at all
would bog down for lack of a culprit.
The Teachers’ Tribunal was mildly
criticized, the Government mildly re-
proved, the parents mildly cautioned.
But as the meeting became more radical
—mostly because of a couple of strong
motions put by one school branch,
Boreland High School —it was the
teachers themselves who copped it.
Mr Finlay wanted the Royal Com-
mission to investigate their qualifications
which at present range from the
supposed normal degree and diploma
of education, to nil. Mr McCarthy
wanted to be sure that in giving
evidence to a Commission, teachers
would not be intimidated by the
authorities, hinting by the way at a
couple of attempts which Mr McDonnell,
the present Director of Education, has
made to quieten the publicity campaign
of the Victorian Secondary Teachers’
Association. Mr Hannan, who moved
the strike motion, reminded teachers
that they had been making demands for
fifteen years without getting anywhere.
His backers hit harder and harder, till
Mr Barry Jones, the quiz king, told
them straight out that if they did not
take direct action they deserved the mess
they and everyone else in the State was
in.
Part of the background to the agitation
is a new salaries award which ignored
secondary claims for a higher margin
over primary teachers, and which granted
only the most minimal rises to the major-
ity of teachers.
The average increase was less than £ 1
a week, and the range for secondary
teachers of £lOBO to £2680 a year a
mere £3O a year higher than the range
for primary school teachers. For that
£3O margin a secondary teacher must
have a University degree and diploma in
Education. The qualification for his
primary school counterpart is Leaving
Certificate —which in Victoria is gained
after five years at an abysmally low
standard, and indicates bare literacy—
plus two years of teacher training in a
State college, where only the most out-
rageous defiance of authority can incur
failure. In effect, since the primary
teacher starts on full pay at least three
years before the secondary teacher, the
latter takes something like thirty years
to catch up.
The history of the award is equally
ludicrous. Victorian Teachers’ salaries
are regulated by a three-man Tribunal,
comprising a former primary school
teacher noted for his partiality to the
primary controlled Victorian Teachers’
Union, a pensioned-off politician, who
passes for an independent chairman, and
a Government representative. For six
months they fiddled with this latest
award, the first since 1957, obviously
waiting for the go-ahead from the
Government. In December the award was
ready for signature. Only two signatures
were needed to make it valid. One mem-
ber refused, probably the Government
representative. A few hours later the
“independent” chairman changed his
mind, and without any reasons being
given it was announced that no award
would operate before July Ist. When
ultimately it did come into force the
only reaction of the Bolte Government
was to threaten the public with increased
taxes to satisfy these surprising and un-
wonted demands of teachers.
To teachers this was the last straw, the
final proof that education is simply not
taken seriously. With the greatest
teacher shortage in history on their hands,
the administration refuses to take the
most obvious step to remedy it. Best of
all, one reason seriously advanced for
keeping teachers in their present de-
pressed state is that too many are un-
qualified and don’t deserve more.
THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
July 22, 1882
rising generation are taught to
do anything and everything except
to think for themselves. The “hard
fact” or “Gradgrind” school reigns
supreme. Students from the age of five
are “crammed” without any reference
to the digestive powers of their minds.
The whole energies of the teaching
guild are devoted to making the
learners “know” things. This is ob-
viously and radically wrong from a
philosophic point of view, considering
how little the profoundest thinkers
themselves pretend to absolutely know.
The existing system is evidently a
mischievous and deplorable inheritance
from time gone by—when the educa-
tion of the young was monopolized by
the clerical guild—when the education
of the young was made to bolt “know-
ledge” in churches, and particular
pains were taken against their arguing
about what was presented to them for
absorption, on the broad principle that
if they were taught how to think they
were almost certain to think the wrong
way. There is, today, no suggestio falsi
so glaring that hosts of people will
not applaud it as a lucid demonstra-
tion.
__ .
jhiE Attorney-General and an “in-
hA Australia
decided belief m spiritual-
! sm , 1S prima f acie eviden ce of
insanity.
•. f ,
I N ,. a cd y cafe ’ as th e guest, who had
dined like a lord, was waltzing out
without paying, the proprietor drew a
revolver and presented it at him.
“Great ’eavens!” exclaimed the cus-
tomer in affright. “What’s that?”
“That’s a six-shooter,” replied the boss,
“And if you don’t ante up I’ll blow
your brains out.” “Oh, is that all?”
said the other. “Well, fire away; you
gave me an awful scare— l thought it
was a stomach pump.”


The Victorian Secondary Teachers’
Association, and the feeble secondary
branch of the VTU, canvassed their
members about striking. Only something
like a quarter favored dramatic action.
To carry on the battle, mainly through
Press publicity, the VCTA has asked its
members to contribute £5OO0 —about
a day’s pay per member. So far a few
half-page advertisements in the dailies
have aroused little response.
It is unfortunate that the protest should
closely follow a salaries award. The con-
cern of secondary teachers goes much
deeper. Basically they are concerned with
the appalling conditions of their profes-
sion and with the whole absurd pretence
of secondary education in the State. One
teacher in five is not qualified to teach
his subject, and one in four has no
teacher training. Mathematics and Science
suffer most —in most junior forms it is
hard to say they are taught at all. In
English one need not even be a fluent
speaker to get a job. A woman with
Intermediate Certificate, and a mark of
52 per cent, in English Expression, is
teaching second year English. A school
secretary with Leaving Certificate re-
signed to join the same staff as a Com-
mercial teacher, and her qualifications
were superior to some of her colleagues’.
People refused by primary schools—who
insist on Leaving and two years’ training
—are welcomed with open arms to
secondary schools. In many cases the
ignorance of the teacher exceeds that of
his pupils, which in the Victorian system
is usually profound.
The main reaction of the authorities to
this crumbling edifice is to further under-
mine its foundations. Standards fall
steadily to accommodate the increasing
numbers of illiterate students and
teachers. At the sight of any attempt to
raise standards anxious inspectors and
headmasters brandish assessment marks,
salary scales, promotion opportunities,
private reports, watered syllabuses and
platitudes about the average child.
And some actually take pride in the
mess. The Government annually spends
a record amount on education. Un-
qualified teachers instead of being sacked
are praised for their heroic efforts. In-
spectors are consistently gratified by the
enthusiasm with which overworked
teachers (who fear the consequences of
refusal) carry out the score of extra
responsibilities loaded upon them.
In the circumstances it will not be
surprising if the strike weapon is finally
adopted. It will not be known for some
weeks if this will happen. The meeting
which decided on a strike was only
attended by 400 out of 5000 members
of the Teachers’ Association and the
executive will not act without a majority
—which means a referendum.
Around Sydney
ON THE LETTER "I"
"TiESPiTE a lot of propaganda to the
contrary Sydney is still a long
way from sensible, rational drinking
laws.
Why is it that licensed restaurants
can serve only Australian beer and
wine by the bottle? Why can’t we
have a sherry or a martini before our
meal, a Scotch with it for those who
don’t like wine, a liqueur afterwards?
And why, in those brassy nightclubs,
does one have to buy a whole bottle
of gin, whisky or brandy to while
away the minutes between the high-
kicks and blue jokes?
The usual answer is that it’s the
law and we are stuck with it. As you
can imagine, we took heart last week
when word got round that Justice
Minister Jack Mannix is planning a
number of amendments to the Liquor
Act when our State Parliament re-
sumes after its winter hibernation next
month. “I feel that Sydney, a major
city of the world, should have food
and service comparable with that of
any other international city,” Mr
Mannix declared. “If we are to attain
international standards we will have
to pull our socks up a bit. It seems
anomalous to me that some restau-
rants are permitted to serve wine with
meals, but no other liquors.”
Political tipsters began talking about
“glittering” American-style cocktail
bars in restaurants and nightclubs. One
paper published a picture of the bar
at New York’s Stork Club and said
Sydney would soon have its equal.
Speaking for the licensed restaurants,
Mr J. Gobes, president of the Catering
Trades’ Organisation, hailed the pro-
posed amendments as a great tourist
attraction for Sydney. This may be,
but Sydney seems a long way to come
for a Scotch on the rocks.
Details of the proposed amendments
aren’t all that heartening however.
First, there’ll be no open-air drinking,
no alfresco dining in Sydney’s glorious
summer nights; next, no wine by the
glass—licensed restaurants will still be
limited to serving “sealed” bottles of
wine and beer at the table. We’ll have
cocktail bars, but once you venture
from bar to table you’ll get only
what you get now none of this
sordid brandy or benedictine with
your coffee at the table.
★ ★ ★
One of the more recent and read-
able pieces of political literature in
this town has been recently retired
Senator John Armstrong’s letter in
support of his own eligibility as Lord
Mayor.
Mr Armstrong has been pushing
himself as an alternative to Alderman
Harry Jensen as Labor’s candidate
(and therefore certain victor) at De-
cember’s election for the Lord Mayor
of Sydney.
As part of his campaign, the ex-
Senator known to many as the
Golden Barman circularised every
Executive member with a letter of
self-praise, a letter containing the
word “I” no less than 19 times. “If a
great love for a great city is a qualifi-
cation —1 have it,” John Ignatius Arm-
strong wrote. “If the desire to serve
one of the loveliest cities of the world
is a qualification I have it,” he
continued.
HPhen, with a recollection of his
youth in his family’s Pyrmont pub,
Mr Armstrong added “The memory
of my earliest days spent within sound
of the Town Hall clock evokes in
me the strongest feelings of loyalty
and dedication to this beautiful city
—a city I am prepared to serve self-
lessly in the best tradition of this great
Labor Movement.”
It was heart-rending stuff, straight
from the soul. But Mr Armstrong and
his mates were not prepared to rest
on that statement of devotion. With
time running short before the pre-
selections on August 3, an anonymous
invitation went out to sundry citizens
of Sydney to attend a dinner this week
in honor of John Armstrong’s 24 years
in Federal Parliament.
A lovely gesture on the part of the
“anonymous” host. And wasn’t it nice
of him to invite all 45 members of
the ALP Executive as non-paying
guests. Just 16 days before the pre-
selection ballot! But—politics are hard.
Jensen is now a shorter-priced favorite
than ever.
PHILLIP


NEW ZEALAND
THE SOVIET SPIES
FROM MERVYN CULL IN AUCKLAND
V. S. ANDREEV
Fascinating?
TJefore their expulsion, the two Soviet
** spies in New Zealand, Vladislav
Sergevich Andreev and Nikolai Ivanovich
Shtykov, had seemed God-sent material
for a “Why I Like the Russians” article.
Tall and handsome, they combined ap-
parent openness with that “fascinating
depth of character” that makes Russians
such popular characters with second-rate
novelists.
What could be more natural than that
Andreev, a commercial counsellor at the
Soviet Legation in Wellington, should
travel widely throughout New Zealand
at a time when his country and the Domi-
nion were entering into new trading
agreements? He, after all, had negotiated
sales of New Zealand mutton to Russia.
What could be more natural, too, than
Shtykov's frequent trips from one part
of the country to another? Weren’t
Russian artists arriving in the country
with increasing frequency, for concerts
and other tours? Wasn’t it the job of
Shtykov, as a “cultural officer”, to
look after, for instance, the Moscow
State Theatre group, which has just been
performing here?
Andreev, the second-ranking official
at the Legation and the senior of the
two, was always affable; Shtykov, the
second secretary, went further than that.
He was a back-slapping, hail-fellow-well-
met type who made friends with every-
one. his slightly faulty command of Eng-
lish merely adding to his charm.
That was their job, of course —to make
friends; to make reliable friends; to
make friends who would give them what
they needed most —information.
Their technique was a mixture of ap-
parently open-hearted friendliness and
simple sincerity—together, with bribes, of
course—but they never left any doubt
in the listener’s mind as to Russian
strength and the importance of her role
in world affairs. They mixed well among
businessmen, journalists, scientists, emi-
gres, Members of Parliament and so on,
and they entertained lavishly. Shtykov
lived with his wife and young son in a
flat in the respectable Wellington suburb
of Kelburn; Andreev and his wife lived
in Glenmore Street, in the same area.
But in many respects Soviet espionage,
like Soviet propaganda, follows a predic-
table pattern. The activities of the
Russian “diplomatic spy” have been ex-
posed time and time again—first by
Kravchenko in Canada, and later by
Petrov in Australia. New Zealand’s is the
45th case of a Western country’s declar-
ing Soviet diplomats persona non grata.
It has long been known that the Soviet
Legation staff in Wellington was far too
big to comprise only diplomats, and staff
members who travelled much about the
country and mixed in influential circles
were natural quarry for the New Zea-
land security service to stalk. The chances
were 99 to one in favor of their making
the same mistakes here as they made in
many of the other countries.
Andreev and Shtykov worked on a
dossier of names of people who showed
signs of sympathies to the Communist
cause, and at the same time they tried
to add to their list.
The New Zealand Government has
imposed a strict security blackout on the
incidents which provided the “conclusive
and irrefutable proof” of the two spies’
perfidy—so strict a blackout that it was
the Soviet Legation itself which, several
hours before the announcement by the
Prime Minister, Mr Keith Holyoake, in
the House of Representatives, leaked the
news that the two men were being ex-
pelled.
It is known, however, that Andreev
and Shtykov increased the pressure on
their contacts when the United States
was supplying the New Zealand Govern-
ment with much secret information on
troop movements in Thailand. A New
Zealand journalist, whose aid they tried
to enlist, is believed to have posed as
a sympathiser with them while at the
same time informing the security service
of their activities.
In the words of the Soviet Charge
d’Affairs in Wellington, Mr N. V. Ivanov,
“The whole affair is a big mistake . . .
an unfortunate incident.”
Some New Zealanders are inclined to
agree. The spies seem to have got out
of it rather well. Would it have been
better not to have expelled them but
kept them on the job and systematically
fed them false information?
MENZIES' WOLLONGONG SPEECH
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
As I see it
¥>rime Minis-
ter Menzies
is between the
devil of British entry into the European
Common Market at the expense of Aus-
tralia’s interests and the deep blue sea
of wanting to restore local confidence in
Australia’s economic future.
With ECM possibly one of the most
important developments historically since
the 1917 Russian Revolution, Menzies
has to justify the strong stand he has
taken in Britain and the United States
against British entry into ECM on terms
disadvantageous to the Commonwealth
and Australia.
Yet Menzies’ Public Service advisers
are also drumming into his ear that the
reason for the comparatively sluggish
reaction of the Australian economy to
his February “booster” financial measures
is not any shortcoming in the measures
themselves but a wavering in public con-
fidence. Some of this wavering, say the
advisers, is due to the uncertainty of in-
vestors, producers and others about the
future facing Australia if Britain decides
to enter ECM on terms which Menzies
has described as unacceptable and damag-
ing to Australia.
This puts Menzies in a very awkward
position. He has to cry “poor mouth”
overseas to impress upon those conduc-
ting the ECM negotiations the inescap-
able necessity for the protection of Aus-
tralia’s traditional interests unless signi-
ficant sections of the Australian economy
are to suffer gravely. At the same time,
he has to paint locally the prospects for
Australia’s future, whatever the ECM
outcome, in colors sufficiently bright to
bring back into the Australian commun-
ity the sense of confidence in continuing
expansion that has contributed so heavily
to development, particularly in the private
sector of the economy, in the postwar
period.
Herein lies the explanation of Menzies’
Wollongong speech last week when he
said that Britain’s entry into ECM—and
presumably he was, in this context, con-
templating such entry on terms not par-
ticularly favorable to Australia—was not
a disaster but a challenge. In this speech
Menzies, who has two problems—one
international and the other local —was
concentrating on the local problem and
seeking to restore local confidence.
Which is the correct picture? The one
drawn by a long-faced and lugubrious


Menzies for the benefit of Britain, the
United States, and the negotiators for
the six European countries already in
ECM? Or the much rosier one drawn by
the optimistic, confident Menzies who
when addressing his own people expresses
the view that ECM —and Britain s pro-
posed entry into ECM —is not a disaster
but a challenge that Australia can take
in its expanding stride?
As I see it, there are elements of truth
in both pictures. Trade Minister McEwen
has repeatedly emphasised that Australia
has £160,000,000 worth of trade “at
risk” in the present ECM negotiations.
McEwen is not a man to stint himself in
a propaganda exercise. If he could justify
a higher figure, he would be using it.
He is obviously not using a higher figure
because he cannot raise his £160,000,000
figure without running the risk of some
well-informed character, like one of the
ECM negotiators, asking the embarrass-
ing and unanswerable question “How do
you arrive at this higher figure?” While
McEwen has reiterated this £160,000,000
as the maximum for the trade Australia
has “at risk”, nobody very authoritative
as far as I am aware has as yet publicly
had a guess at what could be the
minimum figure if Britain enters ECM
on terms disadvantageous to Australia.
There have been whispers round from the
men in government service who play
around with figures. I have heard estim-
ates of the amount of trade that would
actually be lost as distinct from “at risk”
ranging as low as ,£40,000,000.
If you split the difference between
this £40,000,000 figure which some
Ministers seem inclined to accept —and
McEwen’s £160,000,000, you get
£100,000,000.
£100,000,000 is an awful lot of trade.
But as Mr Cairns (Lab., Vic.) pointed out
in the House of Representatives on May
8, Australia had a decline in its exports
to Britain of £113,000,000 (1951/52),
£58,000,000 (’53/54), and £55,000,000
(1957/58) without a serious decline in
full employment, or any severe contrac-
tion in the rate at which the Australian
economy was expanding.
On this basis you can see why Menzies
can say with complete honesty that if
Britain goes into ECM (even on terms
disadvantageous to Australia) Australia
faces not a disaster but a challenge. But
Menzies is equally right when he tells
the ECM negotiators—as he has told
them—that failure to provide after 1970
a substitute for existing Commonw'ealth
preferences “behind which thousands of
people in communities in Australia live
and without which they would die”
would represent a significant national
disaster for Australia.
Australia might and probably would
be able to survive economically whatever
the terms on which Britain entered ECM
by responding to the challenge of this
economic setback just as it survived
successfully the economic setbacks of
1951-52, 1953/54 and 1957/58.
But whatever the nation as a whole
can survive there are in Australia whole
industries —canned and dried fruits, wine,
wheat and so on —that have built com-
munities and populated areas that with-
out the traditional access to the markets
of Great Britain around which they were
built would not be populated today. They
cannot exist without some substitute for
the Commonwealth preferences that gave
them birth and behind which they
developed.
The entry of Britain into ECM on
terms that leave these industries out of
consideration raises for Australia social
problems that possibly outrank the eco-
nomic ones in long-term importance,
This is the reason why Menzies today
speaks with two voices, one when he
addresses the ECM negotiators, the
other when he talks to Australian
manufacturers, investors and potential
exporters.
ABORIGINES
VOTERS, BUT NOT CITIZENS
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
Alp Federal secretary Joe Chamber-
lain raised a thorny question indeed
when he castigated the Commonwealth
for keeping Australian aborigines out of
the census figures after it had granted
them the right to vote.
After consultation with Opposition
Leader Calwell, he issued a statement
on aboriginal voting rights which could
give more ammunition to those nations
now pressing Australia to speed up the
self-government programme in New
Guinea. He reminded the government
that section 127 excluded aborigines
from the census and that this provision
now reads like a racial insult.
Further, he suggested that if aborigines
had been admitted to the census neither
WA nor Queensland would have lost any
seats in the recent redistribution.
In urging the government to hold a
referendum for the repeal of section 127
and pledging the Labor Party’s support
for its repeal, Mr Chamberlain was ob-
viously acting as the mouthpiece for
Fremantle MHR Kim Beazley ? a mem-
ber of the Federal members’ committee
which successfully recommended the
application of the Federal vote to all
aborigines. Mr Beazley has been a con-
sistent advocate of votes for aborigines,
and dropped the biggest bombshell dur-
ing the committee’s hearing when he
suggested that West Australian law
might prevent aborigines without citi-
zenship from assuming their positions as
natural-born subjects of the Queen.
Though the WA Government has said
it will introduce voting rights in line
with the Commonwealth Bill, it has not
promised full citizenship.
Though both Mr Chamberlain and
Mr Beazley have steered well away from
politics in their statements on voting
rights for aborigines, they cannot be
unaware M its implications. The present
voluntary basis of voting rights probably
means that natives will not claim the
privilege as a body for some time. Many
now regard application for citizenship as
a white man’s trick to make them apply
for something which is their birthright,
and they may in their ignorance think
that applying for voting rights amounts
to the same thing. If they did decide to
vote en masse, they would swell the
electorates of Kalgoorlie, Moore and
Canning in WA by several thousand
votes each. If the political beliefs of their
known spokesmen are any indication,
they would be most likely to vote Labor.
However, their votes could make little
difference to the political alignment of
these seats. They might help ALP mem-
ber F. W. Collard to a bigger majority
in Kalgoorlie. In Moore and Canning
they might put the ALP ahead on the
primary vote, but preference distribu-
tion would settle the issue for either the
Liberal or Country Party.
What they might do is to redress an-
other imbalance in the WA redistribu-
tion pointed out by Mr Chamberlain.
The commissioners set city electorates
on a much higher population basis than
country seats, and at the same time took
a big slice out of some metropolitan
seats to make up their country popula-
tion totals. Mr Chamberlain said this
approach was wrong and that the city
seats, already close to the maximum
population figures at the beginning of
the next census period, would be a good
way above them by the time the next
census was taken. What Mr C hamberlain
seems to have overlooked is that if
aboriginal voters are enrolled, they must
add to the total of the country electorates
even if they do not count in the census.
The whole position of aboriginal
voters who exist on individual rolls but
do not count when it comes to determin-
ing the number of seats in each State
makes a profound anomaly. But that is
nothing to the anomalies which will exist
in WA if the government gives its abor-
igines a vote in the State elections, but
does not give them citizenship.


WHEN a government is firmly entrenched, its Budget is largely based on
economic considerations. Politicians can afford an almost Olympian detach-
ment and public servants and economic advisers tend to have the larger share
of responsibility. But when a government has only a precarious hold upon the
Treasury benches, the political context in which the Budget is framed is as
important as the economic considerations.
The Menzies Federal Government is
operating within a peculiar political con-
text. In December last it came within
a hairbreadth of losing control of the
Federal Parliament which it had pre-
viously ruled with a record House of
Representatives majority of 32. Its poli-
tical prospects seem to have improved
since its December setback. This im-
provement came about because Prime
Minister Menzies, a vastly experienced
political warhorse and a realist, immedi-
ately the election results were announced
recognised that the weakness in the em-
ployment situation was responsible for
his electoral losses. Once he had made
that judgment, he did not so much
ignore the economic factors then existing
as re-adjust them to meet his political
needs. He took a series of steps that
reversed the financial and economic
measures which in late 1960 his Govern-
ment had adopted—with near disastrous
results from its viewpoint.
These politically dictated steps taken in
February this year enabled Menzies to
create a more favorable political climate
for himself and his government. Instead
of constantly increasing, the figure of
those registered for employment started
to decline. It was a hump Menzies had
to cross before any other political
achievement—such as his struggle for the
protection of Australian interests if
Britain enters the European Common
Market—could receive the recognition
that was merited.
Due to the political context in which
the present Budget is being shaped, there
will be more men than usual behind the
Budget. The improvement in the
Menzies Government's political stock is
still marginal. All Menzies' other political
gains—ECM included could go for
nought if there was a sour downturn in
the employment position. So all kinds of
characters from Liberal Party machine
officials to producers’ organisations with
a vested interest in the preservation of
a non-Labor government are trying to
have a share in or an influence on the
Budget now in course of preparation.
These are additional to the ANU econo-
mists and political scientists with an itch
for interference who use the forums of
Canberra luncheon and dinner tables and
the freedom of selected bars in Canberra
hotels and clubs to get their viewpoints
across to Ministers and key public ser-
vants who draw up the recommendations
for Cabinet’s consideration.
4 lready the lines of battle are being
drawn up. There will be all kinds of
skirmishes on detail. But the main battle
will be fought on a quite simple issue.
This issue, inescapable in a country like
Australia highly sensitive politically to
unemployment, is whether or not enough
has been done and is being done to
provide productive job opportunities for
a growing population.
Treasury will be the main force operat-
ing. It has to be. It is the Common-
wealth Department with the prime
responsibility for preparing the Budget.
Its personnel prepare the analyses of
trends. They assess the balance of pay-
ments position and loan market prospects.
They examine the volume of capital in-
flow and estimate whether the inflow will
diminish or expand. They pass judgment
on the financial needs of those Common-
wealth Departments which are “spend-
ing" departments, on whether the private
sector of the economy requires a boost
or a dampening down application, and a
hundred and one other things that affect
the state of the economy. Even more
importantly, Treasury’s top officials
provide advice on what should be the
Government’s broad approach to the
Budget and what type of handling the
nation’s finances require to produce the
best possible results in the coming year.
It is not difficult to forecast at this
stage what attitude Treasury will take.
It wants a “stand pat” Budget. It con-
siders that the Government's remedial
measures of February last, ordered hv
Menzies in the light of his Decen.ber
electoral setbacks, have not yet made
their full impact. When the economy
has felt their full impact, the Treasury
view is that everything in the Australian
employment garden will be lovely Un-
employment will continue to decline
without further major action. Despite
the current relative healthiness of over-
seas balances —now being used as an
argument justifying a further be for
the general economy—Treasury is haunt-
ed by a morbid expectation of a deteri-
oration on this front. It is very sensitive
to the balance of payments situation
which seems to loom larger in its think-
ing than the employment position.
Personal factors may enter into this.
At the head of the Treasury is Sir
Roland Wilson, diminutive, a brilliant,
rather withdrawn and isolated man, with
a razor sharp mind, fearless and able to
intimidate many of his fellow public


servants, despite the smallness of his
physical stature, by his bluntness and
the bite of his vitriol-tipped tongue.
Wilson has no tolerance for fools, and
either a high degree of intellectual ar-
rogance or an odd, disconcerting and in-
timidatory sense of humor.
Wilson is credited with having told
two officials from the National Develop-
ment Department who interviewed him
on one occasion to obtain his official
views on a complex economic project
they were supporting: “Any economic
theory you two have evolved I thought
of years ago and either rejected or
published”. Whether this was intended as
sardonic humor or meant seriously is still
puzzling at least one of the officials who
participated in that interview. Whatever
it was it achieved the objective at which
Wilson was probably aiming. Both of-
ficials reached for their hats and departed.
There was no point in staying after that.
As the anecdote shows, he is a man with
a profound respect for his own judg-
ment.
A “stand pat” Budget will to some
extent justify both the Treasury and
Wilson tor the prestige setbacks that
followed the Government’s 1960 finan-
cial measures and the subsequent de-
velopment of sufficient unemployment to
bring the Menzies Government just over
twelve months later to within a two-seat
margin ot defeat. Responsibility for
some ot the more unpopular aspects of
the 1960 measures may lie with other
Departments. But the overall concept of
the need tor such measures was
Treasury’s. Treasurer Harold Holt is
almost certainly reflecting Wilson’s and
Treasury's view when instead of cutting
his losses and trusting that the 1960
decisions to have a credit squeeze, to in-
crease heavily the sales tax cn motor
vehicles and to take the other “curative”
measures that had to be reversed or
wiped out in February will fade from
public memory, he keeps trying to justify
them. It is as though he is still convinced
he was not wrong, even though events
proved him so. Keeping the forthcoming
Budget as close as is politically possible
to the concepts that produced the 1960
financial measures will, if the Budget
works out passably satisfactorily, be a
balm for battered egos. In the light of
what happened afterwards, the authors
of the 1960 economic policies can hardly
claim that they were right in insisting
upon such policies. But they want to be
in a position to claim that while they
were not right in 1960 at least they were
not COMPLETELY wrong.
But whatever the final shape of the
forthcoming Budget, whether “stand pat”
on expansionist, Wilson will have the
largest say in it of any individual outside
the Cabinet room. If Cabinet decides to
accept more expansionist plans in place
of Treasury’s “stand pat” recommenda-
tions it will still be Wilson and his senior
officers who will work out the expansion-
ist details.
Among these senior officers are three
figures who will play a role only subor-
dinate to Wilson’s in importance. They
are:
• Dick Randall, another short statured
man, like Wilson not much over five
feet tall, an earthy, shrewd man who once
worked in shearing sheds and was
always close to Arty Fadden when
Fadden was Treasurer. As assistant secre-
tary to Wilson, Randall, a loyal hard-
working lieutenant, has allowed his per-
sonality to be obscured by that of the
more enigmatical, aloof and coldly
brilliant Wilson. But Randall is still a
power in the land. The legend in the
Public Service is that when Wilson is
prepared to listen to promptings other
than those provided by himself it is those
of Randall that he heeds.
• Maurie O’Donnell, also an assistant
secretary to Wilson, is another who will
have a big finger in the Budget pie-
making. A quiet, unassuming Public
Servant, who accompanied Menzies to
London recently as the Prime Minister’s
Treasury adviser during his ECM ex-
pedition, O’Donnell advises an Technical
aspects of the Budget.
9 Lin Hewitt, yet another Treasury as-
sistant-secretary, is Wilson’s “No" man.
Trained in a hard school —he was Sir
Douglas Copland's personal offsider
when Copland was wartime Pricefixing
Commissioner —Hewitt is a pruner.
When the “spending” departments ask,
as they invariably do, for more spending
money than they expect to get and than
Wilson, as guardian of the public purse-
strings, is prepared to <igree to them
getting, it is generally Hewitt who on
Wilson’s behalf says “No”. He indicates
the figure at which Treasury is prepared
to look. They throw up their hands in
horror, claiming Hewitt is going to ruin
them and their essential programmes.
They appeal to Wilson. Tradition is
that Wilson grins at them, agrees that
Hewitt seems to get a delight out of
saying “No”, says “No” himself, and
waits until they return, chastened, from
a heavy Hewitt-supervised pruning of
their expenditure before bestowing on
it the imprimatur of his powerful
endorsement.
Formerly when Sir Arthur Fadden was
Treasurer Dr H. C. (“Nugget”) Coombs,
Governor of the Reserve Bank of Aus-
tralia, whose signature appears on the
left side of Australian bank notes while
Wilson’s appears on the right (a juxta-
position said by some politicians to be
highly appropriate), would lave exer-
cised an influence on Budget-making
nearly as great as Wilson’s. But my im-
pression is that for some reason, possibly
the retirement of Sir Arthur Fadden from
the Treasury and Federal Titles, the in-
fluence of Coombs, also short statured,
not much over five feet tall, and a one-
time Perth wharf-lumper, has waned.
While Treasury insists that everything in
the employment garden is lovely—or will
be if a broadly “stand pat” budget is ap-
proved—you keep hearing whispers
reported to emanate from Central Bank
officials. They are disturbed, say the
whispers, about the relative sluggishness
with which the economy has reacted to
the February recovery measures and the
fact that overdraft limits were taken
up only slowly after the removal
of credit restrictions. They want the
economy, particularly the private sec-
tion, given a further boost. But the
whispers never appear to reach the stage
of official recognition to the extent they
would have in the days when Fadden was
Treasurer and Coombs’ influence seemed
greater. They are ghostly, disembodied
rustles off stage and seemingly remote
from the area in which the action of the
play is taking place.
"Vet Coombs is as übiquitous as ever.
You meet him emerging from the of-
fices of men like Menzies and Holt—men
who will have the final say on the shape
of the Budget. His influence may have
waned but he still has some, as he must
have because of the nature of his job
which involves supervision of and con-
tinuous association with the Australian
banking system. But where once his in-
fluence appeared almost equal to that
of Wilson it now seems much inferior.
Outside Treasury and the institutions
such as the Commonwealth and Reserve
Banks which have -.n association with
Treasury, Commonwealth Departments
divide into two classes the Depart-
ments concerned with the broad Budget
approach and the “spending” Depart-
ments. The “spending” Departments have
only a limited interest. They are con-
cerned with getting more money for their
clients. Army will try to get more money
for Army projects. Social Services will
try to get more money for the pensioners
it services. Territories will try to get
larger amounts to be spent in the
Northern Territory, Papua and New
Guinea. And so on. Some of them will
take an interest in some special aspect of
the overall approach. But by and large
they will concentrate upon their special
requirements and needs.


The Departments which take a wider
approach are Prime Minister’s, Trade,
Labor, and, to a lesser extent, National
Development. Broadly, the system is that
Treasury puts in the main papers, out-
lining what should be the overall Budget
approach, and Prime Minister’s, Trade,
Labor and National Development furnish
their respective ministers their criticisms
on such papers. But these Departments
do the main papers on their special in-
terests and on these papers Treasury
provides the criticism. For example,
Trade will analyse the commodity out-
look for the coming year, Labor will deal
with employment prospects, and National
Development will outline its thoughts
on what should be the development
programme. Treasury then passes its
judgment on these papers, while Prime
Minister’s also exercises a supervisory
role.
Tn past years, Trade has acted as an
offset to the Treasury viewpoint.
Though nominally concerned only with
trade problems, Trade was administered
by the Deputy Prime Minister, John
McEwen, one of the most powerful
ministers in the Cabinet, and had as its
permanent head Sir John Crawford,
whose views on the general domestic
economic situation and the way it should
be handled were as respected as those
he proffered on the narrower subject of
trade prospects.
But Crawford has now retired to the
Australian National University and,
though replaced as Permanent Head of
the Trade Department by another force-
ful personality in the shape of Dr Allan
Westerman, Trade is of necessity pre-
occupied with the European Common
Market negotiations in which it carries
the prime responsibility for safeguarding
Australia's interests. Westerman has
been abroad for months, commuting
tirelessly between Brussels, London and
New York to keep abreast of ECM
developments on all three fronts. Even
if he gets back for the Budget discussions
—there is a suggestion he might—he
cannot be as au fait with the domestic
economic situation as he would be nor-
mally and consequently any views, he
advances must be tentative alongside
Wilson’s positiveness.
Departmentally, this leaves Labor
headed by another short statured man—
Harry Bland—to provide a viewpoint
alternative to that advanced by Treasury.
Bland is a son of the former Liberal
member for Warringah (Professor Ar-
mand Bland). He is a very discreet man
who has a close personal association with
Harold Holt who was his ministerial boss
for years in the Labor Department.
Though Bland’s personal views are not
known, there are signs that the Labor
Department is concerned by the slowness
with which the unemployment figures are
coming down. While the decline is satis-
factory from a short-term viewpoint,
school leavers at the end of this year will
again go on to the labor market. The
Labor Department does not want to be
again left holding Treasury’s bag as it
was in December and January of this
year when the 1960 economic measures,
Treasury sponsored, produced a short-
age of job opportunities for youngsters.
Whether Bland, who as yet lacks Wilson’s
stature in the inner circle of government
advisers, will take on Wilson and Holt,
his former ministerial chief, full-blood-
edly, remains to be seen. But my impres-
sion is that Bland’s present Ministerial
chief, William McMahon, will.
Aside from his personal attachment to
the principle of full employment, Mc-
Mahon seems to have taken over the
view that Holt once had but appears over
recent years to have forgotten (this
forgetfulness is, interestingly, concurrent
with the decline in Holt's political popu-
larity and prospects) that the maintenance
of full employment is the key to the
retention of political power in Australia.
Menzies of course will be the deciding
factor in the shaping of the Budget.
Whichever side of the fence he comes
down on —the “stand pat" or the expan-
sionist side —will decide what type of a
Budget it will be, because, in the present
context, the decision on what type of a
Budget it should be is as important
politically as it is economically.
It is from the pre-eminence of its
Ministerial head that the Prime Minister's
Department draws its strength. Prime
Minister's has a supervisory role even
in economic matters and some time ago
established a kind of economic secre-
tariat within the Department under Dr
Wilf Salter, a former Duntroon cadet who
turned to a diversity of occupations, in-
cluding goldmining, before becoming an
ANU academician and later a govern-
ment economic adviser. On this occasion
Salter will not be available as a com-
mentator for Prime Minister's upon
Treasury recommendations. He has ac-
cepted an appointment in Pakistan to
advise the government of that country
on economic matters.
But this still leaves Prime Minister's
with an influence. John Bunting, the
permanent Head of Prime Minister’s, is
a quietly spoken, unobtrusive public
servant who accompanied Menzies on his
recent trip abroad. Contrary to legend
Menzies is a man who listens to advice
when he thinks it comes from a sound
source, and he obviously views Bunting
as a sound source. Bunting would have
a considerable influence on the Budget,
even if it is merely to reinforce by his
advice a view that the Prime Minister
has already formed.
National Development will also play
a part, even though this part will to some
extent be because of the political role
filled by its ministerial head, Senator
William Spooner. Spooner is the liaison
between the Menzies Government and
the Liberal Party machine in NSW.
While Spooner is mainly concerned with
the broad political factors rather than
the broad economic factors in his liaison
aspect, he submits the suggestions that
come to him from within the Liberal
machine to the critical examination of
his department. This gives the Depart-
ment and its head Harold Raggett an
indirect influence at the Cabinet table
beyond the Department’s narrower in-
terests.
A s well as these formal influences,
there are a whole network of forces
working from outside upon the Budget.
There is a constant association among
Departmental heads of a non-formal
character, and they interact upon each
other. For example, Fred Wheeler,
Chairman of the Commonwealth Public
Service Board, is a former economic
adviser in the Treasury. While he has no
direct responsibility nowadays for econo-
mic policy, he has views. He cannot help
having them with his background. He
may express them in private conversa-
tions with a fellow Departmental head.
They may impress the fellow Depart-
mental head who perhaps had a respect
for Wheeler's views when Wheeler was
one of the Treasury’s hierarchy. They
get recognition in some paper that the
Departmental head writes for Cabinet
consideration and they find their way
into the Cabinet room.
Then there are the University econo-
mists thicker in Canberra, either as per-
manent residents or visitors, than pre-
myxomatosis rabbits. Some of these
economists like Trevor Swan have been
in Treasury or Public Service (Swan was
in the running to get the Treasury
Secretaryship that Wilson now holds).
Heinz Arndt, also of ANU, has been
associated in an academic sense with
government finance for years and has
written learned works on aspects of
government economic policies.
The non-government economists meet
the government economic advisers at
cocktail parties and over dinner and
luncheon tables or in pub bars if they
belong to a younger group. The non-
government economists are interested in
the same problems as the government
economists. They form part of an inner
circle of initiated. They are friends. They
talk the same language and daily examine
the same problems. They all have ideas
and no inhibitions about airing them be-
cause as academicians they carry no
responsibilities. They undoubtedly exer-
cise some influence upon the govern-
ment’s advisers who in turn influence
the Cabinet.


<■( COW*
N
%
z
THE STATE
ELECTRIC
CO H N I S $ lON
Of AUCENSLANO
O AN
More power for
the North will speed
Australia’s export effort!
Where do you find some of Australia’s richest'
resources? Queensland! And Queensland today
is undertaking a mighty effort to convert these
riches to the national good..
A huge, £170,000,000, ten-year power expan-
sion programme is going ahead, right on
schedule, to support and develop every phase of
Queensland’s production.
As part of this programme, Queensland’s
greatest-ever semi-Governmental Authority
Loan is now open for subscription.
There is place for you in this all-important
task —as an investor! Substantial returns and
perfect security are additional benefits for those
who support the £3,065,000 Queensland State
Electricity Loan. Make your decision now,
invest all you can!
AUSTRALIA’S HIGHEST GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED INTEREST RATE I
£s*7*6 %>
TERMS: □ 7, 10, OR 20 YEARS □ INTEREST: PAYABLE
HALF-YEARLY, FREE OF EXCHANGE □ DEPOSIT: 10%.
BALANCE PAYABLE BY 30/11/1962 □ NEGOTIABILITY:
SECURITIES WILL BE LISTED ON THE STOCK EXCHANGE
□ SECURITY: THE LOAN IS AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE
INVESTMENT.
apply now through: your Bank; your Stock-
broker; or direct to The State Electricity Commis-
sion of Queensland, 447 Gregory Terrace, Brisbane.
i
CONVERSIONS
Loan No 16 (£5.7.6%) matures 1/8/1962
Loan No. 3 (£4.15.0%) matures I/I 1/1962
Loan No. 2 (£4.10.0%) matures 1/12/1962
Investors in these Loans are invited to convert
their securities to Loan No. 29 which offers
Australia’s highest rate for this class of investment
£5.7.6%.
Underwritten bp
Jan Potter & Co.


OUT AND ABOUT
THERE'S A LARGE HOTEL...
Inside the Chevron morale is high and fighting spirit strong
By PATRICIA ROLFE
To step through the glass doors of
the Chevron Hilton Hotel, Sydney,
these days is like infiltrating a
beleaguered city. The shareholders
brandishing their unsought-after scrip
are storming the walls, debenture-
holders are battling for their interest
payments, finance companies are bring-
ing up their big guns, the official re-
ceiver may be following you up the
marble stairs.
But inside everything and everyone is
frozen into the accustomed attitudes and
actions of a luxury hotel. Idle young
men are still glued to the high stools
of the Club bar, the Associated Mil-
liners of Australia fill the ballroom with
several hundred spring hats and several
hundred chattering milliners, Americans
with soft voices and soft footsteps move
about the foyer. Women troop in for the
15s. 6d. Wednesday fashion luncheon at
the Silver Spade.
If a visit to the Chevron Hilton is a
visit to a beleaguered city, it is hearten-
ing to mention in this despatch that the
morale of the inhabitants is high and
their fighting spirit strong.
The Chevron has for the past decade
been the most fascinating hunk of real
estate in Sydney, although the Opera
House is currently making a bid for that
distinction. Most of the publicity about
the Chevron has in recent months been
concentrated in the financial columns.
Shareholder and debenture-holder meet-
ings on July 16 and 23 may finally de-
cide the hotel’s fate, but as far as the
staff is concerned, the financial position
of the hotel is now so involved that on
a day-to-day basis it is ignored.
Through all the vicissitudes of the
hotel the staff has grown more loyal and
devoted. In fact, the story of how the
staff has reacted to their trials is what
journalists (generally only in their more
cynical moments) call a warm, human
story. If it is a warm, human story, it is
also a surprising one; in spite of the
hotel’s somewhat brassy appearance, its
poor lift service, its insolvent state, the
staff loves it.
“It is rather like a backward child,”
a staff member said, choosing perhaps
not the most apt simile for a £ 6-million
hotel, flanked by an enormous hole in
the ground in which seem to be buried
the hopes of the building’s completion.
“You want so much for it to do well,
because it starts off so badly. We've
wanted the hotel to do well, because
we feel everything went against it and
still goes against it.”
The stiffening in the face of adversity
began in the early days. “We began with
a postponed opening, June, 1960, and
went on to a premature opening on Sep-
tember 16, the same year,” a member
of the hotel management staff said.
“When we postponed the opening every-
one said, they’ll never get the place
open. Then when we planned to open
in September there were bets all up-
and-down Macleay Street that we would
never make it on time.
“None of us will ever forget the few
days before the official opening. A
director of Stanhill, with a piece of
sacking across his waist, swept up the
main foyer. The most pathetic sight was
the workman who had got the contract
to gild the lift-doors. The lifts were con-
tinually in use, taking furniture to higher
floors and even taking bricks and build-
ing materials higher still to the storeys
which were incomplete. Every time the
lift reached the ground floor the little
man had to switch off his spray gun.
Finally, he grew exasperated beyond
measure and just kept going when the
lift doors opened, so that a gilded car-
penter stepped into the foyer.
“For weeks after we opened there were
no service lifts. Waiters had to fight their
way up the back stairs to maintain room
service, jostling for space with workmen
with building materials, and climbing
sometimes from the fourth to the 12th
floor. No wonder guests complained that
service was slow, and food, when it ar-
rived, cold.”
The Chevron Hilton had barely rallied
from the confusion of the official open-
ing when the American-owned Hilton
organisation, in March, 1961, pulled out.
Almost simultaneously came the an-
nouncement that work had stopped on
what was to have been stage two, or the
main building, of the hotel.
The representative jf Hilton Interna-
tional, Mr Alexander Maclennan, left
Australia. The Chevron was left only
with a reciprocal booking arrangement
and an international credit link with
the Hilton chain.
Although the Chevron Hilton had been
in the early stages talked of as an Ameri-
can-style hotel which would bring to
Australia American tourists and kill for-
ever the local reputation for poor hotels,
some members of the staff felt and still
feel that the American style is not the
Australian style.
“The Hilton plan was rigid,” the staff
member said. “The Chevron was ex-
pected to fit it. The plan could not be
revised to suit local conditions. For in-
stance, we could never get it through to
Mr Maclennan that beer was im-
portant. There is still a whole sheaf of
correspondence on the importance of
iced water —iced water on every table,
a glass of iced water to a customer at
a bar before his drink. We couldn’t
make him understand an Australian
wants iced beer, not iced water. And
although we are a luxury hotel, our
beer trade is important. It is very im-
portant if we are to make money. Our
Quarterdeck bar is hidden from the
street and although people in Macleay
Street have complained about guests
hanging washing from the windows of
the hotel and about the lack of park-
ing because of the hotel, they have never
complained about our public bar.”
Hardly had the hotel began to pick
up again after the Hilton withdrawal
when began the series of financial shocks
which culminated in the meetings of July
16 and 23.
In May when the battle of debenture
holders for overdue interest began mem-
bers of the management staff of the
hotel undertook to visit debenture


holders in their home district, explain-
ing to them the prospects of the hotel
and so on. However, this was the last
excursion of the staff into the financial
side of the hotel.
“Most of us feel now it is in the realms
of pure finance,” the staff member said,
“and that nothing we can do will in-
fluence the issue. We simply want to
keep the hotel as a going concern, so
that when the outcome is known there
will be something left for someone. We
are concerned with making as much as
we can so that there will be something
for someone.” •
Within the past few months a rigid
economy campaign has been undertaken
at the hotel. “Essential maintenance is
carried out,” the staff member said, “but
nothing is being spent on the embellish-
ment of the hotel. However, many mem-
bers of the staff have exercised all their
ingenuity to save money in small ways.”
Although before the Chevron Hilton
was built the cries were loud and long
that luxury hotels were needed in Aus-
tralia, the hotel would not last long if
it relied on local patronage. At present
55 per cent, of the traffic is American,
about 12 per cent, from the United
Kingdom, and only a very small propor-
tion comes from interstate or country
districts. However, the hotel has aver-
aged a high percentage of occupancy—
between 85 and 90 per cent. This figure
is forced up by the fact that at first
only three floors were open, but this
month and next (normally reckoned quiet
months because American businessmen
are on holidays) bookings are 100 per
cent.
Most interstate and country visitors
to Sydney would already have a hotel
at which they stay and their loyalty is
not easily shifted. Also, more and more
large firms keep flats or home unit, for
their visiting people, by-passing hotels
altogether. More country people, too,
now buy home units in Sydney instead
of regularly outlaying for hotels and flats
for their visits here.
Chevron Hilton tariff is <£s 10s. a day
and a suite, such as the Colonial which
was occupied by Frank Sinatra, is £33 a
day. The Colonial can accommodate six
and on that basis is not very expensive.
However, not many people travel with
a retinue, as Mr. Sinatra does.
The banqueting and restaurant sec-
tions of the hotel seem to be getting
good local patronage, although the hotel
staff say that there is still in the
public mind an idea that a hotel which
cost £ 6-million must charge like the
light brigade. At the Golden Grill you
can have dinner at about £2 10s. a
head and spend the evening dancing to
two bands.
The Chevron in its bars has all prices.
When a large conference is being held
at the hotel, notes of the bar facilities
and the price list in each are available
to those at the conference. The Quarter-
deck charges the the same as any pub in
Sydney, and prices go up to the “luxury”
level of the Paradise.
The Chevron seems to have drained
off a good proportion of visiting celeb-
rities from older hotels. Vivien Leigh,
Margot Fonteyn, Raymond Burr, Dor-
othy Dandridge, Jack Paar, the Earl
of Dudley and the Duchess of West-
minster have stayed there.
The Chevron Hilton has quickly
established as a conference hotel, and
during the lATA conference, the chair-
man of the association, Sir William
Hildred, mentioned the “friendly atmo-
sphere” of the hotel in his address. He
also later spoke of the “eccentricities”
of the lift service. “It is always an adven-
ture,” Sir William said. “Would the lift
ever come? Would it come to your floor
and then shoot past it? Would it stop
at your floor and then you would be
unable to get in because it was already
full? Then if you did get in, would the
lift shoot past the ground floor to the
basement? It all added spice to our stay
at the Chevron.”
The lifts have always been one of the
hotel’s trials. There are only two be-
cause the main bank of lifts were to be
in stage two, still a hole in the ground.
“It is no use pretending that there is
nothing wrong; that people have to wait
for lifts in other buildings,” the staff
member said. “We simply point out our
difficulty and when there are conferences
at the ballroom on the second floor, we
clearly signpost the stairways. It is all we
can do.”
DRINKING IN NEW GUINEA
Teaching Melanesians to ”handle their liquor like gentlemen"
By BOGOBADA
From the beginning of white settle-
ment in Papua-New Guinea, the
drinking of alcoholic liquor has
been the special privilege of its expatriate
residents. In keeping with the new order
to abolish discriminatory legislation, the
prohibition of native drinking will almost
certainly soon be relaxed.
Arguments both for and against have
been debated at great length but no
amount of opposition can overcome any
associated taints of racial discrimination.
Despite possible social consequences of
legal access to intoxicants by natives,
this era of anti-colonialism decrees that
they must be given the same chance to
drink as whites.
Recommendations to this end are now
before the Trusteeship Council of the
United Nations and are also under
review by a commission appointed by the
Administration of the Territory of
Papua-New Guinea.
Those in opposition to unrestricted
access to alcohol may be grouped into
two classes. Stronger numerically but of
less consequence are those whose objec-
tions have a racial bias. They foresee
invasions on their sacred club life and
other preserves of white supremacy.
Their numbers come from the “befores”,
the “old hands” who find adaptation to
changed values difficult. Few have the
courage of their convictions in public
and their arguments are backed up with
pseudo-scientific mumbo jumbo.
More likely to influence official think-
ing, but not the ultimate outcome of the
issue, are the Christian Missions oper-
ating in Papua-New Guinea. Broadly
speaking, the Protestant denominations
are in staunch opposition, not only to
native drinking, but to alcohol. They
regard it as a social evil and feel that an
abstaining white population would be
an excellent example for the natives.
The views of the Anglican Mission
are not known. A recent enquiry to the
secretary of the Australian Board of
Missions in Sydney drew a blank because
of his refusal to discuss the matter.
Apparently my use of the term “native”
instead of Papuan was of more concern
than the consequences of legal access to
drink.
Catholic orders do not oppose native
drinking as a whole but feel that it
should be gauged according to the
individual’s ability to handle liquor.
They would probably agree to some
form of controlled sale.
From my personal experience, the
Territory of Papua-New Guinea is a
tippler’s paradise. Behavior, classed as
anti-social in mainland suburbia is
shrugged off in the less conventional
island atmosphere. Not only is immod-
erate drinking tolerated, it is actively
encouraged by social pressures.
As in Australia, alcoholism has pene-
trated all levels of Papua-New Guinea
society. It can be found from the higher
official positions of the administration
down to the “combos” (whites living
with native women) of dubious occupa-
*BOGOBADA (“Big Guts”) was for 10
years a District Officer in Papua/New
Guinea.


tion. Yet the main objection raised by
those opposing native drinking is that
Melanesians are not yet sufficiently
civilised to “handle their liquor like
gentlemen.”
This is indeed a peculiar line of
reasoning. It is doubtful if the natives
as a whole regard the whites as merely
social drinkers. The spectacle of the
besotted “masta” or “taubada” being
assisted to bed by the house boy is not
exactly rare. A socially accepted pattern
of boozy behavior has been set by the
very whites who suggest that they alone
can handle their liquor.
In the larger town areas native
alcoholism already exists and shows a
pattern of increase over the past few
years. The peddling of sly grog
flourishes in spite of efforts by the police
to stamp it out. There is always some
wily trader or individual willing to risk
the severe penalties, as the rewards are
lucrative.
Chinese traders are the main source
of supply in the Trust Territory. Lest
this be misconstrued as a slander on
the Chinese residents generally, it is
pointed out that far more Chinese are
engaged in retail trade than Europeans
and therefore more are caught. In both
Papua and New Guinea, many town
residents of mixed racial origin have
permits to drink although they live after
the manner of natives. For personal
profit or through the pressures of kin-
ship obligations, some supply natives
with liquor who have no such per-
mission.
Many “poor whites” on the fringes of
both native and European society are
not above sharing and selling their liquor
with natives. Their liaisons with native
women, legal and otherwise, often make
them a ready source of supply for their
consorts’ relatives.
No Traditional Alcohol
With the exception of a form of palm
toddy produced in the Western District
of Papua, there is no traditional form
of alcohol consumed by natives. As a
legacy of Japanese occupation in New
Ireland the arts of fermentation and
distilling have been learned. Moon-
shine products of secret stills are peddled
and it is safe to predict that this traffic
will rapidly increase.
For natives who can afford the real
stuff, overproof rum is the most popular
drink. Traders ask as much as £.3 per
bottle and probably it is adulterated.
The less affluent can be satisfied with
methylated spirits sold by the un-
scrupulous at 10/- per bottle. Due to
the low native income, few are in a
position regularly to buy quality liquor,
consequentlv the proportion of metho
drinkers is high.
Because of its illegality, native drink-
ing is highly clandestine and an accurate
picture is difficult to obtain by the
European observer. Nevertheless, I have
known several natives addicted to
alcohol over a number of years. One was
a senior native clerk in his middle
forties on an outstation who had drunk
consistently most of his adult life. He
acquired a taste from surreptitious hand-
outs from a European of low moral
character in return for his services as
go-between procuring girls. Although he
had been convicted and fined for drink-
ing on several occasions he had never
lost his job. He was a capable clerk and
a replacement would have been difficult.
In other circumstances he would have
been sacked. He was often absent from
work sick and he had been known to
suffer the DTs. Methylated spirits was
his drink generally.
A native trawler-master was intro-
duced to alcohol in the form of palm-
toddy in his home village. He graduated
to beer and rum along with others from
his district who were residing in Port
Moresby, while still a young man. After
being appointed master he often
broached cargoes to steal alcohol and had
ready access to methylated spirit in the
ship’s stores. After having been sacked
successively from various shipping com-
panies for unreliability he became a
town drifter in Moresby, continually in
trouble with the police.
A small-time building contractor in
Port Moresby said that troops during the
war introduced him to drink although it
was common practice in his village. His
people are notorious for offering their
women to Europeans in return for
alcohol. He had never been in any
serious trouble but was often incapable
of working and his contracting business
suffered.
Observations show that the behavior
of natives affected by drink follows a
similar general pattern. They are often
aggressively violent and require more
than one man to bring them under
restraint. In the presence of Europeans,
anti-white resentments are voiced and
illustrated with references to past in-
justices suffered at their hands. Yet
these same men might normally be easy-
going and trusted employees apparently
quite content with their lot.
Suggestions have been made that the
sale of beer of low alcoholic content
be permitted for consumption only on
licensed premises. The present situation
under total prohibition for natives where
the law cannot be effectively enforced
indicates the weakness of such a move.
In the eyes of the natives themselves
and alert anti-colonialists in other parts
of the world it would be interpreted as
another form of blatant discrimination.
Drinking One In, AII In
The issue then crystallises to this
here is a plural society in which any
form of racial discrimination is no
longer tolerable. Equal access to alcohol
must be given to all regardless of racial
origins, with only one possible alternative
—total prohibition for all.
Prohibition in America was an experi-
ment that failed and any similar applica-
tion will probably fail again. Those
entrusted with the guiding of Papua-
New Guinea to nationhood must accept
the inevitable.
In Melanesian eyes alcohol is a status
symbol just as much as the wearing of
shoes. The shoes may be painful to
unaccustomed feet but the discomfort
must be endured for the sake of appear-
ances. Although few in number, many
natives are vehement in their opposition
to free access to alcohol. Not only are
those under a strong Mission influence
opposed, but also many wives in town
areas who understand the effects of
alcohol on their home lives. Yet these
opinions and the certain knowledge that
the price for this status symbol will be
dear for many will be overlooked.
The maxim that prevention is better
than cure will fall on deaf ears. The
majority of the natives want drink and
they will get it. Any programme of
education into the evils of drink would
have about as much success as it has
had in Australia. A situation is being
forced which carries inevitable con-
sequences. The authorities and. the
missions can act now to deal with the
end products—alcoholism—rather than
waste time on preventing a chain of
events which must surely follow.
An understanding that alcoholics are
not social misfits or moral delinquents
is required. Treatment and steps to-
wards rehabilitation have proved success-
ful and should be made available regard-
less of race. This is the only action
possible.
As the last preserves of white
supremacy crumble away and the newly
emancipated Papuans raise their glasses
in tribute, may God help them.


A PAGE
OF ENDEAN


Australian Prime Ministers—III
GEORGE REID
Why THE BULLETIN called him "Yes-No Reid"
By M. H. ELLIS
TlThen George Houston Reid was put
to work at 13 in a merchant’s office
in Sydney by his father, an eminent Pres-
byterian minister, he gave more attention
to debating societies and free trade than
to office work.
At 19 he found his way into a tem-
porary accountant’s job in the Treasury.
At 23 he was Secretary to the Crown
Law Department. At 33, he was Secre-
tary of the Lands Department, having
won the English Cobden’s Society’s
Medal for his essays on free trade, re-
ceived a letter of praise from W. E.
Gladstone (which sounded as if it were
addressed to a large meeting in the
Albert Hall), written an essay on New
South Wales which the Government had
printed and circulated throughout the
world, qualified for the Bar after 14
years’ study and earned an immense
reputation as a ladies’ man.
His 35th year found him on the hust-
ings being nominated for the blue ribbon
electorate of East Sydney in company
with a galaxy of chagrined seniors
Henry Parkes, the Premier, Sir Arthur
Renwick, the distinguished first presi-
dent of the BMA in New South Wales,
and Henry Carey Dangar, one of the
most powerful graziers and merchants
in the country.
According to Deakin, Parkes, as the
senior sitting member, opened the pro-
ceedings “in one of his well-known poses
as the old and well-tried veteran, and
with a covert sneer at the unknown
young man who ventured to seek elec-
tion with him.” But Reid merely retired
from the hustings, drove round the park
in a hansom while he planned his tac-
tics, returned and had the last word.
Well tried and well known his seniors
were, he declared, but well known for
what? For having given themselves
KCMG's, for what they had done
for themselves, for their desperate
clinging to office.
Now, he was not going to be like
that. “If ever he was to achieve a repu-
tation”, he yearned to be “remembered
for his services and not for the prizes he
had accumulated”. When the poll was
declared he “led all the rest” and Parkes
went down to the bottom of the list.
Not satisfied with having taken pos-
session of the senior seat in East Sydney
and with having shrugged the Premier
of the day into a junior one, Reid now
proceeded to tree the two Grand Old
Men of New South Wales politics, Parkes
and Robertson, who were in power in
coalition, and to push them so far out
on a limb that they fell off. He, in fact,
used his inner knowledge gained as
permanent head of the Lands Depart-
ment to attack the Parkes-Robertson
combination on land monopoly, and par-
ticularly on dummying, to the point of
their destruction. And when they went
out and Alexander Stuart grabbed the
premiership he gratefully made George
his Minister for Public Instruction.
This was a job after George’s own
heart. And so far from proving “incor-
rigibly lazy” (as Deakin averred) during
his period of office, he packed into his
mere 15 months of office a programme
under which he abolished tent schools in
favor of more substantial edifices, made
teaching of history compulsory in State
schools, established high schools in sev-
eral leading towns, pioneered the Aust-
ralian system of technical education
said to have been the first of its kind
in the world and made provision for
evening classes for part-time students at
the University.
veterans of the creaky NSW poli-
tical Establishment discerned a very
dangerous rival in the field. Up came
their heavy guns. They blasted him out
of East Sydney, as out of the ministry.
But this was only the norma' kind of
experience young politicians could ex-
pect in the midst of the half-inebriated
brawl which was called politics in Syd-
ney in the 1880’s and despite Deakin’s
version that the victim returned after
21 months in the wilderness with “the
ineffable stamp upon him of the politi-
cian of whom much was expected, who
has been tested and absolutely failed”.
Parkes was glad enough, when he him-
self returned from the wilderness of
Opposition a year and a bit afterwards,
to invite him into his ministry of 1887.
Reid, however, no doubt had at least
some idea that Parkes was heading for
his third and most opulent bankruptcy
and also for one of the most thorough
castigations at the hand of The
Bulletin and W. B. Dailey ever ad-
ministered to any Minister in Australian
history.
So George was willing to go on sitting
among the common herd of back bench-
ers listening for the approach of Parkes’s
political funeral even though it was de-
layed somewhat by Parkes’s call for
practical measures to achieve Federation
uttered in his famous Tenterfield speech
of October 1889. In the meantime, the
young aspirant who now had his eye
on the leadership both of the Free
Traders and the Unionist Party, built up
his popularity with the ladies and prac-
tised at the Bar, making some reputa-
tion through his adroit cross-examination
of the prosecution’s chief witness in the
notorious Mt Rennie case and probably
saving the necks of some of the young
gentlemen in the dock.
He was now 46. It was at this stage
that he married a beautiful wife and be-
came utterly devoted to her. In time he
had two handsome sons and a pretty
daughter. His name never again seems
to have been mentioned in relation to
any other lady, save on the occasion
when one shouted at him at a meeting,
“If I were your wife, I’d give you
poison”, and George replied with great
gallantry of manner, “And if I were your
husband, madam, I’d take it.” Never
more would Sir Henry Parkes be able to
reply when asked who the gorgeous
damsel in the Parliamentary gallery
was, “Well, neither Bernhard Wise nor
George Reid knows her, so she must be
respectable.”
Parkes went to his Waterloo at the
New South Wales elections after the
Federal Convention of 1891 and George
Dibbs made himself Premier. Reid, by a
small majority, became Leader of the
Opposition.
A new element in the shape of the first
batch of 30 Labor members came
into the House in 1891, in that period
of turmoil and economic depression.
These had virtually no immediate policy
save a set of planks for the amelioration
of “the lot of the toiler” and their cave-
ridden body soon made it plain that
with Governments they had a fixed
policy of “support in return for conces-
sions.”
They had little hope of doing anything
with Dibbs, but they made the prospects
bright for Reid, many of whose own
pet political hobbies were in line with
theirs.
When the 1894 election came along,
Reid was sitting prettily with a ven-
geance. Nobody else in New South


Wales politics had any major status save
as a relic. Barton and R. E. O’Connor
had put themselves out of court by
agreeing to serve with the defeated Dibbs
and even more by getting themselves
ejected from his ministry over their ac-
ceptance of fees from official sources.
Parkes was reduced to the status of an
angry old political hornet who did noth-
ing but buzz. Dibbs was a doubtful bet
for the future. Bernhard Wise was at-
tractive but academic. And Reid had
taken care after the First Federal Con-
vention had ended early in 1891 to use
the “great opportunity it offered ... to
enlarge his status” and put the issue out
of the way for the time being by con-
stituting himself the defender of NSW
against the machinations of the Protec-
tionists. It appeared, indeed, from his
exposition that Federation was merely
a plot by hungry protectionist colonies to
bleed prosperous NSW. He pictured the
potential Australian Commonwealth as
analogous to a household in which five
confirmed inebriates would be found
sponging on the one opulent teetotal
colony sunny New South Wales.
Established as Premier, his first steps
were to conciliate the Labor Party which
was not so sassy as it had been in the
previous Parliament, having found cracks
in its structure and suffered considerable
erosion at the polls.
On the Rampage
He captured a Labor hostage in the
person of Joseph Cook, member for the
coalmining district of Hartley, leader of
the Free Trade cave in the Labor Party
and General Secretary of the Miners’
Association, and made him Postmaster-
General. Then, while he made his main
objective the creation of the “freest
tariff in the world” in NSW, he showed
other goods in the forefront of the shop-
window those planks of the Labor
and his own platforms that formed the
basis of the foundations of modern
political policy and the welfare state.
His earliest efforts were not encour-
aging. The Legislative Council sent his
Bills back to the Lower House looking
as if they had been torn up by wild
elephants. It took courage to meet the
situation by an appeal to the country
within a year of the election. Labor es-
pecially, having little finance, was, al-
lergic to elections. But he took this
course and returned in triumph. He dis-
posed of Parkes, Dibbs and Bernhard
Wise who all were defeated. He dis-
posed of the Council through a mandate
which enabled him to appoint 11 new
members. He had become the unchal-
lenged monarch of NSW politics.
Then he set out on a rampaging legis-
lative programme. He passed the Land
Tax Act of 1895, which put an impost
of Id. in the £ on unimproved values,
with an exemption of £240; the Income
George Reid as seen by "Hop”
Tax Act of 6d. in the £ with an exemp-
tion of £2OO the country was sup-
posedly ruined when that became law.
His pioneer Public Service Act was de-
signed to put the Civil Service beyond the
reach of political influence in appoint-
ments and operation and under a Board.
He gave votes to the Police and liberal-
ised the election laws in general, passed
two reform Mining Acts, and a Work-
shops and Factories Act, making registra-
tion of places where more than four
workers were employed imperative and
providing for the fencing off of dan-
gerous machinery, fixed meal hours,
sanitation and ventilation minimums.
The Act prohibited the employment of
children under 13 and established a 48-
hour week for females and children
under 16 in factories 52 hours in
shops. He made law the first really
comprehensive Coal Mines Regulation
Act worthy of the name, land legisla-
tion which produced the first real modern
closer settlement scheme and perpetual
lease in NSW, throwing open five mil-
lion acres previously used for grazing
for mixed farming and dairying. And he
passed, of course, his Public Health
Act and his Exclusion of Inferior Races
Act. This latter piece of legislation, suc-
ceeding his more drastic one for which
the Royal Assent had been denied in
London on the ground that it infringed
British treaties, was based on the right
to exclude immigrants failing to pass an
education test. It thus was the parent
of the Commonwealth Immigration
Act.
Barely had he achieved office when
the old bugbear of Federation reared its
head. It was with fear and diffidence
that a deputation from the leaders of
the Corowa Conference approached him
to implement their plan for the election
by the people of a Convention to pro-
duce a Constitution Bill which then
would be accepted or rejected at an Aus-
tralia-wide referendum. But he was full
of charm and readiness to help. And
so soon as he had dealt with the Legis-
lative Council he called a conference
of Premiers in Hobart, persuaded them
to pass Enabling Bills and thus laid the
foundation for the Federal Convention
of 1897-8 which held three sessions
in Adelaide, Sydney and Melbourne. He
was elected a NSW delegate only in


second place to Barton but could con-
sole himself that in Victoria Deakin se-
cured only third place.
He showed no ambition for office in
the Convention, despite his senior posi-
tion as Premier of the oldest state with
the largest population. He conceded the
chairmanship to Charles Cameron Kings-
ton as readily as he conceded the leader-
ship to Barton. He apparently had be-
come the incarnate spirit of Federation
oozing bonhomie and schemes under
which generous, prosperous, free-trade
NSW would come to the succour of its
distressed protectionist neighbors in the
new world of Federation.
“Have a Lolly”
It was only after it was certain that
there must be a recess to allow the
Premiers to take part in Queen Vic-
toria’s Golden Jubilee celebrations in
London and that the adjourned Conven-
tion would afterwards meet in Sydney
where he had his own Parliament, Press
and claques, that his tune changed pub-
licly and that it began to dawn on a lot
of people who did not know him very
well that he was not Father Christmas
after all.
Indeed after he had wrecked the care-
fully thought of plan of Federal fin-
ance organisation presented to the Fin-
ance Committee by Victoria’s George
Turner, he appeared to be “rollicking . . .
as a hippopotamus might ii he had
climbed aboard a ferry boat . . . de-
termined to upset it unless given his own
way.”
He got his own way “so completely
and with such adroitness” that he broke
poor Turner’s nerve and that somewhat
nervous Victorian statesman was never
again equal to negotiating with him save
under a sort of protective guard.
Then he rolled off to London, had a
wonderful time there and came home
flushed with compliments to his after-
dinner eloquence, re-energised by a long
sea voyage and devoutly blessed by Wil-
liam Ewart Gladstone in person.
What he did to he proceedings of
the Convention at Adelaide was nothing
to what he now did in Sydney and Mel-
bourne. If he appeared like a hippopota-
mus in the first bout, in the second he
seemed more like some prehistoric mon-
ster emerging from the slime. If Deakin
can be believed, “even caricature was
unable to travesty his extraordinary ap-
pearance, his immense, unwieldy, jelly-
like stomach always threatening to break
his waist line, his little legs apparently
bowed under its weight to the verge of
their endurance, his thick neck rising
behind his ears rounding to his many-
folded chin.” He looked, in fact, like
a Tussaud model of the “Worker’s” re-
presentation of the “Fat Man”.
Wrote the astonished visitor from
South Yarra:
His protruberant blue eyes were expres-
sionless until he was roused, or half hidden
in cunning, and a blond complexion and
an infantile breadth of baldness gave him
an air of insolent juvenility. He walked
with a staggering roll like that of a sailor,
helping himself as he went by resting on
the backs of chairs as if he were remin-
iscent of some far-off arboreal ancestor.
As for his oratory:
A heavy German moustache concealed a
mouth of considerable size, from which
emanated a high-pitched voice rising to
a shriek or sinking to a fawning, purring,
persuasive orotund with a nasal tinge.
This may be caricature, but it is not
so much overdone as I can testify from
personal contact and vision.
It is doubtful whether, during the
Convention itself, the delegates from
Protectionist colonies appreciated the
full measure of this formidable Humpty
Dumpty, levering himself round among
the chairs on feet so small that they
seemed almost vestigial and inviting
Another “Hop”
everybody he met to “have a lolly”. (His
pockets were full of them.)
But when the Convention was over
it seemed that only by a miracle would
the Enabling Bills be put through in
NSW. Free Trader Reid obviously saw
ruin for his influence in transfer of fis-
cal power to the new Commonwealth
and Protectionist Syme of the “Age”
and the Victorian Radicals saw des-
truction in it for Victoria under the
crushing weight of Free Trade NSW.
Deakin saved the situation in Victoria.
But even then Queensland was standing
out. And in NSW, though the Draft Bill
was approved, nobody was quite sure
whether it was saved with Reid still
rather vague and the “Daily Telegraph”
and Jack Want, QC, who later resigned
the Attorney-Generalship to have a freer
hand, on the rampage against the
measure.
Reid kept everybody on tenterhooks
for days when the Bill was sent to refer-
endum, but at last he went to a huge
meeting in the Sydney Town Hall on
March 28, 1898, and spoke for two hours
tearing the weak points of it to pieces.
Only in his last sentences did he make
his attitude clear: He would not advise
the electors how to vote, but he would
“not be a deserter to the cause” and he
himself would vote for the Bill.
His own account of his attitude after-
wards was that he was only being just
to the electors but he admitted that his
tactics “fairly exposed me to attack . . .
It earned me the epithet of ‘Yes-No’ ”
that was The Bulletin’s invention
“I did not wonder at it and 1 did not
resent it.”
The result was that (a) NSW was the
only colony which did not give a statu-
tory majority in the poll the Vic-
torian voting was over 100.000 to
22,000, and (b) that there appeared to be
two Richmonds in the field fighting to
the death at the ensuing NSW elections —
Reid’s Liberal Federal Party and Bar-
ton’s National Federation Party, both
Federal-minded, both agreeing that
amendment of the original Draft Bill
was necessary, but Barton in only three
places and Reid in six. It was really a
fight to decide who should represent
NSW when the time came to fight these
issues out with the other States.
The two principal gladiators reduced
the battle to a Homeric contest of Reid
v. Barton for Reid’s electorate of Sydney-
King and it was something the whole of
Australia watched a magnificent duel
which Reid won by the barest majority.
It did him little good. He made some
ground at the subsequent conference of
premiers to consider proposed amend-
ments to the Draft Bill. By grace of
Deakin and Turner he secured the capi-
tal ultimately for New' South
Wales; and he secured the limitation of
the Braddon “blot” to ten years. And
then he was forced to fight a ncv Enab-
ling Bill for a new referendum through
the NSW Parliament or rather
through the Legislative Council which
needed an infusion of a dozen new mem-
bers before it would surrender.
Yes-No or No-Yes
After that Reid found himself at last
playing the role of Humpty Dumpty for
w'hich he had been physically made up
by nature. He had sat on the wall of
“Yes-No” and now it seemed certain
that he would fall off, even though in
the second Federal referendu i campaign
he was “Yes” without qualification.
When “Yes-No” was shouted at him
he snorted: “That is false! The opposite is
true! I was No-Yes!”
He was the leader of all others who
had most to gain from Federation as the
position was in 1898. As Premier of the
major Colony, he certainly would have
been offered office as First Prime Minis-
ter of Australia and could have controlled
its fiscal policy with the help of Labor.
He, however, had angered many of his
own supporters in the Free Trade move-
ment. He had made a “furious enemy”
of his formerly strongest Press supporter,


the “Daily Telegraph”. Deakin put it
that “the Federal opposition owed him
no allegiance and his own party was
weary of his tergivisations”.
Lastly, Labor had discovered that if it
could make a good bargain with Reid
it could make a better with “Oom Paul”
Lyne, who had succeeded Barton as
Leader of the Opposition in the NSW
Parliament, and whom Deakin character-
ised as “one of the feeblest leaders of
an Opposition ever beheld in Australia.
. slow witted . . . parochial in every
conception.” He was anti-Federal and
with no political principles whatever. So
when Reid temporised with a Labor
deputation which asked him to introduce
old age pensions and a thorough-going
Early Closing Bill, a group of Labor men
of whom Hughes and Holman were the
core, engineered desertion by the “sup-
port for concessions” party after as-
suring themselves that Lyne would play
with them.
“NOTICE TO QUIT”
Humpty Dumpty was then pushed off
his wall and had a very great fall in-
deed, though he picked himself up and
won the East Sydney seat in the First
Federal Parliament against three opti-
mists the luckiest of whom polled about
2000 votes to his 6000.
Then he started on a new Federal
career in the uncongenial city of Mel-
bourne.
He was a thorn in the side of Barton
as the leader of the mainly Free Trader
Opposition. He succeeded by guile and
persistence in softening up the Govern-
ment’s protectionist policies. He joined
Labor to defeat Deakin in 1904 and
then, a few months later, joined Deakin
to overthrow Watson’s Labor ministry.
Ultimately, with the connivance of
Deakin, some of whose followers
joined the new ministry on their leader’s
advice, Reid formed a Government with
Allan McLean, a staunch ex-Premier of
Victoria. He was able to take office only
by reason of a truce with Deakin on fis-
cal issues for the remainder of the then
current parliament.
He had a shadowy reign as Prime
Minister of ten months from August
1904 to June 1905. This included a six
months’ recess which he devoted to
stumping the country trying to form an
Australian Liberal League, of which the
policy was to be “anti-socialism”.
Thus he antagonised Labor which
formed a compact with the protectionist
Liberal cave led by Isaac Isaacs within
Deakin’s party. He antagonised Syme
and Deakin because he broke his promise
to Syme that in appointing the new
Tariff Board he would allow Syme to
suggest a Protectionist chairman. He
inducted the neutral Sir John Quick as
chairman and filled the membership
with four Free Traders and four Protec-
tionists.
So “notice to quit” was served on
him. The “Age” prosecuted grimly. Wat-
son, Leader of the Labor Party, read the
sentence, Deakin pulled Humpty Dumpty
off the wall for the second time in his
political life.
He remained in Parliament till the
election of 1908, but after a resound-
ing defeat on a motion condemning the
financial proposals of the Deakin Gov-
ernment, he formally handed over the
leadership of the Opposition to Joseph
Cook who had been his fidus Achates
for 14 years, thus paving the way for
the Deakin-Cook Fusion which ended
in disaster and the political ruin of
Deakin in April 1910.
Reid went out of politics in 1908. In
1909 he became a KCMG. He was ap-
pointed the first Australian High Com-
missioner in London, where he did use-
ful work in the early years of World
War I as he did also on the recruit-
ing platform when he visited Australia
between terms. But for his representa-
tions, the AIF would almost certainly
have been taken to England to train in
the winter of 1914, instead of being left
in Egypt, and the history of Gallipoli
might have been far different.
He serve four years as High Com-
missioner, was promoted to be a
GCMG and ended a fantastic public
life as MP for the most fashionable
constituency in London, St George’s
Hanover Square, which he secured un-
opposed.
He died on September 12, 1918, in
his seventy-fourth year, a lion of Lon-
don Society, a much sought after after-
dinner speaker, but not forgotten at least
by Australian Labor, one of whose
founders wrote his epitaph many years
later:
“Reid was about the best leader in
the House in my recollection back to
1887. His business was always well
placed and, in spite of his alleged lazi-
ness, he was always ready to go on with
it. An effective, remorseless debater, he
was never vindictive. He came to NSW
politics with clean hands and kept them
clean. A Minister who never owned a
share in a public company, who never
trafficked in land, and who, without
extravagance, was always poor and yet
never so poor as to be subject to fin-
ancial pressure.” This was his reputa-
tion, too, in Federal politics.
In him The Bulletin cartoonists lost
their most priceless asset. “Hop” used
to deny that his hundreds of drawings
of him were caricatures. “They should
all be in a National portrait gallery!”, he
declared. The Bulletin, indeed, print-
ed a special issue to embalm them.


OVERSEAS
FOG
AT
THE
TOP
Everything is always decided some-
where else.
BARBARA WOOTTON.
all stages in a great country’s
” history, the aftermath of Empire
must be the hardest. At the back of
many politicians’ minds there remains a
dread that Britain will become trapped
in her past and that, in Sir Geoffrey
Crowther’s words, “Britain will be to
the twenty-first century what Spain was
to the eighteenth.” So many of the in-
stitutions which we like to regard as
timeless were, like Tower Bridge of
KCMGs, devised by the Victorians for
a specific and calculated purpose as part
of the great system of Empire.
Men in their forties, like Macleod,
can remember “the day when at school
a third or a quarter of the map was
colored red, and you did get some sort
of consolation for being in this right
T>ECENTLY we ran two articles on various aspects of contemporary Britain.
These were taken from a book, “The Anatomy of Britain,” published by
Hodder and Stoughton.
In this last extract ANTHONY SAMPSON writes about the character of
leadership in Britain today and tries to discover why the British people have
temporarily lost that capacity for change and realism which was once their
most remarkable characteristic.
little, tight little island, and all the old
jingo phrases, because of the very vast-
ness of the Empire, of which Britain was
not only the head, but the owner.”
Many politicians have stressed the new
predicament: “People don’t often realise
that the Victorian Age was only an in-
terruption in British history,” said Harold
Macmillan: “the trouble is that a lot of
people look back to that time of
stability.” But for this unawareness, it
seems to me, the Government and its
institutions are at least as much to
blame as the governed.
The Civil Service, the Palace, the
honors system, have all projected an
apparently unchanged and permanent
world: while Britain becomes again a
competitive trading nation, the weight
of tradition and prestige remains in an
imperial context.
Of all the ideas which the Victorians
fostered, surely one of the most danger-
ous was permanence whether of
Britain’s supremacy, of Consols or of
the “permanent way.” While the sense
of the future and the radicalism of the
Victorians evaporated, the idea of per-
manence remained. Railways, family
firms, coal mines or regiments all ac-
quired the safe, unchanging characters
of a country estate.
The dominating presence of the Vic-
torians is enhanced by the traditional
British habit of preferring to honor the
old institutions, with their pageantry and
rigmaroles, rather than the new more
powerful ones. I have encountered in
nearly every sphere the discrepancy be-
tween Britain as she likes to appear, and
Britain as she is.
The gap between pomp and power,
between the “dignified” and the “effi-
cient” parts, is an immemorial British
trait, and an attractive safeguard against
demagogy. It is reassuring to hear crowds
applauding a Royal procession or a Lord
Mayor’s show, and to know that the
objects of their interest have scarcely
any power. While the Court of the Bank
of England assemble on their 150-color
carpet, a few shy under-secretaries in
the Treasury cut the ground from under
their feet.
While heads of colleges process
through the quadrangles, the university
Grants Committee doles out the money
in Belgrave Square. The Lords summon
the Commons to their chamber, while the
Commons deprive the Lords of their
power. At the centre of the show stands
the Monarch, surrounded with every
splendour except power.
The pageantry is picturesque, appar-
ently harmless, and much envied and
copied by other countries. Moreover, if
pomp and power do come together (as
Gaitskell pointed out) you are liable to
have dictatorship.
But after visiting the darker caves of
government, I believe that this game has
gone to ridiculous lengths. Whitehall
loves to present an irrelevant facade, be-
hind which the real machinery can work
in secrecy (which is just as strong a
British tradition as pageantry).
Some secrecy, no doubt, is essential
to good government, but vast territories
of British administration are totally un-
charted, and much of the obscurity is
devoted to concealing, not great State
secrets, but petty squabbles.
A defence white paper, deciding how
to spend more than a quarter of Britain’s
budget, emerges from the New Public
Buildings, but who knows what were
the arguments that preceded it, and
what evidence is offered for Parliament
to latch on to? Industrial chairmen issue
hollow annual reports which make a
mockery of directors’ responsibilities to
shareholders (except as with Courtaulds
recently, when they suddenly need
them).
While Lord Mayors, judges, bishops,
the Royal Family and the noisier parlia-
mentarians are all paraded in public,
most of the real men of power who are
actually shaping the future men like
Sir Robert Scott, Sir Richard Powell,
Sir Keith Murray, Leslie Brown, George
Cole, Sir Richard Hull are hardly
ever heard of.
The idea of a few powerful people
sitting round a table to fix Britain’s
future is one which many people fondle,
as the fascination with the word “Es-
tablishment” suggests. Britain’s mon-
archic and aristocratic past encourages
the idea of a few glittering drawing-
rooms where all the key people gather
together.
Television, too, with its cavalcade of
Christian-name celebrities, gives the im-
pression that there, just behind the
screen, is the single, powerful province


of They. And the Palace perpetuates a
picture of a single society, with the
Royal Enclosure separating the We from
the They.
But this simple vision is a mirage. In
the first place, most of the real rulers
including permanent secretaries, invest-
ment managers and corporation mana-
gers are hardly ever asked on to
television screens or into society drawing-
rooms. In the second place the rulers are
not at all close-knit or united.
They are not so much in the centre of
a solar system as in a cluster of inter-
locking circles, each one largely pre-
occupied with its own professionalism
and expertise, and touching others only
at one edge they are not a single
Establishment but a ring of Establish-
ments, with slender connections,
The Cult Of Them
The frictions and balances between the
different circles are the supreme safe-
guard of democracy. No one man can
stand in the centre, for there is no
centre.
Radical people regard the idea of a
small group of Them operating under
the cloak of a democracy as inherently
sinister and threatening. But the alterna-
tive can often be much more alarming
that there might be no They at all,
and that those in positions of influence
refuse to face up to their power. “The
difference between autocracy and democ-
racy is not that the first provides leader-
ship, while the second eliminates it”
(wrote Alan Bullock, defending Ernest
Bevin’s position in the “T and G”): “the
true distinction is in the character of the
leadership.”
Within the bureaucratic seats of power
—whether the Treasury, the Prudential,
the Midland Bank, or Shell the ques-
tion in my mind “Who Runs Britain?”
soon seemed to be ground to dust in
the machinery of committees, each one
insisting that they are servants of the
other. Decisions (as Barbara Wootton
said) always seem to be taken somewhere
else, and what looked from outside like
a bold step turns out to be gradual
shuffles by scores of vaguely grouped
men.
If you ask a corporation man “Who
runs this place?” you will be met with
mutterings about cybernetics, lines of
communication or 500 managers. If you
ask a chairman what is his main prob-
lem, he will say “Finding successors.”
Who is responsible for an ugly new
building? It will turn out to be owned
by some insurance company, designed
by a committee of unknown architects,
employed by a property developer to pro-
duce the maximum floor-space for a
faceless corporation.
Each group can, and does, disclaim
responsibility; the shapelessness of the
building seems to express the shapeless-
ness of the “irresponsible society.”
This, surely, is the greater nightmare
of a democracy not that the Govern-
ment is full of sinister and all-powerful
eminences grises, but that the will of the
people dissolves in committees, with
thousands of men muttering about their
duty to “those whom we serve.”
The idea that insurance companies
are merely trustees, or that Civil Ser-
vants are no more than servants cannot
possibly be squared with their actual
powers: but the evasive humility con-
tinues. When asked if he is a wielder of
power the committee man will answer
(as William Cooper wrote), “That is not
how it seems to him.”
But however faceless the institutions
may appear, real people with real
powers can run them, and behind the
blank facade, the right decisive men in
the right jobs, like Sir Norman Brook
or Dr Beeching, can still break through
deadlocks, committees and muddle. I
feel now much more convinced that
despite the managerial revolution, a
great deal still depends on 200 men.
ICI may appear to be a vast federa-
tion of boards and factories, run by a
few hundred managers: but in a time of
critical decision it is, for better or for
worse, decisively run by Paul Chambers.
In spite of the age of the comman man,
and the webs of committees and statis-
tics, much of the history of our time has
been forged by a handful of men, as
different as Reith, Heyworth, Cousins
and Norman Collins.
In the past two great fields allowed
individuals to prove themselves boldly,
outside the conformism of bureaucracies.
The first was the Empire, which provided
a testing ground for Britain’s leaders
away from the world of “it’s not done.”
Many of Britain’s key figures Sir
Frank Lee in Nyasaland, George Cole in
West Africa, John Loudon in Venezuela.
Paul Chambers in India had their first
great opportunity on the frontiers of the
Empire which helped to give them (I sus-
pect) a decisiveness which they never
afterwards lost.
Industrial corporations still need their
pioneers and frontiersmen, but they are
more likely to be salesmen or technolo-
gists; and as “regionalisation” progresses,
so more administrators find themselves
back in head office, treading on each
other’s toes.
But the greatest testing-ground was, of
course, the war; and still, 20 years after-
wards, British administration owes much
to that colossal shake-up. It was then
that Britain discovered its versatile dons,
turned businessmen into Civil Servants,
admen into propagandists, scientists into
administrators, teachers into soldiers,
businessmen into politicians.
Most of the major figures in Britain
today Macmillan, Gaitskell, Lloyd,
Wilson, Penney, Plowden owed their
first great breakthrough to that time so
that, after the war, Britain had a gen-
eration of young administrators to rival
Kennedy’s in youthfulness:
Gaitskell, Chancellor of the Exchequer
at 44, Harold Wilson, President of the
Board of Trade at 31, or Sir Oliver
Franks, Ambassador to Washington at
43.
Today presents a less stimulating
spectacle: a Cabinet of familiar figures,
with younger men queueing outside;
offices with bottlenecks of men in their
fifties jostling each other, hoping per-
haps to move to an Oxford college or
an industrial firm; a queue of governors,
returning from independent territories.
Most of the spectacular young appoint-
ments Christopher Soames (41) in the
Cabinet, Lord Cromer (43) at the Bank
of England, David Ormsby-Gore (44) in
Washington, Julian Amery (43) at the
Air Ministry belong to the networks
of hereditary ruling families.
The young “whiz-kid” administrators,
like Robert McNamara in America, or
Franks and Gaitskell in the 19405, are
not much in evidence, yet it is hard to
believe that Britain either lacks, or can
afford to do without, such talents:
“Many mute, inglorious Frankses,”
David Butler has written, “may be lying
undiscovered in common rooms.”
The Charm And The Danger
British leaders have not welcomed the
“New Frontiers” to take the place of the
old frontiers of empire and war, and
many of the jobs most vital for Britain’s
future like vice-chancellorships of
new universities or heads of nationalised
industries have been hawked around.
It is the charm and the danger of the
old collegiate institutions, whether Ox-
bridge colleges, Inns of Court or White-
hall departments, that unless faced with
a visible crisis they cultivate their
privateness and pride.


The stubborn independence of bar-
risters, dons or scientists is the greatest
safeguard of democracy, and to get them
all into line would defy the most dic-
tatorial Government. But this fissiparity
can have the most absurd results like
the squabbles of the Inns of Court, the
jealousies of engineers, or the scientists'
arguments as to “who drank the Nes-
cafe.”
The war rubbed up (to use R. A.
Butler's phrase) the whole surface of
Whitehall, bringing in businessmen and
dons, and the bonds that were then es-
tablished (for instance Sir Frank Lee’s
contacts with businessmen) are still
crucial.
The Treasury And The Ivory Tower
But the dims have sailed back to their
“medieval L.ands” (as Lord Russell calls
them) and the Treasury has climbed
back into its ivory tower; the “Treasury
stud list" that cosy circle of people
considered acceptable for royal com-
missions. Government committees and
boards has its stage army of peers
and public figures, often too old or too
busy to apply much energy. Industrialists
in mid-career do not emerge into White-
hall, and only by luck and Marples was
Dr Beeching unearthed from the inner
caves of ICI.
Every developed country must have
trouble preventing its interlocking circles
from flying apart what Khrushchev
calls “the decay of the sense of overrid-
ing purpose.” (We probably forget how
hard Khrushchev has to work to keep his
circles together.)
Every country, to work at all, must
have some “power elite” of men who
keep in touch with each other, and ex-
change inside information (as Lord
Chandos puts it) like the croupier shuff-
ling the cards.
The idea of a central nexus, shaking
their heads and saying, “Well, mmm,
perhaps” may be a radical’s nightmare,
but some kind of an inner group is es-
sential. My own fear is not that the
Establishment in Britain is too close, but
that it is not close enough, that the
circles are overlapping less and less, and
that one-half of the ring has very little
contact with the other half.
In particular, the hereditary Estab-
lishment of interlocking families, which
still has an infectious social and politi-
cal influence on the Conservative Party,
banking and many industries, has lost
touch with the new worlds of science,
industrial management and technology,
and yet tries to apply old amateur ideals
into technical worlds where they won’t
fit.
But although the “conspiracy” theory
is usually untenable, the corridors of
Whitehall, with their secretive, collegiate
traditions, easily give outsiders the ap-
pearance of a solid bastion, and lead
scientists particularly to regard “them,”
not without some reason, as a separate,
arrogant breed.
The resulting barrier, and the battles
which rage across it (like the skirmishes
between soldiers and civilians inside the
War Office) can do vast damage, and
the isolation of the mandarins becomes
more serious as Britain moves towards
a programme of planning which needs
above all a community of thought be-
tween politicians, Civil Servants and
technocrats.
It is hard to believe that the British
people have lost that capacity for change
and realism that has been their most re-
markable characteristic.
“The unconditional surrender to
facts,” wrote Emerson of us, “and the
choice of means to reach their ends, are
as admirable as with ants and bees.”
Within the last two years there have, I
think, been considerable rumblings and
signs of change. The Treasury’s Neddy
- which may eventually change the
whole character of Whitehall has
been established. The House of Lords
has been threatened with reform. Dr
Beeching has set to work on British
Railways. Seven new universities have
been planned. Provincial cities have been
reshaped.
And a step has been taken towards
Europe which could alter the whole per-
spective of British institutions. In sur-
veying the more somnolent regions of
industry and government, or the proces-
sion of ancient families into the Govern-
ment, I have had the feeling of observ-
ing, not a settled tradition but a des-
perate rearguard action against a more
professional and less complacent age.
Among younger men in politics,
banking, industrial management and
trade unions, there is clearly a growing
impatience with the class-bound attitudes
of their elders. And the spectacular Lib-
eral revival indicates a profound dis-
content with the state of leadership.
I have written this book with my mind
on particulars, not on generalities, and
without the academic equipment of a
social or political theorist. But I have
been trying nevertheless to sum up in
one paragraph what I have felt to be
wrong with Britain’s leadership.
Briefly it is that the old privileged
values of aristocracy, public schools and
Oxbridge which still dominate govern-
ment today have failed to provide the
stimulus, the purposive policies and the
keen eye on the future which Britain is
looking for, and must have. The old
ethos was moulded by the success of an
invincible imperial machine.
Its style was to make big things seem
small, exciting things boring, new things
familiar: but in the unconfident context
of today this bland depreciation and
the assumed superiority that goes with
it merely succeeds in dispelling en-
thusiasms, blunting curiosity and dulling
experiment.
The groove-outlook, the club-amateur
outlook, the pragmatic outlook are all
totally out of keeping with an age which
suffers, unlike the Victorians' from an
oppressive lack of innovation and zeal.
The old fabric of the British governing
class, while keeping its social and politi-
cal hold, has failed to accommodate or
analyse the vast forces of science, edu-
cation or social change which (whether
they like it or not) are changing the
face of the country.
The Malaise And The Few
The new and potentially exciting in-
stitutions which control large areas of
the future for instance nationalised
industries, insurance companies. Red-
brick universities have grown up in a
separate and unacknowledged sector,
and the resulting rift has cut off the old
from the new.
Britain’s malaise, I suspect, is not
primarily a malaise of the ordinary
people, but a malaise among the few
thousand managers of our society who
have failed to absorb and communicate
new challenges and new ideas.
The British are still quite capable of
surrendering to facts provided they are
told them. But the institutions and the
men who work them have, 1 believe,
become dangerously out of touch with
the public insensitive to change, and
wrapped up in their private rituals.
As Bagehot wrote in the words with
which this book began, “The character-
istic danger of great nations, like the
Romans or the English, which have a
long history of continuous creation, is
that they may at last fail from not com-
prehending the great institutions they
have created.”


Around Melbourne
TRY A SIM - L - CAR!
Tn Queensland motorists adore to
A put little notices above their
number-plates “Queensland the
Sunshine State”. In Victoria how sen-
sible it would be if we, too, had our
slogan. Why not the tag “Victoria
the Breathalyser State”?
The police, under the law, can con-
fiscate our car keys and they can
force us to take breathalyser tests.
Some of the smartest of our city
clubs put little trays of coffee beans
and sweets on the bar, which are said,
hopefully, to neutralise the smell of
our breath. The fearsome menace of
the breathalyser hangs over every
homeward journey. It must have some
effect because a Caulfield host re-
ported last week that he prepared
his usual bathtub, full of bottles and
ice, for the usual party and only a
third of the beer was drunk. A minor
tragedy, for this host cannot stand
beer.
The breathalyser legislation has
had its ups and downs, providing
some fine fun for the lawyers. One
loophole in the legislation was that
the breathing candidate had to be
tested, “at the nearest police station”
or on the spot in front of the machine.
If the nearest police station was
closed, the police took the man else-
where and the case was dismissed.
Others, compelled to take tests, gave
only the faintest huff and puff into
the machine, insufficient to give a
reading. But the courts felt they had
complied with the law.
Judge Mulvany, for example, told
a jury in General Sessions that the
breathalyser was not a safe and re-
liable basis on which to form a con-
clusion on how much alcohol a
driver had drunk. He told the jury
to view the breathalyser evidence in
its proper perspective. But there was
a major triumph for the police last
week; a doctor was fined £7 for re-
fusing the breathalyser tests and £l5
plus £4/4/- costs for having been in
charge of a car while under the in-
fluence of drink. The slogan is “If
you drive don’t breathe” and it costs
£7 not to breathe into the breathaly-
ser.
The Victorian police are now im-
porting six more breathalyser
machines from Switzerland and are
claiming victory. Since February 8,
when the Government closed some of
the loopholes in the legislation, the
police have breath-tested 285 drivers
and 137 were convicted.
“The Age” has fought a long, re-
lentless campaign on these matters of
road safety. In fact “The Age” has not
been moved to such a degree since
David Syme was fighting for protec-
tionism. It seems the breathalysers
are here to stay.
In and out of Government there
was considerable difference of opinion
on this. Mr Bolte said how reluctant
he was to make anything compulsory
and one gentleman said that once
you gave motorists safety belts and
crash helmets then you merely en-
couraged motorists to drive faster
than ever.
in the midst of this debate in
A the Breathalyser State Melbourne’s
Institute of Advanced Motoring last
week acquired a marvellous machine
called a Sim-L-Car. This is a sort of
Link trainer for motorists, and Robin
Jansen, the tester at the Institute, be-
lieves that it would be ideal for
teaching Australian school children to
drive safely.
The car is stationary, and in front
of the windscreen there is a movie
screen which shows an open road. As
you put your foot on the accelerator
the scenery starts to move. The
harder you put down your foot, the
faster the road seems to slip by.
When you turn left so the road moves
and it’s exactly like driving a car.
Your pioneer, last week, was one of
the first candidates. The test was con-
ducted sober and then more happily
after a few drinks.
The car used was a Swedish Volvo,
raised off the ground and connected
to the movie screen by all sorts of
wires. Very correctly I strapped my-
self in with a safety belt, turned on
the ignition, put my foot on the ac-
celerator and I appeared to be mov-
ing. We were on a country road,
awfully un-Australian, one missed the
thousands of billboards.
It was immediately obvious that
driving called for considerable ingen-
uity. It was possible to turn down side
streets and go wherever one wanted,
but there were innumerable pedes-
trian crossings, stop signs, and other
vehicles were parked in the most
ridiculous positions.
Even though I drove most care-
fully at 30 m.p.h., we scraped the
kerb several times and when this
happened the machine gave off the
appropriate sound effects. We
changed gears and went into reverse,
and then eerily the road slipped away
in the opposite direction. Indeed I
found later that it was possible to do
80 m.p.h. in reverse and for those who
have never done 80 m.p.h. in reverse
this is a most interesting experience.
The first test was over. Robin Jan-
sen took me round the corner. He
told the bartender to keep pouring
the rum, then we returned.
There was no question, now my
driving was infinitely better. 1 avoid-
ed all the obstacles with ease and even
Mr Jansen, who has tested innumer-
able drivers on road, began to
admire my co-ordination. The harder
I put down my foot, the faster the
scenery moved. Mr Jansen called out
the speed on the speedo.
“You are doing 40, you are doing
50, now 60, now 65, careful you’re
up to 70.” It was fun. We scooted
between two parked cars, and then
the ingenious machine gave a superb
impression of a sliding turn as we
went into a corner.
Then suddenly there was a parked
car right in front of a pedestrian
crossing. What a brainless place to
have it. I gave the brakes everything
and closed my eyes. I think we hit
at 45 m.p.h.
The Sim-L-Car gave all the sound
effects of an almighty crash. I in-
voluntarily jerked against the seat
belt. On the screen we could see the
hit car in front tumbling over and
over in front of us. Then everything
came to a halt.
Robin Jansen said quietly: “Mmm,
you’ve failed rather badly. You hit
the kerb five times. You went through
a stop sign. You gave no hand sig-
nals whatever, and I have to fail you
for smashing into a parked car at 45
m.p.h. in front of a pedestrian cross-
ing.”
But this was the good thing about
the machine. There was no need even
to call a tow truck or even the RACV.
I started up at once and drove off
again, rather quickly. Even with a
Sim-L-Car you never know when
there’s a breathalyser behind you.
BATMAN


FORUM
A CATHOLIC CASE FOR
STATE AID
The principle concerns Protestants and
secularists as much as Catholics
By B. A. SANTAMARIA
THE non-Goveminent schools of Australia educate between a quarter and
a third of Australia’s children. It has emerged quite clearly that the private
sector of the Australian education system is in a state of crisis and that the
crisis will grow in intensity throughout the next two decades. Australia’s very
minor “population explosion”, through the immigration programme and a higher
birth-rate, will create a demand for new schools and schoolrooms.
It is a fair assessment it is indeed,
the positive hope, of some elements in
the community that the combination
of these pressures may ultimately
destroy the Catholic educational struc-
ture. The question is too often discussed
in terms of sectarian warfare. In fact,
the principle involved concerns the
Protestant and the secularist just as
much as the Catholic. In the long run
their rights are equally at stake.
The prevailing viewpoint in Australia
seems to be that the Australian system
in which to all intents and purposes all
public funds contributed by the whole
community are spent on two-thirds of the
children of that community is correct
in principle and at the same time the
most advanced modern practice. In fact,
Australian practice represents the
practice of a small minority among the
civilised governments of the world.
To substantiate this claim, I list the
countries which, in one way or another,
recognise the rights of parents by aiding
schools of every type: England, Scotland,
the Irish Republic and Northern Ireland
(that is, the whole of what was once
known as the British Isles) support all
types of education. So does Canada
(except British Columbia and Manitoba,
although in this latter province a Select
Committee two years ago recommended
a change of policy).
In Europe, the correct principle of
assistance to every type of education is
observed in West Germany, Luxembourg,
Austria, France, Belgium, the Nether-
lands, Denmark, Sweden, Finland and
Malta. In Africa, it i. observed by
Ghana, the Union of South Africa,
Egypt, Liberia and Morocco. In Central
and South America, it is observed by the
British West Indies, Nicaragua, the
Dominican Republic, Haiti, Chile and
Brazil.
In Asia, the following governments
recognise their financial responsibilities to
all types of schools including religious
schools: India, Pakistan, Hong Kong,
Singapore, Malaya, Korea, Japan, Indo-
nesia and Iran.
All of these countries from ad-
vanced industrial communities like Great
Britain and West Germany to rather
primitive communities like Ghana and
Liberia do exactly the opposite of
what is done in Australia in relation to
children in denominational schools.
The small minority of nations which
deny the natural rights of parents, in
which Australia finds itself, includes
some surprising companions in Italy,
Portugal, the Philippines, Venezuela and
Paraguay, New Zealand and the United
States. One could add the Communist
countries to this group. In these coun-
tries, of course, the problem is not
allowed to arise. There are no schools
other than those of the Communist
State inculcating mid - Victorian pseudo-
scientific materialism as the official
religion.
Those Australians who propagate the
idea that denominational schools should
be discouraged or even suppressed in
this country because they “divide the
community” have no valid argument
against the educational injustices which
the Italian and Portuguese Governments
visit on the Protestant parents, or, for
that matter, against the practices of the
Communist States. The Italian Govern-
ment imparts Catholic instruction in its
State system because the vast majority
of Italians being Catholics, Catholic
instructions in State schools is necessary
to the unity of the Italian community.
Protestants are treated as badly, in
principle, in Italy as Catholics are in
Australia in the interests of so-called
national unity.
The argument that the educational
system must maintain the ideological
unity of the nation at ail costs is com-
monly adduced by the same group which
vociferously proclaims its dedication to
Australia’s “British heritage”. The argu-
ment runs somewhat in this fashion: Aus-
tralia is and must remain a British
country, Britain is Protestant: or, if not
Protestant, then non-religious. An educa-
tional structure which strengthens
Catholicism will weaken the British
alignment of the Australian community.
This devotion to the British “way of
life” would be more commendable if
its protagonists believed in it sufficiently
to copy what the British themselves
actually do in the field of education. The
British system is the very opposite to
that which, in the name of loyalty to the
British ideal, they wish to perpetuate in
Australia. The British do, in fact,
recognise the natural rights of parents
in their financial outlay on education,
whereas Australian Governments do not.
Since 1944 the British Government
has paid the running costs (including all
salary costs) of the church schools.
Since 1944, it has paid 50 per cent, of
the cost of bringing existing church
schools up to new standards called for
by the State. As a result of a 1959
amendment, this proporbon was raised to
75 per cent. The only limitation
made as part of the 1944 arrangement
that there should be no State grant
towards building new church schools
is no longer rigidly maintained.
Commenting on the opposition of
certain Nonconformist elements to the
1959 liberalisation, the London “Econo-
mist”, whose approach is quite unreli-
gious, declared: “It would be an advance
in human freedom, which the State
should support within the limit of its
resources, if every British Roman
Catholic could send his children to a
Roman Catholic school if he wants to.”
phrase “State aid for denomina-
A tional schools” is totally misleading
in its expression of the basic principle at
stake.
A phrase which correctly describes
the issue involved is rather “equal treat-
ment for all children” from the public
revenues irrespective of the school
attended. In other words, so long as any
school reaches the intellectual and health
standards prescribed by the State, its
ownership and direction be it a State
school, or a Catholic or an Anglican or
a Presbyterian or a Moslem or a
Buddhist school or a school run by a
non-denominational committee to assist
spastic children —is quite irrelevant to
the State. Each child in every type of
school has an equal claim on State
revenues.
Some who violently oppose this prin-
ciple in the field of education accept it
completely in other fields. The simplest
analogy is in the field of hospital benefits.
Just as the State has assumed a respon-
sibility to ensure that every child is
educated to a certain standard, so in our
time the State has assumed a similar


responsibility in relation to medical treat-
ment of certain kinds.
Every hospital patient is entitled to a
hospital benefit of £2 16s. per week as
an irreducible minimum provided by the
State itself. The hospitals are of the most
varied types and origins. In Melbourne
there are public hospitals of secular
origin and background like the Royal
Melbourne, the Alfred and the Prince
Henry. There are public hospitals of
religious origin and religious direction
like St Vincent’s. There are private
hospitals like the Freemasons’ Hospital,
and private hospitals under religious
control like the Mercy Hospital. There
are the many small suburban hospitals
owned privately by doctors or nurses.
Acting through the Hospitals and
Charities Commission in Victoria, and
the equivalent in other States the State
satisfies itself as to the medical standards
of each hospital before granting registra-
tion. Once registration is granted the
State sensibly recognises that every hos-
pital performs a public function and it
pays the same medical benefit to patients
in every type of hospital. No religious
tests are imposed on the hospital or the
patient.
If this sensible principle prevails in the
field of public health, it is difficult to
discover any valid reason why it should
not prevail in the field of the public
education.
Government practice in relation to
hospital benefits furnishes an important
lesson also in the different fields of
administration. When the State pays the
hospital benefit, the title to the benefit
vests in the patient. Legally the amount
paid is his property. He is legally
entitled to collect it and to treat it as
part of the account which he is then
called upon to pay to the hospital. In
practice what happens is that the hos-
pital collects the benefit on the patient’s
behalf, and itself deducts the sum from
the patient’s total account.
Tf this method were adopted in the field
of public education, it could be
administered in the same way. In prin-
ciple, the State would spend the same
amount on every child without regard to
whether the school was controlled by the
State or by some independent authority.
The “education endowment” or “benefit”,
would vest in the child; but it would be
collected by the State Department of
Education for all children receiving their
education within the State system, and
by the controlling bodies of the various
independent schools for children educat-
ed by them. It would be treated as either
a total or partial discharge of the parent’s
responsibility for the child’s school fees.
What would the effect of these claims
be on State finances? The Victorian Gov-
ernment’s expenditure on education in
1959 was more than £4sm. in the total
Budget expenditure of £l6sm. It is now
far greater. To propose that the Victorian
Government should increase its expendi-
ture on education by approximately
£lom. per annum so as to put into opera-
tion the principle of “Equal treatment
for all children” would be regarded as
Utopian, as indeed it would be if it were
It is almost impossible to work out
the financial position of Catholic
schools as a whole in Australia since,
taking NSW as an example, there are
388 Catholic parishes in the State and
each one looks after its own educa-
tional finances without any central
governing authority. But the reality of
its financial crisis can easily be esta-
blished—particularly since 1956 when
the credit accumulated during the war
was finally exhausted. Catholic school
population has been increasing at the
rate of 6000 a year. At 50 to a class-
room that means 120 new classrooms
have to be found each year. At an
average cost of £5OOO-£6OOO per
classroom (including the cost of
science laboratories) that means
£720,000 has to be found each year.
Borrowed at 6 per cent that means a
new interest load of £43,000 each
year and a total load of well over
£200,000 being carried as a result
of building over the last five years.
The next five years will mean an-
other 600 classrooms costing about
£3,600,000 involving a further
interest load of about £215,000.
In view of this the crisis in Catholic
education is easily understood. On the
other hand if the Catholic schools
closed and the State schools had to
find room for another 180,000 pupils,
where would they find the money?
Education already costs the NSW
Government over £1,000,000 a week.
Where would it find another £300,000
each week?
anticipated that this should be done in
one step.
What is not Utopian is the idea that
the State should set itself a five to ten
year period in which children in the
independent schools would be brought up
to parity.
In view of the fact that the Victorian
Government does propose to increase its
expenditure on education by several mil-
lions this year it is impossible to believe
that it could not in the coming Budget
set aside £2m. as the first stage of its
programme of parity for independent
schools, making a pro-rata payment to
every child pending full settlement.
The State of Victoria could do that
today without involving itself in extra
claims on the Commonwealth. The ob-
stacles are not economic but political.
The position is similar in every other
State.
are the possibilities? 1 believe
that they are improving. With rare
exceptions democratic political parties
are not monsters of prejudices and ill-
will. If anything, they are rational to the
point of cynicism. If there is great
political advantage to be gained in a
particular measure a democratic party
can be expected to seek that advantage
unless it is trapped in the grip of an
ideological group like the Communists
and their fellow-travellers.
For the first time since the 1870 s I
believe that the political facts have begun
to favor a solution of the schools’ prob-
lem on just terms.
What are the attitudes of the several
parties? The Democratic Labor Party,
which represents 9 per cent, of the elec-
torate (approximately) with half a million
votes is pledged to the revolutionary
policy which the ALP first proclaimed in
1951 “that financial aid be granted
to the States for the purpose of assisting
all forms of education”. In 1953, the
ALP interpreted this revolutionary
change in its platform as covering full
assistance to independent schools. After
the 1955 “split”, the DLP retained this
policy in its Federal platform.
While the DLP has retained this
policy, the record of the ALP is neither
as consistent nor as happy. At its 1957
Brisbane Federal Conference, the ALP
quite explicitly removed this clause from
its platform. It made it clear that while
it believed in bursaries and scholarships
at the secondary level, it was opposed to
any assistance to independent schools or
scholars at the primary level.
That rather remarkable psychological
phenomenon known as the Victorian
Executive summed up the position with
fine bravado at its 1956 Conference when
it stated: “Education shall be free, com-
pulsory and secular from the kindergarten
to the University and no aid in any form
whatsoever shall be given to any private
or denominational school.”
The New South Wales Branch of the
party does not state its policy in such
explicit terms, but the policy it carries
out is the same.


I
m
A A
:<;•••• ■
HHB
n:%.
r
2
MIGHTY
GOOD
REASONS\
FOR. INCLUDING
IN YOUFI NEXT OVERSEAS TRJP
On your way to or from the U.K. flying
via South Africa costs only £4O more
(the tore varies slightly from the various capital cities)
Whether your next overseas trip be for business
or pleasure (or both!), South Africa richly merits
inclusion in your itinerary. Business-wise, South
Africa is a very logical market for Australian goods
of most every description. What's more, it's only
hours away by S.A.A.'s Australia-South Africa-U.K.
service.
When you consider that a side trip to South Africa,
costing about £4O more in air fares, could earn you
a prosperous new export market, it's surely worth the
time involved!
These are some of the items Australia
exports to South Africa
Foodstuffs Paints Hardware Electrical
Goods Motor Vehicles Kitchenware
Machinery, all types Rubber, Plastic and
Leather Goods Timber Sporting Goods
Chemicals Piece Goods Synthetic Yarns,
is your product here?
Pleasure-wise, the attractions
of South Africa are among
the wonders of the world.
Fabulous Kruger National
Park, with its teeming wild
life, towering mountains, the
diamond mines at Kimberley,
Victoria Falls these are
among the tourist musts your
camera will want to record.
See your travel agent.
Fly 40UTH FMGAN IRWA YS
Choice of daylight or overnight flights
by magnificent Boeing 707 Stratojets
between Johannesburg and London
with choice of stop-overs at no
extra air fare, or non-stop to Athens
and again onward to London
IN ASSOCIATION WITH QANTAS, 8.0.A.C., C.A.A. AND E.A.A.
SA£B9/*a.|i
Mr Calwell was faithfully guarding
his party's policy of opposition to assist-
ance for independent schools when he
ruled out of order a proposal by Mr
Minogue (ALP member for West Syd-
ney) to lead a deputation to secure a
change of policy. Later the Federal
Executive of the ALP firmly rebuffed
those members of the Caucus who
thought they had the right to interfere
with the policy of “no aid to church
schools”. Behind this rebuke there clearly
lay a threat to the endorsement of re-
calcitrant members.
The Liberal Party was once quite
above concern with the problem of
independent schools. At several levels of
the Liberal Party there was —and is—
a great deal of old-fashioned sectarianism
to explain this attitude. This sectarianism
was not a sentiment which the Liberal
professional politician felt any need to
oppose. Catholics, who were mainly
concerned, were felt to be unregenerate
Labor voters. There was no electorate
advantage in worrying about their pro-
blems. In recent years, however, there
has been a mellowing to say the least.
The Western Australian Liberal
Premier has gone on record as support-
ing the principle of public funds for
independent schools. The Tasmanian
Branch of the Liberal Party in April,
1959, declared its support of the same
principle. The Menzies Government
adopted a modest programme in the
Federal Capital Territory when it under-
took to cover the interest payments on
loans for construction of independent
schools up to a limit of 5 per cent, and
of 20 years’ duration.
The NSW branch of the Country Party
has made a declaration of policy on
similar lines.
Conclusion:
May I summarise the propositions I
have put forward
1. I am opposed to “State aid to de-
nominational schools,” as a state-
ment of principle,
2. I believe that the State should in
principle spend the same amount on
the education of every child, irrespec-
tive of its religion or the school it
attends.
3. Just as the Government pays exactly
the same “hospital benefit” for every
hospital patient, so I believe that it
should pay an “education benefit” to
each child in a non-Government
school. This “benefit” vesting in the
child would be directed to the pay-
ment of school fees.
4. Total equality could not be imple-
mented in one stroke. It could be
implemented over a specified period
of years.
A beginning should be made now.


LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
JOBS FOR THE CHAPS
My attention has been called to an
article appearing on page nine of your
issue of 23rd June, 1962, headed “Jobs
for the Chaps.” The article is signed by
“Phillip”.
Your contributor professes to find it
ludicrous that there should be Labor
Councillors in the County Council. He
is, of course, entitled to his own opinion
on this point. If, however, he disapproves
of their presence he must blame the
policy framers of the Labor Party and
not the present Councillors. It is many
years since it was decided that the voice
of official Labor should be heard in all
Local Government bodies. The County
Council has had Labor representation
ever since its inception in 1935. The con-
tinuing progress of the body since that
date is sufficient evidence that this repre-
sentation has not impaired its efficiency.
What your contributor is not entitled
to do, however, is to distort facts for the
purpose of supporting his opinion. He
states categorically that the fact that
there is a Labor majority on the Council
is due to most of the municipal bodies
being Labor dominated. It is true that
three Councillors are elected by the
Council of the City of Sydney which
returns a majority of Labor aldermen.
The remaining three Labor Councillors,
however, have been elected by consti-
tuencies which comprise a majority of
non-Labor aldermen. Unpalatable though
it may be to your contributor these
three must be taken to have been elected
on their merits.
Again your contributor finds something
particularly shameful in the way in
which Labor Councillors conduct the
business of the Council. He imports a
cloak and dagger atmosphere in his
allegations that we meet in an ante-room
the day before the full gathering. We
have never, in my recollection, met in an
ante-room nor are we in the habit of
foregathering on a Sunday which is, of
course, the day before the ordinary
Council meeting day. These inaccuracies
apart, the Labor Councillors conduct
their business in exactly the same way as
the Federal Labor Party and the State
Labor Party have been conducting their
affairs for the last sixty years. The sug-
gestion that the opposition is “steam-
rollered” by these tactics is also quite
unjustified. If your contributor could be
persuaded to do the necessary research
he might be surprised to find that only
on a comparatively small number of oc-
casions is there conflict between Labor
Councillors and the Independents.
Your contributor seeks to make much
of an alleged feud between the Labor
Councillors and the General Manager,
Mr C. E. Ranger. He goes so far as to
suggest that this feud has a political
basis when he says “for one thing Mr
Ranger was appointed before Labor got
control of the Council; and secondly, he
doesn’t quite hit it off with some of the
ALP chaps”.
(1) Mr Ranger was appointed by a Labor-
controlled Council.
(2) During the whole of Mr Ranger’s
General Managership the Council
has been controlled by Labor.
(3) It is quite untrue to say that Mr
Ranger has only had two days’ leave
in the last couple of years and is
afraid to go on holidays.
On the contrary Mr Ranger took
three weeks’ leave only a couple of
months ago.
I have never at any time questioned
the high qualifications of Mr Ranger
for his position. My fellow Councillors
and myself have on a number of occa-
sions expressed our appreciation of his
ability.
Your contributor ends with the
pleasant forecast that the Labor Council-
lors, or some of them at any rate, are
destined for political oblivion within the
near future. To quote him “prominent
Labor men have almost been talking of
Councillors Ibbett, Doherty and one
or two others in the past tense” To
“almost talk” would appear to be a re-
markable feat even for a prominent
Labor man. It would have been more
generous of the writer had he seen fit
to indicate that within the last few months
two of our number offered themselves for
election for State seats in the State Par-
liament which could in no way be des-
cribed as Labor “plums”, and both men
were successful.
Their success encourages me in the
hope that your contributor’s forecasts
will prove to be as inaccurate as his
facts.
G. R. IBBETT
Chairman of the Sydney County Council.
PHILLIP REPLIES:
Councillor Ibbett is right: I do find it
ludicrous that there should be Labor Coun-
cillors on the Sydney County Council. What
earthly place do politics have in the distribu-
tion of electricity? He is wrong in suggesting
that I blame the Councillors personally. I
clearly said that the Labor Party has its
fingers in most pies in Sydney. It is this
Party intrusion which I—and many other
Sydney people—object to.
It appears I was wrong in saying that most
of the municipal bodies which elect the
Councillors are Labor-dominated. The Syd-
ney City Council, which elects three to the
County Council, is Labor-controlled. And a
fair number of the other 23 councils, which
return the other County Councillors, are
Labor. Cr Ibbett knows as well as I do
that these Councils have elected Labor
representatives on the SCC because only
the Labor men vote as a bloc; the Inde-
pendents are split; the Labor nominees need
win only a few Independent votes to gain
election.
Again, Councillor Ibbett is right—in claim-
ing that I object to the Labor majority’s
method of conducting the County Coun-
cil’s affairs. He denies that the Labor coun-
cillors meet “in an ante-room” or on the
“day before” the full Council meeting—but
he does not deny the point of the statement:
that the Council is run by the Labor Caucus,
and not by the full membership.
In regard to Mr Ranger, Cr Ibbett’s three
numbered points expose apparent errors in
my knowledge of the situation. For these I
apologise.
But I do not apologise for referring to
a “feud” between Mr Ranger and the Coun-
cil. Cr Ibbett cannot remove from the re-
cord Mr Ranger’s clash with Council over
Mr Maguire or the pettiness of Council
in overruling Mr Ranger immediately he
went on holidays last year, bringing the
general manager scurrying back to his of-
fice after only two days’ leave.
A very casual reading of my article will
confirm Cr Ibbett’s statement that I did
not enter into the “pros and cons” of the
Council’s scheme for a new headquarters
building. Therefore how he can say 1
“poured scorn” on the Council over this I
am at a loss to see.
The crux of the whole issue, the basis of
my original article and the point on which
I both began and ended my article:
® The ALP State Executive is dissatis-
fied with the way some of its members
are running the Sydney County Council.
• On the recommendation of its offi-
cers, the recent ALP State Conference em-
powered the Executive to pre-select Labor’s
future County Councillors.
® It is common talk (no matter how
you phrase it grammatically) that at least
two existing Labor Councillors will be
dumped.
And Cr Ibbett knows darned well that’s
true!
STATE AID TO EDUCATION
Sir,
F. X. Feeney (Bulletin, June 16)
displays quite a lack of knowledge in his
letter concerning “State Aid to Educa-
tion.” The 1953 Federal Conference
of the ALP determined a policy of “Aid
to all forms of education.” The 1957
Federal Conference altered this by adopt-
ing a policy of aid to the scholar direct,
not to the school, for secondary and
higher education. The previous policy
was never rescinded, there was no occa-
sion to do so. When the present policy
was adopted in 1957 a substantial number
of Catholics were among those who
unanimously carried the proposal.
F. X. Feeney states, inter-alia, that
it is regrettable Mr R. H. Lacey is one
of those who supports the ultra-Left
Wing Victorian ALP executive. Un-
fortunately this is far from true. The
Victorian Branch of the ALP is the
strongest branch of the party, the Vic-
torian Central Executive has upheld
and is still upholding the highest tradi-
tions of true Labor. Mr Lacey has at all
times opposed the Victorian delegates
on the Federal Executive someone
must have been “pulling Mr Feeney’s
leg” for him to state otherwise.
J. P. BREBNER
Victorian Federal Executive Delegate.
Clifton Hill {Victoria).


THE TOWNLEY TOUCH
Sir,
As television is not available in the
North, your publication of the Four
Corners interview with Athol Townley
was most interesting (Bulletin, June 30).
The naivety of the reaction of our
Defence Minister to his trip to Indonesia
is disturbing. Does he really think that
we are inclined to forget these people
when nearly every day they are in the
news with their escapades in New
Guinea?
D. B. JENNINGS
Mt Surprise Station via Cairns,
(Queensland).
AUSTRALIAN CIVILIZATION
Sir,
Henry Mayer’s review of “Australian
Civilization" Bulletin, July 7) buckles
at the point that matters most. The
significance of the book is surely that
it shows a broadening of the grounds
on which we assess ourselves. Yet to
Henry Mayer this is “a retreat from the
Australianist legend”. The writers, he
says, wish “to separate themselves from
much of our past history”, “to stand
apart”; they reveal “a resentment that
(their) particular values have not been
widely recognised until recently” “all
the signs of a minority unsure of itself”.
What we need to do by way of
review and reassessment is clearly
indicated by Russell Ward at the very
beginning of “The Australian Legend”.
. . the Australian legend” he writes,
. . has a solid substratum of fact but
this does not mean that it comprises all,
or even most, of what we need to know
to understand Australia and Australian
history. . . ”
“Civilization” editor, Peter Coleman,
makes the position quite clear. He
acknowledges that the radical legend in
Australian history has illuminated a lot
of ground and stimulated painstaking
research into episodes which fit the
interpretation, but, he objects, “it gives
approval to a simple rather than a broad
conception of human motives . . . even
more serious is the violence done to the
truth and the emotions”. “In recent
years”, he adds, “historians have been
filling in the gaps”.
Mayer’s odd conception leads him to
the unhappy paragraph in which he sees
“civilisation’s” authors as trying to con-
tribute to something from which they
are simultaneously trying to retreat. Yet
it would be hard to describe the mood
of the book as one of timid indecision.
Indeed it vigorously serves notice on the
“Australianists” that they no longer
monopolise the field.
NOEL GOSS
East Melbourne (Vic.).
Sir,
It is surely significant of something
about Australian civilisation that so
many people seem unable to discuss the
symposium on “Australian Civilization”
without using the uncivilised methods of
argument. Whenever I have heard the
book discussed people have ended up
using the most violent language with
each other. Mr Cooper’s comment on
Mr H. Mayer’s review of the book is a
case in point. Because Mayer says the
contributors revealed unconsciously how
influenced they were by the Australian
legend they were criticising. Mr Cooper
says he should stick to marking first-
year essays. 11 this is regarded as a
method of argument, the book was
obviously premature.
W. WILSON
Adelaide.
THE USSR IN AUSTRALIA
Sir,
I laughed so much at “conquering lion
amongst his questioning lambs wherever
he went”, in L. J. Roberts’ “USSR in
Australia”, I was hardly able to hold
my pen while writing a letter of
appreciation to Pastor Larsen of Cairns.
Pastor Larsen was guest speaker at
the next Apex Club meeting following
the visit of Mr Makarov, second sec-
retary to the Russian Embassy. The
pastor’s subject, “Methods of Combat-
ing Communism in Australia”.
C. J. TOWNSON
(President, Apex Club of
Gordonvale.)
Gordonvale (Queensland).
THE OLD CRACKED RECORD
Sir,
Mr E. Butler (Bulletin, June 30)
complains that he is being smeared. 1
wonder if he would answer just one
question. Does he, or does he not run a
bookshop where salacious and Streicher-
like anti-Jewish books and pamphlets
are sold?
If he does, then, though I teach my
children loyalty to God. Oueen and
country (as suggested by J. Browne
Bulletin, June 30), I shall also teach
them to thoroughly of Mr
Butler and his works.
(Mrs) PHYLLIS GREY
St A maud (Victoria).
TEACHING ARTISTS HOW
Sir,
Your writer, Mr Garry Shead
(Bulletin, June 30) shows commend-
able concern for art training in Sydney.
The Svdney school is referred to as
“. . . the present seat of art training in
Australia. . . ” and further that “The
National Art School is the largest institu-
tion for art training in Australia”, from
which the reader may assume that other
States are worse off or no better Such
an impression would be quite wrong.
The largest, the School of Art in the
Royal Melbourne Institute of Tech-
nology, provides a full range of art train-
ing representing the needs of the whole
community, many of which Mr Shead
did not even mention.
It introduced the study of Industrial
Design years ago, and is the only art
school in Australia providing such a
course of study at Diploma level. In
Australia’s present situation, this should
be one of the most urgent considerations
in art training.
All the facilities Mr Shead laments as
lacking in Sydney, are provided as a
matter of course for all students in the
broad division of Graphic Design. These
include a graphic production and typo
graphic laboratory, a print making
studio, and fabric printing facilities for
the Fabric Printing Design Diploma.
Apart from painting and sculpture
there are also diploma departments of
Gold and Silversmithing, Pottery,
Fashion Design, Embroidery, Advertis-
ing Art, Illustration, Fabric Printing
Design, and Industrial Design.
V. E. GREENHALGH
(Head, School of Art,
Royal Melb. Institute of Technology.)
Victoria.
THE SKY BURNING...
Sir,
I support the views held by your
correspondents Sheila Tassel and E. J.
Trait (Bulletin, July 7).
I regret you appear to find necessary,
the introduction of stories or articles
touching on sex, which matter is
adequately dealt with elsewhere for
those seeking “a greater awareness of
life”.
Keep your standard high and do not
stain it with small splashes of mud.
H. F. McDERMOTT
Adelaide.
Sir,
1 have been a reader of youi paper
since I was a boy prior to the First War
but I wish to tell you that I fully
support E. J. Trait (Bulletin, July 7)
in his comments about your story “The
Sky Burning up Above the Man”. I
recognise your right to publish what you
like and acknowledge that faults are to
be found in any class of society but
feel that your explanation is weak and
does not hold water and consequently,
with some regret, must find some paper,
other than yours.
C. D. GAVAN DUFFY
Camperdown (Victoria).
Sir,
I read your short story “The Sky
Burning Above the Man” and was dis-
appointed in it as I thought it was well
below the standard of stories which have
made The Bulletin the paper which it
used to be, and upon the reputation of
which I’m afraid you are trading now.
However, my disappointment with
your publishing such a story has been
furthered by your lame reply to a letter
by E. J. Trait who has protested about
your publishing the story.
Like your other correspondent I have
been a reader of The Bulletin for
nearly half a century and as I remarked
earlier I am disappointed to see the
paper degenerating.
FRANK P. BYRNE.
Watsonia (Victoria).


REVIEWS
THEATRE
CONTACT WITH LIFE
The Ham Funeral. Patrick White
Elizabethan Theatre Trust. Palace
Theatre.
Billy Liar. Waterhouse and Hall
Ensemble Theatre. Sydney.
Patrick White’s novels a sensi-
A bility emerges of someone who
cares more passionately for places,
events, houses, things, fates, than
people. A kind of love for people is
there, but a shy love, overlaid by rich
writing. The compassion is present at
one remove, just distant enough to make
one wonder how much White is in fact
involved with those for whom his art
is destined As with Tennessee Williams,
there is room to doubt if he is really on
the side of the angels.
There was room to doubt, rather, for
“The Ham Funeral” is now in front of us
to stand as a brilliant, overwhelming
witness for Patrick White’s humanity
and warmth Here is a play that gives
anything else being written nowadays a
run for its money.
The play is simple; it brings an ex-
ceptionally talented and sensitive young
man into contact with life through his
landlady, and her dead husband. Mrs
Lusty gives her husband a fine funeral,
with ham as the main dish of the funeral
feast. She also tears herself apart for
the young poet, she shows the great and
burning fires of life that are in her.
Unashamed about her lust and her
yearnings, her memories of a dead son,
her hunger for the male body, she is, if
you like, ultimate female, raging with
magnificence through all the biological
drives of woman. But what a creation
she is! Naked and honest, Mrs Lusty
stands up for all the world to marvel
at.
How White has harnessed this power-
house into a lyrical form is the secret
of a great artist, but he has done so.
Somehow, most of the underlying fury
of human living has been compressed
and selected into a universal play whose
dominant feeling is true lyricism, a
lyricism that gentles one into profound
pity and knowledge, that finally shep-
herds one into a preserve that is, simply,
Life.
Why this play should ever have had
the slightest reserve in its backing from
the Trust is unbelievable. If the Trust
has equity in the world production
rights, then they should at once try for
London, and above all, Broadway pro-
duction of the play. If Pinter can
succeed commercially, then this White
play must have a noble future.
Acting in the p|ay was mostly good
enough to match the writing, with Miss
Joan Bruce, as Mrs Lusty, giving an
evening of theatrical splendour Mr
John Adams, as the young man, the poet,
had a hard task in acting a most ex-
ceptional young man White has given
the young man remarkable language—
language which presumes an outstanding
mind and nature —and to play such an
exceptional young man requires either
a young actor of genius or an older
actor of decided power. It is no dis-
credit to Mr Adams that he does not
quite realise this role.
In the past I have found it hard to
admire Mr John Tasker as a producer,
remembering some work at the National
Institute of Dramatic Art, but he has
done nobly by this play, achieving a
tautness and overall rhythm that grips
the audience irresistibly. If he can
achieve a lift in the tempo of a short
scene in which two old gutter women
give a frightening glimpse of hell to
the young man, I will have not even the
slightest complaint. It is a production
for our Australian theatre to be proud
of, with a setting by Wendy Dickson
hardly to be bettered.
For some quite incredible reason, the
season for this great play, the only great
play yet written here, is being limited
to three weeks. Mr Hutchison had
better get organised and get it out to
the Elizabethan or somewhere else.
At the Ensemble, amid laughter, Billy
Liar has opened. It is little but
very old-fashioned farce, filled with
music-hall and vaudeville situations and
gags. This is not to say that you will
have anything but a very, very funny
evening, for Mr Gordon has produced
the comedy with wonderful speed and
brio, and his cast have come up with
some very beguiling performances in-
deed. The play has been extraordinarily
well cast, also, with a team that
balances each other and plays off one
another with confidence.
Even if the play tails off towards its
end, you will have more than enough
laughs to make you happy if it’s an
evening of comedy you’re after. A
young newcomer, Carol Rachell, plays a
demi-tart with remarkable physical
impact.
KEVON KEMP
HEROIC INTEGRITY
A Man for all Seasons. Robert Bolt.
Comedy Theatre. Melbourne.
The Ballad of Angel’s Alley. Jeff
Underhill and Bruce George. Russell
Street Theatre.
Tt is a measure of the success of “A
Man For All Seasons” that one
comes away from it full of the splendour
of Thomas More. Robert Bolt, Robert
Speaight and the others are eminently
worth talking about, and they and their
work must form the subject matter of
a review. But that More lived is the
really important thing.
This is not to say that the play is
a propaganda piece. It is nobler and
simpler than that. No doctrine is
preached, no issues are falsified, but the
one big issue, More’s refusal to conform,
is isolated, in order that his heroic
integrity may be seen and praised. The
Common Man, the King, Cromwell and
Rich are shown to have been guilty
men, but whether they were villains is
simply, not in question. More was a
hero That is the point,
Mr Bolt’s generosity of mind is in
itself a rare and most admirable thing;
it is not, by any means, his only claim
to our attention. This play is supremely
well written. Its dialogue is earthy and
concrete, it suggests the period without
sounding archaic, and, above all, it is
radiantly clear. Many of More’s lines,
of course, come from his own reported
conversation, but these do not stand out
awkwardly —Mr Bolt’s improvisations
are of comparable quality and kind.


Throughout the play language is put to
its highest uses, the elucidation of mean-
ing, the refinement of thought. This
brings an intellectual delight rare in the
modern theatre, perhaps unknown since
Shaw. Nor are the emotions stinted
indeed they are presented with a truth
and directness, a freedom from awful
artifice, which may be even rarer.
Robert Speaight’s performance is one
of the finest we have seen in Melbourne.
In the early scenes he allows himself a
few fussy movements of head and shoul-
ders which suggest self-consciousness at
war with art, and in the family scene
which precedes More’s imprisonment
there is, perhaps, a slight uncertainty in
his handling of the big emotion. But
these are small blemishes in a character-
ization notable for its clear and powerful
intelligence and its deep humanity. Mr
Speaight’s More is completely convincing
as intellectual, saint and man. John
Gray is splendid as the Common Man
(a part used by Mr Bolt in a most inter-
esting narrative-symbolic way) and, of
the others, none is weak and most are
distinctly strong. Joan Ma .Arthur as Mrs
More, Carmen Duncan as Meg, and
Edward Hepple as Cromwell are partic-
ularly impressive. Raymond Westwell’s
production is excellent, Desmond Digby’s
set good in conception, although a little
awkward in use.
There are some doubts in my mind
about details of the play, in particular
about the last ten minutes or so, which
seem rather unhappily poised between
history and art. At the moment, though,
I am content to waive the ultimate
questions, and proclaim the good news
—whether or not this is a great play, it
is a very good one, very well done, and
thoroughly worth an evening of anyone’s
time.
“7T<he Ballad of Angel’s Alley” is a
loud, fast and funny musical about
Push warfare in a mythical Melbourne.
It features such people as Codger and
Bottler (Bloods of Angel’s Alley), and
Fizz-Gig Foley of the Romeo Lane Push.
It has good tunes, good lines and a silly
story which amuses nearly all of the
time because it does not pretend to
be anything else. Within its class this
production by John Young, with
choreography by Judd Laine, is a
brilliant success —at least as good as the
average imported musical, and the best
thing of local origin we have seen for
years.
The company is unusually strong.
William Hodge as Bill Fiddler and
Robert Hornery as Constable Blame-
worthy (a Ray Bolger role) are perhaps
the brightest stars, but there is not a
weakness anywhere. It is a particular
pleasure to see the zest and skill with
which many of the union’s regular
straight players tackle their parts.
Despite the small stage and the great
activity, there is never a moment’s con-
fusion the dancing is spirited, the
groupings wonderfully clear, the pace
splendidly maintained. Anne Fraser’s
set and costumes are first-class. All in
all, this is a delightful show, and should
be seen.
JAMES MURPHY
VARIED COURSES
Dinner with the Family. Jean Anouilh.
Canberra Repertory Society.
11/1. Anouilh is one of the most
■*•*■*■ versatile of contemporary men of
the theatre, and “Dinner with the Family”
shows him in a lighthearted mood, giving
his actors a wonderful chance to show
their paces. Act 1 establishes a promis-
ing situation of which the producer, Oscar
Vilks, took full advantage, and so did the
actors. The handsome young hero
(French of course) finds himself un-
comfortably placed as the main angle in
an eternal quadrilateral (present wife,
present mistress, future w. or m.); in
order to impress the nice young girl
(future w. or m.) he decides to set up a
respectable home for the evening. In a
hired house, the hero plays the role of
the nice young man he had pretended to
be; the hired catering manager plays the
part of the family butler; and two seedy
actors, engaged for the evening, supply
the respectable parents. As these two
provincial hams, Maida Parkes and Ken
Kinsman rioted through their scenes with
a versatility and gusto worthy of this
absurd conception.
Nothing afterwards was ever quite so
good, though it was still great fun. This
was largely M. Anouilh’s fault. It is one
thing to set in motion an improbable
plot, rich in possibilities for mistaken
identity, double entendres and innuendo;
it is quite another to bring it to rest at
the final curtain after an equally satis-
factory progress through two acts.
We do not accept the play’s solution.
Probably we are not intended to, for the
last speech, by the caterer-butler, reminds
us that we are where we began, in farce;
and even the most experienced actor
would have trouble making such a two-
faced hero sympathetic or convincing on
a realistic level. So the Repertory produc-
tion was well advised to keep the whole
affair light; to stress the comic aspects
of little irregularities over women or
money; to provide in Jenny Leng such
a charming young girl that the hero’s
behavior was easily excusable, and to
give everyone a thoroughly entertaining
evening.
HOPE HEWITH
ART
TRIUMPHANT
FROM RAY MATHEW IN LONDON
T ondon’s home of triumphant causes,
the Whitechapel Gallery, is showing
Arthur Boyd’s retrospective exhibition
and the local reviewers have looked and
twittered their approval of his tech-
nique, their excitement at his exoticism,
their discernment about his influences.
One of them—Basil Taylor in The Sun-
day Times —appears to be actually
squawking with alarm at this latest sign
of the triumph of Australianism, a term
he apparently has coined “to denote the
greatly successful marriage of English
taste and patronage with the art which
has been immigrating from” Australia.
Even he, as he sneers at “sacred kang-
aroo” and “obvious romanticism”,
acknowledges Boyd’s quality and for-
sees his “resounding success”.
He is right about Boyd’s success with
the critics and, in a way, right about the
romanticism. The pictures are romantic
in their faith in the importance of in-
dividual emotion. The newer ones do
look like rushed outbursts in an effort
to catch at emotion; they are, many of
them, seemingly lyrical. But with this
“obvious romanticism” goes an effort,
thrilling in its urgency, to equate parti-
cular individual emction with what all
of us feel or have felt, to affirm that it
is not Arthur Boyd hanging on the wall
but all of us. He uses common know-
ledge (imitations of other artists), Bib-
lical subjects, myth and cliche even to
force us to identify with his subject, to
bring our background to it and to
acknowledge our participation in the
moment he has caught. Most of his
pictures are anguished admissions of
society’s role in (against?) individual
emotion.
What individual emotion? Love and
despair, guilt and desire, the possibility
of life and the fear of death, hopeless-
ness hoping. . . . The longed-for, hated,
ever-present judgment of spy, voyeur,
parent, wife, teacher, angel, god. . . .
The fear always of rejection, rejection
by the chosen one, rejection by the
dreamt-of imagined one, rejection even
by one’s self. Only the judge will not
reject.
It is the world of adolescence, that
world of isolated grotesqued emotion
which fills the dreams of all of us; these
are night pictures. Their landscape is
Australia; their colors Australia, and the
transmutations of Australian dreams; an
Australia so erotic light can become
flesh, woman become insect, man become
stag become tree, the whole world blend
trembling into a sudden fugitive union or
a detumescent peace and the whole world


harrowed, flogged—almost to exhaustion
—by guilt. Lovers fly to one another,
meet in air, must fall; the loved one
hovers like a bird or a thought; bodies
mingle or pass through one another; there
is no substance, no permanence, no
escape. Where there might be content,
fulfilment, self, the mood broken al-
ways by the monstrous frog or the flitting
bird, the staring blonde-haired woman or
the great-eyed watching man. Accusa-
tion, judgment ... no escape. A woman
hides in a veil and a dog which is a rat
claws at her camouflage.
In the more recent paintings the dog
is a constant, a catalyst sometimes
black, sometimes red, sometimes smiling
like Nipper on the HMV labels, some-
times grim as Cerberus at the gates of
hell. It is the tracker’s dog, the jackal
of death, the bite of sensuality the hound
of heaven itself.
V/ith all his sex-insistence and guilt
and defiant shamelessness, Boyd is a
religious painter celebrating the need for
orthodoxy, the futility of revolt. The
horror of excommunication has seldom
been so pitilessly painted. In “Expul-
sion” (1960), the woman —head down,
arms raised to hide her pain—stumbles
through the uninhabited land; the water
underfoot splashes an accusing white —
white which is the sterility of snow and
bridal dress, the punishment of clown’s
face and death, the promise of life. . . .
God also put it well to Eve.
Few painters can be more concerned
with the pressures of society and religion,
the need to huddle together, but Boyd’s
way is to paint the outlaws and to show
pitifully their fate; the blackman shot,
the woman cursed, the lovers leaping
together and apart as though it were
possible to escape. It is net. Always
the watching eye and a conforming
nature which accuses.
INDISPENSABLE PATRONS
Selections from the Voss Smith Collec-
tion. Museum of Modern Art.
Melbourne.
Elizabeth Dtsrack. Athenaeum Gallery.
Melbourne.
collection of Mr Voss Smith, which
has been bought by the Terry Clune
Galleries for £.30,000, is diverse and
discriminating. Australians, especially
Melbourne figurative painters, have been
made an important part of the collection,
and it is interesting to cee how well
they compare with their contemporaries.
They look in fact to be rather more
positive and vigorous tnan most of the
overseas works; and after seeing this col-
lection, it should surprise nobody that
Australians do well overseas.
There is a good number of famous
names to be found he.e, names whose
works are seldom seen in the original—
Mathieu, Riopelle, Lowry, Piper, Lurcat
and a host of others, some distinguished
more by their school than their whole
work, but all of intrinsic merit. Overall
the collection demonstrates what may be
done without huge resources. Obviously
to be a collector at all implies a certain
fanaticism simply for the activity itself,
but this particular one also reflects a
long-standing and close interest in the
work of young painters still trying to
establish themselves. Such an interest
must of course involve a few dead losses,
but the selection shown here is remark-
ably perceptive. Patrons of Mr Voss
Smith’s taste are indispensable to the
progress of painting.
It does nevertheless always seem a
pity to me that painting defends so much
on private collections. I am not sug-
gesting that any collector be denied the
pleasure he gets both Torn having the
painting and from helping the artist; but
it is most regrettable that there are not
more public collectors to counterbalance
the connoisseurs, and spread the distinc-
tion of good taste among more people.
The trade in faded Impressionist prints
for schools, offices and public buildings
is always distressing. Philistinism may
well be inbred in the public, but our
very good painting is surely not so
obscure that all but initiates should be
ignorant of it. Yet this is the case. The
so-called Philistine may indeed be merely
one who approves what he knows, and
takes pride in condemning what he is
simply ignorant of. The art which pro-
vokes the greatest Philistinism in this
country is the art in which we most
excell.
Elizabeth Durack, at the Athenaeum
Gallery, has nothing very stimulating to
offer. The large series of aboriginal
sketches are based on very limited motifs,
and hardly say anything about their
subject which would not be acceptable
in a children’s book about the quaint but
soulful character c. the aborigines. Her
paintings attempt a thoroughly different
technique from the glossy copy book
realism of the drawings, a sort of tachist
technique which tries to blend people
and landscape by reducing both to the
same level of decomposition. The tech-
nique is far too obvious, and repetitive,
and as far as I can see, serves no par-
ticular point. The colour range is
unpleasant, something like that of an oil
slick on grey mud.
BILL HANNAN
HUMAN VALUES
Frank de Silva. Moreton Galleries.
Brisbane.
lAe Silva is a comparatively young
artist who has won at least two im-
portant prize competitions, the Richards
(Brisbane) 1957 and the McCaughey
(Melbourne) 1960. He is showing 27 oils,
all but one, a lame sort of thing about
the Brisbane central railway station,
notable for some endearing individual
qualities. All are representational and
mostly conventional but saved from
boredom by these qualities. All but three
are landscapes and there are three genre
or figure studies. The landscapes are very
well painted and occasionally beautifully
composed, notably “Maleny Landscape”
which is a long saddleback slope diagon-
ally down the canvas cut across by
parallel lines of trees in dark green
foliage. This holds the eye firmly as do
two studies of rocky boulder country.
In all the works there is a vivid imagi-
nation at work and an obviously strong
but genuine feeling for the subjects that
eliminates all suggestion of the common-
place. And in the figure studies there is
a concern for human values: the social
commentary is sound and clear but quite
unforced. The brushwork deserves spe-
cial mention: it is beautifully clean and
so fine as to produce a uniformly smooth
surface with just the faintest high gloss.
The artist has worked hard and faith-
fully to please; I think he succeeds.
J. V. DUHIG
TOO FAR
Michael Shannon. Bonython Gallery.
Adelaide.
Tf you are exasperated by painters who
leave the edges of things muzzily
undefined, a visit to Michael Shannon’s
current show will convince you that one
can also go too far the other way. He
uses hard black thick outlines to give a
feeling of stifling uprightness and recti-
tude to figures and buildings, many of
which seem like hand-colored woodcuts
or even scenes from totalitarian postage
stamps. Though well and deliberately
made, such pictures fail to charm the
eye, but two or three break away from
this manner so inhibiting to the beholder.
“A Winter’s Tale”, the major work
shown, is a magnificently anecdotal piece
with a fine curvy bhd over a man in a
house. Enquiry revealed it to be • theme
from a poem by Dylan Thomas, and
this prompted the gentle thought that if
this is the effect on him of poetry it
would be nicer for us if, for a while,
Mr Shannon should read more black
lines and paint them less.
EARLE HACKETT


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
OSULUVAN
: PIYLTD <
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANU FACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
HOW TO SUCCEED
AS A
FREELANCE WRITER
If you have an aptitude for writing,
STOTT’S Correspondence Courses in
Story Writing, Freelance Journalism,
Script Writing, etc., will teach you to
write successfully for the Press.
For free Prospectus about STOTT’S
Literary Courses, mail the coupon
today.
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagh St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 22 Howard
St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON'
TO STOTT’S: Please send me, without
obligation, your Prospectus, and full
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
any
par-
AGE
B. 1462
FILMS
WASTEFUL SPINSTERHOOD
Summer and Smoke. Victory, Sydney.
TPhe film version of Tennessee Williams’
A “Summer and Smoke” is worth
seeing for a memorable performance by
Geraldine Page and for the pleasure of
encountering Williams in an earlier,
tenderer vein, unencumbered by the ob-
session with depravity that marks most
of his later works.
“Summer and Smoke” is in the mood
of “The Glass Menagerie”, and shares
with it the theme of wasteful spinster-
hood. It is not as good, not as unified a
play as “The Glass Menagerie”; it has
jarring intrusions of melodrama, and
some of the characters are stereotypes,
but it creates one richly observed figure
and it does capture a distinctive atmos-
phere.
It is set in Williams’ favorite Gulf
country, in a small Mississippi town,
period 1916. The heroine is a parson’s
daughter, enslaved to a mentally de-
ranged mother and fading too quickly
into old-maidhood. The disturbing factor
in her precise, prudish world is the boy
next door, a hell-raising young scape-
grace of a doctor for whom she carries
a secret, fluttering torch. But when the
scapegrace does attempt seduction she
runs away in terrified disgust. The end
is ironic: he reforms, she revolts against
her own ideal of chastity after it is
too late.
Williams’ discussion of the conflict of
sex and soul is engagingly simple. The
subtler shades of the script are all in the
portraiture of the lonely heroine, and
Geraldine Page brings to it a touchingly
exact portrayal. It is a most fragile role;
the least hint of burlesquing would have
destroyed it and the whole mood of the
film. Miss Page catches it all perfectly
the stilted, nervously over-precise
speech, the air o'; anxious circumspec-
tion and with it all the underlying
warmth and the hidden desperation.
The other players have less opportu-
nity and less distinction. It seems ironical
that an English actor, Laurence Harvey,
should have been employed to play such
a traditionally American role as that of
the brash, physical hero, and Harvey,
though usually an impressive performer,
makes relatively little impact with it.
Peter Glenville’s direction is careful
rather than inspired, and the whole
technical framework (including excellent
color photography and an elaborately
detailed period setting) represents Holly-
wood at its highest level of mechanical
efficiency without ever startling us with a
truly creative stroke.
MARTIN LONG
MUSIC
SIT-IN SPECIAL
Downbeat Jazz Club. Alan Lee. Mel-
bourne.
T>ob Clemens has a lot of Australian
jazz history under his belt, but, un-
like most historians I know, he has a
sharp eye for the present. His Downbeat
Club’s Saturday night sessions with Alan
Lee have rightly become the most popu-
lar in Melbourne. There is no dancing;
the music is contemporary and made
seriously which is not to say it lacks
humor yet large crowds stay to listen.
The rewards are plentiful.
Although last Saturday’s international
sit-in special was indeed a rare juicy
plum, there’s plenty of good fruit for the
picking any Saturday, with an abund-
ance of local musos to take over when
the Lee boys revivify themselves from
the effects of their energetic and concen-
trated playing. But that session is as
historic as anything Clemens has brought
about, strengthened as it was by the in-
clusion of the Goofers group, appearing
with Sophie Tucker, and visiting Dutch
piano player Rogier van Otterloo,
twenty-year-old son of the conductor.
It is perhaps unfair to single out in-
dividuals but mention must be made of
the American saxophone player, Sandy
Stewart, for his big tone and fluent ideas,
and the trombone player, Jim Dell, whose
playing was as thoughtful as it was
spirited. Van Otterloo contributed some
impressive solos, particularly on the
Monk tune “Bemsha Swing”, and re-
vealed well-digested influences of Red
Garland and Peterson. The most exciting
aspect of this bracket, however, was the
fact that the local boys measured up to
the overseas professionals in every re-
spect, particularly Brian Brown on tenor
and Ted Vining, drums. Lee’s playing has
improved out of hand on that of a year
ago; no longer does he rely on raucously
repeated riffs, but can build a well-con-
structed solo seemingly without effort,
though he remains our most energetic
player by far.
EDGAR POOLE


Australia Goes to Press. W. Sprague
Holden. Melbourne University Press.
375. 6d.
THE RED PAGE
WHAT'S WRONG WITH THE PRESS?
By K. D. GOTT
Australian newspapermen and aca-
demies, each from their own view-
point, often find it quaintly amusing that
some American universities have Profes-
sors of Journalism. With a few notable
exceptions, our university people have
not yet come to regard the study of
journalism as having a legitimate place in
the Academy. The existence of large and
flourishing faculties of journalism in
America is often seen as evidence of the
depraved status of universities, along with
those courses in hotel-management and
bee-keeping we hear about. To the news-
paperman who has learned his profession
through a four-year cadetship, plus
shorthand and typing, the idea of training
journalists at a university seems an
affront.
On the vocational level, journalism
seems to be in retreat from the tentative
toe-hold it had in Australian universities.
Both the universities of Sydney and of
Western Australia have abandoned the
Diploma of Journalism courses which
they once ran. Today only Queensland
and Melbourne offer Dip. Journ. courses
and the statistics are hardly encouraging:
In 1959 a total of 76 students were en-
rolled, but only 4 diplomas awarded. The
courses are not offered as a substitute to
training in newspaper offices, but as an
adjunct to it “to make good journalists
better”, as somebody put it. This phrase
may be the key to the empty examination
room seats.
Orofessor Holden on a Fulbright
grant 1956-57 compiled a book of
almost 300 pages about our metropolitan
Press. One of his few side excursions
from the plodding task of describing the
Press, its methods and products is to
consider the training of journalists. “In
at least one field Australian journ-
alists”, he comments, “need even more
academic background than Americans
. . . Australian journalists should have
solid grounding in Pacific area history.
They should be close students of the poli-
tics, customs, aspirations and problems
of the peoples of South-East Asia and the
Orient. They should know the ethnology
of their part of the world; the economics
of power politics . . .” and so on, until
his lash at “the fetish of the self-made
reporter who began his cadetship at
seventeen and is content to remain for-
ever manacled by his Leaving Certifi-
cate”. To round off the chapter there is
a forced epigram—“shorthand is not
more important than survival.”
As Prof. Holden notes, there are uni-
versity-trained men among Australian
journalists, but he considers “there should
be hundreds instead of scores. Australia
is ill-served as long as present indiffer-
ence and opposition to university train-
ing persists in the newspaper world.”
There are probably proportionately
fewer journalists with academic training
today than three decades ago, and the
reasons are many. Proprietors can run
the sort of papers they want with staffs
trained under the cadetship system; a
swing over to university trained men
would cost them more in wages. The
four-year cadetship has been just as
much a fetish in the Australian Journa-
lists’ Association as in the editorial sanc-
tums: In any event, the AJA has been
heavily preoccupied with being an indus-
trial trade union and has had little time
to devote to being a professional organis-
ation. Over the years, journalism has
slipped in monetary rewards and status,
relative to other professions.
Optometry and pharmacy are two ex-
amples where the emphasis has been
shifted away from training by apprentice-
ship over to tertiary-level instruction in
recent times. Other occupational groups
have also realised the value of linking
their qualifications with the universities.
(A spokesman for the advertising world
declared a few years ago that his industry
was determined to have advertising men
trained in the universities.) University
journalism courses, though long - estab-
lished, are simply not being made use
of to any extent. Meanwhile lack of
widespread academic training among
journalists combines with a relative
decline in salaries as a kind of vicious
circle.
The bulk of Prof. Holden’s book, how-
ever, is neither critical nor analytical. It
is a descriptive account, often painstak-
ingly so, of the Australian metropolitan
Press and its practices. In places it is
padded out with trivia and ephemera,
much of which would have been out-of-
date almost as soon as it was written. Fie
notes, for example, the number of repor-
ters, cadets and copyboys assigned to
police reporting by the Sydney Sun, cata-
logues the duties of the Hobart Mercury’s
civic roundsman, and counts the staff
employed in the Brisbane Courier-Mail
Library and the number of teletype
machines in each newspaper office.
As an appendix, there is a list and
brief titling of several hundred news-
papermen, politicians and others whom he
met during his Fulbright year. One feels
that not a single note was discarded as he
laboriously compiled his book. In places
it recalls the old Stalinist epithet “Mere
factology.”
For all that, it is a valuable and timely
work. If the newspaper world has failed
to adapt itself to the need for higher
levels of academic training among its
recruits, then the universities have been
slow to recognise the need for study of
the Press and other communication
media, both for their own sake and as an
essential adjunct to other disciplines.
Prof. W. Macmahon Ball issued his
pioneer study, “Press, Radio and World
Affairs” in 1935, and he has since re-
tained an interest in newspapers and
journalists, but there was a long gap
before other academics turned to research
or reflection on the role of newspapers in
the political and social arena. It is only
comparatively recently that we have had
studies by Messrs Henry Mayer, Ken
Inglis, Max Corden and lan Wilson.
work may be building to the point
where Zeitungswissenschaft could
obtain a place in academic studies here
comparable to that which it has held in
America and Europe for many years.
Australia will be in debt to Prof. Holden
if his book gives impetus to this move-
ment. Among other things, it implies the
desperate need for a fuli-scale history of
the Australian Press.
Many other projects suggest them-
selves: What kind of a picture of this
country do Asians and others overseas
get as a result of cable services from
Australia? Something is known of the
stereotype of Australia presented to
English newspaper readers,, but what
about Japanese or Malayan readers?
Again, the provincial Press in Australia is
almost a completely unmapped region:
Do country-dwellers, served by both
metropolitan and local dailies, place more
reliance on one or the other?
Parallel with this need, there is the
lack of what Prof. Holden calls “in-
formed critics”. Critics there are aplenty
of the Australian Press, but we have no
Francis Williams, A. J. Liebling or
Arnold Beichman among us with a forum
from which to issue regular, informed
criticism of the Press, its foibles and
failings.
This book may be timely for another
reason. There are growing signs of ALP
determination to do something about a
Press and mass media situation which it
finds highly unsatisfactory. Federally the
party has agreed to a policy of setting up
a government-financed newspaper com-
mission to publish papers in capital cities
where there is no competition (which
means everywhere except Sydney and


BOOKHUNTER
Dept ’D”. Box 3071, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service foi readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful
Melbourne). The NSW branch of the
Party wants a Press Council to watch
over the Press. Prof. Holden defines his
position carefully in regard to charges
of anti-Labor bias in the Australian
Press. (He was here, of course, before
the Fairfax group espoused the Labor
cause, federally, if not in the State
sphere.)
He points out that Australian papers,
like American, “profess to be dedicated
to the public good; and similar dedica-
tions to the cash register and to the
conservatism that is built into big
private enterprise cloud the zeal of the
first dedication in Australia no more
than they do in the United States.” In
both countries, the papers are “free from
intimate ties with political parties, but
both come home to conservatism when
the chips are down”. However, he re-
jects the Labor catch-cry of “Lousycapt-
talistpress” as an unfair lie.
If, as a result of ALP policies, Aus-
tralia is plunged into a national debate
on the nature, functions and control of
newspapers, the discussion will be more
fruitful as a result of this book. It notes
the growth of monopoly in the metropo-
litan Press, its often poor coverage of
important areas (notably Asia), the way
“the entertainment function of news-
papers in Australia has got shockingly
out of hand,” and charges it with “too
much concern with dividends and not
enough with service and journalistic
responsibility”. Others, too have made
these charges, but Prof. Holden makes
them in the context of a balanced des-
cription of the Australian Press and its
problems. Most important, he has made
it possible for them to be argued in a
more informed and rational way.
TUMBLING TALK
The One Day of the Year. Alan Sey-
mour. Angus and Robertson. 15s.
Tt is one of the healthiest signs for the
A development of our drama, that pub-
lishers are putting out plays more liber-
ally; and further, that there is great
variety in the plays chosen. We begin to
have a published repertory of playable
drama, some realistic, in the well-made
tradition, like “Piccadilly Bushman”,
“The Shifting Heart”, “The One Day of
the Year”; some fantastic, like “Fisher's
Ghost”; some in verse, heightened but
not made remote by poetry, like “Ship-
wreck”; some that strike out an individual
line, like “A Spring Song” and “The
Well”. Volumes of one-acts are also
coming, ranging widely in styles. All this
publishing activity should breed confi-
dence. The Little Theatres will respond
to the published play. People will stop
waiting for the great Australian play and
be ready to take for granted, to produce,
act, and watch, unselfconsciously, the
actable play that makes no pretensions to
greatness.
“The One Day of the Year” is the third
in Angus and Robertson’s current series
of contemporary Australian plays, and is
in a handy, well-printed volume that you
can rehearse with—it won’t fall to pieces
in your hand when you get excited. This
is as well, for the play is sure to settle
quickly, as Seymour’s very different play,
“Swamp Creatures”, settled, into the
Little Theatre repertoire.
The reason is that this playwright is a
professional: he does not embarrass, his
actors with naivety. He has considerable
theatrical craft; he makes good acting
parts, especially for his older characters
(which will please the old troupers always
to be found about a Little Theatre); and
he provides opportunities for memorable
dramatic moments.
These points are best illustrated by
considering a short passage from the
play, and while any of Alf’s speeches
would do, I choose the best of all, lines
from that superb burst of tumbling talk
with which he comes blissfully home
from his Anzac Day celebrations—
. . . Christ, ’ve I ’ad a day? I’ve
’ad a bloody lovely day. I seen every-
body, Dot —Wack, Wack —I seen
everybody, what y’doin’, ’Ughie,
siddown yr makin’ me giddy, I seen
everybody. Old Bert Charles, y’
oughter see old Bert Charles, he’s
eighteen stone an’ pisspot, c’n ’e
drink? Oh, Jeez, we started at a pub
in King Street straight after the
march, I was with Bluey Norton an’
Ginger Simms, did we get on it? We
bin there about an hour in comes
ole Fred Harvey, I sung out You
old bastard and ’e come up t’me
y’know wot ’e did, ’e put on a voice
like a bloody panz and ’e sez up
high like, “Dari, ’ow are yer?” An’
’e kisses me, right in the bloody
public bar, front of everyone, laugh,
thought we’d all bloody die, I hit
him one and then we all had a
couple of grogs and then Ginge said
I gotta meet me ole mate down the
Quay, come’n meet me ole mate
down the Quay, so we goes, whole
lot of us goes and all the way down
Fred does this act makin’ up to
the other blokes, laugh, I never
laughed so much, on the way we
picks up Johnny ’opkins with ’is
gammy leg—
This speech exemplifies the brilliantly
authentic quality that informs the play
whenever any of the three older charac-
ters is speaking: they are uneducated,
and our playwrights are now having no
difficulty in capturing the rhythms of
such speech, its repetitions, its ways of
leaving out connections, leaving out sub-
ject and verb, leaving out everything but
a salient word, like laugh in this speech.
But in its context this speech means
more than mere authenticity: Hughie the
student son is listening, watching his
father happily demonstrate every point
Hughie has just been making against
the continued celebration of Anzac Day;
this the audience know, as do Mum and
Wacka who are on stage, and all know
that Alf’s present glory is a pinnacle
from which he is about to fall, never to
climb it again.
This is only one of many unforgettable
dramatic moments in the play, which
has comedy, tension, pathos, in turn and
together. The roles of Alf, Mum, and
Wacka must undoubtedly pass into the
stock of our acting parts, as those of
Emma, Barney, Roo, Olive and Pearl
have done. It seems ungrateful to cavil
because the parts of the two younger
people, the priggish students, educated
and heartless, are less well-written, and
because a sense of contrived ending
makes itself felt in the last scene. The
playwright has been careful to avoid an
easy resolution of the problem—the
incompatibility of educated child and
uneducated parent; and it was a bold
thing to attempt the expression of the
rising generation viewpoint; but there
is in their roles just a tinge of the case-
history.
Theatres should welcome, too, the
imaginative use Seymour makes of the
multiple set. It gives opportunity for
emphasis to shift from the living-room
where Mum, Alf, and Wacka have their
being, to Hughie’s room, the scene of
his self-torturings and his refuge; and
so the playwright can juxtapose Alf’s
remark—
And don’ you worry about my young
Hughie. He’s all right,
with the outburst that comes as the
light goes off in the living room and on
in Hughie’s room, from Jan, moodily
abusing her parents for “dictating” to
her—
I hate them, I hate them, I hate
them.
EUNICE HANGER


POEMS
Viewpoint
Sitting on this hill my view of spring
extends through frames of leaf and bloom and cirrus
far to the utter reaches of the sky,
hooked upon a light and lazy wing.
Water running frosty-steep
or clear bird piping tames
the wind to trick itself among the branches
and stir thin shadows of the morning sun
in chasing games.
I wonder why my pleasure
flowers into such an odd sad feeling.
Maybe the reason is
that more than twenty times before
I’ve noticed how a year
reveals the life it hid (each slit
where the sombre glossy bud begins to peel);
that still I’m here
and still I sit.
RODNEY HALL
Resurrection
That morning, on the grey and sullen plain,
They heard the last notes of the trumpet wake
the day,
And stretched their bones and shook the dust away,
Flexed their stiff shanks and stood erect again.
Their sockets danced with pain in the white light,
The new winds lashed each frail anatomy,
Roared in their ear-holes like an angry sea,
Shattered the peace of their millenial night,
Died down, and then in fury stirred afresh:
Each grinning skull grew fixed with sudden fear,
Felt the old agony of breath draw near,
The nameless horror of returning flesh.
They stretched their desolated hands in dread
And wordless prayed the blank, unpitying sky . . .
But blood returned, with brain and tongue and eye
And space resounded with their bitter cry:
“Lord God have mercy, let the dead stay dead!”
DOROTHY AUCHTERLONIE
Against Descartes
From ragged cloud-edge
The sun leaps out again,
Hotter than ever, begins to ride
My shoulders where they bend above
The spade’s straight plunge into grey loam.
Switched on again, I feel
The rippling current pulse
Through sinew, anchored bone
And slender tendon as they blend
In the one liquid rush—
A silver rush the yielding floodgates utter
As the spade shears and swings,
Asserting what I am:
Man active, man alive,
Myself most surely.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE
The End of Innocence
My first conclusive model of the world
Was Mendeleef’s periodic chart;
Within its rigid scaffolding were furled
All fleeting colours that had teased the heart.
Flame-tints, metallic sheens, affinities,
Found their first causes ranged upon this grid
So clearly that no gaps or mysteries
Hinted at godheads lurking still amid
Far solar systems and galactic seas.
I found creation laid out at my hand
(Protons were billiard-balls, electrons peas,
Whirled in a bright Newtonian wonderland).
Yet Eden always suffers a decline;
My long-due ticket for expulsion came
As into that immaculate design
The variegated meson thrust her name,
Thrust her gold apple in five baffling forms,
Destroyed all concord where I set my feet.
And now I strode into electric storms.
Groping for light, for oxygen, for heat.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE
The Blind Lovers
Tossed by spontaneous violence to a shore
of calm, they hear light’s cantilena waken
a world of cracking frost. The body taken
in darkness holds its peace, does not implore
grace for its daylit imperfections, nor
is its improvident ravisher forsaken
for the world’s opulence. Delight is shaken
from flesh and bone for brilliant hands to store.
Outside in sharpest cold young children play.
Daylight, a solid housewife, sweeps with slow
thoroughness through their room: the lovers pay
no heed, but kiss again. Their fingers glow
with felt but never-remembered dreams, and they
make use of warmth as children do of snow.
MIRIAM STONE
Autumn in the Gardens
In the hollow autumn streets
a week-end woman sitting on a seat
is all to see. Her hand
is closing on the sun.
On the cold autumn day
where leaves are clean on the silent streets,
a light wind lies; it blows
a faint blue against my eyes.
And in the gardens, where people
are blown leaves across the lawns,
many-coloured in the autumn cold,
trees are cut out of the sky.
A wild duck, tamed by the monotony of faces,
is an ornament on the water,
and the pain-coloured water-lilies
stand like storks on their leaves.
Out of this yellowing day
I walk clean in the cold air,
thinking the stars are leaves
no autumn cold can fall.
JOHN CROYSTON


A SUNDAY KIND OF LOVE
The Poetry Magazine. February and
March 1962.
fJhiE work ol Sunday artists is really
beyond criticism. Unless, like Eliza-
beth the First's “Boethius” or the chamber
music of Frederick the Great, its creator
is also a public figure, it is not even
likely to attract much interest.
What can be said then of these two little
publications of the Sydney Poetrv
Society? To apply to them one’s usual
critical weapons would be like using a
tommy-gun on a swarm of midges. Only
Geoffrey Johnson’s “The Man in the
Kiosk" and, to a lesser degree, the work
of Dulcie Hall, Charles Higham and Joan
Brown, have any of the tension of real
poetry.
Most of the contributors are women.
They are well-read, interested in poetry
and write, one suspects, for just that
reason. It is not simply that their verse
is full of literary echoes and allusions; its
origin itself is in literature rather than
any direct experience. Their writing is an
escape from life and at no point an
attempt to come to terms with it.
The failure of these poems is not a
failure of technique alone; the lack of
concreteness, the arbitrary forms, the
inability to develop a subject fully
through either argument or imagery,
spring from the lack of any real poetic
experience; and it is here that these poets
distinguish themselves as amateurs. There
are no difficult resolutions. Moral con-
clusions are reached without effort, as if
the mere presence of the verse forms con-
jured them up out of the void. There is
no “sweat and tears”. The process of
creation is a genteel exercise that involves
only those muscles that may be revealed
without embarrassment in the best of
mixed company.
1 do not mean to decry the activities of
the Poetry Society; only to point out that
they are in fact social activities that have
little or nothing to do with the creation
ol poetry. One is concerned that the
members of the society may, in their
enthusiasm, project a false image of the
poet or a watered-down idea of just what
he tries to do and with what difficulty he
sometimes manages to do it.
DAVID MALOUF
ERIC IN MODERN DRESS
The Favourite. Francoise Mallet-Joris.
W. H. Allen. 225. 6d.
The Sins of the Fathers. Christian
Gessler. Weidenfeld and Nicholson.
225. 6d.
Soul Clap Hands and Sing. Paule
Marshall. W. H. Allen. 18s. 9d.
Yaralie. Donald Stuart. Georgian
House. 18s.
“npHE Favourite” is a gracefully trans-
lated historical “confection” of
some pretensions but no real depth by
an author described on the blurb as
“France’s leading young novelist”. Mile
Mallet-Joris has won the Prix Femina
with another of her books, a fact dif-
ficult to reconcile with the evidence of
this one. “The Favourite” is yet another
of those fables improbably depicting
Cardinal Richelieu as a cannon brought
out to kill a mouse. Here the mouse is
the naively honest and completely un-
self-seeking young favorite of Louis XIII
—their affair is absolutely platonic. After
all sorts of intrigue and most intimate
soul-searchings by those concerned the
heroine is hounded to a convent.
“The Sins of the Fathers” is a very
clumsy translation from German; James
Kirkup is the translator and its near-
unreadability is therefore surprising. The
novel is a strange, solemn hotch-potch
of fact and fantasy describing how a
young scientist, Klaus Kohler, embarks
upon a search for survivors of a Jewish
family surnamed Valentin. The Valentins
once owned the house that is now the
premises of the Institute that employs
Kohler. “The Fathers” of the title are
equally the progenitors of the young-
adult generation of Germans and Ger-
many itself. The main sin visited upon
the children is that of passivity, acquies-
cence, indifference to the atrocities of
the Hitler regime. Kohler’s ultimate dis-
illusion is handed out by an American
descendant of the Valentins who is
plainly as ashamed of his “Fathers’ ”
unprotesting willingness to be slaughtered
as Kohler is of “Aryan” cruelty. In
manner the whole book, especially its
dialogue, is oblique. Kirkup’s translation
prevented me from arriving at any deci-
sion as to whether the obliquity conceals
worthwhile symbolism or allegory, or
whether it is that of a blunt pair of
scissors failing to come to grips with a
roll of pure cotton wool.
But Paule Marshall is a writer. She
too is concerned with racial conflict and
indeed, in perhaps the best of the four
long short stories which comprise this
volume, the central figure is a Jew. The
three other main characters are colored
men. Each story revolves about an
ageing man who has not killed the thing
he loves so much as sidestepped the
responsibilities of mature love. This
evasion leads each to a point of crisis
exemplified by the lines of Yeats from
which Miss Marshall takes the title of
the book:
An aged man is but a paltry thing,
A tattered coat upon a stick, unless
Som clap its hands and sing . . .
Paule Marshall was born in Brooklyn
of Barbadian parents. She wr'tes of
people and ol places—Barbados, Brook-
lyn, British Guiana and Brazil with
exact authority. She can, and often does,
leave much to her reader’s imagination,
but this is a matter of deliberate choice
for there is no cotton wool in her
literary makeup. Her stories provoke
speculation, compassion and wonder but
are, above all, enjoyable and uncom-
monly good.
Donald Stuart in “Yaralie” is as di-
dactic as Paule Marshall is subtle. He
presents the harsh near-coastal country
of Western Australia so attractively that
at first one fails to recognise this latter-
day idyll of a part-aboriginal girl and
her Scottish descended father for what it
is. Quite impartially, stripped of its
exotic trimmings, and pleas for racial
tolerance, “Yaralie” is the story of eight
years in the life of an insufferable little
prig and the book itself is a true-blue
mid-Victorian moralising “improver” in
modern dress. The girl (we never learn
her name) is a dark skinned, differently
circumstanced Eric.
She sometimes meets other dark
skinned, or racially mixed people who
are nearly as perfect as she and a few,
nearly always white people, of unbeliev-
able wickedness. I am assured by some-
one whose experience with aborigines is
considerable that many of the young
girls are as quiet, and as tractable, and
as gentle as this girl and I believe that.
But I do not believe any human being,
of any race, or any age, lives for eight
years without ever once doing a mis-
chievous thing, or making a mistake, or
upsetting a cooking pot.
“Yaralie” concerns events of the
19305. The inter-racial problems it
describes await solutions still. It is, I
think, especially unfortunate that when
so few people have first-hand knowledge
of and writing ability with which to
tackle these questions too many of their
books are made worthless by false senti-
mentality.
NANCY KEESING


The Wild
Cat Pages and
THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
DOES WOOL PRICE TREND
GIVE WARNING?
tpHE Australian economy could last
week bask in the attainment of a
most satisfying wool cheque and of a
peak exports income, both achieved for
the 1961-62 financial year. The auguries
at this moment do not all predict a
repetition of these favors. There should
thus be no call to warn against any sense
of relaxation.
Viewed in the temper of the recent
sales, and indeed of the closing month
of the year, the wool figures look par-
ticularly interesting. Their immediate
trend could signify some slight setbacks
at the start of the new season.
It is well to record the successes first,
though. Wool proceeds last season reach-
ed a total £338.6 m., an actual lift of
£24.1 m., or 7.6 p.c., on 1960-61
earnings. That year, it will be remem-
bered, produced a 10-year low For a
truer comparison, perhaps, we should
look hard at 1959-60’s £359.7 m.
Last season’s better aggregate return
derived from an average price rise of
some 4 p.c., spread over the year, and
some 2.5 p.c. more bales sold. The all-
round average price moved up from
52.20 d. to 54.24 d. a lb. and 4,875,957
bales were disposed of, against the pre-
vious 4,755,482.
But the June month brought a rather
different tone, for its proceeds, at £l7
m., represented a drop of £7.8 m. on
June, 1961. Certainly fewer bales were
sold. Yet prices also displayed a signi-
ficant retreat.
As if forewarning, the drop has con-
tinued into the past three weeks’ auctions
—each week displaying successive falls.
Merinos 70s. and 645. average have gone
back 4d. and 3d. a lb. respectively. The
1962-63 selling season opens in about
five weeks.
The initial trend must be conned with
extreme care. No one believes wool to
be a commodity influenced by possible
Common Market developments. Yet
the pattern of purchasing, the various
destinations of the clip, demand shrewd
examination —with our coming exports
programme held well in mind.
Here also we are forced to conduct
a strenuous survey of all our export
possibilities. So, again, the pleasing <£Bo
m. jump to £lO7O m. for all exports
does not allow too much self-congratu-
lation or rest.
What, within the present context,
seems crucial is how much of these ex-
ports is represented by rural and mining
commodities. World commodity mar-
kets, especially metals, are in no shape to
bring us too much comfort.
If this sounds too large a sermon to
raise upon a small wool drift, it must
be urged that we have talked too much
about raising industrial exports. Reli-
ance upon primary production dare not
predominate much longer.
City Diary
fTV) celebrate its golden anniversary,
Commonwealth Bank is giving each
of its officers one gold-plated Biro and
one day’s leave to be taken within a
fortnight.
The Bank is also throwing a party for
which caterers have been instructed to
spend no more than 3s. 4d. a head.
Our suggested menu: Hundreds and
thousands.
/Conventional methods of measuring
the adequacy of profits have come
under fire from Mr J. S. Smith, a Mel-
bourne managing director. Because of
wide difference in borrowing, share-
holders’ funds don’t appeal to him as a
useful basis. “Dividends and earnings
cover are equally deceptive as guides to
true profit performance,” he says.
Mr Smith thinks the crucial test is the
return on total funds and puts forth the
formula “profit before tax plus interest
charges divided by total assets” as the
best guide to a company’s profitability.
A re the dice loaded against hotels in
favor of motels? Roland E. Jacobs,
South Australian brewer, seems to think
so. Mr Jacobs says that motels are a
threat to all hotels. They can be built
anywhere, but a hotel, even if designed
on the motel system, can be built only
on a site which has been approved by a
local option poll. These polls are held
every three years and in the meantime
the motel promoter can go ahead on
chosen sites without hindrance.
Further, he says, “Hotels are required
by law to have all meals available, but
the motel can do what it likes in this
respect.”
Colin Street
INDEX
Editorial 42
Jenkins Report on Company
Law 43
Warning on'Crude Oil Prices 44
Comfort in Office Suites .... 45
Profit Sharing 46
Tobacco Rivals 47
Survey of Engineering Projects 48
Talk Around ’Change .... 49-50
Oil Floats 51
Behind the Balance Sheets 53-55
Share Market 56
One To Buy 1 57
Speculator’s Diary 58
No Complacency on Exports 59
Marketing and Advertising 60
Man on the Land 61-62


Editorial
THE PRE-BUDGET DEBATE
A s usual at this time of the year, the
Federal Treasurer is getting a
stream of gratuitous advice on what he
should do in the Budget. A good deal of
this advice is on how much stimulus
he will need to give the economy and
ways and means for doing this.
Some of it concerns the related
question of the relative roles of private
and public investment in the task of
providing more work. Others address
themselves to the problem of getting
loan money from the capital market to
finance public works so far as this is a
matter of fiscal policy.
Practically all the advice is in favor
of continuing the boost to spending, and
those who a month or two ago were still
saying the Government’s main headache
was the danger that recovery would
blossom into boom are now soft pedal-
ling, casting side glances at, rather than
looking straight in the eye, the possi-
bility that boom demands for capital
would soon lead the economy into credit
stringency.
Curious Suggestion
Most observers would be content to
see the 5 p.c. cut in income tax con-
tinued and other means used to give any
additional Budget boost to spending.
Practically everybody seems to think the
right way to do this would be through
increased welfare payments, notably
higher child endowment and pensions,
though with the current stability of
prices the clamor for increasing pen-
sions is not as loud as usual.
There is general agreement that in-
come dispensed in higher welfare pay-
ments is more likely to find its way into
the spending stream than tax rebates, un-
less these are concentrated over a com-
paratively short period like those of the
four months to June.
One economist has suggested that if
income tax is further reduced and he
would favor this it should not be
done on a flat basis but rather geared
to favor those in the lower ranges of in-
comes so that these would gain more
proportionately than those in upper
income brackets. The same economist is
also in favor of increasing company
tax by 6d. in the pound, so perhaps he
shouldn't be taken too seriously.
The latter is a curious suggestion con-
sidering that he and most other econ-
omists pinpoint the necessity to stimulate
private investment as the critical prob-
lem facing the economy. Apparently his
idea is that higher Company Tax would
encourage firms to invest more. “If
firms didn’t invest more they would in-
cur more tax.” This is economics gone
mad. An increase in Company Tax
would reduce expectations of profits to
be made from new investment and dis-
courage it.
Nonetheless the Budget should con-
centrate on this problem of trying to
stimulate private investment. Nearly a
year has passed without much fruit from
the 20 p.c. investment allowance
introduced in last year’s Budget. Excess
capacity in industry has been the stumb-
ling block to this and the process of
clearing it is going to be slow. The
question is whether the investment al-
lowance itself should now be increased or
at any rate put on a broader basis.
One cannot see bigger and wider in-
vestment allowances as a block-buster
even in present circumstances, though
these are more favorable to get a re-
sponse from industry than those of a
year ago. At any rate, two leading Can-
berra economists believe the Treasurer
should explore further in this direction.
One would extend the allowances to
all productive equipment outside the
field of manufacturing to which they
now apply, but is not in favor of any
increase in the rate. The other would
extend the allowances to all depreciable
assets as defined for tax purposes. At
the same time, he would institute a 5
p.c. initial investment allowance for new
buildings.
Key to Revival
He would also make it known that
firms couldn’t expect the allowances to
be permanent, and thinks it would stimu-
late current investment if the Govern-
ment announced that a reduction in the
allowances would be made next year.
There is some force in all these sug-
gestions on investment allowances,
though in face of the existing under-em-
ployment of industrial capacity the key
to a revival in industrial investment may
well lie elsewhere.
But it certainly doesn’t lie in the sug-
gestion being made that the Treasurer
should return to his ill-fated and disas-
trous tax-on-interest experiment, even
if only to do what he failed to do by
the November 1960 measures, that is,
bring the hire purchase and other fringe
finance companies to the heel of official
credit policy.
Professor Arndt wants a discriminatory
tax on interest imposed on finance com-
panies who do not apply under Section
8 of the Banking Act to carry on bank-
ing business, and thus do not opt to ac-
cept controls applicable under the Act.
He should think again on this. However
desirable it may be to get the fringe
financiers under more effective control
before the next boom arrives, any in-
timation that official and not merely
academic thoughts about re-imposing
the tax on interest in any shape or form
lingered in Canberra would have most
undesirable effects on investment expec-
tations over the whole field of industry
and undermine the effectiveness of any
Budgetary or other measures to step
up private investment.
Enough Damage
Nor does anybody concerned with this
crucial problem of reviving private in-
vestment want to hear any more of Sir
Douglas Copland’s idea that hire pur-
chase companies should be compelled
to invest part of their funds in Govern-
ment securities. The diversion of life
insurance and superannuation funds
under the 30/30 rule has already done
enough damage to the private capital
market and to show up the principle in-
volved as inimical to the expansion of
private investment. So it is to be hoped
that Mr Holt continues to turn a deaf
ear to this one.
However, he should listen most at-
tentively to the general opinion of econ-
omists that he still has a lot of scope
in public investment for pulling the
economy up by its own bootstraps. The
non-interest carrying grants made by the
loan council this time set a very good
precedent in this direction, and if ap-
plied on a much bigger scale for housing
and road expenditure (after all they are
largely tax money, so why worry about
charging interest to the States on them)
could act as an effective lever to get
interest rates, particularly on housing
finance, down to more reasonable levels,
an objective which most economists
agree with heartily and so, quite sen-
sibly, does the ACTU.


FINANCE CORPORATION
of AUSTRALIA LIMITED
OFFERS A SPECIALISED FINANCE SERVICE
We have finance available for: —
LENDING
▼
Developmental Projects
▼
Capital Equipment
▼
Commercial and Industrial Properties
▼
Business Expansion
DISCOUNTING AND PURCHASE
Mortgages
T
Contracts of Sale
▼
Leases
▼
Hire Purchase Contracts
FINANCE CORPORATION OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
ADELAIDE
F.C.A. Building,
15 Franklin Street
Telephone 51 3781
MELBOURNE
Union House,
SI Queen Street,
Telephone 61 30SI
SYDNEY
Anchor House,
Cnr. George and
Bridge Streets,
Telephone 27 7003
BRISBANE
Mercantile House,
262 Adelaide St.,
Telephone 31 2861
PERTH
M.L.C. Building,
171-177 St. George’s Tee,
Telephone 21 6892
GF2
THE JENKINS REPORT ON
COMPANY LAW
Hard upon the promulgation of our
own new Companies Act arrives the
report of the company law committee
appointed by the British Government
in December, 1959. Chaired by Lord
Jenkins, a Lord of Appeal in Ordinary,
the committee has delivered itself of a
total of 334 recommendations.
The Government is already being
urged to give priority to replacing the
existing Act, on which much of ours
was modelled and which dates only
from 1948.
As with the Australian changes and
improvements, many of the alterations
suggested by the Jenkins Committee
mirror the social and economic abuses
evident in corporate financing and
presentation of results over the last few
years. Apart from the vitally necessary
consolidated accounts, our own press-
ing demands were for much keener
supervision of money-raising processes
and thus the local Act was greatly con-
cerned with prospectuses for notes,
debentures and suchlike.
Lord Jenkins started his hearings in
the wake of great excitement about the
British Aluminium takeover and shatter-
ing revelations from the Grunwald
property machinations. Thus consider-
able interest attaches to the report’s 12
rules for takeovers and a proposed
charter for investors.
Yet despite a more than nodding
acquaintance with undesirable practices,
the committee accepts as a general
premise “the undesirability of imposing
restrictions which would seriously
hamper the activities of honest men in
order to defeat an occasional wrong-
doer, and the importance of not placing
unreasonable fetters upon business
which is conducted in an efficient and
honest manner.”
Risk remains inherent among many
business operations and “the risk . . .
that dishonest directors may abuse the
trust reposed in them must be accepted
if business is to go on.”
Takeovers are admitted to be one of
the facts of life—“an essential feature
of economic growth and development.”
Procedures should follow much the same
rules as apply to issuing prospectuses.
This must certainly involve complete
disclosure by the bidder of all facts
relevant to making a decision. Anyone
can make a bid, though it is proposed
that the Board of Trade get power to
make rules applying to any particular
offer.
In the light of our frequent local
debate, it is interesting that the necessity
of a protective organisation like the
American Securities and Exchange Com-
mission was rejected. Much the same
view seemed to prevail as here, and
perhaps much the same level of re-
sponsibility conceded that Stock Ex-
changes are well able and ethical enough
to police their own standards.
Australian investors could look with
envy and longing upon a provision to
make obligatory the revelation of turn-
overs in annual accounts and a five-
year turnover record in prospectuses.
The report also recommends dis-
closure of identity by beneficial owners
of 10 p.c. or more of a company’s equity
capital and of their share transactions.
Many other matters which have dis-
turbed us are naturally covered.


WARNING TO AUSTRALIA ON
CRUDE OIL PRICES
By CROESUS
TFhe sheiks and dictators of countries
which account for 90 p.c. of world
exports of crude petroleum have come
to some pertinent conclusions, some of
which are at once a warning to Aus-
tralia while others suggest a possible line
to adopt in dealing with the bigger
industrialised nations of the western
world.
First as to the warning. Meeting under
the auspices of the Organisation of
Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC),
Iran, Iraq, Qatar, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia,
Indonesia and Venezuela have deter-
mined to press for a better deal from
the international oil companies working
oil concessions in their countries. If
this comes off Australia will have to face
up to the higher cost of imported crude
oil which this would entail.
Their quarrel with the international
oil companies is the very old one that
they want more of the profits from the
exploitation of their oil resources. The
immediate pressure is coming from
Middle East countries, which last year
supplied about two-thirds of Australia’s
crude oil, the rest came mainly from
Indonesia and British Borneo.
As matters stand, the Middle Eastern
countries are still laboring under the cut
of 4i p.c. in posted crude prices made in
September, 1960, in face of what was
then and still is a world glut in crude
oil supplies. This means that their “take”
from the operations of the international
oil companies has, in fact, been reduced
in the last two years because it is
reckoned on a fifty-fifty basis on profits
after allowable costs, which have been
rising as costs are wont to do.
They have many wants
They not only want to restore their
position but to improve it. Thus they
are to press for an increase in the posted
price of crude which is basic to the
landed cost of crude in Australia, and
they also want to take their royalties
(now averaging about 121 p.c. in the
Middle East) after tax, which currently
is 50 p.c. of posted prices less allowable
costs.
The upshot of all this is that, being
in an almost monopoly position and
backed by Venezuela (from which Aus-
tralia gets only small quantities of crude
but which is the world’s third biggest oil
producer after the USA and Russia and
by far the biggest exporter) and also by
Indonesia (which provides rather more
than one-fifth of Australia’s crude
supplies) there is a good chance of Aus-
tralia having to pay more for its imports
of crude oil.
One cannot imagine this country
following the lead of many other
countries in taking Russian oil at the
considerable discounts at which it is being
offered on world prices, as for one thing
the importers of crude oil into Australia
are the same international oil companies
participating in Middle East and Indo-
nesian production. If there is a rise in
Middle East posted prices they are
bound to seek product rises here.
Fixing of prices
They could well be successful in this.
Australia-wide wholesale prices of motor
spirit are, in effect, dictated by the fixing
of prices in Queensland and South Aus-
tralia. This is largely based on refinery
costs in which the biggest element is
the imported cost of crude. Retail
prices in the various States are fixed
on the wholesale price plus resellers’
margins, which can vary from State to
State.
Of course, though OPEC handles
about 90 p.c. of internationally-traded
crude oil. its member countries cannot
neglect the nuisance value of cheap
Russian oil. Nor can they forget the
challenge to their virtual monopoly
coming from the increasing flow of
African oil. notably from Algeria which
promises to be a much bigger supplier
now the country is quieter, and from
Libya Though of marginal significance,
these suppliers could deter the OPEC
countries from pushing their demands
on the international oil companies be-
yond a reasonable point.
On the other hand, Australia will have
little say in the result. This probably
depends more on resistance in the UK,
Europe and the US (which imports
large quantities of Middle East oil from
its own companies’ operations there)
than anything else from the demand
side.
This highlights only too painfully our
failure as yet to produce indigenous oil
in this country. Our vulnerability to
overseas decisions on crude oil prices is
perhaps a minor matter compared with
our complete dependence on overseas
crude, but together they point to the
great urgency of following up the
Moonie discovery with an all-out effort
to find sufficient commercial fields to
satisfy our crude requirements.
Virtual monopoly
While the pressure of the OPEC
countries on the international oil com-
panies may have eventual repercussions
on prices of petroleum products here,
it is to be hoped that some of the think-
ing done at OPEC’s Geneva conference
strikes a chord in Canberra,
Finding themselves with a virtual
monopoly of internationally-traded crude
oil, these countries decided also to seek
a better deal from the importing
countries in mutual trade. To this end
the Geneva conference has set up a
committee to study a proposal “to link
crude oil prices to an index of goods
which member countries need to im-
port.” One can hear Mr McEwen, for
one, embracing this idea with gusto, for
it is precisely in tune with his complaint
that we are getting a raw deal on terms
of trade. (Australia’s terms of trade
deteriorated by 36 p.c. between 1954
and last year).
Certainly when it comes to formulating
the world commodity agreements
envisaged to give us substitute outlets
for any exports of primary products
placed in jeopardy by Britain’s entry
into the Common Market, this is a
suggestion which Australia would do
well to press vigorously. Once the
principle was established it could result
in a new deal for the overseas primary
producing countries of the Common-
wealth, but the big overseas importers of
our commodities will be tough nuts to
crack in getting it across.
WORLD CRUDE OIL PRODUCTION 1960-61
'OOO Per Cent
metric World
tons Production
United States 346,865 31.96
U.S.S.R 157,000 14.47
Venezuela 149.540 13.78
Kuwait 83.755 7.72
Saudi Arabia 66,566 6.13
Iran 55,950 5.16
Iraq 48.150 4.44
Canada 27,672 2.55
Indonesia 20,320 1.87
Mexico 14,573 1.34
Algeria and Sahara .. 13,421 1.24
Rumania . 11,650 1.07
Argentina 11,268 1.04
Qatar 8,303 0.76
Kuwait Neutral Zone . 7,853 0.72
Colombia ....... ... 7,623 0.70
Others. 54,804 5.05
TOTAL WORLD 1,085,313 100.00
SOURCES OF AUSTRALIAN CRUDE OIL
IMPORTS 1960-61
Mil. Gallons Per Cent
Total
British Borneo 271 8.7
Indonesia 675 21.7
Iran 609 19.6
Iraq 197 6.3
Kuwait 331 10.6
Dutch New Guinea 18 0.6
Qatar 564 18.1
Saudi Arabia 424 13.6
Venezuela 23 0.8
Total 3,116 100.0


SEND IT
w
asm
Tr
m
FOR SPEED SAFETY SERVICE
ROAD
DAILY SCHEDULED ROAD SERVICES
To ALL Capital Cities
Throughout Australia
PERTH 8-4421
MELBOURNE 30-4161
NEWCASTLE 84908
CANBERRA 9-1970
AT* Aft
A MEMBER OF THE MAYNE NICKLESS GROUP
jiM),
4
RADIO PICK-UP TRUCKS
COMFORT DISPLACES SHABBINESS
IN OFFICE SUITES
11/hile business executives count costs
closely in other matters they are
inclined to be more accommodating
when fat estimates for their own suites
are being discussed. For shabbiness is
going out in offices and comfort creep-
ing in. The days of the roll-back desk,
the hard-backed chair and Dickensian
dimness have been numbered for a long
time, except for the occasional city
solicitor and newspaper office.
Some executives, like A. V. Jennings
for instance, still like to work in offices
more like factory workshops than, say,
those who have migrated from the heavy
oaked walls of Collins House to the
streamlined luxury and heavy pile of
Ninety-Five Collins Street, but their
numbers are dwindling. The welter of
profits in the prosperous ’fifties goaded
many of them into high expenditure on
new suites. The major break-through
on this front dates from these years.
Americans but probably not British
are more comfort conscious than Aus-
tralian executives, but the idea has been
catching on fast in this country. The
shopfront revolution has been matched
in most front parlours of the in-
numerable new company buildings still
springing up in our big cities. Even a
few backroom boys are now getting
carpets, if not easy chairs, while in some
“bloody towers,” such as Melbourne’s
new 1.C.1.A.N.Z. building and around
Sydney’s O’Connell Street, the plush is
very thick indeed. Alcoa’s new offices
in Melbourne are also the last word in
this, though its den in Geelong certainly
is not.
The accent in offices is now on con-
temporary furniture, and this, among
other things, is leading local furniture
manufacturers into undreamed of fields
of design and also attracting some of the
most notable overseas designers to intro-
duce their products here.
One of the latest to show its hand
in Melbourne is Knolls, the famous
American firm, some of whose furniture
is in the Museum of Modern Art in New
York. Knoll now has associates or
licensees in 22 countries. Now in Aus-
tralia, its furniture is being made by
Form Pty Ltd in Melbourne.
Form, like its associated companies,
such as Marion Best Pty Ltd in NSW,
designs and manufactures all sorts of
furniture besides office pieces, as was
evident in its unique collection displayed
for the benefit of Melbourne architects
in the city last week. All these models
are being manufacturd by Form, an
enterprise of the Latchford family,
which introduced the Risom range of
furniture to Australia a year ago.
People have been puzzled why only
architects and not the furniture trade
itself were singled out for this exhibition.
The explanation is simply that Knoll
furniture has been designed for the most
part by some of the world’s leading
architects and the profession in Aus-
tralia is being given the chance of
participating, partly to encourage the
design of Knoll furniture of distinctive
local character and suitability.
Top world designers, Mies van der
Rohe of the US, Bellman of Switzer-
land, Albini of Italy, Jeanneret of
France and Tapiovaara of Finland, are
all on Knoll’s designers’ panel. To
qualify for this distinction, chosen
architects must agree to accept any
practical modifications necessary for
their designs to be produced. Perhaps
Alden Boyd, of Knolls in the US, who
flew in to pilot last week’s exhibition,
unearthed a few likely Australian
candidates for the honor.
SEC OF QLD. LOAN
LARGEST EVER
TPhe State Electricity Commission of
Queensland offered a cash and
conversion loan for £3,065,000 on
July 16, and it will remain open until
August 5.
Rate of interest is £5 7s. 6d. p.c.
for 7, 10 and 20 years. The issue
has been underwritten by lan Potter
and Co.
It is the largest public loan ever
offered for subscription in Queens-
land.
QUICK WORK ON
TEMPE BRIDGE
The six-lane £190,000 bridge over
Cook's River at Tempe, NSW,
which is built of precast prestressed con-
crete, has been completed in 18 months
—six months ahead of schedule.
The contractors, John Holland Con-
structions Pty Ltd, were able to effect
the 25 p.c. saving on contract time by
using precast prestressed concrete beams
and piles supplied by Concrete In-
dustries (Australia) Ltd and manu-
factured by one of its subsidiaries,
Monier Prestressed Concrete Pty
Limited.
The bridge, constructed for the De-
partment of Main Roads, is 300 ft. long
and 78 ft. wide.
NEW PLASTIC VENEER
Anew, lightweight, laminated plastic
veneer developed in Canada will be
released on the Australian market at the
end of this month. The material,
FORMICA V-100 Vertical Veneer, is a
l/32nd inch laminate designed specific-
ally for vertical surfaces.
Though only half as thick as the
standard laminate it has similar hard-
wearing, maintenance-free qualities and
is almost as resistant to liquids and
scratches.


more electricity
means
more money
more security
Expansion and progressive development of the Sydney
County Council Electricity Undertaking has played an
important part in the thriving growth pattern of Sydney.
Gilt-Edged S.C.C. loans have also supplied hundreds of
thousands of private investors, trustees and executors
with a high rate of interest and earning power, with ab-
solutely maximum security.
THE SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL 51% LOAN
S.C.C. WILL PAY YOU £s'7'6 A YEAR FOR
EVERY £lOO YOU INVEST
Loan 197 is NOW OPEN!
Loan pe n° ds are for 7, 10 or 20 years at 5-3/8 p.c. per annum. This is a
gilt-edged security an Authorised Trustee in NSW that gives you a
high interest as well! J
Stockholders in Loan No. 51 (£4/10/- maturing August Ist 1962) may
convert now to this higher rate of interest.
Applications may be lodged at any office of the Commonwealth Trading
Sf . ’ ™ a,,a and New Zea,and Ban k Limited; Bank of New South
Wales; The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited; The Rural
°™? eW ?? uth Wa,es; or throu gh a Stockbroker; or at the Council’s
Off,Ce ’ QUee " V,ctona Buildil, g> George Street, Sydney (’phone
o^Melbourne" 1 * 611 Ia " P ° tter and Co ’ Members of The Stock Exchange
PROFIT SHARING
TO GET
MORE ATTENTION
Australia’s first conference on profit
sharing, organised by the Austra-
lian Institute of Management, will take
place at Newport, near Sydney, on Mon-
day, Tuesday and Wednesday next week.
The conference is built around a “work-
shop seminar” method, thus encouraging
detailed, practical discussion.
High level executives are attending
the seminar under the leadership of Mr
Colin Macnaught, managing director of
Wall Macnaught Pty Ltd, which has
operated a scheme for 12 years.
Mr Macnaught admits this country’s
uneven record among the relatively few
firms practising profit sharing. They
comprise perhaps less than h p.c. of all
industry. But enthusiasts are now able
to refer to wide experience and research,
especially from America and Japan. This
latter country has, of course, enjoyed a
remarkable post-war lift in productivity.
Yet it must be stressed that a mere
increase in production or sales is fre-
quently better achieved by other, popu-
larly known incentives. Productivity,
though, especially where it is bound up
with efficiency, seems to respond to shar-
ing some measure of profits with em-
ployees.
The device does not serve as a medi-
cine for an ailing business. For some
definite pre-requisites to its adoption
stand out —able management, good pro-
duction, already favorable industrial re-
lations. It may, therefore, introduce a
valuable refinement and, incidentally,
some evidence exists that even share-
holders gain benefits.
Naturally enough an adequate defini-
tion appears from the US Council of
Profit Sharing Industries. Profit sharing
embraces “any procedure under which
an employer pays to all employees, in
addition to good rates of pay, special
current or deferred rates based, not upon
individual or group performance, but on
the prosperity of the business as a
whole”.
The council thereby stresses that these
schemes do not provide any fillip to low
wages, nor are they to be compared with
incentive elements in a wage, output
bonuses and pensions. Much of their
motivation may well derive from a simple
obligation towards the labor “investment”
of employees, recognising this in the
same way as shareholder contributions.
It is good to know that the Newport
conference intends to get down to brass
tacks and waste no time in vapid gen-
eralities or idealising.


m
1 Of
*
ASK ALSO FOR ST. AGNES BftANDY
INVESTMENT
SECTION
THE TOBACCO SALES
PICTURE NEEDS CLARIFYING
The Jenkins Committee plea for the
disclosure of British company turn-
overs was noted earlier in this Wild
Cat section. It is not necessary to labor
the value of such a reform in Austra-
lian company law. And in no activity
more, at present, would investors leap
at relevant sales figures than in tobacco
and cigarette making.
Here the local field remains strenu-
ously dominated by two eminent competi-
tors —British Tobacco and Rothmans of
Pall Mall. The rest of the manufacturers
must also struggle for a relatively small
portion of the total market. But in the
rapid and continuous claim and counter-
claim played by the leaders it seems
increasingly difficult to picture the market
exactly.
Such a situation was bound to develop
when a brash and vigorous newcomer,
Rothmans, so successfully challenged a
time-honored giant, British Tobacco. The
giant has been made to reel and only
now looks like emerging with new re-
spect from a very torrid battle.
Rothmans has mad"; no bones about
presenting the struggle in this manner.
Its market evaluations frequently gave
an impression of being conceived with
one aim—to discomfit its rival and to
emphasise British Tobacco’s relative re-
treat. But the welter of alue and per-
centage statistics by which the Rothmans
triumph was portrayed no longer con-
vey a particularly clear meaning.
For the older group ' now fighting
back quite brilliantly and its less voci-
ferous claims to better sales must be
seriously regarded. Investors, to their
detriment, stay in a fog while lacking
any turnovers expressed in hard £ s. d.
and with some division among cigarettes
and tobacco.
These details are hardly likely to be
forthcoming, so in some way the rival
claims have to be resolved. Chief inter-
est has rather naturally settled upon the
filter-tip cigarette struggle, where Roth-
man’s ascendancy became for a while
quite obvious. British Tobacco had here
missed the bus.
But the company continues to report
striking gains by its Craven A filters
and new brands recently introduced. At
the same time Rothmans indicates further
sales increases.
The whole situation is complicated by
a roughly stationary overall cigarette con-
sumption over the last year or so. Aus-
tralians have not lifted their total intake
very much.
It would, therefore, appear that British
Tobacco’s improvement, which certainly
looks genuine, may have been made at
Rothman’s expense, for the other manu-
facturers have held their much smaller
proportions reasonably steady.
The respective shareholders must al-
most feel like demanding the missing
figures, since their investments have not
been made any surer by other factors
which must enter any analysis of the
tobacco industry. Apart from the share-
market’s general droop, no one yet knows
the precise effect of the renewed lung-
cancer scare upon future growth i i the
industry.
Most sources are clearly expecting
better profit results this year from British
Tobacco. Rothmans, coping with higher
capital, announced slightly lower profit
for the December half-year and this
suggested an annual earning rate at about
32.5 p.c., against 1960-61's 47.7 p.c.
Ruling share prices (British Tobacco
around 245. and Rothmans 745.) stand
far below their peaks. So every bit of
information may justly be requested. The
true sales picture must emerge even if
actual turnovers are still hidden.
\ most satisfying portrait of a building
industry surviving and defeating the
squeeze is contained in James Wallace
(Holdings) new debenture prospectus.
The prospectus covers the company’s
first venture into this area of finance. It
demands a seemingly modest and easily
attainable £500,000, with possible over-
subscription at £250,000. Proceeds go
to. general funds for expansion “and in
part, to repay unsecured advances as
and when they fall due”.
Net group earnings for the December
half-year are shown at £80,155, against
the full 1960-61 profit of £128,174.
So things went well then, despite pervad-
ing problems. And the chairman (Mr
N. W. Clark) adds that revenue in the
six months to June 30 moved substanti-
ally in excess of that for the correspond-
ing period in 1960-61. Contracts in hand
jumped by about 50 p.c. between
December and June.
The new Act appears to be working
some necessary wonders in these pros-
pectuses. This one comes from the
same underwriter, Ralph W. King and
Yuill, as gave us the Eric Anderson issue.
Both are packed with well-arranged
material.


SURVEY OF ENGINEERING AND
CONSTRUCTION COMPANIES
FFtie swing of the economic pendulum
in the last two years has been a
critical test of the balance and strength
of civil engineering and construction
companies in Australia.
As the major companies ruled off
their books on June 30, the market is
kept in suspense until the first one pro-
vides a preliminary report of trading, to
give a guide as to how the industry as
a whole fared.
It is evident that liquidity was strained
in some companies, but few have gone
to the public for capital in the last
couple of years. They have just been
more conservative in their dividend pay-
ments.
As private clients have been obliged
to retard their expansion programmes in
many instances, the engineers and con-
structors to thrive best have been those
with large government or semi-govern-
ment contracts on hand. Coal proved
an extra-ordinary source of income to
Thiess.
Curiously, five of the major public
civil engineers are of Queensland origin,
although only two have penetrated
southward over State borders.
Bridge builder
Hornibrook Ltd made its name in the
’thirties with Brisbane and Sydney
bridges.
In recent years it has undertaken
major projects in other States jointly
with overseas or local private companies.
In 1957-58 it secured a £2 million con-
tract for the Myponga dam in SA, in
association with Hansen and Yuncken
Pty Ltd of Melbourne and Wilchers
and Burnside Ltd. It now has a further
contract to raise the level of the Mt
Bolt Dam in SA.
Hornibrook is rumored to have an
edge on other contractors for the roof-
ing of Sydney’s Opera House which
would be a nice prestige job.
Hornibrook’s dividend rate has been
stepped up from 6 to 10 p.c. in the last
four years, but interim dividend paid
in May was at the reduced rate of 8
p.c. as profit for the half-year to
December was down about 9 p.c. on the
previous corresponding period.
Keith Morris Construction Ltd is
primarily a building contractor. Also
Queensland based, the company in 1959-
60 took over a large civil engineer H.
J. Lee and Son (Holdings) Pty Ltd. In
March, 1962, the company reported that
all activities except the Queensland
building division had satisfactory turn-
over in the December half-year, and
earnings were higher than in the pre-
vious corresponding period.
The 9 p.c. dividend paid in 1960-61
sounds safe for the year just ended on
June 30, judging by the tone of the in-
terim report.
Apart from important ship-building ac-
tivities, Evans Deakin Industries Ltd.,
also of Brisbane, conducts engineering
business and has a one-quarter interest
in Commonwealth Engineering’s Queens-
land works. Deakin has in recent years
carried out extensions to the smelting
plant at Mt Isa, installed a kiln shell for
Queensland Cement and Lime Co. at
Darra, phosphate loading plant in Nauru
and equipment at Queensl nd power
stations.
Investment attention is concentrated
on Evans Deakin’s takeover this month
of Wollongong engineer Thirlwell and
McKenzie Ltd. A valuable subsidiary
of Thirlwell is IPI Pty Ltd which would
be capable of servicing pipe installation
work from Moonie.
Originating as a house builder, A. V.
Jennings Industries (Australia) Ltd of
Melbourne has ventured into industrial
building, road construction and civil
engineering works, but it is probably
true to say that domest' housing is still
its major concern. (One current project
is a £l7 million satellite town at Frank-
ston.)
In 1961 profit was about one-third the
level of the previous year with an earning
rate of 6.6 p.c. and dividend was cut
from 12 to 10 p.c. In November 1961
directors reported that apart from the
group’s own development projects, it had
£6 million of work on hand.
Profit and turnover for the December
half-year compared favorably with the
previous corresponding period, but
directors cautiously trimmed dividend to
4i p.c. compared with an interim 6 and
final 4 p.c. in 1960-61. As the estate
and housing division was experiencing in-
creased demand, a final dividend of 4i
p.c. might be within the capacity of the
company, but there would be little left
for reserves.
Utah Construction and Engineering
Pty Ltd was registered in Melbourne in
1961, as a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Utah Australia Ltd, which in turn was
formed by Utah Construction Ltd of the
US in 1955. Nominal capital of the new
company was £i million, and it was in-
tended to invite local participation at
some future date. A recent job was the
£4 million King Street bridge over the
Yarra, which recently suffered a set-
back.
The biggest engineering venture ever
tackled in Australia is the £375 million
Snowy Mountains Scheme, began 13
years ago.
Major contractors have been the
Kaiser - Walsh - Perini - Raymond group
from America, a French group of con-
tractors, and most interesting from the
Australian point of view, Thiess Holdings
Ltd of Queensland.
Last January Thiess secured £18.9
million of contracts for the Snowy with
a tender price £1.3 million less than
estimated cost.
Coal vendor
Outside construction work, Thiess
and Peabody Coal Co. of USA have a
joint venture to exploit enormous coal
deposits in Central Queensland, with
valuable contracts to export the coal to
Japan.
In the year ended June 30, 1961,
Thiess earned a greater profit but had
to service capital increased by a one-for-
four premium issue and the takeover of
an earth-moving company. Earning rate
therefore slumped from 17.7 to 10.6
p.c. on capital, insufficient to cover the
12i p.c. dividend.
In April last directors reported a sat-
isfactory volume of work on hand be-
sides the large Snowy contracts. By
declaring an interim dividend at the un-
changed rate of I2i p.c. per annum, they
seem confident of a solid recovery in
earning rate for the year just concluded.
McDonald Industries Ltd of Mel-
bourne contracts for civil engineering
and construction work, besides handling
electrical and mechanical engineering
projects for basic industries and gov-
ernment departments and instrumentali-
ties.
It has done major civil engineering
jobs on the Kurnell Refinery, and is now
designing and constructing the new lub-
ricating oil refinery. Major underwater
rock excavations have been undertaken
at Port Kembla and Bundaberg.
Directors declared an unchanged divi-
dend of 5 p.c. for the half-year to De-
cember, and described results and the
volume of work on hand as “satisfac-
tory”.


INVEST NOW
2
as**
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
6-10 YEARS
8% 5 YEARS
7!4% 4 YEARS
7% 3 YEARS
6 17 2% 2 YEARS
Applications must be lodged on the
form attached to the prospectus.
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE NOTES
61
12 MONTHS
5% 6 MONTHS
4% 3 MONTHS
3Vz % AT CALL
Applications must be made on the
form attached to the prospectus and
acknowledgement will be a Regis-
tered Redeemable Unsecured Note.
Trustee for the Debenture and Note
Holders: Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd.
Bankers:
National Bank of Australasia Limited
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
HOW TO INVEST
Obtain your prospectus from
and lodge applications with:
• Any Stockbroker.
• Any branch of the National Bank
of Australasia Limited.
• Any office of Burns Philp Trust
Co. Ltd.
• Any store or office of Waltons
Limited and Treadways Ltd.
• Waltons Credit Corporation Ltd.,
Box 3875, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
TALK AROUND CHANGE
For those who favor the theory that
the price of gold might increase,
Mount Morgan Ltd offers a sound specu-
lation.
This is one gold stock not to move
overmuch in the recent flurry based on
the expounding of theories that the US,
indeed, would raise the gold price to
stem the outflow of gold from that coun-
try.
Mount Morgan’s operations recently
have been in what is called an “impover-
ished” area. A return to more normal
operations will see an improvement in
the share price of 125.; a sharp rise,
moreover, should gold become more
valuable.
★ ★ ★
IZathleen Investments Ltd continues
to strengthen its position in the
rutile industry and one can only wonder
whether it is making itself more attrac-
tive to Rio Tinto (shorly to be CRA)
by so doing.
Kathleen’s main attraction to CRA
would be the 35 p.c. interest it holds in
Mary Kathleen Uranium (of which
CRA owns 5.1 p.c.). However, the ex-
piry of the UK Atomic Energy Commis-
sion contract next year will see the end
of the enormous cash flow going through
CRA.
Kathleen, with Coff’s Harbour NL
headed towards being a wholly-owned
subsidiary and with a current offer for
ilmenite producer Cable (1956) Ltd,
seems destined to replace its Mary Kath-
leen revenue with the beach min-
eral recovery.
CRA could well see value in tidying
up Mary Kathleen—and with it, perhaps,
Kathleen Investments’ new enterprises.
Kathleen’s ss. shares are worth a
thought at 19s. It would not be paying
too dearly for them as an operating pro-
position even without the thought of
CRA in the background.
★ ★ ★
A promising future is being predicted
for Grouped Holdings Vustralia Ltd,
Melbourne money market and unit trust
offshoot of A. C. Goode and Co. Float-
ed in March this year at 2s. Id., the 2s.
shares started life on ’Change at 3s. Id.
They have recently been selling a shade
under 4s.
As well as its 20 p.c. interes. in Redis-
count Acceptance which in turn holds
50 p.c. of money market firm (First
Federal Discount), Grouped Holdings
also has a stake in three other A. C.
Goode-sponsored general finance and
security management companies.
on the record production at Ris-
don for the year to June 30 together
with the quite sharp increase in demand
for lead and zinc in the last few months,
the results of Electrolytic Zinc, due in
September, could prove the market wrong
in its present low evaluation of the com-
pany’s 10s. shares, which are now around
12s. 3d. to give a yield of just over 8
p.c.
The reduction in the dividend (from
11 to 10 p.c.) in 1960-61 followed a
cut from 13.9 to 12.3 p.c. in earnings,
which could well have been made good
last year and the dividend could con-
ceivably be restored to 11 p.c.
The recent big increases in lead and
zinc ore production by the Barrier mines
point to sustained recovery by smelters.
rpHE brighter industrial prospect has not
so far rubbed off on the £1 shares
of Malcolm Moore Industries Ltd, South
Melbourne engineering firm. At 11s.
they are little more than half their par
value.
This despite the fact that shareholders
have been without a dividend only once
(1957) in the last dozen years. The 5
p.c. paid for 1960-61 being barely cov-
ered by earnings, however, compared
with quite handsome cover for higher
payments some years ago.
The results for last year are expected
to be pretty poor, but things are looking
up. The company has just secured a
contract of £750,000 for conveyors and
associated plant for the Hazelwood power
station and for bauxite mining operations
in both Queensland and WA. With
Alcoa and Comalco coming to the party,
Malcolm Moore shares seem to deserve
higher rating. Their current yield is 9.1
p.c.
TIDE TURNS
Quiescent markets haven’t inhibited
investors looking for reasonable
companies with shares standing under
par and a number of these liave been
peeping their heads above the ground
ahead of what could be an exuber-
ant Spring market.
One of the recession-submerged
companies to be sought after last week
was Pope Industries, whose shares
popped above their ss. par for the
first time since the loss of £686,527
came to light for 1960-61.
The tide for this company turned
earlier this year and sales of its elec-
trical appliances have had a big lift
since spending stimulants were put
to work in February.


JNSTANT ENGINE STARTIN
WITH -
Avoid unnecessary engine
wear —just one quick spray
into the air intake is all
that's required. Saves money
by avoiding cylinder scour-
ing and gives longer battery
and starter life. Contains
anti-corrosive and afiti-knock
additives with upper
cylinder lubricant.
Proven the world over and endorsed
by Rolls Royce.
Less than 2d. per start —Aerostart is available at only 21/6 from all garages and stores
Manufactured by:
AEROSTART (ANZIA) PTY. LTD.
2 Queens Road, Melbourne. 26-4653.
CHRIST CHURCH GRAMMAR SCHOOL, CLARExMONT, WEST AUST.
Masters are required for 1963 to assist with the teaching of the following subjects
to Matriculation level:—
1. PHYSICS
2. MATHEMATICS
3. ENGLISH AND MODERN LANGUAGES.
Applicants should apply in writing to the Headmaster giving age, qualification,
teaching experience, names of referees.
There is a superannuation scheme and residence for a single man. Basic Salary
Scale £lOB4 —£1993.
TALK AROUND CHANGE
PThe operations of Victorian registered
Kauri Timber Co., whose £ 1 shares
are only 95., are still at sixes and sevens.
The chairman said last month that a
return to profitable trading (the consoli-
dated loss last year to August 31 was
£351,929) couldn’t be expected until
the financial year beginning next Septem-
ber, but conceivably the clock could be
advanced a little by the combination ol
import restriction on timber and a spurt
in house-building activity.
★ ★ Tk
A pparently the public response to the
issue of 6d. paid ss. shares of Wm.
Noall and Sons sponsored TV Victoria
Ltd, which is after the new Melbourne
TV channel, has been rather disappoint-
ing so far. But while at present some-
what of a gamble on getting the station,
a small investment could well pay off
in the end if the experience of successful
companies in the past is anything to go
on.
★ ★ ★
T>esides catering for female fickle fan-
" cies, Jantzen has to contend with
nature’s caprice.
Last spring and summer, the rainfall
along the east coast was abnormally
high, cutting Jantzen’s repeat business.
Now the unusually warm winter has af-
fected winter sales. Retailers are adopt-
ing a cautious attitude to summer orders.
Despite its dismal profit showing for
the year to March, Jantzen published its
customary excellent annual report, well
supported by notes and statistics.
Tn rather clandestine manner, a sub-
sidiary of Peter Lloyd Industries
Ltd has acquired a one-third interest in
its competitor Stack and Co. Ltd, for an
undisclosed price.
Stack has a record of high earnings
from its Holden, Chevrolet and Pontiac
franchises, and of 20 p.c. dividends in
each of the last five years, whereas
Peter Lloyd has paid out only 8 p.c. divi-
dends and its shares were frequently
under par while it operated as distribu-
tor of BMC, Mercedes Benz, Rammbier
and Lambretta vehicles.
Since Peter Lloyd acquired the Holden
franchise in January last, it is obviously
in the ascendant.
But while Stack shareholders are left
ignorant of the terms of the current
financial arrangement, the impression
lingers that they may be given a rather
raw deal in the impending merger pro-
posal.
★ ★ ★
|"|ne of Australia’s most brilliant gifts
v to what can be called an inter-
national civil service, Sir Robert Jack-
son, has certainly not shed any optimism
for his native land during his sojourn
abroad. He is satisfied to claim Aus-
tralia as the wealthiest country in the
world.
Sir Robert rather scouted our official
statistics, which seemingly remain
ambiguous. But he’s in no two minds
about a wide feeling of prosperity. He
has taken this sensation back to his post
as chairman of the Ghana Development
Commission. An earlier TV interview
saw Sir Robert charmingly evasive on
Australia’s programme for New Guinea.
★ ★ ★
ltd, one of the smallest
companies listed on Sydney Ex-
change, is experiencing a change of form.
From the worn-out shell of the clothing
and button manufacturing business will
emerge, eventually, a fashionable
merchant banker.
But first it will build up a portfolio of
ordinary shares, venture into sub-under-
writing and the assistance of companies
to public status. Funds will come from
the issue of 80,000 ss. shares at Is.
premium (raising paid capital to a mere
£60,000) and from sale of the clothing
and button business which is now the
subject of negotiations.
The twist to the tale is that the sub-
scriber to these shares is Sydney stock-
broker Mullens and Co., who naturally
will pull in brokerage on the portfolio-
building. Mr Mullens joins the Cleo-
Cladders board along with Messrs P. R.
Murray and J. B. Maguire, while Mr
A. L, V. Hillman steps down.
By this means Mullens and Co. have
sidestepped the costly and tedious busi-
ness of registering a brand new company
and obtaining public listing.
One wonders who is scanning the lists
for the next metamorphosis; and how
long the Stock Exchange will tolerate a
technique which can lend itself to abuse
by less scrupulous operators.
PESSIMISM BELIED
A company to ’ elie pessimism
earlier this year when its ss.
shares were down to 3s. 4d. is T. W.
Steane, which bucked up its support-
ers last week by showing its sales
had been lifted by 83.7 p.c. in the
year to June 30, 1961.
This Victorian electronic and TV
component maker has evidently been
getting a good share of the new TV
component business flowing from the
spread of television into country
districts.
The big question now is whether
the 10 p.c. dividend foreshadowed
in the float prospectus will come to
light this year. After last year’s
board troubles this would be a happy
event. Last year 6 p.c. was paid,
which gives the shares a yield of
5.4 p.c. at their current price of
ss. sd.


REID MURRAY
ACCEPTANCE LIMITED *
FIXED LONG TERM STOCK
5%
P.A. on 3 mths. notice
REID MURRAY
Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stock*
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
Applications accepted only on forms attached to th«
Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William St., Adelaide 408 Collins St., Melb.
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
REID MURRAY
GUARANTEED
by Reid Murray Holdings Ltd.
RM A. 26 V. 40
OIL
NEW FLOATS
IN CHILLY
ATMOSPHERE
.O tags of new oil floats had a novel ex-
perience last week when the latest
two listings, Farmout Drillers and
Amalgamated Petroleum, both of whose
ss. shares are paid to 25., failed to
emulate their predecessors this year in
opening at a substantial premium. On
the contrary they found the climate for
oil shares as cold as the Melbourne
weather and certainly the coldest it’s
been since the Moonie strikes were con-
firmed. The shares of both companies
were struggling to get to par on their first
day of trading.
The chilly temperature has been
caused to some extent by the recent calls
on Planet and Woodside (Lakes En-
trance) shares and the subsequent drop
in the shares of these companies which
has seemed to many holders like throw-
ing the shilling call away.
But as well as this, there is a singular
lack of exciting news in the oil search
field at the moment, what with the
Moonie structure pretty well defined and
causing apparent hesitation in the Union
camp on the question of building a pipe-
line to the coast. Nor apart from a smell
of gas at the combined Oil Develop-
ment-Planet well at Anglesea (Victoria),
have any of the oil search companies got
anything of much interest to show from
recent drilling.
All this has tended to dampen en-
thusiasm and the general manager of the
Stock Exchange of Melbourne didn’t
help the debut of the new floats by say-
ing on the eve of their listing that the
Australian Stock Exchanges were think-
ing of tightening up listing requirements
for oil shares.
One of the measures they have in mind
is to copy Canada in requiring that all
vendor stock must be pooled and de-
posited with a bank or trust company
subject to release only on the approval
of the Stock Exchange. It was pointed
out that this requirement, among others,
was introduced because of the failure of
so many oil search ventures in Canada
between the Leduq strikes in 1947 and
1958, when some 447 million dollars
was raised on the Toronto Stock Ex-
change for oil search companies.
The Stock Exchanges would be wise
to move cautiously in any attempt to put
investment in oil search in a strait-jacket
tailored too closely, because, as with all
mineral ventures, public money will be
forthcoming- on the required scale only
if there is a free market.


A NEW FOOD PROCESSING
GIANT ABOUT TO EMERGE
BY “SECURITY”
announcement made recently that
Marrickville Holdings was acquiring
J. R. Love and Co. Pty Ltd, flourmiller
and general food merchant, suggests that
another food processing giant is about
to emerge.
Since the company was incorporated
in 1951 to acquire Marrickville Mar-
garine Pty Ltd and Eta Food Pty Ltd
(the former producing and distributing
margarine, specialised fats and oils and
the latter, nut foods, grocery and con-
fectionery lines), it has taken over three
other companies.
In 1959 it acquired J. S. Corden and
Co. Pty Ltd of Perth, distributor of sup-
plies and equipment for butcheries and
bakeries. This acquisition took 22,500
20/- shares in Marrickville.
In October 1960 Glycerine Distillery
Co. Pty Ltd, manufacturer of glycerine
fatty acids and other products, was ac-
quired with an issue of 340,000 5/-
shares. Glycerine Distilleries Co. Pty Ltd
was previously a subsidiary of Mascot
Industries.
In September 1961 the company
issued 43,000 5/- shares to acquire an
un-named company manufacturing and
marketing similar products to Marrick-
ville.
Significant Move
Perhaps the most significant develop-
ment occurred in August 1958 when
Marrickville announced that a subsi-
diary, Nut Foods Pty Ltd, would dis-
tribute products of Proctor and Gamble
(the largest maker of soaps, toothpastes,
detergents and vegetable shortenings in
the USA). At the time it was thought
that the move could result in large scale
developments as Proctor and Gamble is
in many respects an American counter-
part of Marrickville.
Because of the opportunities afforded
by Marrickville’s Australia-wide market-
ing networks, Proctor and Gamble were
offered its best entry into the Australian
market, and in the 1960/61 year,
“Camay” toilet soap and “Flash” house-
hold cleanser were distributed on their
behalf.
Proctor and Gamble also have in-
terests in the cake-mix field, and al-
though J. R. Love’s market for “Mother’s
Choice” flour does not at present in-
clude cake mixes, it is not impossible
that Marrickville could use the distribu-
tion system to market Proctor and
Gamble’s “Duncan Hines” brand. This
is assuming that Proctor and Gamble
will wish to extend its association with
Marrickville and increase the competition
it is already offering to Unilever.
Investors who participated in the initial
share placement ten years ago have en-
joyed a very satisfactory investment. As
a result of increases in dividend rate
and also two cash issues at favorable
prices, plus a one for two bonus issue,
they would have seen their dividend in-
come increasing at the average annual
compound rate of 11.1 p.c. on the basis
that they did not put any further cash
into the investment, i.e. that they sold
their rights to acquire old shares. At the
same time they would have seen their
original investment of £l5O increased to
approximately £1,020 in value.
Cheap “Buy”
The question must arise whether this
remarkable rate of growti can be re-
produced in the future and thereby
justify the current share prices of around
26/6d.
Because the effective capital cost of
the J. R. Love takeover to Marrickville
is only about £150,000 in ordinary
shares, it would only require Love’s net
profit after tax to be around £30,000
to enable Marrickville to maintain its
current earning rate. Additional capital
funds were raised during the year to
June 1961 by share placement of 700,-
000 5/- shares, but these were placed at
substantial premiums and would have re-
suited in additions to the share premium
reserve of four times the amount of the
additions to paid-up ordinary capital.
The J. R. Love acquisition could
herald a new era for Marrickville in
which the company would move directly
into the production of new grocery lines
for distribution throughout its existing
Australia-wide network, and it also opens
up the opportunity for it to extend its
interest with Proctor and Gamble; and
this association would certainly strength-
en the market status of Marrickville’s
shares.
Bonus Issue?
If this relationship should be extended,
the company would almost certainly re-
quire further capital, and with capital
reserves totalling £1,045,000 at June
30, 1961 against £2,532,000 paid capi-
tal, the prospects of a bonus issue from
the share premium reserve coupled with
a cash issue seems possible. In this way,
it could, of course, take a leaf out of
the books of BHP, ACI, and ICI, and
combine these issues in such a fashion
that the bonus issue does not, in fact,
make an increase in dividend income to
shareholders; but this would not be in
line with its previous capital issues, when
the dividend rate has either been main-
tained or returned to the original rate
very shortly afterwards (as after the one
for two bonus issue in October 1959).
It therefore seems that Marrickville
Holdings shares at around 265. 6d. still
represent good long term growth pros-
pects and seem attractive when compared
with the 1962 peak of 30s. 3d.
MARRICKVILLE HOLDINGS LIMITED
1955 1956 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961
Current Assets 1806 1891 2134 2372 2463 2560 3563
less Current Liabilities .. .. 1189 973 1321 1341 1414 1844 1640
Working Capital 617 918 813 1031 1049 716 1923
Fixed Assets 1293 1491 1657 1854 2270 3291 4162
Investments 80 87 168 185 196 356 527
Intangibles 456 456 456 456 456 502 365
Total Capital 2446 2952 3094 3526 3971 4865 6977
Represented by
Loan Capital 400 400 400 700 800 1264
Pref Capital 200 200 200 200 200 200 200
Ord. Capital 971 971 971 1263 1263 1961 2432
Reserves 1275 1381 1523 1663 1808 1904 2981
2446 2952 3094 3526 3971 4865 6977
Estimated Operating Income .. 563 651 791 878 920 1092 1185
Earnings 249 251 287 329 336 428 468
Ord Dividend 146 146 146 189 193 386 350
Surplus 103 105 141 140 143 142 118
Dividend per Share (a) .. .. 100 100 100 100 100 142 150
Earnings Per Share (a) .. .. 100 101 116 102 104 127 117
(a) 1955 = 100 adjusted for bonus issues only.
Dividend Yield % 4.7 4.7 4.8 4.3 4.0 3.0 3.0
Price/Earnings Ratio 12.5 12.5 13.6 13.4 21.1 22.4 27.2
(b) based on last sale November.


I
rW*?!
>e
&
a
mj-^OC.
, I ’) « •<
\ I / T 1 J*
s ; v ' "•<ct
<SJ
V / - AiC,
|J/7
?¥:■:■
THE CHANGING FACE OF A NATION
A piercing blast and eyes turn skywards to watch the dogman
direct into place a girder of steel . . . another new building
is a step nearer completion. A thundering explosion, a whole
cliff shudders and a wall of earth comes crashing down ready to
be swept away by a giant bulldozer ... a new national project
is under way. Throughout the length and breadth of Australia
such sights are becoming commonplace. A whole generation can
watch in wonder as the face of the nation changes . . . monthly,
almost daily.
Proud to be encouraging and contributing to such expansion is
A.N.Z. Bank. With a record of service dating back more than
125 years, A.N.Z. Bank looks forward to continuing to give the
finest in banking service to the people of this growing land.
A’N-Z
w
Ljou'QlL J Hikz, ba+i(oing oc t
ANZ BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
Cheque Accounts Savings Accounts
ANZ694. 24R
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
OUTLOOK FOR PRESTIGE ROSIER
A lthough best-known for its hosiery,
'*■*' Prestige Ltd produces lingerie, out-
wear and leisurewear, and a range of
rayon, woollen and worsted, knitted and
furnishing fabrics, besides processing
yarns, and dyeing and finishing yarns for
the textile industry.
Catering largely for the women’s
clothing trade, the company is vulnerable
to fashion changes, but has survived
remarkably well. Other hosiers have gone
under, but Prestige carries on. Neverthe-
less it has ventured further into allied
fields by way of diversification.
Manufacturing plants are located at
East Brunswick, Sunshine. Ararat and
Horsham in Victoria, with an Australia-
wide distribution network. In New Zea-
land there are plants at Wellington,
Stratford and Opunake producing hosi-
ery, lingerie and processing yarns.
The subsidiary complex .comprises
Prestige Fabrics Pty Ltd, Dyecraft Pty
Ltd, M.G.F. and Co. Pty Ltd, Johnson
Bros Pty Ltd, Independent Silk Mills Pty
Ltd, Vollco (Aust.) Pty Ltd, Monta
(Aust.) Pty Ltd, Decor Textiles Pty Ltd.
Australain Fabrics Pty Ltd, Dapco Pty
Ltd, Prestige (NZ) Ltd and John H.
Walker and Co. Ltd.
Credit restrictions and unrestrained
importing brought costly side effects in
1961, including heavy retrenchment of
valuable trained labor.
In the year to March 31, 1962, most
divisions of the group faced highly com-
petitive and difficult trading conditions,
arising from the low level of demand
and excessive stocks held by the trade.
Total turnover was maintained at about
the previous year’s reduced level.
Net profit from trading recovered from
£129,982 to £166,588. which directors
felt was not unsatisfactory in the circum-
stances. But they were not satisfied that
this was an adequate return either on
turnover or the conservatively valued
assets of the group. (Net tangible asset
backing per ss. share is 11s. 6d., and
latest earnings represented 7 p.c. on total
shareholders" funds.)
Substantial improvement in the rayon
fabric and associated dying and finishing
divisions proved to be the group's salva-
tion in the latest term. Had it not been
for these divisions the Australian profit
would have been lower than in the
previous year. The NZ companies made
a considerably greater contribution to
group turnover and profits.
The tariffs introduced in May 1960
were insufficient to encourage local in-
dustry in the production of medium and
higher quality piecegoods. On a second
application to the Tariff Board emer-
gency tariffs were granted, and this was
directly responsible for the success of
Prestige's rayon weaving and associated
divisions in 1961-62. The tariff broad-
ened the field in which Prestige divisions
could operate efficiently.
The tariff has enabled the company to
make fuller use of installed capacity,
given Prestige an assured market in the
medium and higher-priced field, enabled


Testro Bros.
INVEST FOR 6 MONTHS AND EARN
0
WITH FIRST MORTGAGE SECURITY
ms
m
L
m
if
mm
! f 4 l
Under Testro Bros. Short Term Investments,
you can invest from 7 days to 1 year with
interest as follows:
7 Days’ Notice of Withdrawal 4%
1 Month’s Notice „ 5%
3 Months’ Notice „ 6%
6 Months’ Notice „ 7i%
12 Months’ Notice „ 8%
Ready availability of money
-£lOO on demand
HOW TO INVEST: Obtain a copy of the
prospectus and application form by posting
coupon below.
TESTRO BROS. CONSOLIDATED LTD.
Testro House, 222 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Please send me prospectus and
application form.
NAME
ADDRESS
D.33
Applications for debentures will only proceed
on the form of application attached to the
prospectus.
All the
family
will love
only
Everybody's
it to absorb high wage and raw material
costs, and to increase employment in the
Ararat mill by 18 p.c.
From an investment angle Prestige
has a fine record of profits and divi-
dends since at least 1936, with the single
exception of 1952 when the parent was
profitable but the group incurred a loss
and dividend was halved to 5 p.c.
Post-war capital growth has been
through a one-for-one par issue in 1946.
a four-for-five bonus in February 1951,
followed by a three-for-five issue of 10s.
shares at ss. premium. The shares were
split to ss. units in 1952 and a one-for-
five bonus was distributed in July 1960,
on which the company was able to
maintain the 10 p.c. dividend rate estab-
lished in 1956.
Hilton Hosiery Ltd (now Hilton Cor-
poration Ltd) made a takeover proposal
in 1954, but it was rejected. A merger of
interests would be less likely now. A
number of smaller companies was mop-
ped up by the giants in the industry
during the ’sos, but there has not been
much takeover activity of late.
In 1952 the Government allowed the
entry of imported rayon piecegoods
which resulted in two subsidiaries record-
ing heavy losses which outweighed
parent profit. The rot was stopped by a
change in Government attitude, but it is
as well to remember that this sort of
thing could happen again with deleterious
effect for Prestige.
Prestige stands high amongst local
manufacturers, but the industry is very
much dependent on protective tariffs, and
extremely sensitive to fashion and
technological changes.
Prestige has spent over £1 million in
recent years in re-equipping mills with
modern up-to-date plant, and has been
quick to adopt the newest synthetic
yarns, but this does not prove it is infal-
lible. The textile tight-rope is a very
tricky one.
An Australian is reported to have in-
vented a process whereby stockings can
be made almost impervious to holes and
ladders. It is fascinating to conjecture
what this could do to or for the industry.
Prestige’s outlook is much rosier now
than at this stage last year. Current
price around 7s. 3d. for the ss. shares
to return 6.9 p.c. (compared with the
closing price last July after presentation
of 1961 accounts, of ss. 9d. to yield 8.7
p.c.) indicates a return of market con-
fidence.
Nevertheless the textile investors’
watchword should always be “caution ’.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £’ooo
Y March 31 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 2212 2393 2469 2492 2737 2502
Less current
liabilities 1054 1075 1145 1038 1240 942
Working capital 1158 1318 1324 1454 1497 1560
Fixed assets 2025 1939 1918 1847 1894 1853
Investments 76 83 75 85 50 50
Total capital 3259 3340 3317 3386 3441 3463
Represented by:
Loan capital 1061 1036 1011 995 1039 1003
Minority int. 62 64 68 71 66 69
Ord capital 702 702 702 702 842 842
Pref. capital 478 478 478 477 455 452
Reserves 956 1060 1058 1141 1039 1097
Total capital 3259 3340 3317 3386 3441 3463
Depreciation 191 317 255 266 301 284
Tax 151 178 141 159 117 168
Net earnings 176 210 148 177 130 167
Earn rate p.c. 20.9 25.8 17.2 21.4 12.4 16.7
Cap. profits ( —5) ( —8) 4 3 18 2
Ord. divs. 70 70 70 70 84 84
Ord. div. rate p.c. 10 10 10 10 10 10
Pref. divs. 29 29 27 27 26 26
To Reserves 72 103 55 83 38 59
Div. yield
p.c. (a) 6.9 7.1 6.9 6.7 8.7
High share price
(b) 7/6 7/6 8/3 10/9 9/10 7/-
Low share price
(b) 5/6 6/3 6/- 6/- 6/3 4/4
(a) Last sale July (month accounts presented)
(b) Preceding -calendar year


CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
PER ANNUM
4YEARS
FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN IN A PERSONAL EMERGENCY
APPLICATIONS MUST BE MADE ON THE FORM ATTACHED
TO THE PROSPECTUS, WHICH IS NOW AVAILABLE FROM:
All Branches of the Company's Bankers
THE BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company's Offices,
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House. 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Bayliss Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
BROKERS:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CQRRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange) ..... .
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne!
TRUSTEES FOR THE NOTEHOLDERS:
Bankers & Traders Insurance Company Limited
CC.137A8
ISAS (NSW) LTD
FIRST DIVIDEND CUT
Working under extremely difficult
conditions for distributors of earth-
moving, loading and handling equipment,
ISAS (NSW) Ltd suffered a set-back in
the year to March 31, 1962, and for the
first time since incorporation in 1956,
has been unable to hold its 10 p.c. divi-
dend rate. Shareholders’ income . ~s cut
by half.
The company was formed to exercise
franchises to distribute in NSW power
and construction equipment, materials
handling equipment, logging, loading and
road-building equipment supplied by In-
ternational Harvester Co. of Australia
Pty Ltd, Armstrong-Holland Pty Ltd,
and Fowler Engineering Pty Ltd. Early
operations were accelerated by the secur-
ing of suitable premises at Enfield. A
branch is operated at Cooma, i the
Snowy Mountains area.
The range has been broadened by
acquisition of franchises from the Gabon
and Britstand graders, the Smith Rodley
line of cranes and excavators, and the
Kaye vibratory roller.
To-Re- Re-
Maich, Net Profit Dividends serves serves
31 £ % = £ £ £
Less intangibles w/o 6 500
1958 45,100 10 = 22,178 22,922 16,422
1959 27,895 10 = 25,001 2894 19,316
Less intangibles w/o 12,410 6,906
1960 54,207 10 = 25,001 36,112
Share premiums 32,500 68,612
Less intangibles w/o 1,625 66,987
1961 40,478 i 0 = 32,500 7,978 74,965
1962 20,67 7 5 = 19,500 1,17 7 76,142
The reserves give an asse' backing per
20s. share of 235. lOd. The only capital
changes since incorporation have been
the issue of approximately 10,000 shares
under a service agreement to the manag-
ing director, and a one-for-two issue to
shareholders in August 1960 at ss.
premium:—
1960 1961 1962
£ £ £
Capital , . . . 250,007 390,000 390.000
Reserves . . 36,112 'M, 965 76,142
Overdraft . 152,723 147,078 121,512
Short-term ad-
vances under
floor plan
agreements 162,695 327,503 337,073
Deposits at call 2,700 7,135 10,625
Creditors . 104,799 102,338 155,450
Tax provision . . 51,854 65,510 31,399
Pinal dividend .. 25,001 32,500 19,500
785,891 1,147,029 1,141,701
Freehold .. .. 92,978 90,607 87,110
Plan t 63,724 78,264 72,185
st °ck 454.439 774,734 752,545
Debtors .. .. 171,998 200,730 227,446
Cas h 2,752 2,694 2,415
785,891 1,147,029 1,141,701
Earnings have fluctuated widely, the
best performance being registered in
1960. The earning rate has been 20.3
P-c. in 1959, followed by 11.2, 21.7,
12.5, and now 5.3 p.c. Profit was
roughly halved in the latest term, the
£20,677 remaining after provision of
£16,043 (1961 £31,480) for tax and
£12,612 (£12,085) for depreciation.
Inventories in the last two years have
been hard to move, and the intense com-
petition among distributors has produced
lower profit margins and higher direct
selling costs. Profit in the last year was
affected by the necessity to write off a
much larger figure than usual to bad
debts. Depressed conditions brought the
downfall of a number of contractors,
some long-established in the business.
Directors expect profitability in the
current year to be assisted by the stimu-
lus in the construction and building in-
dustry, and the encouragement govern-
ment action is having in the local gov-
ernment field.
International Harvester Co. of Aust.
Pty Ltd, which provides Isas with its
main source of income, is giving special
attention to rubber tyred loading equip-
ment, and constantly expanding and im-
proving its range of equipment.
Price range for the 20s. ordinary
shares in 1961 was from 255. to 17s. 3d.
and in this year from 20s. to the present
price of around 165., yielding 6.2 p.c. A
recovery to par cannot be expected for
some time.


Company
Par
Value
Last
Sale
1961
Prices—
9/7/62
A
16/7/62
Div.
Rate
P.c.
Div.
Yield
p.c.
Earn.
Rate
p.c.
Earn.
Yield
p.c.
Amalgamated Chemicals
5/
14/3
17/11
18/
12 Vi
3.5
21.4
5.9
A.W.A.
2 0/4 Vi
21/
20/6
14
3.4
22
5.4
Ampol
11/4
12/4
12/3
14
5.7
19
7.6
A.R.C. . .
46/3
48/6f
47/6
15
3.2
29.7
6.2
Associated Pulp .. ..
29/3
30/9
30/3
—
13.6
8.9
Aust. Chemicals .. ..
10/
30/4 Vi
25/
23/10
12 Vi
5.2
21.5
9.0
A.C.I
20/
72/6
67/6
68/
8-1/3
2.5
19.3
5.7
Aust. Guarantee
5/
14/
12/9
12/10
15
5.9
20.3
7.9
Aust. Gypsum
5/
14/3
14/9
14/9S
10
3.4
15.9
5.4
A.P.M
.. 20/
25/3
23/
23/9
8
6.7
10
8.4
Bank N.S.W
£34
£ 40Vif
£40
9
4.5
12.2
6.1
Bitumen and Oil .
5/
24/
24/11
24/
17Vi
3.6
35.4
7.4
Blue Metal Ind.
5/
22/7i/ 2
23/5
23/3
15
3.2
27.6
6.1
Bradford Cotton
5 /
7/6
6/8
6/1 Of
10
7.4
11.2
8.2
British Tobacco
20/
25/
24/9
24/3
9
7.4
9.7
8.0
B.H.P.
.. 20/
69/
58/
58/6
6 Vi
2.1
15.5
6.0
Burns Philp
20/
91/
£5
£5/3/
10
2.0
12.4
2.5
C.S.R
£20
£59 Vi
£59%
£ 59%
9 Vi
3.2
14.8
4.9
C.A.G.A
11/3
11/
11/1 Vit
10
4.5
12.2
5.5
C.I.G.
20/
£5
95/
98/
11
2.2
25.2
5.1
Commercial Union .
5/
19/3
23/
21/9
6 Vi
1.5
18.4
4.1
Concrete Ind. ..
5/
15/1 Vi
14/5
13/11
10
3.6
16.6
6.0
Cox Bros. ..
7/6
7/5
7/4
10
6.8
11.8
8.2
Custom Credit ..
13/
ll/8t
11/9XD
15
6.4
18.2
7.8
Cyclone
26/
21/9
21/3
10
4.7
17.7
8.2
Dalgety-N.Z. Loan .. ..
.. 25/
—
37/6f
37/9f
8
5.3
13.9
9.2
David Jones
5/
18/9
17/11
18/
121/2
3.5
28.7
6.7
Drug Houses ..
20/
69/
67/3
68/
IDA
3.3
17.7
5.2
Dunlop Rubber .. ..
20/
35/
39/6
40/6
10
4.9
16
7.9
Elder Smith
23/9
24/3
24/9
10
4.8
12.6
6.1
Electronic “B”
10/
13/3
17/
16/3
121/2
7.7
Email
7/6
7/9
7/8
10
6.6
11
6.2
E.Z. Ind.
12/11
12/7
12/4
10
8.1
12.4
10.2
Felt and Textiles ..
6/11
7/10
7/7f
10
6.5
13.9
9.1
G. J. Coles
13/6
13/
12/11
11
4.3
14.8
5.7
Goldsbrough
20/
28/6
29/9t
29/9
8
5.2
12.6
8.1
H. C. Sleigh
11/
12/3
12/4
12%
5.1
13.4
5.4
Henry Jones ...
20/
80/
76/
77/6
10
2.6
28.6
7.4
H. G. Palmer ..
15/6
17/9
17/3
121/2
3.6
33.4
9.6
Howard Smith ..
.. 20/
54/
48/9
50/
10
4.0
13.6
5.4
Humes
20/
70/6
72/3
72/
14
4.0
24.6
6.8
I.A.C.
13/4
13/1 Vi
13/6
16-2/3
6.2
20.6
7.6
I.C.I.A.N.Z.
.. 20/
38/
40/9
41/
7
3.4
9.7
4.7
J. Gadsden
15/3
17/6
18/
8
4.5
10.4
5.9
Kandos Cement
—
21/9
21/lVi
12Vi
3.0
13.5
3.2
Kelvinator
18/3
19/5
19/3
15
3.9
28.6
7.4
Lend Lease
5/
20/
17/9
17/6
10
2.9
21.4
6.1
L. J. Hooker
5/
7/
5/
4/11
1.1*
1.1
Mercantile Credits .. ..
8/8
8/10 Vi
8/10
10
5.6
16.6
9.3
McPhersons
20/
47/
41/3
40/1Vi
8-1/3
4.2
12.4
6.2
Minster
62/
74/9
74/6
16-2/3
2.6
28.3
5.0
Moulded Products ..
5/
13/2
13/2
13/5
14
5.4
7.8
3.0
Mt. Isa Mines
.. 5 /
71/6
68/6
71/
25
1.8
62.8
4.4
Mutual Acceptance
5/
8/10
10/1 Vi
10/1
15
7.5
22.3
11.0
Myer
5/
29/
30/4
30/2
16-2/3
2.7
28.3
4.8
National Consolidated
5/
27/
26/
25/3
20
3.9
35.3
7 0
Olympic Industries
5/
7/7
9/11
9/11
9
4.5
16.2
8.1
Peters (Vic.)
8/6
7/10
7/9
15
3.9
18.9
4.9
Petrochemical
20/
26/
27/6
27/
6
4.4
5.9
4.3
R. M. Concrete
17/41/2
17/3
17/1
121/2
3.6
22.9
6.6
Reid Murray
.. 5/
5/3
4/
3/9
9.4
12.4
Repco
12/5
13/7
13/9
10
3.6
17.8
6.4
Rio Tinto . 1T
15/9
18/
17/9
10
2.8
71.7
20.2
Rothmans
87/6
73/6
73/6
17%
4.8
47.7
13.0
Thiess
13/
11/7 Vi
11/8
12%
5.4
14.4
4.5
Tooth
60/
69/
68/9
13%
3.9
15.9
4.4
Union Carbide
20/
80/
66/3f
66/6f
10
3.0
15.9
4.7
Waltons
13/8
13/5
13/4
12%
4.7
19.7
7.4
Woolworths
15/4
16/1
15/11
12
3.8
15.4
4.9
5/
11/10
11/8
11/6
10
4.3
14.2
6.8
W R. Carpenter ..
* Estimated on last half-
xR Ex rights,
t Mid-price.
5/
year’s profit.
30/
33/6 34/
xD Ex dividend.
S Seller.
B Buyer.
15
2.2
35.1
5.4
MELBOURNE
STOCK
EXCHANGE
AVERAGE YIELD
ON 100 ORDINARY SHARES
50 Other Stocks—
Random-^
—50 Leading
Stocks s
Sample
Div. Yield Earn Yield
Div. Yield Earn. Yield
Decembei
22 1961
4.26
6.13
5.30
7.46
July 9, 1962
4.39
6.31
5.18
2.08
July 10,
1962 ..
. . . • • •
4.40
6.32
5.17
2.31
July 11,
1962 ..
. . ,, ,,
4.41
6.34
5.17
2.34
July 12.
1862 . .
. .
4.40
6.34
5.16
2.53
July 13,
1962
4.39
6.32
5.15
2.46
July 16,
1962 ..
4.39
6.32
5.15
2.46
SYDNEY
Banks,
etc.
STOCK EXCHANGE
Other
Finance Pastoral Retailers
INDICES
Base All
Metals Ords.*
Industrials
December
22, 1961
.. 137 31
541.02
182.31
389 15
604.15
299 07
318.74
July
9,
1962
.. 158.42
552.24
170.09
366.72
550.27
294.38
310.31
July
10,
1962 . .
.. 158.21
551.69
169.27
360.82
547.74
292.31
308.20
July
11,
1962 ..
.. 157.55
552.90
168.91
364.36
550.48
293 80
309.92
July
12,
1962 . .
. . 156.79
554.89
169.81
363.05
558.85
295.23
312.20
July
13.
1962 ..
.. 157.04
555.56
170.31
364.28
563.21
296.04
313.04
July
16,
1962 . .
. . 157.56
557.84
* Peak
170.94 365.92
348.46 September 16, 1960.
565.69
295.51
311.75
LEADING SHARE PRICES
MARKET STIMULUS
STILL LACKING
4 N ill-digested gruel of overseas homily
and warning still clogs Austra-
lian investors’ appetites. As one result,
they continue reluctant to swallow any
stimulus which could be genuinely de-
rived from some favorable local economic
indicators. Good little imitators, they
have decided to keep their dealings re-
markably thin.
The operative words here are assuredly
little and thin. A few commentators may
gain solace by describing last week’s
equity mood as brighter and steady. Yet
Sydney last Friday saw its narrowest
range for the year and turnovers every-
where have been kept low. Charitably, of
course, this could be the drying-up of a
selling wave, though wave looks a trifle
exaggerated.
Through all our super-quiet behavior,
the harsh milk of now-accepted doctrine
streams in from abroad. “The stock
market, and price-earnings ratios, had
gotten far out of touch with the harsh
competitive realities of business life and
were overdue for correction,” the First
National City Bank of New York opines
and moves on to reservations concerning
the American economy.
But, after all, it comes down on the
right side, believing that “barring totally
unexpected events, figures for the year
as a whole will total up to new peaks for
production, employment, and even cor-
porate profits.” Remember that is an
American picture. Though in the light of
a market drift similar to our own, an
English optimist can urge “this is a good
moment for a new investor to consider
forming a basic portfolio.”
Whatever the new boys may be waiting
on here, the old hands are spreading
a fair amount of available money among
fixed interest securities. Industrial Ac-
ceptance and Custom Credit report
healthy over-subscriptions to debenture
and note issues. Even bond yield exhibits
a clear fall.
In the face of such goings on, it does
not appear surprising that many good
industrial shares look rather weaker than
they might. Some slight leader recovery
has been noticeable recently, though not
impressive enough to give clear guidance.
Most other main sections behave rag-
gedly.
Retailers, however, were not obviously
shocked by differences between official
and traders’ business statistics. Prices
barely moved, as if it is now taken for
granted that consumer excitement will
be contained and slow to rise. Prominent
changes among industrials seem neatly
balanced, as, for instance, C.l.G.’s largish
gain over the week and McPhersons
largish drop.


LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street. Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721.
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Snares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. W GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road,
Melbourne
Telephone. 51-6243
Est 1939
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O'Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
Prudential Building.
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5957 (4 lines)
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale” Sydney. Melbourne
or Wollongong.
A. L. NEVITT. DRAPER & CO.
A L NEVITT. A C. DRAPER.
N. W C. DRAPER
(Members 01 Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street. Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street, Phone 6089
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round. «_.■
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM 2001. »
ONE TO BUY
FREIGHTERS LTD FOR THOSE
PREPARED TO WAIT
The policy of “buying assets” in mak-
ing share purchases requires long-
sighted courage when the assets con-
cerned are barely paying for their keep,
as seems to be the case with Freighters
Ltd, an Australia-wide transport equip-
ment and general engineering group. The
question is, as always, what is the poten-
tial earnings power of the assets and
does the current share price correctly
discount the book value of the assets in
terms of their potential earnings power?
With some discouraging results from
Freighters just around the corner there
is the further question of whether the
depressing trading performance expected
to be revealed for the year to June 30
last marks the end of the worst and the
beginning of a period when the group
will show its true form, which is very
good form indeed on the record over
many years.
Shareholders have certainly had plenty
to shake their faith, as the restrictive
measures on the motor industry eventu-
ally bit deep into Freighters’ profit over
the last year or more. Attrition started
in the second half of 1960-61 and
reached its worst in the first quarter of
1961-62 when the group was trading at
a loss. The interim report for the six
months to last December showed a 26
p.c. drop in turnover. The usual 5 p.c.
interim went unpaid, the first time the
company had missed since 1956 when re-
sults were affected by a contretemps
over share transactions.
Good years, then slump
Before 1956 the company had been
a bountiful and steady dividend payer
and after that year it showed good
promise of regaining its lost stature with
payments of 7£, 8 and 10 p.c., all
comfortably covered by earnings, in the
four subsequent years to 1960-61.
There is no gainsaying the unfortunate
slump in earnings in 1962, though the
precise extent of it is yet to be revealed.
But evidence of recovery is plain to see
and this could blossom progressively dur-
ing the remainder of the current year.
In the meantime, shareholders are un-
likely to get a dividend for 1961-62,
though this, of course, is not certain.
What is certain is that the internal
resources of Freighters are very impres-
sive and would warrant a resumption
of dividend payments at the earliest, pro-
viding the present upward trend in earn-
ings is maintained.
At June 30, 1961, net tangible assets
came to 9s. a ss. share, with reserves
amounting to roughly the equivalent of
the ordinary capital at that date. Since
then lan Potter & Co. has underwritten a
new one-for-five ordinaries issue at par,
the funds being required largely for the
fledgling acceptance company of the
group. In underwriting this issue, Potter
was doubtless looking at the innate
strength of the group and the recovery
potential, preferring to regard last year’s
attrition in earnings as temporary.
Costs are streamlined
Again the group has been making good
use of the lull in trading over the last
year or so to streamline its costs and
modernise its manufacturing facilities.
It has also made additional tie-ups with
overseas manufacturers to make new
products here under licence. One of these
is the link with Tufplastics of the UK
to produce and distribute Tufplas, a
steel substitute made of PVC and poly-
ester resin reinforced with fibre glass
(which the group also manufactures for
its pleasure boat division).
This division is centred in Adelaide,
but the main manufacturing operation
of the group is in Victoria, where about
1000 are employed. There are also big
plants in NSW, Queensland and WA
and plans for a factory in Tasmania.
Apart from its main products in the
trailer and trailer equipment field, the
group’s other principal fields are petrol
and milk tankers, passenger buses, fork-
lift trucks, bulk handling machinery and
earth moving equipment.
The ss. shares were as high as 10s. 6d.
before the Government singled out the
transport industry for particularly harsh
treatment in November 1960. Earlier this
year they were 6s. Id., but with the
probability of poor results coming to
hand in the forthcoming accounts for
1961-62 they have dropped in an un-
willing market to 3s. 6d. For those pre-
pared for the long pull, though it may
not be as long as the market thinks,
Freighters is one to buy.


STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
11th Floor, Pearl Assurance Building
151 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Phone 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
Sydney: 383 George Street, 29-7865
Adelaide: 61 Gawler Place, 8-7407
Brisbane: 334 Queen Street 31-1621
Canberra: 8.M.1. Alinga St., 4-3334
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
All Offices: “Options”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
LINSEED OIL
TARIFF ENQUIRY SOUGHT
A conference of Australian linseed
growers will seek a Tariff Board Inquiry
into the vegetable oils industry. They
wish to plan a growing programme cov-
ering five to eight years.
The conference covers Victorian,
South Australian and New South Wales
growers, and support has been promised
from Queensland and West Australia.
Growers of safflower and soybean de-
sire guaranteed price and crop purchase
conditions, so that they can meet local
requirements, and then participate in
export operations.
SHEARING INSPECTIONS
Shearing inspections for the 1963
Sydney Sheep Show and Stud Sales,
from May 29 to June 5, are now under
way.
The shearing regulation, which has
been in operation at every Sydney Sheep
Show since 1938, provides that all
Merino and Corriedale sheep which will
be over 18 months old at the time of
the 1963 show must be inspected and
ear tagged following shearing. On this
occasion the sheep must be shorn down
to half an inch and all inspections must
be carried out by the middle of July in
the case of Merinos and August 15 for
Corriedales.
In 1961 more than 13,000 were
inspected and from requests for ear tags
received so far this year it is expected
that this figure will be exceeded.
The inspections are normally carried
out by committees appointed by local
agricultural societies, but any breeder
who has difficulty in arranging inspec-
tions should contact the N.S.W. Sheep-
breeders’ Association.
Speculators Diary
WHAT HAPPENED ON
FRIDAY THE 13TH
T had thought of suggesting to You-
Know-Who that we write our diaries
together this week. But then our diaries
don’t really have very much in common;
and nobody’s ever thought this one worth
parodying. Still it could be inestesting
to take a peek at “My Portfolio” some-
time.
Now back to the ball game. There
my face was really red by last Tuesday
with the AOG I’d bought at 555. 6d.
down to 48s. in two trading days. I’d
bought purely on the grounds that the
price was due for a technical reaction
after its post-Moonie 4 fall. There was
a reaction all right—down a further 7s.
6d. in two days. But as the week wore
on the price recovered again and I was
able to wriggle out at 565. by Friday
for a loss of only £6. As this was
Friday the Thirteenth, and knowing my
astuteness with oil shares, the price can
now be counted on to going back up to
£5.
I was more fortunate with the 200
William Adams I sold short at 48s.
After buyers and sellers had played a
cunning game for a day or two, the
price did drop by 6s. to 425. I thought
that this was still absurdly high in the
circumstances but it readily became ap-
parent that 425. was as far as the price
was likely to go for the time being. So
I bought back, making £37. But I
needn’t remind you that shorting al-
ways a hazardous business that generally
needs a little luck to come off.
Meanwhile the market was alive with
rumors about Peter Lloyd and Stack.
The suggestion that Peter Lloyd was
going to take over Stack seemed so
improbable that I went ahead and sold
my 500 shares on Wednesday at 7s. 9d.
As it turned out, I did the right thing
even though the rumor did prove to
be more or less correct. But in the
subsequent huffing and puffing about the
ethics of the move, Peter Lloyd’s share
price receded again. My 500 shares had
been bought in March at ss. 6d. so I
was able to make a nice profit of £45.
At the same time Beau Monde was
continuing to climb the price ladder in
Melbourne. When the price reached 345.
I put 100 of my 300 on to sell and was
pleasantly surprised to find Ihey brought
345. 9d. This 100 I’d bought in one of
my more alert moments only a month
ago at 30s. My profit was £lB and I
still have the original 200 I bought just
before Christmas at 255. The question
now is whether I should also sell these
200 or wait for the annual report in
September. This report should certainly
be a good one but just how much higher
the price will go will depend on the
extent of the profit and divind increase.
The interim dividend was moved up frac-
tionally from 6 p.c. to 6} p.c. in Febru-
ary and hopes of a really good result
for the year have since been bo. 'd by
the 28 p.c. profit rise recorded by the
rival stocking maker, Prestige. I think
I’ll be greedy and hold on to my other
200 in the hope that they might reach
40s. before or after the annual report.
The moral in my Peter Lloyd and
Beau Monde exploits is that in times
such as these it pays to buy the stock
that had a bed spin last year but which
is now doing a great deal better. This
sort of thinking explains the presence
in my portfolio of such stocks as Hani-
mex, Goodwins and Mafieys. I’ll have
to spend this week looking for more of
these sort of recovery stocks. The tradi-
tional leaders, such as BHP and ACI,
and even the glamor stocks of yesteryear
—Rothmans, Concrete Industries, etc. —
no longer produce the capital gains that
they used to. Now it’s very much a case
of speculate or perish (as an American
broker once said). And I have no in-
tention of perishing.
The week’s transactions were:
SOLD
100 AOG at 56/- £276
500 Peter Lloyd at 7/9 .... £lBB
100 Beau Monde at 34/9 .... £l7l
BOUCHT
200 William Adams at 42/- .... £437
This means I added nothing to my
portfolio this week but I did make a
profit of £94 and Ido now have 1 353
on hand, itching to be spent. The port-
folio consists of:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date per rent
shares company bought share price
600 O’Donnell Griffin 28/8/61 13/6 17/6
1,000 United Motels 20/11/61 3/9 4/3
200 Beau Monde 8/12/61 25/- 35/-
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 24/3
500 Mauri Bros. 16/2/62 22/9 23/3
400 Anderson Meat 2/3/62 12/- 14/-
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 6/3
500 Beady Mixed 6/4/62 17/9 17/3
75 M.L.C. 27/4/62 130/- 135/-
200 Malleys 3/5/62 20/3 21/9
500 Merica 10/5/62 7/- 7/3
500 Swan Brewery 17/5/62 19/6 19/6
1,000 Hanimex 23/5/62 4/11 6/1
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 26/-
800 Discount Facilit. 30/5/62 5/9 5/9
300 Marcus Clark notes 22/6/62 27/6 29/6
200 Barrett Burston 28/6/62 21/- 23/-
100 James Hardie 29/6/62 98/- 102/-


REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
p.a. for 7 years
5£% p.a. for 12 months
Other rates and terms available see
Prospectus for full details. Your copy
available from all Members of Stock
Exchanges, over 750 branches of the
A.N.Z. Bank Limited and I.A.C.
Branches.
Applications for stock will proceed
only on one of the forms of application
referred to and attached to a printed
copy of the Prospectus.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
C Registered 19th December, 1929)
Branches at
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE —BRISBANE —ADELAIDE PERTH
HOBART CANBERRA
Brokers to the Issue: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney,
Adelaide and Brisbane.
8164 N
NO COMPLACENCY OVER
OUR EXPORTS
TT'lation over Australia’s record 1961-62
exports cannot be allowed, even for
one brief moment, to veil the nagging
trade problems which stand immediately
ahead. To achieve an income of <£lo7o
m., some £Bom. higher than the previ-
ous best, constitutes a remarkable enough
performance. This is especially so in
the face of many lingering cost disabilities
and in a world climate where several
commodity prices remain against primary
producers, great and small.
Not much sudden betterment may be
expected in either of these two principal
hindrances. Admittedly Brussels and
some important commodity traders out-
side the six are flying the kl.e of eventual
world price agreements. That looks very
high in the sky at present.
So the disruption, however mild or
however acute, of Britain entering the
Common Market must be borne under
the abovementioned situation, together
which an urgent demand to attain diverse
and alternative markets. There is surely
no need to add that our export income
may hardly be permitted to retreat from
its prevailing level. Indeed every reason
asserts that it be forced higher.
Some remarks made by Mr Warren
McDonald when initiating an export
education programme on Tuesday night
sound especially apposite. He was invit-
ing a gathering of industrialists “to go
back to school ... to learn the reading,
writing and arithmetic of modern export
marketing.”
In hard tact, the industrialists were
bidden to attend a seminar to be run by
the Export Conference Planning Com-
mittee for NSW on August 28, 29 and
30. Joined in the organisation of this
seminar are the Department of Trade,
the Australian Institute of Management
and the Australasian Institute of Cost
Accountants.
Mr McDonald at least believes that
“markets we have hardly troubled our
heads about before in Asia, the Middle
East, Africa and South America are
waiting for us.” He is sure “they won’t
wait long unless we take the initiative.”
Lost opportunities appear more fright-
ening when put into figures. They need
not intimidate our traders, for Mr Mc-
Donald is correct in seeing that chances
still remain. The past lack of drive can
surely overcome, in the Middle East, an
Australian share of about £lBm. out of
£ 1250 m total trade, and, in South
America, a beggarly £lm. out of about
£3500m.
Much of the burden of cultivating new
markets will in the future rest upon
industrialists as such, though at the same
time rural produceres will also need to
circumvent the loss of some traditional
markets. Every advice, from successful
probe and from official sources alike, is
that executives should go personally to
promising, and not so promising, foreign
areas.
The mechanics of our overseas trade,
particularly as they apply to strictly in-
dustrial products, are clearly in need of
refurbishing. One aspect which may soon
come to the fore is the financing of
exports.
To a limited extent this matter has
engaged more attention from the Federal
Government, the Reserve Bank and other
financial institutions, as well as from
manufacturers themselves. It must be
taken for granted that a greater measure
of credit trading can assist our move into
new markets, notably among the less
developed countries.
Direct subsidies are now becoming
frowned on by enlightened overseas
theorists and bureaucrats. Many authori-
ties here consider that only our larger
capital-goods exports may require the
facilities of long-term credit finance and
that this can mostly be handled by the
banks. We should be looking ahead of
this, for credit will probably be requested
in unlikely places and for an extensive
variety of goods.


Always ask for
AINSLIE’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd., Sydney
Halloran Manton Pty. Ltd.
MARKETING
ADVERTISING'S ROLE IN
DRIVE FOR EXPORTS
VTow that most Australians are con-
vinced of the possibility of a vast
trade with South East Asian countries,
manufacturers should immediately get
right down to the details of how our
exports can best be promoted. And
one of the most important aspects is
proper advertising and publicity.
To guide exporters in this matter, the
Commonwealth Department of Trade has
issued a brochure entitled “Advertising
in South East Asia”, which includes sug-
gestions on media to be used in the
various countries. This is valuable in-
formation, because the peculiarities of
each country determine the kind of
media most likely to be successful.
For instance, in some areas displays
and point-of-sale material „re relatively
ineffectual because shop windows are
either non-existent or are used for mass
stock displays; and in stores there is
little room for point-of-sale material
among the festooned good:, and packed
shelves.
Packaging, however, is very important.
The consumer pack must sell itself, but
great care should be given to color,
design, art-work and lettering. Design
should be bright and bold; instructions
should be printed in the language of
the market and, for the illiterate, a
sketch should illustrate the contents.
Market peculiarities should be understood
and local prejudices eschewed.
In Singapore and Malaya color is
regarded as important, especially to
Chinese—red and yellow are for luck,
but blue and white are funeral colors
and therefore unlucky.
Generally, however, for consumer
goods newspaper advertisements, out-
door signs and radio offers most effec-
tive means for building knowledge and
demand. But language difficulties cause
problems in Press advertising in South
East Asia, although at least one Aus-
tralian agency has solved this by employ-
ing, as translators, Asians resident in
Australia. The agency says this is more
effective, speedier and more efficient than
employing translators overseas.
It will be seen from this that advertis-
ing agencies have a substantial stake in
the task of promoting Australian exports
to South East Asia. The agencies them-
selves realise it; but one wonders if
their clients, who are potential exporters
are seized with the need for properly
implemented advertising campaigns—and
that such campaigns take time to pre-
pare. Experience has proved that many
manufacturers are extremely hard to con-
vince that scientific research and plan-
ning are essential preliminaries to suc-
cessful selling.
RETAILERS GIVEN LESSONS
IN MARKETING
npHE ninth annual residential seminar
of retail executives at Leura last
week was notable for the way in which
some of the guest speakers told their
hosts in so many words that they didn’t
know how to run their businesses. Both
Mr W. Pettingell, general manager of
the Australian Gas Light Company
Ltd, and Mr L. R. Naylor, executive
manager of W. D. Scott and Co. Pty
Ltd, a firm of management consultants,
told the executives that retail traders
were lacking in science of marketing and
selling their goods to the public.
Whatever the truth of this, the fact is
that most of the larger retailers, such
as Myers, David Jones, Farmers, Cox
Bros, Waltons, H. G. Palmer, Eric
Anderson, Woolworths, Coles and a lot
more seem to have done a pretty good
job of selling their wares to the tune of
£3OOO million a year throughout Aust-
ralia. And it can hardly be said that they
have lacked “drive” in their efforts to
win customers in this highly competitive
business.
But both Mr Pettingell and Mr Naylor
did make a point or two which the re-
tailers must consider, if they have not
already done so.
Said Mr Pettingell: “As the big manu-
facturer reaches the limit of his capacity
he will devote more attention to retailing
and distributing. This is a strong chal-
lenge to retailers. If the manufacturer
gains the upper hand, he will retail at
lower prices to retain his productive
level, as is being done now in Japan. . . .
Retailers must plan for changes in the
next ten years, otherwise some of them
will go out of business.”
Said Mr Naylor: “Retail shop assist-
ants too often base their standard of
service on emotions —their service is good
or bad according to how they feel. They
do not have the capacity to subordinate
and control their feelings. Too often the
behavior of the sales force gives the cus-
tomer a feeling that he is being saved
from his own follies by their superior
knowledge.”
Mr Naylor added that stores should be
able to teach their assistants more ef-
fectively than they did. They should
teach them to sell the customer benefits,
not merchandise.
These statements by Mr Pettingell and
Mr Naylor, while true enough in most
respects, have exercised the minds of
certain large retail organisations for some
time. Some retailers have themselves
entered into the manufacturing field
through subsidiary companies in order to
prevent the manufacturer from getting
the upper hand; and as for Mr Naylor’s
plea for the training of sales staff, this
has been a feature of the staff recruit-
ment policies of many of the big stores
for many years. The staff troubles, how-
ever, will persist while retailers are com-
pelled to meet peak seasonal demands
with untrained casuals. This is common
to every big store throughout the world
and will never be remedied.
W.M.R.
SOIL CONSERVATION
The Queensland Department of Agri-
culture is providing to farmers much
technical aid in soil conservation. The
service is so popular that 2,371 requests
for aid were made in the last financial
year—so p.c. more than in 1959-60.
Although the advisory staff has been
expanded, applications exceed the depart-
ment’s capacity to handle them all and
more than 300 requests remain to be
dealt with in the new financial year.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
CUT IN WOOL PROMOTION BUDGET
AROUSES GROWERS' SUSPICION
w'oolgrow'ers reached in-
" stinctively for their cheque books
when they heard Australian Wool Bureau
chairman Sir William ("Big Bill”) Gunn
announce a cut in Australia’s domestic
wool promotion the other day.
The cut, applicable from July 1, came
as a shock to advertising agencies, public
relations firms and the wool trade.
But Sir William’s only proffered rea-
son for the reduction a shortage of
money at a time when the bureau is
being called upon to boost its promotion
in the international sphere - aroused
instant suspicion among wool growers.
They suspected, probably with good rea-
son, that the canny Goondiwindi grazier
W'as “softening them up” in preparation
for a request for more money for wool
promotion.
Good politics
A reduction in promotion may seem
a strange way to justify more money
for promotion, but such a move could
be good politics in the present state of
the wool industry and Sir William
Gunn can play wool politics as well as
anyone.
Next year, if he is to stick to his five-
year plan for expanding w'ool promotion
on a w'orld-wide basis, Sir William must
W'in an increase in the voluntary wool-
grower promotion levy to 14s. a bale.
The present levy is 10s. a bale, a sum
reluctantly agreed to by woolgrowers
last year (after some extremely clever
behind-the-scenes politicking by Sir
William) anu equally reluctantly renewed
this year.
Only 18 months ago the levy was ss.
but even today the average woolgrow'er
is paying only .75 p.c. of the value of
his clip for promotion.
Sir William’s cut in home promotion
makes good sense, as w'ell as good wool
politics. When he took over at the Wool
Bureau a few years ago it was the con-
stant target for criticism most of it
uninformed, but much of it justified.
Every woolgrowers’ meeting in Aust-
ralia heard complaints about the bureau’s
efforts. Because they, personally, did
not see the results of the bureau’s work
(and because their wool prices had not
soared) growers concluded the bureau
was doing nothing.
In point of fact w'ool’s position was
bad. In 1948 Australians were using an
average of 8.3 lb. of wool a head
annually and wool had a 33 p.c.
share of our home fibre market. The
succeeding years darkened the picture.
Man-made fibres, with their easy-care
properties and glamour appeal, began to
cut into wool’s market. Mills overcame
their World War II backlog of demand
and the Korean War sent wool prices
soaring. By 1958 Australian w'ool con-
sumption had slumped to 4.4 lb. a head
and wool’s share of the fibres market was
down to 20 p.c.
This was the situation Sir William
Gunn faced. He countered it by stepping
up promotion, smartening up the bureau
and trying to convince the trade that
they should use wool.
Two years ago he stumped Australia
in an exhausting personal campaign to
convince growers they should spend more
on promotion. In speeches to thousands
of wool men he also convinced them
that the bureau WAS doing something
and that it had a good man at its head.
How successful?
Thus in the last year or so the bureau
has had little of the carping criticism
that so often made its work difficult in
the past. But how successful has Sir
William been in the field of “hard sell”
w'as his success merely a public rela-
tions one, or has he pulled the industry
out of a hole?
Promotion is one of those things it is
impossible to judge accurately, but the
bureau now boasts proudly that in 1959
w'ool consumption was up to 5£ lb. a
head and w'ool’s share of the market
had lifted to 23 p.c.
In 1960 consumption improved still
further to 5.8 lb. a head and while
figures are still largely guesswork a
1961 level of almost 7 lb. is being freely
predicted at the western end of Mel-
bourne’s Bourke-st.
As Australian fibre consumption totals
something like 21 lb. a head, a 7 lb. level
would give w'ool about one-third of the
ma: ke. a quite satisfactory result in
the light of world wool consumption.
To achieve this result the Wool
Bureau has spent far more on wool pro-
motion in Australia than the size of the
Australian demand for wool really justi-
fies. Australian mills buy only 71 p.c.
of the Australian clip, and about 2\ p.c.
of this is subsequently exported in semi-
processed form.
Although the bureau’s budget is secret,
it is believed to have been spending
something over £400,000 a year on
Australian promotion. This is roughly
equivalent to its income from reserves
and from the rent on its 300-odd wool
stores throughout the country.
This has left almost the whole of the
levy which, at 10s. produces <£2l
million on a 5 million bale clip for
overseas promotion through the Inter-
national Wool Secretariat. (The IWS, in
which Australia is partnered by New
Zealand and South Africa, promotes
w'ool in all countries except these three.)
Spending on promotion within Aust-
ralia was lifted to its pre-July 1 level
about two years ago. At that time there
w'as no comparable increase in overseas
promotion.
More money
This was partly because Australia
first needed to put its own house in order
as the world's leading wool producer and
prove she could get results with promo-
tion, and partly because Sir William first
wanted to reorganise the International
Secretariat along businesslike iines.
Today the reorganisation of the
IWS is complete and it needs more
money to expand its work especially
in Asia, where countries such as Japan,
India and Red China are offering big
new potential and actual markets.
The Australian Wool Bureau com-
mitted itself to financing the major part
of the IWS’s expanded programme and
w'as faced with the prospect of drawing
heavily on its reserves.
The reduction in home consumption
(which Sir William says is “not substan-
tial”) will help solve the cash shortage
overseas and slow the run-down of re-
serves. It also brings home and over-
seas spending more into line on a basis of
wool usage.
But as Sir William has hinted sev-
eral times growers will have to pro-
vide more money if they want to see
their wool promoted adequately overseas.
A per bale levy of 18s. to £1 is likely
to be needed w'ithin the next three or
four years and it seems that growers
although struggling for even a minimal
return on capital have little alterna-
tive but to pay up and hope their money
brings results.


CSIRO BACK-ROOM MIRACLES
npHE white-coated magicians of CSIRO
have produced a series of “white
rabbits” for the Australian economy in
recent years.
Many of these back-room miracles
have directly benefited the Australian
wool industry . . . among them outstand-
ing permanent pleating, mothproofing
and easy-care processes for woollens.
But it has not been merely by luck
that the wool industry has benefited to
this degree ... it has been to a large
extent the result of farsighted investment
in research by Australia’s woolgrowers.
The industry’s research programme is
now ten years old and is showing sub-
MOTOR OVERHAUL
WHILE-U-DRIVE
REPLATES WORN, upper cylds., main bear-
ings, diffs., gears. SAVE: Rebore. ENDS:
Piston slap, rattles, oil, petrol waste.
RESTORES: New compression, power, top
speed, zip. SAVES: Adds LSD to re-sale value.
GUARANTEED: Up to 25,000 miles. Harmless
finest engine, liquid Nu-Metal, or in Tablet
form. SIMPLY: Add Re-Nu expanding liquid
Nu-Metal, or in Tablet form to oil, petrol, or
plug holes, 4,6, 8 cylds., 60/, 70/, 80/. Testi-
monials, engineers’ reports, free advice avail-
able. Open Saturday. Distributors required.
RE-NU-CO. (estab. 1932), 58 Swann St, op.
Richmond Stn, Vic. JB 1755.
r enclose £ for Super Nu-Metal
NAME
ADDRESS
BUL
Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: PERCY RONALD CLARKE.
TAKE NOTICE that AGNES FLORENCE
CLARKE has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1442 of 1962 on the ground of desertion. If
you wish to defend this petition you may
enter an answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney on or before the 31st August,
1962 and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out a charge from MESSRS. A. KELLETT &
CO., Solicitors, 14 West Parade. West Ryde.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO. RICHARD ALEXANDER DAVIES, form-
erly of 2 Burrelli Street, Wollongong.—
TAKE NOTICE that DOREEN EUNICE DAVIES
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1567 of
1962 on the grounds of desertion and failure
to pay maintenance. If you wish to defend
you may enter an answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building-,
Macquarie Street, Sydney, by the 31st day of
August, 1962, and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from McDONELL &
MOFFITT, Solicitors of 6 Wynyard Street,
Sydney. If you do not wish to file an answer
but wish to receive a copy of each docu-
ment filed in the proceedings you should file
a notice of address for service on or before
such date.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
TO: ROBERT CLINTON ROUSE late of
Auckland in New Zealand but now of
parts unknown, the husband of EDNA
OLIVE ROUSE of Auckland, Married
TAKE NOTICE that your wife has hied a
Petition for Divorce on the grounds that a
Separation Order has been in full force fox
not less than three years. A copy of the
petition with an annexed notice containing
information for you will be forwarded on
application to my office. If you do not file an
answer to the petition within forty-two days
of the publication of this advertisement the
Court may hear the petition and pronounce
iudgment without your being heard. A mar-
riage is not dissolved until the Decree Nisi
made in the first instance is later made abso-
lute and a Decree Nisi is NOT a defence to a
charge of bigamy.
DATED at Auckland this 22nd day of May 1962.
J W PRESSLEY, DEPUTY REGISTRAR,
SUPREME COURT, AUCKLAND.
Friends of the abovenamed ROBERT CLINTON
ROUSE are asked to forward this advertise-
ment to him. ,
MR. EDMUND WALTER THOMAS of RUS-
SELL, McVEAGH & CO., Solicitors, Sixth Floor,
South British Building, Shortland Street,
Auckland. C. 1., is the Solicitor for the peti-
tioner.
DO YOU LIKE
THE NEW LOOK
BULLETIN?
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick ( v /) whichever method of
delivery you prefer
For those desiring direct sub-
scription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/money
ordei tor .. months subscription to
THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea): 1 year—
£2 i2s.; Vs year—£ 1 6s. Post free. British
Dominions: £3 6s. Other countries: £3 16s.
N.Z SUBSCRIPTIONS (Remit to Box 965,
Wellington. N.Z.): I year—£2 12s. (N.Z.
currency): Vs year—£l 6s. (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
Perhaps this is the first issue ot THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? There are
two ways of doing it either through your newsagent
or by direct subscription. The form at left offers you
your choice of method of delivery. You may send us
your name and address and we will arrange for the
newsagent nearest you to deliver your copy of
THE BULLETIN each week and charge it to your account.
Or, if you prefer if, we will mail each week's copy
to your address by direct subscription.
Th.e
Bulletin
Incorporating The Australian Financial Times
stantial results, perhaps because it is
a substantial programme. This year
woolgrowers are expected to spend close
to £3 million on research in Australia,
the vast majority of the money going to
CSIRO, Last year the budget was a
record £2,847,000, with £2,278,000
going to CSIRO’s various divisions.
Smaller amounts went to State de-
partments of agriculture, the universities
and smaller research centres.
The money financed research into
almost every aspect of the wool industry
—from the sheep and the pastures they
eat to the final fabric.
All this work is financed by the Wool
Research Trust Fund, which is made up
of a voluntary woolgrower levy of 2s.
a bale on the Australian clip, plus a
Federal Government contributions of 4s.
a bale.


Feiffer
ev. oo imi
olp enee oective
He ? i HAvetor
seen You siuce
M OLP "YOUTH
FOR TOMORROW
VAH6 THIRTY
H£ARS A 6O/
(aJHAT A FACTIOMAUST
RAT RACE THAT A>A5
£H PAM 60H ?
THAT IOAG MOTHIN6f
tyU ‘SHOULP HAVE
JOIMEC "STUDENTS
FOR CHANGE " THAT
FOUOWfP IT
FIVE HEARS
LATER -
ow, i Jomvi f
jomvi to & that
MR A FACTIOML6T
m RACE I
den, one eooo
TKIM6 CAMf OUT
OF IT' 6L)Doies
FOR BBIKRMHr-
THgy, AT T£Aor
HAP SOMO
ONITY'
mu it mesioß-
ATet? lmto a
FACTIOUAUST m
RACe. !
1 10\WV OMB OF THB
SPUMT6R 6ROUPB-
'JUNIORS
just\ce: moo
UIBRBWT Acm /id
that Ode, WBRB
HOO, 611 7 " r,
MO I HAP TO TFMfORAf?(LH
PROP OPT OF THP MOOTH
MOV6MFMT- MM (dIFg [PAO
HAWM6 HFR FOURTH 6ABM.
U-\ BUT I HBAR IT
OMIOPWIWO
> A A FAOTOUAUST
a> •AjU'A CE '
MU, £V£RYTHm FEU APA(?T
FOR hmu. A LOT OF THE
tfOUfH W£ KNEW K6AM
f?£TIRIO6 OR 60106 CW
PEOOIOO. HEW FKCB6
CAME HEW '
MOUTH "
mmßiFticsQ.
vmwecTFUL.
MTWeORCTICAL.,
TH M HEED DIRECWR)!
IW TPW6 T°
6£T IVTO
PRO6W FOR PEACE
VJX -I VOK)'T KHOuU-
FOR SOME KASOtf
THW Wf
S66M to
tOAHt M£.
PIRECTION-
THAT'S IHC
imi&it ujith
KIP 6 T OPM.
ioo seMsg £?r
mow- /
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 702
ACROSS
I—Frank is alienated because money is business. (9)
s—Convulsions5 —Convulsions about a formal order, when I am
wrapped in fat. (4)
B—Do your lolly order which, to Adam and Eve,
would be unnecessary. (5, 4)
10 — Jolson meeting a sailor at the temple table. (5)
11— Sparkle of mind? It is associated with West. (3)
12— Not befitting Southern Europeans, excepting Jugo-
slavs and Greeks, etc. (7)
13— Taut present, for example. (5)
14— Old scene can become shut
in. (8)
15 — Wall finish cuts back busi-
ness. (6)
18 — Messy change in duty. (6)
19- —Prompt prayers don’t get into
this monogram of Arthur
Rubinstein about itself. (6)
21—Headgear it backed with an
academician. (5)
23 — Duet composed out of Tom’s
woe. (7)
24 — Agitate a funny fellow. (3)
25 —That is after a grower of
wool fibre. (5)
26 How a German says yes to
some vehicle and a flowering
tree. (9)
27 —A fuel sufficient for poten-
tates. (4)
28 — The sold might change Oliver.
(9)
DOWN
1 — Gold-diggers not opposed to
those in search of melodies.
(7-7)
2 Artists’ busts? (6, 2, 7)
3 GBS seen to be upset by red-
skins. (8)
4 Yawn up after a cry of pain
—the spoilt character always
wants it. (3, 3)
5 This makes the off-pitch pre-
position stage the condition of
the prostrate. (4, 2,3, 6)
6 A weight registered by
Dvorak. (5)
7 Honor a cause of quarrel-
someness in boarding houses.
(5, 2,3, 4)
9 —Criminal crook over one citi-
zen in Sheridan’s time. (7)
16 — Caricature bus takes to bowl-
ing. (7)
17 — Systematised rules of conduct
look partly professional to
Colin. (8)
20 —How you might describe the
Sing-Sing Sing-Sing section
of the nightingale’s sing-song,
(b)
22—Face of the famous Capone
tree. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 701


EXPORTERS
this will interest you even if you’ve never thought of using Air Cargo before!
7FWi
%.
/
h k
TIME
<>>:
flies
'
-
AUG 19
&
4
4
i -
m
' ~*'V
PS
m
111
New Zealand and Fiji
get TIME
on time all the time!
In adopting the use of air freight, the enterprising
publishers of TIME magazine effect a sort of non-stop-
press service to get the news to their readers on time
each week. Qantas Air Cargo Division registered a
special “Commodity Rate” and flight schedules to
New Zealand and Fiji were checked against press
deadlines. Then a timing plan was worked out for the
export of the South Pacific edition of the world’s
leading news magazine. As a result, TIME SOUTH
PACIFIC now appears in remote parts of Fiji only a
day or so after being printed in Melbourne. And it’s
on sale in Auckland as soon as in Adelaide. As one
Christchurch newsagent put it, “Another timely scoop
by TIME. Tt’s time other publications caught on!”
QANTAf AIR CARGO
41 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
HOW THIS EXPORTER BENEFITED:
1. An increased and regular weekly bookstall market is
established in New Zealand and Fiji.
2. TIME is first in the world’s news coverage each week.
3. The speedy and reliable service, regular as clockwork,
solves one of publishing’s most urgent problems.
Other publishers, too, could benefit from exploring poten-
tial overseas markets ahead of their competition. As well
as the inevitable immediate gains in circulation and
revenue, they would be able to offer more to their adver-
tisers, especially those interested in the development of
export business.
HOW THE QANTAS EXPORT
CONSULTANT SERVICE CAN HELP YOU:
Qantas puts at your disposal one of the most comprehen-
sive transport systems in the world. Qantas analyses each
export/import problem individually and offers you this
Qantas six-point service—FßEE.
1. Distribution time and static time analysis gives you a
time and motion plot on your goods from despatch
to arrival.
2. Costing breakdown on your complete shipping operation.
3. Systematic appraisal of packaging with suggested
modifications for the lighter, more economical handling
and packing of your freight needs.
4. Advice on alternate routings, accelerated cartage, taxa-
tion and insurance reductions.
5. Advice on current world markets as well as quarantine,
import, currency and customs regulations.
6. A business venue in many overseas countries in Qantas
offices in Europe, America, Asia, the Orient, New
Zealand and Africa.
export it by QANTAS if it’s IMPORTant to you!
SANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, In association with Air India, 8.0.A.C., S.A.A. and TEAL
QAC3I
