

The Bulletin
ered in Aksti by post as a nevxpaplpr.
ONE SHILLINGS'
|iUN'e^2
TIMES
LESLIE
fAYLEN
labor's
Artful
Dodger
* NEW GUINEA NEWSLETTER - UN Mission; Sequel Te
Buka * WORLD WAR 8 More Thoughts On The
Unthinkable * ALAN REID - As I See It * SOUTH AFRICA
- Love and Apartheid * A PAUL SMITH SHORT STORY


When. A.M.P.
in 18493 sailor;
looked like thi;
founded
c~:;J
&
w
-L
J*
//
t^i
m
¥m
«3» i%. a
£5**
Bpll
gaHS
85*
rr\
J J
ttSxO
AWL:
U292B
MODERN SHIPS and navigational aids have taken us far
from the era of the sailing ship and jolly Jack Tar. Life
assurance has changed too. So have financial problems
and the means by which they may be solved. To be sure
you have found the best solution ask your A.M.P. man to
check that you are getting maximum value for your
premiums.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Australia’s largest and oldest life assurance organisation
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE. Offices in cities and towns throughout
Australia and New Zealand and in the United Kingdom
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by funds of L550,000,000
which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.


LEE KUAN YEW Page 28
Singapore Referendum coming up
•
The Townley Touch A Trip to
Djakarta 9
Leslie Haylen Labor’s Artful
Dodger 12
U.N. Mission in New Guinea
The Answer is No 16
University and Industry Bridging
The Gap 18
The Grand Passion of
Cocky O’Byrne 20
South African Love Story Mixed
Marriages and Apartheid .... 26
Europe and the Space Age Take
A Giant Step? 28
Living With The Bomb More
Thoughts on the Unthinkable .... 29
High Finance Low Theatre
(Chevron Debentures) 35
Wool That Embargo! 53
Martin Long “The Joker” and
“The Savage Eye” 55
That Certain Book W. C. Went-
worth on the Golden Bough ... 58
•
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
Alan Reid’s AS I SEE IT 9
AROUND SYDNEY II
AROUND MELBOURNE 24
OVERSEAS 26
FORUM 29
LETTERS 32
WILD CAT 34
MAN ON THE LAND 53
REVIEWS 55
RED PAGE 58
FEIFFER 63
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone 27-5971
Melbourne: Phone. MF3341. Brisbane: Phone
B 2691. Adelaide: Phone. W 4121-3
Vol. 84
No. 4294
"WE MUST LOVE THE DUTCH..."
Minister Athol Townley’s forthcoming visit to Djakarta
is deliberate mistiming which cannot be explained away in glib,
Government platitudes. Canberra’s first attempt to explain this bizarre
adventure was to suggest that at a time when there is a minor war on in
Dutch New Guinea, Mr. Townlev was merely repaying an earlier
courtesy visit to this country by his opposite Indonesian number
Defence Minister General Abdul Nasution. Later Canberra announced
in a belated attempt at whitewashing that while in Djakarta Mr. Town-
lev and Sir Garfield Barwick a little later would remind Indonesian
J
leaders of their solemn promises not to use force over West New Guinea.
This is a lame explanation of a visit which the Dutch can only interpret
and do interpret as nothing less than a final Australian sell-out over
West New Guinea. For the Dutch Mr. Townley’s visit at a time like
this is only comparable with what Australian feelings would have been
after Pearl Harbour if the Dutch had sent delegates from Batavia to
Tokio to negotiate a separate peace for the N.E.I.
There are now powerful arguments for getting the Dutch out of
West New Guinea. They cannot stay simply because there is no possible
hope that they can achieve their intentions of self determination for the
area. Neither Britain nor America certainly no Asian country believes
in self determination for West New Guinea. Australia by itself cannot act
without British and American support. We also have Asian opinion to
consider. There is also evidence that Canberra now accepts the all
pervasive and seductive U.S. view that it is no longer a matter whether
Indonesia gets West New Guinea but which side in Indonesia the
Communists or the Army backed by conservative elements.
But having said all that, Mr. Townley’s visit is a deliberate affront to
the Dutch whose sovereignty in West New Guinea we still recognise and
whom we still regard as allies. Even if the Government did not consider
possible Dutch retaliation (by opposing our Common Market interests
or dissuading Dutch migrants from coming here) it might have considered
that Australia in the not so distant past put considerable pressure on
Holland to remain in the area. As recently as 1957 Australia and Holland
signed a joint agreement over the political and economic development of
New Guinea as one unit. In April of last year an Australian Minister
attended the inauguration of the Dutch New Guinea Council in
Hollandia. Not so long ago the Prime Minister told Australians: “We
must love the Dutch ...” Now the same Prime Minister refers to West
New Guinea as “this unhappy business”. Although sheer obstinacy has
been partly responsible for the Dutch holding on in West New Guinea
it is doubtful whether they would have remained but for Australian
blandishments.
Certainly if they had known what was coming they would never
have gone through the mummery of the 1957 Joint Agreement nor
would they have got themselves on the hook by continuing to promise
West Papuans what they can no longer deliver self determination.
There is no doubt in the world that the Dutch not only must go but
want to go. The question is how. Their acceptance of the Bunker pro-
posals (so soon after the announcement of Mr. Townlev’ o visit to Djakarta
and Sir Garfield Barwick’s repudiation of Dutch interests just prior to
leaving on his Asian trip) indicate that they may have at last decided to
give up an unequal struggle. Even so such decisions are urgent matters
over which they have every right to look to Australia for sympathetic help
and guidance. Because this Government’s policy is now to get them out as
quickly as possible is no excuse for Mr. Townley’s proposed trip which
bv any standards is surely the wrong visit at the wrong time to the
wrong place.


National
Notebook
Vegetable Love
her four years in Spain Aus-
tralian Elizabeth Ferguson was suc-
cessively tutor, dancer, bullfighter and
gipsy. At least she thought she was
a bullfighter—and had proved it in the
ring to the satisfaction of Spaniards—
until she sat with Ernest Hemingway in
a Barcelona cafe and he wrote on the
back of a menu-card all the things she
might possibly be; a bullfighter wasn’t
among them.
“Hemingway insisted that bull-fighting
had no reality for me, at least, not the
same sort of reality it had for a
Spaniard like his friend, Antonio, and,
of course, he was perfectly right," Miss
Ferguson told us. “Hemingway was ab-
sorbed in what was reality for himself
and others. Mostly he was absorbed in
himself. He told me often that his
writing had no reality for him, that it
was all just parts of a jig-saw puzzle he
pieced together somehow. ‘Papa’ to me
was a completely tragic figure, totally
divorced from the public idea of him.
He was old and sick and depressed. We
all knew the end would come for him
soon. Sometimes when he had been
drinking he would grow boisterous and
laugh and there would be something of
the Hemingway who had been, then in
a moment he would be the old. sick, tired
man again.”
When Hemingway was scribbling on
the back of the menu-card in Barcelona
he put a tick against writer. So two
years after her return to Australia Miss
Ferguson has had her first book.
“Spanish Laughter", published by
Angus and Robertson.
Less tragic than her meetings with
Hemingway were those with Salvador
Dali.
“I was walking along a beach on the
Costa Brava with a German friend,
Anita," Miss Ferguson said, “when
this man in a sort of plastic space-suit
with a plastic biscuit-barrel over his
head, leapt out at us from behind a
rock. ‘1 am the first man from space,’
he cried, jumping about, and, as
clearly as I can remember, beating the
bat-like wings of his suit. I realised it
was Dali. When he came back to
normal, or what is normal for Dali, he
invited us to his house.
“When we reached the entrance,
which was like a sort of spider-web with
a door through the spider’s stomach,
Dali cried ‘This week only the pure
form can enter this house' and began
to rip off his space-suit. Anita, who
was a rather silly sort of girl, said to
me This is Dali, the great artist. We
must do as he says,’ and took off her
clothes and followed him naked into
the house.
"I wasn't interested in that so I
walked about the outside of the house,
looking through the windows to get a
glimpse of the extraordinary interior. I
can remember that most of the chairs
had an odd arm or leg or head in-
corporated into the upholstery in the
posit-on in which a human arm or 1: g
or head would be if someone were
sitting in the chair.
“After a while Anita came out, put
on her clothes and off we went. The
next time I saw Dali was in Barcelona.
He was wearing another sort of space-
suit, this time festooned with carro s.
He was going down the streets telling
everyone who would listen to him that
the carrot was the first of created
things and that this was the week of the
carrot. The Spaniards don't take h : m
very seriously and most people listened
politely.
“The next time I saw him was in
Madrid. This time he was wearing a
sort of cauliflower headdress and was —
it is really impossible to describe
dressed like a vegetable-cart full of
cauliflowers. He was proclaiming that
the cauliflower was the first of created
things and that this was the week of
the cauliflower.
“I saw him again a few months later
in Barcelona at an art show—not of his
own paintings, I might say. An art
show is the same everywhere—polished
bald heads, mink stoles and so on —but
in Spain there are generally elaborate
sofas for people to sit on.
All the guests were seated when Dali
came in, followed by several small boys
pulling vegetable-carts filled with dif-
ferent vegetables. Dali tipped the vege-
tables into heaps in front of the pictures
and spent several hours, I would say
from 10.30 a.m. to 2.30 p.m. —declaim-
ing about vegetables. At the end of it
I was introduced to him and he
promptly asked me which was the
most important vegetable. Rememberirg
Madrid, I said the cauliflower. But I
was wrong. It was the sugar-beet which
was the first created thing. This was the
week of the sugar-beet.
“I am absolutely convinced.” Miss
Ferguson said, “that Dali knows
exactly what he is doing. He puts on
the most wonderful act, and gets a
great laugh out of it himself.”
Speaking the same language
TJerth theatreman, Eric Edgley, stop-
ped still long enough on his travels
with the Moscow State Variety Theatre
to tell us he had found the Russians had
a commendablv practical attitude to pro-
fits. “The Russian Embassy wants us to
go to Canberra for a performance to be
attended by the diplomatic corps,” Mr
Edgley said. “My interpreter. Barbara,
said immediately, ‘And will those diplo-
mats pay?’ I said, ‘No, in this country
they don't.’ She said ‘Will you make
money?’ I said ‘Probably not.’ So she
said, ‘Then don't go.’ ”
If the prevalence of diplomats dissolves
profits in Canberra, the Moscow State
Variety Theatre is doing wonderful busi-
ness everywhere else. “The first couple
of days maybe it’s slow,” Mr Edgley
admitted, “but at the end of the run in
Perth and Adelaide you could have got
a fiver a seat. It’s all done by word of
mouth. People tell their friends.
“The Russians don't seem to make
much effort to ‘sell’ the show. My son,
Philip, comperes it, but they won't let
him say ‘Now for absolutely the first
time in Australia the amazing, astound-
ding . . .’ or anything like that. It has to
be just ‘First item,’ ‘Second item' and
so on. And there are no colored spots
or fancy backdrop, just blinding white
lights and a plain white curtain. The
first rehearsal in Perth I said to myself
‘Lumme, how will this go!" But it does.
And the Russians are supremely confi-
dent. They just know they are good."
Mr Edgley made four trips to Russia
and saw a show a day over a total of
about six weeks while he was gathering
together the 25 artists who appear. The
Moscow State Variety Theatre is brought
to Australia by Mr Edgley, in associa-
tion with J. C. Williamson and Aztec
Services.
“But they like to deal with one person,”
Mr Edgley said, “They called me an
impresario. Lumme, what a word! Every-
thing is done through the Ministry of
Culture. They must have some accoun-
tants in the background handling the
figures side of things, because they drive
a hard bargain, but all the people I met
on the management level were old theat-
ricals. And, although I don’t speak a
word of Russian, we spoke the same lan-
guage the way old theatricals do.”


Mr Edgley said that all members of
the company were used to foreign travel.
Some of them now spend six months of
the year on tour outside Russia. “But
they like the family touch, they like to
feel at home,” Mr Edgley said, “So I’ve
got my wife and my 11-years-old
daughter travelling around with them,
too.”
Season of mists and
mellow fruitlessness
A utumn is the time for conferences
and Adelaide and Sydney, with
their comparatively benign climates
are the most popular cities to hold them
in. In fact, until they begin holding con-
ferences in Cairns in January or Hobart
in July we won’t be entirely convinced
that most conferences are not just an
excuse for a holiday.
Last week doctors were meeting in
Adelaide, architects and experts in pro-
ductivity in Sydney. These conferences
may have been immensely rewarding as
new ideas were discussed by delegates at
cocktail parties or golf days. However,
the Bulletin financial writers, who sat
in on the productivity conference, found
it largely unproductive, and extracts
from speeches tend to show that most of
the talk was on the level of ideas which
architects, doctors and production engin-
eers took in at their mothers’ knees.
The productivity conference was told
by management consultant, Walter Scott,
that “Australians must work now to
maintain a high level of prosperity,” and
that “unless Australians work for the
things they wanted they would not get
them.” Industrialist Sir James Kirby
told the conference that “rises in income
that were not matched by productivity
increases were illusory.”
The architects were told by a psychia-
trist that they “must build homes to allow
clients to get satisfaction from life and
escape from the inner conflicts.”
The doctors were told by another
psychiatrist that “delinquent behavior was
a symptom of conflict with society and
its laws.”
A Melbourne Irishman
A writer who has been at work in
Melbourne for over a year is being
compared with O’Casey for his searing
scenes of Dublin slum life. He is Paul
Smith whose novel “The Country-
woman” has provoked praise in London
and New York and censure in Dublin.
It is set in the time of the troubles and
Irish critics, while attacking it found
consolation in the fact that the slums no
longer existed. Paul Smith knows better
—he is one of 21 children of a Dublin
slum family and had to leave school at
the age of 8. In the 27 years since then
he has done all manner of jobs, from
being waiter, factory machinist, messen-
ger boy and kitchen hand to ballet
dancer, radio actor in Canada and the
USA and costume designer for the Abbey
Theatre. He found the Abbey as lively
as a museum and a fair reflection of the
state of cultural life in Ireland so left
for Sweden where he taught English by
day and wrote his second novel “The
Countrywoman” by night. He came to
Australia from America shortly after-
wards to have a look at the country but
he has been working too solidly to get
around: he has written a play and most
of a third novel while in Melbourne. In
this issue we publish a Paul Smith story
which concerns characters and incidents
from “The Countrywoman.”
"Pay no attention to those stories about losing face with the Dutch"


This Australia
A "STATE AID" ELECTION
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
W. C. HODGMAN
Resigned
Tt is now a fairly safe bet that, for the
first time in many years, the Tas-
manian Parliament, elected in 1959, will
run its full term of five years, and give
the Labor Government 28 years of un-
interrupted rule. Whether it will then be
returned for a further period will depend
on two factors which are closely related
and which may give the Liberal Party
Opposition its best chance to date of
becoming the Government. These factors
are the decline of the Catholic Labor
politician and the education issue.
Although the fateful A.L.P. Federal
Conference of 1955 was held in Hobart,
the resulting split caused hardly a ripple
in the State Parliamentary scene. The
then Premier, Robert Cosgrove (now Sir
Robert) was a Catholic and so were
Ministers Dwyer, V.C., Gaha and Mad-
den. The Catholics who had voted for
these men for years continued to do so.
A snap election of 1956 saw their return,
together with yet another Catholic, B. P.
Crawford, a Cosgrove protege who was
being groomed by him for big things.
The decline began in 1957 when the
State A.L.P. Conference accepted by an
overwhelming majority the Brisbane
Federal Conference decision to oppose
“State aid” to non-State schools. Next
came the retirement owing to ill-health
of Premier Cosgrove and his replacement
by Eric Reece, Federal President, at the
1955 Conference. The A.L.P. survived
NEXT WEEK'S ISSUE
© SOEKARNO Fading Father
Image (cover story).
© AUSTRALIAN CATHOLICS
—Left-wing Right-wing split.
© GEORGE McGANN New
York Newsletter. t
• THAT CERTAIN BOOK
David McNicoll on Somerset
Maugham.
© ALAN REID As I See It
From London.
yet another snap election in 1959, the
faithful Catholic voters returned the
ageing Dwyer, Gaha and Madden, but
Crawford, young, ambitious and a battler
for the return of “State aid” to the Party
platform was defeated in a photo finish.
The issue of “State aid” did not affect
the result of the 1959 elections although
Liberal Party Leader Jackson made some
vague promises and the D.L.P. stood for
the pre-split Labor policy of aid to all
forms of education. One of the reasons
was that the more intelligent Catholics
were suspicious of the Liberal Party’s
bona fides in the matter but the most
important reason was that the vast
majority of Catholics just did not under-
stand the education issue and consequent-
ly were not prepared to let it sway their
traditional loyalty to the A.L.P.
In the last three years there has been
a marked change in this attitude. Under
the stimulus of the dynamic Guilford
Young, Archbishop of Hobart, many
Catholics have become increasingly active
and vocal on the education issue. The
first indication was the formation of the
Federation of Parents & Friends Associa-
tions, an independent and lay body,
which now speaks for the parents of the
10,000 children in the 55 Catholic schools
throughout the State. The driving force
behind the Fede r ation, and currently
President, is D. A. Kearney, a burly
Irishman from County Cork. Kearney,
as the father of six children, has more
than an academic interest in the question.
An honours graduate in law, he is Deputy
Registrar of the University of Tasmania,
and is by Tasmanian Catholic standards
unusually outspoken on controversial
political issues. There is little doubt that,
by election time, the major issue for
Catholics will be “equality in education.”
The A.L.P. will be faced with the
biggest problems because since 1958 the
ascendancy of the left wing within the
Party has been marked, and with it anti-
Catholic feeling has come out into the
open. Upon the death of Agriculture
Minister Dwyer, former member Craw-
ford won the seat on a count of Mr.
Dwyer’s preferences. Upon his announ-
cement that he would carry on the fight
for “State aid”, his election was imme-
diately challenged on legal grounds by
another defeated A.L.P. candidate, Mrs.
Linda Heaven, a doctrinaire socialist.
Mrs. Heaven’s challenge was upheld and
she was declared elected, to the jubilation
of the A.L.P. State Conference.
At the same Conference bitter attacks
were made for the first time in Tasmania
on Mr. Santamaria’s National Civic
Council. Again, the Conference appointed
as its members on the Federal Executive
Hobart watersider V. S. C. Williams and
State Secretary, R. H. Lacey, both of
whom strongly oppose Federal inter-
vention against Victoria’s “unity ticket”
State Executive. Government Whip, Ray
McDonald, a Catholic, has bucked the
Party line on a number of occasions and,
as a result, has been the target for con-
siderable Left Wing abuse. McDonald,
like Crawford, is strong on the “State
aid” issue an the indications are that he
will meet a similar fate in the 1964
Elections. The remaining Catholics,
Gaha and Madden, are sick men and it is
most unlikely that they will seek re-elec-
tion. The A.L.P. will therefore have little
grounds for being certain of receiving as
large a Catholic vote as in the past and,
if the campaign of the Parents and
Friends Federation continues at its
present intensity, that vote could shrink
considerably.
The Liberal Party has been as half-
hearted and inept in its approach to
the education issue as it has to the
various other issues which have arisen
during its epoch-making occupancy of
the Opposition benches. Although at the
1959 Election, the then Leader, Jackson,
promised that some unspecified assist-
ance would be given if his Party was
elected, it was strongly rumoured that
this action in committing the Party (to
no avail) was the real reason for his
unconstitutional dismissal from leader-
ship by the State Council shortly after-
wards. The fact that a fellow member,
Hodgman, always a strong advocate of
“State aid”, resigned from the party at
the same time, gives substance to this
rumour. Those in the know in the Liberal
Party say that a small but influential
section is bitterly opposed to “State aid”
for purely sectarian reasons. The known
supporters of “State aid” are Deputy
Leader Lyons—son of late Prime Min-
ister, Joe Lyons, and the only Catholic
Liberal member, Breheny, and former
leader Townley, a leading Baptist.
The intriguing question is whether
these men can convince the rest that
the best way to achieve the reins of


Government after 28 years in Opposi-
tion is to seek the Catholic vote by
espousing the cause of “State aid”.
Thirdly, there is the D.L.P., whose
policy supports “aid for all forms of
education”, and which could therefore
expect more substantial support from
Catholics than it has received in the
past. In view of Tasmania’s system of
proportional representation, the D.L.P.
could conceivably hold the balance of
power in the next Parliament, particularly
if it can attract good calibre candidates,
The evidence for this is the 4,000 plus
votes (more than sufficient to elect a
State Member) gained by Council Clerk,
£ Courtney, in the 1961 Federal Elec-
tion. Courtney, in his first candidature,
received r / cord vote for the D . L . P .
(and by his preferences ensured the
return of Liberal member, Falkinder),
thus giving some substance to the view
that many people who support D.L.P.
policies still need a good-calibre can-
didate to clinch their votes.
LAW
THE POLICEMEN'S FIGHT
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
T>eporters attending the fortieth annual
conference of the New South Wales
Police Association last week were sur-
prised to hear a police delegate, Mr J. J.
Black, comparing policemen with “crimi-
nals serving a gaol sentence, certain
aborigines, and persons of unsound
mind.” The sixty delegates were debating
“the removal of the Police rule which
prevents members of the Police Force
from taking part in matters of a political
nature.” This rule stops policemen from
standing for any sort of political office,
municipal, State, or Federal.
As early as 1896 New South Wales
policemen received the right to vote in
elections. But as they pointed out this
week, that is far as it has gone. If the
police rules were strictly interpreted in
this State, policemen could not even
hold a prominent place in church affairs.
In effect this is now a dead letter. But the
“political office” portion still stands, and
the NSW policemen are fighting to have
it removed.
In South Australia, Western Australia
and Queensland, police have full civil
rights and if a member wants to stand for
Parliamentary office he resigns and con-
tests the seat. If he loses, he is reinstated
with the same rank, seniority, pay, long
service leave and other rights. Victoria,
Canberra, and Tasmania, according to
the NSW Police Association President,
Sergeant L. H. Griffiths, are more or less
in the same “old-fashioned” condition as
New South Wales.
Despite their lack of civil rights, Police
Associations themselves play an influ-
ential role in trade union and Labor Party
politics. In New South Wales, for in-
stance, the 5381 policemen making up
this State’s Police Association are affi-
liated to the NSW Trades and Labor
Council. In Western Australia, the Police
Association is itself affiliated with the
West Australian branch of the Australian
Labor Party.
But as the NSW Police Association
points out, “We still can’t stand for Par-
liamentary office.”
In their efforts to obtain full civil
rights, the policemen come up against a
stone-wall in getting any statement of
attitude from the Premier’s Department.
“It’s as bad as the Kremlin,” one police-
man told The Bulletin this week.
The Police delegates also had a crack
at their “rivals”—security organisations.
One delegate said they were growing “like
a canker in our midst.” He claimed that
security organisations were usurping the
normal duties of policemen. In Victoria,
the Secretary of the Victorian Police As-
sociation, Sergeant W. Crowley, joined
with NSW policemen and said that
“private security organisations were
flourishing excessively in Victoria be-
cause of the lack of police.”
Another item to worry the annual con-
ference was the relative scarcity of police
in New South Wales. At the pre-
sent time there is one policeman to
every 728 people in this State and the
Association passed a resolution calling
for an enlargement of the force so that
there is one policeman for every 613
people. “There are plenty of recruits,”
Sergeant Griffiths told The Bulletin,
“But the authorities apparently won’t en-
large the Budget to provide for the extra
policemen.”
Apart from these complaints, the con-
ference delegates were happy about their
new Police Club building opened on May
7. With two storeys and a basement for
car parking, Police Club members have
entered the affluent society. The building
has a lounge, a reading room, a drinking
lounge, and a large conference hall. But
it is an intriguing thought to visitors who
may wonder exactly what would happen
if a Police Club member complained to
the Vice-Squad about a low pay-out from
one of the Club’s 12 brand new poker
machines.
ON THE LAND
SCHAPPER REPORT
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
West Australians have always sus-
pected that their butterfat produc-
ing dairy farms were in a pretty bad
way, but they did not know how bad
until the University of W.A. released a
report on the economic conditions of the
industry.
A survey compiled by Dr. Henry
Schapper, reader in agricultural econo-
mics at the university, and research
scholar Max Parker, shows that out of
about 100 farms in the butterfat areas
of the lower South-West the average net
farm income was about £2 a week less
than the basic wage and had fallen by
about £1 a week since a previous
survey in 1952.
The net farm income is a measure of
the return to family labour and manage-
ment and to capital invested on the
farm. It is also the sum of money out of
which the farm family paid tax, met all
living expenses and financed farm devel-
opment.
The 97 farms surveyed had an average
net income of £499 a year compared
with £537 in the previous survey, but
46 per cent of the farms earned less
than this figure.
Though the average net worth of the
farms had risen by 33 per cent, their
total liability had increased by 85 per
cent. The average bank overdraft of
£1,325 had financed farm assets, mainly
housing, lighting plant and household
amenities.
The survey recorded an increase in
farm amenities. In 1952, 19 per cent
of houses had neither running water,
electric light, washing machines, re-
frigerators nor telephones. By 1959 all
except 8 per cent were equipped with at
least two of these items. The survey did
not record the obvious inference that
these amenities had been won at the
expense of increased liability.
When it came to interpreting their
findings, the economists were trenchant
indeed. As the highest cost region in
Australia and one of the lowest pro-
ducers, the lower South-West of WA
ought to transfer some of its resources
out of the dairying industry into other
forms of production.
In its finding—that equalisation and
subsidy masked the real condition —of
the low income dairy farmer, the survey
strengthens the findings of the Common-
wealth Dairy Industry Inquiry Com-
mittee and is an oblique criticism of the
Commonwealth Government’s decision to
continue its £13,000,000 a year subsidy
against the committee’s advice.


CONVENTIONS
NO PLACE FOR THE PRESS
FROM JOHN HIGGINS IN BRISBANE
ALAN FLETCHER
HPhe fate of the Nicklin-Morris coali-
A tion could quite easily be deter-
mined on the Gold Coast at the end
of this month when members of the
Country Party, senior coalition partners,
meet for their fifth convention since
assuming office in 1957.
The four previous conventions have
gradually developed from innocuous
get-togethers as in Toowoomba in 1958
to the farces of Brisbane (1960) and
Cairns (1961), when the convention prac-
tically ceased to exist as an effective
political instrument.
Prior to 1958 Country Party con-
ventions had been held in the dim light
of almost permanent (25 years) Opposi-
tion; but many Members quite honestly
believed that resolutions passed at these
conventions represented official Party
policy, and, as such, unqualified elec-
torate pledges, binding on Parliamentary
Members in general and Cabinet in
particular.
Since then, however, resolutions
passed at Country Party conventions
have been barely worth the paper on
which they have been written and the
words wasted in their support. The
crowning absurdity was reached at
Cairns last year, when a successful reso-
lution was quite unconstitutionally with-
drawn the day after it had been passed
because it had offended a Liberal Party
Minister!
But even before this had happened,
it was becoming obvious that the con-
ventions had degenerated into mere
sounding boards for Ministers; and that
Cabinet itself regarded them as an “out-
side influence”, whose polite recom-
mendations could be ignored with im-
punity. The 1960 Brisbane conference,
for instance, saw all five Liberal Minis-
ters attending the convention, using the
authority of their rank to browbeat,
bluff, or conciliate delegates, consuming
precious debating time, and forcing the
withdrawal or abandonment of scores
of critical motions.
In Cairns in 1961, the Liberals were
not present with one famous exception
(Health Minister, Dr Noble), but
Country Party Ministers took up the
running. Lands Minister Alan Fletcher,
for instance, filibustered for two hours
of a two and a half hour debate on the
administration of his Department, which
has convulsed CP rank and file feeling
throughout the State. Only four out of
19 motions on the agenda were dis-
cussed, and those 19 represented what
was left after the agenda committee
had combed through 200 resolutions
from branches all over Queensland.
Many observers see in a 1958 de-
cision to allow the Press to report the
annual convention in full the seeds of
the Decline and Fall of the convention
as an effective political instrument. Cer-
tainly it placed Cabinet Ministers and
Government Members in the position
where all criticism had to be defeated,
and unpopular administrative decisions,
at complete variance with CP policy,
defended. Worse than that, however,
was the fact that it has placed virile
critics within the ranks of the Party
in an invidious position. Should their
criticisms be reported in the Press, they
find themselves in the position of being
accused by Party hacks as “disruption-
ists” at best and traitors at worst, play-
ing into the hands of opposing political
parties. At the same time it strengthened
the hands of the “stooges”, the boys of
the My-Party-Right-or-Wrong Brigade,
who invariably help to bring about the
downfall of a Government because of
their complete lack of touch with elec-
torate opinion.
Some sort of a case can be made
out for the need for Party loyalty be-
tween annual conventions, but a policy
making convention is no place for the
weak of heart or weak of head. It is
the time and place when a political wing
should be stood on the mat, and faults
in administration openly discussed and
rectified, with the threat of loss of en-
dorsement to recalcitrant Members and
Ministers. It is certainly no place for
the Press from a Party viewpoint
at any rate any more than is a meet-
ing of directors of a large industrial
concern worried about past administra-
tion and future development.
A determined effort to pull the poli-
tical wing, particularly Cabinet, into
gear can be expected. Should the move
fail, and should Cabinet continue on
its present line of Administrative
thought, only an optimist would fore-
cast the coalition’s return to office next
year.
One other “curly one” for this year’s
convention could be a move for an
amalgamation of the Country Party and
the Liberal Party into one machine, al-
ready on offer by the Liberal Party. It
has little or no chance of being adopted
by the convention and if by some
chance it were, a breakaway Country
Party group could be expected in a
matter of weeks. Rejection of the offer,
however, will do little or nothing to
heal the grow'ing animosities that exist
between both groups.
FALSE WITNESS
bulletin
June 3, 1882
Tudge Docker proposed at Bourke
to eradicate false-swearing from
the land by the instant and certain
punishment of all witnesses who shall
appear in the judgment of the honor-
able court to deviate one hair's-breath
from the straight line of truth. If this
newly-moulted, reform is initiated at
Bourke it is feared that the police
force will be decimated within a
month, and that within the half year
all newspaper correspondents will be-
come extinct, and the depopulation of
the town be recognised as a mere
question of time.
m HE editor of the “Bombala Times”
I says he « has no sympathy with
The Bulletin.” If we thought you
had, sonny, we would shut up shop
at once. We are not, just about now
canvassing for the good opinion of
crayfish, or lying awake at nicht
wondering what blubber-brained idiots
think of us.
Mew motto: Victoria expects every
man to pay j^ s duty y


As I see it
THE TOWNLEY TOUCH
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
T\efence Minister Athol Townley
has been given a job of tough
diplomacy. On the same day as his
“courtesy” visit to Indonesia was an-
nounced, Prime Minister Menzies des-
cribed Indonesian aggression in Dutch
New Guinea as “a most unhappy
business” and a breach of assurances
given him by Dr Subandrio and Dr
Soekarno. (Both Indonesian leaders
had assured Menzies that there would
be a peaceful settlement with Holland
over this disputed territory.)
Townley’s visit symbolises the po-
sition in which Australia finds itself. In
the present dispute, as Menzies made
abundantly clear, Australia regards
Holland as being in the right, in so
far as it is not the aggressor. But Aus-
tralia is faced with a special problem
in any dispute between Holland and
Indonesia over territories in this area.
At some stage of proceedings the
Dutch are going to pull up stakes and
go home. But this is home for both
Indonesia and Australia. They have
no place else to go. They are going
to be neighbors to the end of time.
Australia’s position is delicate. It
believes that Indonesia, not Holland,
is the cause of the present trouble
in Dutch New Guinea and that it is
Indonesia and not Holland that is
breaking long-standing assurances that
any ultimate settlement about this ter-
ritory will be peaceful. But on the
other hand it does not want to spend
the rest of its existence on bad terms
with Indonesia because of the attitude
it has and is taking. It wants to be
friendly.
So the decision was made to send
Townley to return the official visit to
Australia of General Nasution, the
key non-Communist figure in the Indo-
nesia power setup. It was quite a good
decision based on reasonably sound
arguments. For if any visit at all is
to be made at this time Townley has
attributes that make him a sound
choice.
Townley, a Hobart chemist, who
was a naval officer during World War
II and spent one hectic night chasing
intruding Japanese submarines round
Sydney Harbor, is a quite earthy type.
He has the gift for saying quite tough
things without giving offence. When
one Japanese politician visiting Aus-
tralia in the postwar years mentioned
that it had always been his ambition
to come to Australia, Townley in his
speech recalled that at one period he
had been one of the men with dif-
ferent ideas about a mass Japanese v.'sit
to Australia. Coming from most
people, such a statement would have
sounded needlessly aggressive. Town-
ley made it acceptable and the
delighted Japanese politician roared
with laughter.
It is not that Townley likes Asians.
He likes people and never seems to
realise what they are, whether Asians
or anything else. On one famous oc-
casion in 1958 when he deputised for
the then External Affairs Minister Mr
(now Lord) Casey at a Colombo Plan
meeting in Wellington, New Zealand,
Townley was Immigration Minister.
Though the subject of Australia’s im-
migration laws was not on the
agenda it became a red-hot topic
among delegates, particularly the
Asians who kept expressing resent-
ment. Townley kept them at bay
both with good-natured quips and
references to the fact that practic-
ally every country in Asia practised a
similar discriminatory policy against
their fellow Asians. One delegate in-
sisted that Australia’s discrimination
was based on skin pigmentation. With
truly magnificent irrelevancy, Townley
stood up, removed his coat and shirt
and revealed a torso tanned by a
swimming season almost to blackness.
“I’m darker than any of you,” he
claimed. The test was made. Dele-
gates removed their coats and shirts.
Only one was darker than Townley.
Then Townley switched on to a more
serious theme. “How would you
fellows feel if a million or even a
couple of thousand Australians started
to drift into your villages?” he asked.
“How would you handle the assimila-
tion problems and the complaints
both from them and your own
people? You’d try and avoid creating
such problems. All we’re trying to do
is avoid the same problem. What’s
wrong with that?”
Delegates conceded that that was
a really worthwhile basic argument
and from there on attacks on Aus-
tralia’s immigration policy at that
particular gathering ended completely.
Townley has this capacity to put the
problem simply in words that are
acceptable even to those who initially
start off hostile to the thought under
discussion.
In Malaya recently, Townley did a
very good public relations job for
Australia merely by pointing out that
Australians should never under any
circumstances be confused with
Britishers, American, Frenchmen, or
Europeans generally. These were only
visitors. They might stay for centu-
ries as the British and Dutch had
done, decades as others had done, or
merely years. But sooner or later they
would be going back to their homes.
But Australians lived in this part of
the world. They would not be pulling
up stakes and getting out. This was
their home and they recognised that
they had neighbors with whom they
had to live peacefully and on good
terms.
Whether Townley can do a good
public relations job for Australia in
Indonesia remains to be seen. It is
a very tough job. Menzies had laid
down the line he must follow. In the
present flareup, he must come down
on the Dutch side. Yet he has to get
it across to the Indonesians that though
Australia on this occasion does not
agree with the action the Indonesians
are taking, Australia is not insensible
to the knowledge that Indonesia, as
a power and a neighbor, will be in
existence in the area long after the
Dutch have left it. It is the type of
situation in which straight talk could
be more valuable to Australia than
indirect apology. It will be interesting
to note the Indonesian reactions to his
visit.
Alan Reid is now accom-
panying the Prime Mini-
ster on his mission to
Europe and America. His
report from overseas on
this tour will appear each
week in THE BULLETIN .


UNIONS
LED BY THE NOSE?
From MUGGA
Tn Sydney last week, the Australian
Broadcasting Commission replayed a
segment of its May 19 programme, “Four
Corners”, to an audience of three: the
Minister for Labor, Mr W. McMahon,
the Chairman of the Australian Steve-
doring Industry Authority, Mr J. Hewitt
and a stenographer. Mr McMahon, and
Mr Hewitt had apparently asked for a
viewing because of the comments made
by various waterfront personalities that
the programme was “loaded”. Although
this was a vast overstatement there were
several curious aspects to the programme.
Michael Charlton, the show’s normally
astute compere, had the wholehearted
co-operation of members of the Water-
side Workers Federation in making the
programme. The “co-operation” was so
obvious that some sarcastically asked if
this segment were being produced by one
of the Federation’s film units.
The film had many arresting shots, in-
cluding some of Mr Max Heidke, one of
the up-and-coming Communist function-
aries on the waterfront. Viewers were
shown the worst cargoes lamp-black,
wheat, meat, and timber. Viewers could
have been forgiven for thinking that
there's nothing worse than a Waterside
workers’ job. But they were not to know,
nor apparently did Mr Heidke bother to
tell Michael Charlton, that lamp-black
and wheat, for instance, represent .6 per
cent, and one per cent, of man-hours
worked on Sydney’s waterfront. Nor
were all the penalty rates given for the
different cargoes—so some were left
wondering why men remain wharfies.
But it was the “angle” of the pro-
gramme which proved most interesting.
In many ways it was like a leaf
from a classic case on class-warfare
written by Karl Marx. Many references
were made to the “bull system” or the
“picking of heads” a practice which
had died about 30 years ago when
foremen selected their mates or accepted
bribes to give wharfies jobs. Mr Charl-
ton even told viewers that from a pick-
up centre 500 men were allocated in six
minutes to various jobs •—• a practice
which was virtually killed by the Press
and Radio system of pick-up introduced
more than six years ago. Today only
watersiders who work as extras are given
jobs from pick-up centres. Many viewers
assumed a “picking-of-the-heads” sys-
tem was still in operation.
The WWF officials even managed
to convince “Four Corners” that the
ASIA was the “employers’ organisa-
tion” which sits in judgment and admin-
isters discipline to wharfies. Mr Heidke
persuaded Four Corners that the “brick-
walled” room where the ASIA (an
independent government instrumentality,
similar to the ABC) holds its “trials” is
called the gas-chamber. Echoing WWF
propaganda Mr Charlton told his viewers
that “You’re gone before you go in”.
The facility “drummed-up” wharfies
had for getting interviewed was remark-
able. The boss was to blame for every-
thing and the shipowners were “the
most merciless employers” in the world.
Mr Charlton asked one of them if he
were a Communist, and after a 10-second
pause he hung his head and said “Yes.”
This was William Fardon Burns, the ex-
editor of the Communist “Tribune” who
was gaoled for sedition in 1951 when he
attacked the sending of Australian troops
to join the United Nations forces in
Korea.
But the many accusations that Mr
Charlton was “led” by the nose by Mr
Heidke around the waterfront were a
little strong. As ABC people pointed
out to discreet but influential enquirers
the programme’s angle could have been
much worse and many of the more ob-
jectionable and more obvious propaganda
bits had been edited from the programme.
Nevertheless, the overall effect on viewers
that shipowners, the Government, and
the ASIA and in fact the whole world
were plotting against the wharfies nnd
their conditions could have been avoided.
For Mr Charlton and the understaffed
Four Corners it provides an object lesson
on how not to get a biased story: don’t
consult only one of the paries who are
regularly in dispute with one another
before making a film.
OF CONSUMING INTEREST
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
T|r Colston Warne sees consumers’
unions as the 20th century equiva-
lent of the Labor movement of the last
century. “In another 25 or 50 years I
feel it will be just as usual for a person
to belong to a consumers’ union as it
is now to belong to a trade or profes-
sional union,” he said.
The US State Department’s cultural
exchange programme has brought Dr
Warne to Australia for three weeks. He
is president of both the US and the
international consumers’ unions and when
not engaged on matters of consuming
interest is professor of economics at
Amherst College.
Dr Warne’s first appointment in Syd-
ney was at the Trades Hall where to
addressed union leaders. Dr Warne re-
gards the trade unions in America as an
important field in which to find recruits
for his consumers’ union and as strong
allies in the fight for better value for
shoppers’ money. “Ten years ago our
typical member was a college graduate,”
Dr Warne said, “but with the raising
of education and living standards more
and more members are coming from
lower-income groups, although the
average income of our members—9ooo
dollars a year—is above the national
average still.”
Dr Warne, who is visiting all States
to see how the local Consumers’ Associa-
tion is going, said that his union now had
an annual income ot tour million dollars,
all from the sale of publications, and
these publications now were the most
asked-for single item in US libraries.
In spite of this, Dr Warne regards
what the US Consumers’ Union has done
as merely a “lighted candle in absolute
darkness” and shakes his head over the
union’s methods of testing articles be-
fore recommendations are made.
“They are really highly unsatisfac-
tory,” he said, “although they are the
best we can do. The chief thing that
defeats us is time. Our best-selling
publication is the annual report on new-
model cars, but if we did a thorough
sampling and exhaustive tests, the next
year’s models would be out before our
publication on the current cars. We can
just do our best.”
Dr Warne said that another difficulty
was with new model motor-mowers. Be-
cause there was no grass in the northern
States in winter when these mowers first
came on the market, the sample mowers
were sent to Georgia where they kept
the University of Georgia’s campus in
trim.
Sometimes, Dr Warne said, exhaustive
tests of a commodity were not necessary.
The first sample of a new-electric tooth-
brush tested became active after 15
seconds in water. The Consumers’ Union
condemned it and it was taken off the
market.


Around Sydney
DO AWAY WITH 24TH OF MAY?
people who really do be-
lieve that the mass onslaught of
glass-fronted monstrosities has some-
how made this city architecturally
“modern” got a few shocks last week.
Disillusionment came first to those
poor creatures who actually believed
what they read in the popular Press
about the “changing face” of Sydney,
the self-congratulatory nonsense about
our giant steel-and-glass “skyscrapers,”
home-unit blocks and our Opera
House.
“Much of the modern Australian
architecture has a peculiar ugliness all
of its own,” explained visiting English
architectural authority Dr P. Reyner
Banham. “I can’t put my finger on
it, but you have your own peculiar
type of sprawl.”
Privately, Dr Banham said some
much more direct things. He said,
for example, that it must have been
hell to work in some of the big new
skyscrapers because their designers
had completely ignored local climatic
conditions. Soon, a lot more straight
talk like this was flowing from the
Australian Architectural Convention,
which Dr Banham was in Sydney to
chair.
“You should redesign your city on
a master plan,” declared Mr Thomas
Cordiner, president of the Royal In-
corporation of Architects, Scotland.
“If you just pull down a building and
erect a new one in its place you will
regret it for years to come.”
Dr Banham and Mr Cordiner were
at pains to point out that Sydney
has wonderful natural assets, particu-
larly in her harbor and climate. But,
Mr William Lawrie, a local delegate,
pointed out: “It is becoming almost
impossible for the average Sydney-
sider to see the Harbor without mak-
ing a pilgrimage to do so.”
Mr Lawrie likened Sydney to a
lady, who was careless in her dress.
“She is tending to curve in some un-
fortunate places and her arteries
seem to have hardened temporarily,”
he suggested.
Guest speaker at the convention,
Norman B. Cowper, director of the
Australian Institute of Political
Science, said that he thought that
architecture at any time was influ-
enced by prevailing sexual attitudes.
Hence: “The Greeks, who wore light
tunics and threw them off at the drop
of a hat, produced buildings as grace-
ful as the human body; in the Middle
Ages, when people wore clothes
which impeded them from making love
properly, we had Gothic architecture;
in the days when strong men fainted
at the sight of an ankle, they even
had to cover up the legs of the pianos
and tables.”
An ironic footnote to the Conven-
tion was the arrival of a migrant from
England—Dr Richard Coe, a lecturer
in foreign languages. Dr Coe ex-
plained to reporters that he and his
wife decided to migrate after seeing
pictures of the Sydney Opera House.
“We were so impressed by the Opera
House that we realised Australia was
not one of those places crowded with
outdated Victorian-era architecture.
A country that shows so much fore-
sight in building must be worthwhile
living in.”
★ ★ ★
Did you have a good cracker night
on May 24 the day which we
used to remember by that childhood
chant about “The twenty-fourth of
May is our Royal Empire Day”?
These days it’s called “Common-
wealth Day,” which is hard to ac-
commodate in rhyme. But one thing
hasn’t changed: to Sydney kids it’s
still “cracker night” when every kid
from four to 40 looks forward to
setting off a few double-bungers,
threepenny Catherine wheels or sky-
rockets.
By its very character, cracker
night is an excuse for releasing in-
hibitions; and, for some, an excuse
for larrikinism. So, over the years,
there have always been the bonfires
that got out of hand, the letterboxes
which went skywards, the dogs and
cats which went bush in fear, the
timid strollers who were frightened
out of their wits by a mischievously
hurled hunger and the unfortunate
few who were injured, or occasionally
even killed, in the “celebrations.”
But this year, the whole thing got
out of hand. The hungers started
going off weeks ahead of time and
the peace of suburbia was shattered
night after night by youths.
Every newspaper in Sydney was
bombarded with letters from people
demanding not only stricter control
of fireworks but even outright ban-
ning of the annual event.
“Children, for their own sake, and
louts for the sake of others should
not be able to obtain and handle
these explosives” wrote one lady
from Military Road, Mosman. “Con-
ditions have now reached a stage
where only a complete ban on the
sale of all detonating fireworks will
suffice,” penned another. Mr Douglas
Darby, MLA, pointed out that Sec-
tion 75 of the Police Offences Act
provides for a £5 fine for letting
off fireworks in “any street or public
place” at any time and he wants
it enforced.
Mr Darby received a chorus of
support. Sydney Chief Fire Officer
Pye called cracker night a pretext
for “deliberate vandalism.” He spoke
of imposing stricter controls. Some
newspapers editorialised in favor of
a ban, and Police Commissioner
Allan, Chief Secretary Kelly and
Premier Heffron all “called for re-
ports.”
One or two brave souls came
straight out and said there was noth-
ing wrong with cracker night, that
the Chinese have been letting off
fireworks for hundreds of years and
the kids of England have been hav-
ing a similar burst every November
for quite a while, too. J. Fuller, of
Dover Heights, said why not ban
football, cricket, fishing and cowboys
and Indians whenever someone gets
hurt.
Only one writer seemed to get to
the crux of it. “You might as well
try to outlaw kids,” said the editorial-
ist of one afternoon paper. “Certainly
the police should take action against
louts (semi-adults in years) who
frighten people and damage cars and
other property with fireworks.
“But the solution to the main prob-
lem lies with parents themselves.
They have no right in morality or
commonsense to expect others to do
the job for them. It is always other
people’s children who are making
nuisances of themselves never our
own. If parents have so little control
over their children that they cannot
limit their cracker night to the tra-
ditional date of May 24, they are
not good parents.”
BLIGH


LESLIE HAYLEN
Labor's Artful Dodger
VI/hen the Parliamentary Labor Party
” Executive recently passed its un-
conditional “Ban-the-Bomb” resolution
the most jubilant of the men who held
a victory dinner in Canberra was Leslie
Haylen who had moved the resolution.
Although it was a premature dinner since
caucus referred the whole matter back
to the Federal Executive, it was still one
of Haylen's biggest triumphs, and the
bomb is now in the centre of Canberra
politics where it never was before. It
also did more than anything else to con-
firm the Right-wing nightmare that the
man who may one day be Minister for
External Affairs (and who if Labor had
won a couple more seats might be that
now) is a tool of the Leftists or Com-
munists. Yet at the same time Haylen
continued to support Arthur Calwell’s
militaristic policy in New Guinea proving
once again to those who thought they
had Haylen taped that he is still the
Artful Dodger of the Labor Party.
Now in his early sixties—he has
always been cagey about his exact age—
he is in some ways at the most interest-
ing stage of his career. One of the big
questions, for example, is: will he despite
everything once again move to the
Right? Always unpredictable during his
early years in politics he was a Right-
winger who supported using the troops
against Communist strikers in 1949, ad-
vocated increased military training against
potential foreign aggressors, and had the
charter of one of his branches withdrawn
because it was Communist-dominated.
Later on he moved with Evatt to the Left
and became Evatt’s drum-beater against
the Groupers, the DLP, Moral Rearma-
ment, the warmongers, the United States.
Now, as time runs out and Labor’s hopes
of winning office depend on dislodging
the Victorian Executive, he may decide
that just as the Party had to dump “the
Doc,” so they must dump the Leftists.
Haylen, the Artful Dodger of Labor, may
feel it is necessary to dodge once again.
The second question is in one respect
more radical still: will he still have a seat
at all after the redistribution of elector-
ates is announced in a few weeks’ time?
Though the Commissioners are playing
it so close to their chests that Haylen
himself has been unable to discover
reliable leaks, it seems possible that even
he —“Yo-yo" Haylen—who has held the
“swinging seat” of Parkes for 19 years,
now by a few hundred, now by a couple
of thousand, will at last be beaten by re-
distribution. If Parkes is abolished, he
will (unless Arthur Calwell finds him a
new seat) have to contest a preselection
with either F. Daly of Grayndler or F.
Stewart of Lang, either of whom could
surely “do” him, and one of the last
survivors of the Labor landslide in 1943
will be lost to Canberra.
Boy from the Bush
T eslie Clement Haylen was born at
the turn of the century in the village
of Sutton, a few miles from Canberra.
Then called Amungla it is today a rather
scruffy little cluster of shacks almost
dominated by its small, sad 1914-18 war
memorial listing the names of more men
than you would think the district could
have produced. He was the youngest of
12 children, nine of whom survived. The
family were poor farmers, Catholics, of
old Australian stock dating back to the
NSW Corps and with memories of better
days. When he was eight they were
forced to sell up and move to Sydney.
(In his early novels one of his favorite
themes was the decline of old country
families.) He went to a Catholic school
(though today with an honesty rare
among politicians he says he has lost his
faith). At 16 he volunteered for the
AIF. He served and survived in France
while two of his brothers were killed.
(The horror of war was the theme of his
first and only successful play, “Two
Minutes Silence’’.) After the war he spent
another year in the army escorting
prisoners back to England where he
thought of settling with other expatri-
ates to pursue a literary career ; but he
finally returned to Sydney, became a
journalist, and stayed one for the next 23
years.
The 1920’s was a turbulent period in
Sydney journalism. There were still no
teleprinters, no radio telephones, no pic-
turegrams and very few typewriters ;
cables were always delayed and telegrams
were never rung through. But the “Daily
Guardian” was introducing the country
to the typographical revolution, the era
of Free Insurance, and Miss Australia.
Haylen learned all he knows on the
“Sunday Times” and the “Daily Guard-
ian” and became news editor of the
“Sunday Times.” When it folded in the
depression he moved to the country for
a job. He was news-editor of the “Wagga
Advertiser” and later of the “Orange
Leader,” and then returned to Sydney to
join “The World” which folded while he
was on the way back. But “The Aus-
tralian Women’s Weekly” was soon
launched and Haylen got a job on it.
At the same time he began his literary
career which has always been the source
of his biggest disappointment. He lacks
recognition in his own country —and his
disappointment took on a political signi-
ficance when the Communists began to
soothe his wounded vanity with their
lavish praise. He pounded out several
novels and plays which were serialised


in “The Australian Women’s Weekly” or
on the radio. “The Game Garrells”
(1933) tells of the decline and revival of
a bush family; “The Brierley Rose”
(1936) covers some of the adventures of
his ancestors in the early settlement;
“Brown Boy Singing” (1940) covers abori-
gines, gold strikes, shearers’ strikes. To-
day he regards them as boyish efforts ;
certainly they are rather sloppy—though
sentimentality is a genuine part of
Haylen’s temperament. The critics at the
time were gentle but, as he says, critics
were not very critical in those days.
Haylen is prouder today of his plays,
particularly “Two Minutes’ Silence” and
“Blood on the Wattle.” The first was
produced in the crypt of an Anglican
Church in Darlinghurst, Sydney, and was
a succes d’estime. Kenneth Slessor and
Cecil Mann wrote enthusiastic reviews of
it and William Morris Hughes wrote:
“It is vigorous with the vigor of vital
things. It lives. It is life.” It ran for six
months and was later made into one of
the first Australian talkie films. His
“Blood on the Wattle” about Eureka
Stockade is a different kettle of fish. It is
his best play, but has a cast of 50, was
planned as a folk production in Ballarat
and involves burning down a pub. No
one has volunteered to produce it.
Chifley said he enjoyed reading it.
Over the years Haylen has also regu-
larly poured out “occasional verse” which
he circulates to politicians, friends and
newspapers. On the economic recession,
for example, he wrote “Working Class
Lullaby”:
For the 1961 anniversary of Chifley’s
death:
Though he has not yet been antholo-
gised in Australia, next year two of his
poems will appear in a Soviet anthology.
One is called “The Pub at Dead Finish”
about the decay of Australian literature:
The other is about the opening of the
Federal Parliament (the “cold white
Mausoleum of men’s minds”) this year:
In the Cold White Mausoleum
\S7hen he first climbed the steps of the
“cold white Mausoleum” in 1943,
Leslie Haylen had different views. To
his own surprise he had just won Parkes
from the popular sitting member Sir
Charles Marr. Labor was in power with
years of power ahead. Defeat, the split,
the DLP, disintegration were not yet
thought of. Living well, spending freely,
with plenty of charm, wit and a sharp
tongue he was quickly classified by the
other and perhaps more romantic politi-
cians as a “typical journalist.” (“You
know, earns £4O a week, spends £80.”
He now earns £7O; we don’t know what
he spends). Close to Chifley, he was
appointed Publicity Director for Labor’s
1944 referendum campaign and he had
every hope of a Cabinet Post within a
term or two; according to some reports
he would have been elected in 1946 but
for a misplaced vote.
In Parliament he put himself forward
as the personification of Australianism, a
role that comes easily to him and in
which he honestly believes. (He likes to
lard his speeches with Australianese:
“The Hon. Member is puffing his gills
like a goanna on a stump.”) He plugged
away for a National Theatre “to inter-
pret our ideals and aspirations” in this
country teaming with the “drama of con-
victs, pioneers, bushrangers, profiteers
and politicians, rogues and saints.” When
he was appointed to the board of the
Commonwealth Literary Fund he deman-
ded a literary trust to be run by writers
elected on a popular vote, and payments
of £lO a week to novelists to produce
books about the real lives of the Aus-
tralian folk.
To develop Australia he pushed his
hobby horse of marriage-loans of £l5O
which could be paid on low interest or
cancelled out by producing three children.
He threw himself behind Labor’s immi-
gration programme and understudied to
replace Calwell in due course as Minister
for Immigration.
He also showed a great flare for poli-
tical brawls. His interest in Australian-
ism, journalism and migration, for ex-
ample, came together in his 1945 feud
with the cartoonist George Molnar. Was
it true, he asked Chifley in the House,
if Molnar “a refugee from Rumania”
had once been given a job in the Com-
monwealth Small Craft Constructions
Directorate, and if so should such re-
cently naturalised people, particularly
one who “by agreeing to draw filthy car-
toons had taken the bread out of the
mouths of two fine Australian cartoon-
its” Finey and Mahony? Hungarian
born Molnar in his reply confessed
to the “unforgiveable sins” of being born
outside Australia and of attacking the
Chifley Government, but as to the other
charge, “Mr Haylen,” he said “is lying”:
the two cartoonists had been gone for six
months before he began doing regular
leading cartoons. (Haylen still has a
thing about East European cartoonists: he
invented one in “A for Artem’s,” a
former Iron Guard man known as “the
Louse of Europe”. “I wondered how
many kicks in the guts, how many twisted
arms, how many spits in the eye in dear
old cultured, musical and civilised
Europe made the Louse the thing he was.
Every face in his cartoons was a gargoyle
lovingly chiselled with hatred. Every
spider’s line seemed reaching out for the
victim’s throat!”)
That 1945 feud did not involve the
Australian Journalists’ Association but
another one in 1948 did. He had just
come back from leading a controversial
Parliamentary deputation to Japan. He
had shaken hands with Emperor Hirohito
and some of the newspapers attacked
him for it. (“What should I have done—
spat in his face and stamped on his
feet?”) In any case he had “made up”
for that in an interview he gave some
Japanese woolbuyers: “They asked me if
Japanese woolbuyers could come to Aus-
tralia. I said that if they did they would
probably be thrown into Sydney Harbor.
“Why are your lips so dry, Mother,
Why are your cheeks so cold?
Every man is a brother, Mother;
Not like the bad days of old.
“Oh hush my dear one and I’ll tell
you!
The banks are just rolling in loot!
The worker has spent all his money.
They gave him inflation to boot!
“Oh hold me tight, Mother, I’m
weary!
Economics it makes me so sad!
I’ll weep in your arms, my sweet
dearie,
And dream about unemployed Dad.”
“So right it seems our Mate and
Leader,
Should rest among the country of
his love,
The sad deodar and the mournful
cedar,
The wind and rain his canopy above”
“Lawson, Boote, Banjo, Gordon and
yes
A woman Gilmore,
These have been people of
adventure . . .
But their descendants are afraid,
They peer out of the dead glass at
the dead landscape,
And plead with the blind landlord
For another drink from the Empty
Cask.”
“Mr Speaker!
The wide earth whitens to the Bomb,
And death is raining down!
Mr Speaker!
1 have a question to ask
about the pump in my home town.
—We are dead.”


The deputation ended on that note.”
When some Australian journalists in
Japan criticised his conduct in Japan he
said in Parliament that they were “rene-
gades to their country who would write
anything for a couple of bob.” For this
statement he was reported to the Ethics
Committee of the AJA (Haylen is still a
member of the AJA) but they dodged
the issue by inviting Haylen to discuss
it with them and when he said Parliamen-
tary privilege prevented him from doing
so, they found the charges unproven.
The following year he took on Jack
Lang whose vitriolic attacks on Chifley
in “Century” each week never waned.
“Century,” Haylen said in Parliament,
was printed by scabs and Lang was a
“money-grubber old and shrivelled in
villainy.” (Haylen never does anything
by halves, though he sometimes relies on
his disarming charm to patch things up
later.) Lang replied that they were not
scabs but union members, and that in any
case they were the same printers who
had produced Haylen’s “How to Vote”
cards: “But there was a small oversight
on his part. He didn’t-pay.” To which
Haylen replied Lang was “the greatest
phony God ever put breath into” and that
he would not waste the House's time
with Lang’s charges.
By 1949 Haylen had moved as far to
the Right as he has ever been. It was
then that he enthusiastically supported
the use ot troops against the Communist
strikers (“We must fight the enemy to
the end of the trench”) and had the
charter of one of his branches removed
for supporting the Communists. But at
the same time Chifley pushed ahead
with his bank nationalisation and in the
1949 elections Haylen’s world crumbled.
Labor was defeated. He himself scraped
back by only a few votes. He has never
been a “good” local member in the
parish-pump sense (he despises parish-
pumps: “Economics and foreign policy
are all that really matter in politics”)
and in Parkes some organisations claim
you can paper their walls with his tele-
grams of regret, but he is a brilliant or-
ganiser of election campaigns. He fights
hard, spends far more than most mem-
bers, and always puts on a good show.
Twice he has had Actors’ Equity put on
entertainments before his main rallies.
(His electorate has also become famous
in the text-books: in 1958 a Sydney
political scientist covered the Parkes
election and Market Analysis (Australa-
sia) conducted a survey of the electorate
for the Australian National University:
it found among other things that fewer
than half of the voters could give Hay-
len’s name without help; this sort of
thing is probably true of all electorates
though it may be worse in Parkes be-
cause of Haylen’s contempt for parish-
pump trivialities.)
Tk opposition Haylen’s outlook changed.
A He began to move to the Left and
the Haylen of today began to emerge.
At the time of the ALP split here he is
as Party Publicity Officer and scourge
of the DLP demanding a purge of all
the “Groupers” and the setting up of
“Loyalty to Evatt” centres in all
branches; there he is supporting his old
enemies the Communists in waterside
elections against the “groupers” (i.e. the
ALP candidates); there he is on the plat-
form at Communist peace congresses;
there he is trying to undermine the
Right-wing machines in his neighboring
electorates; there he is as Party spokes-
man on foreign affairs pointing out
there is no threat from Red China
or Russia but that American policy
is a grave threat to peace ; and there he
is threatening to take action against the
People’s Union under the Obscene Publi-
cations Act for its anti-Labor propaganda.
Most surprisingly of all he suddenly
became the darling of Jack Lang’s
“Century.” It was naturally rumored he


Estab’ished 1863
Contractors to Government Municipal,
shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON & 7S
OSULLIVAN
PTYLTD fr*
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STHREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented Ore Con-
centrator has proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient, simple and
inexpensive to operate. Send for
illustrated Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
“Everlasting” Boiler Blow off Valves, Rapid
Magnetising Machines, George Ellison
Switch Gear, Blasting Mats, Explosives,
Log Splitting Guns, etc. Makers of Classi-
fiers, Water Filters, Steam Valves, etc.
m
HELP
[MKrEX-Ea
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
had bought part of the paper, but in
any case something must have been done
to keep it going: it had long used up its
paid-up capital (£9000) and most of
Lang’s loan to the paper (£17,000). What-
ever was actually done to save it, all of
Haylen’s speeches or quips were suddenly
reported in detail and all of Haylen’s and
Evatt’s enemies began to suffer in its
columns from the stinging nick-names
(Dilly-Dally Daly, Goof Whitlam, Little
Boy Lost Stewart, Awful Arthur, etc.).
A Turning Point
Tims was also the turning point in his
literary life when the Communists
“discovered” him and began to lay on
the praise with a trowel —proof to Hay-
len who had never been “appreciated” as
a writer that the Communists cannot be
as bad as they are made out. Then in
1957 he went to China. It was a short
trip—seven weeks—and the Hundred
Flowers were Blooming. Haylen was not
the only one in those days to be made a
fool of by his guides. (There were so
many Australians in Peking, he wrote,
that it was “like Back to King’s Cross
Week”), but he was in one way franker.
He put it all down in black and white in
a book called “Chinese Journey,” large
parts of which were rewrites of Chinese
propaganda hand-outs. (One part was not
even a rewrite, but he said later that,
although he had given its source, the
publisher thought there were too many
footnotes and removed most of them).
The best parts are not the propaganda
about the New China but the brief para-
graphs of his grisly memories of his first
visit in 1948 to arrange for the migration
of Europeans from Shanghai. Charac-
teristically, in 1948, he “wept in the
streets” and ran from the sight of a
deep scrofulous ulcer in a child’s groin.
The most charitable thing to be said
about the book was said by Lord Lind-
say of Birker in the Sydney “Observer”:
“China in 1957 has produced a favor-
able impact on a warm-hearted man
whose mind cannot draw any clear
boundary between an objective world
defined by scientific standards of evi-
dence and imaginary worlds of fantasy
and myth.” Dr H. V. Evatt said: “I want
all Australians to read this book.”
But meanwhile Labor’s disintegration
deepened and Haylen seemed further
than ever from office. He returned again
to literature and consoled himself by
writing his best novel “A for Artemis”.
(Leverett, the Party leader, has a sym-
bolic stiletto on his desk.) When he sent
the manuscript to Judah Waten, the
Communist Party’s Cultural Commissar,
for an opinion Waten declared the book
to be better than “They’re a Weird Mob”
—which it probably is. It was finally
published in 1960 by the Australasian
Book Society under the name of Sutton
Woodfield.
Haylen finally decided Dr Evatt had
to go if Labor was to return to office and
the Dodger dodged again. He allied him-
self with Calwell and in due course Evatt
went, and although Haylen was beaten
by Whitlam for the position of Deputy
Leader many say he remains far closer to
Calwell and has far more of his ear
than Whitlam. Whether as leader or
prisoner of the Leftists he mediates be-
tween Calwell and the Victorian “run-
ning sores” and the most striking display
of his power was shown recently in his
getting Calwell’s support for his policy
of unconditionally banning the use or
stock-piling of nuclear weapons in Aus-
tralia.
But on the other hand he dumped the
Leftists to support Calwell’s nationalistic
policy on New Guinea and he cleaves
tight to Calwell’s White Australia policy
(“though I passionately love the Chinese
people”). If Calwell decides to purge
the Victorians he will surely go along
with him. The testing time will be later
this year when Queensland is expected to
increase the Right-wing and anti-Vic-
torian vote on the Federal Executive.
It would be absolutely wrong to dis-
miss Haylen as his enemies do as an
opportunist. True he has been the
Party’s Artful Dodger moving Left, Right
and centre with the winds of power.
But this summary ignores too much: no
mere opportunist, for example, would
have written the China book which would
only have lost him votes; no mere oppor-
tunist who was brought up a Catholic
would publicly reveal he has lost his
faith, which would only lose him votes;
no mere opportunist would have bought
into so many sensational fights or pre-
served so many damaging loyalties such
as to his old friend Alan Dabziel, or for
that matter stuck his neck out so much
in defence of the Communist party.
All that one can say is that he is
unpredictable. In his office in Sydney
where he sits among his artificial roses,
his black china dolls, and the cigarette
butts he cracks in half before dropping
them on the floor, the books that domi-
nate his shelves are the works of Winston
Churchill. Those who now see him as
prisoner or leader of the Leftists may
yet be surprised.


NEW GUINEA NEWSLETTER
"THE ANSWER IS NO"
The U.N. Mission; a sequel to Buka
From KONE DOBU in Port Moresby
career diplomat Delmas H.
Nucker has had five busy weeks in
the New Guinea Trust Territory doing
what Australians have been afraid to do
for years—telling the native where to
get off when he asks for something for
nothing.
He got plenty of opportunities to tell
them what he thought they should do,
and he told them very plainly. “America
is not going to take over this Territory,”
he said. “The Americans are not coming
back to give things away . . . the answer
is No!” While his three distinguished
companions in the United Nations
Trusteeship Council Mission delved into
education, Government, land tenure,
taxation, liquor, cash-cropping and shot-
gun licence problems, Nucker brought
himself up to date on something he has
studied at length: the natives’ inexplic-
able “cargo cult” and all the useless
wishful thinking and troubles that go
with it.
Dozens of native killings, murders and
destitutions are attributed annually to
cargo cult and the native con men who
promote it. Cargo cult was behind Febru-
ary’s Buka Island riots.
New Guinea’s 1,450,000 natives range
from semi-sophisticates to primitives, and
even the best of them care little about
protocol. But Nucker overlooked the
brashness of serious-faced native quest-
ioners, spiced his lectures with an inflex-
ible “No!” and proceeded to tell them it
was time they did a little for themselves
if they were to get all they wanted.
New Guinea natives who saw World
War Two in the South-west Pacific
remember the millions of tons of equip-
ment brought here by the Americans,
Australians and Japanese. Now, 17 years
after the troops went home, the equip-
ment they left is a little frayed at the
edges. Thousands of natives who thought
the equipment was brought for them any-
way think it’s time America sent a little
more.
Mixed integrally with this “something
for nothing” yearning is a little sorcery
(“I will hatch these eggs into American
troops”), and a little disillusionment
(“Australia can’t or won’t give us
enough . . . let’s ask America to take
over”). When Nucker flew into New
Guinea on April 8 with the Mission, some
natives realised that here, for the first
time in many years, was the chance to
ask an influential American for more
“cargo.” They asked him on Bougain-
ville, on ant-infested Manus Island (the
Americans piled it with “cargo” during
the war) and at several points on the
New Guinea mainland. As a corollary,
some thought they should ask Nucker to
tell America she would be quite welcome
to take a hand in administering New
Guinea. Mission chairman, Britain’s
experienced Sir Hugh Foot, was very
glad Nucker was along to deal with the
“cargo” facet of the tour. Australians
attached to the Mission developed a new
respect for the stocky, bespectacled
American. “As an American,” Nucker
told big native groups, “I appreciate the
confidence expressed in my country .. .
but you must realise that America could
not and will not take over New Guinea.”
Speaking slowly to give his English-to-
Pidgin interpreter the chance to select
the right phrases, Nucker told them that
America did not win the war alone.
America brought cargo during the war
to win a war and not to give it away as
presents to natives, he said. “We do
not intend to bring more cargo here—
you people must work to help yourselves
. . . you must work with Australians.”
For this, the men that matter in Can-
berra and in Port Moresby are grateful.
Nucker was High Commissioner (1954-
61) of America’s Pacific Islands Trusts
Territory, has been able to draw com-
parisons in New Guinea, and comments:
“The New Guinea native’s mind is very
sharp, maybe not quite tooled to our way
of thinking, but they have a great
future.”
A ★ ★
"Duka Island, in Australia’s New
w Guinea Trust Territory, is begin-
ning to look and feel a little more like
the way it was before 550 police arrived
there in February.
Flahalis Village, centre of the anti-
Government Hahalis Welfare Society,
was a little short of men for a month
after the police left. Those rioters who
have gone home after short gaol terms
seem to know they did something wrong,
but still are not quite sure what the
Sohano (Buka Passage) Native Affairs
Court procedure was all about. Forty-
nine others who won appeals against con-
victions this month are said to be grate-
ful, but a little bewildered. Australian
police who risked their lives on Buka in
February are disgruntled about the let-
offs for offenders. No doubt some of the
500 native police who went to Buka
with them are wondering what police
Taubada (Boss) did wrong, and whether
he’ll go wrong again next time.
More than 300 Buka men were fined
£l, or gaoled from one to ten months for
obstructing a police officer or for having
rioted near Hahalis when police went
there to arrest 80 male tax defaulters
(they owed up to £2 each) and those who
foiled an earlier police attempt to arrest.
One hundred and sixty of them still are in
gaol. The forty-nine whose appeals were
upheld by Chief Justice, Mr Justice A. H.
Mann, have had their terms effectively
cut from nine to six months. More
appeals are to follow, and all will be
appealed on technical grounds.
Jovial, bulky former Native Affairs
Department man, Ralph G. Ormsby,
(Madang, New Guinea) was the stipen-
diary magistrate for the Buka rioters at
Sohano. Using his fluent pidgin and 30
years of Territory experience, he heard
nearly 500 group charges in five days.
“Indecent haste,” complained four Aus-
tralian trade unions, and they retained
Melbourne solicitor Cedric Ralph and put
him aboard a plane for the 3000-mile
round trip to Sohano. Etiquette forbade
him to speak to any prisoners, but they
knew he was there and why he had come.
But the Papua-New Guinea Public Solici-
tor (J. G. Smith) had the same idea and
sent former Sydney lawyer Robert
Cruikshank from Port Moresby to
Sohano ; and back he came with an arm-
load of appeals.
The Territory’s Crown Law Depart-
ment lawyers like to sum up the situation:
“This is what happens when the chestnut
gets too hot. . . the old days of Adminis-


tration justice through Courts of Native
Affairs seems to be on the way out. The
new system will cost a little more time
and money, but. , .”
The position now is awkward for all
except the natives of Buka. Native
Affairs Department officers at Buka
Passage say the natives are claiming: “The
Government was wrong and they have
got to let us go.” The Germans adminis-
tered Bougainville and Buka Islands from
1884 until 1914, Australia from 1914
until 1942, the Japanese from 1942 until
1945, when Australia again took over.
When police moved into Buka in Feb-
ruary, and were met by natives wielding
samurai sword shaped clubs, it was Aus-
tralia’s first attempt to really put her
foot down there as a Government.
★ ★ ★
HPerritories Minister Paul Hasluck and
A Administrator Sir Donald Cleland
pulled a pretty obvious but very
successful political coup when they
decided to distinguish the UN mission’s
two-day stopover in Port Moresby by
announcing here the decision to look
into the question of alcohol for natives.
“The United Nations welcomes the
decision,” Mission Chairman Sir Hugh
Foot told newspapermen next day. Sir
Donald hovered in the background, and
was delighted when he learned of their
reaction. Hasluck had written the PR
handout in Canberra and it filtered to
newspapermen through the Papua-New
Guinea Administration’s “news” chan-
nels. Liquor for native has been a hot
potato here for as long as Australians
have been importing grog to New
Guinea. Sir Donald, for years, has been
stepping lightly between two very touchy
factions: “When the natives start drink-
ing, I’m getting out” and “Let them drink
. . . why discriminate?”
What most forget though, is that
natives have been drinking for years
(spirits, at that!) and handling it pretty
well. Mixed-bloods may drink if they
hold liquor licences, and not many of
them have drunkenness records. But the
average Australian (there are 26,000 of
them) in the Territory cannot help but
feel a little anxious over this long-
debated move to give Brown Brother
toe-room at the public bar.
True, prohibition has been a dis-
crimination against the native. By the
same token, one does not feed Vodka to
a five-year-old. Religious organisations
in the Territory have begun to align
themselves on the platform that to deny
the native liquor is to discriminate too
harshly. They have forgotten, it seems,
that prohibition was aimed at protecting
the native against himself.
Meanwhile, observers are wondering
how far the native paypacket (averaging
£3 weekly) will go when he gets loose
among schooners.
“He will have to learn to drink, but
who pays most while he learns: his
family,” they warn darkly. A crown law
officer here 11 years noted: “Relaxation
of prohibition was the only thing they
could do. After all, a law that is in-
effectual is ridiculous and dangerous.”
Sir Donald will appoint a committee
headed by a licensing expert from Aus-
tralia assisted by Europeans and natives
of the Territory. He has noted that
things have been pretty quiet in nearby
British Solomon Island protectorate since
they began drinking (officially) a little
earlier this year.
★ ★ ★
TTardhitting Assistant Administrator
Dr John T. Gunther, 52, late in
March decided to take time off for a
Melbourne operation and a recuperative
holiday on the Mornington Peninsula.
Earlier in March, he had battled his way
through the Territory’s Legislative Coun-
cil with two Bills that laid the frame-
work for trade unionism for 450,000
natives in Papua and 1,500,000 in New
Guinea.
“You’re giving them a licence to riot
. . . they won’t know the difference be-
tween a legitimate riot and a strike,” non-
Government Members told Gunther as he
talked down their attempts to restrict
unionism to more amenable metropoli-
tan area natives. “We have the mach-
inery to deal with anything that might
arise ... we hope that there will be no
trouble,” he told them. For the sake of
a lot of Australians and a lot of pro-Aus-
tralian natives in both territories, it is
hoped the doctor is right. It was notice-
able (and brought serious discussion)
that none of the native Members spoke
on the Bills. It was suggested that few
of them understood what was being dis-
cussed. A sequel is the Government
decision to print in pidgin and other dia-
lects the most important bills, some more
of which are likely in the June session.
Some natives must have known what the
March Bills were all about, because trade
unionism plans are coming thick and
fast. The Papua and New Guinea
Workers’ Union plans to raise member-
ship to 2000, raise its funds to £2OOO
and have an office and paid secretary
within three months. Union tickets have
been issued. The Madang (New Guinea)
Workers’ Union has boosted its member-
ship, while in Rabaul, New Britain,
apprentice tradesmen, houseboys, shop
assistants and others rushed into member-
ship of a union formed less than a
month after the Bills passed.
The idealists would like to see a New
Guinea Island nation . . . Dutch New
Guinea, Australia’s Trust Territory of
New Guinea, and Australia’s possession
of Papua as one entity. The Dutch, for
various reasons, have wanted it this way
for a long time, but they know now their
chance is lost. Port Moresby Papuan
Oala Rarua has been toying with the
idea of a Papua and New Guinea
political union for a long time, and he
got his chance to test high-level thinking
recently when the United Nations visit-
ing Mission came out of a meeting with
Government chiefs to talk with native
leaders. “Has the United Nations ever
thought of independence for New Guinea
in association with Papua,” he said,
offering Mission Chairman Sir Hugh
Foot 10 written reasons why this should
be so.
Sir Hugh parried the question, ex-
plaining that his Mission was concerned
only with what directly affected the Trust
Territory. “But we Papuans and New
Guineans are the same people” implored
Papua and New Guinea Workers’
Association Acting President Arua. “We
are happy with the type of government
Australia is teaching us and we’d like the
territories to stay together when in-
dependence comes,” he added. Sir Hugh
stifled the trend as best he could, but
came away from the meeting feeling a
little disappointed that he had been un-
able to say what he really thought. Arua
and his companions left feeling that it
wouldn’t have been too much trouble for
Sir Hugh to carry with him to New York
the 10-point plan for a Papua-New
Guinea nation. Arua thinks he now may
post his letter to U Thant. There would
be no special delivery this year.


Must you talk shop all the time


DOWN TO FUNDAMENTALS
Bridging the Gap Between University and Industry
By PATRICIA ROLFE
At the moment Dr David Slade is
sharing his one-roomed flat at King’s
Cross, Sydney, with 50 cartons filled
with paper-bags of correspondence and
other documents. The cartons are piled
up the walls and spread over the floor.
The paper-bags represent Dr Slade’s
work for the past two and a half years,
and, if his present ambitions can be main-
tained, are the basis of his life’s work.
However, this is problematic. The
cartons contain information relating to
the structure and scope of Australian
manufacturing industry. The first fruits
of Dr Slade’s research—a book called
“Chemistry and Industry in Australia” —
have just been circulated, in draft form
to more than 100 companies in Australia
for comment and criticism.
If the idea of a flat stuffed with papers
creates an image of Dr Slade as an
amiable eccentric, nothing could be
further from the truth. David Slade gained
his Master of Science degree from the
School of Physics of the University of
Sydney in 1955 and his Ph.D. for a
thesis on Equilibria between Molten
Salts and Liquid Metals, from the
Department of Chemical Engineering of
the same university. He did his Ph.D.
on an Australian Atomic Energy Com-
mission scholarship.
After he had finished his studies Dr
Slade went job-hunting. One of his first
calls was at the C.S.R., where he was asked
what job he wanted to do with them.
“I said I wanted to see how the place
ticked,” he said, “because it was coming
home to me that I had no real idea how
a business-house worked.
“It was then that I realised fully some-
thing which had preoccupied me during
the last years of my study—that is, that
there is an almost total lack of funda-
mental educational material on Austra-
lian manufactures, in Australia. Students
leave the University with no idea of
what jobs are ahead of them. Their lectu-
rers, many of whom come from overseas,
and teachers can help them little. People
who plan our trade have an imperfect
knowledge of how goods we hope to
export are made.
“When I was a student there were
times when I wanted to get books which
would describe to me the range and
structure of Australian manufactures. I
wanted to relate what I was learning with
industrial activity in Australia and find a
career in industries which offered the
best prospects of expansion. After two
years of browsing I realised that the
books didn’t exist. On graduation I
decided to write them.”
Dr Slade feels that it is important
that he should know what his life’s work
will be, because 'he is looking forward
confidently to a long working-life. One
of his grandfathers, C. H. Slade, is 94,
and the other, loseph Mitchell, is at 88
still the active general manager of Burns
Philp.
Dr Slade said he was able to begin
his w'ork because he had a little money
at his disposal. However, to keep going,
'he has practised every inspired economy
taught him by his Scottish forbears. “My
grandfather, Joseph Mitchell, taught me
never to throw away a piece of string,”
Dr Slade said. “I never do, but he throws
away company reports, and I collect
them.” Dr Slade’s finances, in spite
of his ways of doing things cheaply, are
delicately poised. His flat is at a fixed
rental, and he admits that if rent controls
in NSW were lifted he would have to
abandon his work.
His “Chemistry and Industry in Aus-
tralia” is not a large book, but it rep-
resents a good deal of on-the-spot work
—much more than would have been
required to produce one of those hand-
some P-R volumes which large companies
sometimes bring out, and much more
than it would have taken Dr Slade if he
'had gone into the highly profitable field
of text-book writing.
For his trips away Dr Slade often
slept in his Volkswagen, had a quick
shave in the morning and then went
to see top executives of big companies.
On graduation he hitchhiked to Darwin,
looking at everything related to industry
on the way. However, a man of his
qualifications obviously will not go on
living this way and doing things this
way for ever.
“Even as an ordinary graduate I would
now be earning £3OOO a year,” he said.
“As a consultant, I could probably make
£7OOO or £BOOO a year without any
trouble.”
Dr Slade did not decide to hoe his
lonely row without exploring other
avenues. When he first decided to do this
work he approached the University of
Sydney. “The university held, and I think
quite reasonably, that I had already had
five years of scholarships and that that
was my fair share,” he said. “After all,
there are new people coming on all the
time and they should have a chance.”
“I could have taken a job at the uni-
versity, but I knew that if I were com-
mitted to lecturing I would not have
time for my field-work. I then thought of
a research grant. The university authori-
ties explained that it was against the
rules to sponsor the publication of books.
This rule has since been amended, but
only to provide for the sponsorship of
books by permanent members of the
university staff, so that ruled me out
still. The position at the University of
NSW was much the same.”
Dr Slade then approached the Minis-
ter for Trade, Mr McEwen. A letter
came back from the first secretary of
the department, referring Dr Slade to
the Commonwealth Office of Education.
The Commonwealth Office of Education
told Dr Slade that it dealt only with
undergraduate scholarships.
This finally threw Dr Slade back on
his slender resources. However, after
working alone, and, as it were, in the
dark for two and a half years he is now
making fresh approaches. “Chemistry and
Industry in Australia” is the first of a
series of four books which Dr Slade is
preparing. The others would cover Aus-
tralian manufacturing in general, the
trade union movement in industry and
manufacturing in the Australian economy.
“I would have no trouble getting a
commercial publisher for ‘Chemistry
and Industry in Australia’ ” Dr Slade
said. “However, there are some prob-
lems. I want to keep to my aim of getting
the book through to students, to as many
of the 30,000 chemistry students, who
leave school each year, as possible. That
means it must be sold as cheaply as
possible, perhaps by subsidising publica-
tion. And royalties on the book might
be about £5OO a year. That is very little
return for two and a half years’ work, and
certainly not enough to make it possible
for me to carry on with the whole pro-
ject.”


by PAUL
if There is an item on Paul Smith
in this week's National Notebook.
QJheila Kinsella brought Mr Pughe’s
flowers to school the morning after,
and the nun put them in water on the
altar at the feet of the Child of Prague.
Mr Pughe never knew where the flowers
he bought for Cocky ended up, and
Cocky herself couldn’t have known. Or
cared.
The O’Byrnes, Cocky and her husband,
Peewee, lived in the Lane. They were
quiet, except on a Saturday night when
they’d a drink on them and came home
from Quinlan’s singing. Four or five
different songs you’d hear all at once
on a Saturday night all the way from the
Canal to the Lane, the fellows singing
“Harbour Lights” and “Lagan Love”, Mr
Kinsella singing a bawdy song, and
Cocky and Peewee singing “Ringleted
Youth of My Love” or “The Gentle
Maiden”—that is, Peewee would be sing-
ing, in a high sweet tenor, while Cocky
hummed deep and strong to support the
melody. But this would happen only on
a Saturday night, and not every Satur-
day either.
They were good-humoured, Peewee
and Cocky, clean and well-mannered.
And childless. Peewee was no Rhett But-
ler, though he was steady and good at
his job, which was plumbing. But Cocky
was a beauty, fresh-skinned, big breasted,
with lovely dark hair, and, as the women
in the Lane agreed, domestic. She kept
herself and her rooms spotless, and was
admired for that even by the incautious,
and praised for her friendliness, her big-
heartedness; for Cocky was both. And
she was a great favorite with the shop-
keepers round the place, with men who
wouldn’t cut, shuffle or deal with the
rest of us, but especially with Mr Pughe,
who stood lonelier and even more re-
mote behind his counter than the others.
Cocky was just married when Mr
Pughe came to Rock Street, and she was
the first person to set foot past his door
the day he opened his shop. Upright she
was, and bold as brass the way she held
up the bundle of sticks he wanted to
charge a penny for. And her laugh
and cry of, “Bester!”, drew a crowd
round his door for a look at someone
more brazen even than themselves.
“Aye, a penny!” Cocky cried her
amusement to the crowd as she held the
sticks up for everybody to see.
“Gowan, ya dirty oul’ robber!” a girl
younger than Cocky screamed in at him.
“Sure, you’d get a whole orange box for
a wing.”
And in the small silence between
laughs and shouts, Cocky slammed the
sticks down on the counter and leaned
across to him and said, “You have your
glue, mister.”
But she was smiling, not sullen like
the others, and when he looked from
them back into her brown black-lashed
eyes, he forgot to be timid and respect-
able and Protestant. But when he heard
himself saying: “Well, you may have
them for a halfpenny,” when he caught
himself smiling, and when she laughed
back at him on her way out, he remem-
bered to be all three.
After that, Mr Pughe remembered
every time Cocky came into his shop.
When he no longer remembered, it was
because it no longer mattered. The thing
was she came, and made him laugh, and
in some strange way made him feel as if
he had taken on a new lease of life. He
had always been a neat well-dressed man,
buying a suit as he needed it from the
best second-hand shops in the city; but
in less than a week after meeting Cocky,
he went and bought himself the first
brand new one he had ever owned, a
pin-stripe, also a hat and a white silk
scarf. He stopped wearing carpet slippers,
and bought shoes, not sensible square-
toed black ones, the kind that could be
expected to last a man his age and habits
a lifetime, but narrow and yellow with
high-gloss pointed toes that made the
wearing of them torture to be borne only
under Cocky’s admiring glance and on
Sundays to the lonely Protestant church
in the Adelaide Road.
We had no way of knowing, for Mr
Pughe was reticent with us and why
not?—but we suspected he welcomed the
discomfort of the shoes and other dis-
comforts of a more spiritual kind as a
private penance for what he called his
fondness. The only time he mentioned
his feelings towards Cocky was to my
mother, and it was his “fondness” he
talked of, his “fondness” that was troub-
ling him. But that interview came some
years after he bought his narrow yellow
shoes, and some months after Cocky’s
husband died and she stopped coming
into his shop.
Peewee O’Byrne had gone to fight for
the British because his father had before
him. That was how Cocky explained it,
and that was how she accepted it. She
took it for granted that Peewee would
go and she took it for granted that he
would come back. But Peewee did not.
There was no wild lament from
Cocky’s rooms when the news came,
none of the controlled but vehement
keening with which women outface the
onslaught of death. The neighbors, when
they heard, came to console her, but she
sat without speaking, her great beauti-
ful eyes staring at the window, with no
acknowledgment of the women’s pres-
ence, and it was my mother who made
tea for them while Mrs Kinsella passed
round the cake. And that was the ob-
sequies for Peewee O’Byrne.
Out in the miidle of the night of the
day she knew, I was awakened by
the sound of slow regular clockwork hic-
coughs coming through Cocky’s window.
I slept, and woke again towards morning,
and from across the Lane the sounds
still came. That was the only sign of
Cocky’s grief, until she began to drink.
The Lane was sympathetic at first, but
not as the months wore on. After all,
hadn’t Peewee died fighting Hitler, and
wasn’t war war, and hadn’t he managed
to get one good leave, and hadn’t the
pair of them spent the two whole weeks
in Bray?
“It’s a tragedy, granted. But!”
“He was a nice enough fellow, but
you’d never look at him twice.”
“And after all, it isn’t as if he’d left
her a pauper! She’s got the pension now.”
The women gathered round the pipe
and watched Cocky go past them, head-
ing for the pubs and the hair of the dog,
and wearing, not mourning, for Peewee
never liked black, but pink and royal-
blue satin blouses pushed out by every
inch of her great shameless breasts, still
firm despite her forty-four years.


THE GRAND
PASSION OF
COCKY O'BYRNE
SMITH
“Them,” Mrs Kinsella would jerk her
head after Cocky, “is still a sight to rouse
battalions, if that was where her bent
lay.”
“Which it isn’t!”
And it wasn’t. Cocky didn’t take to
men. She just drank, and wore bright
colors, and finally sold her pension
book. And when the money was gone,
she took to going to Mr Pughe’s again,
but now it was for the odd lend. She
turned up each time disguising her pur-
pose with slow grins, and fingering the
jars of jelly-babies and bulls-eyes on the
counter. Gone were the flashing white
smiles he could remember, and now it
wasn’t jokes he heard, but the simple
declaration that she wanted money. She
never tried to tell him a lie about what
she wanted the money for. She said no
more than to name the amount, knowing
that whatever she asked, he would hand
her over only half. And no matter how
often she asked, he never refused.
Mrs Kinsella wondered why he didn’t
get up the courage to ask Cocky to
marry him.
“He’s shy,” my mother said, for this
was after he had asked her what he ought
to do.
“Shy as may be, ’ Mrs Kinsella said,
“but the man might as well have her
under his roof as support her under her
own.”
“Would she have him?” My mother
looked up then, as if she were planning
something far ahead.
And Mrs Kinsella met her eyes with
the same kind of speculation.
Not long after, my mother and I were
coming up the Street from town, when
a jeer of mocking laughter halted us, and
a woman roared, “Will ya look?”
We did at Cocky, big and buxom,
doing a wild lament of a dance in the
middle of the road. Her clothes, held up
at the back, stripped bare her buttocks
for all the world to see; and her legs,
covered up to just under her darkness in
brown silk stockings, sprawled like a
baby’s learning to walk. From her face,
hidden under a mane of thick hair, no
sound came as the dealers began to clap
their hands in time to her gyrations. Nor
did she stop, until a young fellow with
a black mongrel pushed against her, and
she fell, a soft boneless length, onto the
egg-smooth cobbles. The diversion ended
with a laugh and a smattering of hand-
claps, drowned by the roar of a bus
going past.
Together my mother and I tried to
lift Cocky to her feet, being joined by
Mr Pughe, who came running from the
door of his shop, ignoring the cup-final
cheers that greeted him as he tripped
over the points of his narrow yellow
shoes. Pushing us aside, he caught Cocky
under her arms, dragged her over to his
door and, inside, propped her up against
the base of the counter. While he fussed
about her in his small rounded plump
way, straightening her clothes, drawing
her spread legs together, we stood beside
him looking on.
“It’s dreadful!” Mr Pughe drew his
black-suited self erect and turned eyes
as wet as porter on us. “It’s terrible!”
he said, and the neatness of his black
wig and starched wing-collar, like a coif
on the wrong end of his face, made the
terribleness all the more so. “What’s to
become of her?” His chubby well-kept
hands flew together, for guidance or pro-
tection, you wouldn’t know, against his
smooth black-serged chest.
My mother made as if to speak, then
stopped and shook her head. As she
moved to go, he nervously shifted his
weight.
“You’d never stay? Till she comes
round?”
“We couldn’t, Mr Pughe. Sure, it’ll be
ages before she moves again, and I’ve the
dinner to get.”
“But I can’t leave her here all day.”
“We could carry her into your room
beyant?” my mother suggested help-
fully; and I nodded, for I’d never seen
Mr Pughe’s room.
He shook with surprise. “What would
people say?”
“They’ll say it anyway.” She looked
him full in the face, then bent to gather
Cocky’s feet together. “You take her
shoulders.”
“Very well, then.” But he still stood
by hesitantly. “People are bad-minded
around here, and you know . .
“I know, but it’s no good worrying
about that now,” my mother said with
more shortness than was usual with her.
And together they half-carried half-
dragged Cocky into the little room at the
end of the shop.
Unlike the other shopkeepers around
the place, who left their doors open to
show off what they had behind them, Mr
Pughe always closed his. It was a nice
room, and a grand double bed; I could
see my mother measuring it with her eye
as they heaved Cocky up onto the col-
ored quilt. The room was small and
square, with a window looking into a
green-mossed yard. The curtains had
been pushed aside to let in what light
penetrated the yard. Under them was a
rough deal table with a mat in the
middle, on which Mr Pughe had placed
two pink and two red paper roses in a
glass vase, just so. Behind the roses on
the sill, stood a jug of milk and a saucer,
covered by another saucer, which I knew
was butter, kept there for coolness.
There was no fireplace, only a paraffin
stove, and no altar or holy pictures,
only colored pictures of mountains hang-
ing just so. I remembered that Mr Pughe
was a Protestant and felt sorry for him.
Perhaps my mother did too, perhaps
A she was thinking how comfortable
he’d made his little room and how grand
it would be for Cocky, for suddenly,
looking from Cocky to him, she said,
“You’re a good man, Mr Pughe.”
But he was looking down at Cocky,
the only disorder in all his tidiness.
“What’s to become of her?” he asked
again.
Cocky flung her arms wide and
moaned up in her sleep welcomingly.
My mother drew a deep breath before
she replied. “Someone,” she said, looking
him straight in the eye, “could do worse
than take care of her.”
Mr Pughe stared and his hands flew
together.
“I’ll sit outside,” he said. “Outside.
Yes.” And he took a furrum from beside
the oil stove and put it in the open door-
way. Everyone would be able to see him
here. He didn’t say so, but you could see
it was in his mind as he sat down and


rubbed his hand over his hurting yellow
shoes drawn together just so.
‘That man should go back to wearing
his carpet slippers,” my mother whis-
pered. “Them shoes is killing him.” She
looked at him hopefully as we passed
through the door. Then she paused sud-
denly. “Why don’t you ask her to marry
you, Mr Pughe?” she asked outright.
He shifted his head. “Oh.” he said
quickly. “I couldn’t.”
But he could, and would, with very
little persuasion, my mother and Mrs
Kinsella agreed. First they set about
supplying the initiative Mr Pughe lacked
himself, until between hints and visits,
long recitals of Cocky’s charms and des-
criptions of his own loneliness, the man
didn’t know whether he was plum and
currant. All he knew was the set hour
of the night when he would make his
proposal to Cocky.
Meanwhile Mrs Kinsella went to work
on Cocky herself, who was no trouble,
she said a few days later.
“But what did you say?” my mother
wanted to know.
“Nothing,” Mrs Kinsella replied. “Ex-
cept that she agrees with me, marriage to
Pughe would be a sensible thing. After
all. she likes Pughe.”
“But she loved Peewee,” my mother’s
hands gestured doubtfully.
“Maybe,” Mrs Kinsella agreed, “but
people like us can’t afford grand pas-
sions. And Pughe's shop is a gold mine.
He’ll be able to keep her in the height
of luxury the rest of her natural. Cocky
herself sees that. She’s off the drink,
Mrs Kinsella continued. “Hasn’t touched
a drop since I spoke to her. Now all I
have to do is bring them together and
that won’t be difficult.”
And it wasn’t.
All that week, Cocky sat like a doll,
the Epiphany of Patience, Mrs Kinsella
said, doing what she was told, saying
what she was told, but taking no active
part in the preparations the Lane was
making to get her a husband. Her rooms
were cleaned for her, and clothes bor-
rowed, then rejected as being unsuitable
either in style or color for the occasion.
Taste was questioned. People fought who
had never fought, and words said that
could never be unsaid. And through it
all, Cocky sat, her hands folded in her
lap, pliable as string under the fingers
that fixed her hair and face, doing all
the time exactly as she was told, but
never more.
On Sunday morning a table was got
ready and set with white-starch linen,
borrowed, for Cocky had either sold or
pawned all hers. And on Sunday night,
Mrs Kinsella sat her down behind it to
wait for Mr Pughe’s visit. The Lane
waited with her, but behind curtained
window's in a hush that wasn’t natural
except when somebody was dying. And
sharp at eight, Mr Pughe could be heard
at the top of the Lane, then seen walking
down it. He came wearing his best suit,
hat and polished shoes, and carrying in
his arms flowers: marigolds and sweet
peas. We watched him hesitate a second
at the door, then go into the hall, and,
imagining him climbing the stairs, we sat
back and waited. But from the narrow
slit of her own door on the same landing,
Mrs Kinsella saw what happened and re-
ported it five minutes after Mr Pughe
was out of Cocky’s room and had gone
running up the Lane.
“Sweet delapidated Jesus! but I’ll never
be the better of it,” she cried. “Never!
I was sure that woman would do the
right thing and take that man. She as
much as told me she would, and then
she goes and does a thing like that!”
“But what happened?”
My mother was all impatience, and
so were the neighbors who had witnessed
first the arrival, then the flight, and were
now gathered round our door.
“Tell us,” they cried, trying to bring
some order out of Mrs Kinsella’s chaos.
“Well!” Mrs Kinsella subsided with a
cup of tea. “In Pughe walked,
dressed to death as youse all saw, and
carrying flowers. And Cocky let him in
and left the door open behind her, as I
told her to, and then sat down forninst
him with Peewee’s coat thrown round her
shoulders. Of course, I shoulda known
when I saw her snuggle up to it, but,
sweet Jesus! how was I to know? And I
told her not to wear that coat because it
ruined the collar of the frock.”
“Gowan,” the women at the door
rattled impatience. “You’re enjoying
yourself. Tell us, for God’s sake!”
“Well,” Mrs Kinsella began pedanti-
cally, “there she sat with Pughe’s flowers
in her lap. Very respectable. Like a lady,
no smiles, no nothing, serious and look-
ing as if butter wouldn’t melt in her
mouth. And then I saw it!”
“What?”
“The phota. Peewee’s. Hadn’t she set
it between the cups on the table, told Mr
Pughe she didn’t want Peewee to feel he
was being left out or that she was doing
anything behind his back. And that poor
man in his grave!”
“You’re making a dinner out of it. Go
wan with what happened.”
“Anyway,” Mrs Kinsella resumed,
“Pughe’s himself, and he didn’t want that
phota between them, but he never said
so, just asked Cocky very nicely if she’d
put it back on the mantelpiece out of
harm’s way, and she did. And this is
queer she sat back down and poured
the tea for Pughe but not for herself. She
cut him a piece of cake and pushed it
towards him, then she said, ‘You don’t
eat enough, Mr Pughe’. Pughe smiled,
for this was bringing him right up to the
subject. ‘I guess not,’ he said. ‘I guess a
person doesn’t have what amounts to an
appetite, living alone. I guess maybe
that’s the way it goes. I guess.’ ‘You’re
right, I guess,’ said Cocky, mimicking
him right up to his face. ‘Member the
way she used to think his guessing was
a laugh? But she wasn’t laughing, she
was looking at him serious. Then after
a minute she said, ‘You knew my Pee-
wee, Mr Pughe?’
“Well, your man looked up at that pic-
ture of President Roosevelt she has on
the wall, as if that might a been Peewee.
‘I never had the pleasure,’ he said. And
Cocky laughed. Just laughed, the mad
bitch! Threw her head back and laughed
into his face as if he’d said something
funny, which he hadn’t. You know how
solemn Pughe is, God help him! ‘That’s
a laugh,’ Cocky said, ‘that is. Pleasure!
Oh, sweet Jesus, pleasure! Listen,’ she
said.
“I should a gone in then, I suppose,
but I knew there was no use in trying to
stop her, the way she just said, ‘ Listen!’
I had a feeling that what was going to be
said by her to him had to be said, and
understood, understood once and for all.
She had that kinda stupid look a person
gets whose mind is doing reels but
doesn’t know what about exactly till
they hear themselves uttering. You
know? And then they know it’s some-
thing they wanted to say for a long time.
Anyway, that’s the way she looked and
she put her hands in front of her on the
table, and she began.
“ ‘He was a beauty,’ she said, ‘my Pee-
wee. A living beauty! No man has the
right to be as beautiful as my Peewee.
He was the most beautiful thing God
ever created. You know what?’ she says.
‘I used to lie beside him when he was
asleep, just watching him. Just watching
him, mind you. Not touching him. I
didn’t always touch him. But sometimes I
did. Sometimes I couldn’t stop myself
and I’d touch him. I used to kiss his feet.
I used to kiss him all over, but I used to
kiss his feet like the Japanese do.’ And
then Pughe spoke for the first time. ‘Who
told you the Japs did dirty things like
that?’ he said and put his cup down.
And she said, ‘Peewee did.’
“On the soles of his feet, she said, she
kissed him, and the arches of each foot.
He had high arches, she said, high white
arches. And then she did something
awful. She threw Peewee’s coat off her
shoulders and stood up and suddenly be-
gan to strip, and when Pughe saw what
she was on for, he nearly died, you
could see the blood rushing up the back
of his neck to his head. ‘Don’t do that,’
he said, but she was saying she wanted
him to see something, to see what hap-
pened when she just thought of Peewee.”
Mrs Kinsella paused. “No, it’s true,”
she cried, buffeting the exclama-
tions of disbelief. “She stripped herself
and I saw with my own eyes the marks
on her breasts and shoulders.”


Dependable, Profitable
GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED!
THE
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
£5 >7 W
LOAN
For 8, 15 or 25 years
The New South Wales Government unconditionally guarantees half-
yearly interest and full repayment of principal at maturity.
An Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queensland, Western
Australia and Tasmania.
Tax Concessions for Pension and Superannuation Funds. The Loan
is an approved investment for Trustees wishing to qualify for taxation
concessions applicable to these funds.
Cash Applications may be made for one or more of the three terms.
Conversions. Holders of securities in two Loans maturing Friday, Ist
June No. 81 (£4/2/6%) and No. 175 (£5/5/-%) are invited to
convert to the new Loan and secure higher interest without interruption.
INVEST OR CONVERT at any office of the Commonwealth Trading
Bank; Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of New South
Wales; Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited; English,
Scottish and Australian Bank Limited; Rural Bank of New South Wales;
or through a Stockbroker; or at the Board’s offices.
Loan underwritten by
ERNEST L. DAVIS & CO. RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange .
“What kinda marks?”
“Dinges,” Mrs Kinsella replied. “On
her diddies especially, like a man’s
fingers’d make. And red, as if they’d
just happened, because the blood was
just under the skin.”
“Like a stigmata.”
Mrs Kinsella nodded. “Exactly. Like
a stigmata. The very thing.”
“An’ what happened?”
“Well, Cocky ran her hands over them
and said to Pughe, ‘Pleasure? Oh,
Mother of God! Pleasure!’ And Pughe
jumped to his feet, but she got between
him and the door, and began to tell him
how Peewee made love to her, and how
he . . . well, youse know an’ ail. And
how often. And about the way she and
Peewee had stayed in bed for two whole
weeks when he was on leave from the
army an’ what they did . . .”
“Disgustin’!” someone said.
“Gowan, Bitter Rice!”
“But what was it set her off?”
“If I knew, you wouldn’t have to ask,”
Mrs Kinsella said. “But it was either
something Pughe said, or something she
thought. I don’t know. Anyway, she then
whipped round the table to his flowers
. . .” Mrs Kinsella broke off. “For two
whole weeks.” She looked blankly at my
mother. “I mean, doing what?”
My mother looked quickly at me.
“Gowan with the story,” she said.
“Oh, God!” Mrs Kinsella giggled.
“Anyway,” she caught her breath and
went on. “It ended with Pughe going out
quicker than he came in, and Cocky
screaming down the stairs after him. And
what’s more, she threw the flowers at
his back.”
“Like Juliet,” someone sighed.
“Who was?” Mrs Kinsella asked.
“Cocky!” The retort was surprised.
“She lost a good husband,” my mother
said, thoughtful, letting her tea go cold.
“And shop!”
“And a good brass bed.”
Mrs Kinsella nodded, busy, “If that’s
all she lost,” she said.
It wasn’t. Cocky lost her life as well.
Sometime during that night she went up
the Lane to the Canal and threw her-
self into the locks.
It was Sheila Kinsella, who the night
before had picked up Mr Pughe’s flow-
ers and the next morning gave them to
the nun in school for the altar it was
Sheila who saw Cocky’s body floating
face down and back up in the water and
went running for the lockkeeper. They
took Cocky out with a two-pronged fork
and brought her to the morgue.
★ ★ ★
This afternoon Mr Pughe, with not a
feather out of him, was sitting outside his
shop on his furrum, his feet in carpet
slippers side by side, just so.
“No woman has the right to love any
man the way Cocky did Peewee,” Mrs
Kinsella said tonight. “No woman.”


Around Melbourne
NOT ONLY SERIOUS-SOLEMN!
TTere in Melbourne we have been
enjoying the most protracted,
the most satisfying, the most complete-
ly enjoyable art controversy of the
last 10 years. It has been conducted
in the letter columns of “The Age”
with all the splendid daily continuity
of a comic strip and, with a little luck
and prodding, it should go on for
some time yet.
“The Age” has even graced us with
a wordy leader on the subject: “No
form of civil war can hope to equal
the efficient ferocity of a disagreement
among artists over art . . . the thun-
der and rumble of internecine strife
echoing in the letters to the editor
columns have been more clangorous
than any since Tweedledum and
Tweedledee had at each other or the
lion chased the unicorn all around
the town ... it is all very well to
talk of the art of war, but that
is pale stuff in comparision with the
war of art”.
Tweedledum has been represented
by the “realists”, team captain Wil-
liam Dargie. Tweedledee has been
represented by the moderns, team
captain, Eric Westbrook, director of
our National Gallery. In this context
it is not easy to define either camp,
but judging from the correspondence
a realist is a man of the old school,
one who can paint a darned good
gum tree, a perfect likeness in a
portrait, and approved the choice of
paintings for the Tate Exhibition. A
modern is a man who can turn in a
good abstract, likes his Nolans, Boyds,
Tuckers, and is livid over the choice
for the Tate Exhibition.
It all started when William Dargie
opened an exhibition by Max Ragless
at the Atheneum Gallery. Bill Dargie’s
realist friends told him to make it
hot, make it controversial. He wasn’t
over hot when he started. He talked
of “hangers-on” who followed the
fashionable life . . . “Today in Aus-
tralia we are having a belated run of
what is called the Paris school with
pictures being produced and officially
encouraged that might have been
painted in Paris or Timbuctoo or any-
where else at all”.
But later in the letter columns he
was splendid ...
“The point I wanted to make was
this: the general public (or that part
of it interested in art) should know
that there has latterly been built up
in Australia something which could be
called an official establishment.
“I am concerned with the situa-
tion in which the younger realist
painters find themselves. I do not
flatter myself that their ideas on art
are mine. Many would repudiate
the ideals they think I stand for but,
officially, they have no friends and
no encouragement whatever. Their
paintings in exhibitions are damned
or ignored. It would need a charge of
high explosive to get one of their
pictures into the National Gallery.”
Eric Westbrook replied that the
trouble with the contemporary realis-
tic painters was that they weren’t
much good. “I think Mr Dargie is a
little muddied in his thinking. I don’t
think any gallery certainly not
ours —is averse to what he calls
realism. But what we are concerned
with is good painting or otherwise.”
But when Bill Dargie mentioned
that word ‘establishment’ Eric was
back for another shot: “Whatever one
may think of William Dargie’s quality
as an artist he has a remarkable
technique as a debater . . . such an
‘establishment’ (a favourite ‘O.K.
word’ at present) does not exist, and
Dargie knows that very well. Because
he knows it he quite shamelessly pro-
duces very noisome red herrings to
confuse the scent.”
It is impossible here to give all the
nuances, the delightful play back and
forth of the argument, but just so
that you will get something of the
herby flavor of the correspondence,
here are some extracts:
John Brach: “Mr Dargie’s com-
ments were reviving a controversy
that should have been finished 30
years ago”.
Judith Rashid Bey (Toorak): “Mr
Eric Westbrook seems to have attain-
ed the title of king of culture in
Melbourne ... it should be brought
to the public notice that no gallery
representative visits the exhibitions of
some of the better-known realist
artists in Melbourne, atlhough it
should be part of their duty to remain
unbiased and visit all exhibitions.”
Adrian Rawlins (South Yarra):
“Any university student conversant
with the facts is aware that Mr
Dargie’s attack on Mr Westbrook is
a red-herring attempt to divert atten-
tion from the ineptitude of the Art
Advisory Board (of which he is a
member) in its handling of prepara-
tions for a forthcoming show at the
Tate Gallery, London.”
Paul Fitzgerald (Canterbury):
“Does Mr Westbrook try to interpret
that taste and the wishes of the art-
loving public of Melbourne? If so,
a visit to a cross-section of Mel-
bourne would demonstrate beyond
dispute that he has failed dismally.
In the last 50 artists’ homes I have
visited not one artist showed in the
pictures the general taste leanings
that Mr Westbrook has with his
purchases for the gallery in the past
five years.”
Albert Tucker (President, Contem-
porary Art Society): “Mr Fitzgerald's
misconception is based on the vulgar
notion of democratic practice that
Mr Westbrook is an instrument for
the tastes of that intangible monster,
the popular will. Now Mr Westbrook
is an expert, the public isn’t. Other-
wise why not use a pin in a telephone
book?”
E. Buckmaster (Mt Evelyn): “In
the continued abuse of the scientific
invention on the one hand and the
world-wide decline in the fine arts
on the other, caused by irresponsible
stunting and the exponents of artist’s
licence running amok, I see the
clearest indication of the probability
of the end of present civilisation.”
Mr Buckmaster’s letter predicting
the end of the world, might have
provided “The Age” the moment to
end the correspondence but no
fear, it continues, and rumor has it
that some excellent Tweedledums and
Tweedledees have yet to come.
★ ★ ★
Another fruitful argument for
would-be realists and moderns is
Melbourne’s tramway system. Our
dear city is one of the last in Aus-
tralia to persevere with the faithful
electric tram. We have reached a
stage where it would be sensible to
hang on to them at all costs. Give us
another 10 years and the trams, like
the cable cars of San Francisco, could
become a tourist attraction worth mil-
lions of dollars yearly.
BATMAN


m
'A®-
&r : A
mM
m
ran!
M
m
3S
mwm
m
'!2rr!*
m
YM.
3&
ippij
2»
JiJ.y'r
3SS
■iiS
•»*:»
5V.&
33^
>RW
jV?
sgp
I
8£
»
»<iVj3\
S
«e<y>
t-.O
&s»
a?
:M'i
•c«
rr.<
Si-X
MAIN CONTRACTORS
SI MON-CARVES
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
EXPANDING CONTRACTING
Simon-Carves, in their specialised fields of
sulphuric acid plants, coke ovens and by-
product plants, electro-precipitation plants,
sintering plants, and power station construc-
tion, to name but a few, have amassed con-
siderable experience and specialist staff to
carryout largescalecontractingforall industries.
If you have the process know-how
Simon-Carves have the contracting experience
to enable you to appoint them as main contract-
ors in your expansion programme.
Given a site and a customer’s briefing,
Simon-Carves will accept responsibility for the
design, purchasing, erection, and, if necessary,
the commissioning, of any plant.
sfitON-fokjlrES
{yiuiVuiUd) Tui.'jltnited
J, R. PILLARS
Pty. Ltd.
MEMBER COMPANIES
SIMON ENGINEERING LTD
25-31 Wilson Street, BOTANY, N.S.W.
Phone 666-9641
OFFICES ALSO AT:—
MELBOURNE 61-2778
BRISBANE 2-2457
ADELAIDE 4-1528
PERTH 21-5661
C 62


SOUTH AFRICAN LOVE STORY
Apartheid and mixed marriages
By W. J. STALLARD
Five years ago my work took me to
Swaziland, where I had a bad
motor accident. I was nursed by
Harriet Dhlamini, a niece of Sobuza 11,
Paramount Chief of Swaziland.
From the age of three Harriet had
spent most of her life in Durban, train-
ing there as a nurse. She had only
recently returned to Swaziland. When I
met her she was 31. She is good-looking,
vivacious, with a quick sense of humour,
soft-hearted and sympathetic to those she
was nursing, and yet herself strong and
self-confident.
I had never before met anyone like
her. regardless of color, and at 45 I fell
in love with her, and she with me. I
determined somehow to make her my
wife. It was going to be one of the most
difficult things to achieve. My work
Was in publishing in South Africa, but
how could I return there and continue
my association with Harriet?
Apartheid has been responsible for
two Acts which affected us. Under the
Immorality Act, any association of any
kind between opposite sexes, where one
party is white and the other is colored,
is construed as an attempt to have carnal
intercourse. The Act makes this a
criminal offence, punishable by up to
seven years’ imprisonment and for a man
under 50, to whipping in addition, the
maximum being eight lashes. The Mixed
Marriages Act not only prohibits mixed
marriages but also stipulates that those
contracted elsewhere are not recognised
in South Africa.
If we were to live in South Africa
marriage was therefore out of the ques-
tion. I suggested to Harriet that she
accompany me to Durban. We would
have to wait to marry until we could see
our way clear to leaving South Africa
for good. In the meantime she would
be my housekeeper—our only chance of
being together. Because she knew that
I was genuinely in love with her she
agreed, in the hope that one day our
difficulties would be resolved.
We took a flat in Durban. Each night
Harriet had to leave me and sleep in the
location slum at Cato Manor, to comply
with the apartheid laws. Cato Manor,
about half-an-hour’s ride in an over-
crowded African bus, is the filthy hide-
out of every kind of Durban African,
from respectable working people to
thieves, dope pedlars, prostitutes and
murderers.
On a Sunday in February, 1958, we
took a run in the car down the Natal
south coast, Harriet, of course, sitting
in the back and wearing an overall like
a real servant. At Scottburgh, some 40
miles south of Durban, we had trouble
with the car, and as it was Sunday and
no mechanics were on duty at the
garages, I had to try to put it right my-
self. Harriet helped me by passing tools
and so on.
Soon we had onlookers two Boer
youths who spoke very pleasantly to me.
One went away for five minutes or so
and returned. Almost immediately they
were joined by a third youth, also a
Boer. He announced that he was a
policeman and so were the other two,
and that we were under arrest for
attempting to contravene the Immorality
Act by enticing each other to have
carnal intercourse.
We were marched off to the Police
Station, where they kept us waiting for
three hours “whilst the charge against
us was being prepared.” Eventually we
were called into a sergeant detective, who
said that sworn statements had been
given by members of the public, and
that we were being formally charged.
There was no question of bail, but they
agreed that I could telephone a lawyer.
However, every time the trunk call came
through they cut me off on the switch-
board. After the third attempt I was told
that they couldn’t be “f ed” about
all night and that we were to be locked
up.
The police said that there were no
cells for Europeans at Scottburgh and
that I would be taken to Umzinto, nine
miles way. Harriet was locked up where
she was, in a crowded cell where she
was made to sleep on the bare cement
with one ragged blanket that stank of
urine and excretement. The whole place
was crawling with fleas, bugs and lice. I


was put into a scrupulously clean cell,
with new blankets.
The next day we were brought before
the magistrate at Umzinto Court and
remanded in custory for two weeks.
Harriet was locked up in Umzinto gaol,
which was so overcrowded that the
women had to sleep on top of one
another.
THREE FAKE WITNESSES
T was put into a small cell, usually used
for Africans who had been sen-
tenced to solitary confinement. It
was only just big enough to lie down in.
They gave me a new sisal mat to lie on
and two new blankets. I was allowed out
only three times during the two weeks
to wash and shave. I was not permitted
to read or to smoke. No one spoke to
me.
When we came before the court again
we were charged with attempting to
commit an immoral act. The police had
three fake witnesses an unemployed
African and two unemployed Indians,
who I found out later bad been bribed
with ss. each. Before the court adjourned
for the day I informed the court that I
should require the petrol “boy” at the
garage to be called as a defence witness.
Next morning, the prosecutor handed
me a packet of cigarettes; I knew then
that he had thrown in the towel. At the
end of the case for the State, I asked
for our discharge and the magistrate
granted it. Back at the garage, the petrol
boy described how he had been beaten
by the police and threatened with the
loss of his job in an effort to get him
to tell lies.
After the publicity of the trial it was
impossible to return to the flat, so, using
a different name, we took a 30-acre farm
mid-way between Durban and Pieter-
maritzburg. I could continue with my
work while Harriet looked after the
farm.
We were happy. The farm was fairly
isolated, but a regular visitor was the
sergeant of the local police. One day he
told Harriet that she should not share
one bedroom with me. He said that
police, both European and African,
frequently came round in the night and
had reported to him. We had been there
about three months, when we paid off
one of the African farm laborers, who
was idling. He went to the police to
report that Harriet and I were living as
man and wife. The sergeant came again
and said he was sorry but the complaint
appeared officially in the Occurrence
Book, and he would have to make a
report to his superiors in Pietermaritz-
burg. He advised us to leave the farm
within a week, before we found ourselves
in serious trouble.
After a couple of temporary moves,
we bought a house at Escombe, some 10
miles from Durban. This was a lovely
little house, built on the top of a hill.
My bedroom was at the front, and under
it, with no access from inside the house,
was a large cellar which was Harriet’s
bedroom.
The large garden was surrounded by
a high stone wall, except along the next-
door garden boundary, where there was
a wire dividing fence. With our past
experience to guide us, we bought two
great danes, one of which was most
vicious. We frequently found pieces of
uniform and civilian clothes in the morn-
ing, torn from African, and sometimes
European, policemen and detectives.
The Africans told Harriet they hated
trying to spy, but were under orders.
Eventually the police began to watch
from the next-door garden, causing the
dogs to bark most of the night. After
a year—our longest time in one place—
our nerves could stand it no more and
we decided to live in Basutoland, a
British Protectorate.
“ . . I SHALL NEVER FORGET”
IV/|y idea was that I would work in South
IVJ. Africa all week and come home
to Harriet at the weekend. I transferred
my business activities to Bloemfontein in
the Orange Free State, travelling over
200 miles every weekend. But the roads
were shocking, the house primitive, and
the cost too high. We stuck it for four
months and then moved to Swaziland,
another British Protectorate, where we
rented a small farm, while I travelled
each week to South Africa. After three
months we again realised we could not
afford it: there was no other course but
to do what we hated doing—move back
to South Africa.
This time we took a flat in Barberton
in the Eastern Transvaal. It had a
servant’s room outside, to which Harriet
had to go soon after dinner, usually at
about 9 p.m. The old troubles again
beset us: detectives were round the house
all night. One night Harriet crept out
on three African detectives and threw a
bucket of hot water over them. We had
a bit of quiet for a week or two after
that.
By the end of May, 1961, we thought
Johannesburg might be a better bet:
I went to live with my sister in the hope
that nobody would suspect that Harriet
was anything other than a real servant.
But one night, after we had been
there a few weeks, Harriet and I were
awakened by the bed-clothes being
roughly pulled off us; it was the police.
We were taken to the district surgeon,
who tried to find evidence of sexual
intercourse —an examination I shall
never forget. After we had been twice
before the court we were granted bail.
On September 9, we decided to push
off to Rhodesia by train, through
Bechuanaland. We stopped at Francis-
town and got a travelling pass for
Harriet since she had no passport. We
caught the night train, which was
boarded by Federal Rhodesian immigra-
tion officials just before Plumtree, the
border post. As we were travelling to-
gether, they quickly realised the position
and demanded a deposit of £ 150 in cash
from each of us as a condition of entry.
We did not have that sum, so returned
on the next train some 18 miles back to
Tsessebe. But the Federal Rhodesian
immigration official had been in touch
with Francistown, and told them that as
we were obviously man and wife, we
were not wanted in Rhodesia.
The Francistown immigration officials
came out in a truck, took us to Francis-
town, and told us we were not wanted
in Bechuanaland either. We were
ordered on to the next train to return 400
miles to South Africa. African police
travelled with us. There had also been
a telephone call to the border post, so
that police were waiting.
Back in Johannesburg we were held
in custody until trial. We did not go on
defence, since we did not want our
history to come out under cross-examina-
tion. On October 23 last year we were
sentenced to six months’ imprisonment
each. This meant release on February
20, allowing for remission.
My main concern in prison was that
as I was a United Kingdom subject f
might be deported on completion of sen-
tence and have no chance of seeing
Harriet again. To defeat this possibility
I wrote to the South African immigra-
tion authorities a real “bulldust” letter,
stressing how I supported apartheid and
so on.
MARRIED IN BECHUANALAND
A s February 20 drew near I realised
there was only one solution —to take
Harriet to England as quickly as possible.
We cleared up what we could in a week,
and travelled separately to Lobatsi in
Bechuanaland. We were granted a
special licence and married by the Dis-
trict Commissioner on March 3 —the first
mixed couple to be married in the
Bechuanaland Protectorate. After a
couple of weeks together, we went
separately to Cape Town, and stayed in
different hotels —Harriet in a colored
one and I in a white. Harriet got a pass-
port from the British Embassy after
being registered as a citizen of the UK.
We caught the ship, on which I am
writing this, with 50 minutes to spare.
Now we have little left with which to
make a new start in England, except our
love and our freedom, to us the most
valuable things in the world.


SINGAPORE AND THE MERGER
MALAYSIA—A beautiful target for the Communists
From DENNIS BLOODWORTH
The future of Singapore, Britain’s
greatest base east of Suez, was
discussed at a series of meetings
recently in London. Singapore’s Prime
Minister, Mr Lee Kuan Yew, opened his
discussions with the Colonial Secretary,
Mr Reginald Maudling, and later had
talks with the Commonwealth Secretary,
Mr Duncan Sandys, and F'rime Minister
Harold Macmillan.
The future of all British territories in
South-east Asia and Britain's military
presence in the Far East depend upon
a solution to the problem of Singapore.
Mr Lee's Government proposes to hold
a popular referendum on whether Singa-
pore should be united in the next nine
months with the neighboring independent
Federation of Malaya on terms agreed
with Tengku Abdul Rahman, the
Malayan Premier. These terms provide
that the Singapore Government may re-
tain control of education and labor, and
very largely run its own finances. But
under a reciprocal arrangement Singa-
pore citizens will not be allowed to vote
or stand for election in any other State
of the Federation, and the island's repre-
sentation in the Federal Parliament,
which now has 104 members, will be
limited to 15 seats.
But the powerful Barisan Socialis
opposition party is campaigning vigor-
ously here against this formula as a
“sell out” which would make Singa-
poreans “second class citizens.” Its
leaders, many of them alleged pro-
Communists or Chinese chauvinists, fear
that they will be gaoled and their
socialist movement suppressed once
Singapore comes under the anti-com-
munist, essentially Malay federal adminis-
tration in Kuala Lumpur, the Malayan
capital. They are therefore carrying out
house-to-house canvassing—with uneven
resuits—to persuade the masses that they
should only sanction the “eventual” parti-
cipation of Singapore in the Federation
as a full member State.
They claim that under this formula,
which is quite unacceptable to Kuala
Lumpur, Singapore would be entitled to
more than 30 seats in the Federal Lower
House.
They calculate that they could capture
most of these, strengthen the opposition
offered by the weak Malayan Socialist
Front in the rest of the country by put-
ting up selected candidates for election
in other States, and so seriously challenge
the Tengku’s Right-wing Government
for constitutional mastery of all Malaya.
Their arguments carry considerable
weight with many Singapore Chinese,
who constitute 70 per cent, of the island's
population. These are naturally sus-
picious of what has been portrayed as the
future reactionary hegemony of Kuala
Lumpur.
The outcome of the referendum is
therefore uncertain. The Singapore Gov-
ernment can cancel it or ignore its
results, and simply pass a Bill for merger
through the island’s Legislative Assembly,
in which it can be sure of a com-
fortable majority. But the consequences
would be unpredictable. The Barisan
Socialis and the strong trade union con-
federation it controls recognise that the
British Armed Services here are for the
moment irreplaceable employers of some
40,000 workers, and their naval base
union has just reached a peaceful agree-
ment with the Admiralty over an indus-
trial dispute.
If the Left-wing can sabotage the
merger and subsequently win the general
elections in Singapore, the base here will
be no more secure than were British
military installations in Ceylon, which
had to be abandoned at short notice
after the late Mr Bandaranaike was voted
into office. Moreover the Tengku’s
project for including all Commonwealth
and British territories in South-east Asia
—Malaya, Singapore, Sarawak, Brunei
and North Borneo —in a wider Federa-
tion of Malaysia—would become a dead
letter.
The problem of finding a formula for
federating such disparate units has in
any case been infinitely complex. Malaya,
in which the Malays only just predomi-
nate, is a sovereign nation within the
Commonwealth. Singapore is a self-
governing State whose population is
mainly Chinese and whose foreign affairs
and defence are a British responsibility.
Brunei is an oil-rich pocket sultanate of
Malay culture under British protection.
Sarawak and North Borneo are sprawling,
under-developed British colonial territo-
ries in which the less evolved Dyaks and
other native peoples far outnumber the
coastal Malays and Chinese.
There is, nevertheless, reason to
believe that the most objective members
of the mixed commission led by Lord
Cobbold, which toured the Borneo terri-
tories in order to test reactions to the
Malaysia plan and will produce a report
for the British and Malayan Governments
at the end of this month, were impressed
by the generally favorable attitude they
encountered.
With the fate of other federations in
Africa and the West Indies in mind, how-
ever, they are likely to recommend that
terms of association which respect local
wishes should be carefully worked out
before any federal constitution is drawn
up. Representatives of all five units of
the future Malaysia are expected to con-
vene in London later this year to decide
on the final form of federation whose
inception will coincide with merger be-
tween Singapore and Malaya.
British defence interests in the Borneo
territories will be governed by an ex-
tension of the Anglo-Malayan defence
treaty, which permits the strategic
Commonwealth reserve to be based in
Malaya provided that the Federation’s
refusal to be associated with Seato is
respected. The Singapore base may be
used for “the preservation of peace in the
Far East,” subject to prior consultation
with Kuala Lumpur.
Malaysia, an ex-colonial complex to
be interposed between an Indonesia
under President Sukarno's “guided demo-
cracy” and the uneasy South-east Asian
mainland, is an obvious “Aunt Sally” for
the Communists.


EUROPE AND THE SPACE AGE
Take a giant step
From JOHN DAVY
Perched on top of Brighton’s
dignified Victorian pile, the Hotel
Metropole, with a splendid view of
the quaint extravagances of the West
Pier, is a streamlined glass penthouse
“The Starlit”. The European-American
Assembly on “Outer Space”, which has
been housed in the hotel for the past
three days, has struck a similar note of
incongruous encounter between old and
new, the past and the future.
Europe, it is clear, has not yet taken
the plunge into the space age, either
materially or psychologically. But
America is already surging along on the
crest of an enormous roller. Thus, a
large part of the proceedings have con-
sisted in Europeans sitting listening to
Americans with a mixture of respect,
scepticism, admiration and impatience.
A final statement issued at the close
of the meeting gave an appearance of
unity. It was recommended, for in-
stance, that space exploration be pursued
with energy by all and sundry, that
international collaboration be en-
couraged, and that every effort should
be made to prevent space from becoming
a military battlefield in the future. But
behind these generalities there lurked
widely divergent views about the mean-
ing of the space age. A number of
Europeans were inclined to be sceptical
of the value of putting men into space
except for prestige purposes, and were
cool towards any suggestion that Europe
should mount its own man in space
programme.
Everybody accepted that space was a
factor in the military interests of East
and West. Almost everybody deplored
this. But there were different views about
what could or should be done. It was
agreed, though, that every effort should
be made to ban nuclear bombs from
orbit, although such an agreement would
probably have to be coupled to much
more far-reaching measures which would
include international inspection of rocket
payloads before launching. There was
clearly more hope of limited agreements
with Russia to exchange scientific data,
rescue astronauts in distress, compensate
each other for damage caused by bits of
spaceware, and share radio frequencies.
Some of the most delicate discussions
centred on satellites for military recon-
naissance. To many Americans present,
such satellites appeared to be not merely
militarily sensible but morally desirable.
Russian secrecy, they argued in effect,
was wicked and prejudicial to peace. It
should be removed, if necessary, without
Russian consent. Those with an ear for
Freudian undertones thought they de-
tected in this argument a virile desire to
thaw the chilly Russian virgin by
relieving her—forcefully if necessary—
of her jealously guarded virginity. She
would then be a grown-up girl and
easier to live with.
European delegates were perhaps less
confident that penetration by satellite,
however skilful, would solve any prob-
lems, and some believed that it would
increase rather than reduce tensions. To
this, some Americans retorted that
secrecy was a continued spur to the arms
race, and meant that America might be
building unnecessarily large forces
because they did not know what Russia
was doing.
Spying from space
npo some extent, though, the reconnais-
sance problem may solve itself; the
Assembly was told by one delegate that
Russian protests at spying from space
had recently declined and there was
evidence that a serious Soviet interest in
reconnaissance satellites was germinating.
The main Russian interest, it was
suggested, would be to reconnoitre
China, since much fuller strategic in-
formation about the United States could
be obtained more cheaply and con-
veniently by reading technical journals
and Congressional hearings.
In another session, the Assembly
turned to the social and economic effects
of space programmes and the relations
between Europe and America in this
field. Here again, mixed feelings were
apparent. One American roundly
accused the Europeans of neglecting
space, and suggested by some not
entirely clear argument —that if Europe
would not spend more on space, America
should make it foot the whole bill for
Nato and spend the difference on ex-
panding her own space programme.
Some Europeans held, however, that
the fundamental difference was that
Europe does not propose to send men
into space at present. If manned space
efforts were subtracted, it was held that
the European programme now getting
under way would compare favourably
with America’s in five or six years’ time.
One American pointed wryly to the
paradoxical effects of the space pro-
gramme on American society and
industry. Private corporations were
being transformed into State-controlled
organisations without its being ex-
plicitly admitted. One such corporation
was already spending more Government
money than the State Department, it was
said. Space funds were also penetrating
abroad: one distinguished British scientist
confessed that his laboratory received
more money from the US Government
than from his own university.
It was agreed that space has a
tremendously stimulating effect on the
economy, not only by developing
advanced techniques, but through the
increased demand for goods and services
from growing numbers of skilled and
well-paid technicians in the space in-
dustries. But a significant difference
emerged here, in that America tends to
have a labor surplus, while Europe
suffers at present from an acute labor
shortage. The labor-intensive character
of space project thus has less attraction,
from a purely economic point of view,
in Europe than in America.
For the next few years, it was accepted
that collaboration in space between
Europe and America would grow
steadily, especially in the fields of com-
munications satellites (where co-operation
was compelled by the need for ground
stations all over the world), and the
exchange of scientific information. It
appears that there will also develop an
urgent need to co-ordinate plans for
scientific space experiments. Although
scientific competition can be a stimulus,
it is obviously wasteful to duplicate the
experiments which take two years to
plan and cost millions of dollars, and is
also very disheartening to the team whose
results are anticipated by another’s.
As the organisers intend, these
assemblies are not designed to arrive at
any very substantial conclusions. The
purpose is to encourage discussion and
“mutual education”, and in this the
Brighton meeting undoubtedly succeeded.
Even in the space age, Europe and
America are some distance apart in
many ways and this kind of occasion can
bring them appreciably closer together.


FORUM
LIVING WITH THE BOMB
The Monstrous Blow That Cannot Be Recalled
By JOHN DAVY
JF the arms race continues, and
nuclear weapons spread, the world
of the 1970’s will be an appallingly
dangerous place. In this article John
Davy describes how President Ken-
nedy’s Administration is steering a
course between conflicting views of
how to make it safer. This concludes
our Forum on Thinking the Un-
thinkable about World War 8.
THE American strategic debate swings
like a pendulum between two ex-
tremes: far out at one end are
advocates of total pacifism; far out at
the other are advocates of preventing war
against Russia.
Current American policy lies almost
dead centre, flanked on one side by
advocates of “finite deterrence,” on the
other by supporters of “counterforce.”
This does not mean that the policy is
static, but it is shaped as much by events
as by deliberate decisions.
Perhaps the most crucial event in
recent years was Sputnik I, which showed
that the Russians had rockets big enough
to deliver H-bombs on America. This
stimulated an intense effort to protect
Strategic Air Command bombers by
dispersal and greater alertness, to build
missile-warning radars, to “harden” mis-
sile sites and produce less vulnerable
missiles like Minuteman and Polaris.
This “vulnerability revolution” has now
gone a long way towards completion—
and the talk in the Pentagon is of the
resulting “command and control” revolu-
tion.
Perhaps the most frightening thing
about thermonuclear missiles is that they
make possible instant total war. They can
deliver a monstrous blow in a few min-
utes and cannot be called back once
launched. There is no time for second
thoughts or parleying.
If a nation is to retaliate, its weapons
must survive the blow, but so must its
ability to control policy and issue orders
to fire. This ability is considered an es-
sential part of the deterrent—since the
enemy must be convinced that his oppo-
nents’ retaliatory system would still func-
tion effectively after a surprise attack.
The American defence planners are
now making an intense effort to ensure
that the decision-makers have time to
think, and that their orders can be effec-
tively carried out even in a post-attack
shambles.
The work ranges from highly technical
arrangements for bomb-proof communi-
cations between command posts to far-out
notions such as a private line between
the White House and the Kremlin, so
that there could be an instant summit
conference if deterrence seemed about
to fail.
This effort has coincided with another
important trend. A determined effort is
being made by the Administration to
establish a firm civilian grip on the ram-
shackle affairs of the military.
It is well known that the Pentagon,
with its 345 generals and admirals and
$50,000 million-a-year budget, has long
been the scene of fierce, extravagant and
often irresponsible inter-service jungle
warfare. Part of the battle has been
fought in the lobbies of Congress, and
the big corporations have egged on the
struggle, expecting correctly that it
would lead to a proliferation of arms
contracts.
Many people say the present Defence
Secretary, Robert McNamara, the iron
man from Ford, has been President Ken-
nedy’s best appointment. He has not only
eliminated 404 departmental committees
and revolutionised internal management,
but has begun to lay down what is, for
the Pentagon, a jolting new policy. The
starting-point is no longer the respective
‘'roles ’ of the Navy, Army and Air
Force, but “missions,” or well-defined
military tasks. Each task will be a “pack-
age deal,” with money allocated for
development, deployment and main-
tenance.
Any arguments must now be about
whether enough is being spent on
strategic radars or tactical rockets rather
than whether a particular service is
getting a fair share of the total budget.
Mr McNamara, in other words, has
been called in to put defence on an effi-
cient business footing. But what are the
long-term prospects? Above all, is his
business likely to expand or contract?
Virtually everybody agrees that a secure
retaliatory force of underground missiles
is desirable, that the President should
have effective control of vital military
decisions, and that inter-service rivalry
should be stopped. But it takes at least
five years to develop and deploy a new
weapons system. This forces military
planners to look ahead to the second half
of the decade, and it is here the real
strategic debate begins.


HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM 2001. =
By then, both Russia and America
could have an invulnerable retaliatory
force. Supporters of “finite deterrence”
argue that such a force can safely be
small, and more vulnerable forces such
as strategic bombers largely scrapped.
Furthermore, each side would have an
incentive for arms control to ensure that
the retaliatory force on each side re-
mained small and could be used for
punishment only, and not for a “counter-
force” surprise attack. Disputes would
have to be settled by negotiation or, at
worst, limited conventional wars. This
balance would be stable, and could be
upset only by a technical advance that
destroyed the invulnerability of the re-
taliatory force.
Finite deterrence of this kind tends to
be supported by naval men (who see an
important role for Polaris submarines)
and by the Army (since conventional
forces would have to be strengthened). It
also attracts scientists such as Professor
Hans Bethe, who advised President Ken-
nedy on the technical significance of the
Russian tests, and Dr Jerome Wiesner,
the President’s Science Adviser. They see
finite deterrence as a way out of an
endless and increasingly terrifying arms
race.
The criticisms of finite deterrence were
described last week. They hinge round
the argument that there must be other
choices available between revengeful
retaliation against cities, which serve no
rational purpose, and conventional war.
This leads directly to the various
“counterforce” theories, which aim to
make thermonuclear war, and threat of
it, a manageable instrument of policy.
Counterforce is conceivable only if you
can inflict more damage on the enemy
than he can on you. It attracts the
United States Air Force in particular,
which would be the main instrument of
such a policy. It also tends to attract
arms manufacturers, as it leads almost
inevitably to a continued arms race, and
an associated “research race” to develop
new weapons and means of delivering
them.
Somewhere in between are men such
as Albert Wohlstetter. He is a large,
deliberate person with a flat, sandy face
and considerable charm. A veteran of
Rand (the research corporation in Cali-
fornia, mainly financed by the Air Force),
Wohlstetter is in the thick of the intricate
technical studies involved in the vulner-
ability and command-and-control revolu-
tions. He believes that a balanced deter-
rent is probably achievable —but that the
finite deterrent is a dangerous simplifica-
tion.
An aggressive Power can employ such
a variety of weapons and threats short
of total holocaust that a deterrent system,
he asserts, must inevitably be very com-
plex. He and many of his fellow strategic
technicians are at home in this kind of
complexity, which they see essentially as
a problem in logic to be solved by reason
and engineering.
In practice, the Administration is
steering a similar course between finite
deterrence and counterforce. The result
of course, is that it comes under fire
from both sides. Mr McNamara has
ordered a force of 800 Minuteman mis-
siles. The Air Force originally asked for
nearly 3000. The finite deterrers think
200 would be more than enough. The
Air Force and industry try to lobby Mr
McNamara into building a fleet of
supersonic bombers, an elaborate anti-
missile-missile system, and tend to favor
large-scale civil defence. Finite deterrers
claim that the arms budget is far too big,
that part of Strategic Air Command could
be scrapped now, and that civil defence
encourages a doom-laden war psychosis
in the population.
In general, though, the new civilian
regime at the Pentagon is reducing the
military waistline and quelling the
lobbyists. The B-70 supersonic bomber is
now only a research and development
programme, the nuclear-powered bomber
has been cancelled, and the last B-52
has come off the production line.
The main emphasis is on Minuteman
and Polaris, and on strengthening con-
ventional and “guerrilla”-type forces.
The obsession with “central war” which
characterises the public strategic debate
is far less apparent in the White House.
The doctrine of massive retaliation is
firmly out, and there is more concern
about small “peripheral” conflicts and the
spread of nuclear weapons.
It is clear, in fact, that the President
himself, together with most of his col-
leagues in the White House, hanker after
a real brake on the arms race, and would
like to fight out the conflict with Com-
munism in non-military ways. But the
pressures are such that if Russia con-
tinues intransigent the disturbing thread
of near panic mixed with aggressive im-
patience that runs through American
public opinion could swing the balance
towards counterforce and an accelerated
arms race. On the other hand, some sign
that Russia is ready to negotiate seriously
about arms control could transform the
situation.
If the views of such people as Dr
Wiesner and Hans Bethe are correct the
best hope of agreement will come when
both sides have an adequate force of in-
vulnerable missiles and there may be
some lifting of the present mood of fear
and distrust. The alternative is appalling.
As Herman Kahn grimly explains, in his
notorious book “On Thermonuclear
War,” the world of the 19705, if nothing
is done, will be far more dangerous than
the world of the 19605.
“If events are not controlled,” he
writes, “it may just turn out that there
are going to be too many risks and
tensions combined with too much tech-
nological progress: too many missiles,
too many buttons, too many people with
potential decision-making power, and too
many countries with nuclear weapons
and missiles.”
Careful analysis by strategic techni-
cians will help—but to control events,
something more than clever engineering
is likely to be needed. “Disarmament,”
Dr Wiesner told me a few weeks ago,
“will be ultimately a matter of courage.”


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
BARWICK AND THE BOMB
Sir,
Sir Garfield Barwick’s reply to the
recent letter of the UN Secretary-Gen-
eral upon the subject of nuclear disarm-
ament is unnecessarily discouraging. In
his keenness to assert Australia’s right
to do what it likes, Sir Garfield seems to
have missed the point of U Thant's in-
quiry. Alan Reid, in reporting Sir Gar-
field, has similarly missed the point
(Bulletin, April 14), and does not
appear to have read the full text of
U Thant’s letter.
For Sir Garfield was not asked to
undertake that “in no circumstances will
Australian forces in the future be armed
with nuclear weapons.” Rather was he
asked to state “. . . the conditions under
which (Australia) might be willing to
enter into specific undertakings to re-
frain from manufacturing or otherwise
acquiring such weapons and to refuse to
receive in the future nuclear weapons on
(its) territory on behalf of any other
country.”
There are two questions here. One
refers to the acquiring of nuclear
weapons ; the other refers to the station-
ing of nuclear weapons. In neither case
has U Thant asked Australia to unila-
terally renounce nuclear weapons.
The question about the stationing of
nuclear weapons is one of complicated
strategy, and it is understandable that
no clear conditions could be stated. But
the second question is a separate one.
And it is a question of urgent import-
ance, as. Mr Menzies recognised in his
speech of September, 1957 (which Sir
Garfield quotes), and again at last year’s
Commonwealth Prime Ministers’ Con-
ference. In effect, Sir Garfield was asked
to give his views on the possibility of a
“Non Nuclear Club”. More precisely,
he was asked to state the conditions
upon which Australia would enter such
a club.
Sir Garfield did in fact state some
conditions, but in such a vague and dis-
couraging way that his reply has the
effect of pouring cold water on the
whole scheme envisaged in resolution
1664 (XVI) adopted by the General
Assembly last December. His letter could
be interpreted as meaning that Austra-
lia might renounce control of any
nuclear weapons under an agreement
that had verification procedures, that in-
cluded all significant non-nuclear
powers, and that had the support of the
present nuclear powers.
But he later threw in a reference to
“general and complete disarmament”;
as if the realisation of this utopian state
was a further condition of our signing
such an agreement. This ambiguity and
the generally negative and discouraging
attitude of the Minister on a matter of
such importance are disturbing.
A “Non Nuclear Club” is quite within
the bounds of possibility. It is in the
common interest of the USA and the
USSR. Indeed it was specifically pro-
posed recently by the USA. It is also in
the most urgent interest of the small
powers themselves.
U Thant has asked us in effect whether
we prefer a world of four nuclear
powers to one of forty; and if so whether
means can be devised of preventing the
multiplication. The Australian Govern-
ment should give the matter clear-
headed and sympathetic attention.
ROSS TERRILL.
(University of Melbourne)
Anthony Clunies Ross
(Monash University)
THE ALP AND THE BOMB
Sir,
Mr Hugh Gaitskell may be leader of
the British Labor Party but he speaks for
a fairly evenly divided movement and
there is no guarantee that he and his
friends will remain in control for much
longer. His comments to Ban-the-Bomb
demonstrators in Glasgow (as reported in
The Bulletin, May 12) show that he
is completely out of sympathy with
thousands of people in England.
I would go so far as to say that Mr
Gaitskell would come under suspicion of
being a DLP-type if he was in Australia.
He seems to have the same phobia as the
DLP when-it comes to communism -and
no doubt a lot of your readers will con-
sider he. was intolerant.
Be all. that as it may I would like to
know if the British Labor Party attitude
to this question (similar to that of the
Democratic Labor Party in Australia) is
typically “labor” or does the Australian
Labor Party show a typical “labor”
approach to the question? I would give
pounds to hear Mr Gaitskell and
Calwell debate it!
TERRY KIRLEY
Croydon (Victoria).
THE TERROR OF THE NIGHT
Sir, - ... . . •
The dramatised report by “Phillip” on
Sydney’s mutilation murders (Bulletin,
May 5) reads suspiciously like a Public
Relations release from the Police Depart-
ment. I have no criticism of this, apart
from the improbable idea of two detec-
fives standing in the dark waiting until
deadbeat “Happy” had finished whisper-
ing 8 verses from a psalm before inter-
rupting him.
No. My complaint is that the old story
of tremendous widespread sexual perver-
sion is once again trotted out . . . “the
police . . . have been almost as shocked
by the extent of depravity and homo-
sexuality their investigation has un-
covered.” I simply don’t believe it. It
seems an unprovable generalisation used
as a cover-up for the high number of
arrests in this field.
It was particularly ironic that the
article should appear in the same issue as
Dr David Maddison’s scholarly approach
to the subject. Perhaps “Phillip” would
carry out a survey of professional men,
hospitals and so on and come up with
some reasonably reliable figures concern-
ing the percentage of homosexuals in our
community.
F. RUSHTON
Greenwich (NSW).
COMMONPLACE AS HESSIAN
Sir,
May I quote some fragments from
Boake’s poems in an effort to clear the
matters troubling Miss Judith Wright in
her letter to The Bulletin (April 28)?
from “A Wayside Queen”
She is sweet as white peppermint flowers
And harsh as redgum when it drips
From the heart of a hardwood that tov ers
Straight up: she hath marvellous powers
To draw a man’s soul through his lips
With a kiss like the stinging of whips.
from “The Demon Snow Shoes” -
The Eucumbene itself lies dead,
Fast frozen in its narrow bed;
And distant sounds ring out quite near,
The crystal air is froze so clear;
While to and .fro the people go
In silent swiftness o’er the snow.
These are both in the volume of poems
published in 1897, and republished 1913.
They, and many of the others, may be to
some extent about the bush. Presumably,
as Miss Wright has read them, she agrees
that they are “bush narrative” poems. I
don't. But I do . believe that they say
whether, or not Boake was influenced
solely by Gordon and other contempor-
ary Australians.
Miss Wright is certainly correct in one
detail. Boake lived 26, not 27 years. He
was a surveyor’s assistant first, not last
as Miss Wright has it, if we must quibble.
Miss. Wright quotes Stephens on the
period in which the published poems were
written, 18 months. In other words, at
-24, never having written a line previously,
Boake proceeded to dash off some 30 and
more poems—published poems.
Miss Wright says, “. . . a very large
proportion can only be classed as ‘bush
narratives’. . .” I disagree with that esti-
mate, but even if she is correct, my point
is made, surely? Stuart Lee called Boake
a bush narrative writer, with no quali-
fication.
I repeat that this description of Boake


is hardly true even of the last few of
Boake’s (26) years, when his vision shifted
from England to Australia and the harsh
reality overcame him.
As I understand Boake, he was cer-
tainly influenced by English poets in-
cluding Shakespeare, who is mentioned
with The Bulletin as his constant
companion when he first went to
Adaminaby. Then he was influenced by
Gordon, but swung between the two
poles. And if “Out Where the Dead Men
Lie” is a good poem (is it narrative?),
so in my humble opinion is “A Wayside
Queen,” with its alien influences.
FRANK ROBERTS
Sydney.
NOT EQUAL TO THE TASK
Sir,
Kevon Kemp (Bulletin, May 12)
says that Bernard Shaw was simply “not
equal to his task” (in writing Saint
Joan). It is, he thinks “evasive,” has
“one of the silliest epilogues in all
drama,” and “could have been a bore,”
but for the acting of the three male
principals.
Various writers, some of repute, have
criticised Shaw’s conception of Saint
Joan’s character, but no writer of any
substance 1 have come across agrees
with Mr Kemp. I could quote a dozen
but must content myself with one. The
Italian dramatist Luigi Pirandello was
asked by the “New York Times” to
record his feelings after seeing the New
York production.
He wrote: “Had an act as powerful
as the fourth act of Saint Joan been
.produced on any one of the numerous
Italian stages, all the people present
would have jumped to their feet, even
before the curtain fell, to start a
frenzied applause.” . .
If Mr Kemp cannot see in the play
-“anything of value for his own time”
such a verdict will condemn him as a
critic. It seems obvious that Miss Cald-
well's interpretation as well as her
. speech and playing, destroyed Mr
Kemp's capacity to listen to verbal
music. He must have been so intent on
the acting that his ability to absorb the
words of the play was destroyed.
Also he may have half consciously
resented Shaw’s argument that Joan had
a fair trial. While this may be arguable
on historical grounds, to dismiss the
epilogue as contemptuously as Mr Kemp
does, is to be quite oblivious to the
superb litany at the end, which alone
makes it worthwhile.
It would be useless to detail Shaw’s
record in dramatic writing to a critic
who can write, as he does, about a play
which contains many passages of nobi-
lity and even genius. The truth is, not
that the-play- was -a- failure, but that the
critic failed the play. I commend to his
notice the heading of his article: “Not
Equal to the Task.”
CURTIS ATKINSON
Toowong (Queensland).
THE BEACH GENERATION
Sir,
After five years’ absence in England,
Craig McGregor (Bulletin, May 12)
finds that Australia is “no longer the
land of the workers ; it is the land of the
business-man”. Can it possibly not have
occurred to Mr McGregor that he is now
five years older, and (one hopes) five
years more successful and prosperous,
and that the social circles he is moving
in now are perhaps not quite those he
left five years ago?
If Mr McGregor were to visit us
again five years from now he might find
still other long-established sections of
Australian society that he had not pre-
viously contacted.
D. J. RYAN
Bellevue Hill (NSW).
SLOW BOAT TO RED CHINA
Sir,
I wish to extend my sincere congratu-
lations to The Bulletin and Michael
Coughlan for his article (Bulletin,
May 5). This is indeed excellent mate-
rial and portrays many of my own ex-
periences whilst engaged on a British ship
trading between Shanghai and Foochow
for two and a half months during the
Summer of 1957.
Perhaps I may add another two some-
what demoralising experiences which .1
remember well. These were: (a) the pro-
cedure at every arrival and departure,
in or from a port in Red China, where
every crew member had to vacate his
.cabin and stand about on deck while “the
authorities” assumed permission to search
his most personal effects; and (b) the
rather un-nerving sensation of having
one’s', ship swooped upon by Nationalist
fighter ’planes in the Taiwan Straits,
(one supposes, in consequence for trading
with the “Reds”).
Yes. All of these incidents certainly
add to a seafarer's enthusiasm at the
prospect of having to return to Red
China! However, whilst one cannot con-
done the action of a deserter, I do feel
that the facts contained in your article
should, in all fairness,. be broadcast
amongst those intent upon taking their
first visit, in any “boat” to Red China.
M. C. CALDER
(Master Mariner).
Sydney.
AUSTRALIA’S RELIGIOUS SECTS
Sir,
The information that Mr Kelly gives
us in his “Australia’s Sects” (Bulletin,
May 12) is .scant indeed, and very often
misleading. It would be very nice to
know where the Jehovah Witnesses derive
their strange ideas on blood. Mr Kelly
relishes the rather unsavory results, but
can’t inform us of the source material of
the doctrine. Presumably because he has
never really examined their faith.
Mr Kelly tells us very little about the
Brethren which we cannot gather from
the daily Press, but he can’t tell us why
they think they have a right to break up
families, or are opposed to trade unions.
Surely the Brethren who are so exclu-
sive as to not admit strangers to their
meetings are not even in the proselytis-
ing business? If they are Mr Kelly doesn’t
tell us how.
Mr Kelly tells us that the Mormons
are really The Church of the Latter Day
Saints, when surely he knows that the
correct title is The Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter Day Saints. He informs
us that Mormons are abnormally full of
race prejudice, but fails to explain why
the Maoris form the largest part of the
Mormon community in New Zealand
(where this sect is one of the largest
churches) or why the Islanders through-
out the Pacific are leaving the other
churches and flocking to the Mormons,
or why the Indians in the USA are
prominent members, and why some of
the boys on Missions in Australia have
Indian blood in their veins. He doesn’t
tell us either that Mormons practising
plural marriage (even in countries where
it is permitted by law) are excommuni-
cated from the church.
The organisations attacked in this
article seem to be those who are still
small in number, but of whom the
larger churches (Roman Catholic, Angli-
can, Presbyterian, and Methodist) seem
to delight in printing nasty little book-
lets full of sneering statements, and
often downright lies. None of these
tracts has anything to do with truth or
reality, but these seem to be the source
material of Mr Kelly’s article.
Mr Kelly, of course, is as much
entitled to his opinion as are the sects
he sneers at, but it is disturbing to find
-a journal of the integrity, of The
Bulletin endorsing such opinions. I
think it is up to you now, to allow each
of these groups so attacked the right of
stating what they really do believe with-
out the snide comments of Mr Kelly.
ROBERT W. CONNELL
Darra (Queensland).
THE BATESON STORY
Sir,
I was particularly interested in the pro-
file of Sir Albert Bateson, for BB and I
have been friends for many years. It
brought to mind the time BB and I along
with Sir Timothy Cargill (Profile, “The
Observer,” London, April 1, 1962) were
on a secret mission for the Melbourne
Underground Railway Committee. “We
must never go under” Tim used to say,
“The Establishment is mightier than the
man.”
GEORGE C. PHILPOT CARTER
London


The Wild
Cat Page and
THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
PRODUCTIVITY CONFERENCE
TALKING MARATHON AT SYDNEY UNIVERSITY
YjS/oRDS flowed freely as speaker after
’ speaker mounted the rostrum at
Sydney University’s Union Theatre
during the 1962 annual conference on
productivity held last week. By and
large the whole show created the impres-
sion of a great talking marathon gone
stale and weary from the very start. The
sponsors of the three-day talk-feast, the
NSW division of the Australian Produc-
tivity Council, deserve little credit for
these vapid proceedings.
At a time when actuality and concrete-
ness are vital to our economic survival,
a large assemblage of industrialists was
offered, and accepted with apparent
relish, a stream of dull and musty plati-
tudes. Fancy a closing meeting willing
to swallow such gems as “There can be
no doubt about it, we get what we
deserve from our work” or “It will be in
1970 that we will know, by our standard
of living, what sort of job we did in
1962.” The hour is gone when generali-
ties and exhortation alone, however well
inspired, may be a sufficient goad to
Australia’s easy-going attitude to pro-
ductivity.
The conference lacked bite and a sense
of immediate purpose. The kind of
statements and surveys presented must
have been digested, if not acted upon,
by directors and factory managers years
ago. If a dearth of originality and fresh
thinking makes it necessary for us to
follow insights born yesterday in Europe
and America, such knowledge has to be
poured into a more practical local
mould.
The debate about the organisation of
productivity, measurement of produc-
tivity, human relations and productivity,
the unions and productivity, and what-
not, is indeed old. The valuable experi-
ences and programmes of Europe,
America and Japan are fully available in
an extensive literature.
Jnstead of mulling over old ground,
would not our productivity conferences
be of considerably greater benefit if they
examined detailed case histories apply-
ing productivity theory and practice to
specific sectors of the Australian
economy. The wide range of last week’s
doings tended to vagueness that lost any
feeling of urgency.
Such a method might more frequently
use the smaller group and not the
vacuous general meeting. There is cer-
tainly a need for the practitioners and the
successful companies to present, for
comparison and imitation, exact and con-
crete results, even at factory and firm
level. The wider sweeps deserve a lot
less oratorical attention.
These professional jamborees are
growing common on the Australian
scene. They dare not be allowed to
degenerate into disguised pep-talks and
mere get-togethers. At the same time as
the productivity conference met the
Federal president of the Associated
Chambers of Manufactures (Mr J. N.
Walker) was warning about “fiercely
competitive, cut-throat war” in interna-
tional trade. Australia’s counter remains
actually applied knowledge, not sermon-
ising.
Tt cannot be said that the conference
was given a good start by the Fed-
eral Treasurer. Mr Holt, and the Fed-
eral Government, may command all the
goodwill in the country, but the country
is getting tired of listening to the usual
old flood of rationalisations of the
measures initiated on November 15,
1960. The Treasury should also give
some evidence of vigorous thought,
away from excuse making. Perhaps it
could also teach its head to speak to the
subject. Mr Holt was supposed to dis-
course upon “Productivity is vital to our
Prosperity.” He successfully avoided any
direct approach to this topic. The old
device of consultation with “commerce
and industry” was paraded. Such consul-
tation is plainly occurring, without fan-
fares, all the time. The chief task of a
Government does not consist in repeated
consultation: it is to lead and to govern.
But it is when a genuine and most
capable industrialist like Sir James
Kirby joins the generalisers that the pro-
ductivity conference must be recalled to
its bearings. Sir James was complimen-
ted on the examples of technological
improvement cited towards the close of
his address —“the fruits of vast experi-
ence.” Few were specific and most might
have been obtained from an elementary
text-book.
V. B. WORSTEAD
INDEX
Productivity Conference 34
Chevron Debentures 35
Shippisig P ßow F Consumptlon ""
Economics Anonymous I 37
News Pointers 38
Chinese Mission, BJH.P. Deben-
tures 38
Credit Explosion? 40
Building 40
Fiim Festival 41
Company Reviews
General Industries 42
Fairymead Sugar 43
Kornblums 43
Wunderlich 44
Company Notes 45
Share Market Summary and
Statistics 48, 49
Wild Cat Brevities, Croesus .... 50
° ne To 03 51
Speculator’s Diary 52
Man on the Land
Wool Embargo 53
Caltrop Menace 54


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Union Australia Group,)
ESTABLISHED 1872
Head Office: Anchor House, 234-242 George Street, Sydney
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS 1 AND TRAVELLERS 1 BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne
Queensland Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek Street, Brisbane
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
Secretary, K. N. FINLAY
CHEVRON DEBENTURES
HIGH FINANCE-LOW THEATRE
By J. C. HORSFALL
A s Mr G. J. Dusseldorp had enough
proxies to win the day for his com-
mittee at the Bamboo Room last week,
first debenture holders of Chevron Syd-
ney might have been spared the long
morning’s round of irrelevancies they
were treated to by the fanatical group
of Kormanites present. But for those
who like a little theatre mixed in with
their high finance the occasion was not
to be missed.
Even a down-to-earth chairman —Mr
K. D. J. Coventry, manager of T & G
Nominees, the trustee for the debenture
holders —showed lively histrionic flashes
in a performance largely dependent on
audience participation.
The battle of proxies was a foregone
conclusion because for all their efforts
prior to the deadline in April, the direc-
tors had managed to persuade less than
the 75 per cent of debenture holders
required to support their demand for
more time before the Trustee could move
in. Moreover, with the Sydney trade
creditors having subsequently enlisted
further support for their solid £475,000
block vote and presumably some of the
3000 debenture holders not voting, it
could be presumed that, as the result
showed, the directors would command
considerably less than the required
majority.
In fact they got 68.1 p.c. of the total
value of holdings against the opposition’s
31.9 p.c.
next step lies with the Supreme
Court which is bound to take full
cognisance of the vote since it called the
meeting precisely for the purpose of
ascertaining the will of the debenture
holders. It will also have to consider
the effect of Mr Stanley Korman’s suc-
cessful motion to have the meeting ad-
journed, though this can hardly affect
the main matter at issue.
Knowing they were beaten before the
show started did not stop the directors
from making a bold bid to deter Mr
Dusseldorp from his course, and Sir John
McCauley, Chairman of Chevron Sydney,
was given the stage first to outline in
speech, charts and diagrams a new
programme to make the venture viable.
The gist of this was to pay off the
trade creditors and outstanding interest
from a £675,000 loan from “six or
seven” finance companies and to raise
another £750,000 largely from deben-
ture holders and shareholders to build
sufficient additional bedrooms to put the
hotel on a profit-earning basis after inter-
est payments.
The meeting exhibited great interest in
this plan, but, as Mr Dusseldorp said, it
was something to consider later along
with other possibilities when the present
board was out of the way and all the
company’s cards were on the table.
Nothing was going to stop him achiev-
ing his prime object of clearing the decks.
He had an answer to every move to sway
him either by sentiment towards “the
little people” who would lose their money
or by the big ones who would lose their
control of the enterprise.
Mr Dusseldorp and his fellow deben-
ture holders from Sydney (some of whom
were also “little people,” he said) ap-
peared unshaken by the general confu-
sion of interests in the room, a confusion
which arose largely from the fact that
some three-fifths of the first debenture
holders were also shareholders of the
company and that quite a number were
also holders of SDF notes, which through
Stanhill Consolidated, have a second
mortgage on the assets of Chevron Syd-
ney. It was even suggested that the
Trustee himself had a conflict of interests,
in that he acted both for the debenture
holders in Chevron Sydney and the note-
holders in SDF. (Mr Coventry bluntly
refuted this.)
Mr Dusseldorp cut a broad swathe
through this confusion by reminding the
meeting of the essential differences be-
tween putting money on debenture and
buying shares. Obviously his point failed
to impress many of the split personalities
present, who are hoping against hope that
the enterprise can be kept afloat so they
will eventually get their debenture money
back and also see some return on their
equity interest. But those like Mr Dussel-
dorp whose building enterprises are so
closely tied to the provision of debenture
money at reasonable rates of interest (say
7 p.c. to 8i p.c.) will have taken his point
that if right of debenture holders are
allowed to be flagrantly set aside, as has
been attempted in the case of Chevron
Sydney, the future provision of moder-
ately priced debenture capital will be put
in jeopardy.
It is rather ironical that by its tax on
interest in 1960 the Government upset
the traditional structure of debenture
capital and so started the rot in the
finances of Chevron Sydney and indeed
in the whole Korman empire.
TAIWAN
POWER CONSUMPTION GROWS
RAPIDLY
Nationalist China claims to have the
highest annual electric power con-
sumption growth rate in the free world.
The newly appointed President of the
Taiwan Power Company, Mr Sun Yun-
chun, told a press conference deep in
the Island’s Central Mountains that
Taiwan’s annual power consumption
growth rate has now reached 17 p.c.
p.a., compared with 14 p.c. in West
Germany and 6 p.c. - 7 p.c. in the UK
and the USA.
This high growth rate is partly due to
a low initial base. When Taiwan s
economy passes its “take - off” stage,
the annual power consumption increase
will probably settle down to about 12
p.c. p.a.
A major hydro - electric project is
under way in the Central Mountains,
where the new Tachien Dam Power
Generating System is under construc-
tion. The Tachien Dam network will
have a capacity of 1.3 m. kw, compared
with Taiwan’s total present capacity of
900,000 kw, and on completion will
more than double the country’s actual
electric energy resources.


D»I
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
Financier . . Established 1882
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Interest payable quarterly through the Bank of N.S.W. Free of Exchange.
THIS ISSUE HAS BEEN FULLY SUBSCRIBED . . .
OVER SUBSCRIPTIONS NOW BEING ACCEPTED
Application Forms (and Prospectuses)
will be Forwarded on Request
Applications will be accepted only on one of the forms
of application attached to the printed copy of the Pros-
pectus which may be obtained from:
9 All branches of the Bank of New South Wales in New
South Wales, Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
Queensland.
9 Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 4521-2-3,
AND BRANCHES
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members ot the Sydney Stock Exchange).
20-22 O’Connell Street, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne. 340 Queen Street, Brisbane
BROKERS IN VICTORIA
Clarke & Co., 450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS IN QUEENSLAND
Charles Elliott & Son, 356 Queen St., Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BROKERS IN CANBERRA
T. J. Thompson & Sons, C.B.C. Chambers,
Petrie St., Canberra.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
7½%
PER ANNUM
FOR 5 YEARS
6% for 2 years
6i% for 3 years
7% for 4 years
SHIPPING
THE GREAT ANGLO-AMERICAN ROW
From MAMMON in London
npHE row between the British Govern-
ment and the United States Federal
Maritime Commission has assumed for-
midable proportions; even the Press office
of the UK Ministry of Transport gets
quite hot under the collar when it is
mentioned.
What is it all about? Quite simply, the
Federal Maritime Commission requires
the members of the North Atlantic West-
bound Freight Association—including
Cunard, Anchor Line and Ellermans
Wilson—to produce documents which
“allegedly” contain agreements by the
shipping lines to pay special commissions
to forwarding agents on all freight to
American ports, except Boston and New
York.
In other words, the FMC is saying
that these two ports are being discrimina-
ted against. But there is no question of
these documents “allegedly” containing
anything. This particular shipping con-
ference has been paying special com-
missions for 30 years now and has never
attempted to conceal it. Why, then,
should the FMC sit up and take notice
at this stage of the game? One of the pro-
visions of the American Shipping Act
of 1916 says that conferences may do
business only as long as they do not
operate “in a manner which is unjustly
discriminatory or unfair as between
carriers, shippers or receivers of cargo,
or is unfair as between ports, or is detri-
mental to the United States.”
Added to this remarkably comprehen-
sive section, there came last year a tough
amendment to the Act, requiring every
shipping line in foreign commerce
(British, Scandinavian, French, German
or anyone else) to keep open for public
inspection tariffs showing their rates and
charges for transportation to and from
the US and to file them with the FMC.
The object of this is a simple and
praiseworthy one: to stop smart operators
from entering a trade at cut rates, skim-
ming off the cream, and then disappear-
ing. Another object is to make sure that
shipping lines observe their filed rates
for the benefit of shippers. It is this
amendment that has aroused the wrath
of the shipping world. As the special
commission basis, they maintain, is an
entirely British operation from the ships
down to the agents, it has nothing to do
with the FMC and it has no right to
demand the production of documents.
T>ut of course it has a lot to do with
the FMC —it does not make regula-
tions which can be ditched when it is
convenient. Thomas Staken —the mild-
mannered 56-year-old chairman of the
FMC, who was once an FBI investigator
—has put it on record that this is not
an attempt to exercise unilateral control
over international shipping. If confer-
ences are to continue to enjoy exemp-
tions from anti-trust laws, he says, they
must expect some supervision to ensure
that their actions merit this exemption.
Staken is tough enough not to give in
easily on this issue.
Handling costs at Boston and New
York are high compared with other ports.
And the American railway systems have
differential rates from ports to the
interior which discriminate against Bos-
ton and New York. These are good
enough reasons for British lines to pay
special commissions to avoid them as
much as possible.
There is a feeling, too, among British
shipping lines that the FMC is not acting
on a principle but has invoked the
principle under pressure from American
shipping interests whose operating costs
in the world freight markets are uncom-
petitively high. (One of the Shipping Act
provisions can disapprove conference
rates that are too high or too low and
therefore detrimental to American com-
merce.)
This is a much more important point.
Provided the FMC knows the difference
between anti-trust legislation and legisla-
tion under pressure from American
interests, it is perfectly possible for
Britannia to go on flying the Red Duster
without being ruled by the FMC.


a
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £907,151.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,037,528.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
YEAR ENDED
31/12/61
£11,983,892
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.0., Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 24/5/62, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME..
ADDRESS
e©e®ee®®®®«®®»9®®« HD.F •
B 2/6
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
A ll Australian politicians with passages
booked for Britain in the next few
months, with the idea of lending an ear
to Common Market manoeuvres there,
should ponder the latest evidence of the
slackening UK-Australian trade. Taking
the first eight months of 1961-62 one
finds that exports to the UK were only
18i p.c. of the total compared with 27
p.c. for the same eight months the previ-
ous year. On the other hand their
exports to us, albeit very much lower in
value, i.e., <£169,801 compared with
£238,022, were precisely the same 30
p.c. of the total as in the first eight
months of 1960-61.
When the UK’s visible exports to
Australia are added to net invisible of
say £l2O million for the period, it is
abundantly clear that trade is becoming
increasingly unbalanced in favor of the
United Kingdom.
From this it can be argued that if
our exports to the UK shrink much
further, if at all, much of that country’s
traditional export trade to this country
will be in serious jeopardy. Are our
politicians therefore going to the UK
with the idea of convincing the UK it
would be a bad thing for it to lose such
valuable trade —and this at a time when
an export drive is in full swing in the old
country? Surely that is a task best left
to the UK itself. Our politicians should
leave them to it and start seriously to
consider ways and means of re-orienting
our import sources with the idea of
opening the oyster of new markets and,
indeed, consolidating our position in
some of our newly growing ones.
There are two obvious choices for the
latter exercise—Japan and the USA. Our
exports to Japan increased from £95.4m.
to £125.1m. in the latest eight
months but our imports from that country
dropped from £50.7m. to £30.4m. (a
bigger percentage fall than in overall
imports from the UK). Again our ex-
ports to the US increased from £38.5m
to £72.1m, thanks largely to a big
step up in meat. On the other hand —
and here capital inflow accounts for some-
thing—imports from the US were down
from £150.1m to £loBm, but still
sufficient to give a favorable balance to
the USA and also, possibly, the sugges-
tion to our politicians to be a little more
courteous to Washington in the hope they
will take in a little more of our washing
when the big unpreferentialised girdle
closes round Britain and the Six.
It could in fact be true that in lam-
basting Washington for wanting to see
our preferences in the UK market
abolished we are prejudicing our chances
of getting the sympathetic hearing we
want for our wheat, diary, fruit and wine
industries in the USA when those prefe-
rences eventually go by the board.
STEEL
B.H.P. INGOTS RECORD
Dhp's activities continue at a remark-
ably high level. April saw the
largest output of steel ingots in the corn-
pany’s history 348,766 tons. Total
production of all main lines, with the
principal subsidiary Australian Iron and
Steel Pty Ltd, was: —
March April
tons tons
Pjg iron 298,318 294,531
Steel ingots 339.844
Bio, ms, slabs .. •• 298,964 269,769
Heavy mills .. .. •• 163.195 151,115
Plate, strip .. .. .. 97,308 110,394
Rod 12,729 10,924
Cold roll .. .. .. •• 3,727
Tinplate .. .. .. •• 11,608 11,255


NEWS POINTERS
AUSTRALIA
© ]VfR N. M. Blyton, manager for Australia of the export division
of H. C. Sleigh Ltd, who returned to Sydney last week after three
months in Asia, said that Japan will continue to increase its intake of
coking coal from NSW. “It is expected that Australia could be selling to
Japan a minimum of 6.5 m. tons of coal a year by 1965, increasing to 9 m.
tons annually by 1970.” Mr Blyton added, however, that “some concern was
felt in Japan on the present difficult economic position of the country,
which has been caused by a too rapid expansion of the Japanese steel
industry.” He expected that corrective measures taken by the Japanese
Government will be successful, but feels that “during the period of
re-adjustment Australia may face a period of difficult trading with Japan
in some commodities.” Mr Blyton would not comment on the extent of
competition expected from coal from the Chinese mainland. H. C. Sleigh
Ltd last year shipped 500,000 tons of coal for the Japanese steel mills.
• Mine production of gold in Australia in March, 1962, reached 87,814
fine ounces, compared with 82,156 fine ounces in February and 82,318
fine ounces in January. Mine output of gold in Australia during the
January-March, 1962, period amounted to 252,288 fine ounces (up 5002
fine ounces).
® Output of whole milk in the nine months to the end March, 1962, was
1,235,402 gallons (up 120,785 gallons). Production of factory butter in the
same nine months rose from 154,448 tons to 174,671 tons, and of factory
cheese from 39,622 tons to 48,267 tons.
® Value of retail sales in Australia (excluding motor vehicles, parts and
petrol, etc.) in the March quarter of 1962 was £680.7 m. compared with
£666.7 m. in the March quarter in 1961. The value of retail sales in the
March quarter was £264.4 m. in NSW, £193.9 m. in Victoria, £91.9 m.
in Queensland, £59.7 m. in South Australia, £49.9 m. in Western
Australia and £20.9 m. in Tasmania. The overall value of retail sales in
the quarter was 2.1 p.c. higher than in the previous corresponding period.
• Australian lead miners and smelters are to be represented at the
First International Conference on Lead, to take place in London between
October 8 and 13, 1962. There is a world surplus of lead at present and
the conference aims to give overall direction to European lead development
associations.
• Total plantings for the 1962 Queensland onion crop are expected to
reach 3400 acres, representing an increase of 12 p.c. over the previous sea-
son. About 2700 acres had already been sown by mid-April.
OVERSEAS
• npHE American Dairy Industries Exposition will be held in Atlantic City,
New Jersey, from October 28 to November 2, 1962. More than
350 firms engaged in dairy processing industries will supply exhibits.
® Rice output in Taiwan in 1962 is expected to reach a record 2.11 m.
metric tons, compared with 2.09 m. tons in 1961 and 603,000 tons in
1945. At the same time acute food shortages in Communist China have
resulted in a starvation threat to millions of peasants.
® In view of an acute labor shortage the Czechoslovak Government has
introduced compulsory labor for five years for youths and girls leaving
high school this year. Announcing this decision, President Novotny admitted
serious food shortages and a severe lack of manpower.
® A Borehole between 9 and 11 miles deep will be drilled by the rotary
method near Saatly, on the Kura depression in Azerbaijan, USSR. The
efficiency of rotary drilling is said to be 20 p.c. higher than the conventional
method.
® The Spanish Cortes (nominated parliament) has unanimously approved
the banking reform bill, providing for nationalisation of the Bank of Spain,
the Mortgage Bank, the Local Credit Bank, the Industrial Credit Bank and
the External Bank. The bill, based on a 1959 survey by American and West
European experts, also provides for a credit authority.
OVERSEAS TRADE
TAIWAN MISSION HERE
A Twelve Men trade mission from
Taiwan, headed by Mr Wilfred
Ling, manager of the Purchasing De-
partment of the Central Trust of China
and comprising representatives of ply-
wood, textile, tea, woollen and other
industries, will tour Australia and New
Zealand from June 3, 1962.
The mission, which is expected to
spend a month in the two countries, will
“negotiate directly and separately” with
Australia and New Zealand on trade
matters and is scheduled to visit the
main commercial and industrial centres.
In addition, five leading Chinese in-
dustrialists, including Mr Leu Feng-
Jang, managing director of the China
Artificial Fibre Corporation, will arrive
in Australia for talks on synthetic
fibres.
Unfortunately, sales of Australian
goods to Taiwan still amount only to
about £2.5m. a year (including over
£700,000 of washed and scoured wool).
With the rapidly rising standard of living
in large sections of Taiwan it is necessary
to take a much closer view at Free
China’s market. There should be some
scope for agricultural machinery, beef,
some durable consumer goods, and
assorted food as well as some chemicals
and fertilisers.
The steady improvement of produc-
tion in rice and the rapid increase in
hydro-electric power are giving a power-
ful boost to economic growth. An effort
should also be made to supply light
wool and blended wool-synthetic fibres
suitable for Taiwan’s climate.
B.H.P.’s LONDON DEBENTURES
IN QUEST OF CHEAPER CAPITAL
TAirectors of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd
are finalising arrangements to issue
£stg 7|m. of debentures in London. No
further mention has been made of an
earlier proposal for loan raising in New
York.
The Australian debenture issue for
£l2m. was overscribed by £9.5m. in
April last. Its terms were 7 p.c. interest
on optional currencies of 15, 20 or 25
years.
Full subscription to the London issue
will bring total debenture stock —the first
raised for 42 years—to <£A3lm. The
board announced that no further issue of
debenture stock is contemplated at the
present time.
The heavy switch to debenture funds
suggests that B.H.P.’s directors are ex-
tremely conscious of the need to keep
capital servicing costs at a minimum.
Debentures are cheaper to service than
share capital, and these savings couid be
essential in future struggles on overseas
markets.


INVESTMENT
TH&BB6HOUT AUSTRALIA
x t$T. ! 906 '
SNOWS
SYDNEY CENTRAL * BRANCHES
- " e$T . 1912
rots
Melbourne Central
; : :-i & Breaches
jest; fids
FOYBILSONS
/Vv\ COLAC '" >
-t » ,
Hots- (mil
PERTH CEJtTSALfc BRANC&S
£ST. I 895
WAUGHSJ
Wotloagong & Branches
FST. 1947
Sag©*
s m
mi
12 TRADING COMPANIES
113 STORES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Q
DEPOSIT INVESTMENT
PLAN
rhe Company will accept deposits which it can profitably
employ and will pay the following rates of interest per annum.
GEEttKG « VMSrnw tHiTWCI
MYERS
; i; tstr isJQ J
V * /•: *; '* | > v*
BOWRINGS
mafcA»pB^e ; His
' v £sr r rs?? .
PARTONS
fsr. ??r6
BAUARAT
*$T. 1908
APPLICATIONS >.« be pr«- form? *Uaeftrt «a *ne printed cam« 01 m eweecius, #h)c» may be obta'nwl from
Brothers (Australia) Limited
Secretary
The
Cox
75 flinders lane
Mel
The
Manager
Cox
Bros
the
store
any
Any
Stock
Member
Exchange
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE
lAN POTTER & CO*
MELBOURNE—SYDNEY—BRtSBANt
ADELAIDE—CANBERRA
CIP9/N


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Established 1862
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXON,
D. A. T. DICKINS, K. B. MYERS, A. E. STEPHEN
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every description
J. O. LEWIS, General Manager.
FRINGE BANKING
FACING A CREDIT EXPLOSION?
Government is getting fair warn-
A ing just now that, unless it is care-
ful, it can expect what has been coined
a “credit explosion” of nuclear propor-
tions as the economy drives on towards
full employment though nobody is quite
prepared to put a date on the event,
nor indeed on the “wages explosion,”
which some say could well accompany
it.
The Government’s answer to both
images is that it intends to stop the re-
covery short of boom conditions, thus at
some stage tempering the demand for
credit and also price rises presumably
by restrictive monetary and fiscal meas-
ures.
On the other hand, it has to be ad-
mitted that for all the recent banking
legislation, whose emphasis is on giving
the private banks more rope to fertilise
recovery and development, the authori-
ties are no better equipped than they
were in 1960 to restrain non-banking
supplies of credit from swamping the
system.
That the second banking system has
had a lot of its feathers plucked by
the recession and still lies quiescent,
does not say that it is not raring to
go, given the necessary revival in the
demand for credit. On the contrary, it
could be building up a head of steam
of similar proportions to the unexercised
overdraft limits of the trading banks
themselves.
It is all very well to say that many
of the hire purchase companies, like
CAGA and lAC for instance, are turn-
ing their attentions more and more to
other activities, answering the liquidity
problems of some of the hard pressed
developers. On the other hand, it re-
mains doubtful whether these and a
host of other finance companies are not
simply filling in their time before step-
ping boldly on to the general credit
scene to satisfy the fringe of borrowers
unlikely to find a helpful hand at the
banks.
It has to be recognised that some of
the fringe financiers have had their
fingers burned in the rough and tumble
of the last 18 months. On the other
hand most of the hire purchase compan-
ies have been able, with their “tax on
interest” reprieve, to consolidate their
positions, to strengthen the relation be-
tween their borrowings and outstandings,
to be more discriminating in their clien-
tele and to galvanise their liquidity.
At the same time there has been a
solid growth of consumer credit busi-
ness transacted by retail stores them-
selves, independent of the outside hire
purchase companies indeed this has
given a false look to official hire pur-
chase statistics as a guide to hire purchase
outstandings in the country as a whole.
Again, outside both these components
of the second banking system there has
been quite a strong development in the
last 18 months of companies variously
engaged in factoring and general dis-
counting of commercial paper. A num-
ber of these companies have made suc-
cessful appeals for more public money
for their businesses over the last year
or so.
A newcomer to the ranks of general
discounting companies was announced
by Sir Arthur Warner in Melbourne last
week in the shape of A. and I. Discount,
a hybrid company stemming from Aus-
tralian and international insurance and
electronic industries. This could be the
precursor of other recruits to the second
banking system to be nurtured by insur-
ance companies whose interest in the
matter seems more to be related to the
possible writing of new insurance business
as an adjunct to the provision of credit
to borrowers.
One learns from Sir Arthur that this
company may eventually get into factor-
ing, though with his long experience in
this type of financing he says he has some
further territory to explore, before taking
the direct plunge. For the time being he
says the company’s first funds will
probably go into bridging finance for
housing, with A. and I. taking the
pickings of any insurances involved.
After that the new company’s main line
of development will be in hire purchase,
largely of the bulk variety.
So those who believe that the second
banking system has had its day as a thorn
in the side of the monetary authorities
had better think again.
J.C.H.
BUILDING
OPERATIONS RESEARCH USES
fTk) explain in more detail what Opera-
tion Research is doing to improve
production in the building industry in
the United Kingdom the Australian divi-
sion of Building Research recently invited
here Dr J. C. Weston, Deputy Chief
Scientific Officer in Charge, Operation
and Economic Division, Building Re-
search Station, United Kingdom Depart-
ment of Scientific and Industrial
Research, and a leading English authority
on the subject.
Dr Weston spoke to leaders throughout
Australia, in association with the Austra-
lian Institute of Builders.
Work on Operation Research —that is,
how structures are physically built —has
been progressing in the United Kingdom
for some ten years. About £A3.4 billion
is spent annually within the British build-
ing industry, made up of some 100,000
contracting firms. Seventy thousand of
these employ less than 9 workers, 70
more than 100 workers and only nine
with more than 1000 workers.
“At the present time more than half
of the English building productivity is
made up of new home construction”, Dr
Weston told the members of the Austra-
lian Institute of Builders in Sydney.
Studies of productivity have shown
wide variations of individual efficiency
among firms building identical homes.
One firm, for example, required 1200
man hours to complete the home while
another needed 3000 man hours to finish
an identical home. Dr Weston said that
reasons for these variations “include the
adoption of bonus production payment
systems, more efficient sub-contracting
and closer attention as to what is the most
efficient size of a contracting firm.
“One aspect which our surveys have
highlighted”, he said “is that with studied
application to detail it is possible for
firms to improve their own productivity
by up to 50 p.c. and to reduce their own
labor costs by from 10 p.c. to 20 p.c.”
And what about the use of internal
records?
Dr Weston indicated that, on an aver-
age, only one contracting firm in eight in
the United Kingdom uses its own internal


INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE
Vacancy for Member of Division (Aus-
tralia) Economic Division 1.L.0., Geneva.
DUTIES: Factual studies of economic pro-
blems and policies of concern to i.L.O,
QUALIFICATIONS: Thorough grasp of
economic theory based on specialised
university training; skill in applying
methods of economic analysis in fields of
economic development, wages, employ-
ment, productivity. Candidates must be
Australians and between 23 and 35 years
of age.
SALARY: $6,130 to $9,870. Starting salary
will depend on qualifications and ex-
perience. Family and education allow-
ances payable and salary free of tax.
APPLICATIONS: To be made on special
forms obtainable from Higher Appoint-
ments Office,
COMMONWEALTH EMPLOYMENT
SERVICE
in capital city in each state and to be
returned to these offices not later than
25th June, 1962.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
•
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
data to full advantage. With the specific
objective of reducing costs through the
lowering of brick-laying time the UK
Building Research Station has recently
developed a new masonry unit. This is
the open web clay brick—known as the
V5 —which completes the whole of an
equivalent to a brick cavity wall in one
brick-laying operation.
To come to grips better with the pro-
blem of communications between the
architect and the builder, United King-
dom building researchers have borrowed
to advantage a planning technique from
the chemical engineering industry.
Functional models have been devel-
oped as a way of reducing costs through
manipulating design during the planning
stage of a building. These models illus-
trate where the services and functional
elements go in a structure.
B. H. CLAPCOTT
THE FILM INDUSTRY
BUSINESS ASPECTS OF A FILM FESTIVAL
Thirst started in 1954, the Sydney Film
Festival has now become one of
Sydney’s traditional features. Last year
it won official recognition from the
International Association of Film
Festivals and now boasts a semi-per-
manent organisational framework.
Not unlike the other film festivals in
Australia, the Sydney group owes its
origin to the fact that ten years ago the
major commercial film distributors were
enjoying a sellers’ market in Australia,
which absorbed almost anything—from
Hollywood’s best to its awful worst.
Good British and continental features
were seldom screened and few theatres
were willing to take the risk of experi-
menting with something new. This left
the more sophisticated minority of the
film audiences to find its own entertain-
ment.
The first Melbourne Film Festival
took place in 1952, followed by Sydney
in the next year. The first purpose
always has been to give the Australian
public a chance to see films which would
not be screened otherwise. Never has
there been any intention to compete with
commercial distributors. The Sydney
Film Festival is technically a company
limited by guarantee and is run by a
committee with some 35 members,
divided into sub-committees with specific
tasks—publicity, technical matters, film
selection, halls and grounds, social and
one in charge of ushers. No committee
member receives any remuneration for
the colossal amount of work done, but
there is a part - time paid director,
on a rather poor salary, doing a job
requiring tact, expert knowledge and a
good deal of organising and admini-
strative skill. The budget is limited to
subscriptions—2ooo at £2 10s. each.
Because of customs regulations, and in
fairness to the commercial distributors,
there are no subscriptions sold for in-
dividual screenings.
The Festival is not making a profit—-
in 1961 some £5609 went out in
expenses against £5OOO received from
subscriptions. The main costs were:
hire of halls (£573), freight charges and
insurance (£1075), technical charges
(£1459), office administration, rent and
clerical assistance, postage, cables, etc.
(£930), publicity (£375), director’s
salary for six months (£523), publicity
(£375), programmes (£111) and mis-
cellaneous (£416).
At present the major film distributors,
feeling the pinch of severe competition
from television and new forms of enter-
tainment, are rapidly branching out in
such “novelties” as continental films,
special features and catering for specific
interests. This has caused a crisis for
the marginal producers, who once used
to specialise in continental films, and
their attitude to film festivals is a bit
schizophrenic they feel that festival
screenings both stimulate demand for the
more “off-beat” films and at the same
time invite competition from their more
powerful rivals, who now import con-
siderable numbers of continental films.
But on the whole the attitude of the
industry is becoming more understand-
ing. Still, sudden withdrawals of
promised features and other last-minute
changes remain the principal headache
of the director and the committee.
The last eight years of the Sydney
Film Festival have shown that it has
been of considerable, although intangible,
value to the film industry. A number of
box office successes “The Witches of
Salem” and “The Gate of Hell” to give
two examples had their start at the
Festival. Even more important is the
increasing interest in quality films as
such.
But so far the opportunity of making
the Sydney Film Festival a major event
—such as the Adelaide Arts Festival,
with all its accompanying tourist benefits
—has been wasted.
The Festival now lasts for a fortnight
and its wider commercial possibilities
should not be neglected, quite apart from
its intrinsic merits. This is a point for
the trading interests and the State
Government to think about.
EUGENE BAJKOWSKI


COMPANY REVIEWS AND NOTES
GENERAL INDUSTRIES
IN GRAVE TROUBLE
A substantial part of the Metters
group business depends on a high
level of building activity, high employ-
ment and a climate of rising living stan-
dard, said the chairman of General In-
dustries Ltd, Mr J. B. Clarkson, in his
annual review. In the year ended
February 28, 1962, these conditions were
absent. Each subsidiary was seriously
affected, and trading resulted in a group
loss of £489,220.
Credit restrictions hit the sales volume,
and surplus capacities amongst manufac-
turers brought changed conditions in
marketing, with a heavy reduction in
margins. The downward trend in sales
and production, predicted at the previous
annual meeting, exceeded all expectations,
but General Industries maintained its
share of available business, particularly
in sanitaryware, stoves and refrigerators
under the Metters brand.
The ramifications of the group now
are: Metters Ltd with plants at Alex-
andria and Bankstown (NSW), Mile End
(SA) and Wembley (WA); Metters KFB
Pty Ltd with plant at Footscray (Vic.)
making agricultural equipment, heating
equipment, stoves, domestic metal ware
(including baths, sinks, coppers, etc.) hos-
pital ware, kitchen ware, lighting and
radio towers, pipes and cisterns; Sov-
ereign Appliances Pty Ltd with plant at
Bankstown (NSW) making air condition-
ers, dishwashers, refrigerators and room
heaters; Grimwood Electrical Products
Pty Ltd, making electrical heating ele-
ments at Botany; Terro Precision Pty
Ltd and Terro Pipes Pty Ltd, making
soil pipes and fittings at Lidcombe and
Carrington ; Admiral of Australia Pty
Ltd making radio and television receivers
and domestic appliances at Bankstown
(NSW); Metters (NZ) Ltd making cast
iron porcelain and enamelled ware in
Petone (NZ); and the associate company,
Metters-Clow Pty Ltd making cast iron
pressure pipes at Broadmeadows (Vic.).
General Tubing is a new subsidiary
which came into profitable operation
during 1961-2. Metters Ltd and Sov-
ereign Appliances operated at a loss.
Sovereign’s refrigerator sales were severe-
ly cut, as were those of air-condition-
ers. Metters KFB operated at a lower
profit. General Industries bought out the
50 p.c. interest of Admiral of the US in
Admiral of Australia. The reduced tele-
vision activity has allowed space to be
allocated to the expanding stove produc-
tion.
Grimwood operated satisfactorily, and
the £ 1 m. plant of Metters-Clow (half-
owned by James B. Clow and Son Inc.
of Chicago) has commenced production
trials, and the volume of orders received
for pipes for water and gas reticulation
is most satisfactory. The NZ subsidiary
had another successful year, and was not
affected by the conditions which caused
the Australian recession.
The loss incurred was the most severe
reverse suffered by the groups, although
it has had protracted troubles. A loss of
£35,491 in 1957 was rectified in the
following year, but ordinary dividends
were slashed from 10 p.c. to 4 p.c. for
four years, picked up to 5 p.c. in 1961,
and were omitted entirely in the year
under review. The preference share-
holders received their usual distribution.
The current loss of £489,220 was
after charging £318,024 for deprecia-
tion and setting aside £27,701 for tax.
This was in contrast to the 1960-61 profit
which was £415,002 after £312,290
depreciation and £126,484 tax:
GENERAL INDUSTRIES AND SUBSIDIARIES
Dividends
< A \
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit 7 p.c. Ord. serves serves
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
1956 46,620 10 = 232,582 26,728 972,246
To staff fund, £91,617 880,629
Loss.
1957 35,491 46,620 4=144,740 653,778
Stock-reserve disclosed, £635,000 1,288,778
Stocks written-down, £lOO,OOO .. 1,188,778
Tax overprovided, £2339 .. .. 1,191,117
Profit.
1958 46,620 4 = 144,740 145,985 1,337,102
Note-issue expenses, £49,194 .. 1,287,908
Less goodwill on acquisition of
subsidiary, £47,096 1,240,812
Tax overprovided, £2200 .. .. 1,243,012
1959 46,620 4=149,060 109,925 1,352,937
Profit sale assets, £18,821 .. .. 1,371,758
Tax overprovided, £14,421 .. .. 1,386,179
From inner reserves, £24,148 .. 1,410,327
To staff fund, £73,843 1,336,484
Add reduction intangibles, £7625 1,344,109
1960 46,620 4=149,060 135,699 1,479,808
Tax underprovided, £7142 .. 1,472,666
Less added intangibles, £16,412 1,456,254
1961 46,620 5 = 186,325 182.057 1,638,311
Less stock adjustment . . 301,116 1,337,195
Less tax underprovided . 1,418 1,335,777
Intangibles eliminated . . 105,077 1,440,854
Surplus on revaluation . 630,995 2,071,849
1962 — Loss
489,220 46,620 nil —535,840 1,536,009
A revaluation of assets and examination
of liabilities was carried out, resulting in
substantial provisions being made
against plant and tools. Provision for
doubtful debts was increased, note issue
expenses eliminated, assets of subsidiaries
were revalued; the book value of land
and buildings showed a “considerable
increase.” The surplus of £630,995 was
retained as a “general provision for con-
tmgences in respect of all assets of the
group during the present transition
period.”
The “considerable increase” referred
to by Mr Clarkson in the value of land
and buildings is not designated, but in fact
land and buildings increased by almost
£2 million, according to the latest
balance sheet:
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
1960 1961 1962
Paid capital—
Pref. £666,000 £666,000 £666,000
Ord. 3,726,503 3,726,503 3,726,503
Reserves 1,479,808 1,638,311 1,536,009
Mortgage 159,276 185,803 425,340
Overdraft 979,543 994,289 870,584
Registered notes 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Convertible notes 1,098,126 1,098,126
Creditors 1,190,875 987,012 1,553,444
Deposits 100,000 20,000 375,000
Tax provision 278,436 256,539 147,012
Staff fund 167,753 180,286 162,956
Prov. warranty 25,875 50,000 65,245
Final divs. 172,370 209,635 23,310
Suspense 22,114 27,220 128,393
£9,968,553 £11,039.724 £11,777,922
Freeholds 1,911,486 1,982,310 3,908,390
Plant 2,193,889 2,254,954 1,836,453
Shares other
CO. etc. 124,630 124,630 253,348
Loans assoc, cos. 110,000 128,345 338,831
Stocks 3,467,268 4,289,257 3,576,514
Debtors 2,157,019 2,254,222 1,847,432
Cash etc. 4,261 6,006 16,954
£9,968,553 £11,039.724 £11,777,922
The net value of plant was reduced by
£.418,501, as a result of the “substantial
provision” and the year’s depreciation
charge. Stocks and book debts were
lower. The increase of about £500,000
in creditors indicates the strain exerted
on liquidity by the poor trading condi-
tions. Loans on mortgage and from de-
positors raised additional funds of almost
£600,000.
One hopeful source of funds is the
realisation of freehold properties. The
Admiral and Sovereign factory buildings
at Bankstown have been joined together,
and the stove production at Alexandria
has been moved to the new space made
available. The NSW manufacture of the
major Metters domestic appliances is
thus consolidated under one 4i acre roof,
with consequent economies. Liquidity
will be improved by the sale of the land
freed at Alexandria and other properties
in South Australia, Victoria and Queens-
land.
rrhiE performance of the last few years
does not inspire intending investors
with any great confidence, and existing
shareholders would have appreciated
more explicit information as to the ad-
justment to asset values during last term.
(The movements noted in the reserves
table show net changes.)
Publication of details of the purchase
of the remaining 50 p.c. of the local
Admiral enterprise could possibly have
cheered the investing public. Paid capital
of the venture, begun in 1955, was
£200,000, and General Industries re-
ceived one dividend of £150,000. The
consideration payable by Admiral of the


US is unknown, but it is a cash transac-
tion to be remitted over five years. (The
technical liaison continues.)
The 7s. cumulative preference shares
last sold around 16s. before announce-
ment of this year’s results. The asset
backing is £7 18s. Od. The 20s. 7i p.c.
notes convertible on August 1, 1967, sold
at 15s. to give an immediate yield of 10
p.c., and these are undoubtedly better
value. The 20s. shares have been marked
down to a record low of around 11s.,
backed by assets of 28s. 3d. The struc-
ture of the company does not justify any
confidence in a quick and permanent
recovery.
FAIRYMEAD SUGAR
RELIABLE INCOME STOCK
nT‘HE 1962 sugar crop is particularly
A well-advanced in most growing areas
of Queensland and NSW, giving promise
of a record harvest expected to produce
1,500,000 tons of 94 n.t. sugar. This
compares with total Australian produc-
tion of 1,383,600 tons (provisional) in
1961, and 1,382,562, 1,287,536 and
1,412,273 tons going back to 1958.
But the immediate prosperity of the
industry depends largely on the volume
of. export sales to be achieved in 1962-63
from the 1962 season’s output. Our main
and regular markets are in the UK,
Canada, New Zealand, Japan and Hong
Kong. A contract to supply 150,000
tons of sugar to Japan for shipment up
to January 31, 1963, is an encouraging
development. In 1961 Australia was
granted a non-quota allocation to supply
the US market with 90,000 short tons of
sugar at a price nearly double the net
return received for other exports (apart
from sales to the UK Sugar Board). No
further allocation has been made for
Australia in 1962.
As export quotas no longer apply
under the International Sugar Agreement,
competition is keen and prices are
depressed. Australia’s past reliability as
a supplier to regular markets and the
general improvement in quality of our
raw sugar to meet the needs of refiners
who require special grades, should assist
us to achieve a high level of export sales.
Fairymead Sugar Co. produced a crop
of 287,872 tons of cane in the year
ended December 31, 1961, from which
were manufactured 39,088 tons of 94 net
titre sugar, 4.23 p.c. in excess of the
mill peak of 37,500 tons. A severe
drought reduced production from the
level of 40,741 tons n.t. from 284,107
tons of cane, although modern spray
installations did lessen the effects of the
dry conditions.
Fairymead’s interests extend over
36,000 acres near Bundaberg. Of the
arable land 8500 acres is used for cane
growing, and 17,000 acres for grazing.
Four mills, Fairymead, Qunaba, Milla-
quin and Isis, handle the crushing. About
two-thirds of the tonnage crushed is
provided by some 180 individual cane
growers. Approximately 70 p.c. of the
Fairymead crop is harvested mechani-
cally, compared with 5 p.c. of the total
Queensland crop.
Fairymead’s grazing interests are in
the breeding of stud Herefords, Drought-
masters, Brahman stock, and the cross
between Brahmans and Herefords, the
Brafords. The company also has a
property at Mittagong in NSW (since
1950), and in the last financial period
acquired a leasehold property at Croydon
between Rockhampton and Mackay, in
conjunction with Provincial Traders
Holding Ltd.
Profit dropped from £210,005 to
£180,086 in 1961, after providing an
undisclosed sum for taxation, and
£82,445 (1960 £78,042) for deprecia-
tion on sugar works machinery and
plant:
To *
Dec. Profit Dividends Reserves Reserves
£ £ £ £
1956 201,318 12 p.c. = 90,000 111,318 815,826
Profit sale assets . .. 53,095 868,921
1957 9,394 12 p.c. = 90,000 —80,606 788,315
Profit sale assets . . 24,806 813,121
1958 167,846 12 p.c. = 90,000 77,846 890,967
Profit sale assets ... 67 891,034
1959 180,079 12 p.c. = 90,000 90,079 981,113
Profit sale assets .. 130 '981,243
Revaluation assets ... 750,000 1,731,243
Reserves capitalised —750,000 981,243
1960 210,005 8 p.c. = 120,000 90,005 1,071,248
1961 180,086 8 p.c. = 120,000 60,086 1,131,334*
♦lncludes assets insurance reserve £16,846 as at
31/12/62.
Earning rate receded from 14 to 12 p.c.
on capital. The earning rates in the
preceding years were 24 p.c. in 1959,
22.3 p.c. in 1958, 1.2 p.c. in drought-
stricken 1957 and 26.8 p.c. in 1956.
Reserves were not drawn on during
the year. Dividend equalisation reserve
now stands at £360,000, and the capital
reserves of asset realisation and share
premiums at £78,098 and £125,000
respectively.
Management has always pursued a
conservative financial policy, and reserves
were such as to allow a one-for-one
bonus distribution of scrip in 1960, since
when income on the original holding has
increased by 33 p.c. (Present dividend
rate is 8 p.c. compared with the pre-
bonus 12 p.c.). The last cash issue was
in the ratio of one-for-two at 50 p.c.
premium 1952:
1959 1960 1961
Paid capital £750,000 £1,500,000 £1,500,000
Reserves 981,113 1,071,248 1,131,334
Creditors etc. * 1,258,148 1,253,372 1,451,144
Final div. 45,000 63,750 60,000
£3,034,261 £3,888,370 £4,142,478
Estates 452,756 462,437 461,814
Factories, etc. 1,394,119 2,278,866 2,486,664
Shares in subsid. 7,800 7,890 7,800
Livestock 41,674 57,131 81,957
Stocks etc. 223,494 169,606 157,268
Book debts 909,323 905,043 936,669
Cash etc. 5,095 7,487 10,306
£3,034,261 £3,888,370 £4,142,478
* Include overdraft and provision for taxation.
Stocks are rather lower than usual, while
the value of livestock (represented by
3650 head at Fairymead and Mittagong,
and a half-share in the 9096 head at
Croydon) has doubled in the last two
years.
For many years profits have been
ploughed back to open up new sugar
land and provide irrigation to counter
adverse seasonal conditions. The com-
pany’s growth in the sugar industry is
strictly limited by the market position. As
an income stock Fairymead looks more
and more reliable. Present price around
28s. for the 20s. shares allows an income
return of 5.6 p.c. It compares with a
peak price of 335. 6d. this calendar year,
and a high and low of 40s. and 30s. 6d.
in 1961. Buyers should not come to
much harm at current levels.
KORNBLUMS
SALES DROP
jZ'oRNBLUMs Furnishings Ltd, Mel-
bourne, reported a drop of 21 p.c.
in sales of furnishings and floor cover-
ings in the year to January 27, 1962.
The furniture game is rather a tricky one
—it becomes more and more a fashion
trade —rarely offering spectacular profits,
but usually a steady income. However,
the impact of credit restrictions on home
building, and the relaxation of import
controls, proved too much for Korn-
blums last term.
In the first nine months of the year,
every effort was made to maintain sales
—without success. In November, 1961,
a partial relaxation of credit restrictions
gave some hope, but the overall trading
result was a loss.
Kornblums is an importer, manufac-
turer and distributor of furnishings.
Kornblums Pty and Kornblums (SA) Ltd
distribute carpets, linoleum, furnishing
materials etc. throughout Australia,
and Furnishing Textiles Pty manufac-
tures high-grade furnishing fabrics.
Kornblums Pty distributes to the four
eastern States from Melbourne and Syd-
ney warehouses.


The South Australian subsidiary was
the only one to trade profitably in 1961-
62. The group loss was £33,582 after
£6527 tax and £26,490 depreciation, a
sharp reversal from the previous trading
profit of £22,785 after £20,274 tax and
£31,267 depreciation:
PARENT AND SUBSIDIARIES
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit Dividends serves serves*
£ £ £ £ £
1957 58,159 2800 27,000 28,359 137,880
Note-issue expenses, etc., £3436 134,444
Tax overprovided, £1265 .. .. 135,709
To plant-replacement reserve,
net, £760 136,469
Freeholds revalued, £45,237 .. 181,706
1958 — 60,597 2800 27,000 30,797 212,503
To plant-replacement reserve,
net, £967 213,470
Tax overprovided, £63 .. .. 213,533
Loss, sale assets, £928 .. .. 212,605
1959 2800 27,000 21,818 234,423
To plant-replacement res., net,
£1220 235,643
Tax overprovided, £4350 .. .. 239,993
Loss, sale and scrapping assets,
£3750 236,253
Share-issue expenses, £3149 .. 233,104
1960 2800 28.025 16.969 250,073
Profit, sale freeholds, £11,583 . 261,656
1961 — 22,785 2400 20,385 282,042
Capital profit 20,357 302,399
Tax underprovided ... 258 302,141
1962 Loss
33,582 2400 35,982 266,159*
♦Subject to intangibles at 27/1/62 of £43,951.
The ordinary dividend was passed for
the first time in Kornblum’s public
history. (The present company was
formed in 1951, over 60 years after the
foundation of the business. There has
been only one ordinary share issue, of
three-for-ten in September 1959.)
Sale of the Little Collins Street pro-
perty brought profit of £19,939, which
accounts for almost all of the capital
profit added to reserves during the year.
The textile subsidiary produced and sold
at an uneconomic level for the first eight
months of the year. The reduced plant
usage accounted for the reduction in the
group’s depreciation charge. The chief
change in the 1962 balance sheet is the
reduction in land and buildings, which
improved liquidity somewhat:
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
1960 1961 1962
Paid capital—
Pref. £40,000 £40,000 £40,000
Ord. 384,975 393,000 393,999
Reserves 250,073 282,042 266,159
Outside interests 19,296 18,577 16,393
Mortgage 100,000 196,250 131,250
Notes 100,000 100,000 100,000
Overdraft 193,221 166,374 63,608
Creditors 150,154 254,807 253,386
Tax provision 52,667 37,790 13,915
Final div. 15,925 1,200 1,200
£1,306,311 £1,490,040 £1,278,911
Land, buildings 490,098 506,511 340,236
Plant, etc. 152,363 145,830 138,706
Stocks 429,575 555,826 473,714
Debtors 189,780 237,434 280,609
Cash 544 488 1,695
intangibles 43,951 43,951 43,951
£1,306,311 £1,490,040 £1,273,911
The Tariff Board inquiries into the
Australian textile industry, which began
in May, 1961, are not yet concluded. The
Chairman, Mr G. S. Kaye, said in his
annual address that Kornblums urgently
needed a clear pronouncement of long-
term Government policy to permit for-
ward planning.
Net tangible asset backing for the
shares is substantial £l7 14s. 6d. for
the 20s. preference shares and 16s. 9d.
for the 10s. ordinary shares. (Freeholds
were revalued in 1958.) The ordinaries
fetch about 6s. 9d. on the market, well
below par. Trade recovery is slow and
unsteady, so that Kornblums’ shares will
not attract much attention until official
statistics reveal much greater activity in
retail furnishing.
WUNDERLICH LTD
GROUND HELD IN RECESSION
Jj\)R Australia’s largest maker of terra-
cotta roofing tiles and substantial
manufacturer of other building materials,
Wunderlich Ltd displayed superb control
to produce a 1961-62 trading result
within 3 p.c. of the previous year’s
record profit.
The reduced tempo of building
activity resulting from the Federal
Government’s recent economic restric-
tions caused concern to the directors,
but their sound management of the com-
pany’s finances has disproved any market
doubts as to Wunderlich’s performance
under difficult conditions.
The company has 18 factories
throughout Australia—six in New South
Wales, four in Victoria, four in Queens-
land, two in South Australia and two
in Tasmania—producing clay, metal and
asbestos-cement lines. The range is
being extended continuously. Aluminium
windows and curtain walling are made
under licence from Cupples Products
Corporation of USA, which, together
with screws and doors, acoustic and
exposed grid ceilings, sun louvres,
ceramic facings and solar screen pro-
ducts, are widely used in commercial
building.
The continued activity of commercial
building has no doubt compensated in
part for the slack in home building in
the last eighteen months. Aluminium
windows and sliding doors are well
accepted for homes and home units, and
the company sees a good market for
aluminium office partitions.
Three new asbestos cement walling
sheets have been developed in the last
year. The chairman, Mr A. Wunder-
lich, said the company’s potential mar-
ket and share of the available trade were
enhanced by the large and increasing
range of building products now manu-
factured.
The company’s West Australian
interests were merged with those of
H. L. Brisbane and Co. in 1938 to form
H. L. Brisbane and Wunderlich Ltd, in
which Wunderlich remains a substantial
shareholder.
A recent new venture was the forma-
tion of a joint £3 m. company with
Humes Ltd to make and market asbestos-
cement pipes for use in water supply,
sewerage, drainage and irrigation ser-
vices and as electrical and telephone
conduits. A Sydney plant is now in pro-
duction and a Melbourne plant is ex-
pected to begin operations in June.
Staplefield Plastics Pty Ltd of Sydney
was acquired during the year for the
issue of 7,799 ordinary stock units.
Profit for the year to February 28,
1962, fell from £289,470 to £280,781,
after providing £18,090 more for
depreciation at £317,207:
, Dividends N
Net Pref. Ord. Re-
Feb., Profit 7 p.c. 15 p.c. serves*
£ £ £ £
To staff partners, £25,500 . 443,094
From inner reserves and
profit sale assets, £81.634 524,778
1954 11,200 82,144 643,661
Asset revaluation reserve,
£273,816 917.477
1955 11,200 82,145 1,083,051
Res. capitalised, £273,816 . 809,235
12Ms p.c.
1956 11,200 102,803 896.801
Share premiums, £136,908 . 1,033.709
Profit sale shares, £109,375 1,143,084
1957 11,200 134,826 1,237.256
Share premiums, £68,454 .. 1,305,710
1958 11.200 165,369 1,381,852
1959 11,200 165,706 1,475,696
1960 11,200 166,425 1,573,871
1961 11,200 172,212 1,679,929
Share premiums, £172,081 . 1,852,010
1962 11,200 195,399 1,926,192*
*After deducting £73,888 goodwill as at 28/2/62.
Ordinary dividend was held at 12i p.c.
for the seventh successive period, and
this year required £195,399. Reserves
were augmented by a 10s. premium on
the one-for-four issue of May, 1961,
which by balance date was paid as to
10s. capital. The balance of 10s. capital
and ss. premium was due on May 1,
1962, so that £145,018 had been paid
in advance at balance date.
The earning rate on ordinary capital
after paying £11,200 preference divi-
dends, was 17.2 p.c. on latest figures
compared with 20.2 p.c., 19.9, 19.5,
18.3, 19.6 and 23.2 p.c., back to 1956.
Conservatism is a feature of the
account, as witness the £1,389,307
written off fixed assets in the last five
years. Surpluses—of unknown amount
—arising from the sales of some free-
hold properties to an associate company
during the year, were added to pro-
visions for obsolescence of machinery
and plant. The absence of tax figures
gives rise to speculations on the hidden
reserves which may be revealed when
the new Companies Act comes into
force.
Stocks have been well controlled in
the last financial year, and funds raised


JNSTANT ENGINE STARTING
with -
/
119
sUU
Avoid un-
necessary engine
wear—just one quickspray
into the air intake is all that’s re-
quired. Saves money by avoiding cylinder
scouring and gives longer battery and starter life.
Contains anti-corrosive and anti-knock additives
with upper cylinder lubricant.
Proven the world over and endorsed by Rolls Royce.
less than 2d per start Aerostart is available at
only 21/6 from all garages and stores.
Manufactured by Aerostart (Anzia) Pty. Ltd.
2 Queens Road, Melbourne. 26-4653
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors
ALFRED S. WHITE, Esq., Chairman, E. G. CONEN, Esq., T. K. MAGNEY, Esq.,
A. G. PARKER Esq., DOUGLAS WADLEY, E'sq.
H. H. MOULTON, Esq., Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Esq., Manager.
’Phone: 27 7401 (Branches in all States) 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
from the share issue have greatly
assisted liquidity:—
PARENT COMPANY:
Paid Capital
1960 1961 1962
Pref. 160,000 160,000 160,000
Old. 1,328,348 1,376,648 1,622,353
Reserves 1,647,759 1,753,817 2,000,080
Calls in advance 145,018
Mortgage 504,000 492,800 481,600
Overdraft 141,925 291,454 62,879
Creditors, etc. 1,241,075 1,318,538 1,222,332
Pinal divs. 89,172 92,678 107,516
£5,112,279 £5,485,935 £5,801,778
Freehold 1,128,234 1,184,045 1,206,022
Plant, etc. 1,138,277 1,310,204 1,215,910
Shares, etc. 142,359 174,860 603,635
Stocks 1,724,894 1,730,444 1,681,624
Debtors 764.488 983,698 1,015.311
Cash, bonds 140,139 28,796 5,388
Intangibles 73,888 73,888 73,888
£5,1 12,279 £5,485,935 £5,801,778
Net tangible asset backing for the
ordinary stock is 435. 9d. per 20s. stock
unit.
Capital was increased during the year
partly by the issue of 65,875 shares to
meet progress payments on building con-
tracts, and to purchase a factory build-
ing for use by Staplefield Plastics.
Since 1955 shareholders have received
a one-for-two bonus from partial revalua-
tion of freeholds, and a one-for-two
premium issue in 1956-57, apart from
the May, 1961 issue. Fixed liabilities are
limited to a mortgage loan of less than
£im., arranged with the AMP Society
in 1951.
The 20s. ordinary shares at about
675. 6d. to yield 3.7 p.c. are no bar-
gain, but they should prove rewarding
holding.
AUSTRALIAN CASH ORDERS
EARNINGS DROP
Qome companies are now paying for
excessive optimism in past boom
years. Australian Cash Orders Ltd, for
one, found that past provisions for bad
debts have been inadequate. Net profit of
this cash order house and furniture
retailer slumped from £99,831 to
£40,641 for the year to March 31,
1962. Earning rate was down from 17.1
p.c. to 6 p.c. so that dividend had to be
cut from 15 p.c. to 5 p.c. No provision
for tax was necessary (£28,000 in 1961),
and depreciation was a nominal £2509
(up £457).
In 1961 an extra £72,500 was trans-
ferred from general reserve to bad debt
provision. The original provision for
bad debts in 1961 was apparently
£52,938, compared with £37,650 in
1960.
In November, 1961, directors said bad
debts had assumed unprecedented pro-
portions which would more than absorb
the provisions made in the years when
th debts were contracted.
NATIONAL CONSOLIDATED
DIVERSIFICATION MOVE
THhe latest path of diversification
x taken by National Consolidated Ltd
moves a long way from radiators and
other automotive components. National
is attempting a complete takeover of
Murfett Holdings Ltd, Melbourne pro-
ducer of greeting cards and gift wrap-
pings.
When concluded the whole deal will
have a market value of about £ H m.
The first step was purchase of a half-
interest, 640,002 ss. shares. These re-
presented the 25 p.c. holdings of British
Tobacco Co. (Aust.) Ltd and Rust Craft
Corporation of US. British Tobacco had
obtained its holding when a subsidiary,
S. T. Leigh Pty Ltd, finally acquired
Melbourne printer P. C. Grosser and
this company’s Murfett shares.
National secured this portion of
Murfett by an issue of 255,319 ss. shares
(worth about £345,000) and a cash
payment believed to be between
£200,000 and £250,000. Directors
then made an offer to acquire the remain-
ing 639,998 Murfett shares held by the
company’s founders and the public.
Their bid comprises three National
shares and 3d. a share cash for every
four Murfett shares.
The 3d. cash element represents
Murfett dividend forgone and new
shareholders are also to be entitled to
National’s final dividend. A 90 p.c. capital
acceptance and not less than 75 p.c. in
number of holders were required by May
30. Murfett directors have unanimously
accepted for their own holdings and re-
commend the bid to shareholders.
Rust Craft’s agreement with Murfett,
giving access to the American company’s
designs, is to continue, as is Murfett’s
present management.
TRUSTEE MERGER
UNION AND FIDELITY
PpiiE Union Trustee Co. of Australia
Ltd, of Melbourne, and Fidelity
Trustee Co. Ltd, of Ballarat, are plan-
ning to amalgamate. Legislative enact-
ment will be necessary, but directors
have formulated a deed of agreement
for respective shareholders’ approval.
The merger, which directors stress is not
a takeover, is to be effected by ex-
changing four Union shares for every
five Fidelity shares. Both companies
have 50s. shares —Union paid to 275. 6d.
and Fidelity to 255. Union will need to
issue 28,000 shares for Fidelity’s 35,000.
Post-merger capital will be <£176,000.
The combined new Union - Fidelity
Trust Co. Ltd expects dividends of at
least 12-2 p.c., Union’s prevailing rate
since 1960. Fidelity paid 10 p.c. for
1960-61 and has paid an interim 5 p.c.
for the first half of the current year.
Amalgamation will produce the “most
comprehensive and widespread trustee
company organisation in Australia,”
directors assert. Both companies have
had close relations with primary in-
dustry and Union, in particular, has
developed wide connections in NSW and
Queensland.


TOP RANKING
MECHANICAL SUPERINTENDENT
SALARY NOT LESS THAN £5,000 PLUS AMENITIES AND,
MOST IMPORTANT, TAX ADVANTAGES PERMITTING OF
SAVINGS
Required for the rapidly expanding iron ore projects of
Eastern Mining & Metals Co. Limited
This is an opportunity for a Mechanical Superintendent to take charge
of a very large fleet of earthmoving equipment and attendant Ore
processing plant, Powerhouses, and Workshops, at large iron ore mines in
MALAYA
Other benefits and conditions, together with comfortable climatic conditions
for the tropics, and appropriate family housing, (children’s education
limited to primary school tuition—Australian teachers) makes this an
attractive offer; but it is available only to a man of proved status, and
experience which should include mechanical control on the highest level.
Those considered suitable will be interviewed in Sydney. Apply in strictest
confidence, giving full particulars to:—
E. H. TURNER
C/o. Scott & English (A'asia) Pty. Ltd.
Box 7009, G.P.0., SYDNEY
WESTERN MINING CORE.
GOLD OUTPUT RISES
fFHE Western Mining Corporation group
enjoyed a 2 p.c. increase in gold
income for the year to March 28, 1962.
Operating companies are Central Norse-
man Gold Corporation N.L., Gold Mines
of Kalgoorlie (Aust.) Ltd and Great
Western Consolidated N.L. Their total
output reached a value of £4,938,187 (up
£95,187). Gold produced increased
from 309,952 to 316,044 ounces.
Most of the improvement came from
the better grade ore handled by Central
Norseman, since the two other com-
panies kept production fairly steady.
Separate outputs were: Central Norse-
man, 106,165 oz of grade 11.66 dwt a
ton ; Gold Mines, 147,380 oz, 5.77 dwt ;
Great Western, 62,499 oz, 3.01 dwt.
The group’s gold activities are being
vigorously pursued. Gold Mines has
secured the option over the Mount Char-
lotte (WA) leases held by the wholly-
owned subsidiary Champagne Syndicate
N.L., as well as an option over the
Goodenough mine (also in WA), where
production is already proceeding. Test
drilling of the orebody has started at
Mount Charlotte.
The corporation itself secured options
over the Pernatty mine and an adjacent
lease about 18 miles south-east of Kal-
goorlie. Preliminary investigations are
still continuing on the WA iron ore
reserves at Tallering Range, Koolanooka
and North Yilgarn, and on the coal
deposits at Eradu.
Three Springs Talc Pty Ltd, of which
W.M.C. owns 50 p.c., has installed a
crushing plant and assay laboratory at
the talc mine. Exports are going to the
UK, Sweden, West Germany and NZ,
with further expansion in line.
WESTERN TITANIUM N.L.
SALES, EARNINGS RISE
Oevenue from the sale of concentrates
by Western Titanium N.L. rose 22
p.c. to £365,632 in the year to January
31, 1962. There was growing interest in
the chief product—ilmenite—but prices
received continued steady at a low level.
Early in 1962 negotiations were com-
pleted for a long term contract to supply
ilmenite to Laporte Titanium Ltd plants
in the UK and at Bunbury, Western Aus-
tralia. Regular sales are being made to
other important pigment producers over-
seas.
Net profit was £3743 higher at
£37,008 after providing £30,000 for dep-
reciation. No tax provision was necessary.
Expenditure on capital account, after
allowing for the sale of surplus items,
was £24,648; £20,978 was spent on a
pilot plant for the experimental produc-
tion of upgraded ilmenite which is now
nearing completion.
Actual production in the last year was
75,925 tons of ilmenite, 473 tons of
monazite, 567 tons of rutile, 80 tons of
leucozene and 5802 tons of zircon. Ore
reserves at balance date were estimated
at 10.8 million tons of heavy mineral.
Subscribed and paid up capital is
£890,000 in ss. shares supported by re-
tained profits of £79,269. A 3d. dividend
was paid during the year, which required
£44,500. The previous dividend was
10 p.c. in 1958. The company had
£74,086 in cash and short term deposits
at January 31.
ELDER’S TRUSTEE
STEEP COST INCREASES
Trustee and Executor Co. Ltd,
experienced steep increases in sala-
ries and associated expenses, rates and
taxes, and therefore cut dividend from
10 p.c. to 8 p.c. for the year to March
31, 1962.
Gross earnings actually rose by
£12,672 to £207,352, but expenses
were £13,294 higher.
Net profit dropped from £10,394 to
£9772, after £12,859 tax (up £1447)
and £lBBO depreciation (up £158.)
Earning rate on capital was trimmed
from 11.6 p.c. to 10.9 p.c. Book value
of trust funds under administration
reached a record at £27,877,370.
MERCO HOLDINGS
MOVE FOR LISTING
1%/Terco Holdings Ltd, Sydney natural
and synthetic rubber components
manufacturer, has moved to attain Stock
Exchange listing. A placement of
135,750 ss. shares is being effected
through Ralph W. King and Yuill, at
ss. 2id. plus charges, the shares going
to the brokers’ clients and associates of
the company.
Manufacturing operations are con-
ducted through Merco Tyre and Rubber
Co. Pty Ltd, originally a tyre retreader
and supplier of pram tyre cord. These
activities have been replaced by specia-
lised work for the pharmaceutical, sport-
ing goods and automotive parts industries.
The placement shares constitute one-
quarter of present shareholders’ indivi-
dual interests. Of paid capital totalling
£135,750, £135,000 was issued by the
holding company to acquire the operator.
Directors took up the balance at par.
A 10 p.c. dividend is forecast in Oc-
tober. The past three years’ profits, ad-
justed at public tax levels, show average
earning rate on existing capital at 15.5
p.c. Net tangible assets backing stands
at 3s. lid. a share, though if plant and
machines are brought in, this goes up to
ss. 4d.


I X L
This World Famous Brand is Manufactured
and Distributed by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES AND
ASSOCIATED COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—-
SHIPPING-
INSURANCE
SAW MILLERS
CARBIDE
TIMBER MERCHANTS
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the economic
growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
KING ISLAND SCHEELITE
EARNINGS, OUTPUT RISE
I"" 1 roup net profit of the tungsten mines,
King Island Scheelite (1947) Ltd,
more than doubled in the year to October
31, 1961. Earnings were £98,000, after
£17,433 tax (up £10,502) and £l7O
depreciation (down £374), and after
£12,483 loss on sale or write-off of assets
(down £17,707.)
Unchanged dividend of 20 p.c. re-
quired £lOO,OOO, and after capital ex-
penditure of £7,000 and a net £lB,OOO
forward overburden material, the carry-
forward in the profit and loss appropria-
tion account is £437,963, compared
with the opening balance of £471,675.
A loss of £7429 on re-arrangement of
investments was written off against invest-
ments fluctuation reserve.
Mining output totalled 243,294 tons
(198,786 tons of ore, and 44,508 tons of
overburden and low grade ore). The
quantity of ore milled increased from
73,268 in 1960, producing 272.6 tons of
scheelite concentrate, to 199,425 tons
producing 975.2 tons of concentrate. The
value of concentrate was £454,278
(1960 £19.0,118).
The average monthly price of tungsten
based on the low quotation was 1295.
sterling per long ton unit cif UK and
Europe, compared with an average 1525.
from February to October, 1960.
The company has an investment
portfolio costing £732,397, worth
£1,050,161 on May 5, 1962. This
consists largely of ordinary and mining
shares, with some preference shares, un-
secured notes, and debentures.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
GOOD PROSPECTS
Oversubscriptions exceeding £2.2 m.
to an issue of £400,000 in deben-
tures and notes suggest that Cambridge
Credit Corporation Ltd can obtain plenty
of business.
The issue opened in November, 1961,
and closed last week. Cambridge is now
making a new £500,000 issue of
registered redeemable unsecured deposit
notes. This will be used to finance the
increasing volume of first mortgages on
homes and property, establish new
fully operating branches in Brisbane
and Wagga, and cater for the increased
business from the Melbourne and
Adelaide branches.
Rates for the new issue will be slightly
below those of the previous one.
The company experienced a marked
increase in the volume of sound hire-
purchase and mortgage business offer-
ing, and feels this is a clear indication
of the improving tone of the economy.


LEADING
SHARE
PRICES
Pat
Last
Sale,
—Prices
'
Div.
Rate
Div.
Yield
Earn,
Rate
Earn.
Yield
Company
Value
1061
21/5/62
28/5/62
p.c.
p.c.
p.c.
pc.
Amalgamated Chemicals
5/
14/3
19/5
19/
12'Vi
3.3
21,4
5.6
A.W.A. .
5/
20 '4 Mt
21/5
21 '3
14
3.3
22
5.2
Ampol
3 '
11/4
12/5
12/5
14
5.5
19
7.5
A.R.C
10/
46/3
50/9
50/9
15
3.0
29.7
5.9
Associated Pulp
£i>/
29/3
31/9
29 6
—
—
13.6
9.2
Aust. Chemicals
io/
30 4 Vi
28/10
28/
12 Vi
4.5
21.5
7.7
A.C.l.
20/
72 G
73/6
72/
8-1/3
2.3
19.3
7.0
Aust. Guarantee
5/
14/
12/9
12 a
15
5.9
20.3
8.0
Aust. Gypsum ..
5/
14/3
16/
16/
10
3.1
14.9
4.6
A,PM.
20/
25/3
28/9
28 4
8
5.7
10
7.0
Bank N S.W.
£20
£34
£43%
£42-7/8
9
4.2
12.2
5.7
Bitumen and Oil
5/
24/
26/3
25/5
17Vi
3.4
32.4
7.0
Blue Metal Ind.
5/
22/7 Vi
23/7
23. 10
15
3,1
27.6
5.9
Bradford Cotton
5/
7/0
7/2
7/
10
7.1
11.2
7.8
British Tobacco
20/
25/
21/9
21/10
8
7.3
9.7
8.9
B.H.P.
20/
69/
62/6xD
61/
6 <4
2.1
15.5
6.3
Burns Philp .,
20/
91/
£5/11/
£5/13/
10
1.9
12.4
2.2
C.S.R.
£20
£59 Vi
£56’.i
£55/10,
9
3.3
12.4
4.5
C.A.G.A. .
5/
11/3
11/4
11/4B
10
4.4
12.3
5.4
C.I.G
20/
£5
93/C
99/
11
2.2
25.2
5.1
Commercial Union
5/
19/3
24/9
24/4
6 Vi
1.3
18.4
3.8
Concrete Ind.
5/
15/1 Vi
loll
15/8
10
3.3
18.6
5.4
Consolidated Zinc
25/
62/6
64/
64/
15
5.9
11.6
4.5
Cox Bros
5/
7/6
7/9
7/8
10
6.4
1L8
7.9
Custom Credit
5/
13/
12/4Vi
11/5
15
6.6
19.5
8.5
Cyclone
5/
26/
21/8 Vi
20/9
10
4.9
17.7
8.8
Dalgety-N.Z. Loan
25/
—
43/6
42 3
8
4.7
13.9
7.9
David Jones
5/
18/9
18/10
18/5
12 Vi
3.4
28.7
6.6
Drug Houses
20/
69/
69/3
70/ B
11%
3.2
17.7
5.1
Dunlop Rubber
20/
35/
41/6
41/1 Vi
10
4.9
16
7.8
Elder Smith
12/
23 '9
25/7 Vi
25/9
10
4.6
12.6
5.7
Electronic "B”
10'
13 3
13/3B
14/9
12Vi
8.6
—
—
Email
5/
m
8/6
8 2
10
6.1
11
6.7
EZ Ind.
10/
12/11
13/
13/
10
7.7
12.4
9.6
Felt and Textiles
5/
6/11
7/9
7/9
10
6.4
13.9
9.0
G. J. Coles
5/
13/6
13/5
12 11
11
4.2
14.8
5.7
G-ldsbrough
*« •
20/
28/6
32/
32/1 Vi
8
5.0
12,6
7.7
H. C Sleigh . .
5/
11/
12/7
12 10
12 Vi
4.9
13.4
5.2
Henry Jones ..
20/
80/
86/9XD
88/3
10
2,2
28.6
6.4
H. G. Palmer ..
• • •
5/
15/6
17/10
18/3
12 Vi
3.4
13.5
9.0
Howard Smith ..
20/
54/
50/6
49 6
10
4.0
13.6
5.4
Humes
20/
70/5
76/3
75/9B
14
3.6
24.6
6.4
I.AC.
5/
13/4
13/7
13/1 Vi
16-2/3
6.3
20.6
7.8
I.C.I.A.NZ.
20/
38/
41/9
40/4 Vi
7
3.5
9.7
4.8
J. Gadsden
10/
15/3
19/ XD
19/
8
4.2
10.4
5.6
Kandos Cement
5/
—
23/
22/6
12%
2.8
13.5
3 0
Kelvinator
5/
18/3
19/6
19/8
15
3 9
28.6
7.5
Bend Lease
5/
20/
22/9
22/6
10
2.2
21.4
4.7
L. J. Hooker
5/
V
5/7
5/7
—
—
1.1*
1.0
Mercantile Credits
5/
8/8
8/3
8/7 Vi
10
5.8
16.6
9.7
McPhersons
20/
47/
42/
42/7 Vi
8-1/3
3.9
12.4
5.8
Minster ..
10/
62/
79/6
78/9
20
2.5
34.8
4.7
Moulded Products
5/
13/2
14/4
14/9
14
4.8
7 8
2.7
Mt. Isa Mines ..
5/
71/6
75/3
74/
25
1.7
62.3
42
Mutual Acceptance
5/
8/10
9/11
10/1
15
7.3
22.3
10.8
Myer
5/
29/
34/7
33/6
16-2 '3
2.5
28.3
4.4
National Consolidated
5/
27/
26/
9/7
2 7/6
20
3.6
35.3
6.4
Olympic Industries
5/
7/7
9/5
9
4.7
16.2
8.5
Peters (Vic.) ..
2/
8/6
S/1
7/10
15
3.8
18.9
4.8
Petrochemical .
20/
26/
29 '6
29/9B
6
4.0
5.9
3.9
R. M. Concrete
5/
17/4%
17/11
17/11
12 Vi
3.5
22.9
6.4
Reid Murray
5/
5 3
4/2
4/
—
—
9.4
12.1
Repco
5/
12 5
14/3
14/5
10
3.5
17.8
6.2
Rio Tinto
5/
15/9
20/
20/
10
2.5
71.7
18.9
Rothmans
20/
87/6
72/
75/
17 Vi
4.5
47.7
12.4
Thiess
5/
13/
11/11
11/9
12 Vi
5.3
14.4
4.5
Tooth
20/
60/
71/6
67/3
13 Vi
4.0
15.9
4.7
Union Carbide
20/
80/
77/CxD
77/
10
2.6
15.9
4.1
Waltons . .
5/
13/8
14/
14/
12 Vi
4.5
19.7
5,7
Woolvvorr.hs
5/
15/4
16/6
16/5
12
3.7
15.4
4.7
Wormald
5/
11/10
12/
12/2
10
4.2
14.2
6.6
w. R. Carpenter .. . 6/
* Estimated on last half-year's profit.
xD Ex Dividend
B Buyer.
30/
35/
35/
15
2.1
35.1
5.5
SYDNEY
STOCK EXCHANGE
INDICES
Banks,
Other
Base
All
etc.
Finance
Pastoral
Retailers
Metals
Ords. *
Industrials
December
22, 1961
.. 137.37
541.02
182.31
389.15
604.15
299.07
318.74
May
21 1962
.. 170.30
577.24
188.12
387.67
603 24
309.26
324 48
May
22,
19P2 ..
.. 169.07
541.02
182.31
389.15
604.15
299.07
318.74
May
23.
1962 ..
.. 168.34
577.24
188.12
387.67
603.24
309.26
324.48
May
24,
1952 ..
.. 167.77
575.80
187.46
385.77
592.50
306.67
321.39
May
25,
1962 . .
.. 168.09
567.51
186.15
383 96
593.92
306.31
321.43
May
28,
1962 ..
. . 166.38
561.95
186.52
383.08
594.69
304.94
319.92
* Peak 348.46
September 16,
1960.
December
22, 1961
MELBOURNE
AVERAGE YIELD
r ”
STOCK EXCHANGE
ON 100 ORDINARY SHARES
,—50 Other Stocks —Random—^
—50 Leading Stocks N Sample
Div. Yield Earn. Yield Div. Yield Earn. Yield
4.26 6.13 5.30 7.46
May
21. 1862
4.26
6.14
5.09
2.04
May
22,
1962 ..
4.26
6.14
5.08
2.13
May
23,
19'32 . .
- -
4.23
6.13
5.08
2.14
May
24,
1962 ..
• • . 0 0
4.25
6.16
5.06
2.00
May
25.
1962 ..
4.25
6.12
5.08
1.75
May
28,
1962 ..
4.25
6.00
5.10
1.89
SHAREMARKET SUMMARY
\ certain grim puzzlement seems to
have penetrated local share markets, j
almost in sympathy with the uncertain-
ties afflicting not a few of the great over-
seas exchanges. It is as if investors are
growing dubious about speedy solution
of major world economic difficulties now
awaiting settlement. Continuous growth
does not look quite so easy.
Australian dealings show no sign of
feverishness, however. Nor are adjust-
ments likely to become particularly
hectic. The past weeks’ relative placidity,
disturbed by the mid-May upward spasm,
has given place to a rather more acceler-
ated drift.
When combined with this time of the
year’s usual seasonal nervousness, the
prevailing mood hardly points to any
wide, positive advance. Yet it can again
be emphasised that the markets suffer
from no overall weakness. Technically
their basis remains quite sound and the
extreme selectivity now being practised
should not do much harm.
Indeed, under these circumstances,
many buyers must be grateful for the
opportunities, especially among quality
industrials. That these chances are being
taken is made obvious by the well-
sustained ranges and generally reason-
able volumes. Trading only appears list-
less against earlier surges. There are
many busy subleties in train.
Nevertheless it is hard to indicate any
single main investment section which
may soon gain a decided lift. Even the
fairly recent banking optimism has been
dissipated and this week opened with a
flurry of falls. And among financial
issues, hire-purchase stocks are taking
something of a knock.
Industrial leaders exactly picture the
finely spun retreat and irregularity. Not
many are firmly withstanding the droop.
Burns Philp and Henry Jones, perhaps;
the rest, including BHP, appear ner-
vous. Once more, though, most daily
moves stay fairly small.
BHP was, of course, a focus of
interest after announcement of the new
UK fined-interest borrowings. The shares
had eased all through last week, before
directors’ statement. Monday saw them
barely affected further.
The week’s concentration upon the
better industrials produced uneveness in
all sub-sections. Humes, Kandos and
Cyclone again dropped back and were
joined by the stalwart Minster. Principal
retailers continue their shakiness, with
David Jones, G. J. Coles and Wool-
worths all weaker.
Oils have lost all vividness. AOG old
shares reached 60s. 9d. on Monday and
the new 61s. Base-metals’ oscillations
exemplify a waiting on results of the
International Lead-zink Study Group, re-
convened this week.


DIVIDEND DECLARATIONS
WEEK ENDED MAY 28, 1962
Rate for
Company Div. p.c. Year Last Year
Books
Close
Payable
•Albert G. Sims Ltd, final pref.
3
6
3, 3
8/6/62
30/6/62
Australian Cash Orders Ltd, final
5
5
7>/ 2 , 7V 2
13/6/62
29/6/62
A.N.Z. Bank Ltd, int. ..
4
—
4, 8
7/6/62
5/7/62
Bryson Industries Ltd, final pref. ..
3
6
3, 3
19/6/62
30/6/62
Freeman Motors Ltd, final
20
35
15, 20
13/7/62
27/7/62
Gibson Ltd, int. "A” pref
4>/ 2
—
4V 2 , 4 y 2
31/5/62
15/6/62
G. J. Coles and Co. Ltd final pref. .
4
8
4, 4
7/6/62
14/6/62
International Products Ltd, int. ..
5
—
5, 5
12/6/62
20/6/62
James Stedman Ltd, final 1st and 2nd
pref.
5
10
5, 5
25/6/62
1/7/62
Lamson Paragon Industries Ltd, int.
3
—
3, 6
19/6/62
27/6/62
Maryborough Knitting Mills (Cuttle)
Ltd, year ord. and pref.
12Vz
12V 2
12V2
18/7/62
1/8/62
Meacham and Leyland Holdings Ltd,
int.
2%
2%, 41/4
8/6/62
14/6/62
Morley Johnson Holdings Ltd, final
pref. ..
3Vz
7
31/2, 3V 2
14/6/62
30/6/62
National Trustees Executors and
Agency Co. of A’asia Ltd, int. ..
5Vz
5, 7
6/6/62
22/6/62
P. C. Grosser and Co. Ltd, final pref.
3
6
3, 3
6/6/62
15/6/62
R. Fowler Ltd, int. ord.
4
—
3, 4V 2
11/6/62
22/6/62
do., int. pref
5
—
5, 5
11/6/62
22/6/62
Robert Harper and Co. Ltd, final
3
6
3, 4
22/6/62
2/7/62
Robert Hutchinson Ltd, final pref.
ord.
3V 2
7
3, 3
28/6/62
30/6/62
do., final pref.
3V 2
7
2V 2 , 2 ’/ 2
28/6/62
30/6/62
Robur Tea Co. Ltd. year
10
8
8
18/6/62
2/7/62
S. E. A Q.. variable stock, final ..
3.729
7.458
3.5, 3.5
8/6/62
30/6/62
Tooth and Co. Ltd, final ..
6%
13V 2
6%, 6%
—
27/6/62
United Batteries Ltd, int. ..
5 V 2
—
5V 2 , 5V 2
8/6/62
18/6/62
Vox Adeon Howard Holdings Ltd, int.
4
—
3V 2 , 4
29/5/62
—
COMPANY
RESULTS
Year
, Ordinary Shares—.
Company
Ended
Profit
Tax
Deprecia-
Earning
Ord.
Par
Last Sale
Div.
£
£
tion
Rate
Div.
Value Price
Yield
£
p.c.
p.c.
p.c.
Australian Cash
.; .. Orders
31/3/62
40,641
nil
2,509
6
5
20/
19/9
5.1
Aust. Estates Co.
31/12/62
200,000
n/a
n/a
—
6Va
not
listed in Australia
Bagot’s Executor
and Trustee Co. ..
Elder’s Trustee and
31,3/62
10,735
4,035
748
10.7
7
-
11/
6.4
Executor Co.
Godfrey Phillips
31/3/61
9,772
12,859
1,880
10.9
8
5/
8/7 y 2
4.6
Holdings
31/12/62
90,923
n/a
n/a
not listed
Maryborough Knitting
Mills
31/3/62
38,099
28.300
15,000
15.4
12'/2
5/
7/6
8.3
Robert Harper
King Island Scheelite
31/3/62
17,950
12,103
50,447
2.7
6
20/
29/6
4.1
(1947)
31/10/61
98,000
17,433
170
19.6
20
5/
9/1
11.1
Larut Tin Fields*
Pato Consolidated
31/12/62
20,150
4,237
4,146
—
—
—
Geld Dredging
31/12/61
$905,143
—
—
—
unlisted
Western Titanium NL.
31/1/62
37,008
—
30,000
4.2
5
5/
4/9
5.3
* All
figures in
sterling.
WEEKLY
AVERAGE CLEAN WOOL
Source: Australian Wool Bureau
PRICES
Quality
Classification
(Bradford
Standard)
Week
Ended
25/5/62
Change
Week
Ended
18/5/62
Opening
Week
1961-62
7/7/61
Closing
Week
1960-61
30/6/61
Week
Ended
26/5/61
Centres Selling
Week Ended
25/5/62
Bris. Melb.
d.
d.
d.
d.
d.
d.
d.
d.
COMBING—
70’s Good ..
131
+ 1
130
122*
125*
126
—
Average
127
+ 1
126
117
120
121
127
—
G4’s Good
123
par
123
114*
117*
118
123
123
Average
118
par
118
109
112
114
117
118
60’s Good
108
par
108
104
108*
no
—
108
Average
103
par
103
101
104
107
103
103
58’s Good
97
—i
98
97
101*
102
—
97
Average
94
par
94
95
98
98
—
94
56’s Good
92
par
92
95*
97*
97
—
92
Average
90
par
90
92*
94
93
89
50’s Good
83
par
83
92*
93*
92
83
Average
80
+i
79
90*
91*
90
80
CARDING—
Merino
46
—2
48
49
48
50
47
45
Comeback
43
—3
46
49
48
49
43
Fine Xbred
43
—3
46*
51*
51
50
43
Med. Xbred
44
—2
46*
52*
52
51
—
44
* Nominal
Sales next week: Sydney, Geelong.
A. L. NEVITT. DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT. A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 18S7W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street, Phone 6089
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building,
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale”, Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
423 Little Collins Street
Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67-6154, 67-6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721.
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
CONSTABLE & COMPANY
BW 0781
Member of the
SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE
25 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY
The Mall, The Corso, Manly
Telephone: 97-5867
CC.S.
EXCHANGE RATES (T/T)
London Italy
£A to £stg 100 125 Lire to £A 1 1404
New Zealand Japan
£A to £NZ 100 124 Yen to £ A 1 817.80
USA West Germany
$1 to £A 1 2.2506 DM to £A1 9.033
Belgium Switzerland
Francs to £ A 1 112.70 Francs to £A1 9.751
France Hong Kong
New francs to £A 1 .. .. .. 11.071 Pence Australian to $ HK .. .. 18 9/16


WILD CAT BREVITIES
® Fiat Australia Pty Ltd has released a
new model diesel tractor throughout
Australia one of its first steps in a
major marketing drive.
• Mr T. L. Webb, a director of the
Commercial Bank of Australia, Lamson
Paragon Industries, Trustees Executors
and Agency, and other companies has
joined the board of Email Ltd.
• The Commercial Bank of Australia
opens its new savings bank, the Com-
mercial Savings Bank of Australia,
Monday next.
® Queensland envelope manufacturer
and printer Besley and Pike Ltd is opera-
ting its new plant at Rocklea, near Bris-
bane. The company markets successfully
throughout all Australian States and
makes more than 400 different shapes,
sizes and qualities of envelopes.
® Four A.N.Z. Bank directors have
joined the board of A.N.Z. Pensions
(Overseas) Pty Ltd, an Australian-regis-
tered offshoot.
® Mr Frank B. Spencer was made an
“honorary chairman” on his retirement
as chairman and a director of Nestle
Co. (Aust.) Ltd.
® Kiwi Polish Co. continues its march
of accessions by purchase of the polish
and grocery manufacturing sections of
Julius Cohen and Co., Adelaide. Other
recent acquisitions are the Dominant
Chemical Co., Melbourne, and the Chief
Polish Co., Brisbane.
® Industrial Accepts. .:e Corporation
Ltd now operates eight branches in
NSW, the latest opened being at Orange.
® The carrying war grows hotter. An-
sett Transport Industries Ltd has bought
out road and rail carrier Morris Middle-
ton Pty Ltd, of Sydney, for its subsidiary
Ansett Freight Express Pty Ltd, gain-
ing a wider coverage in NSW.
• Sir Lionel Hooke, managing director
of Amalgamated Wireless (Aust.) Ltd
since 1945, has been appointed chair-
man of the company.
® Amalgamated Chemicals Ltd has
bought, for cash, all ordinary and pref-
erence capital of Farley (Australia) Pty
Ltd maker of agricultural chemicals
and pest control products. Farley trades
widely in Malaya, Singapore and the
East.
® Directors of Queensland car distribu-
tor Howards Ltd have made up their
minds to cancel all previous recommen-
dations and support the second take-
over bid from Queensland Can Co. Ltd
—two ss. shares and Is. cash for each
ss. Howards share. The share side has
a market value of £l.6m. and £62,540
cash will be needed.
• Fire and AH Risks Insurance Co. Ltd
moves into South Australia by opening
a branch in Adelaide.
VICTORIAN CHAMBER OF MANUFACTURES
LOOKING FOR A WHIPPING BOY
By CROESUS
Tt was a pity that in his retiring address
after a most energetic period as presi-
dent of the Victorian Chamber of Manu-
factures, Mr Gordon More had to over-
state his case for more co-operation be-
tween business and the Federal Govern-
ment.
Like some other people in responsible
positions, he continues to attribute the
full blame for the loss in national output
following on the Government’s restric-
tive measures in November, 1960, to a
“succession of economic blunders” in
official policy. Always looking for a
whipping boy when the economic ele-
ments blow cold, they show an extra-
ordinary myopic attitude to the facts of
economic life.
In seeking to get the Government
better apprised of the business trends in
the economy, it should be recognised
once and for all that whatever the merits
or demerits of the economic measures
of November, 1960, may be, something
drastic had to be done at that time to
stop the rot in the balance of payments.
Thinking people in business and else-
where then firmly believed that to curb
the excess exuberance of the economy
at that time shock treatment of some
sort was needed from the Government.
The essence of shock treatment is that it
shocks and the November, 1960, dose
certainly did just that.
It was also a pity that before roundly
slating the Government Mr More was
apparently not apprised of its new inten-
tions in the matter of consultation with
business, as outlined by Mr Holt to the
Australian Productivity Council just the
day before he spoke. For Mr Holt
showed that he and his Government are
just as alive as Mr More and other critics
to the essentiality of close co-operation
between Government and business. This
is what the Treasurer said:
“Insofar as the objective of ‘indica-
tive planning’ is to bring Government and
industry together and to add to the econo-
mic information and ‘intelligence’ on
which forward-reaching policies can be
based and pursued, it is an objective to
which I am sure we can all fully sub-
scribe.
“Whether formal planning machinery
was adopted or not. A greater exchange
of views and information between the
Government and the business community
could be nothing but helpful in the good
management of national economic affairs.
“I have told the Prime Minister I
would welcome the opportunity to place
before a representative gathering from
commerce and industry the picture of the
economy as I see it shortly before
Cabinet discussions on the budget.
“I understand the Prime Minister will
be issuing invitations for this purpose,
and a meeting between these representa-
tives and senior Ministers will be held
after the next Loan Council meeting.”
Of course, Mr More wants much more
than an occasional, say pre-budget-ren-
dezvous between Government and busi-
ness. One can subscribe to that idea
also, though not precisely along the lines
indicated in his address, because Mr
More seems to be thinking in terms of
a very blowsey collection of experts
from many spheres to sit as an economic
advisory council.
Only those with a love of big com-
mittees will be with Mr More on that
one. Others will see more virtue in, say,
a smaller business group to advise the
Government, perhaps on a standing basis,
and backed by a secretariat working in
the Treasury (maybe under Mr Leslie
Bury) and certainly with access to the
most up-to-date statistics and informa-
tion from all sources.
LETTER TO THE FINANCE EDITOR
Sir,
The Bulletin (May 19, 1962) drew
attention to the P & O group’s new
tanker, Malwa (37,000 deadweight tons),
the largest oil tanker yet built in the UK
for British owners with navigation bridge
and accommodation aft. She is on a
five-year charter to the BP Tanker Co.
Ltd. The report continued: “Only two
tankers now remain to be delivered to
complete the P and O group’s current
tanker-building programme of 15 ships,
totalling nearly half a million tons
dead-weight. This will make it the
largest tanker fleet under the British
flag.”
Without wishing to belittle this im-
pressive figure achieved by the P and O
group (valued customers of BP Inter-
national Bunkering Service) we wish to
point out that your report inadvertently
omits one significant word “indepen-
dent”.
The BP Tanker Co. has a fleet of more
than 150 ships, totalling about 2.5 m.
d.w. tons —one of the largest privately
owned fleets in the world. It has also
about as many ships again on charter
from other owners, and a large number
of tankers under construction or on
order.
E. SHACKLE
(Public Relations Office,
BP Australia Ltd)
Sydney.


AUSTRALIA'S PREMIER CONVENTION CENTRE
r
i
SURFERS PARADISE, GOLD COAST, QUEENSLAND
“OUT-OF-THIS-WORLD” CONVENTION FACILITIES
at CHEVRON you will discover the happy combination of
business and pleasure . . . complete convention facilities—plus
an ideal climate superb accommodation, and a staff
of Service-wise personnel to ensure complete
satisfaction for a successful Convention.
• Meeting facilities for groups ranging up
to 1000 delegates.
• The latest trends in design, equipment and
furnishings.
• The Tariffs are very moderate.
ZD
SSfSsT!
Write today for FREE Colour Brochure, giving layout and full
details to help you plan a bigger and better Convention.
CHEVRON HOTEL, SURFERS PARADISE, GOLD COAST, QUEENSLAND
ELECTRIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
HYDRAULIC
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
ONE TO BUY
A neat little income stock to sweeten
a portfolio is the shirt-maker Bisley
Clothing Ltd. Incorporated in 1959 to
take over the business of Hubbard and
Co. Pty Ltd, which had been making
shirts and trousers since 1950, Bisley
has a short but attractive public record.
While other well-established busi-
nesses complained about the credit
squeeze, Bisley’s profit advanced 31 p.c.
from £29,544 to £38,778, representing
an earning rate of 25.6 p.c. on higher
capital of £lBO,OOO. The forecast 15
p.c. dividend proved an easy target for
the company.
Bisley is not strictly a manufacturer
—it farms the making of the garments
to outside firms on contract. These
firms make the well-known Bisley shirt,
men’s pyjamas, shorts and trousers,
which Bisley then distributes. Bisley
therefore has no capital tied up in prop-
erty an ' plant. All funds are working
capital.
Overseas fashion trends are quickly
noted by travelling executives, and in
late 1961 arrangements were made to
make “Da Vinci” sports shirts under
licence from a leading American sports-
wear specialist.
In December, 1960, the takeover of a
loss company, G. W. B. Menswear Pty
Ltd, enabled shareholders to receive
13i p.c. of the 15 p.c. dividend free
of tax. This tax loss benefit is now
exhausted.
Capital was increased in May, 1961,
by a one-for-five par issue, and in
October, 1961, 30,000 20s. cumulative
redeemable preference shares were
issued to the Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd. A further 20,000
ss. ordinary stock units have been issued
under an option agreement to the
managing director in the current year.
Interim dividend was at the unchanged
rate of 15 p.c., and directors reported
in February that total sales for the
December half-year were down 5 p.c.
on the previous corresponding record
period, but this was due to a drop in
sales of brands other than Bisley.
Orders then on hand compared favor-
ably with the level at the same period
the year before, and directors expected
“a very satisfactory and successful year.”
The showrooms, offices and ware-
house moved to larger, well equipped
modern premises on January 1, 1962,
and facilities are now available to handle
increased trading.
Compared with the prices of its com-
petitors, Bisley ss. ordinary shares at
7s. lOd. to yield 9.6 p.c. income (earn-
ings yield 16.2 p.c.) look very good
value. The shares have touched 9s. this
year and 9s. 9d. in 1961.
OIL
US INTERESTS ARE BUSY
/Aaltex has followed up its Oil Search
agreements with Mid-Eastern to
combine their exploration efforts in
NSW areas by taking a half interest in
the long dormant 20 million acres per-
mit area of Magellan Petroleum Cor-
poration, whose southern tip lies only
150 miles north-west of Moonie and ex-
tends to the north of Longreach (Q.).
The exploration programme, which is
expected to get under way in a week
or two, will be carried out by American
Overseas Petroleum, which is also doing
the search for Mid-Eastern and Caltex
in NSW. Under the agreement with
Magellan, Caltex envisages a five-year
search in which it will have a 50 per
cent undivided interest.
Another United States group, Phillips-
Sunray, has also given notice of promis-
ing search activities with the likely
spudding-in of a well about 37 miles
east of Moonie in the permit area it
holds on a 50-50 basis with Queensland
American Oil.
This brings Phillips-Sunray efforts in
Queensland more into the realm of pos-
sible oil finds. Its other area is a large
slice of the Great Artesian Basin where
it has drilled a dry hole at Etonvale,
about 60 miles south east of Blackall,
and is in the process of drilling a further
well at Gumbargno, nine miles south-
east of Adavale.
Oil Development duly spudded-in its
well at Anglesea (Vic.) last week. This
is the closest well to Melbourne so far,
and is literally in the town of Anglesea.
It will be drilled in conjunction with
Planet Oil and Westralian Oil who have
a 20 per cent, interest. The target level
is 7,500 ft at which it is expected to
strike mesozoic sediments.
Oil Development's other drilling, at
Mt Salt (SA) is proceeding and the hole
is around the 2,000 ft level. The joint
Planet-Woodside (Lakes Entrance) well
at Bundy (Murray Basin) is also drilling
ahead towards 2,000 ft.
Good progress with Exoil’s aerial
magnetometer survey in the Drummond
Basin in Queensland is reported and the
company now intends to do some stra-
tigraphic drilling in the Officer Basin
(SA).
Timor Oil has reorientated its pro-
gramme of drilling in Timor and now
proposes to abandon drilling on the
Matai anticline. The intention now is to
drill several wells around Betano, 40
miles east of Matai, following the com-
pletion of structural and stratigraphic
tests at Matai No. 6 well.
Santos continues its fishing operations
at Dullingari No. 1 well south of In-
namincka (SA) and until these are com-
pleted at around 5,175 ft drilling can-
not be resumed.


STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Suite 1, Sixth Floor, Temple Court
422 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Phone 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
Sydney: 383 George Street, 29-7865.
Adelaide: 61 Gawler Place, 7-8407.
Brisbane: 334 Queen Street, 31-1621.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
All Offices: “Options”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
?? STORAGE ??
• • •
for your products in
ADELAIDE
We have a client who can offer up
to 3,000 sq. ft. under ideal conditions
and supervision at very reasonable
costs. If your products need more
than the usual supervision, contact
us. Write in first instance to:
McCALLUM-RICHARDSON
ADVERTISING LTD.
101 Flinders St., Adelaide,
South Australia.
ALEXANDERS LTD
SOME INFORMATION RELEASED
IV/|ore relevant and necessary informa-
tion is now available on the newly
reconstructed Alexanders Ltd, old Bris-
bane dry cleaner. In March last, this
company had injected into it the unlisted,
Sydney-based Sterling Homes group,
which exercised a reversed takeover
technique by purchasing 80 p.c. of Alex-
anders’ capital. Sterling thus obtained
Brisbane Stock Exchange listing.
Sterling directors have been con-
cerned at criticism of the “side-door”
entry, mainly founded on the paucity
of earning details provided when the
move was made. They still do not
sound completely co-operative in stat-
ing that “the net assets of the integrated
group at the price of 235. for each
12s. 6d. share in Alexanders Ltd is well
represented by tangible assets and the
earning rate is satisfactory.”
Such generality carries further in a
remark that directors “do not promise
excessive returns and will adopt a policy
of conservatism for the creation of
strong reserves”. All very well, one sup-
poses, epecially when “at the above-
mentioned price” a not less than 10 p.c.
per annum return is foreshadowed.
At least we are told that the Sterling
group has earned at a rate of over
£14,000 per annum, on public com-
pany basis, since its foundation in 1959.
At December 31 last, paid capital to-
talled £16,992 and undistributed profits
£39,151.
Nevertheless it does seem necessary
in these cases to have a full statement
of assets and liabilities. It is understood
one is being prepared now. Public in-
vestors are entitled to a full picture
when the unknown embraces the known.
In the present example this became the
more desirable since the pre-takeover
Alexanders suffered a £4869 loss for its
last financial year.
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Qaved by Mid-Eastern! When its Is.
shares came on the market last week
at about 4s. the sour taste left in my
mouth by AOG vanished. The ques-
tion, of course, was whether to sell or
not.
Mid-Eastern has some interesting look-
ing leases in the Surat Basin which
are now to be shared with two Caltex-
affiliated companies. All in all, a promis-
ing sort of set-up. But, remembering my
£B9 loss on AOG, I thought it pru-
dent to take my profit and withdraw
from Mid-Eastern. This I did on the
opening day at 3s. lid., resulting in a
profit of <£l37 on my £5O outlay. I
also sold my Peters last week at Bs. for
a loss of £l5.
These sales, plus the £231 left over
from the previous week, gave me a
total of £613 on hand. I “blew” half of
it on Choiseul Plantations which had
been tempting me for some time down
there in the unlisted section. My success
with MLC, another member of the
unlisted club, prompted me into doing
something about Choiseul. The only
thing that made me hesitate was the
price £ll for the £1 shares.
Choiseul is a member of the Burns
Philp group and sports the same brand
of conservatism. Messrs James Burns
and Joseph Mitchell, of 7 Bridge Street,
are both on the board, as is Dr Pattin-
son, of Washington H. Soul, Pattinson
and Company. Choiseul’s principal assets
of plantations in the British Solomon
Islands, investments and cash. These are
shown in the books at a total figure of
just on £1,000,000. Their true value
would seem to be at least £1,500,000.
The plantations, which are up to 50 years
old, are shown as being £144,000 but
this is their cost price less depreciation
and war damage. Far be it from me to
hazard a guess as to what these plan-
tations might be worth but I imagine it
is a good deal more than £144,000.
The investments are also shown at cost
at £525,000. They should be worth
double their cost price but perhaps no
more as many of these investments have
been made only in the last few years. A
figure of £1,000,000 may not be far out
for the current value of these invest-
ments. Finally there was £300,000-odd
in cash at last balance date. So it seems
safe to say that the assets are worth
at least £1,500,000. But this is roughly
what the market is valuing the com-
pany at by pricing the 150,000 £1 shares
at £ll each.
Profits have been as high as 136 p.c.
to capital in recent years but in 1960
lower copra prices halved the earning
rate. Even so it was a robust 72 p.c.
and a dividend of 40 p.c. was paid. Ac-
counts for the year to November, 1961,
are due any day and could bring with
them news of a capital reconstruction,
particularly as Burns Philp itself is busy
getting its own house in order to comply
v/ith the new Companies Act. The name
was changed to Choiseul Plantations
(Holdings) last December, suggesting
some sort of move was afoot, and now
there is talk of official listing. All these
unknowns seemed to make the shares
worth a gamble, although £ll is
obviously no bargain price.
My other purchase this week has
been at the other end of the price scale
with some Hanimex. This photographic
company’s shares slipped back below par
during the week and I was able to get
1000 at 4s. lid. Hanimex ran off the
rails badly in 1959 just after it moved
into a new factory at Brookvale. Since
then it has been making a brave re-
covery and has earned profits in each
of the last three years but has not yet
paid a dividend. However earnings last
year climbed up to a respectable 17.8
p.c. and a dividend has been promised
for this year.
Details of these transactions were:
SOLD
1,000 Mid-Eastern at 3/11 .... £lB7
500 Peters at 8/ £195
BOUGHT
1,000 Hanimex at 4/11 £255
25 Choiseul at £ll £2BO
At the end of the week I had £7B in
cash and these shares:—
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
400 O’Donnell
Griffin 28/8/61 11/8 16/-
1,600 United Motels 20/11/61 3/9 4/4
1,000 Harris Holdings 5/12/61 7/- 8/3
200 Hunter Douglas
notes 21/2/62 36/- 44/-
200 Beau Monde 8/12/61 25/- 32/-
400 W. J. Manufac-
turing 24/1/62 11/9 12/9
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 23/6
500 Mauri Bros 16/2/62 22/9 25/-
400 Anderson Meat 2/3/62 12/- 12/-
100 Philip Morris 16/3/62 26/- 24/-
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 6/6
500 Peter Lloyd 21/3/62 5/6 5/9
500 Ready Mixed 6/4/62 17/9 18/-
25 MLC 27/4/62 £l9/10/- £23
200 Malleys 3/5/62 20/3 22/3
500 Merica 10/5/62 7/- 7/6
400 GUD 8/5/62 23/- 25/3
400 Swan Brewery 17/5/62 19/6 19/9
25 Choiseul 24/5/62 £ll £ll
1,000 Hanimex 23/5/62 4/11 5/1


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
WOOL
SHOULD THE EMBARGO GO?
By M. H. ELLIS
of the pastoral issues on which
it is easiest to generate heat, and
hardest to generate logical and properly
supported argument, is the embargo on
the export of merino stud sheep from
Australia. It is a matter which breeds as
much emotion as the White Australia
question used to breed.
The embargo applies solely to merino
sheep in actual practice. When the regu-
lations under Section 112 of the Customs
Act were brought into force 32 years
ago, the power to prohibit export was
applied to all breeds, but the Minister
used his discretion to prohibit the sale
abroad of merino stud sheep and his
discretion has been firmly used to con-
tinue the prohibition ever since.
The occasion of the passage of the law
dealing with the matter was that, in a
period of great public awareness of the
communist menace which was- being
made obvious in every walk of life, sub-
stantial shipments of Australian stud
merinos to the USSR were being made.
There were also considerable exports to
South Africa, whence our original meri-
nos came. These latter were of such a
nature as to suggest that the South
Africans were bent on altering their
merino types to produce more wool com-
petitive with the bulk of Australian wool
types.
Little notice was taken of South
African operations, but the shipment of
5000 merinos to the Soviet Union in the
days of the Comintern was a sinister
note. The Soldiers Settlers’ Association,
not a powerful body or one intrinsically
interested in wool production, protested
that if this sort of thing were allowed
to continue the wool industry would be
headed for ruin through communist com-
petition in the merino field. The NSW
Farmers and Settlers’ Association joined
in the outcry, though actually its concern
was mainly with wheat in that period of
history.
The Sheepbreeders’ Association and
the Graziers’ Association were not con-
sulted, it appearently being taken for
granted by Mr Parker Moloney, then the
Federal Minister for Trade and Customs
in the Scullin Government, that being
“capitalists” they v/ould be willing to sell
sheep to Auld Clootie himself if he would
pay the price, irrespective of the damage
or otherwise to the Commonwealth.
It was said oracularly in the Federal
House—the depression being on and
everybody living on emotions —that these
associations had adopted an attitude
which advertised clearly that they had
“no thought for Australia’s future.”
Certainly world wool buyers had even
less, judging by the prices which ruled.
These had fallen to an average of about
£l2 a bale, representing a sudden drop
of 50 p.c. and this was at least 7+ p.c.
below cost of production in average,
normal districts.
Various interests within and without
the industry rushed into the ensuing dis-
cussion. Naturally the communists were
noisily in favor of freedom of export,
their view being that the prohibition was
exclusively designed to injure the
“Workers’ Only Fatherland.” Also, there
were people after cheap rams who felt
that embargo of ram exports would make
good rams available in Australia much
cheaper than if competition in the stud
sheep market from overseas countries, as
especially, Russia were broadened. Lat-
terly another argument has been added
—that because buyers outside Australia
have been unable to obtain our superla-
tive sires, the world quality of wool is
deteriorating and that this affects the
general demand for wool and gives syn-
thetics a flying start in competing with it.
Moreover, it was contended that cheap
rams in Australia, which would be un-
doubtedly available if the industry were
stripped of the future danger of Euro-
pean and Asian competition for Austra-
lian stud animals, would mean cheap and
more payable wool production.
There are plenty of merinos in Russia
to make it seem reasonable that the
USSR should have developed its own
high quality sires by this time; but the
fact remains that it has only about 85
million predominantly-merino and merino
stock after more than thirty years since
the importations of Australian stud rams
began. About 25 million of its sheep
are pure merinos.
The wrath of those in favor of stud
merino export grows every year with the
realisation of the juicy market available
abroad to Australian specimens of breeds
other than merino which may be sent
overseas quite freely.
For instance, they have to watch Cor-
riedale breeders getting bigger prices
abroad for comparatively medium quality
sheep than, they can get in Australia for
choice specimens of their embargoed
merino flocks. They claim that this has
had another affect deleterious to the
Australian economy: it encourages small
graziers to grow the Corriedale and
English breeds in preference to pure
merinos at a stage at which merino
quality is suffering and the English breeds
are making unhealthy inroads into Aus-
tralian flocks and beating down the
quality of the Spanish breed.
It is held that the shortage of Aus-
tralian fine wools has become so marked
that the time is imminent when buying
countries will give up the attempt to seek
fine wool at a reasonable price here and
be driven to despair and to recourse to
artificials in place of fine wools.
Absurdly enough the United States is
cited as one of the principal countries
which is being driven into this desperate
condition. In fact, all round, the
embargo, to many breeders, is a devil’s
device which is destroying our market
for wool and playing into the hands of
the manufacturers or rayon and nylon.
Furthermore, it is held that the em-
bargo was designed with one reason and
one only: the entirely parochial one of
retaining an Australian monopoly of the
pure-breed fine-woolled merino.
It is argued that this is altogether one-
eyed and made ridiculous as a policy by
the fact that the British, the greatest stock
exporting country in the world, sends its
stud animals out without question, gets
the highest price it can and yet raises its
standard in beef and wool as high as is
physically possible, with the consequence
that British animals realise the world’s
highest prices for stud stock.
Lastly it is said that anyway, leaving
out the very choicest breeds of merino
which would be kept in the country, the
embargo has defeated itself because other
countries—New Zealand, Russia and
South Africa —have cashed in on the
trade that the Commonwealth has
abandoned.


Month
WEEK
Basis Greasy Equivalen
, May 25
Closing
Seller Buyer
ENDING MAY 25, 1962
t 3,000 lbs. Clean Weight C.W.C. Type 78
f Turnover N
Week
Ended To
25/5/62 Date
(Pence per lb.)
—Week Ended— —^
25/5/62 , To Date ,
High Low High Low
May, 1962
—
—
116%
1121%
118
99%
22
5,142
July, 1962
114%
114%
114%
113%
116%
101
171
5,702
September, 1962 ..
112
111%
112
IIIV4
116%
103%
33
1,733
October, 1962
109%
109%
109%
109
116%
104
78
4,910
December, 1962 ..
108%
108%
108%
108
113
103%
125
3,586
January, 1963
108%
108%
108%
107%
112%
103%
32
594
March, 1963
108
107%
108
107%
110%
104
17
1,011
May, 1963
108
107%
103
107%
110
104
32
824
July, 1963
108
107%
108
107%
110
105
96
576
September, 1963 ..
107%
107%
107%
107%
109%
106%
2
58
October, 1963
107%
107%
107%
107
109%
106%
13
293
Total number of contracts
621 63,724
There is a good deal of truth in this.
But there is even more truth in a highly
modern argument—that artificial insemi-
nation may defeat the objectives of the
Government entirely. Export of breeding
potential in this form becomes every year
more impossible to police.
In the past there were almost un-
answerable arguments against wholesale
shipment of sheep at a time when prices
of wool were at nadir, the depression
was on, graziers and stud breeders were
in desperation and ready to sell their
souls for a few pounds, and Russia was
seizing an opportunity to make itself the
sheep country of the world. The same
influences do not apply in these times.
It is unlikely, having regard to the
sharply defined seasons of Europe and
Asia and the natural tendency of all
wools to extreme fineness in South Africa
(which had merinos long before Aus-
tralia and sent us our first consignment
in 1797), that stud sires and ewes ex-
ported would produce types yielding the
kind of counts which are the staple of
the trade. The wool of South Africa’s
main sheep country approximates rather
to the very fine wools which come only
from country like that around the Selwyn
Ranges in dry north-west Queensland.
The writer of this article was one of the
most strenuous advocates of the embargo
when it was imposed. But there is little
doubt that conditions have very much
changed, that the first-class merino studs
are suffering from a restricted market,
that skill in merino breeding is less
widely diffused in the industry and the
future of studs less assured than it would
be if there were a wider market.
If the merino stud sheep market were
opened to the world there would be stiff
competition and it would stimulate world
resistance to synthetics. It seems, indeed,
that Australia now has to choose between
competition with synthetics and weak
support abroad for wool, or competition,
with foreign wool on our side joining in
resisting the advance of synthetics.
In competition with other wools we
have a iong start in breeding technique
and knowledge, national opinion strongly
at the back of the industry, natural con-
ditions all in our favor and space to
expand—for the merino cannot be bred
as a wool sheep under small farming
conditions or in places where intensive
farming conditions are possible.
It seems that the time has arrived when
the whole matter might be thoroughly
inquired into, or perhaps for the replace-
ment of prohibition by judicious control
under an export licensing system.
However, the matter is political gelig-
nite and opinion in the wool industry
is very far from unanimous.
VICTORIA
THE CALTROP MENACE
By MARIEL LEE
also known as bindii or three-
cornered jack, is spreading alarm-
ingly in towns as well as on farms in
the wheat-growing and dairying dis-
tricts of the Victorian Wimmera. Here
caltrop is now considered an even
greater menace than skeleton weed,
which also threatens some Wimmera
wheatlands, for caltrop crowds out
other growth, its spikes ruin boots and
shoes, lame sheep and sheepdogs, and
puncture bicycle tyres, perhaps even
tough truck and tractor tyres. It is for
sound reasons, then, that Victorian
farmers’ organisations are clamoring for
Lands Department action against this
pest.
Surprisingly, Victoria’s Minister for
Lands was unaware of the inroads of
caltrop until, recently, a Wimmera
Councillor gave him a flowering sample
of the curse which was currently carpet-
ing one riding of his Shire.
The Lands Department has taken
belated action, but its spraying of such
public places as railway stations and
schoolgrounds is not fully effective.
Caltrop is best eradicated before it
flowers in February.
Particularly disquieting are the occur-
rences of caltrop in business or oil depot
yards, whence the pest is likely to be
disseminated with deliveries over a wide
area.
Infestations on farms, footpaths,
nature strips and in town backyards or
sports grounds, the Lands Department
rightly points out, are the responsibility
of the owners or bodies concerned. When
caltrop was noticed on Nhill recreation
reserve, the Shire Council prevented its
further spread by forbidding transport
in the reserve. The Council then graded
the oval and carted away surface earth
and weeds. Later, careful hand-weeding
removed any surviving caltrop, but this
effective method is hardly practicable for
widespread infestations.
Mr C. B. Gates, a former Wimmera
studmaster whom Western Australia
knows as a breeder and judge of Corrie-
dale sheep, has insistently warned Wim-
mera landowners against caltrop which,
he said, in parts of Western Australia
makes it necessary for working sheep-
dogs to wear boots. The spiked seeds
may also be seen studded deeply in the
tyres of trucks delivering wheat.
It may be that Mr Gates has confused
summer-growing caltrop with the equally
dangerous double-gee, which flourishes
in winter and has smaller, separate seeds.
Caltrop has a seed-head which, when dry,
divides into seven spiked seeds. But any
such mistake does not invalidate the
warning against caltrop, the dry seeds of
which, if eaten by sheep, can kill them.
Mr Davies adds the further advice
that Victorian authorities, and even indi-
vidual plagued by this dangerous weed,
should contact the Western Australian
Shire of Trayning Kununppin Yelbeni,
where caltrop is being controlled by
spraying. The Perth Department of
Agriculture will also supply information
about methods of combating the pest.
WOOL
WORLD DEMAND RISES
VlTorld wool consumption in 1961 has
" been estimated by the economics
department of the Wool Bureau Inc.,
New York, at 3312 m. lb clean more
than 3 p.c. above that in 1960.
Total world supplies of 3284 m. lb,
including 62m. lb drawn from carry-
over stocks in the major exporting
countries, were 28m. lb short of
estimated consumption.
The bureau says that “the shortage
between supply and demand for raw
wool can only have been met by eating
into trade stocks, estimated at 857 m. lb
on January 1, 1962.” Trade stocks at
the start of 1962 were the lowest for
four years.
SYDNEY GREASY WOOL FUTURES EXCHANGE SUMMARY


REVIEWS
FILM
SUCH PASSIONATE IMPROVISATION
The Savage Eye; The Joker. Gala.
Sydney.
Tt was an inspired piece of programming
A on the part of Sydney’s Gala Cinema
to place the American “experimental”
film “The Savage Eye” and de Broca’s
comedy “The Joker” on the one bill. The
two films are a diametrical contrast in
style, material and setting. Yet at the
end we realise that they have both been
groping towards the same “message”—
that life is for living. (The best messages
are not always the most original.)
“The Savage Eye” made its first ap-
pearance here at the Sydney Film Festival
two years ago. It is an aggressively off-
beat film made by a group of three inde-
pendent Hollywood film men, Sydney
Meyers, Joseph Strick and Ben Maddow.
Maddow was the screenwriter of a
worthy documentary, “The Quiet One”;
Strick’s most famous previous work was
a brilliant little film called “Muscle
Beach,” which used a candid-camera
technique and ingenious cutting to lay
bare the pathetic absurdity of people at
play. “The Savage Eye” is an extension
of the same idea. It too uses its candid
camera to turn a pitiless (but, as the title
implies, not impartial) eye on the grotes-
queries and vulgarities of American West
Coast civilisation.
The visual reporting makes a fascinat-
ingly horrifying melange of striptease,
faith-healing session, wrestling shows,
street accidents, beauty parlors, bargain
sales, and above all people, unhappy
people caught agonisingly offguard. But
in a full length film there must be some-
thing to give this raw material a struc-
ture; so the producers have given it a
vague story, from which most of its
weaknesses spring.
The central character is an embittered
divorcee (portrayed by Barbara Baxley, a
most intelligent actress). Hers is the
savage eye: the visuals reflect her loneli-
ness and disillusionment. The commen-
tary is a dialogue between her and a male
voice (Gary Merrill) who introduces him-
self as her conscience; like most voices
of conscience he is something of a bore,
and is given to spouting solemn pseudo-
poetry.
In the end the story tends to take
over from the “documentary,” and the
film from that point becomes more pre-
tentious and more commonplace, as the
heroine rediscovers a love of humanity
* n . a conventional symbols. But
11 1S stlll a film to see-
„ .
J[' HE Joker 1S one of those rare films
that one straight away wants to see
again, not only because it is highly en-
joyable but because it is so hard to
classify; the first time around one does
not know quite what to make of it until
* is half done.
Briefly, it is the story of a Puckish
philanderer who seduces a bored socialite
away from her Voguish existence. But
is only the trapeze on which writer-
director Philippe de Broca performs his
whimsical acrobatics.
At first the film seems to be a funny
enough but not exceptional farce, a piece
of French bedroomery, with an engaging
hero (Jean-Pierre Cassel), some zany
secondary characters, some echoes of
Rene Clair and some snippets clipped
from Tati’s “Mon Oncle.”
But after a while one is aware that de
Broca has a quality of his own, however
much he may borrow. There are episodes
that have no parallel in their inspired
unexpectedness. (For example, one where
the hero, lovesick and tipsy, seizes a bas-
soon in the middle of the night and wakes
the household with a wild and passionate
improvisation.)
There are scenes that recall the
wonderful freedom of a Mack Sennett
comedy. And underneath it all there is a
serious purpose, a plea for the warm-
hearted eccentric in a world of chilling
conformity. I could take more of de
Broca.
MARTIN LONG
ART
THE JUNK JUNKET
The Subterranean Imitation Realists.
Komon Gallery. Sydney.
HThe title was changed from Annandale
Imitation Realists and like the old
one means very little. The whole gallery
with several upstairs rooms including a
bathroom of a vacant flat have been
turned by R. Crothall, Colin Lancely and
Mike Brown into an “environment”
vaguely parallel to, but much more
modest than, “environments” appearing
in New York galleries over the past two
years. There are 177 items apart from
sundry decorations on windows, walls
and plumbing, many of which were the
fruit of collaboration by the three artists
and half a dozen co-workers. Of the
paintings or sculptures, the first notable
thing is a calculated rejection of accepted
materials in favor of a vast array of
bottles and tops, plastic bits, toys, plates,
cups, joiners, offcuts, nude photographs,
ads, confetti, old cigarettes, tins and
other nameable and unnameable things.
Larger works obviously began with a
sheet of virgin masonite and at the finish
they have become writhing, gurgling
stews of collage, lettering, cartoon dood-
les and several applications of lacquer or
paint. Some of the handling suggests the
abandon of automatism, the outpourings
of the subconscious. The world of Art
is consciously rejected but its influence
comes out for there are unmistakable
echoes of Dubuffet, Miro, Picasso, Dada,
Surrealism, Arte Brute, Primitive Sculp-
ture and a dozen brands of abstraction.
The guiding emotion varies greatly from
piece to piece: whimsy, fun, savage satire,
irony, lascivious wit, disgust, hatred,
adolescent brashness, playfulness, nutti-
ness, rubbishy and moronic corn. Unlike
junkists overseas there is more confusion
and bewilderment than any morbid
fascination for horrific or revolting com-
binations of garbage. Perhaps the element
of fun softens it up.
Some of the items might be trite in-
ventories of an average subconscious, just
one or two superficial layers peeled off
to reveal disconnected fragments, half
remembered experiences, crude sexual
fantasies and the usual fleshy appetites
all competing like a hundred non-stop
commercials. Others look as confusing as
one of those vast Xmas stockings raffled
each year by the local fruitshop.
If, in the words of the catalogue, Imita


tion Realism “is an eloquent Testament
to the absurdity of an economic order
based on chaos, waste, ugliness and
misery,” the point is well made, though
perhaps equally well made by other
manifestations of communal vulgarity.
The chaos here has gone further to show
modern civilization’s most squalid product
■ —the ego-less, non-moral mechanical-
animal. Colorful titles like “The Snake
Valley Boys Having a grog party,” “Mug
Lair,” “The People Eater,” “Sugar Pie
Trinket Box,” “Over the Peaches and
Under the Corn,” “Yah,” “The Money
Animal,” “Satyr-Scenting Nymphono-
maniac,” “The King of the Bicycle Boys
Rejoices,” “Two Pink Lovelies,” and
dozens of others help to sharpen images
that sometimes threaten to drown in their
own complexity. Asserting the value of
no values, the Imitation Realists, as a
by-product, are reviving popular fancies
more ancient than the Gingerbread Man,
namely, the making of something out of
unrelated and discarded fragments.
J. HENSHAW
LACK OF DIRECTION
William Ferguson. Earle Backen.
Angus Gallery. Melbourne.
is a great deal to admire in
William Ferguson’s first exhibition
of paintings. He was a very talented
student, and it is a little surprising that
he has waited so long to exhibit. The
reason seems to be that he has not yet
found a fully satisfactory style. He
uses many styles competently, and
handles a lot of sound ideas quite clearly,
but the exhibition as a whole is more
promising than accomplished. In the best
work, which ranges over both subject
painting and abstraction, he reveals a
sure grasp of appropriate and lucid
symbols, and infuses an individual feel-
ing into the work. The lively, unaffected
movement of most of the paintings
demonstrates a well-cultivated natural
talent which will always make him a
painter worth watching. Yet overall he
lacks a certain force and direction. There
is still apparent the student’s interest in
painting for its own sake, the amateur’s
delight in seeing something made. Very
few of the paintings pursue ideas to the
point where they compel attention. Even
his bold and assertive use of color fails to
stimulate because it is too obviously a
surface effect, with no marked relation
to the basic theme. Judging from this
show alone, his most profitable direction
would be towards more subdued symbolist
or abstract painting, which would permit
him to explore his general ideas more
deeply, and bring his considerable skill
for graceful and imaginative composition
more into evidence. With more single-
mindedness in his work, he could be an
important painter.
In Earle Backen we see a widely experi-
enced and highly competent engraver.
He has studied extensively overseas and
his work is a telling blend of thoroughly
absorbed influences and native originality.
Like so many engravers, he has impecc-
able color values and a finely developed
sense of formal organisation. Many, I
think, might find his world of neat
abstraction rather enclosed. The works
which show marked Japanese learnings,
along with the pure abstractions seem
removed from reality, and a certain fin
de siecle air pervades a great deal of the
exhibition. Nonetheless, the effort of
adjusting oneself to the spirit of the
work is worthwhile.
BILL HANNAN
THEATRE
MIRACLES DON'T HAPPEN TWICE
The Miracle Worker. William Gibson.
Comedy Theatre. Melbourne.
The Would-Be Gentleman. Moliere.
Emerald Hill Theatre. Melbourne.
lyiß Gibson does his best to make a
conventional three-act melodrama
out of the early education of Helen
Keller. He fills out the story with a lot
of nonsense about the failure of Captain
Keller to understand his son (as pre-
sented, a ridiculous young man if ever
there was one), and provides everyone
who can speak with plenty of pre-cooked
dialogue on phoney issues. There are
some careful irrelevant effects (notably
at the end of the second act) and much
heavy emphasis on obvious points. In
fact, there is very little to be said for
Mr Gibson’s treatment of his subject—
ultimately, perhaps, only this, that it pro-
vides an opportunity for skilful actresses
to impersonate a couple of interesting
people—Helen herself, and her famous
teacher, Annie Sullivan.
In this production, three child actresses
are taking turns with the part of Helen.
The one I saw, Suzanne Beel, is very
good indeed; there is considerable pathos
in her performance, and even more vita-
lity. American actress Bronia Stefan
plays Miss Sullivan, and this is a really
fine performance, warm and fully believ-
able. It is almost worth seeing the show
just for these two. The production by
Porter Van Zandt, also an American, is
very smooth.
TTundreds of years and thousands, pro-
JLi bably millions of footnotes, separate
Moliere from Emerald Hill. So do a
language, and the intimidating “One
True Church” reputation of the Comedie
Francaise. Despite all of this, Wal
Cherry’s version of “Le Bourgeois
Gentilhomme” is a triumphant success.
Moliere —or someone who fits his des-
cription remarkably well —lives on this
stage, and his visit is not to be missed.
The production is stylish, beautifully
costumed, and vividly alive. There is
some splendid acting—from David James
as Jourdain, from Joe Sorbello and
George Whaley, each in a number of
roles, and, best of all, from Alisa Tizard
as Nicole. Miss Tizard’s is one of the
brightest talents on the Melbourne stage.
Her acting has an unstudied ease and
perfection of detail, and her dancing and
dance arrangements (in this case, to the
original music of Lully) are remarkably
fresh and graceful. One or two of the
smaller parts are not well taken, but, as
in this company’s previous production,
even the unsuccessful attempts are
clearly attempts in the right direction.
There are several superb moments: one
passage of interlocking dialogue early in
the second act is, technically, one of the
most exciting things I have seen for
years.
There is one serious and puzzling pro-
duction weakness —it is frequently diffi-
cult and sometimes simply impossible to
hear what the actors are saying. Part of
the trouble seems to come from the
theatre, but too much of it comes from
slovenly speech: Eric Coladetti, whose
acting is otherwise admirable, is the
worst offender in this regard. It is sur-
prising that Mr Cherry, normally so
thorough in the training of his cast,
should fall down in so obvious a way.
JAMES MURPHY
A CLOSED SHOP
Revue. Union Theatre. Melbourne.
TThis year’s SRC revue makes a half-
A hearted attempt to arrest the down-
ward trend of revue over the last three
years. This is seen in good (though
hackneyed) scripts provided by old-hand
master of ceremonies, David Collins, but
it fails because of shockingly inept pro-
duction. With the exception of “Ten-
nessee,” a lovely spoof on Mr Williams,


to newly uncopyrighted Gilbert & Sul-
livan songs, Bill Morgan’s production
does not show controlled organisation of
actors nor ability to excite their enthu-
siasm.
The best item apart from delicious
quickies was David Kendall’s beautifully
timed “Frank Melbourne,” a sly send-up
of every major sermon from every major
pulpit (irrespective of denomination). Dy
Nicholls looked and acted superbly
Hogarthian throughout, Rosalie Horner
had good presence and Darren Kelly
revealed the best muscular control of his
movements.
The worst aspect of this revue, how-
ever, is the attitude implied by the mater-
ial. Sketches that were not stock gags
were nearly all concerned with private-
club-type “shop” attitudes. Revues of the
past were aimed at a general audience
and were often brilliant. But this year’s
revue is aimed at undergraduates (Moms
and Dads too, of course) and at the
lowest level of undergraduate apprecia-
tion: an adolescent (albeit healthy) delight
in lewd innuendo. There is not one item
to engage the intellect, and this should
be the sort of stuff for a university revue;
strong social satire and some intelligent
humor.
ADRIAN RAWLINS
RADIO
ONE GOOD SEED
Good Afternoon. 2GB. Sydney.
rpHERE was a welcome sign in Sydney
A last week that a new seed has been
planted in the wasteland of afternoon
radio, one that might produce some-
thing more useful than the withered vines
left over from the 1930’5. The Mac-
quarie station, 2GB, broke some ground
with a programme entitled ‘Good After-
noon’, in which no announcer will ring
housewives to ask them inane questions,
no one will be invited to “ring for a
record”, no dreary dearie will grind her
way through a programme called
Ermintrude’s Choice, and no Cheerful
Charlie will intrude.
This, in afternoon radio, is a revolu-
tionary step. The ABC’s “light” station,
having given news at 1.30, weather and
music to 2 p.m., provides an hour of
“great names on record”, then runs out
of inspiration and invites listeners to
“ring for a record” until 4 p.m. Its
“heavy” station offers “music” to 2
o’clock, 75 minutes with Shostakovitch
and Hindemith, and then a 15-minute
chat about dear old Rabindranath Tagore.
Despairing listeners who tune to the
commercial stations are normally
greeted with a miscellany of records
ranging from Peter Dawson’s earliest to
Nellie Melba’s latest, with occasional
singing commercials and much crushing
chatter from Binnie Lum, Andrea and
various male announcers. At 4 or 5 p.m.
radio presumes that everyone suddenly
wants to hear the latest pops and flops.
Apparently 2GB made some attempt
to discover whether anyone listened to
this stuff, and its guarded language in
publicity releases suggests the results
shocked someone. “Many listeners,
especially young housewives, could not
find any programmes to suit their tastes
and had been attracted away from
radio.”
This should not have been surprising,
when television had been spending large
sums to make its afternoon programmes
more attractive, win audiences, and im-
press sponsors, with fair success. Tele-
vision is prepared to take risks. In Mel-
bourne, HSV is opposing Tommy Hanlon
of GTV with the Purex Specials series,
which include hour studies of The
Glamor Trap, The Trapped Housewife,
The Single Woman, and so on, together
with The World of Sophia Loren and
Jackie Kennedy in India.
The Macquarie station in Sydney
claims to have found that “the majority
of listeners preferred the magazine-type
radio programme (with) a quickly
changing pattern and the widest
possible variety of entertaining items.”
•And in ‘Good Afternoon it has
set out to broadcast along those
lines, with news, interviews “Ask,’
a book reading, five minutes with Carolyn
Bernsten —a former Quiz Kid grow into
a trenchant young woman—a travelogue,
and other items lasting from 30 seconds
to 10 minutes.
The fact that these include a quarter-
hour women’s serial indicates that 2GB
is not breaking all contact with the past.
The only new thing about the serial is
that it will last two weeks from beginning
to tearful end. Despite this survival of
the tearydearie, ‘Good Afternoon’ could
attract listeners from television, the
ABC, and other commercial stations.
In this instance, “could” is the potent
word. It depends on the station’s ability
to estimate the intelligence level of
modern housewives, and evaluate the
quality of the material it offers them.
The station’s afternoon format be-
tween 1.30 and 4 is based on 60 per cent,
talk and 40 per cent, music, which will
necessarily demand close attention from
its listeners, whether stationary or moving
a portable around with them. If the
(programme material is not correctly
pitched and reasonably gripping, the
listener will quickly tune to undemand-
ing music.
This is both the danger and, if 2GB’s
experiment is a success, the big chance
for a break-through, leading to further
changes—overdue changes—in daytime
radio programmes.
DON BASS
MUSIC
SEAM SHOWING
Two recitals by Marian Anderson.
Sydney Town Hall.
Hungarian Quartet Concert. Sydney
Town Hall.
C|f the eleven concerts and recitals given
in Sydney in the last fortnight those
given by the Hungarian Quartet and
Marian Anderson were especially note-
worthy. The Hungarian Quartet have
demonstrated in their Sydney concerts, if
there were ever any doubt about it, that
they are one of the finest string quartets
playing today. Whatever they play sounds
as polished and well-drilled as if they
had never played anything else, and at
the same time as fresh and vital as if
it were being performed for the first
time. Their final concert here, the second
of Musica Viva’s all-Beethoven-string-
quartet series, included a wonderful per-
formance of the A Minor Quartet, opus
131. This was the high-water mark of
their concerts. Chamber music of this
calibre is very rare and we are unlikely
to hear the equal of this great group.
Miss Anderson’s magnificent voice is
by itself sufficient reason for going to
hear her. Her low notes have an almost
organ-like sonorousness and richness; her
upper register is warmer, more human,
but no less beautiful. The only complaints
I have to make about the sound she
produces is that the seam between high
and low shows through, extends, in fact,
over part of her lower register, and that
she consistently tends to sing ever so
slightly flat. The flatness is hardly per-
ceptible and not at all distracting in the
concert hall.
Slower numbers like Schubert’s “Die
Doppelganger” and Brahms’ “Von ewiger
Liebe” show Miss Anderson’s voice off
to best advantage. In some of the faster
items, like Britten’s “The Ploughboy,” she
seemed to, as it were, lack the space she
needs to move in, and there was a sense
of hurry and strain.
Most of Miss Anderson’s interpreta-
tions are very carefully, almost fussily,
worked out. The best parts of her recitals
were the items where she seemed to be
singing for the sake of singing—notably
in the negro spirituals.
JOHN SMALL


THE RED PAGE
THAT CERTAIN BOOK
SHADOW OF THE SHAMAN
By W. C. WENTWORTH
fpHiRTY years ago, I remember, we
were inclined, in judging a book, to
set great store on its peroration. Three
examples I recall —“Appearance and
Reality,” “The Decline of the West,”
and “The Golden Bough.”
Bradley’s famous phrases contrasting
“the poor thing of shreds and tatters”
with “the living and breathing reality
which our hearts found desirable” were
appraised beside Spengler’s portentous
perspectives—“the horizons of geological
and stellar time which stretch out in
the light-world of our eyes” and “the
task which historic necessity has set”
for our generation. (This so long ago?
Ducunt Fata volentem, nolentem tra-
hunt. Well might we wonder as we reject,
even now.)
But did either Bradley or the (trans-
lated) Spengler quite measure up to
Frazer’s finale, with its “web woven of
three different threads —the black thread
of magic, the red thread of religion,
and the white thread of science”?
Today, it is rather the fashion to
scoff at Frazer. Serious anthropologists
naturally prefer something less elegant
and interesting. Graves is busy discover-
ing yet more esoteric fossils in the
quarry where Frazer worked (but these
are obviously devices of the Evil One,
put there for the deliberate deception of
Mankind) and the popularisers (led —
natch —by a lady from France) have
discovered in it a rich band of pay-
dirt. Clearly the whole thing no longer
warrants serious attention. But ....
Today, we are inclined to view
Frazer’s Dying King (The King must
Die, indeed! Really!) as a romantic gloss
upon our past and all the best
Romantics have gone off whoring after
the Triple Goddess anyway. The Realists
have become reconciled to the washing
of dishes to the glory of their particular
god, and accordingly devote themselves
to detailed description with a firm and
fervid denial of the possibility of any
rational belief. The Systematists are in-
clined to see less of Magic in the old
order —pattern, if pattern there be, must
be concerned more with the mechanisms
of authority and the possession of
material things.
So we are all inclined to look back
rather loftily at Frazer’s account of
these old awes, much as the cosmonaut
engineer of today might look back on
Jules Verne’s description of a voyage
to the Moon, with its by-passing of any
need for toilet arrangements. And
yet... .
Even by the most realistic of current
standards there was a real power in
Magic if people found it magical. The
belief may have been without founda-
tion, but the belief was real. The “awe”
was not just the creature of Frazer’s
imagination—it was not merely a part
of what he was dealing in. It compre-
hended the essence of his thesis. And
was this so very unrealistic, so very un-
practical?
Tn the few far corners of the world still
left (The Dong with the Luminous
Nose was B.F.—Before Freud, and, in-
deed, Before Frazer) we can see, even
now, peoples who, from an environment
which we would rate impossibly sordid,
have managed to extract (though it may
only be in the half-life of retrospect that
they manage to maintain) a sense of
purpose and destiny which we ourselves
would do well to envy. No doubt a good
deal of romantic nonsense has been
talked and written, one way and another,
about the rites of our own “Indo-
European” ancestors (Frazer used the
word “Aryan” while it was still respec-
table); no doubt their world differed
from our reprise of it in the same
fashion as life in an old sailing ship
must have differed from the picture out-
lined for the boys by Henty. Neverthe-
less, do not these remnant-peoples of
today show us a way of life which had
for them a significance which our way
of life does not appear able to create
for us? Surely there was a light upon the
land and sea then. If only. . . .
I do not know to what extent “The
Golden Bough” really broke new ground.
The First Edition must have come out
a full thirty years before I read it, and
the revision and expansion was virtually
complete before the outbreak of the
First War, even though the final appen-
dix was published only a couple of years
before the outbreak of the Second. But
I believe (and believing makes it true)
that they broke new ground for me.
Frazer made errors enough—perhaps the
whole thing was an error—but these, for
me at least, were the errors of a pioneer.
And this must be, in the nature of things:
and surely it should not lessen the
pioneer’s honour. What meticulous,
semantic, Transatlantic critique of the
Critique would count against Kant? Is
Toynbee anything more than Spengler
and soda? But today, of course, we are
w much better informed.
Frazer started in his Golden Bough to
investigate the origins of a myth con-
nected with the grove at Nemi; and
“The priest who slew the slayer
And shall himself be slain”;
and he found himself in the position of
a child who has succeeded in opening
the back of his father’s watch. The
hands, he found, did not simply go
round of their own accord —unsuspected
complexities lay behind. (The watch-
maker understands it all, of course. Or
does he? The tension of the spring re-
quires a theory of metallurgy—a theory
of molecular structure an atomic
theory—And the physicist never quite
seems to reach what he hopes for and
Peer Gynt feared, the nothingness at the
centre. Must the sociologist stand in the
same case?)
To me, then, it seemed that Frazer
was finding in the old “Aryan” practices
something which was universally true.
To me, now, it seems that he tended
overmuch to see the world through
classical glasses. (What else, indeed,
could be expected from the author of the
commentary on Fausanias?). But does
that make his first vision any the less
valid in the European field? Or does it
render less remarkable his recognition
(though he himself was the first to ack-
nowledge his debt to such earlier
scholars as Mannhardt) of the signifi-
cance of folk lore remnants.
“It can hardly be too often repeated,
since it is not yet generally recognised,
that in spite of their fragmentary
character the popular superstitions and
customs of the peasantry are by far
the fullest and most trustworthy evi-
dence we possess as to the primitive
religion of the Aryans. Indeed the
primitive Aryan, in all that regards
his mental fibre and texture, is not ex-
tinct. He is amongst us to this day.
The great intellectual and moral forces
which have revolutionised the educated
world have scarcely affected the
peasant. In his inmost beliefs he is what
his forefathers were in the days when
forest trees still grew and squirrels
played on the ground where Rome and
London now stand.
Hence every inquiry into the primi-
tive religion of the Aryans should
either start from the superstitious be-
liefs and observances of the peasantry,
or should at least be constantly checked
and controlled by reference to them.
Compared with the evidence afforded
by living tradition, the testimony of
ancient books on the subject of early
religion is worth very little. For litera-
ture accelerates the advance of thought
at a rate which leaves the slow progress
of opinion by word of mouth at an
immeasurable distance behind. Two or


three generations of literature may do
more to change thought than two or
three thousand years of traditional life.
But the mass of the people who do
not read books remain unaffected by
the mental revolution wrought by
literature; and so it has come about
that in Europe at the present day the
superstitious beliefs and practices which
have been handed down by word of
mouth are generally of a far more
archaic type than the religion depicted
in the most ancient literature of the
Aryan race.”
So runs the preface to his first edition
—but he could not see the shadows of
the shamans in their bear-cave under the
Pyrenees or envisage the far older
shamblers (shamblers, but still men, it
would seem) of South Africa. The
history of humanity is certainly longer
and perhaps more painful than Frazer
would have had it; his perspectives (as
we now see) were foreshortened, even
though the critics of his own generation
judged them too deep.
The illiterate peasantry of Europe has
lost its anthropological innocence more
quickly than Frazer envisaged; and to-
day, all over the world, the field which
seemed so immense is dwindling to
nothing. And even if the “light and
temporary bridges” which were Frazer’s
hypotheses are now broken down, “The
Golden Bough” still remains as a mine
of information, a “repertory of facts”—
the essential material for those who
reject the theories for which the facts
were originally collected. This, too,
Frazer foresaw.
And so, by any standard, “The Golden
Bough” remains a work of monumental
significance. The revulsion against its
elegances (how easy it is to judge the
follies of one’s youth) will, in the long
run, come full circle. Shall we join the
author?
“Our long voyage of discovery is
over and our bark has drooped her
weary sails in port at last. Once more
we take the road to Nemi. It is even-
ing, and as we climb the long slope of
the Appian Way up to the Alban Hills,
we look back and see the sky aflame
with sunset, its golden glory resting
like the aureole of a dying saint over
Rome and touching with a crest of fire
the dome of St. Peter’s. The sight once
seen can never be forgotten, but we
turn from it and pursue our way
darkling along the mountain side, till
we come to Nemi and look down on
the lake in its deep hollow, now fast
disappearing in the evening shadows.
The place has changed but little since
Diana received the homage of her wor-
shippers in the sacred grove. The
temple of the sylvan goddess, indeed,
has vanished and the King of the Wood
no longer stands sentinel over the
Golden Bough. But Nemi’s woods are
still green, and as the sunset fades
above them in the west, there comes
to us, borne on the swell of the wind,
the sound of the church bells of
Ariccia ringing the Angelus. Ave
Maria! Sweet and solemn they chime
out from the distant town and die
lingeringly away across the wide Cam-
pagnan marshes. Le roi est mort, vive
le roi! Ave Maria!
In the earlier edition, it was from
Rome, not Ariccia, that the Angelus
came. But “the church-bells of Rome
cannot be heard, even in the stillest
weather, on the shores of the Lake of
Nemi.” Perhaps.. ..
TERRIBLE GOINGS ON
By NANCY KEESING
Picnic Races. Dymphna Cusack. Heine-
mann. 20s.
A Pound of Saffron. M. K. Joseph.
Gollancz. 18s. 9d.
The Far Road. George Johnston. Col-
lins. 20s.
Hills End. Ivan Southall. Angus and
Robertson. 18s. 6d.
TAymphna Cusack’s people in “P'cnic
Races” know of nothing as up-to-
date as the “CP” though they cheerfully
bandy the epithet “Bolshevik.” In period
the book seems to date from 1949-51 or
thereabouts, and it is set in a town
called Gubba.
Gubba is having a centenary. The
wicked capitalist-squattocracy who busily
foster soil erosion (see p. 86, p. 257 etc.)
favor picnic races to celebrate Gubba’s
100 years. The sterling proletarians and
thinking people, clergy, schoolteacher
and so on, favor a library and com-
munity centre. Yes, the decc _t
working men of this ex-goldmining town
hate the idea of a race meeting. Gubbans
(sic) would have detested Lambing Flat
where one of the first functions ever
organised was a race meeting after
which Bushranger Frank Gardiner stole
the best horse there and rode off on it to
begin his “wild career.” The wicked
squatters moreover are trying to make
Gubba into a tourist centre with a first
class hotel; remember this is BM (Before
Motels). Another naughty developer is
a firm called “Ferns Bilp” who, not
content with being “Blackbirding
Monopolists” who are “swallowing every
honest trader” in the Islands, now want
Gubba.
Then there is an incredible young
“socialite” named Eden who belongs to
the squattocracy but begins to love a
sturdy Gubban, Greg, whose middle
class family, to her amazement, own a
comfortable, tastefully furnished house
with a bathroom! Her education at two
of Australia’s “best schools” had not
prepared her for such a shock. Flere is
where Greg kisses Eden.
“It was not what she expected, but
as he kissed her she knew it was what
she had been waiting for. Just as un-
expected was the flame that swept through
her at his touch. In all the kissing she had
known she had never felt this sweet wild
joy, this tide bearing her beyond her-
self and the moment, sweeping question
and caution before it. Her cynicism was
gone, her defences down.
The moon moved high over the valley.
Time did not count any more ... He
switched on the ignition . . .
“I’m taking you home,” he said, his
voice unsteady.
“No,” she cried before she had control
of herself.
“Yes! If we stay here something will
happen we’ll both regret.”
What else? Terrible goings on at
neighboring picnic races with the
sauattocracy, old, middle-aged and teen-
aged drunk, disorderly and wrecking
Jaguar cars with gay, un-money-con-
scious abandon : “Upstairs, the flood-
tide of lust and liquor swept uninhibitedly
on.” A fake lord. An aboriginal swim-
ming hope refused permission to swim
with the white baddies. A pair of doughty,
ancient, male goodies who have feuded
since Gubba was a pup, but find in
shared trouble a great pacifier. Pervad-
ing all, a thesis that all money in excess
of subsistence is dishonestly come by
and recklessly squandered.
Why do I think the badness of this
book is important? Apart, that is, from
the sloppy amateurism of its prose;
from its outmoded class-struggle plot;
from its falsification of the nature of
country towns? Because sometimes Aus-
tralia and Australian authors need some
protection from themselves. I object to
the raw material of satire being treated
dead-pan, dressed up expensively (in a
puerile dustjacket) and foisted not only
upon Australians but upon the world.
What intelligent reader having paid 20s.
for a book like this will feel inclined to
sample other Australian offerings in a
hurry? It is to be hoped, for instance,
that “Picnic Races” will not queer the
pitch for two other recent, and good,
Australian novels from the same pub-
lisher whose authors are as yet far less
well known that Dymphna Cusack:
“The Fringe Dwellers” by Nene Gare,
and “The Scarlet Blossom” by Craig
Stirling.
Everything about this book—its con-
tent, style, and price—is bad and the
cynicism connected with it as a whole
is worst of all and important enough to
protest at.
M. K. Joseph’s “A Pound of Saffron,”
a contemporary exploration of a
Machiavellian schemer, set in the Uni-
versity of Auckland, New Zealand, is
gripping and exciting. The author has
peopled the university with convincing
characters and graced it with an imagi-
nary Chair or two. M. K. Joseph is not


indebted to C. P. Snow: with major,
but imaginable, alterations its plot might
be applied to any other setting where a
ruthlessly selfish bid for power can be
masked as disinterested benevolence. But
having made Rankin, the arriviste, subtle
careerist, a professor, the author builds
his novel consummately well. He con-
vinces us that his characters are what
he says they are, brilliant and less
brilliant teachers, c tudents, businessmen,
not only by telling us so, but by making
each person speak and act in ways that
persuade us of their indisputable identi-
ties. Most of his writing bears the sparkle
of real imagination. Here is one brief
excerpt from a conversation. Rankin
(Machiavelli) is Professor of European
Drama and is using a student production
of “Antony and Cleopatra,” and wide-
spread lobbying for the establishment of
a city open-air theatre, to further his
own ambitions. Linda Chenault is a part-
Maori student cast as Cleopatra. Mal-
travers, another central figure, is a middle-
aged, well-balanced philosophy lecturer
who says little, sees and hears a good
deal, thinks more.
“No reading of the facts is true in
itself,” said Rankin, “we can only say
that it’s consistent.”
“The gostaks distim the doshes,” said
Maltravers oracularly.
“You’ll have to explain that,” said
Linda, smiling at him.
“It’s a nonsensical statement which
exhibits perfect consistency. A gostak is
defined as that which distims doshes. A
dosh is that which is distimmed by gos-
taks. Distimming is that which is done by
gostaks to doshes. There’s consistency
for you.”
Rankin seemed to be laughing silently
again.
“What more can you ask? At least
it’s nice and tidy. Would you rather
have unanswerable nonsense like those
Zen Buddhist riddles —you remember
the famous one —‘If two hands make a
sound of clapping, what sound does one
hand make?’”
“Maybe it makes the sound of good-
bye” said Linda.
One of M. K. Joseph’s characters, a
physics lecturer named Marston, is first
blackmailed, then hounded by Rankin
who guardedly and covertly uses
McCarthyist smear tactics to discredit
the young man and prevent him from
taking up a travelling fellowship; for
Marston once, briefly, flirted with the
“CP”.
“The Far Road” is a horrifying
account of chicanery in China in 1945.
A group of Chinese speculators and
corrupt officials have made half a million
people flee in panic from their homes
during a time of drought, famine and
war. Two journalists, an American and
an Australian, uncover the appalling
situation. How much can and should
they tell? How adequate are their own
personalities to emerge with integrity
and dignity from the tragedy, horror
and scope of what they have seen?
George Johnston writes his story (I
suppose it would have to be classified
“adventure”), with sureness, restraint
and yet with color. It is not a pleasant
book, and since the events it describes
happened long ago it could scarcely be
called a crusading one, but of its kind
it is an excellent novel.
“Hills End” by the author of the
“Simon Black” series is intended for
older children to whom it ought un-
doubtedly to appeal. However in its
delineation of character and exploration
of rather complicated motives and value
judgments it might well interest adults,
too. Families could read and discuss it
together with considerable pleasure —
indeed a few of the questions it poses
may prove a little complicated for the
young to handle on their own. But
adults who read “Hills End” must not
spoil the youngsters’ enjoyment by peer-
ing too closely at i mprobabilities in the
exciting plot, o’* by sneering at patches of
stereotyped dialogue—remember it has
been written for boys and girls.
IN THE SUEZ SEWERS
The Road to Suez. Erskine B.
Childers. Macgibbon and Kee.
375. 6d.
On October 29, 1956, the Israeli
army crossed the Armistice line and
invaded the Sinai Peninsula. The follow-
ing day the governments of France and
Britain delivered an ultimatum to the
combatants and followed this up by
attacking Egypt and by vetoing in the
Security Council a US resolution calling
upon Israel to withdraw and upon others
to refrain from the use of threat or
force. The crisis that ensued convulsed
Britain; a Prime Minister’s career was
abruptly terminated by it and his Govern-
ment stood condemned by most of the
world for it. The cost of the action to
Britain alone was more than £250
million.
The ostensible reason for all this, if
one may recapitulate a little further, was
that Israel, a young peaceloving democ-
racy surrounded by hostile Arab neigh-
bors and provoked by their commando
raids, was left no choice but to attack
the principal base of Arab aggression in
order to check a massive imminent
Egyptian attack. Britain and France,
alarmed by Israel’s action drew up a
hasty ultimatum to prevent war spreading
and to make sure that the international
waterway stayed out of the hands of
“the Hitler of the Nile”.
If this is the popular view of the
events of that stormy period, and it is
one reinforced since by Eden's Memoirs,
the picture that emerges from Erskine
Childers long closely-reasoned account
is vastly different. By careful sifting of
the evidence he has laid bare the whole
squalid affair. No party to it could be
said to be blameless but in his view
guilt certainly lies heaviest on the heads
of three men Eden, Mollet and Ben
Gurion. The ones to emerge with dignity
and not a little credit are Nasser and his
countrymen.
“The Road to Suez” is not a polemic.
It is a scholarly account of Western-
Arab relations, admirably documented,
serious in mood, tenacious and impartial
in method, and as far as one can check
the source material, substantially accurate
in detail. It traces the emergence of
Western attitudes towards the Arabs and
shows how they were called into play
during the crisis and the narrative ends
with a lengthy discussion of the nature
of the internal social revolution now
taking place in the Middle East. Having
been led cautiously by this Sherlock
Holmes through all the arguments as if
through a minefield one finds it difficult
to resist concurring in his final indict-
ment: “In deliberate and elaborate decep-
tion of citizens, Parliament, Common-
wealth, Atlantic Allies and United
Nations, a Conservative British Govern-
ment embarked on planned, premeditated
aggression; planned an aggression osten-
sibly to save that waterway but knowing
that it would be ruined for months; ex-
ploited clear foreknowledge of an act of
aggression by another state (Israel); and
proclaimed the whole as upholding inter-
national law and morality, indeed as con-
sonant with the United Nations Charter.”
Childers argues that both France and
Britain, before the question of the Aswan
loans and Nasser’s policy of nationalisa-
tion came up, had decided to pull Nasser
down by force. Their invasion plans had
been drawn up in early August, two
months before Israel made a move.
France was already committed to help
Israel and had in fact agreed to send
her arms a month before Nasser’s Czech
arms deal. Britain, for her part, pinned
her hopes on the Baghdad Pact and Nuri
Said in Iraq, and was prepared to go
along with France and turn a blind eye
on Israel.
Israel was not without ambitions too.
Her long-term intention was to seize
Sinai and while professing peace was at
the same time sending raiders into Egypt
and Jordan, restricting the work of UN


LEARN
STORY
WRITING
STOTT’S CAN TRAIN YOU
SUCCESSFULLY
STOTT’S will provide you with interesting,
practical Home-study Instruction of the
highest quality. under the guidance of
thoroughly experienced Instructors.
Write at once for your copy of STOTT'S
Literary Jlrochure. sent without obligation.
1
15!) llinders Lane, .Melbourne; 119 Castle-
reagh St.. Sydney; 290 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane.; 21 Grenfell St.. Adelaide;
22 Howard St., Berth.
--CUT Ayr) MAIL THIS COUPOX — —
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDKKSS
.AGE. .. . iB.1162)
observers and exploiting Western-Egyp-
tian tension. Wanting credit all for her-
self and knowing she would be covered
by French help, she advanced her own
D Day. The Western ultimatum ordering
the cease fire and the withdrawal of the
combatants to a distance of 10 miles
either side of the Canal had been drawn
up four days before and Anglo-French
forces had been mobilised two weeks
beforehand. French pressure on a sick
Eden led to the ultimatum being delivered
prematurely when Israeli forces were still
120 miles from the canal zone.
Set in this context the Egyptian posi-
tion was impossible to maintain. In the
face of a ferocious attack from Britain
and France and already outnumbered 3-1
in the air and on the ground by an
Israel heavily reinforced by France,
Egyptian forces, writes Childers, still gave
a good account of themselves. There
never was a smashing Israeli victory nor
was there a popular revolt against Nasser
as the West predicted. The other Arab
states stayed out because their aid was
not sought.
This was certainly true of Iraq where
1 had the misfortune to be at the time.
The ultimatum shook Baghdad like an
earthquake and I had the sorrow of
seeing my own students being tear-gassed
and beaten up by a pro-British govern-
ment. What Childers has to say about
Iraq seems very much to the point. I
believe he is telling the truth.
His general thesis may not convince
others but it will at least deepen one's
curiosity and unease. More important,
he has set up a framework w'ithin which
discussion is possible. Those who think
truth emerges by a process other than
patient investigation are welcome to
follow the old Chinese proverb: “Do not
pursue your enemy; sit down on the
river's bank and wait for his body to float
by.” Those, too, who still believe that
goodwill motivates foreign policy or that
the language of diplomacy aims to reveal
rather than conceal will find the course
of Childers’ narrative deeply disturbing.
Perhaps it is not gratuitous to insert
a marginal comment here. There are
many aspects of Israel that merit serious
criticism, the anti-intellectual content of
the Zionist mystique is one that comes to
mind, but I suspect liberals are chary of
taking a line for it raises possible charges
of antisemitism, the more so since Israel
in the Eichmann case elected to speak
on behalf of world Jewry. The piety of
such critics is understandable but their
silence on the Suez issue permits such
myths as that of "the underdog struggling
for survival” to circulate undisturbed.
The author, son of an Irish Cabinet
Minister and grandson of Erskine "Riddle
of the Sands” Childers, was in Australia
in 1952, and for a time contributed to
the monthly magazine “Voice”.
DOUGLAS TERRY
FAINT BREATH OF LIBERALISM
Britain and China. Evan Luard.
Chatto & Windus. 41s. 6d.
orwell once attacked James Burn-
ham for basing his predictions on
the assumption that the tendencies pre-
vailing at the time of writing would
inevitably continue to prevail. Since
then things have got worse: now it is not
only assumed that present trends will
inevitably continue but often the results
of such a continuation are anticipated
and treated as already established facts.
A supposed future is projected into the
present and the result is a distortion of
reality. Chinese power has developed
very rapidly, it will inevitably continue
to do so, therefore let us credit her now
with the power it is predicted she will
one day have. .British power has
declined, the downward curve must con-
tinue, therefore we can safely treat her
as already washed up. This is the way
in which many commentators, including
Mr Luard, seem to proceed.
Mr Luard writes: “China is today the
most powerful nation in the Far East.
Britain’s influence there is negligible.
C hina may soon be the most powerful
nation of the world. Britain is already
now only a second-class power.” Ail
these statements are either false or are
gross over-simplifications. Who would
guess from them that the aim of the
Chinese leaders at their most optimistic
(i.e., in 1958-59) was to catch up w'ith
the British economy by 1970? Even
if they succeed in this, which is very
doubtful considering the present chaos
in China, income per head will still be
less than one-twelfth that of the British
and China wall still, of course, lag far,
far behind America and the Soviet
Union. Britain today can only be called
a second-class power if one is prepared
to class China as third class.
The best parts of this book are the
historical ones. Mr Luard gives a useful
summary of relations between the two
countries in the hundred years before
the Communists came to power, and a
much more detailed account, including
interesting chapters on the experiences
of missionaries and merchants, of events
since then. One of the important things
to emerge from this account seems to
me to be that the celebrated British
pragmatic approach to politics, which
may well have been a source of strength
when the ideological content of inter-
national affairs was small, is a positive
disadvantage in dealing with totalitarian
regimes. To take issues “one by one”
and to judge each case “on its merits”
is to handicap oneself unduly in dealing
with an opponent who subordinates all
particular issues and cases to over-
riding ideological aims. When a pattern
clearly exists one should recognise it
and take it into account.
When he leaves description for pre-
scription, Mr Luard is unconvincing. He
recognises the characteristic features of
totalitarianism but he does not take them
seriously. After saying, tentatively, that
these features "may derive too, in part,
from the frustration born of exclusion,”
he proceeds as if this is an established
fact and bases a whole policy on it.
Britain, no longer described as a second-
rate power but as "the only major
Western power in relation with the new
China,” should work to bring Chinese
isolation to an end and to “integrate that
country into the community of nations.”
There should be more contacts between
the Chinese people and her own (who
destroyed the old ones?). She should use
her influence, no longer described as
negligible, to get the Chinese Nationalists
out of the off-shore islands and to get
Communist China into the UN. The
activities of the British Council in Hong
Kong should be expanded and that
colony should be made a shop window to
advertise to the Chinese peoples “the
virtues of British thought, culture, values
and political ideals.” The message is a
familiar one: only connect, and the good-
will and reasonableness of men will do


THE
ARMEDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the
rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
A. H. CASH, M.A. (Oxon),
Headmaster.
The
Bulletin
Incorporating The Australian Financial Times
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SUB./RENEWAL
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money -
order for months’ subscription
to The Bulletin.
NAME: ...
ADDRESS:
RATES (Australia and New Guinea): 1
year—£2 125.; I year—£l 6s. Post
free. British Dominions : £3 6s.
Other countries : £3 16s.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS (Remit to Box 965,
Wellington, N.Z.) : 1 year—£2 12s.
(N.Z. currency); l year—£l 6s. (N.Z.
currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
BEAVERBROOK'S CHRIST
The Australian price of Lord Beaver-
brook's “The Divine Propagandist”
(Heinemann) which was reviewed in
the May 26 Bulletin is not, as was
quoted 10s. 6d.. but 13s 3d.
MOTOR OVERHAUL
WHILE-U-DRIVE
REFLATES WORN, upper cylds., main bear-
ings, diffs., gears. SAVE: Rebore. ENDS:
Piston slap, rattles, oil, petrol waste,
RESTORES: New compression, power, top
speed, zip, SAVES: Adds LSD to re-sale value.
GUARANTEED: Up to 25,000 miles. Harmless
finest engine, liquid Nu-Metal, or in Tablet
form. SIMPLY: Add Re-Nu expanding liquid
Nu-Metal, or in Tablet form to oil, netrol, or
plug holes, 4,6, 8 cylds., 60/. 70/. 80/. Testi-
monials, engineers’ reports, free advice avail-
able. Open Saturday. Distributors required.
RE-NU CO. (estab. 1932), 58 Swan St op.
Richmond Stn.. Vic. J 81755.
I enclose £ for Super Nu-Metal.
NAME
ADDRESS
BUL.
Missing Friends
CLARA HINKIN wife of Garner Hinkin who
prior to 1901 lived at Lesterhills, Bradford,
England, and who migrated to Sydney be-
tween about 1909 and 1913, or anybody
knowing her whereabouts, please communi-
cate with Messrs Bevins & Houen, Solicitors,
79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO PETER FERGUSON PARK, late of Tilpa
TAKE NOTICE that MARGARET PARK has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1387 of 1962
in the Supreme Court of New South Wales
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for two years and upwards.
If you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street, by
the 6th day of August 1962, and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. S. T. HODGE & CO., Solicitors, of
4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO HENRY THOM CHRISTOPHER late of
Mortdale.—TAKE NOTICE that LUCY OLIVE
CHRISTOPHER has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4056 of 1961 in the Supreme
Court of New South Wales on the ground
of desertion without just cause of excuse
for two years and upwards. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, by the 13th July,
1962, and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. S. T. HODGE & CO.,
Solicitors of 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
TERRITORY OF PAPULA AND NEW GUINEA
Matrimonial Jurisdiction
TO: JAMES SAMUEL ROBERT SYKES, late
of c - R.S.L. Club, Port Moresby. TAKE
NOTICE that IRIS COWIE SYKES has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 5 of 1962 (N.G.)
on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards. If
you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Supreme Court, Port Moresby,
within fourteen (14) days from the date of
the publication of this notice and you may
obtain a copy of the Writ of Summons and
the Petition without charge from Craig Kirke
& Co., Solicitors, Cuthbertson Street, Port
Moresby. DATED this 21st dav of May, 1962.
A. CECIL TINGLE. Registrar
the rest. Unfortunately, experience has
already shown that the walls of
totalitarianism do not collapse before the
breath of Anglo-Saxon liberalism.
This book is the first in a new series
to be published in conjunction with the
Leverhulme Trust and St Anthony’s
College, Oxford, about Britain’s changed
position in the world. The series is
apparently to be distinguished by a com-
plete absence of source references and
bibliographies and by a new low in
indexes. The index in this book occupies
two pages, includes fifty-three items and
the only person listed in it is, for some
unfathomable reason, Clement Attlee.
OWEN HARRIES
PUGH'S EXPLORATION
Clifton Pugh. Noel Macainsh. Aus-
tralian Art Monographs. Georgian
House. 355.
Tn its general conception, Georgian
House’s series of Australian Art
Monographs, which already includes Sali
Herman, Albert Tucker, John Olsen,
Russell Drysdale, Arthur Boyd and John
Brack, as well as the present volume, is
an important addition to the steadily
growing scholarly documentation of Aus-
tralia’s most rapidly developing art.
Anyone with any interest in our culture
cannot afford to be ill-informed on our
contemporary painters. Fortunately the
series has been put into the hands of a
thorough scholar, Bernard Smith, and
the best of this volume is that which
bears the mark of his editorship a
full bibliography, gleaned Tom very
scattered, and sometimes obscure sources,
a list of principal exhibitions, and a
chronological list of paintings.
Unhappily, in the other essential of
an art book good reproductions —it
does not measure up to the same stan-
dard. No doubt lavish illustration is an
extremely hazardous venture, which a
large series on contemporary painters
could not reasonably afford. Whether
buyers will accept this in the interest of
spreading knowledge is their own affair.
What they will get are thirty-eight illus-
trations, eight of them in color, scaled
down to between one sixth and one
tenth of the original size. But within
those limits the illustrations are satisfac-
tory. They are representative of Pugh’s
best work, especially in that a good
number of portraits are included, the
color seems quite accurate, though that
is always a difficult thing to judge from
memory, and the black and white illustra-
tions give a clear impression of Pugh’s
aims and methods.
Noel Macainsh’s biographical and criti-
cal introduction achieves a lot in a
short space. The bare facts are neatly
woven into an account of the develop-
ment of Pugh’s ideas, and the critical
comment is firmly based on works. In
spite of a few alliances in the past, Pugh
has largely pursued a line of exploration
into the Australian landscape which is
substantially different from that of his
contemporaries. He has sought solutions
to apparently personal questions, of the
co-existence of life and decay, of savagery
and beauty, rather than attempting to
plumb a general spirit which might
develop into something characteristically
Australian. He has nonetheless, by the
very nature of his material, contributed
a tremendous amount to our understand-
ing of the relation between our lives and
our visible surrounding:, and for this
he is given full and clear credit in the
introduction.
BILL HANNAN


Feiffer
Fl£R SIMCF I AJA6 A
a urns <ip i V
WW)T WAMT Xo 6F
ME. I WAMTet? Xo
be. bill if ivmepop.
AMP BILLIE MWFfW
PIPM'T El/EM LIKG ME-
I W Mk& utt HE
U)Al&o. I MK6O
m he talkfp. i
6I6MFP UP FUR THE
HI6H SCHOOL. HE
SI6MFP UP FUR'
WHICH WAS WtfEM BILL/E
WIPPPFPPM OHAMOFP. HE
056 AM TO HAM 6. ARPUMP
HFRBM VAMPFMAM. HF
WALKED LIKE %m
VAMPFMAM. HE TALKED*
LIKE Wtm l/AMPFMAM-
he m ( xup mf ppi r
OF6AM TO WALK AMP
TALK LIKE EILL/E
WIPPLFPOM WALK/M6
AMP TALMIMO LIME
HER&M l/AMPFMAM-
AMP THEM It PAWWEU
IOM MF THAT HSRBP
I VAjOPFMAk) WALKED
I AMU TALKED LIKE
) JOSH HAV6RLIM AMP
l TOEH HAVERLIM
/J WALKED AMP
\ TAIKEP LIKE
l\ CPRKM .
l\ SA6IMSUM.
#> HERE 1 AM WALKIM6
' AMP TALKIM6 LIKE
BIUIF
IMITATIOM UF HFRSP
l/AMPEMAM'E VERSIOM
OF JOEM HAVERUM
TRMIM6 TO WALK’
AMP TALK LIKE
OORKM SABIMSOM.
AMP WHO PU POP
thimk fupkp
' SAOIMSOM 15
ALIMAMS IMAUPIMO
AMP TALKIM6 LIKE?
OF ALL PFOPLF'
MFMMPf
WFLUMOToM—
THAT LITTLE
PEET WHO
WAP MS AMU
TALK'S LIKE
MU
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 695
ACROSS
I—This makes a tribunal’s decision see our entertain-
ment direct changes. (5-7)
8— When Caesar’s life was endangered by beef
chemicals. (6)
9 French girl on an index of brain-power with you
interrupting me. (7)
11—The heroine of “Call Me Madam”, for instance, is
a deep-voiced singer with a frock. (12)
13—End Iris with some character in a position to
get the dinkum “oil”. (7)
14—Who certainly doesn’t love a
broken heart. (5)
17— A short day to see continental
change for the fair crescent.
(5)
18 — Italian city appears posses-
sively short of sleep like worn
carpet. (7)
19— Formal wear put down a
tosser’s call. (12)
22 A Chifley associated with a
King Island redkin. (7)
23 A trouble with the foot I
associated with a creature
like a guinea-pig. (6)
24 It puts one away for keeps,
like a line in an American
magazine. (4-8)
DOWN
1— Utensil reduces credit. (8)
2 A standard for measuring you
what has a lousy future? (4)
3 Otherr description of lobster
between July 19 and August
17 in revolutionary France.
(9)
4 Mention Hades improperly in
the manner of a classic
orator. (12)
5 See a Kelly punished. (5)
6 I can be seen to enlarge men’s
countenances. (5)
7 Queer rise affected officers
under the Master of the
Horse. (91
IC—Novelist to strike and dupe
before we can be seen to be
heartened by another strike.
(7-5)
12—The spade ace’s hidden in such
scrapes. (9)
15— Highest grade end of the
staircase. (9)
16- —Don’t fail Ireland when start-
ing like perching birds. (9)
19— Some stitching marine manu-
script. (5)
20— Grassland. (3)
21— Commit to the fire creek. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 694.


HOWA DENKO K.K.
Main Products
Ferrochrome," timer ferroalloys, electrolytic iron;
Aluminium ingots, alloys, wire bars;
Artificial graphite electrodes, other carbonaceous
products;
Fused alumina, silicon carbide, other abrasive grains;
Petrochemicals, other organic and inorganic chemicals;
Ammonium sulphate, urea and other chemical
fertilizers;
Reactor materials, including graphite and heavy water.
$
=1
A- A"
m
■
■
ii'wip
M i'mm
: : .
% )
%
r'i-..
.■jk
■A
%**■
*• .V'
m
A , '~ r &3&k'!’£
V
J — ugr-
'vrm'tm
n®m
'.'VWjrJ
i
‘Am
jfc'4
A
A'
a
•V A
• ■■;
<■ '■'A
-"A,--/
Products for progress
Serving industry and agriculture
1 around the world
Write for further information; general catalogue will be sent upon request.
SHOWA DENKO K.K.
34, Shiba Miyamoto-cho, Minato-ku, Tok o, Japan
Cable Address: SECIC TOKYO
