

The Bulletin
'Registered In Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
ONE SHILLING MAY 19
I **»J "fail dIJ BB I fil FM rlWHl^B|aT^rr^^^
ALL THE
QUEENS MEN
the state governors today
ALAN REID
AS f s££ IT
W. C. WENTWORTH
WANTED: ANZAC UNION NOW
MACMILLAN
AMBIGUOUS PRIME MINISTER
THAT CERTAIN BOOK
S. H. DEAMER ON R. M. BAILANTYNE
SCIENCE AT WORK


GOOD
REASONS WHY
I ALWAYS USE
ON MY
V
m n
. . .
r r ,
\
% W
ll' *-*
'
4g|gS«k«|:.;
... Ilv:>;.
ggi
-
;as»
«,A
■at
■
r-.'
:*■? :ggli
m
H
■ v:
mm
rn:
/
m
v.. *
\w,
: ' :r ' : '''
' ,; WBmi
V.'\\
\-T ; . <??&•;
• No other pipe has greater strength. Steel pipe is not
fragile or susceptible to damage by stock or fire, so can be
laid above ground, saving cost of trenching. It also with-
stands far greater pressures and that's important, too.
• Steel pipe lasts longer. Steel pipe doesn't deteriorate in
sunlight or with exposure, is not damaged by termites or
rodents. Its inherent strength enables it to withstand all
sorts of external impacts undamaged.
• Steel pipe costs less. On account of its much longer life
and comparatively low initial cost, I have found steel pipe a
far more economical buy than any other type of pipe-and
I've tried them all.
• Steel pipe is easy to instal, handle or store. Steel pipe,
being so sturdy can be surface-laid, then dismantled and
relaid in a new location or stored without risk of damage
in handling.
• Steel pipe has so many uses. Its inbuilt strength and rigidity permit a wide
variety of uses, not practical for other fragile or flexible types of pipe, such
as vertical and overhead installations. That's why I say, "Give me steel pipe
every time."
FOR GREATER STRENGTH
LONGER LIFE
EXTRA VALUE -INSIST ON STEEL PIPE
S & L
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
55A.3.62


ALL THE QUEEN'S MEN page 12
Moving in New Vice-Regal Directions
•
Phil May Cartoon 14
Devil of a Job 16
Gordon Chater and TV 18
East Berlin’s Ulbricht The Face
Behind the Wall 20
Macmillan Ambiguous Prime
Minister 23
W. C. Wentworth —An Australian 26
New Zealand Union Now? 26
American Roulette 500 Miles Up .... 31
Oil Companies Worried 36
New Light on Rabbit War 53
Lola Montez on TV 55
That Certain Book S. H. Deamer
on R. M. Ballantyne 59
•
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
AROUND SYDNEY 11
OVERSEAS ..., 20
SCIENCE AT WORK 31
WILD CAT 32
MAN ON THE LAND 53
REVIEWS 55
RED PAGE 59
FEIFEER 63
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; ■
Box 2521; Phone. 27 5971
Vol. 83
No. 4292
NOW IT'S THAILAND...
A' 1 the time of the Laotian cease-fire agreement there were abundant
warnings that while East and West talked over the table the Com-
munists would take over the country by stealth. The warnings have come
true with a vengeance, except that nobody is talking any longer. The
Communist Pathet Lao forces have swept clear across Laos and are now
at the borders of Thailand. The Royal Laotian Army, from which not
even the greatest optimist could have expected much, is demoralised and
fragmented. Apart from a few reluctant gestures Laos’ unforgiving right
wing leader, Prince Boun Oum, still refuses to compose his differences with
neutralist Prince Souvanna Phouma, whose open criticism of the Communists,
in turn, has probably come too late to have much effect. A further depres-
sing factor is President Kennedy’s obvious reluctance —despite the despatch
of the Seventh fleet to the Gulf of Siam —to become embroiled in militarv
operations in Laos which he described a week ago as “hazardous”.
It is now quite obvious that Thailand and South Vietnam are clearly
endangered. Where is the line te be drawn? Whether or not Laos is
extricated from its present perilous position remains to be seen. What is
absolutely urgent is that Thailand and South Vietnam should be given full
military guarantees against Communist infiltration and subversion masquer-
ading as liberating nationalist and reform movements.
T H AILAND is a member of SEATO. Never having been colonialised it
is fiercely jealous of its independence. It is resentful and frightened of
China and more than willing to fight in defence of its territorial integrity.
It merely demands that the West give it full support and military aid.
Laos is probably indefensible. Thailand is not. But is any western
country prepared to draw a line and issue the challenge that any violations
by the Communists will be met with full scale military retaliation? The US
may be. But is Australia? Like New Zealand, it has more to lose than any
other western country by continued Communist Asian encroachment. And
yet there is every evidence that we are not pulling our weight in Asia. Mr.
Dean Rusk made that quite clear when he was here for the ANZUS
Treaty meeting.
Former Secretary of State Dean Acheson also made the same point
when he was in Australia recently on a private visit. Sir Garfield Barwick's
announcement that Australia would send a handful of military advisers to
South Vietnam could hardly have impressed the U.S. that Australia was
willing to make a serious contribution to South East Asian defence. As it
is our defence forces are much too small. Our per capita expenditure on
defence is not as high as it looks on paper. There is also the question
whether it has been wisely spent.
This continent is very much more alone in this part of the world than
most Australians seem willing to recognise. France has long since departed
from South East Asia. Britain’s interests have contracted to the Middle
East and Europe, while everywhere in Asia the British are undertaking what
in Singapore is quaintly called “a phased withdrawal”. That leaves the
United States, which by itself cannot realistically be expected to shoulder
our burdens in Asia. In fact it is quite clear that the LLS. will not help
us unless we help ourselves. So far we don’t seem either as a government
or a nation to be very willing.


National
Notebook
Two-way investment
The Manifolds of Melbourne have
proved themselves experts in handling
racehorses but they have a lot to learn
as far as playwrights go. The conditions
of the £lOOO Manifold playwriting
award, which is to be adjudicated by the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust, has got many
writers’ hackles up. They object to the
provision: “The competitor by accepting
any prize money as adjudicated by the
Judges agrees in return that he will then
give to the (Melbourne) National Gal-
lery and Cultural Centre appeal fund 50
per cent, of his royalties accruing from
any type of performance of his play
in any medium whatsoever. Such per-
centage of royalties, however, will cease
to be paid to the National Gallery and
Cultural Centre appeal fund after the
said fund has received the sum of £5OOO
for such royalties.”
Not only the playwrights object to
the scheme for building the Melbourne
Cultural Centre out of the earnings of
what may be in a writer's life, his only
money-earning work the Australian
Journalists’ Association protested. Lady
Manifold replied that the conditions had
been published overseas and she did not
want them changed, while Mr John Sum-
ner, of the Elizabethan Theatre Trust,
said the trust might consider paying
higher royalties than usual, up to
£5OOO. So the conditions remain that
the winning playwright is forced to make
a donation to the Cultural Centre, he
has to refund five times the amount of
his prize money; this money incidentally,
would be tax free for the cultural centre,
and not for the writer. There is only one
consolation for prospective entrants: it
may be an easy one to win, because most
playwrights are not going to play.
A measure ot success
\ brief report in the April 21 Bulletin
about political strife within the Mel-
bourne Jewish community has stirred up
some wild reactions. Our Melbourne
correspondent reported that since Mr
Sam Cohen, the President of the Com-
munist-front Jewish Council to Combat
Fascism, is now a Senator-elect, some
vacillators in the normally strictly anti-
communist Jewish Board of Deputies feel
that he should be readmitted to the
Jewish community. (Because of its refusal
to say one word against Soviet persecu-
tion of Jews, Mr Cohen’s Jewish Council
was expelled from the Jewish board in
1952). The article described the anger
most Melbourne Jews felt at this attempt
to compromise with people who condone
the actions of what is now the world’s
leading anti-semitic power.
Melbourne’s “Jewish Herald” devoted
most of its front page to the story out-
lining the Bulletin’s article in some
detail and then quoting a few criticisms
of it. Mr Cohen, for example, said it
was “a tissue of lies”. (He didn’t ex-
plain in what respects.) Mr I. J. Leibler
one of the Board’s most respected
spokesmen, said the article was “un-
welcome” but significantly did not say
it was false. The “Herald’s’ columnist
was the most interesting of all. After
wondering why some Jews had leaked
the story to our correspondent, he com-
mented: “How proud some of our co-
religionists must have felt when they
read in print the muck they provided.”
Which is nicely ambiguous. It could
refer to people who supplied the story
or which seems more likely it
could refer to the people whose actions
the story accurately reported.
The following week the Sydney
“Jewish Times” weighed in with
another curious . editorial. It did not
commit itself to the view that the report
was false. It simply passed the buck
back to Melbourne and said: “Our Mel-
bourne office confirms the view that the
article is full of distortions and conten-
tiousness.” (No one denies its contentious-
ness.) To round it all off the Melbourne
Communist “Guardian” burst forth with
a long article which in one fine para-
noiac sentence denounced fascism, Mr
W. C. Wentworth, the DLP, Mr Santa-
maria, prominent Melbourne “Mc-
Carthyite” Jews, and the Bulletin. But
it then gave the game away when it
reported: “These endeavours of the
Bulletin would not be worth discus-
sing if they were not having a measure
of success in certain circles.”
Erudite Innkeepers
'T'he chairman of the Tasmanian Licen-
sing Court, Col. A. P. Crisp, be-
lieves that “the time is rapidly approach-
ing” when a licensee of a hotel will have
to show “convincing evidence ot com-
petency.” A hotel trades school at Hobart
Technical College has just finished its
first year.
Col. Crisp thinks that all licensees
should hold a certificate from the school,
but an applicant might be given a tem-
porary permit to run a hotel while study-
ing for his certificate.
He doesn't suggest that the plan should
operate retrospectively. If that were to
happen, Tasma, ia would lose about half
its publicans, and nearly all of those who
run pubs that the locals like. And what,
demands a student of the Tasmanian
scene, would retired policemen and
footballers and aspiring politicians do
for a crust?
The Years Sit Lightly
Tn the four years since he was last in
A Australia Israeli pianist Daniel
Barenboim has grown from a boy of 15
to a pipe-smoking, grey-waistcoated
young man of 19. However, it seemed to
us that his years sit lightly on him and
that he is still the same affable, outgoing
person he was when he came before.
Although he has been giving recitals
since he was seven Barenboim has no
truck with the notion that he was ever
a child prodigy, or anything like the
popular conception of prodigy as brat.
“I was never allowed to live in an ivory
tower,” he said. “1 always went to school
for several months of the year and
didn't think about music during that
time.” He still has ambitions to take an
Arts degree. “I have plenty of time and
would be satisfied to do one or two
courses a year,” he said.
Barenboim, in any case, doesn’t think
age is particularly important to an artist.
“Grey hairs just show age, not wisdom,”
he said. “You can have good musicians
at eight and bad ones at 80. An artist
is born with a quality of understanding.
Age will not give it to him.
“Of course I have respect for old
people, but it is because of what they
have been through, what they have suf-
fered. It has nothing to do with what
they have felt while they suffered. They
may have felt little. I don't believe you
have to experience things to understand
them. Look how every artist is absorbed
in death, but they have not experienced
it.”
The ABC, which has brought Baren-
boim back to Australia, has taken ad-
vantage of his youth and high spirits
to plan an extensive tour for him. He
will make 64 appearances in 21 weeks,
visiting all States. In Sydney in Septem-
ber he will conduct the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra at a matinee perform-
ance. He has conducted in Vienna, the


USA, Spain and Israel. Barenboim says
he practises only two hours a day be-
cause he is afraid he will “lose his
freshness” if he sits at a piano all day.
Sometimes he plays the violin to help
him understand what the composer has
written for the piano.
Barenboim’s parents are travelling with
him in Australia making the tour a
family holiday. However, he has been
travelling alone since he left here last
time. The only time his parents go with
him now is when he and his father,
Professor Enrique Barenboim, give four-
hand recitals.
Game of Coincidences
HT-his chronicle of coincidences reached
our desk on Monday morning:
“I must preface this story by saying
my wife is doing a playwrigth course at
the University of NSW. This is actually
the crux of the story. My wife wanted
to see the play at the Pocket Playhouse,
Sydenham, thinking it was “The Beast in
View” on Friday as well as Thursday
night. As it turned out “My Sister
Eileen” was on instead. This was the
first mistake in a line of mistakes.
Accompanying us to the show was a girl
friend of my wife and another fellow,
both of whom are doing the play course.
We sat through the play, my wife un-
happy that it was not the play she had
anticipated. When we left the theatre
we decided to have some coffee. The
chappie with us lived at Ashfield, so I
decided to drop him home after coffee.
Thinking Newtown would be a good
half-way house I made for same. Not
being very familiar with this area we
finished up at Enmore.
“We decided to have our coffee there
and turn around and drop our friend at
home. We wandered into a coffee lounge,
sat down, and proceeded to have our
coffee. My wife and the others started
discussing the plays they themselves
were writing at the University. My wife,
whose theme was about a racecourse
gang and a gangland killing, opened the
discussion. At the time that her play
was read by the Professor at the Univers-
ity, somebody remarked that there are
no such things as gangland killings in
Australia. When she told me this I
said “twaddle”. As the others were in
rather deep discussion about their plays
my mind wandered and I found myself
listening to a lad at the next table telling
another lad that he would read about it
in the next day's paper. I wondered, at
the time, what “it” was, but thought no
more about it. About 15 minutes later
a policeman came in and began talking
to the girl behind the bar. I thought
nothing of this at the time.
“When I picked up the paper the next
morning I found that there had indeed
been an attempted gangland killing in
Enmore, in a betting shop (my wife’s
story was about racing), in which an
innocent bystander was killed and a
gangster shot three times in the shoulder.
After he was shot he staggered across
the road and into a coffee lounge, the
very coffee lounge we were sitting in one
hour later. In the paper there was a
photo of the interior of the lounge and I
recognised the wall-paper of unusual
design. The significance of what the
lad had said came back to me, also the
appearance of the policeman. So much
for the fact that there are no such things
as attempted or carried out gangland
killings in NSW.
Tanner
"Why should we defend countries we've never heard of like Laos, SEATO and ANZUS?"


This Australia
CALWELL AND THE BOMB
As I see it
From Alan Reid in Canberra
Arthur
c AT-
WELL’S enor-
mous self-confidence has been eroded by
continual compromises with forces he
dislikes and distrusts. When the Labor
External Affairs committee, under the
chairmanship of Sydney’s Les Haylen,
evolved a “ban-the-bomb-uncondition-
ally” policy and submitted it for en-
dorsement by the Federal Parliamentary
Labor Party Executive, the oldtime Cal-
well would have taken a firm position.
He would have been either for it or
against it, and energetically proselytised
for his viewpoint. His viewpoint might
not have been the correct one, but he
would have had one. And he would not
have waited to see how the opposing
forces lined up before he enunciated it.
On everything I hear, his attitude on
this most vital of issues with which the
current generation of world leaders has
to deal was almost neutral. When the
Haylen committee recommendation was
placed before the 13-man Federal Parlia-
mentary Labor Party Executive (the
fourteenth member, Mr Allan Fraser,
NSW, was absent, sick), Calwell moved
the Haylen committee recommendation.
But when moving the resolution Calwell
was careful to explain that he was not
doing so as Party Leader or Executive
Chairman. He was not sponsoring the
resolution but merely moving it pro
forma to get it before the meeting.
The same air of indecision surrounds
his subsequent actions. When the Execu-
tive was deadlocked six-all on Senate
Labor Leader McKenna’s amendment
providing for an adequate international
NEXT WEEK'S ISSUE
0 THINKING THE UNTHINK-
ABLE Looking Forward to
World War Eight.
0 REFORMING ARBITRA-
TION COURTS Economists
v. Lawyers.
0 DR WESTERMAN Our
Man in Brussels.
0 BARTON Federation Prime
Minister.
0 THAT CERTAIN BOOK—
A. D. Hope on Longfellow.
inspection system to precede Australia’s
unconditional rejection of nuclear
weapons, Calwell's decisive vote was ex-
ercised in favor of those preferring un-
conditional rejection with no prerequi-
sites. But after the “Daily Telegraph” had
published the vote and the basis of the
Executive discussions, Calwell proceeded
to amend the 7/6 endorsed Executive
recommendation and to add two para-
graphs. The two paragraphs obscured
the “unconditional” nature of the original
Executive resolution without destroying
its real meaning which leftwingers within
the Parliamentary Labor Party, suppor-
ters of a “ban-the-bomb unconditionally”
policy, had celebrated on the previous
Thurday night—prematurely as it turned
out —with a “victory dinner.”
Then Calwell took the amended resolu-
tion into the full Caucus meeting.
Caucus was tense and on edge. It was
looking for wise guidance from people
in whom it had confidence. It was being
called upon to make a decision that was
a part—perhaps a small part but never-
theless a significant part—of the world
struggle. Can you imagine on a subject
of such magnitude either of the two
previous Labor Leaders, Dr Evatt or the
late Ben Chifley, concentrating upon the
comparatively trifling issue of the Press
“leakage” and failing to give leadership
on the major matter? I can’t. Yet that
is what Calwell did. He had been among
the seven Executive members who voted
for the Haylen committee recommenda-
tion (in an amended form). You might
have been able to understand it if he had
been among the opposing six. But after
his blast on Press “leakages” he left
Haylen to move—and justify—the reso-
lution.
When finally Caucus by a 50/27 vote
decided to hand back to the ALP Federal
Executive the responsibility that the 1955
ALP Federal Conference gave the Fede-
ral Parliamentary Labor Party of evolving
a policy that would achieve effective
prevention of the use of atomic arms
(“effective” was the operative word on
which the Federal Parliamentary Labor
Party Executive divided so closely a fort-
night ago), I am told there was visible
relief at the top table from which Mr
Calwell presides over Caucus meetings.
Another nettle was to be left ungrasped.
The Federal Parliamentary Labor Party
had been saved from making a decision.
Other people would tell them what they
should do. (Does this not make it easy
to understand why the Federal ALP
Secretary, Mr F. E. Chamberlain, who is
a man who at least knows what he wants,
and the Victorian ALP Executive, whose
leftwing associates also know what they
want, have between them dominated the
Labor Party Federally for the past ten
years?)
has been a certain pattern of
inevitability about the march of
events in the Federal Parliamentary
Labor Party in the past fortnight. The
same basic pattern is in what happened
when Deputy Labor Leader Gough
Whitlam, Senate Labor Leader McKenna,
and McKenna’s deputy, Pat Kennedy,
went to the ALP Executive before the
last Federal elections and in effect told
that body (Labor’s supreme governing
authority between Federal Conferences)
that it should insist on the Victorian ALP
Executive observing Federal policy out-
lawing unity tickets between ALP mem-
bers and Communists in trade union
elections —a policy that the Victorians
were then ignoring openly and contemp-
tuously.
Symbolically Whitlam, McKenna and
Kennedy went first. They were attemp-
ting to give leadership. Calwell followed
behind. He saw the Executive last. He
excused the Victorians’ shortcomings and
indicated that the last thing he wanted
was Federal intervention in Victoria. He
was against grasping the nettle which Dr
Evatt, when Labor Leader, had forecast
“could one day destroy the Labor Party.”
He was not hostile to Whitlam, McKenna
and Kennedy as he was entitled to be if
he had strong views opposed to theirs.
He was not hostile to the Victorian ALP
Executive. As a technical performance, it
was brilliant. He contrived to stay on
both sides of the fence at the same time.
But he paid a stiff price. It cost him the
Prime Ministership and Labor Govern-
ment. Victoria was the only State in
which Labor went backwards at the
December Federal elections.
Such attitudes among the leadership
tend to demoralise a Party. This may
be the explanation for the fact that
though it came within two seats of elec-
toral victory in the December Federal
elections Labor still shows no real con-
fidence in itself or its political destiny
in Parliament. Labor may have the
greatness of office thrust upon it by elec-
toral chance. But on Labor’s showing


during the current Parliamentary Session
it will be because of the Menzies Govern-
ment’s shortcomings rather than its own
dynamic qualities.
Whitlam, a much younger man than
Calwell (45 to Caiwell's 65) and far less
experienced politically, seems infected
with the current Labor malaise. When
he was elected Deputy Leader, his sup-
porters hailed him as Labor’s “White
Hope.” He certainly took a strong stand
with McKenna and Kennedy in front of
the ALP Federal Executive on the unity
ticket issue. But I find it significant
that he did not speak in Caucus on the
nuclear weapons issue. He may have
intended to speak later —the debate was
cut short by the decision to refer the
issue to the ALP Federal Executive.
But the debate had gone on for an hour
and a half. And you don’t usually give
leadership by coming in among the tail-
enders. By then the lines are mostly
fairly well decided.
It was not that Whitlam lacks fluency,
lucidity and capacity to convince. He is
undoubtedly one of Labor’s best speakers
and debaters. Within minutes of the de-
cision being taken to hand over responsi-
bility for Labor’s nuclear weapon policy
to the ALP Federal Executive, he was on
his feet demonstrating this fact by making
a brilliant contribution to the Caucus
debate on the letterhead that Federal
Parliament should use on its official sta-
tionery. I am not being sarcastic. I am
told it was a most impressive speech.
The pity as I see it is that such impres-
siveness is wasted on such a fragile
subject.
On what has happened so far, the
leftwingers’ “victory dinner” on the
nuclear weapons issue may yet be justi-
fied. Their strength lies in the fact that
they are prepared to fill any power
vacuum left by the official leadership.
And on the events of the past fortnight,
the evidence for the existence of such
a vacuum in the Federal Parliamentary
Labor Party is depressingly strong.
These are prospects which trouble
Prior’s supporters. As he rushes head-
long towards the top, he is being hit
much too often around the head. His
trainer, former Empire lightweight
champion Ron James, has a problem
there and seems unable to meet it.
Both James and Stadiums Ltd should
consider whether it is right, and even
financially wise, to push Prior along too
quickly without an adequate defence.
He is young, strong and inexperienced
enough to absorb the punishment this
year to trouble him next year or the
one after. At this rate, Prior could be
another good boxer burned out in a
year or two, in this instance before he
is 21. Instead of the credit to boxing
he wishes to be, he could become an-
other signpost to its demise.
BOXING
KID GALAHAD
FROM FRANK ROBERTS IN SYDNEY
Oid Prior continued his big year in and
for boxing last week, when he de-
feated a ring-wise American fighter,
Alfredo Cota, over 12 rounds in Syd-
ney. He again confounded his critics
and troubled the less starry-eyed of his
supporters.
Prior is 19, an apprentice butcher, a
former Olympic boxing representative,
and, in his own quiet way, something of
a Kid Galahad: he believes in clean
living and fair fighting, in training hard
and entering the ring in peak condition,
eager to win.
This strictly unprofessional approach,
or the sheer pace of Prior’s rise to the
top, perhaps both, have created a scep-
tical attitude in some of the boxing
writers’ minds. During the past four
months Prior has knocked out former
welter champion Johnny Tapp, the
Queensland champion Laurie Latch, the
American negro J. D. Ellis who had
tumbled Gary Cowburn the week be-
fore, and finally Prior recovered from
three knockdowns to beat Cota on
points.
After the Ellis fight one sceptic sug-
gested that Prior was in a distressed
condition in his dressing room. That
match ended in six rounds. He went 12
against Cota. And this win also seemed
to disprove another sceptic’s suggestion
that Prior was the most overrated box-
ing prospect since Clive Stewart.
Despite all of this, Prior is almost un-
known outside Sydney, and for other
readers it can be stated that last week
Prior proved his merit as a crowd-
pleasing fighter beyond all doubt, and
gave one of the finest displays of raw
courage ever seen at Sydney Stadium.
He went out to win in the first round,
was nearly knocked out, took frequent
bursts of punishment up to round eight,
when he was down and nearly out again,
but fought on, took the offensive, and
gained a points win.
Afterwards Prior said he had learned
a great deal from this match, but it
seemed doubtful. Tapp, a southpaw,
had been able to hook Prior with the
right during their match. Three bouts
later, Cota was doing the same. Latch
held him in the clinches and roughed
him up. Ellis was able to do that too,
when inclined, in their match a few
weeks later.
Prior is hit often because he is a
tigerish offensive boxer whose oppon-
ents have to fight desperately to survive,
and because his defence is not very
good. At present that does not seem to
matter very much. Prior wins on cour-
age, hitting power and youthful stamina.
He is due to meet another imported
welterweight in June, and then a title
bout against Cowburn will follow. He
could beat Cowburn. Both hit hard,
both can be hit.
SERVICE-STATIONS
ONE MORE
RESTRICTION
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
TV)GGEDLY convinced that any restric-
tions must please some union or
another, the Tasmanian Government has
reduced petrol selling hours from January
1 next. Apparently no hint reached the
legislators that the act suits big garages
and hits battlers who are building up
their service-stations.
In intention, the legislation breaks no
new ground. Petrol sellers, so far as they
are covered by shop and factory laws,
are already limited in their trading hours.
When restrictions were mooted more
than two years ago they were strongly
repudiated by many service-station pro-
prietors, who claimed that were they
deprived of freedom to give service they
would lose customers to the big garages.
But the Government gratefully accepted
a joint committee’s recommendation that
hours should be limited.
There was some naive belief that the
operators might then cut threepence or
more from their margins (BJd. on “super”
and 9Jd. on “standard”) to bring them
into line with mainland profits.
However, wearied by two years of
verbally fighting the proposals and weak-
ened by lack of support from Hobart,
the Opposition was caught off balance
when the Government brought in its
restrictive legislation as a sandwich
between the urgent business of the salary
rises and the equally urgent rush into four
months’ recess (until the row dies down?).
The “escape clause” having been elimin-
ated, the restrictions may be effective, but
some service-station men say that if they
cannot think up another gimmick before
January 1 they will be openly defiant,
confident of strong public support.


ABORIGINES
"MONEY WASN'T MENTIONED"
/Ane of Australia’s shabbier wartime
episodes has drawn to a close. After
17 years, the Government has granted
30 Territory aborigines up to £2OO each
for work done in the black months fol-
lowing 1942, when Japanese invasion
threatened. In those days, with Darwin
reduced to rubble, tribesmen were enact-
ing vaguely treasonable corroborees:
“Ah-me, Ah-me,
“Nay-be, Nay-be,
“Air Porch, Air Porch . . .”
Invariably the Japanese were repre-
sented as all-conquering. But no matter
how small they reckoned our chances
were, they remained loyal to a man.
The 30 are now to receive belated
payment for the time they served—some
four years—as Navy coastwatchers, and
in other auxiliary capacities. The Navy
group v/as commanded by Lieutenant
John Gribble and Chief Petty Officer
Ginger One Moreen, an aboriginal who
is now a citizen. They patrolled the
coast around Melville and Bathurst Is-
lands to watch Japanese sea and air
movements.
Among them were men with names
like Laurie One Eye, Pickles, Deaf Tom-
my, Melon, Harry Lauder, Cockeye Bob,
Strangler, Man Fong, Billy Two and
Ginger Two. They were given food and
somewhere to sleep—and that was all.
It might have ended there, but for
bearded Melville Islander Leo John. For
years Leo pondered over why he had
not be paid. And last year, when the
Parliamentary Select Committee on
Aboriginal Voting Rights visited Kather-
ine, he decided to put his grievance up
to “those fellers from Canberra”. He
told the committee the Royal Australian
Navy had not paid him a penny for work
done, including five years as a courier
between Garden Point Naval Base and
Snake Bay, on Melville Island.
Leo said he started on the job a year
before the war and finished up in 1945.
He helped build Snake Bay airstrip and
was seconded as a courier in 1940. He
was one of six aborigines who swam
the Apsley Strait, half a mile of racing
water between Melville and Bathurst Is-
lands, bringing important messages from
Garden Point to headquarters at Snake
Bay. He found the Snake Bay spring
which still supplies the present-day Wel-
fare settlement with water, and built the
six-feet stone base around it with his
bare hands. “I had six boys employed
under me,” he said. “For five years I
ran and swam 20 miles in streams and
across rough country to get the messages
to Snake Bay. All they gave me for it
was some clothes and my food.”
Leo said he had worried for years
over whether the Navy should have paid
him for his work on the islands and fin-
ally had decided to bring the matter to
a head before “some fellers from Can-
berra”. No doubt his evidence before
the Select Committee had direct bearing
on the recently-announced war service
payments to aborigines.
In 1942, when Japanese invasion
threatened, Holder Adams and other
aborigines patrolled the north coast
of the islands in dugout canoes. They
carried .303 rifles and were trained to
use hand grenades and machine guns.
They rescued the crew of a Dutch plane
which crash-landed in the sea, found
several Japanese mines and reported
enemy submarines and aircraft move-
ments.
On one occasion Holder’s brother
Strangler, now dead, was taken away
in an Allied submarine to some island
in the then Dutch East Indies.
When he returned a few days later
he would not talk about what he had
done there. “He was sworn to secrecy,”
Holder said. “Even years after the war
was over he would not tell me.”
Holder Adams said none of the native
coastwatchers had been paid anything for
their work. “Money wasn't mentioned,”
he said.
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
WOMEN
bulletin
May 13. 1882
At this time of day it is too late to
hope to keep women in that
seclusion and subjection which bar-
barous traditions and Hebraic custom,
ingrafted upon our English nature,
have condemned them to suffer. Under
the fierce glare of nineteenth century
light the old injustice is expired: no
sorcerer so cunning that he may con-
jure back their old strength and
security to the broken bonds. Every-
one who studies the question must
regret that women are so far behind
men in the intellectual race, but at
the same time all must admit that
woman is not to blame. If she had
enjoyed these last few centuries an
equal cultivation to that of men, how
changed the world would be: How
much would that wonderful feminine
nature, with its graces, its tenderness,
and its subtle strength, have purified
and influenced its companion-nature!
As we pointed out some time since, in
order that the University may perform
its functions rightly, there must be pro-
vided an institution where secondary
instruction shall be given thoroughly.
There is no such school at present.
We may remark that “East Lynne”
is being played at the Gaiety.
Probably it was in view of putting
this piece on that the management
printed upon their programmes that
“the chances of getting out of this
building are more reassuring than in
any other place of amusement in the
city.” This was thoughtful and nice,
and has no doubt been appreciated by
the audience. The plot of “East
Lynne” is tame and threadbare in the
first acts, absurdly improbable in the
concluding ones,
We have no feud against the actor,
poor devil ; his life is rough enough,
Not one in fifty is as well off as a
trained mechanic ; and he is looked
upon as a fair butt by every mud-
headed scribbler whom a “Frogtown
Chronicle” or “Swamp Flat Herald”
chooses to send round with a free pass
and to label “critic.”
Not against the actor, but against
the playwright. Why should a man of
the stamp of Leake, a woman of the
style of Ada Ward, be compelled to
spout the turgid impossibilities of
“East Lynne”?
enables Parkes to open his
mouth so wide in England just
now is his early and long-sustained
habit of eating with his knife.
WEST AUSTRALIA
ANOTHER
RESIGNATION
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
TThe WA State elections have had some
odd after-effects. Hot on top of the
resignation of the WA Mental Health
Services inspector-general Moynagh (see
Bulletin, April 21) has come the resigna-
tion of Milk Board chairman Eddie
Stannard.
He leaves behind an efficient industry


which he had almost personally created,
and a feeling among people who know
him well that his resignation must have
been caused by an act which flouted his
authority and the independence of his
board. It may easily have occurred before
the elections.
The adjournment of prosecutions
against five producers for supplying sub-
standard milk from several days before
the elections until several weeks after
the elections might be not unconnected
with the resignation Nor might the
decision of Agricultural Minister Nalder
to defer the edict of the board that milk
vendors in the metropolitan area must
provide covered wagons to protect milk
against the Perth climate.
Mr Stannard announced the board’s
decision on this question in January and
was soon attacked by the WA Milk
Vendors’ Association. They said the
scheme would cost the industry more
than £600,000 and could cause a sharp
increase in milk prices. The Association
stronghold is in the Karrinyup electorate,
one of the dickiest seats in the recent
State election. Early in March Agricul-
ture Minister Nalder said the Government
had asked the Milk Board to suspend its
instruction to vendors on the covered
wagons. He said this would give time to
find other safeguards for the milk supply.
Mr Stannard was due to retire in
December from a job he has held for 25
years. He has been connected with the
Milk Board since its inception in 1933,
first as its secretary and then as its chair-
man. He has been a controversial figure
since his appointment as secretary was
attacked on the grounds that he lacked
experience. When the Milk Act of 1946
gave him added authority, the then
Premier, Mr Frank Wise, said he had
more power than most men could wisely
use.
That he has used it wisely in the public
interest is attested by the state of the
milk industry in Perth today. Under his
administration the incidence of TB in
dairy herds supplying the metropolitan
area has dropped from 46 per cent, to
0.41 per cent., producers are paid one of
the highest prices in the Commonwealth
and consumers get some of the cheapest
milk in Australia.
The man who had bricks and bottles
thrown at his house by irate milk vendors
when he was overhauling the industry
never took a day’s leave—and on his
retirement had not been paid the back
pay he claimed was due to him for
accumulated leave.
Though he agreed to stay as an adviser
to the Board at a salary of £5OO for six
months’ work, it looks as if Mr Stannard
has paid a high price for his indepen-
dence of mind.
Court of Disputed Returns
THE MARK OF KANE
FROM PETER KELLY IN SYDNEY
XjV)R the first time in Australian history
the full High Court is sitting as a
Court of Disputed Returns. In last De-
cember’s Federal elections, Senate candi-
date John Thomas Kane, the DLP’s
Federal and NSW’s State secretary, was
defeated by the ALP’s number 3 can-
didate Douglas McClelland. After pref-
erences were distributed he was beaten
by only 3,412 votes out of the total for-
mal vote of 1,782,732. Last week the
full High Court of Australia heard a
petition in which Kane claims that he
should have been declared the fifth suc-
cessive Senator instead of Senator-elect
McClelland.
If Kane wins this case, there is little
doubt that the party strengths in the
Senate from June 30 will be: Govern-
ment 30, ALP 27, DLP 2 and Indepen-
dent 1. Kane’s case revolves around a
legal argument which, if successful, will
have many of New South Wales’s 260,-
445 informal Senate votes declared for-
mal.
Sections 123 and 133 of the Common-
wealth Electoral Act, are the two sec-
tions upon which the High Court is
hearing Kane’s and McClelland’s lawyers
argue. The first section states that a voter
shall mark his ballot paper by putting
the number 1 in the square opposite the
name of his first preference candidate,
and the numbers 2,3, 4, and so on in
the square opposite the names of all the
remaining candidates to indicate his
order of preference. In the other section
(133), the Act says that “a ballot paper
shall not be informal for any reason
other than the reason specified in this
section, but shall be given effect to ac-
cording to the voter’s intention so far
as his intention is clear.”
Kane’s lawyers are arguing that
although the 260,445 votes contravened
Section 123 by not placing the figure 1
in the square opposite the candidate of
their first choice, there are enough ballot
papers which clearly show an order of
preference, thus conforming with Section
133 (quoted above).
According to a report from a Senate
Select committee in 1950 a lot of voters
normally mark the House of Represen-
tatives’ smaller voting paper first. They
then go on and mark the much larger,
more complicated Senate voting paper
second. Either through muddle or forget-
fulness, the voter may run on from the
number of Representative candidates on
the first ballot paper to the Senate voting
paper. This means that if there are three
candidates to be voted for in the first
ballot paper, they start with the figure
4 when they come to mark their Senate
paper. Although they may continue in
sequence to the necessary number of
candidates, their vote is declared in-
formal.
Again there are people who, when
voting, leave out a figure, but otherwise
their voting paper is in sequence. (Some
people leave out the figure 13 for super-
stitious reasons.) All these votes are
regarded as informal.
Mr McClelland’s counsel, who is an-
other ALP Senator-elect, Mr K. L.
Murphy, is arguing that the Common-
wealth Electoral Act lays down one
specific way of voting and that is by
placing the number 1 opposite the name
of the voter’s most preferred candidate.
“That is mandatory”, Mr Murphy told
the seven High Court judges last week.
“There is no escape from it.”
The High Court is expected to give its
reserved judgment sometime in Mel-
bourne next week. If they decide in
favor of Kane’s legal argument a re-
count of New South Wales Senate voting
papers can be expected. The Kane camp,
going on the 1950 Report of the Senate
Select committee, are confident that at
least 46,000 of NSW’s informal Senate
votes will be declared to be formal. Ac-
cording to DLP scrutineers, a lot of
voting papers which were declared in-
formal favor Kane. These, they say, are
enough to make him a Senator.
While this may please the DLP, it will
obviously not please Senator-elect Doug
McClelland, nor the rest of the ALP, nor
the Sydney “Sunday Mirror’s” political
writer, “The Whip.” “It’s tragic,” he
said “to think that the DLP could
further upset the precarious Senate apple
cart”, nor the Commonwealth Electoral
officials who will have laboriously to go
through thousands of ballot papers—with
at the back of their minds the know-
ledge that in the next Federal election the
Senate counting will be even more pro-
longed.


UNIONS
AN A.L.P. REVIVAL
IN THE A.E.U.?
FROM MUGGA
Qometime in June, Amalgamated
Engineering Union members in three
States will vote for three union posi-
tions: in South Australia it will be for
the election of an Adelaide District
Secretary; in North Queensland it will
be for a Divisional Organiser; and in
Sydney it will be for a Sydney District
Secretary. At the moment the three
positions are held by Communists: Mr
Goss is Adelaide Secretary; Mr Thomp-
son is the North Queensland Organiser,
and Mr Arthur Searle is the Sydney
District Secretary. Each of the com-
rades is being opposed by an ALP mem-
ber and in Sydney and North Queensland
the two Communist Party members will
probably be beaten.
The most interesting of these elec-
tions is the one for the position of Syd-
ney District Secretary. The candidate
opposing Comrade Arthur Searle, who
has held the office for 18 years, is a 34-
year-old ALP member of the Allowah
South branch of the ALP, Mr Mervyn
Malcolm. What makes this election the
most interesting is that this is the first
time since the days when the Labor Party
withdrew its support from the Industrial
Groups in 1955 that a candidate’s cam-
paign is being organised and run solely
by ALP men.
In Sydney, a group of ALP men have
unofficially come together to raise money
and g enera,l y help ru n Malcolm’s cam-
P a *§ n - Already over 25 State and Fed-
eral Labor Parliamentarians have donated
" loney to Malcolm ’ s campaign either by
buying books of tickets in the raffle for
a tr ansistor radio or by direct donations,
nd the Parliamentarians have not
on y ° een back-benchers,
Mr Searle is one of the not-unpopular
Communists in trade union politics. Some
* ade “ n, ° n u ° ffic ! al f around Sydney
Trades Hall had a slight twinge of sorrow
f 1 the fa l f t that J hi r y e NP ect bun to be
be aten when the ballot is declared. But
they all ™ ere defimte when they said they
preferred an ALP man in the position.
Mr Searle follows the usual pattern of
Communist trade union officials: lie is a
Communist first and a trade union official
second. He is active in “Peace” com-
mittees, has been to Moscow on the in-
vitation of Soviet metal “unions” (and
came back with a glowing tourist report),
and he has written in the Communist
World Federation Trade Union Journal.
(The Australian Council of Trade Unions
disaffiliated from the WFTU in 1949.)
Malcolm as well as being a member of
the ALP since 1951 (ALP membership
is the necessary qualification for election
to a trade union position) is a fitter and
turner with the New South Wales Rail-
ways. He has served on the Sydney
District committee for 11 years as well
as holding several minor union positions.
The campaign in the union has fol-
lowed the usual pattern: the Communists
have already published a pamphlet claim-
ing Malcolm is a member of Mr San-
tamaria’s National Civic Council and
linked him with all sorts of supposed
“anti-working class” misdemeanors. On
the other hand, Malcolm claims his in-
dustrial record is good and that as an
ALP member he is much more prefer-
able than any Communist Party member.
He has another advantage either unknown
or ignored by the Communist Party’s
pamphleteers: he is not a member of the
National Civic Council.
In all, Malcolm’s ALP supporters will
have to write out, stamp and address,
about 17,500 how-to-vote tickets. At
least £4OO will have to be raised to
cover the expenses. The Communist
Party will have to do the same for Mr.
Searle. With a salary of £29-6-0, the
job of Sydney District Secretary is, like
nearly all union positions, grossly under-
paid. Quite obviously the salary doesn’t
reflect the political importance of the
position.
If Malcolm wins, as he is expected to
by most trade union officials, the wheel
will almost have turned full circle since
the days of the Industrial Groups —•
with one important difference: apart from
organising and signing the petition for a
clean ballot conducted by the Common-
wealth Electoral Office, the National
Civic Council (the successor to the
Movement) will have played little if any
part in the campaign. And if the
newspapers follow their normal habit
after an ALP member wins a union posi-
tion, and come out with the headline
“ALP victory in union election,” it will
be the first time for many years that they
will have been right.
SIR GEORGE'S MAY DAY MANIFESTO
Melbourne University students’
paper “Farrago” has recently taken
up again the case of its University
Social Studies Department. Bulletin
readers will remember that last year
Professor R. M. Crawford of Mel-
bourne University referred in a letter
to The Bulletin to the attempt of a
communist-led group, using the fami-
liar techniques such as intimidation to
take over the administration, teaching
and research of two small University
departments. Later The Bulletin
provided the details of the cases
Professor Crawford was referring to.
In due course Melbourne University
set up a committee to look into the
charges. Some months later Sir
George Paton, the Vice-Chancellor,
issued a statement denying that the
charges had any foundation. (It con-
tained the now famous sentence re-
ferring to a well-known communist
propagandist as a man “somewhat to
the left. ) The Bulletin could not
accept Sir George’s statement particu-
larly since he refused to make public
his reasons for taking the position
he did.
No ' w “ Farra g°'’ has taken the same
view as The Bulletin and demanded
tbe publication of the report on
tbe charges. On May Day Sir George
issued another statement refusing to
make his reasons public and adding:
university does not exist to stifle
freedom of expression. But ... the
Council has dealt with these issues by
a proper machinery and the verdict
of the umpire must be respected.” It
is news to us that such blatant appeals
to authority pass as “argument” in
some university circles, but they are
certainly not yet accepted in public
life. Sir George cannot expect his
position to be treated with proper
respect until he allows his evidence to
be examined. The report on the case
must be made public.


Around Sydney
THE BANDITS AND THE CWA
A s the Big Wet deluged Sydney
last weekend, the populace,
cowering in their beds and dreaming
of Summer sand and surf, might well
have let out a united cry of anger.
Opening their Sunday papers, they
found that the two with the largest
circulations had each given over an
entire page to an attack on the tourist
potential of our beaches. And, what’s
more, the criticism came from a
naturalised Dutchman!
“We must bring the Kings Cross
atmosphere to our beaches to make
them pay,” wrote Mr A. J. De Leede
in a long letter. “Australians may be
quite happy to walk around with a
billycan for tea, stand in queues for
an icecream and a bag of chips, and
have a picnic on the grass. But that
won’t do for the tourist,” Mr De
Leede continued. “They are used to
wide boulevardes . . . hundreds of
open-air cafes and restaurants, hotels,
cabarets and nightclubs . . . practic-
ally any sort of entertainment built
right alongside the beachfront AND
EVEN ON THE BEACH ITSELF.”
That did it! A newcomer can
criticise Sydney’s transport, its com-
mercialism, its rush-and-bustle, its
airport terminal and lots of other
things. But, beaches are sacred.
This was the tenor of the first batch
of letters from readers who accepted
the papers’ invitation to express their
opinions on Mr De Leede’s sugges-
tions. “Monstrous,” wrote an indig-
nant resident of Bondi; “Leave our
beaches alone,” demanded a Manly-
ite; “Our glorious beaches are our
heritage from nature, their beauty is
in their very lack of adornment,”
penned a lyrical fan from Coogee.
Next came in the letters from the
gentle souls who were horrified by
Mr De Leede’s additional suggestion
for gambling casinos and girls in
bikinis as tourist attractions.
A few public-spirited people agreed
wholeheartedly with Mr De Leede.
But the letter I liked most was from
L. W. Rogers, of Paddington, who
said: “The monstrous surroundings of
Bondi beach are bad enough already;
let’s not have any more encroachment
on the beach. Who wants it to be an-
other Monte Carlo, anyway?”
IVfR Rogers wasn’t the only person in
Sydney last week worried about
the place becoming another Monte
Carlo. With the latest announcements
from some of the registered social and
sporting clubs of poker machine
profits people all over the city were
throwing up their hands in horror.
Fine club buildings with excellent
amenities is one thing, people said,
but when five clubs of a total member-
ship of 25,000 can make £323,000 in
one year, there’s something wrong.
The money has to come from some-
where.
Stunned hotel proprietors immedi-
ately began new lobbying for more
restrictions on clubs and fewer on
hotels. Irate churchmen demanded the
outlawing of the one-armed bandits.
The Country Women’s Association,
holding its annual conference, joined
this cry with speeches about unpaid
tradesmen and wives with reduced
housekeeping money.
The Registered Clubs’ Association
took full-page advertisements in the
papers to explain how all the money
was spent on club members and com-
munity projects. One club —the Guild-
ford Leagues Club—announced that it
intended to build a £1 million sports
centre and district hospital with its
poker machine profits. With the first
£lOO,OOO in the bag, the club’s direc-
tor W. Dirks said: “After all, what’s
£1 million?”
But amid all this, my heart really
went out to State Treasurer Jack Ren-
shaw, who is facing a deficit of more
than £3 million this year. He already
gets £1.7 million a year from poker
machine licensing fees (a flat rate per
machine per year), but with the profits
from the monsters now estimated at
around £3O million a year he’d dearly
love to get his hands on a few more
quid. But how to do it and not offend
the powerful clubs’ “lobby” is the
question. My information is that within
the next few months he’ll come up
with a nice, tidy solution. And it
won’t be a ban on machines!
f|%E Country Women’s Association,
A one of the strongest opponents of
poker machines, certainly had a busy
week. Day after day they hammered
out resolutions demanding heavier
penalties for sex offenders, abolition
of sales tax on basic foodstuffs, hot
showers at Central Railway station,
higher salaries for Government vet-
erinarians. They also sought a ban on
the sale of baby crocodiles as pets.
Wondering what happened to
CWA resolutions, I rang the retiring
State president Mrs Jeff Bate (wife of
the MP for Macarthur) at her Eliza-
beth Bay residence. “Certainly we
follow through on the motions,” Mrs
Bate explained. “We’ve got all sorts
of committees and they sort through
to see that the girls aren’t asking for
anything that’s already in force, then
we try to get them in to see the heads
of Departments and the Ministers con-
cerned.”
Mrs Bate said Ministers were often
very pleased to hear from the CWA;
they got a very fair hearing. “They
have learnt that we are not a militant
group, not a bunch of screaming fish-
wives,” Mrs Bate explained. She said
the Association had achieved a lot,
particularly in getting better trains
and more lighted country stations for
schoolgirls travelling home from the
city for their holidays.
Then the Association doesn’t just
dish out tea and scones at the Easter
Show? I asked. “Oh, no,” Mrs Bate
retorted, “as I told the ladies the other
day: while we may not be militant,
we are very good at continual repre-
sentation and sometimes through our
capacity to exasperate we get what
we are after.”
Mrs Bate agreed that, like herself,
many other CWA members were
married to Members of State and
Federal Parliament and other men
active in community affairs. “There
are a lot of ways to bring pressure to
bear other than carrying banners down
the street,” she said.
Then could the Association be des-
cribed as a kitchen lobby? “I don’t
know about that,” Mrs Bate replied,
“I don’t have any effect on my hus-
band; he’s too good at side-stepping.
And, really, we’re not militant —just
persistent.”
BLIGH


ALL THE QUEEN'S MEN
The new Vice-Regal look
By ALISON BOWERMAN
TPhe order “Get out there and mix
with the people” instead of the old
style “Get out and govern” has never
been put in so many words by Bucking-
ham Palace or Downing Street but the
message has been received. In recent
years the Queen and oher members of
the Royal family have moved about
more, met a greater variety of people
and been seen by many more people.
The vice-regal way of doing things in
Australia has accurately mirrored the
changes at the Palace. As the Queen
has gone out much more to be seen by
as many people as possible, so have the
Governors. These changes have certainly
made the State Governors and the
Governor-General “better value’’. The
job of Governor-General, particularly as
it was carried out by a man such as Sir
William Slim, is pretty well understood
by the generality of the Australian
people, but most of them have vaguer
ideas about what their State Governor
does, or why he is there at all. The
constitutional reasons are complicated
although there is some sort of under-
standing that the Governor represents
the Head of State and is “top of the
establishment”.
Although the new way with the State
Governors is the public relations way,
the measure of his success is still how
he fits into the life of his community.
In general, he stands on his dignity and
life moves around him. He has to get
out and mix more, but he is still not
supposed to become a centre of contro-
versy. There are few opportunities for
a Governor to do a Prince Philip and
speak out of turn with calculated effect.
Present holders of the job, in order
o; their length of service, are:
• Victoria (since 1949): General Sir
Reginald Alexander Dallas Brooks,
KCB, KCMG, KCVO, DSO.
• Western Australia (since 1951):
General Sir Charles Henry Gairdner,
KCMG, KCVO, CB, CBE.
• New South Wales (since 1957):
Lieut. - General Sir Eric Winslow
Woodward, CB, CBE, DSO.
• Queensland (since 1958): Col. (Hon.)
Sir Henry Abel Smith, KCMG,
KCVO, DSO.
• Tasmania (since 1959): Lieut. - Col.
Lord Rowallan, KT, KBE, MC.
• South Australia (since 1961): Lieut.-
General Sir Edric Bastyan, KBE,
CB.
Victoria's Sir Dallas Brooks has
probably been the best ever at hitting
the right note with the people of his
State. Sir Dallas is just embarking on
the farewell marathon which Victoria
has planned for him and which includes ,
two receptions by the Government and
a parade and reception by the Lord
Mayor. Sir Dallas, whose 13-year-term
ends in September, but who had a heart
attack last year, will leave soon for six
months in England before returning to
live in the house he has built at Franks-
ton.
Sir Dallas is known affectionately to
Victorians as Palace Dallas (the refer-
ence being not so much to Buckingham
Palace as to Government House, an
immense place with 170 rooms, including
60 bedrooms, and a ballroom half as
big again as the ballroom at Buckingham
Palace) and anecdotes, gossip and
apochrypha about him abound.
Melbourne people say Sir Dallas can
speak as well as anyone in Melbourne,
with the exception of Menzies. He was
named one of the seven best-dressed men
in Australia for 1961. Whatever
reservations are felt about him in 5.E.2
circles, Sir Dallas has worked enormously
hard and for the most deserving causes.
The only fault that could be found on
this score is that he apparently doesn’t
care much for country trips and might
average only three a year.
Sir Dallas holds the No. 1 ticket in
the Richmond Football Club. There was
a wild outbreak when he turned up a
few years ago at Port Melbourne footy
ground to see their Saturday match.
But golf is Sir Dallas's sport. In 1960
he played with international Gary
Player at Kingston Heath. Player com-
mented: “He certainly surprised me. At
the long par-four eighth hole, his drive
and two wood were right on the green.
He sank his two putts for a gross four
to score a birdie three. He wisecracked
throughout and sank some putts which
I would have been proud to own.” Sir
Dallas also played golf with Danny Kaye
and Kaye presented him with a 10-gallon
hat. But he doesn’t play only with
celebrities. He never misses ex-service-
men’s golf days and since his heart attack
has trailed around the course in an
Eisenhower-type electric golfmobile.
Danny Kaye is rumored to be one


of those who have tried the famous
chandelier game at Government House.
When opening a Moulded Products
factory at Mentone one time Sir Dallas
admitted that he had some of their per-
forated plastic golf balls and that when
nobody was around he took out his No.
nine iron and tried to chip these plastic
balls into the big chandelier. Sir Dallas
added that in his many years at Govern-
ment House he had been visited by many
golf champions. Only two people had
succeeded in putting a ball into the
chandelier and he himself was one of
them.
When Sir Dallas announced his retire-
ment in April, a Melbourne “Age”
correspondent wrote:
“If governors had a trade union, he
might long ago have been expelled for
breaking the rules or elected president
by popular vice-regal vote. He broke the
sillier and outmoded vice-regal rules. He
tore down the fences that made Govern-
ment House remote and gave his office
the new dignity of ordinary citizenship.
“He was as popular at a Trades Hall
meeting in Lygon Street as at a reception
in Toorak.”
Some Melbourne Press people think
the “Age’s” writer was a bit astray here;
that Sir Dallas’s popularity in Lygon
Street, Port Melbourne and Richmond
has caused a slight freezing-up in
traditional Toorak. Sir Dallas has gained
wide popularity, but there are always,
particularly in Melbourne, some people
who don't care for that sort of thing,
really. After all
The newspapers like him because he
was co-operative. He would probably
stand on his head for a photographer.
When he announced his retirement, the
“Herald", “Sun” and “Age” printed acres
of eulogy, but the most glowing was
on page three of the “Herald”, a tribute
by photographer Neil Town. In part it
went:
“We have known him now for 13 years
and he has never failed us. To us he is
The Gov’, and throughout his term of
office he has co-operated w'ith Melbourne
photographers with a friendly under-
standing that has made us like him with
an affection that few public men can
achieve. Sir Dallas has always taken a
personal interest in Press photographers.
He knew all of us by name and never
failed to stop to talk to us . . . sometimes
to the chagrin of city officials.
“On one occasion his interest in our
work caused him some embarrassment.
It was at a race meeting at Caulfield.
Sir Dallas asked me if he could stand
alongside the photographers and watch
us take the finish of a race. I naturally
realised what a good shot it would be if
we could persuade him to take a race-
finish picture. This he did, not knowing
I had got a camera from another photo-
grapher to take his picture while he was
taking the race-finish picture.
“The picture appeared in the ‘Herald’
with an inset of him taking it. Some
days later I met him on an assignment
and he said: ‘Town, you nearly got me
the sack. They said I had gone too far
this time.’
“That was the sort of thing that
endeared ‘The Gov’ to all of us.”
Coming up well behind Sir Dallas as
a personality Governor is Sir Henry Abel
Smith in Queensland. Sir Henry is
wealthy and is well connected. He is a
member of a British banking family and,
at his own expense, recently put a swim-
ming-pool in at Government House and
bought himself a new Rolls Royce.
Also, he is married to Lady May Cam-
bridge, a great-grand-daughter of Queen
Victoria and daughter of Princess Alice.
Before their arrival in Queensland in
1958, a ditty, sung to the tune of
McNamara's Band, was going the
rounds. It went:
“Oh, me name is Henry Abel,
“I’m the Gov'nor of this State
“A classical example of
“A man with a well-bred mate
“Oh happy day when I married me
May
“Elizabeth was there
“The guests were fed on oxygen
“So rarefied was the air.
“Tiddle de dum, dumdum, etc., etc.”
In spite of the rarefied air which
Queenslanders believed Sir Henry was
accustomed to, he has considerably
widened vice-regal circles, has himself
moved around a lot and become popular.
There is hardly a corner of the vast State
that he hasn't poked his nose into. Sir
Henry’s predecessor, Queensland - born
Sir John Lavarack, a democratic but
diffident Governor, Government House,
Brisbane, was always frankly and un-
disguisedly under the rule of caste and
snobbery. This was marked under the
long term of Sir Leslie Wilson from
1932 to 1946. Sir Leslie was a man of
narrow interests, qualified only by a
genuine love of Queensland and its
people.
Now invitations to Government House
for country people often come with a
“Good heavens, it’s Friday, did you poison the fish?”


Australian Premier (thoughtfully): You see, your Excellency, Ive got to associate with a lot of very ordinary people in the
Cabinet, but that's a mere matter of business. I wouldn’t think of inflicting them on you at the dinner-table.” Australian
Governor: “No, precisely — exactly— to be sure—that is to say—of course—I perfectly understand.”
(Shis is how Phil May in the Bulletin at the turn of the century put the position beween Governor and governed.)


note saying that if distance or the prob-
lems of land management make the trip
inconvenient, the Governor will under-
stand. In Sir Leslie’s time, you went or
you didn’t get asked again.
Sir Henry, to Queenslanders, is prob-
ably the hardest-worked Governor the
State has ever known and easily the most
popular.
Another kettle of fish from Sir Dallas
and Sir Henry is Sir Charles Gairdner,
Governor of Western Australia for 11
years. His term has just been extended
for another 21 years.
Sir Charles has won a high measure
of personal popularity in his own State
and has worked extremely hard, but his
methods have not been those of Sir
Dallas. His speciality is rather inspired
eccentricity, something the English do
extraordinarily well. Sir Charles, for a
beginning, knits; something he learnt
to do while in hospital in World War I.
This is always good for a paragraph.
He has given a couple of Perth hospitals
complete layettes, which have been pre-
sented to the first baby born at the
hospital after the Governor’s visit.
Sir Charles buys his own wool and
pattern books and chooses his own
pattern. Returning from a trip to
England in the Arcadia, Sir Charles got
busy on a stole, using a pattern which
the Duchess of Gloucester had cut from
a magazine. However, part of the
pattern got lost so Sir Charles unravelled
his work and began again. The stole
won a prize for handicrafts on board
the ship, but Sir Charles said he was
doubtful whether his wife would accept
the stole.
All this is good fun but does not
measure up to the high speed style
of Sir Dallas.
By contrast with Sir Dallas across the
border, the NSW Governor, Sir Eric
Woodward, is somewhat less colorful.
Sir Eric has been NSW Governor for
five years now and his term has been
extended for another three years. He is
the second Australian-born Governor
and the first actually born in NSW (Sir
John Northcott came from Victoria).
Sir Eric has done an extraordinarily
conscientious job. He has simply never
put a foot wrong and has worked
extremely hard. He opened Parliament
while suffering with a virus infection.
Lady Woodward broke her leg on the
polished floor of Government House,
but resumed engagements as soon as
possible afterwards. His secretary, Major
R. S. Connor, says that Sir Eric writes
his own speeches, sometimes sitting up
at night working on them. The speeches
are never controversial, and not par-
ticularly quotable. Sir Eric probably
does not wish them to be. (In this
respect, Sir Dallas doesn’t score par-
ticularly heavily either. It’s not what
he says, but what he does, that counts.)
The Woodwards are co-operative with
the Press, but the photographers rarely
get lively pictures. In the season the
Woodwards go to as many as three balls
a week, generally at the Trocadero, and
rarely have a free weekend.
The Woodwards in their five years
have visited most areas of N.S.W., and
have been to some centres several times.
They travel in the 50-years-old vice-
regal rail-coach, sometimes travelling all
night, and dashing back to the coach
during the day to wash-up and change
between the endless rounds of engage-
ments which most country people inflict
on VIPs.
In spite of this, it is difficult to see that
Sir Eric has got across to the people of
his State to any great extent. The fact
that he has done such a conscientious
job has made it easier for people to
overlook him.
The fact that he is an Australian
seems to make it more difficult for him
to introduce innovations or cut through
formalities than it does for an English-
man. One of the arguments for native-
born governors sometimes is that they
will make Government House more
informal, more democratic. Australian-
born governors, on the other hand,
probably realise that Australians, those
informal, outdoors-loving people, enjoy
an excruciating rigidity in their official
life, can listen to the longest and most
boring speeches without flinching, and
sit through the dreariest functions. Far
be it from the native-born Governors to
rob their fellow - Australians of these
simple pleasures.
Although Sir Eric hasn’t gained great
personal popularity as yet, it is true that
Sir John Northcott was really at the end
of his term before he was regarded with
much affection. The only conclusion is
that the people of NSW are grudging in
their acknowledgement of a job done
on their behalf.
The pattern common to all the States
is that the Governors move about a lot
more, meet a greater variety of people,
and entertainment at Government House
embraces a much wider section of the
community than it once did. It is re-
ported that there are 10 times more
names on the visiting book at Govern-
ment House, Melbourne, than there were
10 years ago. There is nowhere in Aus-
tralia now anything approximating a
Government House set, people who regu-
larly dine or are entertained at Govern-
ment House and whose social ambitions
hinge on the Queen’s representative.
Balls, soirees, almost any sort of
evening entertainment, except oocktail-
parties and dinner-parties, are a thing of
the past, Sir Dallas Brooks, although
informal in his public appearances, was
rather a stickler for formality at Govern-
ment House.
Government House, Sydney, has a
monthly dinner-party with, said private
secretary Major Connor, “as wide a
variety of people as possible.”
The NSW Governor gave a small
(about 250 guests) garden party while
the Anglican Synod was meeting in Syd-
ney last week, and will hold the Queen’s
Birthday ievee on June 1. The levee,
a quaint survival, is an open invitation to
all male citizens to come to pay their
respects. It is held in the morning and
although theoretically all male citizens
may attend, it usually works out at some-
thing around 1000 leading citizens, with
the bench, the Royal colleges and so on
in their robes. A levee goes on for about
an hour and by tradition everyone stands.
It can be tiring.
The garden party at which women en
masse were traditionally received has
pretty well gone by the board in Aus-
tralia, except during State visits or for
special purposes. The gardens at Govern-
ment House, Sydney, have only just re-
covered from the assaults of guests at
the garden party for the Queen Mother.
Government House staff, too, has just
recovered from the shock of American
pianist Liberace gate-crashing the party
on a Press ticket.
If the job of governor were advertised
in the way in which top executive jobs
are these days, it is doubtful whether
suitably qualified applicants would be all
that eager. Salary is not spectacular. It
varies between £6OOO and £5OOO, but is
tax-free. As well the Governor receives
an allowance to cover personal staff and
the cost of official hospitality. These
things vary for each State. For ex-
ample, as Government House, Sydney,
is in the grounds of the Botanic Gardens,
the gardens staff do the grounds of
Government House, and no allowance is
made to the Governor for that item.
It is pretty certain that nobody saves
anything out of the job. In fact, it is
generally accepted that the people at
Government House have to dip into
their own pockets—when there is any-


u.
mm
&
'd'hj '
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£ A 363,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. W. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road,
Melbourne
Telephone: 51-6243
Est. 1939
HELP
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney., BM 2001.
thing there —to keep official entertaining
at a decent level. However, things don't
seem to be quite as bad as they were
prewar in one State, when the Press
was at their wits’ end to think of yet
another way to describe the one evening
dress which the Governor's wife owned.
Although the State Governors these
days may just be able to make both ends
meet, there are recurring rumors that
some of the G. H. staff in different States
at different times, adopt a rather cavalier
attitude towards bills.
Although the job of governor might
not these days tempt too many top
executives, it is now not without pros-
pects. In the old days, a Governor gener-
ally retired to a cottage in one of the
home counties with his memories and his
military pension. The “professional” type
of governor, such as Lord Wakehurst,
who was in NSW from 1937 to 1946,
went on to another job. Lord Wake-
hurst became Governor of Northern
Ireland.
Now a retiring governor can look
forward to sliding into a seat on the
board of prominent companies. Sir
William Slim, after his stint as Governor-
General, picked up some very good ones.
He is now on the board of London As-
surance, Dalgety and Co., Edger Invest-
ments, 1.C.1. (although apparently his war
experiences weren't particularly valuable
in the recent battle with Courtaulds; he
wasn’t mentioned in financial despatches),
and the London board of advice of the
National Bank of Australasia.
Sir John Northcott, when he finished
in NSW five years ago, did quite well
locally. He is now on the board of the
Permanent Trustee, Australian Fixed
Trusts, Pioneer Concrete and Wormald
Bros. However, Sir John had a rather
rough introduction to the facts of busi-
ness life. One of his first appointments
was to the board of Butler Airways. This
came shortly before Butler's tussle with
Ansett at the end of which Butler was
swallowed up in Ansett and Northcott
was minus one boardroom job, but plus
some valuable experience.
It is believed that Sir Dallas Brooks
will go on the boards of some important
companies when he returns to Australia
after his holiday in the United Kingdom.
Although the Government House ap-
proach is now less formal, there is little
attempt to create a different idea of what
a Governor should be. All the present
State Governors are military men, and
military men in what now would be
called the old tradition. Sir Dallas, Lord
Rowallan and Sir Charles were World
War I, although they may be the last
of that era. Any future appointees would
probably come as Sir Eric. Sir Henry
and Sir Edric have, from the between-
wars period and from people who held
high-ranking jobs in World War 11.
The military tradition certainly gives
the job a bit of color. The bands play,
there is a guard of honor. It doesn't
mean much more nowadays than a scene
from a Gilbert and Sullivan operetta, but
it looks pretty. If you trundled up a
guided missile for the Governor to in-
spect it wouldn't look nearly as nice,
although it certainly would mean more.
Most of the Governors have in
common an interest in sport. Sir Dallas
played cricket and hockey before he took
up golf. Sir Edric Bastyan played
hockey, soccer, squash and cricket in
his younger days. Sir Charles Gairdner
played polo and hockey for England and
won the Dutch amateur golf champion-
ship in 1927.
After sport and the services, the No. 1
thing with the Governors is, of course,
service. Lord Rowallan was formerly
World Chief Scout, and, of course, takes
a particular interest in Scout and Guide
activities. The other State Governors,
because of their military part, take a
great interest in ex-service organisations
and such bodies as Legacy.
All this is very worth while. However,
it does in this year of grace seem to
leave large areas of Australian life un-
touched. Business gets a bit more of a
look in now. A Governor might open
new laboratories, or something like that.
Something that doesn't sound too com-
mercial. Generally, if it is a large new
factory, the Premier hops in to make
sure that his Government gets the credit.
Culture is a broad field into which the
Governors make only sporadic sorties.
Sir Edric Bastyan is reported to be fond
of painting, but to have at present no
time in which to do any. Beyond that,
there is little evidence of close interest.
The look of most of them at the ritual
“in the gracious presence of’’ concerts
and stage-performances is rather like the
stiff upper lip which the Queen wears on
such occasions.
All of the Governors did their military
training at a time when officer recruits
went through an academy and could
learn there all they needed to know.
Nowadays the feeling in some branches
of the services is that a university degree,
probably in science or engineering, but
it could be arts or economics, is no load
to carry. The Governors visit the univer-
sities but probably do not have much
idea of their workings.
So although in the past 10 or 15 years
the Governor's job has changed, the
idea of who is a suitable man for the
job hasn't changed at all. The day still
seems a very long way off when one of
Harry Messel’s boys will be considered
right for Government House.


Out and About
THE DEVIL'S OWN JOB
The way of the amateur film-maker is hard
By BRUCE BERESFORD
Tt is very difficult to write about one’s
own film. The interest in “The
Devil to Pay” (shortly to be screened on
TCN Sydney, and GTV Melbourne) is
rather surprising and probably stems
from the manner of its production as
much as the turn itself. It is a 35-minute
sound film, produced in the weekends
over a period ox 15 months by students
of Sydney University. Only Richard
Keys (24) the photographer, and myself
(21), ex-ABC TV Film Trainee, had any
previous film experience. The leading
actors John Bell (21) and Rosaleen Smyth
(21) are prominent University stage
actors, Michael Newman (21) who wrote
the narration, was editor of the University
paper “Honi Soit” and is a prolific revue
writer, and Peter Butler (21) the com-
poser is a music student.
The “Devil” is essentially an exercise
in film-making, one of the aims being to
impress the head of the Faculty of
Cinema of the University of Southern
California so that he will grant me a
scholarship. This is not to imply that
we wouldn’t have filmed a story by Pat-
rick White if one were available. But
one wasn’t. The advantage of the made-
to-measure “Devil to Pay” plot, con-
cocted by myself, is that it provides every-
thing bar a chariot race. Even if it is
not strikingly original I believe that it is
well constructed with considerable unity.
It certainly afforded everyone in it con-
siderable scope for their abilities.
The story is a subjective fantasy in
which the hero (John Bell) presents his
life to the Devil (Brian Tapply) and tries
to convince the Devil that his aims were
admirable. Slowly and surely the Devil
dismembers the hero’s concept of him-
self.
“The Devil” is no vague, aesthetic ex-
periment. It is meant to be vivid and
exciting. So far no one has called it dull.
This is an achievement in itself. It was
filmed all over Sydney, in locations as
varied as Adams’ marble bar (dream
sequence), the Harbor Bridge (treated as
a power symbol), the Belvedere Hotel
which served as the interior of the hero’s
sumptuous home, a Parramatta spare-
parts wrecking-yard, a Granville storm-
water channel, and the houses of assorted
(ex-) friends whose mothers were glad
to let us in (once). Financial calamities
occurred almost weekly during the pro-
duction period, but someone, often mem-
bers of the cast, always came forward
with enough cash for a few more weeks’
shooting. Often we filmed on “short
ends”, scraps of film about 20 feet long,
and most of the editing was done with a
magnifying glass and an antique splicer.
If Natec studios hadn’t offered to “mix”
the sound in return for a credit we
would have produced a silent picture.
It would have been possible to have
made an interesting, if perhaps esoteric,
art film at the outset but the “story”
film offers enormous scope. This type
of movie has a rather unfortunate history
in Australia. A relatively large number of
feature films have been produced—nearly
all were financial flops, all were poorly
scripted and all but three (“Back of
Beyond”, “Forty Thousand Horsemen”,
“Sons of Matthew”) were directed with
uninteresting techniques. The opportunity
for a director with imagination, sensiti-
vity and a strong story is tremendous.
Plenty of Acting Talent
There is plenty of acting talent avail-
able and the number of good unknown
writers is surprising. At the moment Aus-
tralian writers prefer to write for English
and American TV stage and films. The
way to get them to write for Australian
productions is to pay them more money.
It is very difficult to assess directing
talent, as talent alone is not enough.
Organising ability and perseverance are
needed and the fact that few films have
been produced so far, apart from “The
Terrific Adventures of the Terrible Ten”,
would indicate little is available, although
there seems to be considerable maturing
talent around.
No Australian producer will actually
say it, but the truth is that none of them
consider that TV films or features could
be made here which would be of high
enough quality to sell on a world market;
they cannot be produced economically
enough to make a profit on the Austra-
lian market alone.
The cost problem is a very complex
one. Not many films can be produced
on the benevolence basis of “The Devil
to Pay”. Actors and technicians also like
to get paid and once this happens the
films must sell in England and/ or
America to make a profit. Lack of
“name” stars is not a major disadvantage.
Good films will sell anywhere.
TV films are shown on 16mm, yet
are made on 35mm (cinema gauge) and
reduced. “The Devil” was made originally
on 16mm, as this entailed only a fraction
of 35mm cost. The argument for filming
on 35mm is that the quality of 16mm
prints is better and more optical effects
(trick titles, superimposures, etc) can be
achieved. If the difference is going to
mean profit instead of loss some radical
changes are coming. An important recent
development is that some studios can now
produce such high quality 16mm prints
from 16mm originals that by the time
they are transmitted the difference be-
tween them and 16mm prints from 35mm
originals will be indistinguishable. Die-
hards will fight this point as long as
they live, but if profitable TV series are
to be produced here they must be made
on 16mm.
Some people have suggested that “The
Devil” is part of an Australian “new
wave”. This is rather optimistic, although
the interest shown in the film cer-
tainly means people care about modern
Australian-produced films. Film in this
country still has a long way to go before
it approaches anything like the inter-
national prominence other arts have
been receiving lately. A large number of
documentaries and a few art films have
been produced over the last couple of
years, but only one or two story films.
At the moment it is impossible to imagine


an Australian film being widely discussed
in Sweden or Italy as “The Seventh Seal”
or “La Dolce Vita” were here. Money and
talent scarcity (i.e. supercaution in back-
ing talent) are not the only problems
either. Australian producers, with a few
exceptions, still think Dad-and-Dave-
type thoughts.
This is only going to add to my un-
popularity in certain circles but Aust-
ralian producers are simply not aware
of modern trends. It is surprising just
how many of them will confess they
“don’t like films very much” but “drifted
into the business after the war”. Few of
them see films in the way any novelist
knows the work of his contemporaries.
The implication of this is producers are
not aware of the films the public are
watching. Reading a trade paper is not
enough, as they report audience sizes,
not film concepts and realisation. Pro-
ducers consciously tone down the in-
tellectual value to appeal to a public
they regard as clots. This approach is
disastrous as anyone can tell when they
are being treated with condescension.
Also mass paperbacks, intensive edu-
cation, adult education, TV and con-
tinental cinemas have brought a wide-
spread sophistication of the Australian
public. Even films and magazines of the
late ’4o’s are amazingly dated today.
Sixty years of film production in this
country has not yet taught the money
men the Australian public does not like
Dad and Dave “comedies” (still highly
regarded by producers), films with arti-
ficial Australianisms, or documentaries
which give the impression of having
been scripted during filming.
Modern ideas by top-class writers, in-
terpreted by informed directors, are the
only basis on which a reputable, profit-
able Australian film industry will be
built. This film industry is something
the country needs; and shouldn’t rely on
the Government to supply. Film is such a
vital, pervasive art it is an odd fact a
nation of 11-million people is reflected,
analysed and expressed in nothing better
than “Revue ’62” a handful of (often
excellent) ABC productions and D. 0.1.
documentaries.
THE VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS
Why should we have an American TV industry in Australia?
Oydney actor, Gordon Chater, for some
years one of the props and stays
of the Phillip Theatre, is a very funny
man. Like most funny men, when he
is serious he burns with zeal. Mr Chater
for the past two years has been on
what he calls the “Trocadero luncheon
circuit.” On perhaps 60 occasions he has
talked to members of the various Rotary-
style and other clubs which hold
monthly luncheons at the Trocadero.
Generally, Mr Chater gives his audience
what he dismisses as “the funny stuff”
for about 25 minutes, then he drifts to a
subject which he takes with the utmost
seriousness—that there should be more
work for local artists in Australian
television.
Because Gordon Chater is an intelli-
gent man and an established actor with a
large personal following and one with
no particular wish to star on television
what he says leaves no taste of sour
grapes.
“Let me say at the outset that this
is really a one-man crusade,” he said.
“I feel that Actors’ Equity does what it
can, that there are other people who
feel strongly that there should be more
Australian content in local TV, and I
feel, too, that there are hopeful signs
that the industry is developing, but so
far as I am concerned I talk about this
subject simply because I personally
care about it. I don’t care if no one else
cares. I am content to be a voice
crying in the wilderness.
“This,” said Mr Chater —he is Ex-
R.N., 17 years in this country; having
arrived with high hopes and £B2 navy
back-pay in his pocket—“is a matter
of national pride. Why should we have
an American TV industry in Australia?
Why can’t we have an Australian TV
industry? We are proud of our artists
and our writers, our singers and our
sportsmen. We are even proud of our
actors, such as Peter Finch, once we have
driven them away, because they can’t
make a living here, to make a good one
eslewhere. Why can’t we be proud of
our TV actors, writers and producers?
“And let me say at the outset,” Mr
Chater went on, the voice in the wilder-
ness reaching for a deeper, more reso-
nant note, “that I am not opposed to
commercial television. I think it is a
splendid thing that television should
make profits and that it should make
profits for private enterprise. How-
ever, I think now that the industry is
established it is time that more of
the profits should go back into the
industry.
“Do you know I believe that the tele-
vision industry could in the long run
make greater profits if it concentrated
on making local documentaries, plays
and other programmes? I believe that
there are enough good writers ard
actors here to make programmes good
enough to be sold overseas.”
Did Mr Chater believe that at the
present time there are enough writers,
actors and technical people to provide
a substantial portion of Australian tele-
vision programmes?
“Let us go back to 1938 in radio,”
Mr Chater said. “At that time 90 per
cent, of the material on radio was im-
ported and there was no more than a
glimmer of what the local potential
might be. Then came September, 1939.
Importations from the United States
were finished. The BBC transcription
service shut down. The Australian rad : c
industry was born, right in wartime. At
the end of the war when it would have
been possible to get importations again
Australian plays and programmes had
established themselves and could with-
stand any competition. Australian radio
actors and producers could go to Britain
or America, and, once they had mastered
differences in techniques, they could go
ahead and get good jobs in radio in
those countries.
“If that could happen in radio, it
could certainly happen in TV. The
actors, writers and producers came up
very quickly in radio. I hate to think
that it would take another war to esta-
blish an Australian TV industry, be-
cause I’m afraid the next war won’t leave
us with TV or anything.”
Was Mr Chater interested in esta-
blishing Australian TV programmes,
simply so that his acting friends could
make a better living?
“Well, I will admit that things are
bad with quite a lot of people,” he said.
“There is hardly anything doing in radio,
although things are much better in the
theatre than they were 15 years ago.
But I am not interested in this merely
from the point of view of the econo-
mics of the acting profession. I am
interested in it from the point of view
of the audience, and, although I don’t
want to go into all that again, as a
matter of national pride.”
And what does Mr Chater visualise
as Australian programmes which would
niterest viewers here and overseas?
“Well, they should get away from
those dreary historical things and get
something thoroughly contemporary,” he
said. “There could be a series called


‘Sydney Slant’ or something like that,
instead of ‘Hawaiian Eye,’ which could
have good stories set against the fasci-
nating and varied backgrounds of
Sydney.
“I do not think for a minute that we
should have 100 per cent. Australian
television programmes. That would be
simply terrible. We should always see
and enjoy the best that other countries
have to offer.
“And I am not saying that we have
our own Sir John Gielgud, Dame Edith
Evans and Dame Sybil Thorndike and
so on. What I do say is that we have
a lot of actors here, not doing much
work, who are far better than the aver-
age cast in a West End production.
“I think we do see some wonderful
things on television here and I regard
myself as a good television viewer. I
will listen to a talk on the umpteenth
Babylonian dynasty on TV simply be-
cause I am fascinated by the fact that
the man talking is seven miles away
and I can still see him. I thought the
Borge hour was splendid, that it was
wonderful for so many people to be
able to see an artist like that in their
own homes. We also have some very
good people on local TV, but there
should be more of them.
“Do you know that there are nine
hours of live drama on commercial tele-
vision in England now? When I appeared
in Armchair Theatre on Sunday night
during my last visit there, I played a
Fidel Castro character and grew a
beard for the part. That programme had
a viewing public of 28,000,000, and I
had to shave off the beard afterwards
because so many people recognised me
and stopped me in the street. Just from
that one role. I am sure that local
players, in the right sort of plays and
with the right sort of production could
get the same following on TV here.”
PATRICIA ROLFE
OUT OF THE GENERAL RUN
Army men in the world are such
A good PR agents for their country
as Israel’s generals. It is not surprising
that they are so highly intelligent and
well informed we might charitably
stretch a point and assume most generals
are like that—but they are informal,
matter-of-fact, and always willing to dis-
cuss their country’s problems in a tough
realistic way without clap-trap or
bureaucrat-ese that goes down very
well with Australians. Last year one
such general—Haim Laskov—toured
Australia, and more recently we have had
Brigadier-General Abraham Yaffe, the
tall barrel-chested son of a Russian
farmer who in the last Suez war chased
the Egyptians back into Egypt.
We discussed Egypt with him last week
in his apartment in the Hotel Australia,
Sydney, and on the assumption that one
should never underestimate one’s enemy
he is almost unstinting in his praise of
Nasser’s abilities. The trouble with
Nasser’s army, Yaffe said, was that it
had been trained on Russian lines with
every man knowing exactly what he must
do but with no allowance whatsoever
for individual initiative when as inevit-
ably happens in a war something goes
wrong. This is all right in Russia where
there is plenty of territory and no short-
age of cannon-fodder, but it is absurd in
the Middle East.
Nasser, however, according to General
Yaffe, has learned his lesson and is now
concentrating on quality and better train-
ing. Nevertheless General Yaffe is still
confident Israel can always lick Egypt;
unless the cold war gets hot and some-
one is mad enough to give the Egyptians
atomic weapons—a possibility it is hard
to imagine—nothing can dislodge Israel.
Referring to the recent rumor that
Nasser had been assassinated General
Yaffe said it would have made no differ-
ence to Israel, unless it had been part of
a popular movement against him and
there is no sign of any such movement.
He said that Egypt is the only totalitarian
country in the strict sense outside the
Communist world but there is little effec-
tive opposition to the regime. The
peasants have not received as much as
they were promised but they still think
Nasser speaks for them. The business
classes hate him (“Where else in the
world is a businessman likely to be an
executive one day and then arrested that
night and stuck in a concentration
camp?”) but they have little effective
power. The Army is on the whole loyal
and basically free from corruption.
In the long run General Yaffe said the
only hope for peace in the Middle East
is for Nasser to abandon his dream of
conquering Israel, but there is no sign
whatsoever of this: morning, noon and
night Radio Cairo still keeps the dream
intensely alive. One thing, however, that
UN could do is to insist that the Arab
refugees, whose whole way of life is
based on the assumption that they will
one day return to loot Israel, be re-
settled in Arab and other States. Suddenly
cutting off the UN subsidies would work
wonders. Meanwhile the subsidy system
is in many ways a racket: some of the
money goes to the Arab State treasuries
and, curiously, in 14 years not one
refugee has died. (In other words the
dead are quietly buried and someone goes
on collecting their subsidy.)
GOOD WINE NEEDS
NO LABEL
VText week the wine men meet in
Perth. Or to be more precise they
are having the annual general meeting
of the Federal Wine and Brandy Pro-
ducers’ Council of Australia. One matter
they could well give some attention to
is what in France is called appellation
control. There you can’t put a label on
a bottle that suggests the wine came
from a region famous for its high
quality wines when in fact it came from
some other region which probably pro-
duces inferior wine. You can’t in other
words get some Algerian wine and pre-
tend it came from, say, Bordeaux.
In Australia this sort of thing happens
all the time. The NSW Hunter River
Valley is the main sufferer; particularly
around the town of Pokolbin though
the good country stretches further
where the climate and the soil are perfect
for top quality grapes. The winters are
warm, the summers hot, the rainfall less
than 30 inches a year, and mixed in
with a lot of poor land are pockets of
red volcanic soil ideal for red grapes
or alluvial soil ideal for white.
The only trouble is that the region
produces comparatively little wine on
the average about 150,000 gallons a
year. One small wine-producer in Grif-
fith in the irrigation area would alone
produce as much as this in a year. And
in the Hunter when hail or erosion take
their toll they often produce less. But
• and this is the point each year far
more than 150,000 gallons are sold in
bottles with labels that suggest the
Hunter River. They do not actually say
they are from the Hunter. But the brand
names are normally associated with that
region.
A quick phone survey of the wine
companies revealed that probably far
more than half a million gallons are
sold with Hunter names. Some may have
some Hunter wine blended in, some may
have a spit of Hunter wine, some have
none at all, only the suggestive name.
It does not matter much to the man who
knows his wines and it only requires
a very ordinary palate to pick a Hunter
wine from an irrigation wine but to
the ordinary wine drinker it is all very
misleading. However, since the men
meeting in Perth have a vested interest
in this hoax we suppose nothing will be
done about it.
Although very few people are willing
to undergo the test of tasting wine blind
folded experts say that Hunter reds are
distinctive enough to be picked from any
other by this method because of their
bouquet.


OVERSEAS
THE MAN BEHIND THE WALL
Walter Ulbricht's road to power
By CAROLA STERN
Walter Ulbricht is deeply involved
with one of the world’s great danger
points Berlin and his career and
character are crucial for an under-
standing of what has happened and is
happening there. It was because of
his policies that hundreds of thous-
ands of East Germans fled through
Berlin, and it was he who built the
wall now dividing the city. “How did
this minor party official become the
most powerful man between the Oder
and Elbe rivers?”, Miss Stern asks,
and then goes on to sketch a fascina-
ting, revealing and objective profile of
the East German leader
On a foggy November night last
year a mysterious squad of the
East German army sped through
the streets of East Berlin in the direction
of the Stalin Allee. Having arrived there,
the soldiers jumped down from their
vehicles, scared away a few late night
dawdlers, worked strenuously for some
hours and then disappeared again. Next
morning the Stalin Allee had ceased to
exist. New street-signs had been put up.
East Berlin’s “socialist showcase boule-
vard” was now called Frankfurter Allee
and, towards the Western end, Karl
Marx Allee.
Next morning there was no Stalin
memorial either in East Berlin. Over-
night the special squad had smashed the
great statue to pieces and cleared it
away. At the same time Stalinstadt
(Stalin city), the residential city surround-
ing the largest ironworks combine in
East Germany, was renamed “Ironworks
City”. All the East German establish-
ments that had hitherto borne the name
of the great dictator were also renamed.
This all happened a few weeks after the
22nd Congress of the Soviet Communist
Party, by order of the leaders of the
East German Communist Party and its
First Secretary, Walter Ulbricht.
Since August 13, 1961, that is, since
the erection of the great wall in the
middle of Berlin, the East German Press
has published almost daily tributes,
hymns of praise, poems and songs in
honor of Walter Ulbricht, bringing ever
new offerings to his altar. The forms
of the Ulbricht cult include the falsifica-
tion of the Party leader’s own past.
Nearly every East German paper has
recently published biographies of Walter
Ulbricht, under various titles and
authors’ names, but always with the
same content. They set out to establish
that Ulbricht has been, throughout his
life, a sincere revolutionary and an un-
flinching German patriot. What is the
real truth about his past?
Ulbricht was born in the “trade-fair”
city of Leipzig, the old German centre of
art and commerce, south of Berlin.
Leipzig was always a stronghold of the
German Social Democrats, and Ulbricht’s
father, the tailor Adolf Ulbricht, was
also a member of the German Social
Democratic Party and he brought up
his three children to follow him: Walter,
the eldest—he was born on June 30,
1893—his only daughter Hildegard and
his younger son Erich.
It was almost a foregone conclusion
that the two sons and the daughter
should become members of the Social
Democratic Party. Later on, however,
their paths divided. The sister married
and now lives in a small town in West
Germany. She is most anxious that no
one should learn that she is related to
him. Her lawyer has told reporters that
the 61-year-old woman is afraid that, if
they knew that she was Walter Ulbricht’s
sister, thousands of Germans who are
worried about their relatives in East
Germany would send petitions to her.
She would have to disappoint them all
since she has not been in touch with her
brother for over thirty years. Ulbricht’s
younger brother emigrated to the US
in 1928 and now lives as a truss-maker
near New York. He too claims to have
had no contact with his brother since
he left Germany.
The East German biographies of
Ulbricht never mention his “Western”
relations and hardly anyone in East
Germany has ever heard of them. It was
only a few months ago that the ingenious
reporters of a West German illustrated
weekly succeeded in discovering the
whereabouts of Ulbricht’s brother and
sister and of one of his daughters who
lives in West Germany. Then, however,
former members of the East German
Communist Party who had escaped to
West Germany recalled how from 1948
onwards Uibricht on orders from Moscow
dismissed from all important posts Com-
munist Party officials who had close rela-
tions in West Germany or elsewhere in
the West. His own relations in the West
were never mentioned and his position
was not affected by them.
The wildest rumors about Ulbricht’s
younger days are current in Germany.
People who claim to have known him at
the time, report that the family lived in
one of the most notorious quarters of
Leipzig, where prostitutes and all manner
of rabble ruled the roost. It is certain
that the Ulbrichts really did live in a
district which the more refined citizens
of Leipzig never entered, or only in
secret. The Ulbrichts were, moreover,
atheists —reason enough at the turn of the


Automation
comes to your
switchboard
The telephonist can comfortably handle the telephone traffic
of a large business with this automated push-button console.
It is the STC Pentaconta PABX, a telephone system entirely
new to Australia.
Consider its advantages. SPEED—callers are connected instan-
taneously at the touch of a button; calls don’t bank up and
there is no answering delay; calls can be transferred between
extensions without the telephonist’s help. EASE OF
CON 1 ROL —the Pentaconta telephonist switches all calls by
pushbutton thus speeding up operation and eliminating fatigue.
RELlABlLlTY—refinements such as the use of precious metals
for electrical contacts eliminate irritating background noises
from telephone conversations.
For further information and illustrated literature on this
modern system, now being installed in Australia’s most
progressive businesses, contact:
■: : X
ss
m
IlMti
>s: g;
X».
gigs
.gig*
m
mm
m:
m
m ss
mm
111
ill?
i.gx.g
Standard Telephones and Cables Pti]. Ltd.
A 209 A
SYDNEY: 252-274 Botany Road, Alexandria MX 0444 • BRISBANE: Cnr. Wilson &
Boundary Streets, West End .1 1771 • MELBOURNE: 174 King Street 60-1406
• CANBERRA: 39 Empire Circuit, Forrest, A.C.T. 91043.
DISTRIBUTORS:
South Australia: Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 54 North Terrace West, Adelaide 51-3731
• Western Australia: M. J. Bateman Pty. Ltd., 12 Milligan Street, Perth 21-2951 •
lasmania: W. & G. Genders Pty Ltd., Launceston, Hobart, Burnie, Devonport.
Kin]
XI
ASSUCIAII


century in Germany for bourgeois con-
tempt!
On top of all this the boy was also
inhibited and found it extremely difficult
to make human contacts —an attribute
which still greatly bothers the head of the
Party and State in East Germany.
Encouraged by his father, he soon
devoted himself to politics, worked with
like-minded comrades in the social-
democratic youth movement and en-
deavoured with the zeal of a German
petty bourgeois to escape from the musty
confinement of his surroundings.
He was apprenticed to a cabinet
maker and travelled as a journeyman
as far as Austria, Northern Italy and
Switzerland. A few years later, after
the outbreak of the First World War, he
had to join the Army. But in the Spring
and again in the Autumn of 1918 he
deserted. On both occasions he was
caught, court-martialled and sentenced to
a brief period of imprisonment.
In 1919 Ulbricht joined the newly es-
tablished Communist Party in Leipzig
and soon became a full-time official. His
real career began in 1923. He was
appointed to the Party machine in Berlin
and elected, though with the lowest num-
ber of votes, to the central committee.
He then joined the Central European
secretariat of the executive committee of
the Comintern, attended the Lenin
school in Moscow, returned to Germany,
in 1928 entered the Reichstag as a Com-
munist deputy and a year later took
charge of the Berlin-Brandenburg area
office of the German Communist Party,
the most important Party organisation in
Germany.
It is impossible to get any information
about Ulbricht today from the few real
personalities in German Communism in
the ’twenties who have survived the
Hitler terror and the Stalin terror.
Almost unnoticed, nimbly and persis-
tently, he wormed his way to the top of
the Party apparatus. His speciality was
the conversion of the Communist Party
organisation to the industrial cell system.
How did this “Comrade Cell”, this
insignificant Party official, become,
thirty years later, the most powerful man
between the Oder and the Elbe?
Two men smoothed his path: Hitler
and Stalin.
On January 30, 1933, the Nazi dicta-
torship triumphed in Germany. Its
terror was directed against all dissenters.
Thousands of German Communists were
arrested and sent to prison or put in con-
centration camps. Many of them were
murdered by the Nazis. But thousands
of German Communists were able to
escape from the Hitler terror —to
Prague, Paris or Moscow. In Moscow
they became victims of Stalin’s dictator-
ship. Those who were not liquidated
straight away in the great purges staged
by Stalin, died after many years’ suffer-
ing, in a compulsory labor camp in
Siberia or in a German concentration
camp. During the period of the German-
Soviet non-aggression pact the two dicta-
tors handed over to each other a number
of their political prisoners.
Ulbricht survived. In 1933 he succeed-
ed in escaping from Berlin to Prague
and thence to Paris. In the French
capital he joined the foreign department
of the German Communist Party.
He also survived the great purges in
the Soviet Union. From Paris he emi-
grated to Moscow. Former Communists
accuse him of having handed over to
Stalin a number of inconvenient com-
rades. It is certain that some of the
German Communist Party officials who
perished in the Soviet Union were re-
habilitated by Moscow after the death of
Stalin. Their relatives were informed
that the charges against them had not
been true. Ulbricht forbade that these
rehabilitations be made known in East
Germany. He owes his rise to the top to
the slaughter by Hitler and Stalin of the
elite of the German Communist move-
ment, since, unlike other German Com-
munist Party officials. Ulbricht was
always prepared, whatever his own con-
victions, to join whichever faction
happened to be strongest. When he real-
ised that Stalin would be victorious, he
became his unconditional follower.
The infamous pact
Tn 1939 Hitler and Stalin concluded a
-*■ non-aggression pact. Hitler had already
occupied Czechoslovakia. In September,
1939, he invaded Poland and shared the
booty with Stalin. The blitz on England
had begun. In February, 1940, Ulbricht
wrote as follows in the Comintern journal
“Die Welt” in Stockholm:
“The German Government has de-
clared its readiness for peaceful relations
with the Soviet Union, whereas the
Anglo-French bloc wants to make war on
the Socialist Soviet Union. It is in the
interest of the Soviet people and the
working class in Germany to frustrate
the British war plans .... Therefore not
only the Communists but also many
Social Democratic and National Socialist
(i.e. Nazi) workers regard it as their duty
never in any circumstances to permit a
breach of the pact.”
A year later, however, Ulbricht’s con-
federates, the National-Socialist workers,
invaded the Soviet Union. The tide had
turned and Ulbricht turned as well. In
1943 he and other surviving German
Communist party officials formed, to-
gether with German prisoners of war,
the National Committee for Free Ger-
many. There was no more talk now
about the “struggle against British
imperialism.”
His great hour came at the end of
World War 11. On April 30, 1945,
Hitler committed suicide in his bunker
in the Reich chancellery. On the same
day Ulbricht boarded a plane in Moscow
and landed near Berlin with a small
group of intimate friends. One dictator
had left the stage; another was pre-
paring his debut in the same place.
Unnoticed —but clearly by order of
Stalin.
Ulbricht’s great day only arrived some
years later. By 1948 and ’49 it had be-
come clear that the war-time agreement
of the Allies had evaporated, and with it
the hope that Germany might soon be
reunified. The victors began to pursue
their own interest in Germany. The
Western allies strove to bring one part of
Germany into close association with the
Western bloc, the Soviets to integrate the
other part with the Eastern bloc. In other
words, from 1948-49 the Eastern part of
Germany began to be turned into a com-
pletely Communist satellite.
That was and is Ulbricht’s work. To
begin with, he was only deputy Party
chairman and deputy Prime Minister of
the Soviet Zonal State founded in 1948.
In 1950, in the first phase of Commun-
ising the Zone, he became general secre-
tary of the Party. In 1960, Ulbricht also
made himself Head of State and Supreme
Commander of the Armed Forces. All
the important power positions in the
State were now in his hands.
Before this could happen, however, all
his political enemies had to be eliminated.
In its present form, the East German
Communist Party came into being in
1946 by the compulsory fusion of the
German Socialist Party and German
Communist Party in the Soviet Zone in
the so-called Socialist Unity Party (SED).
When Ulbricht made this party Com-
munist in 1948-1949, he was opposed by
many of the old Social Democrats. They
were arrested, sentenced to long terms
of imprisonment or compelled to escape
fo West Germany.
At the same time Ulbricht, with Soviet
support, turned the four non-Communist
parties, which are still nominally in
existence today, into mere instruments
of the Communist Party. Bourgeois
politicians who resisted received the
same treatment as the loyal Social Demo-
crats. Then followed the remilitarisation
of East Germany, the secret police
terror, the collectivisation of agriculture
and the expropriation of the factories
and the small tradesmen.
This rigorous Sovietizing policy led in
'953 to the popular uprising of June 17.


The East German workers cried above
all: “Down with the goatee!” (a reference
to Ulbricht’s pointed beard). This 17th
June, 1953, was the blackest day in
Ulbricht’s career but also his salvation.
In this restless country Moscow needed
the most loyal and devoted and hardest
man as Governor. Ulbricht’s policy not
only shocked the people of East Ger-
many, but also roused his closest associ-
ates, the officials of the Politbureau. In
1950, 1953 and 1956-57 anti-Ulbricht
factions were formed among the Com-
munist Party leaders. Significantly, the
first two Ministers of State Security
were members of these factions, as were
Ulbricht’s deputies in charge of the
Party machine. Thanks to their positions
these men had the most detailed informa-
tion on the political and economic situa-
tion in East Germany. They were ex-
tremely well-informed on the mood of the
people. They knew that in their country
the Communist Party would never win
the people’s loyalty so long as Ulbricht
was at the top. They were able to point
to the flight of three million people to
West Germany. Nevertheless, Moscow
decided in favor of Ulbricht and against
them.
As long as Stalin was still alive, this
was not surprising. Ulbricht was his
most docile pupil, ready to follow his
every dodge unconditionally. Ulbricht
ruled entirely by Stalin’s methods and
acquired the reputation of being the
German Stalin. But it was only after the
death and condemnation of Stalin that
he achieved his tactical masterpiece.
After the Moscow 20th Party Congress in
1956, the German Stalinist turned him-
self with frightening cynicism into an
ardent anti-Stalinist. Unfortunately, how-
ever, only in words.
This change of mind was, however,
quite external, and merely a necessary
concession to the new rulers in the
Kremlin. Since the death and condem-
nation of Stalin, Ulbricht has been pursu-
ing his own policy for the first time in
his life—in so far as he is able to do so
as a representative of the Kremlin. He
has used the greater political scope, con-
ceded by Khrushchev to the leaders of
the East European Soviet-bloc states,
exclusively to administer the Stalin legacy.
Since 1956 not a single Stalinist official
has been deposed in East Germany.
The prisons are crammed
prisons are crammed with between
A twelve and fourteen thousand poli-
tical prisoners. Terror still reigns—with
cynical commentaries from Ulbricht. He
called the wall of shame across the middle
of Berlin the “frontier of peace”. While
people were trying at the peril of their
lives to penetrate the barbed wire, and
escape to freedom across the roofs and
through sewage plants, Ulbricht declared
on August 18, 1961: “Less has occurred
as a result of all our measures than in a
normal rock-and-roll gathering in West
Berlin . . . All the workers are breathing a
sigh of relief . . . The whole population
is behind the steps taken by East Ger-
many!”
All that this man could achieve by
power and force he has achieved. But
he wants still more. He wants to be
loved, to be revered as father of the
people. But he lacks all the necessary
qualities. His high falsetto voice and
his comic dialect make him a laughing-
stock. He has no sense of humor and
never sees a joke. No caricature of him
has ever appeared in the East German
Press. The editor-in-chief of a humorous
paper who tried to publish a caricature
had to submit ten drafts and not one was
passed.
If Ulbricht were not so hated in Ger-
many, if he did not have such dreadful
power, the efforts this friendless man
makes to pass himself off as an affable
sovereign would be quite touching. He
skis and has himself photographed in
action. He attends art exhibitions and
has himself filmed there. He visits the
country villages and allows himself to be
interviewed there. But it is all useless.
The people hate him. Hence he created
love and admiration artificially by order-
ing his officials to pay homage to him
and practise the cult of his personality.
The cult of Ulbricht’s personality is now
the most visible token of his Stalinist
policy. His character, his political past
and his political work allow him no way
out. He is powerless to convince, he
can only dictate.
Nevertheless Nikita Khrushchev sticks
to him. He seems to be afraid that, if
he were to comply with the East German
workers’ chief demand: “Down with the
goatee!”, the western border of the
Eastern bloc would break out in renewed
uproar as a result of a concession that
might be construed only too easily as
weakness.
BRITAIN'S
AMBIGUOUS P.M.
Macmillan in clubland
By ANTHONY SAMPSON
From time to time, in one of six
of the more conservative London
clubs (Pratt’s, Buck’s, the Carlton,
the Beefsteak, the Turf or the Athen-
aeum), a tall grey-haired man with a
drooping moustache can be observed
walking slowly—almost shuffling up
the stairs, alone.
He walks in, orders perhaps a dry
Martini, and then may turn to talk to
one of the members. He talks well, in
a casual, relaxed way, with a sardonic
wit. He has a habit of picking his teeth
with concentration, and of brushing down
the side of his moustache tiredly.
Everything about him seems to droop
—his moustache, his eyes, his mouth,
his floppy cardigan. His repertoire of
languid gestures includes the pulling
down of the corner of his eyes while
he pauses for a point; the fastidious
wobbling of his hand as he searches for
a nuance; the opening of his mouth
squarely, like a trap as he feigns
amazement. He is one of the few men
left in England who literally puts his
tongue in his cheek when making a
joke.
He might be any aged clubman,
imagining himself to be important. But
in fact he is, of course, the Prime Minis-
ter: and it is in clubland in this old-
fashioned, faintly histrionic setting
that he seems at home.
But although Mr Macmillan favors
traditional backcloths clubs, country
houses, high tables, grouse moors the
job he holds has greatly altered over the
past century. Universal suffrage and mass


media are increasingly turning the Prime
Minister into the personification of his
party, and into the central showman at
elections. The colossal expansion of the
Government machine has made 10
Downing Street and the Cabinet Office
into a much more crucial ganglion to
the nervous system of Whitehall. And
the growth of summitry, with jet planes
and telephones, has made foreign affairs
more a question of communications be-
tween chief executives, less of negotia-
tions between ambassadors.
Not long ago I asked Macmillan how
he thought the Prime Minister's job had
changed since before the war. He re-
plied:—
“To some extent, of course, the Prime
Minister’s job is what he makes of
it. But the number of inescapable things
has increased —and they always were
considerable. The tempo has quickened,
too.
“At home the Government carries
many more direct responsibilities than
it did. In foreign affairs things have be-
come more complex because of the pro-
liferation of new nations, new groupings,
new organisations.
“With the use of modern communica-
tions you get the difficulties that arise
from differences in time. At the Foreign
Office you can be woken up in the
middle of the night from the United
Nations, where it is only seven o’clock,
and be asked which way we should vote
about something, and you have got to
decide. The Foreign Office is the most
exacting post: it is like editing a daily
paper ; the Treasury is more like a
weekly paper.
“Also this flying business. That has
certainly made a difference. Nowadays
there is no particular difficulty about
having a meeting almost anywhere in
the world at the drop of a hat. So you
get pressures to have them. And, of
course, quite a number of countries —it
isn’t only Russia —choose to do the
really important business at the summit.
So the Prime Minister tends to get more
and more caught up in meetings, in tra-
velling, in receiving visitors.
“Then again, the business of Parlia-
ment has changed enormously. When I
was a young man it used to adjourn
from August to February. People really
had time to think. Nowadays Parliament
takes up much more of a Prime Minis-
ter’s time. Parliamentary Questions, for
example. Fifty years ago it was not
‘done’ to raise broad policy issues at
Question Time. Nowadays it is: ques-
tions leading up to a debate, really, and
they take up a good deal of work.
“Keeping yourself straight with the
Press is something else that seems to
have become more complicated. Partly
because the pace is so much quicker.
But also far more people demand to be
seen. On top of that, there’s television.
Learning to cope with television isn’t
easy. Either you get involved in a kind
of circus act with interviewers or you
try solos —if they let you—and solos
are just about the most difficult televi-
sion technique. How can you give a fire-
side talk to a television camera?
“The fact is that you can’t be Prime
Minister nowadays unless you are pre-
pared to stay up late. A great deal
of the hard work doesn't begin until
the evening, when the boxes start coming
in. Much of the time you can’t get out
at night except for official occasions. I
don’t mind myself, but some people
wouldn’t like it. If you go off to Scot-
land everyone seems to assume you are
on holiday. They don’t realise that you
have to take secretaries with you: that
you have to keep in touch with London
all the time.
“What it all adds up to is that these
days a Prime Minister must have the
constitution of an ox. It’s no longer just
a question of intellectual and mental
capacity.”
A central ambiguity
fFHE puzzle about Macmillan and the
A way he operates is that there is
a central ambiguity at the core of his
character that is becoming more and
more marked as the difficulties of his
Administration increase. The roots of
the ambiguity run deeply into his back-
ground. Like many Scotsmen, he likes
to refer to his simple ancestry; yet it
was his American mother, whom he
adored, who forged his ambitions. He
is, again, an Etonian; but at Eton he
was a scholar, a member of a group
looked down on by ordinary Etonians as
unsporting and gauche.
At Balliol, where the intellectual Mac-
millan came into his own, he was re-
garded by his contemporaries as a
worthy, ineffectual idealist. As a young
man he enjoyed the company of aristo-
crats ; yet they were bored by his
bookish talk, and he was bored by the
horse-racing and philistinism. All
through Macmillan’s life there is a
visible cleavage between his rational
side realistic, analytical, slightly left-
wing and his emotional side old-
fashioned, high Tory, prejudiced.
The two strains have often been at
odds, and it is the second that is emerg-
ing more strongly as he grows older.
When he discusses the future of Britain
Macmillan can sound realistic enough;
he likes to talk about the precarious
challenging times of the New Elizabeth-
ans; and the excitement of living on the
verge of bankruptcy. He can speak with
enthusiasm about television, 1.C.1. or
nuclear energy; about the “new men” of
science and technology; about exporters
and industrialists as the new merchant |
adventurers; and about the race between
two kinds of British business: the old-
fashioned Victorian firms and the new
corporations.
He combines the traditional interests
of the cultivated squire—Greek, foreign
policy, shooting, literature, regiments
with a faint dislike for factories, labo-
ratories, the City and trade. In this he
is in many respects typical of his party,
and even his country: and in the first
years of his Ministry, when Britain took
refuge in nostalgia, the identification
seemed close. But as Britain moves
further towards Europe, trade, competi-
tion and the future, so Macmillan’s en-
tourage of peers, dons and clubmen
seems more obviously anachronistic. His
allies maintain that he retains scholarly,
aristocratic values in a brash, com-
mercial age: his enemies that he is an
old-fashioned snob. But by either
reckoning, Macmillan’s Ministry seems
likely to go down in history as a curious
depression in the social evolution of
Britain.
Macmillan talks wittily about the
popular misconception of “The Establish-
ment”: how the Press and the public
are still obsessed by “they,” as something
separate from themselves; how people
still regard the Foreign Office or the
banks as if they were run by a few
noble families; and how gossip columns
disclose a world of dukes and butlers,
like drawing-room comedies. Yet he him-
self often seems to enjoy this ancient
illusion, and to prefer, as Disraeli often
did, a romantic setting of gorse and
clubs to the real managerial world.
A Y.M.C.A. Puritan?
T>efore the war Macmillan was re-
garded as a somewhat puritan
“Y.M.C.A. man.” He has remained re-
ligious and upright: he reads the Lesson
every Sunday at church, treats his em-
ployees considerately, and enjoys dining
off cold mutton. He talks with feeling
about the moral dangers of rootlessness,
and the moral weaknesses of some poli-
ticians. But in his Premiership this is
not quite what he has conveyed: to the
public he has become a “never had it so
good” Prime Minister.
It is in keeping with the tradition of
Victorian Prime Ministers that Mac-
millan should find his main satisfaction
in international, rather than in home,
affairs even though Britain’s scope
for world diplomacy is dwindling. He
has flown farther than any previous
Premier round Asia, Australia, to
Washington, the West Indies and
Canada, and to Moscow, Kiev and Lenin-
grad. He has blossomed out abroad with
a fullness that he never quite achieves


AUSTRALIA'S PREMIER CONVENTION CENTRE
twifi
§
<4
50
o
SURFERS PARADISE, GOLD COAST, QUEENSLAND
“OUT-OF-THIS-WORLD” CONVENTION FACILITIES
at CHEVRON you will discover the happy combination of
business and pleasure . . . complete convention facilities—plus
an ideal climate superb accommodation, and a staff
of Service-wise personnel to ensure complete
satisfaction for a successful Convention.
• Meeting facilities for groups ranging up
to 1000 delegates.
• The latest trends in design, equipment and
furnishings.
• The Tariffs are very moderate.
'V
Write today for FREE Colour Brochure, giving layout and full c
details to help you plan a bigger and better Convention.
CHEVRON HOTEL, SURFERS PARADISE, GOLD COAST, QUEENSLAND
in England: “At home you’re just a poli-
tician,” he remarked in Australia,
“abroad you become a statesman.” The
Berlin negotiations, the Wind of Change
in Africa, the application to the Com-
mon Market, the conciliation of South
Africa, have all hung on Macmillan’s
decisions.
In many home fields, such as industry,
science and education, Macmillan has
shown very little interest, and he hardly
sees the heads of home departments,
such as Eccles, of the Ministry of Educa-
tion, or Marples, the Minister of Trans-
port. “As he gets older,” said one of his
colleagues, “he thinks mainly about
three things—the cold war, the Common
Market and the Atlantic Alliance.” His
absorbing interest has been in interna-
tional affairs: and he is at his most elo-
quent talking about Britain’s historic
role in the world. Almost alone among
the Cabinet Ministers he has the faculty
—and the time —to take a broad, de-
tached view of Britain, to state her prob-
lems in his mind. As a result it was Mac-
millan —the cartoonist’s joke Briton —
rather than the more ardent and involved
Europeans who provided the initiative
for Britain's move into Europe.
In 1960 two events came as a serious
blow to Macmillan’s international opera-
tions. The first was the disastrous summit
meeting of May in Paris, when Khrush-
chev, in one savage outburst, wrecked
all hopes of an East-West detente —thus
reducing to ruins Macmillan’s hopes for
the past two years. The second was the
election of President Kennedy in No-
vember, a man twenty-five years younger
than Macmillan, who made it plain that
he had no need of an international go-
between: the Press emphasised the dis-
crepancy between this vigorous young
administrator and Macmillan’s quaint
regime, and forecast the end of the
“special relationship” between America
and Britain. It was the first blow that
most wounded Macmillan, and he made
no secret of his depression: he saw the
world threatened with a new dark age—
with the Russians and Chinese as the
new barbarians, America as a Byzan-
tium, and Europe as Europe once
again the threatened bastion of civilisa-
tion.
In early 1961 Macmillan, with some
difficulty, adjusted himself to this new
situation. He set about (with the same
tact he had shown with Eisenhower
during the war) establishing a close
avuncular relationship with the young
President. It was not easy, and Ken-
nedy’s speed was often disconcerting:
their first meeting was in March, 1961,
when they shared a canteen lunch at the
naval base at Key West, at Kennedy’s
suggestion. When in June Kennedy ar-
ranged a meeting with Khrushchev in
Vienna, it came as a slight blow to Mac-
millan’s pride (though Kennedy had
consulted him beforehand): Kennedy
was not obviously of the same temper
as Macmillan, and seemed in some ways
closer, in his donnish curiosity and
detachment to the Labor intellectuals.
But Macmillan had succeeded in es-
tablishing a relationship closer than that
with Eisenhower.
After Khrushchev’s Paris outburst,
and the further explosions in New York
in October, 1960, Macmillan’s main
preoccupation had become the survival
of Europe: he did not take the view,
as others did, that Khrushchev’s fury
was directly due to the U 2 incident, but
rather that the U 2 gave an excuse for
a new intransigence, dictated by more
serious internal reasons. He saw the
world involved in a new kind of holy
war, and the spectre of the Russian and
Chinese hordes, already a billion people
and still multiplying, was foremost in his
mind.
A place in history
A LREADY by the end of 1960 he had
decided that a United Europe was the
only hope of Western survival: and that,
compared with this central problem, the
problems of individual countries in the
Commonwealth must inevitably be
secondary. Up till that time his interest
in Europe had not been outstanding: he
had been a keen member of Churchill’s
United Europe Movement after the war,
but his enthusiasm had waned: as
Foreign Secretary he had been sceptical
about the future of the Common
Market, and in 1957 he had been very
doubtful about the Treaty of Rome.
Although in his Commonwealth tours
he had been well aware of the economic
limitations of Britain’s role, he retained
a strong romantic attachment to this
club which showed itself forcibly in
March, 1961, when he tried with every
kind of argument to prevent the
Commonwealth Prime Ministers from
forcing South Africa out. And Mac-
millan, like others in the Cabinet, was
slow to realise the extent of Europe’s
industrial success compared with
Britain’s.
The cold war, and the developing
dark-age pattern, drew Macmillan to-
wards the Common Market, coupled
perhaps with the feeling that if Britain
joined Europe quickly particularly
while de Gaulle could still provide a
counterweight to Germany she still
had a prospect of playing a dominant
part in Europe’s future. By the spring
of 1961 Macmillan’s historicist view
had begun to coincide with the view of
the Treasury and industrialists who
had worked round to the conviction
that joining Europe was the only chance
of revivifying British industry.
It was here that Macmillan's practised
committeemanship was invaluable: he
knew his own mind, but let other people
speak theirs, allowing his ideas to infil-
trate: he was able to take meetings slowly,
and to stop before they reached outright
disagreement. In the course of 1961,
urged on by an almost unanimous Press,
the Cabinet slowly came round to accept-
ing the Common Market, without ever
reaching a crisis: and (as happens with
committees) found itself gradually dis-
cussing not whether to do it, but how to
do it.
“The trouble is that a lot of people
look back to that time of stability and
don’t think enough of the circumstances
as they are in the world today. They talk
a lot about the glories of the Old Eliza-
bethan Age, but they forget it was a
time when Britain was politically very
insecure, facing much greater countries.
We only kept this country going then by
brains, courage and adventure. Now
we’ve got to do it again.”


FORUM
UNION WITH NEW
ZEALAND-NOW?
By W. C. WENTWORTH
We nearly had Union with N.Z. in 7907. It's more urgent now . • •
Australia and New Zealand are dis-
covering that they need each other.
Spokesmen for both are calling for
closer links at the same time as they
protest (overmuch, perhaps) that political
union between them is unthinkable. It
was not always unthinkable New
Zealand came near enough to becom-
ing an “Original State” in the Australian
Commonwealth.
Up to 1840, indeed, New Zealand was
part of New South Wales, and through-
out the first half-century of her independ-
ent existence she regarded herself as
an integral part of the Australasian
group. She took part in some (not all)
of the discussions which led up to
Federation. In 1900 she petitioned, un-
successfully, for special rights to join
the Australian Commonwealth with the
status of an original member at any time
within seven years of its inauguration.
The tide of sentiment appears to have
turned decisively in 1901, when a New
Zealand Royal Commission reported
unanimously against joining. The pre-
ferred prospect was some kind of Pacific
Island Federation, with its economy
based upon food exports to the United
Kingdom (freedom of access to this
market was believed to be permanent
and unquestionable) and with its security
based upon Great Britain’s naval
supremacy in the Pacific. Twentieth-
century New Zealand has been built
upon these two props—can she main-
tain herself in isolation without them?
What happens if Britain enters the
Common Market without special arrange-
ments? Can the US in ANZUS sub-
stitute for Great Britain? What if Asia
wants to move into Australasia? These
are questions for New Zealand and
they are questions for Australia, too.
As of today, the electors of both
Australia and New Zealand would
almost certainly vote against her admis-
sion as a seventh State (or as the seventh
and eighth States). New Zealand would
not want to apply, and Australia would
probably reject her application if she
did. New Zealanders are proud of their
separate identity, and tend to regard
Australia with something of the innate
superiority of the Oxford Socialist.
Vested interests in both countries
would work frantically against union.
(No new thing here: England and Scot-
land felt much the same about each other
before 1707: there were tensions enough
between NSW and Victoria in the
’nineties). Small New Zealand manu-
facturers fear mainland competition,
while the Australian dairy and potato
industries are terrified at the prospect of
New Zealand imports.
There are centrifugal forces enough
but will they always outweigh the
centripetal forces? The plain fact is that
the changed trading and defence situa-
tions make closer co-operation more
attractive than ever before perhaps
irresistibly attractive. Co-operation does
not necessarily involve political union
but even in the European Economic
Community, whose members are vastly
more different from each other than New
Zealand is from Australia, it is generally
acknowledged that political union will
follow. The Rhine may be narrower
than the Tasman, but the urgencies of
merger across it are certainly no greater,
and the differences of peoples and history
are certainly far more formidable. If
EEC, NATO, and United Europe are
possible is Australasia still unthinkable?
It is the economic argument which
makes the greatest impression. Both
Australia and New Zealand face serious
dislocations if Britain enters the Com-
mon Market unconditionally —as she
well might.
The chill winds of the ’thirties may
have raised some doubts in both countries
as to the ultimate soundness of their
Food for Britain policy as the basis of
an economy, but these squalls seemed to
pass. The current disturbance may well
rate rather higher on the Beaufort scale.
New Zealand is naturally more ex-
posed to these winds of change than
Australia, unless indeed she can make
some special preferential arrangements
in her own exclusive favor. She has
only a quarter of Australia's population;
her imports, per capita, are nearly double
Australia's, and she must find exports
to pay for them. Her export schedule is
almost wholly composed of wool, meat
and dairy products in approximately
equal parts, and for these her depend-
ence on the British market is greater
than Australia’s.
Common Market problems
The New Zealand economy is too
small to be viable without a high pro-
portion of external trade. Her internal
market is too limited to sustain an
efficient manufacturing economy which
could produce the diverse consumer
goods to which her people have become
accustomed. Over the past century the
richness of her natural resources has
enabled her to exploit export oppor-
tunities and create one of the highest
living standards in the world. That living
standard cannot possibly be maintained
in isolation if export outlets are blocked.
Any sudden blockage might well create
a desperate situation.
It is, therefore, only elementary
economic prudence for New Zealand to
look for another economy to which she
can attach herself. But where? If she
cannot rely upon continuity even in the
British market, bound to her by such
close ties of kinship and sentiment,
would it be wise for her to put too many
eggs (for example) into the Japanese
basket? Would it not be reasonable for
her to prefer a trading relationship with
Australia a trading relationship which
would have the prospect of developing
into a political relationship, less subject
to capricious interruption?
Australia is better equipped than New
Zealand to ride out the Common Market
storm. Her population is four times as
great, and her range of economic manu-
facture much more diversified, which
reduces her dependence upon imports,
and the urgency of the search for exports
to pay for them. Her mineral pro-
duction covers a much wider range, and,
if the forecast oil and phosphates turn


up, will be virtually complete. (New
Zealand, too, has high oil hopes.)
But Australia is still in trouble, even
though her troubles may be less than
those of New Zealand. A population of
ten or eleven million is not enough to
provide a satisfactory internal market
for anything like a complete range of
manufactures. If New Zealand were to
be added to the economy, there would be
a substantial increase in size —an in-
crease equivalent to 20 years of the
present immigration programme.
Australia, in general, has itself an
exportable surplus of the main New
Zealand staples, and therefore imports
comparatively little from New Zealand.
New Zealand does not make many of
the things manufactured in Australia,
and therefore imports them. The balance
of trade is thus in Australia’s favor, and
no change in this situation is foreseeable.
However, if the two nations were
amalgamated, this imbalance would lose
most of its significance, because New
Zealand would have access to Australia’s
overseas funds, whose level would be
conditioned by the combined overseas
transactions of the whole complex.
The fact that New Zealand and Aus-
tralia are exporters of similar products
may even be another reason for their
amalgamation. In our approach to
international markets, our bargaining
position may be improved if we act in
concert, and if no buyer has any pros-
pect of driving a wedge between us and
so forcing prices down.
The whole economic situation may
be easier for us if we face it together.
There are already many economic links,
pastoral, manufacturing and financial.
The great aluminium proposals, under
which alumina from Weipa will be
reduced to metal at Invercargill, are a
case in point.
For both countries then, the general
good demands economic integration; and
for this to be fully effective it must be
supplemented by some degree of political
integration. These are the trends in
Europe’s Economic Community it
would be unrealistic for Australasia to
believe they can be ignored.
It is true that economic integration
involves difficulties for certain vested
interests —mainly manufacturers in New
Zealand and dairy farmers in Australia.
Such vested interests should not be
allowed to stand in the way of the
national good, but it would be quite
unfair to ignore them and to leave them
uncompensated. They should be given
the assurance of a fair deal, and it
w'ould be well for concrete plans to be
worked out now to smooth over the
period of transition for them in a spirit
of equity.
The strategic advantages of union are
far clearer than the economic, and
scarcely admit of the same debate.
Until the last war, our defence strategy
was based on an impregnable Singapore,
with a British Navy in absolute command
of the waters to the south. Even when
that hypothesis was shattered, the period
of acute danger was shortened by US
intervention, and ever since we have felt
that there was a secure naval screen
between us and our potential enemies.
That security is beginning to fade, and,
uncomfortably, we envisage a situation
where we may have to rely upon our
own resources to a greater degree. For
the first time (except for those few
months in 1942) we feel that our exist-
ence is in danger—and this time it is the
“long haul” in front of us.
It is true enough that, in the field,
an Anzac co-operation would be easy to
achieve, and that the effectiveness of our
forces would not be diminished by the
separate identity of our countries. But
that is not enough. In the new conditions
of international affairs, preparation time
can no longer be guaranteed: what is
needed is not merely co-operation in the
field, but integration of forces before
any emergency occurs. In other words,
a unified command and a common
defence plan is wanted here and now.
This could best be achieved by federa-
tion between us, although no doubt some
moves toward it can usefully be made
before formal federation, or in the
transitional phase.
Over the whole range of international
policy Australia and New Zealand have
co-operated excellently up to now. But
surely we have reached the point where
more co-operation is not enough, and
where far-reaching action may become
necessary in the interests of national
survival.
One other point may be noted. Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, if they are wise,
will now be making special efforts to
co-operate with the United States in
South Pacific defence—to make ANZUS
as effective as possible. In order to
remove any possible American resent-
ment, we shall need to make a defence
effort which, proportionately, measures
up to that of America. This means that,
in the foreseeable future, our defence
expenditure may have to be doubled if
we are to retain the goodwill of our
allies.
The terrific problems budgetary and
otherwise which this would involve
would be more tractable if we faced
them together.
Time for a move
The Australian Commonwealth is a
Federal system. The participating States
retain their identity and their diversity,
and, within the framework of national
unity, there is a considerable degree of
State sovereignty.
If New Zealand, having considered the
whole matter, elected freely to join the
Commonwealth (either as one State or
as two), and if the Australian people
were persuaded to admit her as a partner,
she would still remain distinct and
different from each of the other States.
She is rightly proud of her achievements,
and rightly jealous of her individuality.
She would not lightly surrender either.
No such surrender is called for. A
federal system is not unification. But in
this New World which is coming into
being—and in some respects it is less
attractive than the Old World, but it
cannot be held back —in this New
World the lot of the small nation may
be hard, both economically and strategic-
ally.
Even taken together, we would not
be so very big but at least it would
be some improvement for us both.
It is time, surely, that some public
move was made to still the fears and
resentments which are felt on both sides
of the Tasman today in regard to the
prospect of union.
At the present moment, these fears
and resentments are probably more
violent in New Zealand than they are in
Australia, but they may turn out to be
more deep-seated in Australia than they
are in New Zealand. In the long run,
it may prove more difficult to persuade
the Australian voters to accept an
application from New Zealand than it
would be to persuade New Zealanders
to make it.
At least let us all work now for a
closer economic and defence alliance
between us, and if our peoples think fit,
at some time in the future, to develop
this into a closer political alliance, then
well and good. Even if they do not think
fit to take this further step (which of
course would be unthinkable without full
consent on both sides) then nothing will
be lost, either by Australia or New
Zealand, by the decision to co-operate
much more closely in these two vital
fields, and at least something substantial
will be gained.


letters to the editor
STUDENT ACTION AGAINST
WHITE AUSTRALIA
Sir,
I was delighted to read Peter Samuel’s
highly cogent argument (Bulletin, April
28) against those critics of our immigra-
tion policy who aim at nothing higher
than further “modification by stealth.”
We need a lot more than mere avoidance
of more Willie Wong and Thomas Palmer
cases.
I have repeatedly been shocked, while
in Asia, to hear Australia linked with
South Africa, and sometimes the Ameri-.
can South, as a racialist country. Observ-
ing the almost uniform reaction of
“surprised and pleased” among Asians
arriving here, I am confirmed in the view
that the image of us as a color-bar com-
munity has very wide currency in Asia.
“So much sillier the Asians,” the White
Australia people will say. “Australia is
nothing like South Africa or Mississippi,
and, if the Asians keep thinking it is, that
is either gross ignorance on their part or
ill-will. We treat them well when they
come here and lately we have let quite
a few of them stay around.”
But this is to miss the point entirely.
Racial equality is a matter of symbols,
not members. And as long as our policy
remains that “in general, persons not of
European descent are not eligible to enter
Australia for permanent residence”
(Downer), racial discrimination will stay
enshrined in our national posture. As
long as men are kept out of Australia or
deported because they are “predominantly
non-European in appearance” Asians will
consider us to be denying them Freedom
from Contempt. Nor is there any reason
to think that the Asian concern with
Freedom from Contempt is likely to
diminish. Those who hope that the
“nationalist phase” in Asia will soon end,
and that Asians will start being “prac-
tical,” are likely to be proved as wrong
as their counterparts of len years ago.
For the gap between the rich and poor
countries is virtually certain to keep
growing. Social turmoil will continue to
make for a politics of symbols, slogans
and Utopian demands. And more and
more educated Asians will be ashamed
and resentful of their countries’ failure
to break out of poverty and stagnancy.
Asian “touchiness” is likely to grow
rather than wane, with the permanent
danger that rich-poor tensions will be
seen in white-brown terms.
For the West as a whole but how
much more poignantly for Australia
the problem is to prevent just this, to
stop the economic gap from becoming
a social and psychological one. This i
not a matter for the West to control, but
Western actions, including our own, wil
certainly influence it. One way to in-
fluence it is to demonstrate clearly that
we don't see brown men as our inferiors,
that racial equality is as important a sym-
bol to us as it is to the Asians. If mav te
hard for white' South Africans to offer
that sort of demonstration. It is relatively
easy for Australians —by turning over a
new leaf in immigration policy.
But a few further doses of liberalisation
by stealth just won't do. The various re
cently introduced loopholes notwith-
standing, our policy is a racialist one, and
seen as such. What we need is a change
of principle, a “break with a bad
tradition. ” In fact, we need a policy
reflecting the changes which Australian
thinking has undergone in the last 60
years—for Australians no longer believe
in racial superiority.
Let us settle for nothing but a declara-
tion by the Prime Minister, or better still,
the Governor-General, that our migra-
tion policy will henceforth be on a new
and non-racialist basis, with selection
determined and controlled on the prin-
ciple of “capacity to absorb.”
HERBERT FEITH
Canberra.
INVESTMENT IN ART
Sir,
I wish to draw your attention to what
I consider a grave error in the article
“Investment in Art” (Bulletin, April 14)
by Desmond O'Grady and Vic Worstead.
The statement I refer to was “Potential
buyers at Len French's exhibition last
year were surprised to find they had to
deal with Kornon, who had obtained all
the paintings beforehand, and not with
the directors of the gallery where the
work was exhibited.”
Now as Len French only had one show
in Sydney last year and that was at the
Blaxland Gallery 1 would like to point
out that Komon did not obtain all of the
works beforehand. In fact all the works
sold from his exhibition, and there were
eleven sold, were not in any way the
property of Mr Komon.
Mr Komon had shortly before the
exhibition acquired a number of works
that were not sold from this exhibition,
these works were all marked “not for
sale” in the catalogue.
STAN DE TELIGA
(Manager, Blaxland Gallery)
Sydney.
ENGLAND—LAND OF
OPPORTUNITY
Sir,
For some reason, best known to him-
self, your Melbourne correspondent
(Bulletin, April 21) seems surprised to
learn that in some quarters, at any rate,
a man’s chances in. England are seen to
be as great, if not greater, than in Aus-
tralia.
At the present moment, for example,-
there are 80,000 more-or-less permanent
Australian residents in London who have
left home for the simple reason that Eng-
land appears to them to provide more
opportunities for ambitious young people.
Contrary to popular opinion, most of
them are not embryo Sidney Nolans or
Joan Sutherlands but are ordinary young
men and women who have found that
Australia is unable to “furnish all they
need to ask.” Hardly a week passes with-
out some mention in the newspapers or
by friends of an impending departure for
the United Kingdom.
The influx of Commonwealth immi-
grants to Great Britain in the past decade
(white, as well as black) and whose
presence has necessitated the imposition
of a Bill to control their numbers, has'
done more to advertise the attractions of
the United Kingdom than any number
of travel agents’ folders and similar pro-
paganda could have done in the same
period.
. Thus, before. Australians express,
astonishment at England’s popularity,
both with, the Eng'ish themselves and.
with outsiders, they must ask what part
they have played in promoting this state
of affairs. Everything in Australia—edu-
cation, advertising and outlook, is keyed
to the business of encouraging the people
to leave. Small wonder that they oblige.
One often gains the. impression that,
although Australia is quite good enough
for migrants it hardly fills the bill for
some of the native-born, particularly
those who have grown beyond it or whose
talents are too valuable to squander on
the local populace.
A “trip” is still the supreme experience
for an Australian which fact would be
quite un-noteworthy were it invariably
made on a return ticket. But the readi-
ness, nay, eagerness, with which so many
turn their backs on what is often referred
to as the best country in the world, is
just a little strange, to say the least. Be-
fore Australia can be “sold” to migrants,
it will have to be “sold” to the native-
born a task just as difficult, if not
more so.
MARGARET EVANS
South Yarra (Victoria).
THE COYER
Sir,
Congratulations on your cover of
April 28, and your intended policy
of encouraging art in Australia. You
say that “from time to time in the future
it (The Bulletin,) will feature other
cover paintings by well-known Austra-
lian artists”. This no doubt is going to
provide good covers, but will it really


s
vX
A
AL ~ 'v ' &
■ .
" ■*» ; *
&
Nw
■
SSS&ftiv:
*
m
x¥- :
2
MIGHTY
GOOD
REASONS
FOR. INCLUDING
vJwSS
IN YOUR. NEXT OVERSEAS TRIP
On your way to or from the U.K. flying
via South Africa costs only £4O more
(the fare varies slightly from ihe various capital cities)
Whether your next overseas trip be for business
or pleasure (or both!), South Africa richly merits
inclusion in your itinerary. Business-wise, South
Africa is a very logical market for Australian goods
of most every description. What's more, it's only
hours away by S.A.A.'s Australia-South Africa-U.K.
service.
When you consider that a side trip to South Africa,
costing about £4O more in air fares, could earn you
a prosperous new export market, it's surely worth the
time involved!
These are some of the items Australia
exports to South Africa
Foodstuffs Paints Hardware Electrical
Goods Motor Vehicles Kitchenware
Machinery, all types Rubber, Plastic and
Leather Goods Timber Sporting Goods
Chemicals Piece Goods Synthetic Yarns.
is your product here?
,v &
m
SOUTH AFRICA the richest travel
experience the world has to offer
Pleasure-wise, the attractions
of South Africa are among
the wonders of the world.
Fabulous Kruger National
Park, with its teeming wild
life, towering mountains, the
diamond mines at Kimberley,
Victoria Falls these are
among the tourist musts your
...
camera will want to record.
See your travel agent.
Fly OUTH FRIG AH AIRWAYS
Choice of daylight or overnight flights
by magnificent Boeing 707 Stratojets
between Johannesburg and London
fsdf
with choice oi ll stop-overs at no
extra air fare, or non-stop to Athens
and again onward to London
IN ASSOCIATION WITH QANTAS, 8.0.A.C., C.A.A. AND E.A.A.
SAAS9/9Q.1
be a positive step towards stimulating art
in this country?
John Olsen and “the well-known Aus-
tralian artists” have established them-
selves in the world of art here and
abroad, and as a result, your publishing
their work will have little worthwhile
effect. Surely a more valuable policy on
your part would be to encourage up and
coming artists who have not yet
reached the “well-known” status by in-
viting them to submit work towards the
goal of reaching your cover. This would
be something very real for artists to
aim for, and should provide a real
stimulus to Australian art.
R. LEHANE
St Paul’s College,
University of Sydney, NSW.
BULLETIN BLACK AND WHITE
Sir,
On page 3 of your April 28 issue,
you wrote: “Some think that the great
days of Australian black and white are
over, although that may be a matter for
argument.”
Those Great Days, my dear sir, were
pre-syndication days, when great names
were made because they did not have
to fight a losing fight against the price-
cutting, rubbish - dumping syndicate
barons of the USA. I say the outlook is
bleak indeed for Australian black and
white artists, and they must in time die
out unless they get better recognition in
their own country.
In your same issue I counted only 7
gags, of which perhaps only two were
Australian. This from a paper which was
once the cradle of the Great!
EMILE MERCIER
Sydney.
[Mr Mercier cannot count. Of the eight
gag drawings, seven were Australian: the
eighth was Feiffer, world-famous in the field
and a favorite of BULLETIN readers. But
altogether there were 18 original black and
white drawings by Australian artists in the
April 28 issue.—ED.]
MR SANTAMARIA AND THE ABC
Sir,
The Melbourne “Age’s” Television
Supplement announced on April 12th
that Mr B. A. Santamaria might be inter-
viewed on the ABV Channel 2 pro-
gramme “People.” A few days later the
ABC’s own publication “TV Times” de-
clared that Mr Santamaria would appear
on “People” on Wednesday, April 18, at 8
p.m.
On Tuesday, however, the rumor swept
through the University that the inter-
view was “off”. Accordingly, a few
people rang the ABC studios to enquire
whether or not the interview was to be
featured as scheduled.
The ABC’s explanation, or more cor-
rectly, explanations, were rather mystify-
ing. Enquirers were separately informed:
(a) That the programme had been video-
taped and would be shown in a couple of
weeks, (b) That the programme had not
been recorded and that it was uncertain
whether or not it would ever be featured.


Initially, the enquiries were made
merely to ascertain a point of fact, viz.,
whether or not Mr Santamaria was to
be interviewed. The conflicting reasons
given for his non-appearance force one
into the unenviable position of “smelling
a rat” somewhere. The controversial
nature of the person involved lends an
added element to the discomfort.
Clearly the ABC owes the public some
sort of straight explanation to this situa-
tion. (a) Were either Mr Santamaria (the
interviewee) or Mr Lyons (the inter-
viewer) unable to arrange a mutually
convenient time to record the interview?
If so, this would clear up some of the
mystery.
Or, (b) Was the ABC penalising a
person, whose views they may not ap-
prove of, by debarring him from its
studios? If so, it smacks of politics in a
disinterested public body such as the
ABC.
The fact that a man’s views do not
conform to those of the Establishment
should not be the cause of silencing him;
when it does so in a democracy it be-
comes, as John Stuart Mill would say, a
tyranny of the majority. It is certainly
hoped that there is a simple explanation
to all this . . . and only the ABC can give
it.
P. D. DOLE
West Preston (Victoria).
THE DLP CRIES WOLF
Sir,
Mr Kane’s continued distortions of
ALP policy (Bulletin, April 28), can be
effectively disproved when one considers
that:
(a) The United Kingdom and the
Scandinavian countries support the ad-
mittance of China to the UN, not be-
cause they endorse its internal regime, no
more than that of Spain or Portugal,
but simply on the basis that a World
Assembly of Nations with its collective
responsibilities can exert considerable
pressure on even the most bellicose of
member nations. Even Winston Churchill
has stressed the need for continuous
conferences between nations of diver-
gent ideologies to stave off another world-
wide conflict. It is these sentiments which
motivate the ALP in its attitude to UN
membership to China, with the added
precaution of protecting the right of
Formosa (1961 Federal Conference).
(b) The central theme of Mr Kane’s
argument is that if a Communist leader
and some other world figure, for vastly
different reasons support a proposal, the
non-Communist in Mr Kane’s eyes is a
dupe for the Kremlin. The most classical
rebuttal of this thesis is the present posi-
tion in Europe where West German
Leader Dr Adenauer seeks a revision of
post-war Polish boundaries. In opposi-
tion we find Polish Cardinal Wyszynski
and Communist Premier Gomulka who
for various reasons are not prepared to
placate German Nationalism. I am sure
that even Mr Kane would hesitate to
imply that the worthy Cardinal has suc-
cumbed to the tenets of Marxism. On
the contrary, I consider the Cardinal
like most realistic students of interna-
tional affairs realises that Communism is
not the sole problem confronting the
world.
(c) If an inventory was made of Com-
munist Party influence on the top echelon
of trade unions, Victoria would be at the
top of the tree. This can be attributed
largely to the back-seat driving tactics
of the DLP.
I extend a personal challenge to Mr
Kane to name any officer of the present
Hospital Employees Union (NSW) who
is a Communist. On the contrary, the
CP used its full resources to smear
Messrs Stephens, Torkington, Jones,
Armstrong in both of the ballots held
since 1957. Not a word in the News
Weekly because it was an “ALP” show.
J. A. MULVIHILL
(Assistant General Secretary ALP)
Sydney.
THE BATESON STORY
Sir,
Robert Donington seems to be quite
unaware of the true nature of Sir Her-
bert Bateson's influence in this country.
(The Bulletin, May 12). To take just
one example. Mr Donington says: “The
Brisbane Line was another of those
things. Bateson made a rapid calcula-
tion on paper one night in the dark days
of 1942 and came to the conclusion that
... a determined effort should be made
to save everything south of Brisbane.”
This is irresponsible journalism at its
most cynical. The facts are that Bate-
son made his calculations one dark night
in the days of 1942, not as you suggest
one night in the dark days of 1942. This
deliberate transposition of the word dark
bears the innuendo that Bateson mis-
calculated, and it ignores the ever-present
human element, viz. when Bateson drew
his line he could not see.
If it had not been a dark night the
line would of course have been drawn
in Bass Strait. Herb Bateson (and he
is Herb to his really intimate friends by
the way, not, as your correspondent
carelessly suggests, Bert or BB) was far
too great a realist to believe that we
could defend Australia.
DONALD HORNE
Sydney.
A DESPERATE PERSON
Sir,
I am writing this letter in the hopes that
out of your generosity you will publish
my little epistle in your newspaper.
My name is Lome Duncan. I am
eighteen years old and I live on a large
island off the coast of British Columbia,
in western Canada. The climate here is
wonderful, the Government is just and
the air is clean. However, there is one
“thorn” that makes my province dis-
agreeable . . . unemployment. This one
word has created problems and grief
that has affected the entire populace of
British Columbia. No one is left
untouched ; no one can forget it; and
not one family can be protected from the
curse of unemployment. Not even my
family.
My family consists of my mother and
father and eight brothers and sisters. In
June of last year (1961) I quit school to
go to work and try to add to our family
income. After many miles and hours of
“pavement” pounding I finally secured a
job in August, However, after many
abuses and pay decreases I was fired in
November.
Now comes my plea which 1 lay before
all Australian Christians. I humbly
request a sponsor who will assist me
financially to attain my goal ... to be a
citizen of that country of which 1 have
heard so much about... Australia.
Thank you for your time and kind
attention. Thank you.
A prompt reply would be appreciated
as I am most desperate.
LORNE DUNCAN
121 West Maddock A venue,
Victoria, British Columbia, Canada.
A THRIVING INDUSTRY
Sir,
In your National Notebook (April 28),
you assert that the Namatjira Memorial
near the main gate to the Hermannsburg
Mission “was paid for by public sub-
scription by the people of The Alice.”
Who told you that? The money was
raised in Sydney. In October, 1960,
fourteen months after Albert’s death, I
visited Alice Springs and found his grave
marked only by a painted wooden cross.
On returning to Sydney, I made a pub-
lic appeal on “Andrea’s” (Mrs lenners)
session on Radio 2UE for funds to erect
a memorial over the grave.
Within a few days we had received
£3lO from forty subscribers in Sydney.
This money was sent by me from Sydney
to Rex Battarbee at Alice Springs. The
cost of erecting a stone memorial and
tombstone on Namatjira’s grave in Alice
Springs cemetery was £lO3. The rest of
the fund was applied to the building of
a memorial cairn at Albert’s birthplace,
at Hermannsburg.
If any money was raised for the cairn
by public subscription by the people of
The Alice, you should publish the names
of those generous fellow-citizens of
Albert Namatjira who posthumously
honored a blackfellow.
FRANK CLUNE
Vaucluse (NSW.)
A TOWN LIKE ELLIOTT
Sir,
I read with interest the article A Town
Like Elliott by Xavier Herbert, in your
issue of March 31 last. There were times
when I felt, like Mr Herbert, that there
was no solution, but my experience dur-
ing the last 18 months as director and
organiser of the Mobile Mission in WA
has convinced me that this method of
approach for the fringe dwellers is at
least worth trying for a decade.
E. C. KING
(Director, South West Native Mission)
Mt LawJey (WA).


Science at Work
AMERICAN ROULETTE, 500 MILES UP
By SIR BERNARD LOVELL
Head of Jodrell Bank Radio Astronomy Station
In this article the eminent British
astronomer, Sir Bernard Lovell, raises
pertinent scientific and moral ques-
tions surrounding the intended
American high altitude explosion of
an H-bomb scheduled for either
June or July. The bomb is equal in
power to hundreds of thousands of
tons of TNT. *n answer to the sort
of questions raised by Sir Bernard,
Dr James Van Allen, discoverer of
the Van Allen Radiation Belt, stated
that the American explosion would
be a “fine experiment” and it would
not damage the radiation belt for
long. He was followed by President
Kennedy who stated the space ex-
plosions would cause no harm.
In Marcn, 1959, the “New York
Times” published a story that the
Americans had secretly exploded a
nuclear device in space the previous
.summer. Defence officials then con-
firmed the story of Project Argus.
Bombs of one or two kilotons were
exploded 300 miles above the South
Atlantic. It was officially stated that the
“military results were somewhat nega-
tive” and that “in a sense the results
were mostly scientific.” In fact, the
scientific effects were dramatic and give
rise to the utmost dismay at the Ameri-
cans’ plan for a further test in space
with a bomb at least one thousand times
more powerful than those used ; n Pro-
ject Argus.
The reasons for apprehension have
nothing to do with the problem of fall-
out. Indeed there may be little fall-out
on earth; but the explosion will probably
have an extremely serious effect on the
particle and radiation belts which en-
velop the earth.
‘Trapped’ in magnetic field
A bout sixty miles above the earth’s sur-
face, the attenuated atmosphere con-
sists of electrons and positively charged
oxygen and nitrogen atoms. These form
the ionosphere which extends from about
60 to 250 miles and is marked as A
in the diagram.
The ionosphere has practical import-
ance because it reflects radio waves used
for long-range communication. It is in
this region that the brilliant displays of
aurora polaris occur, and the meteoric
particles evaporate to produce shooting
stars.
Until 1959 we believed that the upper
ionosphere represented the outer shell of
the earth’s immediate environment in
space. Then American and Russian
satellite experiments revealed that out to
distances of many thousands of miles
the earth was surrounded by extensive
radiation belts. Our knowledge of these
radiation belts is fragmentary, but the
following points are well established.
The particles in the radiation belts are
either protons or electrons, and they are
“trapped” in the magnetic field of the
earth. The magnetic field lines of the
earth arch out into space from one
hemisphere to the other (XY in the
diagram). A proton or electron injec-
ted into this region of space may be
trapped and spiralled along the lines of
force between the two hemispheres (S
in the diagram).
When it reaches the “mirror points”
at M its motion is reversed. The move-
ment between the two hemispheres will
take only a second and the entire system
of spiralling particles is rotating about
once a day to form shells around the
earth.
We know that vast numbers of pro-
tons and electrons are trapped in this
way around the earth and there is strong
evidence that there may be two main
regions shown at B and C. Belt B, closest
to earth, seems to be rather stable and
mainly composed of protons. The outer
region at C may contain mostly electrons
and is extremely variable in position and
intensity. Recently evidence suggests
that the concentrations at B and C are
special manifestations of a continuous
shell of particles filling the entire zone
from a few hundred to 20,000 miles away
from the earth.
Most delicate interplay
AT7HERE do these particles come from?
" No one knows. Probably the protons
at B derive from neutrons produced by
cosmic rays bombarding the earth’s
atmosphere. The neutrons decay into
protons and electrons which are trapped
in the zones. The electrons in the outer
region, C, are extremely sensitive to
events on the sun. A big solar eruption
may deplete this radiation belt, after
which it takes days to repopulate.
Clearly, here we have a most delicate
interplay between the earth’s environ-
ment and events in interplanetary space.
Now the Americans propose to explode
one of their biggest bombs in the region
of space between A and B. What will
happen?
The Project Argus explosion tempor-
arily disrupted the ionosphere at the
mirror points. There were displays of
(Continued on page 52)


The Wild
Cat Pages an d
THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
ECONOMIC POLICY
A GOOD WORD FOR THE TREASURY
Dew people will be carried away by
A the current campaign to denigrate
the Federal Treasury, to take the major
role in economic planning out of its hands
and give the job to a bevy of wise men
working in the Prime Minister’s Depart-
ment.
The desire to keep the Australian econ-
omy on the tight rope of full employ-
ment is easy enough to understand but
there are few economists of any standing
today who believe that any modern econ-
omy, especially one like Australia’s,
hyper-sensitive to balance of payments’
difficulties, can fully escape the inexor-
able swings of the trade cycle simply by
Government-promoted investment spend-
ing coupled with inspired budgetary
policies.
It is very strange that the quarters
most strongly condemning the Treasury
for letting the boom and its attendant
inflation run on in 1960, should now also
be hounding the Treasury for having
helped the economy to achieve an order-
ed breathing space of stability and con-
solidation after the momentous growth
achieved during the roaring fifties.
VTobody will want to whitewash the
Treasury for some of its mistakes,
such as the tax on interest, but one
should also remember that, on the Prime
Minister’s own admission, the dispensa-
tion of economic policy in recent years,
has often been a case of “father knows
best”. Apparently even the much mal-
igned Federal Treasurer himself has had
on occasions (remember February, 1960,
when he wanted to take a very strong
anti-inflationary line and Cabinet over-
ruled him) to play second fiddle to the
PM, whose neck was far too close to the
hot breath of Mr W. McMahon, the
Minister for Labor, a self-professed
economic expert. The more one looks at
it, the further economic planning can be
away from the PM’s department the
better for everybody.
But while it is downright irresponsible
to call the Treasury’s policy ‘ essentially
negative and destructive” and to say it
seeks “to prevent things happening”, there
is still a lot of room for improvement in
the direction of economic policy. Though
most of this room may be around the
Cabinet table, where some of the intu-
ition might be sacrificed for more ex-
pertise, maybe the content of Depart-
mental submissions could also be improv-
ed and more rather than fewer Treasury
submissions on the state of the economy
should be made.
For while major decisions in economic
management inevitably have to remain
the province of the Government, they
become more and more dependent on
expert advice. So the experts should be
heard more and also taken more seri-
ously, even sometimes at the expense
of politics.
Tt could be true, too, that Treasury
A submissions at present do not give
sufficient weight to other than financial
aspects of the economic position, such as
employment and migration. For it is
traditional of Treasuries, including our
own, to love sums more than they do
people. If there is any weakness in this
respect, deriving say from inter-depart-
mental jealousies or even aloofness, they
should be corrected by the appropriate
Ministers.
Perhaps also, there is need for a little
dusting of minds in the Treasury itself,
particularly on the question of the com-
pensating role public investment has to
play in the maintenance of the appropri-
ate level of fixed investment in the econ-
omy as a whole. For, beyond doubt,
this is where opportunities have been
missed in Government economic policy
during the last year.
An alert Government should have no
difficulty in ascertaining the trend
of industrial investment without involving
companies in a welter of forms and ques-
tionaires. Nor is there reason why the
Government could not appoint a com-
mittee of business advisors to keep it on
the track of business confidence, expec-
tations, capital expenditure and planning.
This could indicate to the Government
what may be required in the way of
economic stimulants and compensators,
such as in the field of fixed investment.
It is altogether unnecessary to plague
the country with form-filling for the bene-
fit of a new planning committee in the
PM’s department, when a little more
personal contact with industry in the
States would do the trick.
J. C. HORSFALL
INDEX
A Good Word for the Treasury 32
Wool—lncreased Competition
from S. Africa .... .... 33
Chairman Says . .... 34
Oil Companies Worried .... 36
India’s Ten Years of Progress 36
Management .... 36
Austria—Refinery Offer
Rejected .... .... 36
Which Is Wapet’s Pet .... 37
Sugar—Cuban Echo .... 37
News Pointers .... .... 38
Machinery Depreciation
Allowance .... .... 38
Dr Bell on Capital Inflow .... 40
Packaging .... .... .... 41
Company Reviews .... .... 42
Company Notes 45
Oil 47
Speculator’s Diary 48
Sharemarket Summary and
Statistics .... 50, 51
Man on the Land:
Rabbit War, Mechanisation,
Sydney Show Ground .... 53, 54
Statistics .... 54


CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(PAID UP CAPITAL £7,000,000)
100 New South Head Road, Edgecliff, Sydney
Secretary-General: KEITH LOVE. Tel.: 32-0111
! REGISTERED J
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
7% ... 4 years and over
6% ... 12 months' notice
5% •• • 6 months' notice
4% .o • 3 months' notice
Interest is paid in Equal Quarterly Instalments,
Free of Exchange, on the last days of June,
September, December and March.
DIRECTORS
lAN M. JACOBY
(Chairman and Managing Director)
L. W. COPPLESON G. T. HARTIGAN
R. E. ASH C. S. GITTOES
TRUSTEES
FOR THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS:
The Perpetual Trustee Company (ltd.)
This is not a Prospectus. A copy of the Prospectus
covering this issue of Registered Debentures has been
lodged with the Registrar of Companies, Sydney.
Application must be made on the Forms enclosed
in the Prospectus, which is now available from
All Members of
The Stock Exchange
All Branches of
The National Bank
All Branches of
Custom Credit Corporation
limited
RD41.462
WOOL
INCREASED COMPETITION FROM S. AFRICA
A ustralian woolgrowers will soon
face a serious threat from South
\frica, particularly on the Japanese
aarket. Japanese woolbuyers are com-
>laining about the rising cost of Aus-
ralian wool and deterioration in our
voolclassing standards. It is also claimed
hat South African wool is superior to
Australian, especially as far as dyeability
s concerned.
South African woolgrowers are pre-
;ently making an all-out bid to increase
their exports to Japan, if need be at Aus-
tralia’s expense. A special mission, sent
by the Wool Commission of the
Republic of South Africa, has arrived in
Japan at the invitation of the Japanese
Wool Spinners’ Association. The mission
is led by the South African Wool Com-
mission’s chairman, Mr Van Hereden, and
is currently negotiating with the Japan-
ese Government and wool industry repre-
sentatives.
“The Japan Times” notes that “the
interest of Japanese spinners in South
African wool has been steadily increas-
ing because of an upward trend in the
prices of Australian wool.”
Japanese spinners hope to persuade the
South African Government to abolish the
Republic’s high import tariff on woollen
goods if more South African wool can
be marketed in Japan. It is reported
that the talks are progressing ''‘satisfac-
torily.”
The threat posed by South African
wool is quite serious, since Japan is
Australia’s major woolbuyer. In the nine
months to March, 1962, 324,052,0001 b
of Australian wool valued at
£85,516,000 (up £14,044,000) were
exported to Japan. Total wool exports
in the nine months were valued at
£285,847,000.
Japanese sources in Sydney have re-
peatedly warned about the growth of
South African competition and have com-
plained about the deterioration of
standards in our woolclassing.
It is essential that this matter be taken
in hand before it’s too late, and an
important section of our Japanese wool
market is lost.
WOOLCLASSING
"Dressing criticism of unsatisfactory
classing of the Australian wool clip
will shortly receive some effective atten-
tion. The NSW Sheepbreeders’ Associ-
ation has moved swiftly to put this
problem before the whole industry at
the forthcoming Sydney Sheep Show, to
be held from June 6 to 9. The show
will feature a comprehensive display of
acceptable classing and preparation
methods.
The need for a drastic halt to the
obvious deterioration in wool prepara-
tion standards is obvious. The breeders’
association will be joined by the Sydney
Wool Selling Brokers’ Association, the
NSW and Queensland Woolbuyers’
Association, several wool-handling firms
and the Sydney Technical College sheep
and wool school.
Australia may lead the world in wool
production, but it certainly does not in
preparation, the breeders’ president (Mr
J. F. Litchfield) said last week South
Africa takes the pride of place there —
with all the natural advantages.
Restoration of adequate standards is
becoming crucial as price differences be-
tween well and poorly classed clips may
soon be felt at future auctions. A few
pence more, or less, for each pound of
wool means millions to our export in-
come and the complaints of the com-
paratively small group of buyers, who
determine the position, must be taken to
heart. The existence of alternative wool
markets should not be forgotten, nor the
increasing variety of man-made fibres.
The show’s total entries —sheep, fleeces,
judging competitions and sheep dog
trials —will set a new record. In merino
sections, 68 individual stocks are in com-
petition.


THE CHAIRMAN SAYS:
HIRE PURCHASE AIDS OUR ECONOMY
By J. H. PARTRIDGE
Managing Director of Alliance
Holdings Ltd
A/foST people think of hire-purchase
1 A as limited to household goods and
motor cars, and its occasional critics
usually proceed on this basis, with some
morbid vision of a family man being
encouraged to buy too much too quickly.
The fact is that exciting things have
been happening in hire-purchase during
the past decade, and many of them are of
national significance. In the end, they
will benefit almost every Australian in
one way or another.
Certainly household goods and motor
cars still constitute a good proportion
of hire-purchase business, but they are
far from the whole, and on present trends
could become very much the minor pro-
portion. Flousehold appliances, for in-
stance, account for only 20 per cent, of
today’s hire-purchase business.
It should be no surprise that hire-
purchase operations have been diversified.
Much diversification has occurred in
business and industry, and hire-purchase
is related to both, vital to both, and
naturally will expand and progress as
they do.
Today the aircraft overhead is very
likely being bought on hire-purchase, as
are hundreds of planes, from airliners
down to light aircraft. The big earth-
moving machines used by contractors on
public works and developmental projects
are in many instances available only
because of hire-purchase. Showrooms
of your motor dealer and electrical goods
retailer are stocked with products worth
up to £20,000, and perhaps more, by
virtue of a stock finance plan. Without it,
the motor and electrical goods industries
could not provide employment for any-
thing like the present 400,000 people.
Hire-purchase is the catalyst in almost
every phase of secondary industry and
commerce, ensuring continuity of opera-
tion and sufficient liquidity for expansion.
It air-conditions offices, puts fleets of
trucks on the road, provides machines
and tools for industries, and in particular
helps energetically and economically
run enterprises to begin, and grow.
Often the hire-purchase companLs
supplement -~ance from other institut-
ions, and they undertake new ventures
outside the scope of other finance organi-
sations.
The size of this hire-purchase assistance
can be gauged from one recent year,
1960, when it amounted to about £3O
million for plant and equipment for
primary and secondary industry.
During the past five or six years, hire-
purchase assistance to the rural indus-
tries has grown by many millions of
pounds. Its most vigorous critics, who
look backward to the days of overdraft
only, fail to see the great advantages of
planned repayment, constant liquidity,
and protection from the whims of
economic policy.
TTire-purchase’s big contribution to
-*■■■• rural, industrial and business devel-
opment has helped to lift the nation’s
overall productivity; but the products re-
quire buyers. Success does not depend on
consumer willingness to buy. People want
the modern products which make life
easier and more enjoyable. But how shall
they pay?
The latest figures released (for 1958-59)
show about 200,000 of Australia’s four
million income earners with taxable
incomes of more than £4O a week. Fewer
than 500,000, or 1 in 8, paid tax on £3O
a week. And about 1.5 million were in
the £2O-£3O bracket.
Yet more than three million Australians
own a motor vehicle. We buy about
200,000 washing machines a year, at
least 300,000 television receivers, about
200,000 refrigerators, and so on.
Simply estimate the life of these elec-
trical goods at four years, and assume
that only the 200,000 people with incomes
of over £4O a week could pay cash for
them, and you quarter production in
that industry and throw 50,000 men and
women out of work if there was no
hire-purchase.
This could be an over-optimistic es-
timate. About three of every four house-
hold appliances are sold on hire-purchase,
with a slightly higher proportion for
television receivers.
With these facts in mind, and the
growing role of hire-purchase in national
development, it is difficult to understand
the reasons behind clearly slanted attacks
on hire-purchase, depicting it as the
bogy of Australia’s economy.
Last year more than 1,250,000 Aus-
tralians took out hire-purchase contracts.
On average, these Australians owed £lOO
or so on hire-purchase, and had £370
in the savings bank. Even the “small
man” appreciates the common sense of
gradual payment, with liquidity preserved
for other needs and emergencies.
MARKETING
MEASURING RESULTS
HPhere is an increasing demand today
A for textbooks on advertising and
marketing. The latest of these is “Defin-
ing Goals For Measured Advertising
Results,” published by the American
National Advertisers’ Association. This
book throws a new light on the measure-
ment of advertising’s accomplishments,
and includes a large number of individual
case histories compiled from independent
researches.
The author, Russell H. Colley, a man-
agement consultant in New York, worked
under the auspices of the ANA Commit-
tee on the Corporate Management
Approach to the Advertising Investment.
No book of recent years explains so
lucidly the problems of measuring adver-
tising results, and it should command
wide attention among advertisers and
agencies.


“What’s behind you Dad?”
*Even greater protection. Son !”
A.M.P. policyholders will benefit by the addition to their policies
of just on £40 million of free insurance protection.
The Chairman of the Principal Board, Mr. C. G. Crane, revealed
this fact at the Society’s Annual Meeting on 9th May.
He said: “This is the sixth successive year in which it has been possible to increase
the rates of bonus allotted. The total new sums insured written during 1961
amounted — in Australian currency — to £329 million.
“This not only breaks all previous records achieved by the Society, but again
maintains its position as by far the largest underwriter of life insurance established
in the Southern Hemisphere. It is also a tribute to the high regard for the value of
life insurance which the Australian community possesses.”
During 1961 the total amount paid to A.M.P. policyholders or their beneficiaries
was £32,713,714.
■ AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL
PROVIDENT
SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE
Offices in cities and towns throughout Australia
and New Zealand and in the United Kingdom
•
M
¥
PROTEC
FOR
YOU
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by funds of £550,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest
to the greatest benefit to members.
DIBIG


PETROL MARKET
OIL COMPANIES WORRIED
A recent change in the top post of a
leading petroleum distributor has
sent a shiver through the whole industry.
Mr R. A. Curtis has resigned as
manager of Neptune Oil Co. Pty ... in
itself not a significant move. But what
has caused the furore is his immediate
acceptance of an executive position with
a newcomer in the field —Amoco.
Amoco is the Australian refining and
marketing subsidiary of the huge Standard
Oil of Indiana. It has already indicated
a vigorous marketing programme in
eastern States following completion of a
terminal in Queensland.
Mr Curtis’s new appointment marks
the first time in Australian petroleum
marketing history that a senior executive
of one company has transferred immedia-
tely to a competitor. Previously all high
level transfers had been restricted by an
unwritten agreement between members of
the petrol retailers’ “club”, and it was
generally accepted that no senior man
would accept a position with another
marketer within 12 months of his resigna-
tion. This was understandable ; it pre-
vented companies acquiring information
about competitors by buying key per-
sonnel.
The “poaching” move by Amoco —a
newcomer and not a member of the
“club” —raises the question of how far
it is prepared to go to gain a hold in the
market. Having broken one taboo and
created a precedent, is Amoco (and
Phillips, the other newcomer to the field)
prepared to take the fight right into the
enemy camp and start cutting prices?
Although this would probably be greeted
with joy by motorists, it would be expen-
sive and could cause havoc in the fine
balance among the marketing companies.
Previous attempts at price-cutting by
individual members of the “club”, in
order to obtain new outlets, have been
quickly squashed. That was fairly easy
because of the limited number of refin-
eries in Australia. The arrangement was
that under a reciprocal agreement, the
various marketers obtained their petrol
from the nearest refinery, mixed in their
own additives and then marketed under
their own brand names. This saved com-
panies such as B.P. the long haul from
its refinery at Kwinana to the terminals
in Queensland, and Caltex shipping from
Sydney to Western Australia.
Amoco, however, will be establishing
its own refinery in Queensland, and, with
most of its distribution points in the
eastern States, may well decide that it
can stay outside the “club” and fix its
own prices.
The position of Phillips is not so clear,
but it could follow the lead set in any
price-cutting war. All its distribution
points are located around Brisbane and
in northern NSW. The refined spirit is
imported from Japan.
Will both Amoco and Phillips reject
all blandishments to join the “club,”
questioning its advantages—if any?
They have the example of Total Oil
(local offshoot of the French Compagnie
Francaise des Petroles) which was the
last member to join up. Despite eight
years in the market, principally in NSW,
Total still has only a little over 2 p.c.
of the market.
AUSTRIA
OIL REFINERY OFFER REJECTED
The State-owned Austrian oil corpora-
tion OMV has rejected a combined
offer by Shell, 8.P., Mobil Oil and Esso
to build a large oil refinery at Linz, 115
miles from Vienna.
The Austrian Government now intends
to proceed with the projected expan-
sion of its own Schwechat refinery. Out-
put capacity will be raised from I.Bm.
tons to 3.6 m. tons.
The influential London “Petroleum
Times” comments that the Austrian re-
jection of the Shell-8.P.-Mobil-Esso bid
will “jeopardise” the possibility of the
projected pipeline from Trieste to
Vienna.
INDIA
TEN YEARS OF STEADY PROGRESS
Tndia has completed its first ten years
of planned economic development.
During that decade it has made notable
progress in both industrial and agricul-
tural enterprises, largely with the aid of
foreign capital, and is now looking for-
ward to an accelerated rate of develop-
ment.
India’s achievement must be viewed
in the light of its history: centuries of
economic backwardness and slow
growth, and a population of over 400
million people in a vast, undeveloped
area. The country still has a long road
to travel before its economy becomes
self-sustaining, but foreign capital
once frowned upon and now warmly
welcomed —is being used increasingly
in schemes designed to lift industrial
and agricultural output and raise the
standard of living.
India’s economy is steadily expand-
ing. The National income in 1960-61
reached £A13.312m, compared with
£A12,131m in 1959-60 and £A9,509m
in 1955-56. The per capita income, too,
rose from £A23.9 in 1955-56 to £A28.2
in 1959-60 and £A30.6 in 1960-61.
Still a pathetically low figure, it never-
theless indicates that steady progress is
being made despite enormous difficul-
ties.
Reviewing economic conditions, the
Prime Minister, Mr Nehru, recently
said that despite a step-up in the econ-
omic plan outlays to £1037.81ni, and
the continuing upward trend in private
investment, a measure of stability had
been restored to the general price level.
Abatement of pressure on prices was,
he said, a reflection of the improvement
in production efficiency.
MANAGEMENT
"OPEN DOOR" POLICY
reat men are careful in dealing with
” people. The fact that they take
greater care than lesser men is at once
a cause and a symbol of their success.
They know that only through other
people is it possible for them to pro-
gress. They do not boast only an “open
door” policy by which employees may
reach them; they go out through the
open door to reach their workers.
These words of wisdom come from
the Royal Bank of Canada in a recent
monthly letter. They could well be taken
to heart by Australian industry, ft is
true that company house organs fre-
quently are used here to reach the
worker, yet few of them attain the de-
sired objective. A survey of 75 house
organs in the Los Angeles area has
given a guide to why they fail only
15 per cent., it showed, made any
attempt to communicate management
plans and policies; most of the space
was filled with social and personal items.
Another American survey indicated
that what the employee wanted most to
know was what his company’s plans were
for the future, something about the
employee benefit programme, and de-
tails of new orders won by the com-
pany.
The problem of employee well-being
can be accentuated by management it-
self. Pre-occupied with other important
problems, it seems to have forgotten to
tell the people most concerned about
what it is doing to solve these very
human problems.
B. H. CLAPCOTT


F ollow
the
TREND
a
a*
r- •j' +f • i
*<P
wmm j
v»
F
bank
08-A
m,
THE COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
OVER 800 OFFICES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND & LONDON
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 17Z0)
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the economic
growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
SEARCH FOR OIL
WHICH IS WAPET'S PET?
¥n the course of a Press conference last
A week, Mr P. B. McGrath, managing
director West Australian Petroleum Pty
Ltd (WAPET) was subjected to a barrage
of questions as to which of its three
basins Perth, Carnarvon and Fitzroy
promised the best results in the search
for oil. Avoiding the “loaded” queries,
he said operations in each basin gave
the company encouragement to go on
spending vast sums of money and they
were “not doing this for fun.”
But Mr McGrath did leave the
impression, perhaps unconsciously, that
the Perth basin could turn out to be the
best prospect, if only for the reason that
an oil strike there would save trans-
portation costs by reason of the close
proximity of a metropolitan market.
Wapet intends to spend “something
over £2m.” in the next 12 months in
drilling for oil in WA, bringing its total
outlay there to nearly £2om. Special
attention will be paid to the Hill River
area, 140 miles north of Perth and
within about 50 miles of Eneabba where
last year a well brought good shows of
oil and gas around 12,000 feet. In
this area, too, the company will search
for shallow coal deposits.
Mr McGrath revealed that the cost of
seismic surveys alone ran into about
£lOOO a day—“a pretty costly business,”
he said, “so that you will appreciate we
must have good reasons for undertaking
them.” In the ten years, between May,;
1952 and March this year, Wapet has
spent more than £l7m. searching for oil
in WA about 40 p.c. of the total
amount spent on oil exploration on the
Australian mainland in the last 70 years.
SUGAR
CUBAN ECHO IN UK
HPhe diversion of Cuban sugar to Russia
A and other Iron Curtain countries fol-
lowing Cuba’s break with the US, has
had its effects in Britain. Sir lan Lyle,
chairman of Tate and Lyle Ltd, leading
UK sugar refiners, told shareholders at
the annual meeting that Cuban sugar
which previously had gone to US, had
been bought by the Soviet bloc for
political reasons. Much of it, however,
was unwanted by the communists, who,
in order to make room for it, sold large
quantities of their own production at
whatever price they could get.
Thus Russia and her satellites ex-
ported about 300,000 tons more in 1961
than in 1960, and much of this found
markets in the Middle East, replacing
British refined sugar.


NEWS POINTERS
AUSTRALIA
• TTie Australian Minister for Trade Mr J. McEwen has strongly
A criticised US policy on the European Economic Community. Mr
McEwen feels that the US Secretary of State, Mr D. Rusk, has failed to
understand Australia’s position on trade preferences in UK. Mr. McEwen
also criticised American Tariff policy on sugar, butter, cheese, lead, zinc
and wool, which deprived Australia of its fair share of the US market.
Mr McEwen said that the views expressed by Mr Rusk on the Common
Market problem after the recent ANZUS talks in Canberra had caused
“grave concern to the Australian Government”.
• The NSW Minister for Mines said that Australian-owned companies
were planning to spend between £Hm. to £2m. on oil exploration in
the State in 1962. In addition, seven US companies were also expected
to increase their oil exploration expenditure.
0 Overall number of employed in Australia rose by 16,000 to 3,080,500
in March. Private employment increased by 10,400 to 2,255,600 and
Government employment by 5600 to 824,900.
• The Secretary of the Australian Department of Trade, Dr W. A.
Westerman, flew to New Zealand for talks on trade co-operation. Before
leaving Sydney, Dr Westerman said there were no plans by Australia and
New Zealand to “gang-up” to combat export trade losses if the UK joined
the European Economic Community.
0 The Blue Star Line will open a new trans-Pacific service between
Australia and the East Coast of North America. The line will be serviced
by refrigerated cargo liners.
0 The NSW Retail Traders’ Association reports that retail sales in
Sydney improved in April.
OVERSEAS
0 West German Finance Ministry reports that the new federal
“*■ customs law has considerably speeded up movement of goods and
administrative procedure. Freight trains need no longer be inspected at
the border as customs examination may be made at the inland points of
destination. Control of books is gradually replacing physical inspection as
far as possible.
0 Japan’s exports to the United States and the European Common
Market are rising steadily. The two main trading companies, Mitsui and
Mitsubishi Shoji, report a 30 p.c. increase in exports in the October,
1961-March, 1962 period.
0 Poland will provide the USSR with 120 ships, 15,000 railway freight
cars, 5000 cisterns and 15 complete sugar refining plants under a recent trade
agreement. In return, the USSR is scheduled to deliver iron ore, copper,
asbestos, timber products as well as heavy machinery and consumer goods.
About 30 p.c. of all Polish exports go to the USSR. In the past, problems
arose when the Soviet Union on several occasions failed to keep delivery
schedules or supplied goods of inferior quality.
0 The foreign ministers of the European Economic Community com-
pleted their latest round of discussions in Brussels. Before ending their
talks the EEC ministers had a two-day conference with UK representatives.
0 The Italian Minister of Commerce and Industry, Mr E. Colombo,
said that the six Common Market countries are now studying the problem
of agricultural exports from Australia, Canada and New Zealand. The
British proposal of zero tariffs for certain commodities from the Common-
wealth countries is also being discussed. It is hoped that some solution
may emerge by next July.
0 A record volume of business, valued at 21,300 million yen, was
transacted at the recent Osaka trade fair in Japan.
0 Due to the worsening balance-of-payments position the West German
Bundesbank has authorised payment of interest on deposits by foreign
residents. The rates are 2i p.c. p.a. for private depositors and 3 p.c.
p.a. for banks. The move had little immediate effect on the West German
money market.
© A group of international share traders in New York has accused
the BHP of “discouraging” sales of its shares in the United States.
MACHINERY
DEPRECIATION ALLOWANCE
CRITICISED
HEhe 20 p.c. depreciation allowance on
certain specified new machinery pro-
vided under the Federal Government’s
legislation to help business recovery has
caused concern to some machinery mer-
chants. While welcoming the legislation
as a move in the right direction, they be-
lieve it will not be the stimulus envisaged
by the Government because of its limita-
tion to only new machinery.
Mr L. F. Kitchener, secretary of the
Industrial Machinery Merchants’ Associ-
ation, says the effect of this allowance
will be to foster a limited field of large
machinery manufacturers and indent
merchants and induce fairly heavy im-
ports from the UK, Germany, Italy,
Hungary and Czechoslovakia, and to a
lesser extent the US, tending to make
the machinery thus displaced much
harder to sell.
“Many smaller firms and sub-con-
tractors cannot easily afford the cost of
new plant, but, if the 20 p.c. deprecia-
tion allowance were extended to second-
hand plant, they would be able to in-
crease their productivity and efficiency.
“The allowance in its present form
may now have a reverse effect to that
envisaged by the Government, and in-
stead of providing a stimulus will tend
to depress the sale value of existing
machinery, causing further unemploy-
ment and increasing our imports bill.”
Uranium
FUTURE OBSCURE
HThe Federal Government has been
A urged to give some attention to the
uranium industry. At United Uranium’s
annual meeting the chairman (Mr K. W.
Craig) told shareholders that, outside
existing sales contracts, the future of
uranium mining in Australia was obscure.
No one expected the open market to
reach satisfactory levels for some years.
Plans must be developed to keep the
industry alive, Mr Craig maintained. The
Australian Atomic Energy Commission
had pointed out that additional ore
reserves should be developed to meet
probable power requirements. Lacking a
national policy, uranium prospecting had
practically ceased, except by organisa-
tions with contracts still to complete.
The Minister for National Develop-
ment (Senator Spooner) said in Can-
berra that the Government had tried to
help the uranium companies by extending
their tax-free arrangements to 1968.
Such a move should aid the companies’
desire to keep machinery in operation
until uranium was needed for commercial
power.


m
FINANCE CORPORATION
of AUSTRALIA LIMITED
OFFERS A SPECIALISED FINANCE SERVICE
We have finance available for: —
LENDING
▼
Developmental Projects
T
Capital Equipment
T
Commercial and Industrial Properties
▼
Business Expansion
DISCOUNTING AND PURCHASE
Mortgages
▼
Contracts of Sale
▼
Leases
▼
Hire Purchase Contracts
FINANCE CORPORATION of AUSTRALIA LIMITED
ADELAIDE
F.C.A. Building,
IS Franklin Street
Telephone SI 3781
MELBOURNE
Union House,
SI Queen Street,
Telephonesl3osl
SYDNEY
Anchor House,
Cnr. George and
Bridge Streets,
Telephone 27 7003
BRISBANE
Mercantile House,
262 Adelaide St.,
Telephone3l 2861
PERTH
M.L.C. Building,
171-177 St. George’s Tee,
Telephoned 6892


GOODS AND SERVICES
el
m/m ~
itWVv 1,
A
X 4*l
A A Miti\ !35«,
•rwim' ""
iilw
WHEREVER
YOUR INTERESTS LIE
THE MANY SERVICES
AND FACILITIES OF
THIS BANK CAN HELP
YOU
Ask the manager of your
nearest branch for particulars
ft
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
ESANZ’S AUTUMN FORUM
Dr BELL ON CAPITAL INFLOW
Tn his address to the Economic Society
A of Australia and New Zealand Dr
Harold F. Bell, economist to the A.M.P.
Society, emphasised the need for con-
tinued investment by overseas interests,
both public and private, in Australia’s
expansion. He said that if Australia en-
countered difficulties in expanding export
income, especially in the short-term, a
continuing capital inflow might be the
only alternative to putting our economy
into a strait-jacket of severe import con-
trols ; and, in the longer-term, if our
salvation lay in fundamental structural
changes in the economy designed to
stimulate exports, capital inflow and the
capital know-how associated with it,
could also have a vital role to play here
provided that restrictive practices (such
as severely limited export franchises) did
not operate against it in a significant
way.
“To these basic considerations,” Dr
Bell said, “one may soon have to add a
third —the importance of capital inflow in
helping to maintain our overseas reserves
at a time when we ourselves will almost
certainly be obliged to extend medium-
term and possibly longer-term credits to
underdeveloped nations if we are to pro-
mote our exports there.”
Dr Bell felt that the attitude of the
International Bank of Reconstruction and
Development towards Australia in the
’sixties would be favorable, not only be-
cause it continued to speak in the highest
terms of our investment attractions, but,
more importantly, because some of the
pressures on the Bank from other poten-
tial borrowers had been lightened by the
creation of new and additional agencies,
including the International Development
Association and the American Develop-
ment Bank.
Dr Bell believes that one of the most
serious difficulties faced in New York
is the astonishing ignorance of basic
facts about the Australian economy
among American businessmen.
investment by overseas inter-
ests —branches, subsidiaries and affili-
ated companies—when the degree of
ownership is such as to be associated
in a significant way with the control
over management has been a dominant
source of capital inflow in the last
decade. Dr. Bell pointed out that the
proportion of this inflow represented by
the reinvestment of unremitted profits
has on occasions exceeded the proportion
of the actual physical inflow of new
money. Direct investment from the UK
might suffer a slight check as a result of
pre-occupation with entry into the Com-
mon Market, but this should be only
temporary. A revision of the British
preferential tariff in our market against
British exporters because of the EEC
developments was likely to stimulate
rather than discourage direct UK invest-
ment in Australia.
Direct US investment in Australia is
fairly heavily concentrated in large indus-
trial groups. Physical limitations of our
market obviously impose some restraints
here. In the ’sixties new American in-
quiries could well come from medium
size rather than giant enterprises. Much
depended upon American economic
“awareness” of Australia.
Dr Bell pointed out that overseas in-
vestment, although significant and at this
stage indispensable to Australia, raised a
number of problems, the most important
one being the growth of overseas owner-
ship and control of Australia's industry.


How much will they need
if you aren’t there to provide?
IHJ WS*£
: >£
IM
You hope, of course, you'll always be around to take care of their
welfare and security! Statistics show that these children might
well be fatherless before they are able to fend for themselves.
Think of your own peace of mind. Surely it is the most natural
thing in the world to see to it that, whatever happens, they'll
always be well looked after. Especially when it costs so absurdly
little to do so.
The MLC has a plan arranged
exactly to meet your needs as
your family starts arriving. We
call it the “E” series benefits.
The plan is quite simple, and
this is what it provides for during
the critical years when your
children are young:
A guaranteed monthly income
that
1. Ensures that children will be
left with mother’s full time
care.
2. Makes sure children complete
high school.
3. Ensures adequate food,
clothing, shelter.
4. Protects mother’s health -=>
avoids job worries.
5. Lets mother and children
enjoy independence and self-
respect.
This can cost as little as 20/- pesr
week. Not much, you’ll agree, for
the priceless gift of peace of mind
for you and those who mean
most to you. How about giving us
a call and our representative will
help you work out what protec-
tion your family will need.
$ $ •-
THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS*
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
and for fire and general insurance
THE M.L.C. FIRE AND GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY PTY. LTD.
m1c.1197 16
Dr Bell felt that “many people who
welcome and wish to encourage overseas
investment would be much happier if
there were a greater degree of joint local
and overseas participation in the equity
ownership of ventures initiated in Aus-
tralia by overseas concerns. American-
sponsored investment in general has come
under particular criticism . . . partly be-
cause of the outstanding profit record
of one American enterprise.”
“Profits from American enterprises
operating overseas only come within the
purview of the US Treasury when they
are actually remitted back home. Conse-
quently, such companies adopt the
strategy of basing their regional opera-
tions in countries where local taxes are
either low or at least not too burdensome
and where the general political and legal
structure provides a good haven for hus-
banding funds for future operations.
“American companies feel that if they
had outside local shareholders there
would be a natural expectation of a con-
tinuous dividend policy. This can be
frustrating to the companies’ plans in two
ways. It could involve the parent com-
panies in an immediate US tax liability
in respect of their share of dividends
declared and remitted. Secondly, it could
limit the extent and flexibility of the re-
investment programme.
“Economically, institutionally and
politically, the Australian environment is
particularly favorable to the foreign
entrepreneur. It is admittedly a small
market, but one that has the present
attraction of one of the highest ‘living
standards in the world, and in future
Australians must endeavour to get this
message over abroad.
“Tro sum up, we are confronted with a
very serious dilemma. If we adhere
to our long-term development plans we
cannot manage without a continuing in-
flow of overseas capital. In the short-
term, having regard to the adverse trends
in our terms of trade and our high pro-
pensity to import, we need this inflow to
keep solvent externally. But. other things
remaining equal, the capital inflow will
itself be adding to the balance of pay-
ments problems of the future. If we are
not prepared to slow down our attempted
rate of growth the only real solution can
lie in expanded exports.”
W. M. RUTLEDGE
PACKAGING
ORIGINAL THINKING
T>ackaging manufacturers and those
A who make the goods to be packaged
are equally in need of people capable of
original thinking. This challenging state-
ment comes from Mr Colin Barrie, of
the Industrial Design Council, in a
recent address to the National Packaging
Association in Melbourne.
Mr Barrie said that the cry from some
quarters was that “if we had the people
who could offer original work, we
would use them.” Other manufacturers
preferred to get proven work ready-made
Looking at the actual products of indus-
try, he said that instead of finding the
results of Australian thinking, all too
often the goods had been copied, and
were the result of blending a number of
design ideas originated overseas or manu-
factured here under licence. This
approach to product design frustrated
th development of Australia! thinking.
“The manufacturer who returned to
Australia congratulating himself on hav-
ing brought back a new line was driving
a wedge between his child and its
future.” Mr Barrie said. “Do we merely
want a work force to carry out ideas
developed elsewhere? Do we want our
children to have a future as creative en-
gineers, or to be merely draughtsmen?
We are fast leaving the teething stage
of our industrial development, and must
face the fact that we shall have to do
our own thinking.”


COMPANY REVIEWS AND NOTES
J. W. WILLIAMS H’GS LTD
EXPANSION INTO PACKAGING
A company which was originally
formed in 1918 to operate a farm-
and-station supply business, is now
labelled a future blue chip by judges of
good stocks, on the strength of its pros-
pects in the very different field of pack-
aging.
F. W. Williams Holdings Ltd, with
head office in Sydney and branches in
various country centres, concentrated on
handling fencing materials, farm mach-
inery and veterinary lines until 1932,
when it partnered American Reinforced
Paper Co. to establish an Australian sisal-
kraft industry. “Sisalkraft” is a rein-
forced waterproof paper used by build-
ers and packagers.
When the Canadian St Regis Paper
Co. took over the American Reinforced
Paper Co., St Regis became F. W. Wil-
liams’ partner in the venture.
From the original “Sisalkraft”, the
company has developed its product range
to include blends with aluminium and
polyethylene film, used as insulants in
packaging, for horticultural purposes, and
in concrete work. Production of the
Sisalkraft group is carried on from plants
in Homebush (NSW) and Auckland
(NZ).
At the end of 1960, F. W. Williams
joined with St Regis in the Bates Multi-
Wall Bag business, trading as Bates (Aus-
tralasia) Pty Ltd. Factories in Sydney,
Melbourne, Perth and Devonport (Tas.)
produce multi - wall bags to package
chemicals, fertilisers, cement, lime and
plaster. A company, St Regis-Williams
Pty Ltd, was formed during the 1961
financial year by F. W. Williams and
the St Regis Paper Company jointly, to
acquire their equal interests in Bates
(Australasia) Pty Ltd and Australian
Sisalkraft Pty Ltd. Benefits are expected
to accrue from integration of these
operations.
The principal asset of the holding
company is the 50 p.c. interest in St
Regis-Williams Pty Ltd. As it is not
technically a subsidiary, the published
consolidated accounts only include divi-
dend actually received. F. W. Williams’
share of the retained earnings of this
company was £42,817, £87,072 and
£109,149 for 1959, 1960 and 1961 re-
spectively. Meantime the original rural
business does not contribute a satisfac-
tory return on funds employed, and steps
are being taken to use them more profit-
ably.
During 1960, F. W. Williams took ovei
the plastics business of Casolin Pty Ltd
and its subsidiary Glenncase Pty Ltd. F.
W. Williams describes these two com-
panies as substantial units of the Austra-
lian plastics industry. Half-ownership is
an arrangement that seems to suit F. W.
Williams, which in the last 12 months
purchased a half-interest in Commerce
International Pty Ltd of Brisbane, the
Australian and New Guinea distributors
for Piper Aircraft Corporation of the
USA.
Investments in associated companies
are shown in the latest balance sheet at
£1,281,484, supported by net assets with
a book value of £1,218,957: —
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE-SHEET
Paid capital— 1959 1960 1961
Ord. £372,500 £840,000 £893,400
Reserves 317,321 599,608 657,172
Secured loans 8,850 8,250
Short term loans 245,854
Bank overdraft 216,173 47,167
Tde & Sundry cred. 49,023 58,460 96,534
Registered notes —• 300,000
Tax provision 3,010 70
Final dividend 37,250 42,000 44,670
£776,094 £2,013.955 £2,047,263
Freeholds, etc. £106,377 122,193 116,932
Plant 32,540 73,549 102,735
Investments 278,742 1,237,815 1,283,710
Stocks 178,563 276,279 165,829
Debtors 169,928 298,119 372,057
oVi Q 44
Goodwill 6,000 6,000 6,000
£776,094 £2,013,955 £2,047,263
A private issue of 10 p.c. unsecured
notes, repayable over ten years, raised
£300,000 in 1961 to repay unsecured
loans and bank advances. A special divi-
dend of £274,500 was received by the
parent company from a subsidiary in
1961, and this was used to write down
the book value of shares in that com-
pany.
Capital has grown from £350,000 in
1956 to £893,400 through issues for take-
overs, a private premium placement, and
in 1960 a one-for-two bonus and a one-
for-four issue of 10s. shares to stock-
holders at Bs. premium.
Profits, as disclosed by the company,
were £89,599 in 1959 (excluding the
non-recurring item of a tax-free dividend
of £38,220 received from an associated
company), £82,700 in 1960 and
£97,613 in 1961.
These results represented earning rates
on average capital employed of 23.9 p.c.
in 1959, and since the generous bonus
and cash issues, 11.5 and 10.9 p.c. for the
last two years.
A past loss of the rural subsidiary
eliminated tax liability for the group in
recent years. The depreciation provision
increased from £6,953 in 1960 to
£13,317:
F. W. WILLIAMS & SUBSIDIARIES
?c. Profit Ord. Dividend To Ree. Res.
£ % £ £ £
Capital surplus on consolidation 89,521
'56 92,492 10 p.c.—35,000 57,492 147,013
Share premium 18,750 165,763
Provision long service leave
written back 1,500 167,263
’57 102,430 12y 2 p.c.—44,875 57,555 224,818
Share premium 7.500 232,318
Unexplained net addition to
reserves 84 232,402
58 80,615 12 j / 2 p.c.—46,563 34,052 263,454
Less provisions for stock
obsolescence and doubt-
ful debts 21,7-64 244,690
Tax written back 687 245,377
Tax-free div. received from
associated company 38,220 283.597
59 89,599 15 p.c.—55,875 33,724 317.321
Share premium 254,400 571,721
Unexplained addition to
general reserve 7,000 578.721
Revaluation of investment
in subsidiary 186 250 764.971
Less reserves capitalised 138.250 578.721
Pre-acquis, profit of subs 8,744 587,465
Fixed assets replacement res. 4,303 191,763
Tax-free funds of subs. acqd. 5,715 597.483
Less share issue expenses
written off 8,725 588.758
80 82,700 10 p.c.—71,850 10,850 599.608
Less loss sale assets 2,542 597,065
Share premium 51.820 648,886
'6l 97,613 10 p.c.—89,327 8,286 *657,172
* Subject to £6.000 goodwill
The inevitable conclusion from study-
ing the group’s affairs is that F. W. Wil-
liams has a very solid stake in the broad
sphere of packaging, and that, in ice-
berg fashion, what lies beneath the sur-
face is more important than what appears
to the public view. The 10s. ordinary
shares selling at around 365. offer an
income yield of 2.8 p.c. and on the
purely nominal earning rate of 10.9 p.c.
an earnings yield of 3.0 p.c. Net tangible
asset backing is 17s. 4d. for each 10s.
unit.
The advantages of association with St
Regis, one of the world’s largest makers
of paper products, seems to be appreciat-
ed by the stock market. The stock is
always supported, and at the present
price level, future benefits are well an-
ticipated.
GARRATTS LTD
PROFIT, DIVIDEND UP
Qydney investment company Garratts
Ltd has increased its profit for the
third successive year. Earnings to
January 31, 1962, moved up by £2133
to £18,737, representing 21.99 p.c. on
paid capital. Dividend goes from 16i
p.c. to 171 p.c., taking £14,907.
Total investments stand at £224,756
in the balance sheet. The £201,506 of
shares in public companies possessed a
market value of £309,429 at January
31, 1962. Directors report complete
realisation of assets of the trading sub-
sidiary, Overland Ltd. Proceeds have
been invested “pending a suitable oppor-
tunity for re-entering the commercial
or industrial field.”


BENEFICIAL FINANCE CORP. LTD
NEWCOMER SPREADS OUT
A relative newcomer to the field of
finance is Beneficial Finance Cor-
poration Ltd, a South Australian com-
pany, which is vigorously pushing its
business beyond the borders of its home
State. It began business in April, 1960,
and in January, 1962, absorbed Beacon
Credit Corporation Ltd of Sydney, giving
it ready-made entry to Victoria, New
South Wales and Queensland.
The company was established to pro-
vide public finance facilities for the
purchase of land for homebuilders, for
home purchase, additions and improve-
ments, motor vehicles, domestic and
household appliances, leasing and com-
mercial discounting. Management is now
considering further expansion in factor-
ing and discounting.
While hire purchase outstandings
generally declined by 11.9 p.c. in Aus-
tralia as a result of the credit squeeze,
the Beneficial group was able to show a
net increase in accounts receivable of
£2,138,842 by the end of 1961-62.
Profit for the first year of operations
was £14,012, after £8950 tax and £1569
depreciation. In the year ended March
31, 1962, profit had risen to £61,900,
after £31,221 tax and £5023 deprecia-
tion. The dividend rate was increased
from 4-1/6th p.c. to 6f p.c.:—
March 31 Profit Dividend Reserves
1961 £14,012 4 1 p.c. = £10,417 £3,595
Share premium £21,854 25,449
Capital Reserve 1,208 26,657
Special reserve 36,788 63,445
1962 £61 ; 900 6§ p.c. = £48.908 76,437*
* Subject to intangibles of £54,551 as at March 31,
1962.
The 1962 balance sheet figures shown
below are a consolidation of Beacon and
Beneficial Finance assets. The original
issued capital of £250,000 was enlarged
not only by the takeover but by a two-
for-five par issue in October, 1961:
BALANCE SHEET
1961 1962
Capital: Ordinary £250,000 £783,623
Reserves 3,595 76,437
Debentures —long term 791,435 1,631,637
Deposits and notes 40,333 413,999
Debentures—short term 173,750 588,867
Unearned income 191,429 488,648
Creditors 31,772 43,629
Tax provision 8,950 56,889
Final Dividend 10,417 48,908
£1,501,681 £4,132,637
1961 1962
Freehold, leasehold £9,153 £22,574
Plant 13,780 26,032
Investments 17,252
H.P. Debtors including un-
earned income 1,202,622 3,087,269
H.P. Debtors excluding un-
earned income 176,641 734,471
Sundry debtors 1,558 2,172
Bank 60,393 188,316
Preliminary expenses 37,534 54,551
£1,501,681 £4,132,637
The share premium, capital and special
reserves were presumably created by
the absorption of the Beacon business.
The company, in line with others in the
industry, was able to reduce the rates
of interest offered on a £250,000
debenture issue opened in April this
year.
It is in the early years of a company’s
history that the greatest rate of growth
is displayed, but this hardly justifies a
price of 6s. 4d. to give an income yield
of 5.2 p.c. and an earnings yield of 6.8
p.c., when other leading, tested hire
purchase and other financiers show much
more attractive returns.
STEAMSHIPS TRADING CO. LTD
TEMPTING ISLAND PRIZE
TI/’hen W. R. Carpenter Holdings Ltd
" descended on Steamships Trading
Co. in a recent head-hunting expedi-
tion, market observers were not really
surprised Steamships have long been
a tempting prize. At that time current
market price of around 40s. bought 445.
worth of net tangible assets and an un-
known quantity of hidden reserves. But
Carpenter’s bid, worth about 595. in cash
and shares, failed to win acceptance of
Steamships’ board and therefore was
withdrawn.
Management had only itself to blame
in courting offers which failed to take
into account the true value of the Steam-
ships’ assets. Directors then put out a
circular notifying shareholders of their
intention to consider the structure of
the company, to decide what action, “if
any”, was necessary to avoid similar inci-
dents. They now have decided to ask
shareholders, at a meeting on May 30,
to approve an increase in nominal capi-
tal from £2m to £sm, and the splitting
of 20s. preference and ordinary units
into ss. units. The 7 p.c. cumulative
participating preference shareholders
who have received 10 p.c. for many
years, will receive four ordinary shares
in exchange for each five preference
shares held, subject to court approval.
Steamships Trading Co. acquired the
proprietary business in 1924, and
achieved public status in 1936. It has a
long history of successful trading in
Papua and nearby islands. Wholesale
and retail merchandising is its basic
business with agencies for vehicles,
machinery, petroleum products, ship-
ping and insurance. It acts as managing
agents for sawmillers and several plan-
tation companies.
Steamships itself owns copra, rubber
and cocoa plantations, shipyards and
engineering works, freezing works, a
cordial factory, a sawmill and coastal
ships. All fixed assets, other than plan-
tations, are lumped together in published
accounts under one item valued at cost
less depreciation, £1,339,253. Leasehold
and freehold land and buildings will soon
be revalued, but directors do not con-
template a bonus issue, according to a
very recent circular.
Shareholders can be grateful to W. R.
Carpenter for the partial lifting of the
bamboo blind shielding the Steamships
assets: —
BALANCE-SHEET
1959 1960 1961
£ £ £
Capital: Pref. . . 50,000 50,000 50,000
Ord. .. 741,000 1,132,316 1,176,316
Reserves .. 1,180,213 1,290,280 1,456,096
Creditors, Tax prov. 243,678 378,525 424,280
Bank overdraft .. 47,994 117,017
Final dividend . . 49,563 73,270 76,020
£2,312,448 2,924.391 3,299,729
Freeholds, plant .. 954,814 1,139,126 1,339,253
Plantations .. .. 143,536 159,669 147,505
Investments .. . . 61,269 142,239 146,739
Stocks 845,007 917,210 1,146,512
Debtors 305,765 412,300 511,795
Cash 2,057 153,847 7,925
£2,312,448 2,924,391 3,299,729
The absence of outsiders’ equity in the
business is a striking feature of the
accounts. Capital movements in recent
years, other than for takeovers and to
acquire buildings, were a bonus in 1952,
par issue in 1953, and bonus and par
issues in 1959, all in the ratio of one-
for-four shares held.
The unexplained net additions to re-
serves in the table below, no doubt
relates to the allotment of 44,000 and
45,000 ordinary shares in 1960 and
1961 respectively, in consideration for
businesses and buildings acquired. The
issue of 188,250 bonus shares of 20s.
each in October 1959 was derived from
share premium and revaluation reserves.
Neither of these items rates separate
mention in published accounts, which
last showed a conglomerate item of
£1,250,000 for “reserves”, plus unap-
propriated profits £206,096 after pay-
ment of the final dividend:—
Dividends
June 30, Prof. Pref. Ordinary Reserves
A
10 p.c.
£ £ £ £
1958 179,749 5,000 12V 2 91,773 £1,097.402
1959 181,187 5,000 12 Vi 93,376 1,180,213
Unexplained net add. to
reserves 35,635 1,215,848
1960 197,405 5,000 12>/ 2 = 117,973 1,290,280
Unexplained add. to
reserves 71,400 1,361,680
1961 246,455 5,000 12y a = 147,040 1,456,096
Until company tax was introduced to


Papua and New Guinea in July 1959,
Steamships was exempt from taxation.
It now pays at the rate of 4s. in the £,
compared with Bs. on the Australian
mainland. The provision increased from
£45,000 to £56,000 in the last two years,
while the depreciation charge rose from
£61,500 to £63,189.
PIONEER SUGAR MILLS LTD
DIVIDEND SWEETENER
T>ioneer Sugar Mills Ltd, North
Queensland, made an apparently
contradictory move last week with its
announcement that profit had fallen in
the year to December 31, 1961, but
directors were recommending a lift in
dividend to 16 p.c.
Net profit was reported at £302,485,
after providing £203,200 for tax and
£181,876 for depreciation. This com-
pared with the £361,120 earned in 1960,
after providing £248,200 for tax and
£195,542 for depreciation. However, the
1960 profit was augmented by £141,300
abnormal income received as a result of
a change in policy of the Queensland
Sugar Board over advance payments for
sugar.
The earning rate declined from 31.5
to 24.2 p.c. The dividend comprised an
interim 6 p.c. and final 10 p.c., com-
pared with the 15 p.c. forecast at the
time the company converted to public
status in October, 1960. (Shareholders
in 1960 received interim 3 p.c. and final
10 p.c.).
Listing was achieved after a place-
ment of 200,000 10s. ordinary shares
at a premium of £l. The company
succeeded to a business founded in 1882
by Drysdale Bros, and Co. It is now the
largest Australian producer of raw sugar
after The Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Ltd. It has two mills for the crushing
of cane, at Pioneer and Home Hill in
the Lower Burdekin District, south of
Townsville.
This area is drier than other Northern
canefields, but underground water is
available for irrigation, so that when
crops in other districts have been badly
hit by a dry season the Burdekin crops
are in good condition. The Sugar Board
has, on occasion, called on the company
to crush extra cane to make up for
shortages in other districts.
In the August, 1960, prospectus it
was stated that some £3 million had
been spent on a programme of modern-
isation and expansion during the previous
ten years. This up-to-date equipment
allows the highest percentage of ex-
traction of sugar from the cane of any
Queensland mills.
Pioneer’s balance sheet is not yet avail-
able, but at the end of the 1961 crush-
ing season directors reported that the
season had been very satisfactory. Both
mills operated most efficiently, no over-
time was worked, and all cane was taken
off the fields. Cane available at the two
mills was within an ace of the estimates
made nine months before.
The company is experimenting with
pasture-improved, irrigated land for the
fattening of cattle bred on the property.
Pioneer operates six tobacco farms on
a share-farming basis. All tobacco grown
is the variety bred and developed by the
company's estate manager, and it has in
the past gained the highest average price
at the tobacco sales. A subsidiary
interest is United Chemicals Pty Ltd
which produces veterinary, agricultural
and general chemicals at Rocklea in
Brisbane.
Pioneer is very efficiently managed,
and one can expect it to exploit every
opportunity for expansion in interests
beyond the basic limited sugar business.
In October, 1961, the chairman (Mr R.
R. Russell) averred that the sugar
industry was better equipped than most
others to absorb any possible trade
shocks on Britain's entry to the Common
Market.
The 2,500,000 issued 10s. ordinary
shares in 1961 reached a top price of
395. and a low of 295. 3d. The price
range this year to date is 31s. 9d. peak
and 295. 9d. low. The present market
of around 30s. 3d. to yield 5.3 on a 16
p.c. dividend basis, and giving an earn-
ings yield of 7.9 p.c., seems realistic in
terms of immediate prospects, and the
price of other sugar stocks. If they
recede any further, Pioneer shares
should be worth tucking away.
DULY AND HANSFORD LTD
SOME IMPROVEMENT IN TURNOVER
one are the days of the early 50’s
when automotive distributors and
parts manufacturers earned high returns
on their issued capital.
Duly and Hansford Ltd. of Sydney,
has to service a much higher capital
now, and the recession of the motor
trade in the last 18 months has taken
the shine off automotive trades as an
investment.
The company was formed in 1935 to
take over a 14-year-old partnership and
expanded rapidly in the early post-war
years. The business embraces the supply
of original equipment and replacement
parts such as rear axle shafts, engine
valves, universal joints and front sus-
pension sets, chrome vanadium hand
tools and bright steel bolts and nuts —-
to the automotive industry.
Profits in the year to June, 1961,
dropped 48 p.c. from £198.364 to
£103,091. Depreciation was up from
£100,370 to £116,132, but tax provision
was cut from £141,500 to £Bl,OOO: —
To
June Profit Dividends Reserves Reserves
£ % £ £ £
’59 192,247 10 130,859 61,383 750,526
Share Premium 11,156 761,682
’6O 198,364 10 130.859 67,505 829.187
’6l 103,091 8 131,540 —28,449 800,738*
to £75,000 intangibles.
The earning rate of 6.3 p.c. compared
with 15.2 p.c., 14.7 p.c. and 15.2 p.c.
going back to 1958 and failed to cover
the reduced 8 p.c. dividend. The usual
distribution was 10 p.c.
Turnovers fell off in the second half
of the year, and particularly in the final
quarter. The major motor vehicle manu-
facturers cancelled or deferred their
orders, and Duly and Hansford was
obliged to make sudden and drastic
curtailment of production. Staff was cut
back by 20 p.c. and further retrench-
ments have been made since balance
date.
The sudden reduction in turnover
brought a substantial increase in unit
costs.
When new vehicle registrations are
down, the replacement parts trade usually
becomes buoyant, but this was not the
case in 1960-61, although the replace-
ment trade held fairly well.
Capital was increased from £200,000
in 1948 to £1,644,242 by a bonus
in 1950 (a little less than three-for-four),
various par issues in the ratio of one-for-
four, the last one in 1960-61, as well
as issues made to acquire property: —
1!)59 1960 1961
Capital: Ord. . 1,308,594 1.317,094 1,644,242
Reserves . . 750,526 829,187 800,738
Bank Overdraft 124,843 392,212 356.421
Creditors .. 153,643 166,573 105,144
Tax Provision . 123.481 140,883 80,571
Final Dividend 130,859 130,859 131.540
£2,591,951 £2,976,808 £3,118,656
Freehold
Property . .. 399,510 441.814 584,461
Plant, etc 659,549 726,511 785.064
Stocks 1.203,284 1,369,635 1,402,652
Drs., etc 251,690 361,252 270,303
Cash 2.918 2,596 1,171
Goodwill ... 75,000 75,000 75,000
£2,591,951 £2,976,808 £3,118,656


Steel manufacturers co-operated, and
sudden accumulation of steel stocks was
brought under control. At June 30,
1961, total stocks were only £33,017
higher than the operating level for the
year.
The final stages of a four-year develop-
ment programme were completed with
the addition of £162,000 to plant and
£142,000 to new buildings during 1960-
61. Management claims that it now
has one of the best equipped plants in
the world for making a wider range of
automotive and industrial products. New
markets were opened up overseas during
the 1960-61 year.
Last week the company announced
that turnover for the seven months to
January, 1962, was at the lower level
of the previous half-year, when the final
dividend was cut from 5 p.c. to 3 p.c.
They declared a steady interim of 5 p.c.,
which does not automatically mean the
annual rate of 10 p.c. has been restored.
Since February there has been a
decided improvement in turnover, and
this trend is likely to continue, judging
by the company’s order book.
Viewed from the outside, an 8 p.c.
dividend seems all that can be expected
as total pay-out this year, in which case
the present market of about 38s. 6d. for
the 20s. shares, to yield 4.2 p.c. on an
8 p.c. dividend basis, and 3.3 p.c. on the
last earning rate of 6.3 p.c., looks quite
high enough for the present.
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
BOARDS ARE TOO REMOTE
JJ>he responsibility of boards of direc-
tors in the promotion of greater
understanding between themselves and
management and employees was em-
phasised by Mr Warren D. McDonald,
chairman of the Commonwealth Bank-
ing Corporation, in an address recently
at the Industrial Relations fourth con-
vention at Terrigal.
While professional management had,
among other things, to master the tech-
nique of industrial relations, he said, the
final responsibility rested with the board
of directors who had to speak and act
for the shareholders. Under this system,
both management and employee were,
theoretically, close. They had similar
aspirations towards income, hours,
leisure and status. Because of these, the
old conflict between boss and worker
should, in theory, be no longer valid.
“But,” said Mr McDonald, “under
corporate ownership and the growth of
the big, impersonal company, two main
things have happened—there is virtually
no contact between the rank and file of
employees and the corporate owners
(the board), and there is little contact
between top management and the great
mass of employees.”
Mr McDonald said that personnel
officers, house magazines, welfare com-
mittees, superannuation schemes and
public relations were not enough. Under
the American system of collective bar-
gaining, the person responsible for staff
relations, and therefore better internal
communications, generally had the status
of a vice-president and dealt personally
with the president of the company.
Under our system, inherited from 19th
century Britain, there was a strong
tendency to leave staff relationship
responsibility to individuals at lower, and
often much lower, levels in the company
—to people like personnel or industrial
officers. Yet the results of failures or
successes in this field were far too
important to be left to the lower level
of authority.
“One feature of the American system
of collective bargaining,” Mr McDonald
said, “is that members of the board sit
round a table with union representatives
and negotiate direct, and the employees
know exactly what is going on. But in
Australia, anything like this is extremely
rare. The great problem of the big
company, with its remoteness of contact
between board and management and
rank-and-file, plus the impersonal way in
which it deals with unions through its
industrial officers, is one of the greatest
impediments to good industrial relations.”
FACTORS LTD
KORMAN GROUP HIT AGAIN
Another blow to the Korrnan group
comes from its hire - purchase,
finance and industrial associate, Factors
Ltd, which experienced a “substantial
loss” in the half-year ended January 31,
1962. No interim ordinary dividend can
be paid and directors regard it as “most
unlikely” that a final will follow. A 3
p.c. preference payment is met and
needs £l5OO.
Trading conditions are reported to
have been very difficult, though the
manufacturing offshoots performed
“satisfactorily in the circumstances.”
Indeed, their profits became a little
better than for the corresponding period
of 1960-61. One wholly-owned sub-
sidiary, Holeproof Industries, recently
revealed profit at £201,586 for the year
to December 31, 1961, and paid its
parent a 121 p.c. dividend totalling
£175,196.
Group loss for the year ended July 31,
1961, reached £1,035,980, most of
which was attributed to the Rockmans
clothing chain, now a member of Wool-
worths Ltd. Factors’ main financial in-
vestment remains its loans within the
Stanhill group. These amounted to
£2,124,196 at July 31, 1961.
Another Korrnan trouble spot, Chev-
ron Sydney Ltd, last week advised the
resignations of Messrs A. Laurence and
R. C. Proctor from its board. They
had become directors of Chevron, Stan-
hill Consolidated and Stanhill Develop-
ment Finance just before last December’s
batch of annual meetings, but are no
longer on any of the boards.
SHIPPING
p. & O.'s TANKER
npHE P. & O. group’s new tanker,
Malwa, 37,000 tons deadweight, is
the largest oil tanker yet built in the
UK for British owners with navigation
bridge and accommodation aft. She is
on a five-year charter to the B.P. Tanker
Co. Ltd.
Only two tankers now remain to be
delivered to complete the P. & O. group’s
current tanker-building programme of 15
ships, totalling nearly half a million tons
deadweight. This will make it the
largest tanker fleet under the British
flag. The last two ships, one of which
will be about 50,000 tons d.w., will, like
the Malwa, be of the all-aft design.
Malwa is propelled by a single five-
blade screw driven by double-reduction
geared steam turbines to give a service
speed of 161 knots. Accommodation is
air conditioned, including that for the
Asian crew. The commander, Captain
G. M. Maclean, has been with the P. &
O. Co. since 1923.
HUNTER DOUGLAS
£500,000 NOTES ISSUE
Aluminium blind maker Hunter
Douglas Ltd expects a profit of
more than £200,000 (after tax) for its
year ending June 30, 1962. Such a
level indicates an earning rate around
15 p.c. The ruling dividend is at a 10
p.c. rate. Earnings provide fully for
fairly considerable non-recurring items
resulting from the merger with Mello-
Lite Ltd.
The group will soon make a £500,000
issue of 8 p.c. registered unsecured
notes. Present stockholders and con-
vertible noteholders are given priority of
application to £lOO,OOO, without any
fixed quota. Two maturities apply, six
years or ten years. Payment is in full
on application, or half on application and
the balance by October. lan Potter and
Co. has taken the issue firm.
Proceeds are intended to purchase
additional assets for expansion and
diversification. Directors report con-
siderable progress in investigating
avenues for expansion.


Dtl
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
Financier . . Established 1882
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Interest payable quarterly through the Bank ot N.S.YV Free of Exchange.
THIS ISSUE HAS BEEN FULLY SUBSCRIBED . . .
OVER SUBSCRIPTIONS NOW BEING ACCEPTED
Application Forms (and Prospectuses)
will be Forwarded on Request
Applications will be accepted only on one ol the forms
of application attached to the printed copy of the Pros-
pectus which may be obtained from:
• All branches of the Bank of New South Wales in New
South Wales, Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 4521-2-3,
AND BRANCHES
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange).
20-22 O’Connell Street, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne. S4O Queen Street, Brisbane
BROKERS IN VICTORIA
Clarke 8c Co., 450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS IN QUEENSLAND
Charles Elliott & Son, 356 Queen St., Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange) -
BROKERS IN CANBERRA
T. J. Thompson & Sons, C.B.C. Chambers,
Petrie St., Canberra.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
.
z
2
PER ANNUM
FOR 5 YEARS
6% for 2 years
b\% for 3 years
7% for 4 years
RIO TINTO-CONS. ZINC
EARLY COMPANY REVIEWS
PpHE chairmen of Rio Tinto and Con-
solidated Zinc Corporation deserve
praise for their early publication of the
reviews of their respective companies’
activities in 1961. Annual meetings are
not due to take place in London until
June 7, 1962. With the company merger
now well in sight and the ticklish world
metals situation, the information made
available merits careful consideration.
Mr Gerald Coke, of Rio, makes no
bones about the advantages of the Rio-
Zinc linkage. “This merging of comple-
mentary but not competitive interests will
provide for the shareholders of both
companies a far greater geographical and
functional spread. The proposed new
company will have a wider spread of
earnings to cover its dividend and far
greater strength on which to base its
future expansion,” he says.
A joint directors’ statement sounds
even more explicit. “Both political and
commercial risks are inherent in the
mining industry overseas, but the
rewards can be high.” For stable pro-
gression of profits it is necessary to
spread the risks by a high degree of
diversification in areas of operation, the
range of minerals mined and treated and
participation in allied industries.
Whatever past doubts that may have
tempered shareholders can be partly re-
solved by promise of not less than 15
p.c. dividends for 1962. Given no major
adverse change in metal prices, each con-
stituent company, and especially Con-
solidated Zinc, expects substantially im-
proved profits this year.
One goes, of course, to Consolidated
for a true picture of the base-metals
position. Its chairman, Mr A. M. Baer,
ascribes the 1961 profit drop “primarily”
to the low level of lead and zinc prices.
To accord with the International Lead
and Zinc Study Group’s advice, Broken
Hill ore output was cut back by about
10 p.c. and, as in 1960 too, “production
was adjusted to extract ore of a lower
average lead grade and a higher average
zinc grade.”
Mr Baer is in no uncertain mind about
the restrictive obligations:—“l am con-
vinced that no useful purpose can be
served by continuing these restrictions
any longer. We have been disappointed
that the action we have taken over the
past few years has met with such little
support by other producers, and we see
no good reason why we should continue
to bear this heavy and expensive burden
to the benefit of others,” he proclaims.
Stronger words follow: “The days have
surely passed when lead and zinc could
be deemed to be strategic metals, and the
heavy expense of subsidising the whole
of a country’s output to safeguard the
interests of a small minority makes non-
sense of a situation that if left alone
could prosper reasonably well.”
Repetition of curtailment plans would
constitute a great error of judgment, Mr
Baer believes. Long-term producers owe
a duty to make available production at
the lowest possible figure that costs will
permit. And perhaps the so-called
“depressed” prices are not out of balance
with the rest of the world’s economy.
11/1r Baer touches briefly on the Com-
alco aluminium venture, principally
to record “a notable year.” He contends
that acquisition of reduction facilities in
Tasmania and semi-fabricating plants
near Sydney has permitted a vigorous
entry into the aluminium industry.
Further progress is reported from
Weipa and plans for the provision of
reduction facilities in New Zealand. Con-
solidated’s American partner, Kaiser
Aluminum, has already seconded senior
personnel to Comalco for the develop-
mental phase.
Rio’s profit statement is able to reveal
a vastly different 1961 picture, since earn-
ings before tax climbed from
£5tg.4,635,000 to £5tg.7,150,000.
Accounts include for the first time divi-
dends from the Canadian Rio Algom
and Preston uranium mines and the first
interim dividend from the group’s hold-
ing in British Petroleum.
The general manager, Mr Val Dun-
can, furnishes a review of Rio’s diversifi-
cation policy and summarises efforts to
rationalise the extensive uranium interests.
As is well known, many Canadian opera-
tions have been reduced, “in accordance
with the decision to stretch out the exist-
ing uranium contracts until about the end
of 1966.”
A passing glance covers Mary Kath-
leen’s efforts to find alternative activities
until the uranium market recovers.
Cautious regard blankets the West Aus-
tralian iron-ore prospects. “Whether
these deposits can be the basis of a pro-
fitable operation depends upon many
factors,” Mr Duncan sagely observes.


FCA
FINANCE
CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in South Australia under
the Companies Act 1934/52)
The Bank of Adelaide owns 40% of the
Ordinary Capital of the Company
FULLY SECURED REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
PER ANNUM 10 YEARS
;,g
tit
Stock Registers are maintained in each
Capital City. Prospectuses should be
obtained from and applications made to:~~
JOINT BANKERS TO THE ISSUE
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, Perth
Applications for Debenture Stock can be accepted only
on the printed form attached to the prospectus.
Q 523
OIL
NEW EXPLORATION MOVES
recent report issued by the Bureau
-*■ of Mineral Resources highlights the
potential of the Canning Basin (WA),
where Wapet has planned new drilling
operations in August. Wapet holds most
of the area under permit. Others with
small holdings are Westralian Oil, with
a fringe slice on the Basin’s northern
boundary, and Associated Freney, with
scattered segments isolated in the Wapet
area. Nonlisted companies with permits
on the edge of the territory are Hawk-
stone and Hackathorne. Latest new-
comer to the scene is Kalgoorlie Gold-
fields Petroleum, which has abandoned
its permit areas on the western side of
the Eucla Basin (WA) and has applied
to the West Australian Government for
three separate areas in the Canning
Basin. This, incidentally, was the most
favored of all the Australian sedimentary
basins by the French mission, which re-
ported to the Federal Government early
last year. Its verdict has encouraged
Wapet.
Interest has been stimulated in Oil
Search for two reasons: firstly, the com-
pany is shortly to announce its new drill-
ing programme in Papua. This is expect-
ed to embrace drilling near the mouth
of the Fly River. Secondly, the Bureau
of Mineral Resources report issued last
week points to the possible existence of
oil at Puri, where the Oil Search group
made a strike in 1958. Though not prov-
ing commercial supplies of oil, this
well gave a gas flow of 330,000 cu. ft
a day. The Bureau’s theory now is that
oil may exist in the Murman sandstone
lower than the previous drilling level.
A fter a considerable interval Timor
Oil rejoined the active drilling list,
spudding in Matai No. 6 on the eastern
plunge of the Matai anticline.
Not to be left out of the hunt, Tas-
mania has also come up with Tas-
mania and Bass Strait Oil N.L.; and it
is not doing things by halves, having
applied for an area of more than five
million acres—about a third of the
island. The inspiration appears to be
coming in the main from Kangaroo
Petroleum, one of whose directors, Mr
G. A. Hammond, is on the board. In
Sydney, another company, Farmout
Drillers N.L., has been formed.
Although about a dozen wells are
currently being drilled the only one
to foment much interest last week was
Associated Australian Oil’s Westgrove
No. 2 because of a rumor that it had
made a strike of some kind just below
2000 ft. But the rumor was then denied
by the company. Actually the first target
level in this well is some 700 ft lower,
and the inain target is around 3100 ft.
A.A.O. is planning to spud another well
shortly, between Glentulloch and
Meeleebee.
Longreach Oil will at last start drilling,
having reached agreement with the new
Farmout Drillers to drill a joint well on
the Baracline sector of its 2790 sq. miles
permit area in the Longreach district,
north of Moonie.
Planet Oil is now to take a 20 p.c.
interest in Oil Development’s well to be
drilled at Anglesea (Vic.) to 7500 ft in
a few weeks’ time. Planet and Oil
Development will drill a second combined
well in the Murray Basin when the
current one Bundy No. 1, commenced
last week, is completed. Planet will prob-
ably spud-in its own well in the Sydney
Basin, a mile from East Maitland, about
mid-July.


STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Suite 1, Sixth Floor, Temple Court
422 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Phone 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
Sydney: 383 George Street, 29-7865.
Adelaide: 61 Gawler Place, 7-8407.
Brisbane: 334 Queen Street, 31-1621.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
All Offices: “Options”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
A. L. NEVITT. DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT. A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street, Phone 6089
CONSTABLE & COMPANY
BW 0781
Member of the
SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE
25 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY
The Mall, The Corso, Manly
Telephone: 97-5867
CC.S.
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of Sydney Stock Exchange
W. Keith Yuill—Keith C. Phillips
lan C. Walton —Gordon G. King
Walter I. Summons
William S. Shugg
(non-member partner)
33 BLIGH STREET. 2 0137
84 William St., Melb. 67 5089
340 Queen St., Brisbane. 312191
Telegrams and Cables “Ralphking”
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane
Grafton, Tamworth and Armidale
SPECULATORS DIARY
Monday, May 14
|"|h, Sir Kenneth how could you! In
being so modest about your little
oil company, you obviously didn’t know
your own strength as far as the share
market was concerned. If there is one
thing flighty speculators don’t like, it
is a touch of the cold truth. The result
is that I join the swelling ranks of people
who are now losing quite a bit on
A.O.G. Not to be worried, though. I’m
just hoping that the closing of rights
trading will put a bit of strength back
into the market. This is probably a
rather sanguine attitude but we must
be brave in times like these.
If you can’t make money on the
share market, you should at least try to
get a bit of fun out of it. With this
thought in mind, a few of us drowned
our A.O.G. sorrows over dinner the
other night at the Hotel Sydney, head-
quarters of the Southgate Investments
empire and the scene of what seems to
have been another of my recent invest-
ment debacles. The number of gourmets
in the dining room was hardly encourag-
ing to a shareholder but at least it was
nice to see where weary train travellers
have been refreshing themselves ever
since the railway was extended through
from Redfern to Central. Nevertheless
I decided it would probably be best if
I faced up to a loss of some £BO and
sold my 800 Southgates. Although the
two suburban hotels and Craigieburn
give the shares an asset backing of at
least 15s. and quite good long-term
prospects, the immediate outlook seems
bleak.
Fortunately, in the midst of all this
gloom, the rest of the market finally
began to show signs of stirring out of
its long sleep. Rises in O’Donnell Grif-
fin, Automobile and General Finance,
Mauri Bros, and M.L.C. all helped to
restore my somewhat shaken spirits.
Then along came Penfolds and obliged
me with the opportunity to make £l7
on my 200 shares.
- The cash carried over from last week
plus the Southgate and Penfolds pro-
ceeds gave me £496 to play with.
By what I hope is not a too fateful
coincidence, part of the Southgate
money went back into Merica Founda-
tions which I sold some six months ago
to buy Southgate shares! Since then
Merica shares have barely moved in
price but brassiere production has been
steadily rising and is now 10 p.c. higher
than a year ago. With the support of
the American Formfit organisation,
Merica should be getting its share of
this expanding market. The interim re-
port was quite encouraging with profits
only fractionally below the previous
year’s record level.
Merica shares had been crying out
for buyers for quite some time and so
also had R. H. Lawrenson’s notes. You
might remember my interest in this little
company back in February when the
rights to a new issue were being traded.
On that occasion the market got away
from me and I wasn’t prepared to chase
the price up to 11s. or 12s. a share.
Now the shares have come back to
about Bs. 3d. while the notes have been
going begging at 7s. 9d. Last week the
seller, in apparent desperation, reduced
his offer to 7s. which seemed to be a
bargain price. If anything the notes
should be dearer than the shares. They
rank for both bonus and cash issues
and carry interest of 8 p.c. precisely
8 p.c. more than the shares are getting
at this stage. As the shares are not likely
to get any dividend before next year,
any income difference should be on the
side of the notes. But all this is of
rather academic interest as the seller has
promptly raised his offer again and I’m
not prepared to pay more than 7s. my-
self.
Meanwhile I’ve been interstate and
bought 400 G.U.D. shares in Melbourne
on the strength of the revival in the
motor industry. Now I’ve no idea what
the letters G.U.D. stand for but I do
know that this company’s principal
business is in making oil filters. Last
year G.U.D. paid a handsome dividend
of 25 p.c. out of earnings of 37 p.c.
At 235. the shares showed a dividend
yield of 5.4 p.c. and an earnings yield
of 8 p.c. These yields seemed to be
good enough reason for buying 400
shares which meant that at the end of
the week 1 was again in debt to the
extent of £155.
SOLD
800 Southgate at 7/- £284
200 Penfolds at 11/3 £llO
BOUGHT
500 Merica at 7/- £lBl
400 G.U.D. at 23/- £470
The portfolio now is:—
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
400 O’Donnell
Griffin 28/8/61 11/8 16/3
1,600 United Motels 20/11/61 3/9 4/-
1,000 Harris Hold-
ings 5/12/61 7/- 8/3
200 Hunter Douglas
notes 21/2/62 36/- 44/-
200 Beau Monde 8/12/61 25/- 32/-
400 W. J. Manufac-
turing 24/1/62 11/9 13/t
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 24/6
500 Mauri Bros 16/2/62 22/9 25/-
1,000 Mid-Eastern 22/2/62 1/-
400 Anderson Meat 2/3/62 12/- 12 '-
400 Kandos 9/3/62 21/- 23/6
500 Peters 15/3/62 8/2 8/-
100 Philip Morris 16/3/62 26/- 24/-
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 5/9
500 Peter Lloyd 21/3/62 5/6 5/9
500 Ready Mixed 6/4/62 17/9 18'-
25 M.L.C. 27/4/62 £l9/10/- £22
100 A.O.G. 27/4/62 81/6 76/-
200 Malle ys 3/5/62 20/3 21/8
500 Merica 10/5/62 7/- 7/-
300 G.U.D. 8/5/62 23/- 23/6


fST
...
y
THROUGHOUT ABSTRJUA
{ST, 1906 « '
SNOWS
imm’jthmi * branches
;£5T,1912 [
roYS
Welbeurne Central
& Branches
•, mh#6B
FOY-BILSONS
/ WIAZ ~
(ST. iass
| ]\ m jj||§
FOYS (W.A.)
BRANCHES
; fST* 1395 J
WAUGHS {
WoHohgong & Bra p ches i
£Stt T*47
AUSTRALIA WIDE CHAIN OF RETAIL STORES
12 TRADING COMPANIES
113 STORES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
o
0
DEPOSIT INVESTMENT
PLAN
The Company will accept deposits which It can profitably
employ and will pay the following rates of interest per annum.
5 Years
6 over
4 Years
3 Years
2 Years
1 Year
8%
7i%
7%
6i%
Ul
K)|m
V*
Steg mil 'W TTI S
iO BW6HT AND HITCHCOCKS
■ SSffiorte. * WESTfftN JHSTWCT
•ESI*
BiMIYIR'Sj
BENDIGO A SBEFFARTON
IST. 1890
BOWRINGS
MtIDBRA AND BRANCHES
fsr. is?i
PARTONS
■'£ OANBENORG
JEST* t9t6
RoKhead
BALLARAT
fST. E 908
E5T* 18S0
iodge-d only on forms at t^ph?^.'^b ! ifte ' prSiA^d := -cotrf es"‘<6? proso-ecius. wlin'cft' may- be. obtained jf'mi'J
Bt&hers (Australia) ;75 Fftriiiers i;aib; Meib.
:|k ; lire Manager'of any store in the: Sox i ; ;
• Any Member of a Stock Exchange. ' ' ', .. ,
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE
lAN POTTER & CO.
MUBOUBME—SYDNEY --BBtSBANt
ADELAIDE—CANBERRA
CIP9/N


Company
LEADING
Par
Value
SHARE
Prices
Last.
Sale, 7/5/62
1961
PRICES
Div, Div.
14/5/62 Rate Yield
p.c. p.c.
Earn.
Rate
p.c.
Earn.
Yield
p.c.
Amalgamated Chemicals
5/
14/3
18/7
19/8
12%
3.1
21.4
5.4
A.W. A.
5/
20/4 %
21/
21/6
14
3.2
22
5.1
Ampol
5/
11/4
12/6
13 5
14
5.6
19
7.6
A.R.C. Ind.
10/
4(5/3
50/9
50/4 Vi
15
3.0
29.7
6.0
Associated Pulp
. 20/
. 10/
29/3
32/
32/
13.6
8.5
AusL. Chemicals
30/4 %
28/6
28/7%
12%
4.3
21 5
7.5
A.C.I.
20/
72/6
71/6
74/6
8t
2.2
19.3
6.8
Aust, Guarantee
5/
14/
12/3
12/3
15
6.1
20.3
8.3
Aust. Gypsum ..
5/
14/3
15/9
15/11
10
3.1
14.9
4.6
A.PM
20/
25/3
27/2
28/9
8
5.5
10
7.0
Bank N S W.
£20
£31
£42%
£42%
9
4.2
12.2
5.7
Bitumen and Oil
5/
24 '
24/9
26/10
17%
3.3
32.4
6.7
Blue Metal Ind.
5/
22/716
22/9
23/9
15
3.1
27.6
5.9
Bradford Cotton
5/
7/6
7/3
7/1 Vi
10
6,9
11.2
7.6
British Tobacco
20/
25/
22.
22/
8
7.3
9.7
8.8
B.H.P
20/
69/
63/
64/
6%
1.9
15.5
4.9
Burns, Plulp
. 20/
91/
£5%
£ 5 Vi
10
1.8
12.4
2,3
C.S.R
. £20 £ 59%
£56 Vi
£ 56%
9
3.2
12.4
4.4
C.A.G.A
5/
11/3
11/
11/3
10
4.4
12.3
5.4
C.I.G
20/
£5
98/
99'
11
2.2
25.2
5.1
Commercial Union
5/
19/3
23/6
23/10 Vat
6%
1.4
18.4
3.8
Concrete Ind. ..
5/
15/116
16/
15/9
10
3 2
16.6
5.3
Consolidated Zinc
25/
62/(5
63/
ei/e*
15
6.1
11.6
4.7
Cox Bros.
5/
7 6
7/8
7/7%
10
6.5
11.8
7.7
Custom Credit ..
5/
13/
12/4
12/3
15
6.1
19.5
8.0
Cyclone
10/
26/
21/9
22/
10
4.5
17.7
8.0
Dalgety-N.Z. Loan
. 25/
—
42/9-j-
41/7%
8
4.8
13.9
8.1
David Jones
5/
18/9
18/8
13/9
12%
3.3
28.7
6 4
Drug Houses
20/
69/
69/6
69/6
11/4
3 2
17.7
5.1
Dunlop Rubber ..
20/
35/
40 6
40 10%f
10
4.9
16
7.8
Elder Smith
12/
23/9
25/3
25/9
10
4.7
12.6
5.9
Electronic “B” ..
10/
13/3
12/10
12.7%
12%
10.0
—
Email
5/
7/6
7 11
7 TO
10
6.3
11
6.9
E.Z. Ind.
10/
12.11
13 4
13/4
10
7.5
12.4
9.3
Felt and Textiles
5/
8/11
7/6
7/7
10
6.6
13.9
9.3
G. J. Coles
5/
13 6
13 6
13/5
11
4 1
14 8
5,5
Goldsbrough
20/
28 ••<5
32 3
32/6
8
4.9
11.7
7.2
H. C. Sleigh
5/
11/
12 11
13/1
12%
4.8
13.4
5.2
Henry Jones
. 20.
80
87 0
88/
10
2.3
28.6
0.5
H. G. Palmer ..
5/
15/6
17/
17/3
12%
3.6
34.5
10.0
Howard Smith ..
20/
54/
50 3
50/7%
10
3.9
13.6
5.4
Humes
20/
70 6
76'
75/6
14
3 7
24.6
0.4
I.A.C. ...
- 5/
13.4
13 3
13/5
16J
6.2
20.6
7.6
I.C.I.A.N.Z.
. 20/
38
40/6
42/
7
3.3
9.7
4.6
J. Gadsden
10/
15/3
19 3
19/1
8
4.1
10.4
5.4
Kandos Cement
5/
—
23/3
24/
12%
2.6
13.5
2.8
Kelvinafor
5/
13 3
19/3
19/6
15
3 8
28.6
7.3
Lend Lease
5/
20/
21. 9
22/1%
10
2.2
21.4
4.8
L. j. Hooker ..
5/
7 r
6 4
5/10
—
—
1.1*
0.9
Mercantile Credit
5/
8/8
8 6
8/
10
6.2
16.6
10.3
McPhersons
. 20/
47/
41/6
42/
n
3.9
12.4
5.7
Minster . .
10/
62 r
78/6
79/4%
20
2.5
34.8
4.6
Moulded Products
5/
13/2
14 2
14/3
14
4.9
7.8
2.7
Mt. Isa Mines ..
5/
71/6
75/
75/
25
1.7
62.3
4.2
Mutual Acceptance
5/
8. TO
9/5
10/
15
7.5
22,3
11.0
Myer
5/
29/
33 3
34/
160
2.4
28.3
4 3
National Consolidated
5/
27/
27 6
27/8
20
3.C
35.3
6.4
Olympic Industries
5/
7/7
9/2
9/4
9
4.8
16.2
8.7
Peters (Vic. i ..
2/
8/6
8/1
8/2
15
3.6
18.9
4.6
Petrochemical ..
20/
26/
29/11
29/7%
6
4.0
5.9
3.9
R. M. Concrete
5/
17 416
18/
17/10
12%
3.5
22.9
6.4
Reid Murray
5/
5 3
4/3
4/1
—
—
8.4
11.3
Repco
5/
12 '5
13/6
13/11
10
3.6
17.8
6.4
Rio Tinto
5/
15/9
19/5
20/
10
2.5
71.7
13.9
Rothmans
. 20/
87/6
78. 6
77/
17%
4.6
47.7
12.5
Tliiess
5/
13/
12/
12/
12%
5.2
14.4
6.0
Tooth ..
20/
60/
60 G
66 3
13%
4.0
15.9
4.9
Union Carbide ..
. 20/
80/
78/
79/
10
2.5
15.9
4.0
Waltons
5/
13/8
13/7
14/3
12%
4.3
19.7
6.9
Woolworths
. 5/
15/4
16/7
16/10
12
3.6
15.4
4.6
Wormakl
5/
11/10
12 2
12/3
10
4.0
14.2
5.8
W. R. Carpenter
* Estimated on
f Mid-price,
i Ex dividend.
• • O/
last half-year's profU.
30/
34 . 6
34/3
15
2.1
35.1
5.3
SYDNEY
STOCK EXCHANGE
INDICES
Banks,
Other
Base
All
etc.
Finance
Pastoral
Retailers
Metals
Orels. *
Industrials
December 22,
1961 . . 137.37
541.02
182.31
389.15
604.15
299.07
318.74
May 7, 1962
.. 163.85
564.80
187.19
390.48
604.76
305.26
319.64
May 8, 1962
,, 164.92
560.96
186.72
391.92
608.51
306.84
321.67
May 9, 1962
. . 165.66
565.78
187 50
392.00
610.52
308,26
323.43
May 10. 1962
.. 168.34
564.71
187.93
391.18
608.00
308.73
324.06
May 11, 1952
.. .. 168.84
565.16
186.66
391.73
606.42
308.94
324.12
May 14, 1962 .
.. 168.40
569.29
188.51
390.91
601.81
308.70
324.17
* Peak
343.46 September 16, 1960
MELBOURNE
STOCK
EXCHANGE
AVERAGE YIELD
ON 100 ORDINARY shares
50 Other Stocks-
-Random—^
—50 Leading
Stocks —,
Sample
Div. Yield Earn, Yield
Div. Yield Earn, Yield
December 22, 1961
4.29
6.89
5.30
7.46
Mav
7, 1962
4.29
6.14
5.05
2.48
May
8, 1962
4.28
6.15
5.05
1.85
May
9, 1962
4.27
6.13
5.06
2.00
May
10, 1962 ..
4.26
6.12
5.07
2.26
May
11, 1962 ..
4.26
6.13
5.07
2.10
May
14. 1962 ..
4.26
6.13
5.09
2.02
SHAREMARKET SUMMARY
T>uyers present every evidence of
having enjoyed the sharemarket’s
upward spasm. Last week made many
high quality industrial shares available
at only slightly enhanced prices. Judged
purely on internal evidence the market
probably took off on its little flutter
somewhat earlier than many scrupulous
observers expected.
Once investment stocks were hoisted
out of the previous few weeks’ stickiness,
the most interesting feature became the
spread of their advance. The banks’
exclusiveness was broken and gains
sprang up all along the line. The overall
impetus even proved sufficient for some
successful stagging of three new issues—
Penfolds Wines, Avala Holdings and
Australian Factors (Qld).
One must not exaggerate either the
pace or size of the general improvement.
But the main point, after so much
quietude, is that the forward move was
general, and not confined to a few blue-
ribbons or mere indicators. The better
trend also seemed to be initiated among
the second-liners, as if some small
premium was ready to be placed on
economic recovery.
By Monday, the leaders appeared in
control once more and early acceleration
had been considerably slowed. Indeed
building materials and electricals showed
fatigue at the week’s close, while a few
hire-purchase issues did not look like
going much further. Yet this still left
plenty of ground for fairly widespread
support.
That the support may again become
acutely selective can only lend the
market firmness while the June tremors
get nearer. Anyhow, prices have started
to measure something and not wobble
in a rather scared vacuum.
That is certainly the top - liners’
immediate pattern, since, apart from
A.C.1., their progress appeared reason-
ably solid, not dramatic. 8.H.P., C.S.R.,
the inevitable Henry Jones, and Tooth
posted rises over the week. Most en-
couraging, they were joined by 1.C.1.,
emerging from a recent depression with
an addition of Is. 6d.
Below the topmost line, companies
like Commonwealth Industrial Gases,
Humes, Kandos, McPhersons, Minster
and Repco fully illustrate the industrial
dominance which brought so many
prices up. The search is still for quality.
The oil market these days gives vent
to only odd bursts of enthusiasm. A.O.G.
shares and rights remain relatively
inactive and on Monday were sought at
reduced prices. Some keen demand
existed for Clarence River, following the
association with Burmah-Murphy.


DIVIDEND DECLARATIONS
WEEK ENDED MAY 14, 1!)(W
Rate for
Company Div. p.c, Year Last Year
Books
Cli se
Payable
onas. Moore lAustj Ltd., int. ..
5, 5
25/5/62
Cemac Associated Ltd. int. .
614
6V4, 614
23 5 62
315 62
Development Finance Corpora-
tion Ltd., int
4 7/12
31, -5 62
15/0,62
Esdaile Holdings Ltd., int .
3
18 .5. 62
14 6/62
Factors Ltd., int. pref.
3
3. 3
22/5. 62
25/5/62
Federal Woollen Mills Ltd., int. pref.
3
3, 3
22 6 62
1/7/62
Cordon House Ltd., int. .
5
5, 614
16/5,62
18/5/62
Gerrard Co. of A'asia Ltd., int.
pref. ...
2 Vi
2Vi. 2Vi
22 5 62
31/5.62
Henry Jones Co-oper. Ltd., int.
2'i
2Vi, 7Vi
17 5 62
1/6 62
H. H. Webb and Co. Ltd., int. .
6 2/3
6 2. 3. 8 1/3
22, 6. 62
6/7/62
James Wallace (Holdings) Ltd,,
int. ord
6
6, 6
18 5, 62
31 5/62
do., int. pref
3 Vi
—
3Vi, 3’4
18 5 62
31/5/62
J. B. Young Holdings Ltd., int.
5
—
4 Vi. 4i/ 2
Hi, 5/62
31/5/62
Mirror Newspapers Ltd., int. qtr.
1st pref.
214
o
4. 214. 214. 2 1 4
18/5 62
23/5/62
do ;nt. qtr. 2nd pref
2
—
2 2, 2 2
13/5 62
23/5/62
Mount Isa Mines Ltd., int
10
■—
10, 15
2i 5 62
28/6'62
Fioueer Sugar Mills Ltd., final
10
16
3, 10
18 5/62
14/6 62
W. J. Cryer Ltd,, final .. ..
5
5
,
29 5 62
14/6/62
Wakefield Investments Ltd., year
62 3
6 2/3
6 2/3
29/5 62
14/6 52
COMPANY
RESULTS
Company
Year
Net.
Depreeia^
Earning
Old.
t — Ordinary Shares—,
Par Last Sale Div.
Ended
Profit
Tax
• tion
Ra te
Div.
Value
Price
Yield
Garratts Ltd,
31/1 62
£
18.737
£
u/a
£
u a
P-c.
21.9
p.c.
17 Vz
4/
14/
P c.
5.0
Moffat Virtue
31 12 61
( Loss \
v 11,319 7
u/a
u/a
nil
nil
12 6
5 7
nil
Pioneer Sugar
.. 31 12 61
302.4S5
2C3.20Q
181 876
24.2
16.0
10
30
5.3
Union Trustee
28,2 62
25.154
22.973
10,236
18.3
12 Vi
27 6
54/
6.4
CAPITAL ISSUES
PENDING
Company
Shares
Terms of
Books
Terms ol
Class
Number
Issue
Close
Payment
Remarks
Aust. Paper Manufact-
20s.
4.383.750
1 for 4
June 30
urers
bonus
Bonds Industries
20s.
250 000
1 for 5 at
April 16
15s on appli-
15s. in call
a premium
cation by
on Nov, 28
Burns Philp
of 10s.
May 30
20s
1.200.000
1 for 5 bonus
Oct. 31
Clarke Bros. Ho.dings
5s.
401,505
1 for 2 at
April 4
In lull on
Colonial Sugar Refining
par
May 22
Co.
20s.*
3.018,020
1 for 7 at 10s.
July 31
15s. on
15s. line. 5s,
premium
Oct. 1
premium on
Huttons
5s.
1.325.500
1 for 4 at
March 30
2s. 6d. on
April 1 1
3s. 9d.
premium of
application
(including
Is. 3d.
by May 31
Is. 3d.
premium 1 in
call on
Indoor Bowling ..
5 s.
400.600
1 for Gat
n/a
June 30
Sep. 30
To share- and
Lords Holdings
10s.
80 000
par
1 for 4 at
n/a
n/a.
noteholders
a premium
of 2s. 6d.
McDowells
20s.
170,000
• 1 for 4 at
a premium
April 30
In full on
May 31
Milton Investments
of 20s.
20s.
40,801
1 for 10 at
April 16
10s. on May
10s. in call
Queensland Press
10s.
2.309,500
par
1 for 2 at
July 31
31
In full on
on Aug. 3l
Sampson Spray ..
par
October 1
3s.
81 000
1 for 4
Mav 14
Sangara .,
5s.
n a
1 for 2
n a
n a
Steel Mills
5s.
200,503
1 for 4 at 4s.
April 30
In full on
Woolworths Ltd ..
premium
May 31
5s.
12 406,650
1 for 5 at
Aug. 15
January 24,
To share- and
par
1963
noteholders
* After splitting
£20 shares to
20s. units.
WEEKLY
AVERAGE
CLEAN WOOL
PRICES
Source: Australian Wool
Bureau
Ancfvnlinn Air
Quali ty
Opening -
Closing
Classification
Week
Week
Week
Week
Week
Centres Selling
(Bradford
Ended
Ended
1961-62
1960-61
Ended
Standard)
11 5/62
Change
4 5 62
7/7, 61
30/6. 61
12/5/61
11/5/62
COMBING—
d.
d.
d.
d.
d.
d.
Syd. G'lng F'mUe
d. d. rl.
70's Good
130
+ 1
129
122*
125*
125*
131
Average
125
124
117
120
121
124
126
G4 - s Good
123
+2
121
114*
117*
120
125
Average
117
+ 1
116
109
112
117
115
119
114
60’s Good
108
+ 1
107
104
108*
112
109
104
Average
103
par
103
101
104
110
102
105
101
58's Good
98
+ 1
97
97
101*
103
98
Average
94
par
94
95
98
100
93
.95
92
56's Good ..
92
par
92
95*
97*
98
92
Average
90
par
90
92*
94
95
89
90
50 s Good
83
par
83
92*
93*
94
83
Average ..
CARDING—
80
pur
80
90*
91*
92
—
80
—
Merino
47
par
47
49
48
52
46
Comeback
4fi
par
46
49
48
51
46
Fine Crossbred .
46
par
46
51*
51
46
Medium Crossbred
46
par
46
52*
52
57
46
* Nominal.
SuJes Next Week
Newcastle, Goulburn, Adelaide, Launceston
Hobart.
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (29 lines).
Prudential Building,
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale”, Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHAKE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
58 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721.
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
GILBERT HARRIMAN & CO
STOCK AND SHAREBROKER
Member of the Sydney Stock
• Exchange
KINDERSLEY HOUSE
7th Floor,
20 O’Connell St.,
33 Bligh St., Sydney
Telegrams:
HARRISHA, SYDNEY.
Tels.: 28-8398, 28-8399
GUMTON, STEEL & HILL
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Members of the Sydney Stork
Exchange.
Kindersley House, 20 O’Connell
Street, Sydney
Box 1632, G.P.O.
Telephone: Telegrams:
28-2641 (6 lines) “Gunot”, Sydney
Telex: Syd. 242
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Temple Court, 423 Little Collins St.,
Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67-6154, 67-6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE


OPPORTUNITIES
EXIST FOR BUSINESSMEN
to take up specific areas of activity which offer
A HIGHLY REMUNERATIVE RETURN
The opportunities are suitable for active participation
alternatively trained staff are available for the participant
who wishes his interest to be a silent one.
Interested persons write to:
"DIRECTOR" - A.M.C.
BOX 15, POST OFFICE, ROSEBERY
artificially produced aurorae, magnetic
storms and a fade-out of short-wave
radio communications. Electrons pro-
duced by the explosion moved out into
space and were trapped in the region
marked D. They produced an artificial
radiation belt of an intensity comparable
to B and C which existed for more than
a month. (At that point the batteries of
the investigating satellite failed.) Rem-
nants were still detected at least three
months later.
Series of Huge Gambles
The bomb in Argus was one or two
kilotons at 300 miles. What will the
megaton do at 500 miles? The chaos
produced in the ionosphere will be tem-
porary and is unlikely to have anything
but a limited nuisance value. The beta
particles from the explosion will be
trapped in the zones from B to C. How
they will be distributed or how long
they will remain there, no one knows.
The protons from the decaying neutrons
will be trapped and add to the confu-
sion. The worst possibility is that the
earth’s magnetic field will be so dis-
turbed that the protons in zone B will
be drained into the atmosphere. It might
well take a decade for the zone to be
repopulated by natural processes.
The Americans may have data which
will remove these doubts and which will
convince the international scientific com-
munity that the effects will be tempor-
ary. If so they should produce the in-
formation before they make this sledge-
hammer blow at the radiative environ-
ment of the earth.
These proposals to make nuclear ex-
plosions in space arise from a small group
of military scientists, unknown and un-
identified to the world at large, who have
persuaded their masters to make a series
of huge gambles under the guise of de-
fensive necessity. On the scale of the
cosmos they are dealing with fireworks.
Nevertheless the earth is so minute on
the cosmic scale and its environment is
controlled by the delicate balance of
such great natural forces that one must
view with dismay a potential interference
with these processes before they are in-
vestigated by the delicate tools of the
true scientist.
Grave Moral Consequences
Both Russia and America subscribed
to the recent resolutions of the Interna-
tional Astronomical Union which main-
tain that no group has a right to change
the earth’s environment in any significant
way without full international study and
agreement, and gave clear warning of
the grave moral and material conse-
quences which could stem from disre-
gard of the future of astronomical pro-
gress.
The event which stimulated this reso-
lution was the American proposal to en-
circle the earth with millions of pieces
of wire to make a reflecting screen for
military communications (Project
Needles). Now a proposal to explode the
bomb in space again raises the issue
acutely and it is a matter of urgency
that restraint should be applied to pre-
vent the launching by any nation of pro-
jects like Needles or the bomb until, in
the words of the International Astrono-
mical Union, “it is established beyond
doubt that no damage will be done to
astronomical research.”
Finally, how do ideas like this and
Project Needles arise in such an advanced
and highly respected scientific com-
munity? In the case of Argus the pub-
lished testimony of the Director of
Research and Engineering in the De-
partment of Defence said. “In the fall
of 1957, as we all very acutely know,
the Russians launched their first Sput-
nik. Mr. Christofilos was really personally
affected by this as a great many people
were, and he was considerably stirred up
by the fact that the Russians had pulled
off quite an accomplishment and set him-
self thinking, trying to think up what he
could do about this ... As I said, he
was sort of personally upset by Sputnik
and he decided he was going to do some-
thing about it and came up with this
invention.” (House of Representatives,
April 10, 1959.)
HOWARDS LTD
Q.U.F. OUTBIDS Q.C.C.
TVrectors of Howards Ltd, Brisbane
motor vehicle and electrical distribu-
tor, have decided to withdraw their
recommendation of a takeover bid from
Queensland Can Co. Ltd in order to
give their support to an offer from
Queensland United Foods Ltd.
The newly supported bid comprises
one Q.U.F. ss. share for each Howards
share, plus 11s. cash for each Howards
share. In total it is 24s. 10d.,
against the 245. lid. value of Queens-
land Can. That company’s seven-for-
four offer included only 6d. a share
cash element.
MARK FOY’S LTD
EARNINGS FALL
VTet profit of Mark Foy’s Ltd, Sydney
fell by <£116,676 to
£18,838 in the year ended February 28,
1962. However, ordinary dividend re-
mains steady at 121 p.c. p.a. The final
6i p.c. ord. dividend will be paid early
in July, 1962. The company’s chairman,
Mr A. V. Hancock, said he was “very
much” encouraged by better trading in
March and April.


WE
EXPLOSIVES Log-splitting and
post-hole guns. Powder and fuse
for same. Blasting mats. Tamping
rods. Magazines. Carrying boxes.
Exploders and all accessories.
STEAM VALVES Everlasting
valve. Particularly suitable for
boiler blow-off or full on.
WATER FILTERS For farm,
household and industrial use.
TUYERES —Hot air for forges.
MINING Curvilinear tables for
ore concentration. Classifiers. Rapid
magnetting machines.
TOOLS Barrows, pinch and other
bars. Jumpers, mattocks, picks,
handles, shovels, quarry tools, read-
lamps, etc.
ENQUIRIES TO
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.,
78 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, N.S,W.
THE MAN
ON THE
LAND
NEW LIGHT ON RABBIT WAR
Tn the last 100 years Australia watched
rabbits sweep across the continent in
a living plague, eating out great stretches
of pastures and bankrupting farmers.
Then came myxomatosis, the “white
scourge” from South America, and for
a time the Man on the Land held the
upper hand.
But today myxomatosis is no longer a
100 per cent, killer and the rabbit is on
the increase again almost throughout the
Commonwealth.
The eminent American virologist and
myxomatosis expert, Dr Richard E.
Shope, of the Rockefeller Institute, New
York, who recently made a month-long
study of our rabbit control and research
set-up, has offered some well-informed
advice.
Dr Shope strongly advocates a national
authority to take charge of all rabbit
research and, preferably, all rabbit eradi-
cation work, too. He envisages an
authority headed by a man with both
scientific and practical knowledge of
rabbit eradication work and supplied
with adequate funds. An organisation
of this kind would cost a small fraction
of the amount it w'ould save Australia’s
great primary industries —even if it wiped
out only a few million extra rabbits.
The authority would “ride herd” on
myxomatosis, introduce more powerful
strains of the virus and more constant
checks to see that it was maintaining its
effectiveness. This might even involve
visits to the countries where myxoma-
tosis existed naturally. The authority
would also conduct general research of all
kinds into the rabbit and into other
methods of rabbit control, including
poison.
Dr Shope said two factors were limit-
ing the killing power of myxomatosis in
Australia at present. These were a genetic
resistance to the disease which had
developed in some rabbits (and had re-
duced kills from 100 per cent, to 80 or
90 per cent, among resistant animals) and
the development of weaker strains of
myxo in the field. He said these attenu-
ated strains often killed as few as 50 per
cent, of rabbits, and, where they came up
against genetically resistant animals, the
kill was even lower.
He suggested the use of the Glenfield
strain of myxo from New' South Wales in
future Australian W'ork. The Glenfield
strain, already in use in several States,
has been found to retain its 100 per cent,
effectiveness in most areas.
Dr Shope said that in spite of myxoma-
tosis’ reduced effectiveness, he believed
it would be used for 90 per cent, of
Australia’s basic rabbit eradication work
for many years.
On the controversial subject of fibroma
virus, Dr Shope was outspoken.
(Fibroma, which Dr. Shope himself dis-
covered and upon which he is the
acknowledged w'orld authority, is a
virus which immunises rabbits against
myxomatosis. It is in use in Australian
scientific laboratories and on commer-
cial rabbit farms in New South Wales.
Other States have banned its use).
Dr Shope said he believed fibroma
posed a hazard of a definite but
unknown magnitude to the effective use
of myxomatosis in Australia—and there-
fore to the Australian economy.
He said much would depend upon the
care with W'hich fibroma was used here,
but it had spread naturally through the
cottontail rabbit population in the United
States and he saw no reason why this
should not happen if it got loose here.
In theory a !00 per cent, spread of
fibroma would result in all rabbits being
immune to myxomatosis, but in practice
not 100 per cent, would become
immune.
Dr Shope said he had been surprised
to learn fibroma had ever been permitted
on the market in Australia in view of our
dependence on myxomatosis to keep the
rabbit in check. He had been still more
surprised to see the risky way NSW
rabbit farmers were using fibroma. They
were inoculating rabbits on the ear,
with the result that mosquitoes (which
spread fibroma as w'ell as myxo) could
easily bite the big lump raised by the
fibroma virus. The immunising was not
even being done in insect-proof pens.
Dr Shope said all fibroma injections
should be on hairy parts of the rabbits’
bodies, such as the belly, and the injected
rabbits should be kept in insect-proof
pens for at least a month. The pens
should be sprayed with insecticide at
least once a day.
MECHANISATION PROBLEM
TVlechanical harvesting of sugar cane
has occupied the minds of growers
and millers for many years. All sorts of
machines have been built or modified in
an effort to eliminate manual labor, but
it seems that the best that can be expected
in future is a mechanical harvester pre-
ceded by a couple of cutters using cane
knives.
This conclusion has been arrived at
by Mr Nelson Whitaker, manager of the
Mulgrave (Q.) mill, who has made many
experiments with harvesting machines
over the past seven years. He told the
Australian Sugar Producers’ conference
that from his experience there would be
no complete elimination of manpower.


r-
Highest/Lotvest Price Paic;
\
(Pence per lb.)
r —Turnover—,
, May 4 ,
f —Week Ended—■,
Week
Closing
11/5/62
f To Date ,
Ended
TO
Month
Seller
Buyer
High
Low
High
Low
11/5/62
Date
May, 1962 ,.
116*4
116%
116*4
114%
116%
99 %
57
5.015
July. 1962
113
112%
113
112
116%
101
76
5,388
September. 1962 ..
no%
110%
110%
109%
116%
103%
68
1.625
October. 1962
108 %
Traded
108%
107%
116%
104
156
4.693
December, 1962
108
107%
108%
107
113
103%
98
3,317
January, 1963 ..
107%
107%
108
107
112%
103%
21
536
March. 1963
107 V 4
107
107%
107
110%
104
63
972
May. 1963
107 %
107%
107%
106%
no
104
57
739
July. 1963
107 Vi
107%
107%
107
no
105
41
444
September, 1963
107%
106%
107
106%
108%
106%
4
53
October, 1963
10714
106%
107%
106'%
109%
106 2
70
250
Total
number of
contracts
716
62.327
IMPROVING SYDNEY SHOW GROUND
By M. H. ELLIS
T\uring a discussion between Sir
Michael Bruxner, deputy chairman
of the Royal Sydney Show and myself
and a lady householder, arranged by
Channel ABN-2 on May 3 as a result of
my article (Bulletin, April 28) on the
Show and the need for improving its
facilities and equipment, Sir Michael
put the Show Society’s viewpoint, which
might be summarised as follows:
The Show and its progress are satisfac-
tory and its equipment subject to a
master plan to cost £li millions which
the RAS is developing. The RAS is con-
stantly engaged in providing more space
for the crowds and improving its equip-
ment and buildings.
This sounded highly convincing—ex-
cept to those who are familiar with
RAS history.
There is, and has been since Sir
Samuel Hordern many years ago was an
enterprising president, a “master plan”
which laid down priorities for building
and criteria about materials —no more
galvanised iron or beaver board type of
construction for instance. But the
“master plan” by this time looks as if
it had been mauled by a pride of hungry
lions.
The RAS Council consists of a con-
siderable number of earnest and busy
men, most of whom give more time to
its interests than they should for the
good of their own businesses. But like
all such bodies with changing personnel,
their history is written in terms of in-
dividual enthusiasms and individual
pressures. Thus, if there comes on to the
Council or some committee a strong-
minded dog fancier, the emphasis in
construction is likely to be on dogs and
dog pavilions until the enthusiast is satis-
fied or drained of ideas. If a big com-
pany comes along with a plan to finance
a considerable building on the grounds,
then in the excitement the “master plan”
gets forgotten. The result is that 73
acres of Show Ground at Moore Park
is now a hotch-potch.
Sir Michael Bruxner championed the
State Government for its contribu-
tions to the buildings on the ground.
These certainly have been substantial
and he himself, as a Minister, was re-
sponsible more than anybody for the
Treasury’s financing of the erection of
the Memorial Hall to commemorate the
Sesqui-Centenary of Australia’s found-
ation in 1938. But the trouble with this
building, as with others put up by the
Society with its own State money, is
that it was conceived in the tradition of
the Crystal Palace and the Great Exhib-
ition of 1851, rather than in consonance
with the functional needs of 1962.
It seems to me that the whole 73
acres of the RAS, together with its basic
organisation, needs replanning and sub-
stantial rebuilding to provide the follow-
ing features:
(a) A more attractive approach from city
transport, provision to allow the public
to buy single tickets which will admit
them anywhere on the ground, including
stands with shelter. Better turnstiles
which will promote the feeling that one
is being welcomed to a show instead of
being let into gaol.
(b) The bringing forward to the entrance
areas of the great features of the Show
such as the District Exhibits.
(c) A planning of the Show for one-way
traffic in all main individual sections.
The provision of greater assembly spaces
through the housing of sections in
ramped multi-storey buildings, with a
maximum height of, say, four storeys.
(d) The organisation of the exhibition facili-
ties in large covered units as rain proof
as possible and the paving of all exter-
nal intercommunications.
(e) The provision of modern exhibition pavi-
lions with floors on solid foundations,
capable of carrying heavy lorry loads of
through-traffic to exhibition positions,
thus facilitating quick and easy assembly
and dismantling of stalls or exhibits. The
provision in each pavilion of sanitation
and food for the public and lodging for
attendants and workers. The design of
pavilions to allow quick machine clean-
ing, disposal of garbage, etc.
(f) Modernisation of animal stalls on a
multi-storey basis with centralised and
sectionalised judging rings of adequate
size. Proper design of the whole of the
cattle units to allow for swift flushing
of stalls and direct access from stall pas-
sages beneath the seating bowl to the
judging rings and for quick, multiple
exits for animals to the grand parades in
the main ring.
(g) Proper and effective forage storage and
watering facilities on each floor of the
stock pavilions, medical and veterinary
units, housing for attendants, cafeterias,
etc.
(h) The central show ring to be a bowl,
with ample sheltered seating; more liberal
provision for the general public and less
emphasis on the needs of a privileged
members’ section. Better access to make
the reaching of upper seats in main
stands a little less like climbing the Three
Sisters at Katoomba.
(i) The main ring to be the central focus
of the Show, but with the various pavi-
lions arced round it in blocks, conform-
ing to its shape, and separated from each
other by a suffici:nt distribution area.
This would allow the prjblic to go
straight from outside into the particular
sections in which they have most in-
terest and progress to other sections and
stands in orderly fashion.
(j) The industrial demonstration, sampl.'
selling and side-show portions of the
show should form a secondary village
within the grounds, built and conditioned
especially for their specific purposes. They
should be placed and designed so as not
to interfere with the main purposes for
which the HAS holds its Charter. The
village should be in the background of
the show.
T can see the Old Guard of the RAS
holding up their hands in amused
horror at this comprehensive programme
and hear their shouts of: “It will cost ten
or twelve millions!”
So it might. The Colisseum, which is
the all-the-year-round industrial exhibi-
tion and fair centre in New York, cer-
tainly cost something like that, but it is
the most profitable public utility enter-
prise in Manhattan.
The second cry, of course, will be:
“Where would the capital come from?”
The answer to that seems simple. It is
accepted as a normal national project to
build an opera house for Sydney to
house three or four thousand people
when going full blast, at a cost of six
or seven millions, mostly raised by lot-
teries. It is an even greater national con-
sideration that New South Wales should
have a central exhibition and fair ground,
famed all over the world, and that the
money for this, also, should be raised
by State lottery. Or perhaps by taxing
the huge turnover on club poker
machines.
It is, of course, to the interests of
Commonwealth, State and City to pro-
mote the enterprise. Exhibitions mean not
only rent and entrance money; they
mean more rates, tax payments and flow
of business to commercial firms, apart
from the world-wide advertisement to be
gained and the facility for promoting the
sale of Australian goods abroad.
SYDNEY GREASY WOOL FUTURES EXCHANGE SUMMARY
WEEK, ENDING 11TH MAY, 19G2
Basis Greasy Equivalent 3,000 lbs. Clean Weight C.W.C. Type <8


REVIEWS
TELEVISION
ESSAYING A POOR LODE
A s the ABC had proved its courage
by “essaying the production of Lola
Montez in television”, as Mr Semmler
cautiously put it, I felt that I could
do no less than match this display of
cojones (viz. Hemingway) and watch the
result when it appeared on my screen.
Unfortunately, some protective mech-
anism was at work in the shallows of my
subconscious, and I tuned in late, missing
the better half of the production. At
least I have to assume that it was the
better half, because the part I did see
was so lacking in entertainment values
that the use of 90 minutes of prime
viewing time for a show of that standard
would not prove courage, but sheer
foolhardiness.
It could even be taken as a fair indica-
tion of a “give ’em muck, as long as it’s
Australian” attitude, to paraphrase a re-
mark attributed to a visiting celebrity in
an earlier age, if we did not know that
the ABC perpetrates its occasional
horrors with the very best of intentions.
On “Lola Montez’s” showing, very
little of the talent on view deserved en-
couraging. It is difficult to criticise the
production piecemeal because nearly all
of its ingredients were uniformly dread-
ful. The book, music and lyrics were
fairly accurately described by a friend of
mine next morning as “a mish-mash of all
the American musicals from Girl of the
Golden West to Oklahoma”. Such an-
achronisms as a lyric rhyming ‘lay-off’
and ‘pay-off (not to mention ‘day off’)
did not help matters. It is unfair to de-
mand verisimilitude in a musical, par-
ticularly in dressing, but there are limits.
It is also unfair to criticise perform-
ers in the best of local productions by the
standards of visiting professionals,
whether in the cast or remembered. To
some extent it is unfair to be too hard
on the leading performers if all are local
artists with the usual lack of experience.
In this context, I will mutter that at
times Brigid Lenihan as Lola reminded
me too forcefully of the leading lady in
certain amateur productions of “White
Cargo.”
At one stage this was both funny and
embarrassing, when Sam (Frank Wilson)
seized her, bent her over a bed, and did
the heavy lover bit, the one that used
to make grandmother strain her whale-
bone.
Rather than attempt to particularise
further, I would suggest that Australian
talent is in no way encouraged by tele-
vision production of such affairs as
“Lola Montez”, except perhaps that
other writers of song and lyric may take
it as an example of what they can get
away with.
It might be much better for the ABC
to encourage these people to learn to
crawl before they attempt to walk. Be-
cause it uses many filmed programmes
which run for 25 or 40 minutes, the
ABC has five- and 10-minute spells
which it now fills very largely with
documentary film, much of it repeated
ad nauseam.
Some time ago it used a series of
sketches under the general title of
“Who”, with John Bluthal and Peter
Carver. Many people found these good
entertainment, and many hoped that the
ABC would go further and encourage
local singing, dancing and writing talent,
together with all the ancillaries, to pro-
duce five- and 10-minute fillers. From
the experience gained in these small
productions, a reasonably professional
band of performers could emerge, to
create and produce something both Aus-
tralian and good.
If production costs have to be con-
sidered because nine 10-minute seg-
ments take more money than 90 minutes
of “Lola”, it should be possible to merge
some of these segments into a revue
which would give us a darn sight better
viewing during 90 minutes of evening
time than we had from “Lola Montez”.
This would help Australian talent both
in experience and in the matter of stan-
dards, giving performers, writers and
producers a showcase and some higher
measure of quality. Television play-
wrights have this, in films of BBC
drama. But there is no comparable im-
portation of good musical productions.
“Essaying” something of poor quality
because it is Australian is not good
enough. If the ABC has a duty, I
suggest it is to encourage, and not to
help prove that local efforts have to be
poor ones.
FRANK ROBERTS
THEATRE
BODIES IN THE BAKEHOUSE
Sweeney Todd. George Dibdin-Pitt.
Canberra Theatre Players.
tThtE number of recent successful
A revivals of forgotten Victorian
dramas suggests that the age is a
potential mine of popular entertainment.
The latest gem brought to light in Can-
berra is “Sweeney Todd: The Demon
Barber of Fleet Street”, produced by
Joyce Goodes. Apparently this glitter-
ing piece was written in 1842 and first
presented at the Old Bower Saloon in
1862. This sounds in character. The
play turns on the activities of the wicked
Sweeney, whose barber’s chair conveys
his customers mechanically off-stage to
a bakehouse where they are turned into
pies. Those who elude the chair are dis-
patched on-stage by a vast antique razor
or a long-barrelled pistol. As one victim
is a naval lieutenant returning with prize-
money from the Indies to claim his
Faithful True Love, all the material is
there for a rich, ripe melodrama.
Melodrama is what the play is, for
the most part. But the prolific Mr
Dibdin-Pitt is evidently an author who
meant to give his audience plenty of
what they liked, and he has enriched his
drama lavishly from other sources. He
heightens the Moral, already heavily
underlined in cliches, by using the
supernatural the dead victim, via the
Chair, returns to level an accusing finger
at the barber. He revives those hardy
perennials of Restoration Comedy, Mrs
Lovett, the flirtatious old harridan, and
Dr Lupin, the hypocritical Puritan
parson. He takes a tip from “Macbeth”,
and haunts his Demon Barber with the
ghost of one of his numerous ex-clients.
He interrupts his stirring tale with songs
and dances in the early manner of
comedy, and he provides a master of


ceremonies and piano accompaniment to
keep it all going.
The Theatre Players did keep it all
going, swiftly and hilariously, most of
the time. With a play whose story was
so often interrupted and whose speeches
were so impossibly stilted, there could
be little real unity or tension, only a
continuous appeal to the enjoyment of
each succeeding offernig. So the cast
played it fast and broad, emphasizing
the outrageous use of aside and soliloquy,
curdling the blood and tugging the
heart-strings as opportunity offered. As
usual, the villains had the best of it:
Edward Knox as the suitably cadaverous
barber ; William Wells as the parson
whose holy pallor concealed a black
heart; Joyce Goodes as the gruesomely
coy Mrs Lovett. But the virtuous charac-
ters were handsome; the costume and
decor, ingenious and comic; and the con-
tributions of pianist and master of cere-
monies a continuous delight,
There was some fumbling of lines and
movements (both the actors’ and the
chair’s); and the audience was regrettably
unresponsive to the plight of Virtue in
Distress. With a little improvement both
sides of the footlight, “Sweeney Todd”
will provide splendid entertainment.
HOPE HEWITT
ONE FOOT IN THE REAL WORLD
The Shifting Heart. Richard Beynon.
Union Theatre Repertory Company.
Russell Street Theatre. Melbourne.
Uncle Toni’s Cabin. Bowl Music Hall.
Melbourne.
“HThe Shifting Heart” stands up fairly
well to a second look. The charac-
ters all have at least one foot in the real
world, and what happens to them is con-
sistently interesting. The trouble is that
too much happens to them. The play is
over-rich in content, and the themes
jangle. The end of the second act
approaches the grotesque, and, in Act 3,
a certain amount of character distortion
is unavoidable if the play is to continue
at all. There is a good deal of phony
conceptualising in Clarry’s conversations
with Poppa Bianchi and Detective Lukie,
and Momma’s grief at the death of Gino
has to be perfunctory, because she is
wanted for the sentimental toast to the
new grandson at the end.
In this play, Mr Beynon’s reach ex-
ceeds his grasp. Nevertheless, his is a
fine talent, of a kind unusual in Australia.
Where his story-line allows it, he goes
straight for the strong emotion, drawing
it from simple situations, and developing
it with firm and economical dialogue. He
gives producer and actor a solid founda-
tion, but leaves them plenty of scope for
genuinely interpretative skill.
This production, by Reginald Liver-
more, is a very effective one, carefully
controlled, and fully in sympathy with
the play. There are excellent perform-
ances from Moira Carleton as Momma
and Brian Anderson as Clarry. Michael
Duffield is good, but a little mannered,
as Poppa. Perhaps the best performance
of all is Clarissa Kaye’s Maria—fiery in
look and gesture, and vocally very strong.
The setting, by Anne Fraser, is suit-
ably realistic, but is either too big for
the stage or too far forward —the acting
area is cramped to the extent that the
actors are forced into some very un-
gainly and unconvincing movements.
'T'he Bowl Music Hall is the cultural
centre of the Moomba City. If you
like to “get together and have fun” then
you’ll have the time of your life at this
show. Otherwise you’ll probably be bored
much of the time, though you may find
Barbara Russell and Charles Norman
amusing. Harold Blair is effective as
Uncle Tom and he sings “Nobody Knows
the Trouble I’ve Seen” very well indeed.
Most of the others are good at their
ghastly trade.
JAMES MURPHY
FROM SATIRE TO PARABLE
Rhinoceros. Eugene lonesco. Inde-
pendent Theatre. Sydney.
Y*7Tth “Rhinoceros,” the avant-garde
lonesco has joined the ranks of the
good fellows of commercial theatre. Long
before Harold Pinter, Eugene lonesco
had us near hysterics with wildly funny
satires on the banality and conformity
of people.
Such pieces as “The Bald Prima Don-
na” and “Jack,” shed new lights and
showed a prodigious talent for exciting
word-play and involuted moralising.
Satire, of course, has the drawback of
being highly personal; the satirist is in
the game for the fun of destroying cer-
tain things he wants to destroy. When
his targets are successfully attacked, he
has little left, for satire is usually limited
to a few specific objectives.
lonesco has gone on from satire to
downright moral parables and if
“Rhinoceros” disappoints many of his
early admirers, to whom the gift of satire
seemed especially precious for our time,
the play will yet bring much delight of
a simpler sort. It has a clear message,
clearly told . . . that there is a virtue
in non-conformity.
Sadly, the production at the Indepen-
dent Theatre, by Doris Fitton, was some-
what awkward. The play moved uneasily
about from one convention to another —
an audience would have been hard put
to decide if they were intended to be
seeing farce, fantasy, bad pantomime or
drama. The technical transition of a
man into a rhinoceros on stage is admit-
tedly difficult, but if it is too tricky to do
in the realistic way, why not leave it
solely to the actor’s mime and verve?
Notably patchy casting was no help to
the piece ; only Mr George Kassianos
stood out as someone who knew exactly
what he was doing. Although the
Michelle settings were beautifully exe-
cuted, surely the producer is asking for
trouble with such massive set changes.
All this said, “Rhinoceros” remains
worth the ticket money. There is a lot
of fun in the play, and for many the
moral is a good one which ought to be
ingested.
KEVON KEMP
ART
SMOOTH ENGINE
Guy and Helen Grey-Smith. Skinner
Gallery, Perth.
current exhibition of oils, draw-
ings, fabrics and pottery by Guy and
Helen Grey-Smith is interesting, and
sometimes exciting. Guy Grey-Smith is
consolidating his style, by simplification,
and he has lowered the tone of his col-
ors and reduced the complexity of his
designs radically. The result has been not
a loss but, if anything, an increase of
forcefulness. The largest picture in the
show, “Mount Vernon”, presents an in-
teresting contrast to its opposite number
in the Perth Group Show last year:
where the earlier painting vibrated like
an electric transformer, this moves in
like a smooth six-cylinder engine. The
masses which define semi-abstract land-
scape forms are large and relatively
simple, but their articulation is complex,
and very satisfying indeed.
The extreme case of the new simple
shape and low tone style is “Rock”: a
picture in white, yellow and milk arrow-
root biscuit colors, it represents a great
horizontal rock resting on two strata,
which “pull” to the left, while the rock
overhangs to the right. The balance of
the picture suggests contained tensions,
and one can see the rock compressing the
strata where it overhangs them; but this
forceful feeling is played off against a
delicacy of color and surface that verge
on prettiness. The whole feeling of the
painting is immensely satisfying.
There are pictures in his earlier style,
and transitional canvasses too, in this
show. And looking at them together it is
apparent that the newer developments


arise directly out of the earlier style;
there is consistent progress from one
idiom to another. The changes are not
eclectic, and not built around any gim-
micks. Mr. Grey-Smith is essentially a
serious artist.
Helen Grey-Smith's fabrics are always
elegant, and they make up well, which is
more than can be said for some art fab-
rics. The most striking design in the
present show is “wooden fish”, a vertical
grouping of horizontal fish forms, in
pale dyes on semi-transparent curtaining,
and in dense dye on dense material for
tablecloths and place mats. The dress
materials, with designs of “sticks”, wood-
en figures “ancestors” and geomet-
rical patterns are all extremely simple,
and extremely effective. Helen Grey-
Smith’s fabric designs consistently sub-
ordinate pure decoration to function,
and this is the essence of good applied
design. And it is something that is still
relatively rare in Australia.
The pottery is mostly fun: roughish
and massive, with some more serious
pieces; it is all obviously home hewn.
The decoration on the other hand is
often very sophisticated indeed; casual
rather than studied, it is nevertheless
much more confident than the potting.
The whole show leaves one with an
impression of seriousness. The Grey-
Smiths have succeeded in divorcing ab-
straction from romantic self-expression,
and their work is about the object and
about its possible value to other observ-
ers, rather than about their reaction to
the object. Their artifacts are not auto-
biographical, they are not primarily in-
tended to record the artists’ personal
feelings. This objectivity and disinterest-
edness is perhaps the root of the real
distinction that the best of the Grey-
Smiths’ things have. And this kind of
classical abstractionism is in the long run
more valuable than romantic abstract-
expressionism, and a great deal harder to
come by.
PATRICK HUTCHINGS
AVOIDING THE PRESSURES
Fred Jessup. Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney.
In this latest one man show, Fred
Jessup enters a newer, more vigorous
mode of expression. Always possessing
a consciously assured decorative power,
his still lives radiate the intimiste calm
belonging not only to the movement of
that name, but to the orderliness of
French home life itself. Beneath the
decorativeness (which is a long-hallowed
and wholly acceptable tradition) one
detected a well-experienced Gallic sen-
sibility. Now a note of spontaneity
combines with this to bring surface ten-
sion to this group of 28 oils and gouache
paintings.
Perhaps the “Black Table” retains
some of the former mood of restraint
but its delicate tracery of leaves and
stems and its carefully wrought color
harmonies make it one of the best paint-
ings here. The “Portrait of Robin Sher-
wood” tackles a difficult problem of a
full-length half-reclining figure not al-
together successfully, yet it is freshly
handled and says something interesting
about the sitter. It is in the landscapes of
Herauet that Fred Jessup has found some
of his most attractive material. Finely
proportioned dun-colored houses firmly
planted on the earth, often enlivened
with unexpectedly harmonious color,
offer endless inspiration. There are
others too, the still lives, landscapes and
figure pieces from Madeira, Spain,
Sicily, Tahiti and, of course, Paris. Color
sensitively controlled enhances the
forms; neither fall below a confident
professional level of arrangement or
technique. If a little of the drawing in
“Fish Bay, Florence” fails, the subtle
color of a fine still life enriches and
compensates.
In keeping himself to this personal
road, Jessup has avoided the pressures of
fashion. What he offers is a civilised
visual experience which can at times be
exquisite.
J. HENSHAW
FILMS
BLACK DREAMS
A Raisin in the Sun. Kings Cross
Theatre. Sydney.
Oeven-thirty a.m. in a middling-com-
but overcrowded flat: nervy
housewife hustles a protesting small boy
out of his improvised bed on the living-
room sofa, then stirs her husband into
sullen wakefulness; there are bilious
early morning arguments about the
occupancy of the bathroom and the
husband’s overnight behavior. As the
other occupants of the flat the hus-
band’s widowed mother and younger
sister emerge, bicker and go their
ways, the basic problems and tensions
are defined.
The husband, trapped and embittered
by the prospect of a lifetime of menial
and poorly-paid work, has a dream of
investing with two partners in a liquor
store; the wife hungers to get away from
the cramped quarters that are throttling
the life out of her marriage; the kid
sister, intelligent, volatile and self-
centred, wants to be a doctor. The
means of release are at hand, in a
10,000 dollar insurance cheque, due to
the mother for the death of her hus-
band; but there is new conflict here,
for the mother is stubbornly set against
her son’s liquor store scheme.
So far the ingredients are familiar,
but the people (to audiences here, at
least) are not. They are Negro, and that
fact alone gives extra weight to their
economic bonds, an extra compulsion
to their dreams, an extra intensity to
the bitterness and revolt. It is this, com-
bined with the eloquent Negro idiom
and the splendid acting of the Negro
cast, that turns the film version of
“A Raisin in the Sun” from a compe-
tent piece of kitchen-sink into an ab-
sorbing and heart-touching drama.
It might not be safe to say that every
film with a Negro cast is distinguished,
but there have been remarkably few
exceptions. The Negroes, like the
Italians, seem to be a race of born actors,
presumably because they both are
accustomed to expressing themselves
frankly and vividly in their everyday
life; like the Irish, the Negroes have
evolved an idiom that can be poetic
without sounding unnatural; like the
Jews, another race that produces fine
actors, they have had their natural
sensibilities sharpened by long injury.
“A Raisin in the Sun” is adapted
fairly literally (by the look of it) from
the play of the same name by Lorraine
Hansberry, and most of the players are
those of the successful Broadway pro-
duction. Only one (Sidney Poitier as
the husband) has a name familiar to
filmgoers, but the others, in large roles
and small, are all exactly fitted to their
parts. For these excellences, we have to
concede a somewhat stage-oriented
manner of acting; the broad gestures and
vigorous attack in the more emotional
passages would be accurate in a theatre
but are less suitable to the magnifying
eye of the camera.
As the action of the play develops it
becomes more concerned with specifi-
cally Negro problems. Central to it is
the conflict of generations between the
mother and her son. The mother, who
migrated to the North as a young girl,
sees “freedom” only in terms of not
getting lynched and not having to ride
at the back of a street-car; she is
shocked by her son’s obsession with
money as the key to a better way of
life.
The work behind the cameras is less
notable than the dramatic material.
Daniel Petrie’s direction is efficient, but
if anything it is too smooth and glossy
to match the raw sincerity of the play;
at times there is a slick underlining
with sentimental mood music for
example that quite falsifies it. It is
the play and the playing of it that holds
the attention, and does so compellingly.
MARTIN LONG


THE RED PAGE
AMONG THE CUTTLEFISH
By FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
npHE most remarkable feature of the
“*• Soviet system is the contrast between
its practices and the official democratic
pretence. The fact that several nation-
alities could be “liquidated” by deport-
ations in a country whose constitution
guarantees, uniquely, the right of
minorities to secede is a major but not
the only illustration of this point.
Another one is the fact that massive acts
of administrative and judicial murder or
unjust imprisonment involving virtually
every Soviet family, are now being
“revealed” as “news” twenty years or
so after they had happened, without an
official explanation being found neces-
sary as to how they could have occurred
unopposed in a country where freedom
of the press and assembly are “guaran-
teed” by a written constitution. The
previous lie that they were not happen-
ing has now been replaced by the more
fantastic one that they had once passed
unnoticed. Yet it would be misleading
to regard the Soviet constitution and
the “official” institutional network as an
ordinary fraud. To use Lenin’s famous
expression in a slightly different con-
text, it is a fraud “of a new kind”,
namely one whose main function it is to
deceive the deceivers themselves, and to
provide them with the theological
stamina to engage in actions so mon-
strous that they require the hardihood
of gods. One can safely assume that in
sending millions, including his own
innocent comrades, to death, Stalin did
believe that he was acting in the spirit
of the most democratic constitution on
earth and that concepts such as “free-
dom” or “representation” have to be
“understood dialectically”, i.e. used in
such a way that they do not impose any
restrictions on behaviour whilst sanction-
ing it theologically.
An important task of the student of
Soviet affairs is to trace the realities of
power through the intricate network of
official political institutions whose para-
mount function is to disguise the sordid
nature of the true political processes in
the USSR. Dr Rigby* does this very well.
He explains the working of the despotism
through the complex machinery of Party
and State agencies, and he analyzes the
changes since Stalin’s death. The latter
are, in his view, greater decentralization
of detailed administrative work from the
central power organ to subordinate
bodies, greater concern for proper “feed-
back” from the masses to the rulers and
the use of manipulation and consumer
incentive rather than mass-terror as the
chief device of government. Rigby
demonstrates conclusively and in con-
siderable detail that the USSR remains
an oligarchy in which all major decisions
are dictated from above by a self-
co-opting group of dictators, who use
psuedo-representative institutions merely
to “mobilize” support for decisions which
those institutions can neither control nor
alter in any way. He also maintains that
a Khrushchev cult is emerging which
resembles the Stalin cult in its early
stages.
contribution is an at-
tempt to demonstrate that Soviet
political institutions are, on the whole,
as representative as they are officially
claimed to be and that there exists
genuine popular control of authority in
the USSR. His most interesting cauti-
ously qualified claim is that the recently
demoted “anti-Party group” of Molotov
et al was motivated by personal desire
for power, whereas Khrushchev acted in
the national interest (pp 28-9). The first
part of this loyal statement is probably
true and one wonders if Churchward
will stick to the second, after Khrush-
chev’s future pre- or posthumous demo-
tion will have been broadcast by Tass.
The main purpose of the book is
clearly to discuss changes in the USSR
since Stalin’s death, a task which seems
to put poor Churchward on the spot
since it implies admission of the true
state of affairs under Stalin, which
would make nonsense of much Church-
ward had written on Stalin’s Russia in
the past. He tries to get out of this by
an escape into metaphysics, the last ref-
uge of unarmed totalitarians caught with
their pants down: the changes of the
Soviet economic “base” since Stalin's
death —a higher level of economic
development—have produced changes in
the political and ideological “superstruc-
ture”. No disturbing details are provided
except for a deliberately misleading
remark about the “disappearance” of the
MVD. Since the old Stalinist “super-
structure” involved what are now
officially described to have been acts of
mass-murder and lying which are held
by Churchward to have been historically
necessary, an intriguing question arises:
if a political scientist identifies himself
with the Soviet regime of which lie-
infested superstructures are an admitted
necessary component, how is one to know
from his writing when he is doing a
chore for the superstructure by tossing
in a few historically necessary lies and
when he is engaged in the humbler task
of mere inquiry where the interests of
history have to yield to the requirements
of truth? Perhaps he should use black
and red typewriter ribbons for the two
tasks respectively. Otherwise Church-
ward’s chapter is quite useful on some
marginalia of Soviet government and its
digests of Soviet Government handouts
provide a useful secondary source for
the political analyst.
In his very opaque preface Henry
Mayer praises the recent emergence of
a “detached” style of writing on the
USSR, presumably contrasting it favour-
ably with the older “passionate” one. It
is interesting to compare Mayer’s view
on this with Orwell’s written almost
twenty years ago in his essay “Politics
and the English Language”: “Consider,
for instance, some comfortable English
professor defending Russian totalitarian-
ism. He cannot say outright, ‘I believe in
killing off your opponents when you can
get good results by doing so’. Probably,
therefore, he will say something like this:
‘While freely conceding that the Soviet
regime exhibits certain features which
the humanitarian may be inclined to
deplore, we must, I think, agree that a
certain curtailment of the right to polit-
ical opposition is an unavoidable con-
comitant of transitional periods, and that
the rigours which the Russian people have
been called to undergo have been amply
justified in the sphere of concrete
achievement.’
“The inflated style is itself a kind of
euphemism. A mass of Latin words falls
upon the facts like soft snow, blurring
the outlines and covering up all the de-
tails. The great enemy of clear language
is insincerity. When there is a gap be-
tween one’s real and one’s declared aims,
one turns as it were instinctively to long
words and exhausted idioms, like a
cuttlefish squirting out ink.”
* Policy making in the USSR 1953-
1961. Two views. T. H. Rigby. L.
G. Churchward. Lansdowne Press.
8/6.


THAT CERTAIN BOOK
TO BE A FIREMAN
By SYDNEY H. DEAMER
HF'he first book that I remember was
A one by R. M. Ballantyne. I don’t
know its title. I doubt if I ever did. But
1 remember a stirring picture of gallop-
ing horses drawing a red fire-engine and
1 can now almost feel the shining brass
helmets of the firemen as I drew my
fingers across them on the page.
And yet, I am not sure that I remember
the book because of the picture or
because of the surroundings.
I imagine that I was about ten. I had
been taken to visit a great-aunt at what
we used to call the Big House just outside
Stevenage in Hertfordshire, England.
Stevenage was a village then. Now, I am
warned, it is practically a suburb of Lon-
don, about 30 miles distant. I loved
Stevenage. It had an annual fair in which
all the wonders of the world were to be
experienced—best of all the all-day
suckers, shaped like a barber’s pole in
which the colors went right through the
inside and right down to the very last
suck. The anticipation of the fair was
almost an unbearable pleasure but not
everybody approved the fair. Certainly
the great-aunt didn’t. I remember as
children will remember things they don't
understand—is it because the phrase-
ology appeals?—hearing her say. in a
kind of muffled voice, that more bones
were made than were broken at Stevenage
Fair.
The visit to the great-aunt was
altogether different. The Big House was
one thing, Stevenage Fair another. This
visit must have been made in spring
because, all the way up the long drive, on
either side, among the shrubs, were
masses of violets and primroses. And as
soon as we were seated we were given a
sip of the great-aunt’s primrose wine. She
made wine of everything—elderberries,
plums, violets even, but best of all was
her primrose wine.
But for me, the big treat was the
kitchen. I see it still as big as a ballroom,
with everything shining. There were
polished copper pots which rose in an
apex beside the big stoves, from enormous
pans at the bottom to little ones at the
top, all with their shining bottoms
outward.
Because they were going visiting this
day I was persuaded into the library.
“There you are” said the great-aunt
“you’ll be all right here. There’s plenty
of books you can look at.” There was
also a lovely fire in the grate but the
armchairs were leathery and slippery and
I could only sit on the very edge.
But because great-aunt had mentioned
the books and not the fire I dutifully ran
my hands along the shelves in which she
had indicated that I would find some-
thing to suit me. And it was there that I
found Ballantyne. 1 can’t remember a
word of the story. But I know that I
was soon in its grip, skating over words
which puzzled me, but submerging my-
self so much in it that I was one of the
characters, sharing the adventures and
hoping that I could go on reading for
ever and ever.
I must have read until the light was
fading because when a maid came in,
wearing a little white cap on her head,
and carrying a tray, she said: “You'll ruin
your eyes reading in this light.”
She left me the tray which had on it a
glass of milk and a plateful of bread and
butter. That sounds awful because it
wasn’t like that at all. The bread was
thinner even than the wafers we used to
get with the ice-cream when the Italian
went round with his barrow with pictures
on it and little bells that he used to
tinkle. Great-aunt always had bread cut
that way. I sometimes saw her showing
the girls and she would shave it off the
loaf in a sort of half circle, buttering
the bread first. It was the loveliest thing
I’ve ever tasted.
Then I think I forgot Ballantyne, or
nearly forgot him. The maid had said:
“The men are cutting faggots out in the
wood. You ought to go out and see them
before it gets dark.”
So I went out and met the men. There
were two of them. They had cut the
undergrowth and were tying the sticks
into bundles, not with string but with
stuff they got from the wood. Vine, they
called it. They must have been making
them for a long time because they had
a big stack of them and stood up to
stretch their backs and talk to me.
I asked them why they called them
faggots because a faggot was a thing like
a sausage that they used to sell on the
stalls in the market-place at Hitchen,
where I lived. They said they were blowed
if they knew. Just because they were
faggots, they supposed. But I couldn’t
understand that.
And when they were talking they asked
me what I was going to be when I grew
up. I said I was going to be a fireman
and drive the horses. So I really hadn’t
deserted Ballantyne.
This is another contribution to the
series in which writers take a
second look at the books which
have made an impact on them in
their eariy years. So far Ross
Campbell, Donald Horne, Max
Harris, Kylie Tennant, Hal Porter
Gavin Casey and James McAuley
have contributed. Other contri-
butors will be A. D. Hope, Kenneth
Slessor, David McNicoll, Peter
Hastings, Peter Coleman, Alexan-
der MacDonald, Harry Messel, W.
C. Wentworth and Alan Reid.
UNUSUAL SEARCH
And Yet We Are Human. Finn Carl-
ing. With a foreword by Angus
Wilson. Chatto and Windus. 18s. 9d.
carling is a well-known Nor-
wegian novelist at present doing
social work among refugee students in
Norway. He was born with cerebral
paresis and until he was 15 could only
walk about on his hands and knees.
He still cannot move without great
difficulty. His very short and unusual
book “And Yet We Are Human” is
a series of autobiographical and fiction-
alised reminiscences based on his own
experiences as a spastic and his observ-
ations of other people who suffer
from different disabilities —including a
woman who was unable to bear children
—which they feel cut them off from
“normality”.
Mr. Carling is basically concerned
with showing how he gradually learnt
to live with his grave physical disability
—how his early attitudes of rejection
and denial of his state gradually changed
to acceptance and acknowledgment of
himself as a human being and of how
this understanding came to him through
his slowly acquired knowledge of other
people and their particular problems,
their sense of being different. But he also
describes the reactions of others to
cripples, not only the common reac-
tions of fear, hostility and resentment,
but also of over-anxiety, excessive con-
cern and the peculiarly modern detached
no-nonsense type of competence.
In the short chapter “Meeting the
World” he writes:
Help is not only a problem to those
who render it. The cripple must
admit the value of help and allow
people to give it to him. In-
numerable times I have seen the
fear and bewilderment in people’s
eyes vanish as I have stretched out
my hand for help. We are not always
aware of the help we may give by
accepting aid.
This is a good example of the author’s
intelligence, charity and courage and
serves to indicate why the book is valu-
able not only as a document but as
“an unusual search into the meaning of
personality” as Angus Wilson claims in
his foreword.
VIVIAN SMITH


TAINTED MEAT
The Common Pursuit. F. R. Leavis.
Seven Types of Ambiguity. Both Pere-
grine Books. 10s. 6d.
f eavis has won his wide influence
through his honesty, courage, and
dedication to his critical vocation. Where
he admires, he is often an illuminating
and always a stimulating critic. Where
he dislikes, he tends to become knot-
eyed with hostility, and unpleasing alike
in syntax and tone. The recent attack
on Sir Charles Snow is a rather extreme
example the more regrettable because
the implications of Snow’s two-cultures
thesis should be resisted, but not in this
way.
However, it is not these temperamental
peculiarities that make one deplore
Leavis’s influence, even while acknowledg-
ing his services to criticism. My com-
plaint is that acceptance of Leavis’s
canons of judgment both restricts and
distorts our reception of our literary
heritage.
Leavis’s intolerances seem queer and
arbitrary unless they are traced back
to the unstated ideological predicament
of which they are an expression. His
outlook might be called post-noncon-
formist, puritanical in temper, but
agnostic - nominalist in assumptions.
Reality for him is composed of concrete
particulars. By sensitively encountering
these particulars we find (or create?)
values, to which approval-words like
“life” and “health” are applicable.
Literature should confine itself to “enact-
ing” in words such individual encounters.
To be intelligent is to confine oneself
to concrete particulars. “Ideas” or
“thought” should, as little as possible,
pre-exist the particular moment or
instance ; indeed generality and abstrac-
tion, or anything so pre-formulated as
doctrine, are what “intelligence” shies
away from in literature and, it seems,
in life. (This is actually an impossible
position, so there are inconsistencies in
practice, but the obsessive limitations
recur plainly. I am the less afraid of
having misrepresented Leavis, in that
I find my summary closely resembles
Vincent Buckley’s patient analysis in his
book “Poetry and Morality,” though
Buckley does not admit how destructive
his analysis really is.)
It is important to realise how much
of life and literature is excluded or
rendered barely intelligible by this
approach. What horrifies me is to see
the alacrity with which young persons,
or even somewhat ageing young persons,
accept the devaluation or dismissal of
large parts of our literary heritage ; and
at the bidding of the master spurn as
irrelevant the scholarship which might
enable them to perform that necessary
first act of justice and humility, namely,
to read a work according to the inten-
tion of the author. The brisk, all-too-
predictable wielding of “the responses
of a trained sensibility” is no substitute.
The question is, trained how, and by
whom, and for what? Leavis himself
speaks of the possibility of “a training
in inappropriate linguistic habits,” and
of the bad effects in criticism of being
“unable to relinquish irrelevant de-
mands.” That sums up my complaint
against Leavis very well.
Leavis has much to say of “tradition”
and “civilisation,” but his agnostic in-
dividualism, his shredding - down of
reality to concrete particulars, shuts out
practically everything represented by
such terms as conceptual, metaphysical,
theoretical; doctrinal, liturgical, sacra-
mental, mystical; mythopoeic, symbolic,
allegorical; corporate, institutional, cere-
monious ; institutional, legal, and even
political. Indeed the erotic, and the
element of play, also have a thin time
in consequence.
Leavis applies to himself, at the front
of this book, a remark by Henry James:
“I have never in all my life gone in for
these things ... I believe only in ab-
solutely independent, individual, and
lonely virtue, and in the serenely un-
sociable (or if need be at a pinch sulky
and sullen) practice of the same . . .”
Brave, and all that; but it is not enough.
The deprivations involved in this
doggedness are always likely to cause
a sudden collapse. The starved sensibility
breaks loose and gluts itself on tainted
meat. For Leavis the dreadful give-away
is the religious revelation he discovers
in D. H. Lawrence. The critic who found
Milton unintelligent, who uses “Spenser”
as a label of distaste, and mentions
Dante only to say how good T. S.
Eliot’s “Ash Wednesday” is in contrast,
now offers us certain works of Lawrence
as the triumph of intelligence. The great
Independent whose troopers have stabled
their horses in the ruins of “The Faerie
Queene” and “Paradise Lost” now
summons us to the temple of Lawrence-
the-Lifegiver. Something like a debased
fertility-cult works its way through the
clogged and inexplicit prose of his book
on Lawrence, and the premonitory signs
are evident in comments in this volume.
The participants in the Lawrentian rites
are offered an increase in “life” and
moral “health.” This should do an
enormous amount of good in English
Departments where Lawrentian values
are now celebrated ; though one recalls
that there was one English Department
to which Lawrence himself did not do
much good.
On the re-issue of Empson’s first book
there is less need to comment. It pro-
vides handy examples of the excesses
possible when an agile and perverse
mind undertakes the “close reading” of
texts without the control of historical
scholarship or commonsense. The phrase
Empson uses with characteristic vulgarity
and inappropriateness of George Herbert
might better apply to himself, “a mind
jumping like a flea.”
JAMES McAULEY
“And yet, I suppose to another deer she’d be quite attractive!”


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
-OSVJtUVANj . /
t\ r c LJU J-Jr
Q? V/fl< a*«S? SP' 1
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
Lithographic printers
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•‘JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
WRITE STORIES
SUCCESSFULLY
STOTT'S CAN TRAIN YOU
Many Stott Students pay for their Course
before completing it.
Stott Students are taught how to write
stories that sell and are advised by the
College of the names and addresses of
reputable Literary Agents in various coun-
tries who may be trusted to handle
Students’ MSS to the best advantage: If
VOU have a story to tell, learn how to tell
it. This lucrative field of Authorship is
waiting to pay well for good work.
Stotls Correspondence College
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne: 119 Castle-
reagh St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide;
22 Howard St., Perth.
—CUT AND MAID THIS COUPON — —
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, jour Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS ”
AGE (8.1062.)
AFTER THE FLOOD
Religion in Soviet Russia. Walter
Kolarz. Macmillan.' 725.
T aying down Mr Kolarz’s book, I was
reminded of two scenes from a Mos-
cow sojourn of three or four years, ago.
Scene one is a Park of Culture and Rest.
In one corner a lecture on atheism is in
progress, attended by fifty or sixty
people. Comes question time, and some-
one asks about Noah and the Flood.
The lecturer explains the Babylonian
sources of the myth, based on the fre-
quent flooding of the Tigris and
the Euphrates. No doubt, he added, the
memory of some flooding of catas-
trophic proportions gave rise to the myth.
A moment’s silence, then a rich
chorister’s bass rings out from the dark-
ness at the back: “So the flood did
occur after all!”
Scene two: a bright little Orthodox
church near the Moscow River, just up
from the massive skyscraper of the
Moscow State University. Not a student
has been seen in the church for months
but exams begin in a day or so, and a
constant furtive stream of solemn
Komsomol ites comes to buy a candle
and say a quick prayer.
On the face of it, forty years of anti-
religious teaching, restrictions on wor-
ship and church activities, and recurrent
persecution of clergy and believers have
paid off. It is true —despite what has
been written by some gullible clergy-
men —that only a fragment of the urban
population attend church services and
older women predominate amongst
those who do. It is true that the bulk
of better educated Russians regard
religion (or profess to regard it) as a.
curious and temporary survival from the
backward past. And yet . . . the church
is still strong in the villages, where half
the Soviet population lives; crypto-
Christianity is remarkably widespread
among those who “ought to” (and pre-
tend to) “know better”; and “backslid-
ing” into religion remains a standard
reaction to national, local or personal
stress.
Well, you may say, similar comments
could no doubt be made on the status
of Woden-worship in seventh century
England, but who prays to Woden today?
The difference is that communism is riot
a higher or substitute religion. To
attempt to make it one leads to such un-
Marxist (and futile) idiocies as the cult
of “the great father and teacher, the
saviour of the peoples of the world”,
Joseph Stalin.
Mr Kolarz has written the first com-
prehensive study of organized religion
under the Soviet regime. It is encyclo-
paedic in its scope (everyone is in, from
the Castrated to Baha'i), thoroughly
documented and objective, fascinating in
its detail and thoughtful and well bal-
anced in its judgments. His method is
to take each major denomination and
religion in turn, tracing its history since
1917 and ending with an assessment of
its current role and problems. This could
easily make it a tedious catalogue, but
what Mr Kolarz gives us is a gallery
of brilliantly executed portraits.
Kolarz is undoubtedly correct in re-
garding the Evangelicals and Baptists as
the most dynamic Christian groups in the
USSR, who “have understood better
than the rest of the ‘religious front’ how
to adapt themselves to life and work
under a communist regime, not so much
by making peace with it, although they
have done this, too, on a superficial level,
but by challenging it on its own ground.”
He is undoubtedly correct in divining
a “Greek Catholic Underground” in
ex-Uniate areas, as any observant Christ-
ian who has recently attended services
in Galicia could testify. He is correct,
too, in writing of an easing of restrictions
on Judaism (as of anti-semitism gener-
ally) after Stalin’s death, and a partial
reversal of this since about 1957-1959
of which the latest expression was
the prohibition on bakeries’ producing
matzah for this year's Passover.
An account of the Soviet regime's
treatment of religion inevitably recalls
some of the most repugnant episodes in
the history of Russian Communism. Mr
Kolarz, however, is too scholarly a
writer to allow his study to lapse into
a denunciation, and he is well aware
that it is not only in communist countries
that modern industrial cities have become
partes infidelium.
Mr Kolarz’s views on the future will
strike some readers as over-optimistic,
but even here his judgment remains bal-
anced and discriminating. He regards
communism as just another political
movement, and therefore a temporary
phenomenon. Religion has merely to
hang on till communism runs its course
or is transformed in order to regain the
chance to function normally again. But
he warns against assuming that religion
is assured then of quickly regaining its
old position in men's hearts and minds.
And here he seems to be borne out by
the predominant atheism of the Soviet-
educated Russian emigration. The most
frightening possibility of all he seems to
exclude: that communism will be over-
thrown or transformed, only to be suc-
ceeded not by a “nicer” system, but by
one as much more Orwellesque than
Khrushchev's communism as the latter
is than the Tsarism of Nicholas 11.
T. H. RIGBY


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO GEORGE KENNETH WARDROPE, late of
23 Western Street, Dulwich HiII.—TAKE
NOTICE that OLIVE ISABEL WARDROPE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3080 of
1961 on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for two years and upwards. If
you wish to defend you may enter an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, by the 29th June, 1962,
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from EDMUND C. LECKY, Solicitor,
of 15 Bligh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO ARfftUR ALBERT HARRIS, late of C/-
Mrs. Harris, Barrington Post Office, via
Gloucester.—TAKE NOTICE that SYLVIA
HARRIS has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2182 of 1960 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just, cause or excuse for 3 years and up-
wards. If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by the
6th July, 1962, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from EDMUND C.
LECKY, Solicitor, of 15 Bligh Street, Sydney.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO HAROLD LIONEL WHITTINGHAM, late
of 12 Manson Street, Dundas.—TAKE notice
that MARGARET WHITTINGHAM has filed a
Petition for divorce No. 2503 of 1961 on the
ground of desertion and is also seeking orders
with respect the custody and maintenance of
the children of the marriage and maintenance
for herself. If you wish to defend you may
file an answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney on or
before the 29th June 1962 and obtain a copy of
the Petition and Notice of Petition without
charge from F. W. REILLY, Solicitor, 79
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
Positions Vacant
THE KING’S SCHOOL
PARRAMATTA
Applications are yvyited to fill several
vacancies on the Teaching Staff of The
King’s School in Fy;st Term, 1963.
Special consideration will be given to
apmlicants well qualified to teach Science
Klaths, but Masters to teach English,
History, Geography and Economics are
also required.
Masters joining the staff will be expected
to make a full contribution to the general
life of the school outside as well as inside
the classroom.
All classrooms, Science Labs and Masters’
Common Room now in use (opened First
Term 1962) are modern.
Applicants in the first place should send
full statement of qualifications, copies of
two testimonials and names and addresses
of two referees to the Headmaster: H. D.
Hake, M.A. (Cantab.).
ENGINES
RECONDITIONED
WHILE-YOU-DRIVE
Super Nu Metal Pat. expands up to 30%,
eliminating slackness and lack of power
caused by WORN engine parts. Replates
Worn upper Cylinders, main bearings,
dills, gears, SAVES rebore, ends piston
slap, rattles, oil, p:trol waste. RESTORES:
New compression Power, top speed zip.
ADDS £ s. d. resale value. GUARANTEED:
Up to 25,000 miles according to engine
wear. SIMPLY add Re-Nu expanding liquid.
Nu Metal or in tablet form to oil, petrol,
plug holes. 4,6, 8 cylinders, 60 -. 70 80/-.
Manufactured since 1034. Harmless to Finest
Engines. Open Saturday. Sold only by
RE-NU CO. (ESTAB. 1932).
(Scientific Colleges & Plastic Ind. Co. Pty. Ltd.)
58 Swan St. (Op. Richmond Stn.)
Phone: J 81755.
I enclose £ for Super Nu Metal, or send
copy of testimonials, engineers’ reports and
free folder describing action of Nu Metal.
NAME . .
ADDRESS
BUL.
FRIENDS (QUAKERS)
No matter why you are interested in the
Society of Friends (Quakers), the follow-
ing books may help you.
GEORGE FOX & THE QUAKERS. H. van
Etten (Longmans, MWB). 8/- soft, 147-
hard.
THE DISCOVERY OF QUAKERISM. H.
Loukes (Harrap, 1960). 20/9.
CHRISTIAN FAITH AND PRACTICE IN
THE EXPERIENCE OF THE SOCIETY OF
FRIENDS. The best authorised anthol-
ogy. 13/6.
THE QUAKER WAY. The authorised pub-
lication for young people. 11/-.
Buy or borrow these (or many others)
from bookshops, libraries, or the FRIENDS
MEETING HOUSE in YOUR CAPITAL
CITY.
FREE INFORMATION, booklists, or books,
obtainable from . . .
FRIENDS HOUSE, 133 ORRONG RD.,
5.E.2., VICTORIA.
Phone: BJ 3595
cxb
HELP
I m =( «-f -T-iJ
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM2OQI.
VAULTING THE WAILING WALL
THE COUNTRYWOMAN. Paul Smith
Heinemann. 225. 6d.
JN the early 1920’5, when Ireland was
rent from top to bottom with strife,
country - girl Molly Baines came to
Dublin with her shiftless husband, Pat,
to live in The Lane, which must be the
very nadir of slumminess. It is here,
in two squalid rooms, that she acts out
her destiny of child-bearing, priest-
pleasing, and suffers the reasonless
brutality of her husband. The novel
recounts her story to the accompani-
ment of a kind of Greek Chorus from
the other denizens of The Lane.
And what denizens they are! There is
the splendid Amazonian gusto of slat-
terns like Mrs Kinsella and Mrs Slattery,
and their screaming litters; there is nose-
less Annie the Man, and Cocky O’-
Byrne who dances near-naked on the
tram-line. Weaving in and out of all
this are the grim, shadowy figures of
the gun-runners Mattie Baines and his
English wife, Zena. Molly uses an old
brown trunk as an arsenal for the rene-
gades at the risk of her life.
Apart from Hogarthian scenes of un-
believable squalor and degradation,
others blaze out like great paintings—
one, the mother with her mouth smashed
by the fist of her drunken husband,
holding her beaten children against her
while the bully orders them to their
knees to pray with him.
We are back in Bronte-land with a
jet-black villain in Pat Baines, and a
saintly heroine in Molly, but I found
this Morality-Play starkness rather ex-
hilarating after the pallid fair-mindedness
of much modern fiction. It is possible
to enjoy a good old hate of Pat Baines,
be fiercely partisan towards Mrs Baines
and her children, to weather bravely, if
rockily, the Rabelaisian sallies of the
slum-women, and,, in short, experience
something of the kick moderns are
getting from “East Lynne,” with this vital
difference: The language of “The
Countrywoman” is biblical in its sim-
plicity, stateliness and power. And if this
terrible history has, at times, the
pathos, the stops-pulled-out-all-the-way
that Dickens’ chronicle of Little Nell has
—what of it? For “The Countrywoman”
does demonstrate the difference between
the authentic howl of the human animal
under duress and the pernickety
whingeing of the narcissist airing his
precious neurosis.
A persistent “Why?”, asked by Mrs
Baines of priest, nun, God and her
neighbors, recurs throughout the book:
why is Pat Baines the sadist and des-
troyer he is? why do the innocent
suffer? and it might well be the “Why?”
of all the world when confronted by
pogrom, massacre and witch-hunt. No
one can answer it.
Mr Smith indifferently, perhaps scorn-
fully, turns his back on the too-pat
equations of psychology (if, indeed, he
gives them a thought). Pat Baines is,
like the Tasmanian Monster, more por-
tentous and fascinating when left un-
explained. No “callous mother” or
“sadistic father” is allowed to mitigate
his crimes, and dilute his impact with
the pity of understanding. In fact, none
of the characters are submitted to the
gelding-knife of analysis.
Though lit vigorously with shafts of
humor, this novel is fundamentally a
Wailing Wall. But the Irish, like
the Jews—and perhaps all oppressed
peoples—have the power of vaulting the
Wailing Wall into poetry. This, Paul
Smith achieves. More than that, he will
make you throw your C. P. Snow across
the room with the jeer: “Cartographer!”
Though, when the hangover has worn
off, you may shamefacedly pick him up
again, if only to reassure yourself that
life is—must be— sane and orderly and
controllable.
THELMA FORSHAW


Feiffer
All MW UFE
ive ear that
peep wjithim
Me rve oE£m
WPPReSSiM6
A 6PEAT
evil..
THAf'5 (jjHV
I U)A$
AFRAIP
MW
NAP MM
PORTRAIT
PAiurep.
801 MV PORTRAIT
MAPS Mf LOOK
YPUN6 AMP
600 D AMP
INNOC6NT.
IT RFMIWPFP
MS OF THAT
sm-vou
RBMFMBeR-
"THE PCRff> AIT
OF PORI AM
-6RAMO-
.MERB im
me mak)
ftJITH 6REAT
eJi iw Him
MEVfR A6EP
A PAM BPT
Hls PORTRAIT
6PPW Oi-PAUP
USW AMP
sViu
lO i HID m Pomn
OEtezmeo men
TO LOOK At it
, A6AIU. AkJO A 6 M
mm ia m m
I Whl T 10 WORK.
I CAM 6 HOME f
IMEMT TO WORK.
I CAM HOME.
BUT I PIC? WOT
A6E A PAM.
1 CR(N6£D AT UiHAT
MM PORTRAIT MUST
LOCX LIKE. I 60T
MARRIEP, I IMEM r
TO ia/DRK, I CAME
HOME. r HAP THU'
PREW. I IA/EWT TO
IA/ORIC, I TAME
HOME. PUT I PIP
NJOT A6E A PAM
PIMAHM l COULD
STAMP IT NO LOU6ER 1
l HAD TO fOOOU
MM SOW-
AMP IT WAS ONJ
THAT CAMI/ASf I
RIPPED THE
I PAIMTIM6 FROM
ITS HIPIM6 PiACE
AMP REMOVED
THE EOVERf
IT
WAS
BIAMK
i Qvmo
M CAMAS
W' IT
MA(76 MO
vmm ce-
i vio wot
A6£ a
DM.
8.
I Mi
GO TO
MOW
A\JC> I
CO ME
me.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 693
ACROSS
I—Forcefully convincing business man. (6)
4—Beef if somewhat horse-like flavour when the sun’s
overhead at the Equator. (7)
10— I wander back with this Polynesian. (5)
11— Puts out recovered money into fresh earning oppor-
tunities with check waistcoats. (9)
12— Novel bridegrooms in an island group. (3-8)
13— Attempt a score at footie. (3)
14— Finished bowling. (4)
15— Swallowed a malignant force
by which men beget their
own fate. (3)
17—A divine tot. (3)
20— Sean O’Brien’s monogram in
blubber. (3)
21— Swell sealer. (3)
22 Magistrate shows I am
brought to heel. (4)
26 Box office article is a serpent.
(3)
27 Deepest story, (anagram) (11)
28— The king can’t move with this
boring spouse. (9)
29 Don’t stop conserving a
cleric. (5)
30— These simple little verses and
songs place it between 500
and neckwear! (7)
31— Somebody ordained before
an American horseman. (6)
DOWN
1— There’s a future for this busi-
ness joined by a member of
the Menzies party. (6-3)
2 Admirable timber suburb of
Adelaide. (8)
3 Even it’s a curious charac-
teristic of the ingenuous. (8)
5 The captious question sug-
gests that one of 30-across
costs a pound. (8)
6 Seek some interest when
waistcoated. (6)
7 Assaults with broken stones.
(6)
8— A N.S.W. shire alternative to
a Royal Academician. (5)
9—A bashful gray. (4)
16—Plenty dance with a tradi-
tional Easter food. (9)
18— Is this how Holmes regarded
Watson in a vaulted under-
ground chamber? (8)
19— Very small bit of the small
piano feature in a magazine.
(8)
20— Silver makes a big hit with
the coppers. (9)
23 Essay on one remote hunting
party. (6)
24 Rising as a little coin. (6)
25 Lever up this carousal. (5)
26 Bankrupt sculpture. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 692


xN,,,.v.
fSev/]
There goes
the Tinplate Express”...
A very special train, built exclusively for the carriage of
tinplate from Port Kembla for the canneries of Victoria . . .
and the new standard gauge link enables a shuttle service.
Overdoing it a
little? Pampering
freight? Not a bit of it!
We’re prepared to make up
a train for the exclusive use
of any industry, as we’ve done
with the “Tinplate Express”. Truth is, we have a
wagon to handle any particular type of freight live-
stock, wheat, explosives, malt, motor cars, general merchan-
dise ... No matter what.
Our exclusive track . . . our massive array of rollingstock . . . our
up-to-the-minute handling facilities ... our century of experience in the
transport business ... are your guarantees of the best possible freighting service.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
LWAYS
