

The Bulletin
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper .
ONE SHILLING
AUGUST 4
INCORPORATING CHE fAUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
W B Bl I 9B flg rjs
[ v '- 2 - 0 - \ ' -$k \ t *.& ***" -'- \ . ¥ ■'/,,>. - —-•


iiiimiiinf
tr
Hil
uss
s^"3a>
•«==■*
I
m
m Mrft.'. I .'. I .'
at
i*
Tv
■
■
;pieipn.p. wasl
iiifSip
looked like this
MW..
V 1568
zc
Now CHANGING A TYRE is a simple enough job
no blacksmith is required. It is simple enough, too, to
make certain that you are protected against every
contingency which may arise in relation to life or property
by calling your A.M.P. man into consultation.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Australia’s largest and oldest life assurance organisation
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE. Offices in cities and towns throughout
Australia and New Zealand and in the United Kingdom
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by funds of £550,000,000
which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.


BARRY HUMPHRIES Page 23
Return of Norm Everage
•
The Bury Affair Alan Reid .... 6
The Eating Out Business 12
Afternoon of a Few Quiet Beers .... 16
After Foot The Torres Islanders 19
Mao Ageing, Ailing Emperor 24
Castro Contempt for the Worms 27
Goulburn And After 28
A Taste of Honey Martin Long 35
Down and Out in Mexico Books 38
Realistic Credit Figures 43
Developing the Kimberleys 60
•
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
TANNER 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 8
OUT AND ABOUT .....: 16
New Zealand
NEWSLETTER 21
AROUND MELBOURNE 23
OVERSEAS 24
THE AWFUL PRESS 28
FORUM 30
LETTERS 33
REVIEWS 35
RED PAGE 38
WILDCAT 43
MAN ON THE LAND ... . 60
FEIFFER 63
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone 27-597]
Melbourne: Phone MF3341. Brisbane: Phone
B 2691. Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3
Vol. 84
No. 4303
THE BURY AFFAIR...
fTHE Bury affair” was of short duration. The bright young man of
Government, potentially a future Federal Treasurer, was relegated
to the back benches just 48 hours after he told a business group in
Canberra that the impact of Britain’s entry into the Common Market had
been “greatly exaggerated.”
The view taken by Bury was not novel. Many observers have
said the same sort of thing during the last few months, and it has
been generally agreed that the effect of Britain’s entry into the Common
Market will probably prove of long-term benefit to Australia. In the
eyes of many, Bury was speaking honestly and realistically. Lord Casey
—outside the control of Cabinet—said much the same thing, after the
Bury dismissal.
Nevertheless Mr Bury was not politically wise. As a junior Minister
he deliberately chose to speak out against the known and publicly stated
views of the Prime Minister and Cabinet.
Even if the principle of Cabinet solidarity has been breached on
famous occasions in the Federal and State spheres in this country Mr
Bury knew that both Mr Menzies and Mr McEwen were publicly com-
mitted to their Common Market stand both here and in Europe and
America. What then prompted Mr Bury’s criticism? Clearly business
confidence in Australia is anything but buoyant and the industrial tempo
is only slightly better than hand-to-mouth with little or no growth in
many industries.
Fears of the impact of the Common Market were, and still are, a
major factor in the failure of a better internal economy to restore
confidence. Prime Minister Menzies and his deputy Mr McEwen have
done nothing to allay these doubts; far from it. They have placed the
greatest emphasis on the possible effect on Australian trade, using
maximums rather than minimums.
Mr Bury’s speech, then, hardly could be held as damaging to
Australia’s case at Brussels. To suggest so would be to deny the talents
of Europe’s toughest economists and politicians.
Bury, the most qualified academic and practical economist on the
Government side of the House, simply stated a position which, if
said often enough, would be of material benefit in restoring lost
confidence in the economy.
So it is unlikely that the “Bury affair” damaged Australia’s chances
of holding the position in Europe; while it is likely that the whole
business has brought the Common Market into proper perspective and,
by so doing, has done something towards allaying excessive fears of
economic damage.
There have been many cases of embarrassing political attacks on
Cabinet views by more senior members of Government than Mr Bury.
They have been shrugged off by the leader of the day. Mr Menzies
himself when Attorney-General attacked the leadership of Prime
Minister Lyons in 1939. W. M. Hughes publicly ridiculed Lyons on
defence; Mr Ward and Prime Minister Curtin publicly diverged on
the U.N. Charter at Breton Woods; Mr Calwell and Mr Curtin did not
see eye to eye publicly on conscription. No one was sacked over these
issues.
There is nothing new therefore in Mr Bury’s criticism of Cabinet.
Mr Bury was sacked because of political expediency and some of
the blame lies with the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Country
Party. If in their hard hitting campaigns at home and overseas in defence
of Australian interests they have exaggerated our problems and dangers
they must expect critics.


National
Notebook
very efficient without making a fuss
about it as the Germans do.”
He also remarked that he thought
Sydney drivers were “very polite, com-
pared with European ones.” With that
observation, he set off intrepidly for his
next appointment at the State Theatre,
where “Cape Fear” is showing.
National Day
Tuly seems to be the busiest month for
** those on the consular circuit. The
fourth is American Independence Day,
the 14th, Bastille Day, and recently Cuba
has added the 26th. Spain’s national day
is the 18th and perhaps no July celebra-
tion is as equivocal as this. July 18
marks the day in 1936 when Franco
issued his Manifesto from Las Palmas,
the Foreign Legion rose in Morocco and
Queipo de Llano took over Seville; the
day when the Civil War began
In Sydney the day was observed by
a party given for the Spanish com-
munity at the Consulate. Most note-
worthy was the lack of any political dis-
cussion or overtones. Spaniards attend-
ing were mostly young, recently arrived
migrants whose interest lay in meeting
each other and in consuming the drinks
provided by the Consul.
There were no toasts to the Chief of
the Spanish state. Generalissimo Franco.
The majority of Spanish migrants to
date have been Basques, who are likely
to have the least enthusiasm of all to-
wards the political significance of July
18.
With the faint breeze of change
rustling through Spain the recent
appointment of Captain General Munoz
Vienna Blood
VTiennese satirists Gerhard Bronner
’ and Peter Wehle have had to come
to Australia to find audiences who laugh
in the right places.
“In Vienna our audiences are hor-
rible,” Mr Bronner told us. “So lethargic.
And they always laugh in the wrong
places. Here they are so responsive, so
quick. But then in Vienna when our
group is rehearsing a new sketch which
we think is very good, we say to our-
selves, ‘lf only there were still 300,000
Jews in Vienna so that we could get an
audience to appreciate this.’ I think it is
because you now have some of our Jews
that we find good audiences here.”
Bronner and Wehle have given a short
season in German for the Viennese
Theatre in Sydney. After appearances in
Melbourne and Canberra they will give a
final performance at Sydney’s Union
Theatre on August 7. Although much of
the material they present in Vienna is
topical and tied to local politics, they
have enough of what Bronner calls
“eternal topics” to provide a programme
for audiences here.
Bronner W'as telling us that he now
runs the Neues Theater am Kaerntnertor
and a night-club, the Marietta Bar, which
pretty well gives him a monopoly of
satiric theatre in Vienna. He considers
his shows as indirect descendants of the
Theatres of 49, established in Vienna by
Jewish refugees from Germany in the few
years before Hitler forced them to move
on again. One of the Theatres of 49
people, Karl Bittman, is now' active in
the Sydney Viennese Theatre. Bronner
explained that they were called Theatres
of 49 because they seated only 49 people,
one below the number at which a theatre
was taxed. “And taxes on theatre are
very high in Austria,” he said ruefully.
We met Bronner, a fresh-faced man
in sports clothes, at the Mayfair Theatre,
where “West Side Story” is showing. He
said he never goes to films but always
arranges to meet people at picture
theatres when he is in strange cities.
‘There is less chance of a mistake,” he
said. He was already at home in Sydney,
which he finds a “very tidy, very cosy”
city, the inhabitants of which have a
“quiet efficiency.”
“I can get things done in tw ; o hours
here which would take me three days in
Vienna,” he said. “But of course, that is
nothing because Austrians are not ef-
ficient. The people here are, however,
"I'm sick of cheap plays sneering
at the Queen's relatives
"Cheap gibes! Backstairs gossip!
Has the Queen no privacy?"


Grandes to the new position of vice-
premier and the certainty of a not-too-
distant restoration of the monarchy—
the dominant thought in the minds of
most guests at the Sydney party was how
many more times would July 18 be
commemorated.
Highett Waltz
JiyfELBOURNE satirist Barry Humphries
during three years in London
managed to keep up to date with the
doings of his close friends, Mr and Mrs
Norm Everage. For the one-man show
which Humphries will put on at Mel-
bourne’s Assembly Hall, Mrs Everage
will show the lovely color slides she took
in London and will sing the Highett
Waltz.
It begins:
It’s so beautifully quiet in Highett
Where my daughter and son-in-law dwell
They have severed their bonds
With loved Moonee Ponds
And I don’t know why I couldn’t as well.
For I’m dying to try it in Highett
With the aid of those nice housing
schemes
Where the cream brick veneers
Stay hygienic for years
In Highett, the place of my dreams.
Batman talks to Humphries on Page 23.
The fight game
A delaide as might be expected of the
** “city of culture”, does not boast a
boxing stadium, or even a tin shed com-
parable with the edifice at Rushcutter
Bay in Sydney. But every so often, in
one of its suburban halls, it sees a pro-
fessional fight if two efforts of two
rounds each and another of one round
in the past few months can be classed as
fights.
Jimmy Carruthers, laboring along the
comeback trail, dropped in on Adelaide
last March bringing his opponent, Louis
Magnifico, with him. Magnifico, never
much more than a prelim fighter lasted
two rounds with Carruthers and the
former world champion, believing that
Adelaide offered opportunities that had
ceased to exist in more discerning box-
ing centres returned within weeks, this
time with worn-out bantam champion
Johnny Jarrett. Jarret went as well as
Magnifico had.
The fight game, understandably, then
died off until last week when an ageing
(at 24) Clive Stewart came to town with
a Barry Butler for an event billed as an
“Australian light-heavyweight title fight”.
Butler told the Press he had been chas-
ing Stewart for two years, a race that
obviously had left him worn out.
The boys came out of their corners
and in about the time it takes to open a
bag of peanuts, Butler was down. The
referee charitably strung the count out to
an estimated 11 seconds and Butler
climbed to his feet as the bell rang. A
doctor was summoned, then another, and
that was the end of the fight.
“The Adelaide News”, scratching
around for an angle next afternoon, sup-
plied the information that “doctors said
a nerve in Butler’s face might have been
affected”. The 200 unlucky fans who
watched the fight would be only too
ready to admit that Butler, and everyone
else connected with the bout, had nerve
and plenty of it.
Without Comment
1 Yl/ HAT going on * n th e world out-
side? Most of us know what Mr
B. A. Santamaria and Professor James
McAuley’s “Quadrant” stand for —or at
least their opinion of the Communist
Party. But what is that schoolboy to
think when he flips through the latest
copy of the Soviet journal “Za Rube-
zhom” (“Overseas”) and finds Mr Santa-
maria’s article, “The Pacific Confedera-
tion”, reprinted from “Quadrant”
and reprinted without comment, simply
as an examination of world events.
Sovietologists are currently debating
whether this presages a deal between the
Kremlin and the DLP. “F'ravda” hasn’t
reprinted “Bulletin” articles—yet.
Sense of Failure
Tt was left to “Tharunka”, the students’
paper at the University of NSW, to
publish the best obituary of Professor
John Anderson, former Professor of
Philosophy at Sydney University. One
of the points made by the writer of the
unsigned article (reported to be Dr R.
E. Dowling), is that in his last years
Professor Anderson was oppressed by
the sense of his own failure. The article
quotes a melancholy letter Anderson
wrote to a friend recently in which he
wrote of “how much I stand alone which
makes me wonder how far the efforts in
which I wore myself down were worth-
while, in upholding the academic against
the trade union, the independent against
the conventional point of view”. There
were, however, still some of the old
sparks of arrogance and vanity in the
letter. Referring to “Vestes”, the organ
of the university teachers’ trade union
and also to an article he himself wrote
on university affairs, he said: “I should
be sorry if I didn’t think my work a
whole lot better than most of the contri-
butions to either of the last two issues of
“Vestes”.
Save the Turtle
HThe Northern Territory has moved to
protect its dwindling turtle popula-
tion. A notice in the latest Government
Gazette closes almost all Territory waters
to turtle fishing. This reflects official
alarm at the serious depletion of the
species in recent years.
The meat and eggs of the giant green-
back turtle form an important part of
the diet of many coastal tribes. But be-
cause of frequent shooting and harpoon-
ing by white men numbers are dropping
at an alarming rate. The RAAF’s use of
Quail Island as a bombing range has
speeded up the process. Quail, around
the coast from Darwin, was, up till a few
years ago, the most important turtle
breeding area along the entire Territory
coast.
What finally moved the Government
to bring in protective measures was an
advertisement published in Darwin sever-
al months ago by an overseas firm,
offering £ll2O a ton for dried turtle
meat.
Greenbacks average about 200 lbs.
But 10 to 15 tons of fresh meat (100 to
150 turtles) would be needed to make up
every ton of dried flesh. At that rate
the species could be virtually annihilated
within a few years.
Experts say it takes 15 to 20 years to
replace every large turtle taken from
stock. Even under natural conditions
only a small proportion of baby green-
backs survive the hazards of the sea to
reach maturity.
In imposing the ban the Government
has excepted certain areas, mainly within
10 miles of native settlements and mis-
sions. Thus aborigines will continue to
enjoy what has been for thousands of
years an important—and in some places
vital —part of their diet. And a unique
sea creature will be saved from extinction.
Tanner.
“Will Shakespeare has gone
too far this time!"


Th is Australia
HOW BURY WAS SACKED
LESLIE BURY
Backbencher
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
As I see it
Prime Minis-
ter Menzies,
not Trade
Minister John McEwen, appears to have
initiated the series of events which led
to the resignation of lanky 49-years-old
Air Minister Leslie Bury from the Minis-
try last week. It is impossible to be
dogmatic about these matters. Only the
principals in such matters know precisely
what happened. Those from whom you
glean some information usually have
their own axes to grind and consequently
are not entirely dependable.
But there is a certain logic to the
report that on the morning after Bury
had dropped his Common Market
clanger in the shape of his declaration
that Australia’s potential losses on
British entry into ECM had been
“greatly exaggerated” and “very far-
fetched” it was Menzies who contacted
McEwen and not the other way round.
When he picked up his paper in
Sydney last week and it was the
Sydney press that made the story
Menzies found that here was a junior
minister justifying the sneer that had
been flung at him by on„ of the most
influential men in the world across a
Washington dinner table. He had to go
back to London in September to carry
on the fight. What would be his posi-
tion then? Would not somebody say to
him across the conference table when
he was expostulating upon the import-
ance of maintaining comparable access
to the ECM area for Australian products
“you are exaggerating the importance of
this to Australia, Mr Prime Minister, and
you know it. You have in your own
cabinet a minister who has publicly
stated that your views are ‘greatly
exaggerated’ and ‘very far-fetched’.”
As I understand the sequence of
events after Menzies read Bury's speech
Menzies phoned McEwen. McEwen told
Menzies that he would be putting out a
statement publicly clarifying his position.
From that point domestic as well as
external factors entered into the situation.
McEwen refused to advance a viewpoint
on whether or not Menzies should in the
light of all the circumstances ask for
Bury’s resignation. Apparently McEwen
had been on the other side of the fence
from Menzies in the Lyons government
when Menzies, then Attorney-General,
had used his influence with the then
Prime Minister, Mr J. A. Lyons, to
secure the resignation from the Lyons
Government of the late Mr W. M.
Hughes who as External Affairs Minister
had expressed views contrary to those
held officially by Cabinet on the sanc-
tions issue during the Italy-Abyssinian
war. McEwen then took the line that
Lyons and Lyons alone should make the
decision on whether Hughes was to be
asked for his resignation.
McEwen told Menzies that he as
Prime Minister must make the decision.
But his statement would make it very
clear that Bury was out of step with
Cabinet’s declared viewpoint on this
ECM issue. The addition of this domestic
factor to the external one made Bury’s
fate inevitable. However much Menzies
would have liked to have saved Bury
and there are reasons to believe that he
was anxious to save him in the final
analysis McEwen and the continuing
support of the Country Party as well as
the necessity for maintaining reasonably
harmonious relationships with the minor
partners in the coalition government
were too important to the Prime Minis-
ter.
Bury got his marching orders but in
a complimentary form of a letter praising
his integrity and designed to cushion the
blow. As 1 see it there is no reason to
disbelieve the flat denial by Treasurer
Harold Holt to whom Bury acted as
assistant in the treasury that he had no
hand in the Bury speech. While Holt
may not have discouraged Bury from
holding such views which hold overtones
of the Treasury viewpoint that commer-
cial worry about the adverse effects of
ECM is unjustifiably depressing the
internal economy the basic thoughts
which Bury expressed are clearly
discernible in the House of Represen-
tatives speech Bury made on ECM on
May 8. Bury merely pushed the thoughts
he expressed then a stage further an
advance which cost him his head and
caused him to become the first minister
to resign during the currency of a parlia-
ment since, in 1940, Custom Minister
John Lawson resigned over the racehorse
Billy Boy leased from industrialist W. J.
Smith during a period in which Smith
was given a franchise to manufacture
motor cars in Australia.
NEXT WEEK'S ISSUE
• MALAYSIA— Off the Ground
at Last?
• THE STUDENT GENERA-
TION—Cover Story.
• VICTORIA A Teachers’
Strike?
• new york newsletter-
how’s Jack Doing?
BROADMEADOWS
BOOTS AND ALL
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
HThe State Labor leader, Mr Clive
■*" Stoneham, used a paii of football
boots to pull off the brightest play seen
so far in the by-election for the State
Assembly seat of Broadmeadows. At a
meeting in Niddrie last week, he showed
a pair of football boots made in Com-
munist China retailing at 49/11 a pair
and boys’ shoes selling at 39/11. He
said that the Chinese boots were a blatant
copy of Australian-made boots selling at
76/9 and went on to predict that this
kind of dumping would disrupt the local
footware industry.
A few days later, Mr Stoneham
returned to the attack, this time telling
a Broadford audience that the red Chi-
nese had copied a special design of a
Melbourne tea-towel manufacturer and
were “flooding the market with them at a
ridiculous low prLe.” He continued:
“The complete lack of business ethics by
Communist China does not surprise me.
But I am appalled that an Australian


retail firm should be a party to it by
selling them.” Returning to the shoes,
Mr Stoneham claimed that one store had
marked up their price from the landed
cost of 20/6 to a retail price of 39/11.
Despite its irrelevancy to State politics,
the boots and tea-towels issue provided
a notable triumph for Mr Stoneham. He
probably realises, however, that it will
not enhance his popularity with the
China lobby in his own party who regard
any talk of Chinese dumping as in poor
taste. ALP men who assailed the
Japanese trade treaty a few years ago
on prospects in the next Federal election
with Australian manufacturers are often
silent when the question of Chinese im-
ports arises.
The DLP, whose preferences will
decide whether the LCP Government
holds the seat, is also hammering schools,
transport, sewerage and roads.
If the ALP is to take the seat, it will
need to break down the DLP vote (19
per cent in the July 1961 election with
the second preferences going 91 p.c. to
the LCP). The DLP is, as usual, stres-
sing its anti-communism, but it has not
yet turned up such a practical current
anti-communist issue as Mr Stoneham
did when he turned the spotlight onto
cheap Chinese imports,
Even if it loses, the Bolte Govern-
ment will still have a comfortable
majority. The voting figures, however,
will be keenly scrutinised by all party
managers for the light they will throw
on prospects in the next Federal election
held under the new boundaries. Broad-
meadows consists of half of the Federal
seat of Labor, but under the redistribu-
tion most of it will be transferred to
other electorates. Some four-fifths of the
electors will go into a new Federal seat
of Mernda. Others will go into the
Federal seats of Maribyrnong (narrowly
held by the Liberals) and into Bendigo
(narrowly held by Labor).
UNIONS
RUNNING FITZGIBBON RAGGED
From MUGGA
While the non-Communist General
Secretary of the Waterside Workers’
Federation, C. Fitzgibbon, was in
Queensland last week both the Melbourne
and Sydney waterfronts, still controlled by
the Communist Party, were virtually
brought to a standstill. In Melbourne
3500 watersiders walked off ships in pro-
test against a £5OO fine for similar mass
walk-offs on July 17 and July 19. In
Sydney, since last Tuesday, more than
1000 have refused to load wool because,
as Mr T. Nelson, the President of the
Sydney branch of the WWF claims, the
preparing of wool bales for slinging is
too heavy for two men. The shipowners
refused to grant the two extra men
claiming that the loading has been
carried on for years in the same way.
On June 15 of this year at a nine-hour
conference between the Minister for
Labor, Mr W. McMahon, ACTU officers
and representatives of the WWF., the
Minister agreed to amend many sections
of the long service leave provisions of
the Stevedoring Act and promised to
repeal some of the penal provisions. A
long series of strikes, beginning in April
this year, had proceeded this conference
and at the end of the nine-hour “talk-
athon” it was agreed by the parties con-
cerned that the main grievances had
been settled. It was also agreed that this
was the end of the series of stoppages.
Mr McMahon’s action at the time was
described by the “Sydney Morning
Herald” as “abject surrender” and some
members of the Government are known
to have shared the view of the Labor
Party’s Sydney morning newspaper.
Since this conference, a period of
about seven weeks, 95,000 man-hours
on the Sydney waterfront alone have been
lost through stoppages and in Melbourne
36,000 man-hours have been lost for the
same period. When it is realised that
in December last year, for instance, 1933
man-hours were lost in the whole of
Australian ports and earlier that year
the all-time record of only 1681 hours
were lost —again for the whole of Aus-
tralia, it is easy to see how extensive the
current disruption in the ports of Mel-
bourne and Sydney has been. Outside
these two main ports, stoppages have
been negligible. Why is this?
It is still not realised how gravely the
Communist officials of the WWF view
the loss of the General Secretaryship to
a non-Communist, ALF member, Mr C.
Fitzgibbon. In both these ports a whisper-
ing campaign against Mr Fitzgibbon has
been stepped up and the out-the-side-of-
the mouth vilification is aimed at dis-
crediting the General Secretary and bol-
stering the Communist officials. If the
Communist WWF officers can sell the
idea to the members that Fitzgibbon is
not a militant they have already achieved
their first big propaganda victory.
The second effect of this campaign is
to prevent Fitzgibbon from running an
ALP team at the WWF elections in 1964.
Communist Party members unlike some
Labor men, know that the first time a
strong ALP team is run against them
they will be beaten. At the moment, Fitz-
gibbon is still a captive on the Federal
Council of the WWF.
On the Council there are 28 members
of whom 11 are Fitzgibbon supporters,
but with the exception of the General
Secretary himself and the President, Mr
J. C. Beitz, none of the 11 is from the
two ports which are currently conducting
disrupting tactics. In Sydney there are
two Communist members, Messrs J.
Hartley and V. C. Bolger, and the two
other members, Messrs J. Young and S.
Barrett who, while not members of the
Party, must believe that they are only
there as long as they vote “the right
way”. The CP candidate who opposed
Fitzgibbon for the General Secretary’s
job, Mr T. Nelson, received 3122 votes
in Sydney compared to Fitzgibbon’s
1806 reflecting the extent of the Com-
munist control.
The Melbourne representation on the
Council is similar: the two Communist
members are Messrs A. E. Bull, and
E. McCool while the two other members.
Messrs E. McCormick and H. Rourke
always vote for CP policy in the Federa-
tion. Mr “Curly” Rourke would probably
win the prize for the most unity-ticket
collaboration in the whole of the trade
movement. (Just before the recent Mel-
bourne Waterfront elections, the Vic-
torian ALP, fearing that Fitzgibbon
supporters would defeat their darlings of
the unity-ticket, expelled one of Fitz-
gibbon’s strongest supporters, Mr L.
Stuart. See Bulletin, June 23).
In Melbourne last Friday events took
a new turn when Mr F. H. Fitzgerald,
and an ALP non unity-ticket member,
wrote to the State Opposition leader, Mr
C. Stoneham, asking him if he could
“take charge” of the ALP on the water-
front. He said he intended to seek a
vote of no-confidence in the present
Melbourne WWF executive because the
recent walk-offs in Melbourne have been
caused by Communists for political gain.
“Up until a few weeks ago the average
pay packet for watersiders each week
was £22. Now it’s £l2 or £l4 a week.”
The tactics of disruption are aimed at
running Mr Fitzgibbon ragged and he
will indeed be a tough man if he can
stand up to this battering. Paradoxically,
the campaign may produce the effect
which the Communists most fear: the
running by Mr Fitzgibbon of an all-ALP
team in the 1964 elections.
The second obvious reason for the
disruption is an attempt to embarrass the
Minister for Labor with his Cabinet
colleagues. One can imagine what would
happen if Mr McMahon was prevented
from making the proposed alterations to
the Stevedoring Act because of Cabinet
pressure from his colleagues. The Com-
munists at last would have some justi-
fiable reason for conducting mass walk-
offs in Sydney and Melbourne. At the
moment this is the only thing they lack.


WESTERN AUSTRALIA
CARES OF
COALITION
LEADER HAWKE
A gain on target
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
WHEN the West Australian Parliament’s
annual legislative session started
last week, the Liberal-Country Party
Government was in the most precarious
position in its three-year history. The
death of Liberal member George
Roberts, of Bunbury, reduced its lead in
the Assembly to one seat and the selec-
tion of a speaker from the Government
parties will make the parties all square
on the floor of the House.
The Government will have to rely on
the vote of the speaker to put through its
legislation until the Bunbury by-election
can be held, probably early in September.
The Labor Party, cheated of what it
regarded as a certain victory in the
March general elections, will be all out
to win the by-election and will probably
put up an entirely new candidate in an
attempt to give it a new look to the
electors, who have voted Liberal for the
last four elections.
The Liberals also have a problem in
selecting a candidate to replace the
popular George Roberts (who was chair-
man of committees in the Assembly).
Attempts have been made to persuade
one of his brothers to accept the nomina-
tion. State Liberal president Reg
Withers, a Bunbury lawyer, is also
regarded as a possible nominee.
This seat, which could give Labor
the chance to hold another general
election if it wins the by-election, is
regarded as marginal, though last year’s
State redistribution turned it a little
against Labor by cutting out the Housing
Commission area of Carey Park. Labor
will have to fight hard to overcome the
popular Liberal image set up by Roberts
and its own lack of policy on State
development.
If Bunbury produces as many political
sparks as the recent Darling Range by-
election it will be a hot contest indeed.
Though Darling Range was never
seriously in doubt as a Government seat,
a public fight between the Liberal and
Country Party candidates made it one
of the most interesting in recent electoral
history.
Darling Range was held by Country
Party member Ray Owen for 12 years
until the Liberal Party put up State
vice-president Ken Dunn as a candidate
in the March elections. The Country
Party claimed this Was a breach of the
coalition agreement that sitting govern-
ment members would not be opposed by
the coalition partner. Dunn won the
March election by one primary vote, and
the election was set aside on Owen’s
petition.
In the by-election the rift between the
coalition parties was deepened, firstly
by a claim by Opposition Leader Hawke
that if Labor won the by-election they
could get a speaker from the Country
Party and go into government and,
secondly, by a promise from Liberal
Works Minister Wild to make an
immediate start on a water scheme in
part of the electorate. Owen claimed
he had been pressing for these works
for years and getting nowhere and
Wild’s promise was an unauthorised
boost for the Liberal Party.
It proved an effective boost. Dunn
picked up 15 primary votes in the
affected district and went on to win the
election on preferences after coming out
13 votes ahead of Owen on the
primaries.
At the declaration of the poll Owen
launched a savage attack on the Liberal
Party. “It was a good thing for peace
and quiet in the Government that I was
defeated,” he said. “It would have
embarrassed me to have to support a
minister of the Government who could
play such a dirty, low-down trick”.
Hawke’s claim that he could get a
speaker from the Country Party in the
event of a tied house also had its desired
effect. Though both Premier Brand and
Country Party leader Crawford Nalder
hotly denied that any government mem-
ber would defect, Brand added the rider
that he thought the Liberal and Country
parties should be united. This was
greeted with a counter-attack by Deputy
Premier Nalder. He said the issue of a
merger was as dead as a dodo and the
Country Party would always remain a
separate entity.
Mr Hawke has demonstrated his well-
known flair for driving a wedge between
the coalition parties at a critical time.
It remains to be seen whether his astute
political move will pay off in the Bun-
bury by-election. Current indications
are that the Government will be saved
in .Bunbury by the intervention of the
DLP, who are considering putting up
a candidate. If the Country Party also
exercises its right to contest an open
seat, Bunbury will be a hot contest
indeed.
THE INQUIRY
WHY THE VISCOUNT CRASHED
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
HThe concluding week of the Board of
Inquiry sitting into the loss of the
Ansett-ANA Viscount VH-TVC over
Botany Bay last November made explicit
the sharp differences along the bar table
that had only been implicit in the trend
of cross-examination.
One of the central questions that
emerged from the quarter-of-a-million-
odd words of the counsels’ addresses of
the final week was: Were there any real
lessons to be learnt from the tragedy
in which 15 lives were lost?
Earlier in the hearing the Director of
Air Safety Investigations within the De-
partment of Civil Aviation, Mr Lum
and his senior inspector, Mr Yeend, had
put forward the view that there was no
lesson to be learnt. In reply to a question
Mr Yeend had agreed that the accident
was a million-to-one chance.
In his final address, counsel for the
Department, Mr Starke, warned the
board that DCA investigated 3000
accident incidents a year and that merely
because an accident was a big one did
not mean there was a lesson to be learnt.
However, counsel for the Australian
Federation of Airline Pilots, Mr A.
Pearce, a Melbourne solicitor, who has
been the pilots’ specialist lawyer foi some
years, disagreed forcefully According
to him it was a matter of concern to the
pilots that two senior investigators had
said the accident couldn’t happen again
and that the Federation disagreed en-
tirely.
Mr Starke reacted with equal force.


He saw in his rival’s address an allega-
tion that the two officers had been biased.
He claimed that Mr Pearce had acted
improperly and added that his address on
behalf of the pilots had ranged from
the “comic to ludicrous”.
Mr Reynolds, QC, assisting the in-
quiry, raised the question of whether the
Viscount should have taken off at all,
whether the air traffic control officers
had proper information on weather con-
ditions and whether a system which per-
mitted aircraft to take off in stormy
weather needs revision.
Mr Starke and Mr Reynolds clashed
throughout the week on the actual state
of the weather on the night of November
30 and on at least one occasion Mr
Justice Spicer had to intervene to restore
peace.
Mr Starke’s final address was mostly
about the weather and his conclusion
was unequivocal the weather was not
hazardous and if the court made any
finding that it was, then it would be
contrary to evidence. He spent hours
attacking civilian witnesses, on whom Mr
Reynolds had placed some reliance, for
their description of the weather in the
suburbs south-west of Mascot. Further,
according to Mr Starke, from an air-
man's point of view the storm conditions
arounu the airport were not very re-
markable.
Mr McConnell, who appeared for the
air traffic officers, raised an interesting
point for future inquiries when he argued
that findings of the board should be on
the “beyond reasonable doubt” principle
instead of being based on “probabilities”.
Mr McConnell was also sceptical
about extreme turbulence being the pre-
cipitating factor in the accident. He
claimed that if the aircraft had struck
turbulence of a serious nature then it
must have deviated from the flight path
given it by his air traffic control officers
and called into question the DCA in-
vestigator’s report that the fatal failure
of the starboard wing had occurred over
Rockdale.
Other issues canvassed during the
week included adjustments to the pro-
cedure in clearing aircraft, improvements
in ground radar, the installation of air-
borne radar to planes, further meteoro-
logical training for air traffic control
officers and better storm plotting
facilities at Mascot.
With nearly 2000 pages of transcript
and more than one hundred exhibits it
could be months before the final report
of the board is tabled in Parliament and
released publicly.
THE LIQUOR INTEREST
ifefiuLUtia
August 5, 1882
Writes our London correspondent:
“At present ‘Babylon’ is full to
over-flowing, and, go where you will,
one falls across colonials. Sir ’Enery
Parkes's triumphal progress has been
so fully chronicled that I need not
say anything about him. Did you
read that characteristic speech of his
to the school children at his native
village? ‘You cannot all rise to
be Prime Ministers of prosperous
colonies, but you can all do your
dooty’.”
There exists throughout the com-
niunity a profound sentiment of
repugnance to the predominance of
the liquor interest. For years the
power of “the trade” gathered
strength, till it became paramount.
“The trade” extended the tentacles of
its power very far and very wide. It
was represented in every Cabinet; it
had its partizans in Parliament, and
upon the Bench of the Police Courts.
It proved itself more than a match
for the Teetotal organisation. The
former worked with the force of
pecuniary interest, the latter relied
upon the influence of a moral idea;
and, in these times, moral ideas stand
a very poor chance when confronted
by a system of money-making. But
now (supported by the moderates who
have been alienated by “the trade’s”
arrogance), the Teetotal party is rush-
ing into extremes. It is abusing its
opportunities; and in its turn, pro-
voking a reaction, which is certain to
defeat the legitimate objects for the
attainment of which it was given
predominance. The appointment of
the Grand-Master (or whatever is Mr
Davies’ designation) of the Good
Templars t-o a seat on the Licensing
Bench is regarded by all dispassion-
ate persons as an indecent incident,
and as an indication that the Teetotal
bodies are no more concerned to pre-
serve the essentials of good govern-
ment, so long as their own views are
attained, than were their antagonists.
The mistake thus committed cannot
fail to be injurious to the true interests
of temperance.
ANOTHER CASE
FOR HURSEY
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
'The conviction of Dennis Victor Hursey
(28) at Kingston Court on March 14
passed unnoticed. Appearing briefly be-
fore Messrs K. L. V. Whale and E.
King, JsP, he was found guilty of using
indecent language and resisting arrest.
The justices imposed fines totalling £ll.
But when Hursey successfully appealed
against his conviction he attracted con-
siderable attention—and stirred memories
of events which three years ago projected
Dennis Hursey and his father, Frank, on
to the forefront of the Australian indus-
trial and political stages. Though water-
siders, the Hurseys were members of the
DTP, and they refused to pay the levy
for ATP political funds which the Water-
side Workers’ Federation was then col-
lecting from all of its members.
They were cruelly persecuted, fre-
quently threatened, and occasionally
handled roughly, but they stuck it out
for months. Ultimately they were driven
from the wharves, the departure hurried
by the rigidity of officialdom which dis-
ciplined them for failing to report for
work when it was obviously physically
impossible for them to attend for pick-up.
The Chief Justice, Sir Stanley Burbury,
heard Dennis Hursey’s recent appeal on
the ground that the March conviction
for indecent language and resisting arrest
was contrary to the weight of evidence.
One of Hursey’s witnesses, George Alfred
Thomas Fenner, a builder’s laborer, told
Sir Stanley that he was one of the gang
working under the foremanship of
Hursey when the incidents occurred.
Constable R. J. Nelan, he said, ap-
proached Hursey and said, “I am going
to have to book you.” Hursey had replied,
“Can’t you keep off my back.” There-
upon the constable had said, “You have
cooked your sausage now. You are
under arrest.” Nelan had then pulled out
his handcuffs and “slashed Hursey across
the face with them”. No bad language
had been used, Fenner said, and Hursey
had not resisted when Nelan handcuffed
him. However, Nelan had continued to
shake Hursey, “pulling and tugging at
him and pushing him in and out of briar
bushes.”
Sir Stanley Burbury said that he was
left with the impression that there was
bad blood between Nelan and Hursey.
“It is difficult to understand why the
constable found it necessary to arrest
Hursey for indecent language,’ the
Chief Justice said. “I also have a grave
suspicion that some unwarranted vio-
lence was used by the constable.” The
police evidence was uncorroborated. Sir
Stanley allowed the appeal with costs.


ABORIGINALITIES
STRICTLY FOR THE BIRDS
FROM OUR ORNITHOLOGICAL CORRESPONDENT
Australian bird watchers are up in
arms. The reason is that an Aus-
tralian resident in England, Major
H. W. Hall, OBE, MC, has given
£31,250 to the British Museum (Natural
History). With this money the Director
of the Museum, Dr T. C. S. Morrison-
Scott, has planned a series of five expe-
ditions to Australia “to obtain speci-
mens of birds (whole specimens, skins,
skeletons, eggs, parasites, and anything
else of interest) for the study collections
of the British Museum (Natural History)
and various Australian museums”.
Since this news became known a few
months ago, politicians from one end
of the Commonwealth to the other, from
the Prime Minister and State Premiers
to the most insignificant backbenchers,
have been inundated with letters, peti-
tions, and telegrams protesting about the
proposed expeditions.
The reason is (according to the chief
pressure group which is defending Aus-
tralian birds, the Bird Observers’ Club)
because it is feared that over 100 species
of Australian birds could be wiped out
if the expeditions are allowed to pro-
ceed. In New South Wales, for instance,
there are 477 species of birds. Of these
53 are common, 213 are common to
moderately common, 148 are rare, and
63 are very rare.
“Bird” law is very complicated in Aus-
tralia and most of the control of bird life
is exercised by the different States’ auth-
orities. When the British request was in-
itially made to the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment, Mr E. J. Bunting, the Secre-
tary of the Prime Minister’s Department
wrote to the State Governments inform-
ing them of the proposed expedition and
requesting their co-operation: “So far as
the Commonwealth is concerned” he
wrote, “no impediment will be placed in
the way of export of specimens collect-
ed.” He informed the State authorities
that the expeditions would arrive in Mel-
bourne between September and Novem-
ber this year and the five separate expe-
ditions would last “six to nine months
each”.
Along with the letters, petitions and
deputations to politicians, the bird-lovers
have conducted an extensive Press cam-
paign strictly for the birds. Apart
from an unusual amount of space in
city and provincial daily papers through-
out the Commonwealth, and notice in
the London “Times”, the bird-lovers re-
ceived the support of the Geelong
“Advertiser” in a long editorial. In Can-
berra, the Labor Federal member for
the ACT, who also doubles as the
vice-Chairman of the Canberra Society
for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
said: “The Museum should not be en-
couraged to carry out on a grand scale
the type of bird nesting for which small
boys get hidings.”
In Queensland, Premier Nicklin wrote
to one bird-lover, Mrs Branch: “At the
outset let me assure you that there will
be no indiscriminatory collecting of bird
life.” Mr Nicklin assured Mrs Branch
of his interest in Queensland’s bird life
and promised to confer with NSW auth-
orities “in order that some policy be
established regarding the proposed visit”.
While the expeditions are one way of
spending the surplus money given to the
British Museum by Major Hall, indica-
tions are that the Bird Observers’ Club
have some reasonable grounds for fear.
Australian professional ornithologists,
some of whom will doubtless show the
British expeditioners around, are in
favor of the expedition because, “it will
mean a six to nine months’ jaunt around
Australia”.
Attitudes to the proposed expeditions
fall into three categories. First, those who
fmld the BOC say there should be no
expeditions. Secondly, those holding the
extreme position who believe that no
impediment should be placed in the
way of British scientific expeditions. And
thirdly, those who take the view that
the British Museum should indicate in
advance what it wants and where it
wants to go; that no permit should be
given by State authorities for rare
species; that there should be no collect-
ing in bird sanctuaries or in or near
settled areas; that the number allowed
of each species should be limited; that
specimens should be submitted to the
State Museum for preferential selection;
and the expeditions should consult with
the Museums and Natural History bodies
and any expedition must be accompanied
by an officer from the local Museum.
So far the campaign “strictly for the
birds” appears to be succeed ng and the
Bird Observers’ Club claims the support
of many politicians along with Natural
History Clubs in NSW; Victoria, Queens-
land and South Australia; Bush Walkers,
Country Womens’ Association, Fauna
and Flora Preservation Societies, the
Wild Life Preservation Society of Aus-
tralia and many other similar bodies. As
the BOC people say in one of their
special leaflets: “Even Gun Chibs have
offered their support.”
TASMANIA
STATE AID
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
THhe Liberal Party in Tasmania is
moving perceptibly towards accepting
the principle that some of the public
education grant should be devoted to the
capital needs of private or independent
schools. It is now not difficult to con-
ceive the party’s reaching a half-way
meeting point with pro-aid independents
and those Labor members who were
affronted in conscience when the Federal
Conference reversed the ALP’s attitude to
assistance for independent schools. The
Liberals in Parliament are free of the
conflict of loyalties which agonisingly
besets such Labor members as the trans-
parently sincere Ray McDonald, MHA,
who is equally devoted to the cause of
Church education and to the ALP, in
which he was reared by his Labor MLC
father, the late James McDonald.
Significantly, the latest move towards
liberalising the party’s attitude to school
aid has come from the State Council of
the Liberal Party, not from the long-
out-of-office parliamentarians, who
might be expected to be encouraged by
expediency to move more quickly than
the branches. Last week’s council meeting
in Burnie by “a substantial majority”
called on the Federal Government to
allow as an income-tax deauction the
full amount of fees and board paid to
secondary schools.
Mr R. Solomon said that it was
undeniable that those who sent children
to private schools took a great load from
the State. “We are merely asking the
Federal Government to relieve us from
paying taxes on the money which we
spend in saving the State the cost of
educating our children,” he said.
Last April, Mr Hodgman, MHA, in-
troduced a private member’s bill seeking
specified assistance for independent
schools. He was supported by his fellow
Independent Liberal, Mr Jackson, three
Liberals (Messrs Lyons, Bramich and
Pearsall) and Mr Wedd (Ind.). Several
Government members admitted that they
voted against the bill with misgivings,
but party policy deprived them of choice.
Perhaps to ease tension in Labor
ranks, the Government appointed three
of its members to a sub-committee to
investigate “ways and means by which
private schools could secure the money
they needed for capital purposes.” No-
thing has been heard of this committee.


PROFILE
SIR HERBERT HYLAND
The Minister for Larrikinism
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
,Oir Herbert Hyland, the Father of
the Victorian Legislative Assembly,
member for Gippsland South since 1929
and Leader of the Country Party since
1955, was described in the House in
September, 1952, as the Minister for
Larrikinism.
This was a riposte by Mr William
Galvin, the then deputy Leader of the
Labor Party. Sir Herbert had just con-
ferred on Galvin the distinction of being
the biggest liar in the House.
On several occasions he has shaped
up to members of his party at meetings
at Parliament House, and he has invited
opponents actually in the sitting House
to come outside and get decimated. There
was —or wasn't there? accounts differ—a
scuffle at Sale Town Hall in recent years.
According to Sale Town Clerk, I R.
Ray, Sir Herbert attacked him, declaring
he wanted to have a fight with him Sir
Herbert’s account of it was that he felt
he had been snubbed at a luncheon given
to Sir Dallas and Lady Brooks because
he and other politicians were not invited
on to the dais. (The other MPs also
were local representatives.)
Mr Ray asked how the politicians
could have been invited to sit at a dais
when there wasn’t one. and Sir Herbert
said that in any case they were given
only wet chairs on which to sit, and it
was raining. “1 never resort to fisticuffs,”
he added, with simple dignity, mystifying
a few people.
range of Hyland’s portfolios in his
•* long years in the Assembly has not
been great. He has been Chief Secretary
and Minister for Transport, Labor,
Prices and Decentralisation; but the range
of his political support in the House has
been extensive, as may be expected, of
course, with his party of political op-
portunists.
He has been a Minister in a Country
Party government supported by Labor,
with the Liberals in opposition; a Minis-
ter in a Liberal-CP government with
Labor in Oppostion, and a prominent
member of a corner CP minority keeping
Labor in office and the Liberals in op-
position.
Now he is Leader of the corner CP
and proclaims he keeps the Bolte Govern-
ment in office, but the reality is that
Bolte has a majority in the Assembly and
in the Legislative Council where he lacks
a bare majority, he is subject to the
frequent ringing of the division bells and
not infreouent defeats bv the combina-
tion of CP and Labor MLCs.
“You would think that the Premier
would give us a kind smile now and then
after all we have done for his govern-
ment,” said Sir Herbert when he opened
the CP campaign in the last Victorian
election; but Bolte, remembering the
manner in which the CP had attempted
to kill the Totalisator Agency Board,
which has proved a stunning success in
Victoria, and had in fact succeeded in
killing the Government’s bill to give
Victorians better and fresher bread, gave
him no smile.
TTe is a spry, loquacious septuagenarian
who won’t disclose his age. He
makes no secret of this and says the
reason is that a man of 25 thinks a man
of 40 ought to retire and shut up and
the man ot 40 thinks the same of a man
of 60.
He was born in Prahran, an inner,
respectable Melbourne industrial suburb.
His father was a building contractor and
both his parents died when he was very
young. “There was no money in our
house,” he recalls.
He got a job with a country grocer at
15/- a week At a time w'hen apprentices
got 2/6 this must have been affluence,
but there is the not unfamiliar note of
wrath in Bert Hyland’s voice when he
remembers it.
It must have added up because he was
able to open his own general store at
Leongatha as a very young man indeed
and to retire in 1929 when he claims he
was still in his thirties. His only son, who
died suddenly in his 40’s last year, also
was a grocer.
He was planning to make a world trip
in that year when he was induced to join
the Country Party. He was selected for
Gippsland South, won the seat and has
held it easily since At the last election
he had four opponents and he beat the
lot with an absolute majority.
For a city slicker living in a fashion-
able address in East St Kilda, this was
without squabble a first-class political
effort. There is, however, no secret as far
as the old campaigner himself is con-
cerned about how he holds South Gipps-
land so safely. It is work.
Hardly a week passes when he does
not go round some part of his electorate.
He is one of the most attentive members
in the nation. His trips are extensive and
must be to get round his big electorate
once a month. He calls it going round
his traps.
In recent years he has described the
Premier as a mongrel, one of his Minis-
ters, Keith Turnbull, as a billy-goat (after
earlier complaining that Turnbull was
like a cow with hiccoughs), a parlia-
mentary offence for which he was sus-
pended for the night by the Speaker,
and others as rats and goofys; but the
piquant result is that the House regards
him affectionately.
On a boring bill the temptation to say
Hear Hear when Bert Hyland says he
will make a short speech or will now
conclude is irresistible to some back-
benchers in both the Liberal and Labor
Parties because it can guarantee fire-
works from Hyland enlivening the debate
if not the bill.
The most extraordinary Hyland the
House ever saw was in September, 1944,
when he introduced, as Chief Secretary,
a bill to redistribute slightly the Victorian
State electoral boundaries which had
been so heavily loaded in favor of the
country voter. The Liberals had insisted
on the bill and the Country Party had
had to bring it down. Hyland got up,
read a fact statement about its purposes
and then said, “But oh! what a bill!” and
went on to denounce it. The miserable
measure of reform passed.
Tn January, 1949, members of his party
were talking of expelling him be-
cause he was supporting the Hollway
(Liberal) Government or absent from the
House on vital votes, and the announce-
ment of the pay-off came in the follow-
ing September when Hollway named him
as chairman of the Latrobe Valley De-
velopment Advisory Committee. The de-
velopment of the rich Latrobe Valley
in Gippsland is close to Sir Herbert’s
heart.
He took no salary for the job which
lasted about four years. He says he isn’t
rich but is independent and that there
ought to be at least a sprinkling of men
of independent means like him in Parlia-
ment because they cannot be bluffed by
threats of economic reprisals.
Soon after he was elected Leader in
1955, Country Party members began to
complain that he was devoting too much
attention to city matters, and since then
Hyland has certainly given them what
they wanted and Melburnians a bellyful
of winges about the poverty of country
municipal councils, Port Albert fisher-
men, and all primary producers; the
wicked cost of railway freights and
electricity in the country: the precarious
(perennial) price of wool; the needs for
farm land plans, transport for develop-
ment, transport for decentralisation,
transport for country produce, land tax,
flies, the disastrous effect of the credit
squeeze on farmers, the lack of (free)
scientific aid for primary industry, the
lack of country housing, the unfair in-
cidence of the petrol tax, the tax on
skimmed milk, and the growth of
colonies of migrants.
Melbourne, of course, is as Batman’s
country cousin described it. an appalling,
bloated octopus. That’s the stuff the
honest countrymen of the Country Party
want.


THE RESTAURANT BUSINESS
Chasing the fickle 20,000
By CHARLES SCRIBER
TWery week in Sydney about 20,000
people go out to dinner at night.
They choose from the 263 NSW licensed
restaurants mostly in and around the
city, or any of the hotel rooms such the
Silver Spade, the Sapphire or the Embassy
Charcoal. The range extends from places
where the mere suggestion of entertain-
ment is frowned on through places where
background music lends “Atmosphere”,
on to those where courses are interrupted
by watching spectacular floorshows.
20,000 is not a large number and all
the restaurants —or those that regard
eating as a ritual rather than a means
of staunching hunger—have to fight for
their custom. New dishes, pirating of
popular head waiters and accomplished
chefs, gimmicks like community singing
(which is so far out it’s coming back in
under the name of “audience partici-
pation”, exposure of the female body, im-
ported celebrities and cunning decor are
all aimed at wooing a share of the fickle
20,000. Some spend huge sums on ad-
vertising, others spread the word of new
attractions by inviting influential citizens
to free junkets. Most would willingly
spend more than standard advertising
rates for a mention in the society pages,
or, better still, a photograph of some
celebrity eating at their table. Steamship
companies are canvassed to send their
wealthy passengers to particular restau-
rants. Eating out has become big busi-
ness.
There are three types of places doing
good business —the gimmicky, the specta-
cular, and the snobbish. An example of
the first is the Hungry Horse. This out-
of-the-way eating house serves meals in
a single room of a corner building in
Paddington. The waitress is a University
student making a few extra pounds, the
proprietess (and chef) went to Cordon
Bleu school. The place has no music,
no license, (you bring your own) and
hardly enough tables to make it pay. But
its popularity is due to good food, leisur-
ely eating and plenty of time for talk
afterwards. Upstairs has been turned into
an art gallery. El Capuchino, although
with music, falls into the same category
with the emphasis on a hotchpotch decor
supplied over the years by the patrons.
The Ozone at Watson’s Bay features
eating on the sidewalk overlooking the
beach, seafood and conversation. Tulips
is rather the businessmen’s place, but
stresses lingering over the meal at night.
Buona Sera is another restaurant whose
gimmick is candlelight, Italian music and
Italian food.
The second type are the big and brassy
places like Chequers, Latin Quarter and
Andres. While none of these lets its food
standards slip, emphasis is on the floor-
show with big international names,
chorus girls, drapes and mirrors. Also
in the spectacular class, but very diffe-
rent, is the Music Hall Restaurant Neutral
Bay. This place has been doing very good
business running a melodrama produc-
tion of “East Lynne”. The most enthu-
siastic attenders (coming three and four
times) are professional men and their
wives.
Many visiting artists are appalled at
the standard of entertainment required
of them in Sydney night Tastes
still run to leggy dancers Most bands
play it loud and noisy. One comedian
complained that restaurant proprietors
had told him he must rock the audiences
with something spicy if he wanted to
get across. “I was noted in England for
my clean humor,” he said ruefully, “that
soon went out the window here. Now 1
tell blue jokes that make even my hair
stand on end. They love it.”
But even tastes in entertainment are
beginning to show the changing trend.
Some of the brassy nightspots report a
falling off in custom, while the sleazier
joints of King’s Cross are populated
with glum faced entrepreneurs who can’t
understand why their strip tease and
bongo drum shows are driving customers
to different types of restaurant. The
Alouette and Villa Franca, for example
are usually packed with enthusiasts sing-
ing French folk songs. The Chelsea finds
pianist Benny Barker’s brilliantly m n "
dered piano schmaltz pleases the patrons,
while the Chevron Hilton’s Golden Grill
features only a violin and piano and is
obviously doing very well. Their upstair ß
Silver Spade Room has cut the local


multi-artiste shows while the management
watches future trends. In the meantime
the customers appear quite happy with
some very smooth music and the oppor-
tunity to dance. The Rex has changed
its band for something quieter and a few
places, not noted for their food, have
made successful experiments with'
modern jazz groups. So far, there is no
indication that night spot entertainment
will follow the US and produce a crop
of local Tom Lehrers or Shelley Bar-
mans. But the way things are moving
could well come about.
The third type are the snobbish—and
as far as food goes they are sometimes
the best. The Caprice probably heads
these. It is a restaurant in what it calls
“a box-seat position overlooking Rose
Bay.” Everything is fresh, canned and
frozen food taboo, and prices are listed
accordingly. But it is a success. The
Chelsea, dripping with red velvet, reflec-
ting mirrors, silver candelabra polished
to mirror finish and red liveried waiters,
is a similar place. ~ Pro-
prietor Sidney Newgrosh prefers to be
known as Mr Sidney. Perhaps the
Chevron Hilton Golden Grill comes in a
similar class, although here the service
and charm all emenates from the staff
who, from the maitre d'hotel to the
cigarette girl all give the impression of
really being concerned about the diner.
Romanos still maintains its standards
with tableside cooking, social page re-
porter and photographer usually in at-
tendance and smooth service from the
waiters who are mostly old retainers.
Many people still come to see Mr
Romano himself, who, smoking his cigar
and impervious to the diners, sits at his
favorite table and appears as essential to
the scene as the bust of Napoleon in
the stairway niche.
A fourth category makes a feature of
foreign food. There are, of course,
hundreds of Chinese restaurants and the
Australia Hotel has a Jade Room serving
meals from a Chinese kitchen. The
cognoscente go to Chinatown and have
their favorites among the dozen or so
restaurants in Dixon, Hay and Campbell
Streets. In William Street, sari-clad Jyoti-
hana Ray presides over the Maharani, an
Indian place with a Pakistani chef wTiich
serves four kinds of Ceylon tea. The
Maharani also serves genuine curries
ground from the spices amid a decor of
Indian silks. Italian restaurants are plenti-
Inl with Beppis, Buona Serra and La
Veneziana among the most popular.
Greeks eat at the Athenian for good
I°od at probably the lowest prices in
Sydney. There are good French restau-
Ef°ts, as well as German, Hungarian,
olish, Czechoslovak, Japanese with
•monos for the patrons and tables at
floor level, Turkish, Lebanese, Swiss,
Russian, Spanish, Maltese, Yugoslav and
kosher.
What makes a well run restaurant?
The first requirement is £IOO,OOO in
cash or credit. According to the secretary
of the Catering Trades Organisation, Mr
Mews (who usually lunches on a soft
omelette and a glass of milk) a restaurant
proprietor should expect 10 per cent
profit for his investment, 38 per cent of
his turnover should go on food, 32 per
cent on wages and at least 20 per cent on
overheads and additional expenses. This
is the ideal ratio, but very few places are
run to it. Mr Gobes, proprietor of the
Tulips in George Street, says he is happy
to receive a 7 per cent return. He too
had ambitious plans and quoted the
example of the now defunct Taj Mahal
which he bought for £43,000 with a rent
of £IOO. He considered himself lucky
not to have paid a premium or key
money. Many places change hands for
as much as £22,000 key money.
Breaking down costs involved in run-
ning the Tulips, Mr Gobes assessed his
weekly wage bill at £430 for a staff of
18 including himself and his wife—both
active in the running of the restaurant.
Expenses for overheads are frequently
staggering. Mr Gobes changes his decor
every year, serves meals on specially
made crockery and his cuttlery is im-
ported from Europe. While the customers
obviously like this many carry their
enthusiasm too far. The practice of
souveniring, (referred to in the accounts
as “modern breakage”) makes up 14 per
cent of his replacement costs which he
says, for glasses alone, amounts to £270.
He quoted the example of a new type of
oyster fork he introduced, buying 24
dozen at 15/- each for the restaurant.
Six weeks later there were 23 left.
Union rates for a waiter are £l6/18/-
for a five day week, but he added that
with penalty rates the gross weekly take
home amount was about £lB/8/-. If
the waiter works an additional night he
is paid £5/10/6. Tips vary from £3
to £4 a day. Food waiters average
around 5 per cent of the bill while wine
waiters make about 10 per cent. (Every
one wants to be a wine waiter.) There
are 150 waiters on the union books, but
many more make it a very profitable
spare time occupation.
Musicians receive £25 for a six night
week of four hours a night which prob-
ably explains why the days of the big
restaurant orchestras have gone. Chefs,
at the union rate of £.21/4/- a week
would be obviously underpaid were it
not for the fact that most ask and receive
at least double that amount. It is not
unusual for a good chef to be earning
£6O a week.
ITow is a successful restaurant business
built up and maintained? Take the
case of Henry Corboz, part proprietor of
one of Sydney’s very solvent groups—
Alouette, Villa Franca and El Capuchino.
But there is still a shortage of skilled
waiters, although the Department of
Technical Education is helping repair it.
Up in the converted cell blocks of the
Old Darlinghurst Jail they are taught the
finer points of food preparation and
cooking, menu French, correct ways of
serving dishes and pouring wines, prepa-
ration of side dishes and knowledge of
the vast vocabulary of world vintages.
(One European maitre d’hotel who
asked to remain anonymous was con-
temptous of college trained waiters. “It
takes at least 10 years to make a good
waiter,” he declared, “there’s only one
thing that will train them and that’s ex-
perience under a master. We’ll never get
a high standard when a half trained man
can walk in and earn £3B a week.
Waiters! chefs! Many of these fellows
would faint if they had to go through the
kind of training they had in Europe”).
He began with the smallest of the three,
El Capuchino in 1957, in Surry Hills.
His first lesson was on the importance of
buying. To begin with he got up at 5.30
a.m. and went down to the markets to
do his own. He said wastage was pheno-
menal and the profits sometimes stagger-
ing. He soon found that individual buyers
were not welcome, particularly in the
fish market where it was not unknown
for a protesting buyer to receive a well
aimed mullet across the back of his neck.
He fared better on the vegetable side,
but still the nice crisp crates of lettuce
he ordered had a habit of transforming
themselves into soggy leaves by the time
they arrived at his kitchen. It took him
a good six months to learn the wrinkles
and today he claims to know the game
thoroughly. He soon learned the neces-
sity of having a reliable wholesaler, a
truck of his own to reduce carrying
charges and arrangements to utilize a
freezing chamber for snap freezing. He
estimates that fish bought during a glut
can yield 1000 per cent, profit.
But bulk buying is not always econo-
mical. With items not in big demand he


Chefs food expenditure 36.6 per cent.,
Turnover £1684/1/9.
found it more economical in the long run
to in-buy small but more expensive lots
than risk spoilage of slow moving items.
Meat is the other expensive proposi-
tion and here again an eye for safe and
economical sources pays off. Mr Corboz
recently secured, through the New Zea-
land Trade Commission, a quantity of
fillet steaks at 6/- a lb, as against the
local cuts selling at 9/-. He keeps a
constant watch on the kitchen. Badly
trimmed vegetables can cut profits, care-
less emptying of garbage into the pigfeed
cans can cause loss of valuable cutlery.
There is no money made on pigfeed, but
it solves the disposal problem and the
pigs are presumably happy. He estimates
that souveniring from his three restau-
rants costs him £ISOO a year.
THhe commercial side of the three places
is run from a small office over El
Capuchino where graphs maintained
from the opening dates trace the progress
and certainly do reflect the economic
fluctuations. He assesses the customers
pound as divided three ways: one third
for food, one third for wages and one
third for gross profit. From this comes
administrative costs and overheads.
Across his graphs runs a red “break-
even” chart the limitations of his
operational control. The profit rises and
falls on seasonal basis for all three. When,
as during slump periods, it descends
dangerously into the break-even band,
this must be made lower by cutting
expenses.
He displayed a weekly account sheet
for his Alouette restaurant.
Takings totalled £1286/7/6 with
details itemised thus under two headings:
FOOD
Cost of food £435/ 4/2
Plus 7i p.c. on £467 £ 35/ 0/6
Sub total £470/ 4/8
Gross £Bl6/2/10
Wages £415/ 4/7
Rent £ 40
Diners’ Club 10 p.c. £ 10/12/-
Miscellaneous £ 60
£996/13/-
Approximate Profit £290/ 6/2
WINES
Takings £397/14/ 3
Cost of wines £lB2/ 3/6
Plus 7i p.c. £ 13/13/-
Sub total £195/16/6
Wages £l4O
Rent £ 13
Diners’ Club 10 p.c. £ 8/ 6/6
£3BB/17/11
Miscellaneous £ 31/15/5
Approximate Profit: £299/2/7 £B/16/4
Chef’s food expenditure was above
the 33T per cent, estimate, but this varies
from week to week.
“We don’t sell only food,” Corboz
claims, “we sell entertainment.” This
varies from an accordian player for
dancing on a tiny floor amid the in-
congruous decor of El Capuchin, to an
orchestra and singer at his other places.
The main factor seems to be “audience
participation (the new words for com-
munity singing). Customers sometimes
form a conga line out the door of
Alouette and into George Street, a move
which gains in publicity what it loses in
customers who quietly drop out and
head for home, leaving the bill unpaid.
Mr Corboz claims the bugbear of the
business is the lack solidarity among
restaurateurs. They are always pirating
each other’s staff. “No one could blame
a member of the staff leaving for more
money,” he says, “but when he leaves
without notice and causes an upheaval,
he should be blackballed.”
One of the big factors in the eating
out business is the established expense
account. One restaurateur said it made
up 80 per cent, of his business. Many
firms have an account with certain res-
taurants. Others operate through the
Diners’ Club, an American organisation
which opened up in Australia seven
years ago with the aim of acquiring 5000
members in its first two years. It en-
rolled 9000 and today has 25,000 holding
credit cards which enable them to eat,
rent a hotel room or buy at places
bearing the blue membership symbol.
For restaurateurs the Diners’ Club is a
blessing. It cuts their accounting worries,
eliminates bad debts and is well worth
the 10 per cent, they say. Business
houses and professional people consider
it worth the £5 membership fee because
of the close watch it enables them to
keep on expenses, the complete record
it gives for bookkeeping purposes and the
fact that Diners’ Club returns are accept,
able to the Taxation Department. Tips
may also be included and go as legitimate
deductable expenditure.
But what about the places that fail 1 )
Mr J. C. Bedrodt who ran Princes during
its heyday and today runs Caprice, pos-
sibly the highest priced restaurant in
Australia, blames parking problems. “]
sold Princes seven years ago because ]
was unable to handle customers’ park-
ing,” he said. “Here they have the entire
road leading down to the Flying Base
for parking and they simply leave their
cars and walk in.”
Mr Gobes said he believes the places
that close their doors are not keeping
abreast of the time. “They’re living in
the day of the bowler hat” is how he
puts it. Tony Clerici, maitre d'hotel,
blames lack of trained staff and decline
in standards as practised in Europe. “How
could we ever have such food as the
Continent. London or New York? We
haven't got the chefs.
All agree, of course, that overloading
of expenses causes failure. They quote
the case of Quo Vadis, wound up last
March with more than <£3ooo owing in
unpaid bills. A restaurateur hiring im-
ported acts for his floorshow. big bands
and other trapping has to be doubly
careful. The additionals are all going on
the customers’ bills, but customers have
a nasty habit of suddenly staying away
and a contract with a singer or musician
is binding.
Out the main trouble is still the NSW
licensing laws. It was not until 1954
that the Licensing Act w'as amended to
ease restrictions on the granting of per-
mits for approved restaurants to serve
Australian wines and beers. The change
to 10 o’clock closing gave a longer grace
to these ordering their liquor through the
nightclubs. As the law stili stands restau-
rants with a license may serve Australian
beer and wines between the hours of
noon and 2.30 p.m. and six and midnight
with 30 minutes grace for the lingering
customers to finish their drinks. Some
hotels hold a license for extending their
liquor service to their dining rooms,
clearly giving them an edge of the res-
taurants.
The NSW Minister for Justice, Mr
Mannix, has stated he will soon place a
proposal before the NSW Cabinet for
legislation to relax these restrictions. He
is reported as favoring introduction of
cocktail bars in leading restaurants. Some
places already have bars where regular
patrons may enjoy an illegal cocktail or
aperitif before dining, but most proprie*
tors would like to see the legalisation of
hard liquor served at the table and ex-
tension to their permits to enable the*


ACCEPTANCE LIMITED
FIXED LONG TERM STOCK
P.A. 8-10 YEARS
4%
P.A. at call
REID MURRAY
Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stock*
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
Applications accepted only on forms attached to th*
Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
•403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William St., Adelaide 408 Collins St., Melb.
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
REID MURRAY
by Reid Murray Holdings Ltd.
W. RW» A. 26 V. 40
provide imported wines to the custo-
mers asking for them. A member of the
Catering Trades Organisation of NSW
sa y it was expected the Minister would
amend the regulations to permit the
serving of small nip size bottles of
brandies, whisky and liqueurs, as is per-
mitted on aircraft and trains. But to
many restaurateurs there is some-
thing almost indecent about serving
liqueur brandy from a nip sized bottle
after going through the ritual of warm-
ing the ballon.
But while the law is frequently proved
an ass there is no defence against break-
ing it and fines are heavy—up to £lOO
or imprisonment for the first offence and
not less than £lOO and not exceeding
£2OO or prison for at least six months
for a second or subsequent offences.
Second offenders also lose their license
for 12 months. But a licensed hotel can
serve any liquor the diner orders without
penalties.
Curiously, restaurateurs who go to the
trouble and expense of securing a wine
license (this frequently involves costly
structural alteration) are in a more in-
vidious position than night spots operat-
ing with no license. They may act as
agents for the customer who orders his
liquor by phone before 10 o’clock. The
customer may consume it on the premises
until any hour.
The proprietor of one licensed restau-
rant doing big business told of Federal
Government officials booking tables to
entertain important foreign visitors. The
officials frequently arrange for early
delivery of their liquor by Commonwealth
ear. This way the Australian hosts may
go through the procedure of ordering,
spared the embarassment of revealing to
the visiting VIP just how silly the law is.
He said it was not unusual for State
Ministers dining at his restaurant to use
their Diners’ Club cards to settle their
hills at midnight and then stay on until
the small hours paying the balance anony-
mously in cash.


OUT AND ABOUT
AFTERNOON OF A FEW QUIET BEERS
By PETER WARD
ALL Jack wanted to do was to have
a few quiet beers and read the
paper. He was looking at the pic-
ture ads. He got as much enjoyment
from looking at the ads as seeing the
pictures. He was looking at an ad for
a new Western starring Gregory Peck
and Kim Novak. He remembered see-
ing Gregory Peck in “The Gunfighter”
years ago and it had so impressed him
that he had felt a bit sorry for gun-
fighters ever since; but he wasn’t sure
about this one. He wasn’t sure how Kim
Novak would fit in with Gregory Peck in
a Western and anyway, this one wasn’t
going to be anything like “The Gun-
fighter” he could tell from the read
of the ad. He looked across at the next
page and there was Broderick Crawford
in a new one, something about a news-
paper m-a-g-n-a-t-e. He tried to imagine
Broderick Crawford in a Western: There
was Broderick Crawford in a saloon, a
lot of tough gunmen hanging around
waiting for him to make a move. But
Broderick Crawford was dressed in a
suit, 1962 cut. He put a stetson on
Broderick Crawford’s head, a white one,
then he tried him out with a leather
waistcoat. He got the waistcoat on him,
all right, but the suit coat was still on
under it. He put a Colt and cartridge
belt around his waist but the belt was
too big and the gun hung too low. He
concentrated for a moment and moved
it up, but there it was again, hanging
too low. He left it there because he
knew if he didn’t it would be around
Broderick Crawford’s ankles and he’d
never be able to get it up again, no
matter how hard he concentrated. That
made him think of boots. He tried high-
heeled ankle fitting boots first, but the
heels were too high and Broderick Craw-
ford was in danger of falling flat on
his face without having fired a shot. He
cut the heels right down and now they
were cavalry boots, coming half-way to
his knees, then they were right up to his
knees, then past them and Jack knew
the only way Broderick Crawford could
walk in boots like that was stiff-legged,
like Frankenstein, and that was ridicu-
lous. He took a drink of his beer and
that was when he first noticed this kid
looking at him across the bar.
kid had been looking at him, Jack
knew, because he looked away when
Jack caught his eye, and there was no
one else in the bar he could have been
looking at, apart from Marcia, the bar-
maid, who was filing her nails near the
till, and blind old Shuffles, sitting on
a bench in the corner waiting for some-
one to come in and talk to him. He’d
have to wait a while yet because it was
only three o’clock and Ryan’s pub
was always pretty quiet weekday after-
noons until about four. The pub was
situated a few hundred yards from the
Sydney Harbor Bridge on the north side
and you were likely to meet all sorts of
characters there who pulled up for a
quick drink on their way from town.
Jack went back to the ads. “Spartacus”
was on again. He thought about Jean
Simmons. He decided that if ever he met
a girl who looked like Jean Simmons,
he’d marry her. He was checking
through all the girls he knew and had
known, trying to recall if any of them
resembled Jean Simmons, and happened
to glance across the bar. There was the
kid, looking at him again.
The kid drained his glass of beer and
walked around the bar on Jack’s left
and went into the toilet. Jack was
watching for him to see what he would
do when he came out and sure enough,
he came over to Jack’s side of the bar
and stopped a few feet from him. Marcia
flip-flopped in her slippers over to him.
He said, “Well, I dunno. I dunno
what I’ll have this time. I’m all wet.”
He had a high-pitched voice and he
spoke very quickly. He put his hand
to his chin and grinned at Marcia. “Got
caught in the rain. Didn’t have a coat,”
he explained. “Didn’t think it’d rain
much today. Didn’t look like it this
morning, did it?”
Marcia said, “It’s raining now. What’ll
yuh have, love?”
“Well . . . yeah! Well, how about a
rum?”
“How’d yuh want it?”
“Uh?”
“Whadda yuh want to go with it?”
“Oh . . . yeah. Well, anything you
like.”
Marcia flip-flopped back to the spirits
stand. “Cloves?”
“Cloves! That’s it!” The kid threw
his hand wildly at her. “I was trying to
think of that.” He lowered his voice
and explained, “Couldn’t think of it.”
He said to Jack, “Funny how you try
to think of something and you can’t
think of it? You ever get that way?”
Jack looked up from the paper.
“Sometimes.” He had his finger on a
word. The word was f-a-n-d-a-n-g-o. He
was trying to think what it meant. \ ..
the passionate fandango!’ What was
that?
“It happens with me,” the kid said.
“Only with certain things, though. I
have a friend who studies psychology
and he’d say I couldn’t think of them
because I really didn’t want to. But that
couldn’t be right, could it? 1 mean, 1
know what I wanted in the rum, but 1
just couldn’t think of it for a moment.
That wouldn’t mean 1 didn’t want it,
would it?”
¥ack knew the kid wanted him to say
** something, but he wasn’t sure what
the kid was talking about, so he said,
“Well, there’s a lot in it, all that stuff.”
The kid edged along the bar toward
Jack. He said slowly, “No one knows
how much is in it yet. They’re just start-
ing,” as if he knew everything about it.
Marcia put the rum and cloves down
for the kid and Jack pushed his empty
glass over to her and nodded.
The kid said eagerly, “Let me buy you
this one?”
“It’s all right.”
“No! Go on, I’ll buy you this one.
I’d rather have someone to drink with”
The kid was almost begging him with
his big dark eyes. His face was thin
and pale and he had a mass of thick
black hair standing up all over his head.
“Okay,” Jack agreed and Marcia took
the glass away.
Jack was thinking that seeing the
pest was going to annoy him anyway, he
might as well let him buy the beer.
“This should go down well,” the kid
said, holding up his glass, “rum chaser.
He sipped the drink and put the glass
down. “The cloves makes all the dif-
ference, doesn’t it?”
“There y’are, Jackie,” Marcia said,
putting the beer in front of him.


“Thanks. Marce. Hey, Marce, dio
you see ‘The G unfighter’?”
Marcia looked puzzled. “ ‘The Gun-
fighter’? What’s that?”
“Picture. ‘The Gunfighter’. Had Greg-
ory Peck in it.”
“When was it on?”
“About ten years ago, I think.”
“Struth, you’re going back a bit,
aren’t yuh?”
“Yeah. Well, 1 remember it. I was
only about fifteen then, but I remember
it. It was about this gunfighter Greg-
ory Peck —and all these would-be-
smarties wanted to have a shot at him.”
Marcia shook her head. “No, I don’t
remember it.”
“That’s going back a bit for me, too,”
the kid said, digging into his change
pocket. “How much is that?” he asked
her, scattering coins on the counter.
Marcia took what she wanted and
went over to the till.
The kid took another sip of his rum.
“Best thing in the world to stop you
getting a chill,” he said, “rum. I got wet
today. Didn’t think it’d rain so much.”
He was wearing a royal blue Ber-
muda jacket, grey slacks and a navy
and white tie. The jacket was dark across
the shoulders. Wet. He looked like a
college boy having a day out.
When Jack had looked out the window
" of his room that morning at the rain
pelting down, he had turned over in his
bed and gone back to sleep. He hadn’t
felt like jumping on and off a truck
all day delivering boxes of butter. He
had spent the morning in bed and
thought he would put the afternoon in
at Ryan’s pub, having a few quiet beers
until some of the boys came in about
four-thirty.
The kid said, “I ripped the hood on
my car a few months ago, so I took it
right off. Haven’t had it fixed yet.
That’s how I got so wet.”
Jack finished drinking his beer. He
folded up his paper and put it in his
hip pocket, the kid watching him. He
said to the kid, “Well, thanks for the
beer.”
The kid looked hurt. “Aren’t you
going to have another one?” he smiled,
“You can’t let me finish this on my
own.”
“I gotta go, mate.”
“Go on! Have one more, just one.
What’s her name?” glancing at Marcia
near the till.
“Marcia.”
“Marcia, that’s right . . . Marcia! . . .
Another beer, thanks.”
Marcia refilled the glass.
Jack glanced at the electric clock on
the wall. Ten minutes, that’s all he’d give
Inm. Ten minutes, then he’d go. He
didn’t know where he’d go to. Walk
around a bit. It was raining, but he had
his plastic raincoat. He’d walk around a
bit, then come back after the kid had
gone.
He took his tobacco and papers out
of his shirt pocket to roll one but the
kid was too quick for him.
“Here, have one of these,” the kid
said, offering a packet of filters. Jack
took one, although he didn’t like them.
The kid asked him, “Do you know a
good formula for giving them up?” He
took one himself and lit the cigarettes,
talking all the time. “Not giving them
up, exactly. I couldn’t do that I don’t
think so, anyway, but to cut down on
them, just a bit. I smoke too much. It’s
all this study you know, sitting at a
desk for hours, studying.”
“I wouldn’t know much about that,
mate,” Jack admitted. “I’ve heard of
blokes who do it,” but he’d never met
one before.
“And the more I study, the more I
smoke. I can’t help it.” He took a quick
drag at the cigarette and chewed absent-
ly on his thumb nail.
Jack suggested, “Don’t study so much,
then.
“Oh, but I have to. If I want to get
on, I have to study.” He was thoughtful
for a moment, then he explained to
Jack, “Accountancy.”
Jack nodded. “Figures, and all that.”
The kid smiled sadly. His thin should-
ers drooped. “There’s a lot more to it
than figures.” He took a drink of the
rum a real drink this time. He tried
not to grimace. He said thoughtfully,
“Maybe I should’ve taken on dentistry,
like my brother Dick.” He took a drag at
the cigarette and blew out a cloud of
smoke and spat on the floor. He looked
up quickly at Jack and said, “Do you
know something? Do you know a lot of
dentists earn more than a doctor? or
a lawyer. A lot of people don’t know
that, but my brother Dick does. He’s
smart, all right. He wanted me to be
a dentist but I said no. I said one den-
tist in the family is enough ... I
dunno, though. Dick would have
helped me a hell of a lot. He told me.”
The kid looked as though he wouldn’t
have the strength to grip the pincers,
let alone pull a tooth.
He went on, “My father wants me to
be a civil engineer, like he is, but I
don’t want to be a civil engineer. My
father was the youngest civil engineer
to graduate. Yeah! He keeps telling me
now is the time to take my opportunity
because the country is screaming out for
civil engineers. But I don’t want to be
a civil engineer. It’s like Dick says,
don’t be anything you don’t want to be.”
“Well, that’s right, too,” Jack agreed.
“We don’t see much of Dick now,
since he got married and started his
practice. And this bitch he married, she
doesn’t want him to see us, either. You
know something?” He was getting
worked up about something. “She
won’t even let him take
his records into his own —
flat! Now, that’s true.”
It sounded like a 10-year-old saying
it.
“Records? You mean records you
play?”
“Records JAZZ records. She won’t
have them in the flat. She says there’s
no room. Huh! There’s plenty of room,
but she just doesn’t like them. And
that used to be Dick’s hobby, collecting
jazz records. Some of them go back to
1920 1920!”
“That real old stuff?”
“JAZZ, I said. Dixieland JAZZ.”
“I don’t like that stuff,” Jack said.
“I used to like Glenn Miller and Benny
Goodman and Count Basie, and all
that.”
“Oh, he’s got plenty of that, too. He’s
got everything you can think of, practic-
ally. They’re all listed in this big cata-
logue, hundreds of them.”
“I had a few dozen, but I gave them
away,” Jack said, and finished his beer.
“Dick’s got everything,” the kid con-
tinued. “It’d take days to play them all.
He’s got plenty of Benny Goodman —”
He stopped abruptly and looked shy
and hesitant for a moment, then he
asked Jack eagerly, “Look, how about
coming home and listening to some of
them? just for a while, eh?”
That was the last thing Jack wanted
to do. He had listened to the kid for
two beers. He felt that he had earned
the beers.
“Thanks, mate, but I’ve got to meet
this bloke.”
Whe kid suggested, smiling, ‘ Bring him
A along, too.”
“Well, I could, but I don’t think this
bloke is interested in jazz. Like, he
doesn’t know anything about it.”
The kid was silent. He sipped at his
rum and noticed Jack’s empty glass.
“You’re empty,” he pointed out.
“Have another one?”
“No, I’m right, thanks. I’ve had
enough. Well, I’ll have to go —”
“You know, we used to have some
terrific times when Dick was living with
us.” The kid spoke rapidly, moving in
close to Jack, knowing that he wanted
to leave. “He used to bring home his
mates from the uni and they’d play
records all night, practically. Boy, we
had some times —” He frowned, then
went on, “And that idiot sister of mine.
All she wanted to do was dance. That’s
all. She couldn’t understand that you
were supposed to sit down and just
listen. Show me a girl who can sit down
and listen to jazz, just one. You couldn’t.
They don’t understand it, that’s all. Like
my sister. Oh boy, what a pain in the
neck she is! Just because she’s a model
she thinks she’s just it. She goes prancing
around the place like she’s got thumb


tacks in her pants, or something. You
should see the way she walks now.”
“A model? Your sister’s a model?”
“She models clothes you know.
Yeah. She thinks she’s just it. Oh boy,
she used to get in Dick’s hair when he
was playing his records jumping
around all over the place. She’s worse
now that she’s a model. She wasn’t a
model then. She wanted to be a dancer
then. Now she’s a model. You can’t
even talk to her now.” He fell silent,
gnawing at some past hurt, then he was
off again. “You know what she’s doing
right now? Do you want to take a bet
on what she’s doing right now?”
Jack started to speak, but the kid
wasn’t listening.
“She was supposed to go down the
beach today with a photographer, but
it’s raining. You know what she’s doing
right now? At home, she’d be, jumping
around the house in her ballet tights,
throwing her skinny legs all around the
place. Oh boy, she thinks she’s lovely.
You know something? she’s even
skinnier than I am! She says ballet gives
her a good figure. Huh!”
A ballet dancer in black mesh tights,
long-legged, beautiful, leapt through
Jack’s mind someone like Cyd Char-
isse.
He said to the kid, “These models,
they’re all pretty thin, though.”
“Huh! And you should see what she
looks like! Gimme the paper.”
Jack gave him the paper and he
spread it out on the bar. He flipped
over the pages and stopped at a full-
page ad of hats and gloves. “There. Look
at it.”
Jack looked at the picture at the end
of the finger: the head of a girl in a
big straw hat. She was dark, like the
kid, with the same high cheekbones and
big, dark eyes. Her lips were parted in
a soft smile.
“You should see her before she slaps
the goo on her face! Boy, you’d get a
surprise.”
“Yeah?”
“You know something? She even gave
herself a new name! I’m not supposed to
call her Lazy anymore. Her name’s
Leslie and we used to call her Lazy
Leslie. Now that’s out. She calls her-
self Cheryll now. Cheryll!”
“Nice name.”
“It stinks.”
“How about a beer?” Jack suggested.
“I think I’ll have another one.”
The kid held up the rum. He hadn’t
made much headway with it. “I’ll have
to finish this first.”
“Finish it later. Have a beer.”
Jack ordered two beers, then he told
the kid, “I had a lot of Miller and all
that, but I had to give ’em away. They
got too heavy to cart around every time
I moved. I miss them, though. Like
sometimes I think of a bit out of one
of them and I’d like to hear the rest of
it but —” he shrugged, “you know.”
“You want to come to my place,
then,” the kid said, without inviting him.
“Dick’s got all that stuff. And he can’t
play them now. This bitch —”
“Do you play them?”
“Me? Oh, I play them.”
“And your sister, does she still —”
“She doesn’t worry me, boy! It’s only
when someone else is there. And these
friends of hers! They get all the records
mixed up, and put them back in the
wrong folders, and all that. Oh boy,
what a mess.” He shook his head dis-
gustedly.
Marcia set the beers down and the
kid took a long drink, then he said, “I’ll
tell you what I like to do. I like to put
a record on and sit back and just listen
to it. Know what I mean?”
“That’s what I like to do,” agreed
Jack, “just listen to it. That’s the only
way to do it.”
“Yeah, but try to tell Lazy that.”
“That’s what I used to do when I had
my records, just sit back and listen to
them.”
“You should get to know Dick.”
Jack said thoughtfully, “I wouldn’t
mind listening to some of those records
you’ve got.” Then, as though suddenly
thinking of a way out of his predica-
ment, he suggested, “I could ring that
bloke up later. I didn’t think of that.”
The kid smiled. He understood.
“You want to hear some records?
now?”
“If it’s all right with you.”
“I’ll say! We’ll go, then. We’ll go now,
huh?”
They finished the beer and went out
to the kid’s car, a small green convert-
ible. A sodden strip of rabbit fur hung
dismally from the radio aerial.
The kid’s name was Gregory and he
lived a few miles from the pub in the
suburb of Mosman.
On the trip over he demonstrated to
Jack how the gear stick jumped out of
third and went KL-LUNK, if he didn’t
hold it in; how the car pulled to one
side when he hit the brakes; and when
he let go of the steering wheel, the way
the car veered to the right.
He stopped the car in a quiet, tree-
lined street outside of an old, two-storied
brick and stone house. They walked
down a brick path onto a verandah and
entered a dim. curtained lounge room
through French windows.
“Sit down,” the kid said, “I’ll get you
something to drink.” He went over to a
liquor cabinet and peered in at a row of
bottles. “Whisky?”
“That’ll do,” Jack said. He took off
his raincoat and looked for something
to hang it on. He couldn’t see anything,
so he took it over to the doorway and
threw it out onto the verandah
The kid squirted soda into a glass and
turned around. “Sit down, Jack . .
Here,” and he gave Jack the drink.
Jack took the drink and sat on the
edge of a low armchair.
“Well!” the kid said, rubbing his
hands. “This’ll be good. This’ll be really
good, eh? But I think I’d better get
changed first. Better get into something
dry. Won’t be a minute.” He was back-
pedalling across the room while he was
talking. He felt for the door behind
him and turned around and opened it.
“Won’t be a minute.” He pulled the cord
on a reading lamp near the door, light-
ing the room. “Won’t be a minute,” he
promised, and disappeared down a hall-
way.
Tack took a drink of the whisky and
** soda and looked around the room,
It was a very large room, cluttered with
furniture as old as the house. There
were two other chairs similar to the one
Jack was sitting on, besides an old, over-
stuffed lounge suite. Opposite him was
a fireplace, a polished brass firescreen in
front, and on a mantelshelf above, two
silver candlesticks either side of an
eight-day clock. Near the lounge settee
was a rosewood table, a lamp on top.
He looked behind him and saw the
radiogram. He wondered where the
hundreds of records were kept.
He settled back in the chair and faced
the doorway where the kid had gone
through. An elderly man was standing
there, staring at him. The man was small
and thin and bald and had a white mous-
tache. He was wearing an orange dress-
ing gown, striped pyjamas, slippers and
he held a hot water bag in one hand. He
stared at Jack and Jack stared back at
him, then the man walked slowly into
the room.
“Who are you?”
Jack stood up and introduced him-
self and proffered his hand, but the man
made no move to shake hands.
He asked Jack, “Did Gregory bring
you?”
“Yes, that’s right.”
“He shouldn’t have. He has work to
do he has a lot of work to do.”
He said it very slowly, very deliberate-
ly. There was no mistaking what he
meant.
Jack said, “Well, I’d better be going,
them.”
“Yes. Good afternoon.”
Jack handed him the glass of whisky
and soda and that was the last he ever
saw of him, standing in the middle of the
room with a hot water bag in one hand
and a glass of whisky and soda in the
other.
He went out onto the verandah and
put on his raincoat. He was glad he had
his raincoat. It was raining heavily now
and he had about half a mile to walk
to the bus stop.


QUEENSLAND'S OTHER ISLANDS
After the Foot Report, the Torres Islanders ...
By L. J. ROBERTS
Queensland is the only Australian
State with two distinct and separate
native races the mainland Aborigines
and the Torres Strait Islanders who live
on 200 islands between Cape York and
New Guinea.
The five Queensland native settle-
ments care for 5000 Aborigines. The
closed-preserve area of the Torres Strait
Islands contains some 6000 members of
a race, neither Melanesian, Polynesian
nor Micronesian, though possessing some
of the characteristics of each.
Aborigines in the five mainland
settlements live under an entirely
paternalistic system. The Torres Strait
Islanders, on the other hand, are self-
supporting and for many years have had
what amounts to home rule within the
area of a Sovereign Australian State.
There is no point of ethnic or other
similarity between the Islanders and the
mainland Aborigines. Torres Strait
people are a typical Island race a
warrior people, outstanding seamen,
invariably magnificent in physique, and
generally handsome by European stand-
ards. This complete dissimilarity with
the Aborigines has been responsible for
a vastly different European reaction.
From the earliest days of European
penetration of the Island area, the
Islanders never could be taken for
granted, and never could be dispossessed.
Their prowess as warriors and seamen
did not allow them to be despised. As
well, they had evolved a well-defined
culture, complete with an art form
peculiarly their own.
In the Torres Strait the head man is
middle-aged Con O’Leary, Director of
the Sub Department of Native Affairs
within the Health and Home Affairs
portfolio.
An up-from-the-ranks public servant,
he is a remarkable administrator, and
quite unashamedly is both devoted and
dedicated to his Torres Strait Islanders.
The policies which he has formulated
and “sold” to successive Governments
for implementation have been aimed at
preserving as much as possible of what
is good in the traditional island way of
life, while equipping the Islanders for
the hard facts of economic life.
The aim has been less assimilation or
integration than independence as an
entity. As a result, in the social and
administrative organisation of the
Islands, the native people have a form
of self-government giving them “home-
rule” and a very definite control in
their destiny as a race.
Each Island, with one exception, has
its own Council —or local “Parliament”
—empowered to deal with matters of
internal administration and control. The
Island Council’s, in turn, elect delegates
to the Strait’s equivalent of a “Common-
wealth” body the generally triennial
Inter-Island Conference. Carrying the
Basic Democracy analogy a step further,
the Conference decisions pass on to the
“President”—the Departmental Director,
Mr O’Leary.
Each Islander, male and female, over
the age of 18 years, has the right to vote
in the election of members of the in-
dividual Island “parliaments” or Coun-
cils.
The next Conference of Island rep-
resentatives is scheduled for 1964, but
could be convened earlier if deemed
necessary by the majority of individual
Councils. Up to 40 Councillors will take
part, meeting under an elected Islander
Chairman and with Islander minute
secretaries. The Conferences are
described officially by the Queensland
Government as being charged with
“dealing with common problems, and,
as well, legislating for the future of the
Torres Strait Islanders as a race”.
State franchise has not been a major
issue with the Islanders, despite the fact
that so large a voting bloc could mean
an Islander Member of the Queensland
Parliament.
One difficulty believed to be ranking
large in the minds of the Native Affairs
Department’s top administration is that
State franchise would mean the in-
evitable entry of Party Politics into
every Island Council, something which
so far has not occurred.
The administrative centre for the
Strait is dry, dusty Europeanised Thurs-
day Island, once the “Sink of the
Pacific”, and now the only inhabited
Island in the group which does not have
Local Government.
Several years ago the Queensland
Government decided that the affairs of
the European Thursday Island Council
were so chaotic that it should be
disolved. An Administrator then was
appointed from the Local Government
Department. Ironically, then, the only
residents of the Strait area who do not
have any degree of Local Government
are the Europeans of Thursday Island,
the administrative centre, who are the
only residents with State and Common-
wealth franchise.
In the State electoral set-up, the
Islands form part of the Cairns elector-
ate which is represented by ALP man,
Mr G. W. Wallace, a Cairns resident.
Mr Wallace has not been noted for any
major contribution in the matter of
adult franchise for the mainland
Aborigines in his electorate, but
recently he has come to be vocal on the
question of voting rights for the
Islanders.
In the Queensland Parliament, he
asked the Country-Liberal Party Premier,
Mr Nicklin, whether in view of the un-
doubted capacity of the Torres Strait
Islanders to exercise the adult franchise,
he would take immediate steps to bring
down legislation to allow “this splendid
race” to vote as responsible citizens of
the State of Queensland. Mr Nicklin
merely replied that the question
was receiving the full and careful
consideration of his Government. Out-
side Parliament, he elaborated to some
extent. He said that the whole question
of voting rights now was being considered
in a review of native affairs in Queens-
land. West Australian legislation and
and other relevant State laws were being
studied.
VSThere the Torres Strait Islander
"" both on his home island or in the
North Queensland community—is self-
supporting, the Mainland Settlement
Aborigine is not.
Mr O’Leary estimates that of the 5000
Aborigines being cared for in the Settle-
ments, only 25 per cent, are capable of
earning a living. Unfortunately, however,
the Settlements can provide jobs for only
13 per cent, of them.
He is convinced and successive
Queensland Governments have been con-
vinced with him that the Torres Strait
Islanders must be considered as com


pletely separate from the Aboriginal
population.
Queensland’s Minister for Health and
Home Affairs, Dr Noble, endorsed Mr
O’Leary’s view when he told the Inter-
Island Conference that “these formative
years of self-control of affairs will fit the
Torres Strait Islanders very eminently
for the time when they will have equal
voting rights with other citizens of the
Commonwealth.”
However, that same Inter-Island Con-
ference resolved, after long discussion,
that the Islanders already having their
own form of self-government did not
wish to proceed with the subject of State
Franchise.
Whatever decision finally is made by
the Government, one thing which is
certain is that the opinion which will
count will be that of Con O’Leary.
The very scope of the Native Affairs
Department ensures that it must be the
most independent of all in terms of Min-
isterial or Cabinet control. It is a sub-
department of Health and Home Affairs
to which portfolio both Parties endeavour
to appoint a doctor of medicine, since
Health and Hospitals are the dominant
field of responsibility and of the most
importance in terms of elector relation-
ship. The prior knowledge of Native
Affairs (and of natives) of each Health
Minister, however well-intentioned, in-
variably is so slight as to be negligible.
His dependence, then, on his Director
must be almost complete.
Mr O'Leary grew up with Native
Affairs administration in the Torres
Strait, whose people he came to believe
should be allowed to preserve themselves
as a race, with dignity.
This respect for the Islanders goes
back to the earliest days. The Portguese-
Spanish navigator, Torres, gave his name
to the Strait in 1605. Cook and Bligh
both passed through on their epic voy-
ages, and were given cause to be aware
of the presence of a warrior people.
Charting of the area began in 1792 with
work by Bligh and Flinders. Flinders
commented that perhaps no space of
three and a half degrees in length pre-
sented more danger. He also believed
that there would be no finer sailors any-
where in the world.
In 1793, East India Company traders
tried to take possession of the Islands,
but their action was repudiated by the
British Government. Whalers began to
enter the Strait in 1830, and pearlers in
1860, setting in train a lawless and
violent era. However, the area remained
unclaimed until 1878 when the Queens-
land Government acted to add the
islands and their waters to its own ter-
ritory.
No attempt had been made to establish
any form of real order in the area until
1871 when the five-gun, two-funnelled
Naval paddle steamer Basilisk was sent
North to provide some strength to the
Residency at Somerset on the tip of Cape
York.
The 200 islands range from tiny cays
to the 70 square miles of steep, heavily
timbered Prince of Wales. The inhabi-
tants encountered first by the whalers,
then by the blackbirders and then by the
pearlers showed themselves willing to
resist encroachment with matching
violence.
Their homes were two-storied huts
and they made major voyages in 70 feet
long canoes for trade and for war.
Though primarily warriors, they also
were cultivators of the soil and fishers
of the sea.
They ate the sex organs and tongues
of their victims in warfare to gain
strength, and made a cult of the human
head using pearl shell to provide eyes for
the skull trophies. But at the same time,
they observed rigid laws against adultery,
theft, slander and intra-island murder,
and honored their spirits and gods in
intricate masks and carvings.
The trigger-temper of the Islanders
was cocked with the entry of the whalers,
and grew worse with the development of
blackbirding for the Queensland and
Fijian sugar plantations, and for beche-de-
mer and pearling lugger crews Massacre
followed massacre as the European entry
intensified.
Pearlers began to operate in the area
in the mid-1860’s using divers from the
Sulu Archipeligo, north of Borneo First
successes brought an influx ot Malay and
Japanese divers—and began the process
which turned the Strait into one of the
most cosmopolitan places in the Pacific.
Wary bargains began tc be effected on
some islands between the pearlers and
the natives. In these cases, the Island
leaders set aside limited areas for pearling
stations to be established. Uninhabited
Thursday Island—the most unattractive
and driest in the group—became the
headquarters of the soon to boom pearl-
ing industry, and gained international
notoriety as the “Sink of the Pacific.”
Incredibly cosmopolitan, seventeen na-
tionalities were permanently represented
on the Island, with as many others
coming and going. Murder, rape and
knife-brawls became the commonplace
in the days prior to and just after the
turn of the century.
Japanese influence became particularly
strong, and persisted until the start of
World War 11. Christianity, brought in
the 80’s by Samoan missionaries, put an
end to head-hunting and cannibalism—
and today Islanders have been ordained
in the Priesthood.
Education and health services in the
islands are provided by the Queensland
Government through the Native Affairs
Department which also maintains inter-
island launch and radio contacts. An
Australian teacher and his family, as-
sisted by native teachers, reside on each
island providing school to Bth Grade
standard. The teacher serves also as an
advisor.
This year, a youth hostel has been
opened on Thursday Island to allow child-
ren from the outlying islands to go on
to a higher standard. The Department—
under Mr O’Leary’s direction —also has
established the Island Industries Board,
in effect a giant co-operative, which
conducts stores on 17 islands and at a
Cape York settlement Annual turnover
is in the vicinity of £.500.000. Gross
earnings by the Torres Strait Islanders,
and by the few hundred Peninsula natives
included in the scheme, total in the
£500,000 to £600,000 range
Mr O’Leary has encouraged the Island-
ers to maintain their own pearl and
trochus shell fleet of more than 20 vessels
—the largest in Australian waters. As
well, Islanders provide the major portion
of the work force engaged on the pri-
vately-owned luggers
Some 750 men are employed in the
marine industry in the Strait—around
500 on privately-owned vessels and some
250 on Island-owned vessels In addition,
more than 200 other men are employed
as dingy workers on their home islands,
or at Thursday Island
Torres Strait tradesmen, trained at
Thursday Island and enjoying full Award
conditions as members of the relevant
trade unions, have constructed an ambi-
tious Native Affairs Department hostel
and meeting place for Aborigines passing
through the Northern city ot Townsville.
They also have undertaken Departmental
construction work in more northerly
Cairns as well as in the Islands
Construction of new houses and
amenities has increased on the Islands as
a result of the expansion in artisan
training.
A school for native pearl-shell divers
also operates with considerable success,
with the object of allowing the Islander-
owned luggers to work new, deeper shell
beds.
The sophistication and perspective of
the Islanders were underlined well a
few years ago at Darnley Island in cele-
brations associated with the opening of
a new school building. On their own
initiative, the Islanders staged a “Pageant
of Progress” depicting the history of
Darnley from the pre-European head
hunting days through to the present and
on to a visionary future.


Mew Zealand Newsletter
THAT ANZAC UNION!
An alliance of country hicks and city slickers?
From MERVYN CULL in Auckland
idea of political integration between
A Australia and New Zealand is not
new. Back in the days when New
Zealand was a colony it rejected it on a
couple of occasions. How much more
slender is the chance of its considering
it now, when it is a Dominion?
But the idea of some sort of trade or
economic union between Australia and
New Zealand grows more attractive here
as the British hour of decision on Europe
draws closer. Despite all their often-
unjustified reservations about Australia,
New Zealanders have a sneaking affec-
tion for their cousins across the Tasman.
New Zealand and Australia are, of
course, already linked defensively under
the Anzus Pact and under Seato. But
geography alone suggests that the associa-
tion between them should be even closer
and more exclusive. Trade is obviously
the field to explore.
Although the economies of the two
countries are not strictly complementary,
each has many resources of great value
and potentiality which they could share
to mutual advantage.
But, according to some New Zealan-
ders, experience has made them a little
chary of Australia as a trading partner.
They say Australia makes them look
rather like a country hick wrangling with
a city slicker. In fact, when they send
a trade mission across the Tasman, some
New Zealanders seem to expect it to
come back with the title deeds to the
Great Australian Bight in its pocket, and
no shirt.
To illustrate their point, New Zealand
businessmen point to the 1956 trade
agreement. When Sir Sidney Holland, a
former Prime Minister, negotiated this
in Canberra, New Zealanders were led
to expect a phenomenal increase in their
annual exports to Australia.
They began to feel a little uneasy a
few weeks after Sir Sidney’s return when
they were informed that Mr Eric Hal-
stead, then Minister of Industries and
Commerce, was going to Australia to
“iron out anomalies and difficulties in
procedure in the administration of Aus-
tralian import controls in relation to the
export of New Zealand goods”.
The shock, they say, came 18 months
after the agreement had been negotiated
when they found that it was working
strongly in Australia’s favor, that by
a spectacular jump in buying New Zea-
land had become Australia’s best over-
seas customer after Japan and Britain,
and that the adverse balance in New
Zealand’s account with Australia had
grown steeply.
Trading figures show that in 1955,
before the trading agreement was operat-
ing, Australia supplied New Zealand
with 12.16 per cent, of her total imports.
In the succeeding years, the figure
jumped to 14.19 and 17.26, and by 1959
it was up to 18.09.
In the meantime, Australia’s purchases
from New Zealand rose modestly from
2.59 per cent, of her total exports in
1955 to 3.05 the year after, 3.67 in 1957
and 4.12 in 1958. But in 1959 they
were down again to 3.74.
tT'RADE officials here point out that in
recent years New Zealand has ab-
sorbed some 6 per cent, of Australia’s
exports, but supplied her with less than
2 per cent, of her imports. In cold cash,
it means that in the 1960-61 year, for
instance, New Zealand bought £62
million worth of Australian goods while
Australia took £l7 million worth from
the Dominion.
“The New Zealand Herald” provides an
illustration of the attitude here toward
Trans-Tasman trade. It said recently
that before New Zealand could con-
template the cultivation of Tasman trade
with any fresh enthusiasm, “something
more than fair words and pious expres-
sions of good will are needed from Can-
berra.”
The “Herald” recalled that last year
quarantine regulations were used in their
strictest written form to keep out New
Zealand potatoes, although Australia was
suffering from an acute shortage, and
that on a similar occasion New Zealand
onions received similar treatment.
It recalled, too, that when frozen
vegetables won a small share of the
Australian market, pressure from Tas-
mania in particular soon limited the
opening. Fish from New Zealand also
met resistance, and forest products, a
major and increasing import from New
Zealand, had to compete against some
heavily protected Australian lines.
New Zealand dairy producers, par-
ticularly, feel suspicious of Australian
marketing practices. They have often
charged the heavily subsidised Australian
dairy industry with dumping.
Certainly they have found that,
especially in the slowly expanding
markets of Africa and Asia, the Aus-
tralians offer the most rigorous compe-
tition.
The New Zealand dairy producer
finds that Australian eagerness to climb
aboard the New Zealand bandwagon in
the promotion of dairy and lamb exports
has cost him dearly. The Australian
farmer, he claims, has capitalised on
New Zealand’s good reputation to dis-
pose of an inferior product.
But for all that, sound reasons still
exists for a two-way increase in Trans-


S‘
t
/
I 3
7/
y
u
\ t
/
%
It isn't CENTRAL heating if
you shiver in the bathroom!
Gilbarco Central Heating brings adequate warmth
to every room . . . and abundant hot water, too!
It automatically provides a positive and constant supply of heat
in every room—thermostatically controlled to any desired tem-
perature —also abundant hot water, far cheaper than other hot
water systems. If you are planning a new home, or intending to
modernise an existing one—the additional cost of Gilbarco
Central Heating is relatively small. We shall be pleased to quote
for your needs.
xcz
xczx
cz
OIL-FIRED CENTRAL HEATING SYSTEMS
GILBERT & BARKER
Mfg. Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
Huntley Street, Alexandria, M.S.W. Phone LA 2716.
also at BRISBANE • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • TOWNSVILLE
• NEWCASTLE • HOBART • AUCKLAND • WELLINGTON • CHRISTCHURCH
.GB/153
Tasman trade even apart from the
fact that the Common Market is a
threat to established Australian and New
Zealand markets abroad.
One of the most obvious reasons
pointed out here is that the lines of
communication between the two coun-
tries are short and convenient, a major
factor in the event of war.
Another reason is that assured larger
markets in each other’s country, with
their incentive to the adoption of more
efficient means of mass or bulk produc-
tion and specialisation, could lower costs.
At present, economists contend, protec-
tion from overseas competition in an
inflated market means that some Aus-
tralian and New Zealand producers rest
content on inefficiency.
Lower production costs, of course,
would mean that the products of both
countries would compete more effectively
for markets abroad and against imports,
thus reducing economic vulnerability.
Certainly, if Britain joined the Com-
mon Market Australia could stand to
benefit in New Zealand. The chances are
that New Zealand would lose her British
agricultural preferences and in return
would have to abolish British preferences
in New Zealand markets. But Australia
would retain her preferential treatment
here and thus have a chance to increase
her exports of manufactures to this
country.
The chances of New Zealand selling
more to Australia do not seem quite so
bright. The major difficulty, of course,
is that Australia is herself an exporter of
the main items of farm production which
New Zealand sells abroad. So the kinds
of goods New Zealand can send across
the Tasman in exchange fo the commo-
dities which she finds it good business to
buy from Australia are obviously limited.
But New Zealand believes that she
can produce, among other things, quick-
frozen vegetables, „ther quick-frozen
goods md fresh fish more cheaply and
efficiently than Australia can produce
them. And why shouldn’t Australia cut
down on, say, her imports of foreign
newsprint if New Zealand imported, for
instance, more Australian cars and
trucks, or more of her steel, machinery
and manufactured goods, in preference
to supplies from Europe and, perhaps,
even Britain?
No one wants the Australian or New
Zealand Government to use against their
own sectional interests tactics as ruth-
less as the Common Market countries
seem willing to employ for the sake of
economic integration. But many New
Zealanders feel there is an overwhelming
case in favor of some adjustments.
After all, they declare, if as widely
differing countries as France and Ger-
many can integrate economically, why
can’t two countries with as much in
common as Australia and New Zealand?


Around Melbourne
RETURN OF NORM AND EDNA EVERAGE
most exciting story in Mel-
A bourne this week is this our
beloved Barry Humphries has re-
turned. He was wearing a lovely pair
of pince-nez “Boston Grabs” glasses,
his hair was an attractive shoulder
length, and we all noticed he had put
on just a little around the middle. He
was older too, an almost elderly 28,
but as he said to us, “What are
wrinkles, but the dried up beds of
old smiles?”
“Ah,” he said. “I think our Mel-
bourne is so much bigger, more beau-
tiful than ever. I do adore your TV.
I could just sit and look at the com-
mercials all day. Do you still have
that lovely one . . . umm . . . what
was it? . . . oh yes, ‘I wonder where
the white went before I cleaned my
teeth with excrement’.”
Please don’t think that we were out
of touch while he was performing on
the London stage. He dropped us a
line every so often. There was that
time when he formed the “Society for
the Preservation of War Savings
Street Signs and Fat For Britain Tins”.
He wrote to ask whether the streets of
Melbourne still had those dear signs
“This Is A War Savings Street”.
Happily Melbourne was able to
find some signs in almost mint con-
dition in such suburbs as Windsor,
Hampton and Ascot Vale. These were
despatched to him through that won-
derful Australian airline, Qantas.
He also wrote his now famous
letter: “I am most anxious to trace a
perfect example of a ‘Fat For Britain’
tin. Those examples in the Society’s
London Museum are somewhat dented
and visitors have been repelled rather
than overwhelmed with gratitude by
the specimens on display. I under-
stand that there was until recently a
‘Fat for Britain’ depot somewhere in
Pascoe Vale, run by an elderly lady
who was under the impression that
the war was still on.”
But we are lucky. He has taken the
Assembly Hall for nine nights to tell
us all about his ad . entures. It’s a very
nice type of place, run by the Presby-
terian Church. He sent us all this
letter under the address, 36 Humores-
que Street, Moonee Ponds:
Dear Fellow Australians (and
foreign friends).
Just a quick scribbled note to
say how much I am longing to see
you all again. “East West, home
best,” and blood IS thicker than
water isn’t it, no matter what they
say. Anyway, I’ve got so MUCH
to tell you about all my travels
I’m just bursting.
Bye the bye, when you pop in
to see me you’d help me such a lot
with the catering if you brought a
plate.
I really must fly now, or Norm
will be in for his dinner. Steak
and kidney pudding—can you
smell it cooking?
Yours in haste,
Edna Everage.
Barry Humphries is odored by the
University students, and loved by
highbrows. Robin Boyd wrote the
blurb for one of his records. It is very
U to be a Humphries fan. Yet it
would be a mistake to say that he is
always funny. Often in interminable
monologues, in his full-blown assaults
on suburbia he can be cruel. When
one starts to write in one’s seat as
the portrait comes painfully close to
home.
To others he is merely a freak, a
horrid personification of a University
rag, impossible to understand. A TV
compere bluntly introduced him last
week as “Melbourne’s number one
nut.” In some ways he is like Peter
Sellers. Once in public he cannot do
anything else but act, so that often it
is impossible to get a coherent answer
and it seems that the actual Barry
Humphries does not exist.
Tn an effort to overcome this Pat-
rick Tennison interviewed him for
radio by hiding the microphone and
until it was all over Humphries was
unaware that the whole interview was
being taped. He told some interesting
things, for example, how he matricu-
lated to Melbourne University with
two exhibitions. And he told the full
story of the remarkable Ashburton
Line incident. He took a seat in an
early morning train, non-smoker first
class. He had accomplices stationed
at stops all along the line. At the first
stop an accomplice opened the car-
riage door and silently passed in a
grape fruit.
At the next stop another passed in
some wheaties, at the next bacon and
eggs, at the next toast and finally
coffee. The effect on the other pas-
sengers, according to Humphries, was
paralysing, a sensational experience.
There was no pay-off, no reporters
present. To have explained his actions
would have spoilt everything. But he
felt that his fellow passengers, after
it was all over, would never be quite
the same again.
Then there was the incident at the
bargain sales at David Jones in Syd-
ney, the typical sale with clothes
heaped on the counter. He went to a
delicatessen in King’s Cross and
bought a supply of sliced ham. Sur-
reptitiously he placed slices of ham
here and there amongst the clothes.
“Now,” said Humphries, “if they had
found a moth ball that wouldn’t have
been unexpected. If they had found a
silverfish, even a tennis ball or a port-
able radio, they would have under-
stood. But a slice of ham! Nobody
would put slices of ham in amongst
clothing even as a joke.”
The bargain-hunting ladies called a
gentleman with a carnation in his
button-hole. He went off with one of
the offending slices between two fin-
gers, deeply disturbed. Nor would he
ever be quite the same again.
Once Barry Humphries put his
elbow in a cup of sauce to test its
temperature and then drank it. It
was important to do this, he felt, to
illustrate that tomato sauce was Aus-
tralia’s national drink.
He is now working on a series of
songs which he claims will cause a
resurgence of Australia Unnational-
ism. He has too an operetta all about
an uprising of Australian aboriginals
against the white population. “Un-
known to us, they build up their
numbers in caves in the vast expanses
of Australia, and, when they are
powerful enough, attack the cities.
The second act opens at a white reser-
vation in Central Australia with abor-
iginals guarding the barbed wire com-
pound and inside there is a group of
representative Australians Mr
Menzies, Gladys Moncrieff, Lou
Richards. . .
BATMAN


OVERSEAS
THE AILING, AGEING
EMPEROR MAO
Chronic Cerebral Ischemia?
By RICHARD L. WALKER
Although military activity in the
Taiwan Strait this summer seems
to belie it, for almost three years
now there has been growing uncertainty
at the top levels of the Chinese Commu-
nist regime. The firm hand of former
years is missing. A leadership which in
record time established control over one-
fourth of the earth’s population and built
mainland China into a formidable force
in world politics has been faltering and
marking time. In place of the vigor,
imagination, discipline and revolutionary
elan which enabled China’s old Commu-
nists to move through nany paM . ,s- s
there has been a hardening and torpor.
The tenth anniversary of Mao Tse-
tung’s regime on October 1, 1959, prob-
ably marked the peak of fervor and
energy. Although some of the conse-
quences of the “great leap forward” of
1958 were already beginning to manifest
themselves, China’s first-generation Com-
munist leaders still exuded confidence
and an obvious satisfaction Since then,
however, there has been a steady dete-
rioration in leadership, morale, economy,
and indeed practically every other aspect
of life in a state which only a few years
ago was the most tightly controlled
dictatorship in the world. War may now
seem the only answer for Mao’s China.
Those who insist on analysing Com-
munist China as an unchanging monolith
and treating with the current leadership
in terms of its former verve are probably
as divorced from reality as is the current
leadership itself. In view of the very
serious Chinese ambitions and manifold
activities around the world, it is essential
that we avoid fixed and unchanging
images. Whether the world can live at
peace with the new centre of world
power in China may well depend upon
changes that are taking place as a tired
group of old men pass from the scene.
Much will also depend upon the
manner in which Mao Tse-tung himself
departs, for he has been elevated into a
unique position as the sole source of
wisdom and direction for the Chinese
Communist state.
It is probably useful to point out some
of the examples of recent deterioration
and tired bewilderment among the top
leadership in China.
• Since the abysmal failure of the
“people’s communes” about which Mao
made the singularly brilliant statement,
“They are good,” there have been no
great drives or innovations of the nature
which once spurred Mao’s subjects
forward at reckless pace. Formerly the
top leadership had been able to come up
with some new slogans or policy to cover
up failures.
Although some observers have tended
to view the gradual retreat from the
communes as a sign of flexibility, it has
been more a groping retreat than a well-
directed operation such as the final
disengagement in Korea.
• For three years there have been no
major doctrinal pronouncements such as
for many years before kept Communist
Parties around the world fascinated with
the Chinese experiment. Even in its
ideological differences with the Soviet
Union, Red China has been unable to
come up with the type of fresh inter-
pretation such as it developed only six
years ago in dealing with de-Stalinization.
• Internal policies and discipline have
been allowed to drift and weaken in the


face of growing domestic problems. In
the spring of 1961, anti-Mao and anti-
communist posters appeared in major
Chinese cities, something that would have
been undreamed of a few years before.
• The National People’s Congress
which met in March and April failed to
come up with anything concrete by way
0 f proposals to inspire an escape from
the present agrarian dilemma. The fact
that it met in secrecy and, contrary to
the Constitution, had not convened for
two years also reflected the absence of
assurance and of a self-confident directing
hand.
0 Chinese Communist relations with
India, the open quarrel with Moscow and
the backing of recalcitrant Albania,
although policies which in some respects
might be viewed as promoting Chinese
national interest, reveal a frozen and
relatively unimaginative attitude for
which the Chinese Communist leaders
have not been noted in the past.
There are many more such items, but
enough have been listed to indicate the
general stagnation which has settled over
the top leadership in the world’s most
populous Communist state. That leader-
ship, which in the 19-member Politburo
now averages almost 64 years of age,'
may well have spent its energy. Possibly
it has little more than enough left to
cling to current positions of power in
the face of a newly-rising and ambitious
middle-level group of Communist
aspirants
Decline ot the old Bolsheviks
T>he current decline of the old Chinese
A Bolsheviks is mirrored in the almost
weekly reports of the death of some
high-ranking comrade. (The same is
true incidentally of the rival Nationalist
Party across the Taiwan Strait.) The
creeping incapacity for strong leadership
is most significantly symbolized in the
person of the 69-year-old Mao Tse-tung
himself.
Mao has been a dramatic figure and
brilliant theorist and leader for Commu-
nism in China. Since he came to occupy
the “dragon throne” in 1949, he has been
so worshipped and idolized that every
action and every policy in mainland
China has been in good Communist
fashion justified by reference to his
scriptures
But there have been no new scriptures
from the “heroic and great leader,” des-
pite the fact that he retired from his
active government position in April 1959
ostensibly to devote himself to his Party
tasks and to theoretical work. Since then
be has not made a single significant state-
ment nor published a single work of any
importance.
In fact, it may now be safely asserted
that Communist China is suffering from
a semi-paralysis in its top leadership
partially due to the growing incapacity of
Mao himself. Writing in the New York
“Times” of May 27, Tillman Durdin, one
of America’s most capable reporters
covering the Far East, commented, “Mao
Tse-tung is known to be in failing health
with his mental powers faltering.”
Many of China’s current problems and
policies reflect the uncertainty, the tenta-
tive preparation, and the internal con-
solidating of political positions on the
part of those who are waiting for the old
man to die.
A survey of pictures and films of Mao
Tse-tung, an analysis of his meetings and
conversations with visitors to China, a
scrutiny of his activities and lack thereof
over the past five years: all these indicate
that he is suffering from one of the
maladies frequently occurring in people
of his advanced age.
The pattern of the symptoms is quite
familiar to qualified medical practitioners
with whom 1 have consulted.
The specific illness, the first signs of
which can be traced back as far as the
40th Anniversary of the Bolshevik
Revolution in 1957 when Mao visited
Moscow, is a chronic cerebral ischemia.
“Ischemia” itself merely denotes insuf-
ficient blood, in this case to the brain
or parts of the brain. This is usually as-
sociated with arterial sclerosis or harden-
ing of the arteries. Because of inadequate
blood supply to the brain, due to sclerosis,
physical and mental capacities frequently
become retarded or lost. This type of
chronic ischemia is not reversible and
debility is progressive.
Sometimes it manifests itself in ’’small
strokes”. These are frequently observed
in older people who, for example, sud-
denly lose the power of speech or have
one side of their body paralysed. Such a
paralysis continues until the supply of
blood is restored to the part of the
brain affected. Prolonged stoppage, of
course, can cause permanent damage.
According to physicians, those suffering
from hardening of cerebral arteries often
display gradual development of the
characteristics of senility and advanced
years rather than suffering serious strokes.
The usual symptoms, they point out,
are roughly the following: loss of physical
and mental vigor; lack of capacity for
sustained concentration and effort; ten-
dency to be unreasonable and stubborn;
generally unreceptive to new ideas and
concepts; increasingly forgetful about
recent events but frequently showing a
clear recollection of remote events; al-
ternating moments of intellectual clarity
and moments of fuzziness.
These are precisely the symptoms Mao
Tse-tung has displayed in the recent past!
It was in Moscow in 1957, that mem-
bers of Communist parties from the West
first learned of Mao’s declining mental
vigor. On one occasion he was so ramb-
ling and incoherent that the interpreters
were embarrassed. It was apparently to
quash resultant rumors of Mao's infirmity
that shortly after his return to China
the Press there began a whole series of
articles about his physical prowess and
reports on the “beloved Chairman’s”
robust health. By September 1958 they
even claimed that he had been able to
swim across the Yangtze River seven
times, and at a wide point of course.
In the quiet of Hangchow
T>ut only a few months later the world
was informed that Mao was stepping
down from his position as Chairman of
the formal state structure. He continued,
however, to summon meetings of high
ranking officials at which he was reported
to have uttered profound interpretations
of Marxism-Leninism.
Refugees have stated that these were
actually interminable and disjointed
ramblings, and this seems to be borne
out by the fact that none of these dis-
courses has appeared in print.
By 1961, Mao’s appearances were be-
coming less and less frequent. He began
to spend much of his time in the quiet
and beautiful city of Hangchow. There he
has received and chatted briefly with
visiting dignitaries. From January 1 to
May 1, 1962, there are only twelve in-
stances of Mao’s activities featured in
the Chinese Communist press—a reflec-
tion of the decrease in his activity.
None of these represents any great
effort on Mao’s part. On seven occasions
he received visitors briefly and on five
he attended formal ceremonies such as
the opening and closing of the National
People’s Congress.
Interestingly enough, Mao’s appearan-
ces in the first four months of 1962 are
grouped in six two-day and three-day
periods, apparently those times when his
mind was relatively clear. Thus, for
example, on January 2nd and 3rd (two
of the twelve occasions) he received re-
presentatives of underdevelopd countries
and an old Japanese friend. Again on
February 4th and sth, he attended two
functions in connection with the Chinese
New Year. He made no speeches to the
National People’s Congress, and indeed
the “People’s Daily” barely mentioned his
presence.


Mao is the absolute ruler of China,
and he apparently still offers powerful
displays of temper. Although he is no
longer capable of the prolonged con-
centration which once made him one of
the leading thinkers and spokesmen for
world Communism, he clings stubbornly
to those theories which he has elaborated
in the past.
He is reported to have inspired the
reprinting of many of his former works.
(With the appropriate “operation rewrite”
to maintain his infallibility, it should be
added.) These writings belong to the pre-
atomic missile past and, like the Huna-
nese peasant himself, are divorced from
the realities of the world of the 1960’5.
Misunderstanding atomic facts
lifucH of the ideological dialogue with
the Soviet Union reflects an old man
clinging tenaciously to “verities” uttered
decades ago. The Yugoslav Communists
accuse him directly and the Soviets by
of being incapable and un-
willing to understand the facts of the
thermonuclear age.
The Chinese leader also suffers from
an illness which has accompanied
“culted” leaders in the past. He is swept
up in his own grandeur and belief in his
infallibility. This, combined with his
Iblerotic state and intellectual and
physical isolation from the outside world,
makes him increasingly incapable of
balanced judgment. Even democratic so-
cieties are prone to humor their old men
and their heroes. But authoritarian states
usually go through an agony of un-
restrained power corruption—we recall
the last davs of Hitler or of Stalin or of
Syngman Rhee.
The ageing leadership in Mainland
China and the growing infirmities of Mao
Tse-tung himself will present many
problems for those who must deal with
this growing centre of world power.
Such problems are likely to be as great
for Communist allies as for democratic
enemies. This is especially true in view
of the current serious difficulties in Mao’s
domain and given China’s impending
entrance into the nuclear club.
As a recent study of the top Chinese
Communist leadership by Donald W.
Klein has shown, we can probably draw
little comfort from the impending replace-
ment of the top level leadership in the
Politburo The middle-ranking members
of the Central Committee of the Chinese
Communist Party, who are about ten
years younger than the current members
of the Politburo, have had little practical
foreign experience. Proportionately half
as many have benefited from education
abroad, and most have confined their
activities to Party work and military
command. They represent a far more
non-intellectual Party tradition than does
the present leadership.
So long as old man Mao survives, his
image, the memories of his deeds, his
theoretical pronouncements, and the
vested interest in unity and loyalty that
has been built around his cult are likely
to persist. Opportunists within the Party,
who are preparing future positions, are
likely to promote intra-Party fights in
terms of w'ho supports Mao Tse-tung in
most loyal fashion, and this in itself
limits any prospective changes in policies.
China’s “New Class” is composed of
men who have w'atched a steady ac-
cumulation of power and success since
a low point in Party fortunes over a
quarter of a century ago. They attribute
success to their dedicated Marxism, the
leadership of Mao, the efficacy of revolu-
tionary violence and war, mass mobilisa-
tion and discipline.
These are the formulas they regard as
eternal truths and which they may be
expected to make the basis for future
actions. The cement and unity provided
by long years of common struggle and
by the inspiration of Mao himself have
been too little appreciated by outsiders.
They are frequently prone to pay
attention to the Hong Kong rumor mill
and stereotypes of past Chinese politics
in interpreting the present mainland
China regime.
As Mao’s sclerotic condition worsens,
the policies of the Chinese Communists
are likely to reflect his illness. Past posi-
tions and attitudes will probably remain
frozen. Thus we can anticipate a con-
tinued stubborn determination to “libe-
rate” Taiwan, we can expect a sustained
anti-American drive, and we can look for
continued support for guerrilla operations
around China’s borders.
Although the combination of Mao’s
growing megalomania and his sclerosis
are likely to produce inflexible approaches
to the problems of China and its world
relations, this does not mean that the
Chinese Reds will take lines of action that
are frenetic or reckless. His illness is not
exactly like that of Hitler or Stalin in
their last days. Mao has believed in
caution in any given situation unless vic-
tory is assured.
On the other hand, in Mao’s final days
we may expect further intensification of
those attitudes and viewpoints which have
made Red China such a troublesome
force in world affairs. Sclerotic dictators
are notably unreceptive to new view-
points. Thus the Chinese Communists
may prove increasingly proud and arro-
gant in their interpretations of Marxism
and increasingly divorced from the reali-
ties of the changing world around them.
Mao and his colleagues may become
more and more wedded to the view that
the United States is a “paper tiger,” that
the American people are against their
own government, that there are growing
contradictions among the “imperialists”
(the United States and its allies), and that
demonstrations of military force, parti-
cularly when they involve great numbers,
will bring further concessions and contri-
bute to the eventual victory for the “camp
of socialism and democracy.”
It is unlikely, however, that Mao Tse-
tung’s death will improve matters.
Following a period of “collective leader-
ship” and an intense power struggle, any-
one who succeeds such a great figure as
Mao upon the dragon throne must be
able to demonstrate real vigor and an
ability to deal with such pressing pro-
blems as feeding the hungry hundreds of
millions.
Either that or he must find some oc-
casion for leadership and national solida-
rity which will relegate such problems to
the background. This could even lead to
a military adventure.
The passing of Mao
Tn any event, whether Mao is alive or
A dead, prospects for peaceful accom-
modation with Communist China are not
bright. One thing, however, is certain.
After almost a decade and a half of
totalitarian rule under Marxism, during
which more than half of the population
was either born or came into intellectual
maturity, the present regime has had such
a profound impact that China can no
longer be thought of in terms which were
meaningful to the old China hands in the
past. Whether pro-Mao or anti-Mao, pro-
Communist or anti-Communist, there is
a vast new bureaucracy much of which
has a vested interest in a perpetuation of
those changes which the Communist re-
gime has brought. Barring a cataclysmic
war, mainland China is now' an indus-
trial power to be reckoned with on the
world scene.
On such changes the clock cannot be
turned back. On the other hand, given
China’s past authoritarian traditions and
their epitome of development under Mao,
it would be wishful thinking also to expect
the clock to be turned forward into the
modern world and away from despotism
in the near future.


Always ask for
AINSLIE’
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd., Sydney
Halloran Manton Pty. Ltd.
OVERSEAS
CONTEMPT FOR THE "WORMS"
Secure in power, Castro tolerates disunited opposition
From GAVIN YOUNG in New York
“T et me assure you there are hundreds
of us. I wouldn’t like to tell you the
exact figure —I really don’t know it my-
self. But were got men throughout the
island ready to rise against Castro. And
many of them are in the Revolutionary
Army and the militia.” The man was
neatly dressed. With his gleaming black
shoes, sleek hair and trimmed moustache
he might have been a prosperous lawyer,
a doctor or a Government official. In
fact he was a self-conf§ssed leader of one
of Cuba’s counter-revolutionary organisa-
tions.
We sat talking on the terrace of a
discreet, tree-screened villa in the heart
of Havana and drank contrabrand
Scotch whisky. Beside him, a profes-
sional-looking woman of about 36
watched us without speaking. She had
been introduced as the organiser of the
movement's women’s section. She
nodded intently when her companion said,
“the outside world must know we exist.”
There are four or five different counter-
revolutionary groups in Cuba itself. They
claim to have little contact with the exiled
Cubans in Miami—or indeed with each
other. “It’s safer that way,” I was told.
“And in any case we don’t want to be
involved in any emigre political rival-
ries. That leads to recrimination and
disunity. We want to unite Cubans of
every class and political persuasion
against the Castro regime. The impor-
tant thing is to stick together. This is
the only way to overthrow Communism
here.”
The anti-Castro forces
At other meetings with counter-revo-
lutionary group leaders I had been
told of armed bands in the mountains
of Central and Eastern Cuba one of
them commanded apparently by a West
German officer. Anti-Castro resistance
leaders admitted that these bands are
small but claimed that they make up for
lack of numbers by high morale, ex-
cellent equipment and the co-operation
of a section of disaffected peasantry.
While there is no way of checking
these claims, they are borne out to some
extent by admissions in the Government-
controlled Press that the Army and militia
are engaged in occasional skirmishes with
‘‘armed rebel groups”. And the Press
statements do not square with a remark
made to me by Bias Roca, the secretary-
general of the old Cuban Communist
Party and now editor of the Communist
newspaper “Hoy” (Today). “We have
liquidated them,” he said. “In January
1961 there were about 800 armed
counter-revolutionaries supported by
United States money, food and arms.
But their leaders have all been shot and
the rest captured or even reconciled to
the Revolution. Their liquidation is a
symbol of the power of the Revolution.”
But Press reports have referred to the
death in action of rebel guerrillas during
the last three months.
Other signs that militant opponents of
the regime are still at large are the
occasional bomb explosions, one of which
wrecked a new chemical plant outside
Havana a few weeks ago; the widespread
incidence of sugar-cane burning, and the
sudden bursts of small arms fire that
shatter the peace of Havana’s waterfront
as counter-revolutionaries try to steal a
launch or a fishing boat and make a break
for it.
The dark man in the discreet villa
who said he represented an organisation
called “Revolutionary Union” —claimed
that members of the movement all over
the island were in constant touch.
Messages were passed by word of mouth,
and counter-revolutionaries in Govern-
ment Ministries kept the movement
abreast of policy changes and warned
of impending police roundups.
It is certainly true that Cuba still has
its hundreds of malcontents. Havana’s
night clubs and bars are full of them on
a Saturday night. Certain bars are well-
known counter - revolutionary hangouts.
Cuban officials advised me not to spend
time in such places. “You’ll only get a
false impression of our Revolution from
these ‘worms’.” (Worms is the official
revolutionary term for the grumblers.)
It is a curious and embarrassing experi-
ence in a dictatorship to enter a crowded
bar late at night to be greeted with such
clearly audible remarks as, “Ah, you
must be from the West. Let us tell you
what Cuba is really like. We all hate
the Revolution. We're all ‘worms’ here,
you know.”
“Preparing for D-Day”
HThe Revolution tolerates the “worms”,
notes their names and addresses and,
in the event of invasion or serious
trouble, carts them off to gaol. Cuban
officials despise the “talkers”, but don’t
believe they can do any harm. This is
probably true. But what the real
“resistance” amounts to is difficult to
say. One would expect to see at least
the occasional anti-Castro scrawl on a
wall or an anti-Castro pamphlet in the
street. There is no sign of either.
The lack of co-operation between the
different groups may be typical among
individualistic Cubans but it can only
weaken the resistance movement as a
whole. When I put this point to the
resistance leaders they were forced to
agree. They admitted, too, that they
lacked the ability to initiate an effective
rising against the regime with its 70,000-
strong Army and 250,000-strong militia.
“We are preparing for ‘D-Day’ ”, they
said. When would that be? “Naturally,
we cannot divulge that now. But our
job is to be ready when the day comes
and outside help arrives.”
They seem confident enough. But one
remembers their failure to support last
year’s invasion. Then the Cuban authori-
ties forestalled a rising in Havana by
arresting hundreds of suspects. They will
certainly do so again.


THE AWFUL PRESS
GOULBURN-AND AFTER
In "The West Australian" 53 inches at letters
By CRITIC
The week that shook Australia a
little, ended on July 22 when a
meeting of about 900 Catholics in
Goulburn decided to reopen the city’s six
closed schools and set up a nation-wide
body to continue to promote the cam-
paign for State Aid for Church Schools.
If the last part of the decision seemed
rather ambitious for Goulburn, a pro-
vincial city unlikely to swing the nation,
a study of all the metropolitan news-
papers next morning would have shown
that something more than foolhardiness
was stirring.
Reading from left to right, “The West
Australian” in Perth gave the Goulburn
decision about 6\ inches on the front
page, and ran 53 inches of letters about
State Aid on p. 7.
In Adelaide the story and letters each
had 11 inches in the “Advertiser”, and
in Hobart “The Mercury” gave the story
12 inches, ran about 22 inches of
Church comment on State Aid, and
ended 8 inches of very brief excerpts
from 11 letters with a hurried (The
correspondence is now closed. ED.).
The week, as you can gather, had
been a trying one for the compilers of
“Letters to the Editor” pages every-
where, and perhaps “The Daily Mirror”
in Sydney was not so foolish in risking
a readers’ poll on the State Aid question.
Derisive comment that it merely proved
the “Mirror” had 17,000 readers was
possibly offset by general gratitude for
an opportunity to let off steam with a
cross and a postage stamp.
Altogether the news, comment and
letters on State Aid in all the metro-
politan dailies that morning added up to
the equivalent of more than one full
broadsheet page or two tabloid pages,
and it was obvious that in most cities
the letter writers were just beginning to
warm up to their subject. The exception
was Brisbane, where “The Courier”
devoted 10 inches to the Goulburn news
story, had no letters on the subject, and
on p. 23 ran a 9i inch report of a speech
by “a leading Queensland Roman
Catholic spokesman” at the opening of
a new science block at a Catholic
school.
Brisbane’s apparent lack of interest in
the State Aid issue—about 20 inches,
compared with 42 in Hobart, 65 in
Perth, 47 in Melbourne’s “Age”—could
have been explained by a letter which
appeared in “The Sydney Morning
Herald” on July 25.
Signed by Tom Truman of Brisbane,
its apparent aim was to explain the
“torpor and apathy with regard to the
matter in Queensland”. Mr Truman
wrote that in the past, £lB a year per
pupil had been paid to all secondary
schools, whether State or private. Under
new Queensland legislation this hidden
subsidy would be paid to an increased
number of students, lifting the subsidy
to private schools from about £400,000
to about £500,000 a year.
However, the “leading Queensland
Roman Catholic spokesman”, Father
Hunt, as reported in “The Courier”,
obviously felt that this was far from
enough, and described Government
treatment of non-State schools in his
State as “sweating labor” and “robbery
under statute”.
He said that Scotland paid the con-
struction costs of “legally dependent”
schools, and the salaries of teaching
nuns; England, Wales, Ireland, Denmark,
Holland and “a dozen other countries”
paid the bills for non-Government
schools.
“These facts are not known to many
Australians, and they ought to be
known,” Father Hunt said. And Tom
Truman felt the same way about his set
of facts, enough to write to Sydney to
make them known.
As reported in the metropolitan
dailies the day after the second Goul-
burn decision, and incidentally the day
after a Sunday when the State Aid issue
was viewed from many pulpits, Church
comment was just as varied as that of
the letter writers in Perth and all points
east.
In Melbourne “The Age” ran two
Protestant viewpoints in its customary
In the Churches section on p. 2, but one
of these was so radical that it deserved
singling out. At St Augustine’s Church
of England, Mont Albert, the Rev.
Phillip Roberts was reported: “A most
dangerous theory was that of the NSW
clergymen who so pungently advocated
compulsory secular primary education.
They not only sought to deny the right
to choose, but, by advocating secularism
as, presumably, a way of opposing
Romanism, might find themselves play-
ing straight into the hands of atheism”.
One of the Perth letter writers
evidently had the same thought. He
wrote to “The West Australian”: “Being
a heathen I find this church-school issue
a delightful one. It seems that on both
sides of the dispute the contestants are
not sure what they are fighting for and
. . . against. But from some of the
clearer thinkers on the Roman Catholic
side comes the claim that the Goulburn
Roman Catholic parents are striking not
for State Aid but for justice—taxation
justice.
“The Roman Catholic parents would
be wise to present a united statement on
this matter and to show quite categoric-
ally the basic reasons why they have
taken up their campaign. Is it for State
Aid or is it for personal tax relief?
There is a big difference between the
two.”
On the same page in “The West Aus-
tralian”, the educational secretary,
Seventh Day Adventist Church, WA,
Pastor Maberly, had something to say
quite categorically. “No assistance from
State funds will be sought or accepted
... it is no part of the business of
Government to assist in the establishing
of a religion ... in the words of James
Madison, the author of the First Amend-
ment of the US Constitution. ‘lt is
proper to take alarm at the first experi-
ment on our liberties’.”
Meanwhile, alarm of another kind had
been taken in Hobart, by the Catholic
Archbishop, Dr Young. To background
this, “The Mercury’s” editor wrote, on
the Monday in question, “the space
given to correspondence on State Aid in
the past 10 days ... is now closed, be-


cause letters are becoming more and
more tinged with sectarian bitterness and
slander”.
The editor was replying to the Arch-
bishop, reported in “The Mercury” on
Monday as taking violent exception to
a comment in the newspaper’s Saturday
evening edition. A columnist had
written: “I only hope the Commos run-
ning the brain-washing school at Minto
(NSW) don’t put in their claim for State
Aid. That would really start something”.
Archbishop Young described this as
a shabby, cheap and insulting innuendo
and called for an apology. He said, or
was reported in “The Mercury” as say-
ing, that “freedom must be given to
debate in public organs. However, con-
trol could be exercised over public
organs, voices could be made dumb, and
voices could not find their way into the
arena of public debate”.
Dr Young continued, “this comment
was a little dribbling pen blowing over
the majesty of print, equating the
parents, pupils and teachers in Catholic
schools with Communists”.
Not so, said “The Mercury’s” editor,
at the foot of this report. “The com-
ment raised an important if distasteful
point. If the principle of aid is estab-
lished, can it be refused to unchristian
teaching merely because it is unchristian?
Communists, too, are taxpayers, and
Communism is, if not a religion, at least
a substitute for it”.
The Catholic parents in Goulburn
would appear to have raised a howling
gale in Tasmania, with the editor of
“The Mercury” much further out on a
limb than any of his interstate counter-
parts.
Generally, up to this point, the Press
had carefully avoided direct comment
on the State Aid issue, and had clearly
tried hard to maintain some balance of
comment in its reports of speeches and
statements by public figures, and in its
Letters columns. After its poll had
resulted in 10,000 votes favoring aid and
7000 against it, the “Mirror” in Sydney
had stated that it was not on the side
of the angels, but most newspapers had
taken the stand that it was a fruitless
subject for discussion, and that a sober
look at the whole field of education in
Australia would be more profitable.
Something along that line was already
being done, though not editorially, in
“The West Australian” on July 23, when
in addition to the 53 inches of letters,
equal space was devoted to an article
by Fred Morony, who looked at spend-
,n 8 on education from a national as well
ns a State viewpoint.
This article, with its figures to show
that Western Australia must find and
spend £160,000,000 in the next ten
years to merely maintain present stand-
ards in education, may have been
fortuitous, or could have been an oblique
expression of editorial opinion?
The same question mark could have
been applied to the Brisbane “Courier’s”
July 23 leader page article by Arthur
Richards. It was in praise of Arch-
bishop Duhig, and particularly in praise
of him as a builder of schools. Since
1917, it was noted, he has been respons-
ible for the establishment of 85 convent
schools, 9 boys’ colleges, and two
university colleges, as well as many other
specifically Church buildings.
Anyway that, as far as “The Courier”
was concerned, was that. On July 24
it turned to other matters, and buried
the follow-up story from Goulburn . . .
“Campaign for school aid will go on”
. . . back on p. 17.
In Sydney, the “S. M. Herald” began
its main editorial for the day with, “an
end has been wisely put to one of the
unhappiest demonstrations of denomina-
tional pressure yet undertaken in this
country”.
“The Age” in Melbourne also ventured
some editorial comment on the 24th,
though less firmly. It could be summar-
ised in the final sentence, “This was an
arbitrary attempt to dramatise a point
of view, and it is reassuring to see that
a more responsible attitude among Goul-
burn Catholics has prevailed”. And why
not? The job was done. In one week,
for good or bad, the Catholic people of
Goulburn had stirred controversy,
splashed it on to many pages, and proved
conclusively that State Aid could be made
a forceful issue in almost every corner
of Australia, could be used if anyone
ever cared to forge a purpose, could
really arouse Australians as few other
recent and possibly much more import-
ant issues have been able to.
BRITAIN AND EURATOM
Never talked about in Australia
By M. H. ELLIS
11/hile there is a flood of discussion in
Australia about the effects on the
British Commonwealth of the entry of
the United Kingdom into the Common
Market, the probable entry of the UK
into the Euratom, the nuclear energy
organisation of continental Europe, has
scarcely been discussed at all.
Yet its effects might be just as wide-
spread in tightening the links with the
Continent as the Common Market. In
making application for the UK to be
allowed to join, Mr Edward Heath, the
Lord Privy Seal, who is also the Com-
mon Market negotiator made it clear
that the Euratom problems were Britain’s
only, and not the Commonwealth’s and
that the UK Government was ready to
accept the substantive provisions of the
Euratom Treaty, with only the amend-
ments technically necessary to permit
admission of a new member.
British development of nuclear energy
has provided the UK with a powerful
bargaining lever in the Common Market
negotiations, since the British are prob-
ably the most advanced both in a tech-
nical sense and in their scale of produc-
ing operations in the world, the Americas
not excepted.
Their programme has been under
development for only eight years, but
the two pioneer reactors at Calder Hall
and Chapelcross have already generated
7,500 million kilowatt hours of electri-
city. Eight more and larger stations are
being built under a commission which
controls both research and the overall
policy applied to the existing stations.
These when finished, all before 1966, will
be generating 4,500 megawatts, equal to
about one eighth of the whole of the
country’s supply of current.
The research programme aimed at the
development of gas-cooled reactors is
being pushed ahead in conjunction with
several European countries, some of
which are not members of the Common
Market. The experimental station which
handles this side of research at Winfrith
in Dorset belongs to the United King-
dom which is providing the greater part
of the capital for the variety of projects
in hand there.
There is a complication in reaching
integration of the British nuclear system
with that of Euratom: the fact that
while the Euratom is purely an “atoms
for peace” plan Britain’s peaceful and
defence programmes are not separate
and are both under the same control.
Mr Heath, however, has said that at-
tempts are being made to achieve a plan
under which Euratom would be able to
exercise its responsibilities in the civil
field while taking account of British
defence interests. Subject to a few minor
reservations the UK proposes that “if we
join Euratom, all our civil and predomi-
nantly civil establishments will come
within the scope of the Treaty”, includ-
ing the National Institute of Nuclear
Research and the nuclear operations of
private firms.
With the rapid growth and advance-
ment of European power programmes
and the increasing need for linkage of
power systems to use output to the full
at all times, any co-operative arrange-
ment between nations to control nuclear
development must tend increasingly
toward full European economic unifica-
tion.
This is true, whatever happens in the
Common Market negotiations.


FORUM
AFTER THE BREAK-DOWN,
WHAT?
State Psychiatrists must not be allowed to get control of the
rehabilitation groups.
By AN EX-MENTAL PATIENT
This self-help movement has proved
popular, not only among ex-
patients, but in the community.
General practitioners, local authorities
and social workers are usually glad to
hear of a Recovery group in their area.
It means they have a place to send dis-
tressed people to, for help that was
formerly unavailable.
A number of psychiatrists are also
keen supporters. Recovery, they feel, is
not interfering in their field, but takes
over where they leave off. Relations
with all the religious denominations, in
whose church halls Recovery meetings
are usually held, are also excellent.
But there has also been opposition—
from both psychiatrists and the Psychiat-
ric Rehabilitation Association. In a
letter to the “Sydney Morning Herald”
(27/7/61), PRA’s chief organiser, Mr
John Kingsmill, declared his associa-
tion’s opposition to Recovery groups and
asserted the primacy of the custodial or
guided group. Echoing the hush-hush
school of thought that it is better not to
talk about your break-down, he went on
to say that discussion groups of ex-
patients could not safely operate without
“the supervision of expert professionals”.
Recovery members’ reaction to that
was unanimous: “Obviously Mr Kings-
mill has never been a mental patient.
If he had, he would know how much
we long for a little rest from ‘the super-
vision of expert professionals’.”
Though PRA’s spokesman strongly
deprecates the “permanent dependent”
concept, he still fails to see that it is
the fatal consequence of his own ex-
pressed outlook. When, one might ask,
would a PRA protege be fully recovered
and integrated? After one year, five
years, ten years? Whenever it might be,
why should he not then be able to pass
on his experience and share his new-
found happiness with others still
struggling back to normal life? Why
should he have to be controlled and
supervised in this?
Help for ex-patients is one thing,
paternalism is another. To help a person
more than he needs is to retard his pro-
gress, besides encouraging a morbid
posseSsiveness in the helper. There is a
bit in psychotherapy concerning father-
images, about which psychiatrists
especially should not need to be
reminded
rjlo the doctors who would like to run re-
habilitation as well as treatment I say:
Do you subscribe to the idea, “once
mentally sick, always unreliable?” Or,
supposing you admit that we do get well,
should organise the re-
habilitation of former mental
patients? In the past the usual answer
was: obviously not the ex-patients;
they are the problem, not the
solution.
Today, however, people active in
rehabilitation work are reconsidering
the question, mainly because of the
appearance, some five years ago, of a
self - help organisation known as
“Recovery”. Recovery has at present
over 400 members in 16 groups
scattered throughout NSW. Its
appeal lies in its determined aim: “to
use to the utmost our own personal
resources in regaining our mental
health.”
have you the idea that even at our best
again we are a pretty poor lot? In
other words, is it only inferior human
beings who break down mentally? Or
are there not among us people of all
types and from all areas of life, in-
cluding doctors? When we get well, do
not our previous knowledge, skill, social
abilities and awareness return to us? If
they do, why should we not use them
for the benefit of fellow-sufferers who
are still floundering in confusion and
misery? Has any doctor, has anyone on
earth, authority to stop us?
Former patients, it has been found, do
not wish to prolong the doctor-patient
relationship into community life more
than is necessary. We speak and act
more freely with a general practitioner
or a social worker who has the com-
munity approach rather than with a
psychiatrist. Moreover, the emphasis in
this type of work is not on the
pathological but on the normal.
Psychiatrists are no more likely to be
the best sponsors of community mental
hygiene than dieticians are to be the
best cooks, theologians the best pastors,
or physicians the best physiotherapists.
Lastly, psychiatrists are so precious and
hard to procure for their proper work of
diagnosis and treatment that it would be
doubly wrong to waste them in work
which is better done by others.
To forestall a misunderstanding, let it
be quite clear that there is no objection
to co-operation and help from ihe
psychiatrists. The rehabilitation group
keeps always within each reach of him.
Patients are constantly being referred to
the group by their doctors so that they
can carry on simultaneously the last
stages of treatment and the first stages
of rehabilitation. Moreover, the group is
often instrumental in overcoming in-
dividual and family resistance and
securing medical help for a member who
has joined for prevention and rehabilita-
tion purposes but really needs treatment.
Any doctor is welcome to sponsor
Recovery meetings or use the Recovery
programme among his own patients; and
any group, by common consent, may
contract with a doctor for permanent
guidance in keeping with Recovery
objectives. Being voluntary bodies, how-
ever, they consider that it is up to them
to invite or accept the offer of such help,
or to get along without it, whichever
they think preferable—just as individual
citizens do. One point on which all
ex-patient groups are agreed is that
prevention and rehabilitation, though
helped, shall not be controlled by
psychiatrists, nor administered as part
of the State psychiatric services.
Implicit in all the criticisms of un-
supervised rehabilitation groups is the
conviction that group self-help always
involves Group therapy. This is false.
Group therapy in the strict sense of the
term comes under the category of treat-
ment, and is very different in nature and
method from group work in rehabilita-
tion. Diagnosis and treatment are the
specific domain of the psychiatrist, pre-
vention and rehabilitation are primarily
the concern of the individuals themselves
and the community through its various
voluntary agencies.
A section of the Recovery Programme,
under the heading “Which Tranquilliser
Do You Use?”, suggests where treatment
ends and rehabilitation begins. Tran-
quillity, or peace of mind, it states,
comes from an orderly adjustment to


reality. When a person is healthy he
has his own means of maintaining and
restoring order; he has his own built-in
tranquilliser, so to speak. When he is
unwell, he depends on outside tran-
quillisers. Where anyone stands can be
gauged by inquiring which, or which
combination, of the following tran-
quillisers he uses habitually, or in times
of stress: (1) God, (2) his own internal
resources (understanding, acceptance,
control, confidence, love), (3) the help
of a friend, (4) the intervention of an
expert, and (5) the bottle of pills.
Notice that there is a descending order
of tranquillisers, from the most personal
to the altogether impersonal, as the in-
dividual’s mental decline is greater. On
the other hand, as he gets well, he
mounts the scale until he has regained
his personal control and his constant
beneficent reliance upon God. He is still
essentially a sick man when he habitually
or in a crisis needs tranquillisers 4 and
5. He is essentially well, though he may
be weak and still only convalescing, if he
has passed beyond those stages.
Sabotaging Therapy
gives place to rehabilitation,
A therefore, when the scientific help
of the expect is no longer his main
support, but he has begun to develop
his personal abilities with the assistance
of friends. Consequently, an expert who
would be jealous of the patient’s other
social helps, such as the informal self-
help group or a community aid group,
must stand condemned as sabotaging
rehabilitation and needlessly prolonging
the dependence period of therapy.
All true rehabilitation has for its aim
the friendly adult education or re-
education of ex-patients. This can be
done only in and by means of their own
representative groups, for minds that
have been sick never open fully to any-
thing short of friendship. Other helpers
can give valuable, but still only sub-
sidiary aid.
Finally, to those doctors who tell us
we should not use religion in this re-
educative process, we can only say: stick
to your own field, which is therapy. We
do not tell you that you should use
religion in treatment. Maybe, in a par-
ticular case, you will do more good with
an injection of insulin than with a
sermon. But as personal insight and
personal life again become possible,
don’t tell us not to use religion, because
then you will be talking, not just to the
sick but to the whole community, and
you will be speaking, not as psychiatrists,
but as any other poor human beings with
your peculiar opinions and philosophy
of life. Our groups shall not worry over
a few isolated voices raised in protest
against their use of religion for mental
health while ever the constitution of our
land professes to promote the health of
the nation by “humbly relying on the
blessing of Almighty God.”
There is a well-established spurious
form of mental rehabilitation. All
social aid to former mental patients is
spurious which disparages re-education
and contents itself with restoring the sick
to their material functions in society,
but with a depersonalised mental con-
dition and a dependent status. It is a
cynical type of welfare work which
affords at best a mitigated misery to
those who are prepared to accept the
condition of patronised immaturity.
If the critics of unsupervised ex-
patents’ groups were to have their way,
and we could not meet without the
psychiatrist’s protection; and if PR A
with its sheltered workshop, its socials
and dances reserved for ex-patients, and
its psychiatrist and social worker in
regular attendance, were our only social
mainstay, how would our status be
different from that of patients, and how
would PRA itself greatly differ from a
hospital without the locked doors and
walled enclosures? Would not this so-
called rehabilitation be only a milder
form of custody and treatment?
Two great fears threaten to materialise,
should psychiatrists ever take over re-
habilitation. The first is that of an
enormous increase in what has been
called the “twilight generation” of
mental sufferers who are given back to
society half-normal and permanently
addicted to their type of treatment. Drug
addition is widespread enough without
needing experts and State officials to
organise and promote it.
Secondly, supposing the time ever
came when psychiatrists were numerous
enough to attempt a substantial cure of
most patients by psychotherapy, instead
of merely suppressing their symptoms by
shock and drugs, what good would they
achieve by continuing their hold over
patients beyond the hospital into the
community? It is hard to see how an
indefinitely protracted dependence on a
medical mentor is much better than a
life-long dependence on drugs.
As for the role of the State, patterns
for a decentralised diagnosis and treat-
ment system are now the thing of the
hour. Dr E. Cunningham Dax’s achieve-
ment in Victoria, documented in his
work “From Asylum to Community”,
cannot but invite free duplication in
much of the programme announced by
the NSW Department of Health. It
would be hasty, however, to regard Dax
as the complete answer. In many ways,
indeed, Dax could be dangerous. For
it is not clear that administrative
decentralisation of the services is pro-
ceeding as thoroughly as the geographical
decentralisation.
One single hygiene service, Dax main-
tains, should pursue the patient outside
the hospital walls with industrial therapy,
after-care hostels, resocialisation aids
and so on Very good, but where and
when does it all stop? When, if ever,
will the patient really become a former
patient? Given his relative helplessness
as an individual on leaving hospital, how
can he ever be free of State tutelage
unless his fellow-sufferers give him the
strength of an association that is his
own, and the rest of the community
provide him with a variety of helps that
are in no way State-run?
The old order is changing consider-
ably. It is the era of the open door, so
far as possible, in mental hospitals.
The huge custodial establishments are
doomed to disappear as mental wards
are opened in general hospitals, and the
rigorous procedure of certification is
progressively relaxed. The towns too
are to have their local psychiatric unit,
with experts in attendance. All to the
good —so long as that vital distinction
is kept between the clinic and the com-
munity. between those who are mentally
ill and those vyho are not. For, if the
change is badly managed, it would mean
that, instead of restoring healthy com-
munity life to asylum inmates, we would
be merely effecting the diffusion of
asylum life into the community. The
only guarantee we can have against this
is the resolve to keep rehabilitation and
prevention in the hands of the com-
munity, where they belong, and to con-
fine psychiatric authority to the clinic
and to the undisputed field of diagnosis
and treatment.
Being Certified
As one who knows the humiliation of
being certified insane, and the struggle
to live down the feeling of social dis-
qualification that accompanies it, J am
glad to see so many patients being spared
this unnecessary suffering. I only hope
that the relaxation will not have an
obnoxious recoil about it. The good side
of certification was that at least the
social and legal position was clear. You
knew who was insane and who was not.
Those who were inside hospital walls
were officially of unsound mind; those
outside, including ex-patients (once they
had completed their twelve months pro-
bationary leave), were officially sane,
and no one had the right to treat them
otherwise. Consequently, whereas a
doctor could be appointed to take care
of inmates, no one could rightly be
appointed to take care of externes.
Whenever a psychiatrist is assigned
to a person without his consent, even
though he is left at large, he is thereby
subject to the equivalent of certification.
It is bad enough to have the social
stigma unofficially laid on us, as it has
been by ignorant and unfeeling people,
without having the State legally confirm
it under the guise of officially organised
rehabilitation.


T am now at the vital point. The
attitude of private assistance bodies
to our self-help organisations is one of
serious enough concern to us, but it is
not crucial. With the government, how-
ever, it is a different matter. A govern-
ment can—unjustly, but it can —ban an
organisation or force it out of business.
This is not easy where there is free
speech and a free Press. But often it
can achieve the same result by moving
in and undertaking to do the work and
provide the services itself. Or it can
give one body acting in the field the sole
State mandate for the purpose. If the
State chose to take over rehabilitation,
it could do so by setting up a vast team
of experts, with an elaborate office
system, an impressive propaganda, and
a liberal provision of drugs, paid
guardians and other mental crutches.
Ipso facto the ex-patients’ own organisa-
tions would be crowded out, but there
would be little outcry, because, of all
sections of society mental convalescents
are the most demoralised and the least
strongly represented.
GP’s Welcome
*THhere is room for everybody in re-
-*■ habilitation work. Any psychiatrist or
GP will be welcomed on a co-operative
and friendly basis. Even doctors who
deplore Recovery’s spiritual philosophy
are free to sponsor groups of their own
formed on purely secular and material-
istic principles. A comparison of results
would be in the interests of science.
Social workers also, by instinct and
ex officio, will give valuable aid. Local
government has already begun to move
in Marrickville, Sydney, where the
council’s social worker has sponsored a
Recovery group and paved the way f or
a Community Rehabilitation Centre. I n
time, too, the Churches will doubtless
play a large part, not only by counselling
but by Rehabilitation Centres com-
bining much of what is done by PRa
and Recovery. Here it is the Methodists
who have broken the ground first.
Federation of these agencies in some
kind of community body, such as the
NSW Association of Mental Health, can
be expected throughout the State as
co-ordination between different ones
proceeds at local levels.
The government’s role in this fast-
growing scheme will obviously be, not
that of unique provider, but of overseer
and servant of community endeavour.
Expert help, too, will almost certainly be
subsidiary rather than controlling. Ex-
perience has shown in Britain that
neither ex-patients nor the community
want too much to do with psychiatric
guidance outside of hospitals or con-
sulting rooms. As a result, field work
on rehabilitation has been committed to
medical officers of social health who are
not psychiatrists. Our Australian ex-
perience points in the same direction.
Governments are constantly being
gratified to see how much they can get
done once they get the people to do it.
One government doctor of Social
Medicine can achieve, by seconding
community initiative, what 10 clinically-
minded officials would never do. Five
such men, with a mobile team of social
workers, will accomplish more through-
out the State than fifty psychiatrists in
fifty advisory centres. Costs would be
negligible in comparison. Apart from
this small team of catalysts, the State's
contribution to a community scheme of
mental hygiene promotion would be
mainly in the form of educational aids,
such as films, literature and popular
lectures.
Most important of all: I have shown,
I think, that to place rehabilitation under
the State psychiatric services would be,
not merely a faulty approach to the
work itself, but a downright callous in-
fringement of ex-patients’ rights. There
seems to be only one way of avoiding
this: the State should create a new
division of the Health Services, entirely
distince from the psychiatric division
covering diagnosis and treatment. This
new section could be known as the
Division of Community Health, or by
some similar name which entailed no
stigma.
When the State Health Department
launches its mental health plan, as it
soon will, it must not be content merely
to copy Cunningham Dax. Something
considerably better may be achieved if
full advantage is taken of enlightened
developments within the NSW com-
munity.


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
NO CLAPTRAP
As Victorian secondary school teach-
ers we would like to commend your
Melbourne correspondent for his admir-
able exposition of the state of secondary
education in Victoria (July 21). It is
heartening to see the problems with
which we have to contend being clearly
and straightforwardly defined in the
Press without the usual platitudes and
claptrap. We hope that the views ex-
pressed will find a wide public and will
be taken to heart by the persons direct-
ly concerned in these criticisms of our
system of secondary education.
Our main fear is that, as in the
past, too many teachers will from a mis-
guided sense of loyalty to the interests
of the children in their charge, continue
to put up with intolerable conditions;
whereas the real interests of the children
will best be served by an all-out cam-
paign to remove such conditions.
Margaret A. Robinson, Julian Coker
Olive Rudwick, M. J. Carmichael
B. J. Charman, A. D. Spence
Elizabeth C. Palmer, Peter J. Palmer
C. W L. Mitchell, Alan Robinson
K. J. Baird, Colin F, Doub
J F. Evans, A. L. West
E. S. BEALE
Alexandra (Victoria).
INCOMPETENT TEACHERS?
Sir,
Your editorial in The Bulletin’s July
21 issue states that the Victorian Educ-
ation Department “is getting more and
more unqualified, incompetent teachers
. . . who are glad to get the salaries
that are offering”. Is it then a just as-
sumption that those who lack a full
degree plus the diploma of education are
“unqualified and incompetent”? If so,
who are these upstarts who are white-
anting our educational traditions and,
like spurious money in a spendthrift
economy, driving out the genuine coin?
Many are matrons who gave up teach-
ing to rear families and are now making
a comeback to an exacting profession for
which they were trained and which is
crying out for their services. Some are
professional men or women who, for
various reasons, are seeking a change.
Some are immigrants to Australia who
excellent qualifications from else-
where. Others are ex-servicemen, mostly
officers, who, retiring at comparatively
early ages, believe they have ten or more
years to serve the community in an
occupation which is eager for recruits.
, For the rest, there may be less promis-
es material coming into the ranks of the
temporaries, but it is difficult to accept
the statement of your Melbourne Cor-
respondent in the same issue that a
woman with the Intermediate Certificate
and a bare pass in English Expression is
teaching second year English. Like any
other responsible public authority, the
Victorian Education Department does set
out to engage the best qualified people
obtainable. One feels that your Mel-
bourne Correspondent has been less than
frank here. Perhaps there was some
emergency of a strictly local and tempo-
rary nature? Certainly there are few
degreed diplomates out of captivity.
Surely this last is the crux of the
whole matter. How long will it take to
train sufficient secondary teachers with
degrees and diplomas of education to
staff all Victoria’s high schools? Put in
more concrete terms, how long will it
take to train 1700 people to this ideal
standard? For, of the 3500 secondary
teachers at present employed, no less
than 1800 are temporary This has been
the situation for some time
ARTHUR JOHN
Cheltenham (Victoria).
THE PENSIONS MONSTER
Sir,
The article under the above title in
your issue of July 14 by Mr M. H Ellis
admirably sets out the growth of the
public liability which pensions and social
services involve, and calls attention to
several of the factors longer life,
higher standard of living and consequent
cash requirements, and liberalisation of
conditions which have contributed to its
growth.
From figures which he gives a
voting strength of 700,000 from an aged
population of 1,250,000 it is possible
to adduce that well over 50% of our
aged population are in need of Govern-
ment assistance. It was clear to the Bank
when it was considering this problem
that whatever efforts had been made in
the past to enable the people to provide
for themselves, those efforts had either
been misdirected in method, or had been
frustrated by the march of events
principally the development of inflation.
The two public superannuation funds
represent an effort by the Bank to pre-
sent to the public a scheme based on
principles which are designed to avoid
the pits into which traditionalists appear
to have stumbled.
It is quite clear that over the long
term of a superannuation plan equity
investment can and will go far to counter
inflation. It is also clear that any guar-
antor of a money sum at retirement in
consideration of regular contributions,
must conservatively estimate results, pitch
his guarantee below expectations and
build up reserves from surpluses, his
client too must adhere strictly to his
payments contract, and in the nature
of his contract chooses to receive “a
sum certain in money” rather than the
whole result of investment.
If there is any precedent to be gath-
ered from the results of public funds up
to the present time there is little to be
lost in allowing a great private institu-
tion to make the attempt. There may be
ultimately a profit to the Bank in its
service charges, but to date establishment
has almost absorbed, at no cost to mem-
bers, a “grubstake” capital of £lOO,OOO.
Perhaps that is a measure of the Bank’s
good faith.
W, J. SALTER.
Manager, the Wales
Superannuation Funds.
Sydney (NSW).
Sir,
Where does M. H. Ellis get the idea
that an aged couple can have £4500 “in
the Sock” and still receive full pension?
The maximum permissible property
(apart from home) per couple is £4l6 —
£2OB each. Any amount in excess of that
amount reduces the pension by £1 per
year for every £lO excess over that
amount so that if 1 have more than
£5OO “in the Sock” the joint pension
would be reduced by £8 per year (i.e.,
£4 each or 3/- per week each). An en-
quiry at the Pensions Office wili verify
that statement.
Moreover, enquiries made to assets
disposed of in the three years prior to
application and haphazard disposal of
assets may result in rejection of claim.
F. L. McNAMARA
Eastwood (NSW).
THE POPULATION EXPLOSION
Sir,
E. J. Donath (Bulletin, July 7) con-
cludes that the “challenge of a coming
population explosion must be met by
world wide family planning." How?
Birth licences issued by UN bureaucrats,
1 suppose. But can anyone imagine the
poor people who have the votes and who
prefer to pass on the blessing of life
to others giving a mandate to the
affluent would-be controllers who crave
to limit their own misery to the few?
No, the solution is far simpler. E. J.
Donath implies that, where the popul-
ation is rising the fastest, production
cannot keep pace. Very well, let's be
calm and let death control (via starva-
tion) gradually take over and be our hero
again in population control. Or are we
afraid that we will be forced to become
more generous with our capital and
energy and know-how so that the poor
people can have their life and freedom
and share in the “revolution of rising ex-
pectations” also?
R. TOOHER
Hurstville (Victoria).


Estab’ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
O’SULLIVAN
:**> PTY LTD
traoe
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. I.td.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS <fe OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
THE SKY BURNING...
Sir,
Where have they come from, these
people who have written attacking the
story “The Sky Burning Up Above The
Man”? What stones, logs or caves
shelter them?
As most of them claim to have been
Bulletin readers for years surely there
is little chance of the story corrupting
them. It is easy to imagine the sky burn-
ing up above them as their magazines
are fired. Of course it could be regard-
ed as an anti-Catholic story, but . . .
PETER MATHERS
Double Bay (NSW).
(This correspondence is now closed—Ed.)
THE BEAUTY BUSINESS
Sir,
We should like to correct a state-
ment made in the most interesting
feature “Face Value” published in your
issue of July 7. The statement that Avon
cosmetics topped the cosmetic sales list
in the US, “without the help of advertis-
ing . . . ,” is very much out of line with
the facts.
Avon spends $4,500,000 per year in
magazines and TV. Four-color adver-
tisements are used in women’s service
magazines, supplemented by TV spots.
The National Association of Direct
Selling Companies (USA) has, on many
occasions, made awards to Avon and its
advertising agency, Monro Dreher, Inc.,
for the excellence of its advertising, and,
as a US report puts it, “upgrading the
industry’s image”.
S. L. SEE,
Manager,
Arthur Smyth & Sons. Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne.
“GRAFT, CORRUPTION..."
Sir,
My attention has been drawn to an
article on page 7 of your issue of March
24, and headed “Graft, Corruption and
Fraud”.
In that article you state “One of the
most interesting disclosures now would
be how this case escaped publicity. Mel-
bourne City Courts are thoroughly re-
ported by experienced newspapermen,
but their vigilance can be thwarted if
cases are heard by arrangement in the
afternoons in obscure upstairs courts.”
I would like to advise you that this
particular case was heard in the City
Court which is the principal Court for
the hearing of criminal cases during the
morning by Mr. J. W. Marwick, Metro-
politan Stipendiary Magistrate and not
by arrangement, as your correspondent
informed you, in an obscure upstairs
Court in the afternoon. I would be glad
if you would inform your readers to this
effect.
H. B. WADE,
Chief Stipendiary Magistrate.
Melbourne.
AUSTRALIAN CIVILIZATION
Sir,
The purpose of compiling this sympos-
ium (Bulletin, July 7) must have been
that from many contributors’ appraisals
of just how mature our “civilization”
may now be, a general image of Aus-
tralian achievement and aspiration ought
to have emerged. This is, surely, where
the editor has fallen down on the job
expecting, no doubt, that if he brought
together the dozen-or-so bright boys of
the Australian magazines much mud
would be slung but it would all add up
to something definite.
About the only really dissentious
opinions are located in James McAuley’s
and Robert Hughes’s chapters, on literat-
ure and painting respectively. Where
McAuley considers Tom Bass “the deep-
est and richest artistic talent, the most
significant personality at work in Aus-
tralian art today”, Hughes describes the
same artist as “the slickest Australian
sculptor . . . almost totally uninven-
tive”.
The indefiniteness of the overall
picture produced by this book might be
attributable partly to McAuley and
Hughes and certainly to the third of
Henry Mayer’s (Bulletin, July 7)
“maverick”, Donald Horne. But neither
does K. S. Inglis’s chapter on the Press,
for example, plug the Coleman line of
(so-called) “radical” revision of the “Aus-
tralianist” legend it simply gives a
carefully detailed record of the Aus-
alian daily papers .vhich any uncoiu-
nitted reader can readily assimilate.
It may well be that we are still
at the verge of maturity, and that mave-
ricks such as Hughes (and Inglis), who
merely enquire and report in unembel-
lished prose the present state of our
national culture, are giving us as much
as we deserve for the present, without
making broad, rash generalisations to
cover the lot.
HEYWOOD DUREAU
Fitzroy (Victoria).
Sir,
If, as Mr. J. Cooper scornfully asserts
in his letter (Bulletin, July 14), “faced
with an original book like this (‘Aus-
tralian Civilization’) all that poor Mr,
Mayer can do is make a few familiar
undergraduate points”, is this a reflec-
tion on the reviewer or the book?
SUZANNE DUMMETT
Strathfield (NSW).
CHANGE THE ACT!
Sir,
It becomes evident that the State
school system is long due for an over-
haul. Perhaps the 1880 Public Instruc-
tion Act is showing signs of its age!
In recent weeks the Secular Educa-
tion Defence Committee has objected
to the increased attention given to Christ-
ian religious teaching in the State prim-
ary schools by the 1959 social studies
syllabus. On the other hand, the com-
bined Protestant Churches led by Dr
Gough have urged a retention of the
general religious instruction in the sylla-
bus and asked for an extension of the
instruction to the secondary schools. Not
surprisingly, the Jewish Board of
Deputies has asked the Minister for
Education to remove “dogmatic Chris-
tian teachings” from the State school
curriculum.
All of these differing groups claim to
be in accord with the “spirit of the 1880
Act”. One thing is certain not all of
them can be right! There is a peculiar
reluctance except for the “State-Aid'’
advocates —to express disagreement
with the Act itself. For some reason or
other, this piece of legislation, conceived
and executed in a time and spirit far
removed from that of our own, is some-
how treated as sacrosanct.
Defenders of the Act on the ABC’s
Forum of the Air left no doubt that it
was a piece of “Christian” legislation
which paid scant heed to dissident Christ-
ian groups and virtually none at all to
non-Christians.
Surely it is time we caught up with
the 20th Century and recognised the
pluralist nature of our society. There are,
after all, Jews and Secularists in Austra-
lia as well as Catholics and other such
“dissident” Christian groups. Is it too
much to ask that our educational legisla-
tion should provide for a pluralist system
of public schools Protestant schools,
Jewish schools, Catholic schools, Secular
school, etc? Possibly a Royal Commission
could find the answer.
(MRS.) K. A. WOOLF
Cronulla (NSW).


REVIEWS
FILMS
A TASTE OF TRUTH
A Taste of Honey. Embassy. Sydney.
There are two ways in which a good
play can be make into a good film.
One is the literal way, leaving the play
essentially intact and preserving all the
elements of balance, timing and structure
that made it a good play in the first place.
The other, rarer and more difficult way
is to start again from the foundations and
rewrite the story as a screenwriter would
do it, a process that demands, for one
thing, that the adaptor be as talented in
his line as the original playwright was in
his. It is no wonder that one has to search
the memory hard for examples of out-
standing and essentially cinematic stage-
screen adaptations.
Among the many virtues of Tony
Richardson's searingly honest film ver-
sion of “A Taste of Honey”, which be-
longs on a very short list of the best
British films made, is the boldness of
its adaptation. The screenplay is the
work of the ideal collaboration of direc-
tor (Richardson) and the original play-
wright, Shelagh Delaney. They have
taken to pieces Delaney’s play about the
blighted attempts of an imaginative
working-class girl to find lasting com-
panionship and understanding, and they
have rebuilt it entirely in cinematic style.
They have escaped from the one-set
restrictions of the stage version, made
the whole background of the industrial
town in which the story takes place their
“set”, introduced new episodes and given
it all a more natural and lifelike move-
ment.
Just as the original play scoured away
the West End tradition of treating work-
ing class figures as comic or sentimental
“characters”, the film (like Richardson’s
earlier “Saturday Night and Sunday
Morning”) cuts savagely across the
English screen tradition of putting a
picturesque gloss over slum settings and
industrial scenery. The “Black Country”
has never appeared blacker on the screen
than it does here; one can almost smell
tt. This awareness of the surroundings
underlines the urgency and bitterness of
the heroine’s struggle.
There is the same flavor of honesty
about the performance of Rita Tushing-
ham, the brilliant newcomer who plays
the role of Jo, the unhappy teenager,
neglected by an irresponsible baggage of
a mother, who first takes up with a happy-
go-lucky, transitory Negro seaman, then
enters into a gentle, platonic partnership
with an homosexual youth as lonely as
herself. Murray Melvin subtly draws
sympathy to the difficult role of the wan,
sad, kindly homosexual.
Dora Bryan’s portrait of the mother
has received extravagant praise, and de-
serves most of it; it is certainly an im-
mensely clever piece of work —funny,
hateful and touching by turns. But for all
its richness it seems to me to belong
more to the “character acting” tradition
mentioned above, and so is less in the
mood of the film than the profoundly
truthful and natural performances of the
younger players.
MARTIN LONG
ART
DRAINED OF BLOOD
Charles Reddington. South Yarra
Gallery. Melbourne.
Pre-Raphaelite Painting. National
Gallery.
French Painting from Corot to
Garanjou. National Gallery. Mel-
bourne.
A lthough this exhibition of the Ame-
rican teacher-painter, Charles Red-
dington, has been greatly depleted by
Adelaide buyers, it is still one of the
finest shown this year. It is over two
years since I have seen anything of this
painter, and in that time he has come
into his full powers. The several large
oils here communicate an immediate
warmth of feeling which makes the ex-
hibition completely absorbing. In times
when one is more often struck than en-
ticed, these paintings have an extra-
ordinary attraction.
It is never easy to put verbal meaning
into visual abstractions, and the more
painterly an artist is the harder a critic’s
job becomes. These paintings in parti-
cular work more on the feelings than the
intellect, but being good paintings they
do so in an orderly way. The softly
growing rich colors merged into large,
rough, simple forms create a multitude
of resonant harmonies and dignified
rhythms whose overall effect is one of
quiet but compelling beauty. Reddington
does not seem to strive for any general
meaning, but simply succeeds in making
bis own inner world large and compre-
hensible.
The best are three large oils (in the
rare abstract medium of oil on canvas)
“Diptych”, “Cronos” and “Untitled
Painting”. The last is the most recent,
and has an easy freedom about it which
the others have not, and which suggests
an ever-growing mastery of style that
may lead to very rapid development.
There are a couple of small works from
two years ago which give a very good
idea of how rapid his development has
been so far, so even allowing for normal
slowing down of growth, we can still
expect great things. A number of draw-
ings and gouaches reveal a considerable
flexibility of forms and a firm economy
of statement which no doubt will provide
rich material in the future.
It will be interesting to see whether he
has the same recognition in Melbourne
as in Adelaide. I for one will be most
surprised if he doesn’t.
|”|ddly enough, of the two survey ex-
hibitions at the National Gallery,
the lesser in merit is the more interesting.
The French exhibition, invaluable though
it may be to schools and students who
so badly lack original sources, is too
comprehensive to allow a line of thought
to develop. We must of course have ex-
hibitions like this, and many more, with
the guides and lecturers available, so I
want to mention this exhibition, even
though it is too scattered to expand upon.
The Pre-Raphaelite exhibition, on the
other hand, despite its size, will be quite
coherent to anyone, even if he has never
seen a painting and has no catalogue. Its
defect in fact is precisely the defect of
the school: it is so coherent that it be


comes narrow. What to them was an
ideal —the deification of a glorious past
of humanism and craftsmanship which
somehow everyone had overlooked or
discarded as primitive—remains today,
to us who saw the end of the movement,
romantic and charming but shot through
with misplaced sentiment.
Dedicated revivalists seldom see that
the world is not improved merely by
being simplified. What is clear to the
historian and the scholar is probably so
because it is incomplete. The Pre-Rapha-
elites drained their works of blood, so
that what was left, though still beauti-
fully fashioned and admirably arrayed,
lacked life. But the dream was a charm-
ing one, and those who can still find
time for quiet retreats will find riches
here to reflect upon.
BILL HANNAN
THE NEW ACADEMY
The VV D & H O Wills Prize. David
Jones Gallery.
Trends & Development Exhibition.
Dominion Gallery. Sydney.
T aurie Thomas has made a fascinating
discovery: the self-rejecting painting
which assisted him enormously in reduc-
ing 132 entries for the £5OO W D &
H O Wills prize down to 31. On the
surface it appears that a real sense of
adventure inspired his ruthlessness and
we were promised paintings selected on
merit, irrespective of who had executed
them. The result, however, is completely
safe, as predictable as next week’s social
notes, representing something like a gal-
lery director’s Intermediate Certificate
in Australian Art.
The prize conditions were happily free
except for a limitation of size to 3 by 4
feet in order that modest entries might
hold their own against the work of
painters who always work on a grandiose
scale. However, one notices that dimin-
ished scale has, with these artists, pro-
duced works of diminishing importance.
Figurative paintings, a handful of which
survived, have been relegated to the small
room. The equality of format plus the
predominant brown color schemes which
are allegedly Australian to the core
(until perhaps you actually look at the
landscape) manage to create a fairly
unified exhibition in the large room. It’s
even enough with the winner, Frank
Hodgkinson’s, dialogue between two
yellow spots and blood-brown greys and
black, very likely surpassed by the work
of Judy Cassab, Nancy Borlase, Plate
and Ogburn if only for greater sensitivity.
Charvat’s aluminised textures might be
mentioned along with the paintings by
Queenslanders, Crooke and Moriarty
quite a few others achieve surface vita-
lity but lack any inner structure which
would enable them to endure as imagin-
ative creations. They intrigue, sometimes
excite (that overstrained word seems to
be the yardstick of contemporary evalua-
tion) but if one wants more there is just
emptinecs. Is this a manifestation of
Academism? It looks like it and what’s
more this Academism promises to be
even more deadly than the last.
The launching of a new gallery is
always a tricky business but the Domi-
nion has much in its favor besides space
and good lighting, namely, an excellent
position in the centre of town. This first
show attempts a kind of miniature retros-
pective of eight Sydney painters and the
emphasis seems to be on the recent past.
It is interesting to see, on the other hand,
a new development in the work of Frank
Hinder whose “City Buildings” explore a
space roughly parallel to that of Feining-
ers and with equal precision. Feurring
and Joe Rose are working towards
greater textural looseness while Roy
Fluke retains his passion for linear exac-
titude which becomes credible when seen
in a group of paintings. The contrasting
lyricism of John Coburn and Peter Lav-
erty are supported by the razor-sharp
geometries of Weaver Hawkins and two
sombre Cassabs.
J. HENSHAW
BANQUET OF LARKS' TONGUES
James Gleeson. Bonython Gallery.
Adelaide.
exposure of nude heroes to
A elemental forces is the theme of
most of the pictures in James Gleeson’s
current show here. There is surrealism
in the startling juxtaposition of beauti-
fully painted perfect tiny naked men
against hallucinatory wild-folding, trans-
parent colored backgrounds which evoke
seas, canyons, deserts, and rushing winds.
These paintings, some eighty of them,
are small and set in groups of up to a
dozen in framed panels. The subjects
illustrate the legends of Theseus, Her-
cules, Apollo, Pelops, Bellerophon, so
that the catalogue reads like chapter
headings from Tanglewood Tales or a
Robert Graves’ Penguin Classic, but
there are no white goddesses in this
pantheon, only white gods.
There are also a few larger paintings,
attractive abstracts using modern media.
These are very necessary to balance the
show, because the gross effect of so many
beautiful little pictures of the same kind
is wearisome, like a banquet of larks’
tongues, though any single one would
hang like a jewel on your walls. Also, the
Dali approach is necessarily contrived
and excessively portentous, for a dream
reconstructed as a picture is not the
dream itself, and however fantastic
cannot escape the done-on-purpose
quality that palls with much repetition,
and bores the beholder. On the other
hand, one can imagine a collector a
hundred years from now bidding
lavishly for the twelfth Theseus or the
twenty-fourth Hercules to complete his
set.
EARLE HACKETT
THEATRE
SUBTLETY BUT NOT STRENGTH
Endgame. Samuel Beckett. Lower
Melbourne Town Hall.
Oedipus Rex. Sophocles. MUDC
and Marlowe Society. Union
Theatre. Melbourne.
Tt is not necessary, in making out a
case for a play, to defend the answers
it gives to the questions it raises. It is
not necessary to urge acceptance of the
informing philosophy, or even to go into
the matter of the playwright’s own
attitude to it whether he is seriously
promulgating it, assuming it, or, per-
haps, merely entertaining it. It is enough
to make a strong case if we can say two
things about the questions themselves:
that they are fundamental; and that they
are raised in a dramatically forceful way.
There can be no doubt that the ques-
tions raised in “Endgame” are funda-
mental. At one of the climactic moments
we have:
HAMM (violently): Use your head,
can’t you, use your head, you’re on
earth, there’s no cure for that!
At another we have:
HAMM: All is ... all is . . . all is
what? (violently) All is what?
CLOV: What all is? In a word? Is
that what you want to know? Just a
moment. (He turns the telescope on the
without, looks, lowers the telescope,
turns towards Hamm) Corpsed. (Pause.)
Well? Content?
I submit also, though with reserva-
tions, that Beckett raises the questions
in a dramatically forceful way. Here
comparison with “Oedipus Rex” is illu-
minating. As Oedipus is led off stage


at the end of the play, the Chorus
speaks:
Sons and daughters of Thebes,
behold: this was Oedipus,
Greatest of men . . .
Behold what a full tide of mis-
fortune swept over his head.
Then learn that mortal man must
always look to his ending,
And none can be called happy until
that day when he carries his
happiness down to the grave in
peace.
We ponder the point. We do not
quibble about contrivance or coincidence
in the plot, though both are there in
plenty. Sophocles has used his dramatic
elements with consummate skill, and has
carried us with him.
Beckett’s elements are different.
There is no plot to speak of, his charac-
ters and situations are bizarre, and he
writes in prose, not verse. But (to take
the last point first) his prose is a thing of
superb power and subtlety, capable of
achieving not only the finest intellectual
precision, but also that evocation of
unidentifiable emotion which we nor-
mally find only in verse or music. The
full flowering of this prose, in rhetoric
irony and wit, is dependent upon an
avoidance of naturalism with all of its
suffocating demands. So also is the
mime, which is Beckett’s other language.
The ashcans, telescope, wheelchair,
whistle and so on, define the world of
Beckett’s characters, but this is not all
they do; they liberate language from its
everyday preoccupations, and allow it to
grapple directly with meaning.
To gain is immense, but not total, and
again the point can be made by com-
parison with “Oedipus Rex”. We do
more than ponder the significance of
Oedipus’s fate: we experience the fact of
it, shrink from his sufferings, and glory
in his heroic acceptance of them.
Nothing like this happens in “Endgame”,
and it seems clear that nothing like it
could be made to happen within the
limits of this method. Though we do
not doub. their relevance to us, his
characters offer too many obstacles to
direct emotional identification.
Both plays were given admirable,
though not ideal performances. Lola
Russell, who last year introduced us to
Pinter, spoiled the first few minutes of
“Endgame” by providing a musical
accompaniment, and towards the end
there were some overlong pauses, ap-
parently the result of inadequate rehear-
sal. Nevertheless, the production was
intelligently conceived, and all four
members of the cast were at least
adequate. George Dixon as Hamm, by
virtue of his splendid voice, was some-
thing more. It would be impossible to
praise too highly Miss Russell’s enter-
prise in letting us see the play at all.
Ronald Quinn’s production of “Oedi-
pus Rex” is to be Melbourne’s entry in
this year’s Inter-varsity Drama Festival
in Perth. It is, to my mind, basically
wrong in its treatment of the Chorus,
which is reduced to one person, identi-
fied with the priest of the opening scene,
and spoken, by Richard Cartwright, in
too matter-of-fact a vay. The opening
scenes are taken at a very slow pace, and
Oedipus, played by John Joyce, is too
stolid and too tame, something of a prig.
But Mr Quinn’s idea here is a good one.
As the story unfolds, its awful implica-
tions come to us simply and clearly, and
with great solemnity. The scene with
the shepherd, in which Oedipus learns
the complete truth, gains tremendous
force from its very quietness and still-
ness, and in the last section of the play
Mr Joyce is very good indeed. I think
it would be possible to enliven the early
scenes without spoiling the later ones,
and with nothing but advantage to the
balance of the production.
JAMES MURPHY
A NIGHTLY MIRACLE
The Miracle Worker. William Gibson.
Elizabethan Theatre.
|>y some magic the sight of a small
girl, a blind and deaf small girl,
being taught to speak to realise that
the things in the world outside her,
things she knows only as tactile objects,
knows only through her fingers, have
names, and that through these names
she can come really into contact with
the minds of others this works a
miracle, and I for one ended the even-
ing ready to cheer, and blowing my nose
vigorously.
Whatever documentary reasons the
writer had are far transcended by the
profound human contact made through
this frustrated little human figure, think-
ing thoughts without words, full of life,
with love for others, but blind and deaf
and so unable to reach those whose touch
shows warmth and friendliness. This
little Helen Keller sums up all trage-
dies of non-communication. Even
equipped with words and voice, the
failures in communication between
humans are still perhaps the saddest
items of living.
Bronia Stefan as Annie Sullivan, a
tough blunt Boston Irish girl who takes
on the whole Keller household in order
to teach Helen, does a roughly-written
role admirably. Every now and then the
playwright loads Annie up with some
unnecessary and prosy lines, but Miss
Stefan has an honesty and joyous ac-
tivity that rides straight over such trifles,
She is, as the French would say, for-
midable.
For a miracle of child acting watch
Miss Suzanne Beel, as Helen Keller. J. C.
Williamson’s tell me that the two other
youngsters (Lesley Billing and Suzanne
Heywood) who share the Helen Keller
part, are equally good. Watch with pleas-
ure, too, the beautifully designed and
integrated set by J. Allan Kenyon, prov-
ing that the J. C. W. master can do
much more than provide glossy back-
grounds for commercial comedies.
It is a shame, with this remarkable
and evocative setting that none of the
cast realises its potential. All night long,
Mr Walter Sullivan, Miss Verity Marina,
even I regret to say Miss Stefan, and all
the servants walk in and out of that
house as if such things as “inside” and
“outside” don’t exist. Never a hint that
going through a front door means pass-
ing from the warmth and shelter of four
walls into the colder and more hostile air
of outdoors.
This lack of realisation makes for poor
effect on audience. Mr Peter Adams
alone, as a cynical son, raised his head
above the ruck.
KEVON KEMP
TELEVISION
STYLISH
The Red Peppers. Family Album.
ABN-2.
rFHERE was so much worthy of the
highest praise in ABC television’s
production of “The Red Peppers” and
“Family Album” that one must be
churlish indeed to fault any part of
these proceedings. But, one must. Time
has surprised these little musical
sketches of Coward’s. His whimsical
backward glances at Victoriana from his
period in the early thirties have lost so
much point now that his audiences are
no longer contemporaries sharing the
joke, but rather people apt to look on
the time of Noel’s fame as the one to
lampoon.
The production was almost flawless.
Laurie Johnson's set was scaled to the
proportions of a proper English draw-
ing room, roughly the size of a Norman
family and one retainer moved intricately
banquet hall. Eight members of the
but fluidly within it, and the cameras
managed quite a miracle in staying with
the action and making it seem real, and
the viewers feel present.
This impression was heightened by ex-
cellent dressing, and competent acting
by all concerned, including Brigid Leni-
han whose performance more than com-
pensated for her sins in “Lola Montez”.
Altogether, “Family Album’ was a
delight to watch, if only because it was
a breakthrough in local television produc-
tion.
FRANK ROBERTS


*The Children of Sanchez: Autobiog-
raphy of a Mexican Family. Oscar
Lewis. Seeker and Warburg, 445.
THE RED PAGE
DOWN AND OUT IN MEXICO
By ALEX SAYRE
iron bars between me and the
stars” is the motif of “The Children
of Sanchez”*. This is their song and we
listen to it, rollicking and bawdy, tragic
and touching through several hundred
pages of personal autobiography, tape-
recorded in Mexico City by an American
professor, through an ending heavy with
despair and disillusion.
Anthropologist Oscar Lewis describes
his work as a study in the “subculture of
poverty”. It is, of course, that; but it
is more, too. Its meaning exists beyond
culture and class; its beauty is in the
search and struggle for life, for under-
standing and survival, the quest for a
personal place in the world. As such,
it is not a new story. It is the oldest of
stories. But here it is carried forcefully
into our time and the private circle of
our own lives. Rarely has this search been
portrayed as poignantly as on the pages
of this book.
Jesus Sanchez is the father of the four
children who tell their tales here. He is
the central image, the magnetic core of
their lives to which they must return.
“I can say I had no childhood,” he says.
“I was born in a poor little village in the
state of Veracruz. Very lonely and sad
is what it was. . . . My father didn’t allow
us to play with anybody, he never bought
us toys, we were always alone.” Jesus
Sanchez breaks from the superstitious,
part-Indian peasant background of his
youth and goes to the city slums of the
European capital. “My father,” he
declares, “was not a loving or affectionate
man. ... He never noticed exactly when
I needed something. . . . My father
believed that too much attention to a
child would ruin him. I believe that too.”
So it is he who maintains the family,
he who somehow, in his barbaric fashion,
keeps it against the stresses that threaten
it. It is that one room that represents
security in a menacing world and as they
founder they make their way back,
worshipping their father as the sovereign
of their private kingdom. “As far as I
am concerned,” says Manuel, “my father
can do anything with me he wishes. Even
if he tried to kill me, I wouldn’t defend
myself.” And again, “My father opened
the door ... he was in his underwear.
I could see an expression of joy on his
face, but as soon as he saw me he tried
to hide it, swallowing his emotion and
becoming serious.” Roberto declares,
“Well, my father cried and embraced me
like he rarely did, and well, I felt as if
I were in heaven.” For Consuelo, “To
honor my father was my greatest ambi-
tion.” And for Marta, “The great respect
I had for my father was like a wall,
separating me and the decent life from a
life of sin. . . . When his end comes, I
don’t want to be alive.”
The father, Jesus Sanchez, is the hero
and the demon of the book. He has the
capacity in him for both great love and
great callousness. “When he was in a bad
mood not even the flies dared fly,” reports
one of the children. All day he is bending
his back at a restaurant and when he
comes home he is in no mood for humor.
“He was staring at me and Roberto,”
Manuel recollects, “and he said, as
though he really hated us. ‘Just to see
you bastards swallow gives me a pain,
yes, just to see you swallow, you filthy
sons-of-bitches.’ We hadn’t done a thing,
yet that’s the way he spoke to us.” Their
father is quick to lay hand to them,
but what they feel worse is the cruelty
of his tongue. “Sometimes I had an in-
tense desire to cry because of something
my father said, but instead, because life,
cynicism, had taught me to put on a
mask, I laughed,” says Manuel. “For
him, I did not suffer, I felt nothing, I
was a shameless cynic, I had no soul
. . . because of the mask I showed. But
inside, I felt every word he said.” Con-
suelo, the most sensitive of the children,
observes, “My father’s words would build
up little by little, until they covered us
and made us fall in a crisis of tears. . . .
My father’s words were destructive to
everyone, but Roberto was the one who
felt them most deeply.”
father supplies them with a bed
or floor to sleep on, beans, soup, and
coffee, but rarely the needs that stir
their emotions and spirits and sooner or
later drive them from their home. “My
father was always very dry with us; he
didn’t talk much . . .” Roberto recalls.
“I tried to be close to him. I wanted him
to treat us in a specal way, like other
papas, to talk with us, to fuss over us.”
Yet, when his father renounces him,
Roberto says, “My father was my world,
and when they told me what he said,
my world fell.”
So, desperate for love, Roberto is the
first to strike out on his own. Roberto is
a figure out of Dostoevsky, but without
the aspect of final redemption. The story,
unhappily, is true; the hand of the
creative master is not present to salvage
something from the wreckage of these
lives. Roberto has been born dark and
is never allowed to escape from this
legacy. Negro or negrito, everyone calls
him. He is hounded by a feeling of in-
feriority, he is obsessed by his own “de-
generacy” and lashes out insanely at the
fates. When his mother’s corpse is laid
out in the wake, he crawls secretly under
the sheet and fingers his mother’s cheeks,
“Mama, mama, you’re sleeping, aren’t
you?” he whispers into her ear. When his
half-sister comes to live with the family,
Roberto falls in love with her and is
tortured with guilt and grief. He is a
creature of the road, he loves the chang-
ing scene, the intrigue of night falling as
he makes a bed of grass by the high-
way, propping himself up by the elbow
as iron monsters whiz by.
VI/’hile Roberto searches in himself for
"" his failings, Manuel tends to blame
“accidents” and forces outside himself.
He is irresponsible, outgoing, masochistic,
self-indulgent, yet uncannily subtle in
his understandings. Manuel knows how
far short he has fallen of his own stan-
dards of manhood and responsibility, but
he seems unable to turn himself from
laziness and corruption and to redirect
his life. For him there are girls, horses,
hot times, good eats, taxis and nights on
the binge, but life brings no real rewards.
There is Consuelo, severe, seeming old
at thirteen, contrary, touchy and bossy.
She is the inheritor of her father’s
authoritarianism and craving for family
unity, but she runs a collision course
over her father’s other women. She is
proud and jealous, and wants despera-
tely “to do things.” She abhors the
nickname “Skinny,” but as she feels her
body maturing, she dashes out to the
courtyard to dance, leaving her coffee
behind to get cold. The court echoes to
the canned music, there is every kind of
rivalry and alliance as the girls wait to
be picked and the boys search for prey
and protect their girls from outsiders
Sometimes there are riots; fruit, stones
and empty cans come down from the
rooftops. But under lamplight they
dance, their bodies bend and sway, even
as a corpse lies dead with votive candles
flickering and casting eerie shadows
against a shaded window.
There is mysticism, the mysticism of
peasants transplanted to the city.
Sorcerers spread salt and dust on the
floor of their victims, balls of fire leap
from hilltop to hilltop as witnesses drop
to their knees and pray, a mysterious
stranger with a lantern guides pilgrims
across fields and suddenly disappears
leaving them in the dark of night, fright-


ened mothers cover their children’s eyes
and circle the old and weak to protect
them, a witch is burned and her shrieks
pulsate and pulsate. In the slum tene-
ment there are strange doings, visions of
cowboys with cigars are seen on roof-
tops, figures stretching, yawning, shrink-
ing during the late night, weaving be-
tween chimneys, courtyards and passage-
ways.
But these are not only tales of sorrow
and disappointment. The humor is
rich and lusty. Speaking of his sexual
exploits, Manuel mourns, “I didn’t have
luck with our servants because my papa
always got them first.” He tries to seduce
a young girl on his roof, but the men
and women workers across the way chase
him off with cries of “just look at the
little bastard!” In his wanderings.
Roberto doesn't “have the old-fashioned
bad habit of paying fares.” While he is
working on a building he chips off an
advertising sign because it is so shiny.
“You are always being a slob,” Manuel
screams at Roberto. But Roberto simply
smiles, “Each of us swallows in our own
way, no?” Manuel must get up early to
feed his father's birds; “I really began
to hate those birds,” he groans. Even the
high-pressure chamber of the one-room
existence has its fun; there is the brother-
in-law who unscrews the light bulbs each
time he leaves the house because it is he
who is paying the electricity bill. Two
amorous couples keep an eye open
through the night, each couple waiting
for the other to fall asleep. . . .
At the beginning of this story the child-
ren pass before us like so many portraits
from a gallery of Rivera: a girl with large
eyes holds a stuffed giraffe and gazes
toward something in the distance; two
brothers in huge sombreros seem shy
and puzzled; a boy with luminous eyes
clasps his hands on his lap and looks
very pleased with himself; a girl in a
dark dress and braids invites us with a
quizzical smile; a boy sits on a crooked
chair and holds a rubber ball as we draw
closer to see more of him. But in the
latter part of the book, the four speakers
become more and more lost. They all
become toughened and defeated, the
struggle becomes more and more deadly.
Consuelo. who had maintained some
equilibrium despite her disturbed and
chaotic emotions, finally succumbs.
Manuel leaves his hopes behind and
frequents brothels, flea markets and crap
sessions. Roberto, brooding and always
the lone wolf, can be found killing time
at poker and the local saloons. His ribs
have been kicked in and his mouth torn
and bled by repeated police beatings.
These people bear little resemblance to
Erskine Caldwell’s “white crackers”
whose lives drone on sleepily in a world
without meaning. More they are like
the men and women who move through
Steinbeck’s lines—people who hope,
pray, sing, brawl and kill to reach the
“pie in the sky,” but who end sprawled
on the ground. The depth of their prob-
ings, their insight each into the other, and
their understanding of their most inten-
sely felt experiences would shame many
a modern novelist. In a literary world
where slick sleight-of-hand jobs, vapid
plots, “arty” super-sophistication, and
paper postures of empty characters are
legion, this book is a joy to receive.
For Professor Lewis, this obviously
has been the labor of love. The reward
is a little masterpiece. The voices of the
sons and daughters of Jesus Sanchez
alternate in a skilfully wrought poly-
phony that carries forward the fascina-
tion of each tale. It is a social and politi-
cal indictment, and it is drama and
poetry too. The poor are not heroized
here. We are witness to many stark
images, to savagery, deceit, boorish ness,
selfishness, boredom, greed, drunkenness
and depravity. We hear raucous music
issuing from the swinging doors of bars
where knives are wielded senselessly in
gang vendettas and bottles come crash-
ing down as the combatants pile on and
the unlucky one staggers to the street
holding in his kidneys and liver. Yet we
also see the inner selves, the men and
women in torment, searching their minds
for an answer and a way out. “I wanted
to make a kite of my life and fly it in any
field,” Roberto says. It is their intimate
lives —their anguish and their ecstasy —
that are so hauntingly recorded on these
pages.
G. B.'s OTHER IRELAND
The Matter With Ireland. Essay by
G. B. Shaw. Edited by David H.
Green and Dan H. Laurence. Hart-
Davis. 375. 3d.
real matter with Ireland is that for
over seven hundred years the Irish
refused to lie down like tame aborigines
and allow themselves to be decimated by
their invaders. They refused to acknow-
ledge the Herrenvolk from across St
George’s Channel. They persisted in
their claims to the land, traditions, and
culture of their ancestors. Naughty Abo-
rigines! Poor Herrenvolk.
The matter with George Bernard Shaw
is that he never really did know what the
matter with Ireland was, and indeed, how
could he? He left the country in 1876,
when he was 20, and went back on a
visit in 1905 —only to please his wife. But
in spite of his brief acquaintance with
the country of his birth, and his limited
knowledge, he made money out of it all
his life. And his estate will continue to
do so now with the publication of this
book of already printed articles and
essays.
Shaw didn’t like Dublin at all, and
found Joyce’s picture of it in “Ulysses”
so “ruthless that the book is hardly bear-
able: the life that Dublin offers to its
young men, or, if you prefer it the other
way, that its young men offer to Dublin.”
Shaw preferred it “the other way”. Like
many a Dubliner, he saw himself and
his fellow-emigrants as sacrifices. But it
isn’t exactly clear as sacrifices to what.
The truth is—and it is one of the pleas-
ures of the book that Shaw admits it—
that he did not love Dublin, because he
had not conquered it. (In characteristic
fashion, he goes on to compare himself
with Napoleon and Catherine the Great
who wasted no eulogies on Ajaccio and
Stettin respectively.) But who has con-
quered Dublin, where heroes have always
been twopence a dozen? and have
seldom lasted as long as the proverbial
nine days. Shaw, one of the most con-
ceited of men, could not be expected to
love a town where conceit is punctured
on every street corner and at every dinner
table.
T>ut he might have liked Dublin more,
had he known it a little better. Take
this for example: “The Irish, except in city
slums (my italics), where humanity is
degraded everywhere, practically never
misunderstand really good manners, and
respond to them with remarkable dig-
nity.” These are the mutterings of an
ignorant man. Shaw never knew the
slums, he never had to live among the
poor, he lived in Synge Street and worked
in Molesworth Street (a nice walk across
St Stephen’s Green). But his mother's
house was in the shadow cf St Kevin’s
Chapel and the Christian Brothers School,
two Roman Catholic institutions that
evidently overpowered the little Protestant
boy with his grand relations in Terenure.
Shaw never knew the tenements behind
Synge Street, and could not have known
that there was always more dignity and
regard for manners to be found there
than in the middle-class parlors of the
Ballsbridge gombeens. Neither did he
know the grand drawing-rooms of the
Georgian squares; and although his wit
and intellect were certainlv sharpened by
his Dublin background, his intellectual
life didn’t really begin until he was a
long time away from it.
Manners and dignity aside, Shaw goes
absurdly far from Irish realities when he
comes to write about the 1914-191 8 War.
“As matters now stand, this war is just
as much Ireland’s business as England's
or France’s”: thus in April, 1916 (the
month of Easter Week, by God!), re-
vealing a blank bigoted ignorance of what


was happening in the country at the very
time of writing, and a blind disregard of
what had happened in Ireland since Der-
vorgilla “brought the Norman in”. He
also betrays a surprising lack of political
nous, when he declares that “if Ireland
were cut loose from the British fleet and
army tomorrow, she would have to make
a present of herself the day after to the
United States, or Germany, or any big
power that would condescend to accept
her.” Cut herself loose is exactly what
Ireland eventually did; and she has never
looked back. Though, naturally, she con-
tinues to look north.
Ah, but credit where credit is due:
Shaw loves the Irish countryside. Don’t
we all? And he’s very good and wise and
reasonable on Roger Casement. One can
only feel that if Casement had used the
brief that Shaw prepared for his trial
he might have beaten the frame the Her-
renvolk pinned on him.
PAUL SMITH
FROM THE YIDDISH
Siberia. A. Sutzkever. Translator,
Jacob Sonntag. With a letter and
drawings by Marc Chagall. Abe-
lard-Schuman. 635.
TTni.ike that of most other people,
Jewish literature speaks many
tongues. There are very few languages,
ancient or modern, in which there will
not be found works which, because of
their form and content, properly belong
to the literature of the Jewish people. It
is not merely that they were written by
Jews, but that they also reflect Jewish
life at some stage of its tortured and
tortuous history.
Hebrew was (and is) the national
language. Yet, even in Biblical times, the
vernacular was Aramaic and some of the
most significant pages of Jewish litera-
ture are written in that language. When
large Jewish communities were estab-
lished in Alexandria and other Egyptian
cities Jewish writers used Greek as their
medium of expression. Many years later,
during the Arabic-Spanish period, a
great Jewish literary renaissance ex-
pressed itself in Arabic and Spanish. Of
more recent times, in Europe and the
West. Jewish literature has been enriched
by men and women who wrote in Ger-
man, in Russian, in French and in
English. In fact there is hardly a Euro-
pean language in which some contri-
bution has not been made.
The Yiddish language, itself, is some
six hundred years old. When Jews first
settled in the Germanic lands they spoke
the same tongue as their neighbors.
With the passage of time, certain differ-
ences began to emerge. The Jew wrote
his German in Hebrew characters and
changes in pronunciation were inevitable.
Although Hebrew was not spoken, it
was the language of Jewish prayer and
synagogue liturgy. So naturally Hebrew
words came into use, combined with
(German was always a “combining”
language) and often displaced, the Ger-
man. Also, the Jews were confined to
ghettos and isolated from the outside
community, with the result that as the
“Old” German gave place to the “New”
German, with new forms and new
words, within the ghetto the original
German elements in the language re-
mained unchanged.
Ultimately, as the German lands de-
clined in tolerance and Jewish migra-
tion was forced eastward, Slav words
were added. With the concentration of
the major part of the world’s Jewish
population in Eastern Europe, Yiddish
began to develop its own specific litera-
ture and its own unique grammatical
forms.
Today, most Jews everywhere refer
to Yiddish, affectionately, as “mame-
loshen” (mother tongue) the first word
being German and the second Hebrew.
In the Hebrew University in Jerusalem,
in the faculty of Humanities, there is a
Department of Yiddish Language and
Literature. Columbia, New York, Har-
vard and other great American Uni-
versities have their professorial chairs in
Yiddish Language, Literature and Cul-
ture. In Australia there are two weekly
newspapers printed in Yiddish with cir-
culations in all States.
qo the inclusion by UNESCO in its
Translations Series of Contempor-
ary Works of an English translation of
the poem “Siberia” by A. Sutzkever is of
more than passing significance. Not only
is it an acknowledgment of the genius
of an outstanding Yiddish poet of our
times; it is also a somewhat belated
recognition that his medium, Yiddish, is
more than a jargon, a mere means of
communication between Jews in Eastern
and Central Europe.
Sutzkever was born in 1913 in Smor-
gon, near Vilna, the capital of Lithu-
ania. His first book of poems was pub-
lished in 1937. When he was two years
old his parents were forced to leave
their home town which was destroyed
by the German armies invading Russia
in the First World War. The family,
with other refugees, reached Omsk in
Siberia.
After the war, on the death of his
father, the young Sutzkever returned to
Vilna, which for years had been regard-
ed as the most important literary and
spiritual centre of the Jewish world. It
was in this atmosphere, that he grew
and developed. The development con-
tinued after the German hordes, for the
second time, ravaged Vilna, through the
period of his incarceration in the Vilna
ghetto and, when, as a partisan, he was
fighting the Nazis.
Phillip Friedman, in “Their Brothers’
Keepers”, tells a moving story of how
Sutzkever and other Jewish writers and
leaders of the Vilna ghetto’s under-
ground were hidden in a Catholic con-
vent by the heroic Mother Superior.
When the Jewish Fighters Organisation
was formed it was the Mother Superior
herself, assisted by her nuns, who roamed
the countryside in search of knives, dag-
gers, guns, grenades and other arms.
At the end of the war, Sutzkever
emerged as one of the few survivors of
the band of distinguished Vilna Yiddish
writers. In rapid succession he produced
a series of poems dedicated to the vic-
tims of war and Nazi savagery. He
went to Israel where his imagery turned
to the achievements of the new land
and its people. He has travelled ex-
tensively seeking out Jewish communi-
ties in the most out-of-the-way places, in
deepest Africa, Europe, India. Canada
and Latin America.
Some few months ago Sutzkever was
in Australia, lecturing, reading from his
works, gathering material a simple
man, modest and unassuming, reliving
the most harrowing experiences in
humility rather than bitterness, moved by
high resolve that sees in responsibility
to the future the reverent recognition
of obligation to the past.
“O God!”, he exclaims, in the opening
song of his collection of poems, “In the
Desert of Sinai”, as he passes the Moun-
tain where thousands of years ago, God
revealed Himself to man, “How worthy
am I, that 1, a refugee from the land
of exile, shall come to the place where
long ago, the sound of the words, ‘I am
thy God’, reverberates in the atmos-
phere of the astonished world!” Haunted
by a passionate imagery of the past, the
poet sees the Mountain flame again, and
out of the “thundering and the light-
ning and the cloud” there come a heal-
ing and a peace, and an end of the con-
suming hatred to the sons of men.
As the editor of “Di Golden Keyt”
(The Golden Chain), the largest and
most important periodical in Yiddish in
existence, Sutzkever has given a new
lease of life to Yiddish, encouraging
and presenting the richest in contempor-
ary Jewish writing from all parts of the
world. Together with his colleagues he
has established Yiddish as the medium,
par excellence, in which the real picture
of Jewish life during the past century
has been mirrored and preserved.
In the present poem, “Siberia”, the poet
looks back to the home of his childhood,
seeing it again through the imaginative
eyes of a small boy. He puts himself


AUTHORS
invited submit MSS all types (including
Poems) for book pubication. Reasonable
terms. Stockwell Ltd., Ilfracombe, England.
(Est. 1898.)
BOOKHUNTER
Dept ••D”. Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
letely into the past without any
allusions to his later experiences, the
memory of the years of war, or the
flight of his parents.
In the dome of space, dreamed up
from silence,
a child of seven years moves in a
world of his
own making.
He paints exquisite word pictures of
a land of snow and ice, kindled by sun-
light and flashing fires, and lit at night
by a magic moon of silver light. He gives
to the landscape poetic fantasy and this
is echoed by Chagall’s illuminating illus-
trations.
The only human to emerge from this
saga of childhood is the poet’s father.
White as the moon’s is my father’s
face.
The silence of snow rests on his
hands.
He cuts the black loaf
with his white blade of mercy
and his face grows blue.
He asks his father:
Where does the world end?
And is told:
Behind that hut,
on the mountain top, where the sun
sets.
But the boy, in his wanderings, finds
that this is not true, and knowledge
comes to him.
Father dear! The world goes on
beyond.
There is no end, no end, no end!
The poem is full of visual images
which show the reader this land of “dia-
mond-blue snow”, as the writer looks
back to the “glimmering paths of child-
hood”.
And always there is the moon. Arriv-
ing home from the forest by sledge with
his father he sees:
. . . that the moon was hidden in
the sledge
and had travelled home with me to
my valley.
There is a feeling conveyed of the
companionship of the father and the
small boy, and when the father dies and
is buried in the frozen ground—
I wished to lie down at your side,
but my dove flew to the sun
in the evening’s gold, and drew me
away,
and back to life.
Then comes the spring.
The wet snow sings a farewell song
of sparkling, winging flakes.
And .
The sun hurls impudently down to
earth
Its singing sword-rays and licks
the sparkle of the icy light from
field and tree.
Jacob Sonntag’s translation is a unique
achievement. He has preserved not only
the delicate imagery of the original but,
even more difficult, the rhythm and the
essential idiom.
NEWMAN ROSENTHAL
TROPHIES OF GUILT
Testament of Iscariot. J. A. Cuddon.
Barrie & Rockliff. 225. 6d.
The Fever Tree. Richard Mason.
Collins. 20s.
The Spring of Malice. John Harris.
Hutchinson. 225. 6d.
As if She were Mine. Alex Hamilton.
New Authors. 225. 6d.
Tn an age of anxiety, doubt and despair
x the novel of confession has nothing in
common with Defoe’s “Moll Flanders”.
Moll, of course, confessed to plenty, and
at length, but not always could she hush
the tone of celebration from the voice in
which her tale was told. In our sad days,
however, guilt comes heavy and the
novelist who sets out to say “what a bad
boy am I” gives his reader a pretty stiff
time.
“Testament of Iscariot” is such a novel.
It is related by a lapsed Catholic who
announces that he first “betrayed Christ”
when he was eight years old. Although
not as precocious a sinner as Saint Augus-
tine, who confessed to sinning in the
cradle, Mr Cuddon’s protagonist is early
in the field and sets up such a canter of
sinning that before he is very old his
accumulated trophies of guilt are ranked
and glittering. Sex, of course, does for
him in his teens, with pride, selfishness,
egotism and all, rushing in to jump on
the teetering band-wagon of his soul from
then on, although it is lust that usually
whips up the horses. He frequently
repeats Augustine’s prayer: “O Lord,
make me chaste —but not yet”.
With so much to get off his chest, the
surprising thing is that Mr Cuddon’s hero
is such a bore, and the book such a
failure. The reason it is a failure lies in
the fact that Mr Cuddon’s novel never
becomes more than a confession, and
confession, if it is to matter to anyone
other than a priest or a psychiatrist, must
become art. This it may do if the self
revelation is precise and if the expression
of it is sharpened into wit and poetry
(as it is, for example, in Camus “The
Fall”) but the language of this book is
commonplace and the thinking platitu-
dinous. The sins are recounted with a
solemnity which does not illuminate the
ethical crises of which they were the
product. The trouble with this penitent
is not that he has “betrayed Christ” but
that he has betrayed humanity by refusing
to place his sins in a social and historical
complex of common experience in order
to draw from them the opportunities of
transcendence given to those who recog-
nise the uniqueness of man’s predica-
ment and do not fall back on myth for
a way out.
The three other novels in this selection
are “entertainments”, two of them of
high standard. Readers of “The World
of Suzie Wong” will know what to expect
from Mr Mason. His new novel is the
story of a British ex-soldier who has be-
come a Communist agent and is given
the job of arranging for the assassination
of the King of Nepal, the purpose being
to create such a political disturbance that
it will enable the Communists to take
over. There are, of course, the usual list
of characters—the jovial-sinister type
who might or might not be a counter-
agent; his flirtatious wife who might
not be so simple as she appears; and,
inevitably, the young and beautiful girl
who shares the hero’s escapade and his
bed. It is all handled with full profes-
sional competence, and the atmosphere
of the tiny country, high up in the
mountains, is beautifully suggested.
There is an attempted assassination,
too, in “The Spring of Malice” —this
time of an American general making an
official visit to France twelve years after
the end of the war, and encountering
the enduring resentment of a French
general whom he had had dismissed and
court-martialled during the last stages
of the war. Mr Harris is also a very
skilful professional, and his story is well
told. He also obviously loves Paris, and
one of the charms of the book is its
evocation of the world’s most civilized
city.
Alex Hamilton’s first novel takes us
from Paris to London, to the foggy city
of pubs and ripe characters whose every
other word is a lively quip—or what
passes for such. I found this story of a
wayward girl, a seedy writer of porno-
graphy, and various local eccentrics much
too consciously bright and knowing to be
true. The people who live close to the
Thames in London have enough real
vitality not to need this chummy-music-
hall-Cockney style of writing in novels
about them.
NORMAN GEAR


GETTING THEM TAPED
On Lips of Living Men. John Thomp-
son Lansdowne Press. 30s.
John Thompson has invented a new
** type of biography. He takes a subject
(say Melba), he tape-records interviews
with a wide variety of people who know
her or have something to say about her,
he then cuts and edits the material classi-
fying it all around the main themes that
emerge from the interviews. The final
result is an ordered biography told with
the intimacy and reality of conversation.
The success or failure of this technique
naturally depends on the editor, his asking
the right questions, pushing them through
and linking the answers in a fairly dra-
matic way. It must be said that John
Thompson does the job very well indeed.
The technique, however, does have
limits. So much, for example depends on
the narrative skill of the person inter-
viewed; if he is an old bore, as one or
two of the interviewees in this book seem
to be, he will make the subject seem
boring, or at least more pompous than
he or she ever really was. Again, because
the biographies are intended to be heard
on radio, some of the seamier sides of
the people studied have to be played
down because of the conventions of radio.
For example, in the case of Curtin, one
of the many fascinating aspects of his
career is his various attempts to over-
come his alcoholism; and to tell the
story with its full impact you have to
say just what a wreck he was when he
was still an alcoholic. It really is the story
of an almost completely down-and-out
man rising to greatness. But John Thomp-
son skirts around all this and thereby
loses a good deal of the real power of
the Curtin story. A third limitation is
that since the whole thing is conversa-
tional almost as much space has to be
given to the person who really knows the
subject intimately as to the person who
only has a couple of anecdotes to
throw in.
all techniques have
their limitations and this one ends
up telling us more about Melba, Curtin,
Monash, Meldrum, Hughes, and O’Shea
(the best wine-maker Australia has ever
had) than any other radio programme
of the same length could possibly do.
Thompson has taped most of the people
who have something important to say
about his subjects (it’s a pity, though,
he didn't get Mrs Southwell of the Hotel
Kurrajong, Canberra, who was a con-
fidante of Curtin for many years) and
the book will be a great source of anec-
dotes—Meldrum organising his follow-
ers to capture the Victorian Artists’
Society; Melba demanding intelli-
gence in singers: “It’s brains, brains,
brains, then voice”; pages of Hughesiana
including some particularly nasty sack-
ings which will delight the Hughes fans
but which unfortunately leave me as cold
as most Hughes stories; the primitive
conditions in which O’Shea produced the
country’s best wines; Curtin’s inability to
sleep for the whole fortnight while the
9th Division was being shipped home
from the Middle East in seas thought to
be thick with Jap subs.
One incidental point that should be
made is that Thompson has shown yet
again the need for more full-scale Au s
tralian biographies. None of his subject
except Hughes has been properly written
up and Thompson’s brief biographies
whet one’s appetite for the real thing
We badly need more biographies: Lloyd
Ross, for example, is reported to have
finished his life of Curtin, which will be
a major work, but for some reason he
won’t let the public read it.
One defect in the book is a lack of an
index. There really is no excuse They
are easy enough to do.
PETER COLEMAN
GO WEST YOUNG MAN
A New Life. Bernard Malamud. Eyre
and Spottiswoode. 265.
HThe idea that there is something natural
A about human goodness that good-
ness is somehow of the essence, and evil
only secondary, later, and accidental
is still a very attractive one. We like to
think that love and freedom, creation and
joy, sincerity and truth all go together.
All these are bound up, somehow, with
“growth”, and the natural order is inter-
rupted or interfered with, we like to
think, by what interrupts or interferes
with growth. What is growth? Growth
is something like an explosion. We are
like stars, exploding. Light is somehow
more natural than dark; night is a sort
of interference with day, and the devil is
an unnatural intruder.
But explosions are sorts of conflicts,
and there is another view about human
goodness. According to thi.; view, what
is natural is discord, disappointment,
disillusion, defeat, death, and ther decay.
Human goodness fights for its life just
like everything else, takes its chance with
the rest of creation, and sometimes finds
itself in strange company on the battle-
field. Sometimes, indeed, joy and sincerity
and freedom or at any rate sorts of
joy and sincerity and freedom seem to
be on the other side. And sometimes that
other side seems as full of green leaf and
healthy seed as any gardener could wish.
The difficulties of definition help make
the discussion of these views, often, seem
endlessly preliminary; the sort of exe-
getical demonstration a novel offers can
often be, though perhaps no more con-
clusive, more material, substantial, and
more rewarding. In “A New Life,” Ber-
nard Malamud demonstrates these views
in more weight and body, and with more
sense and intelligence, than if you are
even the least bit interested in novels
you can afford to miss. This is one of
the best novels to come out of America
since Malamud’s second, “The Assistant,”
some years ago.
It is also one of the funniest. It tells
the story of S. Levin, a former drunkard
and high school teacher, who comes from
New York to one of the west coast
states Oregon, one presumes, where
until recently Malamud himself was a
university lecturer to begin a new life
as an English instructor. With an ironic
eye Malamud follows Levin through the
fairly catastrophic adventures that follow
his arrival in the young west, where men
live near mountains and trees, and which
make his life new in ways that are,
though not entirely unexpected, never-
theless notable.
It is funny, and in the sense in which
good novels are true it is true; Oregon
and west coast academics are the way
Malamud says they are. They are other
things as well, but nothing that really
conflicts with what he says. If there is a
weakness in the book it is not this; it is
a sort of emotionalism, romanticism that
sometimes betrays the lover beneath the
ironist. But this is little enough to pay
for the rest.
And so is 26 shillings. Buy it.
PETER SHRUBB
LITERARY COMPETITION
Mary Gilmore Award Committee
A announces that the 1963 major Mary
Gilmore Award will be for a Children's
book. This may be poetry, short stories
or a novel; geographical, historical or
scientific works; or a sociological work
dealing with children. The winning work
will be awarded a Mary Gilmore Prize
of £lOO.
In addition a Mary Gilmore Prize will
be given for a work by a teenager (13-19
years). The prize will be £lO for a short
story, novel or poem.
Mary Gilmore herself has donated a
prize of £2 each for the best story and
the best poem by teenagers of 13-14 years.
The Judges will give preference to
manuscripts with themes of significance
to the life and aspirations of the Aus-
tralian people.


The Wild
Cat Pages an d
THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
REALISTIC CREDIT FIGURES
REVEAL SLOWER CUTBACK
More realistic credit statistics have be-
come available from the Common-
wealth Statistician. Previously, retail
credit records were limited to business
written by hire purchase financiers.
The new compilation covers most con-
cepts of financing retail sales but does
not include land, buildings, property im-
provement, travel facilities, etc. The
types of schemes covered include hire
purchase time payment, budget account
and personal loans related to retail spend-
ing. Lay-bys and irregularly repaid credit
accounts are not included.
As was to be expected, hire purchase
schemes dominate selling of goods on
credit, except in household and personal
lines at seasonal peaks. The following
table showing credit business written in
the spending spree for Christmas, 1961,
evidences this —
December 31. 1961
Hire Other
Purchase Schemes
£ mill. £ mill.
Motor vehicles 43.3 2.5
Plant, equipment .. .. 6.7 0.1
Household, etc 23.2 27.9
Total 73.2 30.5
In 1960-61, £101.2 million was spent
by the public on household goods, etc.
using hire purchase. Other schemes of
finance involved £85.4 million in the
same period.
However, the following table shows
how the swing in “little ticket” lines has
been away from hire purchase into other
credit forms—
Hire Other
Purchase Schemes
£ mill. £ mill.
19c-8-59 114.8 56.8
1959-60 .. .. .. 123.9 71.0
1960-61 101.2 85.5
Another interesting fact coming to light
in the new figures is that the drop in hire
purchase financing—regarded as sympto-
matic of the lack of buying enthusiasm
by the public and in need of correction
—was partly offset by use of other forms
of credit.
Hire purchase outstandings at Dec-
ember 31, 1961, totalled £485.9 million
—the lowest since March, 1960, and £64
million below the peak of December,
1960.
Outstandings of other instalment credit
finance amounted to £lOl.l million at
December 31 —a record figure, and £lO
million above the December, 1960,
figure.
Thus, the setback in credit financing
was 16 p.c. less than imagined before the
new figures came to light.
In addition to this the new figures
based on samples and the old census of
retail establishments—could be consider-
ably understated. Indeed, they presum-
ably are so.
The Bulletin has long been an advo-
cate for more dynamic statistical data to
be made available to Government and
industry. The shortcomings of the data
used to direct the economic destinies of
the nation are clearly evident from the
more thorough analysis of credit sales.
The revitalisation of statistical infor-
mation to provide a more up-to-date, day-
to-day analysis of trends in the com-
munity is a long job. But, as most
businessmen assert, it is an essential facet
of the more sophisticated economy of
today.
City Diary
Oome five years ago in Adelaide, Dr
H. C. Coombs gave his famed
Giblin Memorial Lecture at the
ANZAAS conference. We still turn to
this accurate, informative and outspoken
lecture when seeking enlightenment on
economic planning.
At Sydney University’s Great Hall on
August 21, Secretary of the Treasury, Sir
Roland Wilson will deliver the Giblin
lecture. One wonders if it, too, could
become a renowned work. Sir Roland
knows and directs, but will he say?
fpniEss and Hornibrook aie not the only
two Queensland civil engineers who
have successfully crossed State borders.
Another is Keith Morris Constructions
Ltd, also mentioned in our engineering
and constructions survey (Bulletin,
July 21).
There’s something in Queensland
which seems to breed engineering ver-
satility and Morris has built flats and
high schools in Canberra, and also the
phytotron building for the CSlRO—first
of its type in Australia. Other NSW
works have embraced banks and hospital
buildings.
Incidentally, Morris is certain to hold
its 9 p.c. dividend for the 1961-62 year.
TL/fiss Barbara Ward (Lady Jackson) is
T"-*- in no two minds about the methods
necessary to finance world trade and lift
international liquidity.
“Back to Keynes”, remains her motto.
In a TV interview on Sunday she
looked forward to a World Reserve
Bank, as expounded by Keynes, with
broad credit policies supported to the
hilt by member Governments.
“Gold is not enough”, economist
Barbara Ward asserted.
Colin Street
INDEX
Realistic Credit Figures .... 43
City Diary 43
Editorial 44
“Croesus” on Common Market 45
Eag in Home Building 46
Tasmania’s Development .... 47
Investment Section 49, 50
“Security” on Moran & Cato 51
Talk Around ’Change 52, 53
Behind the Balance Sheets 54, 55
Sharemarket Prices 56
Speculator’s Diary 58
One to Buy
Man on the Land 60, 61


Editorial
BUDGET MUST AIM TO LIFT
PRIVATE INVESTMENT
figure the Federal
Treasurer (Mr Holt) chooses to
name for the Budget deficit next week
it will be largely determined by his
estimate of loan raisings. At the
recent Loan Council meeting he told
the Premiers that this year he ex-
pected to get £6O million less from
the loan market than from his highly
successful forays there in 1961-62.
Based on that assumption, he fore-
saw a deficit of as much as £llO
million for 1962-63. But, obviously
if Mr Holt is more successful than he
is now making out he will be in rais-
ing loan money this year, the deficit
will prove to be much lower than
that. To underestimate the likely
result of loan raisings would be an
attractive line for the Treasurer per-
sonally to take. For if the loan figure
proved substantially higher and the
deficit correspondingly less at the end
of the year, he could claim high
marks for his monetary management.
As to the likely outcome of loan
raisings this year, it can be taken as
read that the Treasurer will attempt
to make the harvest as bountiful as
possible. This is established practice.
Seldom has a Federal Government’s
appetite for loan money been lessened
by the possibility that it might drain
too much capital from the market for
the private sector’s comfort.
Last year was a classic case of the
Treasury taking out too much money
in loans over a period when it should
have been running a bigger deficit
financed by new money creation by
the Reserve Bank. Even the spurt in
Government spending and the rebates
of tax in the second half of the year
were financed with only a moderate
increase in the deficit over the
estimate.
This was not done by sleight of
hand, but simply be deciding in mid-
year to finance a large slab of Defence
expenditure from loan money, where-
as in the original estimates it was to
be charged against Consolidated
Revenue. This switch took much of
the sting out of the spending stimu-
lants. If the concessions had been
financed by Treasury Bills, their effect
on the rate of recovery would have
been so much the greater.
Allowing for the Treasury’s usual
under-estimation of loan raisings, it is
still unlikely that this year’s loan
result will be anything like as impres-
sive as last year’s. But the estimated
shortfall of £6O million is altogether
too gloomy. Mr Holt’s pessimism may
be in part deliberate, or he could be
too close to Capel Court, which
expects a massive switch of funds out
of bonds into private investments to
take place later this year Mr Stani-
forth Ricketson suggested this some
months ago.
The small undersubscription to the
May loan looks to be weighing too
heavily on the Treasurer in estimating
the overall response to loan raising
in the current year. It was to be
remembered that even before that
loan was made, Mr Holt had achieved
his loan target for the full year. He
was getting any money from it as a
bonus. Moreover, the May loan has
been followed by continued high
buoyancy in the bond market, where
yields are now around 4\ p.c., or i
p.c. below the official bond rate. If,
as seems virtually certain, such a wide
difference pertains etween market
yields and the official bond rate when
the next loan is made in a few weeks,
the success of that loan will be fully
assured. Against this there would be
a strong case for reducing the official
bond rate to bring it in line with
market yields on bonds.
While a further reduction in bond
rate (the last was from 5-3/8 to 5
p.c. in February this year) would
presumably lessen the response to the
loan, it would have a very desirable
effect in making commercial money
rates relatively more attractive.
The right course to take would be
to cut the bond rate further as a
lead to get lower interest rates all
round, and to weight the capital
market scales more heavily in favor of
private borrowers, matters which,
though so important for economic
recovery, cannot be directly influenced
by the general Budget proposals.
As a matter of fact, the Treasurer
in his present pessimistic mood on the
prospect for loan raisings, might
strongly resist a cut in the bond rate,
which would further prejudice his
chances in the loan market. He will
certainly find himself in a grave
dilemma on this, though on this
occasion it would be far better to go
for a bigger Budget deficit if it meant
putting more life into private borrow-
ing.
He also has to consider that if the
Budget gives the right incentives to
business confidence, the pace of
business recovery and with it the rate
of private investment, can be expected
to increase. This would eventually
lead to a diversion of funds away
from Government loans into private
investment.
But there is a great deal of slack
still to be taken up ii the capital
market before this is likely to happen
on a broad front. Also, on present
indications the recovery in private
investment is going to be slow, partly
because of the existing surplus of
industrial capacity, and partly because
of insufficient business confidence.
The pulse of business will have to
beat a lot faster than it is at present
before private investment becomes a
threat to Government loans.
This situation could doubtless arise
in the course of the current fiscal
year. But that is no reason not to
bring the bond rate down to the level
of the current market yield on bonds
in fixing the terms for the new loan.
Sir lan Potter d'd not ooin
phrase “captive” for the bond market
in any idle frame of mind. The 30/20
rule loads the d'ce strongly; the Gov-
ernment can bring ' ; own weighty
departmental fund to bear and. on
the nod, the banks can be rallied to
fill loans when other ammunition is
short
Mr Holt shouldn’t worry too much
about the response of the loan market
this year, but shoifid rather ensure
that the bond rate itself is adiusted
to the needs of the whole economy
and not merely to the narrower aims
of the Treasury to keep its cash deficit
to a minimum.
He could well fine that a more
enlightened attitude to interest rates
will do more than all his Budget pro-
posals put together to get the lift in
private investment which is now
crucial for a more rapid rate of
economic recovery.


Your Tent
"REFUND
t S’ 6 *' f%\®£\ Y* o^***"
% #* V\«&l b***~
pC i v ' - " .*,
tv ;* ■* “' - -
jf ..-vV* 3 *
•'.a »-••■'
. s****'
, ■ il
\\i^ i
v
. ijir JP
YKmgt^
■? ■■
Make it grow into REAL
mmm
—put it in the
Q
C. B. C. SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES
<ttt tacuvi cAzcde ertvfilcMjmenl
Open an account at your nearest branch of
m
KijiS;
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES
EEC TALKS
AT SIXES
AND SEVENS
By “Croesus”
Negotiations at Brussels over the
Common Market are more than
ever at sixes and sevens stuck, it
seems, on the safeguarding of the long-
term interests of Commonwealth tem-
perate zone food exports.
If this is coupled with the political
shunting in Britain and the doubts still
being expressed on the Common Market
by the British Labor Party, clearly the
Common Market die is by no means cast
for this or any other Commonwealth
country, the more so because the Com-
monwealth Prime Ministers could have
a vital influence next month.
The stalemate in Brussels is on fun-
damental issues. Perhaps the most im-
portant impression left on Mr McEwen
on his tour of European capitals a few
months ago was that “The Six” would
not tolerate the idea of creating a pre-
ferred market within the Common Mar-
ket in which our UK preferences would
be preserved. They could not entertain
this or any other suggestion which would
cut across the goal of complete economic
union to which they are dedicated as
being essential to the wider social and
political integration objectives or the
Treaty of Rome. Moreover, they are sus-
picious of any arrangement which might
delay progress towards the final ob-
jectives.
So at this climax of the negotiations
it seems more certain than ever that if
Britain is to go into the Common Mar-
ket our preferences will be phased off
more rapidly than has so far been ex-
pected either by Britain or ourselves.
The end date could now be as early as
1966. Also any preference afforded the
disposal of our agricultural exports in
the enlarged EEC when the transitional
period for the Common Market agricul-
tural policy terminates in 1970 would
depend at best on world commodity
agreements, not on the special outlets
we are trying to get written into Britain’s
agreement with “The Six”.
Even with the remote chance (possibly
a little less remote considering the pres-
ent deadlock on negotiations) that Britain
will not join “The Six” we should recog-
nise the implications of the phasing off
°t preferences and the possible precipice
to be faced beyond it.
We should also be taking all possible
ste ps to use the interval remaining to
Us to make the necessary reorientations
ln our overseas trade alignments. There
ma Y still be time for us to do more ef-
fective talking in London and Brussels
about the future of our traditional ex-
ports to Britain, but there is no time to
lose in securing outlets for our future
exports to the rest of the world.
With all our disillusioning experience
of world commodity agreements we
should not be beguiled into false reliance
on vague plans for calling conferences
of world food exporters as a subsitute
for action to develop new trade outlets.
It is significant that last week “The
Six” expressed willingness to negotiate
directly with Canada, Australia and New
Zealand on the disposal of temperate
zone products towards the end of the
transitional period if world agreements
had not eventuated or seemed likely to
eventuate by 1970.
This hardly shows much confidence in
achieving satisfactory world agreements.
On the contrary it shows how important
it is for Australia to be going ahead
in building alternative export outlets.


INVEST NOW
m
!■■■
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
JO/
2/«
8
6-10 YEARS
8% 5 YEARS
7 ¥2% 4 YEARS
7% 3 YEARS
61/2% 2 YEARS
Applications must be lodged on the
form attached to the prospectus.
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE NOTES
61
12 MONTHS
5% 6 MONTHS
4% 3 MONTHS
3M» % AT CALL
Applications must be made on the
form attached to the prospectus and
acknowledgement will be a Regis-
tered Redeemable Unsecured Note.
Trustee for the Debenture and Note
Holders: Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd.
Bankers:
National Bank of Australasia Limited
cxz
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
HOW TO INVEST
Obtain your prospectus from
and lodge applications with;
• Any Stockbroker.
• Any branch of the National Bank
of Australasia Limited.
• Any office of Burns Philp Trust
Co. Ltd.
• Any store or office of Waltons
Limited and Treadways Ltd.
• Waltons Credit Corporation Ltd.,
Box 3875, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
THE FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances
effected at lowest current rates.
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims,
DIRECTORS:
Alfred S. White (Chairman), E. 0.
Conen, T. K. Magney, A. G. Parker,
Douglas Wadley.
H. H. Moulton, Managing Director.
B. J. Lane, Manager.
Phone: 27-7401 (Branches in all States)
20 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721.
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER.
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members o] Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street, Phone 6089
HOME BUILDING NEEDS
SHOT IN THE ARM
building industry continues at a
slow tempo in the housing field. A
pick-up in houses started in the June
quarter is more than offset by a sharp
increase in completions in the same
three months.
The end result of this trend was that
the total of houses under construction
throughout Australia at June 30 was the
lowest recorded at year’s end for 10
years and was nearly the lowest number
at any time of the year for the same
period. (That dubious honor goes to
the December quarter of 1961.)
The following tables show how the
industry fared in the June quarter and
its activity at the end of the period
HOUSES STARTED
June December
Quarter Quarter
1956 16,041 16,412
1957 17,183 16,214
1958 18,381 17,265
1959 19,072 19,400
1960 20,749 19,059
1961 17,141 16,879
1962 18,547
Commencement of houses is clearly
seasonal with the current September
quarter the most active. Over the last
few years an average increase of 1000
houses can be noted between June three
months and September.
If this trend is followed the current
period will see 19,500 houses com-
menced the largest number since
“awful” November, 1960.
HOUSES COMPLETED
June December
Quarter Quarter
1956 18,768 17,244
1957 16,526 19,088
1958 18,470 20,746
1959 20,345 21,093
1960 21,137 22,107
1961 18,780 19,587
1962 19,390
A slight seasonal tendency can be
noted with completions in the December
quarter, recording the largest figure by
an average of 700 in the last four years.
UNDER CONSTRUCTION
June December
Quarter Quarter
1956 52,444 51,285
1957 53,313 51,554
1958 51,401 48,226
1959 47,107 44,539
1960 44,767 41,613
1961 38,162 36,463
1962 36,676 _
There is no seasonal pattern to houses
under construction. The current
activity is 32 p.c. less than it was four
years ago.
However, there has been a sharp
increase in flat building in the same
period, offsetting, in part, the housing
setback.
At June 30, there were 7316 flats
under construction, and, while this is
the lowest quarterly total since Septem-
ber, 1960, it is a threefold improvement
on the figures of four years ago.
The total house and flat activity in
Australia has diminished and today the
total number of all dwellings being u,
is the lowest for 10 years. The wane
home unit development has not be
offset by any apparent revival in hm!
building. °“ st
The whole industry is in need
"shot io the arm". The
building activity, so obvious by a tm
through downtown Sydney or Mel
bourne, is clouding the picture.
The need to stimulate demand f or
houses now is obvious, for 1966 will see
an enormous demand as the population
explosion comes of age. This is a time
when it will be essential for the decks
of housing demand to be clear.
Methods of stimulating current
demand, then financing it, will test the
mettle of the Federal and State
Treasurers. Perhaps next week’s Budget
will be designed in part with the above
figures well to the forefront of thinking,


SrandX
lii^Cov,
>.£_***>*
i.
YOUR
FAVOURITE
BRANDY
fine Australian
pot-still
xcz
STAGINGS
BRANDY
TASMANIA'S ALL-OUT BID FOR
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT
FROM A LAUNCESTON CORRESPONDENT
■nxcEPT for the spectacular Mr Bolte,
t Tasmania’s industrial developers
work harder than the boosters from
other States, but their results are disap-
pointing. Tasmania, though Tasmanians
won’t allow themselves to think about
it may be losing ground in the industrial
development race, not because it lacks
attractions to industry, but because in-
dustry still does not seriously examine
its attractions.
Heavy basic industries, dependent on
the State’s ample reserves of accessible
timber and on its cheap hydro-electric
power, are well established and growing
quite rapidly in some instances, but ad-
ditions to the thin veneer of lighter
industries are needed to create the per-
manently expanding employment Tas-
mania needs if it is to avoid reverting
to its historical role of an exporter of
people.
Were cheap power the answer, Tas-
mania would have no problem. The
State produces one-ninth of all power
generated in Australia, uses more than
three times as much per head as the
Australian average (a per capita usage
exceeded only by Norway) and sells it
to industry very much more cheaply
than any other State does.
The Hydro-Electric Commission esti-
mates that the 1960-61 average price of
electricity per kilowatt-hour was 2.54 d.
in NSW, 2.49 d. in Victoria, 2.53 d. in
SA, 3.13 in WA, 2.77 d. in Queensland —
and only 0.85 d. in Tasmania.
More than two years ago, Deputy
Premier Roy Fagan went overseas as
leader of an industrial mission. They had
a good story to tell, and they told it well,
but the only tangible result to date is a
carpet factory at Devonport, set up as
an Australian branch by a Scottish firm.
Existing industries, many of them Tas-
manian owned and long established, have
continued to progress, but industry as a
whole still stops a long way short of
meeting much of the State’s own needs
in consumer goods, including foodstuffs
and clothing. The market, of course, is
relatively small for home manufacture,
and mainland factory managements
regard it as only over the road from their
plants (though utterly remote when they
are asked to set up Tasmanian factories!).
APPM, after a credit-squeeze set-back,
is again booming at Burnie, and pushing
ahead the first unit of a particle-board
plant at Wesley Vale, where a £3O mil-
lion twin of the Burnie paper and board
mills is ultimately envisaged. APM is
building a big pulp plant in the south-
east, but as yet plans only to provide
pulp for mainland paper mills.
Comalco’s aluminium plant at Bell
Bay, one of the brightest spots in the
Tasmanian scene, has been revolutionised
since Kaiser and Consolidated Zinc re-
placed the Commonwealth in the com-
bine with the Tasmanian Government.
Ingot production is soaring and diversi-
fying. It is soon to be doubled, then
redoubled.
And over the road from the Comalco
sprawl is the small but significant Temco
ferro-manganese furnace of BHP. The
steel giant has bought several hundred
acres with deep-water frontage, and
every Tasmanian believes that this is
only the beginning of what will become
a great electro-alloy producer. The
coming of BHP has been the biggest
boost Tasmania’s industrial morale has
had.
Optimism has been endorsed by a
recent statement from the dedicated but
realistic Hydro-Electric Commissioner
A. W. Knight, who not insignificantly is
a graduate in commerce as well as in
engineering. He has told the people that
the 400,000 h.p. due from the £3O mil-
lion Poatina scheme in 1964 should
“meet requirements”, and the Lower
Derwent developments will add enough
as they come in between 1964 and 1968
to keep things rolling, but “at least one
more station” will be required by 1969
to meet industry’s needs.
He has suggested almost immediate
parliamentary consideration of a £5O
million scheme to take 500,000 hp from
the gorges of the Forth and Mersey
where they rush down from the central
highlands to the north coast.
The cost of each kilowatt-hour of in-
stalled capacity increases steadily, but
the Tasmanian utilisation is high. The
Snowy’s ultimate 2i million kilowatt
generator capacity is expected to yield
about 5500 million kilowatt-hours an-
nually; but when Tasmania’s generator
capacity reaches .the Snowy target its
output will be about 12,500 million kilo-
watt-hours annually, a utilisation two-
and-a-half times greater than the Snowy’s.
Already, the generator capacity of
617,500 kilowatts produces more than
3000 million units annually. It is this
high annual output of energy per unit
oi capacity which determines the econo-
mics of Tasmania’s cheap power.


IX L
This World Famous Brand is Manufactured
and Distributed by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES AND
ASSOCIATED COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING —INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
AROUND THE WELLS
Tf the Government has any intention
of increasing oil search subsidies or
in any other way giving additional
assistance to private ventures in next
week’s Budget no hint has so far reached
the bourses. With oil share markets
merely jogging along it is obvious that
a new spur is needed from somewhere
to re-kindle interest of investors. What
better source than the Federal Govern-
ment which so far has simply applauded
the strikes at Moonie and failed to weigh
in with a bigger subsidies programme,
leaving the full onus on local investors
and overseas interests to finance more
intensive and expanded exploration.
About the only tangible gesture ex-
pected in the Budget is on the subject
of tax losses arising from consideration
of the claims of the AAO group, but
how far the Government has decided to
go on this is still problematical.
In the meantime the Bureau 0 f
Mineral Resources has made a further
adjudication of claims for subsidies and
surprisingly has allocated almost as
much of the <£600,000 now to be
granted to forteen companies for geo-
physical surveys as it has for drilling
projects.
In fact the biggest allocation this time
is the £123,039 allotted to Dehli-Santos
for a seismic survey in the Clifton Hill
region of Queensland and South Aus-
tralia (Artesian Basin).
Also, Exoil is getting £52,700 for a
seismic survey in the Lake Gailee area
of Queensland and there are six other
grants for geophysical surveys as well.
Against this there were only six
approvals for drilling, more than half of
the sum allotted going to two wells
currently being drilled at Anglesea (Vic-
toria) by Oil Development and Planet
and at Mt. Salt in South Australia by Oil
Development. Smaller drilling subsidies
go to AAO well and a Woodside well at
Bundy (NSW). There is no hint in the
drilling allocations of possible subsidies
for new wells, all six receiving money
either having already been drilled or
presently drilling.
On gets the impression therefore that
the wheels of the Bureau of Mineral
Resources are grindineg far too slowly,
perhaps suggesting lack of urgency on
the parallel political plane.
Happily several new wells will soon
be going down apart from those
mentioned in this column last week.
Farmount Drillers have finalised arrange-
ments with Woodside (Lakes Entrance)
and Mid-Eastern Oil for joint participa-
tion in the Port Kembla (with Woodside)
and Mt. Jack (with Mid-Eastern) Wells.
Planet’s plans for a well at East Mait-
land are also further forward.
Possibly the most interesting well of
all to be drilled this month will be at
Port Fairy, about 60 miles from Port
Campbell by Frome Broken Hill. This
is in the area first recommended by the
company’s geophysists in the Western
District of Victoria but drilling there was
postponed indefinitely while the com-
pany followed up its successful gas well
at Port Campbell in 1959. Interstate Oil
has a one-third interest in Frome Broken
Hill, the remainder mostly being held
by BP Exploration and Mobil.


g
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
O/
An
O
' PER
ANNUM
4 YEARS
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT
NOTES
■ /"W
9 % P.A ... 4 years
IQI/2% p.a. ... Shears
< S% P.a 2 years
7V2% P.A. 12 mths.
6% P.A. . . ." 6 mths.
FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN IN A PERSONAL EMERGENCY
APPLICATIONS MUST BE MADE ON THE FORM ATTACHED
TO THE PROSPECTUS, WHICH IS NOW AVAILABLE FROM:
All Branches of fhe Company's Bankers
THE BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company's Offices,
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House. Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Bayliss Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
BROKERS:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange) ....
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
TRUSTEES FOR THE NOTEHOLDERS:
Bankers & Traders Insurance Company Limited
CC 140/A B
INVESTMENT
SECTION
MARKET "SWEATS" ON
ACCOUNTS OF L. J. HOOKER GROUP
The share market continues to take a
dim view of the L. J. Hooker
group’s prospects. For, despite success-
ful raising (from the United States) of
life-giving funds last month, the ss.
Hooker shares have slipped to their
lowest level yet —4s. Id.
The reason for the lack of enthusiasm
indeed, the apparent anxiety of
holders —lies in the coming announce-
ment or the result of operations for
1961-62.
In March, the board commendably
admitted to difficult trading—and showed
a small (£29,748) profit for the first
half of the year. 'Now, the full year to
June 30 is understood to have ended
with a thumping loss. Market talk puts
it in the order of <£500,000.
Such a loss would be suffered if the
board has continued its realistic
approach to its problems Expensive
properties held by the group have had
a twofold effect on the trading while
they have remained undeveloped.
• These properties, such as the Royal
Exchange building and the Victoria
Arcade in Sydney, have fallen in value —
not much, but nonetheless, they are not
as valuable as the prices paid for them
in the “gay” 1960 period.
• Interest charges on mucn of the
finance raised to pay for properties
remains considerably in excess of the
proceeds coming from them, if any,
while they are not developed.
As far as Hooker, the developer, is
concerned, then, there is a cleft stick;
a crossroads that has come up —Sell the
properties at a loss when, if developed,
they could make possibly handsome
profits? Or, take it on the chin and write
off the losses, both book and trade?
The latter course is the one from
which shareholders will extract the most
benefit in the long run. And, if the
board is of the same candid mind that
it was last February, this is the course
it will take.
The US funds may allow the group
to get on with the job of developing
these assets before the losses they attract
undeveloped bring the sword down on
the whole empire.
Last year’s profit (£800,000) ap-
parently was augmented before being
struck by two things: (a) Heavy selling
of livestock from the animal agriculture
pursuits of the empire; and (b) capital
profits from the flotation of the Cen-
tenary Estates (Brisbane) development.
Perhaps, because of depletion or lower
prices, the pastoral activities will not
be as rewarding in 1961-62. Equally
there has been no major capital profit
made to offset trading losses.
The hotel division, one feels, has
maintained its position. The basic real
estate division presumably produces less
profit in quieter times when selling staff
has to be maintained but proceeds are
reduced.
All-in-all, then, a loss for the Hooker
group is inevitable. Equally, it is prob-
ably better for the shareholders to
swallow one large pill as quickly as
possible than let the treatment drag on
for several years, as it could do.
Intrinsically, shareholders’ funds in
(Continued on page 50)


TESTRO BROS.
YOUR MONEY CAN EARN
10Z
WITH FIRST MORTGAGE SECURITY
Note Under short or long term investment, all
interest is paid quarterly and the first £lOO is payable
on demand.
NATURE OF BUSINESS. Main activity of the
Company is in Home and Industrial Finance, in
association with the world-wide Testro Group of
Companies in London, Paris, Wellington, Tokyo,
Hong Kong, Singapore, Manila, Los Angeles, Bombay.
DIRECTORS. Rex Clifford Testro, Keith Royal
Testro, T. G. Hardwick, Edward Neilson (U.K.),
Pierre Dubouchet (France), George Yeomans (N.Z.).
HOW TO INVEST. Simply obtain prospectus and
application forms by posting the coupon below.
TESTRO BROS. CONSOLIDATED LTD.
Testro House, 222 Queen Street, Melbourne
xcz
Please send me prospectus and
application form.
NAME
ADDRESS.
D. 31
Applications for debentures will proceed only on the
printed form of application attached to prospectus.
Hooker have been maintained to date;
the only variations have come in the
lowering of real estate values. By writing
the true position in the books now, the
board would provide itself with a more
comfortable future.
Real estate values, especially city
property, must improve as the cities
grow. One must counsel holders of
depreciated property not to be stam-
peded into selling at this stage,
And, a share in L. J. Hooker Invest-
ment Corporation can be likened to a
retd estate property. The loss for 1961-
62, if made, does not alter the prospect,
but rather enhances it.
T)roperty developer Lend Lease Cor-
poration Ltd proved its innate
strength by maintaining earning rate at
21.5 p.c. on capital increased by over
50 p.c., in the year ended June 30.
A one-for-four issue at 100 p. c
premium will be made to bring capita!
up to approximately £3.75 million.
Actual profit rose from £266,845 to
£580,693, after allowing £428,518
(previously £193,118) for taxation. De-
preciation is not yet revealed.
The combination of finance, develop-
ment construction (and manufacture of
some of the building materials), plus re-
tention of an equity interest in the most
attractive projects, gives this company
inbuilt stability even in times considered
most unpropitious for builders.
The latest issue—the fifth to share-
holders in less than 34 years—will rank
for dividend for the second half of the
current year.
Experts tip a marked improvement in
earnings in 1963 when three major
development projects in Sydney and
Canberra are scheduled for completion,
and the first stage of construction of the
Australia Square project will be launched.
A dditional tariff protection of £9 a
ton for 11 months of the financial
year just ended, enabled APM to recoup
most of the previous year’s profit fall.
Parent company profit (usually close to
group figures) and quantity sales for the
last three years have been:
Profit Sales
1960 £2,125,800 300,229 tons
1961 £1,610,693 278,869 tons
1962 £2,089,250 289,597 tons
Depreciation charge was £23,371 more
at £2,607,197, but tax provided was
£63,111 lower at £880,697.
Dividend has been lifted fractionally
from 8 to 84 p.c. the one-for-four bonus
shares rank for dividend as from July 1
last.
The company gives the impression that
it is straining to present the prettiest
picture possible. Directors speak of im-
proved demand since September. But
how long can the company depend on
that temporary extra duty?
A more than usually interesting report
can be expected from Olympic Con-
solidated. It has finally broken its pat-
tern of 9 p.c. dividends, with declaration
of a 10 p.c. rate (final 54 p.c.) for the
year just ended June 30.
No results were announced but direct-
ors said group profit was better than the
1960-61 figure. However, average capi-
tal employed would be higher.
The profit improvement must have
come from cables and general products,
to offset the relatively quiet trade in
motor tyres.


WHY NO TAKEOVER BID IS LIKELY
FOR MORAN & CATO
By “SECURITY”
IN the past few years it is likely that
a number of investors have pur-
chased the 10s. ordinary shares of
Moran and Cato (Australia) Ltd, the
largest independent retail grocery chain
and grocery wholesaler, purely on the
grounds that sooner or later it would
receive a takeover bid from either Wool-
worths or G. J. Coles. In a period
where grocery chain takeovers were the
order of the day, such market rumors
were understandable. But, with a present
paid up capital of about £3 million and
shareholders’ funds totalling over £3£
million, it is certain that any potential
takeover bidders would have to bid
rather high for this company, which is
both rich in assets and earnings.
Nevertheless, over the past ten years
the company has proved a very attrac-
tive investment. In November, 1958,
the company made a one-for-four bonus
issue and in December, 1958, made a
one-for-ten cash issue at par on the
capital before the bonus issue. Then in
May, 1960, shareholders were offered
two 10s. shares in a new holding com-
pany for each 10s. share held in the old
company—a virtual one-for-one bonus.
Thus, in the past 10 years, an investor
who originally held 100 shares would
now have 260, assuming he had sold the
rights arising out of the December 1958,
cash issue to take up old shares. At the
same time his dividend income would
have increased from £5 to £l3 or at
an average annual compound rate of 10
p.c. If this calculation is carried out
over the past four financial years, the
average annual compound rate of
increase of dividend income is 27 p.c.
because of the four successive dividend
increases.
Perhaps the reason behind Moran and
Cato’s sharp annual profit increases
since 1958 in contrast to the rather stable
profit level recorded from 1950 (when
the company was floated as a public
company) to 1957, has been the con-
version of its various retail outlets to
self-service. For in 1957 all the com-
pany’s 190 stores were of the service
store type, whereas in 1961 of the 167
stores only 34 still traded as fully service
stores (and only account for roughly 10
P-c. of the group’s total retail trade).
The company’s development policy
has been to close down retail stores
which do not lend themselves to con-
version to self-service and to reap
greater gains from enlarging the selling
space of the existing stores by acquiring
adjoining properties, rather than by
building in new areas.
Approximately 50 p.c. of the com-
pany’s recent fixed asset expansion pro-
gramme, with emphasis on consolidation
or expansion of existing stores, has been
financed by retained cash flows (ploughed
back profit and depreciation allowances).
Shareholders have been called upon
only once to provide additional equity
capital, but the ordinary capital of the
company has been increased by the issue
of £19,000 in 10s. shares at a premium
of £26,750 to vendors of freehold in
the 1959 financial year, and by a further
issue of £88,449 in 10s. ordinary shares
to vendors of freehold at a premium of
£75,551 in the 1960 financial year.
Although this method of acquiring
property will probably continue in the
future, shareholders’ benefits will accrue
in the form of additions to the share
premium reserve, making future bonus
issues possible. It is also likely that free-
hold properties are well undervalued in
relation to current market prices, for the
only asset revaluation that has occurred
since listing was in 1958 when freehold
property was revalued upwards by
£200,000 and a bonus issue followed in
November of that year.
In April of this year the directors of
the company stated that although sales
showed a reasonable increase in the first
six months of the current year as com-
pared with the corresponding period of
the previous year, profits were slightly
lower because of higher operating costs.
Although it would seem likelv that the
latter six months of the current financial
year will produce better results as a
consequence of the upturn in retail
turnover, the chance of a fifth successive
annual dividend increase seems rather
slight.
But in the past, Moran and Cato’s
earnings as a percentage of ordinary
capital have moved upward steadily.
After eliminating the effects of bonus
issues but ignoring the bonus elements
which exist in cash issues at favourable
prices, the earning rate has increased
from 7.4 p.c. in the year to the Ist
August, 1955, to 15.9 p.c. ir the
financial year ending August, 1961. The
dividend payout rate has increased from
just over an average of 50 p.c. up till
1959 to 63 p.c. in the last financial year.
The fact that the dividend income has
increased at such a rate over the last 4
years, coupled with the marked upward
trend in earnings per share, suggests
that further increases in the dividend
rate are possible in the relatively short
term.
At around present price of 275. to
yield 3.7 p.c. from the present 10 p.c.
dividend, Moran and Cato offers good
prospects for short term capital apprecia-
tion, particularly when it is considered
that the shares have been up to 30/-
during the current calendar year and
reached 31/- during 1961. The increase
in dividend income over the last ten
years, coupled with the current increase
in earnings per share, also suggests that
this is a good stock for the long term
investor.
BALANCE SHEET AND PROFIT
STATEMENT SUMMARIES
£'000
1957 1958 1959 1960 1961
Current assets 1605 1651 1744 1908 1757
Current liabilities 1025 1051 1232 1469 1892
Working capital 580 600 512 439 (135)
Fixed assets 1426 1971 2359 2890 3694
Investments 41 74 82 84 81
Total capital 2047 2645 2953 3413 3640
Represented by:
Loan capital 64 159 97 139 102
Ordinary capital 1000 1000 1369 2871 2902
Reserves 983 1486 1487 403 636
Estimated operating
income 396 562 705 787 932
Earnings 203 290 371 386 462
Ord. dividends 100 125 198 239 290
Surplus 103 165 173 147 172
Earnings to ord. capital (a) 7.7 11.0 13.4 13.4 15.9
Dividend rate (a) 4 5 1\ 8-1/3 10
Dividend yield (b) 4-8 4.8 3.9 4.2 3.6
Price/earnings ratio (b) 10.3 11.2 15.7 14.9 17.3
(a) Adjusted for bonus issues only.
(b) Based on last sale in month accounts as presented.


CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established, 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(England)
ZV.S.IP. Branch:
Kindersley House,
lilisrh - O’Connell Sts., Sydney
TALK AROUND CHANGE
Shareholders of Holyman Woods Ltd,
the civil construction engineer in
the hands of the receiver, got an un-
usual communication last week from the
Murray Brothers.
Their proposal is to reconstruct Holy-
man Woods and completely recoup share-
holder losses. (The ss. shares are about
3d. on the market). First step is the form-
ation of a new company with authorised
capital of £150,000 in 2s. shares and
net assets in real estate, shares and cash.
Holyman is then to take over this com-
pany, offering four Holyman ss. shares
for each 2s. share, and Holyman credi-
tors are asked to accept one fully-paid
ss. share for each ss. of debt. (Issued)
capital would then be £1.9 million.)
The Murray Brothers reserve the right
to buy back for cash any property trans-
ferred, at the transfer price, at any time
within three years.
The Murrays would also enable share-
holders to recoup their losses quicker by
increasing holdings by up to 50 p.c.
The Murrays will sell any of their six
million shares to the original share-
holders and ex-creditors for the price of
6d. (Are you still with me?)
If Holyman's tax loss is at least
£lOO,OOO, the Murrays envisage paying
a 5 p.c. dividend within three years.
Holyman’s issue to float late in 1960
was heavily over-subscribed. An un-
named (of necessity), “prominent Stock
Exchange official is of the opinion that
the shares could rise to 2s. each over-
night after the reconstruction.” The re-
maining faithful may expect a great deal
more assurance than that.
★ ★ ★
T>urns Philp & Co. Ltd is expected to
bring forth its pride and joy, a con-
solidated balance sheet, today or
tomorrow.
BP’s reputation for tight-lipped share-
holder relations is such that many
observers believe the document will be
purely a token gesture, conforming only
to essential provisions of the new NSW
Companies Act.
Even so, the accounts must provide
more information than has been available
hitherto. The major things for investors
to look for on sight of a copy of the
accounts are:
• Shareholders’ funds of the group’
and, of course, the method of valuation'
of assets, especially fixed assets, and the
investment portfolio.
• Taxation provision—which will
give a guide (although only a slight one)
to the genuineness of the profit disclosed.
In assessing profit from taxation pro-
vision, investment income must be
allowed for, and BP holds a very lan>e
investment portfolio.
• A list of subsidiaries. If this is
forthcoming it will make interesting
reading even for shareholders who have
remained in the dark about the activities
of their company.
The balance sheet could affect share
prices considerably. The present market
(20s. shares at £5 Is.) is based on
unproven observations. Currently it is
well above the company’s own valuation,
but considerably below that of some
observers.
One thing appears certain —the present
value is quite apparently not a correct
one. But, only the inner circle is in a
position to know whether it is too high
or too low. On reputation, they will re-
main in that position.
A TAKEOVER PROSPECT
Oydney’s Scott’s Provisions Ltd has obvious attractions for the larger
groups in the foodstuffs and catering industries. Since listing two years
ago, rumors have attended Scott’s almost continually.
Scott’s has done well since it joined the public company ranks; last year,
1960-61, it earned 14 p.c. on capital and paid 10 p.c. dividend. Sales were
down for the first half of the current year following closing of the retail
division of the group. Profit for the year to June 30, however, is expected
to show an increase.
Three factors have influenced Scott’s share price during its ’Change
history. Scarcity of the shares is an important factor. Scott’s, with a
small paid capital of £400,000, is principally a family business and the
bulk of the shares are strongly held.
Demand for the shares, already few available, has been stimulated
by the rumors and by the sound, if short history. Today, the ss. shares
are available around 11s. 4d. to give a dividend yield of 4.1 p.c. Price
earnings ratio is 16H1 —not too bad considering takeover prospects.
And takeover prospects must be considered. One would not be
surprised if, say, Peters Ice Cream (Victoria) was taking more than a
passing interest.
Peters already has extensive catering facilities as owner of Four ’N
Twenty Pies in Victoria, Gordon Edgell & Co. and Grocery & General’s
manufacturing enterprises.
Peters and Scott’s have a trade connection, with Scott’s handling NSW
frozen food promotion for International Canners a subsidiary of Peters.


PATRICK & COMPANY
Members ot the Sydney Stock Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building,
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5957 (4 Unes).
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale”, Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
FINANCE CORPORATION
of AUSTRALIA LIMITED
<*%£
OFFERS A SPECIALISED FINANCE SERVICE
We have finance available for: —
LENDING
▼
Developmental Projects
▼
Capital Equipment
▼
Commercial and Industrial Properties
▼
Business Expansion
DISCOUNTING AND PURCHASE
Mortgages
y
Contracts of Sale
y
Leases
y
Hire Purchase Contracts
FINANCE CORPORATION OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
ADELAIDE
F.C.A. Building,
15 Franklin Street
Telephone 51 3781
MELBOURNE
Union House,
SI Queen Street,
Telephone 61 3051
SYDNEY
Anchor House,
Cnr. George and
Bridge Streets,
Telephone 27 7003
BRISBANE
Mercantile House,
262 Adelaide St.,
Telephone 31 2861
PERTH
M.L.C. Building,
171-177 St. George's Tee,
Telephone 21 6892
GF 2
The £2 million contract to supply steel
pipelines for the Murray 1 Power
Station spotlights two blue-chips. Humes
Ltd won the contract against world-wide
competition.
The pipes will be made from new high
tensile steel to be manufactured by Aus-
tralian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd, the BHP
subsidiary.
After the contract announcement.
Humes shares moved up 6d. but were
still yielding about 3.8 p.c. compared
with 2.9 p.c. for that other Melbourne
pipe-maker Rocla. Rocla last year
earned 17.1 p.c. on capital increased by
a one-for-one bonus and one-for-ten
premium issue, plus takeovers, and paid
121 p.c., representing half the pre-bonus
pay-out.
Humes earned 24.6 p.c. in 1960-61 on
capital increased by a two-for-five par
issue, a placement and takeovers, and
paid 14 p.c. as usual. If Rocla steps up
its distribution to 15 p.c. (thus yielding
3.5 p.c.) Humes looks underpriced by
comparison. Surely Humes' next benefit
is closer than Rocla's. Perhaps a share
split would correct the market's attitude.
As for BHP, prices again dipped to
565. last Monday. The Snowy pipes
business failed to impress buyers, nor
has the prospect of a £sm. steel contract
with a South American country. It takes
a lot to recast a fallen idol
★ ★ ★
ship has come in for the beach
sands miners. Crescent Rutile NL
has sold firm halt of its rirst year’s out-
put from Bribie Island deposits (just
north of Brisbane) for £32 per ton.
Annual income from estimated produc-
tion is £158,000, of which half will
belong to Crescent.
The company will gain access to these
deposits by forming Bribie Rutile Pty
Ltd to whom the present owners will
sell right, title and interest in the de-
posits. They have agreed to waive cash
payment. Bribie Rutile will buy
Crescent’s plant for fully-paid shares
and an option to buy 500,000 Crescent
shares for cash.
To finance the reconstruction pro-
gramme. Crescent is making an issue of
2 million 2s. 6d. shares at Is. each. It’s
not often that we see an issue at a dis-
count. Crescent directors said this would
bring them into line with the value ot
existing shares, which were selling
around lid. at the time of the announce-
ment.
The second string to the company’s
rehabilitation programme was an investig-
ation of an NZ gold mining project.


ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £’000
Parent
Group
Year to
April 30
1958
1959
I960
1961
1962
Current assets
Less Current
2,458
2,903
3,219
4,379
4,545
liabilities
855
1.319
1,376
1.907
1,813
Working capital
1.613
1.584
1.843
2.472
2.732
Fixed assets
754
754
802
1.094
1,643
Investments
172
170
236
739
349
Total ret assets
2.529
2,508
2.881
4,305
4,724
ReDresenred by:
Loan capita]
409
383
707
1.130
1,028
Minority interests —
—
—
10
44
Ord. capita]
1.154
1.154
1.185
1.870
1.949
Reserves
966
971
989
1,295
1.703
Total capita]
2.529
2,508
2.881
4,305
4.724
Depreciation
29
29
32
57
82
Taxation
n a
n a
101
118
100
Net trading profit
119
121
135
170
197
Per cent to capital
10.3
10.5
11.6
13.3
10.4
Capital profit
—
—
—
—
3
Ord. dividend
115
115
117
139
189
Dividend %
10
10
10
10
10
Surplus
5
6
18
31
11
Dividend yield (a]
4.8
4.8
3.5
4.7
High price
44/6
44/6
45/-
58/-
47/6
Low price
38/-
36/6
37 9
36/6
37/-
(a) End of Julv, month
account presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
EDWARDS DUNLOP AND CO. LTD
HASN'T MISSED A DIVIDEND
IN 47 YEARS
A s they share the same chairman, one
is not surprised to find that Edwards
Dunlop and Co. Ltd presents the same
sober face of soliditv to the world as does
Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd.
Edwards Dunlop has never missed a
dividend in its 47 years on Sydney lists,
but parent profits invariably just covered
dividend distributions. Tax provision
has only been disclosed, and group
accounts presented, in the last two to
three years.
The ramifications of the group have
grown wider in that time. In chrono-
logical order acquisitions have been: A
majority interest in W. H. Wassail
and Son Pty Ltd, a Sydney paper mer-
chant; the whole of the issued capital of
Parsons and Hayes Pty Ltd, Sydney
printers’ engineers, and Super Trans-
port (NSW) Pty Ltd, a transport com-
pany, which handles the group’s bulk
storage and deliveries; the wrapping
paper distribution section of P. J. Firth
Ltd; a minority interest in Reed Paper
Products (Holdings) Ltd; W. Nevill and
Co. Ltd, manufacturing stationer; and
Olympic Stationery Ltd, a New Zealand
manufacturing stationer. An older sub-
sidiary is Galwey and Co. Pty Ltd,
manufacturing stationer and paper bag
maker.
The group’s most interesting associa-
tion is with CSR and Albert E. Reed
and Co. Ltd, the largest paper and paper-
packaging products maker in the UK,
in Reed Paper Products (Holdings) Ltd.
Dunlop has represented Albert E. Reed
in Australia since 1949.
The business of the group falls into
four main categories: Printing paper,
wrapping paper, printing machinery and
stationery. The machinery section has
been broadened lately, and agencies
include Buhler Brothers of Switzerland
and Pivano and Co. of Italy. Sales of
machinery are assisted by hire purchase
finance, and the group accepts money on
deposit from the public for this purpose.
Removal of import restrictions early
in 1960 upset the market for locally-
made papers and boards. Duty-paid
landed costs of imported papers were
in some instances below that of the local
article.
Australian-made paper and board
products constitute the greater part of
Dunlop’s turnover in these goods, and
sales tor the. year to April 30, 1962, fell
almost to the comparable 1960 levels.
Competition was keen and gross profit
margin reduced. The major Australian
makers have now obtained important
additional tariff protection, which should
assist the company’s sales this year.
The net profit from trading for 1961-
62 of £197,573 (exclusive of a capital
profit of £2760) included W. Nevill’s
results for the first time, and three
months’ profit for Olympic. As Nevill’s
last profit prior to takeover was ap-
proximately £58,000, the £27,169
advance in Dunlop’s profit from the year
before reveals a profit reversal for some
members of the group.
Directors explained that the 1962
profit was arrived at without adding to
contingency provisions, or providing for
developmental costs of the following
year, as was done in 1961 and as has
been done each year at April 30, or
when profit permitted. Therein lies a
clue to Dunlop’s solid foundations.
Enactment of new company legisla-
tion has unmasked some of Dunlop’s
profit disguises, and shareholders should
henceforth get a clearer picture of its
assets and earnings strength. Invest-
ments and stocks, for instance, used to
be shown in the accounts net of a special
reserve of unknown proportions. It is
now shown in 1962 accounts as provision
for stock depreciation and contingencies,
and in the table below has been treated
as part of reserves.
The £1,949,454 ordinary issued capital
is therefore supported by £943,756
general reserve, £152,750 share
premium, £153,923 retained profits,
£132.488 consolidated reserve and
£318,718 contingencies reserve. The net
tangible asset backing per 20s. share
works out at 375. sd.
Properties consist of freeholds in all
mainland capitals, including Canberra,
and at Newcastle. Freehold and lease-
hold land and buildings appeared in
1962 accounts at valuation £347,722,
at cost £797,700, less aggregate de-
preciation and amortisation £28,798, a
net increase of about £300,000 on
1961. Changing circumstances have
prompted transfer of trading and ware-
housing operations from one locality to
another within the cities, and sale of
redundant properties usually results in
a surplus for reserves. As the company
is 93 years old, and has not had a general
revaluation of assets, they must be con-
servatively valued by present-day stand-
ards.
The company has made premium
issues in 1954 and 1960 and a three-for-
five bonus in between. The strong liquid
position does not suggest that another
cash issue is imminent, and the com-
pany’s immediate prospects could not
encourage managerial thoughts of an
early bonus.
May and June sales this year were
higher than last year, although the news-
print market has not revived: the
demand for printing machinery was
keener, and the manufacturing sub-
sidiaries were doing well, the chairman
told shareholders in his annual review.
Current market of about 44s 3d. for
the 20s. share, to yield 4.5 p.c. income
and 4.7 p.c. earnings represents fair
average value on the evidence presented
by the company.
THE SWAN BREWERY CO. LTD
NO FROTH AND
BUBBLE HERE
Incorporation of the Swan Brewery
Co. Ltd in Melbourne was an accident
of birth in the ’Bos. All its present sub-
sidiaries are incorporated in Western
Australia or the Northern Territory, and
it has no trading activity in Victoria. The
company is West Australian in outlook,
and prefers to be recognised as such.
The company contributed £8,464,000
to public funds by way of excise duties


CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS
SUMMARIES
£’000
Year to April 30 1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
Current as:ets 1105
less current
1191
1288
1253
1179
liabilities 1353
1691
1264
1196
1181
Working capital -248
-500
24
57
-2
Fixed assets 7227
7499
7239
7101
7528
Investments 4
4
37
378
548
Total net assets 6983
7003
7300
7536
8074
Represented by:
Loan capital —
26
18
8
Minority interests 23
25
20
22
3
Plref. capital 50
50
50
50
50
Ord. capital 3423
3423
3423
3466
3968
Reserves 3487
3479
3789
3990
4053
6983
7003
7300
7536
8074
—
—
—
—
Depreciation 230
349
260
281
353
399
366
411
585
563
«et Trading profit 388
349
399
489
602
% to capital 11 3
10.1
11.6
14.0
15.1
Capital profit 9
5
-10
30
7
Pret. divs. 6% 3
3
3
3
3
Ord. divs. 342
342
342
433
495
Dividend % 10
10
10
12 V a
I2V2
Surplus 52
9
44
83
111
Dividend yield (a)
f'gh price (b) 9/10
low price (b) 8/9V 2
4.2
3.9
4.5
11/8
15/
14/2
17/
8/8
10/
10/7
10/6
}?{ .of August, month accounts
in) Previous calendar year.
presented.
1
REGISTERED
UNSECURED NOTES
V
87.
p.a. for 7 years
y
able —. see Prospectus for full
details. Your copy available from
all Members of Stock Exchanges,
over 750 branches of the A.N.Z.
Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches.
Applications for stock will proceed
only on one of the forms of appli-
cation referred to and attached to
a printed copy of the Prospectus.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Registered 19th December, 1929)
Branches at
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
HOBART CANBERRA
Brokers to the Issue: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney,
Adelaide and Brisbane.
and other taxes in the year to March 27,
1962, or almost 17 times the sum distri-
buted to its shareholders.
The shareholders, however, have had
little cause for complaint. Profits are
always conservatively stated, but divi-
dend has been lifted from 8i to 12i p.c.
since 1954, concurrent with a one-for-
three issue of ss. shares at Is. premium,
and a one-for-seven bonus in May 1961.
The group now consists of The Emu
Brewery Ltd, the Kalgoorlie Brewing Co.
Ltd, Swan Hotels Ltd, The West Aus-
tralian Glass Manufacturers Ltd, Stuart
Brewery Ltd, The Darwin Brewery Ltd,
Hotel Darwin Ltd, and Darwin Enter-
prises Ltd. The breweries are situated
at Perth, Kalgoorlie and Darwin.
The company is constantly reviewing
its hotel properties, the value of which
is influenced by changing conditions.
Hotels are well maintained and are being
modernised. During the last year one
was completely rebuilt, and two hotels
on new sites will be completed this year.
Two other hotels were disposed of. The
freehold and leasehold land and build-
ings—hotels and breweries—were valued
at £5.9 million in the latest accounts.
Net profit from trading has moved up
strongly in the last two years, no doubt
partly reflecting the change in WA
licensing hours—ten o'clock closing with
no meal break. The 1961 figure of
£488,670 was exceeded by the tax pro-
vision, which indicated that true profit
was nearer to £878,000. The published
profit was arrived at after providing
£60,000 for repairs to plant and hotels
and another £60,000 for fluctuations in
value of stock and raw materials.
The true profit in 1962 may have been
slightly less than in 1961, judging by
the tax provision, although the net figure
disclosed by the company revealed a
strong upsurge from £488,670 to
£601,535.
The group’s financial structure is
thoroughly sound. The negative working
capital is nothing to be alarmed about —
quick turnover is essential in the beer
business, so that general concepts of
working capital do not apply. The com-
pany from time to time makes large
unexplained additions to reserves. At
March 27, 1962 reserves consisted of
£256,213 asset revaluation, £2,842,843
general, £449,056 share premiums, and
£504,348 unappropriated profits, repre-
senting a net tangible asset backing per
ss. ordinary stock unit of 10s. 2d.
A modern beer canning line has
boosted production for domestic and
overseas markets, and directors describe
current trading as buoyant. The favor-
able outlook for industry and commerce
in Western Australia confirms the pros-
pects for the company,
Major building projects will demand
funds, which retained profits can prob-
ably provide for the time being. The
company has so far used loan capital
only for temporary finance. Share
capital is the more likely source, and a
premium issue is the custom,
The shares, listed on all mainland
exchanges, have a wide popularity and are
currently changing hands at about 19s.
Id. to yield 3.3 p.c. They have touched
20s. this calendar year, but historically,
they are not cheap today. They are good
holding but not necessarily good buying
at present prices.


Prices—
Company
Par
Last
Div.
Div.
Earn.
Earn.
Value
Sale
23/7, 62
30/7 62
R-ate
Yield
Rate
Yield
1961
P.p
px.
p.c.
&
Amalgamated Chemicals ..
5 /
14/3
17/61
17/6
12«/ 2
3.6
21.4
fc
6.1
5/
20/4'i
20 3
20/1
14
3.S
22
5 t 5
5/
11/4
12/5
12/2
1.4
5*3
19
7.9
• 4 «,
10
46.'3
47/
47/
15
3.2
29.7
6.4
Associated Pulp
20/
29/3
29/9
30 1
13.6
9.1
Aust. Chemicals . .
• •
10/
30/4'i
24/
23/9
13 Va
5.3
21.5
8.8
A ust. Guarantee
Aust, Gypsum
•• 11
20
5/
72.6
14/
14/3
65 3
13/
14 6
04/
13 1
14 3
8-1/3
15
10
2.6
5.8
3 5
14.5
20.3
15.9
4,5
7.8
5.2
A P.M,
20/
25/3
24/
24/
8-1/3
6.8
11 9
9.9
Bank N.S.W
£20
£34
£40 :t s
£40
a
4 5
12 2
6 l
Bitumen and Oil .
• 4
5'
24/
23 9
23 6
nvu
3.7
35.4
7.6
Blue Metal Ind.
Bradford Colton .
5 1
5
22 7' 2
7/6
23 2
7/
22/3
6 9
15
10
3 4
7 3
27.6
n 2
6.3
8 l
British Tobacco
B IT P.
Burns Philp. .
C.S.R.
C.A.G.A.
C.I.G.
Commercial Union
Concrete Ind.
Cox Bros.
C.R.A.
Custom Credit
Cyclone
Dalgety-N.Z. Loan
David .Tones ..
Drug Houses
Dunlop Rubber
Elder Smith
Electronic "B”
20/
25/
23/11
23/6
9
7.7
9.7
8.3
20/
20/
69
91/
56/
£5/4/
56/
£5/1/
6 V*
10
2.2
2.0
13,7
12.4
5.0
2.5
•* *■
20,'
5/
£59'.ia
11/3
58/
Hi
53/9
10/9
9'/>
10
35
4.7
14.8
12.2
5.5
5.8
.. , .
20/
5 '
5
5
5/
5/
10
25/
5/
20
20
12/
10
£ a
19/3
15/1 1 2
7 6
13/
26/
16 9
69
35/
23 9
13 3
96734
22/
13 7
7/5
19i
10/3
21 '
37/94
17/9
71 '3
40 3
25 64
16 3
96/ xd
20 6t
13/
7/3s
18/6
10/8
21/
38/64
17/10
70/
40/
26/
16'
11
8 Vi
10
10
12
15
10
8
12 '/a
11 V*
10
10
12 V*
2.3
1.6
3 8
6.8
3.2
7
4.8
5.2
3.5
3.2
5.0
4 6
7.8
25.3
18.4
16.6
! 1.8
18 2
17.7
13 9
28.7
17 7
16
12.6
5.2
4 5
6.4
8.4
8 5
8 4
9 0
8.0
5.1
8.0
5.8
Email
5/
7/6
7/9
7/7
10
6 6
11
7.3
E.Z. Ind
Pelt and Textiles .
4 4 . .
10-
5/
12/11
6/11
12 5
7/7
12 3
7 7
10
10
8.2
6 7
12 4
13.9
10.2
9.2
O ,i. Coles
Ooldsbrough
H. C. Sleigh ..
Henry Jones
H. G Palmer ..
Howard Smith
Humes
I AC
I. A.N.Z
J- Gadsden
Kandos Cement
Kelvinator
Bend I pase
L. j. Hooker .
5/
20
5 '
20
5
20
20
13,6
28/6
11/
80/
15/6
54/
70/6
13 5
31/
12 2
77/9
17 3
49 '3
73 6
13/3
32
13'
77'6
17/
48/9
7* 6
11
8
12 Vi
10
12'i
11)
14
4.1
5
5.2
2.5
3.6
4 1
3 7
15.1
12.6
13.4
28.6
3.3 4
13 «
n-l «
5.7
7.8
5 5
7.4
9.8
5.6
6 6
” * *
5/
20/
10/
5/
5/
5,/
5/
13/4
38/
15/3
18/3
20/
7
13 9
41 /
17/9
20/A
19 1
18/2
4/10 1 i
13 6
.39/9
17/3
10 6
19/1
16/11
4 3
11-2/3
7
8
12'/ 2
15
10
6.2
3 5
4.6
.3 2
39
29
20.fi
9 7
10 4
<3 5
28 6
21 5
1 1*
7.6a
4 2
5.9
3.5
7 5
6.3
1 3
Mercantile Credits
5/
6 3
9 5
9/
10
1R e
S 2
McPhersons
20/
47/
40/
40/
8-1 3
4 2
18.1
(i 2
Minster
• .
10
62/
74/
75/
20
2 7
40.4
5 4
Moulded Products ..
5/
13/2
12'
T5M
14
5 H
7 8
3 3
Mt. Isa Mines
5/
7t/fi
69 fi
70 3
25
1 8
f? $
4 5
Mutual Acceptance
• • | k
5/
8/10
10 3
10^5
15
7 2
99.7
to.6
M ver
5/
29
30/3
?()/
16-2/3
2 7
9« 3
4 a
National Consolidated
5
27
25/9
2-5 /«
20
3 9
35 3
6.9
cdvmpic industries
Peters iV ; c.i ..
5/
o •
7/7
8/6
9/10
8'
9 11
7 T1
10
15
5.0
3 7
1«.2
;« 9
8.2
4 K
Pef.rochemcal
20
26/
27 6
n
£
4 4
5 9
4 1
R.M. Concrete
• • ..
5 ■
17/414
17/2
16 9
X2'i
3.7
22 0
6.8
R'nri Murray ..
5/
5/3
3 7
7 '8
9 4
13.4
Renro ,, .. . .
• . • •
8/
12 5
13 3
1 1 .'Q
to
3.£
17.8
6 5
R'thmans
20/
67/6
78/
79 ,
17'/,
4 8
331
9.3
5 ’
11
11 6
’ 1 8
)<**/.,
5 3
14 4
4.5
1 noth . , ..
union Carbide
Waltons
Wr >ol worths
Wormald
• 1
20
20 '
60
80/
69 '
66 3
ca
13 Vi
in
3.9
3.0
15 9
15.9
4.4
4 8
5
5/
5/
13/8
15/4
11 TO
13 6
16
3 1 6s
v» /n
15 ’0
11 4
12M-
13
10
4.5
3 8
4.4
10.7
15 4
14 2
7.1
4 K
6 9
W R Carpenter
..
5 '
30
34'9
34 9
15
2.1
35 1
5.3
* Est i m'*i<'d on last half-vcar's profit.
XR Ex riehts
xD P> dividend,
s Seller.
• M fi d^icp
a Before share split
b Buyer
SYDNEY
STOCK EXCHANGE
INDICES
Banks
Other
Base
All
etc
Finance
Pastoral
Retailers
Metals
Ords.*
Industrials
December 22,
1961 .. 137.37
541.02
182.31
389.15
604.15
299.07
318.74
July 23, 1962
.. .. 158.00
555.01
172.14
370.57
555.63
292.56
306.56
July 24, 1962
.. .. 157.92
554.90
174.03
369.31
558.96
292.98
307.40
July 25, 1962
.. .. 156.96
555.62
175.93
368.57
556.78
292.06
306.22
July 26, 1962
.. . . 156.88
553.56
175.35
366.65
556.61
291.54
305.86
July 27, 1962
.. .. 157.68
553.23
176.23
366.76
557.28
290.88
304.76
* Peak
348.46 September 16, 1960
MELBOURNE
AVERAGE YIELD
STOCK EXCHANGE
ON 100 ORDINARY SHARES
< —50 Other Stocks— Random— >
—50 Leading Stocks * Sample
Div. Yield Earn Yield Div Yield Earn Yield
December
22. 1961
4.26
6.13
5.30 7 46
July
23,
19b2 . .
4.40
6.33
5.19 2 16
July
24,
1962 ..
4.43
6.37
5.19 2 23
July
25,
1932 ..
4.45
6.39
5.21 2 33
July
26,
1962 ..
4.46
6.40
5.21 2.34
July
27.
1962
4.46
6.41
5.22 2.25
LEADING SHARE PRICES
INVESTORS FEEL
THE WINTER
OF DISCONTENT
A lthough several leaders have p ro
duced fairly satisfactory results f or
1961-62 in the last week or two, inves.
tors generally remain disinterested if not
downright sceptical. The market has
been very subdued indeed, but at last one
or two institutions have evinced some
interest in sound stocks showing relatively
good yields.
Notable changes in frequently traded
stocks included easier prices for Blue
Metal Industries, ICIANZ, Drug Houses
of Australia and Kandos Cement. Lend
Lease dropped on publication of news
of an issue the premium was a stiff
100 p.c. compared with 50 p.c. on the
last issue in April 1961 despite
maintenance of earning rate in the year
just completed, on substantially larger
capital.
When Rothmans registered only a
2.5 p.c. profit gain from a 20 p.c. sales
increase, the shares were promptly down-
graded.
Colonial Sugar lost further ground, as
did Union Carbide on sellers’ quote.
Commercial Union, one of the highest
rated stocks on the list, ailed to attract
buyers at the last sale price of 225. and
the mid-price of buying and selling
quotes was about Is. 6d. lower on
Monday morning’s market.
Johns and Waygood shares trembled
with repercussions from Kingsway
Bridge.
Concrete Industries slipped close to
its lowest price this year as the market
digested the probability of a lower earn-
ing rate.
BHP remained substantially the same
over the week, exerting a depressing
influence on the index.
Reinforcement of Minster’s already
high earning rate forced its share price
against the general market trend. Humes
also found more support.
The pastorals Dalgety-New Zea-
land Loan, Goldsbroughs and Elders
all looked decidedly healthier in inves-
tors’ eyes.
President Kennedy’s statement that the
US dollar would not be devalued,
removed support for gold stocks.
The oil market continued sticky.
Kathleen Investments and Mary Kath-
leen Uranium firmed on quotation when
directors predicted that the demand lor
uranium may recover by 1967 instead ot
the ’7os.
But by and large, investors seem to be
oppressed by winter blues.


C.S.R. Co.’s ANNUAL REPORT
POINTS FROM CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS TO SHAREHOLDERS
In his annual address to shareholders, the chairman of The Colonial Sugar
Refining Company Ltd., Mr. J. W. Dunlop, referred to:
• high production at C.S.R. raw sugar mills in Australia
• increased sales of raw sugar to Japan
• problems in building material and heavy chemical industries
• development of Australian manufacturing industry.
Mr. Dunlcp, at the annual
meeting held on 18th July,
reported on the Company’s
activities in Australia, New
Zealand and Fiji. Some of
the points from his speech
are:
RAW SUGAR MILLING
Total production: Production ot
raw sugar at the Company’s mills in
Australia and Fiji during the 1961
season was 443,800 tons, compared
with 448,000 tons the previous
season.
packets is now marketed in all States
except Western Australia.
New Zealand; Sales of sugar oro-
ducts during the year ended March
1962, by our subsidiary, New /.ea-
land Sugar Co. Ltd., reached a record
119,000 tons, an increase of 3 %
over 1961.
SUGAR INDUSTRY
MATTERS
International Sugar
Agreement
The International Sugar Agreement
contains many provisions, but the
most important are those fixing quotas
Raw Sugar Production at the Company's Mills
TONS ACTUAL SUGAR
N.S.W.
1956 34,700
1957 35,600
1958 _ _ 56,400
1959 67,900
1960 60,400
* 1961 :..... 64,800
Queensland Fiji Total
198.500 134,500 367,700
239,600 196,100 471,300
245.500 198,300 500,200
221,400 283,000 572,300
240.500 147,100 448,000
236,000 143,000 443,800
Australian mills
Raw sugar production at the Com-
pany’s Australian mills for the 1961
season was 300,800 tons. Thus, despite
a severe drought in North Queens-
land, it almost equalled the record
figure of 301,900 tons in 1958.
Fiji mills
During the year South Pacific Suvir
Mills Ltd. was incorporated in Fiji
as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
C.S.R. Company, and the sugar mill-
ing assets and liabilities transferred
from the parent company to the sub-
sidiary.
The season’s operations showed a
profit and therefore represented a
substantial improvement on those of
the previous season when, as reported
a year ago, a heavy loss was sus-
tained.
Fiji sugar enquiry
Conditions in the sugar industry
have become much more stable fol-
lowing, the report of the Commission,
the Fiji Government’s enactment of
the sugar industry legislation recom-
mended by the Commission and the
unqualified acceptance by the miller
and the growers of the long-term
sugar-cane contract recommended by
me Commission.
SUGAR REFINING
Australia: Sales of sugar products
from our five Australian refineries
were 542,000 tons for the year ended
March 1962, compared with 509,000
tons in the previous year, and 526,000
tens in the year ended March 1960.
Refined sugar in 2-lb. and 4-lb.
for export by its signatories. These
quota provisions have been suspended
sinpe Ist January 1962. United
Nations sugar conferences held in tne
second half of 1961 ran into diffi-
culties due to unrealistic quota
demands by Cuba, and have been
adjourned without agreement.
European Economic
Community
The E.E.C. countries (“the Six”)
have been making progress in agree-
ing the outline of their common
agricultural policy. It is expected
that a draft common policy for sugar
prepared by the European Commis-
sion will be placed before the Govern-
ments of the Six this month. At a
later stage the views of the Six
towards Commonwealth sugar will
become cleaxer.
However, the contractual obliga-
tions which exist with the United
Kingdom in respect of sugar from
Australia and Fiji (as well as from
the West Indies and Mauritius)
under the Commonwealth Sugar
Agreement continue until the end of
1969 and cannot be altered unilater-
ally.
# Other sugar markets
On behalf of the Queensland Sugar
Board and the Australian sugar in-
dustry, we have sold over 300,000
tons of 1962 season’s sugar to Japan
about three times the previous
level. These are “world price” sales.
Australia will now be supplying about
25% of Japan’s total sugar imports.
Within the last twelve months both
Australian and Fiji sugar has had
limited temporary access to the
United States market. The outcome
of efforts to obtain more permanent
outlets in the U.S.A., in which our
officers have been extremely active
over a long period, will, we hope,
be known soon.
BUILDING MATERIALS
Total sales of building materials
slightly exceeded those of last year.
While the division showed a profit,
it was an unsatisfactory one.
The difficulties of Australian manu-
facturers and of this Company in
respect of some of its building
material lines, have been greatly in-
creased by imports into an already
depressed market.
Floor Tiles: C.S.R. Hi-Vinyl flex-
ible tiles were introduced to the
market during the year.
Fibreboard Group: The demand
for Timbrock, Masonite and Cane-ite
now appears to be improving.
Gypsum and Flaster Group:
The sales of all types of plaster by
this group were adversely affected
by the drop in home building.
Pyneboard particle board, made
by Pyneboard Pty. Ltd. (60% C.S.R.)
has proved most acceptable to the
building and furniture trades and
sales have increased steadily.
Ruberoid (60% C.S.R.): The
Ruberoid factory at Altona began
operation in late September 1961.
Mineral Fibres Group: The Brad-
ford mineral wool group (75%
C.S.R.), which operates in New
South Wales and Victoria, was ex-
panded to include Queensland in
March 1962, by the purchase of
outside interests in Bradford Insula-
tion (Queensland) Pty. Ltd.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS
C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
(60% C.S.R.): The recession in
demand referred to in the address
to shareholders last year continued
throughout most of 1961 and a small
loss was shown for the year. Late
in the year demand improved, and
by the end of March production was
again almost as high as before the
recession.
Our profits and prospects, in
common with those of the rest of
the Australian heavy chemicals indus-
try, are not such as to stimulate
growth or investment.
C.S.R.C.-Dow Pty Ltd. (50%
C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.):
C.S.R.C.-Dow’s Altona (Victoria)
factory has been completed.
B. F. Goodrich-C.S.R. Chemicals
Pty. Ltd. (40% C.S.R. Chemicals
Pty. Ltd.): The Altona factory is
now producing polyvinyl chloride to
its full capacity.
MR. J. W. DUNLOP
Chairman of C.S.R.
OTHER MATTERS
Investments
During the year the Company took
up 400,000 shares in Planet Oil Co.
N.L.
The Company is participating m
the formation of a public company.
United Telecasters Sydney Ltd., which
will seek, a licence to operate a com-
mercial television station in Sydney.
GENERAL COMMENTS,
WITH PARTICULAR
REFERENCE TO
MANUFACTURING
INOUSTRY
In February of this year the
Government acted to restore con-
fidence and stimulate the economy.
As we were very critical of t.,e
Government’s earlier measures to
damp down the economy, it is appro-
priate to say that we agree generally
with the measures taken in February
to improve matters.
We are convinced, however, that
more is required. The rate of re-
covery and return of confidence in
manufacturing industry has been
slow and uneven, particularly in those
sectors susceptible to competition
from imports.
If Australia is to realise its aspira-
tions, urgent attention neeus to be
paid to tne continued development
of manufacturing industry: Our
national aims will not be achieved
unless policies are directed towards
the vigorous growth of this large
sector of the economy. It is to be
hoped that the Government will
review and clarify the wr.ole tariff
situation and establish procedures in
the near future which will give the
necessary long-term confidence and
direction to Australian manufacturing
industry.
True and continuing economic
growth must be accompanied by
near-stable costs, and policies to
achieve the latter are a major respon-
sibility of Government. We can find
little evidence that the protective
system has been an important factor
affecting the Australian cost and
price structure, and we think that
adequate levels of protection can be
given without endangering the sta-
bility of the general cost level.
Anything short of adequate protec-
tion will result in failure to achieve
Australia’s aspirations of rising stan-
dards of living, rapid population
growth, and generally full employ-
ment, CSRS7BA


STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
11th Floor, Pearl Assurance Building
151 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Phone 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
Sydney: 383 George Street, 29-7865
Adelaide: 61 Gawler Place, 8-7407
Brisbane: 334 Queen Street 31-1621
Canberra: 8.M.1. Alinga St., 4-3334
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
All Offices: “Options”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Union Australia Group!
ESTABLISHED 1872
Head Office: Anchor House, 234-242 George Street, Sydney
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS' BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne
Queensland Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek Street, Brisbane
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
Secretary, K. N. FINLAY
Speculator's Diary
HThat band mentioned last week has
A already been pressed into service.
Its first engagement was a rush trip to
Canberra to accomp:any Mr Bury in his
now celebrated advice to Mr Menzies
and Mr McEwen to Look for the Silver
Lining and Pack up Their Troubles
in Their Old Kitbags. Unfortunately,
the latter number backfired rather badly
and it was Mr Bury who was packing
his bags.
One thing is certain: Mr Bury’s
speech would not have caused such a
fuss if it hadn’t been true. As a result
he has rendered the community an
important service by sweeping away
some of the gloomy cobwebs that
currently enshroud the Australian
economy. Britain’s entry into the Com-
mon Market could ultimately prove to
be the best thing that ever happened to
Australia. . . . Well, not altogether. But
already it has made Australia go out
and sell its products to the countries
that really want them instead of to those
who take them under preference (or is
it sufferance?). It seems just as logical
that Australia should trade with China
and Japan as it is that Britain should
trade across the Channel. A quick
glance at the export figures shows what
a radical change has already come over
our trading patterns, with Japan about
to supplant Britain as our biggest buyer,
not only of wool, but of all products.
The sooner we are forced to buy more
from Japan the more secure our own
export markets there will be.
Second, we have the problem of our
economic recovery: it’s greater than you
think —greater, anyway, than the Gov-
ernment’s critics would have us believe.
The motor industry, always one of the
most sensitive of economic indicators,
has made nothing short of a spectacular
recovery. The appliance industry has
not been far behind. This doesn’t mean
that the economy is back to the boom
conditions of 1960. But who wants it
to be? Mainly it seems, the very critics
who were warning us of the dangers
inherent in that same boom.
Unemployment remains the sore that
won’t heal. None of us can afford to
be offhand about unemployment. It
will probably continue. But I do think
it is going to be more of a political and
social problem than a sign of economic
weakness.
Then, next week we have the Budget
on which the Government has received
so much free advice. It is well to
remember who these people are who
are shouting so loudly for further tax
cuts. For the most part they are the
biggest taxpayers in the land, many of
whom have well-earned reputations for
putting personal advantage ahead of
national interest. You don’t hear the
more responsible leaders of industry—•
the heads of BHP and CSR, for instance
—demanding income tax cuts. Instead
they concentrate on greater depreciation
allowances and higher tariffs which
would benefit industry rather than them-
selves personally.
All this talk has succeeded in creating
the impression that the economy is in
a much worse state than it really is. The
facts will no doubt ultimately nr eva j|
And I believe the facts $5 that l oca j
economic influences are becoming SU f.
ficiently favorable that they must soon
penetrate the propaganda smokescreen
laid by the Government’s detractors and
even, unwittingly, by the Government
itself. When this happens, the share
market should begin to improve— and
hence the reason for this wordy preamble
to this week’s Diary. The only reserva-
tion to my optimism concerns the US
economy, something which I do not
presume to understand. But I do feel
that only a full-blooded economic
collapse overseas can impede the pro-
gress of our own economy at this stage.
Having got that off my chest, I can
return to the share market I was so
impressed with the latest production
figures for washing machines and re-
frigerators that I bought 200 more
Malleys. At 21s. the shares were barely
above par and not far from their low
point for the year. The company has
already shown its own confidence by
resuming dividends payments and since
then the rate of recovery has only
accelerated, judging by the statistics,
anyway.
My friends who watch the Tariff
Board reports keep telling me I should
buy certain of the basic chemical stocks
because they have received significantly
useful protection recently. Tariff Board
reports are something I never could
follow so I’ll have to take their word
for it. The upshot was that I bought 400
Courtaulds because I’d also heard some
encouraging stories emanating from Ray-
mond Terrace about this company’s
recovery. It’s all part of my theory of
buying a stock when it’s well down—in
this case not much more than half par
value. But even at 11s. 9d. Courtaulds
have risen 33 p.c. from their low point
and another 33 p.c. rise would carry
them only to 16s.
BOUGHT
200 Malleys at 21/- £215
400 Courtaulds at 11/9 £241
These purchases left me owing my
broker as somehow I didn’t get round
to selling anything last week. Swan
Brewery looks the likely victim. The
portfolio now is
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share ” r ' c
600 O’Donnell Griffin 28/8/61 13/6 W;
1,600 United Motels 20/11/61 3/9 V'
200 Beau Monde 8/12/61 25/- 30/
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9
500 Mauri Bros. 16/2/62 22/9 W*
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9
500 Ready Mixed 6/4/62 17/9 W"
75 MLC 27/4/62 130/- W
400 Mallevs 3/5/62 20/9 W*
500 Merlca 10/5/62 V-
-500 Swan Brewery 17/5/62 19/6 2,
1,000 Hanimex 23/5/62 4/11
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 *>/-
300 Marcus Clark notes 22/6/62 27/6
200 Barrett Burston 28/6/62 21/-
100 James Hardie 29/6/62 98/-
100 John Lysaght 18/7/62 64/- w
100 Burns, Philp 19/7/62 102/- 1
400 Courtaulds 24/7/62 11/9 u/


Research at C.S.R.
The Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited con-
ducts research into sugar cane growing, into sugar
milling and sugar refining and into the production of
building materials and chemicals. Groups in C.S.R.
doing research include:
Plant research centre
5 graduates carry out investigations into the physiology,
biochemistry and genetics of the sugar cane plant. The
main laboratory is a phytotron in which conditions of
plant environment can be closely controlled.
Agricultural experiment stations
At stations attached to C.S.R. raw sugar mills in the
cane growing areas of Australia, 3 graduates and 12 other
technical staff study plant breeding, pathology, entomology
and agronomy. Successful varieties of new canes developed
are made available to cane farmers. An agricultural
advisory service is provided for farmers.
Central research department
In laboratories at the central research department, 30
graduates with 35 assistants do research in chemistry,
physics, botany and engineering associated with the sugar
industry and other C.S.R. activities.
Mill, refinery, building materials development
Teams of engineers, chemists and mathematicians are
engaged in finding new and improving existing methods
and equipment in C.S.R. factories.
Operations research section
A group of 6 graduates study the application of mathe-
matical methods to the analysis and solution of managerial
problems.
CSR92SA
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Established 1862
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXON,
D. A. T. DICKINS. K. B MYERS, A. E, STEPHEN
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every description
J. O. LEWIS, General Manager.
df
ONE TO BUY
PAYNTER AND DIXON
Events of the last 21 months have had
the effect of separating the wheat
from the chaff amongst Australian com-
panies.
Paynter and Dixon Industries Ltd,
offering a complete service to the build-
ing industry, warrants a place in the port-
folio of discriminating investors. The
group will select a site, design, plan and
co-ordinate the construction of buildings
for industry and commerce for a fee.
Some building work is undertaken, but
this represents a small part of the total
contract. So the risks normally associa-
ted with building have little application
to Paynter and Dixon.
In his report to shareholders at the last
annual meeting in October, 1961. the
chairman said the company was not
unduly affected in its operations by the
credit restrictions, because of its liquid
financial position. At balance date June
30. 1961 stock and work in progress at
£604,000 was 50 p.c. greater than the
year before, and the company had
£344,000 in cash, bank and deposits.
A record volume of work had been
carried out during 1960-61, but there
was some slackening in enquiry towards
the end.
The company obtained listing on
Sydney Exchange in December 1957,
after major shareholders placed 400,000
ss. shares at ss. 6d. with the public.
Before that date, two bonus issues had
been made in the ratio of five-for-four
(1955) and eleven-for-twelve (1957). In
October 1960 shareholders received a
two-for-five bonus.
Since the 1957 bonus which almost
doubled capital earning rate has accelera-
ted from 17.4 p.c. to 21.2 p.c. and 32 8
p.c. in 1960, with only slight braking in
1961 to 31.6 p.c. on the 1960 bonus-
increased capital. Tax provision jumped
from £55,900 in 1960 to £96,144 in
1961, and the net profit from £82,093
to £114,337. The tax provision indicates
a conservative profit figure for 1961.
The dividend rate moved up from 10
P-c. in 1959 to 12* p.c. in 1960 and
f 5 p.c. in 1961, the latter paid in an
interim 6£ p.c. and final 8f p.c. Interim
this year was li p.c., which could con-
ceivably be followed by a final 101 p.c.
to make 17* p.c. for the year.
Directors advised in mid-February that
sales for the December six months
equalled those for the previous corres-
ponding period, and they had satisfactory
Work in progress.
At around 18s. to yield 4.2 p.c. income
0n a 15 p.c. dividend, and 8.8 p.c. on
earnings, the shares appear to be firming
in <ypti£ipation of a good profit announce-
ment towards the end of August.
The shares have touched 20s. 6d.
earlier this year, and they could prove
worth that figure.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
AGRARIAN PUSH IN THE WEST - WHO
WERE THE REAL PIONEERS?
By ELIZABETH DURACK
Tn his article on the Kimberleys
(“North-West Passage to Rice and
Riches”, Bulletin, June 16), Peter Cole-
man credits the present Minister for
the North-West with having “taken
the initiative in the development of
this country”. No mention is made of
previous Premiers and Ministers who,
over the last 25 years, have brought
equal energy and support to Kimberley
development although with less publicity
and less money. Moreover, initiative for
agricultural development in this area
came neither from Government circles
nor from “Easterners”, although both
were called in to play ever-increasing
roles over the years. Initiative came from
within the country itself. From without
the land of Kimberley presented a face
as impenetrable as one of its own moun-
tain ranges. The key lay on the inside.
It had to be turned from there and the
true pioneer of the Agrarian Push (we
will not say “Revolution” —no wheel has
yet turned) was K. M. Durack.
It was in 1936 that he sunk the first
plough into Kimberley soil at Argyle
Station. The results obtained from half
a dozen small fenced plots were suffi-
cient to fire him with the enthusiasm to
put forward a case to State and Federal
Governments for the establishment of
an Agricultural Research Station at a
time when cultivating Kimberley soil
was considered an idle dream. After
three or four years of effort and argu-
ment he succeeded in obtaining a small
grant of money from the State Govern-
ment and the first Kimberley Research
Station was established at Carlton Reach
on Ivanhoe Station in 1941.
Here the results obtained from the
growing of rice, cotton, linseed, saf-
flower, lucerne, corn and innumerable
other plants and grasses, exceeded even
his own expectations. He knew there
was still much experiment to be done
but felt that sufficient had been proved to
now consider ways of linking product-
ivity to the needs of the country, of
exploring possible markets and examin-
ing the Ord with a view to dam locations.
The Government, however, although
now emboldened to resume land from the
pastoral lease of Connor, Doherty and
Durack, was not prepared to think
beyond a bigger, better Research Station.
After assisting with the choice of a new
site Durack disassociated himself from
the undertaking and KRS, financed with
both State and Federal money, was
launched on its long, meandering, data-
accumulating road in 1946.
News of arable land began to seep
through to the outside world. As Peter
Coleman says, Farley, of Associated
Rural Industries, NSW, visited the Kim-
berleys about September ’4B. Poggendoff
and Durack had been in touch for some
time, the former having visited Argyle
and Carlton Reach and given much help-
ful advice. Farley was advised to see
Durack if he wanted “know-how” on
growing things in the North. Although
they met, Durack was too engrossed at
the time to give him much attention. He
was trying to obtain a louder voice for
Kimberley and to get vested interests to
take the initiative in irrigation. Both
efforts failed. (A petition, signed by
some hundreds of Kimberley residents,
is a relic for the Battye Library.)
In September 1950 Durack recon-
sidered the proposition put to him by
Farley two years previously. He made
contact in Sydney v/ith Associated Rural
Industries whose idea of obtaining a
starting point in Kimberley had lan-
guished in the interim. From this point,
and only at this point, did the East-
erners’ engagement in rice growing in
Kimberley commence.
"TAurack chose the location, negotiated
the delicate, preliminary “Gentle-
man’s Agreement” with Kimberley
Pastoral Company and, in November,
1950, the Camballin “Rice Patch” came
into being at Liveringa Station on a
tributary of the Fitzroy River.
For seven years pioneering in its true
sense proceeded in this area. Capital,
small but sufficient, came in. A succes-
sion of helpers, seldom more than one
or two at a time, locally recruited,
came to the area to assist Durack in the
effort of wresting the secret of produc
tion from the big, reluctant, heat-veiled
bird-bedevilled, flood-prone flats of the
Fitzroy. Living was hard and pared to
minimum. They camped in tents which
the kangaroos, thick as vermin, ate from
over them as they slept. One hurricane
lamp illuminated moonless nights. Some
of the assistants stuck loyally. Some left
after a few weeks one of them des-
cribing life at Camballin as “beyond
human endurance”. One died. T Wo
Italian migrants (recommended f rora
Perth as “good all-round farm hands”)
went berserk. Alone for weeks at a time
Durack might have suffered a similar
fate but for the immense kindness of
the Rose family at Liveringa who
although viewing with some anxiety and
foreboding the activity on their river
frontage, continued nevertheless to
extend with true charity a hand of friend-
ship to the battler.
Bumper crops ythree tons to the acre)
proved in 1956 and 1957 that the area
was Rice Land without a doubt.
Activity within the financing body in
NSW quickened to the level of Big
Business. Farley was operating to the
extent of his remarkable financial flair.
An initial company now became two—
Northern Developments limited, North-
ern Developments (Holdings) Limited.
New financial partners were drawn in,
new directors added to the board.
Voting power which previously, with
Durack also a director, meant that what
he said usually carried, became loaded
dice. Great friendships flourished in the
banquet rooms of the Australia Hotel.
A few months after the passing of
-*"*■ State legislation for the first freehold
land ever granted in Kimberley came an
announcement in the “West Australian”
(Feb. 22, 1958): “Durack Ousted . .
“We consider it best,” M Farley was
quoted as saying, “for the company
interests that another manager ... be
appointed. The area has outgrown the
project stage . . . requires management
by people with rice production exper-
ience ... we expect to have a minimum
of 400 acres under crop this year. . . •”
No crop to speak of was planted that
year. The weir, just completed by the
Public Works Department, was inundated
by the January flood. The first “com-
mercial crops” were sold off Camballin
in ’54-’55 when small amounts of rice
were disposed of locally to coastal towns
and missions. The first small cheque has
been preserved, uncashed, for the record.
Perhaps other “commercial crops” “to
the value of £-20,000” have been sold
since. Shareholders could hardly expect
a dividend from such a sum when costs
over the last four years have amounted
to £400,000 of the total £500,000 spent
in the twelve years since the project
began.


“jf Camballfn and Liveringa were
combined . . ” says Peter Coleman in
,he first release in print on this con-
tentious matter, “the two properties could
form a more practical unit than either
could separately”. No one will argue
this point. For the shareholders of
northern Developments it would repre-
sent a major coup. It could be argued that
their long investment, effort and patience
deserves as much. It would represent
also a complete reversal of the whole
intention and aim of the project and a
perversion of the £ 1,000,000 invest-
ment of public money in water-conserva-
tion and services, the spending of which
W as intended to unlock the land and
bring about closer settlement.
As pastoral-agriculturalists with lease-
hold rights to 1,000,000 acres and
freehold rights to rising 20,000 acres the
position would be without precedent in
Australian land history. A cry from
every pastoralist in Australia would go
out for a similar government expenditure
on their leasehold properties. As one
cattle man put it: “Let this deal go
through and I’ll be in Canberra tomor-
row collecting half the Territory and
Queensland on the way down. But I'll
be moderate. I'll settle for £500,000
because I'm only half as tough”.
Meanwile as Northern Developments
and the State seek to resolve their prob-
lems on the Fitzroy the momentum ot
development swings to ihe Ord.
In 1959 the six years ot Labor Gov-
ernment gave way to the Brand Liberal-
Country Party Coalition. Certain ambi-
tions within the State, held in check
while attention focused on the Fitzroy,
re-awakened. Consent was finally
wrung from the Federal Government
to use most of its £5,000,000 Special
Grant for the construction of “the first
step of the Ord Dam”.
Now the present pattern of water
development in Kimberley is unique in
human history. In other parts of the
world water-conservation has proceeded
step by step with population needs, but
in Kimberley the cart procedes the horse.
The Aswan Dam when completed in 20
years’ time will barely be equal to the
Egyptian population increase. The crush
of cockies around the Tennessee River
were impoverishing the land and sinking
into squallor. During the time of TVA’s
operations they were scooped up, tem-
porarily accommodated, and then re-
turned to their recuperated land. We got
the nice photos of Mum—Before and
After. It all made terrific sense.
But look at the Ord. Forget for the
time being the major dam and the
estimated £4O/50,000,000 needed for
J t- For three years intensive and impres-
sive engineering has been proceeding. By
n ext year we are told five farms, at an
approximate cost of £1,000,000 pei
farm, will be ready. The land will not,
as is customary, be declared an “Irriga-
tion Area” and thrown open for selec-
tion. Nothing so barbaric. On paper it
goes like this: five men are to be selected.
Careful screening will ensure that (a)
they are “the right type”, (b) that they
bring along with them a personal dowery
of £lO/20,000, and (c) that they do
what they are told.
Soothed by the Press, Australians have
come to regard such phenomena as
normal. Apparently we can, as a nation,
afford to carry on like this. A good
time is certainly being had by all. Those
who feel that neither time nor money
is infinitely expendable for Australia
are simply spoil-sports.
But all is not unreason. A thread of
sense and “good-business” (if not ex-
pressed as such) does run through. The
State as a whole, particularly the South,
has benefited from expenditure in the
North. The tempo of business has
quickened and reached even into the
suburbs 1200 miles away. A catering
firm, satisfied a couple of years ago with
birthday parties and weddings, now keeps
in happy balance the digestive metabolism
of the Kunannura town folk. A Univer-
Mty student after spending “the long vac.”
on the Ord returned to Perth with
£.lOOO in his pocket. Kimberley de-
velopment as a mighty mutual benefit
society is immensely popular in Western
Australia.
It is preferable if nothing in Kim-
berley is a positive success. At the same
time failure must not resound. The
challenge is to keep the scale in balance
between the two and direct public think-
ing along the right lines. For, above all,
the Federal Government must somehow
be persuaded, cajoled, hoodwinked,
pressurised, by threat or wheedling, by
contention or council, by committee or
collusion, by hell and high water to con-
tinue pouring in the money.
It probably will. The alternative is
dismal either for State or Commonwealth
—a ghost town on the banks of the Ord
River and a flock of “pioneers” trailing
crest-fallen back to southern cities.
Australia’s immediate problems in dis-
posing of produce from established
rural areas is going to fill the thimble of
national thinking pretty well to the brim
for the next few years. The “North-West
Passage to Rice and Riches” is proving
to be a long and stormy one.
RECORD HARVEST FROM THE SEA
A record 420,000 tons of salt has been
harvested this season from the
ICIANZ saltfields at Dry Creek, eight
miles north of Adelaide.
Dry Creek ranks as the biggest pro-
ducer in Australia and the third biggest
in the world using the solar evaporation
process. Most of this sizeable tonnage
goes to the ICI alkali plant at Osborne,
six miles away.
The salt-making season gets under way
in early summer when up to 25 million
tons of sea water are pumped into con-
centrating ponds. The brassy, southern
sunshine evaporates water at a brisk rate
—lOO,OOO tons a day on the average.
Salt settles out in crystallising pans, a
deposit spreading on the bed of the ponds.
Waste bittern is drained off before un-
wanted salts come down.
The main bogey of salt making is
prolonged dry spells.
Mr R. G. Read, saltfields superinten-
dent and engineer, says: ‘‘Summer rain is
a nuisance; it reduces evaporation and
complicates the working of the crystal-
lisers.
"But the worst conditions are an ex-
tremely dry spell when salt comes out
in the wrong place —back in the con-
centrating areas —and we have difficulty
in maintaining a flow of brine to the
crystallisers. Generally speaking our
problem has been hot weather rather than
rainy weather.”
Harvesting was once tough, fork-and-
shovel toil. Small rail trucks were filled
with salt and trundled along a 2ft gauge
line to a central salt heap. High-powered
diesel harvesters now do the work. They
cut wide swathes in the salt beds and
feed the salt on to an 800 ft conveyor
belt which heaps it into mounds in stack-
ing bays.
The salt yield has pyramided over the
years. When the fields first began produc-
tion, the target was nominally set at
100,000 tons per annum. Over the years
the harvest has slowly climbed and by
1961 it had topped 400,000 tons. The
fields now cover 5200 acres.
ICI established the Dry Creek salt-
field in 1935-38 on a low-lying coastal
area, once useless tidal swampland. The
area was reclaimed in 1894 when an
embankment was thrown up along the
sea front to provide work for an army
of unemployed and to create new pasture-
land.
Mr Read says: “A few sheep were run
in the area for a short period, but when
the company took it over the bank was
full of holes and had to be rebuilt.”
And what of the future? Continuing
expansion is anticipated as the demand
for alkali increases.


TEACHERS
THE ARMIDALE SCHOOL
(member of G.P.S.)
will have vacancies in 1963 for
SENIOR PHYSICS MASTER
to take charge of the Physics Dept.
ART-CRAFT MASTER
to take charge of a new department
on full-time basis.
Salary range £1364 + £75—£2059.
Starting salary dependent on qualifications
and experience.
For further details apply to the Head-
master, The Armidale School, Armidale,
N.S.W.
THE
ARMSDME SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the
rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
A. H. CASH, M.A. (Oxon),
Headmaster
Notice of Citation
IN THE SUPREME COURT'of
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO. JOHN HERBERT GUILD.
fAKfi NOTICE that AMY EDITH M AUn
QyILD has med a petition for divorce w?
m of m on the ground of separation ,
ypu wish to defend you may file an An™?
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Buildings i 2 r
miaris Street, Sydney, by the 3lst dav M
August, 1962, and obtain a copy of the oetitw
Without charge from A. P. Kinley, Solicits
of 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. C a n'
HARMS, Registrar. ' ' a
Missing Friend
PHELPS: Would Marjorie Barnes PheS
formerly of Sydney or anyone knowing her
Whereabouts contact P. W. Smyth King l
Son, Solicitors, 112 Castlereagh Street, Sydnev
(phone 61-1964), in connection with the estate
of the late Linda Mary Reynolds.
MOTOR OVERHAUL
WHILE-U-DRJVE
REPLATES WORN, upper cylds., main bear-
ings, diffs., gears. SAVE: Rebore, ENDS'
Piston slap, rattles, oil, petrol waste'
RESTORES: New compression, power, top
speed, zip. SAVES: Adds LSD to re-sale value
GUARANTEED: Up to 25,000 miles Harmless
finest engine, liquid Nu-Metal, or in Tablet
form. SIMPLY: Add Re-Nu expanding liquid
Nu-Metal, or in Tablet form to oil, petrol or
plug holes, 4,6, 8 cylds., 60/, 70/, 80/. Testi-
monials, engineers’ reports, free advice avail-
able. Open Saturday Distributors required
RE-NU-CO. (estab. 1932), 58 Swann St. op
Richmond Stn, Vic JB 1755
I enclose £ for Super Nu-Metal
NAME
ADDRESS
BUL
DO YOU LIKE
THE NEW LOOK
dsfg
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick ( y) whichever method of
delivery you prefer
For those desiring direct sub-
scription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/money
order for .... months subscription to
THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea): 1 year—
£2 125.; Vs year—£l 6s. Post free. British
Dominions: £3 6s. Other countries: £3 16s.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS (Remit to Box 965
Wellington. N.Z.): 1 year—£2 12s. (N.Z.
currency): i/ 2 year—£l 6s. (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read, But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? There are
two ways of doing it either through your newsagent
or by direct subscription. The form at left offers you
your choice of method of delivery. You may send us
your name and address and we will arrange for the
newsagent nearest you to deliver your copy of
THE BULLETIN each week and charge it to your account.
Or, if you prefer it, we will mail each week's copy
to your address by direct subscription.
The
Bulletin
Incorporating The Australian Financial Times
UK's RECORD WOOL CLIP
Oritain’s wool clip last year reached
a record 85 million lb.— one million
lb. more than the previous best in 1959.
Nearly two-thirds of this clip was ex-
ported and brought in 30 million dollars
in foreign currency. t;
For the third year running, British
wool made the highest average price in
the world, on a greasy basis, and aver-
aged 2.50 cents (about 2id.) a lb. more
than Australian wool at the end of the
year. "
QUICK-PROOF BULL TEST
I>rogeny tests for dairy bulls at a test-
A ing station (British Oil and Cake
Mills) in Yorkshire will aim to knock
12 months off the proving period.
Speaking of the tests which will be
under way in 1964, a testing expert,
Mr R. B. Little, says that it now takes
five years from birth to prove a bull by
the performance of his first group of
daughters. “This means that a lot of
bulls waiting to be proven are held in
the pipeline,” he said.
Mr Little added that it was feasible
to get semen from bulls at six months.
“If heifers can be reared sufficiently well
to calve down at two years we can knock
another six months off the trial period,”
he said.


Feiffer
AT M PiMT TH6R6
usep TP 488
OF US U)o£KltJ6-
244 OF US PUTTW6
TMV66 IK). 244
OF 08 TAK/M6
TH 1(065 OUT.
MOUOTOMODS
g(/T 600 P
PM.
r\\o) 1m kOtOMAW
rue poTTiM
IfJ PfPA£TMSMT. Wi
ite &o of 122 of
rue 244 MFfJ AkJP
fcTRAIRfP W BBT
TP tfARU HOUJ 1P
60 FROM PUTTIU6
rhiuos iu ro
TAKW6 IW 6s our.
them iHftf eet
60 'OF 122
OF THE T AKIM
i THIU6S PEf
I mRTMevT
r~ AMP REPLACE?
THEM (OITH THE
122 RETRACE?
MEM FROM THE
PETTI(J6 THIM6S
IU PEPARTMEMT
them them mmm>
TH£ TAWKJ6 THIU6S
V OPT PEPAPTMEfJT
\ AMP LOT EVERy-
\ BOPy 6Q iOHIOH
- 1 PUT THE RETRAIN) Et?
MOM IM A EUMMW
POSITION) BECAUSE
MOUJ THEM turfed OUT
OF TWO 0085
INJSTEAP OF OM6-
M MM oV£'
Wi
[k)A? ME "
OM A CCOUtJT
OF wa
SHOP STO WAPP.
at oiue o'clock i
push th£ porrm
thhJ6A iu eurrcfu-
AT OM6 O’CLOCK i
PUSH THe WUJ&
Thim6s out ewroio.
AT we & clock 1 i
TURO OFF I3OTH
BUTTOM9 AWP THF
U6HTS AkJP 60 HOMF.
AUTOMATION) MAM
HAI/f B6”6KJ BAt?
FOR THE OTHER
6UMS, but r
CAfJT COMPLAIN).
IK) THE OLD
PAW 5 ALL r
Pit? WA9 pur
TUINJ6S lU.
|O<M AT
LEAPT
THERES
VARIETY
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 704
ACROSS
1— Henry the First bushed with no shed labour in
medicine. (7, 3)
6—One who ruled arts badly. (4)
9—Psychiatrists who can make the boss seem small?
(4-9)
12— One affected in a considerable time. (3)
13— Element man (anagram). (10)
15—Elbat obeys this part of the gramophone. (9)
17—Claud is hurt of his grace. (5)
19—Abstinence from sunbathing
may make this dance and
taste nothing. (5)
21—A foreign undercover man in
some froggy spot. (6, 3)
23 —The tin of a crazy Moslem
ruler is an islander. (10)
26—The Queen is holding a lug.
(3)
28—Mrs Buck, senior? (6-2-5)
30— Dress boast is back. (4)
31— -Held up mother in thanks
to one Kelly. (10)
DO\yN
1— Blacks sweating over a
number of children. (10)
2 Behold the mirth of some
layer opera. (9)
3 Two garments are most
valiant. (7)
4 Apple sat up with mother. (5)
5 Hawaiian garland. (3)
7 Forbidding a fiddler behind.
(5)
8 — Got up sore afflicted. (4)
10— Raise a siege about 50 that
is five for a start. (7)
11— Notice discouraging to the
crazy rover. (5)
14—Entertainment given rough
treatment where schoolchild-
ren frolic. (10)
16—Colour one and behold an
ox-like creature. (7)
18—The people in a play to
measure an important per-
sonage of the castle. (9)
20—Make a fine speech, but say
nothing on taxation. (5)
22—A vocal work has the
aptitude so long. (7)
24 Perfume at some sailor. (5)
25 — Poultry but not in the
presence of ladies, we hope!
(5)
27 —Complacent trees go up. (4)
29—Odd spirit. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 703


.
■
V
is gssmm
m
WmtiLS* M
,
I
■
• ■ ; . -i,
ms
,
’ ' ::
i m
■
k
»
m
K lT
■ «
Hi
•« ••:
mm ■ * ■ * V
.1
,<***■ "■'■f Vs
li
SLELECTf i>
norruN-i
-
?' * ■:
CAWARRA
CLARIST
■UK
■' ■ " ■'• .
;
LINDEMAN W
SYDNEY
W*
ki i eown :■ »*
■ I l e< *
■
mm
:
2/WS»
jfpMHR *} l
WARRAj RE^Er-^
UUct hocic S
UILAN ltd- _„ rr
CONTENTi }PT 6ftCiS
CAWARRj
A noble wine for a noble roast! Cawarra Claret, the most
popular red table wine in Australia, was selected exclusively
by the French Olympic Team on their visit to Melbourne.
When you choose white wine order Cawarra Riesling,
U delicate and delightful in every way.
An
M
l
marts
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
