

The Bulletin
PRICE *
fAIKSUST 25"
(#fi#«rf . id ; dxm ratio tor *trtdsms*ttfwii k? f>ll#4 4f» °
INCORPORATING the australian financial times
the J*DWER bequest
how to spend £2 million


«s
v
: M
; - mw
A@Bs k; - m*
WM
"" i#iß
*
iSSI
I'i
V r *. *
■
tf . ■
I..JP .
The wise Australian
buys Australian
2£ i
WM
IS
AUSTRALIAN
t MADE i
s
P
wKm
mm
V\
4


POWERHOUSE POLITICS Page 12
Spending £2,000,000
©
Royal Commission Into the NSW
Press? 6
The £5OO Poodle 11
Kennedy Danny Kaye of Moonee
Ponds 16
Genteel Sip of Iris Kells and
Orpheus 17
Barry Humphries An interview 18
Finger on the British Pulse From
John Pringle 19
Buying a Wine New Column .... 20
What Went Wrong at Brussels? 22
Mitung Long South Pacific—Report
From Samoa 24
Those Six Cylinder Cars By
Boadicea 26
Traps for Historians 27
Two Cheers for Socialism—Review-
ing Strachey 36
One to Buy 57
War Over Wool 60
•
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
TANNER 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
AROUND MELBOURNE 11
OUT AND ABOUT 16
LONDON NEWSLETTER 19
OVERSEAS 22
MOTORING 26
FORUM ...... 27
LETTERS 30
REVIEWS 32
RED PAGE 36
WILDCAT 41
man on the land 60
FEIFFER 63
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone 27-5971
Melbourne: Phone MF 3341. Brisbane: Phone
82691. Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3
Vol. 84
No. 4306
A PROBLEM OF REFUGEES...
TRANSFER of Dutch sovereignty over West New Guinea to
Indonesia ends a long and bitter struggle and opens up a new
chapter in Australian-Indonesian relations. It also leaves a number
of immediate problems directly affecting this country. One of them
is the fate of those West Papuans seeking political asylum in Aus-
tralian New Guinea. First of all this raises a question about our
relations with Indonesia. What view will Indonesia take of Papuans
seeking political asylum and what view will Indonesia take of an
Australian offer of political asylum? West Papuans seeking refuge
in East New Guinea may only, after the dust has settled, number
a few hundred or swell into a flood of thousands — already it is re-
ported that 8,000 Sentani people from near Hollandia have asked
for asylum. They may move on foot across the northern and southern
border areas or come in small ships and canoes. They will comprise
all sorts — coastal villagers, small farmers, and administration clerks.
Their motives may vary from irrational, panicky fears of Indonesian
“reprisals” to deep-rooted, political convictions. We should remember
that the Dutch will soon have little control over the movement of
coastal Papuans, or, for that matter, disruptive activities on the part
of embittered Papuan leaders.
But however they come, for whatever reasons and in whatever
numbers, they will place a severe strain on Australian administration
resources. They and their families will have to be fed, housed and
found land in a new and frightening environment. There can surely
be no question that the Government in Canberra is honor bound — no
matter how difficult the circumstances — to help them and allow them
to stay. Their present plight is partly our doing in that they will come
firmly believing that the government of a country wholeheartedly
supporting self-determination for Melanesians on one side of the
border will have nothing but sympathetic understanding for Melanes-
ians denied self-determination on the other side of the same border.
TWO KINDS OF ACHIEVEMENT
rriHE last fortnight has seen further spectacular achievements by
Soviet astronauts. It has also seen the tragic death of an East Ber-
lin youth as he tried to scramble to safety while nearby West Berliners
demonstrated wildly because U.S. military police couldn’t or wouldn t
go to his aid. Twelve months ago East Berliners saw their last escape
route being sealed off. Since 1945 one quarter of the East German
population - 4,000,000 people - has fled from East Germany and
2,500,000 of them have done so since the establishment of Herr
Ulbricht’s dictatorship in 1949. This, even though East Germany is
probably the most prosperous satellite in the Communist empire. The
Wall seemed the only way to keep more and more people escaping.
Even in the last year another 12,000 have escaped.
Whatever may be one’s admiration for Soviet technological skills
it is as well to remember that they are at the service of the worst slave
empire in mankind’s history.


National
Notebook
Conference Season
A ugust is the conference month. This
year it will see two remarkable con-
ferences indeed. The first is the 50th
jubilee conference of the Australian and
New Zealand Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science, held in Sydney
this week. It is probably the most
critical conference in the association’s
history.
For many years delivery of a paper
to ANZAAS was a great honor which
scientists and the public recognised as
such. Public recognition was an essential
part of it, since one of the main purposes
of ANZAAS was "to bring science to the
people.” But nowadays super-specialisa-
tion in all fields means that only a few
of the scientists and almost none of the
public have any idea what any one of the
others is talking about.
This time, for example, as well as
papers obviously in the main stream,
such as "The ‘Whig Interpretation’ of
Australian History” there are also papers
such as “New Excited States of Cll and
Ne2o.”
The scientists, let alone the ordinary
interested person, who can manage both
ought to be the subject of a separate
paper himself.
One other big conference this month
organised by the Association for
Cultural Freedom is being held for
the editors and supporters of Little Maga-
zines. Editors are coming to Sydney
from all over Australia and from Amer-
ica, New Zealand, Nigeria, Korea and
the Philippines. It is probably the most
important conference ever held in Aus-
tralia with the aim of bringing together
intellectuals from all over the Pacific.
(T he British could no doubt have joined
in but apparently decided it wasn't worth
their while).
Among a variety of papers there will be
postmortems on three little Australian
magazines that have folded up—“ Angry
Penguins , Voice and "The Observer”.
Max Harris will give the paper on "Angry
Penguins,” a magazine which in retros-
pect gains in stature with each passing
year. Certainly, as Max Harris likes to
point out, few Australian literary maga-
zines have had the honor of being
denounced simultaneously by
Catholic and Communist and freethinking
propagandists. On one Friday, for ex-
ample, in the middle 1940’s the Mel-
bourne Catholic "Advocate” ran a head-
line "Baillieu money through Reed and
Harris finances Communist Party” (John
Reed had given £5 to a fund to pay for
the Communist J. D. Blake’s TB treat-
ment) while the Communist “Tribune”
screamed "The Double Dealing of
Fascists Reed and Harris.”
Perfect Safety Record
HThe Road Safety Council of Tasmania
has rejected the suggestion of the
Australian Council of Parents’ and
Friends’ Association that adults should
control school crossings. Senior Road
Safety Officer T. C. Storey told the
Road Safety Council that no accident
had occurred at a Tasmanian crossing
supervised by child patrol officers since
the scheme was introduced in 1947.
There was, he said, no lack of eager
volunteers to patrol the 94 crossings
manned by the children. Transport Com-
missioner C. E. Baird supported him.
"Even if part-time adults were paid as
little as <£lo a week each, it would cost
£44,000 a year and you couldn’t get
a better record than the children have
got for themselves,” he said.
Perfect peace
T ast week political observers in Can-
berra dubbed the Budget debate as
Whitiam’s week. Gough Whitlam, acting
as Leader of the Opposition in the ab-
sence through illness of Mr Arthur
Calwell, led the Labor Party’s attack on
the Budget. In his most testing experi-
ence in the House of Representatives to
date, Whitlam performed so well that he
has been freely spoken about as the future
Leader of the Opposition and a probable
future Prime Minister.
But there was one flaw in his otherwise
admirable performance. On Wednesday,
he again stood in for Mr Calwell when
he received a “peace” petition alleged to
have been signed by over 100,000 people.
He later presented the petition to the
House. The petition is probably the most
successful venture yet of the Australian
Communist Party in the “peace” racket.
For months Communist union officials
have been taking it around different
workshops enticing the workers to sign
"in the cause of peace.”
The fact that it was Whitlam who was
manipulated into dutifully carrying Com-
munist propaganda into the House in-
dicates he has much more to learn about
politics than the art of public debating.
Music While You Eat
A ray of light in the encircling gloom
of Melbourne's Sunday is the after-
noon performances by a variety of folk-
singers at Wal Cherry's Emerald Hill
Theatre, South Melbourne. There seems
to be nothing comparable in Sydney, al-
though Bob Birtles’s quintet plays jazz
at El Rocco on Sunday afternoon.
Folk-singing is the latest enthusiasm
of Melbourne’s espresso cafe society.
Records by the top American folk-singer,
Joan Baez, are avidly collected. Sugges-
tions that she come to Australia have
been made to Miss Baez by her local
admirers —"But, not,” one of them said,
"in a commercial way.” However, al-
though Miss Baez is notably uncommer-
cially minded, sometimes making only a
few public appearances ; year, it is
doubtful whether she is uncommercially
n.inded enough to come to Australia in
an uncommercial way.
However, in Melbourne several folk-
singers are earning a living with espresso-
bar and restaurant appearances. Most
of them play at each place perhaps only
one night a week so are constantly on
the move. They are paid by the man-
;_-ment, instead of following the pic-
turesque but chancy Continental system
of relying on coins from the diners. Mr
Tom Lazar, of the Reata restaurant.
"There are good migrants and
bad migrants . . .


where some of the folk-singers perform,
was one of the organisers of the Sunday
afternoon concerts. The performers in-
clude Brian Mooney who often sings
Irish songs, Brian Brophy, flamenco-style
guitar, Glen Tomasetti, who sings in
several languages, and Martin Wyndham-
Read, who oh occasion draws on the
almost inexhaustible supply of English
bawdy songs.
Many Happy Returns
An August 16 we went to pay our
” respects to Dame Mary Gilmore on
her 97th birthday. Dame Mary is pos-
sibly the most noted resident of King’s
Cross, a Sydney district of some note.
We went along Darlinghurst Road, past a
showcase of photographs of nightclub
dancers, past the Blue Library, a survivor
of the suburban lending library in an
age of paperbacks, to Dame Mary’s flat.
However, she was not well enough to
receive us. She has recently been in
hospital and has a nurse constantly in
attendance. “But we are sure she will
get over this,” said the friend guarding
the door. We hope she will.
Wonderful World
npHE release of “Harold Lloyd’s World
A of Comedy” in Australian picture-
theatres brings back one early film-star
whose name is not better known to the
moppets clustered around the TV screen
than to their parents. Only a few
sequences from the more than 300 films
which Mr Lloyd made in the twenties
and thirties have been shown on TV
here, notably in the ABC’s programme,
“Silents Please”.
Mr Lloyd owned the rights of most of
his own films and decided only recently
that the time was ripe to present them
again. He and his son edited nine
sequences from the early films to make
“Harold Lloyd’s World of Comedy.” The
result was shown at the Cannes Film
Festival, but not as an entry. Mr Lloyd
has also visited various countries to
promote the film. A trip to Australia was
mooted but has been postponed.
Harold Lloyd may be the wealthiest
film actor Hollywood ever produced. He
is reported to have been earning £15,000
a week during the twenties when income
tax was nothing much to worry about.
He invested much of his money in real
estate, but says that he is worth less than
£25,000,000. He and his wife, Mildred
Davis, who was once his leading lady,
live in a house which cost £500,000 in
1926.
Mr Lloyd, recently interviewed by the
“New Yorker” magazine said that when
some of his films were shown on tele-
vision in America, the editor had to crop
the prints to make them fit. “They kept
cutting off the bottoms in order to keep
my face intact, and I said ‘Gosh, you’re
ruining everything. Cut off the top of
my head, but leave my feet. That’s where
the jokes are’.”
New audiences seem to find the old
comedies hilariously funny, but one
critic said he almost burst into tears as
Harold Lloyd and his cohorts dashed
wildly about the streets of Los Angeles
in the twenties. All those uncluttered
streets! All that parking space!
Unofficial Speed
Tyffß H. R. Dobbie, PM, in Launceston
Magistrates’ Court established a new
line of thinking which will appeal to
motorists. Before him was a youth
charged with travelling at 45 mph in a
30 mph limit area. Counsel claimed that
the speed was not excessive. Mr Dobbie:
“I understand that depending on the
circumstances police do not report moto-
rists unless they are doing something like
40 mph.” Police sergeant: “That is
correct”. Mr Dobbie: “In that case he
was exceeding the unofficial speed limit
by only 5 mph. Fined £l.”
The Cover
rpHE self-portrait of Dr John Power is
■*" one of the collection of paintings
which he bequeathed to Sydney Univer-
sity along with £2,000,000. The money
is to be used to foster understanding of
contemporary art in Australia while the
paintings are to be displayed permanently
in the gallery which Power asked to be
built.
A number of the Power paintings have
been on display at the War Memorial
Art Gallery at the University this month.
His self-portrait is one of the most in-
teresting of them for it tells us something
about the man as well as the artist, and,
as Desmond O’Grady points out in his
page 12 article on the bequest in this
issue, one of its most fascinating aspects
is that it shall be administered with refer-
ence to the sort of person Power was.
Just precisely what sort of a man was he?
Tanner
“The bad ones are shifty, lazy,
whining and complaining.
"The good ones . . •
"Win beauty competitions."


Th is Australia
PRESS COUNCIL?
"CURSE THE PRESS"
Another rocket in the backyard
R. J. HEFFRON
“Effrontery”
/”|ne of the standing jokes of the last
few months in the drab political
world of the NSW Parliament has been
how the Premier, Mr Heffron, was ;hred
to action on dangerous fire-works only
after one of these objects had embedded
itself in his backyard lawn. The anec-
dote tells something about the character
of Mr Heffron, and his character is a
matter of importance, because he heads
a cabinet which governs three million-
odd people.
Mr Heffron is a man quick to take
personal offence and a series of news-
paper reports last week angered him
deeply. The outcome of his anger could
be one of the biggest State political
storms for many years, if the Govern-
ment decides to establish a Press Council.
Last week’s incidents began on Wed-
nesday with the publication in the Sydney
Morning Herald, under the by-line of
“Our State Political Correspondent” of a
news story on Cabinet Budget discussions
the day before. There had been no
official release on the meeting except to
announce an adjournment till next week.
The SMH report repeated what had
been said for months, including by the
Premier at the Loan Council, that the
State faced a big deficit. It did, how-
ever, quote an un-named Cabinet Minis-
ter as speaking of a “blizzard budget”
and said the Treasurer, Mr Renshaw,
had actually referred to possible fare
increases in Cabinet.
The Premier’s reaction was surprising-
ly violent. He issued a prepared state-
ment calling the story wholly imagined
and fictitious and denying that fare rises
had been put forward, issued at the
same time was another, rather milder,
statement denying a story that had ap-
peared in the first edition of that day’s
Daily Mirror. This story, also about the
Cabinet meeting, claimed that an inves-
tigation had been ordered into the police
administration of on-the-spot parking
and traffic tickets.
Later editions of that day carried the
same story, with the Premier’s statement
alongside with an addendum that the
Mirror stood by its story and that the
information had come from “an unim-
peachable source”. The SMH next
morning ran the Premier’s denial, cut
out the more extravagant sections of his
attack and ran a guarded piece by the
political correspondent substantially re-
affirming his earlier story.
Next day then it was the Mirror’s turn
to take the brunt. A prepared statement
said that their story “did not have a
scintilla of truth” and was “a sensational
fabrication”. It went on to accuse the
paper of “effrontery” in suggesting that
the Premier was not “an unimpeachable
source”. Finally, “this irresponsible
journal” had reached “the nadir of
decency”.
The SMH escaped relatively light:
“It’s original story was a lie from begin-
ning to end” and “the follow-up was a
complete distortion”.
But the key phrase in Mr Heffron’s
statement came at the end of his plea-
santries against the Mirror when he said:
“I am j nsidering action to prevent any
repetition”. At his Press Conference
that day he refused to elaborate on the
action, but when pressed whether he
might mean a Press Council Mr Heffron
answered: “You can form your own
conclusion.”
That afternoon the Premier met the
ALP State Executive Officers, a routine
occurrence, but it is known that the
question of a Press Council was dis-
cussed.
In the past the political acumen and
prudence of the late Mr Cahill had kept
him away from the dangerous notion of
a Press Council. Probably Mr Heflfron's
capacity to avoid the unpleasant by
doing nothing about it and hoping it will
go away would have meant that the Press
Council would have come no nearer
reality than vague motions at State Con-
ferences. But, as when the rocket fell
in his backyard, Mr Heffron has been
touched personally.
It may be that the Government will
fall back on the old stand-by of a Royal
Commission into the Press, but if it
decides to go ahead with the Council it
must expect a political storm which
would make the Defamation Bill con-
troversy look like a gathering of old
friends.
RICHARD HALL
CANBERRA
HOLTS BIG STRATEGY
And Labor's programme of masterful inactivity
As I see it
TT N T I L
March -
April of next
year, Treasurer Harold Holt will live in
a state of nervous anxiety. He has said
his Budget will cure Australia’s employ-
ment troubles. This time he has to be
right. Or his future may be all behind
him.
Nobody knows better than Holt what
he needs. He needs the present figure
of those registered for employment now
90,000 down preferably to under 50,000
but at least under 60,000 by November
now only three months distant. He needs
this to allow the employment market to
absorb the 60,000-odd school leavers
who will join the Australian work force
over the Christmas period. January and
February are months that he can get
away with. Nobody expects anyone to
deal immediately with the problem of
the thousands who are jobseeking dur-
ing those months. But if in the March-
April period registrants for work exceed
again the 100,000 mark, or the figures
are not showing a strong downward
trend he is in trouble not only in the
electorate but within his owm Party.
It is gradually beginning to dawn upon
Liberal backbenchers that their political
future is geared inextricably to the em-
ployment situation.
Yet the Cabinet’s thinking on this issue
with a few exceptions is faulty. When
Labor Opposition Leader in the Senate,


Senator McKenna, accused Mr Holt of
not using the words “full employment”
in his Budget speech, Mr Holt provgd
that Senator McKenna was wrong. He
read a section of Hansard that established
he had used the words “full employment”
during his Budget speech. But McKenna
was only partly wrong. If you look at
Holt’s printed Budget speech, the words
“full employment” are not in it. The
words that appear in Hansard were
added while Holt was delivering the
speech. They were an afterthought.
As an outcome, Labor undoubtedly has
the smell of electoral victory strong in
its nostrils. The realists in Labor ranks
know that the improvement in their
prospects is not due to Labor efforts.
As one of them commented to me last
week “We haven’t advanced an inch in
our own right but the Liberals are
slipping back visibly and that is leaving
us in front.”
Labor’s leaders are counselling and
urging a Labor programme of masterly
inactivity in the policy sense. They are
not unmindful of the fact that it was
due to major blunders on Labor’s part
which alienated a majority of the elec-
torate that the Menzies Government was
able to go on winning election after elec-
tion from 1949 to 1961. They know that
if their followers go climbing the tree
after the apple of government they are
liable to fall and break their necks. Their
belief is that if they sit under the tree,
doing nothing, the ripe apple will fall
into their laps. In other words, they do
not want Labor to make any electorally
calamitous mistakes, while Holt is
proving himself wrong.
ALAN REID
QUEENSLAND
THE PLOMP INQUIRY
A flea in a baby's ear?
VTo one in Queensland was surprised
by Cabinet’s unanimous decision to
conduct a closed inquiry into the scandal
of the Hendrikus Plomp rape case.
Apart from anything else the Govern-
ment has a phobia about open inquiries
of any sort. In its five years in office it
has not held one Royal Commission into
its activities, and only one open magis-
terial inquiry. (That was on the Jim Jacko
case, and it was conducted on a mission
station in the Cape York Peninsula where
the public had little or no chance of
attending proceedings.)
In its handling of the Hendrikus Plomp
rape case affair, however, the coalition
has set a new standard in contempt for
public opinion and interest, and for the
good name of the judicial processes.
Hendrikus Plomp is at present serving
a life sentence in gaol for the murder of
his wife at Southport on February 24,
1961. While pending hearing of this
charge, in October last year he was ac-
cused of having raped an Italian domestic
at St Lucia. Three months after his
conviction for wife murder, ho was
found guilty of the rape charge, and
sentenced to six years gaol.
Plomp appealed from gaol to the Court
of Criminal Appeal on the rape case. On
July 27, the three-judge tribunal rocked
Queensland by squashing the conviction,
and refusing to order a new trial.
The first major sensation had come
during the hearing of the appeal, when
the Public Defender, Mr Nolan, disclosed
that two witnesses had been prepared to
corroborate Plomp’s testimony; that both
men had given affidavits to the police;
that a signed statement by one of the
men was missing from police files; and
that neither of the two men had been
called as witnesses.
Led by Senior Puisne Judge Sir Roslyn
Philp, the court sat up, took notice, and
asked questions. In its judgment no pun-
ches were pulled. “These circumstances
wear a sinister look, but they may be
capable of an innocent explanation, and
no doubt proper official inquiry will be
made into them”, the judgment said.
Whether that evidence was designedly
suppressed or whether it was not adduced
through negligence, the result to the appel-
lant was the same—he did not have a
fair trial.
Surely here was a business calling for
a Royal Commission, preferably con-
ducted by a southern judge—assisted by
a barrister selected and briefed by a
private firm of solicitors. Premier Nicklin
promised “immediate action”, but for
weeks Cabinet dithered. Finally, it an-
nounced the appointment of Mr A. L.
Bennett, QC, the State’s senior Queen’s
Counsel, to conduct an investigation.
The pro-Government “Courier-Mail”
put a series of questions to Mr Munro.
They are worth repeating, with Mr
Munro’s answers, to give an inkling of
the coalition Cabinet’s mentality.
“Courier-Mail”: Don’t you feel that
public concern about the conduct of the
Plomp case justifies an open inquiry?
Mr Munro: The Cabinet and I com-
pletely disagree that there is ground for
public concern about this case.
“Courier-Mail”: What harm, then,
would be occasioned for holding the
inquiry in the open?
Mr Munro: That would be like using
a mallet and chisel to take a flea out of
a baby’s ear. We want to get at tHe
truth of this. The truth must be some-
thing in relation to legal sense also.
“Courier-Mail”: What has the truth to
lose from an open inquiry?
Mr Munro: We would be unduly
handicapping Mr Bennett.
So according to the Court of Criminal
Appeal a scandalous miscarriage of justice
has occurred on a charge as serious as
rape. Evidence has been ignored by
the Crown. A vital statement has dis-
appeared from police files. Witnesses vital
to the accused have not been called. A
Criminal Court judge and jury has been
badly misled. The Appeal Court has
described the circumstances as “wearing
a sinister look” and suggests a proper
inquiry.
But, according to the Government, it
is “only a flea in a baby’s ear”. The
Appeal Court might be concerned about
it—but there is no ground for public
concern. And the whole thing is to be
examined behind closed doors.
JOHN HIGGINS
UNIONS
A NEW SPLIT?
When the 18 “rebel” unions of the
Australian Council of Trade Unions
announced last Monday the terms on
which they would be prepared to pay
their outstanding dues to the ACTU, the
row inside the ACTU over reciprocal
visits with Communist countries seemed
to be over. But this week, the July issue
of the Trade Department of the Com-
munist World Federation of Trade
Unions’ “Bulletin”, dropped an unex-
pected bomb into the almost consum-
mated reconciliation. The “Bulletin”, in
discussing the WFTU Metalworkers
Conference writes of Australia: “An im-
portant body The Sheet Metal Working
Agricultural Implement and Stove
Making Industrial Union of Australia’
envisages the possibility of sending a
delegate to (East) Berlin.”
If Mr Amos does defy the 1953 ACTU
Congress decision forbidding attendance
at Communist WFTU meetings and goes
to East Berlin meeting, it iz a safe bet
that the ACTU will once again be split.
This time it may be more permanent.


WESTERN AUSTRALIA
12 STROKES OF THE BIRCH
How much is the bircher paid?
PREMIER BRAND
“Those questions are
sadistic”
T\espite a public petition and an appeal
" to a higher court, a 19-year-old
Perth youth was given 12 strokes of the
birch in Fremantle Gaol on Monday for
a sex offence.
The youth, Gilbert Crispin, was con-
victed of unlawful carnal knowledge
after being accused of the more serious
charge of rape.
After Crispin had been found guilty
of the lesser charge against a 14-year-old
girl in the Perth Criminal Court, Mr
Justice Virtue said the jury had taken
an extremely lenient view of the case
and gave him the maximum sentence of
two years’ gaol and 12 strokes of the
birch. The last time a birching was
carried out in WA was in 1943, when
a man who escaped from Fremantle
while serving a sentence for rape again
raped a girl and received 17 strokes of
a 25 stroke sentence.
Crispin had been charged with rape
in company with two other boys, Patrick
McKenna (18) and Thomas Erceg. Mc-
Kenna was acquitted after evidence that
he had not had intercourse with the girl.
Erceg came before a magistrate of the
Children’s Court and was convicted of
the rape charge. When he came before
the Criminal Court he was remanded for
psychological examination and has not
yet been sentenced.
Crispin felt the full majesty of the
law. His appeal to the Court of Criminal
Appeal was summarily dismissed. Chief
Justice Sir Albert Wolff said he agreed
with Mr Justice Virtue’s view that the
jury decision was perverse. He went on
to make a general condemnation of
what he called “pack attacks” by youths
on girls.
During the appeal, Crispin’s counsel
F. T. Burt had some strong words to
say about Mr Justice Virtue’s sentence.
He said his remarks in summary were
an attack on the jury system and showed
he was using his discretion to punish
Crispin for a crime of which he had
been acquitted. The principle had been
established in criminal law that whippings
were not carried out on first offenders.
A petition with more than 1500 names
on it also failed to stay the birching
order. It was rejected by Cabinet, and
WA Premier David Brand said his minis-
ters had agreed that the law must take
its course.
An attempt to make it a political
issue also failed. Labor MLA Herb
Graham, a consistent and powerful op-
ponent of capital punishment, submitted
15 questions to the Premier designed to
bring the circumstances of the birching
out into the open.
He asked whether the birch would
have to be imported from overseas, how
much it would cost, whether the bircher
wore a mask, how the victim was held,
what clothing he wore, whether the
bircher would be paid and how much,
and finally whether the Government
would be represented by a minister when
it was carried out.
The Premier refused to rise to this
bait, and his refusal provoked the angriest
scene in the Legislative Assembly during
the current session. Mr Brand said the
questions were sadistic and no good pur-
pose would be served by answering them.
“You are a cur, there is no doubt about
it,” retorted Mr Graham, and one Labor
member called out that the Premier was
a dingo. Government members cheered
Mr Brand when he rose to reply, saying
that Cabinet had shown some thought
for the young girls who were the victims
in such cases. It would be easy for
Parliament to take the line of least resis-
tance, but the Government had to uphold
the law.
Perhaps the most revealing moment
came after this bitter exchange. The
Premier sat with his head in his hands
for several minutes, obviously affected
by the Opposition taunts.
It only now remains to see what
happens to the younger Erceg, whose
initial appearance in the Children’s Court
seems to have brought a more lenient
judicial attitude, despite the fact that
he was convicted of the graver charge.
JEWS
THE COHEN CASE
The Senator's unbroken record
rr.HE fight by the Communist Party for
recognition of their front-organisa-
tion, the Jewish Council to Combat
Fascism and anti-Semitism, among Mel-
bourne Jewry has reached new heights
in recent weeks. “Recognition” and res-
pectability in this case mean that the
organisation must become affiliated to
the loosely governing body of Melbourne
Jewry, the Victorian Board of Jewish
Deputies.
The Council was expelled years ago
from the Victorian Jewish Board of
Deputies because it would never criticise
the large-scale persecution of Jews in
Communist countries.
It was chiefly through the efforts of a
prominent Melbourne Jew, Mr M. Ash-
kanasy, that the Council was expelled,
and he, along with the Board of Deputies,
Public Relations Chairman, Mr I. J.
Leibler, have since foiled its efforts at
achieving respectability.
When the Victorian ALP itself became
little more than a Communist-front after
the Labor Party split in 1956, the mem-
bers of the Jewish Council gradually be-
came more influential in that Party until
the Council succeeded in having Mr Sam
Cohen, President of the Jewish Council,
selected by the ALP Executive as one of
its Senate candidates in the last Federal
elections —at the expense of Mr Ash-
kanasy. Since Senator Cohen’s election,
the Council, with the help of the Vic-
torian ALP, has been pressurising the
Board of Deputies to have itself re-
affiliated.
The nakedness of the Communist cam-
paign of support for the Jewish Council
became more obvious when the Com-
munist Party Victorian weekly “The
Guardian”, in its August 2 issue,
launched a three-column attack on Mr
Leibler, Mr Ashkanasy, and Dr F. Knop-
felmacher. In predictable fashion “The
Guardian” accused these three men of
being linked with Santamaria, the DLP,
and the National Civic Council. It ac-
cused them of McCarthyism and gener-
ally attempts to discredit them by rather
malicious smearing. “The Guardian
attack was designed as a counter-attack
against the recent accusations made hj
Mr Leibler that anti-Semitism is still of-
ficially practised by the Soviet Union.


o
|M£ohl
The vines we tend at
Coonawarra Estate have
amongst their number a
proportion of the precious
Cabernet Sauvignon some
of which is vintaged
separately and bottled as:
“COONAWARRA
ESTATE
CABERNET”
The discriminating diner
would be well advised to
seek it out it is a rare
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CLARET
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd. cnn
When Mr N. Jacobson, a prominent
member of Melbourne Jewry, who has
;„st returned from a visit to the Soviet
juswciu
Union came out and supported Mr
Leibler’s accusations of anti-Semitism
was a blow to the Jewish Council. In the
past, Mr Jacobson has appeared to sup-
port' Senator Cohen and the Council’s
attempts at reaffiliation with the Jewish
Boar d of Deputies. The “Australian
j eW ish Herald”, in reporting Mr Jacob-
son ’s comments about his trip said: “Mr
Jacobson painted a grim picture of the
lack of religious or cultural facilities for
Russia’s two and a half million Jews. He
said: ‘Everything we have heard about
the distruction of Jewish life in Russia
j s true _ _ the future of Russian Jewry
• • , , , , „
is a serious and difficult problem .
“The Guardian’s” campaign against
Mr Leibler and other members of the
Victorian Jewish Board of Deputies will
undoubtedly increase over the next few
months especially if Mr Leibler is suc-
cessful in his attempts to have the per-
secution of Jews in the Soviet Union
raised in the Federal Parliament. If it
is raised in the Senate it will be interest-
ing to see if Senator Cohen can maintain
his unbroken record of remaining silent
when Soviet anti-Semitism is discussed.
ABORIGINES
A BREAK-THROUGH
In the "Stud Book"
It was a break-through of sorts in the
Northern Territory’s authoritarian —
and increasingly complicated native
laws. The Director of Welfare (Mr Harry
Giese) had asked the Administrator’s
Council to gazette as wards about 2000
aborigines not now on the list. This was
a “purely technical measure” aimed at
bringing the Register of Wards (better
known locally as “The Stud Book”) up
to date. To everyone’s surprise the Coun-
cil jacked up.
The 2000 missed when the Register
was drawn up several years ago—are, to
all legal intent, “full citizens.” Most live
in isolated and primitive areas. They
don’t know what a citizen is. Few have
heard of Canberra, Minister for Terri-
tories Paul Hasluck or even Australia.
But the Council refused to arbitrarily
declare them all wards, or “persons in
need of special care and attention.” In-
stead it proposed that of the 2000:
• All under 15 years be left off the
wards list.
• All over 65 be left off the wards list.
• All others be treated individually,
with each case examined to see
whether the native should be de-
clared a ward, or left a private
citizen.
Members of the Administrator’s
Council are the Administrator (Mr Nott),
the Assistant Administrator (Mr Marsh),
the Crown Law Officer (Mr Withnall),
nnd Legislative Councillors, Messrs Ward
(Port Darwin), Purkiss (Barkly) and
Kilgariff (nominated, non-official). All
have risked a serious falling-out with Mr
Hasluck, whose views on aborigines and
their problems are no less austere and
autocratic than Mr Giese’s.
The Council’s ruling, obscure though
]t may seem to non-Territorians, is a real
assault on the previous near-omnipotence
°f the Welfare Branch. It also further
complicates our native laws, which al-
ready go close to insanity:
For instance:
9 All natives “have citizenship as their
birthright,” the department declares.
Unless, of course, they “are in need
of special care and attention,” in
which case they are “wards.” In
practice, 15,000 are wards, about 80
are official citizens, and 2000 were
left off the list when the Register was
made up either through inadver-
tence, or because they would not stay
in one place long enough for Welfare
Officers to take down their parti-
culars.
9 Because of this, aborigines at Dar-
win’s Bagot Compound cannot drink
liquor without incurring gaol or a
fine. Yet the nomad Pintubis, who
have hidden successfully from
Government patrols for three years
now, are technically entitled to drink
anything they can get hold of.
9 When a native attains citizenship his
wife, if any, automatically becomes a
citizen too. Yet if he gives his father
-—who may be an old man of the tribe
•—a glass of beer, he is liable to six
months imprisonment.
9 A citizen retains his rights only as
long as he stays in the Territory. If
he crosses the Queensland border he
encounters another set of laws which
class him as a “native”.
9 A white man may marry a lubra, pro-
vided Mr Giese gives his permission.
But if he courts her beforehand he is
committing a criminal offence.
9 The official policy is “assimilation”,
but a white man can be arrested if he
is found in a native camp at night,
however innocently he may be be-
having.
Now, adding to the Alice in Wonder-
land effect, many natives who have not
had a (legal) drink until they are 65 will
be able to booze to their heart’s content
in their dotage.
Formation of the Administrator’s
Council a couple of years back has proved
a very real advance constitutionally. The
power to declare, or not to declare,
aborigines wards, hits at a function once
held, in fact, by Mr Giese alone. The
Welfare Branch of the Northern Territory
operated autonomously. In practice, its
head is responsible not to the Adminis-
trator, but to Mr Hasluck. Over the years
it has assiduously practised Parkinson’s
Law until today it is one of the largest
departments, financially and numerically.
It has shown little tendency to follow
the advice Mr Hasluck gave to the mis-
sions last year that their aim must be to
“work themselves out of a job.” Mr
Giese, whose dislike of the Press is noto-
rious, had no comment to make about
the Administrator’s Council decision. But
an aide reported him: “Furious.”
KEITH WILLEY


It will pay you to take a
long look ahead. . .
expansion
springs from
today’s planning . . .
So a long look ahead
starts with a
projection into the
comfort zone of your
premises this
coming summer.
WITH
More Businesses do more Business
with Chrysler Airtemp.
Your Airtemp Distributor will be
pleased to show you why.
Q’LD.: Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd.
620 Stanley St., Wootloongabba.
Phone 4 2941.
fi.S.W.: Strataflo Pty. Ltd.
Cnr. Parramatta Rd. & Barr St..
Camperdown. Phone Si 6645.
A.C.T.: A.C.T. Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd.
14 Yallourn St., Fyshwick.
Phone 9COBI.
VIC.: Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd.
291 Moray St., S. Melbourne.
Phone 69 71 14.
S.A.: Craig & Seeley Limited
Largs Terrace, Largs Bay.
Phone 49 8311.
W.A.: Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd.
657 Murray St., Perth.
Phone 23 2214.
Send for our 30 page Brochure
on Airtemp Equipment.
i
V
R
■
• •• HH
CMS6
-
-> --
V;
:i':
i§3«t*
l' \
j v f-
mmSm
.
jjc With Chrysler you have
Air Conditioning that is
not only complete,
but flexible.
Chrysler engineers have evolved
an installation flexibility
that allows a tailored
cooling and heating system
to meet your needs and
your budget.
Walter P. Chrysler
of automobile fame
pioneered the packaged system
of air conditioning back in 1934.
Since then,
Chrysler has earned an
outstanding reputation for
developing important new
product features and
improvements.
It is a significant fact
that Chrysler’s
built-in engineered exclusives
based on top flight automotive
skills add up to air conditioning
that gives longer, trouble free
performance.
Every unit is styled and
engineered
to “Deliver the best”.
You’ve everything to gain
by writing for Chrysler’s
own 30 page Brochure on
Airtemp
Air Conditioning . . .
an investment that
“earns its way” in business,


Around Melbourne
£5OO IS A POODLE
All those in the newspaper, radio
and television industry suffer
from the same agonising problems.
They have to cope with the untold
thousands who lose track of their pets.
For example, it is obvious that on
any one day 75 per cent, of the
dogs, cats and budgies in Melbourne
are hopelessly lost. But never in the
annals of lost dogdom have we had
a case like this one.
Last week, Lady de Crespigny of
Adelaide, wife of the late Sir Trent de
Crespigny, sent a poodle by air to
Mrs Isobel Huntly’s poodle resort at
Essendon for breeding. Mrs Huntly
and Mrs Violet Sharp were waiting at
Essendon Airport to receive her. As
you must understand, lady poodles can
be a little indelicate on such occasions.
Heloise, for that was her name, bit
her flight attendant, bit the two
women, outdodged the airport officials
and fled into the great beyond at
Essendon.
Normally this would have gone un-
noticed for newspapers cannot stand
lost dog stories. But there was a differ-
ence. The difference was that Heloise
was worth £5OO and she had a superb
pedigree.
“The Sun Pictorial” reported that
her pedigree went back 30 generations
and among her forbears there were
such names as Cameo Vedette, Ecstasy
of Withywind, Swandora Silver Comet
and Quiet Corner Mousie. And
Heloise was lost somewhere in the
not over-patrician suburbs of Moonee
Ponds, Maribyrnong, Pascoe Vale,
Keilor or even Footscray.
But for fine lineage, Heloise could
hardly compete with her owners. The
de Crespigny family dates back to the
middle ages. The family went over
to England after the revocation of
the Edict of Nantes which let loose
the onslaught on the Huguenots. They
had been the “champions” or fighting
retainers of the Dukes of Normandy
and Britanny and owned the lands
of Crespigny, Fontenoy and Fleuriere.
Their ancestors fought in the First
Crusade.
But Heloise had escaped and the
crisis was on. Lady de Crespigny’s
13-year-old daughter, Charlotte de
Crespigny, flew from Adelaide to lead
search. She turned out to be a pretty,
very nice young lady, superbly self-
assured and quite capable of handling
the situation. The police and all in-
formation media were advised. The
police circultated Heloise’s description
over D 24 and wireless patrolmen had
the order to apprehend her at once.
She was a missing person.
Mrs Huntly and Mrs Sharp stopped
searching only once. They went to
the Royal Melbourne Hospital for
anti-tetanus injections.
The search began along the open
spaces of Bulla-Rd, Tullamarine with
Charlotte in jodhpurs calling out
“Heloise”, “Heloise”. Constable Doug
Mummery of the police stud depot
was called in. He was fearful of using
bloodhounds who were man-hunters,
so he used two hunting dogs. The
dogs were invited to smell the cage
in which Heloise arrived, and her fine
mohair rug, and the search went on.
All this was done undoubtedly in the
constable’s spare time and out of the
goodness of heart, but some of the
old newspaper hands were fearful.
This would establish a precedent.
Think of Melbourne’s 100,000 lost
dogs, cats and budgies (unofficial
conservative estimate). From now on
their owners would be pleading with
Constable Mummery. How would he
knock them back? Could he in all
decency refuse to search on grounds
of class? This could arouse class
warfare such as has not been since
the French revolution. But if he did
decide to search on grounds of
pedigree, who would decide which
dog or bitch was worthy of a police
search? It was a most difficult situa-
tion.
Perhaps it was just as well that the
two hunting dogs, Jock and Morgo,
did not find Heloise. That night
Charlotte de Crespigny made two tele-
vision appearances. She appeared on
HSV-7 and on Graham Kennedy’s
programme “In Melbourne Tonight”.
Charlotte was convinced that if
Heloise was in a home anywhere, she
would instantly recognise her voice
if she heard it on TV. So she called
out to Heloise, appealed for her
return, but Heloise did not hear.
The next day the Melbourne Poodle
Club answered the calls of distress.
The club decided to form a poodle
posse. The theory was that if, say, a
dozen of Melbourne’s most eligible
poodle bachelors, in charge of their
owners, set out to hunt for Heloise
then surely she would come forth.
More plebeian minds than those of
the Melbourne Poodle Club couldn’t
understand the reasoning at all.
The Essendon Airport area pos-
sessed thousands of eligible and very
masculine bachelors, from Airedales
down to Chihuahuas. Would Heloise,
aristocrat though she was, really care
about the lineage of her boy friends?
The posse went out. The search was
fruitless and so another day passed.
It began to look as if Heloise had
been kidnapped, another Lindbergh
case perhaps. A message came from
Adelaide suggesting that a reporter
might take Charlotte to Essendon
Airport after the aircraft had stopped
flying. Then they could call “Heloise”.
“Heloise”! over the airport loud-
speaker system. This could be kept
up for an hour. The idea did not
crystallise.
T>ut at last after three days, and Mel-
bourne’s greatest dog hunt, Heloise
was found. Mr Jack Griffin found her
in the horse paddock on his farm in
McNab’s Road, Keilor. He very
smartly put her in a sugar bag and
tied it with a pyjama cord. Mr Griffin
reported “she was covered in mud
and burrs and looked like a wet
dish mop.”
And so Heloise was returned to a
very, very happy Miss de Crespigny.
Yet there was something beautifully
poetic about the finish. It was 8 p.m.
when Mr Griffin heard a barking
from the paddock. The racehorse,
King Phillip, an aristocrat, mark you,
with a touch of royalty in his name,
herded Heloise into his stable. To
make the story completely perfect
King Phillip was an Adelaide race-
horse. Lady de Crespigny was reported
as saying from Adelaide: “I always
feel proud of the infinite trouble
people take in Australia to find a
missing person or animal”. Some, in
thinking of the story recalled one of
the most famous love stories in
history—that of Heloise and Abelard.
However the simile did not bear
too much probing, for the story of
Heloise and Abelard had a very tragic
ending, especially when one considers
how Abelard finished up.
According to columnist E. W.
Tipping a new word has come in to
the language in Melbourne. No
longer at the racetracks do punters
refer to £5OO as a monkey. From
now on £5OO is a poodle.
BATMAN


POWERHOUSE POLITICS
How to spend £2,000,000
“ GOSSIP” (Oil over egg tempera) by J. W. TOWER
By DESMOND O'GRADY
Most people would enjoy opening
their morning mail to find they
had been bequeathed a fortune
and Professor Stephen Henry Roberts of
Sydney University is no exception.
In April this year a letter from the
Isle of Jersey informed him that John
Warded Power had left MLC shares,
whose value at that time was £760,000,
in trust to the University. Professor
Roberts, as Vice-Chancellor, has a lion’s
share in determining what is done with
the bequest and despite the work it has
involved he is thoroughly enjoying the
whole affair.
For a man who had to sing for his
supper while a student in Paris in the
1920 s when Dufy’s paintings were sold
for a song, the bequest is one of “the
biggest things which has happened”
while he has been at Sydney University.
For a collector who has works by Dobell,
Drysdale, Fairweather, Gleeson and
O Brien in his office, the commission
was congenial. For an historian who
emphasised the impact of individuals on
events and who later became an admin-
istrator, the bequest meant an oppor-
tunity to conclude his career with a
bang.
Professor Roberts is 61 but the dis-
position of the bequest will be decided
before he retires; one has only to hear
him directing a conversation about the
money to appreciate his commitment.
Close to six foot tall and heavily-built,
capable of wearing striped trousers with
a polka-dot bow tie, chubby-faced, large
featured, ruddy-complexioned, white-
haired, Roberts ranges over the questions
raised by the bequest with relish.
He points out that the University is
waiting on the Isle of Jersey Courts,
which operate under a system based on
French mediaeval law, to clear the be-
quest. While waiting for the money
exploratory committees are gathering
information about overseas faculties and
departments of fine arts, a senior coun-
sel has been asked for an interpretation
of the will, and the question of the
financial management of the bequest is
under examination.
With the long view of the historian,
Robert insists that the first steps be on
the right path and stresses the need for
imaginative planning. He envisages a
gallery displaying the world’s most recent
contemporary art which would be sent
on travelling exhibitions to other Aus-
tralian galleries, lecturers who ' would
likewise circulate throughout Australia
and travelling scholarships to enable
Australian artists to make direct contact
with the best overseas art. In all this he
has in mind that Power wanted “to
bring the people of Australia in more
direct touch with the latest art develop-
ments in other countries”. Professor
Roberts does not regard the bequest as
“an exclusively University thing”; he
sees the University rather as an inter-
mediary and points a parallel with the
Felton bequest which could well have
been given to Melbourne University.
Of course what Power intended is the
pith of the matter, and what he specified
is the best guide. Clause 6 of his will
reads:
l give and bequeath the remainder
of my shares in the said Mutual
Life and Citizens' Assurance Com-
pany Ltd. whether on the London
or other Register of the said Com-
pany to my Trustees upon Trust to
pay the Dividends and profits there-
of to my wife during her life and
after her death to transfer the same
to the University of Sydney, New
South Wales to be used by them
for the foundation of a Faculty
of Fine Arts in such University or
the further endowment of such
Faculty if existing in the manner
hereinafter mentioned that is to say
to make available to the people oj
Australia the latest ideas and
theories in the plastic arts by means
of lectures and teaching and by the
purchase of the most recent con-
temporary art of the w >orld and by
the creation of schools lecture halls
museums and other places for the
purpose of such lectures and leach-
ing and of suitably housing the
works purchased so as to bring the
people of Australia in more direct
touch with the latest art develop-
ments in other countries.
This document could keep lawyers
rich and the disputatious arguing for
many a day. For one thing Dr Power
talks of Fine Arts and the plastic arts
as if they are one and the same thing.
They are defined in various ways but the
Fine Arts are generally thought to cover
a wider field than the plastic arts. T°
give one example of the subjects which


might be involved, the Slade school,
which is associated with the University
of London and whose courses lead to a
Diploma in Fine Art, offers “courses in
drawing, painting, and sculpture, with
the history of these arts. Instruction is
given in graphic design including etch-
ing, lettering, and lithography. There are
also courses in Stage Design and oppor-
tunities for the study of the Film”. The
study of Film is not part of the diploma
course.
A conundrum which could be apt
when Power’s words are interpreted is
“when is a faculty not a faculty?”
Answer: “When it is specified in a will”.
Some who are sure they have better
ideas of what to do with Power’s money
than he did, claim he was so long out
of Australia that he had forgotten what
a faculty was. Professor Roberts makes
some nice distinctions: he states that a
faculty can mean a degree-giving body,
or a discipline, a study, or the body of
graduates. He says that Clause 6 may be
satisfied by a “Faculty of Arts and
Fine Arts.”
Counsel will give an opinion on the
legal limits set by the will. But, as the
man said, where there’s a will there is
a way of getting around it; for instance,
if the range of Fine Arts is defined as
covering half-a-dozen arts, there is noth-
ing to prevent a decision to concentrate
on two of these, say painting and sculp-
ture, for the first 50 or 100 years. Pro-
fessor Roberts has spoken in such terms
for he is looking to the growing, long-
term impact of the windfall.
The Prickly Question
lle seems fond of thinking of the
1 money growing like some flourishing
mustard tree; he may ask you to calcu-
late how much it has increased in the
last hour. When the University was first
informed of the bequest its value was
£760,000 but it now stands at about
£1,700,000. The immediate income from
these shares is £37,600 yearly and one
of the prickliest questions about the
bequest is how best to handle the Power
capital sum. The Vice Chancellor regards
it as shortsighted to go for a big im-
mediate increase in income through re-
investment in higher-bearing stock.
Thinking in terms of 50 or 100 years he
appreciates the value of a growth stock
which increases its corpus, and can point
to the fact that the present income on
the Power shares is twice as much as
the original capital outlay on them.
Power mentioned the creation of
schools, lecture halls, museums and
other places” and they will cost a pretty
penny. Professor Roberts thinks in terms
°f using up to £250,000 of the capital
°n a “not lavish gallery”, and that the
design of it should be the subject of an
international competition.
Although the Vice-Chancellor is the
dominant fi w ire in determining the uses
of the bequest he is not the only one.
As regards financial management Mr
A. F. Dear is certainly a key figure for
he is not only General Manager of the
Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance
Company but also chairman of the Uni-
versity Senate’s Finance committee. It
is a poor pun as well as a platitude to
remark that £2,000,000 means power
but it may be worth adding that when
such an amount is to be administered by
a university for the purposes of art then
the power struggle can be conducted
under a veil of pretension and cant,
with social status and displaced ambi-
tions all involved together.
One aspect of the question is that the
Dean of a Faculty of Fine Arts, even if he
were the only member of it, would rank as
equal to the deam of the other faculties in
the University Senate. Another is that
the Senate will establish tl committees
which will make recommendations re-
garding the implementation of the will.
Yet another factor attempting to influence
the disposition of the money is a flutter
of society matrons and their husbands
who may be inspired by a vision of the
good they could do through the bequest,
or by the good the bequest could do
their social standing.
Another group is represented by a
sheaf of letters on Professor Roberts’
desk. Australia, apparently, is rich in
people with simplified notions of admin-
istering £2 million in the interests of
art, even though some of the proposed
schemes would dissipate the capital
stock in building programmes alone.
Roberts’ version of how the money
should be spent might be termed popu-
list; he stresses a mission to the whole of
Australia and talks in terms of travelling
lecturers and exhibitions; he declares
himself against an Ivory Tower attitude.
At the same time that he looks to the
money’s long term influence he is aware
of the danger of dissipating it in trying
to do too much. He is very conscious the
mandate refers to the 'best art in the
world and recognises the prime import-
ance of obtaining a first-class director
to run the bequest.
The Molnar Plan
Vet another version of how the money
-*• should be spent or part of it be-
longs to architect George Molnar. He
has set his final year University archi-
tecture students the task of drawing up
plans and specifications for a Faculty
of Fine Arts. In Molnar’s project there
are three groups of buildings: first, the
Administrative office; secondly, the ex-
hibition hall and theatre; thirdly the
“creative centre”. This would consist of
five main two storeyed studios with
apartments attached, five minor studios,
again with apartments attached and 20
working studios grouped around a club-
room where informal lectures could be
held.
Four or five leading artists would be
invited to take up residence at this
centre for anything up to a year with
retainers from £2OOO to £BOOO. They
would not be obliged to do anything in
particular but would have an opportunity
to exhibit what they had done at the
end of their stay. Local artists who could
profit from contact with these major
artists would be invited to live near
them in the smaller flats: for instance,
if Braque took up residence for a year,
someone such as Hessing would have a
chance to live and learn near him.
The working studios would be for
those not in residence but in a working
relationship with the guests. These guests
could be in any fine arts field it
might be architecture, printing, graphics,
stage design, sculpture, either as a prac-
titioner or critic: persons such as
Dubuffet, Dr Reyner Banham, John
Berger, Miro, Marini would contribute
handsomely to our awareness just by
being here.
An Aristocratic Project
IVffosT important of all would be the
Director. Such a project would
depend on this appointment; with a man
of the catholicy and imagination of, say,
Sir Kenneth Clark, the “cultural centre”
could make Sydney the Paris of this
part of the world. Even if we could not
attract from the start the top European
artists we might well develop a focus for
the arts in the Pacific-Asian-African
region. Such a centre, modelled more or
less on the Berlin Academy, could be
built on the right of the University’s
Paramatta Road entrance at a cost of
about £500,000. According to Molnar
nobody should take fright at the figure
because, if you build, tax-deductible sub-
scriptions are readily forthcoming.
Such an aristocratic project has an
obvious appeal but does it fulfil the
spirit and letter of the will? Power
flatly says “Faculty of Fine Arts” just
as he flatly says “the most recent con-
temporary art” without elaboration or
guide as to the most desirable of the
possible interpretations.
Legal opinion will be one reference
for those administering the fund but,
according to Professor Roberts, they
should also take into account Dr Power’s
interests.


Once this principle is conceded it be-
comes a fascinating piece of detection
discovering what sort of a person Power
was. His father was a Macquarie Street
doctor while his grandfather, the re-
nowned architect Warded, designed St
Mary's and St John’s College, Sydney,
and St Patrick’s Cathedral, Melbourne.
Just on a hundred years ago, in 1863,
Warded served on a sub-committee set
up by the Victorian Government to
examine ways and means of promoting
the study of the fine arts in Australia.
Just as significant in composing the
symmetry of interests which were to
find expression in the bequest was the
fact that Dr J. J. Power was a signatory
to a memorandum founding the Citi-
zens Fife Assurance Company in 1886,
and one of the original directors of
this company which was to become the
MFC.
John Joseph Warded Power was
always interested in art but trained to
follow his father’s profession. He gradu-
ated Bachelor of Medicine from Sydney
University in 1904 and after practising
in Sydney went to Fondon for post-
graduate study. From then on, the details
of his life are obscure. He was a captain
in the Royal Army Medical Corps during
the Irish Rebellion but after the war
seems to have devoted himself entirely
to art.
He lived mainly in Brussels and Paris
but travelled to all parts of the world.
He maintained a Paris studio and mixed
with some of the most famous names
in that city’s art world. In 1939 he
settled in a white mansion near St Helier
the capital of Jersey. There he continued
his painting and studies until in 1942,
at the age of 62, he died of cancer. His
wife had a life interest in his will so it
was not until her death last year that the
money came to the university.
They are the scarce and bare facts of
Power’s life. As to his opinions on art,
we have the introduction to his “Elements
of Pictorial Composition” (A study of
the Methods of Old and Modern
Masters) published by Antoine Roche,
Paris, and dedicated “To the Fibrary of
Sydney University from an old student
J. W. Power, M.B. ChM. 1904, Sydney.
M.R.C.C. F.R.C.P., 1907, London” in a
clear, pleasant hand, signed with an illeg-
ible piece of calligraphy and dated
Brussels 1934.
The Cubist Tradition
Tn his introduction Power maintains
that man/ great artists have used
geometric methods to complete and
balance their works. The book consists
of two parts, the first on the known
methods of construction: Panel Rectan-
gulation; Static Geometric Methods;
Plan and Elevation Methods; Moving
Format Methods. The second part of the
book analyses certain paintings by
Rubens, Duccio, Raphael, Juan Gris,
Signorelli. In pockets at the back of
the book are reproductions of the paint-
ings analysed, together with celluloid
overlays showing the elements of the
design, and the geometric constructions
to which they conformed.
It is, as he says, a textbook and an
attempt to preserve a tradition. The
introduction is cogently argued but too
long to cite in full. Some passages how-
ever do merit paraphrase for the light
they throw on Power: he claims, for in-
stance, that Cezanne rediscovered the
MARITIME COMPOSITION (gouache
and papier colie) by J. W. POWER
tradition which goes as far back as the
Greeks but runs through Cimabue,
Giotto, Piero della Francesca, Veronese,
Rubens, Poussin. The break-up of the
apprentice system after the French
Revolution dispersed the tradition until
such artists as Picasso, Braque, Met-
zinger and Juan Gris developed Cez-
anne's pioneering work.
He states that his own researches,
which began under Senhor Pedro Aranjo,
a Brazilian artist teaching in Paris in
1920, proved to him that the old masters
used careful geometric measurement. “It
is probable, therefore, that the studies
and compositions for the finished pic-
tures were handed to their assistants to
be squared up and scaled down to the
dimensions of the final work. Their
senior assistants, trained in their own
botega (sic), would have had a whole
battery of these means at their command,
and under the master’s supervision could
modify or amplify the design as he de-
sired leaving him free for the invention
of fresh themes.
“It is not difficult, but as it takes a
little time, this might be a boon in these
days of over-production.”
Scholarly and precise
|t is a clear and careful enough state-
ment of where Power’s sympathies lay
in relation to modern art: with the
cubist tradition rather than with the
geniuses of creative frenzy and fitful
inspiration.
His paintings are testimony to his
careful approach. Despite his color
sense, the talented hand never breaks
through to an imposing statement: too
little money may have thwarted some
artists but too much may have cushioned
Power from the stimulus which would
have inspired him to greater artistic
stature. His work on the whole is cold
and academic and one cannot help feel-
ing he would have made a good teacher,
scholarly and precise. You would expect
the face behind such paintings would be
just the one Power painted in his self
portrait which is this week’s Bulletin
cover.
As Power himself acknowledged “in
the last resort the artist’s sensibility is
the measure of his excellence"; the future
of the bequest can be affected not by his
own performance as an artist but by
his interests and this throws open the
whole question of what sort of a man was
Power. Professor Roberts has suggested
that music may not come in for assist-
ance under the bequest but that cinema
may be helped. A relative of Power's
wife, who visited them on Jersey, says
that Power was interested in all forms
of art painting, sculpture, theatre,
that he loved music and played the piano
beautifully but that he loathed cinema.
The search for Power will go on. The
same relative states that Power had a
lively interest in the art of India, China
and Japan, and that he moved to Jersey
not as has been suggested, because be
calculated that English death duties would
eat up his estate but because he could
see the second world war coming and
thought the island where he was to die
would be a good refuge.
Power’s money, which may have i n ‘
hibited his development as an artist
is now to be used to aid the development
of other artists. But some of it, perhaps
should be used to discover, if we can,
what sort of a man was Power.


Way out back in Brazil you’ll find this . . . Esso
Station! It may not be the kind you’re used to
seeing, but an Esso Station nevertheless.
Esso set up this outpost to supply fuel and oil
to machines and automobiles working on a huge
construction site nearby.
All over the world you’ll find Esso helping out.
Fuelling machines and ships in New York and
Nagasaki, aircraft and motor cars in London and
Lima. From the Brazilian Mato Grosso to the
deserts of Arabia, you’ll see Esso products serving
the community.
Esso lubricates printing presses and spinning
machines, fuels space rockets, supersonic jets—
and motor cars. More people throughout the
world prefer and use Esso.
This is what makes Esso . . .
‘THE WORLD’S FIRST CHOICE.’
(tsso)
5403/106
ESSO
■
Wv.>. *
•x • . 4
m*.
■
lm
!
m.


OUT AND ABOUT
EVERYMUM'S OWN
LITTLE BOY
Graham Kennedy as the first authentic
clown Australian TV has produced
By MAX HARRIS
Standing in the wings of the Sydney
Tivoli with Elizabeth Lambert to
ghost the memoirs of no less a dis-
tinguished Australian than Mo, 1 scarcely
conceived in the 1940 s that the art of
great comedy would have to change in
its very essentials in the years to come.
From the Elizabethan stage to the joyful
vulgarities of Mo, there hadn’t been
much change. The great comics took
over the follies and idiosyncrasies of the
human condition, and, in making them
larger than life, exposed them to comedy.
In watching and analysing the endless
ad-libbing of Mo within the wearied
framework of standard “blue” vaudeville
sketches, one was aware how he operated
in the central tradition of the stage
clown, translating a stage idiom five
centuries old into the language of
Woolloomooloo, Flemington, Bourke St,
and Carlton.
The genius of the clown relies so
completely on immediacy, on the delicate
manipulation of an audience, that when
the idiot box arrived one wondered how
the phoenix of comedy could be reborn
in a landscape so restricted and so dun-
colored. The idiot box spelled the doom
of the stage clown. One could only wait
to see if those certain advantages of the
TV medium—the close-up, the concentra-
tion on detail, rapid transpositions
would bring any real and worthy laughter
into being.
The Americans transferred to television
their sustained interest in comic patter.
The joke tellers, the gag merchants, the
Bob Hopes and Grouch Marxes offered a
barrage of repartee supported by endless
recorded laughter. The staleness, the
limited inventiveness, the depressing
smart-alecry of it all was transmitted to
Australian television and the comic spirit
by and large has taken the form of a
funeral procession of pensioned-off joke-
tellers from America doing the
circuit of national petrol spectaculars
and regional supermarket shows. How-
ever, we also home-grew a race of funny-
bunny personality-projectors around
which the “entertainments” of commer-
cial television are framed.
It seemed, as television passed through
infancy and youth to young manhood,
that the medium was incapable of serving
the comic spirit except as a projector
for the comedy formats of cinema.
Then, unexpectedly, the BBC turned
up with the first television clown who
could pass muster in terms of the great
tradition. Tony Hancock successfully
crossed the yawning chasm between radio
and television. Hancock, a clown as sen-
sitive to his social climate as Chaplin,
created a character who contains quite
impeccably all the strains, stresses, and
pretensions of a welfare society.
Hancock, something of an anxiety-
neurotic himself, presented a new version
of the Little Man. Inflated with self-
esteem, often possessed by grand ideas
and projects, Hancock goes through his
television life tormented by an incurable
sense of insecurity. The world he is per-
petually planning of necessity finishes up
plaguing him to a point beyond des-
peration and despair.
Hancock is neither a figure of pity,
buffoonery, nor naivety. His is the
comedy of the inadequate man. This
image is apt to the neurosis of the
modern world—but although Hancock
has evolved his genius through the tele-
vision sketch, he belongs only fortuitously
to the medium. The suspirating Hancock
belongs to the central tradition of pure
clowning—his perfect time and miming
could just as happily be transposed to
the stage or the silver screen.
For an example of the “new men” of
the medium in this country we have to
turn to that most extraordinary of Aus-
tralian TV phenomena—Graham Ken-
nedy. Graham Kennedy has held his own
in Melbourne now for quite a few years.
By all the laws of the medium he should
by now have been well and truly killed
off through over-exposure. But, if any-
thing, he is developing an even more
powerful grip over his gigantic and
adulatory audience.
Kennedy began with a weekly Victor-
ian show which featured pop singing,
dancing and comedy sketches. Kennedy
was hard-worked throughout the hour.
He compered, dominated the comedy
sketches, and did most of the hard-sell
flogging for pickles, tinned soups, shirts,
and shoes. He still does. A Kennedy
sell brings quicker and more substantial
direct sales results than any other TV
commercial.
He captured the Victorian imagination
so impressively that it led to the first
all-States comedy show in Australian
television. The Graham Kennedy Show
“took” in every State except New South
Wales, but it was less this fact than the
intolerable strain placed on Kennedy
himself that led to the termination of
the national show. Kennedy reverted to
a weekly Melbourne show. But not for
long. Still in his twenties and with many
hundreds of shows behind him, Kennedy


came up with the idea of going through
tlie endless miles of videotape to extract
a series of shows, “The Best of Kennedy”.
“The Best of Kennedy” re-established
his national stature. By co-ordinating the
strongest material, and eliminating the
longueurs that develop when a man has
to be funny for many hours a week, the
viewers became convinced all over again
that Kennedy was a clown of outstanding
talent; and at last New South Wales
came into line.
Kennedy has had many things working
for him.
But the most important thing is the
personality image he has built up. Ken-
nedy is the first authentic clown produced
in Australian TV, a clown who reflects
the needs and desires of his particular
audience. The nature of this audience is
the important thing.
Commercial television commands the
mass audience of suburbia. The comedy
show commands the attention of the vast
mass of middle and lower middle income
viewers: it is watched by the 30-upwards
age-group, and the sales appeal is directed
to Australian Mumhood.
In this context Kennedy projects him-
self as Everymunrs very own little boy.
He is naughty rather than wicked, he is
the comic little wag that every Moonee
Ponds mum deems her boy to be. He
is, when commerce calls, simple and
appealing. Kennedy is not above boyishly
exploiting his couple of million tele-
vision mums —he will often conclude a
sell for Glo-Weave with the plea direct:
“Now go out and buy a Glo-Weave, do
it for Graham, please, pretty-please”. He
will recall those tender babyhood days
and the little pet names of infancy by
declaring “Gay-Gay wants you to . .
or “Give it to Gay-Gay”.
The role of Son of Television is not
exploited in an arch and nauseating way
as the proceeding quotations might sug-
gest. Kennedy is too skilful a performer
to explore the mawkish depths of a
Tommy Hanlon Junior, too sophisticated
to believe in the filial stereotype he has
created to command the affections of
Moonee Ponds.
Rather his mental attitude towards
the character he assumes for public con-
sumption has a redeemingly schizo-
phrenic quality about it. He is so assured
of maternal acceptance than he can
afford to send Mum up just as he can
afford to indulge the most facetious by-
play about the products he is purporting
to sell.
This is cunning comedy, making up
in sophistication and complexity what
it lacks in depth. It is also highly skilled
because it all emerges from sustained im-
provisation, a quicksilver capacity to
exploit the chance comic possibilities of
events as they happen before the camera.
Kennedy can improvise his buffoonery
with as great an expertise as the late
Jack Davey could with words. No talent
has been born to the medium in quite
this way before in Australia.
The years of camera experience, plus
a natural intelligence, have given Ken-
nedy that extra dimension which ac-
companies high levels of clowning. Nowa-
days Kennedy uses his rubbery expressive
features, protuberant eyes, and impressive
field of mime, in an organised way. The
timing is beyond criticism, his under-
playing and feed work as professional as
any old Tivoli hand.
For a while it was generally thought
that Mum was going to throw her boy
out without a penny. But the prodigal
has returned with a vengeance and a
whole paddockful of calves are fattening.
The Danny Kaye of Moonee Ponds is in
residence again.
A GENTEEL SIP
OF PARSNIP WINE
"Stir night and day tor thirty days"
Miss Iris Kells in her bubble-bath
for the third act of “Orpheus in
the Underworld” does not exactly
look the sort of woman who would offer
her guests a genteel sip of parsnip wine.
However, Miss Kells is a devoted, in-
genious, and, apparently, skilful, wine-
maker. She swears by her parsnip wine,
which, she says, is not really the stuff
to offer the curate when he calls. “It has
a terrific kick,” she said. “You can’t
drink it down by the glass. You have to
sip it like a liqueur.”
In Australia to sing Eurydice in
“Orpheus” for the Sadler’s Wells com-
pany, Miss Kells has had to abandon
her hobby for the time being.
She said she began winemaking only
when she discovered
that a plant in the
garden of her house
at Putney was an
elderberry. She be-
gan with elderberry
wine and has since
tried dandelion,
wheat, raspberry and
mulberry varieties.
“I know they all
sound dreadful, but
they’re not,” she said. “Parsnip wine
doesn’t taste like parsnips at all. Strange
to say, I have never tried grapes, but I
will some day.”
Miss Kells’s parsnip wine is made to
Mrs Beeton’s recipe, but some of her
most successful brews have been made
to recipes in a book of English wines,
printed in India many years ago.
“The only awkward thing about my
hobby is that I am almost completely
allergic to alcohol,” Miss Kells said.
“The most I can ever have is a sip or I
come out in great red blotches.
“The real secret in winemaking is to
keep exactly to the recipe. Some of the
wines take up to a year to mature, and
I have some three years old. One recipe
said that you had to stir the stuff night
and morning for 30 days. I used to have
to ring home every night from the
theatre and say ‘Have you stirred the
wine yet?’ Obviously I couldn’t ring up
from Australia every night. Too ex-
pensive.”
Miss Kells, who was born in India of
Irish parents, is now at Sadler’s Wells
singing operetta mainly because she left
Covent Garden four years ago to concen-
trate on lieder rather than opera.
“I went to Europe for some months
studying lieder after I left the Garden,”
she said, “but then I was asked to sing
Gretel in the Wells’ ‘Hansel and Gretel.’
After that I made more and more ap-
pearances with the Wells, until now I
am a permanent member of the company.
“I think the mem-
bers of my family
who take music very
seriously are still
rather stunned that I
am singing operetta.
An aunt of mine,
who lives in Liver-
pool, went to see me
in ‘Orpheus’. There’s
a line in ‘Orpheus’—
‘What is Anthony
without Cleopatra? What is Orpheus
without Gluck?’ and my aunt had it
firmly in mind that, remembering Kath-
leen Ferrier in ‘Orfeo’, it would be
a serious work. She was quite horri-
ec^-
Miss Kells said that although Sadler’s
Wells was generally on a repertory with
perhaps three or four performances a
week for each singer, she had sung
“Orpheus in the Underworld” seven
times a week in England for a short
season. “But we shall be doing eight
performances a week here,” she said. “I
have no idea whether my voice can stand
up to it, but 1 suppose I shall know by
the time we finish in Melbourne at
Christmas.”
PATRICIA ROLFE


BARRY HUMPHRIES
The Years Hoyts Ate
By PETER COLEMAN
Cashmere Bouquet
Barry Humphries, whose s : x-day
Sydney tour was far more successful
than he dared hope, has now estab-
lished himself not only as a leading actor
but also through his creation of such Aus-
tralian characters as Edna Everage and
Sandy Stone, as a leading dramatist.
Though he is still sometimes mis-typed
as a sick comedian, a sort of Australian
Mort Sahl, his humor is too much an
affectionate comedy of manners to be
sick; it would be more to the point to
call him an Australian Hancock, though
his characters live more in the past than
Hancock’s.
Like Hancock too he is already being
criticised for being the object of a cult
or vogue. We raised this matter with
the tall-pale 28-year-old actor-dramatist
(and, first man for many a year to wear
the elastic-sided boots in The Bulletin
office) after he had settled down with
a pencil and a piece of copy paper to
draw a self-portrait in the “Mad” maga-
zine style.
“It’s a bit unfair,” he said. “After all
I depend for my living on people liking
my performances, so I can’t be expected
to change everything just because they
do like them. I suppose those critics
are referring to the records—“ Wildlife
in Suburbia” and “Sandy Agonistes”.
They sold much better than I expected
while I was away, and I lived on the
royalties when I was broke in England.
It was their popularity in Sydney that
made me risk a show here. But I sup-
pose you soon get sick of them.
“The trouble is they were made in too
much a hurry, particularly Wildlife. It
was originally planned for Mrs Everage.
She first appeared at the Union Theatre
in 1955 in a sketch Ray Lawler and
I wrote. It was really impossible to put
her on a record then: she was too music-
hall-ish. But we went ahead, and then
we had to think of something for the
other side. We hit on Sandy Stone. I’d
thought vaguely about him before—a
digger from the first war, stocky, light-
voiced, rather pedantic in speech, water-
ing the garden in khaki shorts with
ginger hair above the knees. But I had
never acted him. So he was invented as
a character for a record, unlike Mrs
Everage, and comes over better on the
record.”
At this point Barry Humphries stopped
talking and began to examine a broken
1900-type wooden chair in a corner.
“What a wonderful pattern in that seat,”
he exclaimed. We looked and nodded
blankly, and after fingering the pattern
he reluctantly returned to his self-portrait.
Anyhow, we suggested, the criticism
seems unfair in another way: in the last
three years he had invented entirely new
characters and Mrs. Everage and Sandy
Stone had deepened and rounded.
“Not so much Sandy” he went on.
“But certainly Mrs. Everage has. Of
course to me she’s just as real as she
is to the audience. I don’t know what
she’s going to do next. But three or four
years ago she was a more straightfor-
ward knockabout farcical character with
only about two facial expressions. Just
a joke. Now she’s more real. She’s
got more hats, she wears butterfly glasses,
and she’s more . . .”
Frightening, we offered.
“Perhaps. I suppose she is beginning
to have something in common with the
mad Minister for Australianism, the
Aus-Image man in the current show.
He was partly inspired by those old
German films like Caligari which had a
big influence on me.” He added some
sharp strokes to his self-portrait.
Will he go on indefinitely with these
characters, or slowly drop them?
“I don’t know. Some people say I
should start ‘sending up’ those sophistic-
ated people in the dry sherry belt who
laugh at Mrs Everage and Sandy Stone.
But for one thing I don’t like sending
up anyone. I like period pieces.”
over to the broken chair again
"" he picked it up and asked “Do
you think Henry Lawson sat on that?”
We assured him it was most unlikely.
“Hmm. And for another thing I’m
more concerned in my satire with the
men and women of the 1930’s rather
than contemporary types. Stan Cross
could draw Sandy and Edna Everage
wonderfully. I wish he would. Someone
said my characters represent the last
writings of White Anglo-Saxon Protest-
ant civilisation in Australia. Well, I prefer
to call it the Hoyts-Cashmere-Bouquet
thing. That’s why I love the Macquarie
Auditorium to play in.”
And what of the immediate future?
“That depends on Peter O’Shaughnessy.
If he arranges to put on The Bunyip as
a Christmas pantomime in London, I’ll
go back for that.
“But if that falls through I don’t know.
The way restaurants with entertainment
are flourishing now certainly tempts me
to think about starting a small place
serving only beer or claret and putting
on acts there. I don’t know.”
A nd how does Austi.dian theatre strike
you after three years away? “It hasn’t
changed much. The same things are
wrong with it. Managements are still
too unenterprising and still don’t want
plays or sketches that deal with Aus-
tralia as it really is. They still like im-
ported plays. Otherwise it’s in the hands
of radio actors and little theatres. Radio
actors simply aren’t expected to observe
life—the way Zoe Caldwell does. They
are trained in stereotypes and cliches.
So you get all those radio-trained actors
in London who are given Australian parts
in radio serials because they are Aus-
tralians, and they simply cannot do an
Australian voice.
“The little theatres aren’t much better,
even when they do Australian sketches.
No one seems to want to recruit any
of the wonderful talent shown in Uni-
versity reviews. And the little theatres
often have their own, in-group humor
which doesn’t appeal to the public gen-
erally. When they do aim at a wider
appeal they can only succeed by being
filthy.”
We asked who he meant.
“Oh it’s more than an actor’s life is
worth to be precise on that subject.
Let’s just talk about little theatres gen-
erally. Are you sure Henry Lawson didn’t
sit on that seat? He should have. Would
anyone miss it? Here you take my self-
portrait and I’ll take the chair. I shall
say Henry Lawson sat on it.”
And he disappeared down the passage
out into the street with the broken chair
that Henry Lawson didn’t sit on.


EARN THE RESPECT OF OTHERS!!
AND RECEIVE
More Recognition More
Happiness More Money
Astound your friends with your improved
Memory.
Impress your club with your Effective and
Public Speaking.
Handle people easily with the use of Human
Relations.
Make more friends and influence others with your
increased Confidence.
Please mark items of special interest.
Please send me Free literature explaining
now I can do these things.
VIR.
ADDRESS
STATE TEL.
Manhattan Australia Pty. Ltd.,
583 George Street. Sydney.
Tel. 61-7463.
London Newsletter
A FINGER ON THE
BRITISH PULSE
Problems of a national neurosis
From JOHN DOUGLAS PRINGLE
Ihave spent the last four weeks on
holiday in a small village in
Oxfordshire. (Not, I hasten to add,
swimming or lying in the sun. This is
an English summer). It is at times like
these that better or more imaginative
journalists than I discov3r the Pulse of
England. All I can say is that anyone
who discovers the Pulse of England beat-
ing in our village deserves to work for
the “Daily Express”. Our village is
interested in the harvest (late), the
the weather (bad), the river ferry
(sunk), the weekly Bingo session in the
village hall and a delightful scandal
about a local farmer who was fined for
watering the milk. All good, strong local
interest stuff but not quite page one.
While I was lazing in the rain, how-
ever, other journalists were working. The
Midlands Correspondent of “The Times”
don’t ask me why the Midlands Cor-
respondent but it gave it a nice, down-
to-earth touch of authenticity found
the Pulse of England and kept his finger
on it for ten consecutive articles. Since
I don’t read newspapers on holidays I
first heard of these when they were
quoted by the suffragan bishop of Oxford
in a sermon to some benighted villagers
in a neighbouring parish. When bishops
start quoting newspaper articles, then the
least a journalist can do is to read them;
so as soon as I returned to London I
looked them up.
On the whole they were good, strong
stuff a little middle-aged and middle-
classish, as you might expect, but full of
solid reporting and shrewd comment.
After weeks of hard work talking to
people throughout the country, the Mid-
lands Correspondent of “The Times” had
reached the conclusion that the people
of England were fed up with the Gov-
ernment because it had done nothing to
satisfy their innate feeling of patriotism:
“The Englishman and especially
those over 35 badly want to be a
member of a great nation again. So
many of them talk wistfully of ‘the Dun-
kirk spirit’ or say: ‘We would be willing
to make sacrifices’. Individual issues are
usually less important to the older voter
than his view of the way the nation is
progressing. The current view of the
status of Britain is low. Well over half
the people I interviewed answered ‘Yes’
to the question: ‘Do you think the
country is going down hill?’ They so
often expect to be beaten on price and
efficiency by German manufacturers;
they expect our sportsmen to lose; they
doubt whether we shall be able to com-
pete in the Common Market.
Rulers of an Empire
“/Conservative publicists seem to think
of patriotism as something to do with
posters bearing Union lacks or pictures
of Mr Macmillan speaking for Britain.
That sort of thing is dying. But the man
who scoffs at his national flag almost
surely believes in his heart that Britain
ought to be a great nation. What he
means by this is not that Britain should
be politically powerful or even neces-
sarily that she should be politically in-
dependent. The idea that Britain should
set an example to the world is, after all,
implicit even in much unilateral thinking.
What people mean, I think, is that we
should do admirable things and that we
should do them better than anyone else”.
This is well said and undoubtedly
somewhere near the truth. But before
the British can do “admirable things”
again, they will first have to discover who
they are and what they are meant to be
doing. Up to the last war they knew.
They were rulers of a great empire. They
were the privileged members of an island
race. They were British and be damned
to the rest of the world. Perhaps Austra-
lians can still feel like that but we can’t,
and it is just that difficulty which is at
present so agonising.
The breakdown of the Common
Market negotiations in Brussels has in-
creased this national neurosis. Politicians
and economists can argue that there is
no hurry and that it would not really
matter if the negotiations go on for
years. But the ordinary man badly wants
to have the thing decided quickly. Are
we going ‘"into Europe” or aren’t we?
Are we pro-Europe or pro-Common-
wealth? Or shall we just be Scots
Nationalists and Little Englanders?
Confusion is made worse because
reason and emotion so often seem to
conflict. On the whole, reason tells the
British that their future interests must
lie with Europe and that they dare not
let a United Europe grow up in which
they have no part. But emotionally they
still belong to the Commonwealth. It is
useless to pretend that the ordinary
Englishman whether middle class or
working class feels closer to the
Italians than to the Australians, for it
simply isn’t true.
Again it is probably true (as the
Midland Correspondent of “The Times*’


said) th&t most people would like Britain
to be more independent of the United
States. But reason tells them that they
are militarily dependent on the United
States, that so far as nuclear weapons
go this dependence is likely to increase
still more, and that this, on the whole, is
a very sensible arrangement. (Very few
Englishmen would rather be dependent
on Germany.)
It’s not much comfort to tell the
British, what is probably true, that their
predicament will soon be universal, that
no nation can hope to be really indepen-
dent in future and that the day of sover-
eign States is nearly over. The British
recognise these things as clearly as any-
one—indeed more clearly than most. But
human nature craves simple loyalties
and, still more, simple enemies. A man
wants to know who he is for and who
he is against. Most of us are simply not
sophisticated enough to live in a world
where it is essential to be for everyone
and far too dangerous to hate anyone.
The British, who are deeply tribal at
heart, are badly bushed.
The Old Grouse Shooter
result of this is that, for the first
time for over 100 years, Britain has
suddenly become politically unstable. No
one has the least idea how the voters will
jump at the next election. Thoroughly
disenchanted with both the Conservative
and Labor Parties they may all vote
Liberal or just as easily return the
Tory Government for a fifth term of
office. It is a good moment for mischief
makers, like the Communists and
Fascists; it is also a good moment for
leadership, if there were any leaders in
sight. It might even give Mr Menzies his
opportunity if he were to chance his arm
by leading an anti-Common Market
movement at the Commonwealth Prime
Ministers Conference.
In a vast sea of uncertainty one thing
seems certain. Leadership will no longer
come from Mr Macmillan. By a last act
of frenzied energy the Prime Minister
has promoted a group of exceptionally
young and able men who could obviously
manage very well some would say
better without him. The night I
returned from the country the television
news showed pictures of Nikolayev and
Popovich whirling through space and
then, immediately afterwards, a picture
of Mr Macmillan grouse shooting with
the Duke of Devonshire on the Yorkshire
Moors. Tweed-capped, gaitered, carry-
ing a shotgun, he looked old, tired and
infinitely out-of-date. It was unfair; but
millions of watchers must have felt as I
did that another reign was coming to an
end, another era drawing to a close.
BUYING
A
WINE?
A new ,
occasional
column
There is a tremendous burgeoning in-
terest in wines, especially dry table
wines. Our trade commercial lines,
good as they are, sometimes fail to hold
this interest and consequently many
people look for something different and
perhaps a little better.
Daily I am asked for “something
special”; for a prize-winning wine or
esoteric item of which “Maurice let me
have a few”. Unfortunately, other than
in private cellars, many great wines of
the past, even of the 50s, are no longer
available, and it is useless to pine for
them.
In my position, I am fortunate to be
able to taste many wines, and this
column is designed to help those people
who are looking for the best of currently
available “specials”.
PENFOLDS have entered the jousting
lists of open competition this year, and
one of their initial successes is the 177
Traminer Riesling. This is a blend of
Traminer from the Minchinbury Vine-
yards near Penrith, NSW, and Riesling
from Modbury, SA, roughly 4 parts to 5.
It has won already two Silvers in its first
two shows, and 1 think it is likely to
go on to a Gold. It will improve over
the next year or so but then will flatten
out I think.
LINDEMANS have won many prizes
with their dry whites; in fact, nearly
every one of their new whites seems to
be a potential winner, ready to take on
the mantle of greatness. The 1575 is
finished, and we have 1760 Riesling to
take its place. Vintage 1961, made by
Carl Stockhauser at Ben Ean, this wine
won a Gold—Open Company, at the
RAS, Sydney, this year when only about
15 months old. This wine has a good
color and beautiful balance, delicate
and delightful—a little acid at the finish
and also a little gas or spritzig on the
tongue. Very drinkable now, perhaps it
could do with a little more bottle age—
but not very much.
THOMAS HARDY planted his first
vines on the banks of the Torrens in
1853, and his grandson, Ken, and great-
grandsons Tom, Jim, David and Bob
carry on the tradition. They make some
fine wines, especially reds. There have
been lately two burgundies ot great merit.
One, the 1954, 81 1, is no longer available
from the makers but you may still find
some around. 1 loved this wine, a great
Falstaffian fellow with a huge nose, high
color and full body. Terrific flavor, yet
finished very clean. The next vintage
1955 produced the 894, which is now
winning ail sorts of Awards. This is a
lighter wine, more delicate and smooth
than the 811, but with the same out-
standing flavor Both wines will hold
up for years.
Colin Preece has run Great Western
Vineyards lor years for the SEPPELT
family and of course has a great reputa-
tion for sparkling wines. However, some
of his dry reds and whites are outstanding.
They are noted for longevity. I have a
1950 Hock which is still fresh and even
has a little gas—so these are ideal for
laying down. Such a wine is the recently
released 1958, 068-69 Burgundy It’s good
to drink now, being full of flavor with a
good tannin grip at the end, but will
develop I think into a great burgundy
on the old style. Made from Hermitage
grapes grown in the Imperial Vineyard.
Finally, a word about blending. Many
purists decry wines from different areas
being mixed together—they maintain
that somehow this is not a “true” wine.
A pointless argument, since surely what
counts is what you have in your glass at
the particular moment, how you’re en-
joying it with your food, and how it
appeals to you with its different flavors
and characteristics—regardless of who
made it or whence it came. That, after
all, is about all there is to it.
CELLARMASTER


A Special Invitation to Leaders in
Commerce, Industry and Agriculture
\
To you we extend a special invitation to drive a new Dodge Phoenix. . . . Not merely to drive it
around the block—but a thorough test, starting at a time nominated by you and ending only when
you have had ample time to compare Dodge Phoenix with your own car on every point you
consider important.
It is only by driving this car for yourself that you find that its specifications suddenly come alive
to give you brilliant performance, crisp handling, incredibly smooth riding . . . and all the time you
are surrounded by “Luxury Unlimited.”
Please call your nearest dealer and accept our invitation. At a convenient time a new Dodge
Phoenix will arrive at your home or office. We think your ride will be revealing and exciting.
Luxury unlimited—in perfect taste.
£2,595 TAX INCLUDED. Q
DODGE PHOENIX
by CHRYSLER
Genuine MoPar Parts and specialised service available nation wide.


OVERSEAS
WHAT WENT WRONG
AT BRUSSELS?
Did the French sabotage the British?
From NORA BELOFF in Brussels
It is widely, and 1 think wrongly, be-
lieved by many officials and most
journalists in Brussels that Britain’s
bid to get into the Common Market was
deliberately torpedoed by the French.
Serious observers would hardly echo
the more sensational headlines of Britain’s
popular Press: “De Gaulle: Butcher of
Brussels” one of them said. But the
notion that there was a well laid French
plot, secretly planned and ruthlessly
executed, to keep Britain out, is common
talk and so deleterious to Anglo-French
understanding that it is worth going over
what really happened.
It will be remembered that it was at
Britain's own request that the Community
had arranged a timetable, which it finally
failed to honor, for getting a general out-
line (vue de’ensemble) by the end of July
of the terms of Britain’s entry into the
Common Market. Hence the final frantic
rush, in which the Community members,
including the allegedly hostile French,
forced themselves to work 48 hours with
barely four hours sleep leading up to
the final disillusionment shortly after
dawn last Sunday.
Had the goal been reached, the “Euro-
peans” in the British Conservative Party,
especially Prime Minister Harold Mac-
millan, would have made Britain’s entry
into EEC the central issue at the next
election. The outline would have allowed
the basic political decision to have been
taken this summer after the Common-
wealth Prime Ministers’ meeting in Sep-
tember and announced at a special session
of Parliament called towards the end of
that month.
There might have been Commonwealth
criticism, but like the outcry when Britain
announced its agreement with the Com-
munity on eliminating preferences on
Commonwealth manufactures last June,
it was assumed that an agreement once
reached would finally have been accepted.
The deal on agricultural goods however
cannot be presented as a fait accompli: it
is no more than a working document
which will probably be torn apart by the
Commonwealth Prime Ministers.
Under the now disrupted scheme the
Conservative Party would have let off its
big guns for Europe at the annual party
conference in October, and although
detailed negotiations would still have
taken many more months. Britain would
have been over the political hurdle by
the next election.
After what has happened here now, it
looks as if the final decision on Europe
will have to be taken by Mr Macmillan’s
successor, and the momentum for bring-
ing Britain into Europe risks being deci-
sively and indefinitely interrupted.
This, then, was the issue, as the Seven
reached the most crucial of all the topics:
how to accommodate Britain’s entry into
the Common Market with the safeguards
promised to the farming interests of the
“old Dominions” Canada, Australia,
New Zealand.
By the last week in July, the Six had
finally persuaded the British to withdraw
their own plan and adopt as the basis for
negotiations a series of proposals drafted
by the Brussels Commission, much
amended to meet national, including
British, objection and ending up as a
linguistic and stylistic horror.
The British found two unacceptable
features: first, the proposals did not rule
out the risk that food prices would rise
so high inside the Community that
farmers would produce enough to feed
everybody and eliminate Commonwealth
imports altogether. Secondly, though the
British had finally abandoned the plan
that the Community should give the Com-
monwealth guarantees they would buy
given amounts of food each year, they
still wanted assurances that if the Com-
munity agricultural system did damage
the Commonwealth trade, remedial action
would be automatic.
No agreement was in sight as the
Ministers broke up the weekend before
last, leaving those who wanted to bring
Britain in desperately afraid of missing
a last opportunity.
After months of negotiations, the
French attitude was well known:
they had declared themselves guardians
of the Rome Treaty, and had repeatedly
shown they did not share Britain’s hurry
to meet the political deadline. Britain
would come in on their terms —or not
at all.
Diplomatically they were in a strong
position. Dr Adenauer had shown his
hand during his visit to General de
Gaulle and desperately sought the laying
of foundations of European political
union in the few months left to him
before he is forced to retire.
Then there are the Dutch, Britain’s
best friends in the Community, not only
because they share the interests of a
primarily trading economy but also be-


cause they feel ideologically more in
sympathy with the more Protestant and
liberal north. Yet the Dutch have their
own reasons for being nice to the French.
Mr Joseph Luns, the Dutch Foreign
Secretary, is still trying to save New
Guinea and cannot easily forget that
when the Americans refused landing
rights to KLM planes flying reinforce-
ments, the French put one of their own
Pacific island air strips at Dutch disposal.
The General’s Anglophobia
Finally, the British themselves are in
* the humiliating position of peti-
tioners, and Mr Macmillan after his last
visit to Paris left President de Gaulle
with the clear impression that he was
desperately eager to get into Europe
regardless of what the Commonwealth
might say, and would come in on any
terms.
All this must have seemed deliciously
soothing to the General, whose anglo-
phobia perhaps dates back from Action
Frmcaise friends of his youth but was
certainly indelibly stamped on his heart
by the humiliations and slights of his
wartime experiences in London. Those
who are in a position to know say, how-
ever, that he has never given instruc-
tions to his delegation to prevent Britain’s
entry —only to stand firm and exact the
best price.
From the national French viewpoint
there is in fact a case for delaying
Britain’s entry until the French establish
firmer control over European institutions
and policies still in the process of crea-
tion.
The French delegation in Brussels, in
dialectical and tactical skills infinitely
the most skilful in the Community, is,
of course, given wide latitude. De Gaulle
can hardly be expected to interest him-
self in the menial details of tariffs and
quotas. As a group they represent two
separate and often divergent elements
in French officialdom, though on this
issue of resisting concessions to Britain
they have been magnificently integrated.
On the one side, led by the Foreign
Minister, M. Couve de Murville, an old-
time Gaullist, they are cynical about
supranational institutions and are prin-
cipally preoccupied with preserving and
extending French influence and prestige.
Their contempt for the non-French is
sometimes disconcertingly apparent in
the conference rooms. If a European col-
league fails to speak French, I am told,
they tend to take off their earphones,
open their newspapers, and ignore him.
Then there are the “Europeans” led
by the head of the permanent delegation,
Bernard Clappier. He is very much part
of the “Monnet stable,” as are his com-
patriots Robert Marjolin and Deniaux,
who have been managing the negotiations
with Britain on behalf of the Commis-
sion itself.
The Commission has its own reserva-
tions about bringing Britain in: the
Community, especially its embryonic
agricultural branch, is hard enough to
hold together and operate as a single
unit without bringing complicated new-
comers in.
With this background, we can go back
to the weekend before last, when repre-
sentatives of Benelux, Germany and Italy,
all keen to bring Britain in before it
was too late, all suspicious of French in-
tentions, began what I believe to have
been the only real—but quite unsuccess-
ful—plot in the frantic and confusing
series of events which led to last Sunday’s
ultimate fiasco.
They knew that if the deadlock on tem-
perate foodstuffs persisted, Britain would
not have the outline needed to present
to the Commonwealth Prime Ministers’
conference.
Inspired by M. Spaak, the Belgian
Foreign Minister, though operating at a
much more junior—and technically profi-
cient level, their representatives got
together to work out twelve amendments
to the Community’s proposals designed
to make Britain’s entry easier. By Wed-
nesday morning, when the Six were due
to meet, the document was ready but
was presented to the French —and repor-
ted to credulous newsmen —as a purely
Belgian document. The French discovered
what had happened and one by one
analysed and inexorably rejected each
amendment. Nothing could be presented
to Britain unless there was unanimous
agreement.
News of the proceedings reached M.
Spaak towards the end of the meeting
and he flung himself into the conference
room in a fury and told them their
proceedings were “infantile”. Misguidedly
he told the French that they should not
allow the whole destiny of Europe to be
compromised by an argument about
food prices. M. Olivier Wormser, for
France, was quick to remind him that
it is the Germans, not the French, who
favor high food prices. “M. le Ministre,”
he said, “surely you should be addressing
your remarks not to me but to my Ger-
man colleague.”
Franco-German differences
/An the price issue the French are, of
" course, much nearer the British than
the Germans. They want low prices to
capture German markets, and the British
want low prices to ensure Commonwealth
access to European markets. A similar
Franco-German tiff broke out nearer
zero hour when M. Couve de Murville,
harassed by German insistence on
Britain’s entry, suggested that it they
really wanted Britain in, the best way of
solving the deadlock would be to adopt
the French plan for keeping Community
prices at the lowest level practiced by
any country inside the Community.
The German delegate, Rolf Lahr,
protested that he could not change Ger-
man farm policy overnight, to which M.
Couve de Murville calmly replied, “Then
why not suspend proceedings for a few
months and see?”
The story that the French Foreign
Minister had proposed breaking off nego-
tiations spread like wildfire among the
already highly anti-French Press.
There had been a British Cabinet
meeting in between, and his colleagues
noted indications of a slightly more
flexible position suggesting the Minister
had been given wider scope for bargain-
ing. After the speech, Professor Hall-
stein, of West Germany, suggested that
it might be more businesslike if, instead
of exchanging generalities, the British
would table specific amendments.
Warning from the Dutch
11/fR Heath was taken by surprise. The
British then retired for three-quart-
ers of an hour. Finally they agreed to
prepare a paper despite the diplomatic
embarrassment of having to show it to
the Commonwealth countries and having
any subsequent concessions chalked up
against them.
Within 24 hours the nimble-witted Sir
Eric Coll, key official in the British del-
ation, and his colleagues had gone
through the proposals with a toothcomb,
exposing verbal nonsense as well as in-
serting several passages which would
have compelled the Community to pay
far more regard than they intended to
Commonwealth trade. Twenty-four
amendments were tabled —twice the num-
ber Britain’s friends had dared submit
—with apparent unawareness that what
they were asking for was perhaps technic-
ally sound but politically extravagant.
Britain’s principal friends, the Dutch,
were shown a copy in advance: they
warned this would never do, but it was
too late. The amendments were “in the
works” —being roneoed for conference
distribution.
From Friday afternoon until 3 a.m.
Saturday the Six examined the British
draft, conceding a quarter of them,
mainly verbal corrections, but either
rejecting or re-writing the rest. The first
impact of the draft was to reunite the
Six. None of them was ready to subor-
dinate the Community’s agricultural
policies to outside Commonwealth in-
terests.
All were worried by British proposals
that they should take remedial action if
Commonwealth trade were adversely af-


fected by their policies. Finally, they all
noticed that, although Britain accepted
that ultimately the best alternative to
Commonwealh preferences would be
world-wide commodity agreements, there
were unnecessarily, frequent references
to the alternative: limited regional agree-
ments if the world-wide ones failed to
materialise.
This seemed suspiciously as if Britain
was only paying lip service to the idea
of world-wide agreements while secretly
hankering for special preferential arrange-
ments between the Community and the
Commonwealth. This is as much ana-
thema to Brussels as it is to Washington.
But the Six exploded as soon as they
began working on the specific issues:
Dr Sicco Mansholt for the Commission
started by denouncing the British pro-
posals as being totally incompatible with
the independent functions of the Com-
munity’s own agricultural policies. After
that the French left the running to the
Commission: each time M. Couve de
Murville was asked for his views he
asked to hear what the Commission felt.
Dr Manshold would then show why the
amendment was unacceptable and the
French Foreigr Minister would nod his
approval.
From France a major concession
IV/lore and more, France’s associates
pleaded against a wholly negative
answer. Finally, they gained from the
French to their own astonishment
one major concession. It was unani-
mously agreed that the Community
should agree to fix its prices so as to
provide “reasonable opportunity” for
exporters.
The French shared the view of many
of their colleagues that this might break
the deadlock. Early on Saturday after-
noon I asked a French delegate whether
there could be agreement: he told me of
of the agreed amendment and said “The
document will still be a bitter pill, but I
think they will swallow it.”
Another important concession, showing
that the French did not simply want to
prevent agreement, came during the final
night when the Six and Britain were
making their last desperate effort to reach
agreement. During the previous night,
the Belgians had suggested the Commu-
nity should offer a special protocol
promising that the Community would
take special measures to prevent the
disruption of New Zealand’s economy
which was threatened if its butter trade
with Britain should be interrupted. On
all previous issues the French had always
found one partner, at least, sometimes a
fellow member of the Community, some-
times the Commission itself, to support
their opposition to concessions: on the
New Zealand issue the French were
alone.
Twenty-four hours later, M. Spaak
came back to the subject and was fold
by M. Couve de Murville that the New
Zealand farmers were much better off
than many French ones and should not
be given special preference. M. Spaak
protested that if no adjustment were made
in favor of the Commonwealth Britain
would not come in and the “organic
growth” of Europe was impossible. The
French Minister tried unsuccessfully to
appeal for sympathy to the Dutch with
their own farming problem before finally
giving in. One of the crumbs at the
coming Commonwealth Prime Ministers’
conference will be this assurance that
New Zealand has not been forgotten.
None the less, the final meeting of
the Seven, which started at 3 p.m. Satur-
day and ended at 7 a.m. on Sunday (with
several interruptions while the Six
wrangled between themselves) still failed
to bring the two sides together. Despite
the major Community concession on price
policies, the British stuck to their view
that the Community could not be trusted
without more specific pledges.
In the general uncertainty when so
much depended on what France would
do, the French finally overplayed their
hand, leaving resentment and frustration
among fellow-members of the Commu-
nity which will not be quickly forgotten
or forgiven.
Ever since last January, when the
Community adopted a common agricul-
tural policy, the French have complained
of insufficient assurances that signatories
will implement the promise of paying
all the money raised by their exchequers
by the common community levy on grains
into the common community fund. The
fund is intended to support domestic food
prices to subsidise exports and to help
modernise backward farms.
The French announced they would not
endorse any agreement on temperate
foodstuffs —needed to clear the way to
Britain’s entry until all France’s partners,
including Britain, agree to spell out this
obligation more clearly. After acrimo-
nious argument between the Six, who
feel they are being asked to support
French farmers, they agreed to ask
Robert Marjolin of the Commission to
try and draft an “interpretive clause”
defining the agreement. The document
was endorsed hurriedly by the Six during
Saturday night and laid before the irate
British delegation at 3.10 Sunday
morning.
Acidity from Mr Heath
T'here was a good deal of sympathy
when Mr Heath acidly pointed out
that he could hardly sign a highly techni-
cal paper of major importance in the
middle of the night without time to con-
sult his legal advisers. The French retort
was sharp and final: no agreement on the
temperate agricultural foodstuffs without
surrender on the financial regulations.
There would have been no agreement
anyway. The British were still holding
out at breakfast time on Sunday for more
special pledges on prices and M. Spaak
came out of the conference room robbed
of his usual buoyancy to announce:
“The Six stand together: Britain was
unable to accept our proposals.”
In Britain and France there will be
many people rejocing that their respec-
tive representatives have refused to cede
the final inch. But Europe—to which
both are condemned to belong—is the
poorer for their failure to agree.
MITUNG LONG SOUTH PACIFIC
5th South Pacific Conference
From a correspondent in PAGO PAGO
Pago Pago is a hell of a place to hold
a convention. In American Samoa it
rains by the bucketfull through the
“dry” season, the humidity is well up to
Djakarta standards and Pago Pago 1962
is a crummy little town not much better
than the place Somerset Maughan des-
cribed years ago in “Rain”.
All the same, the Fifth South Pacific
Conference was held there throughout
the latter part of July, in the town’s one
and only glory: an expensive auditorium
designed by a Honolulu architect. This
$275,000 job is a free interpretation of
the traditional Samoan fale (the thatch-
roofed wall-less hut) done in concrete,
steel and cedar. The locals have christ-
ened it “The Mother Turtle and Its Baby”,
for that in fact is what it resembles. The
baby is the toilet block at the rear of
the main meeting hall . . . certainly the
most elaborate and expensive toilet block
in the South Seas.
The hundred-odd people who used
facilities during the South Pacific Con-
ference included about 65 delegates from
16 territories, the Kingdom of Tonga
and by courtesy invitation the newly-
independent Western Samoa. The rest
were government representatives, un-
official observers like missionaries and
so forth and, of course, staff of the South


pacific Commission which organized the
conference.
For 10 days they waded through an
agenda which included discussions on
women’s rights, education and economics
—topics chosen three years ago at
Rabaul, during the Fourth Conference.
Individual items were quite unexception-
able: no colonial government, whatever
its policy, could object to anyone’s dis-
cussing methods of training Pacific
Islanders in modern business practices.
Similarly, there was no harm in devoting
a session to agricultural production. In
fact, our own Papua-New Guinea dele-
gation presented a gracefully-titled paper
called “The need for, and methods of,
gaining interest in and support for steps
to improve the quality of agricultural
produce, including standardisation and
inspection schemes, and programmes to
increase marketing efficiency.” The man
who dreamed-up that title is destined to
rise to heights in somebody’s public
service.
Unfortunately, however, such stimulat-
ing material did not call forth a high
standard of debate. Not only was there
little to debate in any real sense, but
the debaters were of very uneven
quality indeed. There was a goodly
sprinkling of sophisticates and even
university graduates, but many of the
delegates were inexperienced in confer-
ence work, uncertain of themselves and
not very fluent in English Where these
people might have functioned with
reasonable efficiency within the intimate
atmosphere of small study groups, the
conference was divided into two huge
and unwieldy formal committees, and
things hastened slowly.
Of course, South Pacific Conferences
are not primarily held for the sake of
vigorous debate, but for the exchange of
views and information. But it is a hell
of a long way to bring a hundred people,
if they are going to exchange views on
subjects about which many of them know
little, especially when the information
could be more quickly and efficiently dis-
seminated through an agency specifically
designed for this purpose, namely the
South Pacific Commission.
What is needed, of course, is a realistic
agenda. If you are going to bring a
hundred people together and maroon
them in a place like Pago Pago, you
might as well let them talk about
problems of urgent and immediate in-
terest, not about matters which the ter-
ritorial governments should be implemen-
ting as a matter of course.
“Time is getting too short for all this
conference talk,” sighed a delegate from
Netherlands New Guinea after one ses-
sion that could only be described as a
drag. “They should just send us a man
to tell us what to do about this and we
wii! do it. If we are going to talk about
something, let us talk about things that
will affect our political future,”
He had quite a point, but this is the
one thing a South Pacific Conference
cannot do, because its parent body, the
South Pacific Commission, has no brief
for anything of the kind.
The Commission is an excellent little
organization, so far as it goes, struggling
to do its work on an absurd budget of
less than £250,000 a year, contributed
by the six colonial governments of the
South Pacific area. Leaving aside the
absurdity of Australia, Britain, France,
the Netherlands, New Zealand and the
United States being unable to find more
than £250,000 a year between them,
there is still room for a lot of useful
work. The Commission is an advisory,
training aod research body, operating in
the fields of social development, econo-
mics and health. Apart from bringing
Islanders to the South Pacific Confer-
ences every few years, its work includes
organizing numerous small technical
conferences, training courses in boat-
building and deep-sea fishing, scientific
research into filariasis and the Rhinocer-
ous Beetle which destroys coconut palms,
and a dozen other worthy projects.
Its grave weaknesses lie within the
charter it has been given. Its role has
always been ambiguous, its task has
always been uncertain. There has always
been a problem in tendering advice to
six different governments with six dif-
ferent policies towards the development
of native peoples. (And Australia has
been as obstructive as anyone, on occa-
sion, remembering the time it vetoed a
suggestion, approved by the other five
members, for a specialised survey on
technical education.) Finally, there has
always been the danger of duplicating
the work of those vast bureaucratic
empires, the United Nations agencies.
But at any rate, it’s a safe bet that
these busy gentlemen have at least dis-
cussed the possibility of changes in the
form of any future South Pacific Con-
ferences that might take place. As a
start, three years between meetings is
far too long, especially if the Fifth Con-
ference is to choose the topics for dis-
cussion in the Sixth. The meetings will
need to have far more bite to them if
the increasingly more sophisticated dele-
gates are to take anything of value home.
And the Conference should carry a much
heavier weight of authority in its resolu-
tions, so that they are not just timid
suggestions but statements of what will
be done. One suggestion seems to be that
the South Pacific Conference should
amalgamate with another auxiliary body
of the South Pacific Commission, namely
the annual Research Council meeting, at
which research projects for the future
are laid down.
As for the proposed changes in the
South Pacific Commission, the member
governments would do well to recall a
suggestion ruled out of order at the
Fourth Conference in Rabaul: that the
South Pacific Commission add a Political
Development Department to its existing
establishment.
What the future charter of the Com-
mission will be, only heaven knows. Some
see it as a vast technical assistance
bureau, with a much wider range of ex-
perts, drawn from the colonial services of
the individual member governments, and
placed at the service of all. Certainly,
there is room for expansion; and if any
existing organization is fitted for work in
the area, it is the Commission. It has the
specialist knowledge, and its operating
costs and efficiency compare favourably
with better-endowed organisations. Some-
one who should know says that the Com-
mission’s technical experts can be pro-
vided at $6OOO a year less than those
of comparable UN agencies, due to
smaller overhead, fewer admin, wallahs
and so on.
But it is hard to see the Commission
ever gaining a measure of executive
authority—the French and Mr Hasluck
being what they are, to mention only
two hurdles. Yet, if the Conference could
assume some authority, if Islanders went
on to the staff of the Commission and
if the Commission itself were given some
real money to play with, something could
be achieved.
As for the Sixth Conference, if it ever
takes place . . . with the proposed agenda
it would be a waste of time. Things are
moving too fast, even in the Pacific, for
people who should be dealing with their
political future to worry about items like:
“Why, and how, to preserve the national
heritage of fauna, flora, natural beauty,
and places and objects of historical and
archaeological importance." As the man
said, time is running short, and they
should send an expert to tell them about
this one, while people get on with the
really vital problems.
At the close of the Fifth Conference,
the Netherlands New Guinea delegation
repeated an offer it had made at the
Fourth: that the next Conference be
held at Hollandia. But that offer, of
course, was made before they had heard
The News . ..


MOTORING
THE MEDIUM-PRICED
SIX-CYLINDER CARS
Surprises for discriminating buyers
By BOADICEA
Sydney’s Spring Motor Show is upon
us and its interest for most lies in
what is offering in the medium-
priced six-cylinder range for years domin-
ated by Holden.
The entry by BMC into this group
has been expected for some time and a
suitable car has a ready-made market
amongst keen English-type car buyers.
These motorists have for years longed
to drive a six-cylinder car which would
show the way to the plebeian Holden.
They have long admired in secret the
smooth power of the Holden’s 2-litre
six-cylinder engine, the way hills were
climbed in top gear and the economy of
operation and maintenance. Their defence
of their own four cylinder cars, good
worthy family saloons that they were,
has been almost fanatical. They cited
(he superior road holding of the English
type saloons, the joys of the four speed
box —“nothing like banging it down into
third on hills you know”; —“those top
gear drivers miss half the fun in motor-
ing”. And if they drove carefully their
“m.p.g. figures” could better the Holdens,
Even if the coachwork of English cars,
unsuited to our climate, creaked, leaked
and sucked in dust it was nonetheless
a “quality job”. None of that “pressed
tin ’ Holden stuff. The veneer finish to
the instrument panel and door caps were
signs of the class car—the fact that it
brazed and cracked in our strong sun was
overlooked. Exaggerated? Not really,
there are thousands of these motorists
in Australia and they are the ones BMC
must throw their net over in pursuit of
a larger slice of the market. They don’t
know the sort of buyers who recognise the
faults of the typical English car and
want a good performer. The sort of
buyer who will willingly sacrifice that
beloved third gear for a “top gear” car
provided it will shade the Holden.
Entry of the Falcon
Many of these buyers deserted the
English car group for Falcons eighteen
months ago, which offered a chance to
outrun the dreaded Holden but early
Falcon buyers found the Ford product
was lacking in general robustness and
that a six-cylinder motor and good looks
weren’t the complete answer to their
motoring problems.
Not all were satisfied with BMC’s long
promised “SIX.” When it was released
it proved something of an anti-climax,
but the faithful bought it. At £ll3O
the Austin Freeway was well priced for
it was fully equipped with heating and
demisting, screen washing, and cigarette
lighting equipment. The six-cylinder
engine, after some initial rear main
bearing troubles which ultimately caused
clutch slip, is living up to expectations
and gives the Freeway a good top gear
performance.
The Wolseley Surprises
But to BMC’s surprise, the new Wol-
seley, released with the Freeway, has
proved more popular. For only" £95
more, the buyer gets the respected name
of Wolseley, classy veneer dash, carpets
and much better seating. Unfortunately,
the Wolseley’s production is far smaller
than the Freeway and delay in delivery
often forces a buyer elsewhere.
It is hard to forecast the public’s
reaction but it is generally considered
BMC would have been better advised to
unleash the Wolseley first and in greater
volume, then wait till their new Freeway
body, scheduled for early ’63, was ready.
The present Freeway is too reminiscent
of the A6O. A good machine in its
day, had it then had a six-cylinder engine,
would have been better timed for the
market than it is today. A basic model
Freeway with the new body styling will
need to be competitively priced to face up
to the basic model EJ Holden at £lO5l.
BMC might well follow GMH’s success-
ful pattern and offer accessories as extras
to keep the advertised price as low as
possible. Then the Wolseley can be
even more lavish and vie with the EJ
“Premier” for £1419. BMC and Ford
may both have played into GMH’s hands
by releases that have been good but not
quite good enough. Despite stories in the
daily Press that GMH were panicked into
releasing the EJ before they were fully
ready, the boot appears to be on the
other foot. BMC were keen to get some
of the dying “EK” Holden market and
Ford, seeing BMC make headway and
knowing the "EJ” could regain Holdens
slipping percentage, bustled out busily
with a new line of Falcons which seem
rather poor opposition to the new GM
car.
The new Fords have many sensible
improvements which make the standard
Falcon at £1065 very attractive buying.
Had some of these modifications, parti-
cularly to suspension, transmission and
electrical components been carried out
sooner, Ford would be better placed
today. The Falcon—perhaps the best
looking of cars in this class—still appears
comparatively flimsy in bodywork. A
higher geared steering, as advocated
almost unanimously by road testers,
would almost certainly make the car
more accurate on the road.
Both BMC and Ford could learn from
GMH how to “finish” a car inside and
out. The new EJ Holdens for instance
are well-made and solid in feel. The
drop in Holden sales have worked
wonders for the EJ and the first batch
of cars to the public are of higher
quality than ever before. General criti-
cism of the Holden is most favorable;
the only complaints being from large
taxi drivers who say they are more
restricted behind the wheel than before
and that they dislike cleaning out the
floor wells! GMH offer five models
under £l2oo—three saloons (one of them
Hydramatic) and two station wagons,
the most expensive at £1199 being the
number one buy in this bracket.
Holden’s Handling Properties
It is generally expected that there will
be a larger engine available in 1963,
perhaps as an optional fitting like the
Falcon’s Pursuit engine. The present
Holden engine is more than adequate for
manual transmission cars and more than
enough for some drivers! Only the Hydra-
matic Holdens lack some punch and a
larger engine would solve this.
The EJ has better handling properties
and better braking capacity than its
rivals and would not be embarrassed by
additional power as has been the case
with more powerful versions of the same
basic model.
• Letter to BOADICEA and Reply
Page 30


FORUM
TRAPS FOR
AUSTRALIAN HISTORIANS
By M. H. ELLIS
IN the acquirement of basic historical knowledge there are technical
fundamentals which are just as important as they are in the Helds
of the exact sciences of medicine and chemistry. To become an
historian or a biographer, one must have the right specific tools, and
knowledge and skill with them, practised over a considerable period,
and thoroughly understand the techniques of research.
What is research? I can describe it in
four words the search for truth. And
on that basis the cynical also might be
inclined to define it as the quest for the
unattainable. But that does not matter.
As in all other phases of human effort
we must proceed to aim for ultimate
perfection, even if natural obstacles
prevent us from getting more than half
way.
There are two operations in research
—to find out the facts and to serve them
up in such form that those to whom they
are administered can see them in proper
proportion, in a just setting, in right per-
spective and in their natural colors, un-
enhanced, and, also, unbleached by too
much sunlight or obscured by too much
propaganda fog, or prejudice.
Therefore you must reconnoitre the
historical field as you would a battlefield,
you must know the people of the time,
how they lived, what was the general
modus vivendi.
Let us take some examples which,
apart from anything else, teach us the
need for the research worker to plough
his own furrow.
My first sample is this: In almost all
modern writing about Australia’s early
history it is accepted that because the
New South Wales Corps, which was
formed to guard the Botany Bay settle-
ment against convict insurrection and
native or foreign attack, was raised by
the method of paying bonuses per man
to the officers who enlisted recruits along
with the selling of commissions for high
prices, it was “no wonder that the men
composing the new Regiment were not
exactly of the same class as those of
the Guards or the Blues. They went out
to Botany Bay definitely to provide for,
if not to enrich themselves at the public’s
expense.”
The system by which the New South
Wales Corps was raised was not, in
fact, unique, not evidence that the
members of the Corps were riffraff, and,
as that kindly Christian the Reverend
Dunmore Lang put it, given to “sullying
their hands with the slime of colonial
pollution” For every British regiment
was officered and enlisted in exactly the
same way as the corps in the eighteenth
century and for seventy years afterwards
—as any historian with the most super-
ficial knowledge of military background
is aware.
That the soldiery came to Australia to
“provide for, if not to enrich them-
selves”, as Dr Mackaness suggests, was
nothing against them. All soldiers en-
listed in that age for just that purpose.
This is a condensed abridgment
of M. H. Ellis’s Tom Mutch Memo-
rial Lecture delivered before the
Australian Society of Genealogists
at the Public Library, Sydney, on
August 2.
Their pay and its ancillary benefits were
merely sustenance allowances. The word
“company” was just as much a commer-
cial word when applied in the Army, as
it is today in civil life. The officer invested
large capital in a commission as today
the average citizen would invest in oil;
but he hoped to drill Tippoo Sahib instead
of the Moonie Basin shales and to bring
home barrels of rubies, instead of barrels
of petroleum. Which he sometimes did;
Lord Cathcart’s prize-money from the
capture of Copenhagen was £120,000.
The soldier expected to benefit in a
lesser degree, but still to share in prize-
money.
And trading was not “out” for soldiers
and officers on foreign tours of duty,
though, as in modern professional life,
convention limited the avenues of busi-
ness in which an officer and a gentleman,
at any rate, might engage.
For instance, it was normal for the
regimental paymaster, who was business
manager of the regiment’s affairs, to
trade to a certain extent and to use the
regimental funds as his own. This prac-
tice, until early in the nineteenth century,
was observed right up through the line of
appointments to the Paymaster General-
ship of the British Army, a much sought
after office, since it placed at the per-
sonal disposal of the incumbent, at one
stage, a sum not far short of a million
pounds while he held office
The same standards as those which
have earned the New South Wales Corps
a bad name with modern historians were
normal throughout the British Army of
their day. In fact, examine the records
of some British regiments in India over
a similar period of years to that covered
by their tour of duty of the NS Wales
Corps in New South Wales and you find
that the men of the Corps were a rather
tame lot.
Next, it is necessary to see that you
understand the whole background before
you form judgment.
It is the unsatisfactory custom of most
of our historical writers to accept the
say-so of the first witness who comes
along whose knowledge has been be-
queathed to him in turn by a dynasty of
forerunners who, parrot-fashion, have
been handing down from generation to
generation some malicious piece of pro-
paganda by a convict or an enemy.
Thus it is accepted as axiomatic by
the Sydney University school of histori-
ans that the New South Wales Corps
held a monopoly of the spirits trade to
such an extent that it was christened
The Rum Corps in Governor Hunter’s
day (Evatt), whereas there is not a scin-
tilla of evidence that this is so. All the
evidence there is makes it clear that the
military “rum monopoly” did not exist,
and also that the great rum traders were
the civilians of the official type like
John Palmer the Commissary, the Camp-
bell firm of traders related to him by
marriage and, for a time, the vice-regal
staff at Government House. And when
you come to the modern charge, say,
that John Macarthur (almost a teetotal)
was the head and front of the monopoly,


you are nonplussed by the fact that, al-
legedly at the height of his power as
leader of the rum traders, he was com-
pelled to buy a gallon and a half of the
poisonous stuff from the regimental
canteen when he wished to give the men
of his company a tot each to drink his
health; and that this is his only specific
offence in relation to the spirit trade of
which authority in New South Wales
ever took official notice.
References to the character of the
New South Wales Corps are usually
limited to abuse by its enemies.
Take one of the more responsible
opinions of the Corps which forms the
basis for most accepted estimates of its
character.
Holocausts of Debauchery
T ong, long ago, somebody or other,
writing in a spirit of constructive
animosity, selected a condemnation by
Governor Hunter of the men of the New
South Wales Corps, uttered, in a
paroxysm of anger in 1796, as about
the worst that could be said about that
ill-fated regiment. He publicised it with
glee.
Parrot-historian after parrot-historian
has followed the lead of the pioneer in
this field of historical libel, each genera-
tion of imitators culling some new detail
born of malicious legend or pure inven-
tion.
Time and time again I have heard this
attack made after some soldiery in their
indignation had subjected that house-
holder already mentioned who had turned
informer on one of them to very soldierly
treatment.
But I have never, that I can remember,
seen reproduced Hunter’s own thanks to
the men of the regiment three years later
for their general “laudable conduct”. I
have never noticed any historian calling
to mind Governor King’s praise of the
corps four years after Hunter’s choleric
attack. King (I quote), spoke in 1800
of “the exactness and soldierlike behavior
of the Regiment . . . which would do
credit to the oldest Regiment in His
Majesty’s service”.
Nor again do we notice any reproduc-
tions of his testimony of 5 June, 1802,
that “their conduct has been regular and
good, and in many instances, very praise-
worthy”, adding “nor can I say that a
stigma ought to be thrown on all the
officers. Their conduct generally has been
proper since 1 took command”.
We cannot see the truth without ex-
amining all these things.
Again, you read that the wickedness
and vice of Grose’s regime resulted in bru-
tal holocausts of debauchery and then find
that 482 (with 682 on the sick list) of
a 3000-odd population died in the
last year of Governor Phillip’s reign in
1792. Only 158 died in 1793, the first
year after Grose took over, and 54 in
the next year, the number being reduced
the year after that to 29; also, that during
Grose’s peried, sicklists had been reduced
to almost nothing by comparison with
1792, even in a much greater population.
Now for my next rule, which is
complementary to the first one: Make
sure that you understand the language,
the idioms, the conventions of expression
and thought and behaviour of the age and
people you are dealing with. Make sure
the words you read mean what you
think they mean. Make sure that the
emphasis used is reduced to its just
equivalent in your own age. Try to assess
how each age would have judged par-
ticular actions, or dealt with particular
situations.
Each historical period as it succeeds a
previous one shows, as we know, for
instance, a gradual softening in the treat-
ment of fellow man by man.
When the actors in our earliest dramas
were in their adolescence or young man-
hood, (1771), the London crowd could
see a screaming woman, Mrs Hayes, take
half an hour to be burnt to death at the
stake without rioting. Fifty years later,
Macquarie, was looked on by his contem-
poraries as soft because he thought a
hundred lashes heavy punishment. But
140 years on from his time we have
moved so far that if he were Governor
today and prescribed so much as a few
strokes from a birch on the skin of a
brutal garrotter, he would be thoroughly
roasted by the Press and the humanita-
rians.
The same sort of thing applies to words
and modes of expression. No command-
ing officer or Governor would dare to
traduce a regiment in the terms ordinarily
used about the soldiery by Hunter and
Macquarie or Bligh—or for that matter,
Wellington who, legend said—and this
after Waterloo —described them as the
scum of the earth, all enlisted for drink,
without shocking public opinion.
Today you are not even permitted to
ask them politely to kiss their rifles when
they drop them.
Similarly when you come to the lan-
guage of controversy and of dispute
and blame you must translate the terms
of say, 1796 into those of 1962 before
you appraise them and form a judgment
about what they amount to in proper
perspective of their setting of time and
place.
Suppose, today, I wished to draw the
attention of the head of a Government
Department to the circumstances that a
fellow public officer was apt to take two
schooners too many after work, that I
knew that two of his cheques had been
returned marked n.s.f., and that these
things were chronic in the make-up of
his life. I should say so without embellish-
ment of adverb or adjective and with a
wary regard for the laws of libel.
The accused would probably reply with
a plain, if indignant, denial and a request
for an inquiry.
But had I been an officer of, say, 1796,
I would have embellished my accusations
(as John Macarthur did his against
Richard Atkins in that year,) with advices
that my victim was a man deeply plunged
in infamy, a “vile . . . person”, “a
public cheater, living in the most bound-
less dissipation, without any visible means
of maintaining it other than by impos-
ture on unwary strangers. . .” And I
would probably have closed by remarking
that “drunkenness and indecency are in-
separable from him”.
An Inarticulate Milksop
JTiHE riposte of my fellow civil servant
whom I attacked in 1796, would have
been no less spirited, of course, than my
own charges.
Mr Atkins, John Macarthur’s victim
of 1796, wrote warmly to his accuser,
otherwise he would have risked being
looked on as an inarticulate milksop who
did not value his honor. Here are a few
choice bits from his reply:
“Your original meaness pervades
your every action. It shows the cloven
hoof. Return to your original nothing
. . . monster of society, betrayer of
private conversation . . . assassin of
all true honor . . . leper in reputation
. . . you have crossed the Rubicon of
dishonor ... You ought to be driven
from society as infectious . . . viper,
you bite the file!”
It is very difficult to reduce alterca-
tions of this sort to their equivalent
modern proportions. You need to be very
wary about them, just as you have to be
about the appraisement of words.
So make sure that you know the
meaning of what you read in terms of
words and conventions before you inter-
pret for your modern readers.
My third cardinal rule is: Go to the
earliest and most comprehensive and
original sources for your information,
trusting no printed record if there is a
manuscript, no transcript if there is an
original.
I know that in this I must incur the
reprobation of the Professor of History


Estab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON K
. osucmXN
PTYLTD
?tR- i
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Ce.
Printers, Papei Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
in the School of General Studies at the
Australian National University, who m
the introduction to the second volume
of his Select Documents in Australian
History, p. XVIII wrote this:
“In some quarters there is a tendency
to treat manuscript material with reve-
rence and awe —as if it had in some
mysterious way the keys to the great
truths. We have been just as nauseated
by this cult as we have by that other
cult, or rather, fraternity of those
who have read ‘The Hummer’.”
Well, I am not “nauseated” by the
cult. I am one of its devoted priests.
Professor Manning Clark may know how
you can get original knowledge without
going to original sources. I think, how-
ever, he would find it hard to discover
any other research worker who did not
feel that he was running a great risk if
he took second-hand sources at their face
value.
Let me illustrate with a classic in-
stance.
In volume V of the Historical Records
of New South Wales, on p. 721 in a
review by Governor King of recent ex-
plorations, there occurs a transcript of
King’s discussion of the distance between
a certain point in the Cowpastures and
Stonequarry Creek, including the follow-
ing sentence: “Caley makes its distance
not more than 10 miles . . . Barracks
made it 17”. Dr Watson, the editor of
the Historical Records of Australia (I.
V. p. 582) reproduced this passage in
1915 without checking it with the original
and added this note:
“Barracks had arrived in the colony
with Governor Hunter as a boy servant.
He had accompanied John Wilson in
his explorations of 1798 and kept the
diary of those journeys. He returned to
England with Governor Hunter.”
A ferment of excitement
discoveries of the expedition of
A 1798 were important to ornithologists,
since during its operations the lyre bird
was discovered. All the world of the
Royal Australian Historical Society and
the ornithologists, on reading Watson,
went into a ferment of excitement. At
last it knew the hallowed name of the
hero who had been Hunter’s servant and
recorded the famous expedition and the
discovery of the lyre bird.
For a generation the excitement con-
tinued, scarcely affected by the fact that
the name of Barracks did not appear on
the musters of HMS Reliance in which
Hunter and his staff had come to Aus-
tralia and that the domestic records of
New South Wales were blank of mention
of the illustrious fellow.
His curious elusiveness did not detract
from his fame or the public’s desire to
honor him. Streets in Wingecarribee
shire were named after him. The Barracks
Faffs appeared on the map. The name
of Barracks was honored on the Southern
Tableland and in the historical and
ornithological societies’ journals, as
sedulously as that of any leading jockey
during a Spring Meeting. Then after 37
years, in 1953, a leading ornithologist-
historian, wrote to The Bulletin assert-
ing boldly that it was time a grateful
country repaid Mr Barracks’ services by
erecting a monument to him.
A Golden Rule
Quite unaware then that my procedure
might nauseate a distinguished scholar
in Canberra, I followed the simple rule
of going down to the foundations of
knowledge for information instead of to
the H.R.A.: in fact, to the manuscript
in Governor King’s own handwriting
which exists among his papers in the
Mitchell Library.
The result, I regret to say, was lethal.
The moment I opened the manuscript,
Mr Barracks not only died; he disap-
peared as completely as if he had sus-
tained a direct hit from a hydrogen
bomb.
His name, in fact, did not appear in
Governor King’s manuscript, in the office
record of his document, or in the original
despatch in the Public Record Office in
London.
In each, the name that did appear was
that of Barralier a noted explorer of the
region who had nothing to do with the
“lyre-bird” expedition of 1798.
And I very soon had little difficulty in
identifying the servant of Hunter who
had been the “journalist” or diarist of
the expedition of 1798 as a youth named
Price. I placed these facts on record in
The Bulletin on July 8, 1953, without
any sense of pride, since in going to the
original manuscript I had done only
what for many years I had advised every
student to do.
Manuscripts will tell you, in any case,
through the nature and condition of hand-
writing, what nothing else can tell you—
whether the writer is normal, sometimes
whether he is drunk or sober; whether,
to reach the ultimate truth about his
motives and actions you would be wise
to probe his mental state and find out
if, on the day on which you are in-
terested, he was suffering from his gout.
I now come to a final rule for all
researchers—a golden rule: never fear to
put the record straight, to admit or cor-
rect a mistake. It is not an easy—it is
sometimes an unnerving—rule to apply.
Anybody who does not make mistakes in
a book like, say, Macquarie, which con-
tains over 5000 specific statements, is
not human. Anybody who does not
correct them, or accept correction when
pointed out to him, is not an honest
research worker, dedicated to the task of
uncovering the whole truth.
For look at it this way: history is not
a mere purposeless diversion based on
idle curiosity about the past, or on vain
and empty interest in the accomplish-
ments of our progenitors. It is a yard-
stick, a gauge, by which we measure and
indicate the rate of human progression or
regression towards or away from the
ultimate goals of human happiness and
perfection.
The research worker, if he does his
work properly, is a scientist who wields
the instruments of measurement and plots
the results obtained, so that ordinary
humans can see how much water is
running under the bridge, how much we
are gaining on, or losing to, the primitive.
It was in keeping with that kind of
theory that Tom Mutch did his work,
caring little or nothing for the approval
of other students —myself included—but
caring everything for the contributions
he was making towards the accumula-
tion and indexing of useful historical
knowledge and to the measurement of
the progress of humanity. And we should
all honor his memory for it.


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
VICTORIANS AND THEIR JETPORT
Sir,
As chairman of the Committee ap-
pointed by the Government of Victoria
to examine matters related to the esta-
blishment of an international jet airport
at Melbourne, I would like to comment
on your Melbourne correspondent’s
article, “The Victorians and Their Jet-
port,” published in the July 7 issue of
The Bulletin.
The fact that an international jetport
at Melbourne would be only about 455
miles from another jetport at Sydney is
surely irrelevant to the main issues of
the controversy over whether Melbourne
should have such a facility.
Certainly, a Boeing 707, a Douglas
DC 8, a Convair 880 or any other big,
fast, swept-wing turbo-jet airliner, built
to fly between continents, could not be
expected to operate efficiently over
route stages of less than 500 miles.
Neither Sydney nor Melbourne, how-
ever, are in-transit ports-of-call on the
world airline systems which service this
continent. Both cities are terminals. Both
cities are places where international
travellers arrive and depart. Both cities
serve major end-of-the-line areas of
population. Yet, south of Darwin and
east of Perth this vast continent has
only one international jetport—Sydney.
In an era where operators of sophis-
ticated, inter-continental turbo-jet air-
liners think in terms of jetports that serve
continents and not just in terms of air-
ports that serve countries, it is an ab-
surdity that the entire Pacific coast line
of this continent should only have one
international jetport. Since Melbourne
generates about 40 per cent, of all air
traffic into and out of Australia, the
city has a statistical claim to recognition
of its logical role as an alternative inter-
national jetport serving the populous
eastern half of the Australian continent.
In view of the fact that international
jetports are operated at London and
Prestwick in the United Kingdom, Milan
and Rome in Italy, Montreal and Toronto
in Canada—it seemed less than reason-
able for the "Telegraph” writer quoted
in your article to suggest that the Federal
Government had promised Sydney and
Melbourne international airports merely
to placate local interests.
Even from the operational standpoint
alone it would seem desirable to have
an alternate international jetport closer
to a weatherbound Sydney airport than
either Darwin or Perth
Operationally or logistically, however,
the arguments against the establishment
of an international jetport at Melbourne
are, at best, only marginal.
MAURICE NATHAN
Lord Mayor
Melbourne.
A SATISFIED OWNER
Sir,
I have never read such unmitigated
drivel as that written by your motoring
correspondent in the current issue of
The Bulletin (July 28) about the
Morris 850 or Mini-Minor. I am the sat-
isfied owner of one of these cars which
I use every day in a busy general prac-
tice. I have driven almost 20,000 miles
and the tyres are still well treated. Some
of this mileage has been over some
atrocious roads and most of it at above
average speeds. Indeed I recently com-
pleted a trip to Adelaide of 2500 miles.
On one stretch I covered 68 miles in 63
minutes, on another 44 miles in 40
minutes. Overall average speed was well
above 50 mph. It cost me just £lO and
two pints of oil for the trip. There is in
this town at present an Austin Seven
which has 40,000 miles plus on the
speedometer and has completed a trip
from England overland through some of
the worst motoring country in the world
without mishap.
R. N. LOCHHEAD
Mittagong (NSW).
LETTER TO BOADICEA
Sir,
In the Bulletin of July 28, your
reference to Simca in your article “Buy-
ing an Under £lOOO Car?” was at variance
with the facts.
I am referring particularly to your
paragraph “Fighting a losing battle
against rising costs of local production
and the desire to keep the right side of
the £lOOO barrier the Simca has gradu-
ally deteriorated in quality, and conse-
quently lost much of its appeal to the
discerning motorist.”
Chrysler policy is in fact one of con-
tinual improvement and this is borne out
in the latest model Simcas. The Simca
Aronde is one of the few four-cylinder
production cars in the world to feature
a five-bearing crankshaft, the advantages
of which will be obvious to you. Apart
from the many features which were found
in earlier models, such as layback seats,
adjustable heater-demister, flashing lights,
two-tone horn, 13 cu. ft. boot, armrests
on all four doors and three ashtrays, the
Aronde now has windshield washers,
two-tone heavy vinyl interior trim and
chromed steel window and door handles.
We would be pleased if you would visit
our Chrysler distributor and see one of
these vehicles at close hand.
Australian-made cars are among the
best finished in the world (particularly on
a value-for-the-pound basis) and we
think it was grossly unfair of you to
single out the Simca in the way that you
did, as this vehicle compares favorably
in finish with its competitors.
Your remarks, too, that the Simca has
“lost much of its appeal to the discern-
ing motorist” must surely be taken as a
sJur on the intelligence of the increasing
number of Simca buyers. In fact the
monthly rate of Simca registrations in
1962 has been more than double the
monthly rate for 1961.
In your attempt to write a balanced
summing up of the cars available in the
price range, we can understand your
attitude of injecting criticism of each
model. However, we cannot believe that
your opinion of Simca quality is founded
on recent first-hand contact with the
Simca range.
W. R. GREIG.
Chrysler Australia Limited
Director —Marketing
& Product Planning.
“Quality” was the operative word in
my article. In the same way that the
best cloth can be ruined by an inexpert
cutter or tailor so can the best auto-
motive components be poorly assem-
bled and the car consequently lack
quality.
BOADICEA
A CROSS WORD
Sir,
How the hell can anyone complete
your flaming crossword when the print-
ers make errors in the clues? For in-
stance, crossword 704, clue 13 across.
You nearly drove two good philologists
up the wall.
You might make sure your block-
makers fill in all the blank squares. Ref.
crossword 704 square after 23 across.
Or is this an additional hazard?
W. N. SCOTT
J. H. IRVINE
Brisbane.
POSTSCRIPT TO BENNETT
Sir,
As one who was present at Gallipoli
from the Landing, served under Bennett
in France for two years or more, and
knew him intimately till the day of his
death, I was in fact speaking to him
the day before he died, I say without
hesitation that “Ek Dum’s” summing up
of Bennett, in the second paragraph of
his “Postscript to Bennett” (Bulletin,


August 11), is very wide of the mark.
Such expressions as, “He had a natural
Instinct for the offensive which sometimes
translated itself into precipitancy” and,
“His conceptions were all written in terms
of action, or for setting the stage for
immediate action,” are not in accord
with his record as a front-line soldier.
His guiding principle as a battalion
commander and a brigade commander
was: “What will it cost in human lives?”
He would never be a party to any
action which, in his opinion, would in-
volve needless casualties. Furthermore,
as he demonstrated so many times in
France, far from being precipitate, he
never entered into any engagement,
large or small, without making a personal
reconnaissance. (See Dr C. E. W. Bean’s
account of the Gallipoli campaign.)
Although Bennett commanded a bri-
gade in France for over two years—
probably a longer period than any other
Australian Brigade Commander and
led it with distinction in most of the
major battles of the campaign, he had
the misfortune to have played his major
roles in perhaps the two greatest reverses
to British arms—Gallipoli and Malaya.
In the one, as a young regimental officer,
he displayed oustanding leadership,
bravery, and military appreciation, in a
desperate situation, whilst in the other,
commanding a depleted division of only
two brigades, he was responsible for
inflicting one of the very few effective
blows dealt to the enemy during the ill-
fated Malayan campaign.
His spectacular escape from Singa-
pore, after the capitulation, whatever
else may be said of it, was a daring,
cold-blooded act of gallantry, enacted,
not in the heat of battle, but in an at-
mosphere charged with the bitterness of
ignominious defeat. His leadership and
vision, before the capitulation, were
forgotten by those in higher authority in
their condemnation of his escape. If there
had been more Bennetts in the Malayan
campaign results might have been dif-
ferent.
As 1 listened to the oration, delivered
at his funeral service in St Andrew’s
Cathedral, Sydney, and heard his honors
enumerated (CB, CMG, DSO, and eight
times Mentioned in Despatches all
gained in World War I) I recalled his
quiet remark to me when we were dis-
cussing the Malayan Campaign on one
occasion: “I received nothing for my
efforts during the campaign—not even a
Mention in Despatches.”
One must not wonder that a tinge of
bitterness sometimes showed through in
his latter years.
T. A. MILES
Wahroonga (NSW).
OVERSTATING A CASE...
Sir,
This is one letter you won’t publish.
Fair enough, you have your views and
I have mine; but I would like you to
know that I think your editorial in this
week’s edition (Bulletin, August
11) is as phony as a toothpaste com-
mercial.
I have been predicting since the pre-
liminary agreements were reached be-
tween Indonesia and Holland that the
newspapers would come creeping around
to the point of view that “maybe we can
put up with having the Indos for neigh-
bors after all”, and The Bulletin is
the first to fulfil my prediction.
It is not so very long since The
Bulletin itself has been screaming
“spineless appeasement”, and the fact
that the “Sydney Morning Herald” has
been screaming a bit louder doesn’t
give The Bulletin anything to crow
about.
Now The Bulletin tells us, Indonesia
“is a neighbor already and will still be
one long after the Dutch have returned
home forever.” Thinking Australians
have been saying this for some time, but
not in The Bulletin. The Bulletin
waits until it can see which way the cat
is going to jump and then tries to climb
on to the bandwaggon, with the result that
their policy on West New Guinea is
even more mixed up than my metaphors.
Well, don’t think you can fool me.
Here is one Australian who thinks that
the Indonesians will do a better job in
West Iran than the Dutch could ever
do, because I am not one of those who
assume that because they are colored the
Indonesians are inferior. “Australia for
the White Man” may have disappeared
from The Bulletin’s editorial page, but
the mentality behind the motto still lurks
behind the phony neo-liberalism of the
so-called “New Look” Bulletin.
A. J. S. EDWARDS
Moore Park (NSW).
THE COUNTRY PARTY TODAY
Sir,
So Alan Reid (Bulletin, August 18)
has read the oration at the Country
Party funeral, which has dragged on
these past 43 years without the body
being decently buried yet. One contrasts
the recent sterling performance of Mr
McEv/en overseas with this appellation
of “Hill-billies”. Isn’t this rather flogging
the horse too much?
True the Country Party has not the
Federal strength it had. What Alan Reid
overlooked was that the Liberal decline
is even more notable, and a lot of us
believe that not a little of this decline
may be due to the loss of strong CP
guiding influence in Canberra. However,
it is a mistake to write off the CP as
a dying swan.
I am surprised that Alan Reid did not
list amongst CP achievements probably
the most important of all. I refer to Sir
Earle Page’s Uniform Gauge 4 ft. 8J in.
gauge railway link from Kyogle to South
Brisbane, the pioneer amongst Australian
Railway standardization schemes.
R. BARKER
Lewisham (NSW).
THE STUDENT GENERATION
Sir,
The article by Peter Coleman (Bul-
letin, August 11) infers that the DLP
Society (University of Melbourne) “dis-
integrated” following the cleavage be-
tween the Society and the party execu-
tive in Victoria in 1960. This is not so.
We provided electoral assistance to
selected candidates in the 1961 Vic-
torian elections, our members partici-
pating in the contests in Hawthorn,
Richmond, Melbourne, Prahran and
Toorak. In the Federal elections, last
year, a large team from the DLP Society
assisted in Mr S. M. Keon’s campaign
in YARRA and also in the adjacent
electorate of FAWKNER. As in the past
the DFP Society will again be active this
month in the Melbourne City Council
elections, in support of Cr Thomas
Hayes.
LEO. F. MAHONEY
Peter C. Martin
Kevin J. Walsh
Desmond Murphy
of DLP Society.
Executive Officers
Melbourne University.
Sir,
It is unfortunate that Peter Coleman
in “The Student Generation” (Bulletin,
August 11) should cite the Kew town
hall demonstration as an example of the
“brilliant organization” of Melbourne’s
student action group. The activities which
ensued were no doubt the worst con-
trolled of the whole campaign, and
afforded an excellent opportunity for
the downtown Press to paint an unfav-
orable picture of “rowdy hooliganism”.
But apart from this minor blunder, the
author, to my mind, is viewing the re-
maining sixties of Australian university
life through Melbourne-tinted glasses and
with great wistfulness. All the indica-
tions he gives in his article point to the
fact that the University of Melbourne is
almost alone in its political enthusiasm.
For instance, that university, in his
article, rates as much attention as all
the other Australian Universities taken
together. In Melbourne, he can name a
whole string of political activists; in
Sydney, one. He further admits that the
Universities of NSW, Tasmania, and
Queensland are wholly occupied with
local administrative problems. No men-
tion is made of Adelaide, and in Perth
we are merely told “the Liberal Club is
more active than the ALP club.”
In Sydney this year there have, how-
ever, been several notable instances of
anti-racialistic action Mr Coleman
omitted to mention.
In “Honi Soit” (July 17) the figures of
the SRC referendum on the White Aus-
tralia Policy were printed. By a very
small majority, Sydney University
students favored allowing “an increased
number of Asians to settle in Australia.
The voting was Yes: 2805. No: 2599.
Informal: 68. Total: 5472.
Thus, only 5472 students showed any
political inclinations whatsoever, and in
the light of such a meagre vote, the
referendum, must in fact, be seen as a
victory for retention of the present WAP.
Last year, in a similar referendum, 4676
students voted. Students in Sydney lack
that fanatic zeal of their Melbourne
counterparts.
MICHAEL ORPWOOD
Pymble (NSW).


REVIEWS
THEATRE
PLAY IS THE THING
By RAY MATHEW
A s every child knows, nothing is more
serious than play. Mothers and
fathers, cops and robbers, even the
adulterated ludo and monopoly. . . . the
aim is always the same: the imitation of
life.
Life which is grim which is earnest
may make play which is very amusing,
but it is serious all the same and its
conventions are serious; they are the
simplest possible solutions of technical
problems like place, time, the mysterious
and the inconvenient. Box becomes
kitchen, leaf becomes wage-envelope, a
doll from a pocket becomes birth. . . .
Nine months is an instant in play.
It is this concentration, this ability to
expand and contract either time or emo-
tion, which changes child’s play from
an imitation of life to a criticism of it.
Play forces the life it is based on into
shape; it becomes a comment on its ap-
parent shapelessness, its adult chaos. Play
is, in fact, in reality, life made art. Like
all art it demands such intensity, such
conviction from its players, such
a denial of part of self, such a belief in
vocation, that children grow impatient;
they change games mid-play, obscure the
vision by skylarking, call attention to
themselves and decide to grow up. It is
simpler, always, to eat, drink and be
married. Play questions the life it
imitates, denies the player the life it
imitates, imposes such tensions that it
can break the player which is why
analysts use it. The adult theatre is
using it not to break the player but to
break the life he is imitating.
Any play in the theatre is a game
between actors and audiences, and child’s
play is the basis of Brechtian produc-
tion method. Its avowed aim is the break-
ing of our society and its ethic.
The London staging of Brecht’s “The
Caucasian Chalk Circle” by the Royal
Shakespeare Company followed the
printed directions for a child’s play
production. Suggestions of scenery,
miming of action to show time passing,
exaggerated playing of those in auth-
ority. ... the externals of the method
are there, but the principals play so
cosily, so safely, so warmly in the tra-
dition of the pantomime (an adult in-
vention) that the whole piece loses its
relation to life and seems merely theatri-
cal, full of amusing theatrical tricks.
More exciting, and a comparative
failure at the box-office, was the Bristol
Old Vic’s staging of Tolstoy’s “War and
Peace”. No cinematic nonsense here, no
getting the whole book in; again, the
method was play. Like children, the
actors were asked to imitate important
people at important moments. Less for-
tunate children doubled for the minor
characters. Each character introduced
himself as he appeared or was intro-
duced and his past explained, his future
hinted. A few objects did as scenery.
They were quickly explained to us —•
what they were, where they were, who
owned them, how they were used. The
great battle at Borodino was acted out
(played) before our eyes, by pushing
toy soldiers around, making gun noises,
cheering, coaxing, asking questions. A
screen sometimes showed us maps,
houses, whatever we needed to help
follow the story.
Above the stage, on ramps beyond
the children’s play we were watching,
Napoleon, Tzar Alexander and General
Kutusov make their momentous deci-
sions momentous not only because
they had authority to alter their world
but because they were interrupting
Pierre, Natasha, Andrei (the children
we were watching) like sudden acts of
God or the incomprehensible decisions
of parents.
John Osborne’s new work. “Plays for
** England”, is about play. It tries to
analyse the use or misuse of play in
adult life. In “The Blood of the Bam-
bergs” the first of his two one-acters
he displays a royal wedding, itself a
game, a play. In his play he is asking us
to examine plays which disguises reality,
which motivates action unreally. His
hero, an Australian, an intelligent child
of nature can see through the royal
play more clearly than we can; he knows
it has no connection with life, is fake
and is intended to deceive. But he is
bought not to silence (who cares
about silence? This play was allowed.
It’s known that no one listens); he is
bought to participation by the promise
of “loot”. The Press, the nobility, the
handlickers and the hangers on can then
go on playing at solemnity, religiosity,
anything but reality; the wedding can
mean exactly what it is supposed to
mean.
The play is too long, too untidy. As
usual, the writing is thrilling with its
flow of ideas, irritating with its lack of
argument; it gets laughs by savage
statement and definition, not bv wit or
word-play. There is charm in the Aus-
tralian’s divine idiocy, pathos in the
princess’s sudden suavity of speech
“I'm so bored, I’m so bored by you, my
dear dear subjects . . .” But it goes on
too long as Osborne the super-patriot
demands and begs for not this England
but the England that ought to be.
“Under Plain Cover”, the second of
his plays for England, is the story of an
“ordinary marriage”. In the castle of
their home, in the privacy of their mar-
riage, a man and a woman play at
master and servant, nurse and patient;
they enjoy sex and are curious about it
its quirks and half-admissions, the
symbols our society gives it from knickers
to motor-cyclists, from leather jackets to
girl guides. Their games are amusing,
touching, intimate. This is probably the
happiest marriage ever shown on the
stage. Their play like children’s
seizes on what is significant to them in
the life they are imitating: the sex ten-
sion in the lecture-room, the threat in
the wedding-dress, the fear and desire
in the waiting for punishment. . . . these
games, this play, brings them always to
reality. When the playing is done, they
breed. “Do you think there are other
people like us?” “Ye-es. But not to-
gether.” “We are lucky. Aren’t we?”
A newspaperman in need of a story
breaks their marriage and sells it to the
Sundays (“The father of my children
is my brother. I can never see the man I
love.”) This scene works and hurts; it
uses the Brecht-child device and is real
enough to make the audience ashamed.
Later, the newspaperman irritates; he is
neither conventionalised enough to work
as a child’s plot mechanism nor charac-
terised enough to work in an ordinary
theatre-play. But the couple succeed;


we care about them. The games they
play so lovingly, so tenderly, allow us
to share the reality of their marriage, its
closeness. When it is touched and found
vulnerable not by the postman or the
people next door or anyone who they
feared and hid from but by a stranger,
an intruder it hurts. It is the “War
and Peace” situation again, the act of a
cruel god, and again one questions the
reasons, the society that allows such
reasons.
The performance was enlivened by
walkers-out, muttering as they went.
(The song about knickers “You take
’em off in the lav” seemed to hit
them hardest). Those who stayed and
saw the wedding scene, where the man-
husband-brother stands looking in silence
at his once-upon-a-time wife, sat in as
painful silence. When the play was done,
I heard no comment at all. Perhaps the
departing audience was running home
to lock the doors more tightly on its
secret happiness, to write letters to the
papers, to blow up the House of Lords.
. . . What is certain is that Mr Osborne
and his wedded couple had won.
THE (SANDY) STONE AGE
A Nice Night’s Entertainment. 2GB
Auditorium. Sydney.
T)arry Humphries or his manager must
** have had some reservations about
his probable reception in Sydney, be-
cause they booked for a season of only
six nights at the Macquarie Auditorium,
which holds no more than 300 people.
Without much advertising, the enter-
tainment drew about 200 on the open-
ing night, and after the very favorable
reviews next morning it could have gone
along on those and word of mouth for
six weeks, if Mr Humphries had had
the time. But he had Adelaide to play,
and then a return season in Melbourne
before going back to London, more’s
the pity.
Barry Humphries’ “A Nice Night’s En-
tertainment”, if you have missed it, fea-
tures two interludes with Mrs Everage,
one with a guitar-toting interstate beat-
nik, one with Sandy Stone, one with a
local man of letters cursing the Austral-
ians who have gone overseas to suc-
cess, and one with a Minister for
National Identity.
I’ll deal with that one first, because
the characterisation was on a very dif-
ferent level to the others. Black-hom-
burg, black-suited, with black-ribboned
glasses and something equally dark in
the mind, the Minister revealed that his
task had begun when the Queen had
asked the Prime Minister exactly what
made an Australian easy to distinguish:
as, say, an Englishman’s bowler and
umbrella, a Frenchman’s beret and beard,
and an American’s tomahawk and
feathers? The Prime Minister opened his
mouth to reply and had to close it
again.
So, in future, Australians going abroad
would first pass through Aus-Image
Clinics. Then of course it would never
do for tourists to find us other than they
had seen us abroad, so the entire popu-
lation would have to conform or else.
And the aboriginals? After some con-
sideration it was decided not to let them
continue to die of benevolent neglect,
but to give them an Ab-Image, and put
them in compounds, making boomerangs
and other useful tourist curiosities. And
so on.
A mere outline can only convey the
trend of the characterisation. It was a
deep and biting one. At 28, more than
technique is beginning to occupy Barry
Humphries. Perhaps it has for some
time, but has lacked expression, until
this.
In contrast, his portrait of Mrs Ever-
age of Humoresque St Moonee Ponds
(a War Savings Street, and never forget
it) was pure fun, from the moment she
sidled on to the stage and smiled both
diffidently and brightly, uttered her
“Excuse I,” and told us about her trip
to London. Normally, female impersona-
tions leave me cold, but this was perfect
comedy. I find myself remembering bits
of it and enjoying them in retrospect,
and that does not happen often.
“Eve been all over Australia,” said
Mrs Everage, in her scarlet topcoat,
ghastly accessories, toque, large flower,
gay print frock, and beads, “and we have
no reason to fear overseas fashions. I
visited all the big cities, and though I
was from Australia, some heads turned I
can tell you! We dress as well as any-
body.”
At the close of the evening she re-
turned to show us the color slides she had
brought back. I liked the one of Buck-
ingham Palace (“that’s where SHE lives!”)
and the next, sadly under-exposed, which
Mrs Everage pounced on with her
pointer (“that's HER, right up at the
top there. You can’t see her, but she
looked RADIANT!”)
Another older Barry Humphries char-
acter, Sandy Stone of suburbia’s wildlife
belt, was there too, with a tale of how
he and Beryl minded their new neigh-
bors’ two children over Easter. His
opening genealogy of these new neigh-
bors was a gem of satire, but I found
two faults with this characterisation. It
was too drawn out, and in that way over-
drawn, and the Sandy Stone voice which
records so well sounds too often similar
to some of the Mrs Everage intonations,
so that the mind flicks back. It reduces
Sandy Stone.
Of the other characters, I liked Barry
Humphries’ beatnik tremendously,
though others who have seen the en-
tertainment disagree. But I have met that
beatnik several times, and none of the
others who were quoted as better
examples at all. He slouches, gets his
story out with jerky recollection and a
nasal whine, blears at you, and, heaven
help us, even thumps the guitar strings
and sings.
The man of parts who writes for a
little fortnightly (“Joan Sutherland . . .
who do you really think you are fooling
... we know you’ve lost it, lost it when
you left Australia behind”) and is proud
to have stayed in Australia there is
something fuzzy about this characterisa-
tion. It was not in focus for me. But
people all around were roaring with
laughter.
It’s a diverse “Night’s Entertainment”,
and a memorable one. London, or time,
has sharpened Barry Humphries. Let s
hope he comes back, again and again,
with new repertoire. One of the Mel-
bourne newspapers asked, “Where does
he go from here?” The Minister for
National Identity may be a pointer.
FRANK ROBERTS
TOO ENGLISH TO BE NAUGHTY
Orpheus In The Underworld. Offen-
bach. Sadler’s Wells Opera Com-
pany. Tivoli Theatre. Sydney.
Once Upon A Mattress. Palace
Theatre. Sydney.
Oex on stage has always been just about
the ultimate challenge to producer
and player—and has caused some pretty
distinguished pratfalls in its time. I’m not
quite sure if the very lively Sadler’s
Wells Opera Company do in fact fall,
because it’s not very clear just what the
company has as a main objective.
But, if the big idea is to be very, very
sexy then certainly the idea is not
realised. On the other hand, so much
is realised in other ways that the night
must be rated as one of the most bril-
liant and stimulating in recent theatre.
Let us be quite clear about it, though
—this is a technical triumph.
You may very well feel with me, in
fact, that all the lavish resources, bril-
liance of decor, cunning and color of
costumes could have been better spent,
Spent better, even, on Gilbert and Sulli-
van. One could tag Offenbach and his
collaborator Halevy quite legitimately
as the French Gilsullivan. Sullivan with
sex, and Gilbert in the bedroom.


The comparison is all in the English
pair’s favor, if one considers sheer
theatrical skill, for it is pretty plain that
Orpheus could be a damned dull even-
ing if it were produced without the
extreme, exhibitionist virtuosity that
Wendy Toye in England and Robert
Blake here have as producers displayed.
Without this marvellous technical bril-
liance and frantic speed, little would be
left, whereas in G & S there’s a solid
skeleton left after performers have done
their worst.
Something inexpressibly “English”
spread over the would-be naughtiness of
this Orpheus; for instance, a determined
effort to suggest that the chorus ladies
had one breast bare foundered on a solid
system of all-too visible corsetry. Only
with the delicious and suggestive cos-
tumes of fetching principal Iris Kells,
as Eurydice, did the designer achieve the
object. It seems a shame that having
found an effective vein of sexy dress,
the same notion wasn’t exploited for
the other sirens. Venus, for instance, cast
perversely as a very tall woman, could
have come much closer to the legendary
figure of the goodess of love.
With all these grumbles, the vast
theatrical competence of this production
demands that the show be seen. Techni-
cal virtuosity of this order is rarely
seen here. Principals such as Iris Kells,
Kevin Miller, Jon Weaving, and above
all Eric Shilling as a shiningly dirty old
man Jupiter carry the evening along on
the highest plane of the interpreter’s
art.
largely local cast of “Once Upon
A Mattress”, a musical hey-nonny
that relates the story of the princess
whose sleep was ruined by a pea under
the mattress, do not suffer as much as
one might imagine by being seen the
night after the Sadler’s Wells company.
As a musical, this one could scarcely
be any lighter in weight if it were to be
held down on a stage at all. By making
the princess into a country-style tomboy;
the prince into a very naive lad dominat-
ed by his royal Mum, and translating
the King his father into a skipping girl-
chaser who cannot speak, the writers
have given many chances for talented
performers to put together an amusing
enough evening. Running away with the
honors are John Unicomb’s Prince a
nearly perfect blueprint of the silly
prince archetype and Keith Petersen
whose dumb, lubidinous King could so
easily have been a mere copy of Harpo
Marx, but in fact faced the Harpo bogey
squarely and came up as something fresh
and winning. Rather sadly, Sheila Brad-
ley does little but parade once again the
same bag of tricks and “mugs” that have
stood her in good stead through quite a
few shows now. Miss Bradley showed in
“Oliver” that she can do much, much
better than this, and she owes it to her-
self and her very considerable talents
to take a stern look at her easy habit of
letting personal mannerisms take over
what genuine characterisation should be
doing.
This show should be a winner for
older children, and for all adults in-
cluding favorite aunts. Bill Yule’s danc-
ing is a high spot in the production, and
Geraldene Morrow once again shows
that she is one of the musical stage’s
genuine finds.
KEVON KEMP
THE INHUMAN COMEDY
All That Fall. Beckett. A Night Out,
Pinter. Canberra Repretory Society.
A double bill involves a decision of
policy for the producer: is he to
bridge the two halves of the entertain-
ment by contrast or by similarity? Ralph
Wilson decided on the latter when he
teamed up these two plays. The result
was entertaining for everyone, and
fascinating for members of the audience
interested in technicalities.
Beckett’s play deals with a group of
under-privileged but still eloquent Irish
in a remote country village. Pinter’s
play deals with a group of under-privi-
leged but still voluble lower-class English
in an industrial town. As a result, though
both plays are interesting in themselves,
they gain by contrast. Beckett’s eccentric
Irish talked on, delighted with the sound
of words, especially their own words,
even in the midst of disaster. The central
character, old Mrs Rooney, poured forth
a joyous spate of language in which at
times Synge, O’Casey and Mrs Malaprop
all seemed to have had a hand. In this
role, Elizabeth Webb took full advantage
of speech and movement to create a
fully-realized personality.
Pinter drew his comedy from language
very differently used. His clerks and girls
get through their night out with such a
limited vocabulary and such deadly repe-
tition of cliche that it was a comic
triumph to make them put over any idea
at all. Albert, the squashed little hero,
sensitively played by Robert Hunter, is
brough to the verge of murder by two
non-stop talking women. In both plays,
the talk is action, character and plot;
what climax there is emerges, almost
casually, from the last words spoken.
A double bill also offers the unfailing
pleasure of seeing the same actors in two
different parts in the same evening. Here
the opportunities were great, with the
contrast of accents and the subtlely dif-
ferent, but equally unheroic, character
presented by the two authors. Elizabeth
Webb was as convincing as Pinter’s
cockney widow as she had been as
Beckett’s haunted old Irish-woman; she
kept us aware of the cruelty beneath
life’s comedy, and this was the conclusion
emerging from both plays. Stan Davies
gave two distinct version of the assertive
Little Man, both brilliantly satiric; while
Rosaleen Smyth in the clearly defined
roles of mad pious spinster and scatter-
brained pick-up girl, talked her way con-
fidently through both of them, word-and
timing-perfect.
If Pinter came out of it all better than
Beckett, the reason was that Beckett’s
play was written for radio and geared to
that medium. Acted out visibly on the
stage, all the walking and cycling, climb-
ing and stumbling soon became tedious
and distracting. When the words are as
good as these are, there is really no need
to see as well as hear.
HOPE HEWITT
A CLOSE COUNT
Under The Yum Yum Tree. Lawrence
Roman. Comedy Theatre. Mel-
bourne.
HThe title suggests something sickening
A in a kindergarten way, but this is
misleading. What we get, in fact, is more
along the lines of the girly magazines.
Perhaps the funny moments outnumber
the nauseating ones, but it is a close
count.
The situation is a platonic trial mar-
riage between sweet young thing and
nice young man. There is a wealthy
roue next door, intent on making hay,
and a slightly battered guardian angel.
Mr Roman has most of the old tricks
up his sleeve and an admirable flair for
dialogue it would be pleasant to see
him at work in fresher fields.
Alexander Archdale’s pioduction gets
the best out of the play. Melissa Jaffer,
Fay Kelton and Alan Dearth are attrac-
tive, lively, and very much at home on
the stage. Digby Wolfe, in the plum role,
has most of the good lines and hand-
les them well, but spoils his work by
unnecessarily elaborating movement and
gesture.
JAMES MURPHY


ART
ARTIST AS ADVENTURER
lan Fairweather. Macquarie Galleries
Sydney.
rpHE work of lan Fairweather retains
■*- a flavour of all the romanticism the
public associates with an artist who
chooses the life of an adventurer in
order that his creative moments might be
realised in perfect freedom. Half the
attraction lies in just this. Here is some-
one who represents the half-conscious
ideal of almost everyone capable of
imagining himself as creative. Small
wonder that Fairweather’s painting is
keenly sought, like some rare mineral
washed up on a beach, tinged with all
the mysterious colour of its immersion in
the deep. Fairweather has plenty of ex-
perience to draw upon; it is caught in the
intricate lines of his paintings and seems
to blow through them like a refreshing
wind. The lines in fact are the most in-
tellectual elements in his work, they find
and imply the swelling rhythms, shifting
planes and subdued greyish color in
shallow space.
This show of 16 paintings draws
strength and sureness from that other
most essential experience of technical
discipline which, through a long develop-
ment, has grown immensely responsive
to the slightest fluctuations of feeling.
“Primitive” is hardly an appropriate term
to describe this highly sophisticated pro-
cess, unless it is understood in the sense
of immediacy and directness. Yet the
calligraphy has a rough parallel in cer-
tain Coptic textiles, Iranian painted
ivories and, especially in the solemn
wonder of “Epiphany” which blends in-
tense fevour, naivete and mystery, in
Ethiopian religious art. However, lan
Fairweather has emancipated himself
from the need to borrow and it would
make little difference to his work if he
were to move from Queensland to Zan-
zibar.
There is no question as to the humid
damps of “Monsoon”, the jungle of
“Chinatown” or the tangle of “Man-
grove”. In these as well as “Xenophobia”,
“Reclining Figure”, and his sober pene-
trating self portrait, the experience has
been superbly transformed. Fairweather’s
painting has riches worthy of earnest
searching even though at all times the
legend about the man rather than the
man himself was liable to color aesthetic
judgment.
J. HENSHAW
MUSIC
A PROFESSIONAL AT WORK
Fifth Subscription Concert. Melbourne
Town Hall.
s* ~ ,
Georges Tz.p,ne has one asset - to
all appearances - which counts for
a great deal m a res,den conductor.
This is his fully professional performers
temperament, his capacity to give enor-
mous energy to a performance without
draining himself of personal resources
The quality of his conducting does not
seem to depend on the state of his neves;
for like a fine actor, he can create his
role for the occasion without losing his
identity or his power of objective ap-
p ra i sa l
Only one of our former “permanent”
conductors, as far as I can recall, could
in any way match Tzipine’s talent in this
direction. This was Alceo Galliera. He
too could recover quickly from the stres-
ses and exhilaration of a performance,
but unfortunately his repertory was so
small that his excellent vigour was forced
to tread a very narrow circle.
With Tzipine this is not the case.
During his seasons we have been given
a most satisfying range of music, and for
the most part he has covered this range
With a corresponding breadth of inter-
pretative sympathy. This was demons-
frated clearly enough in the shorter worlcs
on these two programmes, the Oxford
Symphony of Haydn and the Jupiter
Symphony of Mozart both played with
clarits , and a y evenness
of , and d mics Appropriate i y>
there was nQ mark Qf technical display
or fussiness Tzipine . s abnity t 0 F ge t
knife . sh layi from the orchestra
was coniined with t 0 |he little
overture si|ken Ladder of Rossini whcre
a touch of virtuosity points up the music
and does not chea it
e major work at both concerts was
Stravinsky s Rite of Spring, and it was
in fact this music which suggested the
comparison of Tzipine in the matter of
temperament with other conductors we
have heard. I think that only one earlier
performance of this music has been given
* n Melbourne, by the South American
conductor Juan Jose Castro. That per-
formance was the culmination of long,
arduous, dedicated rehearsal effort
which was justified in the event, but
which showed well enou § h that Castro’s
temperament was more that of the creat-
*ve an performing musician. Too
much of himself was burnt up in that
success.
Tzipine’s performance, on the other
hand, came within a week of his triumph-
ant reading of Honegger’s Joan of Arc.
Though both works, the Stravinsky and
the Honegger, are major undertakings,
there was not the slightest sign during the
Stravinsky that Tzipine had been enerv-
ated by the earlier performance. He
played the Rite of Spring with the
emphasis on its colour and sensuous bril-
liance rather than on the inexorable brut-
ality which is underlined by most con-
ductors.
There is a parallel between this Tzipine
performance and the playing of the Hun-
garian Quartet earlier in the year, when
they revealed the Bartok quartets as
music of startling and accessible beauty,
in the face of their reputation for dif-
ficulty.
KENNETH HINCE
TELEVISION
SCRIPTERS SAVE US
The Graham Kennedy Show.
A fter seeing Barry Humphries “live”,
it will be hard to face commercial
television’s idea of Australian comedy
again. (The ABC, of course, has no
such idea.) But could he, or anyone,
present a new routine each week, or
several new routines a week as Graham
Kennedy has to, and still be even remote-
ly funny?
Graham Kennedy consistently annoys
me, but not for the usual reasons. I feel
that he could be Australian television’s
first comedian, though I have no good
reason for believing that. He has most
of the necessary attributes for television
comedy except the main one, an exact
sense of what will prove to be funny or
otherwise when performed.
An awful example was on view last
week when Kennedy appeared in a
sketch as “Rocket Rod”, wearing an eye-
shade and carrying an armful of tennis
rackets. That prompted his straight
man, Bert Newton, to ask, “What sport
do you play?” (Roars of laughter from
the studio audience.) Then followed:
“What’s your racket?” (Laughter)
“I’m a Protestant.” (Laughter)
“Why the eyeshade?” (Laughter)
“I play a lot of cards.” (Laughter)
And so on, for six horrible minutes.
Kennedy faces the cameras several
nights a week in Melbourne, does «ev r
eral sketches a night, puts a national show
together once a week, has no long rests
from the medium. He makes a great
deal of money, but may never be a first-
rate comedian under these conditions.
His worst enemies are the studio audi-
ences which to a man, woman or child
are ready to die laughing as soon as
Graham appears. Unless Kennedy breaks
the silver cord and leaves IMT for
thornier encounters with Sydney audi-
ences he will remain an amiable dill.
FRANK ROBERTS


The Strangled Cry. John Strachey. The
Bodley Head. 265.
THE RED PAGE
TWO CHEERS FOR SOCIALISM
By RODNEY LIVINGSTONE
IT is now a matter of Ancient History
that for twenty years and more after
the Russian Revolution, Communism
commanded the wholehearted allegiance
of thousands of intellectuals all over
Europe. And it was by no means only
the lunatic fringe, the no-hopers or the
neurotics with a large chip on their
stooping shoulders, but precisely the most
creative and intelligent of the intellec-
tuals (we need only recall Brecht, Mal-
raux, Gide, Picasso) who loyally followed
the Red flag on its devious path of revi-
sion, double-dealing and increasing
tyranny. As the bright hopes became
more and more tarnished (the stages
being marked by the 1934 Writers Con-
gress, the Spanish Civil War, the dawning
realisation that the Stalinist purges were
a reality, the Stalin-Hitler pact) ever
larger numbers of people turned away
from the god that had failed. And, as
Strachey puts it: “Just as after a major
war one sees ‘les mutiles de guerre’ drag-
ging themselves through the streets of a
stricken country, so now the mutilated of
the catastrophe of the Communist ideal
in the West can be seen making their
way across the face of Europe and the
Americas.”
John Strachey, MP and Labor Minis-
ter during the post-war government,
writes as one of these war-cripples. He
would claim however (and rightly so)
that the difficulties of rehabilitation are
not of interest solely to Communists and
ex-Communists. For although “No well-
balanced thinker is likely to accept the
seamless robe of Marxism-Leninism
again” he insists that “it will go hardly
with the West if its intellectuals now
sink back into a smug disregard of either
the Communist faith or the Communist
fact. Unless we feel in ourselves the
relentless, but potentially fruitful, tension
between Communist values and our own,
we shall make little sense of the con-
temporary world ... for even this
waning faith could prove irresistible if it
were met by a wholly faithless genera-
tion: by a generation whose sole silly
ambition was to get rich quick.”
These are sensible words and if it
sounds as if Strachey had rejected Socia-
lism only to take refuge in Christianity,
that would be a false impression. What
he tries to do in the main section of this
book is to rescue a socialist and rational
faith from the wreckage of Communism
He examines four modern writers (Koest-
ler, Orwell, Whittaker Chambers and
Pasternak) all of whom rejected Com-
munism and with it, in greater or lesser
degree, the belief that human society
could be rationally organised. Strachey
sees the books of these ex-Communists
as a challenge to us. It is up to us in
the West to work out rationally a social
and political philosophy that avoids both
the authoritarian Communist pattern and
our own libertarian one.
What Strachey seems to have in mind
is a synthesis of British Parliamentary
institutions, Keynesian economics, a
Labor government and Pasternak’s reve-
rence for “physical creation through love
and aesthetic creation through art . . .
subsumed in the religious conception of
the resurrection”. If this sounds a bit
queer it is nonetheless put convincingly.
He is quite right when he analyses Pas-
ternak’s message to us as follows: “He
is saying that if you think that either
personal relations or aesthetic creation
are all very well in their way, but that
just now you haven’t time for such frills;
that you’re too busy waging the class
war, or making money, or winning
national wars, or running an empire,
and things of that sort, well so be it.
Only at the end of the day you will
make the unpleasant discovery that life
is not worth living.”
Apart from the title essay the book
contains some occasional essays,
partly literary, partly critical. Angus
Wilson has said of the narrative parts
that they are failed literature. He is right
and the reason for the failure is in-
structive. Strachey’s subject is Britain in
wartime; there are a number of pieces of
reportage dealing with the Blitz, a journey
on a troopship and a mine-laying ex-
pedition. These are all minor incidents
but they are most impressively and
honestly told. I cannot think of anything
that conveys as well what day to day
life in the war was really like. What
makes it so good is the feeling that
Strachey, a patriot and doctrinaire socia-
list and intellectual is really testing out
his deepest faiths. How does Miss Lee
react to having been covered by ten tons
of rubble for twenty-six hours? How do
the men who dug her out, react when
after a night in hospital she dies of
shock? How will the men on an over-
crowded and torpedoed troopship react
when they have to stand to attention
while German planes bomb them? How
well does the empirical tradition face up
to the immense problems of impromptu
organisation that war constantly creates?
We, and Strachey, watch the events he
describes with anxiety. On the whole
everyone comes out of it well: we all
feel relieved. Strachey does not bang the
big drum; he does not sing Rule Britan-
nia, but our faith in commonsense and
refusing to panic is quietly restored and
reinforced.
But, and this is the point, there is a
price to be paid. How do people stand
up to war? They do it by becoming less
human. It is human and natural to react
very strongly to death. You cannot do
this if it is a daily occurrence, unless
you are a poet. Pasternak was able to
describe the Russian Revolution with its
many senseless deaths so that one always
felt that each death mattered abolutely.
He did not become less human because
he was inextricably involved in in-
humanity.
Neither Strachey nor his characters
retain fully human sympathies. They
naturally become hardened. A man drives
up in a tradesman’s van labelled “Iron-
mongery, Wireless Electrical goods” and
says “I’ve called for the stiffs, sir.” When
Ford (the name Strachey gives his main,
clearly autobiographical, character) ac-
cidentally steps on a body while clearing
away some debris after a bomb has
dropped, Strachey writes: “He knew in-
stantly that it was a body and jumped
off as if his foot had been stung. For the
first time in that evening he felt horror.
(Or did he? Was it mainly, at any rate,
that he thought he ought to feel horror?
Afterwards he was by no means sure.)”
Strachey points out that Russia, the
socialist bastion, paid a terrible price in
human suffering for its survival. And
what survived was not the great Utopia


which all socialists long for but a rather
commonplace, if powerful, industrialised
state: Similarly Strachey survived the war.
I have no right to call him commonplace
for he is always much better than that,
but certainly he did not become a great
writer. And few of us are any better
than him; we too have known the ex-
perience of wondering whether we ought
not to have felt horror or some other
emotion, when all that happened was an
instinctive reaction on the part of the
nervous system.
What Strachey does in the book is to
provide the right starting-point for
thought. He describes the shattered faith,
he shows the deadened human sensiti-
vities and urges us nevertheless to be
humane and rational. We should not go
witch-hunting, nor join a monastery nor
become cynical materialists. If he doesn't
get much further than proposing two
cheers for democracy he reminds us, and
the reminder is timely, that socialism
still has a kick in it.
TOO MUCH TEMPERANCE?
The River and the Brook. Nancy
Phelan. MacMillan 21s.
The Early Harvest. Janet McNeill.
Bles 18s. 9d.
The Gods of Our Time. Cothburn
O’Neal. Gibbs & Phillips 20s.
The Hollow Woodheap. David Forrest.
Jacaranda Press 225. 6d.
tTWiE provision of good quality light
-*■ reading is sometimes unfairly con-
sidered to be a less noble function of the
novelist, athough a writer as serious and
dedicated as Graham Greene will produce
an “entertainment” frequently, and
devote to it all the craftsmanship of
which he is capable. The four novels
listed above are all light reading, they
all have some definite qualities, they will
all give pleasure to a great number of
people.
Nancy Phelan, for example, offers
a good, temperate tale of a nice middle-
class family in nice middle-class Manly.
There is a wife and mother who would
like to have the time for more serious
painting, but has sacrificed her artistic
needs for the human ones of her husband
and daughter. The daughter is adolescent,
nice, impatient and moderately disturbed
at not finding life more than moderately
disturbing. She becomes acquainted with
a lower class boy with pimples and a
motor bike, there is a certain amount
of emotional stress followed by an
innocent night out, and everything ends
in tolerance. Miss Phelan creates here
atmosphere and places her characters
with neat skill, and there is a hint of a
deeper satirical observation in her writ-
ing which makes one hope that she will
take up a more ambitious theme next
time.
“The Early Harvest” is a very similar
book —controlled, placid, passionless,
civilized and rather pallid. The middle-
class mother this time has an Irish setting
and instead of being a frustrated artist
she is a fading actress whose son has
recently committed suicide. She also has
a growing-up daughter and this girl also
becomes involved, slightly, with the lower
classes, who are pictured as rather vulgar
and sightly fascinating. Once again the
climax is temperate and the ending as
healthy as the best toilet soap. Reading
these books is rather like viewing “Ben
Casey” on TV —the problems raised are
only partially probed, and the solutions
to them are politely apposite rather than
severely exact, and over all hangs a mist
of perfumed disinfectant.
Cothburn O’Neal’s book is less polite.
A story of circus people, jazzmen and
“beatniks” in the USA it seems to engage
reality with a stronger grip than the first
two books in this notice, yet one remains
unconvinced. The motivations that ani-
mate the characters seem to be imposed
upon them by the design of the author
rather than to grow naturally from a
complex of deeply felt and observed
experience. A brief quotation will perhaps
best illustrate the routine attitudes that
Mr O’Neal presents:
“Strong, 1 mean strong,” Dick said.
“You look at him and you know he’s
with it or he’s an idiot. I mean there’s no
guile and no search in those eyes or that
face. He’s a child or he’s the wisest old
man on the West Coast. Wise, I mean
hip, real hip. Dig? He’s not even trying
to make the scene.” “That’s good,”
Foulard said. He put the paint brush be-
tween his teeth and scratched his crotch
thoughtfully. “Or that’s bad.”
Mostly, I’m afraid, it’s bad: or I’m not
with it.
The most interesting book of these four
is “The Hollow Woodheap” the second
novel of a young Australia writer, David
Forrest. It is about a group of people
who work in a bank in Queensland, and
although there is little that is original in
the characterisation or the action Mr
Forrest’s language is lively and his view
of life bright. He has been called, in
error, the first of Australia’s “angry young
men” but he has much more in common
with the Rabelaisian gusto of the Welsh
Gwyn Thomas than with the vitriolic
intelligence of John Osborne or the
savage perceptions of Alan Sillitoe. At
present he over-writes badly and mis-
takenly assumes that a joke improves
with repetition, but he is certainly a
writer to watch.
NORMAN GEAR
A BLADE THAT STABS
Collected Poems. R. A K. Mason.
Pegasus Press.
npuE appearance of this collection in
1962 is like hearing a voice from
the past. In the 1920 s it was Mason
who first showed that poetry in New
Zealand would not always be Georgian
and colonial, not always self-consciously
nationalist; and so his early work has
a historical importance in the develop-
ment of our neighbour’s literature. All
that this volume does is to make avail-
able the work which creates such an
impression; because, although it is
“collected” (and the blurb speaks of the
collection as definitive), there is almost
nothing new. There are four poems
from the very early book “In the Manner
of Men” (first circulated in manuscript);
sixteen from “The Beggar” (1924), which
first established Mason; five from
“Penny Broadsheeet” (1925); twenty-five
from “No New Thing” (1934); five each
from “End of Day” (1936) and “Recent
Poems” (1941); and a piece from “This
Dark Will Lighten” of the same year;
so that all that is new is three un-
collected poems and seven from manu-
scripts of 1924-30.
Allen Curnow, in a thorough and
characteristically well - written introduc-
tion, tells us a good deal about the early
context ol Mason’s work, and underlines
Mason’s importance in New Zealand’s
poetic history. With all that he says, one
must agree. But a nagging question
remains: what is the intrinsic value of
this poet’s work? The ; ppearance of an
edition which suggests —despite recent
grants from the New Zealand Literary
Fund and the University of Otago —that
his career is finished, makes the question
more imperative.
The general nature of Mason’s con-
cerns and technique is not hard to
indicate: the Roman and Christian
milieu, the classical economy, the hard
spareness of the language. These last
qualities were what made Mason’s early
poems notable; among Georgian gush,
in a time when “The Waste Land” was
not yet widely known, the sinewy
strength of this verse was distinctly
original. To quote again some perhaps
over-quoted lines:
Here’s no fine cluster
on the hilt, this drab
blade lacks lustre —
but it can stab.
And yet, what most strikes one, re-
reading what the poet cares to preserve
here of his work, is the melodrama of
Mason’s verse. It has strength, but the
strength is expended to no clear end,


[U
, - . : : ,
*
oil the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM2OOI.
and in the end (I am tempted to say)
there is something rhetorical and hollow
in the verse. We know how important
it was, in purifying the dialect of the
ffibe, that verse should have been
written as Mason wrote it; but is there
one really memorable poem in his work?
One wonders, too, with a curiosity
which should not be classed as too
inquisitive, because it seeks to define the
quality of the extant verse a small
corpus after all-—why Mason did not go
on writing. Perhaps politics has some-
thing to do with it; the effect of Com-
munism on Mason’s poetry seems not
to have been to make him a strident
propagandist (the uncollected “Sonnet to
MacArthur’s Eyes” in this volume is
rueful rather than savage) but to silence
him. But one could also argue that the
withdrawing, limited, curiously im-
personal voice of the early poetry came
eventually to have nothing to say at all.
Thus it appears to me that at this
distance which may, of course, be
disabling rather than helpful—no great
claims can be made for Mason. Cur-
now’s formulation is accurate: “Mason
emerges, by any serious critical testing,
as his country’s first wholly original, un-
mistakably gifted poet”: but to assert
more would be wrong. This is not to
say that this volume (surprisingly un-
distinguished, even battered, in printing)
will not interest many readers.
GRAHAME JOHNSTON
WHAT PRICE EDUCATION
Freedom of Choice in Education.
Kathleen A. Woolf. The Australian
Catholic Truth Society. 6d.
State Aid for Independent Schools?
Current Affairs Bulletin. Vol. 30,
No. 6. 6d.
IZathleen Woolf’s little pamphlet
presents the Catholic case for State
aid succintly and well. She bases her case
on a liberal view of the role of the state
and of the rights of citizens. She points
out that while Australian governments
have not denied parents the right to
choose a school for their children, they
have, by denying State assistance for the
education of children in non-government
schools, made the choice of a non-State
school carry with it a heavy financial
penalty for most parents. Such discrimin-
ation is not practised with respect to
other government welfare benefits such
as medical benefits, child endowment,
age pensions, etc.
The pamphlet contains a brief account
of the loss of state aid in the 1870’s
and 1880’s; some statistics concerning
school enrolments and expenditure on
education; a roll-call of countries deny-
ing, and of those granting, aid to private
schools; some practical ways of imple-
menting aid in Australia; and, finally a
discussion of some of the arguments and
catch-cries of opponents of state aid to
private schools.
The CAB contains a case against state
aid, written by a woman graduate of the
University of Sydney with “a continuing
interest in educational questions”, and a
case for, contributed by a lecturer in a
Catholic Studium Generale in Victoria.
Both protagonists traverse pretty familiar
ground. The case against soon resolves
itelf into the case against aid to Catholic
schools. It is argued that the provision
of State aid would involve preferential
treatment of one particular church, and
“be equivalent to support by the State
of the Catholic church’s policy of pres-
cribing attendance at Catholic schools
for all its children”. Catholic appeals to
liberal values, and concern over the
quality of education offered in Catholic
schools, are held to be hypocritical.
One aspect of the State aid controversy,
of particular interest to me, is the im-
pact of an argument which I put forward
last year (“A New Case for State Aid”,
The Bulletin, November 25, 1961). I
then advocated the subsidization—on a
per pupil basis—of private schools as a
means of better harnessing private effort
and expenditure in education, of catering
for minority as well as majority demands
and of fostering a more varied, flexible
and progressive educational system. This
argument has, not surprisingly, been
readily accepted by Catholic spokesmen:
it is reproduced in Mrs Woolf’s pamphlet.
The CAB contributor opposing aid
acknowledges that there is too much uni-
formity in the present State systems, but
suggests that educational reform is more
likely to be achieved by pressure for
variety within the State system than by
support of the demand for aid to indepen-
dent schools. Against my proposal, it is
alleged that enlargement of the private
sector would involve duplication and in-
efficiency: “If ... a great number of
new independent schools emerged and
thousands of pupils were withdrawn from
the State system the cost of educating
each child within the State system would
rise, the subsidies would then have to
be increased, education would cost much
more, and everyone would have to pay
higher taxes.”
To my mind this argument is almost
entirely fallacious. First, it must be re-
membered that with a rapidly expanding
school population, a fairly substantial
growth in the relative size of the private
sector could be accomplished with no
absolute decline in the size of the public
sector. Second, expansion of the private
sector would almost certainly be a gradual
process: it takes considerable time to
plan new schools, acquire sites, build the
schools and staff them. Third, even if
enrolment in public schools did decline
in absolute terms, it is not certain that
costs per pupil would increase. Fourth,
even if reduced enrolments did lead to
higher costs per pupil, it does not follow
that the costs of “education” —properly
defined would necessarily have in-
creased: this is because the higher costs
would presumably be associated with
less overcrowding and higher teacher-
pupil ratios, that is, with better quality
education for those children remaining in
public schools. Fifth, it seems to me
very likely that the existing state educa-
tion systems are too large for efficient
administration, so that a reduction in
their scale of activities might tend to
reduce, rather than increase costs per
pupil. Finally, even if costs did rise,
might this not be a small price to pay
for the greater variety of education of-
fered, and for other advantages of a
decentralized system
Mrs Woolf’s pamphlet contains an in-
teresting scrap of information concerning
the possible impact of the extension of
aid to private schools. In Holland, the
advent of aid apparently resulted in the
proportion of children attending govern-
ment schools declining from two-thirds
to one third. No information is given
concerning the changes in absolute num-
bers, the time taken for adjustment, or
the type of aid granted. More informa-
tion concerning the experience of Hol-
land and other countries could be very
useful as a guide to the possible effects
of the granting of State aid in Australia.
A CAB providing this type of informa-
tion would have been of more value
than the bulletin under review. In pre-
senting briefs for opposing “sides”, rather
than an independent examination of the
subject the publishers of CAB have
taken the timid approach to a controver-
sial topic—an approach which may only
serve to heighten the prejudices already
surrounding the issue.
ROSS PARRISH
ART COMPETITION
Entries for the Albury Art Society’s
sixteenth annual prize exhibition for
which the total prize money is £285 close
on September 21. Entry forms may be
obtained from P.O. Box 437, Albury,
NSW.


New
&
Penguins
UNCOMMON LAW IN PENGUINS
U
Following the success of the four Richard Gordon “Doctor” books published last year we now
introduce the writer who has done for the senior branch of the legal profession what Gordon did
for the medical profession. Four titles by HENRY CECIL.
Brothers in Law (ss. 6d.)
The book on which the
lan Carmichael film was
based, about an im-
measurably young and
ignorant barrister.
Friends at Court (ss. 6d.)
Roger Thursby, no long-
er ignorant, is about to
assume the august posi-
tion of Queen’s Counsel.
I
/Ms 1
\ wy
A.
V
Much in Evidence (55.6 d.)
This concerns spurious
claims against insurance
companies and intro-
duces a cheerful gallery
of legal and not so legal
characters.
Sober as a Judge (55.6 d.)
It is with a sense of
trepidation that one
follows Roger Thursby
as a young judge
through the vaudeville
of law-suits in the High
Court and the Court of
Appeal.
DAPHNE DU MAURIER
The King’s General (ss. 6d.) .
A magnificent novel set in the West
Country during the Civil War.
JAMES BARLOW
The Patriots (7s. 6d.)
A tense and realistic account of a
train robbery carried out with military
precision by two ex-paratroopers. A
sledgehammer of a book.
ANTHONY POWELL
A Question of Upbringing (ss. 6d.)
This is the first in a series of con-
nected novels under the general title
The Music of Time. The narrator and
other principal characters are intro-
duced, and the scene is set in the
England of the early ’twenties.
Stravinsky in Conversation with Robert
Craft (10s. 6d.)
This series of tape-recorded interviews
presents a great composer’s illumina-
ting comments on music and musicians.
THE LITERARY CRITICS
George Watson (75.)
This challenging new history of literary
criticism has stirred up controversies
among English reviewers.
THE FAIR TO MIDDLING
A. Calder-Marshall (ss. 6d.)
A strange, exciting, happy tale about
the adventures of a party of handi-
capped children at a magic fair.
HUNT ROYAL
David Scott Daniell (ss. 6d.)
The thrilling story of Charles ll’s
escape from Cromwell’s army after the
battle of Worcester.
JESSICA MITFORD
Hons and Rebels (ss. 6d.)
The sister of Nancy Mitford gives a
boisterous picture of the ’thirties and
of a wholly remarkable English family.
FREYA STARK
Traveller’s Prelude (Bs. 6d.)
The record of a famous Arabian travel-
ler’s early life in Italy.
MALCOLM LOWRY
Under the Volcano (7s. 6d.)
A study in sorrow and death which,
since his death in 1957, has made
Lowry into a literary legend.
HELEN McCLOY
Two Thirds of a Ghost (ss. 6d.)
A harmless quiz game is which each
wrong answer makes you “a third of
a ghost”; three wrong, and you’re
“dead.”
LIONEL DAVIDSON
The Night of Wenceslas (ss. 6d.)
This almost unbearably exciting first
novel about Iron Curtain espionage was
voted the Best Crime Novel of 1960.
RIMBAUD
Ed. Oliver Bernard (10s. 6d.)
A selection with English prose transla-
tion.
SCOOTERING
Jon Stevens (7s. 6d.)
An exhaustive handbook on the buying,
running and maintenance of scooters.
AUBREY’S BRIEF LIVES
Edited by Oliver Lawson Dick (19s. 6d.)
The famous collection of seventeenth-
century profiles. No person of taste
and intelligence should go through
life without making the acquaintance
of John Aubrey. He is frank and free
and scandalous, but his style is all
his own, and its charm is irresistible.
OLD CALABRIA
Norman Douglas (19s. 6d.)
One of the greatest travel books in
the English language.
DRAMA AND SOCIETY IN THE AGE
OF JONSON
L. C. Knights (12s. 6d.)
A pioneer study of early seventeenth-
century drama which examines the
work of Jonson, Dekker, Middleton
and Massingham in the light of the
Marxist theory of literature.
INTRODUCTION TO ECONOMICS
Walter Birmingham (4s. 6d.)
Economic theory written specially for
African readers. The principle of eco-
nomic theory may well be the same
all over the world but the application
varies.
WHITE SETTLERS IN TROPICAL
AFRICA
Lewis H. Gann & Peter Duignan (ss. 6d.)
A thorough and realistic statement of
the white man’s case.
If you would like a copy of our latest stock list or the 1962 Classified list, please place a tick in the appropriate section
□
Monthly list
□
Classified list
Penguin Books, P.O. Box 61, Mitcham, Victoria


POETRY
New Year's Eve, Camberwell
Often, through these hot days
after Christmas, thunder has softly
rumbled: fretful and dyspeptic
as the season’s thousand indigestions.
The sun has grinned so fiercely
that the sharp shoe heels of women made
small craters in the pavements,
and all suburbia’s blue hydrangeas
burned and died beneath the sky’s
superior hue.
Then, suddenly, the sky was grey
and there was rain. In city streets
the festive flags hung limp,
the merchants’ paper streamers snapped,
flapped on still-hot winds, and paled
till pools and gutters bled with blue
and red as Christmas washed away.
BEV ROBERTS
Two and a Half Acres
1. Two and a Half Acres
We build on magpie hill in the tangled grasses
and among crops of stone and cluttered rocks.
In our tiny tidy hands the landscape breaks
and will be changed. We own these two and a half
acres.
The sun is witness, the wind in the Belar mutters
and we claim this hill to rebuild for our sakes
an ordered world. Cut out those shadeless oaks,
burn all the grass. We own these two and a half
acres.
This land we come to steal for our best uses
remembers in our pains past fires. There are
no changeless places. In the brittle air
we toil, the earth runs through our hands, the
grasses
root among the soil and scorn our orders,
but we must claim to own these two and a half acres.
2. Spiders
There are spiders on my property
that make their places in the unkempt grass
and under rocks and secretly in trees.
They build where I might wander carelessly
and unawares thinking no enemy
has come within my boundary. No place
is free of spiders in the living days.
They build their webs to taunt and tangle me.
Let them live their ways upon my land,
I tell myself, they are too small a thing
to cause me treachery. I walk among
my assets warily and understand
only the deeper force past sense or will
that forces me to fear and thus to kill.
3. Interlude with Magpie
My neighbour magpie, white and black and white,
waits for the scraps of bread I throw to him
and tilts his head to make his manner seem
less impudent, his greed a shade discreet.
He comes as close as he might dare without
alarm to take my food is not the same
as being made obliged, as being tame.
Here, have it then, I give this as salute.
Ah, very quick! This is no bird of play;
with such a sophist’s manner I should say
he is another hanger-on, a sly
quick spectacular among birds if I
had not this morning heard him toss away
rich song enough to buy the entire day.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT
Bay-Tree
Darkness moves along my window,
Bay-wreathed in the conqueror’s tree,
And claws the lament of a dog:
While multitude and master winter
Turns slowly as a cog
Crushing moons to thorns against the sea.
My naked Nepenthe on the mantle
Grows hard as dreams denied too long:
Her lidded eyes recall
Torment before oblivion could enter,
How heroes with dumb beasts fall
To the march and crown of the crunching song.
An iron gate booms: or is it a shadow
In memory ringing down like stone,
That history has cut in cold
With swords or claws for kings in bay-trees?—
Betrayed I would share the world
With my Judas rather than stand alone.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM
City Lovers
Every meeting seems a sort of miracle
They cannot bear to think about, as if
To think of it could only work them ill
In future when their arms must fall away
And each turn to his mortal prosody,
The muted happenstance of day-to-day.
Half in, half out of time love guarantees
Safe conduct for them as they venture out
Among the whistling knife-edged certainties,
Their vulnerability in times apart
Becomes unfailing talisman to these
Jaywalkers in the mam street of the heart.
So in the lyric moments when they meet
Neither will give utterance to that care
Which is their fond familiar, the discreet
Unanswerable ghost they can’t dismiss,
Who comforts and distracts them everywhere
And is their blindfold reason when they kiss.
BRUCE DAWE


BUSINESS AND THE
Wild Cat Pages
AUDITORS' REPUTATIONS
IMPERILLED
speaking, Australian busi-
ness has emerged from the squeeze,
when its temptations may well have been
greatest, with its standards of uprightness
largely untarnished. One or two notori-
ous exceptions come to mind, chiefly
related to rash and unprincipled fixed-
interest borrowings. Even here many
warning lights were flashed to a confid-
ing public.
Yet now that the worst appears nearly
over, a frequent scepticism is being ex-
pressed about a field where one would
least expect it—auditing. In the light
of a few recent company results, the
auditor’s certificate looks a if it covers
nothing more than the arithmetical con-
sistency of a set of accounts. What sort
of a job have the so-called watchdogs
done on them?
It may well look to many that the
professional organisations are too com-
placent on these matters. Certainly, as
a whole, auditors’ shining reputations
are justly earned. Probably with exact-
ness Mr R. A. Irish can write in the
June special issue of the “Australian Ac-
countant”: “Nowadays, the auditor’s
signature on his report is normally ac-
cepted by everyone without question.
What other profession can claim that its
opinions go unchallenged in such de-
gree?”
Well and good. But a challenge may
have to be answered if many further
doubts begin to arise on two crucial
balance-sheet items—stocks and the ad-
justment of finance-company outstand-
ings for unearned income. It cannot
merely be claimed that directors, how-
ever overbearing, are the chief referees
here.
Perhaps the Companies Act spells out
too vaguely the duties of auditors. If
so, and criticism multiplies, acutely de-
tailed provisions may have to be added
or a special Act called into being.
It could doubtless be asserted that the
two subjects singled out above, stocks
and unearned income, are almost entirely
resolved by the companies themselves
and that stocks, in particular, are scarce-
ly subject to exact and determinate valu-
ation. Yet auditors are required to
certify to a true as well as a fair view
of the results of a business.
The profession has for a long while
accepted the discovery of technical error
and errors of principle among its duties,
and not only the more obvious fossick-
ing-out of fraud. Certainly the debate
on levels of unearned income is con-
tinuing. But one or two hire-purchase
organisations have just introduced actuar-
ial standards of computation. A test is
there if needed.
One can hardly leave this contentious
area without raising the spec! Jly topical
example of Latec Investments. Really
it grows increasingly difficult to retain
patience with the forecast repetition of
the 1960-61 debacle. In that yeai the
group suffered an apparently well-con-
sidered and precisely reckoned loss of
£1,472,729.
Worse comes in 1961-62, since we are
asked to swallow a further loss built
around undiscovered bad debts and feeble
provisions. Throughout this company’s
± .olonged crisis, it has to be perpetually
recalled that all its troubles derived from
a solely internal situation and can by no
means be ascribed to credit-squeeze con-
ditions.
City Diary
grandiloquently named Australian
Society of Security Analysts has
emerged reborn from a year or two of
moribund secrecy. A keen batch of
new office bearers promises fruitful
activities at last.
Investors, and interests further afield,
could quickly learn to look up to a body
such as this and, indeed, the analysts
might aid our much-bruited financial
sophistication. Only a few months ago
the European analysts, meeting together,
drew world-wide attention by their de-
liberations on uniform company account-
ing.
Returning travellers often come back
with all kinds of audacious cchemes
for the good of their homeland. Few
can have hatched a larger selection than
Mr John P. Young, “one of Australia’s
leading management consultants", after
five months spent examini; world busi-
ness.
Overseas sources might have reason to
think us unduly naive and dependent if
we adopted one at least of Mr Young’s
notions —“Australia should offer a prize
of £.100,000 throughout the world for
a practical plan to develop the Northern
Territory”.
Future tourists from our shores may
not relish being asked to “attend appreci-
ation classes where they would be pro-
vided with answers to the multitude of
questions with which they’d be assailed
in all parts of the world”.
Yet Mr Young sounds sober and real-
istic when he maintains that "Australia
has 10 years to become either a great
trading nation or simply an island in
the Pacific”.
Recent appointments to the executive
of a well-known Sydney retailer in-
clude a “recognised authority on un-
earned income”. The uninitiated, and an
older generation of the critics of capital-
ism, might well believe the directors are
looking for an easy way out.
But the move signifies two sure things
nowadays—the growing credit business
handled by retailers themselves and a
welcome desire of all financiers accur-
ately to assess their postponed earnings.
Colin Street
INDEX
Auditors’ Reputations Imperil-
led 41
City Diary .... .... .... 41
Editorial .... .... 42
Common Market Rivalries .... 43
Trend of Employment in Years
Ahead .... 44
Stainless Public Relations .... 45
Switzerland and the Common
Market .... .... .... 46
Indonesia’s Economic Blackout 47
Investment Section ... 48
Talk Around ’Change 49, 50, 51
A Portfolio Through “Rights” 52
Henry Jones Co-op. Ltd .... 53
Behind the Balance Sheets 54, 55
Stock Exchange Summary .... 56
One To Buy .... 57
Speculator’s Diary 58
Marketing and Advertising .... 59
Man on the Land .... 60, 61


FARMERS SEE STABLE COSTS AS
MANNA FROM HEAVEN
HThe Government’s success in stabilising
A prices and industrial costs during the
last 8 months may not be appreciated
by its political opponents or by pro-
ponents of a break-neck pace of in-
dustrial growth. But after the “roaring
’fifties” when Australian farmers were
fighting a losing battle against rising
costs, the halt to inflation has come as
manna from heaven to rural industry,
whose exports are still the main pillars
of the Australian economy.
So at this critical juncture in the pro-
cess of general economic recovery it is
understandable for farmers to be looking
anxiously for assurances that costs
stability is here to stay.
This was the most striking impression
left with The Bulletin on last week’s
pre-show tour of country districts
arranged by the Victorian Royal Agri-
cultural Society in conjunction with the
Shell Company of Australia.
YY/hile there was an uneven level of
satisfaction among the many farm-
ers interviewed during the tour on the
score of present and prospective prices
for their own particular products, and
also some, but not excessive, pessimism
on the future outlook for their exports
to Britain, all were agreed that internal
deflationary policies should be stopped
short of the point where internal price
stability would be jeopardised. They saw
this as the true test of the soundness of
the Budget, but not all agreed it passed
the test with honors.
The importance of costs stability to
primary industry is underlined by the
recently released 1961-62 figures for
farm income in Australia as a whole.
After a rise of £27 million to £B9O
million in 1960-61, total farm costs
increased by only £3 million last year.
This welcome change, after years of
rapid increases in costs, was all the more
appreciated in view of the drop of £lO
million in the gross value of farm output
during the year, for it left net farm
income only £l3 million or 2.6 per cent
lower on the year at £472 million.
Actually this decline was only a shade
greater than the 2 p.c. drop in company
income from £730 million to an
estimated figure of £705 million last
year.
Naturally, within the total result for
farm income, there were wide differences
in the experience of the various sectors
of rural industry. For instance, the
gross value of wool production was up
from £339 to £365 million and of
non-grain crops from £270 to £273
million. That of farmyard and dairy (in-
cluding pigs and dairy cattle) was stable
at £274 million. These were the only
sectors to increase the value of output
Output of pastoral products other
than wool dropped by £l2 million to
£214 million. This is primarily meat.
Again the value of wheat production fell
from £196 to £lB5 million.
To the individual farmer fluctuations
in the gross value of production of the
various rural products are accepted as
naturally as the coming and going of the
seasons. For some products, but not all
by any means, local prices are guaran-
teed. Farmers know in advance, for
example, what wheat and milk are going
to fetch in Australia, but not meat, wool
and most other products.
More significantly, export prices for
our bulk rural products are also at the
mercy of markets that can swing sharply
one way and another according to the
prevailing overseas winds. This for the
most part is decisive in the determination
of the gross return for our major rural
products.
His gross income being determined
predominantly by market forces, the
primary producer’s main chance to
ensure an economic return lies in the
containment of his costs. There are
limits to what he can do about this,
through his own budgetary discipline,
and still continue to get an optimum out-
put. His costs of labor, fencing,
machinery, buildings and marketing are
largely determined by the play of forces
in the industrial sector of the economy
and the success of the Federal authorities
in maintaining monetary equilibrium in
the whole economy.
\ fter the failure of farm product
prices to keep pace with inflation in
Australia in the ’fifties, it is not sur-
prising to learn from Victorian farmers
that a good many of them are in fact
eating the capital gains accruing from
the rise in land values in the last 12
years or so.
There is no getting away from the
fact that much of Australian farming
today is on the borderline of profit-
ability and that a strong bout of inflation
could push far too much of it into the
red for the comfort of the whole
economy. There could be a danger of
capital moving out of rural industry on
a rising scale if that happened.
Already the balance of profitability
between primary and secondary industry
is heavily weighted in favor of the latter
—what industrialist would be happy with
a return of a mere five per cent or less
on his investment?
Tt must not be forgotten that while so
large an area of rural activity borders
on the margin of profitability, property
owners in the country are disinclined to
pour more capital than they need to into
it to maintain production, whereas there
is an urgent requirement to step up
productivity in rural production more
particularly in the light of C mmon Mar-
et developments. The critical factor in
decisions on farm investment is the
likely outlook for costs.
Even with Common Market develop-
ments threatening export outlets for rural
products from areas at present highly
dependent on dairying and fruit, like
those visited last week in northern Vic-
toria, farmers professed to be more con-
cerned about the future of costs than
about the possible loss of overseas
markets. For that reason they are keep-
ing their fingers crossed that the £llB
million Budget deficit will not set off
another round of inflation and a new
wage-price spiral.
TO STUDY OVERSEA
DAIRY PROBLEMS
Victorian Department of Agri-
A culture’s superintendent of dairying,
Mr T. M. Jensen, who will attend the
16th International Dairy Congress in
Copenhagen next month, as a member
of the Australian delegation, will visit
private and government dairy research
stations and dairy companies in America,
the United Kingdom and Scandinavia,
and will return early in October via
Hong Kong and Japan.
The manufacture and merchandising
of cottage cheese, control of mastitis on
a herd basis and bulk milk collection
are some of the things Mr Jensen will
investigate while abroad. He will also
see the production and manufacturing
sides of the Danish dairying industry.


You’re so right...
insist on
‘BLACK &
WHITE’
upy-
k
V, ai '
<
"1 r
:iu id
(ncujScotch^h
\ BLACK ,
U> & uf
WHITE \
ffS BUCHANAN &C\
IASCOW scotlm'
r £r A PP O I NT U VHT
MA JE STY IMI
„ SCOTCH WHISKY
BLACK & WHITE
SPECIAL Bit NO OF
„ BUCHANAN'S
CHOICE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTIUtKS
GLASGOW t> LONDON
«t»T»uCM[«s OfSTIIIERY MUIIEN SPtrSlOf SCOU*« J
NET CONTENTS t PINT 6 FLUID OZS
BLACK» WHITE'
SCOTCH WHISKY
"BUCHANAN'S"
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD., GLASGOW, SCOTLAND & LONDON
N.S.W. Distributors:
John Cawsey & Co. Pty. Ltd., Box 61 P.O. Lidcombe, N.S.W. 648-0391
J 8146
COMMON MARKET
RIVALRIES
Miss Nora Beloff’s brilliant survey
of the hiatus at Brussels, appear-
ing earlier in this issue, conveys a vivid
feeling of the problems and tensions
still to be resolved in the Common Mar-
ket negotiations. Her impressions lend
particular credence to Mr Leslie Bury’s
view that the hardest conceivable bar-
gaining, by experts, finally settles most
of the crises as they arise.
It is now seen as not for nothing that
the outlines of the Six’s agricultural
policy had previously to be forged
through stubborn and traditional dif-
ferences, chiefly between France and
Germany. The same strains are patently
visible as the details are filled in and
more so as the British-Commonwealth
food and farm approach comes up for
examination.
Events have shown, as Miss Beloff
demonstrates, that it is far too easy, and
mostly false, to put blame for both hard
bargaining and delaying tactics only
upon France. In the event, of course,
Britain will have no clear-cut scheme
to present to Commonwealth Prime
Ministers when they assemble next
month.
Some anti-marketers, especially in
this country, may have a more optimistic
notion of political differences among
the Six than facts strictly warrant. A
reading of the European Press still con-
veys the sense of an almost inevitable
British entry, so little tactical advantage
can be hoped for from present tempor-
ary altercations.
Nor should people overestimate
French intransigence. It remains notable
that the five other Powers have fre-
quently been able to call France to heel
when they have really felt the situation
demanded it.
In the event certain deadlines have
been put forward, but very few
observers expect breakdown when the
deputies resume in September and the
Ministers early in October. It behoves
the Commonwealth to be thoroughly
well prepared for renewal of the minute
and logic-chopping debate.
Two prime Commonwealth interests
look like going and these may be hard
to face. One is preferences, which
Britain may well attempt to defend. But
these seem destined to vanish, even
though the Six only try to replace them
with unspecific promises. The other
interest is Britain’s entry itself. The Six
want her in not merely because of com-
mercial union. Europe may present
evidence of still - abiding political
schism, but the move towards unity has
not been started in vain.


Economics Anonymous
TREND OF EMPLOYMENT IN THE
YEARS AHEAD
Bulletin recently drew atten-
tion to the high rate of labor ab-
sorption in tertiary industries during
the 1950 s and the probability that we
would have to place increasing reliance
on these industries to solve the labor
absorption tasks ahead. In other
words it is believed that in coming
years we will have to rely more on
industries producing services rather
than goods.
Professor Harold Lydall, of the
University of Western Australia, has
also come to the same conclusion in
a broadsheet issued under the auspices
of the Committee for Economic
Development of Australia. The main
tertiary industries are commerce,
banking, insurance, Government ser-
vice, public transport and personal
services, including education and
health services. These already employ
nearly half the Australian work force
and the proportion is growing.
Lydall thinks that with more and
more people engaged in tertiary in-
dustry, in which by its nature it is
extremely difficult to raise producti-
vity, there will be a tendency for the
average rate of productivity increase
over the economy as a whole to
decline. The ultimate outcome in
perhaps 50 years’ time may well be
that all our goods, both agricultural
and industrial, will be produced by
20 p.c. of the work force, while the
other 80 p.c. will be engaged in ser-
vices.
“THhis means that more and more
attention will have to be given to
the quality of services given,” he says.
A man working in a factory is directly
related to a physical object, for ex-
ample, tightening up a nut or a bolt;
but a man engaged in a service trade,
such as retailing, teaching, Govern-
ment services or medicine, is directly
in contact with the customer. The
quality of his work depends very
greatly on his ability to understand the
needs of the customer and to give
him satisfaction.
“This means that as we conquer the
problems of productivity in the
physical sphere, so we shall have to
concentrate more attention on improv-
ing the quality of human relations in
the service sectors.”
Out of the total net increase in the
Australian work force during the next
ten years, of about one million, the
Professor thinks that not more than
200,000 may find a place in manufac-
turing industry, very few in building,
agriculture or mining, and possibly
all of the remainder may have to go
into tertiary occupations.
Tn his paper, Lydall does not consider
A the problem of maintaining full
employment in any detail, but seems
to dismiss the difficulties very lightly.
He holds that “there is no exact defini-
tion of full employment; and opinions
will differ about what should be re-
garded as a satisfactory level of em-
ployment.
“Nevertheless, most people would
agree that our present level of unem-
ployment is too high. In the long run
we should perhaps aim at an average
level of unemployment of not more
than 2 p.c. of the work force.
“There is no fundamental difficulty
in achieving and maintaining this
level; the problems arise from the
repercussions of full employment on
the balance of payments and the price
level. Australia is only one of the many
free enterprise countries which are
today grappling with the problem of
how to maintain full employment and
a steady rate of growth without
recurring balance-of-payment deficits
and long-term inflation.”
The professor seems to be worried
more about how we will be able to
dispose of our income than any dif-
ficulties in increase if very substantially
over the 19605. He thinks, for in-
stance, that with a population increase
of 25 p.c. and a similar rise in pro-
ductivity and if sufficient attention is
paid to “our investment efforts, to
improvements in our technique and
organisation,” we can achieve a 50
p.c. increase in the gross national
product by 1970.
On the other hand he asks, “What
are we going to do with the extra
income at our disposal?”
r\vER the past ten years, much of our
increased income has been spent
on cars, television sets and other
durable goods. There are still many
unsatisfied demands for such goods;
and no doubt there are many people
who would be glad to have two cars,
two television sets and so on. But the
time is coming when the market for
these sorts of goods is going to reach
saturation point.
“As a society becomes richer, it
first begins to devote a larger propor-
tion of its resources to luxury goods,
but later it moves more and more
towards expenditure on services. We
in Australia are already what Kenneth
Galbraith, a distinguished American
economist, has called an ‘Affluent
Society.’ In such a society more and
more of the nation’s resources must
be devoted to the provision of services
in the fields of education, entertain-
ment, health, travel, etc.
“Many of these services can be
provided satisfactorily only on a com-
munity basis, i.e. by the Government,
and we must be prepared to see an
increasing proportion of our total in-
vestment resources put at the disposal
of the public authorities.”
particular line of thought most
certainly coincides with a good
deal of present Government thinking,
as it probably must in any highly
advanced and fairly centralised State.
There can be few people now en-
gaged in public debate who look
forward to any wittling of govern-
mental powers, especially as they con-
cern responsibility for overall eco-
nomic direction.
Indeed this view has just been
given a very topical expression by
no less a person than the Prime
Minister. In his reply to Mr. Whit-
lam’s speech on the Budget, Mr
Menzies made it clear that he saw
little distinction, in their effects upon
the present Australian situation, be-
tween large-scale Government spend-
ing and major private investment by
business itself. Both plainly interact
upon each other, and both, when big
enough, filter through many sectors
of the community. And time seems
on the side of a widening of services
provided through government.
Mention of “The Affluent Society”
should not be allowed to lull us
into thinking we have wholly achieved
that desirable condition. After all,
much of Professor Galbraith’s social
judgments applied only to those eco-
nomies which, in his opinion, have
almost completely solved their basic
production problems. The cap does not
quite fit.


CORPORATION LIMITED
':y s |
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
D
PER
AHNUM
4,5 or 6 YEARS
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED*
DEPOSIT
NOTES
0) MOO 00 10
%p. A. 4, Sor 6 yrs.
Vz % P.A. 3 years
% P.A. - 2s : years
Vz % P.A. 12 mths.
% P.A. .% mths.
*so *
FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN IN A PERSONAL EMERGENCY
APPLICATIONS MUST BE MADE ON THE FORM ATTACHED
TO THE PROSPECTUS, WHICH IS NOW AVAILABLE FROM:
The Company's Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Bayliss Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
BROKERS:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CQRRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
TRUSTEES FOR THE NOTEHOLDERS:
Bankers & Traders Insurance Company Limited CCI4I/AB
INS I ANT ENGINc s t Aik i mu
WITH - ■-j
liiaiiiMliii
Proven the world over and endorsed
by Rolls Royce.
Avoid unnecessary engine
wear—just one quick spray
into the air intake is all
that's required. Saves money
by avoiding cylinder scour-
ing and gives longer battery
and starter life. Contains
anti-corrosive and anti-knock
additives . with upper
cylinder lubricant.
Less than 2d. per start—Aerostart is available at only 21/6 from all garages and stores
Manufactured by:
AEROSTART (ANZIA) PTY. LTD.
2 Queens Road, Melbourne. 26-4653.
STAINLESS
PUBLIC
RELATIONS
By J. C. H.
Few public relations exercises have
been executed on a higher or more dig-
nified plan than the Australian tour of
International Nickel’s architectural ad-
viser George Edson Danforth.
This highly plumed and personable
young professor (he is only 46) who
followed the famous Mies van der Rohe
in the chair of architecture at Illinois
Institute of Technology, has been mov-
ing about the eastern States rather in
the manner of the late Will Rogers,
giving timely comments to the Press on
such things as the eyesore of Melbourne’s
railway yards and the Mid-West unappeal
of Canberra’s Civic Centre, while all the
time gently persuading (though this may
be too strong a word) architects and
others at a series of lectures in high
spot hotels that we should be making
more use of stainless steel in our build-
ing designs.
International Nickel has sent Dan-
forth on similar missions to Britain,
Europe and Japan in the last two or
three years and the Nickel Information
Bureau tells us that “his mission to this
country is to lecture according to his
own beliefs and contentions in relation
to metal curtain wall, but he should not
attempt to force those convictions on
his listeners, who may agree or not as
they decide.”
In other words Australian architects
are given the privilege of supping with
a world authority with more than stain-
less steel to sell and no strings are at-
tached. From what one can gather, Dan-
forth got across his point perfectly and
nobody went away hungry. If, so far,
“the use of stainless steel in metal cur-
tain wall has not reached national pro-
portions in Australia” it now stands a
much better chance of doing so. Inter-
national Nickel has pulled off its P.R.
and Danforth is said to have enjoyed
himself immensely.
Aluminium interests here confirm that
competition between their metal and
stainless steel in many uses is acute
all over the world, and the prospective
increase in Australian-made aluminium
metal supplies will make it as hot here
as anywhere. They say it is a battle of
costs more than anything else, and they
think they have the edge on stainless
steel in metal curtain wall in this regard.
Moreover, with the prospect of cheaper
local aluminium supplies when all the
new smelting capacity is in operation in
a couple of years’ time, they believe the
position will stay that way.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£A413,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
WHAT PRICE FREEDOM?
Switzerland and the Common Market
FROM OUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT IN BERNE
Switzerland, like Australia, finds
™ today little room in the international
press for the simple reason that neither
country can boast spectacular revolu-
tions, or shooting of Ministers or even
worthwhile natural catastrophes, apart
from an occasional avalanche or bush-
fire. The world at large does not know
much about the real nature and workings
of both countries and it is somewhat
paradoxical that an outside body like the
Common Market should have lifted
Switzerland and Australia for very
different reasons into the headlines.
Right from the beginning Switzerland
considered negotiations for a Common
Market in Europe, with the far reaching
provisions of the Treaty of Rome and
the consequent foundations of the
European Free Trade Association
(EFTA), as a regrettable split in Europe,
already divided in East and West through
the “Iron Curtain”, which could only
lead to a weakening of the Western case.
Reluctantly, and with some reserve,
she joined with Great Britain “The
Seven” and today no country is as proud
as Switzerland of the success within this
loose organisation, pointing out that
EFTA has achieved a reduction of 50
per cent, in tariffs within two years for
which the EEC needed three and a half
years.
In the preliminary negotiations and the
application for associate membership in
the EEC Switzerland possibly has stres-
sed too often which of the paragraphs
in the Rome Treaty are unacceptable,
without specifying sufficiently the con-
cessions beyond the promise to work on
a “give and take” basis.
The difficulties for the Swiss Govern-
ment and the negotiating ministers, how-
ever, are considerable as contrary to
all other countries in the world the
power to commit the nation does not lie
with the cabinet or even parliament, but
only with the people.
These difficulties have been used by
all who think that Switzerland and for
that matter the other “neutrals”, Sweden
and Austria want to join the EEC
only “to pick the raisins out of the cake”
and fear that these neutrals would
“water-down” the tight structure of the
Common Market. This type of reasoning
would, of course, not cut much ice in a
strictly economic discussion, but it is
just as well to realise that the EEC is
moving fast into a power politic and
strategic field, relegating economic con-
siderations to an underpinning action.
America’s attitude has touched a sen-
sitive nerve in Switzerland where it is
archly stressed that this country, neither
a member of the EEC nor a European
country, should in all decency keep out
of the discussions. Prof. Hallstein’s con-
tention that the admittance of the
neutrals should depend on the success of
President Kennedy’s tariff-lowering bill
is in Switzerland considered unrealistic
as besides many other reasons the
economic links between the neutrals and
the “new” EEC (including Great Britain,
Denmark and Norway) are just ten
times as high as the connections between
USA and the same group.
Apart from possible future political
developments within the Common
Market, Switzerland finds it hard to
accept fully any of the four basic free-
doms of the Rome Treaty.
Customs Union for the realistic Swiss
cannot exist without a common foreign
policy, and this is a painful reminder for
Switzerland of 1935 when the economic
sanctions by the League of Nations were
used as a political measure.
With more than 500,000 foreign work-
ers employed in Switzerland the demand
for “Freedom of Labor” seems simple
to realise, until the Treaty of Rome is
studied again, where this rule includes
the freedom for every worker to settle
with his family where he works.
Rightly or wrongly, the Swiss feel that
their country is so attractive that soon
they would be flooded by foreigners to
the disadvantage of her own citizens.
The right of establishment (Nieder-
lassungsrecht) refers to self-employed
persons and commercial organisations
and again Switzerland fears for tradition
and freedom, apart from “flooding”.
“Competence tests” in different countries
vary so greatly that it is hard to see a
common denominator. Freedom for
capital movements are already practically
a fact within Europe, although only the
Swiss franc and the Deutsche mark are
really fully convertible. Difficulties are
seen here in connection with certain
“national” industries like civil aviation.
Nearly every country has laws which
ban foreigners from holding shares in
national airways and these restrictions
will have to be lifted soon under the
Treaty of Rome. A nationalised airline,
however, would not be affected and
remains under the sole control of the
home country. Switzerland, utterly
opposed to nationalisation, fears that
Swiss Air shares might e bought up by
all and sundry.
While Prof. Hallstein says that you
cannot separate the economy from
politics, Switzerland points to her own
history a Common Market en
miniature and claims it can be done.
The differences are apparent every-
where. Most countries within the
Common Market in Germany, for
instance claim that all monopolies,
“Kartells” and restrictive agreements are
bad and consequently must be banned.
In Switzerland this premise is not
accepted without prior proof and there
are “Kartells” in existence which enjoy
the full co-operation of the Unions, i.e.
in the printing industry.


REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
p.a. for 7 years
5j% p.a. for 12 months
•
Other rates and terms available see
Prospectus for full details. Your copy
available from all Members of Stock
Exchanges, over 750 branches of the
A.N.Z. Bank Limited and I.A.C.
Branches.
Applications for stock will proceed
only on one of the forms of application
referred to and attached to a printed
copy of the Prospectus.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
(.Registered 19th December, 1929)
Branches at
SYDNEY— MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
HOBART CANBERRA
Brokers to the Issue: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney,
Adelaide and Brisbane.
8164 N
INDONESIA'S
ECONOMIC
BLACKOUT
By J.C.H.
If one didn't look too closely at the sky-
rocketing prices in Indonesia and the
rip-roaring black market in the currency,
but only at the success which seems to be
attending Indonesia's international pres-
sures to get West Iran, everything in the
Indonesian garden would appear to be
lovely.
The hard fact is, however, that our
nearest northern neighbor has let its
economy slide down perilously in the
interest of mobilising itself to put on a
war-like front. There is now a danger
that there will be an awful economic
aftermath.
A measure of the inflation over the
last year can be got by comparing some
prices in July this year with those a
year ago. A car tyre now costs 40,000
rupiah compared with only 1000 in July
1961; a tube of shaving soap 700 rupiah
as against 100; a small loaf of bread 15
rupiah now and 5 rupiah a year ago.
Margarine has gone up from 30 to 225
rupiah a kilogramme, sugar from 6 to
60 and a cake of soap from 7i to 55
rupiah. Even a bunch of bananas has
leapt from 10 to 85 rupiah.
All the war paint in the world cannot
disguise the present acute shortage of
overseas currency held by Indonesia. It
is so acute, and internal inflation is so
rife, that visitors to the Asian Games
were requested to pay their bills in Indo-
nesia in foreign currency and not to
change their pounds and dollars on the
black market where the Australian pound
can command 1,900 rupiah as against the
official exchange value of 110 rupiah to
the £..
The Russians and the Americans have
been pouring money into the country to
help stop the rot. For instance both
these countries are building steel works
there, the Russians in Borneo (Kaliman-
tan) and the Americans in Sumatra. The
Russians have also financed part of the
arms build-up, and other roubles have
been lavished on unproductive glamor
pieces such as the new Stadium.
Australia has also assisted under the
Colombo plan; for instance in furnishing
a radio station and equipment. But any
idea we might have of increasing our
export trade to Indonesia as a follow-up
to any help we have given gratuitously
looks pretty remote until the country gets
over its internal currency crisis and can
get down to serious implementation of its
programme for economic development.
NG COCOA OUTPUT
RISES TENFOLD
production of Papua-New
Guinea has risen tenfold in the
last nine years. Cocoa bean yield
, , ■■ i xt ,
of the territories for the year to
June exceeded 10,000 tons. Last
year production was only 7200 tons
and in 1952-53 a mere 1000 tons,
Cocoa is now worth more than
£2 million to Papua-New Guinea
and by 1965 production is expected
to double again to 20,000 tons,
cocoa bean is second only
CO p ra as a revenue producer and
the industry is now exporting as far
afield as Britain.


NEW ADVISORY SERVICE
TO INVESTORS
T>eaders of The Bulletin can use
a new personal investment
advisory service, free of cost to them.
If you have an investment pro-
blem, of whatever nature at all, write
to the Financial Editor, attaching the
coupon below.
The Bulletin financial staff, expert
in this field, will seek out the informa-
tion you require and reply by letter.
Selected letters of enquiry will be
published (without the names of
writers) together with the Editor’s
answers.
All communications will be treated
as confidential.
COUPON
CUT OUT THIS COUPON,
ATTACH REQUEST, AND POST
TO:
FINANCIAL EDITOR,
The Bulletin, BOX 2521 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
NAME
MR
MRS
MISS
ADDRESS:
STATE
INVESTMENT
SECTION
PROBLEMS IN EVALUATING
MARKET FOR CRA SHARES
The market will find it none too
easy to put a valid price upon
the shares of Conzinc Riotinto of
Australia. Not only are investors being
asked to evaluate a larger and probably
glowing, future; they must make their
calculations at a time when there is more
than a faint haze over much of the
group’s present activities.
A brief few months ago the situation
may have been simpler to elucidate. Now
all the problems, overseas as well as local,
call for solution together.
Some hint of this more chancey clim-
ate may even have affected directors in
fixing terms of the earlier foreshadowed
cash issue, which, as announced, com-
prises 2.5 million ss. shares. When the
Australian public was promised, in June,
“a direct interest as shareholders in the
Australian activities of the Consolidated
Zinc group”, they could well have feared
a loftier premium than the 9/6 de-
manded.
It is significant that the issue is also
to be placed in the hands of two local
underwriters and not dealt with by the
subsidiary CRA Holdings Pty Ltd. How-
ever, both firms concerned—Patrick and
Co. and lan Potter and Co.—were re-
sponsible for the Rio Tinto of Australia
flotation some two years ago.
Pre-issue prices had kept fairly stable
around 18/6 for quite awhile and sug-
gested, perhaps, that holders were mostly
confident about trading prospects and
probably expected a rights issue into the
bargain. They don’t get renounceable
rights and have to worry out all the
other problems.
First reactions not unnaturally brought
the shares down a trifle. There seemed
a widespread feeling that, on issue
grounds alone, prices could go lower.
Nevertheless many investors may not
take overlong to pat this only tem-
porarily blinded gift horse. The merged
enterprises cover assets totalling more
than £35 million and the issue brings
paid capital above £ll million. Of
this, the London merger Rio Tinto-Zinc
Corporation still controls about 90 p.c.
Incidentally, everything points to a
lengthy period before RTZ places itself
in the position of fulfilling the Australian
Exchanges’ listing conditions insisting on
interim reports. This could help direct
local capital more freely into CRA.
With all the above hesitations, it has
now to be said that directors have mated
the issue to an expression of almost un-
bounded optimism. Their views are set
down in a just-published brochure sur-
veying the group’s Australian ramifica-
tions. They begin with a hymn to the
future.
“Growth will remain the underlying
feature of Australia’s economy for as
long ahead as it matters to envisage. . . .
The rewards of growth will flow most
strongly to those who can bring to bear
the. pioneering enterprise, capital and
technical skills needed to promote large-
scale resource development. It is just
this realisation which led to the decision
to amalgamate the . . . interests repre-
sented by Conzinc Riotinto of Australia
Ltd,” the paen starts.
Shareholders might well be impressed
by a great deal of evidence marshalled
to show the group’s capacity to develop
quickly, “and at short notice”, especially
as instanced by the Mary Kathleen suc-
cess story. Some caution towards a
wholly smooth future will doubtless be
held firmly in mind.
For it is far too simple to spell out
lead, zinc, silver, uranium, coal, alumin-
ium, iron ore and whatever —and then
project an uninterrupted path. Snags
are particularly evident in lead, zinc,
uranium and aluminium.
Directors straightforwardly admit
uranium’s coming difficulties, when 1963
sees completion of the UK contract and
the end of assured high profits. “A firm
basis has not been developed for profit-
ability in the years immediately there-
after,” comes the candid admission.
In this same manner they should really
have faced the Common Market’s likely
influence upon Australian lead-zinc ex-
ports, if Britain joins—as still seems most
probable. Not merely mining output,
but the group’s whole smelting complex
stands under this cloud. It can hardly be
maintained that immediate lead-zinc
hopes are very rosy, anyhow.
Some qualified enthusiasm for the
bauxite-aluminium plans may well have
ensued from the present world-supply
outlook, but earlier projections are prac-
tically reiterated. These display Aus-
tralia with a sizeable export surplus by
1966 and a return to deficiency by 1970.
Hope springs eternal. . . .
All in all, as we have observed, not an
easy share to evaluate. Investors can
certainly be advised to keep their weather
eye well cocked.
are several reasons to rejoice in
the latest results of Repco, the
country’s biggest automotive parts maker
and distributor. They are assuredly not
confined to a well-heeled capacity to lift
dividend from 10 to 11-2/3 p.c. in a
25th anniversary year. The company has
held a confident 10 p.c. since 1958 and
this year managed a higher earning rate
on steady capital.
What appears most notable in the
record profit achieved is first and locally
the field of its success largely motor
vehicles, until recently a sore spot in the
economy. But directors have also drawn
attention to a 50 p.c. increase in export
sales. As reports during the year have
emphasised, they take this side of the
business seriously and now reflect that
it has “helped lower the cost of products
marketed in Australia.”


(0
FINANCE
CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in South Australia)
FULLY SECURED
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
PER ANNUM 10 YEARS
W /O
fHEPT AHHUM s YEARS
5f%
PER ANNUM 2 YEARS
Prospectuses should be
obtained from and applications made to: —
JOINT BANKERS TO THE ISSUE
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney,
P-?rth
Applications for Debenture Stock can be accepted only
oh the printed form attached to the prospectus.
T 428
TALK AROUND CHANGE
Report of a £ 129,000 loss in the latest
year to June continues the sorry
saga of Melbourne textiler Davies Coop
and Co. Ltd.
Keeping in mind the import and econ-
omic conditions which were common to
ihe whole textile industry, Davies Coop’s
fortunes contrast markedly with those of
Bradford Cotton Mills Ltd and Bond’s
Industries Ltd. Davies Coop’s troubles
can be attributed partly to bad luck and
partly to bad judgment.
A huge expansion programme was
embarked on when the company already
had surplus capacity. It was heavily
financed by fixed-interest borrowings.
Lifting of import barriers crippled sales,
and the credit squeeze also killed the
market for surplus properties and added
to the interest burdens.
A capital reconstruction seems the logi
cal solution to chronic financial ailments.
T ast week’s back page ad for the
Holden Premier, featuring “genuine
top-grained leather upholstery”, prompted
our enquiries into the leather industry.
Nowadays the cost of upholstering
furniture or car with real leather is gener-
ally considered prohibitive, although
there is no doubt that G.M.-H is using
genuine leather upholstery. Vinyl plastic
is the accepted substitute, and the appear-
ance is so satisfactory that even glove
makers have mistaken Japanese Vinyl
gloves for the genuine article.
It appears that the publicly listed com-
panies are chiefly concerned with supply-
ing leather for footwear, bags and travel
goods, rather than as upholstery.
Incidental information was that, while
composite materials may be encroaching
on leather for shoe soles, and overseas as
much as 70 p.c. of shoe soles were syn-
thetic materials, there was no substitute
for leather in shoe uppers.
The local suppliers of leather uppers
such as J. Bayley and Sons Ltd, Associa-
ted Leathers Ltd, and Geo. Pizzey and
Sons Ltd, were hard put to satisfy de-
mand, since restrictions were imposed
some six months or so ago, on the import
of leather from foot-and-mouth disease
areas in Europe, and in Argentina.
It/fR G. J. Dusseldorp has not yet pro-
vided shareholders with profit figures
for each separate activity of Lend Lease
Corporation Ltd, as he said he was willing
to do if others would follow suit.
However, the relative importance of
each division in the group is indicated by
the percentage contributions made “to
meet administrative expenses and interest
and to provide profit”—namely, con-
struction 41 p.c., development 37 p.c.,
finance 3 p.c., industrial 7 p.c. and invest-
ment 12 p.c. Total revenue rocketed from
£4.6 to £13.5 millions.
Elsewhere in the accounts are detailed
reports on the activities of each division.
The completeness of the reporting to
shareholders, incorporated in an attrac-
tive and well-illustrated brochure, makes
Lend Lease again a strong contender foj:
the Institute of Management’s Annu|l
Report Award which it carried off last
year.


Incorporated in N.S.W. 1951
£750,000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
PER ANNUM
FOR 5 YEARS
OR BJ% PER ANNUM FOR 10 A EARS
Trustees for Debenture Stock Holders: The M.L.C. Nominees Limited
Prospectus containing application forms can be obtained from:
© Any branch of the National Bank of Australasia in N.S.W. and
Canberra.
® Stocks & Holdings Limited, 329 George Street, Sydney. 8X3041.
® Any member of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
Underwritten bv:
J. and J. NORTH
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Kindersley House,
20 O’Connell Street
Sydney. 25-6511.
and
57 Hunter Street,
Newcastle. 84645.
Applications must be made on the application form attacked to the Prospectus.
Investors who paid 4d. for the rights
to the one-for-one issue of ss. shares
at 2s. 6d. premium made by Deposit and
Investment Co. Ltd, the old NSW Monte
de Piete Co., back in December 1960,
must be whooping with delight at the
present price of their shares.
Report of a 50 p.c. profit increase in
the last year to June 30, and only a small
reduction in earning rate on the heavily
increased capital, sent the shares as high
as 16s. 6d.
Directors were concerned with the bad
debts, and have provided an additional
£157,898 for doubtful debts, bringing
total provision to £310,000.
Adoption of modern actuarial methods
of determining the unearned interest
made no marked difference to the re-
sults, directors announced.
HThere’s nothing provincial about the
performance of Ballarat valve-maker,
M. B. John and Hattersley Ltd, in lifting
profit by 18 p.c. in the last 12 months to
June 30, and announcing a one-for-four
bonus issue. The last issue to share-
holders was a one-for-one at par ; 1952,
and a note issue the following year carry-
ing options to shares.
M. B. John is anyway the largest valve
and pressure vessel sp ialist this side
of the Equator. The Hattersley part of
the name comes from Hattersley (Orm-
skirk) Ltd, well-known English valve-
maker, that became associated with the
Ballarat outfit in 1955. There are sub-
sidiary companies operating in New
South Wales and Queensland.
The record profit was struck after
substantially increased provisions for tax
and depreciation. In a period of gener-
ally unfavorable trade winds, such a
result qualifies the company for the front
rank of growth stocks.
/Clothing maker, Cleo-Cladders Ltd,
reduced stocks from the unusually
high level of £47,130 to £ 1t,953 in
the year to June 30, by selling much of
it at a loss.
The freehold property at Kiama was
written up by £4,250, and plant and
goodwill were written down by £12,831.
The overdraft of £ 12,265 at previous
balance date has been converted to a
cash position of £11,547, which would
be augmented by £24,000 received from
the issue of 80,000 ordinary shares at
6s. per share, since June 30.
These are the foundations for the
establishment of a merchant banking
house.
T7ictorian Broadcasting has spread
* its network to the west by a
£387,000 takeover of a W.A. Broad-
casting group, Nicholsons Ltd.
It will sell the merchandising and re-
tailing interests to Vox Adeon Howard
Holding Ltd, with whom VBN will est-
ablish a finance company.
VBN profit for the year to June 30
was slightly lower than in 1960-61, but
an earning rrte of 37.4 p.c. was still
extraordinarily good, giving more than a
100 p.c. margin over the 17J p.c. div-
idend.
Shareholders will hear more about the
West Australian deal in the annual re-
port. The advice “Go west, young man”
has greater significance today than ever
before, so they may view the move with
confidence.
A second successive profit fall by
Buckley and Nunn Ltd, Myer's next
door neighbor, gives a hollow ring to the
3.5 p.c. yield which the ss. shares are
currently returning at about 17s. 9d.
The company was caught in a rare
expansive mood by the Federal Govern-
ment's economic pressures.
This rather stodgy retailer has apart
from its main central store, a new store
in Post Office place, and another in
Myer’s Chadstone shopping centre. It has
an excellent reputation for menswear and
piecegoods, but does not condescend to
chase the big spenders—the young people.
Its results are neither good enough nor
bad enough to attract takeover attention,
although both Myer’s and David Jones
have been mentioned as possible suitors
in the past.


/vex*:'
maximum secur
>s >
»wuw»w w* w t - ■■--•• £ ■"■'""<■
. RIGHT
AT YOUR
FINGERTIPS
WITH
SPECIAL KEYING SYSTEMS
GMK
r~
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which operates that lock only and
no other, but the locks are divided into two or more groups. Each group
is subject to its own Master-Key which opens all locks in that group, but
no other group. _ .. .
However, all locks are also subject to a Grand Master-Key which opens
all locks in all groups. . .
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike groups may also be included
in G.M.K. Systems.
REPLACING INSECURITY
AND CONFUSION WITH
MAXIMUM SECURITY ,
MAXIMUM
CONVENIENCE!
In industry and commerce today a Lockwood MK System is an essential
pre-requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade
and Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part
of the building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are
held on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries —
snabling quick replacement of lost keys or damaged locks “true to code , and
allowing absolute control of additions or extensions to the system.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss
Master-Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty.
Limited at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention.
IPCK UP
Manufactured in Australia by
OGDEN INDUSTRIES PTY. LIMITED
Brisbane 7-3047 • Sydney LM 3191, LM 3186 • Canberra 4-4098
Adelaide W 2153 • Perth 23-2214 • Hobart 3-3141 • Melbourne 569-0611
A fter consummating his shrewd deal
with fellow directors of Peters Ice
Cream (Vic.) giving his company, Per-
mewan Wright, the stores of Grocery and
General and, later, acquiring W. J. Gor-
man Pty. Ltd., Sir John Allison has been,
and still is, looking for fresh fields to
conquer for Permewan. As a start he
clawed 15 stores from G. J. Coles’ sub-
sidiary, United Groceries, in the Sydney
metropolitan area. Who will be the next?
Sir John is clearly impressed with the
economies to be gained from his en-
hanced buying power and is rapidly
assuming the guise of grocer in the image
of Woolworths and Coles. However, the
market is quite happy to treat the £ 1
shares warily, for at 365. 9d. they yield as
much as 6.9 p.c. on the latest dividend
rate of 121 p.c.
Perhaps when Sir John shows that this
form in the metropolitan areas is as good
as his company’s record in the country
(where only 40 p.c. of its stores are
located now) they will go somewhat
higher. But whoever heard of self ser-
vice in Permewan’s far flung country
emporiums?
HThe market has been somewhat puzzled
as to where Mayne Nickless' one-for-
four-bonus issue is coming from and
indeed what were the motives behind it,
these points not being explained in the
company's statement about this issue and
the new one-for-four premium issue to
be made of 10s. shares at 15s.
These two issues will lift ordinary
capital to about £2 million, compared
with £717,411 at June 1961. The divi-
dend on the higher capital is expected to
go to 12i p.c.
It would require a prodigious effort to
service all this capital at the 15 p.c. rate
paid for each of the three years to June
1961, the more so considering the
heightened competition by the Railways,
now the Sydney-Melbourne standard
gauge line is encroaching on the com-
pany’s business.
This competition could eat into this
year’s profits, but it would not have had
much effect on last year’s results which
are awaited. In the previous year the
15 p.c. payment was covered by earnings
of 28.2 p.c.
Ohares of South Melbourne engineer,
Malcolm Moore Industries, have seen
a very good market since their promise
was mentioned here several weeks ago.
However, at 13s. 6d. the £1 shares are
still far too low for a company which,
though still to declare its hand for 1961-
62, which may not have been so good,
has been out of the dividend list only
once (1957) in the last dozen years.
The company is now full of work
with big contracts for both Alcoa and
Comalco and another for the Hazelwood
power station in the Latrobe Valley.
HThe pattern of profits from textile com-
A panies is taking shape in expected
fashion. The carpet manufacturers, with
Minister Ltd to the early fore, are clearly
going to make the season’s best display.
The Bulletin mentioned Felt and
Textiles a week or two ago as another
with big interests in carpets who could
well justify a higher price for its ss.
shares and some buyers have taken the
hint.
Felt and Textiles have moved up to
7s. 9d. in front of the forthcoming
accounts to yield a very useful 6i p.c.
on the long established 10 p.c. dividend
rate.


A PORTFOLIO THROUGH "RIGHTS"
"Oights to take up new shares have
always provided fertile ground for
the professional investor. Purchase of
rights in nine out of 10 cases is a < ’ aper
•—and, therefore, more rewarding—
method of obtaining shares and this has
been for many years a key part of the
portfolio building operation of the wise.
But, in a dull business climate new
capital raisings are few. Capital is not
required by those board rooms lacking
confidence in the short haul of the econ-
omy.
Equally, most investors are not look-
ing for equity bargains save those offer-
ing high income. The growth factor is
not one of great moment if there is no
confidence in the ability of the economy
to grow. The current rush to invest in
fixed interest is adequate proof of this.
Today, then, little interest is being
taken in rights—and fe y rights to take
interest in.
But, here is the pirscri. d sc ng for
sound and profitable equity investment
for those who do have faith ii the busi-
ness community and the economy.
So, to the floor of the ’Change where
three ‘Tights” of note are currently being
traded at what appear as depressed prices.
These, the only rights listed at the
moment, are “pickings” that deserve pon-
dering.
CSR, Woolworths and Lend Lease are
the offerings. And they would make,
collectively, an excellent basis for a
young person’s portfolio, each being a
leader of its field, and each at near “low”
prices.
CSR
'Jhe rights to take up CSR’s 20s.
shares at 30s. each sold earlier this
week at 17s. Thus, one CSR share
obtained through purchase of the rights
would cost a total of 475. 6d. including
brokerage.
CSR has not been as cheap as this
for donkey s years. And the reason for
the depressed price is a technical market
one and has little to do with the com-
pany’s current performance.
The market, it seems, is not prepared
to forgive the sugar giant for what was
a bad year in 1960-61. This, despite
a relatively good 1961-62 and good
prospects for 1962-63.
Dividend moved up to 9| p.c.
for the latest year (headed for 10 p.c.
this year?) after earnings moved up a
spectacular 30 per cent.
Yet, the share market has remained
unimpressed to date. One suspects that
it will be prepared to forgive the com-
pany if the current year is as good as
it could be.
When the details of the CSR issue
were announced, the rights had a theoret-
ical value of 21s. 6d. All information
was then available, yet the price has
come back more than 18 p.c.
Given continuation of the current
trading trend, current share prices could
be “bottom”, a nice time to buy for
long-term holding.
The rights will be on the market
list until October 1.
Lend Lease
npHE alert Mr G. J. Dusseldorp has
led the Lend Lease Corporation
through the difficult two years past with
flying colors.
Any damage done—and, there has
been some damage such as inability to
sell some expensive home unit blocks —
has been more than offset by efficient
and agile management. The 10 p.c.
dividend was covered more than twice
by the latest profit—indicating that it
is here to stay.
The rights to take up ss. shares at
10s. each are currently selling for 4s. 6d.
each; total cost of a share by purchase
of the rights is thus 14s. 9d.—including
brokerage and stamp duty.
This is not the lowest price for ages
—the shares drooped near to 11s. last
year under excessive fear of the impact
of the “dampening down”—but is the
lowest at which the stock has been
availale this year to date.
As commercial Australia develops,
Lend Lease will grow. Already, in less
than a decade, it has become the senior
commercial real estate developer in Aus-
tralia.
A sound investment, again suited to
the young man, or to long-term holding.
Lend Lease rights will be on the
Exchange lists until September 12.
Woolworths
IIfooLWORTHS Ltd needs no introduc-
” tion —either to the professional or
the lay investor.
Fast growing now in food and
supermarkets as well as in its traditional
variety stores —Woolworths has as great
a future as has Australia.
Investing in retailing relies heavily
on management. Woolworths manage-
ment record is as good as, if not better
than, any in Australia.
When Woolworths announced its
issue, the rights to take up ss. shares
at par (55.) had a theoretical value of
9s. 2d. Today the rights are available
at Bs. Id.
A purchase through the rights gives
the buyer a Woolworth ss. share for a
total cost of 13s. 4d., inclusive of
charges. The stock has not been avail-
able at this price for five years.
Again, Woolworths is a growth stock
admirably suited to the long-term in-
vestor. Woolworths rights remain on the
lists until January 24 next year; so
there is plenty of time left. However,
the rights could move higher as selling
pressure eases off.
The three stocks which offer rights
trading are sound ones, each for good
reasons. The following table shows how
£.lOOO could be invested for what is
a rewarding basis for a portfolio.
The income from this portfolio, as
seen from the table below, may not
be high initially, but it will grow as
issues are made, and as dividends are
increased.
And capital appreciation from an up-
ward movement of the market is a very
likely event in the three stocks.
The new investor could hardly expect
a better selection. Even his bank man-
ager would be suitably impressed, for this
portfolio would add considerable weight
to the credit rating of the holder.
No. of rights Stock Rights* Payable Total Dividend
to purchase Price To Co. Cost Income
£ £
200 C.S.R. 17/9 30/- 475 20f
300 Lend Lease 4/9 10/- 221 7/10/-
500 Woolworths 8/4 5/- 333 15
TOTAL 1029 42/10/-
f If dividend goes to 10% as seems likely.
* Inclusive of brokerage.


Company Analysis
HENRY JONES CO-OPERATIVE LTD SHARES
ARE OVER-PRICED
By “SECURITY”.
A T the first blush the £1 shares in Henry
Jones Co-operative Ltd now selling
at around 78s. 6d. might seem good buy-
ing when it is considered that the paid up
capital of about £2.5 million is supported
by reserves totalling over £8 million and
that the company has most conservatively
valued assets and a current earning rate
of over 30 p.c. on capital.
However, behind this state of affairs
appears to be company policy of giving
as little away in dividends as possible.
For, since its formation in 1907 it has
had an unbroken dividend record, and
although for the past quarter of a century
it has paid 10 p.c. rate (except for a dis-
tribution of 11J p.c. in 1939), the gap
between dividend rate and earnings is
continually widening until today the
dividend is only one-third of earnings.
Such conservatism in the dividend
rate might be pardoned by shareholders
were they treated regularly to bonus issues
or even cash par issues (which would
have a “bonus” element in them). But
even this is hardly the case.
Over the past 10 years, two cash issues
have been made—one in 1953 and the
other in 1958, both on a one-for-six at
par basis. For signs of a bonus issue one
has to go back to 1927 when one-for-two
bonus issue was made. Thus, the stock
would hardly rank in shareholders' eyes
as a growth stock, let alone an income
stock.
Even speculation in the company’s
shares on hopes of a benefit should have
been quelled following a statement in
1959 by the chairman that the price of
the shares (about 775. 6d. then) was
beyond directors’ understanding and that
potential shareholders should not be
“influenced by any anticipations of ANY
benefits in the immediate foreseeable
future”.
There is little doubt that the earning
rate on ordinary capital is being main-
tained only by ploughing back of the
majority of the profits each year. Thus,
although the earning rate of capital has
risen slightly from 29.9 p.c. in 1955 to
30.5 p.c. in 1961 (with a drop in 1958
because of the cash issue), the earning
rate as a percentage of ordinary share-
holder’s funds has slipped from 9.2 p.c.
to 7.1 p.c. in the same period.
This shows that despite the ploughing
back of between £600,000 and £700,000
a year (from retained profits and depre-
ciation allowances in Australia and over-
seas) there has been no marked effect on
the per share earnings and a downward
bias if the shareholder’s funds are used
as a measuring rod
In coming years the company will have
to face up to a number of problems. On
the home market it faces a declining de-
mand for jam products, which is being
reflected in lower production in the indus-
try. Production of jam in the industry in
1961 was less than 55 p.c. of the 1946
production figure.
Associated with this falling consump-
tion of jam there has been a switch to
“quality” lines and it is in this respect
that Henry Jones’ IXL brand will continue
to meet stiff competition from the highly
regarded Cottees and Rosella brands.
Perhaps the most publicised of Henry
Jones’ future problems is the impact that
Britain's proposed entry into the Euro-
pean Common Market will have on its
fruit canning business (both in the short
run and in the long run).
Although the directors in their 1961
annual report stated that they believed
that whatever was done the Common-
wealth requirements would be fully safe-
guarded, one would today be forgiven for
thinking that that was hoping for a bit
too much.
Reputed to be the most profitable of all
interests outside Australia (and here one
must remember that the companies out-
side the Commonwealth of Australia are
now producing greater profits than those
within Australia), the South African inter-
ests must be regarded in the light of the
politically unstable atmosphere and also,
of course, the Common Market problem.
With respect to the former, the direc-
tors stated in their latest report to share-
holders that they did not share any fears
about the future of South Africa, but be-
lieved that the policy of the Government
would be to “further promote the growth
of that great country with justice to all”.
Thus, it would seem from all accounts
that the shares at around 78s. 6d to yield
2.5 p.c. from the 10 p.c. dividend are
overpriced. For, at around four times
par they are currently being priced in the
growth category, yet there has been no
significant growth (from a shareholder’s
point of view) over the past ten years.
Henry Jones might be rich in assets,
but its earnings when related to funds
employed are exhibiting a downward
trend. The only seeming justification for
its present price would be in hopes for
a takeover bid for the company which
could then result in a defensive bonus
issue, or else that with earnings at over
30 p.c. on ordinary capital the directors
might within the next few years raise
the dividend to, say, 121 p.c. (the rate
paid in the early 19205) or even 13f p.c.
(paid in the years 1923-26).
BALANCE SHEET PROFIT STATEMENT
SUMMARIES (£,000)
Year to October 31 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961
Current Assets 5525 6253 7426 7886 8280
less Current Liabilities 2087 2049 2128 2395 2483
Working Capital 3438 4204 5298 5491 5797
Land & Buildings 1912 2058 2136 2252 2354
Other Fixed Assets 1516 1620 1555 1536 1508
Investments 871 559 651 890 1024
Intangibles 51 51 47 47 55
Total Capital 7788 8492 9687 10216 10738
represented by
Ordinary Capital 2115 2485 2485 2485 2485
Outside Shldrs. 148 152 160 159 157
Reserves 5525 5855 7042 7572 8096
“Operating” Income 1211 1199 1335 1436 1550
Earnings 534 556 678 737 759
Ord. Dividends 212 239 249 249 249
Dividend Yield (a) 3.2 3.9 2.6 2.9 2.6
Price/Earnings Ration (a) 12.3 11.5 13.9 11.5 12.6
(a) Based on last sale in month accounts presented.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
BENNETT AND FISHER LTD
IN NEED OF REGENERATION
current move by directors of
Bennett and Fisher Ltd, a South
Australian company, to provide super-
annuation benefits for themselves is an
example of their detachment from public
opinion in the market place.
Their proposal is that all directors
(other than the managing director who
is already provided for) should be paid
a retiring allowance equal to one-fifth
of his annual remuneration at the time
of retirement or death, for each year
of service as a director (including past
service). Their object of personal
security appears to modern-thinking
observers to conflict with the company’s
requirement of flexibility and fresh ideas
from vigorous minds.
The presentation of the 1962 accounts
is a great advance on previous years, al-
though new company legislation has not
been enacted in South Australia yet.
However, the old-fashioned style and the
directors’ paternal reticence would debar
them from any prize in the Institute of
Management’s Annual Award.
Before 1962 it was impossible to
determine the company’s working capi-
tal position because stocks and plant
were, for unimaginable reasons, lumped
in one item.
Curiously, although tax provision has
been disclosed since incorporation in
1919, revelation of the depreciation pro-
vision was discontinued without com-
ment in 1956, until the latest accounts
were published.
Bennett and Fisher Ltd was formed
originally to take over the stock and
station agency and auctioneering business
of Bennett and Fisher and the wool
brokerage and agency business of
Cheadle Crase and Co. Real estate and
merchandise departments were opened
later.
Although profits were made con-
tinuously through the depression years,
ordinary dividends were omitted for
seven years. Since then dividends have
been progressively built up to 20 p.c. for
1954 through to 1956. After a one-for-
one par issue in June 1956, dividend was
reduced to 15 p.c. per annum.
In June 1960 an issue of £300,000
li p.c. convertible unsecured notes was
made to shareholders in the ratio of
one-for-two. They convert to ordinary
shares on June 30, 1963.
Like all similar businesses, profits are
prone to fluctuation according to season-
al conditions and wool prices. The 1951
result was by far the best up to that
time, and this has been approached
only twice since, in 1956 and 1957.
Latest profit, for the year to June 30,
1962, of £151,061 was after £90,000
tax provision and £42,225 depreciation.
The previous year's tax provision of
£130,000 and net result of £ 172,979
(after unstated depreciation) infer a
considerable decline in real profitability
in the year under review.
Seasonal conditions were adverse,
bringing increasing numbers of livestock
on to the market at considerably lower
prices than usual. Quantity wool sales
were higher in 1961-62 than in the pre-
vious year.
Earning rate declined from 25.1 to
21.4 p.c. on ordinary capital, after
allowing for the usual preference charges
of £22,500.
The company has branches at Broken
Hill and Alice Springs, and 31 through-
out South Australia. Its wool store at
Port Adelaide (erected in 1920), skin
stores and machinery department in
Currie Street, Adelaide, and merchandise
centre at Athol Park, plus the branch
properties and head office are all valued
at cost less depreciation plus leasehold
improvements, at £1,312,127. The new
head office building was occupied just
before balance date in 1962.
Reserves at latest balance date totalled
£997,424, consisting of £900,000 gen-
eral reserve and the balance profit and
loss appropriation carry-forward. The
asset backing per A preference 20s. share
was £l2 13s. od., per B preference 20s.
share £ll 13s. od., and per 20s. ordin-
ary share 535. 3d.
The conversion of unescured notes to
ordinary shares next balance date means
that the company each year will have to
find an additional £.52,500 before tax,
to service these funds, if the present 15
p.c. dividend rate is to be maintained.
Shareholders have i ot been advised of
the possible extent of the company’s
commitments if the current proposals
for directors’ superannuation are auth-
orised at the annual meeting on August
31.
The company’s long record is rela-
tively uninspiring, and its accounts sug-
gest it needs regeneration rather than
fossilisation at board level.
The convertible notes are not listed.
Sales of the 20s. ordinary shares have
been recorded between 48s. and 545.
this calendar year. A recent sale was at
50s. to yield 6 p.c. Ignoring any possi-
bility of the company being taken over,
the shares at this level look definitely
over-priced.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £’ooo
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets not known 2206
less current liabilities 1493 1365 1291 1240 1551
Working capital 655
Fixed assets no-t known 1452
Investments not known 91
1690 1759 2098 2159 2198
Represented by:
Loan capital 300 300 300
Preference capital 300 300 300 300 300
Ordinary capital 600 600 600 600 600
Reserves 790 859 898 959 998
1690 1759 2098 2159 2198
Depreciation not known 42
Taxation 106 104 95 130 90
Net Earnings 182 177 156 173 151
Earnings for ordinaries 160 155 134 151 129
Ord. dividends 90 90 90 90 90
Surplus 70 65 44 61 39
Earning rate p.c. 26.7 25.9 22.3 25.1 21.4
Ord. div. rate p.c. 15 15 15 15 15
Dividend yield (a) 6.3 6.3 6.7
High price (b) 48/9 61/3 49/2
Low price (b) 36/5 35/6 40/
(a) End of August, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
WILLIAM ADAMS AND CO. LTD.
SHOCK FALL; SOME RECOVERY EVIDENT
npHE stumbling of one of Australia’s
best regarded steel merchants in
the year to April 30, necessitated a
hasty revision of market values early last
month.
Since the end of the depression Wil-
liam Adams has had a very creditable
record. Through branches in all State
capitals, plus Newcastle and Wollon-
gong, Launceston and Kalgoorlie, it
supplies a wide variety of steels, machine
tools, hand tools and engineering
supplies.
In those years when steel was con-
tinuously in short supply and import
quotas controlled the market, William
Adams could call the tune to customers,
but directors now refer to a sizeable
shrinkage in the demand for steel in
the last 18 months since Government
economic measures were brought down
in November 1960.
Sales were maintained at a good level
in the merchandise division, according to
the chairman’s annual address, but profit
was not commensurate with sales efforts,
owing to the competitive nature of the
business.
The engineering division was relatively
quiet because the purchasing of plant


A. L. NEVin. DRAPER & CO.
A L NEVIT'I A C DRAPER.
N W C DRAPER
'Members ol Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building.
297 Queen Street. Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address - “NEVITTCO”
Phone; 31-2761 P.O BOX
(4 lines) No. IBB7W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH.
i Denham Street. Phone 6089
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
Prudential Building,
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5957 (4 lines)
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale” Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street. Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721.
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
IT'
More for
mum,
more
for dud,
for,
the kidsi
your
greatest
magazine*
Everybody's
by industry was on a much reduced
scale during 1961-62. The company was
concerned with longer delivery times for
machines from overseas suppliers.
Amongst the many valuable UK and
American agencies, William Adams
handles power generating plant and tur-
bines from C. A. Parsons and Co. Ltd.
In the last year orders exceeding £7
million were secured, which will not be
fulfilled before 1968.
Profit of William Adams Steel Rein-
forcement Co. Pty Ltd, the subsidiary
specialising in steel bending and steel
reinforcements used by building con-
tractors, had, as management expected,
a lower profit in the period under review.
Balm Paints (an ICIANZ subsidiary)
is making Ferrodor Metal Protective
Paint, and sharing its Australian distribu-
tion with the William Adams subsidiary
Griffiths Bros Ferrodor Paint Co. Pty
Ltd.
The Victorian and Tasmanian agencies
for Caterpillar tractors and Hyster in-
dustrial trucks have contributed greatly to
the group’s success in recent years. In
the latest term, however, as any lay-
man would suspect, sales were appreci-
ably down on the prior period. The sub-
sidiary concerned, William Adams
Tractors Pty Ltd, however, did secure a
substantial part of its orders from the
Government. The company takes pride
in its service, which it maintained not-
withstanding the cost.
Overall, all State branches suffered
except Western Australia, where business
has been stimulated by many develop-
ment plans.
The net result of trading was a slump
in profit from £316,693 to £102,143,
after allowing £51,952 (1961 £215,-
556) for the tax commissioner and
charging £82,755 (£74,171) for de-
preciation. The company brought in
£17,879 excess accruements in respect
of previous years to show a profit of
£120,022. The 1961 profit was before
transferring £20,000 to stock reserve
and a similar amount for doubtful debts.
Another indicator of past provisions
for a rainy year was the £ 14,000 written
back for staff benefit and long service
leave, making the net charge for 1962
only £2597.
The earning rate dipped from 26.4
to 6.9 p.c. and the usual 15 p.c. divi-
dend rate was abandoned. Even so,
payment of 10 p.c. to ordinary share-
holders involved resort to reserves.
Stocks were reduced to a more desir-
able level of £3.6 million allowing pay-
ment of creditors accounts including the
bank. The one-for-five par share issue of
February 1961 and an additional issue
of £400,000 debenture stock also ac-
counted for the dramatic improvement
in liquidity.
Group sales, revealed for the first
time, were 13.2 p.c. lower in 1962 than
1961, but the trend was to livelier trad-
ing in the last stages of the year. For
the opening quarter of this current year,
sales were up 10 p.c. on the previous
corresponding period.
The acting chairman (Mr. C. G.
Caiman) rightly said that demand was
the key to this year’s results. He ex-
pected the demand for earth-moving
equipment to improve after the winter,
and the steel division showed signs of
improvement. The engineering division
had received numerous enquiries, and
management was hoping these would
crystallise into orders as confidence re-
turned.
The company is now heavily burd-
ened with loan capital - £1 million in
8 p.c. debentures, £306,000 in loans on
mortgage, and £600,000 in 6 p.c. notes
which convert to ordinary shares on
April 30, 1965. If funds are required
before 1965, another share issue seems
the likeliest source.
The convertible notes were lately ob-
tainable at around 365. to yield 3.3 p.c.
They participate equally with shares in
any share or note issue, and the com-
pany has covenanted to make no bonus
issue during the currency of the notes.
There is, however, no provision in the
notes Trust Deed for a takeover.
Holders of 20s. shares, traded at about
455. 4d., to yield 4.4 p.c. should be able
to recoup between 6s. and 9s. in divi-
dends in the next three years, depending
on whether the company can restore the
15 p.c. rate, whereas noteholders will
receive approximately 3s. 7d. in interest
until conversion.
The income differential between the
notes and shares is therefore something
between 2s. sd. and ss. 5d., so that
shareholders could consider a switch to
notes, and investors, without a present
holding in William Adams, could buy
the notes at anything under 40s. with
every confidence of a good recovery.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £’ooo
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 3216 3873 3668 5995 5240
less current liabilities 1718 2032 1393 2730 1401
Working capital 1498 1841 2275 3265 3839
Investments 50 20 28 25 22
Fixed assets 926 1442 1433 1623 1597
Total capital 2474 3303 3736 4913 5458
Represented by:
Loan capital 200 677 969 1548 1906
Minority interests 8 8 8 8
Advance capital 186
Ordinary capital 1180 1200 1200 1200 1560
Reserves 1094 1418 1559 1971 1984
2474 3303 3736 4913 5458
Sales 13,455 11,674
Depreciation 67 68 54 74 83
Taxation 151 157 228 216 52
Net Earnings 203 230 335 317 102
Dividend 176 178 180 180 147
Surplus 27 52 155 137 -45
Earn, rate p.c. 17.3 19.3 27.9 26.4 6.9
Div. rate p.c. 15 15 15 15 10
Div. yield p.c. (a) 5.1 5.0 3.9 4.7
High share price (b) 61/ 63/6 64/9 85/9 71/6
Low share price (b) 52/ 56/ 50/6 54/9 59/
High note price (b) 48/9 67/ 57/3
Low note price (b) —•— 42/6 40/ 45/9
(a) End of August, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.


Company
Par
Value
Last
Sale
1 961
Prices—
10/8/62
17/8/62
Div.
Rate
P'e
Div.
Yield
p.c.
Earn.
Rate
p.c.
Earn
Yield
P c
Amalgamated Chemicals
5/
14/3
18/
18/2
12%
3.4
21.4
5.9
A.W.A
5/
2 0/4'/ 2
20/
20/
14
3.5
22
5.5
Ampol
5/
11/4
12/2
11/10
14
5.9
19
9.8
A.R.C.
10/
46/3
47/3
47/
15
3.2
29.7
6.4
Associated Pulp
20/
29/3
29/6
30/
—
—
13.6
9.1
Aust. Chemicals
10/
30/4 Ms
23/10
23/9
12%
5.3
21.5
9.2
AC.I
20/
72/6
64/9
63/6
8-1/3
2.6
14.5
4.5
Aust. Guarantee .. .. ..
5/
14/
14/4
13/8
15
5.5
19
7
Aust. Gypsum
5/
14/3
14 6
14 4
10
3.5
15.9
5.1
A.P.M
20/
25/3
23/3
23/3
8-1/3
7
11.9
10.2
Bank N.S.W
£20
£34
£41%
£40%
9
4.5
12.2
6.1
Bitumen and Oil
5/
24/
23/3
23/3
17%
3.8
35.4
7.7
Blue Metal Ind
5/
22/7%
22/4
21/9
15
3.4
27/6
6.4
Bradford Cotton
5/
7/6
6/6
6/6
10
7.5
11.2
8.4
British Tobacco
20/
25/
24/10
25/3
9
7.2
9.7
7.8
B.H.P
20/
69/
55/3
55/3
6%
2.3
13.7
6.9
Burns Philp .. ,,
20/
91/
£5
99/6
10
2
18.6
3.7
C.S.R
20/
£59% a
48/3
48/5
9%
3.9
14.8
6.1
C.A.G.A
5/
11/3
10/7
10/9
10
4.7
12.4
5.8
C.I.G
20/
£5
95/
95/
11
2.3
25.3
5.3
Commercial Union .. ..
5/
19/3
20/
20- 3
6%
1.6
18.4
4.5
Concrete Ind.
5/
15/1%
14/
13/10
10
3.6
16.6
6
Cox Bros
5/
7/6
7/2
7/3
10
6.9
11.8
8.5
C.R.A
5/
18/6
17/3
12
3.5
—
—
Custom Credit
5/
13/
11/5
11/4
15
6.6
18.2
8.1
Cyclone
10/
26/
20 9
20 9
10
4.8
17.7
8.5
Dalgety-N.Z. Loan .. ..
25/
—
36/
36/
8
5.4
13.9
9
David Jones ..
5/
18/9
17/6
17/3
12%
3.6
28.7
7
Drug Houses .. ., ..
20/
69/
69/9
69/6
11%
3.2
17.7
5.1
Dunlop Rubber
20/
35/
41/6
41/6
10
4.7
16
7.6
Elder Smith ,,
12/
23/9
25/6
24/11
10
4.8
12.6
6
Electronic “B”
10/
13/3
16/3
17/7
12%
7.1
—
—
Email ..
5/
7/6
8 1
7/10
10
6.3
11
6
E.Z. Ind
10/
12/11
12/9
12/8
10
7.9
12.4
9.5
Felt and Textiles
5/
6/11
7/7
7/8
10
6.5
13.9
9.2
G. J. Coles
5/
13/6
13/3
13/3
11
4.1
15.1
5.7
Goldsbrough
20/
28.6
32/
32/
8
5
12.6
7.8
H. C. Sleigh
5/
11/
11/11
11/2
12%
5.5
13.4
5.9
Henry Jones
20/
80/
77/6
78 6
10
2.5
28.6
7.3
H. G. Palmer
5/
15/6
17/
17/
12%
3.6
33.4
9.8
Howard Smith
20/
54/
48 6
47/
10
4.2
13.6
4.3
Humes
20/
70/6
76/
75/6
14
3.7
24.6
6.5
I.A.C
5/
13/4
13/6
13/10
11-2/3
6
20.6
7.4
I.C.I.A.N.Z
20/
38/
39/9
40/
7
3.5
9.7
4.2
J. Gadsden
10/
15/3
18/
17/9
8
4.5
10.4
5.8
Kandos Cement
5/
20/6
19/9
12%
3.1
13.5
3.4
Kelvinator
5/
18/3
19/1
17/9
15
4.1
28.6
7.9
Lend Lease
5/
20/
16/9
14/9xR
10
3.4
21.5
7.3
L. J. Hooker
5/
7/
4/1
4/
—
—
1.1*
1.4
Mercantile Credits .. ..
5/
8/8
9/10
9/6
10
5.3
16.6
8.8
McPhersons .. ..
20/
47/
39/
38-6
8-1/3
4.3
12.4
5.8
Minster
10/
62/
75/
74/6
20
2.6
40.4
5.4
Moulded Products
5/
13/2
13/11
14/9
14
4.7
17.8
6
Mt. Isa Mines
5/
71/6
69/9
68/3
25
1.8
62.8
4.6
Mutual Acceptance ..
5/
8/10
10/11
10/7
15
7.1
22.3
10.4
Myer ..
5/
29/
31/
31/
16-2/3
2.7
28.3
4.7
National Consolidated ..
5/
27/
26/9
26 3
20
3.8
35.3
6.7
Olympic Industries
5/
7/7
10/1
10/9
10
4.6
16.2
7.5
Peters (Vic.)
2/
8/6
8/1
8/
15
3.7
18.9
4.7
Petrochemical .. .. ,,
20'
26/
27/6
27/6
6
4.3
5.9
4.2
R.M. Concrete .. ».
5/
17/4%
16/9
16/5
12%
3.7
22.9
6.9
Reid Murray
5/
8/3
3/1
3 5
—
—
9.4
13.9
Repco
5/
12/5
14/
14/,
11.6
3.5
18.8
6.3
Rothmans
20/
87/6
71/6
73/
17%
4.7
33.1
9.1
Thiess
5/
13/
11/
11/2
12%
5.5
14.4
4.7
Tooth
20/
69/
69/
69/
13%
3.9
15.9
4.3
Union Carbide
20/
80/
59/6
53/6
10
3.4
15.9
5.4
Waltons ..
5/
13/8
14/1
14/3
12%
4.3
19.7
6.9
Woolworths
5/
15/4
15/9
13/8xR
12
4.4
15.4
5.-6
Wormald
5/
11/10
11/9
11/9
10
4.2
14.2
6.7
W. R. Carpenter
* Estimated on last half-year’s
xR Ex rights
t Mid price,
a Before share split.
5/
profit.
30/
33/6 34/
xD Ex dividend,
s Seller,
b Buyer
15
2.2
35.1
5.3
SYDNEY
Banks
etc
STOCK EXCHANGE
Other
Finance Pastoral Retailers
INDICES
Base All
Metals Ords.’
Industrials
-December :
22, 1961 .. 137.37
541.02
182.31
389.15
604.15
299.07
318.74
August
10,
1962
.. 160.06
572.74
177.25
364.47
556.12
291.68
305.16
August
13.
1962
..
569.48
177.20
365.27
552.95
290.42
303.71
August
14,
1962
157.95
568.63
177.06
363.74
547.37
289.32
302.48
August
15,
1962
.. 158.20
560.78
177.27
352.14
545.62
288.22
302.81
August
16,
1962
. . 157.82
560.39
177.45
352.88
544.53
288.08
302.58
August
17,
1962
. . 157.95
561.17
*Peak
177.70
348.46 September
367.60
16, 1960.
543.33
290.23
303.58
MELBOURNE
AVERAGE YIELD
STOCK EXCHANGE
ON 100 ORDINARY SHARES
«—50 Othei Stocks—
—50 Leading StocKs Sample
Div. Yield Earn Yield Div Yield Earn
Random-^,
Yield
December
22, 1961
4.26
6.13
5.30
7.46
August
10,
1962
4.39
6.35
5.19
1.62
August
13,
1962
4.41
6.38
5.18
2.32
August
14,
1962
. .
4.42
6.40
5.19
2.35
August
15,
1962
4.43
6.42
5.19
2.22
August
16,
1962
ft
4.4?
6.41
5.19
2.16
August
17,
1962
4.42
6.42
5.19
2.20
LEADING SHARE PRICES
UPPISH MOVES
STILL FEEBLE
Tt still looks decidedly premature to read
overmuch uppishness into the Aus-
tralian sharemarkets. Many hearts were
too easily gladdened last Friday when
some seven trading days of retreat pre-
sented evidence of arrest. Yet Monday’s
business opened wan and pale, with a rela-
tively narrow range of lack-lustre bids.
More acute analysis could go so far
as to discover signs of reviving steadiness
and berate such timidity as a poor re-
sponse to all sorts of improving indicators
and augurs. Be that as it may, the drive
is just not there. A careful waiting upon
individual company results must continue
to leave wide areas of the market vul-
nerable.
Interest is certainly being directed at
a few successes of the season’s early
stages. But turnovers, and ranges, remain
thin and this, more than anything else,
circumscribes a capacity to rise effec-
tively.
Leaders and other topline industrials
have appeared firmer lately, though they
present no sense of dominating activities
in the way we were once used to. If occas-
ional flurries after stocks like BFIP and
Burns, Philp are to guide the investor,
the climb up will be slow and cumber-
some.
Along with public buying restraint has
gone a drawing-in by the institutions,
which only a few weeks ago gave signs
of embarking on a mild rampage. The
move has been too quickly snuffed and
not only because of the compulsion of
Government securities. Institutions share
the prevailing flatness and are perhaps
better placed than most to know when
and what to select.
Current ideas drifting around continue
to play upon the fashion for fixed-interest
investment. It is remarkable how many
brokers have seen fit to send out lists of
available opportunities.
Yet one of the very top names remains
an impenitent preacher of “growth re-
wards” and does not wish investors to be
bewitched by yields alone. What price
growth can be a basic question for the
months ahead. Equity investors should
not stop asking it. They may have to
face certain changed patterns in the Aus-
tralian economy, perhaps even in the
sacred doctrine of full employment, but
the solid future has not radically
changed.
The purists in Sydney and Melbourne
particularly are raising a purely disci-
plinary matter which the Associated
Exchanges may care to look at. It might
be possible to sound even more blunt
and state that the public would dearly
like an examination of the past few weeks’
sales of Latec Investments.


DO YOU LIKE
THE "NEW LOOK”
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick whichever method of
delivery you prefer
For those desiring direct sub-
scription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/money
order for months subscription to
THE BULLETIN
RATES (Australia and New Guinea) 1 year
£2 125.; y 2 year £1 6s. Post free British
Dominions £3 6s. Other countries
£3 16s.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS Remit to Box 965
Wellington, N.Z. 1 year £2 12s. N.Z.
currency, y 2 year—£l 6s. (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? There are
two ways of doing it either through your newsagent
or by direct subscription. The form at left offers you
your choice of method of delivery. You may send us
your name and address and we will arrange for the
’newsagent nearest you to deliver your copy of
THE BULLETIN each week and charge it to your account.
Or, if you prefer it, we will mail each week's copy
to your address by direct subscription.
Tli©
Bulletin
Incorporating The Australian Financial Times
ONE TO BUY
COAL AND ALLIED INDUSTRIES LTD
By the amalgamation of J. and A.
Brown and Abermain Seaham
Collieries Ltd with Caledonian Collieries
Ltd, Coal and Allied Industries Ltd emer-
ged as the largest independent force in the
Australian coal industry.
Mechanisation of mining operations
and the opening of export markets, par-
ticularly in Japan, have regenerated the
coal industry.
The investor seeking a well-spread
portfolio, and indeed anyone wanting
moderate income plus growth prospects,
should not pass by Coal and Allied ss.
shares, now offering at Bs. 9d. or there-
abouts, to yield 5.7 p.c. on last year’s
maiden dividend of 10 p.c.
The fact that only one year’s accounts
are available since the merger, plus the
prima facie modest earning rate, might
account for the apparent lack of enthusi-
asm for this stock by the investing public.
The group as now constituted, has 11
collieries in the Newcastle-Maitland area
and two others in the Singleton district,
which between them produced about
2.6 millions tons last financial year, or
14 p.c. of NSW coal production. Of this
output, 435,000 tons were exported.
Three-quarters of the output is from
mechanised mines. Uneconomic collieries
are being closed down, until their exploi-
tation becomes profitable once more.
The company owns a half-interest in a
railway which transports most of the coal
from the Maitland field. It also operates
a coal preparation plant and engineering
works at Hexham, up river from New-
castle. There is a marketing subsidiary
in New Zealand, and another, recently
formed, in Japan.
Oil has replaced coal as a source of
power in some fields; for instance diesel
locomotives have replaced steam, but in
other directions—steel production and
power generation, both local and over-
seas —demand for coal is steadily increas-
ing.
The new Chain Valley Colliery is being
developed to serve the Vales Point Power
Station and Coal and Allied will invest
further substantial capital in the next
two years to equip this mine. The whole
output, in its unwashed state, will pro-
bably go direct to the power station
bunkers.
Accounts for the first year since
the merger of J. and A. Brown and Cale-
donian Collieries, showed the group as
owning £6.5 million worth of fixed assets
(at cost or valuation), shares in other
companies at cost or valuation £600,000,
and Government securities £750,000
approximately.
The issued capital comprises £464,295
in 7 p.c. cumulative preference stock and
£4,553,261 in ss. ordinary shares. The
preference capital, with full voting rights,
is 70 p.c. owned by Howard Smith Ltd,
which also owns 23.5 p.c. of the ordinary
capital. Adelaide Steamships Co. Ltd.
owns 17 p.c. of the ordinary capital.
Reserves of £2,137,251 at June 30,
1961 (last date available) gave the ss.
preference shares an asset backing of
£3 17s. Id. and 7s. 4d. for the ss. ord-
inary shares.
The profit was reported at £499,841,
representing an earning rate of 10.3 p.c.
on ordinary capital, after preference
charges of £32,500. It was arrived at
after providing £81,526 only for taxation.
Coal mining companies are allowed to
deduct certain capital expenditure from
revenue for tax purposes, hence the low
provision. The profit was also after pro-
viding £348,327 for depreciation and
transferring £395,024 to reserve as an
appropriation for capital expenditure and
development. It is only technical reasons
(Continued on next page)


STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
11th Floor, Pearl Assurance Building
151 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Phone: 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
Sydney: 383 George Street, 29-7865
Adelaide: 61 Gawler Place, 8-7407
Brisbane: 334 Queen Street. 31-1621.
Canberra: Maitland House, Hobart
Place. 4-3334
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
All Offices: “Options”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
therefore which make the earning rate
appear so modest in comparison with
other industrial stocks.
Last year’s expenditure on plant and
development, amounting to £558.024, was
charged against the reserve appropriated
from past year’s profits. The balance of
the development reserve at June 30, 1961
was £930,000.
In mid-April of this year directors
authorised payment of an interim divi-
dend at the unchanged rate of 10 p.c.
per annum, and announced that the
general revenue position of the group was
buoyant. They said results for the six
months to December 30, 1961, were “very
satisfactory”. Total volume of coal sold
was a slight improvement on the previous
corresponding period.
Reorganisation of the various units of
the Coal and Allied group will undoub-
tedly produce economies, and within a
couple of years when the development
programme tapers off, we forsee a sound
advance in profitability. The export
markets are of long-term importance, and
the best-organised colliers are launched
in a new era of prosperity.
Accounts for the year ended June 30,
1962 will be presented in November. It
seems worth the gamble to buy now, in
anticipation of very promising results.
Speculator's Diary
A part from grappling with names like
Phumiphon and Nikolayev, last
week’s major project was to determine
what to sell to pay for previous pur-
chases. Many of the shares I buy are
bought in the hope that good annual
reports will subsequently put their prices
up. But what if the shares rise sub-
stantially in anticipation of the result?
Should they be sold, or held until the
report does come along? O’Donnell
Griffin and Malleys, for instance, have
both had good rises. Should I take my
profit now or wait for their results? In
these two cases I’ve decided to be greedy
and to hold on.
But last week, with my broker de-
manding £534 from me, the temptation
to sell my Beau Mondes became a
matter of necessity. The price had risen
steadily from 255. in December, when
I bought, to 375., which probably takes
into account most of the good news
likely to be announced in next month’s
accounts —unless the profit and dividend
increases are quite exceptional, which is
possible. So I sold at 375. and made a
very nice profit of £123.
Now that I’ve relinquished my hold-
ing in Beau Monde, my interests in the
next-of-skin department are confined to
Merica Foundations. Now here is a case
of where it will pay, I hope, to have
waited for last Friday’s profit announce-
ment. Profit rose by a good bust
measurement of 36 (p.c.) which was
more than the market seemed to be ex-
pecting. Earning rate became an attrac-
tive waist measurement of 23 (p.c.)
which should make Merica a 10s. stock
before long.
My success with brassieres and hosiery
did not, unfortunately, extend to the
finance field. A few weeks ago I bought
Finance Corporation on the strength of
the good results from Associated Secur-
ities, Auto, and General Finance, etc.
The finance stock I should have bought
was not F.C.A. but Deposit and Invest-
ment, which was able to produce a 50
p.c. profit rise compared with F.C.A.’s
more modest 20 p.c. increase. In view
of the parlous state of my liquid position,
I put my 200 F.C.A. back on the market
again. This futile association with F.C.A.
cost me £5.
I was able to offset this with my final
venture in the sales department this week
—Barrett Burston. This company’s shares
seemed to have got stuck around 235.
and as its annual report is not long past
it will be some time before there is any
more news which is likely to influence
prices further. Profit on 200 shares was
£lO, making £l2B for the week.
On the buying front, I brought my
holding in United Motels up to 2000
with the purchase of a further 400 when
the price came back to 4s. again. With
its Ski Rider and two other Snowy
Mountains motels now in full operation,
United should be out of the red and on
its way to its first dividend payment,
maybe early next year.
Then I turned my attention to the
broiler chicken industry. It was while
speeding along in a train north of New-
castle the other day that I passed
Steggles’ property where thousands of
chickens are now being raised for the
slaughter. Provincial Traders in Queens-
land and Golden Poultry in Victoria have
already made a good start with their
broiler chickens and there is every reason
to expect Steggles to do at least as well.
It already operates a very efficient stock-
feed mill and by the end of this month
will be processing chickens at the rate
of 20,000 a week the first public com-
pany in NSW to enter this industry as
far as I know. Where Steggles should
have the edge over any existing or future
competitors is that the broiler chicken
business will provide its feed mill with
a large new market for poultry mixes.
With an earning rate of 17 p.c. and a
dividend yield of 6 p.c., the shares
seemed quite reasonably priced at around
Bs. 3d. so I bought 500.
I would have liked more but I was
readying myself for a plunge on R. W.
Miller when its shares come on the mar-
ket for the first time this week. Although
the 10s. shares were placed at 12s. 6d.,
a reading of the prospectus suggests they
could be worth double that figure before
very long. ’
SOLD
200 Beau Monde at 37/- £378
200 FCA at 23/- £225
200 Barrett Burston at 23/- .... £225
BOUGHT
400 United Motels at 4/- £B4
500 Steggles at 8/2 £2lO
By some extraordinary coincidence
these transactions left me exactly square.
For the third week in succession the
portfolio showed no overall capital gain,
remaining at just under £7lOO. How-
ever, the market should be able to make
some steady forward progress now that
the Common Market and domestic
economic myths have been more or less
exploded. Even Wall Street, which has
assumed the powers of the Almighty in
the eyes of some local investors, has
taken on a healthier look, temporarily at
least.
The portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
600 O’Donnell Griffin 28/8/61 13/6 18/6
2,000 United Motels 20/11/61 3/9 4/-
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 26/6
500 Mauri Bros. 16/2/62 22/9 23/3
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 6/4
500 Ready Mixed 6/4/62 17/9 6/5
100 MLC 27/4/62 130/- 120/-
400 Malleys 3/5/62 20/9 24/-
500 Merica 10/5/62 7/- 8/3
1,000 Hanimex 23/5/62 4/11 6/1
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 26/9
300 Marcus Clark notes 22/6/62 27/6 30/-
100 James Hardie 29/6/62 98/- 100/-
100 John Lysaght 18/7/62 64/- 65/6
400 Courtaulds 24/7/62 11/9 11/9
100 CSR 1/8/61 49/- 48/3
400 AWA 10/8/62 20/- 20/-
500 Steggles 16/8/62 8/2 8/3


MARKETING
PUBLIC RELATIONS CAMPAIGN
TO "SELL" ADVERTISING
Since an attack on advertising some
months ago in the British Parlia-
ment a clamour has arisen in the United
States for an investigation of the industry
and its practices. The demand has be-
come so persistent that legislators in
Washington have subjected the industry
to the closest scrutiny in its history.
Australia has escaped similar wide-
spread criticism, although there has been
an occasional protest against misleading
advertisements. But that does not pre-
suppose that everything in the garden is
lovely. The British and American de-
mands for thorough investigation have
not passed unnoticed here, and steps are
already being taken to place the Aust-
ralian advertising industry in a better
light, so far as the public is concerned.
The Australian Association of National
Advertisers is taking the lead in this
matter. Its Federal Director (Mr John
Bowden) has circularised all members on
the question of pursuing a public rela-
tions campaign. “Advertising in
America”, he says, “lives in a goldfish
bowl and its errors are quickly noted. It
is doing a tremendous job for the
American economy and the public ser-
vice programmes which it has launched
through the Advertising Council, yet
there is a clear indication that the profes-
sion will have to mind its advertising
manners and improve its public rela-
tions”.
This, it may be interpolated, applies
with equal emphasis to Australia.
Mr Bowden goes on to say that the
A.A.N.A. is particularly conscious of the
necessity for accentuating the positive
and creating in the public mind a proper
impression of advertising’s great import-
ance to a free, competitive enterprise and
economy.
The A.A.N.A. is now in the process
of planning an extensive public relations
campaign designed to build a correct
image of Australian advertising.
More restrictions
T egislation is to be introduced in the
British Parliament shortly banning
smoking in theatres (now universally
permitted); to forbid public cigarette
vending machines, and to put teeth into
the present law prohibiting the sale of
tobacco to children under 16.
Under new regulations in Sweden,
beer advertisements may not carry a
picture of a man younger than 20 or a
woman younger than 30. Glasses shown
in the advertisements must be completely
full, and none of the models may be
shown smiling.
So far in Australia, the advertising
industry has not suffered from restrictive
governmental regulations, largely because
it has adopted a voluntary code of ethics
policed by its own committee. Question-
able advertising practices have been
largely eliminated, and there has been
no call for official condemnation. It’s
better that way.
TV Survey
HThe Australian Association of National
Advertisers has made a survey of
TV evening audiences and finds that
the number of viewers per home at the
present time is fewer than two years ago.
Director of AANA (Mr John Bow-
den) said it had been established that
the falling off occurred consistently dur-
ing each evening session, and he gave
these figures of the average number of
viewers per home:
Hour 1962 1960
6 to 7 pm 2.7 3.3
7 to 8 pm 2.8 3.4
8 to 9 pm 2.5 3.1
Mr Bowden said it could be fairly de-
duced that as TV lost its novelty so the
number of viewers per home declined.
He also claimed that the percentage of
TV sets in use during the same hours
gave similar results, and quoted these
figures:
Hour 1962 1960
5 to 6 pm 36.0 p.c. 39.7 p.c.
6 to 7 pm 56.1 p.c. 58.7 p.c.
7 to 8 pm 77.4 p.c. 83.0 p.c.
8 to 9 pm 76.7 p.c. 84.9 p.c.
Mr Bowden said that when the third
commercial station licence was operating
in Sydney, its viewing audience would be
drawn from the existing stations for
awhile, and then ultimately the quality
of the programmes would determine
which station would gain public favor.
Vitamin claims
\ n arrangement, described as “happy
and amicable” has now been arrived
at between the Commonwealth Health
authorities and the advertising and manu-
facturing industries concerning the pro-
motion of vitamin preparations. But it
was not reached without some vigorous
protestations.
The arrangement provides that ad-
vertisers and manufacturers themselves
will voluntarily accept responsibility for
the control of claims. The Health auth-
orities will not now act as censor, but
will refer matters in dispute to the volun-
tary control committee.
Promoting exports
rpHE Department of Trade is conducting
a vigorous campaign to promote
Australian exports the largest and
most comprehensive yet offered to
Australian manufacturers. It is sponsor-
ing no fewer than 111 feature supple-
ments in newspapers throughout the
world, and in these Australian manu-
facturers may advertise their goods at
one-third of card rates. Mr. Austin
Wood, director of Trade Publicity in
Melbourne, will supply full particulars of
schedules and costs.
“The Great Thirst”
A promotional campaign empha-
sizing national action against Aust-
ralia’s water deficiencies and to stimulate
water conservation, town water reticula-
tion and irrigation expansion is being
conducted by James Hardie and Co.
Pty Ltd.
Through Berry-Currie Advertising
Service, it has prepared an outstanding
series of advertisements, many in full
color, for circulation to all its distribu-
tors in Australia. The theme is “The
Great Thirst”. Rarely have advertise-
ments carried a more convincing story
or shown finer artistic skill.
Returns to US
Mr H. L. Green, director of Market-
ing for Kellogg (Aust.) Pty Ltd,
has returned to the US company's head-
quarters at Battle Creek, Michigan.
This conforms to the Kellogg policy of
having executives work in various coun-
tries and so add to their world-wide per-
spective on marketing. Mr Green came
from Battle Creek 18 months ago.
Mr Green’s stay in Australia was
marked by a number of top flight pro-
motions for Kellogg's cereals including
the highly successful launch of the rev-
olutionary new cereal OK’s.
AMERICAN APPOINTED
GLAZEBROOKS' GM
lt/|R Norman Ward, the new general
manager of Glazebrooks Paints
& Chemicals Limited, comes from
Glidden International Corporation,
one of the largest and most modern
paint manufacturing organisations in
America.
Mr Ward had 20 years’ experience
in the paint industry in the USA, the
United Kingdom, South Africa and
Continental Europe.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
"MR PRIMARIES" PREPARES
FOR WAR ON WOOL
By JOHN HIGGINS from Brisbane
YI/Tth his Queen’s Birthday OBE tucked
firmly in his hip-pocket, Queens-
land’s “Mister Primaries” is settling down
to slug it out with all comers on the
subject of the Wool Marketing Com-
mittee of Enquiry whose somewhat
extraordinary report was released after
deliberations extending over 12 months.
“Mister Primaries” is Alan W. Camp-
bell, founder and managing director since
its inception of the Queensland Primary
Producers’ Co-operative Association, for
more than 30 years the State’s largest
wool broker, handling approximately 25
p.c. of the Queensland clip, and
with an overall turnover last year of
nearly £26 million.
Primaries is Mr Campbell’s “baby”—
a lusty one to be sure, but quite definitely
his. He formed it in 1920 as a direct
result of one of the most extraordinary
business agreements filed in Queensland —
an agreement which allowed the firm to
commence operations without raising one
penny in grower finance, complete with a
ready-made group of clients, and enough
petty cash to stay in business.
Signatories to the agreement were the
prinicipals of the Sydney-based wool
broking firm of John Bridge & Co. Ltd,
and Mr Campbell.
"Driefly, the agreement sold to a com-
pany to be formed by Mr Campbell
the firm’s Queensland interests for
£75,000. The vendors, however, agreed
to accept payment in shares in the new
company—and in addition it also agreed
to pay £5OOO in cash for further shares
to enable the new company to have suffi-
cient petty cash to commence operations.
Being given a business and enough
cash to run it has a good deal to recom-
mend it—but in addition John Bridge &
Co. agreed not to transfer or in any way
dispose of its shares to any persons other
than nominees approved by the directors
of the new company. .. and it also
agreed that its shares had no voting
powers! One stipulation was made—that
so long as the vendors had shares in the
company their consent would be required
if any manager other than Alan W.
Campbell was appointed.
It is now a matter of history how Pri-
maries paid off in record time. Mr Camp-
bell is still managing director at the age
of 82 years.... a world authority on
wool marketing problems, and chairman
of the Queensland Wool Committee
during the World War II appraisement
period. He is incisive, authoritative, and
has a good deal more mental agility than
most people half his age.
A formibable controversialist, particu-
larly on his pet subject, Mr Campbell
for more years now than he would pro-
bably care to remember has preached the
doctrine of a reserve price floor plan for
our wool, allied with the free auction
system.
Mr Campbell has made no secret of
his opinion of the Wool Marketing Com-
mittee’s report. He has attacked it
trenchantly through circulars to Primaries’
10,000 shareholders and in various pas-
toral journals. More importantly, per-
haps, he has attacked it in personal letters
to every member of Federal Parliament,
calling for a total rejection of the Report
“in the national interest”. He is at pre-
sent engaged in preparing supplementary
criticism for similar distribution—which
seems certain to provide the House with
highly informed debating material when
the report is finally tabled for discussion.
In essence, Mr Campbell believes that
incredibly inept top-level grazier leader-
ship, supported now by a “factually in-
correct” Committee Report, has confirmed
the abdication by Australian wool
growers of a strong strategic position in
the interests of manufacturers and re-
tailers.
He puts a penetrating finger on an
obvious flaw in the Committee’s thinking
—and grazier executive thinking, viz.,
the repeated suggestion that wool is
threatened by synthetics and must fight
desperately to capture a larger section of
the world’s textile trade.
The cold facts of the matter, he points
out, are that wool is one non-perishable
commodity that is NOT overproduced.
It is, in fact, sold as quickly as it can be
clipped, classed, and brought to auction
floors.
The fact that wool holds only about
10 p.c. of the world’s textile trade
seemed to disturb the Committee—as it
does many of the industry’s leaders.
“What if it was only five p.c., or
even one p.c.”, says Mr Campbell.
“So long as it was all snapped up by
buyers as it is today, and as it always
has been? There are no stockpiles of
wool anywhere in the world. It is still the
unchallenged textile product.
“Indeed it could well be argued that
the time to worry about wool would be if
it ever was produced in such quantity
that it captured 90 p.c. of the world’s
textile trade (not 10 p.c.)—because
then it might be subjected to attack!”
With this undisputed background, is
there any reason why sellers (i.e., growers)
should place the future of their industry
in the hands of buyers? Why the obses-
sion with the necessity to promote a pro-
duct which already sells like hot cakes?
Why don’t Australian growers protect
themselves by a reserve price scheme to
make certain that they don’t get sold
into bankruptcy, as has happened to them
in the past, by cartel buying or temporary
textile recessions?
Cost of the Enquiry has yet to be made
public, but it must run into a formidable
figure. The round-the-world trip would
have cost a pretty penny, and the purpose
of the trip was never clear, unless it was
to play ball with manufacturing interests
—who stated bluntly to the Committee
that they preferred uncontrolled auctions
with price fluctuations to enable them to
make profits by shrewd buying!
A ll very nice for the manufacturers, no
doubt—but what of the grower,
sitting on a highly saleable product for
which he can be paid anything or no-
thing; and whose average price levels in
the last 20 years have fluctuated from
6Jd. a lb. to 200 d. a lb., a staggering
3000 p.c. variable in an under-produced
non-perishable product in constant de-
mand!
As Mr Campbell points out acidly, it’s
all very nice for manufacturers and re-
tailers to have their jobs done for them
by growers—but what do growers get
out of it?
Having served general notice on the
industry and on Canberra of his assault
on the Committee’s report, Mr Campbell
can be expected to wage an all-out cam-
paign to clarify the problems involved in
handling Australia’s greatest export
earner.
Growers examining depleted wool
cheques could do a lot worse than to
study his opinions carefully. One thing
11 quite certain —he’s on THEIR side.


WILD PIGS-THE GREATEST
SCOURGE OF ALL
By HENRY G. LAMOND
Bathurst and Noogoora burr,
prickly pear and sundry other
vegetable growths; foxes, rabbits
and sparrows are serious enough scourges
for the man outback to combat, but the
wild pig beats them all because it leaves
no trace of its work.
Dingoes and blowflies, when they do
their dirty w'ork, leave a carcase as evi-
dence; the wedge-tail eagle makes its pre-
sence known by its huge aerie in a tree,
by the skeletons of lambs and other bones
on the ground. Prickly pear, lantana and
other weeds indulge in blatant show. But
pigs don’t leave a trace, not even a smell.
And, particularly unmolested, they in-
crease all the time.
A few years ago 1 read in an ancient
book on zoology: “No large animal
increaseth faster than ye wild pig; none
exceeds it for lubricity.” After consulting
the dictionary, l agreed.
Increase! Have a look at these authori-
ative figures in reference to pastoral
Queensland, the only State which I know.
During 1905 the down-the-river mail-
man from Longreach used to pull his
coach off the road to show passengers a
rare sight, the body of a wild pig. Less
than 30 years later, on that same station,
it was decided to reduce the wild pigs’
numbers. Over 3000 pigs were slain, their
snouts counted and the bonus paid on
them. And they were only the skimmings,
as it were, of the mobs which lived in
that area. About 20 years ago a friend
of mine w'as looking after sheep in a
rented paddock on that property—a mere
20,000 acres. To kill time and make a
bob or two he shot 400 wild pigs in that
paddock in a couple of months.
On the Diamantina, west of Winton, a
sow with a litter made local history during
1913. Pigs were so rare in that country
then that a couple of jackeroos on Elder-
slie reckoned they’d catch one of those
suckers and take it home. The end of
that was that the sow treed those two
youths and kept them there for an hour
or more until her litter was safe.
A few years ago Frank Gaunt, a king
among kangaroo-shooters, had a
standing bet to shoot 1000 pigs on the
Diamantina from one camp. No one
took his bet. Apart from threading the
eye of a needle with a bullet, Frank knew
his wild life.
From 1913-1921 I saw two wild pigs
on the Georgina—and I flatter myself I
keep my eyes open. One w'as a sow with
a litter of five, at Lake Canellan, near
Camooweal. Perhaps they had escaped
from the local butcher. The other w'as an
aged sow, on Glenormiston, about 70
miles above Boulia. That sow was
champing lustily—she was drawing the
writhing entrails of a live cow which was
bogged. It was the bellowing of the cow
which attracted me.
For some time past there have been
a couple of professional pig-trappers on
the Georgina who have been making a
living by getting w'ild pigs and selling
them to piggeries which supply Ml Isa
w'ith pork.
If w'e go into the well-w ; atered areas
such as the Basalt, north of Charters
Tow'ers, the artesian country on the Flin-
ders, almost anywhere along the coast-
line with its running springs, high rain-
fall and permanent waterholes, pigs are
so common we miss them only if they're
not there. Pigs! I've flushed and counted
over 300 pigs from one medium water-
hole in the artesian country. There must
have been countless thousands 1 didn't
see.
What harm do they do? Many a stock-
" man dismisses them with one brief
comment: “Oh, they puddle up drying
waterholes.” Some may even admit they
break an odd wire or two in a fence. No
one claims they are beautiful; but in a
way they add to the charm and variety
of the country.
Let's get back to basic principles. We
can assume and not look for proof that
wild pigs don’t live on hot air and grass-
roots. They’re omnivorous to a degree:
fresh flesh running in hot blood; dead,
stale and putrid stuff; anything which
breathes and lives—they're all part of the
omnivorous menu of a pig. They eat
grass when it’s succulent; they burrow
with their snouts and dig up roots — and
saltbush roots are a delight to them. In
short, they'll eat anything. In addition,
they'll eat plenty. I’m prepared to say a
wild pig will eat twice as much as a dingo.
They may require more.
A couple of instances of the secret
w'orkings of the pig. Twenty-odd years
ago, w'hen I was managing a sheep pro-
perty in W.Q., I found a wether bogged
on the dowms after rain; it had been stuck
in a boggy gillguy. I pulled it out, cleaned
the mud from its legs, left it in a comfor-
table position to rise when it had the
strength. Next morning, going that W'ay,
i decided to see how the wether had
fared. I rode out of my way to have a
took at it. There was nothing to see
other than some pigs’ tracks on the
ground, some wisps of wool caught in
the Mitchell grass when blown by the
wind. There was evidence of intestinal
filth on the ground; but there was nothing
else—not even a smell.
HThen, on a small cattle station which I
was managing on the coastal fall. It
was a dry time —the end of 1923 to be
exact. There were plenty of pigs. Over 30
grown cattle were bogged and died in a
drying waterhole. And there was nothing
in the morning to indicate a beast had
ever been bogged! But out on the plain
beyond that waterhole, within a radius
of half a mile or so, we rode upon an
occasional pelvis, a thigh-bone too big for
the pig’s jaw's to crack, or a bare skull
and horns. But such was the secrecy of
the pigs, that unless a man knew where
to look and what to seek, he would never
know a pig had been there.
Just a bit of a story, true in every detail,
to show' what the pigs do to the balance
sheet. Fifty odd years ago I knew a pair
of partners in a choice property down the
river. One partner stayed at home and
w'orked the place; the other had a big
plant with which he took contracts on
various stations. The fellow with the
plant (we’ll call him Bill), complained to
me that his partner, Joe, was continually
in need of money for re-stocking pur-
poses. They never had sheep for sale.
That property of about 40,000 acres
had one large tank at w hich all the stock
watered. Joe, apart from being a sheep-
man, was also a lover of pigs; he had a
couple of hundred at the homestead.
Bill and Joe finally fell out over the
pigs. Bill wasn't going to w'ork his guts
out to make money to buy ewes to breed
lambs to feed pigs when they came in to
water. They split. Bill took over the pro-
perty. Joe took his pigs and went to
another district.
Some years after that, Bill wrote me.
Since the pigs had shifted, his lambings
were splendid. Last year he had been
bailed up by the Income Tax Commis-
sioner for £5OOO. And, to quote Bill s
words as I remember them in his letter:
“I wasn’t game to ask him how he made
it the neat £5000.”
Finally, pigs are so easy to destroy
almost “it’s a shame to take the money”.
They’re short-sighted, easy of approach,
and they readily take any baits. Some
men claim they’re more or less immune
to arsenic and strychnine. They may be.
I don't know. Were I betting I’d put my
money on the poisons. But I do know
any phosphorous poison is death to them.
It has no misses. It may be a horrible
death. But the pig is a horrible animal!


Legal Notices
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: FRANK CHARLES WILLIAM ROACH late
of Hamilton.—TAKE NOTICE that ANNE
ELSIE ROACH has filed petition No. 1702 of
1962 for divorce on the grounds of desertion
and failure to pay maintenance. If you wish
to defend you may file an answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court. Macquarie
Street, Sydney by the 12th October, 1962 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from J. C. PAYNTER, Solicitor, of 107
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: MAUD CURRIE formerly of 16 Annette
Street, Ingleburn.—TAKE NOTICE that
DOREEN MAVIS CAMPBELL has filed a
Petition for Divorce in Suit No. 252 of 1962
Dn the ground of your adultery with Arthur
Edward Campbell. If you wish to defend
you may enter an answer in the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macauarie Street
Sydney before the 12th October, 1962 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from Messrs. John D. Norton, Rickard and
Symonds, Solicitors of 67 Cast'lereagh Street
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: ARTHUR EDWARD CAMPBELL formerly
of 36 Harcourt Avenue, East Hills.—TAKE
NOTICE that DOREEN MAVIS CAMPBELL
has filed a Petition for Divorce in Suit No.
252 of 1962 on the ground of your adultery
with Maud Currie. If you wish to defend you
may enter an answer in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
before the 12th October 1962 and ’obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
Messrs. John D. Norton, Rickard and Symonds,
Solicitors of 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.—In Divorce
TO ALLAN HORACE FRAME late of Norman
Park, Queensland TAKE NOTICE that-
MARGARET MAY FRAME has filed a petition
foi divorce number 832 of 1962 on the grounds
desertion cind failure to pay maintenance
AND TAKE NOTICE that if you wish to defend
you may file an answer in this Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney on or before the sth October 1962. A
copy of the petition may be obtained with-
out charge from Messrs. Peter G. Kearney &
Co., Solicitors, 254 George Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOU i H WALES.—In Divorce
THOMAS GOSNOLD formerly o
““ Street, Paddington.—TAKE NOTICI
that ELLEN GOSNOLD has filed a Petitioi
i Divoice No. 2206 of 1962 on the grounds o
desertion and separation. If you wish to de
lend you may enter an answer in the Divorci
Registry Supreme Court, Mint Building. Mac
io«9 ne S J' . Sydney by the Ist day of Octobe.
1962, and obtain a copy of the Petition withou
charge from McDonell & Moffitt, Solicitors o
6 Vynyard Street Sydney. If you do not wisl
to file an answer but wish to receive a copy o:
e S C^l ii^ 0 ci Ale*! in the proceedings yoi
should file a notice of address for service or
Registra 0 / 6 SUCh date -“ C - A. H. HARMS
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.—In Divorce
TO GEORGE FRANCIS MORGAN formerly o
TAKE NOTICE that DAPHNI
JEAN MORGAN has filed a Petition fo
Divorce number 3053 of 1961 on the ground;
of desertion, failure to pay maintenance anc
separation AND TAKE NOTICE that if voi
wish to defend you may file an answer in thi
Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Macquarii
street'k5 tree t'k^ ydney - on or before the 28th Septem
ber, 1962. A copy of the petition may b<
obtained without charge from Messrs. Pete
G Kearney & Co., Solicitors, 254 Georg<
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP TASMANIA
Number M.C. 88 Of 1962
BETWEEN PAULINE PAY QUINN and
GRAHAM GEORGE QUINN. TO GRAHAM
GEORGE QUINN formerly of Rokeby in Tas-
mania.—TAKE NOTICE that PAULINE FAY
QUINN has filed a Divorce Petition against
you on the ground of desertion. Included in
the Petition are claims for custody of your
child, maintenance and costs AND TAKE
NOTICE that if you intend to defend the
Petition you must file an Answer within 28
days of the publication of this Notice at the
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tasmania,
Macquarie Street, Hobart, from which address
further information can be obtained otherwise
the Court may hear and determine the pro-
ceedings in your absence. DATED this 13th
day of July, 1962. C. BRETTINGHAM-MOORE,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
TO: VICTOR CLYDE HUNT.—TAKE NOTICE
that BETTY JOAN HUNT has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2555 of 1962 on the ground
of desertion and separation. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Div-
orce Registry, Mint Building, Macquare Street,
Sydney by the sth day of October 1962 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from Charles Griffiths, Solicitor, 107-109
Ellizabeth Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
In Divorce
TO: RAYMOND STANLEY ARTHUR ATKINS
late of Liverpool TAKE NOTICE that
PHYLLIS MAY ATKINS has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4258 of 1955 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards. If you wish to
defend you may enter an answer in the
Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, by the sth day of October,
1962, and obtain a copv of,the Petition without
charge from WALL ABBOTT & WHITE, Soli-
citors 255 a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
In Divorce
TO: JOHN LEO FLETCHER late of Miranda.
—TAKE NOTICE that ELIZABETH ESME
FLETCHER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1922 of 1962 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for two years
and upwards. If you wish to defend you may
enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney by
the Ist day of October, 1962 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIS & CO., Solicitors. 28
Martin Place, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
TO: FRANK BELL (also known as Claude
Hawthorne Preston) late of Bankstown.
TAKE NOTICE that EDITH BELL has filed a
petition for divorce No. 2405 of 1962 on the
ground of separation. If you wish to defend
you may file an answer in the Divorce
Registry. Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney by the 29th day of September, 1962
and obtain a copy of the petition and notice
of petition without charge from Gregg &
Milne, Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
If you do not wish to defend but wish to
obtain copies of all documents filed herein
you must file a notice of address for sevices.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Positions Vacant
SYDNEY GRAMMAR SCHOOL
College Street, Sydney
Master required in February, 1963 to teach
History and English or Geography to Leaving
Certificate level. Applicants must have a degree
in one of these subjects; experience of teaching
and training in Physical Education or ability to
coach cricket or Rugby football are looked for.
State Superannuation Scheme; salary scale on
application. Applicants should apply to the
Headmaster IN WRITING, enclosing copies of
testimonials or references.
Positions Vacant
HEADMASTERSHIP
OF
ALL SAINTS' COLLEGE
BATHURST, N.S.W.
(founded 1874)
Church of England day and boarding school
for boys. Enrolment over 300. President ©f
school council, The Lord Bishop of Bathurst.
Member of Headmaster's Conference of tha
independent schools of Australia.
Applications are invited for the post of
HEADMASTER
Duties to commence 1963.
For full particulars apply:
Diocesan Registrar
P. O. Box 66,
BATHURST, N.S.W.
Teachers, 1963, for
Cranbrook School Sydney
Head of Mathematics Department required for
Ist Term. A good opportunity for promising
young man, aged 30 to 35.
Master to teach French to Leaving Certificate
required in 2nd Term, though if available,
applicant would be appointed for Ist Term.
Flat for married couple. Also single residential
accommodation.
Reply in writing, stating age, qualifications,
experience, with copies of testimonials to
The Headmaster,
Cranbrook School, Bellevue Hill
PRESS CLIPPINGS
WILL TELL YOU
Keep fully informed by letting us
supply you with press clippings on
any subject. Complete coverage of
newspapers and magazine, all states,
city and country.
A.N.Z.
PRESS CLIPPING SERVICE,
199 Liverpool St., Sydney.
61-4230.
MOTOR OVERHAUL
WHILE-U-DRIVE
REPLATES WORN upper cylds. main bear-
ings, diffs., gears. SAVE: Rebore. ENDS:
Piston slap, rattles, oil, petrol waste.
RESTORES: New compression, power, top
speed, zip. SAVES: Adds LSD to re-sale value.
GUARANTEED: Up to 25,000 miles. Harmless
finest engine, liquid Nu-Metal cr in Tablet
form. SIMPLY: Add Re-Nu expanding liquid
Nu-Metal, or in Tablet form to oil petrol or
plug holes, 4,6, 8 cylds., 60/, 70/, 80/. Testi-
monials. engineers’ reports free advice avail-
able. Open Saturday. Distributors required
RE-NO-CO (estab. 1932), 58 Swann St. op.
Richmond Stn., Vic. JB 1755.
I enclose £ for Super Nu-Metal.
NAME
ADDRESS .. ..
BUL.


Feiffer
I MEI/ER HAP A
gftT FR IEMP
laJHEW I (PAA
A (TIP-
WHEE) EI I6RH&OVH ELSE
OS) THE BLOCK HAP A
BEST ERIESJP WE
SW£P is). Ale
THE BEST FEIEWPS
WERE AIREAPty
TAKES)/
HAWM6 A OEST FRWJP IS
A \}tm IMPORTANT
p ewQ im a pmous
MATURATICXO W I
HAPPffJ T<s A
BCST FRIfMP 6APf
WW I tffVlfc
RFALIAf MATURE!
svvoem i imas too ap
X 0 oue. SO AA> A
l mapa
epsr fßitws out or
MbmA I ti£UT
WITH- They COMFI ftp
F\jmTHIUP IU M£- I
covfipw eummM6
no Wm.
THSIO THE FI Rif TIME
IP IDUCH THEM
THEMP BREAK OFF!
"I Thouoht you u)6Re
MM B &IFRIEW '
THEMP SAM.
W m TOO LAT 6 JO
BOOT FRietJDS
IOITH MEM- AMP in
TOO FRU9TRAT/M6 To
&£ WOT FR WO
\j)\TW 6IRIO.
$o unne other'
m dm Pf?fAKiM6
OF THE mi 6IRF-
OR THE WEM CAREER-
I PREAM OF THE
I REAL FRIfNP.
THE MARK OF A
MEPIOCRE MAfJ
h A MEWOCK
mi-
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 707
ACROSS
I—Change in morose cattle. (6)
4—An Australian conductor swallowed a traitor. (8)
9—Some blooming feature by the author of the
“Beggar’s Opera”. (7)
10—Rude Don spoilt with the corners polished off. (7)
12— Cleaner Leslie, one of the virtuous characters, has
a listener who invented rubber? (7, 8)
13— Study course. (4)
14— Hamlet’s ire is stirred by these fans of Gustav's
music. (10)
17—Bunty’s word is given in a
melancholy mood induced by
tan stew. (5, 5)
19-—Vagrant opportunist sees
four after turf information.
(4)
23—Explosives in such cosmetic
journals. (6, 9)
25 Berlin intermittently sustained
by this tune elevator. (7)
26 The most timid me makes
a little go a long way before
tea. (7)
27 Last rose spoilt the disfigure-
ments of Jenkin and similar
unfortunates. (4, 4)
28— —There’s enough for Miss
Williams. (6)
DOWN
1— Threatens chaps with excel-
lent services. (7)
2 Adapted to Agnes, at work
as an actress. (2, 5)
3 Feast about to blow. (6)
5 A heated round on the golf
course? (9)
6 Distress signal is under-
interrupted by depth finders.
(8)
7 Broken seed-urn lasts. (7)
8— Coppers affirmative stains.
(4)
11—Lived with coppers on a sort
of shoe. (5)
15 — Height-measurer takes time
in change. (9)
16— Of the goose family with
nine ears. (8)
17— —Adorn Beppo having no post
office to count. (7)
18— Protegees’ hats are worn like
this. (7)
20— Coppers. (5)
21 — Caller to have a session with
an alternative after six. (7)
22 Mexicans’ detectives go to
extremes. (6)
24 —Courageous sport. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 706


The world’s finest tobacco is at your fingertips
UNTIPPED
KING SIZE
CIGARETTES
*
The extra length for
greater smoothness
THE
ONLY VIRGINIA
KING SIZE
PLAIN
