

The Bulletin
'y k "t,
SEPTEMBER 15 1962
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES


S&,
THE ONLY
CIGARETTE
WITH REAL AMERICAN TOASTED FLAVOR
W’-
®BiSS®
t
P
H
j||fettSl#f
i ■
FILTER
m
OASTED
1
af:
Wk
ffiS
«
after action
satisfaction
Rich, blended tobaccos toasted to bring full,
satisfying American flavor. That’s Princeton,
the filter with the flavor you’ve been wanting!
So, after action get the satisfaction that
comes with Princeton filter, the honest-to-
goodness taste of real toasted tobacco.
*Made for the Riggio Tobacco Corporation of New York Ltd.


BRUCE Page 19
Underneath The Stag’s Heed
Alan Reid In London 6
The Great Melbourne SP Drama ... 10
Gretel Inside Story of the Chal-
lenge 12
In The Lyons Den 20
Kangaroos Too Smart for Ex-
tinction 22
Japan Monstrous Regiment of
Women 26
Arms and America No. 2 .... 27
The New Left in Australia 29
Beyond the Fringe Kevon Kemp 34
Censorship Ken Gott on Peter
Coleman 37
Dip in Overseas Trading Figures ... 41
Latec and Anguish 43
Queensland Groping Monster? .... 61
•
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK - 6
TANNER:..... x
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 8
AROUND MELBOURNE 10
OUT AND ABOUT 19
OVERSEAS .' 26
FORUM 29
LETTERS ...... ...... 32
REVIEWS ' 34
RED PAGE 37
WORLD OF BUSINESS 41
MAN ON THE LAND 61
FEIFFER 63
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone 27-5971
Melbourne: Phone MF 3341. Brisbane: Phone
B 2691. Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3
Vol. 84
No. 4309
WRONG CONFERENCE, WRONG TIME?
A S Cabinet recognised in a final meeting before the Prime Minister
left for the London Conference, Australia has gone about as far as
it can go at this stage in pressing its case for safeguarding its traditional
trade with Britain in the absence of a definitive result from the negotia-
tions in Brussels. We have made our case and made it much more effec-
tively than any other of the Commonwealth countries whose leaders are
now assembled in London. In fact the rest of the Commonwealth can be
thankful for the energy and forcefulness with which Mr Menzies has
stressed the political and Mr McEwen the economic consequences for
the Commonwealth should Britain join the Six.
But the case for safeguarding our trade interests having been deeply
impressed on the parties directly involved in the Brussels negotiations it
is now time to show an understanding of the grand design for European
economic union.
This is not to say we should let go of the substantial ground gained
by our persistent efforts this year to get the best deal we can from the
ultimate merging of the UK and Western European markets, efforts
which have caused the Brussels negotiators to suspend their attempts at
compromise and return home to think again. For, though the experts vary
widely in their estimates of the percentage of our present £215 million
a year exports to Britain likely to be affected should Britain join the
Common Market, it is bound to be substantial as in place of the existing
preferences afforded some of the bulk exports to Britain we have to com-
pete with all nations over the Common Market’s uniform external tariff
wall and against local producers enjoying liberal pricing policies and
subsidies.
Yet even considering the effect such a loss of markets would have
on particular areas of production in Australia (failing the development
of alternative markets or the reorienting of their resources into other
production) the overall burden on the economy would not be intolerable
though for saying this forcibly in public the still unrepenting Mr Leslie
Bury lost his ministerial head. However strongly we may choose to de-
bate the matter at home, it would be altogether out of place for the Aus-
tralian team at the London Conference to labor our comparatively mar-
ginal and certainly manageable trade problems arising from Britain’s appli-
cation to join the Common Market in front of Ministers say from New
Zealand, a country with about two-thirds of its total export trade in
jeopardy or even from Canada whose temperate foodstuffs and manufac-
tures exports alike have been put on the spot. If our representatives think
it is still right to keep the pressure on Britain, it is to be hoped they will
eschew the Conference floor and choose the less formal functions.
The London Conference will be hard put to it to get down to brass
tacks in discussions initiated on the Common Market question simply
because it will have only hypothetical situations in front of it. For this
reason it would have been far better to have postponed it until the Brussels
negotiations come up with tangible terms for Britain’s entry into the
Common Market when a new conference will have to be called anyway.
The danger in the present Conference lies in the possibility that with-
out such terms, the discussion could degenerate into new pressures to
keep Britain out of Europe merely to save the already shaky ediface of
Commonwealth trade.


National
Notebook
Note to subscribers
VI/'e have received some complaints
" from subscribers that their copies
of The Bulletin are arriving late
sometimes two and three days after
their appearance on news stands. The
Bulletin is posted to subscribers before
2 p.m. each Wednesday. If copies arrive
consistently late we would appreciate
subscribers informing us of the date of
the late issues and the actual date and
time of delivery. Letters should be
addressed to the Subscriptions Depart-
ment, The Bulletin.
Edinburgh festival: some
difficulties
Tn last week's issue of The Bulletin
Australian writer Hal Porter made
it extremely clear in his report on the
Writers’ Conference at the Edinburgh
Festival that the performances there
exceed in variety and virtuosity what
was going on on stages elsewhere in the
city.
The festival, it appears, is steadily
improving in quality but altering in
form. Officially, it is a “festival of music
and drama”. Tn reality, and especially
since Lord Harewood became artistic
director in 1960, music has become more
prominent and more experimental than
theatre.
The decline in status of the officially-
sponsored drama is compensated by the
tremendous vitality of the “fringe”, the
40 or 50 troupes of repertory, university
and amateur actors who flood into
Edinburgh and book every church, hall
and cellar. The seats are cheap, and
the programmes sufficiently revolutionary
to provoke occasional police raids.
But the future of the festival is still
alarmingly uncertain. A decisive crisis
has now opened because of two separate
battles —the political struggle in the city
over festival costs and the artistic
struggle over the poor quality of
Edinburgh theatres.
No Edinburgh theatre is suitable for
grand opera, for Wagner or for Verdi.
Existing theatres have backstage plumb-
ing more suitable for delousing convicts
than for washing actors’ make-up off.
This summer the producer, Peter Hall,
ot the Royal Shakespeare Company,
went out and bought his cast 14 plastic
baby baths and lengths of hosepipe.
Certain opera companies have threatened
never to return to Edinburgh unless a
suitable theatre is found for them, and
Lord Harewood made it almost a con-
dition of accepting office that an opera
house should be built. An opera house
to seat 1800 is to be built.
The political crisis arises because the
council is unlike most Scottish cities,
dominated by the Conservative Party,
which at the last municipal elections had
its majority reduced to one. The Labor
opposition says that a town in w'hich
20,000 houses still have no bathrooms
has no right to waste money on the arts,
especially as most ticket prices are out
of the reach of the Edinburgh working
class.
The Labor attack is concentrated
against the opera house proposal. Few
people go to the theatre in Edinburgh in
winter and the theatre for most of the
years will be half empty. The Conserva-
tives say the new opera house will be con-
vertible and can shrink to a hall holding
1000 people; Labor says such a theatre
will be impossibly expensive.
Very, very annoyed
TAavid McNjcoll’s story of what led
up to Australia’s challenge in the
America’s Cup yacht race (page 12, this
issue) makes it clear that the British
were very, very annoyed about the whole
business.
Although they have finished firing off
their big guns, they are still occasionally
sniping. A crew-member of Sceptre, the
last British challenger, wrote in the Lon-
don “Observer”:
“The Australians, led by Sir Frank
Packer with his comfortably predatory
grin, are a hard-necked lot. They place
much the same value on tradition as we
do on Toby-jugs, their approach is
realistic it has to be. The sort of
yachtsman who can race while being
followed by launches filled with yelling
bookies is hardly likely to trip up over
a convention or two”.
Painter of the week
Sydney’s painter of the week or the
hour, or the minute is 24-years-
old John Bell. The four daily papers all
ran stories of how Mr Bell, whose ex-
hibition has already yielded more than
£2OOO, despises money and cares so
little for public acclaim that he didn’t
even attend the preview showing at the
Barry Stern gallery in Paddington.
However, Mr Bell was not at the
preview some of the astute art buyers
were and 37 out of the 49 paintings were
sold before the official opening by Mr
James Fairfax the next night. For keen
art-collectors this is the equivalent of
going to a sale and finding most of the
goods with “sold” tags. The highest
price was 350 guineas for “Carnival”
which went to Mr and Mrs Warwick
Fairfax.
Mr Bell attended the opening, along
with about 300 people, a motley crowd
of Paddington-type beatniks, Sydney-
type art-lovers and some people-type
people. Although Paddington is now ac-
claimed as the new art centre, its ac-
ceptance by the locals is not yet com-
plete. The Glenmore Road locals left
their TV sets to stand on the footpath
and /atch the goings-on.
And such goings-on. As we tried to
enter the gallery we were held back by
a big, blond chap, who shouted that you
needed an aqualung to survive. The
crowd, drinking white wine out of cups
and bottles spilled on the pavement. We
tried to get in again but were flung
aside by a girl in black leotards with a
mantille-hairstyle who reeled out shout-
ing that it was all a fake.
Another attempt to burrow' inside and
we met the artist himself burrowing out.
" How does it feel to be a success over-
night,” we asked. “Fresh air,” he mur-
mured weakly. “Give me some fresh
air.”
"I'd be willing to act as hang-
man in a private capacity, of
course."


Once the artist left, the crowd thinned
and we were able to get inside. The walls
were not visible, let alone the paintings.
At our left ear an artist-to-be, or would-
be, was shouting, “You’re a butcher,
you’re slaughtering my soul.” A few
inches away someone sighed, “But the
legs are so horrible. He just can’t paint
legs.” “Legs don't matter,” said the
artist-to-be. “He’s expressing himself.”
She turned to us bitterly “and you, too.”
Someone was standing on our foot, so
we decided legs did matter, and left.
Knowing What You Like
A lthough it might be impossible at the
moment to rationalise the financial
aspects of Sydney paintings, Mrs Dora
Sweetapple is trying to make clear its
artistic direction. Mrs Sweetapple, her-
self an artist and an interior decorator, is
conducting a series of tours of Sydney
galleries, beginning with the Art Gallery
of NSW, taking in most of the private
galleries, and followed by a discussion
group. In a morning two or three gal-
leries may be visited and for a course
over six mornings the fee is five guineas.
Mrs Sweetapple has just returned from
a year overseas. The idea of the course
was suggested by a client of her sister,
interior decorator Marion Hall Best. Mrs
Sweetapple said that her groups so far
were all women of all ages. Some were
scientists, who took time off from work.
Others were young mothers, who parked
their babies for the morning. “Fortunate-
ly, I haven’t had silly women who just
want to find out what to say at art
shows,” Mrs Sweetapple said. “That
would be too exasperating. All my people
already know a good deal about art.”
As a concession to the practical, each
tour takes into account nearby car-
parking facilities as well as sources of
artistic inspiration. At the Art Gallery
of NSW there is half-hour parking, then
the tour moves, generally, to the Mac-
quarie Galleries (parking opposite at the
Union Club station) and then takes in
David Jones and/or Farmers. On an-
other day the group goes out to the new
fields of Paddington and Woollahra,
where parking is free and unlimited, and
so, apparently, is art.
The Old Tin Shed
IV/Jelbourne's greatest oddity is “the
old tin shed.” It is little more than
that, a single-storey tin shed, yet it stands
on the most priceless piece of land in
the heart of the city. It is alongside the
Elizabeth St Post Office, often erroni-
ously called the GPO, and it backs onto
Myer Emporium, not erroniously called
the GPO of retailing. Over the years it
has been a hardy annual for the Mel-
bourne newspapers. Legend had it that
the land originally was sold to a sailor
for a bottle of rum. Decendents of that
sailor keep turning up with dreams of
collecting a quick quarter of a million.
The shed was built by the State public
works department in 1905 for £9OO and
ever since there have been stories about
plans to rid the city of this “eyesore.”
Plans were actually cut and dried for its
destruction in 1935. Yet somehow it
hung on and its present tenants are Allan
W. Taylor Co. Pty Ltd motor accessories
and tool sellers.
Last week the bomb dropped. Allan
W. Taylor Co have to get out come next
January. In its place the Federal Gov-
ernment will build a fancy postal in-
formation centre complete with small
rock pool, seats, shrubs and trees. Many
Melbourne people, however, are not
convinced by this move. It is still not
too late for the National Trust to do
something. With its reverse butterfly
roof, its period pieces of galvanised iron
in almost mint condition, the tin shed is
an example of the primitive dwellings
once used by our pioneers. We must save
it.
After all, Barry Humphries has sug-
gested a restoration appeal for the ICI
building. Surely this is more important.
The Captains Depart . . .
fPriE Dutch are quitting the southern
-*■ hemisphere and an era is over. In
West New Guinea they are leaving in
thousands. In Australia there are two
significant departures actual and
pending. Last Friday the Netherlands
Ambassador Dr J. de Beus left for long
leave in Holland via China and Siberia.
One wonders whether The Hague will
want a man of his capacity and ability
to return to what has now become a
relatively minor posting since the settle-
ment of the New Guinea dispute. In
November, Henk Smith, the earnest
hard-working Netherlands Embassy New
Guinea Attache leaves for good, his job
abolished, his mission ended.
Tanner
"A hangman is a minister
of wrath, a clergyman
is a minister of grace."
"There must be no
confusion"
"Perhaps I could wear a brown
suit."


THIS AUSTRALIA
ROBERT PETER TAIT
THE MELBOURNE
HANGING
Petitions, Committees, Meetings
BARRY JONES
No hanging!
'VTo Liberal (or UAP) government in
' Victoria has ordered a hanging
since 1924. (There was a hanging for
rape in 1932). So the recent decision to
hang for murder Robert Peter Tait for
what the newspapers call “the vicarage
murder” seemed incomprehensible. Both
Crown and defence agreed at the trial
that Tait was a psychopath who became
uncontrollable while influenced by
alcohol. His history is one of mental
subnormality following a childhood acci-
dent, homosexuality and transvestism,
several convictions for assault, release
on parole a few days before the murder
(because he had been a model prisoner)
-—then the bashing to death of 82-year-
old Mrs Ada Hall, mother of an Angli-
can vicar. He killed the old lady while
in a psychopathic state. Bar-room gossip
that he raped her is false. When arrested
he was wearing four pairs of women’s
pants.
Worried by the 61 reported homicides
in Victoria in 1961 (the 1960 figure was
18, and the average for the past five
years was 32) the Minister for Housing,
Mr Horace Petty, a South Yarra news-
agent, has been advocating capital pun-
ishment in public. The matter came
before Cabinet in March, but as the
numbers were even, the matter was de-
ferred.
The decision to hang Tait was an-
nounced on the Monday after the touchy
Broadmeadows by-election, and the date
set was August 22 (Education Day by
a weird coincidence—before Parlia-
ment was due to meet.
As two ministers were reputed to be
retiring, no ambitious back-benchers were
likely to protest. The Melbourne Herald ,
vehemently opposed to the hanging
plans, canvassed all State MP’s on the
decision to hang Tait and, predictably,
all Liberals who would comment sup-
ported the Cabinet’s decision (Mr. Sam
Loxton, MLA, noted as a cricketer, said
“I always support the umpire’s decision”).
Melbourne University students (despite
the term vacation) organised a big and
stormy public meeting and elected a
“Students’ Anti-Hanging Committee” of
16, headed by bearded, 25-year-old, theo-
logical student Mr. David Hirt, who
showed an unusual combination of frene-
tic energy and restraint in organising
hand-bills (Melbourne’s Lord Mayor
Nathan forbade their circulation) and a
petition which quickly gained 10,000 sig-
natures.
Simultaneously a Citizens’ Anti-Hang-
ing Committee of 20 was formed and
its members included Mr Val Doube, a
former Minister of Health (president);
Mr Barry Jones, schoolteacher and quiz
celebrity (secretary); Lady Clunies Ross,
Professor Zelman Cowen, Dean of the
Law Faculty; Mr Clive Stoneham, Leader
of the Opposition; Mr Digby Wolfe, who
has been active in UK anti - hanging
groups; Mr Frank Sedgman, Mrs Myra
Roper, Mr William Dargie, Mr Maurice
Ashkanasy, QC, Rev Dr A. H. Wood,
J. V. Stout, David Hirt and Mrs Ken
Myer.
The committee has set up offices at
417 St. Kilda Road, Melbourne, and has
received money and offers of help from
an extraordinary cross-section of the pub-
lic. It has issued challenges to Liberal
party branches to discuss the matter. (It
feels that the greatest obstacles to be
overcome are apathy and ignorance). The
ALP, DLP, all newspapers and commer-
cial TV stations, all major churches, aca-
demics and the Trade Union movement
have supported the campaign.
“This decision seems quite eccentric in
view of the generally liberal attitude on
penal reform adopted by the Bolte Gov-
ernment,” says the president, Val Doube.
“They have set up the Criminology
School at Melbourne University, and the
Social Welfare Department now admin-
isters prisons, the revolutionised prison
farms and the parole system. But now
it seems that they feel that the applica-
tion of reason and reformative measures
is less satisfactory than recourse to a
primitive, brutal and irrevocable solu-
tion.”
Following public protests, the Bolte
Government permitted an appeal by Tait
to the Privy Council. He is pleading in-
sanity under the McNaughton rules which
still apply in Victoria although they were
abolished in England in the Homicide Act
(1957). (According to these rules a
man accused of a crime and pleading
insanity must show he was unaware of
the nature and quality of his act and that
he did not know it was wrong). The Anti-
Hanging Committee has stressed that
there is an enormous disparity between
clinical and legal insanity and that 119-
year-old rules on insanity are no longer
relevant or helpful.
LAW
THE COST OF JILTING WOMEN
The law of contracts
V7"oung people contemplating engage-
A ment should take warning from a
judgment issued recently in the West
Australian Supreme Court. In the first
considered judgment in Australia for
many years on the question on the
question of the amount of general dam-
ages liable under breach of promise, Mr
Justice Hale awarded jilted fiancee Mar-
garet Mills, of Mosmah Park, £l5O
general damages against schoolteacher
John Arthur Harris. He is also liable
for about £250 in legal costs.
Though Miss Mills failed in her ap-
plication for £206 special damages for
the cost of a trousseau and the judgment
specified that Harris had not acted im-
properly towards her in the engage-
ment period, his broken engagement still
cost him £.400.
Though the judge said he had no
doubt Miss Mills was entitled to suc-
ceed in her claim, his judgment largely
substantiated the modern view that
broken engagements are not the social
stigma they used to be. The only thing
against Harris, said Mr Justice Hale,
was that he had broken off the engage-
ment in a rough and peremptory manner
which had undoubtedly shocked Miss


jyjills. However, she was entitled to
some damages because her feelings had
been hurt and her pride injured.
He said it was farcical for a girl to
claim for articles for her trousseau, and
also to keep them. Miss Mills had al-
ready used some of the articles. There
was no evidence to show the goods were
not as useful to a single as to a married
woman.
He agreed with Mr P. Brinsden, who
appeared for Harris, that for a girl to be
jilted today was not as serious as it was
in the 19th century. Women were no
longer sheltered, and to lose a prospec-
tive husband at the age of 20 was not a
calamity. The distressing number of
divorces showed how little chance a mar-
riage had of succeeding when one party
was unwilling.
The judge said Harris had not told
any one he had ended the engagement,
but had tried to make it appear a mutual
decision. He had started bickering with
her in the hope that she would no lon-
ger wish to marry him and would break
the engagement herself. Harris even
asked her to postpone the wedding for
three months in the hope that she would
do something, but she meekly swallowed
the insult. At that time she was so in-
fatuated with him that she was prepared
to submit to any insult,
The judge said Miss Mills and her
mother had greatly exaggerated the girl’s
distress. The morning after he broke
the engagement she resolved to make
him pay. She telephoned him and told
him he had to pay for her trousseau. She
then wrote carefully drafted letters and
kept copies, obviously with a damages
case in mind.
Though Mr Justice Hale obviously
had to interpret the law as it stands,
there is little doubt that his judgment
will deter many a gay young bachelor
from declaring his intentions until he
can be sure that his fiancee, will not de-
mand her pound of flesh for a change
of mind.
PRIME MINISTERS
WHAT MAKES
MACMILLAN RUN
If Macmillan fails, Butler will be P.M.
K. J. HOLYOAKE
Cutting up rough?
As I see it
British
Prime Min-
ister Macmil-
lan has to get Britain in the European
Common Market regardless of the terms
on which he secures entry: if he fails Mr
Rab Butler will replace him as Prime
Minister within six months of the final
breakdown of the negotiations.
According to British Labor Party
theorists this loss of personal power for
himself and parliamentary control by
the Conservative Party is the monkey that
continually rides nowadays on the
elegantly drooping shoulders of droopy
moustached Harold Macmillan as he
feels the British electorate slipping from
beneath his feet.
There is a certain plausibility in the
theory. Macmillan promised to have the
ECM deal packaged to the stage that
the Commonwealth Prime Ministers
would be able to pass judgment on its
worth or worthlessness by the time the
Prime Ministers assembled for their Sep-
tember conference.
The deal has not been packaged as far
as Australia, New Zealand and Canada—
the Commonwealth countries with the
potential to wreck Macmillan’s plan to
get Britain into ECM regardless are
concerned. Why? If the ultimate conces-
sions have been made by the ECM Six
as there seems reason to believe is
the case—then the dealing is over. The
negotiations have either broken down ir-
reparably or they haven’t. The British
insist that they haven’t. In other words
they believe they still have prospects of
getting in.
Yet the only way in which they can
get in is on the terms of the ECM
Six which Australia and New Zealand
have declared publicly are unsatisfactory
to them and which are also probably
unsatisfactory to Canada, which how-
ever has been more reticent about mak-
ing its views public.
Not only British Labor Party theorists
but Australian officials believe the
seeming breakdown in the timetable is
suspicious. The questions both groups are
asking themselves are “What is Macmil-
lan up to? “Is he so arranging the time-
table that the final terms will become
known only after the Prime Ministers
have dispersed?”
Macmillan’s manoeuvres suggest lhafr
the suspicion that this is the line of
action he is pursuing may be justified, he
would obviously like Menzies and Co.
to come out with even grudging support
for the proposition that Britain must
enter ECM and that the cou r se of nego-
tiations hitherto are not completely un-
satisfactory.
Menzies has already been placed on
guard by a warning from his advisers.
This warning was that Britain had put
the Australian case for access for Aus-
tralian products to the ECM area com-
parable to the access traditionally enjoyed
in Britain in a most prefunctory manner.
They certainly put up the Australian
case. But they did it in a manner to sug-
gest to the ECM negotiators that Britain
did not view the concession as basic to
its entry. With or \/ithout such a conces-
sion Britain would be in ECM.
The attitude was a virtual invitation
to the ECM to reject the Australian
submission, which they proptly did.
Failing to get any kind of support
from the Commonwealth Macmillan
needs a suspension of judgment. So far
he has been lucky. The British Trade
Union Congress recently meeting has
decided to take this attitude. So has the
British Labor Party. The attitude of these
bodies will undoubtedly have a psycho-
logical effect upon the Prime Ministers.
None of them wants to be the nark at
the Commonwealth Party.
To help Britain they are prepared to
make sacrifices. All they ask is that
the sacrifices should not be too dis-
astrously large. Additionally they are
aware that if recent British public opinion
polls reflect accurately electorate feeling
the British voter is swinging against the
Macmillan Government on this ECM
issue. They do not want to seem to
interfere in internal British politics and
anyway they have a fellow-feeling for
a Prime Minister in such a plight.
All these factors are inhibiting them
and strengthening Macmillan’s hand. If
he can get away without any of the key
Commonwealth Prime Ministers
Menzies of Australia, Holyoake of New
Zealand, or Diefenbaker of Canada,
cutting up rough at the Commonwealth
Prime Ministers’ conference and coming
out publicly against Britain entering the
ECM on the terms now offering he will
have achieved much.
It will be interesting to see whether
he gets away with it and whether having
got away with it he suddenly produces
the final terms for ECM entry shortly
after the Commonwealth Prime Minis-
ters depart from London and tries to
get the deal through the British Parlia-
ment without the Commonwealth Prime
Ministers being given an opportunity to
pass judgment.
ALAN REID


NORTHERN TERRITORY
THE ABO VOTE
“Whoever controls the flour-bags will
control politics"
PAUL HASLUCK
How many know of him?
fpHE reality of an Aboriginal Vote has
■*" pitchforked Northern Territory poli-
tics into the middle of a new and per-
plexing set of problems. It is only just
becoming apparent how profound the
effects will be, in this area, of the Com-
monwealth’s decision to grant all natives
the adult franchise.
In Southern states, where 99 per cent,
were killed off years ago and fullbloods
are rare as Tibetan lamas, the move was
welcomed. It was a useful piece of win-
dow-dressing for United Nations; it
salved uneasy consciences; the proportion
of new voters was harmless. In the
Northern Territory, where 28,000 citi-
zens—white, yellow, brown and black —
do not by all that much outnumber the
17,000 tribal and semi-tribal aborigines,
things were bound to be different.
Of that 17,000 only 80 have been
accepted by the Government as ready
for citizenship. The rest are “persons
deemed to be in need of special care
and attention.” Dubbed “wards,” with
their names duly entered in “The Stud
Book,” they cannot drink liquor and don’t
need to work unless they want to. Among
the adults not 20 would ever have read
a book—even the simplest cowboy
Western. Their thoughts, undistrubed
these days by any necessity of making a
living, seldom stray beyond the next
ration handout, what’s on at “Tomarris”
(Mr Tom Harris’s Darwin picture
theatre), or the availability of a neighbor's
wife. Until the Parliamentary Select
Committee on Voting Rights turned up in
the Territory last year not 500 had heard
of the Minister for Territories (Mr Paul
Hasluck), and barely a dozen of Canberra.
Most would still be surprised to learn
that they live in “Australia.” Their speech
generally is in tribal dialect, or pidgin
English.
Territorians received apathetically the
appearance of this new bloc of voters.
There had been pledges of “no coercion.”
The Northern Territory’s Federal Mem-
ber Jock Nelson, himself a member of
the Committee which recommended they
get the vote, predicted it would be years
before “even a few dozen” exercised the
right.
Events may prove him way off the
mark. In recent weeks Northern Territory
Administration has brought up Messrs C.
White (Deputy Electoral Officer in Vic-
toria) and R. Willis (Returning Officer
for Queensland) to instruct 20 specially-
selected tribesmen in the mysteries of the
ballot box. Visual aids —diagrams and
films—show them how to mark a paper
and drop it into a slot.
But how an understanding of party
politics will ever be dinned into them at
this stage of their development is a mys-
tery —and a disquieting one, at that. For
even if they were willing to break away
from a background of tribal socialism
and learn about democracy, there are NO
party politics in the Northern Territory
anyway which they could take as a model
.. . Only a colonial-style Legislative
Council and a Member in Canberra who
cannot vote.
There are volunteers eager to fill the
vacuums. First on the scene was the
Northern Territory Council for Abo-
riginal Rights, a new organisation with
several genuine aboriginal officials. Not
too far behind-the-scenes the council also
has an energetic (w'hite) assistant and
adviser in Mr Brian Manning, who
doubles as secretary of the Darwin
branch of the Communist Party! The
ALP —the Territory’s only political
organisation and a pretty feeble one at
that —has announced that it will “claim
its right’ to show natives the advantages
of voting Labor.
Mission and Welfare Branch officials,
too, could wield incalculable influence,
particularly in isolated areas. As ALP
branch president Paddy Carroll giumly
predicted: “The man who holds the
flourbags will dominate mission and
settlement politics.”
The whole business is ridiculous, in a
tragic sort of way. There was no native
agitation for a vote. Not one of those
granted citizenship even bothered to put
his name on the electoral roll until ad-
vised to when the question arose last year.
Meanwhile avenues for aboriginal
employment decline. The Territory has
no industries —apart from the cattle
stations, which still take a dwindling
quota —capable of absorbing the thous-
ands of young natives now coming onto
the labor market. As far as skilled
trades are concerned the natives, despite
strenuous official encouragement, do not
take them on, preferring to sit in the dust
of their settlements on free rations. In a
decade of “Welfare” administration not
one aborigine has advanced to higher
education.
JOHN DUNMORE LANG
September 16, 1882
HThe meeting held at the Town Hall
on Monday last to devise means
whereby the services of Dr John
Dunmore Lang to this country might
be suitably commemorated, was, as
it should have been, a success. There
remains one thing to be said respect-
ing the choice of his memorial. Let
it not be a statue. We are sufficiently
provided with these -what with that
monument of toadyism, the Prince
Albert statue. Let it be something
which shall be equally a monument
to our taste as to our liberality, and
which will, at the same time, subserve
the higher interests of the community.
Let the Scotsman build a kirk to the
good Dr Lang’s memory, if they wish;
but let us, New South Welshmen,
have something wider and nobler
than a religious memorial.
YlThat grudge has the “Daily Tele-
” graph” against Premier Parkes
that it should call him a poet? Every
man has, at some time or other, done
things that he has been sorry for, but
this is no reason why they should be
cast in his teeth in the after time.
A mong the passengers by last out-
ward Californian mail was Mr
W. H. Traill of The Bulletin, who
goes home to secure improved appli-
ances for the production of this
journal, which now has a circulation
of 22,500 copies weekly. Advertisers
wishing to test the accuracy of this
statement are referred to Messrs
Cowan and Co., paper merchants,
Wynyard Square.


It is not oppression that has stopped
them. There is none of that in the
Northern Territory, as any tourist who
has been here will tell you. The block-
age is a different way of life and of
thought... A primitive set of stan-
dards, which they go back to every after-
noon when they return to the camps after
school... The difficulty of teaching these
children on equal terms when the basis
of it all—English is a foreign language
to them.
Giving every native a vote, whatever
his standard of development, will not
solve these overriding problems. Nor will
it people the Northern Territory with the
number and standard of inhabitants
needed quickly to combat the threat of
Asian expansion,
Time alone can tell whether giving a
“blanket” vote to Territory aborigines
—while maintaining colonial controls
which are an anachronism in the world
today—has been a tragic mistake, or
merely funny.
EDUCATION
HOW TO BORROW
A horse-laugh from the Archbishop
W. C. HODGMAN
Rattled Reece
Oremier Eric Reece was plainly rattled
when, at the insistence of State-aid
advocate W. C. Hodgman, MHA, he
gave an account of the deliberations of
the special committee of the Parlia-
mentary Labor Party set up to investi-
gate ways of helping independent schools.
Mr Reece is normally brief and factual.
This rigmarole to the House sounded
like something dreamed up by the public
relations man of a company about to
announce a million pound deficit. If
there were any facts in the statement
they were so well buried that their heads
didn’t show above the surface, but the
gist of it all seemed to be that Mr Reece,
Attorney-General Fagan and Education
Minister Neilson (who has been abroad
for months) had decided that an ad-
visory committee of assorted experts
would be set up to advise the independ-
ent schools on better ways to borrow
money.
This decision was immediately labelled
“fatuous” by D. A. Kearney, president
of the Federation of Parents and Friends’
of Catholic Schools. “We could have
appointed an advisory committee our-
selves,” he said. “We’ve had 80 years’
experience of borrowing for school build-
ing, and in that time we’ve explored
every avenue. No committee is likely
to be able to teach Catholic schools any-
thing about borrowing and thus increasing
the almost intolerable burden they are
already shouldering.”
Mr Kearney had a passing kick at
the Liberals’ carefully worded comment
that they would “reveal their policy
when legislation comes before the
House”. That was playing with words,
said the indignant Kearney, because it
was quite clear that the Government did
not propose to bring forward any legis-
lation.
A blast from the Roman Catholic
Archbishop of Hobart was, of course, to
be expected, but its wording came as a
surprise. Dr Young was so shaken by
the “comical absurdity” of Mr Reece’s
statement that his Sunday afternoon
audience found him distinctly out of
character. Instead of the choler they
have grown to expect when he condemns
Government refusal to help his schools,
they listened to a brilliantly phrased archi-
episcopal equivalent of the horse laugh.
Ah, an advisory committee, he murmured.
“What have I been doing during the past
five years? I employ accountants, I con-
fer with bank managers and leading fin-
ancial men of the State to get advice
on finance. I challenge anybody to do
more building than we do with the same
amount of money.
“During the five years,” he continued,
“politicians have wasted money on
buildings. It should be up to us to advise
them how to erect buildings without
waste. We could build our schools with
the money the State wastes, and it would
not cost the public another penny.”
The next move will come from the In-
dependent Liberal Hodgman, who is
communicating with principals of all
Tasmanian independent schools to seek
their views. Armed with this information
he will again raise the State aid issue
in Parliament. Meanwhile, he says, he
will tread closely on Mr Reece’s heels
with regular questions on the activities
of the advisory committee.
THE KING AND US
Who was the leak?
THhe scandal of the King of Thailand
and the refusal by the Australian
National University to grant him an
honorary degree has died down as far
as the public is concerned, but it may
still have some repercussions in academic
circles. A remarkable editorial entitled
“The King of Siam and Academic Pro-
cedures” in this week’s issue of “Far-
rago”, the journal of Melbourne Uni-
versity students, congratulates the Gov-
ernment for not putting pressure on the
ANU. (“King Phumiphon is an autocratic
ruler, though he is a distinct improvement
on other autocratic rulers who were our
allies in the past, such as Stalin
or Tito, and he is much less odious than
Dr Soekarno. Our universities are and
ought to be liberal institutions ...)
It then went on to make two points:
“Firstly, honorary degrees are usually
offered (by universities) to resident or
foreign notables of one kind or another.
These people do not have to possesss
any academic qualifications (which King
Phumiphon, incidentally DOES possess).
And universities do not publish the
names of people to whom they decide
not to offer an honorary degree. To do
so would be an insult. Even ordinary
undergraduate students are protected
against shame by not having their names
published if they fail an examination.
Why then was the news of NOT award-
ing the degree to the King leaked to the
Press, and who was responsible for this
grave breach of trust?
“Secondly, there were conflicting stories
in the Press about the attitude of our
own university. A completely untrue
and malicious story in Nation was fol-
lowed by an official statement in “The
Age” announcing that a doctorate would
be awarded. It has also come to our
notice that in discussion at a meeting
of the Melbourne professorial board,
one professor supported by some others
opposed the award strenuously, and that
the content of their discussion became
known to Melbourne journalists imme-
diately afterwards.
“There is no doubt that this irrespon-
sibility has damaged Australia’s interests
in Asia considerably. A plausible inter-
pretation of the incident is that it was
engineered as a deliberate act of provo-
cation to damage our relations with one
of our SEATO allies.
“Because of this it seems incumbent
upon both the ANU and the University
of Melbourne to find out which of their
professors or members of Council were
guilty of this breach of responsibility
and professional ethics, and to take ap-
propriate measures against them.”


Around Melbourne
THE FORTRESS AFFAIR-OR SP IN THE RAW
\ ustralia has always had an affec-
tion for Royal Commissions, in-
quiries, and such. One researcher has
pointed out that since 1850 we have
had 700 Royal Commissions, both
State and Federal. Our colleagues and
late colleagues have not shown nearly
the same interest. Canada has had a
mere 200, New Zealand 160 and
South Africa 150. But Victoria in
recent times has become the real in-
quiry State. We have had inquiries
into fish, into the Victoria Market,
into Albert Park, into bank hours and
we are looking into the circumstances
of a certain bridge accident.
Not many of these would interest
you greatly, but for the past nine
weeks we have had the Post Office
Royal Commission and it is likely to
go on for some time yet. This has
been a beauty. We have had many
an inquiry into betting, but never have
we had such a brilliant picture of the
life and times of S.P. bookies. We have
4ad little tit-bits like the corset firm
which applied for the special telephone
number—36-24-36. The corset firm
did not get the number and now it is
held by a private householder. We
learned, too, how some S.P. bookies
used pension forms as betting tickets,
and how others used cigarette papers.
Cigarette papers had these advantages
over pension forms —in time of dire
trouble they were easy to burn and
much more pleasant to swallow and
digest.
Then there were the intriguing
excuses put forward. The police in-
vestigated one gentleman and asked
him why he needed two telephones in
his room. He was a keen punter, you
see, and a man really needed two
telephones to keep in touch with his
bookies. The P.M.G. investigators
talked to another man who had two
telephones in his hotel room. How
come? Well, he was on very good
terms with the girl who lived in the
hotel room along the passage. The
other day the girl decided to move
into his quarters and when she moved,
naturally, she brought her phone with
her. Dr Coppel, Q.C. asked: “And
did she bring her hot water bottle
too?”.
And there are times when you have
to be mighty smart about quoting a
telephone cable. The police inquired
of a lady how such a situation had
come to pass. She said she tripped
over it. Well, Victorian police can be
skeptical. This wire ran along a wall
five feet from the ground.
Mr Justice Taylor has commented
that .ome of the situations are worthy
of Damon Runyon. Take the Bala-
clava case of 1956. The police looked
into a kitchen and there was a man
reading a racing guide, a scene of
perfect peace and tranquillity ex-
cept he had two telephones. They
rolled back the lino and found a
wooden trapdoor. They lifted it and
then levered up a steel plate. Im-
mediately there were screams from
down below. “You’re electrocuting
us.” The plate had cut the electric
light holder.
Deep down there was a concrete
bunker, superbly built for the purpose,
complete with telephones and all. A
man and two women were making a
nice Guy Fawkes bon fire of betting
slips.
Or take the big SP bookie who
voluntarily went into retirement and
decided to show the police his
premises. They were in a city ware-
house. The entry to the betting room
was through a maze of bales of waste.
The room itself was nicely fitted out
with cubicles and 11 telephones, but
the feature which really gave it class
was the neon lights. There were in-
dividual lights to flash on to give the
warning that they were racing in Mel-
bourne, Sydney, Adelaide or Bris-
bane.
There was the Ballarat SP bookie
who had a little den in the ceiling
and the house wired throughout with
microphones, and an example of SP
automation the electronic nit-
keeper. There was the fellow who ran
his business from a disused bank
vault, but clearly the most spectacu-
lar of all was the case of the St Kilda
penthouse. This was known as “The
Fortress” and the bookies were
illegally using 46 telephones, which
originally had been installed for re-
spectable use in the flats. The Pent-
house was on the sixth floor, it was
solid concrete and there was only
one entrance —through a solid steel
door. The police couldn’t get in, even
though they tried to bash it down
with a sledgehammer.
The final entry would have earned
the admiration of Mr Douglas Fair-
banks. Constable W. G. Leaman
made a daring leap six feet across
to a narrow window ledge, 70 feet
from the ground. Inside they found
24 people, two of whom were con-
victed. The time of the breaching of
The Fortress was May, 1956.
The public also learnt the tech-
nique for sending out a tipster’s
letter. Easily the most charming was
the letter from “Des Gilmore”. He
told his prospective clients he knew
a horse that would win the Epsom
and he urged them not to hesitate to
send anything from <£2s to £250
(certainly not more) and “Des” would
place it for them at good odds then
offering.
“There is not the remotest chance
of this animal losing,” said Des. “We
are merely investing in a gilt-edged
proposition.” The letter ended grace-
fully “yours sportingly” and there was
a postscript “do not forget the tele-
phone number if possible.” Mr Garvie
who is assisting the Commission said
it was designed for the “real suckers.”
Judging from the reports the golden
period for SP bookies was from 1956
to 1958. The number of telephones
spotted by the police dropped from
105 in the first six months of 1958 to
35 in the same period last year. Yet
regardless of the TAB there has been
a slight come-back. This year the
figure rose to 51.
Senior Detective Cook told the
Commission that this time they were
much harder to detect. The SP bookies
had a small and select clientele.
Rarely did they have more than one
or two telephones and they operated
from as many as 10 different places.
Each week they moved somewhere
else.
Meanwhile, in the midst of all this,
Victoria’s Totalisator Agency Board,
issued its first annual report. The
TAB had a surplus of £441,548 to
share among the racing a. d trotting
clubs. The turnover for the 12 months
was £13,826,268 and next year it is
expected to rise to £20,000,000. The
biggest share went to the VRC which
gets £91,911.
Sir Chester Manifold, late Chair-
man of the VRC and present TAB
chairman is beaming. He says the TAB
has exceeded all expectations. The SP
bookies undoubtedly would agree.
BATMAN


11 1 ATI
ijg.t-t RET
;':*'nta : gi iff!
The vines we tend at
Coonawarra Estate have
amongst their number a
proportion of the precious
Cabernet Sauvignon some
of which is vintaged
separately and bottled as:
“COONAWARRA
ESTATE
CABERNET”
The discriminating diner
would be well advised to
seek it out it is a rare
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CLARET
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd. C i2N
THE SENATE
PREMIER NICKLIN'S CHOICE
A Unity Ticket Senator?
The death of Labor Senator Max Poul-
ter will place the Nicklin Coalition
Government of Queensland in an em-
barrassing position when Parliament
eventually sits to elect the State’s new
Senator. While a large number of politi-
cal observers and the Queensland Press
have assumed that Premier Nicklin will
replace Senator Poulter with a Labor
nominee, his choice is not as simple as
it seems.
The Labor Party leader in Queensland,
Mr J. Duggan, is known to have sub-
mitted the name of Mr A. Arnell, Labor’s
third Senate candidate in the last Decem-
ber Federal election to the Premier. Mr
A. Arnell is the President of the Queens-
land branch of the Waterside Workers’
Federation. His claim to prominence in
Queensland’s political life has lain mainly
in standing on Unity Tickets with mem-
bers of the Communist Party in WWF
elections in 1957, ’5B, ’59, ’6O, ’6l and
’62. He has the complete support of the
Trades and Labor Council in his bid for
the vacant Senate seat.
The first problem Mr Nicklin will have
is whether his Party (the Country Party)
and the Liberals (the weaker force in the
Coalition) can give their support to a
Labor man of Mr Arnell’s political
calibre.
The spectacle of a non-Labor Premier
virtually condoning unity tickets would
be unique in Australian political life.
The second factor which Mr Nicklin
will find embarrassing is the unfavorable
publicity he would get if he bolstered the
Liberals’ rather tenuous hold in the
Senate and went ahead and appointed
a non-Labor man to fill the vacancy.
The Queensland Press and a large num-
ber of political observers are using the
word “precedence” in implying that the
Premier must support the Labor nominee.
In fact they are wrong.
On three occasions in Queensland a
Senator has died while in office 1922
in 1928 and in 1937. On two of those
three occasions (1922 and 1928) non-
Labor Senators died and Labor Senators
were appointed by the then Queensland
Labor Governments.
Leaving aside the possibility of Premier
Nicklin appointing a new Labor man,
two other Queensland politicians are still
in the running. In the last election the
man who ran sixth when the State’s five
Senators were elected was ex-premier V.
Gair, now the leader of the QLP. In
Parliament House last week ex-Treasurer
Mr E. Walsh, now an Independent was
member of Parliament (he resigned from
the QLP), was going around Parlia-
ment House pleading Mr Gair’s case to
the dominant Country Party side of the
Coalition.
The Liberals came out prematurely last
week and indicated that they would sup-
port a Labor nominee without exam-
ining the implications involved should a
man like Mr Arnell be Labor’s choice.
Mr Nicklin’s CP has so far remained
silent. Should the Premier support Mr
Gair for the vacancy he will risk the em-
barrassment of a public division of
opinion in the Coalition.
The other candidate still rated a stray
chance is 72-year-old ex-Army Minister
Frank Forde still a member of the
Australian Labor Party.
Even the constitutional position sur-
rounding the appointment to the vacant
Senate position is uncertain. Under Sec-
tion 15 of the Australian Constitution
both of a State’s Houses of Parliament
must sit together after seven days notice
and elect their State’s representative. Al-
though it has never been the subject of
a challenge, Queensland has one rather
obvious disability: its Upper House was
abolished in 1921.
MUGGA
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
LIFE WITHOUT LOTTERIES
week saw one of the rare occas-
ions in South Australia when the
word “lottery” appears in the daily news-
papers. And to make the occasion more
delectable for the State’s gamblers and
sinners, THAT word sneaked into an
“Advertiser” heading in 30 point Ultra
Bodoni.
Naturally there had to be a villain
somewhere and in this case it was the
DLP which had made news by deciding
at its annual State conference to make a
State Lottery part of its policy. To
appreciate fully the DLP’s decision, one
has to understand the attitude towards
lotteries of those in high places in South
Australia
Premier Sir Thomas Playford has made
it clear that he, and therefore the Gov-
ernment, regards lotteries in much the
same way he regards other NSW-type
evils like 10 o’clock closing and poker
machines—with revulsion. The Labor
opposition is hardly more “liberal” than
its opponents in the lottery matter. Labor
declares itself neither for nor against
lotteries but says that “when elected will
hold a referendum to determine the
wishes of the people”.
The Press plays its part in keeping the
State untainted by referring to lottery
wins in other states as “windfalls”, a
quaint old custom to say the least.
Legend has it that the use of the word
windfall was suggested some years ago
by the Police Department. It was felt
that the omission of the word lottery
would discourage the locals from send-
ing to other States for tickets. (Just why
the Police should concern themselves
with this matter has never been ex-
plained satisfactorily.)
It is evident to anyone who reads his
newspapers, with the possible exception
of Sir Thomas, that South Australians do
buy a lot of interstate lottery tickes, and
on that score alone, the DLP policy,
while it probably will never amount to
anything politically, should be popu-
lar.
A point to remember is that the DLP
in South Australia, as in other states,
relies heavily on raffles for its finance.


GRETEL
the inside story
of the challenge
A tale of protocol, injured feelings and straight talk
By DAVID McNICOLL
44 \\f That,” asked a reporter from
the San Francisco Chronicle,
▼ * “first induced you to issue a
challenge for the America’s Cup?” Sir
Frank Packer, exhausted from a long
flight, took a deep breath, “Alcohol and
delusions of grandeur”, he replied.
Sir Frank was, of course, being
flippant. But there were thousands of
people in Australia, the United States
and England who, in 1959, might have
privately attributed his fantastically long-
shot proposal to those very stimulants.
The America’s Cup! It seemed crazy.
Certainly Australia was a sailing nation
with a good record of small boat achieve-
ment. But it didn't even have a 12-metre
yacht, didn’t have a yachtsman who’d
sailed one, had never built a yacht of
equivalent size. But Australia did have
a record of determination, and of success
at a variety of sport. Those who doubted
the sanity of challenging for the Ame-
rica’s Cup read with interest at about the
same time the equestrian results from
the Rome Olympics. A team of Austra-
lian riders, scarcely taken seriously by
the crack horsemen of England, Spain,
Italy and Switzerland, had transported a
handful of Australian horses to England
a year before the Olympics and spent
gruelling months in training. The bril-
liant Continental riders still had con-
ceded them little chance in Rome. Yet
the Australian horsemen scooped the
pool gold and silver medals and a
standard of equestrian skill which had
the experts gasping. So why not a crack
at the America’s Cup?
The band of enthusiasts who made up
the Gretel syndicate were all tough,
determined and persuasive men. Their
leader was Sir Frank Packer. His asso-
ciates were R. S. “Dicko” Dickson, vice-
commodore of the Royal Sydney Yacht
Squadron, television equipment manu-
This article, written for publication
in the United States, appeared in
America this month.
facturer; William Northam, Sydney civic
leader and head of the Australian branch
of the American Johnson and Johnson
Company; Keith Martin, newspaper exe-
cutive and lifelong friend of Sir Frank
Packer. On the outer perimeter of the
syndicate, towers of-strength both in
finance and wisdom were W. G.
Walkley,. head of the big Australian
petroleum firm, Ampol; and Noel Foley,
head of W. D. & H. O. Wills in Aus-
tralia.
Packer, Dickson, Northam and Martin,
all interested in yachting, first started to
toss around the idea of an America’s
Cup Challenge in mid-1959. There had
been great Australian interest in Sceptre
races, and the dismal showing of the
British boat had, by sympathetic de na-
tion, left bruises on Commonwealth yacht
clubs around the world. The Royal
Sydney Yacht Squadron, nestling on the
magnificent shore of a protected cove in
Sydney Harbor became the crucible for
the new challenge. Little was it realised
in those early days that the Australian
challenge the temerity to challenge
would be regarded in England as nothing
short of a palace revolution. And the
very close association of yachting with
the Palace makes the description apt.
But before any gauges could be thrown
down in front of the august members of
the New York Yacht Club, the embryo
syndicate had to be certain on two
points: they had to get a 12-metre “trial”
boat; and they had to be sure they could
■finance a challenge with a final tab of
nearly half a million pounds or a million
dollars.
Getting a million dollars together was
obviously not an insuperable task. Aus-
tralia has very few rich men, but quite
a strata of comfortably-padded ones.
Some months later, when the Royal
Sydney Yacht Squadron was about to
challenge on behalf of the syndicate
members, the thought of the “tab” was
very obvious in the committee’s thinking.
In a letter to Sir Frank, the secretary


asked for a guarantee “that in the event
0 f your death Mr Keith Martin or
some executive of Australian Consoli-
dated Press who is a member of the
Squadron will carry the project through
its complete finalisation upon the same
terms as accepted by you.”
The Trial Horse Problem
Sir Frank, in a reply, said “Your letter
is understood and accepted. It is my
intention to work personally with your
committee in connection with all details
concerning the challenge and the chal-
lenger. I also plan to be present in 1962
at the time of the race for the Cup.
Should fate decide otherwise, arrange-
ments will be made as set out in your
letter of July 14, despite my absence
from the scene. I have pleasure in report-
ing that, at the moment, the medical
fraternity are very satisfied with me
generally, but if this unhappy event
should take place, I shall use my best
endeavors to see you get a favorable
wind.”
Getting a “trial horse” was the big
pre-Challenge problem. Who had a good
one? Who would sell or charter one?
Word had filtered through from America
that Captain John Matthews, owner of
Vim, was feeling rather disappointed that
his great old boat had been discarded in
favor of Columbia in the Cup races
against Sceptre. Obviously if the syn-
dicate could get Vim, they would have,
if not the best, the second best 12-metre
in the world. So the quest for Vim
started.
Several lines were set to get Captain
Matthews on the hook. The redoubtable
General Robert Wood Johnson, head of
Johnson & Johnson (and therefore boss
of Bill Northam, one of Sir Frank
Packer’s syndicate partners) knew
Matthews. He shot off a telegram in
October 1959 asking Captain Matthews
to see Sir Frank.
The telegram added that Colin Ryrie
would, in the meantime, be in touch with
Captain Matthews.
A good start. Colin Ryrie was a good
follow-up. Australian Olympic yachts-
man Ryrie had been sailing Finns in
competition against Captain Matthews’
son Don off Long Island. Don helped fix
an interview between Ryrie and his
father.
“I saw the old boy down in his office,”
Ryrie recalls, “a tough customer. He
started off by saying he had been mucked
about enough by Australians. I told him
that Sir Frank was not a muck-about
type. Either a shot was on or it wasn’t”.
Captain Matthews was in a strange state
of mind about Vim. He didn’t want to
keep her, but he knew some people would
criticise him for letting her go. “They’ll
say I’m a traitor,” he muttered to Ryrie,
“But I reckon letting Vim go to Australia
will keep the America’s Cup alive.”
Sir Frank came to New York from
Rochester and met Captain Matthews.
The agreement to part with Vim was
approved in principle. Then came some
horse-trading between two fairly long-
time horse-trading experts. Finally a
figure of SBO,OOO was fixed for a four-
year charter. On November 1, the charter
was signed by J. B. Davies, New York
representative of Consolidated Press
and Vim passed into Australian hands.
Ryrie busied himself on construction of
cradles for Vim and her tender aboard
the City of Poona, Sydney bound from
New York. Within days, the graceful
12-metre was out of the water and on the
freighter's fore deck.
Within days, too, the tough unpredict-
able Captain Matthews had given half
the money he received from Packer to an
old friend, the Rev. Gerald Dillon, pastor
of Sts John and Paul Church, in Coven-
try Rhode Island, to pay for a parish
school.
It did not take long for word of Vim’s
charter to filter to yachting circles
around the world, and to consolidate the
“fantastic” rumors that Australia might
challenge for the America’s Cup. In New
York, Briggs Cunningham, the great
sportsman who, in Columbia, had
humiliated Sceptre, said: “Good; you
couldn’t do better than use Vim as a
trial horse. Between her and Columbia
there is little to choose. In a breeze
Columbia perhaps has an edge. In light
airs there’s nothing between them. That
might give your designer something to
think about. I don’t believe Columbia’s
design can be improved on much. Still,
you can never tell ... the secret lies in
the tank testing. An error of a decimal
point in the model, carried over into the
actual hull, and you lose.”
The news of the Vim charter caused
some uneasiness in Canada and Eng-
land. A Canadian syndicate had been
thinking of a charter a British syn-
dicate had been talking with Matthews.
On the very morning the deal with Aus-
tralia was clinched in Captain Matthew’s
Wall Street office, he received a phone
call from London. The English syndicate
was asking: “Is it true about Vim?” The
captain told them they’d been too slow;
Australia had taken the first trick.
The Charter of Vim
Australian syndicate did not take
A long to move. On October 27 the
Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron held a
ceremony to farewell its commodore, the
Governor-General of Australia, Field-
Marshal Sir William Slim (now Lord Slim)
whose term of office had ended. In his
farewell speech, Sir William announced
the charter of Vim and told the guests that
it was the intention of the Royal Sydney
Yacht Squadron to challenge for the
America’s Cup. A roar of surprise and
delight went up from the guests in the
crowded club. The bull-dog-chinned Gov-
ernor-General, who had come to be liked
by Australians as much as he had by his
troops in Burma in World War 11,
grinned at the faces around him. “Within
a couple of years,” he said, “we will
have a challenger for the America’s Cup.
When the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron
wins the Cup, you can rely that wherever
I am, I shall brag.”
The news of a proposed challenge was
received with some incredulity in Eng-
land—incredulity which carried over for
two or three months, and which finally
resulted in England being beaten to the
draw. The day that the news of Sir
William’s remarks appeared in London
papers, there was an almost universal
sniff of contempt from the Press and
yachtsmen. The chartering of Vim had
been regarded as a clever stroke and
rather typical of the brash way Australia
behaved. But chartering a 12-metre was
very different from building a 12-metre.
And quite frankly, said the British, it was
rather beyond the Australian cousins.
Australia “Lacked Experience”
/Awen Aisher, prominent designer,
owner, and yachting committeeman,
was asked his opinion of the Australian
intention. He said: “I suppose the Austra-
lians will get their designer—whoever he
may be to more or less copy Vim.
Designers in Britain think there is no
designer in Australia capable of design-
ing such a yacht.” (Two years later, when
he came to Australia and saw the yacht
Australia had built, Aisher no doubt
regretted his rash early judgments his
remarks then were as warm and full of
praise as his earlier ones had been scorn-
ful. Arthur Robb, the English designer
who was working on a yacht for Lord
Craigmyle’s “Red Duster” syndicate, said
that Australia “lacked experience” both
in designing and building yachts of the
America’s Cup calibre.
The note of hostility in British news-
paper comment was widespread but not
universal. Races for the America’s Cup
had become practically a British pre-
rogative and the thought of Australia—
which already showed alarming prowess
at tennis, cricket, rowing and athletics
coming into a new field was a trifle
upsetting. The Observer was friendly and
the stately London Times welcomed the
proposed challenge and looked forward
to the prospect of British and Australian
designers racing to get a challenger
prepared. “If American or British
tanks are made available to the /Austra-
lians for research, it would only seem a
matter of time before Australian design-
ers could produce a real rival for Colum-
bia,” said the Times. Another cordial


note was struck by F. P. Usborn, Secre-
tary of the Royal Yachting Association,
who said “The challenge would be an
excellent thing for world yachting,, and
Australia's bid would be taken very
seriously by British yachtsmen.”
In the event, however, the bid was not
taken seriously by British yachtsmen
until it was too late. The City of Poona
sailed from New York on December 3,
1959, Vim snug in her cradle on the
deck. She arrived in Sydney on January
20, 1960, and the ferries and freighters
on Sydney Harbor whistled and cock-a-
doodle-dooed as the slim yacht was lifted
from her cradle and lowered gently into
to Harbor.
Royal Thames Considers a Challenge
December 1, 1959, Sir Frank Packer
wrote to the Secretary of the
Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron and
Secretary of the Australian Yachting
Federation (Mr Lloyd Burgess) stating
that, consequent on the chartering of
Vim, his syndicate wished to challenge
for the America’s Cup, and requested
that this challenge should emanate from
the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron, of
which Club the four principals (Packer,
Martin, Dickson and Northam) were
members. Mr Burgess acknowledged the
letter on December 4, giving the blessing
of the Federation to the venture.
. At this very time, unbeknown to the
Sydney Syndicate, the Royal Thames
Yacht Club was considering a challenge
for the Cup. It had not, at that time,
reached the stage of drafting (this did
not happen until February 18). But
Royal Thames did have a challenge
under consideration, and the idea had
the encouragement indeed the very
massive backing of the Duke of Edin-
burgh. But the challenge was merely
under consideration. In assessing the
strained feelings of the next few months
it is essential to study the times at which
the various events happened; the dates
tell their own story.
On January 27, Mr Burgess wrote to
W. Mahlon Dickerson, Secretary of the
New York Yacht Club, asking him if the
New York Yacht Club would be pre-
pared to accept a challenge for the Cup
from the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron
and if so, would the Cup trustees allow
the use of the facilities of the Stevens
Institute for tank testing of models. Mr
Dickerson replied on March 25 that the
use of Stevens Tank facilities would not,
in the view of the trustees, make a
finished yacht ineligible as challenger.
On March 2, 1960, Packer wrote to
Mr. Burgess in his capacity as secretary
of the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron
and asked him to put the proposed chal-
lenge before his committee.
On April 7, 1960, Mr Dickerson
wrote from New York:
“In regard to the plans of the
Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron to
challenge for the America’s Cup in
1962, I have been instructed to
reply that the New York Yacht
Club would accept such a challenge
for that year. If the Royal Sydney
Yacht Squadron desires to challenge
for the Cup, the challenge match to
be sailed in 1962, 1 suggest that the
Secretary of the Squadron write the
Secretary of the New York Yacht-
ing Club challenging it, on behalf of
the International 12-metre class in
1962, the details of the match to be
agreed by the respective clubs.”
The Syndicate’s reaction was imme-
diate a request to the Squadron to
challenge. On April 13 the challenge
was sent to America. Within days came
a cable from W. Mahlon Dickerson;
“YOUR LETTER OF APRIL 13
RECEIVED AND A SPECIAL
MEETING OF THE ' " ARD OF
TRUSTEES HAS BEEN CALLED
FOR APRIL 28 FOR THE CON-
SIDERATION OF THIS CHAL-
LENGE STOP RECEIPT OF
CHALLENGE WAS ISSUED TO
PRESS TODAY.”
This 'eft the challenge syndicate sus-
pended for 10 days or so. It was dur-
ing this time that things started to move
in England. It became apparent to Eng-
lish yachtsmen that Australia was up to
its neck in the act. The only chance of
getting an English challenger was to
upset the Australian challenge, or to
make the effort a Commonwealth ven-
ture and trust that an English 12-metre
would beat a possible Australian con-
tender. It also became obvious at this
time that even if the Australian challenge
were accepted England would then pro-
ceed to negotiate with Australia on the
basis of a “sail-off” to decide who would
challenge.
The Royal Thames Club uid not hesi-
tate long. It fired into the New York
Yacht Club a request for possible sub-
stitution of a “Commonwealth Club” as
challenger. On April 19 the duke of
Edinburgh sent a letter to the Austra-
lian Yachting Federation suggesting a co-
ordinating committee. This letter was
received at the New York Yacht Club
some days later (it was not, incidentally,
received by the Royal Sydney Yacht
Squadron until after Australia’s chal-
lenge had been accepted).
It must have been clear to some people
in England that only personal interven-
tion in New York could upset or
modify the Australian challenge. Cap-
tain John Illingworth, commodore of the
Royal Thames Y cht Club, and repre-
sentative of the potential British chal-
lengers, winged Lis way from London
to New York a couple of days before the
deadline. He went to the New York
Yacht Club, spok: to officials and later
had sent, through an intermediary, a
cable to Sir Frank Packer.
Illingworth pointed out n his cable
that he had had full discussions on the
question of the challenge with Commo-
dore Hinman and other officers “who
fully admitted the validity of the Royal
Sydney challenge”. However, he said,
these officials had sir e received the let-
ter from Prince Philip, and “in the light
of that letter they hoped some way might
be found to have British md Australian
yachts meet in an elimination either in
British or American waters (N.B. Not
Australian!). He added an assurance that
his whole object in coming to New York
was to find a solution satisfactory to both
Australia and Britain.
An all-Australian Challenge
A ustralia knew and respected Captain
Illingworth; he had sailed in Austra-
lian waters and he was a most likeable
person. But the only “solution satisfac-
tory” to the Australian syndicate was an
all-Australian challenge, to which Austra-
lia considered itself entitled as first in
with a challenger.
So a cable —straight to the point—
went to Captain Illingworth in New
York. It read:
“THANK YOU FOR YOUR
CABLED MESSAGE STOP THIS
MATTER HAS NOW LARGELY
PASSED INTO THE HANDS OF
THE ROYAL SYDNEY YACHT
SQUADRON WHO ISSUED THE
CHALLENGE BUT SYNDI-
CATE’S VIEW IS THAT THIS
IS AN INTERNATIONAL TRO-
PHY AND WE MADE NO SEC-
RET OF THE FACT THAT
AUSTRALIA INTENDED TO
CHALLENGE, THAT A SYNDI-
CATE HAD BEEN FORMED,
THAT THE VIM HAD BEEN
CHARTERED, THAT WE IN-
TENDED TO BUILD A BOAT
AND TO CHALLENGE STOP IN
PUTTING OURSELVES IN THIS
POSITION WE HAVE INCUR-
RED GREAT EXPENSE STOP IF
FOR REASONS BEST KNOWN
TO THEMSELVES THE ENG-
LISH CHALLENGERS DECIDED
TO DELAY THEIR CHALLENGE
THIS IN MY OPINION IS NO
JUSTIFICATION FOR QUES-
TIONING AUSTRALIA’S CHAL-
LENGE.
“FURTHERMORE I FEEL


ALITALIA HAS MORE FLIGHTS PER DAY THAN THERE ARE DAYS IN A MONTH
Thirty-three daily flights (it could be more tomorrow!).
Alitalia flies to 44 countries, 72 cities. Flies more than
1,398 million passenger-miles a year over 100,000 miles of
regular air routes. More than 2,000,000 passengers. In
short, Alitalia is in all of Italy and is truly international
in every respect. Alitalia services link North and South
America, South Africa, Asia and Australia.
In fact, the saying is . . . you’re not a world traveller
until you’ve flown by Alitalia. The reason? Alitalia is
sophisticated air travel. The intercontinental airline that
has grown over 15 years to a vast world-wide organisa-
tion currently linking 44 countries. 54 aircraft in world-
wide operation, over 7,000 employees. Marvellous service!
Superb Italian cuisine. Vintage wines.
Rolls Royce Super DC-8 Jets. 24 flights weekly to
U.S.A. and Canada. New Alitalia jet flights to South
America reduced previous flying time by half. Or the
weekly Alitalia flights from Sydney to Rome with
immediate connections by fabulous Caravelle jets to
London. Leave Sydney at 11.00 a.m. Fridays, be in
London 3 o’clock Saturday. And of course Alitalia’s vast
European network to all major centres.
So go one better ... go Alitalia. Bookings at any travel
agency, TAA General Sales Agents or Alitalia.
Z.^&3s***~ar
AUTALIA&
“THE WINGED ARROW SERVICE TO 44 COUNTRIES ’•
BOOKINGS: ALL TRAVEL AGENTS, TAA GENERAL SALES AGENTS AND ALITALIA. SYDNEY: 177 ELIZABETH STREET, PHONE 61-851?*
MELBOURNE: PEARL ASSURANCE BLDG., 143 QUEEN STREET, PHONE 67-6865-6. BRISBANE: 183 EDWARD STREET, PHONE 31-219?,
"L'VL
J
jpittws
SYDNEY
ALITALIA IS IN ALL OF ITALY
AAI3SI-FP


THAT A CHALLENGE FROM
AUSTRALIA WILL ASSIST AND
INTENSIFY GENERAL INTER-
EST IN THIS GREAT RACE. I
SEE NO REASON FOR AUSTRA-
LIA TO WITHDRAW FROM ITS
RIGHT AND JUST POSITION AS
THE VALID AND FIRST CHAL-
LENGER FOR THE 1962 SERIES
AND AS I SAID EARLIER IN
THIS MESSAGE WE AT NO
STAGE TRIED TO CLOAK HIDE
OR CLOTHE OUR INTENTIONS
WITH SECRECY. THIS MES-
SAGE IS PERHAPS NOT VERY
HELPFUL TO YOU IN WHAT
YOU ARE SEEKING TO
ACHIEVE WHICH YOU DE-
SCRIBE AS TO FIND A SOLU-
TION SATISFACTORY TO BOTH
AUSTRALIA AND ENGLAND’.
AS FAR AS WE ARE CON-
CERNED THE PRESENT SITUA-
TION OF BEING THE FIRST
AND THE VALID CHAL-
LENGER IS QUITE SATISFAC-
TORY FOR AUSTRALIA AND
CALLS FOR NO SOLUTION
STOP AS YOU ARE AWARE
HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCE
PHILIP IS PATRON OF ROYAL
SYDNEY YACHT SQUADRON
SO NO DOUBT OUR CHAL-
LENGE WILL CARRY HIS
BLESSING STOP AFTER ALL
YOU HAVE HAD A LONG UN-
INTERRUPTED RUN STOP
MAYBE WE WON’T DO ANY
BETTER BUT EVERY NOW AND
AGAIN YOU HAVE TO GIVE
THE YOUNG FELLOW IN THE
FAMILY HIS HEAD STOP
WITH KINDEST REGARDS
AND GOOD LUCK STOP YOU
ARE AT LIBERTY TO PLACE
THIS CABLE BEFORE THE
NEW YORK YACHT CLUB IF
YOU SO DESIRE.
FRANK PACKER”.
It could scarcely be described as an
obscure cable. Captain Illingworth got
the message.
Colonel Neville Blair, Secretary of the
Royal Thames Yacht Club, had said to
a reporter at the time of Illingworth’s
rush visit: “We don’t want to conflict
or run in opposition to Sydney. We
are all friends. It is no wish of ours
to beat Sydney to it. We just
want to make sure New York rea-
lises there are other people in the field.
It is up to New York to choose”.
New York chose. On April 28 the
following cable was sent to Sydney:
“SECRETARY, ROYAL SYD-
NEY YACHT SQUADRON. THE
FOLLOWING RESOLUTIONS
WERE PASSED THIS DAY BY
THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF
THE NEW YORK YACHT CLUB
(1) THE CHALLENGE OF THE
ROYAL SYDNEY YACHT
SQUADRON FOR A MATCH
FOR THE AMERICA’S CUP BE
SAILED IN 1962 IN THE INTER-
NATIONAL 12-METRE CLASS IS
ACCEPTED. THE CONDITIONS
OF THE MATCH TO BE DETER-
MINED BY AGREEMENT BE-
TWEEN THE ROYAL SYDNEY
SQUADRON AND THE NEW
YORK YACHT CLUB (2) THE
ROYAL THAMES YACHT CLUB
HAVING REQUESTED A RUL-
ING FROM THIS CLUB IN RE-
GARD TO THE POSSIBLE SUB-
STITUTION OF A COMMON-
WEALTH CLUB AS CHAL-
LENGER FOR THE AMERICA’S
CUP IN THE PLACE OF A
COMMONWEALTH CLUB
WHOSE CHALLENGE HAD AL-
READY BEEN ACCEPTED AND
IF SUCH CLUB REQUESTS
SUCH SUBSTITUTION IT IS
THE SENSE OF THIS BOARD
THAT UNDER THE ABOVE
CIRCUMSTANCES THIS CLUB
WOULD DISPENSE WITH THE
TEN MONTHS NOTICE OF
CHALLENGE REQUIRED BY
THE DEED OF GIFT AND CON-
SENT TO SUCH SUBSTITUTION
IF THE CLUB WHOSE SUB-
STITUTION IS REQUESTED
COMPLIES WITH THE RE-
QUIREMENTS OF THE DEED
OF GIFT IN RESPECT TO A
CHALLENGER AND SIMUL-
TANEOUSLY CHALLENGES
FOR A MATCH FOR THE AME-
RICA’S CUP UPON THE CONDI-
TIONS THERETOFORE
AGREED UPON BETWEEN THE
ORIGINAL CHALLENGER AND
THIS CLUB THIS LAST RESOLU-
TION IS NOT INTENDED TO IN-
FLUENCE YOUR ACTIONS IN
ANY WAY INSOFAR AS THE
NEW YORK YACHT CLUB IS
CONCERNED STOP LETTER
FOLLOWING STOP W. MAH-
LON DICKERSON SECRETARY
NEW YORK YACHT CLUB”.
The New York Yacht Club had, in
effect, accepted Sydney’s challenge, but
tossed the question of a Commonwealth
elimination into Australia’s lap.
The Daily Express in London was
again to the fore in whipping up op-
position to Australia’s intentions. “The
Red Duster” syndicate, headed by Lord
Craigmyle, was reported to be disap-
pointed; its plans had become more ad-
vanced than those of other possible chal-
lengers, and it was principally on their
behalf that Captain Illingworth had
made his dramatic dash to New York.
Anthony Boydon, a London businessman,
was another prospective challenger,
whose interests Illingworth intended to
protect. Illingworth had met with some
measure of success in his efforts, indi-
cated by the decision of the New York
Yacht Club to leave in the qualifying
paragraphs about a Commonwealth eli-
mination. The problem, now resting
squarely in Australia’s lap, had to be re-
solved quickly and cleanly, for the good
of sporting relationships between Austra-
lia and England.
The vice-commodore of the Royal
Sydney Yacht Squadron, R. A. Dickson,
a great mountain of a man, jolly but ex-
tremely determined, drafted a long cable
on April 27 to Sir William Slim. Sir
William, former Commodore of the
Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron, was now
back in London. He was the obvious
man to iron out the problems—held in
tremendous respect on all sides and by
all classes in England and Australia, he
had been in at the birth of Australia’s
challenge. He knew about the fierce in-
tensity of the desire to challenge; and he
knew from experience, something of the
determination pig-headedness if you
like—of Australians once their sights
are set on an objective.
“Don’t be a Meany”
At almost the same time that Dickson
was drafting his cable, Bill Northam,
another syndicate member, holidaying at
the Midocean Club, Bermuda, became
alarmed at reports of a possible disrup-
tion of the challenge. He cabled Frank
Packer on April 29: “We should not
agree to race England first STOP They
must challenge another year”, to which
Packer replied, “Don’t be a meany”.
Dickson’s cable to Slim reads:
“FIELD-MARSHAL SIR WIL-
LIAM SLIM, ATHENAEUM
CLUB, 107 PALL MALL, LON-
DON. SIR, AS OUR COMMO-
DORE WE MUST PUT YOU IN
THE PICTURE REGARDING
THE SQUADRON’S CHAL-
LENGE FOR THE AMERICA’S
CUP IN VIEW OF PRESS STATE-
MENTS EMANATING FROM
ENGLAND AND AMERICA
STOP WE WROTE SAYING THE
ROYAL SYDNEY YACHT
SQUADRON WISHED TO CHAL-
LENGE STOP IN LETTER RE-
CEIVED FROM THE NEW YORK
YACHT; CLUB OF 7th APRIL
* SIGNED BY THEIR SECRETARY


MALCOLM DICKERSON IT
STATES QUOTE IN REGARD
TO THE PLANS OF THE ROYAL
SYDNEY YACHT SQUADRON
TO CHALLENGE FOR THE
AMERICA’S CUP IN 1962 WE
HAVE BEEN INSTRUCTED TO
REPLY THAT THE NEW YORK
YACHT CLUB WOULD ACCEPT
SUCH CHALLENGE FOR THAT
YEAR UNQUOTE IT THEN
GOES ON TO TELL US THAT
THE SECRETARY OF THE
SQUADRON SHOULD WRITE
TO THE SQUADRON FOR A
MATCH TO BE SAILED IN THE
INTERNATIONAL 12 - METRE
CLASS IN 1962 STOP THIS WAS
DONE BY CABLE AND CON-
FIRMED IN WRITING STOP
THE LETTER OF 7th APRIL
FROM THE NEW YORK YACHT
CLUB WAS WRITTEN AND RE-
CEIVED HERE PRIOR TO ANY
KNOWN CHALLENGE EMAN-
ATING FROM BRITAIN AND
OBVIOUSLY THE NEW YORK
YACHT CLUB WOULD NOT
HAVE SAID THEY WOULD AC-
CEPT OUR CHALLENGE AS
STATED IN THEIR LETTER OF
7th APRIL HAD THEY BEEN
CONSIDERING A CHALLENGE
FROM ENGLAND AT THAT
DATE STOP SINCE THEN TWO
LETTERS HAVE BEEN RECEIV-
ED FROM BUCKINGHAM
PALACE ONE UNDER THE SIG-
NATURE OF REAR-ADMIRAL
CHRISTOPHER CARTER AND
THE OTHER UNDER THE SIG-
NATURES OF HIS ROYAL
HIGHNESS PRINCE PHILIP,
KENNETH PRESTON, AND
CHARLES BULL STOP AS YOU
KNOW WE ARE SERIOUS
EARNEST AND SINCERE
ABOUT THIS CHALLENGE AND
FEEL THAT IT HAS VIR-
TUALLY BEEN ACCEPTED
STOP AT THE SAME TIME WE
DO NOT WISH IN ANY WAY
TO PROMOTE DISHARMONY
OR CAUSE ANY HEARTBURNS
OR ILL-FEELING AMONGST
THE COMMONWEALTH OF NA-
TIONS YACHTING CIRCLES
STOP EYE HOPE AS COMMO-
DORE YOU AGREE WITH US
AND THAT THIS WILL GIVE
YOU SUFFICIENT BACK-
GROUND TO SMOOTH DOWN
ANY WAVES THAT COME
ALONG STOP WE THINK AND
HOPE WE CAN WIN STOP
KINDEST REGARDS FROM FEL-
LOW FLAG OFFICERS AND
MEMBERS.
R. A. DICKSON, VICE-
COMMODORE”.
Dickson also sent a cable to Commo-
dore Hinman, New York Yacht Club.
“ATTENTION COMMODORE
HINMAN. IN THE ABSENCE OF
MY COMMODORE FIELD-MAR-
SHAL SIR WILLIAM SLIM WHO
IS IN ENGLAND WE HAVE RE-
FRAINED FROM MAKING ANY
COMMENTS ON THE VARIOUS
PRESS AND OTHER STATE-
MENTS ISSUING FROM ENG-
LAND AND AMERICA ABOUT
AUSTRALIA’S CHALLENGE
FOR THE AMERICA’S CUP
STOP WE WERE DELIGHTED
TO RECEIVE YOUR LETTER OF
APRIL 7th SIGNED BY YOUR
SECRETARY DICKERSON
WHICH SO FAR HAS NOT BEEN
RELEASED OR PUBLISHED
STOP THIS LETTER STATED
YOUR SECRETARY HAD BEEN
INSTRUCTED THAT THE NEW
YORK YACHT CLUB WOULD
ACCEPT A CHALLENGE FROM
AUSTRALIA FOR 1962 STOP IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THIS
LETTER WE CABLED FORMAL
CHALLENGE AND CONFIRM-
ED IT IN WRITING AS RE-
QUESTED BY YOU IN LETTER
OF 7th STOP ROYAL SYDNEY
YACHT SQUADRON UNDER NO
CIRCUMSTANCES WANTS TO
CAUSE YOUR CLUB ANY EM-
BARRASSMENT AND AS THE
CHALLENGE WAS ISSUED IM-
MEDIATELY ON RECEIPT OF
YOUR LETTER AND BEFORE,
AS FAR AS WE KNOW, ANY-
THING HAD EMANATED FROM
ENGLAND OF A DEFINITE
NATURE WOULD YOU LIKE
US TO RELEASE YOUR LETTER
OF 7th WHICH AS FAR AS WE
ARE CONCERNED WRAPPED
UP THE DEAL BEFORE ENG-
LAND CAME TO THE PARTY.
R. A. DICKSON, VICE-
COMMODORE”.
This cable brought a reply from Sir
William Slim, which was conciliatory,
but put forward in clear terms how the
Royal Thames Yacht Club felt. The
cable read:
VICE-COMMODORE, ROYAL
SYDNEY YACHT CLUB. YOUR
CABLE OF 27th APRIL STOP
HAVE HAD MEETING AT
BUCKINGHAM PALACE WITH
MAJOR BALL, VICE-COMMO-
DORE ROYAL THAMES, AND
REAR - ADMIRAL BONHAM
CARTER AT WHICH SUBJECT
OF 1962 CHALLENGE WAS
FULLY DISCUSSED STOP I
FOUND THE ATMOSPHERE
MOST FRIENDLY AND UNDER-
STANDING TOWARDS THE
AUSTRALIAN CHALLENGE
AND THERE IS NO WISH TO
HORN IN ON IT STOP THE
ROYAL THAMES YACHT CLUB
HAD DRAFTED A CHALLENGE
TO THE NEW YORK YACHT
CLUB ON 18th FEBRUARY BUT
POSTPONED SENDING IT ON
ACCOUNT OF PROPOSAL FOR
COMMONWEALTH CO - ORDI-
NATING COMMITTEE AS DES-
CRIBED IN LETTER OF 19th
APRIL TO SECRETARY ROYAL
AUSTRALIAN YACHTING
FEDERATION STOP WE ARE
ALL IN AGREEMENT THAT
ROYAL SYDNEY YACHT
SQUADRON SHOULD PROCEED
AS CHALLENGERS FOR 1962
WITH EVERYONE’S GOOD
WISHES STOP IT IS HOPED TO
FORM THE COMMONWEALTH
COMMITTEE TO CO-ORDIN-
ATE ARRANGEMENTS FOR
FUTURE CHALLENGES
AGAINST EITHER SYDNEY OR
NEW YORK STOP . . .
SLIM.”
The points put up by the Royal
Thames were interesting but not par-
ticularly impressive to Australia. The
fact that the Royal Thames Club had
deferred firing in a challenge pending
drafting of a letter (a month later) about
which Sydney had no knowledge did
not seem to alter the situation and per-
usal of the Duke’s letter of April 19th
did not alter thinking among the Aus-
tralian challengers even though the
Duke’s Treasurer, Rear-Admiral Bonham
Carter, suggested privately that the fact
that the Australian challenge was out
“need no vitiate the proposals made in
that (the Duke’s) letter, if the challeng-
ers wish to use such a committee, and
that the co-ordinating committee if
formed may be able to prevent any clash
of interests between challengers”.
After the reply had been received from
Sir William Slim, the Australian Syndi-
cate realised it had the green light. In
New York the Rear-Commodore of the
New York Yacht Club, Chauncy Still-
man, hailed the Australian challenge and
said that it would “infuse new blood into
all our veins”. Captain Matthews, who
had leased Vim to Australia, expressed
delight and said, “I hope you people do
well. It will do a lot of good for the
America’s Cup competition”.
The general feeling throughout Ame-
rica and Australia seemed to be one


of delight. England - had tried without
success over a period of 110 years to
wrest back the battered old mug from
its place on the mantel of the New York
Club. Now somebody else was having
a try. Cables and telegrams and letters
wishing good luck poured in. It would
not be going too far to say that the
majority of well-wishers thought Austra-
lia’s chances were forlorn. But one som-
bre note was struck in the New York
Times by an American yachtsman, C.
Townsend Corning, who said in a let-
ter that “folding our fat little hands
over our tummies and automatically rul-
ing out the challenge would be danger-
ous ... I recall that a schooner yqcht
na'med America started this .whole thing
by brashly sailing across the Atlantic and
taking on anything that came along. I
have such a feeling about our friends
in the Pacific”.
The Royal Thames Yacht Club on
May 23, 1960, circularised those inter-
ested in an America’s Cup Challenge
stating that “the situation as discussed
on 17th March (a co-ordinated chal-
lenge) had been altered by recent events,
and presumably there can now be no
question of a Commonwealth effort for
the races in 1962”.. A further meeting
to discuss the co-ordinating principle for
future challenges was suggested for
Tuesday, May 31, at 11.a.m.
Friendly chat with the Duke
IJill Northam, then in London, re-
ceived an invitation from Royal
Thames to attend this meeting. The letter
of invitation added: “We were a little dis-
turbed to see in yesterday’s Times that
a Mr Palmer, in a statement in Sydney
announcing his intention to build a chal-
lenger for the Cup, should again refer
to the hard feeling that exists among
British yachtsmen at Australia’s chal-
lenge. This is so very opposite to the
truth, we are all most pleased that the
Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron will be
commemorating its centenary by this
challenge and indeed hope very much
that the Squadron will be victorious.”
The thaw was on.
The meeting at the Royal Thames
Yacht Club was presided over by Prince
Philip. Bill Northam attended, and in
his breezy way reported back by letter
to his partners, Packer, Martin and
Dickson:—
“I received a note from the Sec-
retary for me to attend the meet-
ing and unlucky me arrived 2\ min-
utes late and I walked into the room •
and there were 20 blokes, mostly
Lords and Earls, and at the head
of the table was my old cobber
the Duke. I don’t mind telling you
I started to feel nervous, as nobody
told me he was to be present. How-
ever, he left his chair despite the
stony stares at me and walked over
and shook me by the hand and said
he was glad I could attend and I
sat down at the opposite end of the
large table like a shag on a rock
facing H.R.H. at the other end.
“The meeting opened as per the
agenda enclosed and for a long time
I looked at a lot of necks. Nobody
even troubling to look my way and
then I chipped in when H.R.H.
asked me whether we had changed
our minds with regard to elimination
tests and I swear you could have
heard a pin drop when I took it
upon myself to say NO and believe
me he really grinned and asked why
not. I explained that it was in my
opinion too late to alter. Owen
Aisher (a big shot) and Lord Craig-
myle surprised me by saying ‘hear
hear’. Then we got cracking.
“He directed more questions to me
than anyone in the room and I swear
at the finish I had 95% on our side
and it was unanimous that Australia
were the logical challengers and we
had all their good wishes and defi-
nite offers to help.
“Lord Craigmyle the bloke that
has given £40,000 for the tank test-
ing is the big guy behind the Red
Duster outfit and is nearly in Aus-
tralia to help us train with his 12-
metres and apparently I saved a
sticky meeting and we all had lunch
and a few snorts and everyone was
very happy and I finished up in a
corner with H.R.H. and we had a
long friendly yarn.
“The crux of it, Frank, they want
a Commonwealth challenge AFTER
’62. I will save the details until I
arrive home.
“Despite Palmer’s press I can
assure you England and H.R.H. are
behind us in ’62 . . .
In England the irritation with Aus-
tralian determination slowly gave way
to admiration and encouragement. Within
a few months it was apparent that Eng-
land really did wish Australia the best
of luck. And the ruffled English feel-
ings were finally soothed when the New
York Yacht Club produced a memoran-
dum about future challenges for the
Cup.
The memorandum stated that if
America beat Australia in 1962, it
would accept a “prompt” challenge from
Royal Thames in 1963 or 1964, or
would agree under appropriate condi-
tions to the substitution of another U.K.
Yacht Club as challenger. It agreed
further that if America were beaten by
Australia, America would stand back
and permit the Royal Thames or another
U.K. Yacht Club to challenge the Aus-
tralians.
Soon after this memorandum went
out, the Royal* Sydney Yacht Squadron
informed Royal Thames that if Austra-
lia won the America’s Gup Royal Syd-
ney would accept a challenge from
Great Britain for the Cup.
A Matter of Training
slid out of the Halvorsen boat-
shed and was lifted gently into the
waters of Sydney Harbor on February
19, 1962. It was quite a day for a lot of
people. A big day for the syndicate
members; a big day for Halvorsens, the
builders; a big day for designer Alan
Payne.
The third leg of the triumvirate who
built Gretel was syndicate member
Keith Martin. His was the job of co-
ordinating, of getting the building under
way, of obtaining the unobtainable. It
fell to his lot to acquire the fittings for
Gretel. Masts had to be fabricated, a job
never before done in Australia. Winches
had to be designed and made. Sails had
to be cut. The biggest keel ever put into
an Australian yacht had to -be
moulded. These were but some of
the hundreds of details to which Martin
had to attend. His organising capacity
was prodigious; his ability to draw effort
from people quite astonishing. And as
he organised the building of Gretel he
sailed each week in Vim, helping with
crew training with the co-skippers Archie
Robertson and Jock Sturrock, keeping an
eye on promising crew material for
1962. The crew training was thorough—
for two years, two and sometimes three
days a week, Vim was sailed until her
crew reached a peak which might have
drawn a word of approval from her old
owner, Captain Matthews. In her races,
she was generally first over the line but
beaten on handicap. Vim became one of
the sights of Sydney Harbor. But it was
in the Halvorsen shed, behind hessian
screens and guarded day and night, that
the real business of the America’s Cup
challenge was going on.
Gretel was christened by Dame Pattie
Menzies, wife of the Australian Prime
Minister, at a ceremony on February
28th, 1962. From that day, taking ad-
vantage of every available hour of the
fag end of Sydney’s summer, Gretel
“shook down” against Vim, in the
Harbor and on the open sea. Whenever
Gretel went out, crowds gathered on
the Harbor vantage points, and many
small craft followed her to sea. The ex-
citement about the challenge mounted
steadily—and when the sleek yacht was
slung about City of Sydney for its long
trip via Panama to Newport, Rhode
Island the good wishes of sport-loving
Australians showered on her.
But few people realised that the
actual building of Gretel was one of the
smallest of those worries.


OUT AND ABOUT
A NIGHT AT AARONS
Lennie Bruce's Brave New Era in Show Business
By PATRICIA ROLFE
IT began perhaps in November, 1960,
when the Federal Government re-
stricted credit. One of the projects affect-
ed was the somewhat grandiose scheme
of L. J. Hooker Limited to pull down
the Wool Exchange, one of the Victorian
buildings in Bridge Street, Sydney, and
replace it with something in glass and
concrete. However, the credit squeeze
gave L. J. Hooker pause, and prompted
Mr Nicholas Devery, of the Wagon
Wheels Hotel, St Mary’s, on the moun-
tains road, to take a lease of Aarons
Hotel, adjoining the exchange. The orig-
inal Aarons was established more than
100 years ago, but it lacks the charm of,
say, Adams, although it has its fascina-
tions. Above the door is a motto: non
Acedetat Ad Te Malum. In the entrance
hall a stag’s head looks down on a cigar-
ette-vending machine. Some days a man
in a bowler hat sits in the saloon bar
and looks out on Pitt Street.
Recently Mr Devery, a genial publican
who at one time wrote a series of articles
on hotels called Inn Lore, felt that
Aarons could have more entertainment
than that provided by the Friday and
Saturday night supper-dance.
Meanwhile, Mr Lee Gordon, who by
his own confession has brought to Aus-
tralia 471 American entertainers “most
of whom were virtually devoid of talent,”
had decided on a change of pace. He
contracted to bring another American
entertainer, but a different type of one,
here. This was Lenny Bruce. Ac-
cording to Mr Devery, Mr Gordon said
that Mr Bruce’s act was “intellectual,
psychiatric mass-therapy.” So it hap-
pened that last Thursday night at
Aarons, a corner of a foreign land that
is forever Victorian England, the three
unlikely talents of Mr Gordon, Mr
Bruce and Mr Devery were conjoined.
Mr Bruce’s name was probably until
a few days ago unknown to most Aus-
tralians. Some may have known that
he had appeared at London’s Establish-
ment Club earlier this year, and, per-
haps, that he had been tried for ob-
scenity in San Francisco.
After Bruce’s London appearance,
George Melly in the “New Statesman”
wrote: “He is a puritan, a puritan in
the sense which so worried and enraged
the prosecuting counsel in the Chatterley
case. He is the evangelist of the new
morality, ousting all other favored con-
tenders.”
Mr Bruce’s comedy is not finely-
chiselled aphorism, but from the welter
of words you can extract:
On cancer: “If I owned a cigarette
company, I’d make it hip to have cancer.
I’d run ads like this: ‘Bill Anderson?’
‘That’s right.’ ‘You look younger every
day.’ ‘Why not? I’ve got cancer.’ ”
On religion: “More and more people
are drifting away from the church and
back to God every day.”
Where could Mr Bruce have gone in
Sydney? Not to the night-clubs. That
would have meant turning out the regu-
lar patrons for the girlie shows and the
comedians whose only four-letter word
is smut. Perhaps to an off-beat res-
taurant, but they couldn’t afford him.
Not to the Phillip Theatre, although
the old Phillip Street Theatre, perhaps,
had the right atmosphere. And Mr
Bruce doesn’t seem to have the stamina
of Tom Lehrer who rose above the
potted palms and organ pipes of the
Town Hall.
The show at Aarons was at nine and
11 in the Regency Room. It was £ 1 to
get in, supper included, drinks extra.
To get what was believed to be the
required fuggy atmosphere a black cloth
ceiling had been stretched across the
room at a height of about six inches
above Mr Bruce’s head when he stood
on the small platform-stage at one end
of the room. The lights were dim, the
tables crowded together almost beyond
belief.
From the first the microphone gave
trouble. It remained the chief trouble
all the evening. Mr Bruce also was
worried because the lights were too dim.
He apparently had not visited the hotel
to check lighting or equipment before
the show. Mr Devery said afterwards
that both lighting and microphone were
as specified in Mr Bruce’s contract.
But the microphone simply wouldn’t
work. One of Mr Bruce’s characteristics
is unintelligibility. He intersperses his
patter with Yiddish phrases, hipster talk,
asides to the audience and soliloquies—
long or short. But he knows just when
he wants to be unintelligible and doesn’t
need a microphone to do the job for


him. The microphone made Mr Bruce
nervous, and this was transmitted to the
audience. People laughed when they
thought they might have heard some-
thing indecent. Others laughed because
they heard laughter and wanted to get
their money’s worth. Others laughed
when they could hear him because he
could be brutally funny.
For the first few minutes Mr Bruce
clowned in a clever, rather old-fashioned
Jewish way. He pulled back the black
curtain behind him and looked at him-
self and his audience reflected in the
mirror behind it. Then he began one of
his noted sketches—what would happen
if Christ and Moses returned to earth
and went to St Patrick’s Cathedral, New
York. This may have seemed to some
a fairly unpromising beginning. It might
even be the subject of the sermon at St
Stephen’s next Sunday.
However, Mr Bruce rapidly got better
or worse, according to your point of
view and progressed to the point at
which he used words in the context
of what he was saying and not as em-
bellishment which, allegedly, “shocked”.
Some people walked out. These included
two large men, who could have been
police, but, then, the lights were very
dim. There were also about half a
dozen men and women. The men were
invisible to the afternoon papers, but
then men are not supposed to be afraid
of dirty words. It’s kinda dirty to sug-
gest they might be. The women bore no
visible signs of shock
The show soon after came to a close
with a brisk spatter of applause. It
might have been thought that Mr Bruce
had a fair enough reception. It there
were no night-clubs guffaws, Mr Bruce
doesn’t aim for them. If there were
gasps of shock, Mr Bruce intends to
shock.
However, it was clear that in some
ways Mr Bruce and his audience were
not relating spiritually, as he might—
and possibly somewhere in the show did
say.
Mr Bruce was not to know that once
Australian audiences have paid they will
sit through anything, hoping it might get
better, wondering if it could get worse.
On the other hand, they do not go
overboard. More hardened performers
than Mr Bruce have died wondering
whether they were a success in Aus-
tralia or not.
On the other hand, Mr Bruce did not
seem to have worked out how much of
his act would mean anything to an Aus-
tralian audience. During the first show
he thought he was in the Stock Ex-
change, although by the second show
he knew better. He confessed that all
he knew about Australia was that our
two chief products were “lumber and
wool.” He had heard of Melbourne and
knew we had an airline called Quintus.
Mr Bruce’s preoccupations are not
necessarily ours. He worries about anti-
Semitism, while Australians might im-
prove on Jonathan Miller in “Beyond
the Fringe” and say: “We are not anti-
Jew. Just anti-Jewish. We don’t go the
whole hog.” And it is no use changing
Mr Bruce’s demand: “Is there a nigger
in the audience?” into “Is there an abo
in the audience?” or “Is there a Papuan
in the audience?” because we know per-
fectly well there isn’t one.
For some sketches someone could
have supplied Mr Bruce or the audience
with a glossary. There was the piece
about how everybody is always talking
about such-and-such a writer prostitut-
ing himself by doing journalism, so that
when a businessman asked for a 100-
dollar “hooker”, they sent him along a
man with a beard from a magazine.
Hooker here is, well, L. J., or a pipe,
perhaps. Not a prostitute. And a piece
about dykes had the audience waiting
for something lavatorial until it became
clear that a dyke is a lesbian.
After the first show Mr Bruce went
upstairs and someone said that he
wouldn’t appear again. He felt he had
done a bad show. Would the police
take action, someone speculated. Some-
one else recalled that Bob Dyer was
banned when he first came in the Mar-
cus show in 1938. Lord, someone said,
he won’t stay here as long as Dyer, will
he?
A smaller audience, containing some
of the curious left over from the first,
went in for the second show. The Free-
dom from Hunger trio came on again.
Lana Cantrell sang again. The band
played on. Several minutes later Mr
Bruce appeared.
Mr Bruce’s performance clearly de-
pends on a quiet start from which he
works up to a pitch of excitement and
the audience must be with him all the
way. Now things went badly. After be-
ginning several sketches and abandon-
ing them he lapsed into silence. The
microphone was still worrying him. He
jumped down into the band-pit and
messed about with the drums for a
while.
Then he began again. Above the
audience’s laughter rose the exhibitionist
guffaw of a TV performer. Bruce
stopped. “I hope your laughter is sin-
cere,” he said, “because it unnerves me.”
The guffaw went on.
Mr Bruce began again. “Projection!”
cried a lank haired interjector, “Projec-
tion. Project your voice!” “Give us some-
thing new,” cried, an actress currently in
“Once Upon a Mattress”.
She stood up to be seen and heard.
“What do you want to hear about
America?” Mr Bruce asked. “Nothing”,
she said, loud and clear. “F you,
madam,” Mr Bruce said, loud and clear.
The actress sat down. “Oh, that's
good, good,” Mr Bruce said. “I’ll bet
that’s the first time that's been said in
public to a fine Australian lady in a
long time.”
He began again, but grew more in-
coherent. “You have done it,” he cried.
“I’ll take a bus to Melbourne. Mel-
bourne, here I come.” He added more
quietly: “I have never leant on a band
before, “the real trauma is that I want
to go but I don’t want to go through
the people.”
He looked at his audience. He looked
again in the mirror, at the reflection of
himself and his audience. The audience
was now sharply divided. Those for him
grew kind, filled with the “give the coot
a fair go” sentimentality. The quick
way to crucify Mr Bruce would be with
kindness. He tried again; finally gave
up and sank, white-faced and exhausted,
into a chair in the band-pit and that was
that.
IN THE LYONS' DEN
Projecting The ABC TV Image In Victoria
By EDGAR POOLE
A' n e of the things television is best
suited to is the personal interview,
yet this is a department Australian tele-
vision is often weakest in. Most inter-
viewers have been promoted from radio.
but while a certain amount of information
is enough in sound, it is lamentably in-
adequate on the screen. From inter-
viewers who lose their nerve and stutter
to those who ask a prepared list of
questions without relevance to each other
and in no way related to the interview
and to which the harassed subject of the
interviewer can only give stock replies,
the prospect is uniformly dreary,
There have been some brighter experts,
however, as all who have seen Michael
Charlton’s work on “Four Corners” must
recognise. Also doing what best closely
approaches first-class interviewing in
this country is Gerald Lyons of Channel
Two, Melbourne. In fact, it would be
hard to think of anyone else who could
get such frank answers and comments


from either, Duchess of Westminster, such
unexpectedly open comments —one is
prompted to say confessions —from the
Duke of Bedford and such a lively and
earnest discussion with Archbishop
Mannix. Not to mention the charm and
cordiality radiated between the inter-
viewer and actress Jacqui Chan, ballerina
Svetlana Beriosova and nightclub enter-
tainer Christine Jorgenson.
Lyons was born in England, had
Grammar School education and left
school at 17 to work as a cub reporter on
a local paper, “filling up sub-ed'.tors’ ink-
wells mainly.” At the outbreak of war
he suddenly was promoted to drama
critic and wrote some short stories before
joining the British army with the secret
hope of writing the Great War Novei. He
did not achieve this ambition though he
spent 18 months in the mud, slime, heat,
and leeches of Lower Burma as a com-
pany commander.
After the war he stayed on in the
region as a freelance journalist, travelling
widely through Kong Hong, the Philip-
pines and Singapore before coming to
Australia with AAP-Reuters. It is this
background in journalism that equips
him for television interviewing.
How does Lyons appear now? He is
39; he has a hooked, rather patrician
looking nose and receding hair; he is
well built, on the heavy side; distinguished
rather than handsome; on camera he is
reserved and courteous, diplomatic at
times to the point of obsequiousness; he
is an intelligent and articulate man but
not a highbrow; he speaks with a slow,
deliberate inflection still bearing traces
of the drawling Somerset dialect of his
yeomen antecedents.
Not television star material for all that.
Yet he is compere of one of Victoria’s
most highly rated live TV programmes;
“People”, a weekly half-hour interview
segment on Channel Two. And while, he
does not strive to emerge as a “person-
ality,” in just under two years Gerald
Lyons has become one of the very few
outstanding individuals on Melbourne
television—and is the ABC image there.
For a man who sees himself as a journ-
alist working in a new and exciting
dimension of journalism rather than a
performer this is an accomplishment. Yet
his popularity is remarkably widespread
through all social strata and the enter-
tainment value of his best programmes
is undeniable.
The imagination that led him to want
to write the Great War Novel and the
regard for facts his journalistic career
gave him have combined with an inherent
interest in people to make up Lyons’s
approach to his job. He has a natural
curiosity and likes to arrange his work
so that he can bring a sincere desire to
know to everything he tackles. He
divides interviews into two main cate-
gories: “depth” and “straight”, and,
although he goes about the task of
questioning in much the same way, the
different objective of the two classifica-
tions demand slight differences in tech-
nique.
A “depth” interview is devoted to ex-
ploring and presenting the real person-
ality of a public figure. Lyons seeks to
get the subject sufficiently relaxed to be
himself. Preparation for this, apart from
reading up all available material he can
lay his hands on, takes the form of one
or two meetings beforehand. Lyons ap-
proaches his subject in these meetings
with great restraint, letting the subject
GERALD LYONS
present himself. If what he says conflicts
with the available facts Lyons will en-
courage the subject to continue, then
pull him up with some shock question.
If the interviewee persists, Lyons is
forced to avoid the really meaty sub-
jects and face the prospect of a dull
show.
Most Australian viewers saw the ster-
ling interview with Archbishop Mannix,
and who would ever have suspected that
the much (over?) publicised Duke of Bed-
ford could have come out with the
following admissions?
LYONS: Peter Sellers made a rather
deadly record satirising you. What
were your reactions to that when
you first heard it?
DUKE: Well, I think, to begin with, I
was amazed at how well he’d caught
the frightful quality of my voice—■
I always think I sound a little like
a eunuch with a cold—it’s the most
ghastly voice I’ve ever heard . . .
(and later in the interview)
LYONS: In your autobiography you say
you have a propensity for love.
Does this mean you fall in love
easily?
DUKE: I like being in love. I think it’s
very lonely not being in love. I
don’t, however, fall in love easily.
I think love is very important, a
very stimulating and exciting thing,
and when you’re unhappy and
miserable you look around for it
much more.
LYONS: Have you been very unhappy,
very miserable in your life?
DUKE: Oh yes, lots of times. Everybody
has . . . and I’ve been desperate. I
always remember one day going to
jump off a bridge into the Thames,
I went down one night quite
determined. I was 18 and the world
seemed terrible. I was just about to
jump when I saw a man sleeping
on a bench with newspapers on the
side and I thought: well, maybe his
life is a bit harder than mine.
Yet most programmes remain far
below this level of exchange and frank-
ness —due to the fact that Lyons’s largely
intuitive approach depends on the sub-
ject being, at least, prepared to give
more than a little. Lyons is not yet able
to draw out those who are evasive or
dull, or shatter them by confounding
them, however unintentionally, with their
own dullness.
The straight interview is easier to
handle. Its aim is to present information,
and the exchange should be concise and
explicit. Lyons tends to be more daring
with these—when he is sure of his ground
and feels free to fire away. In March
this year Lyons tackled Mr Lewis
Bennett, a past president of the Australian
Federation of Commercial Broadcasting
Stations.
LYONS: Now, as you’re bound to regard
radio as a pretty hard and tough
business, and there are certain eco-
nomic facts of life, can you regard
your audience as anything more
than a potential consumer? To you
he’s not an audience, he’s a con-
sumer?
BENNETT: That’s true, yes. In com-
mercial radio we must consider every
listener we have as a means to an
end, as a potential buyer of goods.
LYONS: And this is more important
than someone to inform, to educate
or even to entertain?
BENNETT: I’m afraid it must be . . .
Lyons was in no way surprised by
Mr Bennett’s reply and Mr Bennett ob-
viously, was in no way surprised—or
offended —by the questions.


F.stab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
O’SULLIVAN
FTYLTD A
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Pape? Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFIC 1 ' AN i > FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New York
LETTERPRESS Ai OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC printers
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYP' AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DTE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS A OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•‘JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
EARN THE RESPECT OF OTHERS!!
AND RECEIVE
More Recognition More
Happiness More Money
Astound youi friends with your improved
Memory.
Impress your club with your Effective and
Public Speaking
Handle people easily with the use of Human
Relations
Make more friends and influence others with your
increased Confidence
Please mark items of special interest,
Please send me Free literature explaining
how T can do these things
MR
ADDRESS
STATE TEL....
Manhattan Australia Pty. Ltd.,
583 George Street, Sydney.
Tel. 61-7463.
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM2OOI.
THE KANGAROO KILLERS
"So long as we have the wide and open spaces
we will always have kangaroos"
By HENRY G. LAMOND
“TOoos are in the news. Some curse
* them as a pest; others hold up their
hands in simulated horror and deplore
the extinction of a typically Australian
animal which does no one any harm.
Briefly, let's note how they handled
them in the good old days and I will
quote from the book which I wrote,
Tariaro To Ross Roy, which dealt with
the pastoral history of the Ross Munro
family in Australia.
Kangaroos were in such numbers in
the Inverell (NSW) area that station
owners decided to “teach ’em a lesson”
they wanted the grass for their flocks
and herds. The owners of Gournama
Station, at the head of the Gwyder,
organised kangaroo hunts. Yards were
built, wings to the gates extended.
Parties from neighboring properties
were invited to attend. That was in ’74.
About 150 people, both sexes, variously
mounted, gathered. They brought tents
and other picnic equipment.
There were organised drives—and the
organisation came unstuck in the heat
and excitement of yarding the ’roos. As
an instance: it was estimated about 4000
’roos were within the wings of the yard
in one drive. Only 750 were forced
through the gate. The drives continued
for a week, two or three of them daily.
As soon as one drive was completed the
yarded kangaroos were killed, carted
away to burn.
After the first week the ’roos were
given a spell for a month or more. Then
it was repeated. Those two raids on the
’roos resulted in 12,000 bodies in the
first; 11,000 in the second. There could
be no mistake: the bodies were counted
as they were loaded to be taken away.
And, to quote Ross Munro’s own words:
“Riding over the country a fortnight
later the kangaroos seemed to be as
thick as ever and no decrease was
noticeable.”
I don’t know the numbers in those
districts now. Perhaps one of the great-
est enemies to ’roodom, closer settle-
ment, has wiped them out. The other
great destroyer is disease.
Coming more or less up to date a
stockman cannot both give the ’roos an
open go and run sheep successfully.
Fences are no hindrance: what they
don’t crawl under they jump over. They
have a radar system of their own which
tells of good rain anywhere within a
radius of 50 miles. During a hard and
dry time, with feed scanty, sheep
balancing on the edge, there may be a
fall of a couple of inches tonight.
Previous to that there wasn’t more than
a sparse sprinkling of ’roos. But the
green shoots, following the rain, have
barely poked their trembling green
peepers above the ground before the
'roos are in swarms. With their rodentary
teeth they crop closer than sheep or
other stock. Some men claim they get
three days under the surface. But when
a mob of kangaroos has taken its fill,
and looked for more, there isn’t a green
speck left for a hungry sheep
Some claim, and I know not on what
they base that estimate, an old-man will
eat as much as eight sheep. He may. He
may not. In any case, they aren’t all
old-men. That fellow, weighing just on
3001 b. or thereabouts, with tremendous
energy and muscular output, must of
necessity stoke liberally to keep up his
strength. One case was quoted a few
years ago (and I saw no reason to doubt
it), of an owner in the Aramac district,
(C.Q.) who had a block of about 40,000
acres. That was pretty choice country,
too. I knew it. He was hard put to it
in normal seasons to carry 7000 sheep.
Naturally, he had an idea he should
carry nearly twice that number. He
took note of the well-being of the
kangaroos. They were there in numbers
and a full enjoyment of life.
That owner called in some professional
shooters. The going was good. They
cleaned up about 4000 skins in short
order those ’roos were not shot-shy
then; they were running in mobs. And
after that the owner found he could run
just on 12,000 sheep with greater ease
than he had previously struggled on


Why HOTELing is better
RATES LIKE THESE . . .
Sydney
HAMPTON COURT,
single, with bath, £4.2.6
and watch for MENZIES SYDNEY opening late ’63
Brisbane
LENNONS HOTEL,
single, with bath, from £3.10.0
Toowoomba
LENNONS HOTEL
single, with bath, B. & 8., £2.5.0
Hobart
WREST POINT RIVIERA,
single, with shower, B. & 8., from £3.0.0
Melbourne
SAVOY PLAZA,
single, with bath, from £3.12.6
MENZIES HOTEL,
single, with bath, £4.10.0
HOTEL FEDERAL
single, B. & 8., from 2 gns.
. . . WITH BENEFITS LIKE THESE
Heart-of-city location
24-hour room service
Personalised service
Adequate, adjacent car parking
Valet service and shoe shine
Credit facilities
Easy booking throughout the Federalchain
Fine foods available from your choice of
restaurants and dining-rooms, all
within the hotel
Luxury VIP suites
Meeting or Banquet rooms
iP
c*
S 3
Travel desks for air, rail or rent-a-car bookings
All at Australia’s largest and finest group of hotels
FOR IMMEDIATE CONFIRMED RESERVATIONS, PHONE YOUR NEAREST FEDERAL HOTEL
FEDERAL-
HOTELS
Across the Nation
SAVOY PLAZA, 62-4141
MENZIES HOTEL, 60-1581
HOTEL FEDERAL, 63-3721
HAMPTON COURT, 31-7081
LENNONS BRISBANE, 32-0131
LENNONS TOOWOOMBA, 2-2433
WREST POINT RIVIERA Hobart 5-1021
with 7000 ! In addition, there were
sufficient roos left on the place to form
the nucleus of future mobs. That
owner didn’t want to wipe out the things:
he only went for what he considered was
a fair division.
As for the ultimate extermination of
the things by professional shoots and
what might be termed “indiscriminate
shooters”—can also be included. There’s
no danger whatever. Shooting ’roos
isn’t a sport: it’s a commercial proposi-
tion. The life is hard, hours long, living
rough, work endless. A man must have
the instincts of a hunter to keep at it.
Many get away to flying starts; it’s
doubtful if more than one in 10 is behind
the sights of the rifle a year later.
17'angaroos are noted for the very
small brains they have. The emu,
by the way, comes in the same category.
But the ’roo, as distinct from the emu,
soon becomes shot-shy. Its bump of
self-preservation is very well developed.
Be it instinct or chance, they have also
developed the knowledge that big mobs
are dangerous when rifles are coughing.
1 doubt it takes more than a week’s
shooting to split the mobs of kangaroos,
to make them shot-shy, to send them
hopping for their lives at the sight of a
horseman in the distance, to start with
fear and bound away from the shadow
of a hawk on the ground near them.
They’re fools in many ways; but they
know enough to keep a good grip of
life.
When the mobs are split into units,
when they throw distance behind
them as soon as a man appears over the
horizon, or a rifle splits its echo, then
the shooter finds the inome small, the
hours long, the work hard. He thinks
of easier and better jobs. He curses
himself for ever being fool enough to
be a professional shooter; he goes back
to his easy living where he isn’t turning
night into day, where he has his food
cooked for him under clean conditions,
where life is light and the payments
regular.
In next to no time, and that might
be a month at the most, the ’roos know
things have changed for the better: they
resume their old habits. They gather in
mobs; thev lie in the shade of the gidyea
during the heat of the day: they toss
handfuls of dust above themselves with
an automatic action to ward off flies;
they obev the Biblical injunction to
increase and multiply.
That brings us to the replenishment
ratio. From bush observations, which
mav not he correct, and I doubt they
are precise, I’d say it was about six weeks
from the mating until the inert lump of
flesh known as a joey clambers into its
mother’s pouch after being born. That
might be termed its first birth. The
second birth is when it finally leaves
the pouch at an age of six to eight months.
It is not common, though by no means
excessively rare, for a doe to have twins.
It is quite frequent for a doe to carry
a half-grown joey in her pouch and
have another lump of flesh, which will
develop into a ’roo, on another teat in
her pouch at the one time.
The late Frank Gaunt, a professional
shooter for 20 or 30 years on an off,
a hunter by instinct, an observer by
nature, estimated, if the seasons were
right, other things reasonable, it was
possible and more than probable a doe
would have five joeys in two years. And,
by the time the fifth was tilted out of
the pouch, the first, if it was a doe,
would have donned a bridal veil.
A professional shooter rarely takes a
target more than a couple of hundred
yards distant - though that range may
have been increased with low-trajectory
rifles and telescopic sights. He doesn’t
want to wound and lose his ’roo. He
wants to be able to place his bullet
where he wants it. where it will lay the


2
MIGHW
GOOD
REASONS \
FOR. INCLUDING
IM YOUE*. NEXT OVERSEAS TRJP
On your way to or from the U.K. flying
via South Africa costs only £4O more
(fhe lore vanes slightly from the various copiioJ cities)
Whether your next overseas trip be for business
or pleasure (or both!), South Africa richly merits
inclusion in your itinerary. Business-wise, South
Africa is a very logical market for Australian goods
of most every description. What's more, it's only
hours away by S.A.A.'s Australia-South Africa-U.K.
service.
When you consider that a side trip to South Africa,
costing about £4O more in air fares, could earn you
a prosperous new export market, it's surely worth the
time involved!
These are same of the items Austral'a
exports to South Africa
Foodstuffs Paints Hardware Electrical
Goods Motor Vehicles Kitchenware
Machinery, all types Rubber, Plastic and
Leather Goods Timber Sporting Goods
Chemicals Piece Goods Synthetic Yarns.
is your product here?
. SOUTtH AFRICA-the newest travel
s;.*expenence' tfie woddfhas to offeri
Pleasure-wise, the attractions
of South Africa are among
the wonders of the world.
Fabulous Kruger National
Park, with its teeming wild
life, towering mountains, the
diamond mines at Kimberley,
Victoria Falls these are
among the tourist musts your
camera will want to record.
See your travel agent.
■rfjgggfo 2^i
Fly
OUTH FRjCAH IRWA YS
Choice of daylight or overnight flight
by magnificent Boeing 707 Stratojets
between Johannesburg end London
IN ASSOCIATION WITH QANTAS
with choice of stop-overs at no
extra air fare, or non-stop to Athens
end again onward to London
B O A.C., C.A.A. AND E.A.A.
target on the ground when it is hit. A
’roo that dies some distance away is a
dead loss in more senses than one. The
sun soon plays havoc with the hide a
couple of hours or less and the hide
is useless.
Night-shooting at dams, waterholes
and similar places, using a spotlight
from a battery, has become the vogue.
That is deplored by many who have
seen ’roos in pictures only. Really, if
death can be humane, it is one way of
exemplifying it: it is close shooting; the
shooter is sure of his target; there is
practically no loss. In addition, the
animal comes to the shooter: he does
not have to ride long miles, sneak by
stealth to the cover of some trees, other-
wise stalk his prey. The ’roos must come
to water. In addition, puzzled by the
glare of the light, they stand out still and
distinct and offer an easy target. In
that, the ’roo shows another facet of
its lack of reasoning power and
minimum of brain: it is one of the few
animals which is not afraid of the dead
of its own kind. It will thread its way
to water through other carcases, take
no alarm of the stench of rotting flesh,
not understand the warning of Death.
That is a summary of the position.
The 'roo is not doomed to extinction.
It can keep one hop ahead of the shooter.
If nothing else, the dictates of fashion
play their part. Anything, or nothing,
might cause a sudden decline in the
price of the skins. That, though, cuts
both ways: a rise will send men with
rifles out after what they think is easy
money. But, in the meantime, the ’roos
have had a respite. There are young
ones coming on and no one other
than a mug shoots young and half-
grown ’roos. The price of the skin,
even if there is no sentiment, deters
them.
The destruction for meat is just a
passing phase where the things have
been unmolested and undisturbed for
years. They are in big mobs. When
man in his ingenuity can devise some
barrier or border fence to keep the mobs
within serving distance of the abattoir
then it will be time for the ’roos to sit
up and take notice. But with the free-
dom of the miles open to them, and with
no barrier to block them going where
they may wish, it is only a matter of a
week’s shooting and the ’roos are shot-
shy, scattered, headed to some remote
area where there is peace. If they can
build abattoirs to follow the fleeing ’roos
then they are in danger.
Finally: So long as we have the wide
and open areas we’ll always have kanga-
roos. There must be a certain proximity
to markets, to transport, to make the
skins profitable. So long as we have
areas subject to dry periods, of low
average annual rainfalls, we’ll always
have the large, wide and open areas.


>1
••■ -•••■-•• •: ••■•
iHS
7 >S~.
m ■
M
, - v .>-« v "m-% :
►* * , *?
-
s*
■ ■
«*
* *
m
vm
V,
p
£
«?■ •*£
2? i.:-.
*s* ,#IP
ns
& /'f
r
'*mm& ■-* is. ■?$&&?-
■ 4 s - * .--• ?
Sometimes Volkswagens feel lonely
Volkswagensgowhereothercarscan’t.
They keep going when other cars don’t.
In summer when some cars sit on
the side of the road with overheated
engines, Volkswagens keep going.
VW's air-cooled engine just can’t boil.
It can’t freeze either.
Volkswagen’s rear engine means
more weight on the driving wheels,
better road grip. Volkswagen takes
you through mud, sand or snow
places only VW can go.
VW’s don’t stop at petrol stations
often either. They don’t need to. 37
miles between gallons is a long way
and that’s what VW's do with normal
driving.
Volkswagens go in for service regu-
larly, of course. They go to authorised
VW service agents. That's the best
service there is. Ask a VW owner.
Volkswagen owners aren't lonely.
They’ve got a lot of friends; over
130,000 VW owners in Australia
alone. That’s not surprising. You
get so much more with Volkswagen
that it's commonsense to own one.
It’s fun, too.
Your authorised Volkswagen agent
will show you many ways Volks-
wagen is better. Some you’ll only
find by driving VW. Why not give
yourself one of the most enjoyable
driving experiences. Drive Volks-
wagen soon.
FROM
£849
TAX PAID
ST’S A VOLKSWAGEN WORLD TEST DRIVE VOLKSWAGEN AT YOUR VW AGENT TODAY
A product of Volkswagen (Australasia) Pty. Ltd.
VW69BS


OVERSEAS
JAPAN - A MONSTROUS
REGIMENT OF WOMEN
A spectacular invasion of the Universities
From JOHN CAMPBELL in Tokyo
The demure Japanese girl, who 20
years ago meekly accepted her
inferior place in society, has
broken into the land’s best-defended
male fortress.
Men don’t mind that most of their
barbers are women, or that the breweries
attribute rising profits largely to women
drinking more beer. There is no more
than the universal male prejudice against
women driving their own cars. It is
more serious that women have begun to
steal from men more and more jobs as
company car drivers, television pro-
ducers, and senior civil servants.
But the most spectacular invasion is
in the nation’s universities.
Before the war there were no co-edu-
cational universities in Japan. Some spe-
ciai women’s colleges catered for the re-
latively few women who wished to ex-
tend their education beyond school.
Opening Japanese universities equally to
men and women was one of the first
reforms introduced by the Allied occu-
pation forces. The former “Imperial”
universities in Tokyo, Kyoto, Hokkaido,
Nagoya, Sendai and Kyushu and the
leading private universities are the source
of Japan’s “establishment” —the counter-
part of Oxford and Cambridge and the
Ivy League. Today, many are finding
themselves overrun by girls.
Entrance to major universities is de-
cided by competitive examinations set by
the university itself and competition is
keen. In some cases, the ratio of stu-
dents sitting for an entrance examination
to the number of places available is as
high as 60 to one. The average is pro-
bably around 20 to one.
Already in the arts faculties of many
universities, girls far outnumber men.
One professor, writing only half-humor-
ously, said recently: “Japan is facing im-
minent doom because girls are pushing
men out of its universities.”
Education experts say the main rea-
son is that girls, driven by ambition to
prove themselves in a male world, are
studying harder than men and are get-
ting better marks.
Most girls entering universities major
in English literature, French literature or
Aesthetics. “Girls are particularly good
at pronouncing English or French”, says
one teacher, “and boys in the same class
with a group of girls generally end up
with an inferiority complex.” But it is
also the overwhelming numerical super-
iority of girl students that adds to the
crushed feeling of the male. In the
fashionable Peers School University, for
example, the second year English litera-
ture class has only one boy and 76 girls.
In the third year French course there are
one boy and 50 girls.
One student has remarked bitterly:
“When a few girls enter a large class of
boys they are treated considerately. But
when a boy enters a large class of girls
he is treated with arrogance and dis-
dain.”
Sophia University, a Roman Catholic
institution with a large foreign faculty,
was long opposed to the idea of co-educa-
tion. The flood of applications received
after it changed this policy so frightened
the administration that a rigid framework
was imposed—no matter what the re-
sults of the entrance examinations are,
no more than half the students admit-
ted can be girls.
The present situation disturbs not only
the male student, but also the univer-
sities themselves, since it has a direct
bearing on their financial situation. Fees
at even the most fashionable private uni-
versities in Japan are very low, the in-
stitution relying heavily upon private
contributions. Before the war, the old
Zaibatsu cartels and the aristocracy pat-
ronised the universities, but since the
war the pattern of support has changed
and universities today have to rely on
the generosity of parents and alumnae.
This has sharply cut income in any case.
The growing preponderance of girls cuts
it still further.
“What happens with a girl student?”
a university official asked. “She pro-
bably gets married shortly after gradua-
tion. Her husband probably went to an-
other university and can hardly be ex-
pected to contribute to the upkeep of
two universities. Anyway, girls are not
so sentimental about their old school as
men are.
Cynical Japanese male students say a
university education is merely another
feminine accessory to the average girl
student—no more important than a lip-
stick or handbag. As a result, the cur-
rent nickname for girl students at Japan-
ese universities is “handbags.”
Here is where a crumb of comfort is
left for boys. There is still some re-
luctance by commercial companies to
hire girl university graduates because
they feel on the one hand they are too
superior to do the usual menial office
girl tasks, and on the other hand, too
likely to go off and get married to be
given more responsible positions.


Always ask for
AINSLIES
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd., Sydney
Halforan Manton Pty. Ltd.
Arms and America—2
THE US MILITARY-INDUSTRIAL MACHINE
Lacking a sense of direction?
From NORA BELOFF
Mire and more, as the nation’s prin-
cipal business becomes military or
paramilitary, the Defence Depart-
iuem has established itself as the domi-
nant branch of the United States Gov-
ernment.
In Washington the Pentagon is not
just the largest, but also overwhelmingly
the most conspicuous and most talked-
about Ministry. As the principal pro-
vider of federal funds, jobs, favours, con-
tracts, it is permanently subject to pub-
lic solicitations. It controls installations
—and patronage —in every American
State, and its territorial possessions
stretch over an area roughly the size of
all England (though a good deal of it is
wilderness, only useful for tests).
The Pentagon staff receive some half-
million telephone calls from Congress
alone each year, mostly seeking favors
or protesting against loss of them, and is
known to spend many times as much
as the State Department on public
relations.
Working in close and constant colla-
boration with the Defence Department,
which is now America’s biggest buyer,
are the munition makers, on whose tech-
nical and scientific proficiency America’s
defence now so largely depends.
The producers of the new “uncon-
ventional” weapons intercontinental
missiles, thermonuclear warheads,
nuclear submarines- -represent unprece-
dented concentrations M money and re-
sources. The half dozen giant corpora-
tions which share out about a quarter
of the missile business, can each expect
Government orders of up to $l,OOO mil-
lion (£357 million) a year which is about
half the entire sum Britain spends on
the production and research on weapons.
Despite recent efforts by the Penta-
gon to increase competition, it is gener-
ally admitted that the complexity and
secrecy of most of the new weapons sys-
tems rule out open market bidding.
The power of these colossal enter-
prises is limited by the fact that their
business is carried on under continuous
and intimate official supervision. Though
there have been cases of extravagance
and corruption, in fact, as a senior eco-
nomist of the Rand (Research and De-
velopment) Corporation has pointed out,
no great family fortunes or independent
financial empires have come into being
in the new aero-space industry—nothing,
in other words, to compare to the Euro-
pean prewar munition magnates of the
Krupps and Schneider-Creusot industries.
The modern missile makers are, in
fact, very unlike the old left-wing bogey
of “the merchants of death,” selling vast
quantities of military hardware at inor-
dinate profits to the highest bidder. For
one thing in the final analysis, with the
factory giving way to the laboratory as
their focal point of business, they sell
extraordinarily little hardware.
The cost of the new weapons itself
rules out mass production (it has been
calculated that 858 bombers really are
worth their weight in gold) and so does
their destructive potential (one 852 can
carry greater explosive power than all
the aircraft that ever flew in World War
11, including the orns sent over Hiro-
shima and Nagasaki).
Secondly, with rapid technological
changes in which missiles or aircraft
risk becoming obsolete while still in the
blue-print stage, the producers are com-
pelled to remain intimately dependent
on the Pentagon, which is their only
buyer. In fact, the personnel in the pub-
lic and private sectors are often more
or less interchangeable: modern busi-
nesses are full of retired officers and for-
mer Civil Servants, recruited for their
intimate knowledge of what Washington
wants and will pay, and the top levels
of the Administration itself are full of
businessmen and technicians who first
made their mark, such as the Defence
Secretary, Mr. McNamara himself, in
private business.
Premises, plans and know-how are
freely exchanged. Asked whether it was
the Government or the company which,
in the day-to-day operation of the firms,
takes decisions on matters of production,
techniques and timing, a retired Admiral
from one of the leading Los Angeles firms
said: “The lines of authority are a mushy
thing.”
The impact of what President Eisen-
hower called the “military-industrial
complex” on the conduct of policy is,
however, sharply limited by perpetual
rivalries for funds and influence. The
leftwing Nation has devoted a special
number to analysing the size and power
of the complex and has suggested that
it has become a juggernaut leading the
country to war. But noting its singular
absence of any sense of direction, Dr.
T. Schelling, specialist on military mat-
ters at Harvard, has retorted: “No, not
a juggernaut, a jelly-fish.”
It is true that, with the advent of a
strong-minded Secretary of Defence,
such as Mr. McNamara, able to take and
impose his own decisions, the cacophony
of the rival military chieftains and their
industrial and Congressional clientele
has been quieter. None the less, there
has been no more bitter dispute in the
current session of Congress than the
one over the B-70 planes, which the
Government decided would be obsolete
before production, while Air Force offi-
cers openly and successfully prompted
their political and business friends to
defend the opposite point of view. De-
spite repeated unification plans, the
three armed services are still a very lojpse
confederation.
It is not only for weapons, but also
for know-how and ideas that the De-
fence Department seeks outside assist-
ance from bodies that do not fit easily
into the old categories of private or pub-
lic. Before becoming Assistant Secre-
tary of Defence, Mr Edward L. Katzen-
bach described the process: “Just as toot-
ing one’s own horn is now contracted
out to a public relations firm and one’s
anxiety to a psycho-analyst, so all kinds
of technical problems and even ques-
tions of high policy are more and more
frequently being handed over to an out-
side authority for study and advice.”
“Study and advice” is not, of course,


NEXT WEEK:
The Danger to
Traditional Freedoms.
the same thing as deciding policy: a job
the President and Mr McNamara would
keep for themselves. The fact remains
that the preparatory studies in such vital
matters as evaluating the need for more
tests or the degree of control needed
to justify a given measure of disarma-
ment, is often entrusted to private or
semi-private bodies.
A number of entirely new organisa-
tions have come into being to serve as
highly paid military brains trusts. Some,
like the celebrated Rand Corporation of
Los Angeles, are exclusively financed
by the armed forces, Rand itself mainly
by the Air Force. Others, like the Stan-
ford Research Institute, take orders both
from the Government and from private
industry. Stanford itself started with
three people and two rooms in 1936 and
has now built itself palatial headquarters
housing 2000 experts and transacting
an annual $25 million worth of business.
The staff of these new institutes gene-
rally have technical or academic back-
grounds and are recruited for their analy-
tical ability rather than for their busi-
ness experience. Many of them are first-
generation Americans with original, in-
cisive minds, and a poignant, personal
involvement in the anti-Communist
struggle. They have exercised a major
influence in adjusting American military
thinking to the thermonuclear age, not
only on technical and tactical issues, but
on the wider concepts of whether, when
and with what to fight. They are respon-
sible for the intensive and serious study
of the nature of thermonuclear war and
have helped to reconcile the American
elite to the idea that it might happen.
It was from this egghead set, and not
from the military chiefs, that the present
Administration got its initial encourage-
ment to take the brakes off defence ex-
penditure. Professional economists
lucidly exposed the Eisenhower fallacy
that the nation could not afford more
than a limited military bill. Now that
they have been successful, they wryly
recall that many of their most stubborn
adversaries during the argument were
hard-bitten old soldiers who shared Mr
Eisenhower's doctrinal faith in balanced
budgets. They are still today urging in-
creased military spending.
The machine and universities
by, and feeding, the military-
A industrial complex are the uni-
versities, whose science faculties
are now more than three - quarters
financed by the defence budget. The
effect on the universities themselves
varies. The richest and best of them
have been the least deflected from their
academic mission, though Dr James
Killian, head of the Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology, once observed
that he felt he was permanently walking
on a tight-rope between his academic
and official duties.
Both Harvard and Princeton have re-
fused to take “classified” (i.e., secret)
work on their campus—although they
still get as much money as they want
from Washington for non-classified pro-
jects. Princeton has met the Pentagon
part way by building a secret wind tun-
nel not far away and allowing it to be
staffed by university members.
Most State colleges and technical
schools need the Government money too
badly to argue about arms. Both in plan-
ning research and appointing staff they
accept Defence Department guidance
and direction.
The vast majority of science graduates
leaving college find their way, through
teaching or research, back into the mili-
tary pipeline. They have become a vit-
ally important sector of the military-
industrial complex, paid and honored
accordingly.
No branch of defence expenditures
has grown as quickly as the “Research
and Development.” In 1950 it was only
$245 million; this year Dr Jerome Wies-
ner, chief scientific adviser to the Presi-
dent, recently told a Congressional Com-
mittee it will go up to $12,300 million.
This, he said, is more than the Federal
Government contributed to research in
the entire period from the American Re-
volution to the end of the Second World
War.
Military spending is sometimes justi-
fied as the only way of getting suffi-
cient funds into scientific research. But,
analysing the figure of $lO,OOO million
claimed to have been spent in 1960 by
industry and Government on “research
and development,” the economist, Dr.
David Novick, of Rand, told a Congres-
sional Committee that he had calculated
that only $lOO million had gone into
basic and original research: roughly the
same figure as 10 years previously.
The scientists welcome, of course, the
rapid enlargement of the number of stu-
dents each year going into the science
faculties which is already reducing the
alarming gap between the US and USSR.
But they are by no means unanimous in
approving the degree of their absorption
in what some of them call “the slaughter
machine.”
Radical journals such as The Bulletin
of Atomic Scientists or the New
Scientist are far more effective than the
political Press in calling attention to the
dangers of the all-out arms race.
When scientists disagree
T\r Hans Bethe, of Cornell, whose
opposition to the arms race has
already provoked threats of Con-
gressional “investigation”, has described
what happens when the scientists them-
selves disagree: “It is sometimes doubt-
ful whether it is a really democratic
process which is going on, especially
because the agencies which have the
money for scientific research now I
mean military technological research
are precisely the agenies that want the
maximum of military development.
“The scientists who advocate the de-
velopment of weapons without restraint
find a very ready public, while those who
warn of the dangers of an unlimited arms
race find a very hostile reception from
many members of the Washington com-
munity.”
The “dangers of an unlimited arms
race” are certainly very much in the
mind of Dr Wiesner. But in spite of
his high office, Dr Wiesner is a much
less influential figure in the Washington
political community than the physicist
Dr Edward Teller, of H-bomb fame,
who has far happier relations with Con-
gress and the Pentagon. And whereas
Dr Wiesner, something of a lone wolf
in Washington, is an inveterate protago-
nist of East-West scientific exchanges
and new moves towards disarmament,
Dr Teller frankly accepts the perman-
ence and inevitability of conflict with
the Communist world.
Any study of the scope of the Ame-
rican military-industrial complex with
its scientific and political ramifications—
shows how much it is an integral part
of American society. There is, in fact,
no separate, war-minded, military caste
threatening the authority of a duly
elected democratic Government—on the
French or Latin American pattern
but rather an unprecedented concentra-
tion of national effort on military goals.


FORUM
WHAT HAPPENED TO
"THE NEW LEFT”
Melbourne socialists y. Sydney fellow-travellers
By JIM JUPP
Before 1956 the Australian Communist Party still had an organisa-
tional hold on a significant group of intellectuals. It had around
it a much larger penumbra of Leftwingers and fellow travellers,
including some who had passed through the Party in the 1940 s without
openly repudiating it. The Labour Clubs at Sydney and Melbourne
Universities ivere not nearly as big as in the immediate postwar period,
but they still counted for something. The ALP Clubs, which had
broken away around 1950 were still weak, and had little attraction for
students. The Australasian Book Society, New Theatre, the Realist
Writers and Film groups and the magazine “Overland”, were focal
points for the graduate generations. The Australian Labor Party had
little to offer the intellectual of this sort, except for the New South Wales
Fabian Society, ivhich had passed its peak of achievement by 1951.
The Communist Party, as in other
countries, still had the framework left
over from the Popular Front period,
when thousands of middle-class ad-
herents were drawn into its ranks or its
“sympathising mass organisations”. While
many of these had dropped out as
individuals, there was no mass \ lkout,
or internal Party factionalising until
1956. The Australian Party had
successfully insulated itself from over-
seas shocks, denying for many months
that Khrushchev’s “secret speech” had
been made. The Petrov Commission
had consolidated the Party and its fellow-
travellers in the face of a common
enemy. The ALP split in 1955 had
further convinced waverers that the
alternative to the “Left” was clerical
fascism and black reaction. Many Aus-
tralian intellectuals had felt alienated
from the ALP, while still socialist or
radical in sympathy. In contrast to the
United Kingdom, they stuck by the
Communist Party.
When the blows landed in 1956, many
of these “stickers” tried to work within
the Communist Party for a fuller dis-
cussion of Khrushchev’s denunciation of
Stalin and the Hungarian rising. They
distributed statements to Party members,
questioned officials, and generally be-
haved as though “democratic centralism”
really operated. (In this they were not
different from their counterparts in
Britain, in Poland and even in Hungary
itself). Within the Communist Party
Mr Jim Staples of Sydney, for example,
helped to circulate a statement on the
curbing of discussion within the Com-
munist Party of Australia. He was ex-
pelled from the Communist Party in
October, 1956, but through friends with-
in the Party was able to distribute the
Khrushchev speech.
In its early stages the breakaway of
intellectuals was strongly influenced
from Britain. This remains true of the
“new left” in all its forms up until the
present. Within the British Communist
Party there were fairly open discussions.
These were forced by the breakup of the
University Communist movement, par-
ticularly in Oxford, by the repudiation
of the Party by longstanding academic
members like Professor Christopher
Hill, and by a revolt among Trade Union
members, especially in the Electrical
Trades and Fire Brigade Unions, both
of which were controlled by the Party.
E. J. Thompson’s “Reasoner” was a
further influence, together with the
Socialist Forum movement which grew
out of dissenting Communists in early
1957 and gave its name to similar dis-
cussion groups founded in Sydney and
Melbourne in the same year.
The Australian “New Left” began
then, in defections from the Communist
Party among graduates and under-
graduates in Sydney and Melbourne. It
took its name from the United Kingdom,
its reading from Britain, whether Hirectlv
or through English translations of
Polish and Yugoslav tracts. Its basis in
the written word, whether the “New
Reasoner” or “Universities and Left
Review”, confined it to the intellectuals.
Not until the expulsion of Mr Geoff.
Macdonald from the Communist Party
in 1961, could the ranks of defectors be
said to include any important working
class figures. “Unionists” like Mr lan
Turner had been sent from the Uni-
versities into the industrial movement.
Within the Unions themselves the insula-
tion from ideas and the fight with Mr
Santamaria’s National Civic Council
preserved Party solidarity much more
firmly than in the United Kingdom.
In 1957 the organisational basis of
the New Left was laid. In February a
Socialist Forum was set up in Sydney,
“to provide a platform to bring together
those organisations and individuals who
are interested in the achievement of
socialism”. A similar, but stronger
movement began in Melbourne in
August. Both lasted until the end of
1958, though the reasons for their dis-
appearance, which again, mirrored the
British pattern, were rather different. In
Sydney, with its proliferation of minor
Trotskyist and other sects, their par-
ticipation led to factional confusion and
disintegration. In Melbourne a change
of personnel and emphasis ensured the
continuation of the meetings, though
under a different name and chairman.
Even more important than the Forum
movement, was the founding of the
magazine “Outlook” in July, 1957, by
Helen Palmer, a former secretary of the
Australia-China Friendship Society. This
reduced the reliance of the “New Left”
on overseas sources of information, and
gave it a chance to develop its own
ideas and writers. “Outlook” had
nothing like the sales of “Voice”, an-
other Sydney journal which had gone
out of publication in the middle of 1956.
But it had a more single-minded editorial
policy, and was anchored to the “New
Left” movement, rather than to the more
amorphous range of ALP members to
whom “Voice” was directed.
The “New Left” now had one journal
in Sydney and a functioning machine in
Melbourne and Sydney. But it was not
long before divergences began to appear.
A new element had been added to the
defectors by the execution of the Hun-
garian leader Imre Nagy by the Kadar
regime in June, 1958. This included
Messrs lan Turner and Stephen Murrav-
Smith among others. Being more recently
within the Communist Party they re-
mained favourably disposed to many
aspects of Communism which the earlier
defectors had rejected. Three categories
could be observed by the end of 1958.
There were those who had gone through
the Socialist Forum movement, and
were farily well informed and deter-
mined in their anti-Communism. There
were those, including Helen Palmer and
Mr Ken Buckley in Sydney, who had


left the Communist Party because they
disagreed with its internal functioning
rather than its ideology. And finally
there were those like Murray-Smith and
Turner, who still retained friends within
the Communist Party and were basically
“neutralist” both to the machine and the
ideology of Australian Communism. In
Melbourne the “New Left” was bringing
into its orbit many who had not been
in the Communist Party at all.
These disparate elements were able
to maintain highly successful meetings in
Melbourne for much of 1958, and less
well attended groups in Sydney, both
under the label of “Outlook”. The
journal itself contained a fair sprinkling
of contributors who had never been
Communists. Though its preoccupations
were still with the Soviet Union, it
showed signs of wishing to foster a Left-
wing movement of ideas within the Aus-
tralian Labor Party. “Outlook” en-
couraged support from ALP politicians
like Dr Jim Cairns. At one stage in
mid-1959, it was rather optimistically
negotiating with members of the Vic-
torian ALP Executive for help in dis-
tributing the magazine throughout the
Victorian Labor movement. This would
have ended reliance on the Melbourne
“Outlook” Committee, which by now
Uffuded important elements who were
regarded .in Sydney as “Rightwing” by
“Outlook” standards.
The Melbourne split
HPhe increasing divergence between sec-
tions of the Melbourne “New Left”
came to a head during 1959. Differences
centred around two associated issues.
These were the attitude to be taken to
the Peace Congress held in November,
and the allegations that its organising
secretary, Mr Sam Goldbloom, had been
a member of the Communist Party at
the time he rejoined the ALP. These
issues set off a whole train of reactions.
They touched some ex-Communists on
two crucial spots: “Peace” and “Mc-
Carthyism”. Nor was this reaction con-
fined to those who had been in the
Communist Party. In the final vote
which split the Melbourne Committee in
September, 1959, there were equal pro-
portions of both sides of those who had
been Communists and those who had
not. The resolution on which they voted
would have meant dissociation from all
involved in the charges against Gold-
bloom. It was sponsored by Mr Race
Mathews, Goldbloom’s campaign organ-
iser in Latrobe, and on its defeat the
Committee Chairman and Secretary, Mr
and Mrs Rechter, resigned.
This brought to an end a year of
activity which had created a tradition
of regular Leftwing meetings, the push-
ing of “Outlook” sales and an attempt
to influence the Victorian ALP. But
nothing in the way of a common fund
of ideas and attitudes had been created.
To some the Communist Party was the
main enemy; to some it was one of
several; and to some it was something
like an erring friend. The Peace Move-
ment, again, was treated as an obvious
Communist front by many “New Left”
activists, but was still accepted as
valuable by some others. As for any
clear notion of a Left Socialist ideology,
this was not even seriously attempted,
and is today even further from attain-
ment.
An important feature of the Melbourne
split was the support given to the mino-
rity in Melbourne by the Sydney editors
of “Outlook”. Partly because of their
negotiations with the Victorian ALP
which was supporting the Peace Con-
gress, partly because of foreseeable reac-
tions to “McCarthyism”, “Outlook” re-
pudiated the majority attitude in Mel-
bourne. They made it clear that any
successor of the disrupted “Outlook”
Committee should not carry the name of
the journal. An editorial in December,
1959, repudiated “sterile anti-Commun-
ism” to which “Outlook” would not lend
its name or its columns. To the general
reader (who scarcely exists in this field
anyway) this might have seemed a rea-
sonable attitude. But in the tight in-
group of the New Left, it marked a
strong repudiation of the Melbourne
majority, a vindication of the minority,
and the beginnings of rapidly cooling re-
lations between Melbourne, which had
the numerical bulk of “New Left” fol-
lowing, and Sydney, which had the
journal.
This rift widened in November with
the active participation of many Mel-
bourne “New Leftists” in the Peace
Congress. This involved a head-on colli-
sion between the University ALP Club,
now growing under the influence of the
late Mr Bill Thomas, former “Outlook”
Committee members, and the Congress
sponsors. The former groups co-oper-
ated in the production of a series of
printed broadsheets, which put forward
a leftwing social-democratic alternative
to the Communist line so heavily laid
down throughout the Congress. The ac-
tive minority opposition was drawn al-
most entirely from elements who were
organisationally linked with the “New
Left”. And yet they were attacking and
“disrupting” the sacred cow of most
past and present Communists, the Peace
Movement.
Divergence on the Left
divergence between Australian
A traditional Leftism and British-Euro-
pean social-democracy became increas-
ingly plain in the Sydney-Melbourne
dichotomy which grew through the next
three years. “Outlook”, which from its
beginnings had been influenced by the
British New Left, withdrew into tradi-
tionalism for a year or more, though it
made a few self-conscious attempts to
emancipate itself from time to time. The
Melbourne Left, and in particular the
ALP Club, was open to much wider in-
fluences. European socialist literature
became available, partly through the re-
viving Fabian Society, partly through
the ALP Club affiliation with the Inter-
national Union of Socialist Youth. Dur-
ing the Peace Congress itself, the “dis-
senting Left” had filled its broadsheets
with European information, had tried to
break through the insularity which had
protected the fellow-travellers from the
blows of Hungary, Poland and East
Germany. This initial study of overseas
socialist opposition to Communism grew
in importance. The revival of the
Fabian Society under ALP Club influ-
ence greatly increased the flow of Brit-
ish material as well.
After less than two years of this, re-
lations between Melbourne and Sydney
became rather strained. The “old New
Left” remained Marxist oriented. It
moved in an intellectual aura best sum-
marised by the phrase “Left-Revisionist-
Trotskyist-Peace Movement”. Its centres
are in the Sydney “Outlook” group, the
Queensland Fabians, the Canberra and
later the Adelaide Left Clubs, and, most
recently of all, the Sydney Campaign
for Nuclear Disarmament. The “New
Left” is based on the Melbourne Univer-
sity ALP Club, the Victorian Fabian
Society, and, in the past year, the Sydney
University Fabian Society and the Mel-
bourne Campaign for Nuclear Disarma-
ment, the “old New Left” is more widely
spread, but is rather thinner in its
numerical following.
Melbourne ALP Club
VI/ith the rapid improvement in the fol-
lowing of the Melbourne University
ALP Club, and its entry into the virtu-
ally moribund Victorian Fabian Society
early in 1961, elements in the Melbourne
Left began to want something more ex-
pressive of their views than “Outlook”.
A group visited the “Outlook”’ confer-
ence in April, 1961, to find, after long


postal negotiations, that there was no
real basis for Melbourne influence or
say in the content of the Sydney jour-
nal. Shortly afterwards the journal
“Dissent” was fathered. Its original edi-
torial board included Peter Wertheim,
Bill Thomas, Race Mathews, Leon
Glezer, Bernard Barrett and myself. All
had been active in the Melbourne “New
Left” in one or other of its manifesta-
tions. None had been members of the
Communist Party, as contrasted to the
majority of the “Outlook” editorial board
and all were members of the ALP. The
first number appeared in July, 1961,
and quickly established a sale of 1,400
or some four or five hundred more than
“Outlook”.
“Dissent” arose out of a movement
in the same way as “Outlook” had done
four years earlier. But it was a different
kind of movement, younger, more em-
pirical and less sure of itself, less dog-
matic and far less pre-occupied with a
Marxist-Leninist “world-view” than the
original New Left.
As in 1959, so again in 1962, the
“Outlook” editors seemed to feel that
something was going on in Melbourne
which was not quite nice. Under the
heading “The Right Rides Again”, the
whole of the observable Melbourne New
Left was seen as under the influence of
a “Jupp-lhomas group”. A link was es-
tablished between this group and the
Association for Cultural Freedom, the
University ALP Club, Student Action,
the Monash Universitv Labour Club, the
Victorian Fabians, the National Civic
Council, Dr Knopfelmacher, Old Uncle
Tom Cobley and all.
The “old” and “new” New Lefts were
now as far apart as could be imagined.
The crimes of the Melbourne centre
were: that they had a somewhat jaun-
diced view of the Victorian Executive
as a force for socialism within the ALP,
that they were clearly antagonistic to
the Peace Movement, that they were still
dabbling in the “sterile anti-Commun-
ism” attacked by “Outlook” in Decem-
ber, 1959, that they were involved with
Student Action (which had no “socialist
content”), or, in short, that Helen Pal-
mer, Ken Buckley and whoever else was
involved in this strange spasm, could not
understand what was going on.
The “New Left” in Australia now
has two focal points, Sydney and Mel-
bourne. The Melbourne oriented “New
Left” is consciously anti-Communist in
the tradition of European social-demo-
cracy. It is deliberately trying to break
away from Communist cliches in words
and thought. The hankering after the
Peace Movement, the great days of Uni-
versity Labor Clubs, all the emotive
symbols of 1940’s Leftism is much more
pronounced in the Sydney-centred “New
Left”. This is partly a corollary of the
higher age of this group, partly a pro-
vincialism which makes a lot of Sydney
radical politics look very out-of-date by
world standards.
TTow important is the “New Left”?
Organisationally, the Melbourne-
based “New Left” is, and always has
been, much more significant. The nume-
rical following can be variously assessed.
I would guess that if the Victorian cir-
culations of “Outlook” and “Dissent”
were taken, together with the member-
ship of the Fabian Society and the Uni-
versity ALP Club, and all overlapping
eliminated, then perhaps 900 people in
Victoria come into contact with the work
of the New Left. If the somewhat amor-
phous University readership of “Dis-
sent” were removed, this would reduce
to just over 500. This may not seem
very many, until one remembers that
the Victorian Communist Party has little
more than 900 members, if that. Ob-
viously the Victorian CP wields sub-
stantial influence on the Labor movement
of that State. Does the “New Left”?
The Communist Party exerts most of
its influence through the Trade Unions
and the Peace Movement. Here the Vic-
torian New Left is very weak. Their in-
tellectual basis makes them almost un-
involved with the Unions, though in-
dividuals such as Mr Dave Bearlin, and
more recently Bill Thomas, did exert
influence in favor of “genuine ALP”
groups in union elections. Otherwise the
only non-Communist intellectual force
within the Unions is the Labor College,
whose sense of everyday reality can be
gauged from their recent lecture series
on Bernstein, Luxenburg and Kautsky
(who flourished in Germany over 50
years ago). In the Peace Movement,
most of the energies of what the Com-
munist “Guardian” call “Melbourne’s
little clique of Revisionists” went into up-
setting the organisers of the 1959 Con-
gress. Since then New Leftists, mainly
from the University, have harried Mr
Goldbloom and his attendant sprites at
most of his meetings. In this struggle
they have endured one black eye, a
kicked ankle, and abuse of the “Who
paid you to come here?” variety. This
has not endeared them to the old-style
partisans of peace. But University ALP
Club influence on the very small Cam-
paign for Nuclear Disarmament has been
considerable, saving it from the Peace
Council embraces which have threat-
ened the integrity of its (slightly Trotsky-
ist) Sydney counterpart.
llTithout the Unions and the Peace
"" Movement the avenues to influence
in the Victorian ALP are none too
plentiful. But the New Left has an ad-
vantage here, in its ability to provide
professional help and advice when re-
quired. This is, of course, the traditional
role of the Fabian Society as the Webbs
conceived it. Despite occasional veer-
ings towards factionalism, the Victorian
Fabians have stayed on the path fairly
consistently. Conducting election sur-
veys, producing pamphlets, offering help
for the ALP magazine “Fact”, bending
the ears of sympathetic parliamentarians,
are all very good ways of getting things
done. The “New Left” in Melbourne is
influential enough to arouse the fears of
the DLP on the one hand, and the Com-
munists on the other.
In Sydney its active members, includ-
ing the Left Club, the CND and the Uni-
versity ALP Club, would number about
half the Melbourne following. Nor do
they understand the focal points of in-
fluence for an intellectual group. They
still prefer “Aldermaston marches” and
a rather dismal sloganising, to serious
attempts to influence the ALP, from
whose New South Wales branch they
keep a critical distance. Because the
Sydney Left forms a rainbow of Trotsky-
ists, syndicalists, revisionists and what-
nots, it has always suffered from sec-
tarianism. The Left Club for a time
tried to break away from this, but so
far the only “non - ideological” group
seems to be the Sydney University Fabian
Society, with little more than 30
members.
In the rest of Australia only the
Queensland Fabians can be taken seri-
ously as a force influencing anyone out-
side the narrow circle of the Left. The
death of Senator Max Paulter, leading
figure in the Queensland Labor College,
will be a factor in their future success.
The Perth University ALP Branch has
been significant, too, but whether as a
coherent force, or because it contained a
few outstanding individuals, is hard to
see at 2,000 miles distance.
The main dilemma of the Left is one
which is common to all intellectual radi-
cal movements. It is whether to stand
as humble suppliants in the waiting
rooms of power, or whether to chalk
rude words on the walls outside. With
no Trade Union base, and concerned
with matters like foreign affairs or im-
migration which do not interest the
Unions very much, the temptation to the
latter course is very great. With a Libe-
ral Government in power, of course,
chalking rude words like “No More
White Australia” may be the only way
to attract attention. But when it comes
to influencing policy the Webbs had
something. The “new New Left” at
least looks like following in their tra-
dition of selling ideas on their merit. By
doing this it runs a poor third to the
Communist Party and the National Civic
Council, who have a tight machine and
a rigid ideology. But it has a long start
over the “old New Left” from which it
began only five years ago.


SANTAMARIA MOVES NORTH
A letter from Mr B. J. Mullens,
the Queensland State President of the
National Civic Council, commenting
on the article “Santamaria Moves
North” in The Bulletin September
8, arrived too late for publication. It
will appear in next week’s issue.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
GOOSSENS AND
THE OPERA HOUSE
Sir,
I read with great interest your article
“Miracle of the Cahill Mahal” in your
July 28 edition.
I see that you attribute the selection
of the site for the Opera to Eugene
Goossens. The fact is that I was a
Consultant for the Cumberland County
Council and selected the site and went
with this idea to Goossens who got very
enthusiastic about it.
At the time I pointed out the dif-
ficulties arising from the bridge noise
level, at about 60 decibels, and fog-
horns from passing boats, say 90
decibels, and the restricted parking areas.
I drew up a layout plan showing these
parking areas and pointed out to
Goossens that despite the shortcomings
this is the best site possible for an Opera,
and I left it at that. He then undertook
to make the necessary publications and
propaganda.
KARL LANGER
Brisbane (Queensland).
“OVERLAND” AND THE CLF
Sir,
“Overland” is termed “anti-Com-
munist” in your editorial, (Bulletin,
September 1) and this is a definition
against which I wish to protest. Despite
the fact that you see eye-to-eye with the
Communist Party in calling us “anti-
Communist”, I feel that there enters here
an element of what might be called “bloc
thinking”.
“Overland” has a corporate entity of
its own and is certainly neither pro- nor
anti-Communist in any dogmatic sense.
We are not interested in the exclusion
of Communists or their views if they
are expressed in a way that seems to
us to accord with the cultural nature
of the magazine, and if they add some-
thing to experience and understanding.
I personally am opposed to some
Communist policies and theories, but
before engaging in further debate would
want these policies and theories outlined
and defined so that debate could be use-
ful and relevant. I decisively reject the
view ot the Communist movement as a
gigantic monolith in the shadow of
which all men must declare themselves
as for or against.
Actually the reason “Overland” has
been periodically exposed to frenetic
attacks from Communist Party official
circles is that we are not anti-Communist.
Although “Overland” has never been a
socialist magazine 1 am a socialist, and
I hope that “Overland” provides, and
will increasingly provide, some kind of
a forum for debate on the Left. The
official Communist Party (though not all
Communists) is, on evidence provided
by itself, uneasy that such debate can
take place under alternative initiatives
to its own.
S. MURRAY-SMITH
Melbourne.
HUGHES v HARRIS
Sir,
Max Harris, in “Fairweather Friends”
(Bulletin, September 8) attributes the
success of lan Fairweather’s exhibition
to a “fashion-making game”, hatched in
conspiracy between Wallace Thornton,
myself, and the Sydney Press.
His mud flies wide of the target. Fair-
weather’s success is only the culmination
of the great esteem in which informed
circles have long held him. He sold his
first painting to the Tate in 1934. Russell
Drysdale speaks of him as the main in-
fluence on his youth during the late
’thirties. Sir Daryl Lindsay planned a
Fairweather retrospective at the National
Gallery of Victoria, in 1944. A steady
groundswell has now revealed itself.
Mr Harris is not conversant with Fair-
weather’s work. How could he be? Fair-
weather has never shown in Adelaide,
and when he worked in Melbourne Mr
Harris was not old enough to meet him.
It is therefore on the most flimsy know-
ledge that Mr Harris imperlinently sug-
gests that Fairweather is a flash in the
pan, sparked by a publicity mechanism.
His ignorance perhaps accounts for the
confusion of his rhetoric. Fairweather is
a “very fine artist”, but he doubts if his
work has “enduring profundity”. How
can one exist without the other? Mr
Harris rightly finds a “top-of-the-pops
principle in art judgment both ludicrous
and demoralising”, but is pleased to ac-
cept the “dominant stature” of Drysdale,
Nolan and several more. Apparently his
own hit parade is somehow intrinsically
better than Wallace Thornton’s.
Mr Harris’ article is only another
variant on his favorite polemical trick.
He is a critic: other critics are fashion-
makers. He has a belief, verging on the
paranoid, in the corruptness of the East-
ern cities, which he sees crawling with
bogeymen and cultural manipulators. To
put it mildly, I think Mr Harris is quite
deluded; and I am tired of his meaning-
less smears.
ROBERT HUGHES
Sydney.
WHATS WRONG WITH THE
COUNTRY PARTY
Sir, '
Alan Reid’s article on the Country
Party (Bulletin, August 13) is fair
and a fairly accurate summary of the
CP today. ! am now the only one left
of the original Federal Country Party
formed by Earle Page in 1920.
The first and abiding loyalty of CP
members should be to the rural and
provincial people. Not only farmers,
graziers, miners, etc., but country towns-
people as well.
In spite of the ‘‘drift” of population
from the country 1 have always main-
tained that it was and still is
possible for the CP to retain its numbers
and even increase them. But a successful
vote cannot be obtained simply by talking
“Anti-Labor, or Anti-Communism”.
People want to know what one is for,
“Anti-Tory” is stronger in the country
than solely “Anti-Labor”.
As Alan Reid states, the personality
of the CP leadership has -won many
seats for the CP in the past They were
not afraid to always talk straight-out
CP-isrn. Today in the CP, instead of the
“forceful leadership” there is a trend to
be “good chaps”. “It doesn’t matter what
one is so long as Labor is beaten”, etc.
It can do nothing with the “middle of
the road” voter, and still less now when
the average voter is better educated
than his parents, and has vastly better
conditions. It is a sign of that “de-
terioration” at which Alan Reid hints.
A glaring example of this trend in
Queensland is in the seats of Mackay,
Bundaberg, and Maryborough. The CP
have agreed (according to the Press) that
there should be “joint candidates”, CP
and Liberal. Yet these towns are essen-
tially dependent on rural activities, and
with proper working and appeal, and a
strong CP candidate, could be possible
wins against the ALP. But no hybrid
can win against a straight-out one
party man from the ALP. One could
understand, say the CP contesting “with
Lib. support”, or vice versa. Should a
“double-barrelled” man be lucky enough
to win, with what party would he align
himself and be loyal to if there is a
show-down between the CP and Lib-
eral? We had an exampb in Federal
Herbert a couple of elections ago.
The strength of the CP lies in its
Separatism and Independence. In my
days it always gave a solid country
opinion and not a hotchpot.
J. A. J. HUNTER
Indooroopilly, Brisbane.


VICTORIAN TEACHERS
Sir,
May I congratulate you on Christopher
Kierce’s shrewd appraisal of the problems
of education (Bulletin, August 11.
1962), particularly because it goes far
beyond the “numbers” crisis to which
most educational ills are
attributed. As a teacher of English and
a school counsellor, permit me to expand
on one of the three points made: the
decline in literacy.
An examination of Victoria’s “School
Paper” reveals the decline in literacy.
In 1911, an article, “For Valour” (classes
three and four) included courtesy, im-
putation, morsel of suffering humanity,
fretted by the brief detention. Difficult
words, syllabled, were printed in heavy
type above each article. Lawson’s “The
Drover's Wife”, and Browning’s “How
They Brought the Good News” also ap-
peared. In 1934 (grades V and VI) there
appeared a series called “A Little
History of Melbourne”, from the Aus-
tralian Encyclopaedia (Angus and Robert-
son). The June issue contained inaugura-
tion, supplemented, edifices, maca-
damized, steady if spectacular, eliminate
floods, populous. In August, a typical
month, six pieces of verse were printed
by reputable poets: in September, pieces
by Wordsworth and Rossetti.
In August, 1959, (grades V and VI)
the print was bigger, the layout more
attractive. But the most demanding
article contained only stubborn, foolish
king, stiffnecked, descendants, dictated,
blundered, hostility. Only two pieces of
verse were included, both “written for
the School Paper”. One was eight lines
long. A verse play, “The Pixies’ Powder-
puff” would have raised jeers in the
fifth grade back in the tougher ’3os.
ALEC ALLINSON
North Carlton (Vic.).
Sir,
Many teachers in Victoria resent the
article from a Melbourne Correspondent
entitled, “And a Strike in Melbourne?”
published in The Bulletin of July 21,
because of the nature of the article and
the inaccuracies which are included.
I should like to point out that the £3O
margin is paid to classified teachers in
secondary and technical schools regard-
less of their qualifications. It is also paid
to classified primary teachers who are
teaching in secondary and technical
schools. It is surely an exaggeration to
state that the Leaving Certificate indi-
cates bare literacy. In any case many
trainees doing the Trained Primir v
Teachers’ Certificate Course have al-
ready passed Matriculation and a con-
siderable number of primary trainees do
extended courses of study above the two
year minimum which all have to do post-
Leaving or Matriculation.
It is dishonest to compare a four year
secondary teacher training course with
a two year primary training course with-
out making it clear that the secondary
course will take the trainee only to the
top of his profession, while the primary
course will take the trainee oniy to the
second lowest classification. Thereafter
the primary trained teacher must, at his
own expense and in his own time, con-
tinue his studies for additional qualifi-
cations necessary to gain promotion.
The assertion that the Victorian
Teachers' Union is primary-controlled is
quite untrue. At the present time, of the
ten members of the Union Executive,
only four represent teachers of the Prim-
ary Division despite the fact that there
are many more primary teachers in the
Union than all others combined. Fur-
ther, a greater amount of Union finance
is spent in the interests of secondary
teachers than in the interests of any other
section.
It is true to point out that some teach-
ers are unqualified and that some teach-
ers are untrained, but the Victorian
Teachers’ Union has been campaigning
for years, not without success, to pro-
vide teachers .with more facilities fo_r
obtaining qualifications and teacher
training. This positive approach is pre-
ferable to your Melbourne Correspond-
ent’s suggestion that unqualified teachers
should be sacked. When your Melbourne
Correspondent states, “In many cases the
ignorance of the teacher exceeds that of
his pupils which in the Victorian system
is usually profound,” he is guilty of an
unjustified reflection on Victorian edu-
cation and of offering a gratuitous insult
to the whole teaching profession, and in
particular to our temporary teachers
who do commendable work and without
whom our schools would be unable to
function.
B. W. McILROY, President,
Victorian Teachers’ Union.
Victoria. • * '
THE STUDENT GENERATION
Sir,
In his sketch of University politics
since the Second World War (Bulletin,
August 11), Mr Coleman fails to even
refer to the chief rivals of the Commu-
nists and their allies in the late ’forties
and early ’fifties, namely the “Groupers”,
who were of equal significance during
this period. One of the more important
factors in setting the tradition of massive
apathy in later years was the disgust felt
at the manipulative techniques of both
the “Movement” and the Left, not all of
whom were the pure idealists Mr Cole-
man would have us believe.
Such a gap in the story is only possible
if one accepts the peculiar redefinition of
“politics” which Mr Coleman assumes
throughout. It appears that, to be “poli-
tical” while attending a University, one
must be radical, idealistic and noisy
about the one issue of racialism. In
other words, one must be at Melbourne
University and riot for “Student Action”,
because nothing else fits Mr Coleman’s
description. The fact is that the recent
flurries over the White Australia Policy
and similar issues have, at the most, an
extremely tenuous connection with
“politics” in any real sense of the word.
They are marked by no background of
revived interest in general politics. Even
among the small numbers who show
themselves concerned about racialism,
only the tiniest minority give any atten-
tion, let alone serious thought, to other
political issues. “Revival” there may be,
but it is stretching an already elastic term
to label it “political”.
It is convenient for Mr Coleman, to
declare that “the wave of the future”
will be that of “cutting through the
Clubs”, since this disguises the feature of
the “revival” pointed out above. Most
political clubs in Australian Universities
have either vanished away or are in a
worse position than during the “stagnant
’fifties”.
Mr Coleman may well point to Mel-
bourne University ALP and Liberal
Clubs as disproof of this. If one examines,
however, the material published under
the inspiration of Melbourne University
ALP Club,' one cannot fail to note an
almost exclusive preoccupation with
theoretical and cultural issues remote
from actual political life, even if this is
defined widely, while its values are in
total collision with the atmosphere of the
Party from which it borrows its name.
WALTER DAVIS
President Australian Universities
Liberal Federation
Birrong (NSW).
TEACHING ARTISTS HOW
Sir,
I wish to thank you for publishing my
letter in The Bulletin, of July 21, 1962.
- May I express, however, a mild com-
• plaint concerning the way -in which it
. was cut. •
My main aim was to present informa-
tion and a plea for a more balanced view
at the national level, using Victoria as an
example only. Some of these elements of
my letter were deleted and I am repre-
sented as stating that the Royal Mel-
bourne Institute of Technology School of
Art is the largest in Australia. This may
be true, but I made no such claim, as
this suggests petty rivalry, with which I
have no desire to be associated —there is
far too much of this already.
V. E. GREENHALGH
Head, School of Art, Royal
Melb. Institute of Technology.
Melbourne.
A BATMAN'S VIEW
Sir,
Batman would not have discussed the
ancestry of the Champion de Crespigny
family (Bulletin, August 25) with such
confidence, had he read J. Horace
Round’s article dealing with its claims
to antiquity in his “Family Origins”. It
would seem Batman obtained his in-
formation from Burke's Peerage the
articles in which appear to carry ex
cathedra authority among amateurs.
PAUL HAIGH
Parkville, (Vic.).


REVIEWS
TELEVISION
DINNY WAS "BLOODY TINNY"
By FRANK ROBERTS
Tt amazes me that applicants for
Sydney’s third television licence,
promising wonders in the use of Aus-
tralian material, have not said or been
asked to say, how they proposed to find
possible Australian television plays, in-
stead of the present impossible ones, of
which Osmar White’s “Manhaul”
(General Motors Hour, National, Sept.
8), produced by John Sumner, was the
latest blinding example.
At the Third Licence hearing last
week, one of the QC’s told an aspiring
television entrepreneur that Australian
drama on one channel invariably lifted
the others’ ratings while it was on the
air. If that is so, you probably watched
one of the old movies on Saturday night,
or did something more profitable. And
I can assure you that you missed no
treat.
Roughly, the drama was set in a base
at Douglas Bay, Australian Antarctic
Territory, where seven men had grown
so tired of one another’s company that
one of them was murdered in Act 2
and all were suspect. The deceased,
Frieberg (Bruce Barry) was clearly
shov/n as a nasty piece of work, with a
hate on everyone, a Jewish chip on his
shoulder, and a strange power over old
Sven Nordstrom (Kurt Ledescher). This
s.p. ran to such extremes as forcing
Sven to play chess when he did not want
to, and do most of Frieberg’s work for
him.
There were others in the cast whom
I would have been just as happy to see
eliminated, including Dinny McQuade
(Gordon Glenwright), who was written
in as one of those adjectival Aussies who
have been cropping up on television with
baffling frequency lately. As a dramatic
device, it led another viewer to remark
next day, in equally good Australian,
that “Dinny was bloody tinny”.
The remaining candidates for mayhem
were Dr. Lewis (Frederick Parslow), Hil-
ton (Dennis Miller), an old woman of a
cook-cum-meteorologist named Sietel
(George Fairfax), and expedition leader
Charles Forrester (Wynn Roberts). All
of them made creditable attempts to
wrestle with mostly incredible material,
including rambling recollections of their
private lives back home.
When Frieberg was found out in the
snow with a bullet in his back, Forrester
had a morale problem on his hands. The
expedition could not be relieved for an-
other six months, despite the invention
of the aeroplane and the proximity of
“those Russos” at Mirny, and one of the
remaining six men had to be a murderer.
So in a wild burst of leadership, For-
rester took the only rifle and seal gun,
locked himself in a separate hut, and let
his mercy psychotics believe he had dun-
nit —thus avoiding a witch hunt.
The expedition members had decided
on a manhaul over the ice rather than
six months with their fears, but For-
rester stopped that by driving the only
tractor into the bay. Eventually Sven
revealed that Frieberg’s strange power
over him existed because Sven’s father
(and Sven looked old enough to be Frie-
berg’s father) had commanded a concen-
tration camp and Frieberg had “known
me as soon as he saw me”, however
chronologically unlikely.
Osmar White’s drama hinged on Sven’s
preference for blackmail by Frieberg,
leading to his murder of Frieberg, to
facing the others with the dreadful
secret that his old man had been a Nazi
Beast. And it further depended on For-
rester’s queer ideal of an expedition
leader’s duty. As a result, though well
produced, mounted and photographed on
tape, the whole affair was preposterous
and only productions which set out to
be just that, to provoke laughter, can
stay the viewers’ itchy tuning finger
when unlikely things begin to happen on
the screen.
Perhaps the oddest aspect of all was
the credit given to the Commonwealth
Antarctic Division for its co-operation,
exact nature unstated, in the production.
“Manhaul” was neatly calculated to give
us the impression that some part of our
taxes are used to maintain groups of
men in bickering idleness down in the
Antarctic.
The characters in view were nearly
all “here for the money” but did noth-
ing visible to earn it, seemed willing to
talk forever about their personal prob-
lens but almost never about their offi-
cial business below 40 decrees S., and
maintained occasional outside contact
with a Morse outfit. And if that’s how
we get our southerly weather informa-
tion, no wonder the forecasts don’t.
In contrast to “Manhaul”, I saw the
last half of “The Criminals” earlier in
the week, produced in Sydney by Henri
Safran for the ABC. It was no “Rififi”
but it was fairly good television drama,
with a solid performance by Ken Good-
let as a cracksman who manoeuvres sev-
eral members of a firm into helping him
blow a vault. The script was imported,
I gather, and it went all out for situa-
tion. Trying for so little it succeeded
where the Manhauls which attempt
situation, and character, and politics, and
racism, and anything else that pops into
the playwright's mind, inevitably fail.
FILMS
LOVE AMONG THE LIONS
The Lions are Loose. Gala, Sydney.
Festival in Adelaide. State, Sydney.
npHE French may be politically im-
JL possible, but when it comes to putting
light social satire on the screen they
certainly know where the treasure’s
buried. Henri Verneuil’s “The Lions are
Loose” is the merest trifle, with no pur-
pose but to please, but it hits its modest
target dead centre.
Its story of the disappointments of a
would-be wanton among the social lions
of Paris is interwoven with hilarious
observations of the private antics and
public pretensions of the top people.
The plot is less important than the
incidentals but is amusing enough.
Claudia Cardinale (several pounds
slimmer and a several degrees more
chic here than in the Italian “Girl with
a Suitcase”) portrays a young wife from
Bordeaux who has become bored with
her earnest husband and hankers after a
metropolitan fling. Her search for
seduction among the upper crust intel


ligentsia is disappointing: her first con-
quest is a successful author, a brilliant
talker on love but a technical failure as
a lover. She turns, for contrast, to a
masterful physician, a lover of alarm-
ingly Napoleonic decision and abrupt-
ness. I reveal nothing the filmgoer won’t
guess by saying the girl returns dis-
illusioned to her provincial husband and
lives happily ever after, or so we are
told.
The film takes a mischievious look
at artistic salons, lion-hunting hostesses,
hostess - hunting lions, narcissistic
geniuses, fashionable left-wing intel-
lectual, their complicated amorous quad-
rilles and their brittle chatter. One of
the best scenes is a satire on highbrow
art patter, quite international in its
application. (“I like that”, says the
brilliant novelist, looking intensely at a
baleful abstract. “Tt’s . . . Spanish ”.
“Why Spanish?” the girl from the
provinces asks. “Why not?” says the
novelist, en route to a new audience).
Some skilful and well-cast players
are involved in this elegant romp,
notably Jean-Claude Brialy as the novel-
ist, Lino Ventura as the doctor and
Danielle Darrieux, aging most attract-
ively, as a predatory hostess.
Although Australians are anxious to
dump their old national myths it may
take a while to persuade outsiders to
dump them. too. For illustration, note
and compare two longish film docu-
mentaries, one Australian, one English,
simultaneously released for commercial
screening in Sydney. The Australian
made one is “Festival in Adelaide”, a
generally competent coverage of the 1962
Adelaide Arts Festival, featuring artistic
endeavour in the elegantly stolid setting
of South Australia’s capital; the English
made one is “The Cattle Carters”, a
slickly corny piece about cattle truckers
in the far north west, full of raw red
landscapes, dust, sweat and rugged out-
back humor.
The festival film is a composite effort
by a panel of producers and directors
from the DOI film unit, and some parts
of it are inevitably better than others.
Some parts of it, in fact, are remark-
ably smooth and assured, in view of the
technical problems that must have been
involved. One must admire, for example,
the discretion with which bits and pieces
of musical and theatrical performances
have been snipped from their surround-
ing tissue without the severed flesh being
too obviously exposed.
Its faults seem to lie mainly in the
scripting. It takes an unconscionably
long time to get started and it is
burdened with numerous “little human
touches” which (as so often happens
with Australian film makers) don’t come
off. As a result the film, for all its
incidental virtues, just misses that sense
of excitement, pride and achievement
it was —or should have been—striving
for
MARTIN LONG
ART
"PERSONALITY PAINTER"
Fred Jessup. Johnstone Gallery, Bris-
bane.
A lter Fred Jessup’s first show a couple
of years ago, I classed him as a
“personality painter”. His style was as
purely individual as, say, the literary
work of Carlyle or Henry James, though
less mannered than the former and less
complicated than the latter. This was
particularly noticeable in his still-life
which was not in any sense derivative as
nearly all art happens to be; all his paint-
ing in this genre was meticulously literal
but with an indescribable fantasy touch
that was most endearing and attractive
like a period sampler of 50 or 60 years
ago and the color was strong though
not overdone.
In this show he is not the same be-
cause perhaps of an advance in artistic
quality or a development of a feeling
for austerity and aesthetic economy.
Technically he was always very sound.
This time he shows 27 oils and 12
gouaches. In the latter medium he is
very clever in his effects, very difficult,
in effect, to distinguish from those in the
solider oils. The only question that
remains is the artistic quality, the intel-
lectual content, of the work.
I have lived in the French country-
side over which Jessup ranges, from
the Biscay coast to around Toulouse
looking over the lush smooth plains in
the upper Garonne Valley so different
from the Landes to the north west and
from the Massif Central to the north
with relics all over the place from Moor-
ish culture brought back by the
Crusaders. Over this country Art is im-
portant and the general feeling invites
its expression. Jessup has felt this influ-
ence, apparent to one familiar with it
in architecture especially. The painting
is competent, the spectrum rather nar-
row, the color cool and clear.
Still-life remains Jessup’s line, “The
Sculptor” (No. 17) being outstanding.
His most successful pieces, curiously
enough, are exotic. “Fish Boy, Flor-
ence” is stylishly drawn in pale gold is
a most attractive portrait of a serious
young men. Jessup’s palette has been
stimulated into a yield of bold high
color in two figure studies of Tahitian
girls done in Tahiti (Nos. 22 and 34),
full of tropic warmth.
For the rest the steady clear light of
south-western France is over it all. For
me who knows it so well this was a great
pleasure.
J. V. DUHIG
VICTORIANA
Fred Williams. Rudy Komon Gallery.
John Bell. Barry Stern Gallery.
Williams’s group of oils, water-
A colors and etchings are about the
most interesting works to be seen in
Sydney at present. The majority are
studies of his own Victorian bushlands
and they invite serious contemplation.
Williams constructs restrained but vital
images using a Gothic tracery of soaring
verticals with calculated rhythm defining
the breadth and depth of tall timber and
the surrounding space of rock or hill.
Transparent color nuzzled soft and
vibrant within an authentic local register
conveys a very genuine feeling for the
brush which strikes a response in any-
one who knows it too. Sensations are
distilled yet forms are held in ordered
structure. The big “Tryptich” is carried
far towards a Chinese realm of abstract-
ion with just a token number of verticals
to keep composition and subject insepar-
able. Black lines in some can be at
variance with sensuous color but the
best paintings show no such discrepancy.
The water colors hint at Williams’s
method of tackling the raw material of
visual experience; he retains both the
immediate and the essential. The fabric
of reality is penetrated with some in-
sight and translated through careful tech-
nique. Our bush is after all gently
inviting beneath its much publicised
harshness. If we find it otherwise the
failure is ours.
Tohn Bell is a young painter for the
** young, inasmuch as his melancholy
nostalgia and grotesquerie mark a phase
through which a great many young paint-
ers pass. In the familiar and perenially
popular world of realism plus sentiment
Bell echoes Drysdale, Friend and Her-
man reveries, but Ensor as well. What
is most individual here is his color and
his fantasy. Composition and drawing
can at times be weak, at others sensitive.
Bell is one of a number of East Sydney
Technical College students following
roughly similar lines, who will no doubt
be brought to light in an equally spec-
tacular way (Bell sold £2OOO worth by
the end of the first day) by Sydney’s
most enterprising entrepreneur Mr Barry
Stern. Clutching his hard won wealth
Mr Bell is off to the outback. No
doubt the Bunyip country will prove as
equally lucrative as the Darlinghurst
slums.
J. HENSHAW


Positions Vacant
Teachers, 1963, for Canberra Grammar School,
Canberra.
Music Master, required for Ist term to teach
music throughout the School and supervise Chapel
music. He will be required to teach another subject
in Senior School. A good opportunity for a
promising young man.
Assistant Master required to teach sixth grade
in Junior School, Ist term, 1963.
A house is available to married men. Accom-
modation for single men, within the School.
Reply in writing, stating age, qualifications, ex-
perience, with copies of references, plus names
and addresses of two referees to
THE HEADMASTER,
CANBERRA GRAMMAR SCHOOL,
CANBERRA, A.C.T.
Teachers for 1963
Cranbrook School Sydney
Head of Mathematics Department required
for first term. A good opportunity for
promising young man aged 30 to 35
years.
Master to teach French, to Leaving Certifi-
cate; required in second term; though if
available, applicant would be appointed
for first term.
Flat for married couple, also single residen-
tial accommodation available.
Reply in writing, stating age, qualifications
and experience, with copies of testimonials
to
Headmaster, Cranbrook School,
Bellevue Hill, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL, NORTH SYDNEY
Master to teach Mathematics and Science from
Ist January, 1963. Apply in writing to the
Headmaster giving details of qualifications.
B. H. TRAVERS, Headmaster.
THEATRE
BROTHER ESAU IS AN HAIRY MAN
Beyond The Fringe. Revue, Phillip
Theatre, Sydney.
Luisillo Spanish Dance Theatre. Her
Majesty’s, Sydney.
“IY/Iy brother Esau is hairy man, but
I am a smooth one”—this is the
nonsensical text which bolsters up a long
and devastating sermon towards the end
of Beyond The Fringe, and incidentally
provides a fair clue to this wonderful,
brilliantly funny revue from England.
All those involved with Beyond The
Fringe are undeniably smooth ones —and
there are other echoes of the Esau-Jacob
affair. For, if this devastating evening
has a meaning, it is found in the after-
taste, the feel of young men protesting
that old fools have sold many birthrights
for cold pottage. There is a sharp dagger
underneath the brilliance; and there
should be. Satire must have sting, and if
sometimes the sting is not so plain in
Beyond The Fringe, or an effect seems
rather mild, my advice is to wait a day or
two. Then, if this revue has anything like
the same effect on you as it has on me,
you will discover on the second day, many
barbs showing out for the first time, many
arrows just beginning to sting.
A revue like this, so integrated and
beautifully written, it would be unfair to
categorise. I most confidently recom-
mend the show as one of the funniest,
most stimulating, rewarding evenings in
theatre for the past ten years. It is
vintage stuff, this. Maybe you won’t
laugh immediately as much as you have
at other Phillip revues—but wait for the
next day, and the next.
Alistair Duncan shows out as the
brightest star of the cast of four, but
John Ewart, Brian Tapply (who will pro-
bably find more variety as he goes along)
and Barry Brown add up to as good a
crew of funny men as we are likely to see.
This is the last chance to see the pure
flame of Luisillo burning on our stage
for some years, and all should take it
during the remainder of the Spanish
Dance Theatre’s brief return season. Here
is classical art, the outcome of intense
dedication and training, at its best.
Even if one feels that the Spanish way
of life revealed so clearly and expertly
by Luisillo is not for us; that Spanish
dancing, and love-making, is all approach
and no fulfilment —even so, the sheer fire
of this restraint of desire is something to
see. It is, if you like, a triumph of sub-
limation, this Spanish dancing, but as a
sample of strange voyages of the human
spirit, as a display of tensions and physi-
cal life, it is a rare experience and not
to be missed.
One evening of Luisillo will set your
standards for Spanish dance for a long,
long, time.
KEVON KEMP
SHAW'S FUNNIEST
You Can Never Tell. Union Theatre,
Melbourne.
The Mikado. Her Majesty’s Theatre,
Melbourne.
“Vou never can tell” is Shaw’s most
brilliant and high-spirited play, and
probably his funniest. And it is all play
—full of ideas, but triumphant over them;
a work of the imaginative rather than the
ratiocinauve intellect. It is probably for
this reason that it has been so little dis-
cussed, but why it should have been so
little performed is something of a
mystery. Perhaps the answer, at any rate
in Australia, is that few companies have
been able to muster a sufficient number
of truly articulate actors.
This production, by Peter Batey and
the Union Theatre Repertory Company,
is unquestionably one of the best things
we have ever seen on a Melbourne stage.
All nine of the principle players pass
the test of speech with superb ease. They
are capable, all of them, not merely of
clear articulation, but of real verbal
deftness; they have the knack of expres-
sing and sustaining personality by de-
lighted participation in the dance of
ideas. They have, in other words, some
of the highest and rarest of the skills of
their profession. Elspeth Ballantyne and
Reginald Livermore as the riotous twins
Dolly and Philip, and Michael Duffield
as the philosophical waiter, are the
brightest stars, but this is largely because
these are the best parts. Bruce Barry,
Moire Carleton, Gine Curtis, Gordon
Glenwright, Stewart Weller and Clement
McAllin are the others—all worthy of
the highest praise. Anne Fraser’s sets
and Betty Druitt’s costumes are addi-
tional delights.
There are faults, of which the most
obtrusive is a certain loss of momentum
during the eating and drinking section of
Act Two. The trouble here seems to arise
from the grouping, and ultimately from
the demands of the script. In Act Three
Stewart Weller is obliged to make some
awkward movements. Clement McAllin’s
make-up, on the first night, was grotesque,
but I feel sure that by now reason will
have prevailed.
One would have to be very much an
old fogey to object, on theoretical
grounds, to Richard Campion's new pro-
duction of “The Mikado”. The chief
practical objections are that all of the
women, except Helen Landis, are in-
audible most of the time, and that
Lauverne Gray seems not to have de-
cided what sort of a person Yum-Yum
is. Richard Wordsworth is very funny
as Ko-Ko, and John Larsen as Nanki-
Poo and Don McManus as the Mikado
sing splendidly. Anne Fraser’s settings
and costumes are excellent. Somewhat
to my surprise I found myself enjoy-
ing the show as a new thing. It is almost
as good as “The Ballad of Angel’s
Alley”.
J. MURPHY


THE RED PAGE
OBSCENITY, BLASPHEMY, SEDITION
BY K. D. GOTT
VjyHAT is the state of freedom in Aus-
tralia today? In his latest book*, Mr
Peter Coleman examines the central
matter of the attempts of Governments
to limit the freedom of citizens to read
and write what they please. He concludes
that “over the past eighty years the cam-
paign against Government censorship has
been almost completely a success story.”
His account of the battles and skirmish-
es, the prolonged guerrilla warfare and
the swift ambushes which went to make
up that campaign, is enthralling reading,
not least to those who would strongly
disagree with his next comment that “the
crusade is now almost over”. If some find
this a complacent conclusion, it may well
be as a result of the impact of Mr Cole-
man’s account of the booksellers, publish-
ers, rationalists, sex-reformers, anarchists
and others who did so much to curb
the censoring zeal of officialdom in the
past; and in any case as an avowed
critic of censorship, Mr Coleman would
no doubt applaud if his book stimulates
activity to push the frontiers of freedom
still further.
The French naturalist and realist writ-
ers begin the story of modern literary
censorship both in Australia and in
England. In 1887, Customs officials in
Victoria seized some Zola novels im-
ported by the Melbourne free-thinker and
bookseller, E. W. Cole, of book arcade
fame. Cole let the matter pass, but two
years later Customs seizure of works by
de Maupassant and Daudet which he had
imported, flared into a public contro-
versy.
While Cole wrangled with the Vic-
torian Customs, a scholarly London pub-
lisher, Henry Vizetelly, stood trial on
obscenity charges. Vizetelly had pub-
lished translations of two Zola novels,
La Terre and Pot Buille, and on con-
viction by a British judge and jury was
sentenced to three months gaol.
In Britain, the Vizetelly case was the
culmination of a movement, discernible
for many decades, which made obscenity
the cardinal literary crime. The
eighteenth century courts were loathe to
convict for obscenity, unle there was an
element of breach of the peace present.
In Victoria, the Cole affair settled the
power of the Customs to prohibit the
import of novels and other literary works,
as well as opening the era of deputations
to the department seeking bans on this
and that. When the Customs power
passed to the Commonwealth, officials
promptly marked the occasion by seiz-
ing more French works, among them
Balzac’s Droll Stories, a book which had
been freely imported for some forty
years. The seizure became a court matter,
ending with the importer being fined.
To A. G. Stephens of The Bulletin the
Balzac case was a straw in the wind in-
dicating that the spirit of conformity and
imperialism was destroying the spirit of
liberty in Australia.
Despite this heavy-handed start, the
Commonwealth Customs virtually aban-
doned the censorship field for nearly 30
years. The ban on Ulysses in 1929 sig-
nalled its return. Joyce’s book was
banned under the Bruce-Page Govern-
ment, but within a few months the Scul-
lin Ministry had banned Defoe’s Moll
Flanders, Aldington’s The Colonel’s
Daughter, Huxley’s Brave New World,
Orwell's Down and Out in Paris and Lon-
don, Norman Lindsay’s The Cautious
Amorist, Hemingway’s Farewell to Arms
and several thousand other books, many
of them Communist and left-wing works.
This not unnaturally provoked wide-
spread protests and Mr Coleman notes
not only the organisations attacking the
censorship, but those which rallied to the
support of the Government (mainly
church groups). Streams fighting literary
and political censorship merged, notably
in the Victorian Book Censorship Aboli-
tion League. Mr Coleman rates this as
a very successful organisation, respon-
sible at least in part for the release of
most of the banned books in 1937 and
the establishment of the Literature Cen-
sorship Board in the same year. How-
ever, as he points out, the conflict be-
tween the Customs Department and the
Attorney-General’s Department over who
should institute bans was also solved in
that year, though perhaps fortuitously.
The Customs Minister, Mr T. H. White,
went to England, enabling the then At-
torney-General, Mr R. G. Menzies to get
the upper hand. This, according to some
of the participants in the ’thirties struggle,
was decisive.
Mr Coleman considers the present
phase of Customs censorship with its
bans on Lolita, Lady Chatterley (and the
Penguin account of the famous trial),
the unexpurgated Borstal Boy and
several other contemporary works to be
one of “qualified liberalism”. However,
as he reminds us, the Minister is not
bound to take the advice of the expert
board set up to make recommendations
to him. There may be less scope for
Customs officials to interfere with book
imports, but the ultimate power is still
in the hands of Senator Henty, just as
it rested with Mr T. H. White, during
the plague of bans in the ’thirties.
Tn any event “Qualified liberalism”
A would certainly not suit John Chandos,
editor of a recent collection of studies
“in the nature and definition of ‘ob-
scenity’”**. The contributors, mainly
English, are hardly concerned with re-
viewing the sequence of events which
enables them to employ the Lady Chat-
terley adjective in their essays.
Instead, they have devoted themselves
to probing the actual and possible fron-
tiers of tolerance with regard to the
concept of obscenity. The editor asks:
why does pornography draw upon itself
such displays of outraged intolerance?
Can it only be defined with such terms
as “filth”, “dirt”, “pollution” and so
forth. Mr Chandos accuses lawyers,
judges and censors alike of a flight from
reason when pornography is faced. The
most serious argument, he finds, is that
such works may arouse libidinous
thoughts “the most common ones, heter-
osexual thoughts.”
It is not an offence in England or
America to entertain thoughts of a
heterosexual nature, it will be an omin-
ous day when it is. It is not an offence
to engage in heterosexual intimacy. If
there is a valid argument why it is un-
lawful to publish matter which may
influence people to commit an act
which is not in itself unlawful, I have
yet to hear it.
Neither Mr Chandos, nor for that
matter his distinguished band of con-
tributors, can find evidence of the ten-
dency to ‘deprave and corrupt’ which is
the essence of the legal definition of ob-
scenity. Mr Chandos is, in effect, making
a plea for pornography.
One of Mr Chandos’ contributors is
Maurice Girodias, managing director of
the Olympia Press in Paris who cheer-
fully confesses that along with such
writers as Samuel Beckett, Vladimir
Nabokov and J. P. Donleavy, he has
published such pseudonymous master-
pieces as The Sexual Life of Robinson
Crusoe, The Whip Angels and White
Thighs. “It is my business to publish
those forbidden books, those outrageous
obscenities which are being discussed
here.” Another is Lord Birkett, former
Lord Justice of Appeal, who reminds us
* Obscenity, Blasphemy, Sedition.
Peter Coleman, Jacarandah Press.
295. 6d.
** to deprave and corrupt: a collection
of original studies in the nature and
definition of “obscenity”. Edited by
John Chandos, Souvenir Press. 30s.


that “men should have freedom of ex-
pression, but it must be freedom gov-
erned by the law of the land”. Lord
Birkett examines the changing legal con-
cepts of obscenity, but Walter Allen
comes closest to answering the questions
forcefully declaimed by Mr Chandos.
“There is no aspect of human experience,
however seemingly perverse, obscene or
private, that is not fit material for art.
But having said that, it seems to me that
one must recognise that where rights are
claimed obligations must be accepted.”
These, in brief, are the strict disciplines
which Mr Allen would enforce on the
artist.
HThe philosophy of pornography is out-
■*- side the scope of Mr Coleman’s
book, but the history of blasphemy and
sedition belong to it. Not the least valu-
able feature of his work is its reminder of
the one-time flouishing Freethought and
Secular movements in Australia. What
has become of the vigour with which
these causes were pursued in the nine-
teenth century? Partly it is gone because
the freethinkers largely achieved their
aims a secular education system, free-
dom to publish birth control informa-
tion and to attack religion. The last
blasphemy prosecution was in 1919 and
Mr Coleman considers that it has ceased
to exist as a crime, except when the
blasphemer's conduct involves offensive
behavior or obscenity. Reading some o
the colorful attacks on the Deity, the
Lamb of God and the Virgin Mary which
he quotes, one is tempted to regret that
this era has passed.
Mr Coleman’s treatment of censorship
during World War II looks far too brief.
Mr Calwell’s clash with the Sydney
dailies is rightly dealt with at length, and
there is a passing reference to the 1940
ban on nine Communist newspapers.
However, before these papers were
banned, they were subject to an edict
forbidding them to publish any material
relating to the war, strikes or the USSR
(and what else could a Communist paper
write about in those days?). The ban
on the Jehovah’s Witness sect and its
publications is another omission. Some-
thing might also have been said about
the committee of inquiry set up by Dr
Evatt in 1944 to inquire into New
Times. (This seemed, in part, to arise
from a fear that this paper’s crackpot
financial theories might have had an ad-
verse effect on war loan campaigns.)
Again, there was the heavy censorship of
Midday Times, the daily paper produced
in Melbourne for a few weeks during the
war by that able eccentric, H. Drysdale
Betts. The present reviewer remembers
being shown a score or so galleys of mat-
erial cut from this paper; most of it ap-
peared to be sectarian anti-Catholic
material. Presumably the censors argued
that its publication would damage the
war-effort by inflaming religious hatred
among the citizenry. Yet it seemed no
worse than the ‘popish plot’ kind of
material appearing in The Rock, a sec-
tarian Protestant paper, around the same
time.
Mr Coleman brings out some interest-
ing cross-currents in the struggles which
have gone on around the censorship issue.
One ironical episode concerns Protestant
activity to have a Customs ban lifted on
Maria Monk, a work purporting to ex-
pose the sexual activities of Roman
Catholic nuns and priests. The motiva-
tion of these Protestant zealots was less
a concern for freedom than a convic-
tion that the book had been banned as
a result of Rome’s influence. There is
irony, too, in the revival of censorship
ideas as a means of combating what is
seen as debased, “trash” culture. Often
these suggestions, coming from such
bodies as the Fellowship of Australian
Writers and the Australian Journalists’
Association, are designed to achieve
economic protection for members; it is
unfortunate that so often they are
couched in chauvinistic or pseudo-cul-
tural terms.
Mr Coleman’s book is explicity con-
cerned with the government as censor,
but clearly it is not the only one. We
are in many regards our own censors.
When the mid-Victorians made it a sole-
cism to ask at table for a “leg of chicken”
(arm was the appropriate word) and
when Thomas Bowdler re-wrote Shakes-
peare (“Under the Greenwood Tree,
Who Loves to work with me”) it was
not as a result of government decrees.
Men may censor themselves, but these
days we call it conformity.
AN IRISH TAKE - OVER
Arna. Edited by Francis Evers. 4s. 6d.
A rna is not a familiar journal, though
in 1962 it is an uncommonly hand-
some one for 4s. 6d. The title-page in-
forms me that it is “The ournal of the
Faculty of Arts, Sydney University”:
but apart from that, there is very little
about it which suggests its origin.
The striking cover-design features, front
and back, on a white ground, narrow
vertical strips of a photographed face,
giving an effect as of the face seen
through a doorway narrowly ajar. The
face seems familiar, and ..fter looking at
the table of contents, why, yes, we know
who it is: it is Samuel Beckett.
That Beckett should 6 et the cover spot
is fair, as he dominates the contents. The
advertised feature is an extract from his
own translation of his latest French
novel, “Comment C’est” and this is ap-
parently its first publication. As well as
this, there is an article on him by a
Dublin architect, previously published in
“New World Writing”, a review of Hugh
Kenner’s book on him, and a further
book-review in which he shares the lime-
light with James Joyce.
He is not a lonely alien among the
undergraduates. The editor describes
himself as (also)a Dublin-expatriate, and
there is a decidedly Irish flavor to the
whole magazine: as well as the pieces
mentioned, a piece of heavy Irish (stage-
Irish?) whimsy by another expatriate (a
chemist with ICI) is the first contribu-
tion to face the reader, while two more
of the seven book reviews are devoted
to Irish writing. This puts the Irish
clearly ahead of the French, who are
represented by a translation of a longish
poem by Antonin Artaud and an article
on a sonnet of Nerval, and of the Danes,
represented by translations of two stories
by Martin A. Hansen.
Clearly, the editor has tried to create
a sort of ideal magazine rather than to re-
flect whatever writing and thinking goes
on around the Sydney Art Faculty; and
there is a clear hint in the foreword that
he has been driven to this by the paucity
of contributions as well as by his keen
interest in current European literature.
But all the same is it as good as it
might be? Niall Montgomery’s article on
Beckett hardly seems worth singling
out for re-publication from an overseas
journal.
Again, it is a scoop of no mean order
to get the Beckett, and there will be
people who think that alone worth their
money: on the other hand, this particular
piece of Beckett is almost completely un-
intelligible, at least out of context, and
Beckett's characteristic wit and pathos
seem not to emerge at all Completely
unpunctuated, the typography of the
passage suggests verse, but there rarely
seems to be any point in prmting it this
way. This might be said, too, of Artaud’s
poem, “Tutuguri”, one of Hansen’s
stories, “The Crabapples”, was well
worth the fetching 1 had not even
heard of Hansen before though the
other is not.
The three undergraduates contribute
poetry indifferent by undergraduate
standards, and apart from one cartoon
by Endean the remaining value of the
magazine lies substantially in staff con-
tributions. The best of these is William
Ginnane’s brief but well-written intro-
duction to the figure and thought of
Wittgenstein.
EVAN JONES


READ
THE SOCIAL CREDITER
FOR POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC REALISM
PUBLISHED FORTNIGHTLY
This journal expresses and supports the policy of the Social Credit
Secretariat which was founded in 1933 by Clifford Hugh Douglas.
Subscription: One year £2/2/-; Six months £l/1/-; Three months 10/6.
The works of C. H. DOUGLAS
THE MONOPOLY OF CREDIT 19/-
"WHOSE SERVICE IS PERFECT FREEDOM" 8/2
THE BRIEF FOR THE PROSECUTION 13/5
Other titles on application.
TIDAL PUBLICATIONS
BOX 3266, G.P.0., SYDNEY
WHY WAY OUT DRAMA IS IN
Twentieth-Century Drama. Bamber
Gascoigne. Hutchinson.
VTo Mary McCarthy is going to cross
'*■* words with Bamber Gascoigne, and
no one is going to buy his book for its
dining-out witticisms. He is too earnest
and too urbane to permit himself either
the Tynan braggadocio or the Shaw
panache. He has looked at his huge sub-
ject and—very simply, very convincingly
—cut it down to size. The result is not
a catalogue of titles and authors or a
collection of first night impressions but
a short, readable, argumentative and pur-
suasive guide to drama from Pirandello
to the day after tomorrow.
There are no revelations in the book,
no shocking re-evaluations or original
discoveries. Why should there be? In the
introduction, in an important throwaway
passage, he explains how unimportant
“originality” is. “The only true originality
lies in the uniqueness of an individual
artist’s attitude to the world and to his
experience." In that sense, this book is
an original.
He sees Pirandello as the beginning of
the twentieth-century drama. Textbooks
usually call Ibsen, Chekhov, Shaw the
moderns but their plays were the culmin-
ation of the nineteenth-century drama.
They may have seemed revolutionary,
because of their true “originality”, but
they quickly became acceptable, classic
even. Pirandello, however, still feels new.
Theatre-goers still think of him as avant-
garde and one could argue that his plays
are the origin of the species from
Beckett’s worrying at the reality under-
reality to Brecht's investigation of moral
good, from Giraudoux’ use of fantasy to
Pinter's apparent naturalism.
Mr Gascoigne does not force the argu-
ment. He surveys the subject-matter of
our drama—the twenties with its nihilism,
the thirties with its insistence on the
virtue of mass action, the forties with its
wondering at the meaning of individual
action, the fifties with its Porter demon-
stration of the futility of action. It be-
comes obvious that, no matter how “way
out” writers seemed, their plays give a
truer picture of the time than any news-
paper report.
A section on style puts the case for
Beckett as the most significant writer of
dialogue of our time, perhaps a liberator.
Lastly, he examines nine dramatists
and notes the promise and achievement
of some younger writers. He ends with
the hope that the dramatists of the sixties
will be thinkers and the probability that,
because of the close relationship between
drama and life, Brecht will be the big
influence.
He is very convincing on Brecht and
Beckett, very fine on Pirandello and
Anowilh, but even with these obviously
“theatrical” writers he fails to distinguish
between what their texts say and how
their scenes play. This is the difference
between drama and theatre and only an
academic history can ignore it. Because
he only partly acknowledges this distinc-
tion Mr Gascoigne underrates the effect
of Tennessee Williams’ decorative sym-
bolism, does not ask for whom or for
what his chosen dramatists are writing
and does not mention changing styles of
production and performance. Size of
theatre, literacy of audience, kinds of
scenery, acting methods ... it is not only
managements who worry about these
things; they are the factors that have
shaped the plays Mr Gascoigne is con-
sidering. O’Neill and Eliot, Sartre and
Miller, all his chosen dramatists have
written theatre —not library books.
RAY MATHEW
VANCE PALMER, 1915
The World of Men. Vance Palmer. F.
W. Cheshire 21s.
T'he paradox of Vance Palmer is that
he is too well known. His writing
life, extended over half a century, estab-
lished him as a component in his own
Legend of Australian Literary Tradi-
tion. When a new title appeared the
last as recently as 1959, the year of his
death—it caused no great excitement,
was hardly noticed, and slipped as a
footnote into whatever compilation of
Literary Essays was being seen currently
through the press.
To a great extent this was inevitable.
There is a uniformity about Palmer’s
longer fiction that tends to confirm gene-
ralisations about him. The predictability
of the “vision of life,” and of the mode
of presentation, forced an acceptance
rather than a welcome to the new work.
The misfortune now is, however, that
so little of Vance Palmer’s work is avail-
able. The generalisations must stand
through the lack of immediate reference.
This reprint of “The World of Men”
begins at the right place to redress the
balance—at the beginning.
“The World of Men” was first pub-
lished in England in 1915. At that time
Palmer was writing romantic fiction of
a kind he had little taste for, and wel-
comed an invitation from A. P. Orage
of the “New Age” to write some stories
from his “unique personal experiences.”
The aim, as Palmer wrote later, was to
be, “deliberately undramatic. No tense
scenes, no surprising climaxes!” That
Palmer adhered to this aim is the point
of the usual criticism made of Palmer’s
work, and while in his novels the result
is a certain unexceptionableness, even
flatness, in the short stories, it provides
an ungarnished insight into the every-
day. The “semi-autobiographical sketches”
that make up “The World of
Men,” are clearly forerunners of the
later work, both in content and in style,
as well as in method. The “station”
sketches are particularly interesting in
the light of his later absorption in
Queensland as a background.
This is an important book for any-
one who wants to understand Palmer’s
method, and an enjoyable book in its
own right.
JOHN CROYSTON


POETRY
Halfway to Avalon
The motor died with an underwater cough
and after a moment’s gliding like a swan
the boat's beak dipped into the water's glass
and drank in stillness.
Five miles off
the shore sketched airily where the sky began
its long arched journey over the water's bland
and platebald face.
The sun climbed on and started
to coast home. Pinned to the tide,
our hearts sat waiting, wondered what we could do.
Could we perhaps stretch out our voice to where
a fisherman could catch it and haul us into shore?
Could we make love and rock our derelict ark
back where we came from, a home hazed out of sight?
We waited and we waited, while the unseen tide
rolled over in its sleep. And when the night
flooded from the east and the evening drained
the shoreline from our hopes
and when all but the voices
of our incredulous bewilderment
drowned in the darkness, it dawned on us then
this was our home, and the blindness of night
was our own blanket.
ANDREW TAYLOR
There was Moonlight Shining
There was moonlight shining.
The shadow of the tree,
The tree above it twining
To the moon, as the moon-mad sea,
Were all the dark for you and me.
The sand and spray were whirling.
The lee-side of the tree,
The leaves and locked arms curling
By the wind, the moon, the sea,
Were shelter then for you, for me.
How often since when needing
Shade’s secrecy from light,
A wall against the seeding
Vines that writhe in the night
Have we found love in fear, in flight.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM
The Death of the Devil
The Devil, with a gesture understood
All through damnation, said that, for our good,
He would depart and give away his rule:
Reason wrecked his myth and made him a fool.
We let him go in flames, gigantically
Like factory smoke. When everyone was free
There was rejoicing for a while. But then
The walls of Hell began to glow again
Because a figure like a mirror rose
In flames, reflecting us in every pose.
Like us, although more rational and wise,
The Devil was reborn without disguise.
Few saw the joke or welcomed his return.
Now cold, he rules the pit in which we burn.
R. A. SIMPSON
A Summer Communion
I
I walk in the park with my dog. He stands
On brown grass, nosing the peeling bark
Of a eucalypt. In these untended grounds,
My interests, not so canine, make me mark
How rust on a sapling’s iron guard can work
Till the plant is free at last: what shall it find
To face November thunder, the lightning and the wind?
The dog finds a goal: I have my exercise,
Nothing except this walking up and down.
Flesh has a goal—as well the buzzing flies
About me know. The walking keeps me sane.
‘O Lord, still keep me from the cold and pain,’
1 pray half-heartedly. I flash a clear
Smile, wide with summer, on a friend who passes near.
II
The orator gesturing under a tree’s thin shrde,
With a sheen of sweat, a mouthful of destruction,
May be a showing-forth of the absurd.
Hunger for force that trails its own defection:
The park-signs point toward decisive action,
Even my walking now, and to the dung
My dog finds by a bush. The sun burns on the young
And on the just and unjust ' hile it may.
The small boy lighting matches near the creek
Behind the brushwood, starts to run away,
Leaving the tiny sticks of white and black:
A prying adult rises from the park:
Tugged by the leash, 1 too am forced to hear
His syllables of warning caught in summer air.
111
The tougher big boys by the iron gate
Stand fast and, whistling two thin notes, appraise
Each girl who hurries past take turns to shout
Unsubtle invitations. Let the haze
Of summer hide the sound which blurs and dies:
Silence is best, when park-lamps throw their light
In shallow pools that deepen the surrounding night:
Behind the wall of whistling, silence forced
Three big boys from the gate, at night to find
A consumation, no matter what the cost:
They stop the girl, half-carry her, one’s hand
Gripping her mouth. Two hold her on the ground,
Taking their turn between her legs; a third
Waits as their restless sentry. Riding on the shared
Tide of their violence, each boy takes his valiant
Revenge in ruthless joy on every bitch
Despising his dog’s-life. My dog is silent,
Nosing no comment, even though we reach
The escape-route crossing the gray cricket-pitch,
The tawny grass, the black gate in the distance:
Fear haunts it in the daylight with a bleak persistence.
ALEXANDER CRAIG


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Trade deficit warning but no alarm
With overseas reserves at their present high level there
seems no reason for immediate alarm at the rather
abrupt swing from a long series of favorable monthly visible
trade balances to the trading deficits revealed for the first two
months of the current financial year. It would be premature
to say that a trend of declining exports and rising imports had
been established on the figures for a mere two months period.
Without details of trading in either month to aid inter-
pretation the drop of about £9 million or from £163 0 to
£154.2 million in total exports for July and August compared
with the same two months last year is comparatively small and,
this being the silly season for exports, can for the moment be
discounted as relatively insignificant. It would be premature
to change forecasts of another good, even if not a new record
year for exports on the basis of these figures.
As the acting Minister for Trade, Senator Henty, pointed
out on release of the August figures, exports for the month
were at about the August average for recent years and reflect-
ed the usual seasonal weakness. Sales of wool and wheat were
normally low in August.
On the other hand the rise in total imports for these two
months from £142.8 to £186.6 million warrants much closer
scrutiny, the more so since the annual rate of imports at the
August level was £1,070 million or little short of the record
£1,087 million imported in 1960-61.
It is obvious that without a very high level of capital in-
flow which came to the rescue of the balance of payments in
1960-61, a continuation of the August rate of imports for many
months would cause a rapid drain on overseas reserves. Indeed,
the modest fall in overseas reserves in the last few weeks indi-
cates plainly enough what could happen, though not necessarily
what will happen, in the absence of an offsetting rise in capital
inflow.
fJTiE key to the maintenance of the present satisfactory balance
of payments position may well lie in the trend of capital
inflow, but it still has to be considered whether the rise in
imports is going to be sustained.
This is difficult to predict, mainly for the reason that
the much forecast return to full employment is proving a
painfully slow process. Looking at the recent performance of
the share markets in a profits season which, for all the Latecs,
has been much better than most people expected, one can
hardly be very optimistic on this score.
However, if industiral activity continues to move higher,
and especially if it mounts at an increasing tempo, the demand
for imported raw materials and components is bound to follow
suit. There is reason to believe that imports for industry rather
than for direct consumption are mainly responsible for the
upsurge in importing over the last few months.
There is evidence from industry of some rebuilding of
stocks following the run down last year when non-farm stocks
dropped by £7O million over the year and by £l7 million in
last quarter. The rising import figures support this, giving the
impression that industry is gearing itself for still higher outputs.
In this aspect the increase in imports in July and August
is encouraging, though without detailed figures one cannot be
too sure that the increase also owes something to rising demand
for imported consumption goods stemming from the Govern-
ment’s spending stimulants and the higher level of income gen-
eration by industry itself this year.
npHE figures for consumption goods imports should be watched
closely by the authorities both in the light of balance
of payments trends and also in case higher imports of con-
sumption goods are retarding the fuller employment of local
industrial capacity.
It is true, of course, that to meet the export aspirations
of some of our growing markets, such as Japan and Com-
munist China, we may have to accommodate more consump-
tion goods from these countries. Red shoes are a case in point.
And perhaps we may be obliged to take more textiles from
Japan, though in that case we might hope to increase imports
by diverting orders for capital goods from some of our de-
clining markets, such as Britain, towards Japan.
npHis matter of trade diversion to conform with the changing
pattern of our export markets is one to be considered
within our total capacity to import, which in turn is dictated
by the funds we can command overseas.
With the huge labor absorption tasks facing this country
there is no case whatever for letting higher imports of con-
sumption goods call the tune of the balance of payments. If
there is any question of reserves being run down to finance
such imports, the authorities should act without delay. Reserves
will be all the more precious in the event of the required
increase in industrial investment.
The balance of payments would be the less able to support
a substantial increase in consumption goods imports in the
event of a strong rise in industrial investment here. There is
no sign of the latter happening just yet, though the right
climate could be developing in which industrial investment
would require heavy additional imports of capital goods.
This would take us back to the sort of situation which
existed in 1960. But, of course, we are a long way from being
in the same predicament at this juncture.
Nor, despite forebodings by the Treasurer about possible
consequences of the Common Market on future capital inflow,
is pessimism justified on capital inflow. True we have had
some unpalatable figures for 1961-62 to digest on that score,
for the most apparent capital inflow in that year was only
£9O million compared with £225 million in the previous
year.
But we seem to have managed to finance the visible trade
deficit since June without drawing heavily on our overseas
reserves. This indicates that capital inflow has been continuing
at a satisfactory rate during July and August.


THE SORRY TALE OF LATEC'S
"BAD PAPER"
By CROESUS
rPHE sorry tale of Latec Investment’s
losses will not be fully told until Mr
R. A. Irish and his accountant partners
have come to the end of the chase they
began on Monday after the company’s
bad paper. But the bald red figure of
£3.2 million following the previous
year’s loss of £1.4 million and coming
so soon after the May report that the
company had turned the tide was shock-
ing enough for the investment world to
take. More than enough perhaps with
the market sweating on what could be
almost as horrifying figures from L. J.
Hooker and Reid Murray to be an-
nounced in the next few weeks.
At any rate w' at looked like a possible
resurgence in share prices in the making
the previous w~ek was smartly nipped
in the bud by Latec’s result which, to-
gether with a big drop in earning rate
by Ready Mixed Concrete, spread a new
wave of gloom over the market despite
some very good and, perhaps, unexpect-
ed results from other companies, such as
Felt and Textiles.
There seems no doubt that just as
fears of big losses to be disclosed by
Latec and some of the developers yet
to report for last year have been holding
back the recovery of shrre prices, so
the parlous condition of such companies
who were in the vanguard of the boom
a couple of years ago has been retarding
the general process of economic recovery.
Until the bad matter in the affairs of
these companies can be squeezed out,
they will continue to act as a general
dampener.
In that sense the disclosure of Latec’s
loss is a step forward, though it would
be better still if there ' /as an assurance
that the company has made a clean
breast of the weaknesses in its assets
structure. By the same token it is to be
hoped that when they report in the near
future both Reid Murray and Hooker,
whose troubles relate primarily to pro-
perty holdings, will also come clean as
to their real positions.
HThis is no time to be giving currency
A to some of the interpretations of
neglect or worse to the company’s opera-
tions before the present board under the
chairmanship of Mr P. A. Malouf took
charge. But it is likely to be found that
the manufacture of bad paper, either
wittingly or unwittingly, is the cause of
Latec’s present impasse more than the
running down of the property market
which has hit Hooker, Reid Murray and
Stanhill so hard. Indeed, in the scheme
of Latec things, very little “property”
was held. It was paper.
Maybe Latec can rightly blame the
recession and the Government’s I Tovem-
ber 1960 measures for some of its
troubles since these caused much prob-
ably good hire purchase paper written
on motor vehicles to turn sour; but on
the face of it it seems that mismanage-
ment and even extravagant expense must
bear the brunt of recrimination.
Face it, bad business comes home to
roost sooner or later whatever the
weather for homing, though it takes
rather longer when the financial climate
is buoyant.
YlThatever the cause of the decline and
fall of Latec, there is no present
consolation for investors still with a
stake in the company, though possibly
much for many who got in and out while
the going was good. The share market
has cut its assessment of the worth of the
£2.7 million equity to a nominal value
while still allowing something for the
possible future value of the losses of the
last two years in terms of tax allowables
should the company get on its feet again
(or get in a position to be taken over).
And at this stage with a receiver in
charge and possibly more losses to be
uncovered the position of depositors
(£5.6 million) and trade creditors looks
very tenuous. Even debenture holders
(£4.4 million) cannot be very confident
of getting their money back.
One hope is that the large numbe r of
summonses being issued to recover money
loaned by the company will result in
some of the bad paper being made good,
but this is bound to be a long process
and in any case there is no hope of re-
covering any of the expenditure of share-
holders and depositors’ money incurred
in the days when Latec was riding high,
not to speak of any other sums that may
have gone into smoke in other direc-
tions.
One of the main tasks of the three
investigators appointed by the NSW Gov-
ernment to probe the company’s affairs
will be to get full documentation for all
expenditure made from company funds,
if not from its inception in 1953, then
certainly for the halcyon period during
1959 and 1960 when money was no
object so far as Latec was concerned.
It was in that period, long before Mr
Malouf brought his prosperous Mala
Homes operation into Latec in an at-
tempt to help retrieve what must have
looked to be a deteriorating position,
that the origin of the greater part of the
£4.6 million of the losses over the last
two years seems to lie.
It is in many respects a pity that the
Government did not accede to vociferous
demands for a fully public inquiry. The
status of the investigators must, how-
ever, guarantee the most detailed in-
vestigations and these not only in places
where directors’ responsibilities alone are
involved.
HOW BIG IS THE
MOONIE FIELD?
ITow much oil is he Union-Kern-AOG
group sitting on at Moonie? Clearly
the decision to build the 200 mile pipe-
line from the field to the coast at a cost
of £7 million shows previous estimates
of the field’s potential oil reserves based
on a reservoir 3i miles long by one
mile wide have been extremely con-
servative.
At any rate it can now be taken that
the field is considered commercial by
the company, although at this stage there
is no intention to declare it as such or
to apply for a producer’s lease.
It also looks a though the group is
now confident that the recent success
in two flank wells (Nos. 5 and 6) points
to a much bigger lateral dimension to
the field than the one mile previously
thought to be the width of the structure.
Moreover, as high flows have been ob-
tained at either end of the three mile
length axis the field offers a good chance
of being longer than 3i miles, possibly
much longer.
Having made the decision to build the
pipeline without any result from Moonie
No. 7 well now being drilled underlines
the impression that the field is consider-
ed wider than first thought on the basis
of seismic surveys.
Conceivably, however, the group may
know it has another field 20 miles north
of Moonie at Cabawin where a good
flow of oil was obtained early last year,
though to suggest this is merely con-
jecture.


Another “Wales” Service
Oversea markets, like gold, are where you find
them, but it is easier to find them with the
help of the “Wales”. There you can obtain
information on new markets or be put in
touch with businessmen overseas. Exporting
is made easier for you, too, with assistance in
many ways ask for copies of the booklets
“An Australian Exporter’s Guide” and “Plan-
ning a Business Trip Overseas”.
You can bank on the “ Wales”.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
CITY DIARY
fjiß John Crawford, likewise Mr Leslie
& Bury, have not spoken in vain. Full
of strain though the Commonwealth
Prime Ministers’ conference to discuss
Britain’s Common Market entry may be,
our own representatives are now adopt-
ing a more moderate and less admonitory
tone.
The over-excited period of oratory
and wholly partisan advocacy has led
into a sharp and close examination of
detailed issues, as Mr Bury maintained
it must. His influence, and Sir John’s,
seem to be more than indirect.
Sixteen Prime Ministers are assembled
and the London “Observer” has been
bold enough to give the following prob-
able line-up:
For entry: Britain, Cyprus, Sierra
Leone. Malaya, Central African Federa-
tion.
Supporting Britain with reservations:
Now Zeal°r.ri. Nr;rr er j ai Ceylon, Pakistan,
Jamaica. Trinidad.
Poubt f ul: Canada, Tanganyika.
Opposed and wanting terms altered:
Ai ,ct n'dia. Chana. India.
Thunder the old Dominions, the
“Observer” caHs it.
Itinerant trade missions are familiar
sights on the international com-
mercial landscape these days. We our-
selves have certainly not been laggard
in using this method of probing export
possibilities. Now in Australia, for the
second time in two years, is a mission
supported by the Italian Government.
Its leader. Dr Bruno Romano, a Social
Democrat parliamentarian, not only
hopes to lift his country’s exports here
—now only £.12 million a vear against
Australian imports totalling £57 million.
He also plans to investigate chances of
Italian capital investment in local
industry.
Italy, as we all know, has enjoyed
quite remarkable industrial develop-
ment in recent years, holding an
extremely high growth rate. The
present minion brings 26 members con-
cerned to sell motor vehicles, tractors,
textiles, machinery, musical instruments,
fruits and syrups, gloves and shoes.
One remembers the earlier mission
for its frequently expressed wish that
Britain would enter the Common Mar-
ket to counterbalance the Franco-
German preponderance in Europe.
Australia should not only concentrate
upon the export of tangible rural
and manufactured products, believes Mr
W. L. Kuttner, of the eminent consult-
ing engineers Kuttner, Collins, Bligh
and Partners. We are completely
capable of exporting intangible “know-
how” and should learn to do this quickly.
Mr Kuttner has just returned from an
overseas jaunt taking in 19 countries
and proposes to report his findings to
official quarters. He became especially
impressed with our possibilities among
Asian countries.
Some recent technical advances, for
instance in building, pulping hardwood
and rainmaking, are unique to this
country and we should apparently learn
to push them. It would be a decided
advantage if some of our growing tribe
of consultants were to register with the
World Bank and similar agencies.
As with many who have examined
conditions in the less developed
countries, Mr Kuttner urges a pro-
gramme of loans, not gifts, and especially
loans directed to specific projects.
Colin Street


ENERGY
DEMAND IN AUSTRALIA
(Coal and Competitive Fuels)
Quantity ('000 tons + 1
Percentage
of Total Consumption
1953-
1956-
1957-
1958-
1959-
1960-
1953-
1956-
1957-
1958-
1959-
1960-
Source
54
57
53
59
60
61
54
57
53
59
60
61
Black Coal
18,051
18,222
18,044
13,236
18,663
19,137
66.9
53.5
57.7
56.5
55.2
53.6
Brown Coal
2,400
2,978
3,005
3,335
3,727
4,108
8 9
9.5
9.6
10.4
11.0
11.5
Petroleum
Products (a)
4,362
7,051
7,127
7,399
8,012
8,629
16.2
22.6
22.8
22.9
23.7
24.2
Firewood
1,025
950
900
870
855
870
4.2
6.4
7.0
7.5
7.6
8.3
Hydro-electric
1,124
1.984
2,176
2,418
2,549
2,957
3.8
3.0
2.9
2.7
2.5
2.4
TOTAL
26,962
31,185
31,252
32,258
33,806
35,701
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
+ Expressed
in terms
of black coal equivalent;
the conversion factors are based on
the B.T.U. values of
the fuels
and the
varying
efficiency
of their
utilization.
(a) Includes :
ships' bunkers; excludes Automotive
diesel oil.
Economics Anonymous
WORLD POWER CONFERENCE
Scientists from 59 countries will
assemble in Melbourne next month
for the Sixth World Power Confer-
ence. Practically all the discussions will
doubtless be over the heads of the public,
but this get-together will advance a stage
further the scientific understanding of
the motivating physical factors of indus-
trial power. It may also point new econo-
mic directions and make its contribution
to economic welfare.
The theme of the conference will be
“The Changing Pattern of Power”,
striking changes that have taken place
in our energy sources since coal and fire-
wood dominated them only a few decades
ago. Even in the last few years, with the
construction of a major petroleum re-
fining industry in the 19505, the pattern
of energy provision has altered consider-
ably and the hydro-electric developments
in the Snowy mountains will change it
further still in the future.
This is not a conference devoted mainly
to nuclear power, though, naturally, this
being the most exciting energy source,
many papers will be presented on the
subject. Rather will it embrace all aspects
of energy sources from the geothermal
projects at Wairakei in NZ to the evalua-
tion of solar energy sources in Chile and
the Italian experiences of endogenous
fluids as a source of electrical energy.
The general nature of the conference
is emphasised by the preponderance of
papers covering national surveys of
energy resources. One of the three
general addresses, for instance, will be by
a Russian on “USSR Power Developments
and International Co-operation” (this if
the only Soviet paper having relevance
to nuclear power developments in that
country), and there will be 28 general
papers presented in the section devoted
to national surveys, including one on
“Primary Energy Use and Forecasts 1955-
1980,” prepared by our Department of
National Development.
In addition the Bureau of Mineral
Resources has written one on “The
Search for Uranium in Australia 1956-61”
and the State Electricity Commission of
Queensland is presenting a paper on
“Economic and Development Aspects of
Electricity Supply in Queensland.”
Apart from these three papers by Aus-
tralian Governmental authorities our
own scientists will make a series of signi-
ficant conrtibutions. As befitting our
largely conventional sources of energy,
these will cover perhaps less futuristic
subjects like coal than, say, those from
Britain, the Soviet Union and the United
States, countries with the resources to
indulge their advanced knowledge of the
behavior of the atom and its neutrons.
Admittedly relative to petroleum and
hydro-electricity, coal has been losing
ground, but it still has a long lead in
energy provision in Australia. Excluding
non-competitive fuels such as used for
firing internal combustion engines, coal’s
percentage of Australia’s total energy
supplies dropped from 76 to 65 per cent,
between 1954 and 1961 (the earliest and
latest years for which figures are avail-
able), whereas the percentages of petro-
leum and hydro-electric increased from
16.2 to 24.4 per cent, and from 4.2 to
8.3 per cent, respectively between the
same years. But for the rise from 8.9 to
11.5 per cent, in the share of brown coal,
the overall percentage of coal would have
dropped much more.
On the other hand the tonnage of coal
used increased substantially, from 20.5
to 23.3 million tons over the period, not
such a big rise as (in terms of coal equi-
valent) petroleum 4.4 to 8.6 million
tons —but greater than the increase in
hydro-electric energy.
Coal is bound to be used in increas-
ing quantity in Australian industry,
though fuel oil has made deep inroads
on its hegemony in some uses, such as
railway traction, steam firing and raising
in factories, metallurgical and other
types of furnaces and cement and gas
plants.
Coal is still the major fuel for elec-
tricity generation.
So, with our continued heavy reliance
on coal for energy provision, and as we
are not, as it were, in any particular
nuclear club, it isn’t surprising that of
the 24 papers to be delivered by Aus-
tralians, seven will be on coal (black and
brown). Four of these will have a bias
towards technical aspects of brown coal
occurrence, characteristics and usage, as
befitting our unique developments in this
field in Victoria. The three others will
be on black coal and will come from
NSW (whose industry is still the domi-
nant factor in Australia's energy provi-
sion), Queensland and Western Austra-
lia (where black coal remains the main
energy source). Some of the papers will
touch on the role of coal in generating
electricity.
Papers on the industrial uses of energy
are to take up a good part of the pro-
ceedings and several on this subject will
be read by Australians. One of these is
directly on “The Demand for Energy by
Secondary Industry in Australia” and
there is another on “The Changing Pat-
tern of Consumption of Petroleum Pro-
ducts in Australian Primary Industry”
to make the right balance.
As might be expected from oil’s ris-
ing consumption throughout industry in
this country, the authors of these two
papers have strong petroleum connec-
tions. Also in the special sub-division
devoted to the utilisation of primary and
secondary energy in the iron and steel
industry, an Australian paper is entitled
“The Use of Solid, Liquid and Gaseous
Fuels and the Inter-relation of These in
a Modern Steel Works”. This will cover
modern applications of petroleum pro-
ducts as well as conventional fuels and
oxygen in iron smelting.
Naturally this conference is a golden
opportunity for world power experts to
hear fully about the Snowy Mountains
project and also to see it for themselves.
(Special tours are being arranged to this
and other focal Australian power points).
Australian energy experts have cer-
tainly been exerting themselves for this
sixth plenary meeting of the World Power
Conference at Melbourne University
from October 20 to 27 and, except in
the field of atomic energy where our
only major exhibit is the Lucas Heights
establishment near Sydney, they have
some of the most modern plant in the
world and certainly a wealth of eye-
catching projects and resources to show
the 700 or so international delegates.


..♦r-VA
SZ
%
t*?.
M&W
What is Will revision .. ?
It’s simply a matter of keeping your Will up to date with changes
in personal circumstances and current economic conditions.
The value of money and property varies, you may acquire new
assets and, perhaps, additional family responsibilities. These factors
could mean the Will you made some years ago is now out of date and
would not satisfactorily dispose of your assets. This could cause
unnecessary difficulties, and even hardship, for your beneficiaries.
If your Will has not been reviewed for some years, take an early
opportunity to examine it thoroughly with a senior officer of Perpetual
Trustee to give you expert assistance and advice. It’s a free service,
of course!
For more detailed information on Perpetual’s many services contact
the Company today for a fact-filled booklet ,
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney. Telephone 2 0377
OFFICES AT NEWCASTLE, WOLLONGONG, ORANGE AND TAMWORTH
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (CANBERRA) LIMITED
M.L.C. BUILDING, PETRIE STREET, CANBERRA, A.C.T.
"PUT YOUR TRUST IN PERPETUAL "
JNSTANT ENGINE STARTING
WITH -
i if
m
Avoid unnecessary engine
wear —just one quick spray
into the air intake is all
that's required. Saves money
by avoiding cylinder scour-
ing and gives longer battery
ard starter life. Contains
anti-corrosive and anti-knock
additives with upper
cylinder lubricant.
Proven the world over and endorsed
by Rolls Royce.
Less than 2d. per start —Aerostart is available at only 21/6 from all garages and stores
Manufactured by:
AEROSTART (ANZIA) PTY. LTD.
2 Queens Road, Melbourne. 26-4653.
A PROBLEM OF
WATER
By “CROESUS”
One of the bitterest town versus
country rows for a long time is
brewing up in Victoria —all over water.
The trouble is that Melbourne’s present
catchment areas are inadequate for the
city’s present needs and, indeed, will
fall far short of them in a few years’
time on the present rate of population
growth. On the other hand country
needs of harnessed water are equally
acute to realise the full potential of land
development and industrial decentralisa-
tion.
If the State’s water resources were
potentially adequate the only problem
facing the authorities would be in the
allocation of the development funds
available for water conservation between
the bodies responsible foi city and coun-
try supplies, a subject which generates its
own particular heat from time to time.
But unfortunately Victoria’s water is
limited and it has to share with SA and
NSW supplies from its north-eastern
Murray and Snowy catchment areas. So
any plan to divert water from outside
the present catchment area into Mel-
bourne’s water mains is naturally re-
garded with high suspicion by country
people.
Having recently discussed this matter
with a number of shire councillors and
farmers in the water hungry districts of
northern Victoria one can better appre-
ciate the storm over the Metropolitan
Board of Works’ £.45 million master plan
to secure Melbourne’s future water sup-
plies by diverting water from the Goul-
burn and Thomson Rivers. For this plan
cuts right across the aspirations of farm-
ers and industries in northern Victoria
and eastern Gippsland to get more water
from these rivers for irrigation and
industry.
One argument being advanced in
favor of the plan is that the Common
Market will reduce the need for more
water in present and potential irriga-
tion areas in the State. This argument
holds very little water at all, simply
because the areas concerned, though to
a large extent at present being used for
dairying and fruit growing—two of the
industries considered most vulnerable to
Common Market developments could
just as easily, as indeed much of the
country is at present, be used for beef
cattle, fat lamb and wool production,
all still with big export possibilities.
However, as the heavy drain to dan-
gerous levels of Melbourne’s water stor-
age last summer showed, something will
have to be done to secure larger sup-
plies for the city.


! ! A
• • •
A happier choice for every occasion
aneoves
WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’s
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT,
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course!
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
YOUR FAVOURITE BRANDY . . ST. AGNES
BRANDY
INVESTMENT
SECTION
VARIEGATED PATTERN
IN TRADING RESULTS OF TEXTILES GROUP
rpHE loosely classified textiles group is
evidently going to present a varie-
gated set of results this year, though up
till now they look a good deal better
than many 1960-61 reports suggested.
Viewed as a whole, the industry has
many of its major problems still ahead
of it. These are especially related to
the future pattern of our trade with
Asian countries, Japan in particular,
which may demand all sorts of mutual
concessions when an attempt has to be
made to replace our Common Market
adherences.
A number of the biggest companies
even could feel considerably apprehen-
sive at any bargaining that called into
question the prevailing design of protec-
tion. It is hard to imagine quite a
few sections of the industry being able
to stand completely on their own feet.
But throughout 1961-62, domestic con-
ditions have principally called the tune.
So, at the beginning of last week, the
market might have been startled with
the apparitions superficially raised by
Bradford Cotton. Yet late in the same
week it was able to relax a little in a
brighter beam from Felt and Textiles.
Activities of these two enterprises do
not run strictly in parallel, though be-
tween them they cut a fair swathe
through the industry. This it is that
makes their current relatively healthy
trading a significant sign, for both ap-
pear to unite in an approach to their
more usual profit experiences,
Mr R. J. Webster, speaking first as
chairman of Bradford, actually reports
that trading is back to normal , with
the exception of the peak, 1959-60 year,
Still, it’s a far cry from that year s
£557,719 earnings and the latest
£257,158, with a steady 10 p.c. divid-
end not covered. Earning rate slipped
to 6 p.c. after allowing £9186 of pre-
ference charge.
The complete report will be eagerly
awaited, for Mr Webster was outstand-
ing among chairmen who kept their
heads during the squeeze. An admis-
sion from him of the most difficult year
in the company’s history really means
something.
A preliminary announcement also in-
dulged in no long-term forecast, in the
light of “the amount of uncertainty which
is attached to business generally and the
textile industry in particular ’. Yet Brad-
ford now has most plants running close
to full production and believes its June
30 stock figure, at close on £4 million,
is about the minimum required to carry
on business properly,
The dividend has never dropped below
10 p.c. in the last 25 years. A 12i pc.
rate had been held between 1954 and
1960. Last year’s straits still permit
directors to point to a fine body of
accumulated profits and reserves.
Functioning then as chairman of Felts,
Mr Webster must feel rather more opti-
mistic. Flere he could flourish a 35 p.c.
profit recovery—an increase of £217,340
to £845,086. The group’s profit had
gone back by in 1960-61,
from a peak £1,007,828 also achieved
in 1959-60.
Since that boom year, all textiles have
been struggling with both freer imports
and economic restrictions. Profit margins
are thus doubly imperilled. So Felt’s
total sales lift from £39.5 to £4l mil-
lion was last year crucially necessary.
Only a small profit gain came from
Australian efforts, but “significant in-
creases” were achi ved in New Zealand
and South Africa.
Lest too much hope be given to those
sections of the textile industry based so
largely upon natural fibres, there comes
news that world output of synthetic fibres
now accounts for more than 25 p.c. in
poundage and more than 50 p.c. by
value of all man-made fibre production.
Current synthetic fibre rates are still mov-
ing ahead.
jOooD news is released quickly to the
" sharemarket, as instanced by Olym-
pic Consolidated Industries Ltd, which
within 28 days of the end of the financial
year announced a record profit and the
first dividend increase since the merger
of the tyre and cable companies.
This preliminary statement was ampli-
fied last week with the announcement of
a profit of £1 539,040, 25 p.c. better
than the previous year.
For a company which caters for the
two industries hammered most in the
last couple of years—motor vehicles and
building—this was very creditable. Last
year the company found that the re-
placement market made up for the slack
in the demand for tyres as original
equipment and the cable subsidiary no
doubt contributed greatly to the profit
improvement.
But the ss. shares at 10s. lid. to yield
4.6 p.c. look fully valued when one
considers that a one-for-ten par issue and
a 1 p.c. lift in dividend have been the
only perks in nine years. And over
£1 million of the £3.5 million of
unsecured notes comes due for redemp-
tion in four years time.


CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on B<h March, 1950.
o
PER
r ANNUM
4,5 or 6 YEARS
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT
NOTES
% P. A. 4, 5 or 6 yrs.
BVa % P.A...... 3 years
8% P.A. 2 years
7’/a % P.A. 12 mths.
FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN IN A PERSONAL EMERGENCY
APPLICATIONS MUST BE MADE ON THE FORM ATTACHED
TO THE PROSPECTUS, WHICH IS NOW AVAILABLE FROM:
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
PERTH: 81 St. George's Terrace.
CANBERRA: Ist Floor, Northbourne Chambers, Northbourne Ave., City.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Bayliss Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any of the following Brokers to The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
TRUSTEES FOR THE NOTEHOLDERS:
Bankers & Traders Insurance Company Limited CCI42/AB
Clip and Post Coupon
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the prospectus with application forms.
NAME
ADDRESS
TALK AROUND CHANGE
Tlepco’s attractively presented and
down-to-earth annual report may
commend itself to observers of the motor
industry even more than the better offi-
cial statistics. Motor sources and ancil-
lary equipment makers are exuding con-
fidence these days and the market is
reposing a reasonably spiced faith in
them. This particular company did not
have much to fear, even during the tight
days, but it still looks a model of how
really to go about things.
That praise does not rest solely upon
Repco’s much publicised pursuit of ex-
ports, though the model is there to follow
also. Chairman C. G. McGrath quite
early on mentions export sales’ strong
contribution to the holding of economic
production levels “through the difficult
months at the close of 1960-61 and the
opening rf 1961-62”.
Shareholders who attend the annual
meeting on September 25 will also hear
him confirm a rapid internal recovery of
the motor industry, “evidenced by the
restoration of original equipment contract
schedules with our manufacturing divi-
sions” and the after-market strength fed
by the merchandising divisions. ,
The company’s re-employment con-
tinues significantly and the report looks
forward to “a capacity for employment
in industry that will permit early resump-
tion of full immigration quotas”. This is
not the only national problem Mr. Mc-
Grath feels it necessary to touch upon.
His next remarks sound like the echo
of many voices, which are not going
to have their wishes too easily granted
without some battles. Assurance is de-
manded that “Government policy is com-
mitted to the fostering and development
of Australian industry without equivoca-
tion, and (now it comes) to its protec-
tion during its ‘ : tial development”.
Other industries, and other countries,
are going to have a good number of
ideas on exactly what that phrase “initial
development” means. Arriving from
Repco it possesses a peculiar weight of
its own.
Still, if there must be these tariff
arrangements, Mr McGrath is no doubt
right to plead for much more speedy
machinery. He pats the Government
on the head for the Special Adviser tech-
nique, but then has to rebuke them for
“frustrating delays” hindering industrial
development and investment plans. “Such
delays and deferments must in the ag-
gregation of many tariff enquiries con-
stitute a real threat to the Government’s
earnest endeavors to restore the Aus-
tralian economy to full activity.”
A sound result can be expected from
The Mutual Acceptance Co. Ltd,
due for publication next week. Last year
the company earned 2 p.c. on capital,
and it shouldn’t be much different for
1961-62.
We understand that liquidity has been
given close attention, and that bogey of
hire purchase finance —the calculation of
deferred income—should present no pro-
blems for Mutual Acceptance.
This company was the first of the
major financiers to adopt a method of
calculating exactly for each individual


INVEST NOW
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
10/
2/C
8
I: A.
6-10 YEARS
8% 5 YEARS
4 YEARS
7 % 3 YEARS
6H% 2 YEARS
Applications must be lodged on the
form attached to the prospectus.
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE NOTES
12 MONTHS
5% 6 MONTHS
4% 3 MONTHS
3!4 % AT CALL
Applications must be made on the
form attached to the prospectus and
acknowledgement will he a Regis-
tered Redeemable Unsecured Note .
Trustee for the Debenture and Note
Holders: Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd.
Bankers:
National Bank of Australasia Limited
WALTONS
CREDIT COarafiATlOil Li MITES
HOW TO INVEST
Obtain your prospectus from
and lodge applications with:
• x4ny Stockbroker.
® Any branch of the National Bunk
of Australasia Limited.
• Any office of Burns Philp Trust
Co. Ltd.
o Any store or office of Waltons
Limited and Treadways Ltd.
® Waltons Credit Corporation Ltd.,
Box 3875, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
account. Their methods are recommended
by the Institute of Chartered Accoun-
tants.
The shares at 11s. offer 6.8 p.c. in in-
come, and a healthy 10.2 p.c. on
earnings.
A spanking good result was turned in
by Melbourne maker of steel pro-
ducts, ARC Industries Ltd. The profit
of £563,171 (excluding a capital profit
of £11,966) was in fact a record
The 10s. shares, which had been
obtainable for 475. just prior to the
announcement (compared with a range
this calendar year from 465. to 51s. 9d.),
immediately achieved greater recognition,
and although a buyer was still hopefully
offering 475. the seller wanted 51s.
At about 48s. the 10s. shares return
3.1 p.c. in income, and give an earnings
yield of 6.7 p.c. (The company pays
15 p.c. and the new earning rate is 32.1
p.c.)
It is interesting to compare this with
Cyclone 10s. shares which have lingered
around 20s. Although 12J p.c. is the
usual dividend rate, Cyclone cut interim
dividend to an annual rate of 10 p.c.
The income yield is, therefore, 5 p.c.
and earnings yield (on 1960-61 results)
8.8 p.c.
Cyclone’s business is very similar to
ARC, and late in 1956 it made an un-
successful offer for ARC. The trading
performance of both companies has
been fairly parallel, but ARC share-
holders, immediately after the offer re-
ceived a one-for-one bonus, and in 1960-
61 were asked to subscribe to a one-
for-five premium issue. Cyclone share-
holders had the opportunity to subscribe
to a one-for-five convertible note issue
in 1960-61.
If the second six months of Cyclone’s
year was no better than the first, this
year may mark the ascend .ncy of ARC
over Cyclone. The wheel could go full
circle and ARC one day take over Cyc-
lone.
Backings at Gippsland Cement’s Traral-
gon plant brought in sellers of the
shares last week, but some brokers were
saying that the company could be showing
intelligent tactics to get the Victorian
Government, at long last, to review its
transport disabilities, so the shares lost
little on balance.
TTTie short-fall in subscriptions to the
Sydney Water Board loan for £4.1
million was not as bad as the market
expected. It turns out that J. B. Were
& Son, underwriters of the issue, were
left with 57.7 p.c. of it or £2,369,950,
which is considerably more than the
£1,838,000 cash sought. No figures have
been released on the proportion of the
£2,262,000 maturities converted.
Tt takes a pretty big rise in profit to
impress investors in current markets
and in their present mood brokers are
quick to point out when a company’s
net profit is up but its earnings rate is
down. However, no argument arises in
the case of Mcllwraith McEachern which
acquired the shipping assets of Huddart
Parker Industries and its subsidiary tug
owner James Paterson and Co. for the
issue of 700,000 shares to Bitumen and
Oil Refineries last year.
Both profits and earnings rate of Mc-
llwraith were lower, the former edging
from £122,333 to £118,926 and the
latter plunging from 9.8 to 6.9 p.c.,
barely enough to hold the 6 p.c. divid-
end rate (the shares issued to BORAL
getting 4 p.c. for the y~ar).
Unlike Howard Smith which took over
Melbourne Steamship also last year and
kept that concern going as an independ-
ent operation within the group, Mc-
llwraith unscrambled the Huddart Parker
shipping operation and integrated the
ships into its own shipping structure.
The cost of integration could have been
considerable and much of it could have
been written off from current profits.
This is the more likely in view of the
conservative board. This year’s results
could tell a different story, though it has
to be remembered at Mcllwraith is up
for considerable capital expenditure for
new tonnage.
T arke Consolidated Industries Ltd
must have put on a good spurt in
the second half of the year to June. At
the half-way mark the steel business and
producer of motor vehicles showed a drop
in profits. General and pressed metal
engineering had been well maintained,
and distribution of motor vehicles and
replacement parts was decidedly
improved.
The final result for the year was a
43 p.c. pick-up in profits. The largest
subsidiary, Pressed Metal Corporation
Ltd, which produces motor vehicles under
contract, was the busiest for years, as a
result of the new Fiat arrangement.
So the 10 p.c. dividend of six years’
standing remained intact despite some
gloomy observations by market prophets
about tl none too bright history of
European car manufacture and distribu-
tion in Australia.
A new Victorian motel company,
Nomad Motels Ltd, was registered in
Melbourne last week with a nominal
capital of £200,000 in ss. shares A
public issue of 400,000 shares to be
underwritten by a local broker at par
will be made next month.
The company plans to have its first
motel at Shepparton in northern Vic-
toria ready for business in March next
year.


4
fry
Let A.N.Z. BANK make ail your
travel arrangements
Their travel experts will be happy to attend to sea and air bookings,
accommodation, assist you with tax arrangements, passport and visas
—in short, every detail of your trip. Travel abroad with the knowledge
that everything is handled reliably through A.N.Z. BANK.
Money for Travel
Whenever you travel, carry A.N.Z. Bank Travellers’ Cheques. Readily
encashable, they are the safe, convenient way of carrying money.
Travellers' Credits, which enable you to draw money at A.N.Z. Bank
branches and agents throughout the world, are also available, if desired.
A.N.Z. Bank Travel Service is available through every branch of
A*N*Z
w
A*N*Z BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
Cheque Accounts Savings Accounts
ANZ.506.2958
Ani: of the inhabitants of Kindersley
House told The Bulletin last week
that a few institutions were re-entering
the market with modest buying orders
but the little man was still shy.
This doesn’t surprise as it’s the small
investor, without much discrimination,
and seeking the maximum return in the
short-term, who gets hurt most by the
shock losses reported of late.
As one of the brokers who gave most
active encouragement to investment clubs,
however, our informant was disturbed
that the clubs were refraining from invest-
ment at the present time. Some clubs
had not even collected funds from mem-
bers in recent months he said.
This lapse ignores one of the basic
principles of club investment, that shares
are bought at all stages of the economic
cycle to “average down” the cost of
shares in the portfolio.
A fter a long languishment under par,
the pre-result rise to around 225. in
the £1 shares of Bruck Mills, Wangaratta
(Vic.) synthetics firm, justified the
market’s optimistic forecast, but profit
taking chipped a shilling off the price,
which was probably to be expected with
the market in its present unreceptive
state.
The company’s climb out of the slough
of despond in the last two years (after
a net loss of £38,883 and no dividend in
1959-60, it made £72,322 and paid 4 p.c.
the following year, then for 1961-62 it
more than doubled profits to £147,980
and paid 8 p.c.) arises from two main
factors. One is the extra tariff protec-
tion granted and the other a swing back
to favor of rayon.
While imports of synthetic fibres fell
sharply last year it seems that Bruck’s
big lift has come mainly from the higher
level of sales rather than any notable
increase in production, because overall
rayon cloth output by Australian mills
actually dropped 19.8 to 18.8 million
square yards last year to June, to which
Bruck’s latest results relate. In fact it
looks as if the major improvement in
the company’s results derive from selling
off stocks and from rising production in
the latter half of the year.
/General enthusiasm for Fire Fighting
• Equipment Ltd was quenched last
week by the report of a 68 p.c. drop
in profit, and failure to cover the steady
10 p.c. dividend.
Interim report of a 16 p.c. sales in-
crease did not prepare shareholders for
this form reversal, although directors
did temper that announcement with the
news that profits in some sections were
lower.
Although many shareholders came by
their investment accidentally via take-
over, they are pretty loyal. The ss.
shares, which touched 11s. 7d. in Sydney
this year (they are listed in all capitals)
were offered for sale at Bs. 3d. after the
report although a buyer suggested 7s.
If the market knocks them too much,
they might be worth picking up, as the
company must have suffered from the re-
tardation of industrial building, which
will recover.
The fate of Fire Fighting drew our
attention to Protector Safety Industries
Ltd. The latter was spoken of as
“another Fire Fighting” when Fire Fight-
ing’s affairs were going well.
While not suggesting that Protector will
meet a similar rebuff in 1961-62 trading,
the artificial levels to which the shares
were boosted by a strong recommenda-
tion from an independent market adviser
—the ss. shares are about 16s. sd. to
yield 3.0 p.c. on the thrice-covered 10
p.c. dividend —would justify a with-
drawal from this stock. Reinvestment of
the proceeds (including a nice profit) in
other companies where the benefits are
not so fully anticipated, shouldn’t be
difficult.


THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
From a large number of readers' letters seeking "The
Bulletin's" advice on investment matters, these have been selected
for publication. The balance have been answered personally.
With a life expectancy of not more
than 10 years, should 1 sell my holding in
the Del fin Fund currently? Flow much
would 1 lose if 1 sold now? I have suffi-
cient funds to live on. — S.P. (Port Mel-
bourne) .
You would lose 6d. to 7d. on every
ss. you invested in the Delfin Fund if
you sold now - the bulk of this being
the brokerage involved in the Fund's
transactions.
If you have no need of income or no
urgent need of the funds you would get
back, we suggest you hold the Fund. Its
price is related directly to the prices of
the stocks in the Fund. Any upward
movement in the share market will see
the Delfin price go higher.
Flowever, “open end” mutual funds
do not suit your situation, really. You
would be better placed in a unit trust,
which places income ahead of capital
growth.
★ ★ ★
I am an ex-serviceman (now TPI) and
have attempted to supplement my income
by investing all my savings and £lOOO
borrowed at 7 per cent, as well. My port-
folio consists of 50 ACI (down 3s. on
purchase price); 300 ANI (steady), 200
Brambles (down 25.); 200 Brick Ind. (up
Id.); 500 Bowra (up 8d.); 50 BHP (down
25.); 50 CSR (steady); 200 Gippsland
(down 4s. 5d.); 150 H. C. Sleigh, (down
Is. 7d.); 300 Latec (down 3s. 5d.); 300
Leighton (up 25.); 300 Malcolm Moore
(up 2s. 3d.); 500 Northern TV (down
Is. 8d.); 100 Permewan Wright (up Is.);
200 R. W. Miller (up 10d.); 100 SAFU
(down 9s. 3d.); 100 Savoy (down 2d.);
300 Savoy optns. (down Id.); 300 Steggles
(up 7d.); 200 W. E. Smith (down 8d.);
400 Amalgamated Petroleum (down 6d.);
500 Broken Hill South (down Is. 3d.);
1000 Crescent Rutile (down s}d.); 500
Exoil (up 2d.); and 500 Oil Develop-
ment (down 4s. 2d.). As you can note 1
am down £4OO. 1 need £5OO by the end
of October. Which stocks should 1 sell?
— T.J.L. (Mitcham).
First, we would like to see you out
of the purely speculative stocks. They
do not suit your position at all. Un-
fortunately, though, you are well down
in three of them Amalgamated
Petroleum, Oil Development and
Crescent Rutile. In these cases we
suggest you sell as soon as there is an
upswing (if) on the market. Exoil should
be sold.
To make up the balance of the £5OO,
Northern Television could be sold at
present (although, in time, they could
go higher). Equally, ACI may take con-
siderable time to be restored and you
could dispose of this holding.
If you are unable to sell the other
speculative stocks, and still require
funds, Savoy Corporation options are
not producing income for you, and
Leighton Constructions has halted its
rise on the market for the time being.
Your remaining portfolio is still too
widespread to provide the necessary
supplement to your income. Malcolm
Moore (not paying dividends) could be
sold and replaced with more BHP, per-
haps. There is a possible capital gain in
sight here.
ANI, too, has quite a long recovery
in front of it, and could be replaced by,
say, Bradford Cotton at current prices.
Unfortunately, there is little to be
gained by selling Latec; you might as
well await happenings here.
Equally, Gippsland Industries appears
disposable in your case—to be replaced
with a more assured dividend payer,
perhaps more Savoy.
★ ★ ★
l sold shares listed in Melbourne,
through a Brisbane broker on July 13. 1
duly received a transfer form, signed it,
and returned it with appropriate scrip
to the Brisbane broker on July 20. 1 have
received no further communication (or
cheque) from the broker. Is there a time
limit for a broker settling his client?
Second, is a client bound by a broker’s
contract note? — J.T.A. (Byron Bay).
The onus for payment to a client lies
clearly with the broker. Before taking
the matter to the Exchange, itself, we
suggest you contact the broker’s prin-
cipal and obtain his reasons for vhat
appears to be an overlong delay.
Your broker, upon receipt of scrip
and transfer, should post your cheque
to your address (unless you have given
instructions to the contrary), provided
your ledger is clear with him. It may
be that the scrip has been mislaid.
If you cannot get satisfaction, the
best course open to you is to contact the
chairman of the Exchange concerned —
Brisbane in your case —-and place the
details before him.
A broker’s contract note is a valid
document binding both parties to it. The
only quarrel that could break that con-
tract is when the terms of it (mainly
the price) are not in compliance with
your instructions to your broker. This
could arise when limits are placed on
the order, then broken (mostly in-
advertently) by the broker’s staff. This
situation is again one which can best be
solved by personal contact with the
principal of the firm involved. And.
again, if no satisfaction is forthcoming,
then the matter should be put before
the Exchange itself.
★ ★ ★
I purchased units in 5/1 Balanced Fund
No. 2 two years ago at ss. Should 1 re-
tain them at the current price of 4s. 6d.?
The managers of the trust suggest I take
up more. Why? Second, the various State
Savings Banks are Government guaran-
teed while the more recently formed
trading hanks savings hanks are not. Is
there any point in this to he considered
by the investor? — R.G.B. {Mitcham).
The price of unit trusts depends solely
on the price of its holdings on the
market. In the case of Balanced funds,
a proportion of the funds is invested in
fixed interest securities to give balance
to income.
If you are of the opinion that the
prices of the equity shares held by your
funds are not going to rise, then by all
means sell at the current price of 4s. 6d.
and take your loss—a loss which you
should have recouped in dividends in
the interim.
The managers of your trust —one of
the biggest share-buying institutions in
Australia —apparently do not hold the
view that share prices will remain below
the level ruling two years ago.
With an upward movement in share
prices more likely than an opposite
trend, we consider the present time
inopportune to sell. Equally, there
appears little to be gained by purchase
of more units in the coming few weeks.
Perhaps you should “wait and see” the
turn of events in the New Year.
Of course, Government guarantee
offers Savings bank depositors added
security. But, the relative rules govern-
ing Savings brnks generally leave no
scope for a failure. Therefore the
added security is an intangible one, and
offers advantages only in the event of a
complete national disaster, when such
guarantee may not be able to be kept,
anyhow. We suggest that this is not a
problem to be worried about.


NEW ADVISORY SERVICE
TO INVESTORS
¥>eaders of The Bulletin can use
a new personal investment
advisory service, free of cost to them
If you have an investment pro-
blem, of whatever nature at all, write
to the Financial Editor, attaching the
coupon at right.
The Bulletin financial staff, expert
in this field, will seek out the informa-
tion you require and reply by letter.
Selected letters of enquiry will be
published (without the names of
writers) together with the Editor’s
answers.
All communications will be treated
as confidential.
COUPON
CUT OUT THIS COUPON,
ATTACH REQUEST, AND POST
TO:
FINANCIAL EDITOR,
The Bulletin, BOX 2521 G.PO.,
SYDNEY
MR
NAME mrs
MISS
ADDRESS:
STATE
My knowledge of the share market and
the Stock Exchange is very limited. Is
there any publication that could supply
me with such information? — J.M.W.
( Pymble ).
The stock market and the Stock Ex-
change operation can be learned best
by practical experience. There are books
on the subject available at the leading
book stores, but these appear to us to
be only complementary to personal
application to dealing and to close study
of newspaper finance pages.
The Stock Exchanges in recent years
have prepared pamphlets and booklets
on the subject. You can secure these
from your broker or from the Secretary
of the Stock Exchange— Sydney, in
your case.
If you can spare the time, we recom-
mend the evening classes run by the
Stock Exchange in conjunction with the
Adult Education section of the Depart-
ment of Education in NSW.
A new series of classes is about to
begin. They are held at colleges
throuahout Sydney while another course
is held at the Stock Exchange.
★ ★ ★
I will retire in a little more than two
years and will divert all my investments
into maximum income then. In the mean-
time, / have £6OO to invest and seek
capital appreciation of this over the two
years with income not required. The
following list of “cheap priced” stocks
has been recommended to me: Freighters,
Frigrite Credits, Automobile & General,
Patersons, Edments, and Supertex. My
own preference is towards CSR rights
and National Consolidated. Can you
advise which avenue to take? —fß.R.S.
(Hawthorn East).
Before going into the matter of
capital gains over the next two years,
we suggest you examine carefully the
wisdom of waiting two years before
shifting into maximum income stocks.
To gain the greatest benefit from a
switch from equity into fixed interest,
the shares have to be sold at high prices
and the proceeds invested to yield the
highest return. It would be unwise to
depend solely on both conditions being
in operation at the end of 1964. Indeed,
high share prices usually come hand in
hand with lower-than-usual fixed interest
offerings.
We suggest you gradually make the
switch over the intervening two years,
selling your shares as they reach
“apparent" peaks and taking up sound
rewarding fixed interest offerings as they
become available.
The list of shares recommended to
you could move substantially higher as
the economy recovers, but, at this stage,
it would be sheer speculation to suggest
that they will. It is extremely doubtful
if speculation would suit your position.
The market is seldom wrong when it
relates a company’s performance and
the current conditions to the share
price. There is nothing available to
suggest that the current market think-
ing on the six stocks you mention is any-
thing but right.
On the other hand, CSR rights (giving
entry to CSR at 475.), appear to be
cheap because of market disappoint-
ment rather than analysis. A gradual
price rise should follow continuation of
the relatively good trading results the
sugar giant is currently showing.
National Consolidated, already at
255. 6d. for the ss. shares, does not
appear to have certain price rise ahead
of it. On known performance, the
current share price (giving an earnings
yield of only 6.9 p.c.) appears close to
the mark.
Have you thought of BHP? Any
revival in the share market generally
will be led by an upswing in the price
of the shares in its No. 1 stock. And,
BHP at 535., has seldom been cheaper in
the last 10 years.
★ ★ ★
I have at the moment £5OO to invest
in ordinary shares. Would you advise
buying CSR shares at present price
through the rights? I own no sugar
shares. At the moment 1 have 400 Steam-
ships Trading shares bought when the
20s. shares were 40s. Do you advise
selling or holding? — A.L.H. ( Monto ).
CSR through a purchase of rights
around 175., is an admirable investment
at the present time. With 30s. to pay,
the entry is a couple of shillings cheaper
than through the fully-paids, and gives
an attractive yield of 3.8 p.c. We par-
ticularly recommended this purchase in
our August 25 issue.
Your Steamships Trading- shares, now
subidivided to ss. units and showing a
25 p.c. capital appreciation, are very
sound holdings. A bonus was distributed
in 1960-61, and the company is cur-
rently revaluing its propeities. It has no
immediate intention of making another
bonus, but this would provide the where-
withal for a future issue.
W. R. Carpenter demonstrated its in-
terest in the company with an offer in
March. This was repulsed, but a better
offer sometime in the future either from
Carpenter or Barns Philp could have
more success. Meantime you are collect-
ing 12} p.c. dividends and unless you
need the money, we would not recom-
mend selling out now.
★ ★ ★
The author of Speculator’s Diary sold
short 600 Rio Tinto shares. I asked my
broker what the terms of business are
regarding (i) selling short and (2)
buying on margin. I quote his reply: “The
Australian Stock Exchanges will not re-
ceive orders of this, and selling short
and buying on margin were removed at
the outbreak of the war and were not
reinstated.” 1 would like your comments.
— A.A. (Carnarvon).
Stockbrokers do not officially admit
that selling short is practised on Aus-
tralian Exchanges. It can be done, how-
ever, without your broker being any the
wiser. It means selling a stock which you
don’t own in the expectation that the
share price will fall in a very short time
and allow you to buy in lower. The
danger is that the pric' fall may not
occur and you may have to buy at a
higher price in order to deliver the
scrip for your earlier sale.
Buying on margin is a form of pur-
chase on credit. It is an American prac-
tice whereby the Securities authorities
can to a large extent control stock mar-
ket activity by varying the margin. The
investor is able to buy on a certain per-
centage deposit. In Australia all dealings
are for cash.


WILL BHP CLOUD SOON DISPERSE?
I>y far the biggest and most richly
endowed offspring of all Aus-
tralia’s industrial expansion, the
Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd rests some-
what under a cloud at present. This
cloud tends to obscure not only a
hitherto undisputed investment status,
but also immediate trading prospects.
After a glum, though still astoundingly
solid 1961-62 report, investors are
hanging upon any further thoughts
that directors may deliver to the
annual meeting.
It cannot be denied that current
share prices look low. They may of
course only be colored with the in-
vestment drabness cloaking most
sections of the market. Yet many
observers believe there is more to it
—that the days of ready acceptance
of a dividend yield now only 2.3 p.c.
are vanishing and it is not nearly so
easy to sell the shares in terms of the
benefit after next.
Whatever one’s opinion about
present levels, it is still possible to
agree with the analyst who declared
earlier this year: “My view is not
that BHP is overpriced today, but
that it was ridiculously underpriced
five years ago”. It is scarcely credible
to see the market moving away from
a genuine leader without extreme
reluctance.
Though quick and generous benefits
do not look so easily assured as in
the recent past, they are not com-
pletely hidden in the mists of a huge,
largely self-financed capital pro-
gramme. One serious commentator
has almost pleaded for the company
to lift the prevailing critically small
dividend rate practically in the
national interest. Directors can
scarcely be called upon to respond
simply to extra-company require-
ments. There are, however, enough
signs that they may soon have to
react to their old market image and
restore a dividend subtly whittled
downwards to square with past bonus
issues.
It is enough here to mention that
undistributed profits totalling £l2
million would not hinder this pros-
pect, nor could it interfere unduly
with the company’s own capital
spending, which last year took £slm.
The 1961-62 profit retreat, the first
in 13 years, was small enough for the
group to take in its stride, especially
as domestic conditions continue to
improve. Directors seemed fairly
content to note that “an increase in
the consolidated net profit might
reasonably have been expected to
result from the increase of 9 p.c. in
steel ingot production for the year
but for most part of the year difficult
marketing conditions prevailed”.
Substantial capacity still exists for
pig iron and semi-finished steel. It
is therefore the state of the available
export market that gives directors
most concern. They express their
worries succinctly: “Export business
has become increasingly competitive
and, generally, is now yielding a lower
return than if corresponding sales
were made on the Australian market”.
BHP has assiduously cultivated ex-
ports to hold high production in times
of reduced local demand During last
year many other national steel in-
dustries were also planning along
these lines and the battle, especially
for Pacific markets, was intense.
With America particularly com-
petitive and the Japanese industry
highly expansive, it will be ironical
if BHP, its task of local import re-
placement so largely accomplished,
reaches a position where it runs into
export difficulties. A goodly pro-
portion of the famous expansion pro-
gramme, to be completed in 1966 and
leading to a 6 million ingot-ton out-
put, is aimed at a sizeable export
margin. It would be decidedly odd,
as well, for Australia, with only one
great producer, to be landed so soon
with excess steel capacity—a position
too often discernible in countries like
Britain and US. Advantageous as
BHP’s cost position generally seems,
steel pricing difficulties would un-
doubtedly arise.
That any prolonged repetition of
existing world and domestic con-
ditions can be dangerous is seen in the
company’s latest accounts where
stocks have moved up from £42 to
nearly £54 million, while debtors have
held practically steady.
It looks, perhaps, far too gloomy
to expect these national and inter-
national complications to continue
for very long. Any resurgence of
growth, on both counts, will find
BHP more than prepared. And, of
course, investors have to be
ultimately ready for further expansion
after the present deadline year of
1966.
Along such distances investors
have been very happy to accompany
BHP in the past. Their present
scepticism may now be engaged not
so much by doubts on productive
growth, but an expected hiatus in
the share-issue pattern—even though
they’ve been told not to take par
issues for granted. The past year’s
debenture raisings seem to leave little
margin for cash issues, as the capital
requirements near satisfaction, so
largely (84 p.c.) provided by retained
cash flow.
A small token issue is not beyond
possibility, but investors’ best hope
still seems the dividend lift and a
steady awareness of those tre-
mendously conservative accounts. All
in all, prices look a little low,
especially when we compare the price-
earnings ratio with overseas standards.
Balance Sheet and Profit Summaries
(£’000)
Year to May 31 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current Assets 57,174 70,609 87,718 87,790 105,897
Less Current Liabilities 44,759 50,660 54,749 59,247 61,078
Working Capital 12,415 19,949 32,969 28,543 44,819
Fixed Assets 95,731 110,426 126,547 200,689 231,690
Investments 3,116 1,669 1,653 5,421 5,512
Total Capital 111,262 132,044 161,169 234,653 282,021
Represented by:
Loan Capital 12,235 15,675 21,550 22,925 42,415
Ordinary Capital 48,773 54,142 64,397 96,596 112,706
Rese rves 50,254 62,227 75,222 115,132 126,900
Earnin §s 8,869 9,921 13,445 14,788 14,416
Ord. Dividend 3,653 4,239 5,414 5,970 6,540
Sur P lus 5,216 5,682 8,031 8,818 7,876
Earnings to Ord. Capital 22.3 19.5 21.7 19.2 13.7
Dividend Rate 9-1/6 8i 8f 7-17/24 61-
Dividend Yield (a) 3.7 2.5 1.9 2.2 2.3
Price/Earnings Ratio (a) 10.9 16.6 20.9 18.2 20.4
(a) Based on last sale in months accounts presented.


CUSTOM
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(PAID UP CAPITAL £7,000,000)
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
Interest is paid in Equal Quarterly Instalments, Free of Exchange, on tha
last days of June, September, December and March.
TRUSTEES
FOR THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS:
THE PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LTD.)
DIRECTORS
lAN M. JACOBY (Chairman) LW. COPPLESON
G. T. HARTIGAN R. E. ASH C. S. GITTOES
This is not a Prospectus. A copy of the Prospectus covering
this issue of Registered Debentures has been lodged with
the Registrar of Companies, Sydney.
Application must be made on
the Forms enclosed in the Prospectus,
which is now available from
ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
ALL BRANCHES OF THE NATIONAL BANK
AND
CUSTOM CREDIT tfggT
100 New South Keod Rd., Edgecliff, Sydney. Sec.-Generah KEITH LOVE. Tel.: 32-0111
RD44.962
SHELL GROUP'S
THIRD BID
IN OIL SEARCH
what it hopes will be the “third
time lucky,” the Shell Group is
taking an active participation in the
search for oil in Queensland by linking
with Pacific American Oil Company to
explore the latter’s 10,000 square miles
permit area covering inland and offshore
territory in the neighborhood of Mary-
borough.
Shell’s two previous Queensland forays
were in the Springsure Basin, where the
AAO Group has sunk a number of wells
in the last few years on Shell’s previous
permit areas, and found gas in com-
mercial (but not yet exploited) quantities.
Shell also found gas in that basin which
is centred at Roma, but not enough of
it to encourage the group to proceed
further there. Its two spells there
covered 1940 to 1944 and 1947 to 1951
for an approximate expenditure of £1
million.
Shell's only other search in nothern
Australian territory ante-dated these
Queensland activities. Its subsidiary,
Papuan Oil Development, operated in
the western and central divisions of
Papua, sinking some 15 wells and drill-
ing a total of 20,176 ft but without
success.
The company’s most recent interest
has centred in its partnership with
Caltex and Ampol in West Australian
Petroleum's (WAPET) search in the
west, in which it now' has a two-sevenths
interest, acquired in 1958. (This interest
has to date cost it <£2 million). Shell
carried WAPET as a result of this out-
lay for two years or more after linking
with it, but now is only up for two-
sevenths of current expenditure.
Before the latest participation in
Queensland, Shell had spent about £35
million on Australian oil search, the
company told The Bulletin last week.
Not counting the new Queensland enter-
prise, it is currently spending about £l£
million a year in its Australian oil search
activities. In 1963 it expects to be
spending at a similar rate.
First expenditure in the new area by
the joint enterprise will be £250,000
for seismic work. This follows previous
drilling of two dry holes in the permit
area 470 P.) and an aeromatic survey
together with magnetic, gravity and
-seismic work. It is hoped to locate, a
promising drilling site within a year.
Shell’s re-entry into Queensland now
makes that group the only one of the
major overseas-controlled Australian oil
companies operating directly in the
State. Phillips is the one small oil com-
pany overseas-controlled drilling in the
State.
Caltex, of course, has an indirect
interest through Boral’s 20 p.c. stake in
Oil Development (which has still to drill
a well in Queensland). Of the major oil
companies Ampol has a recently
acquired area in Queensland and H. C.
Sleigh has an interest in the AAO Group.
By its return to Queensland, Shell
completes an all-international representa-
tion in oil search on the eastern half of
the continent. BP and Mobil have a
third interest in Frome Broken Hill,
which has extensive territory on the
eastern side and are thus participating in
the well to be spudded in at Pretty Hill,
near Port Fairy (Vic.) this weekend.
And while all the majors are in, Total,
through being a subsidiary of the Com-
pagnie Francaise des Petroles, looks
likely to be in it soon. This would leave
only Amoco to take an interest. This,
too, could be likely in due course.


STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Ilfh Floor. Pearl Assurance Building
151 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Phone: 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
Sydney: 383 George Street, 29-7865
Adelaide: 61 Gawler Place, 8-7407
Brisbane: 334 Queen Street. 31-1621.
Canberra: Maitland House. Hobart
Place. 4-3334
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
All Offices: “Options”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
Speculator's Diary
T*he way the sparks a c beginning to
fly off my typewriter this week you’d
think it was an anvil. No, it’s not be-
cause of Mr Malouf or Mr Cattell. My
provocateurs are Mr Sam Stirling and
the directors of Ready Mixed Concrete.
Already I know of more than one
shareholder who is prepared to cast off
a few veils at the annual meeting for the
sake of having the heads of the seven
directors served up on separate silver
salvers. For my own part, I simply have
a case of tomatoes ripening in the sun.
My concern goes far beyond the 500
shares I bought at 17s. 9d. so, as this is
no joking matter, let us go back twelve
months and look at the facts calmly and
in their proper sequence.
1. —September 21, 1961: Profit for
the 1960-61 year was declared at
£1,196,985. Directors said this figure
included the profits of Australian Blue
Metal and its associated family company,
O’Neill Constructions, for only the sec-
ond half of the year, these companies
having been taken over in February,
1961.
2. —September 28, 1961: After strong-
ly implying that a bonus issue would be
made in 1962 following a revaluation of
assets, Mr J. G. Palmer, acting as chair-
man in the absence of Mr S. E. A.
Stirling, concluded his address to the
annual general meeting in these words:
“Your Directors have great confi-
dence in the future of the company’s
industry, both in Australia and
overseas, and believe that profits
of the current year, 1961-62, will
be more than adequate to cover
dividends at the present rate and
to allow further additions to re-
serves. It is to be observed that
your directors’ past predictions of
your company’s progress and anti-
cipated profits have always been
realised.”
3.—March 30, 1962: The directors’
report, accompanying the interim divi-
dend, stated:
“Net profits for the half-year ended
December 31, 1961, of the Ready
Mixed Concrete Ltd group of com-
panies in Australia and overseas
show an increase of over 90 p.c.
when compared with those for the
half-year ended December 31, 1960.
Results for the half-year ended
December 31, 1961, have been
augmented by the profits of the
Australian Blue Metal Ltd group of
companies which were acquired
after December 31, 1960.”
Unfortunately, the actual figures for
the comparable half-years of either 1960-
61 or 1961-62 were not given. However,
it is possible to arrive at some rough
estimate of what the profit should ap-
proximately have been for the December,
1960, half-year.
Bear with me while I work this out,
because it is most important.
Profit for the full 1960-61 year, you
remember, was £1,196,985, but includ-
ed the ABM group’s profits for only the
second half of the year. Now ABM’s
last disclosed profit was for 1959-60
when the figure was £260,000. Being a
private company, no figures are avail-
able for O’Neill Constructions, but as
Ready Mixed paid about eight times as
much for ABM as for O’Neill Construc-
tions, it seems reasonable to assume that
its profits were not great, perhaps
£40,000 at the outside. So that the
combined profits of the two companies
for 1959-60 would have been no more
than £300,000. Let us be generous
and assume that in 1960-61 the combined
profit of the two rose to £400,000 so
that a half-year’s profit would have been
£200,000. On this basis about
£500,000 of RMC’s £1,196,000 pro-
fit for 1960-61 would have been earned
in the first half of the year and £700,000
in the second half.
The purpose of all this is to show that
if, as stated, profits for the December,
1961, half-year rose 90 p.c., they must
have been somewhere in the vicinity of
£950,000. Let us be conservative and
say £900,000.
Now the interim statement of last
March went on to say that reports from
the managers in the various areas of
operation in Australia “clearly indicate
that a substantial improvement can be
expected in Australian results for the
remaining months of the financial year”.
The only interpretation that could be
placed on this statement was that profits
for the second half-year would be at
least as good as in the first half.
Thus if my calculation is more or less
correct shareholders were perfectly justi-
fied in assuming that profit for the full
1961-62 year would be at least
<£1,800,000, probably more.
4.—lnstead the profit of £1,054,615
announced last week is not much more
than half the expected figure. Instead of
being 90 p.c. higher than last year, pro-
fits in fact turn out to be 12 p.c. lower,
although the 1960-61 figure has now
been belatedly “adjusted” downwards by
£143,841.
The declared profit gives an earning
rate to capital of 12.8 p.c.—hardly “more
than adequate” to cover the 12i p.c.
dividend let alone leaving much for
“further additions to reserves”.
What is the explanation? That profits
crashed in the second half of the year?
Nobody is going to believe that, particu-
larly as the optimistic interim report was
not issued until after nine months of
the year had gone by.
Last week the company was asked to
explain. It declined to do so, saying
the full report and accounts would be
available next week. If there is some
valid explanation, it should have been
given last week because in the meantime
the shares have dropped another 3s. to
their lowest price for some years and
holders of some 100,000 shares have
since sold.
In the absence of any Carifyinj state-
ment, there is little alternative but to draw
the most serious of inferences.
The matter is all the more disturbing
because now we learn that one of the
major sellers in the last two years has
been Ready Mixed’s former chairman
and managing director, Mr S. E. A.
Stirling. In 1960 he received 600,000
shares in settlement of certain service and
superannuation agreements he had with
the company. Now, in all fairness,
nobody did more than Mr Stirling to
build Ready Mixed up into a large and
successful company. But since 1960,
according to Press reports, Mr Stirling
has sold 460,000-odd of his shares, or
73 p.c. of his holding. Ido not necessar-
ily quibble with this. Any director, just
as any shareholder, should have the right
to sell his shares at any time—and, in the
light of last week’s price crash, Mr
Stirling seems to have taken the prudent
course.
What is disturbing is that the state-
ments issued by Mr Stirling and the
other directors over the past year appear
to be inconsistent, to say the least.
The directors of any company, par-
ticularly one as large and as well-known
as Ready Mixed Concrete, have a posi-
tion of great trust and responsibility, not
only to their own shareholders but to the
investing community as a whole. It is
to be hoped that Ready Mixed’s directors
can prove themselves capable of exer-
cising this trust °nd responsibility.


BUSINESSES WANTED
Old Established and successfully operated
Company engaged in Hotel Business desires
to purchase, Manage or take over Motel,
Hotel, or Hotel/Motel Business, or a suit-
able site for such purpose in or in close
proximity to the City of Sydney or Suburbs.
Full particulars of any suitable proposition
should be submitted in the first instance in
writing enclosed in envelope and addressed
and marked as follows—
PERMANENT TRUSTEE OF NSW
LIMITED.
1943 Estate.
25 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
All propositions will be treated in absolute
confidence.
A. L. NEVm. DRAPER & CO.
A L NEVIT'I A C ORAPER
N W C DRAPER
/Member s at Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street. Brisbane.
Telegraphic Addressr “NEVITTCO”
Phone. 31-2761 P.O BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
c Oenham Street. Phone 6089
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
150 Queen St.. Melbourne
67-5957 (7 lines)
43 Northbourne Ave.,
City, Canberra, A.C.T.
4 0365-66
Flinders House, Crown St., Wollongong
B 5900
Telegrams ana Cables
•Itosdale” Sydney Melbourne
or Wollongong
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street. Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721.
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. W. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road.
Melbourne.
Telephones: 51-6243 51-6245
Est. 1939
PRESS CLIPPINGS
WILL TELL YOU
Keep fully informed by letting us
supply you with press clippings on
any subject. Complete coverage of
newspapers and magazine, all states,
city and country.
A.N.Z.
PRESS CLIPPING SERVICE,
199 Liverpool St., Sydney.
61-4230.
ONE TO BUY
BRITISH TOBACCO ON THE MOVE
T>elease of a prospectus for a con-
version issue of unsecured notes
gives the public information for an up-
to-date assessment of British Tobacco
Co. (Australia) Ltd.
Directors inform the note holders that
the net profit for the six months to
April 30 was £1,100,833 compared with
£1,935,911 (adjusted) for the previous
full year. They describe the improve-
ment over the corresponding period as
“appreciate”. Moreover, a further de-
finite profit increase has been achieved
during the July quarter over the similar
period of last year.
The 20s. ordinary shares now chang-
ing hands at 245. 9d. give a quite hand-
some return for a company of this
calibre of 7.3 p.c., and the “B” shares
(non-voting) are a shilling cheaper and
return 7.7 p.c. on the 9 p.c. dividend
indicated by the interim payment of 44
p.c.
A return to the 10 p.c. rate paid for
the seven years 1954-1960 should not
be long delayed. In the year ended
October 31, 1961, profit fell 19 p.c., and
dividend was cut to 8 p.c., because the
group was still suffering from its late
entry to the filtered cigarette market.
The change in tastes persisted, and al-
though British tobacco swung into the
filter tip market, sales were largely made
at the expense of its filter brands.
Directors now report that the com-
pany is covering a greatly increased
section of the filter tip market, and still
holding the predominant share of the
market for fine-cut, ready-rubbed and
pipe tobaccos. Outstanding increase in
cigar sales had been registered since
introduction of Midways.
For 58 years British Tobacco has
been manufacturing tobacco and cigar-
ettes, but the two plants in Melbourne
and Sydney are modern. The Virginia
Park, East Bentleigh (Vic.), plant was
opened in 1957. NSW activities have
been carried on at Raleigh Park, Ken
sington, since 1914.
The company recently spent <£1.25
million on modernisation and expansion
at Raleigh Park.
The current profit improvement is
attributed to improved machinery and
manufacturing methods adopted in 1961,
plus developments in marketing new
brands.
At last balance date plant was depre-
ciated to 62 p.c. of cost, and more un-
expectedly, freehold and leasehold
properties were depreciated to about 70
p.c. of cost. Revaluation doesn’t seem
to occur to this company’s directors.
It is this conservatism which has contri-
buted to the market’s underrating of the
stock. He who blows his trumpet loud-
est gets the most acclaim.
Since British Tobacco was dealt a
few body blows in its major business,
directors have consciously sought re-
covery by diversification. The old print-
ing and packaging business, S. T. Leigh
has turned to outside customers, and D.
W. Paterson, McFarlane and Burns, and
P. C. Grosser have been taken over in
the last two years.
Associate interests include a half inter-
est in machinery and equipment maker
AMF-Sterling Ltd, and AMF Tenpin
Bowling (A’sia) Pty Ltd which provides
and maintains bowling equipment. This
partnership is already profitable, but
profits will be ploughed back for the
next few years.
A British Tobacco subsidiary (W. D.
& H. O. Wills) has a half-i.iterest in
Fiji Tobacco Co. Ltd, and a part interest
in Seeburg Automatic Products Pty mak-
ing vending machines. It also has a
substantial but minority holding in
Naroo Pastoral Co. Pty which owns
three NSW properties.
These projects are intended to ensure
the fullest and most effective long range
development of the group’s resources.
Most of them are not contributing much,
as yet, to group results, but this is a
bull point for the stock right now.
The shares have been as high as 28s.
3d. only this year, and 355. last calendar
year, and they almost touched 50s. in
1960. The market is quite irrational in
holding the shares at present levels, and
just goes to prove that when a company
is out of favor, the market pendulum
swings too far. The shares are real
value for income, and must show capital
appreciation within a reasonably short
time.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
MEGGITT LTD
TARIFF INQUIRY SHOULD HELP
Tt is refreshing to find a board of
A directors which does not leap on the
band waggon of “effects of the credit
squeeze” to explain away the reasons
for a fall in profit. The principal cause
for the lower profit by Meggitt Ltd in
1961-62 was a smaller tonnage of seed
from the disappointing 1961-62 linseed
crop. This came about because delays
in giving guarantees to growers resulted
in a lower acreage being planted. Pre-
sumably if the crop had been larger,
the profit would have been maintained.
The company is the main producer of
linseed oil and meals, and safflower meals
in Australia. It was formed in 1911,
but was reconstructed in 1920 before
Stock Exchange listing.
Results during the ’2o’s were varied
but from 1929 on, the company has not
failed to earn a profit and pay a dividend.
Reserves were drawn on in 1931 and
again in 1932 although the ordinary
dividends were only 14 p.c. and 24 p.c.
Since 1929 it has worked in association
with Blundell, Spence and Co. Ltd of
London in the manufacture of linseed
oil in this country. Large quantities of
the oil are used in the manufacture of
linoleum and paint. The meal, a by-
product of the process is used in the pro-
duction of stock feeds. In recent }ears
there has been a greater demand for
safflower and soya bean oils for use in
the manufacture of various types of
resins.
Principal mill is at Parramatta but
other plants are located in Adelaide,
Melbourne and Queensland.
Until 1948 the company had to rely
on imports for its supply of linseed, but
about 14 years ago pilot crops of linseed
were grown in Australia. For the cur-
rent crop year, growers have planted
115,000 acres from which a harvest of
25,000 tons is expected.
In 1960-61 it formed a jointly owned
company with Wright Stephenson and
Co. Ltd in Victoria to clean linseed and
other seeds and handle agencies for
rural industries. Results have been
satisfactory.
Directors are also more than pleased
with the group’s venture into the stock-
feeds industry as distinct from linseed
and safflower meals. There has been a
wide demand for the full range of pro-
ducts, with a resultant profitable upward
trend in sales.
Reflecting last year’s lower crop, profit
fell about 9 p.c. from the previous year’s
record £92,945 to £84,502. As re-
quired under the new Companies Act
tax provision is shown—for the first
time —and the £56,000 is right in line
with the profit figure.
Earning rate is back from 17.6 p.c.
to 15.9 p.c. but still gives a comfortable
cover to the 124 p.c. ordinary dividend,
which has been paid for the past three
years. The payment requires £63,092
and the 10 p.c. pref. charge an addi-
tional £4OOO. In the previous five
years the company paid 15 p.c.
The company has not been over gen-
erous in additional benefits to share-
holders. The first—and only—issue to
shareholders was a one-for-three bonus
in 1959 and a split of the 20s. shares
into ss. units.
In 1961 capital showed another small
rise when 50,000 shares were issued at a
substantial premium to Vegetable Oils
Pty Ltd for the purchase of the goodwill
of its linseed, safflower and soya oil
business. At balance date it stood at
£504,743 in ordinary, £20,000 in 10
p.c. first and £20,000 10 p.c. second
prefs.
Reserves at £795,212 include
£65,832 in capital reserves, £614,000
in general and £115,380 in surplus
profits.
However, there is a substantial hidden
reserve in investments in listed com-
panies which appear in the books at
£23,121 but have a market value of
£171,459. This alone adds more than
Is. 3d. to the assets backing of each
ordinary share. On book figures
alone this stood at 12s. lOd. A year
earlier it was 12s. 7d.
Fixed assets are heavily depreciated at
£643,705, based on a 1960 valuation
of certain land and buildings and the re-
mainder at cost.
Stock is up sharply from £686,822
to £1,110,398 financed principally by
greater reliance on creditors who appear
at £552,930. In the previous year
creditors and provisions appeared at
£435,388. Provisions, listed separately
in the latest year, appear as taxation
£56,000, long-service leave £27,500
and £249,000 for promotion and de-
velopment of vegetable oil seed growing.
Bank overdraft is down from
£139,156 to £123,746.
If seasonal conditions continue as ex-
pected, results for the current year
should improve. But future improve-
ments will depend on the outcome of
a recent Tariff Board inquiry. This
hearing, at the representation of the Lin-
seed Crushers’ Association, inquired into
the form of assistance required to pro-
tect the growing of vegetable oilseeds in
Australia. Decision is expected by the
end of the year.
This will enable crushers to guarantee
growers a firm price for the 1963-64
crop, and should result in a long-term
period of stability for the development
of the growing industry.
The ordinary shares are currently sell-
ing around 17s. to show a dividend yield
of 3.7 p.c. and an earnings yield of 4.7
p.c. At this figure they appear fully
priced.
May 31 1953 1959 1960 1961 1952
Current assets 1071 1058 1630 1035 1508
Less current
liabilities 790 658 1247 647 1092
Working capital 281 400 383 388 416
Investments 265 324 306 309 280
Fixed assets 434 375 597 615 644
930 1099 1286 1312 1340
Represented by
Pref. capital 40 40 40 40 40
Ord. capital 369 369 492 505 505
Reserves 571 690 754 767 795
980 1099 1286 1312 1340
Depreciation 46 40 44 49 50
Taxation not disclosed
Net earnings 73 77 88 93 85
Capital profit 8
Dividends 59 59 66 67 67
Surplus 14 26 22 26 18
Earning rate pc 18.8 20.0 17.0 17.6 15.9
Dividend rate pc 15 15 12| 12J
Dividend yield (a) 5.3 4.2 3.9 4.5 3.7
High price (b) 61/-(c) 19/- 19/- 16/- 18/-
Low price (b) 51 /6(c) 13/3 12/9 11/6 13/6
(a) End of August, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
(c) 20/- basis.
UNION CARBIDE AUSTRALIA LTD
STRICTLY FOR THE LONG-TERM
JT OR a long time one of the most highly
rated stocks on Australian Ex-
changes, judged by market premium,
Union Carbide shares are now coming in
for drastic reappraisal. They have al-
ready been cut to less than half their
1961 peak price, and within the last
month have lost some 12s.
The reason for this disillusionment is
very plain. In four years, investment
in fixed assets has increased by £3i
million, financed by loan capital. The
interest bill in the year to June 30, 1962,
was £227,500. The depreciation charge
rose £151,748 over the previous year
to £385,079.


KELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth JSt.,
Sydney. BM2OOI. °
GENERAL MANAGER
required for
THE N.S.W. OPERATIONS
of a long established and very successful manufacturing and
selling Company which is a leader in most States of the
Commonwealth.
QUALIFICATIONS: A record of success in any organisation where profitability
and sound growth have been significant. All things being equal a man in his
early forties is preferred but this is not essential.
SALARY: A COMMENCING SALARY OF ABOUT £lO,OOO PER ANNUM IS
ENVISAGED together with other attractive executive conditions and
opportunities.
APPLICATIONS: Confidential. Initial enquiries could be made by phoning our
Manager in your State, or applications may be made in writing giving details
of qualifications, experience, age, and any other relevant information to:
“General Manager”
Executive Selection Division
JOHN P. YOUNG & ASSOCIATES PTY. LTD.
Management Consultants
Caltex House, Kent Street, Sydney
Brisbane
2 6685
Perth
23 4349
Adelaide
51 1155
Melbourne
81 1491
Sydney
27 2687
This huge investment in fixed assets,
notably the polyethylene plant at Altona,
Vic., was no sooner made than the Com-
monwealth Government removed import
restrictions. The whole Australian plas-
tics and chemical industry was badly hit,
and Union Carbide found it had to close
some chemical plants temporarily, and
reduce the selling price of many lines
to unprofitable levels.
The company emerged in 1957 from
the marriage of Timbrol Ltd, the 22-
year-old manufacturer of timber preserva-
tives and coal tar constitue -ts, with the
Australian subsidiaries of the American
Union Carbide Corporation.
The highly integrated chemicals divi-
sion is sited at Rhodes (NSW), the con-
sumer products (Eveready batteries, etc.)
at Rosebery (NSW), and the plastics divi-
sion at Altona (Vic.) adjacent to the
Vacuum Oil Refinery which supplies the
raw materials.
Since July 1960 Union Carbide has
distributed about 400 chemical lines
made by the US parent.
To establish a polyethylene market
before Altona was operating in October
1961, Union Carbide imported from
USA and Canada. Unfortunately now
the world market is over-supplied, so
that Australia was subjected to dumping.
Two emergency hearings and a full tariff
enquiry resulted in more reasonable pro-
tection during the last financial year.
The net trading result was a fall in
profit from £347,472 to £185,429,
after slicing the tax provision from
£303,695 to £81,950. This gave an
earning rate of 8.4 p.c. The company
therefore had to draw £35,149 from
reserves to pay the usual preference
dividend and an unchanged 10 p.c. to
ordinary shareholders for the ninth suc-
cessive year.
Nevertheless directors claim that the
results, in the circumstances of exter-
nal difficulties, were “very satisfactory”.
Sales were a record, production costs
generally were reduced, plant efficiency
was increased, and the quality of pro-
ducts maintained.
They voiced their confidence in the
company’s continued progress with re-
commendation of an unchanged divi-
dend, despite the profit deficiency.
New markets have been created and
extended by the company for polyethy-
lene. The Altona plant, which did not
begin effective production until the sec-
ond half of the year under review, will
continue to operate at full capacity to
meet budgeted sales.
Management was pleased with the
high prestige value of the provision of
resin for the Sydney to Vancouver
COMPAC cable, and the export poten-
tial in this field.
The relatively small ordinary capital
issued by Union Carbide, of which only
40 p.c. is held locally, contributed to the
artificiality of the share prices.
In retrospect the prices paid for
Union Carbide shares, particularly since
the lifting of import restrictions in Feb-
ruary 1960, were entirely unreal. The
market was mesmerised by talk of the
growth aspects of the chemicals and
plastics industries, particularly because
they were breaking new ground in Aus-
tralia. What it lost sight of was the tre-
mendous capital costs and time involved
in new ventures, and the advantages held
by large-scale producers abroad.
At the present price of about 535. to
yield 3.8 p.c. (about the same level as
the lowest price in 1959 before the plas-
tics venture began) investors are en-
titled to expect some capital benefits,
and these can only be on the far distant
horizon. Even dividend improvement is
unlikely in the next couple of years. The
shares are strictly for the genuine long-
term investor.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £'ooo
June 30. 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 3104 3823 5588 4925 4412
Less current liabilities .. 1005 1538 1463 2288 2857
Working capital 2099 .2285 4125 2637 1555
Fixed assets 2000 2043 2312 4672 5746
intangibles 222 222 243 241 241
Total capital 4321 4550 6680 7550 7542
Represented by:
Loan capital 456 466 2490 3250 3250
Preference capital .... 100 100 100 100 100
Ordinary capital 2151 2151 2151 2151 2151
Reserves 1614 1833 1939 2049 2041
4321 4550 6680 7550 7542
Depreciation 192 203 214 233 385
Taxation n/a n/a 273 304 82
Net earnings 436 438 343 347 185
Earning for ord 430 432 337 341 179
Ord. dividend 215 215 215 215 215
Surplus 215 217 122 126 —36
Earnings p.c. 20.0 20.1 15.7 15.9 8.4
Dividend p.c 10 10 10 10 10
Dividend yield (a) .... 3.3 2.2 1.7 2.4
High (b) 55/ 68/3 90/ 6/2/6 5/15/
Low (b) ~ 39/6 53/ 67/ 77/ 80/


Company
Pai
Value
Last
Sale
1961
Prices
31/8/62
7/9/62
Div.
Rate
p.c
Div.
Yield
p.c.
Earn.
Rate
p.c.
Earn
Yield
P c
Amalgamated Chemicals
5/
14/3
19/3
17/10
12/2
3.5
21.4
6
A.W.A.
5/
20/4 y 2
19/6
19/6
14
3.6
22
5.7
Ampol
5/
11/4
11/9
11/3
14
6.3
19
8.5
A.R.C.
10/
46 3
47/
48/6
15
3.1
35.1
7.2
Associated Pulp
20/
29/3
29/
29/
6
4.1
6.3
4.3
Aust. Chemicals .
_ T
10/
30/4 Ms
23/6
23/
I2I/2
5.4
21.5
9.4
A.C.I.
1 * T
20/
72/6
63/
60/6
8-1 3
2.7
14.5
4.8
Aust Guarantee ..
5/
14/
14/2
13/7
15
5.4
19
6.9
Aust. Gypsum ..
5/
14/3
13/3
13/
10
3.8
15.8
6.1
A.P.M.
20/
25/3
23/6 %
23/9
8-1/3
7
11.9
9.9
Bank N.S.W
£20
£34
£411/4
£41
9
4.4
12.2
5.9
Bitumen and Oil ..
t *
5/
24/
23/3
23/
17/2
3.7
32
5.6
Blue Metal Ind.
5/
22 7V 2
21/6
20 8
15
3.6
27.6
6.8
Bradford Cotton ..
5/
7/6
6/10
6 6
10
7.7
6.2
4.8
British Tobacco ..
20/
25/
25/3
24 6
9
7.5
9.7
8
b.h.p.
20/
69/
55/3
53
6 >4
2.5
13.7
7.3
Burns Philp
20/
91/
98/6
93/
10
2.1
18.6
3.9
C.S.R.
20/
£ 59 Via
49/3
48/9
9>/ 2
3.9
14.8
6.1
C.A.G.A
5/
11/3
10/5
10/2
10
4.9
12.4
6.2
C.I.G.
20/
£5
92/
91/
11
2.4
25.3
5.5
Commercial Union
• • * *
5/
19 3
20/5
19/9
6V2
1.6
18.4
4.6
Concrete Tnd.
5/
15/1M>
13/6
12/9
10
4
16.6
6.6
Cox Bros
5/
7/6
7/6
7 6
10
6.7
11.8
8.2
C.R.A
5/
16/1
15/9
12
3.8
—
—
Custom Credit
r '
5/
13/
10 9
10/9
15
6.9
18.2
8.4
Cyclone
10/
26/
20/6
20/
10
5
17.7
8.8
Dalgety-N.Z. Loan
25/
40 9
40 9
8
4.9
13.9
8.2
David Jones ..
5/
18/9
17/9
:7 9
12V2
3.5
28.7
6.8
Drug Houses
20/
69/
70/
66/9
11*4
3.4
17.7
5.5
Dunlop Rubber
20/
35/
42/
42/6
10
4.7
19.8
9.3
Elder G. M
10/
—
15/8
15/
8
5.3
—
_
Electronic ‘B”
10/
13/3
16/6
16/
121/2
7.6
—
—
Email
5/
7/6
7/7
7/6
10
6.6
11
7.3
E.Z. Ind
10/
12/11
12/6
12/5
10
8.1
12.4
10.1
Felt and Textiles ..
f t T
5/
6/11
7/9
7/5
10
6.8
15.2
10.2
G. J. Coles
5/
13/6
13/2
13
11
4.2
15.1
5.8
H. C. Sleigh ..
5/
11/
10/3
10/7
121/2
5.9
13.4
6.6
Henry Jones ., .
1 * -
20/
80/
74/
70 6
10
2.8
28.6
8.1
H. G Palmer .. ,,
5/
15/6
16/8
16 3
121/2
3.8
33.4
10.3
Howard Smith
20/
54/
46 6
46/
10
4.3
13.6
5.9
Humes
20/
70/6
76/6
76/
14
3.7
21.8
6.5
I.A.C.
• ,
5/
13/4
10/7
10/2
11-2 3
8.2
20.6
10.1
I.C.I.A.N.Z
20/
38/
39/6
39
7
3.6
9.7
4.3
J. Gadsden
10/
15/3
18/6
18/3
8
4.4
10.4
5.7
Kandos Cement
5/
18/6
18/2
I2V2
3.5
13.5
3.7
Kelvinator
.. * f
5/
18/3
18/
19/6
15
3.8
28.6
7.3
Lend Lease ..
5/
20/
15/
14/10
10
3.4
21.5
7.4
L. J. Hooker ..
T t • -
5/
7/.
4/
3 8
1.1*
1.5
Mercantile Credits
5/
8/8
9/5
9 5
121/a
5.3
14.9
8.8
McPhersons
20/
47/
38/6
39/
8-1/3
4.2
12.4
5.8
Minster
10/
62/
74/
74/
20
2.7
40.4
5.4
Moulded Products ..
5/
13/2
14/8
14/6
14
4.8
17.8
6.1
Mt. Isa Mines
5/
71/6
68/
66 6
25
1.9
62.8
4.7
Mutual /’■cceptance
5/
8/10
10 9
11/
15
6.8
22.5
10.2
5/
29/
30/8
29/
16-2/3
2.9
28.3
5
National Consolidated
..
5/
27/
26/
25/9
20
3.9
35.3
6.9
Olympic Industries
5/
7/7
10/8
11/
10
4.5
16.2
8.8
Peters iVic.i ..
• • • •
2/
8/6
8/
7 10
15
3.8
18.9
4.8
Petrochemical
20/
26/
27/9
27/9
6
4.3
5.9
4.2
R.M. Concrete
• t
5/
17/41/2
15/11
12/11
121/2
4.9
13
5
Reid Murray .. ..
5/
8/3
3/
2/11
9.4
16.2
Repco .. ....
5/
12/5
14/6
14/3
11-2 3
3.5
18.8
6.3
Rothmans
10/
87/6a
35/3
34/
n'/z
5.1
33.1
9.7
Thiess
5/
13/
10/
10/6
1214
6
14.4
5
Tooth
20/
69/
68/
68/6
131/2
4
15.9
4.4
Union Carbide
20/
80/
56/
54/
10
3.7
8.4
3.1
Waltons
..
5/
13/8
14/6
14/7
121/2
4.3
15.7
7.4
Woolworths
5/
15/4
14 3
14/
12
4.3
15.4
5.5
Wormald
5/
11/10
11/9
11/9
10
4.2
14.2
6.7
w. k. Carpenter
* Estimated on last half-year
a Before share split
5/
s profit.
30/
33/3
33/
15
2.3
35.1
5.6
SYDNEY
Banks
etc.
STOCK EXCHANGE
Other
Finance Pastoral Retailers
INDICES
Base All
Metals Ords.*
Industrials
December 22, 1961
.. 137.37
541.02
182.31
389.15
604.15
299.07
318.74
August 31, 1962
. . 159.91
564.65
179.82
368.32
547.85
292.47
306.31
September 3, 1962
. . 159.88
557.65
179.87
368.39
547.69
291 73
305.48
September 4, 1962
161.43
556.20
178.59
366.11
544.62
290.58
303 98
September 5, 1962
. . 160.40
550.53
178.59
364.76
542.28
288.03
300 96
September 6, 1962
160.98
549.54
176.52
364.65
542.28
287.53
300.20
September 7, 1962 .. 159.24
♦Peak 348.46 September 16, 1960
551.57
176.26
364.10
536.48
287.37
300.35
MELBOURNE
STOCK
EXCHANGE
AVERAGE YIELD
ON 100 ORDINARY SHARES
50 Other Stocks—
Random-^,
—50 Leading
Stocks
Sample
Div. Yield Earn. Yield
Div. Yield Earn. Yield
December 22.
1961
4.26
6.13
5.30
7.46
August 31, 1962
4.43
6.37
5.14
September 3,
1962
4.43
6.37
5.12
2 56
September 4,
1962
4.46
6.41
5.15
2.60
September 5,
1962
4.49
6.45
5.14
2.47
September 6,
1962
4.51
6.46
5.15
2.39
September 7,
1962
4.53
6.49
5.17
2.43
LEADING SHARE PRICES
UNCERTAINTY, BUT
NEVER DESPAIR
of those overseas financial centres
which from time to time take notice
of events in this part of the world
announce themselves as well aware of
upturn in the Australian economy.
Whether many local investors are, still
continues to remain a moot point. If
by their fruits we must know them, a
behavioristic test of the sharemarket
leaves our recovery in a complete haze.
The proofs needed to decide entry
into or disappearance from the present
web of equity investment seem to have
reached a super-subtle refinement. And
no consistency either, we might add. So
also have some of the outside explana-
tions. The end portion of a current
broker’s letter sounds as if it’s a search
for some almost moral reason.
Sydney index’s “hesitating retreat this
year probably results more from lack
of buyers than outright selling pressure,
and is surely evidence of uncertainty,
rather than despair”.
It cannot, of course, be maintained
that the professional experts have yet
sounded a clarion loud enough for the
small man to hear. It further exemplifies
uncertainty to be told: “The investor
who believes that a recovery will occur
should consider the prospect of entering
the market now, when share prices are
weak and buyers are scarce”.
Much more riotously explanatory of
the bear market said to be ahead of us
is a sweeping article in the “Statist”
of August 31. Relating booms and
market eras, its author, analyst A. G.
Ellinger, roundly states that “the public
has come into the stock market on a
scale previously unexampled and the
public has been sold a pup”.
But not even Mr Ellinger would
hinder the public from searching for
pups of impeccable breeding. That pre-
cisely is what our local public refuses
to do in any real force. Flurries called
forth by unbecoming happenings such as
last week’s misadventures involving (un-
likely relationship!) Latec and Ready
Mixed Concrete will frequently be sent
to try us, or frighten us. You don’t
build a market on those foundations.
So the droop retains its haphazard
hither-and-thither. Last Friday saw
what some described as a better tone
among leaders. Over the week, however,
ACI, British Tobacco, BHP, Burns Philp,
Henry Jones and ICI had all crept back.
BHP at 535. looked a thoroughly con-
temporary sight, with not a great deal
of solid justification.
ARC, Kelvinator and McPhersons
could muster advances and a bare gleam
of ancient interest was restored by
genuine demand for AOG.


•ERIC ANDERSON
(CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
o
2 years 7i% p.a.^
3 years 8% p.a.
4 years Bi% p.a.
5 years 9% p.a.
10 years 9% p.a.j
V PER ANNUM
5 AND 10 YEARS
v " ■*. ‘V ' r ..-. c • •••?* . « ' • •'«’ . <>V v ,. ; : _ S&'' '■ • '■*
The Compqny carries on the business c of retailing
and finance in New South Wales, Australian
Capital Territory Queensland.
Applications accepted only on the Application Form attached
to the Prospectus, Which may be obtained from.*— •*
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF "SYDNEY LIMITED, or
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, at any
of their branches in New South Wales
or the Australian Capital Territory.
• ERIC ANDERSON (CONSOLIDATED)
LIMITED, Stoddart’s Building, 125 York
Street, Sydney.
• ERIC ANDERSON RADIO-TELEVISION
PTY, LTD., 14 Barrack Street, Sydney,
and branches in the city and suburbs.
• ERIC ANDERSON '(INCORPORATING
PACKARD BELL), 302 Wickham Street,
Valley, Brisbane, or *
• ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED
STOCK JEXCHANGE.
• RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members’of
the- Sydney Stock Exchange),
20 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
OR POST THIS COUPON TO
ERIC ANDERSON (CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED
STODDART’S BUILDING, 125 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
Please post me, without obligation, a copy of your
prospectus to:
NAME.
ADDRESS
UNDERWRITING BROKERS—RALPH W. KING & YUllt
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
MARKETING
ADVERTISING "BIG
GUNS” ON
RADIO SESSION
A radio programme that will provoke
a lot of interest will be broadcast by
national station 2FC on September 26.
The ABC is posing the question “Is most
advertising contrary to the public inter-
est?” and has appointed a spokesman to
take the affirmative. The ABC invited
the Australian Association of National
Advertisers to defend the suggestion, and
no fewer than 15 prominent advertising
men have undertaken the task —“with
relish”, they say.
The “opposition” will be lc I by the
president of the AANA (Mr E. H.
Evans) and the chairman of the NSW
branch (Mr P. W. A. 'elso). One of
the oth:r oppositionists fill be t
veteran advertising executive, Mr C.
Stratton Morgan, formerly advertising
manager of W. D. & H. O. Wills and
now with Eta Foods Pty Ltd. With a
battery of 15 advertising big guns firing
salvos at him ever a period of an hour,
the ABC spokesman looks like having
a pretty hectic time.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
INQUIRY IN VIC.
A board ot inquiry on standardisation
of weights and measures, appointed
by the Victorian Government, is at pre-
sent taking evidence at Camberwell
Courthouse, in an effort to determine
whether the public is getting full value
and weight in packaged products. Evid-
ence is being presented by the Australian
Consumers’ Association, manufacturers
and, indeed, by anyone who feels he can
be useful to the inquiry.
What the board will find is anybody’s
guess, but in any case the final arbiter
will be the consumer who will buy what
suits his or her particular need irrespec-
tive of what weight or volume of a
product is marked on a packet. Every
product has certain tangible and intang-
ible qualities that cannot be translated
into specific values either in weight or
money. If a housewife likes a product
and the price suits her pocket, she'll buy
it, whatever a court of inquiry deter-
mines.
Lever Bros gave evidence last week,
and Colgate-Palmolive is in the box this
week. The ultimate findings of the board
will create wide interest.


FINANCE CORPORATION OF
AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in South Australia)
Chairman's Address at the Annual General Meeting
of Shareholders, held on Tuesday, 4th September, 1962
MR H. H. PITTMAN
It is with pleasure that I
present to you the Directors’
Report of Finance Corporation
of Australia Limited with the
Statement of Profit and Bal-
ance Sheet for the year ending
30th June, 1962, together with
the Consolidated Statements
of the Company and its Sub-
sidiaries, copies of which have
already been forwarded to
Shareholders.
I am also very pleased in-
deed to report that sound pro-
gress has again been made re-
sulting in another satisfactory
year of operations.
The Consolidated Net Profit
after tax, amounted to £316,-
861, representing an earning
rate of 18.3% on the average
paid up capital for the year,
compared with 18% for the
previous 12 months.
The operation of all the
branch offices of the Com-
pany, which, as you know, are
established in all the mainland
States, have not only been
profitable, but have main-
tained a steady increase in the
volume of business transacted.
Gross Outstandings of the
Company have increased by
-31.7% and totalled £21,223,537
as at 30th June, 1962, and con-
sist of Hire Purchase and Real
Estate Contracts amounting to
£12,810,374, and Other Secured
Loans and Sundry Debtors of
£8,413,163.
Provision for unearned in-
come on Hire Purchase and
Real Estate Contracts amounts
to £3,602,173, which is equiva-
lent to 28.1% of such con-
tracts No unearned income is
included in Other Secured
Loans and Sundry Debtors, as
income derived from these
contracts is calculated on the
principal amounts outstanding
from time to time, and
brought into account as.
earned.
I consider it is worthy of
comment that bad debts and
losses on repossession have
again been of a very minor
nature.
The recommended final divi-
dend of 5%, added to the in-
terim dividend of 5% paid on
6th March, 1962, makes 10%
for the year, a total distribu-
tion of £174,054.
Reserves and undistributed
profits now aggregate £549,-
423, which I think Sharehold-
ers will agree, is a very satis-
factory indication of the Com-
pany’s consistent progress in
the eight years of its opera-
tions.
As stated in the Directors’
Report, the Company has con-
tinued to maintain a high level
of liquidity. Deposits, Bank
Balances and Cash on Hand
totalled £3,139,767 at 30th June,
1962. This amount, together
with cash receipts resulting
from repayment of current
contracts, is considered ade-
quate protection against any
sudden reduction in the bor-
rowings of £8,925,375 which
mature on or before 30th June,
1963.
Total borrowings of the
Company have increased by
£4,930,834 to £18,822,755 as at
30th June, 1962.
Your Directors are constant-
ly giving attention to the
spread of maturities of its
borrowings in relation to the
repayment of Outstandings,
and it is considered that the
amounts falling due in future
years as set out in the Re-
port. are adequately protected.
It is extremely pleasing to
note that renewals of matured
Medium Term Debenture Stock
exceeded a ratio of 66% for the
year ended 30th June, 1982,
and indicates the excellent
support given by existing De-
benture Holders to the Com-
pany’s Debenture Issues.
Members of your Board ap-
preciate the strong financial
support given by the Investing-
Public and Institutional Invest-
ors throughout Australia, and
recognise its importance in the
maintenance and development
of the Company’s business. For
your information our current
Debenture Issue has raised
more than 1.7 million pounds
of Medium Term money.
Instalments of 2/6 per share
on 1,000,000 Ordinary Shares of
10/- each, payable on Ist
November, 1961, and Ist May,
1962, increased the paid up
capital to £1,877,275 during the
year under review. The final
instalment of 2/6 per share is
payable on Ist November, 1962.
During September, 1961, a
subsidiary of Finance Corpora-
tion of Australia Limited pur-
chased the issued capital of
Waymouth Motor Company
Limited for £BlO,OOO cash. Fol-
lowing the decision not to con-
tinue the business of the Way-
mouth group, disposal of its
assets is proceeding satisfac-
torily, and the investment will
prove profitable.
At the end of May, 1962, the
Company acquired all of the
fully paid investment shares in
the Scottish Loan investment
and Building Society (Perman-
ent) . This Society has been
operating in Perth successfully
since 1959, and advances on
first mortgages held at 30th
June, 1962, amounted to £904,-
718. Your Directors intend to
continue operating the Society
in its normal functions of pro-
viding mortgage facilities to
approved applicants especially
in housing loans.
The Company has entered
the new financial year with an
increase in the volume of new
business being transacted, and
your Directors are confident
that the Company will continue
to earn satisfactory profits.
The careful approach to in-
creased spending by consumers
as a result of the recent credit
squeeze is typical of the good
house-keeping policy of Aus-
tralians generally. With the ac-
celeration of Public Works by
Federal, State and Semi-Gov-
ernmental authorities, together
with the considerable effort by
Private Enterprise throughout
Australia, a favorable effect on
employment and business gen-
erally is already apparent.
Finally, on behalf of your
Board, I would like to ack-
nowledge how very much we
appreciate the outstanding ef-
ficiency of the Company’s
Management, its Executives,
and Staff, who between them,
have helped to make these
results possible.
H. H. PITTMAN,
Chairman of Directors.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
DECENTRALISE? - YES, BUT NOT
UNECONOMICALLY
By I. M. HARDY
At this stage of our history, one would
** expect most Australians to be aware
of the economic and geographic facts
which limit our civilised development,
and, indeed, in no small measures have
contributed to the type of people we are.
When man began to develop our
civilisation in the ancient world, it was
in the environment of the big river sys-
tems where water and cheap transport
were readily available. Then as the
civilising movement went to Western
Europe, it was to a land with a heavily
indented coastline, huge river systems
and great rainfall.
Nature’s gifts of water for growing
and for cheap transport, are the first
requisites of civilisation and on their
availability depends the extent of civilisa-
tion possible and the speed of develop-
ment of the economy.
Now Australia is a great land mass
with relatively small rainfall, few inden-
tations in the coast line, few large ports
and few large rivers. Further, only a small
proportion of the rivers are permanent
streams and only a small number of
these are navigable.
Transport, the life blood of a civilised
community, is, therefore, largely restrict-
ed to the land surface; its most costly
form. Australia has, of course, good air
transport facilities, but these have little
effect on the movement of thousands of
tons over hundreds of miles—the heavy
economic requirements.
To achieve a full picture of Australia
as it really is, we must always remember
what one of our great geographers,
Griffith Taylor, said many years ago—
“ Australia comprises two main areas:
two million square miles of empty Aus-
tralia and one million square miles of
useful Australia. The former is roughly
the area which has a ten-inch rainfall or
less, and the latter is the area of good
rainfall, good soil, large coal deposits
and main ports.”
Apart from new mining fields and
producing oil wells which are yet to be
found, empty Australia will always re-
main relatively empty —one of the prin-
cipal meat and wool producing areas of
the world, but apart from some irrigation
along the Darling River and the like,
always a very thinly populated country.
On the other hand, useful Australia —
comprising the fertile crescent of the
eastern and southern fringes of the con-
tinent, the south-western corner of
Western Australia and parts of the Kim-
berfeys and the Northern Territory—will
continue to expand in both rural and
secondary production to the limits of the
country's resources in water, nitrogen
and fuel; and in these favored regions
will always reside the great bulk of
Australia's population.
A further most compelling fact is that
today we find ourselves in highly com-
petitive world markets for the disposal
of all our rural and secondary products.
This means that to survive as a great
power, trading with the rest of the world,
we must produce at a cost which enables
us to sell competitively at all times.
With this background and in this
situation, we approach decentralisation
—not with emotion but with full aware-
ness of our economic position in the
world of today. Decentralise—yes, but
always economically.
The use of differential rai' freights,
power costs, etc., enables a struggling in-
dustry to survive at home, but is most
unlikely to produce economically in a
competitive market abroad.
Then, too, in developing our country
economically, should we not do so by
working outward from established centres
of rural and secondary activity? Is it
sound to develop lands, say, in the
Channel Country to the limit of their
production now ? Should we not con-
centrate on developing the coastal fringe
and tableland and slope country first?
The capital cost of bringing these
lands to their peak is not nearly so high,
and development costs can be financed
largely from profits from expanded in-
dustry as we move outward from existing
development.
We are, therefore, forced to the con-
clusion that although the social advant-
ages of extensive decentralisation are
obvious, we cannot always afford it.
PENICILLIN
IN MILK
¥s inclusion of a marker dye in penicillin
the answer to the world-wide problem
of antibiotics in milk? Victoria's Director
of Agriculture, Mr Frank Read, is cer-
tain it is. But some Australians are not
so sure.
The penicillin-in-milk problem has been
causing a lot of heartburning ever since
it blew' up into a first-class public issue
at the annual conference of the Austra-
lian Veterinary Association three months
ago. The storm burst in Melbourne and
Victoria is so far the only State to act
on the issue.
The Victorian Government's weapon
against penicillin contamination of milk is
a dye called Brilliant Blue. Selected and
tested by Department of Agriculture
officers, the dye has had to be included
in all penicillin (designed for treatment
of bovine mastitis) sold in Victoria since
September 1.
According to its advocates the dye
is so powerful that one-eighth of a part in
a million can be detected by the naked
eye. In terms of practical dairy farming
this means that milk from one penicillin-
treated quarter of a single cow's udder
would turn all milk from an 80-cow
herd noticeably blue.
Critics of the dye-scheme claim it will
not stop dairy farmers treating their
cows with other antibiotics (although these
are more expensive and usually available
only on veterinary prescription) and sell-
ing the uncolored milk. They say they
doubt whether the dye will be detectable
in the quantities claimed and the risk still
exists that some farmers will get uncolored
penicillin from outside Victoria.
But probably the most serious criti-
cism of the dye revolves around doubts as
to its safety. The Victorian Government
has stated that it is convinced the dye is
perfectly safe ... in fact that it has been
in wide use as a food dye for many
years.
Some members of Australia’s National
Health and Medical Research Council are
known to be uneasy about the dye and to
have withheld their approval.
Victoria w'ent ahead and adopted its
home-made solution to the penicillin pro-
blem while other States were still await-
ing the National Health and Medical Re-
search Council's expert verdict. The ver-
dict, if it has been given, has still not
been made public. It is perhaps signifi-
cant, however, that no other State has
yet moved to include dye in its penicillin,
although the Victorian decision has now
been known for several months.
If the blue dye is without a doubt safe,
the council should say so, through the
Commonwealth Minister for Health, and
remove and doubts remaining.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
No. 1174 of 1958
TO: GOTTHARD GERHARD EWALD HOF-
MANN late of Melbourne, in the State of
Victoria. TAKE NOTICE that ELISABETH
HOFMANN has filed a petition for divorce
number 1174 of 1958 on the grounds of
desertion AND TAKE NOTICE that if you
wish to defend you may file an answer in
the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 6th
day of November, 1962. A copy of the petition
may be obtained without charge from Messrs.
Peter G. Kearney & Co., Solicitors, 254 George
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: KEVIN FRANCIS O’SULLIVAN of un-
known address. TAKE NOTICE that HELEN
CELIA O’SULLIVAN has filed a Petition for
divorce No. 120 of 1961 on the ground of
separation without just cause or excuse for
five (5) years and upwards. If you. wish to
defend you may enter an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, by the 19th day of October,
1962, and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from Charles A. Morgan and Com-
pany, Solicitors, of 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: NOEL GORDON JORY of unknown
address. TAKE NOTICE that NORMA PAUL-
INE JORY has filed a Petition for divorce No.
402 of 1962 on the ground of desertion. If
you wish to defend you may enter an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court,
Macquarie Street, Sydney, by the 26th day
of October, 1962, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from Charles A
Morgan and Company, Solicitors, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO ADAM GEORGE COWELL formerly of
Melbourne. TAKE NOTICE that PHYLLIS
LILLIAN COWELL has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2327 of 1962 in the Supreme Court
of New South Wales on the ground of five
years separation. If you wish to defend you
may file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, by the 12th October, 1962, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from Messrs. S. T. Hodge & Co., Solicitors,
of 4 Castiereagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO NIKOLAUS SASONOW late of 8 Willow
Way Forestville. TAKE NOTICE that MELITTA
SUSANNE SASONOW has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2744 of 1961 on the ground of
separation. If you wish to defend you may
enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by
the 22nd October, 1962, and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from Messrs.
T. G. D. Marshall, Landers & Co., Soliciors,
of 251 George Street. Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
No. 2111 of 1962
To LESLIE ARTHUR PETER TULL late of
Willandra Crescent, Windale. TAKE NOTICE
that VALERIE JOYCE TULL has filed a peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2111 of 1962 on the ground
of desertion. If you wish to defend this
petition you must file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before 29th October,
1962, and obtain a copy of the petition and
notice of petition without charge from
T. G. D. Marshall, Landers & Co., Solicitors,
of 251-253 George Street, Sydney, of H. V.
Harris, Wheeler & Williams, Solicitors, of 43
Bolton Street, Newastle. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
Divorce Notices
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO LOLA McLEISH and MICHAEL PATRICK
MURPHY both late of Flat 4, 13 Fairmont
Street Summer Hill. TAKE NOTICE that
ALBERT WILLIAM McLEISH has filed a Peti-
tion No. 1703 of 1962 for divorce from Lola
McLeish on the ground of her adultery with
Michael Patrick Murphy. If either of you wish
to defend you- may enter an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macquari Street, Sydney, by the 23rd
October, 1962, and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from A. J. McLachlan
Hoare Mann & Co., Solicitors of 6 Wynyard
Street, Sydney. C. A. H HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: SUSAN KAISER late of 21 Weston Street,
Dulwich Hill in the State of New South Wales.—
TAKE NOTICE that Frank Kaiser has filed a
petit'on for Divorce No. 2619 of 1962 on the
grounds of desertion. If you wish to defend you
may enter an Answer in the Divorce Regist’-y,
Supreme Court, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by
29th October, 1962 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from Priddle, Gosling,
Dalrymple and Sillar, Solicitors of 17 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
HELP
all the year round. Donations: 169
, Elizabeth BAA 2001.
People ore tofking
about the new
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME ..
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick whichever method of
delivery you prefer.
For those desiring direct sub-
scription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/money
order for months subscription to
THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea) 1 year
£2 125.; i/ 2 year £1 6s. Post free British
Dominions £3 6d. Other countries
£3 16s
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS Remit to Box 965
Wellington, N.Z. 1 year £2 12s. N.Z.
currency y 2 year—£l 6s. (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? There are
two ways of doing it either through your newsagent
or by direct subscription. The form at left offers you
your choice of method of delivery. You may send us
your name and address and we will arrange for the
newsagent nearest you to deliver your copy of
THE BULLETIN each week and charge it to your account.
Or, if you prefer if, we will mail each week's copy
to your address by direct subscription.
The
Bulletin
Incorporating The Australian Financial Times


Feiffer
I com KK)Ou)
iohat’s the
matter ioith
Me. I'M
AIUJMS
READING
MCI MOTHER SMS. "LOOK
AT lime MISS MOIA-IT-AU!
HER ROSE (A ACWAPO /M A
BOOK- POOU fJEI/ER OATOH
A FELLA THAT MM?
Mtf FATHER SAMS " MAT POE
IT 6ZT WU TO 56 A BOOlf
WORM?MOUU Oh)M HURT
mour cues, houil f/mp
OUT tUHED MOURE OLPER
these THIM6O AReO' r
so important."
M<f TEASER 6AMA, " U)6U /*[
W\SS BETTER -THAU -THE- /£;
RE6T-OF-U6 HA6 FIRIFHgP \jk
me book' uo hem sue waa
owi suppose? 10 reap
Up TO CHAPTER NINE.
PERHAPS THE REST OF OS
lOHOAR6NT SHOU)-OFfs CM
CjTIOC TO OUR ASSISUMevr."
J TRY TO STOR
BUT IT 6£TS
woßse i«
of better/ 1
I RBAPf I
Itf AD? I (
REAP/
matter ia«at.
] CAO'T STOP
REAPW6/
MELT PEAR
I 60 TO
H I6H SCHOOL.
MAMBE
They
CAM
nap
Mg.
' ©/*j-
finti
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 710
ACROSS
I —A toff sandpapered a detail to be watched in
navigation. (11)
6—lrishman put back in a form of dancing. (3)
8 — A Belgian vassal? (8)
9 Keynote vessels can’t be made where there are
road-dividers. (1-5)
10— Girl seen among Abraham’s order women. (8)
11 — Confuse an early film cowboy named Tom.
(3)
15—Wrong if I be good for nothing and twist. (5)
17—Two things the bittern produces in a form of over-
production. (3-4)
18 — The Palatinate used to have
one alternative to choose.
(7)
19— Freshly lubricate. (2-3)
20— —Bewitch him in another case
with a corresponding kiss. (3)
21— An exclamation shot into a
N.S.VV. town. (8)
24 Vehicle causing a “blue”
among tipplers? (6)
25 A woolly remark from of-
fended traffic police? (8)
27 Bradman is put on. (3)
28 — Hardly orthodox advice from
a chiropodist. (11)
DOWN
1— —He used to keep some of the
fish to fish with that. Why?
(3, 7)
2 On too often completed unit
in the attack. (10)
3 Requirements. (5)
4 Ants are such as those who
seek retribution for South
Carolina. (10)
5 Finding a tenant for feathers?
Behaving disloyally, too.
(7, 4)
6 Trot up a civil wrong. (4)
7 Father’s in step. (3)
12—Airs affected by mother’s
apes. (11)
13 It’s soon close and tense.
(4, 6)
14—Finished in a basin when
knocked down by arrange-
ment with 2-down. (6, 4)
16 —Awkwardly placed opus is.
(2, 3,4)
22 Spine-bashing musical theme?
(4)
23 Jenny, an architect. (4)
26—Finish Louisiana with a
hundred lacking republicanis-
ed form. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 709


Heater-demister with controls on the
console between the front seats. Warm
air goes to front and rear passengers.
Individual front seats in genuine, top-
grained leather. A measure of Premier's
own particular brand of .elegance.
Deep pile carpeting colour-keyed to
Premier’s four different interior colour
schemes, puts extra luxury underfoot
Plush & i
personal
1 PACKED WITH
APPOINTMENTS
You’ll really look forward to the miles
ahead in the brilliant new Holden
Premier. Inside: a wealth of appoint-
ments in a setting of personal luxury.
Outside: low, clean Holden lines
enhanced by sparkling Magic-Mirror
finish in exclusive metallic colours. At
the wheel: an absolutely new feeling of
ease . . . plus the silken smoothness of
3-speed Hydra-Matic* automatic trans-
mission. You just couldn’t go places in
greater comfort or finer style. See for
yourself, at your Holden* Dealer’s.
General Motors-Holden’s Pty Limited
Rear seat armrest, supple leather upholstery on both
seat and seat back, plus soft foam padding.
Padded instrument panel. Added protection for you
and your family. Premier’s handsome white steering
wheel and control knobs please the eye.
m
%
1
/
■
m
Si
HOLDEN PREMIER
AUSTRALIA’S OWN CAR
PRICE £1,195 PLUS TAX
