

errace
r
JRt:
ouses
p® 1
pr
i?
The Bulletin
'.stered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
OCTOBER 27
AUSTRALIA 1/-, N.Z. 2/-, SINGAPORE, MALAYA $1
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION - EST. 1880


WITH ESSO EXTRA W/TAMC PETROL
Vn
m
¥
i
•*/
SS A
H
%;
!•
'K!
&•
X
%
W
$
m
\
‘■f/
Hfr
I
Z
'J
Ya
\
*Sc*
*
r. ..'.• ,
W' *l-
/ >
■ \
Now fill up with Esso Extra
Vitane petrol, and get the new
feel of power. Leaping . . .
surging ... purring power—
power you never knew you
had— power just waiting to
be released. Esso Extra Vitane
is a new kind of petrol with
a new feel of power. Fill up
NOW.
begins at your Esso Service Station
ESSO STANDARD OIL (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.


BIG MONEY LOSERS 1962
When The Land Bubble Burst
Page 16
The Melbourne Students 10
Terrace Houses 12 i
Picasso—The Man, The Mind
The Myth 18
Luxury Cars—By Boadicea .... 21
Singapore—The Magic Cabinet
of Dr Goh 24
New Guinea’s Select Committee
Report—Getting off on The
Right Foot 26
John XXIII—A Hunger To
End Divided Christendom .. 30
Between Boats Of Vertigo—
Or Another TV Doctor .... 32
The Letters of Oscar Wilde—
Ross Campbell 35
Share Market Advances Cauti-
ously 41
Playing Cricket With The Tariff 44
•
TANNER ...... _ 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA ..... 6
AS I SEE IT 7
80 YEARS AGO 7
AROUND MELBOURNE 10
OUT AND ABOUT 12
MOTORING 21
OVERSEAS 24
FORUM 26
LETTERS 30
REVIEWS 32
RED PAGE 35
WORLD OF BUSINESS... 41
FEIFFER ..... 57
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone
27-5971. Melbourne: Phone MF3341. Bris-
bane: Phone 82691. Adelaide: Phone
W 4121-3
Vol. 84
No. 4315
National Notebook
Uncommitted
iOlavery may be only a marginal pro-
blem in the world today, but it is not
an issue on which one expects to find
neutralism. One of the puzzles of the
recent conference of the Associated Coun-
try Women of the World in Melbourne
was the fact that a group of delegates
abstained from voting on a motion calling
for greater efforts from the UN to stamp
out slavery.
Scotswoman Mrs John Playfair who
moved the motion explained that slavery
was still practised in parts of the world
and reminded delegates that the ACWW,
with its consultative status with UN, was
an appropriate body to urge for greater
efforts to end it. The motion was easily
carried and while there were no votes
against it, there was a sizeable group of
delegates who abstained.
They included those from East Africa
Women’s League, the Federation of
Women’s Institutes of Northern Rhodesia,
the Nyasaland Council of Women, the
National Federation of
Women’s Institutes of
England, Wales and the
Channel Islands, the Irish
Republic Country
Women’s Association,
and from some Ohio
women’s organisations.
Although all abstaining delegates were
from Africa, England, Ireland and Ameri-
ca, there were other delegates from these
countries among the vast majority who
endorsed the motion.
Pricy
Qn the Letters pages of this issue Lloyd
O’Neil, the angry young publisher
of Melbourne, sets out to cut some of the
critics of Australian publishing down to
size. But we wonder if he could put up
such a passionate defence of our book-
sellers. Take, for example, “The Letters
of Oscar Wilde” which Ross Campbell
reviews on the Red Page this issue. Its
English price is 84s. In Australian money
that means 105 s. Allow another ss. for
freight and insurance etc. and we get a
price of 110 s. In fact the Australian
price is 1275. Who is getting the extra
17s. per copy?
Parking Problems
has always been intensely
proud of her encircling parklands,
and any encroachment has been always
strongly resisted. The other day, the
Town Clerk, Mr W. C. Veale, came up
with a proposal that horrified all true
park-loving Adelaidians. To relieve the
growing problem of parking space, he
suggested, why not use a tract of park-
lands?
Mr Veale has in recent years engineered
schemes which have turned the east park-
lands into a pleasant area of trees, lawns,
artificial lakes and a rose garden. He has
landscaped part of the south parklands,
built picnic areas, and developed two pre-
viously unused sections along the bank of
the River Torrens. Why, should a man
with such an obvious love for parks and
gardens want to park cars all over them?
The answer may be desperation. There
is not one large parking station in Ade-
laide and no signs of any in the near,
future. An underground parking area in
Victoria Square was suggested, kicked
around, and dropped. Centre-of-the-road
parking was introduced in some of the
wider, less busy streets, but with traffic
becoming heavier, this method will soon
have to go.
The section of parklands selected by
Mr Veale for parking is useless at the
moment, but will, undoubtedly, be de-
veloped one day. It may
provide a temporary re-
lief from the parking pro-
blem, but when the multi-
storey parking stations
are built, will the cars
come out of the park-
lands? The answer is an
almost certain no.
Melbourne’s Mr Robin Boyd said in
Adelaide that he was against “infiltration
of parklands” for car parking, as parks
were “an extraordinarily precious asset to
a city.” Many agreed with him. Two
councillors spoke against Mr Veale’s plan,
and the Press had grave doubts about it.
At the moment the parklands are un-
touched—and so is the parking problem.
Second-ciass Citizens
set the pace in area (or “con-
solidated”) schools and in raising
school-leaving age to 16, but the system
is making second-class citizens of
country children, Mr R. M. Hooper said,
in Launceston. Mr Hooper is a leading
citizen of King Island, one of Tasmania’s
off-shore possessions where “mainland”
means Tasmania.
The area schools cater for children to
the age of 16 by providing a strictly
limited secondary education, whereas in
the towns the children go to the sixth
grade in primary schools and then move
to high schools. Town children, Mr
Hooper said, went automatically to these
secondary schools, but country young-
sters were accepted for them only after
passing stiff qualifying tests.
Furthermore, though buses carried


outlying children to the big area schools,
thus providing first-class primary educ-
ation for all, the country children got
high school education only if their
parents could afford to board them in
the towns. Only 10 per cent, qualified
for the scholarships which provided
board at high school hostels, he said.
Niuspepa Bilcng Nu Gini
'VTew Guinea’s first newspaper entirely
-*-* in pidgin English “Nu Gini Tok-
tok,” began publication this month. It is
published in Lae but printed in Port
Moresby.
The first issue l6 pages, with that
übiquitous item, a gossip column “Tokwin
long krangki man” on page 1 through
to “Mickey Mouse na pren bilong em
long Walt Disney” at the foot of page
16. Even the advertisements, for things
like “4 wdl draiv trak” and “trausis, siut,
su, soken, laplap, klos, blanket and taul,”
are in pidgin.
Good Wine Needs no Bush
"Ooth the Methodists and the Presby-
terians were busy attacking alcohol in
Melbourne last w'eek, but the Presby-
terian Assembly was the most eloquent.
Deaconess E. A. Kerr, for example, said
the temptation on young people was in-
creased by advertising. She said that an
education programme was essential as no
child should be allowed to leave school
ignorant of the physical and moral effects
of alcohol.
However, the climax came when the
assembly decided to ask sessions, the
local controlling bodies of the church, to
consider providing only “non-alcoholic
wine” at communion services.
The Assembly rejected an amendment
that would create a total ban on wine at
communion services in the church
throughout Victoria. Local congregations
will now consider whether it is better or
not to use wine.
Meanwhile several streets away, with
nigh on 700 different lines on display,
delegates from all over Australia were
happily celebrating Wine Week.
Death in Parramatta
T ast week, after 97 years, Parramatta’s
“Cumberland Argus’’ died, a victim
of starvation. The old paper had lost
practically all its lifeblood—advertising.
The “Argus” began publication as “The
Mercury”. It was set up in opposition to
“The Chronicle,” a four-page, penny
paper founded by Edmund Mason, the
“father of Parramatta journalism.” The
battle lasted almost two years, and on
June 29, 1867, the “Chronicle” ran this
melancholy paragraph at the foot of one
of its columns:
“The present will be the last number of
this little Paper. It appears the towm can
only support one publication of the kind,
and the superior begging qualities of the
Manager of the Sydney-printed Paper has
procured the latter many subscribers to
our loss—to say nothing of State Aid, in
the share of Government advertisements,
which, through certain influence, he is
able to procure.”
The allusion was to the “Mercury”, at
that time a 2d. weekly, published every
Saturday by its proprietor, James Fer-
guson.
In 1895 the “Mercury” changed its I
name to the “Cumberland Argus” and be- 1
came a bi-weekly.
At the end of World War I, a company
was formed to purchase the paper. Its
circulation increased to 7500 and its \
sales covered an area from Strathfield to
Campbelltown and Hornsby to Penrith.lt
reached its climax in 1938 as a 148 page j
souvenir broadsheet edition to mark the
Sesqui-centenary of Parramatta.
In 1948, the management made the |
“Argus” free. The paper's decline, how-
ever, began soon after it was taken over j
by Rupert Murdoch in 1960. It lost its j
high, revenue-earning classified adver- 1
tisements and one by one, the old ad- ,
vertisers gradually pulled out. Without I
these, the old paper could not survive. 1
The “Argus” always remained essen-
tially a local newspaper. But it has one
claim to fame. It was the first news-
paper in Australia to use colonial-made
paper.
Gracious Living
Aur Hobart man writes that ais address
will henceforth be Corner of
Bathurst and Murray Streets, “where the
living is gracious”. The fourth floor of
this new glass building, he says, is a
dream. Residents have a big, green-car-
peted common room, furnished with low
coffee tables, colored leather chairs
which invite relaxation, and a divan,
The dining room is attractive with a
colored tiled floor. It is served from a
“House and Garden” kitchen. Outside
there is a spacious sun-deck for sum-
Tamar
"We are victims of aggression."
"We are victims of aggression."


mery days, and adjoining the living
rooms are cloakrooms with individual
lockers, tiled shower rooms and toilets.
The suite is acoustic-tiled and air-
conditioned. Telephone extensions in the
various rooms save users from having
to make tiresome trips back to their
desks to answer calls. These calls are the
I only snag. One has to work in the place
to qualify, for all the luxury is in the
“staff amenities” section of the new
Public Library.
This Week's Cover
rPms week’s cover of terrace houses in
j Jersey Road, Woollahra, is by Syd-
ney artist, Mr Cedric Flower. Mr Flower
is something of an expert on these
houses, and his paintings of them are
enormously popular, particularly with
overseas visitors who would like to take
one of the houses back with them but
have to settle for a painting instead. The
cover painting is for sale, on application
to the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney.
An earlier cover by a Sydney artist,
Mr Jim Phillips’s painting of the Sydney
Opera House under construction, has won
the Walkley award for the best color or
black and white illustration. The Walkley
awards are given each year by Ampol
Petroleum for various branches of news-
paper work. Two Bulletin staff mem-
bers won awards, Mr Peter Hastings for
the best story published in an Australian
magazine (non-fiction) and Mr Leslie
Tanner for the best cartoon. We are
pleased that our indefatigable Darwin
correspondent, Mr Keith Willey, carried
off the prize for the best story published
in a provincial newspaper
"We are always ready to help
victims of aggression."
PLAIN ENGLISH
MR HAYLEN AND THE JEWS
\V7HAT a pathetic performance Mr Leslie Haylen put up in the House
’ ’ of Representatives last week in a “debate” on Soviet anti-Semitism.
Here is an issue that is causing concern throughout the world and for
which all the damning evidence is based on Soviet sources—as readers can
satisfy themselves from Mr Isi Leibler’s Letter to the Editor in this issue.
Stalin almost wiped out traditional Jewish culture as part of his liquida-
tion campaign against recalcitrant minorities and since his death Soviet
anti-Semitism has continued unabated. The Soviet Press regularly carries
anti-Semitic stories; Mr Khrushchev himself has admitted discrimination
against Jews in the Public Service and Universities; Synagogues are being
closed down; Jewish contacts with overseas Jewish bodies are prohibited;
the baking of unleavened bread is prohibited; the only religious seminary
for three million Jews is made up of one rabbinical student!
But the most remarkable evidence is the disproportionate number of
Jews in the lists of “economic criminals” sentenced to death in the Soviet
Union. In his letter in last week’s Bulletin, the Soviet Press Attache
in Canberra, Mr Gamazeishchikov, denied that this involved anti-Semi-
tism: criminals must hang, whether or not they are Jews, he said. But
apart from the fact a far greater percentage of Jews are hanged than of
any other group, their crimes are regularly linked with Synagogues,
Israel and espionage. As one Melbourne Jew has pointed out, if anyone
wants to deny this is anti-Semitism, let him imagine an Australian
situation in which nearly all the people hanged for blackmarketeering had
Irish names and their crimes were regularly linked with the Catholic
Church, the Vatican and espionage, and then pretend that this would
not be evidence of an anti-Catholic campaign.
There is material here of great importance to the whole free world
and the United Nations. But when Mr Haworth of Victoria raised
these matters in the Federal Parliament, the best that Mr Haylen could
do was to accuse a prominent Melbourne Jew, Mr Ashkanasy, Q.C., of
having “sold” the speech to Mr Haworth and then to accuse Mr Haworth
of trying, in a “cowardly” fashion, to split the two Jewish Parliamenta-
rians, one of whom, Senator S. Cohen, is a well-known apologist for the
Soviet Union. Later Mr Holt described Mr Haylen’s speech as “unctuous”.
It is worse than that. It is a miserable evasion of the issue a new
level of cynicism even for Mr Haylen.
STUDENTS AND THE POLICE
T HE NSW Police could learn a lesson or two from their colleagues
in Victoria, particularly over the handling of demonstrations, In
Melbourne, student demonstrators, over serious issues such as capital
punishment or immigration policy, have maintained strict discipline on
their numbers and won the co-operation and respect of the police. They
have more or less overcome the old tradition of student ratbaggery.
Modelling themselves on the Melbourne students, Sydney University
students last week set out to have an orderly demonstration over the
Tait case. But the police refused to grant them permission to demonstrate
and broke up the demonstration. They showed an absurd misunder-
standing of what the students wanted to do and infringed the important
principle that orderly demonstrations are a normal part of democratic
life. They do things better in Victoria at least in this respect.


THIS AUSTRALIA
TAIT CASE
PROTESTS AND
COUNTER-PROTESTS
No hanging this week, or probably next
HENRY BOLTE
“The honourable thing”
campaign to save Robert Peter Tait
■*- from the gallows shows no sign of
abating. On the contrary, it broke out
on several new fronts after reaching a
climax late last Friday when the Gov-
ernment announced the murderer’s third
reprieve iess than 72 hours before the
hanging scheduled for 8 a.m. last Mon-
day. The news of the reprieve was
broken by the solicitor-general, Sir Henry
Winneke, QC, in the State Full Supreme
Court after two days of complex legal
argument surrounding two separate
moves to have Tait declared insane and
save him from being the first person to
be hanged in Victoria for eleven years.
In that time 30 murderers have had their
sentences commuted.
In the meantime 91 barristers of the
Supreme Court lodged a petition with
Attorney-General Rylah asking him to
use his “influence as a member of the
Government to prevent the execution of
this man”. The signatories represented
well over a third of the State’s barristers
and it was explained that there had not
been time to obtain more signatures.
Later 16 psychiatrists, most of them
holding senior posts in the State Mental
Hygiene Department, also petitioned
Rylah to save Tait, underlining that their
views on his hanging were distinct from
their views on capital punishment gene-
rally. The contents of their letter were
not made public as matters before the
court were involved.
At Melbourne University, Dr R. Shar-
wood, Professor-elect of Law at the
National University, was one of several
speakers at a packed protest meeting
which resolved to march immediately to
the Treasury Gardens for a further pro-
test meeting. Unlike the student march
in Sydney, there were no incidents. Mr
Bolte watched the meeting from his first
floor office in the Treasury Building.
During the weekend, Coburg City
Council held a protest march along Syd-
ney road to the walls of Pentridge Gaol
where Tait and the gallows are
located. Coburg Council is Labor-con-
trolled, but apart from what this implies
in its attitude towards capital punish-
ment, it has agitated for many years
for the closure of the gaol within its
boundaries. The Councillor’s feelings
about Pentridge have been sharpened by
the prospect of a hanging.
At Ballarat, a newly-formed Anti-
Hanging Committee managed to get a
deputation before three local Parliamen-
tarians all LCP men. Mr G. L. Scott,
MLA, and Messrs M. Byrne and V. 0.
Dickie, MLCs, promised to place the
Committee’s views before the Govern-
ment.
In the week-end rain, the students con-
tinued their picketing of Parliament
House and were joined by some of the
teaching staff at Monash University. Mr
Bolte confined himself to two brief re-
marks at the annual conference of the
Liberal-Country Party’s women's section.
He said: “You can rely on your govern-
ment to do the honourable thing . .
The conference responded by carrying a
vote of confidence in the Government’s
handling of the Tait case.
On Monday morning the Supreme
Court continued its hearing. Mr Justice
Lowe has hinted that possibly a week
will be needed to prepare judgment on
Mr Scott’s appeal and the matter of the
plea initiated by Mr. Nimmo also had
to be disposed of. There will be no
hanging in Victoria this week, or pro-
bably next.
WEST IRIAN
DATELINE HOLLANDIA
When the Dutch Pulled Out
A far-flung Dutch correspondent in
Hollandia writes: “The changeover
ceremony was a pretty miserable affair
as you can imagine. Pouring rain and
gloomy Dutchmen. Just before it was
scheduled, Papuan leaders noticed that
there were only two flag poles prepared
on the town square. They went to Rolz
Bennett (UN Acting Administrator) and
asked him about their flag which has
been flying since last year. Gently he in-
formed them that the transfer agree-
ment made no mention of a Papuan
flag. He then held the changeover cere-
mony in the former Governor’s Palace
to avoid demonstrations.
“The UNTEA people are a smooth
lot. Intellectuals and professional itine-
rants mostly. Always talking about the
Congo or some place where they have
been. None of them like it here much.
Neither do we anymore. A few Dutch
merchants are staying on to see what
happens. All the Dutch District Com-
missioners have gone. The directors of
departments are reluctantly staying a
while yet because UNTEA can't get re-
placements. Former British DC’s from
Africa and Malaya have taken over seve-
ral of the Residents’ jobs Hollandia,
Manokwari and Merauke. They are the
best of the UN civil servants and are
well liked. The Pakistani Brigade is
doing a good job and I don’t think there
is any love lost between their senior offi-
cers and the Indonesians. At least that's
the gossip here. Filipinos run the tele-
phone exchange and now that Hollandia
has become multi-lingual no one seems
to understand anybody.
“The worst thing so far has been the
collapse of morale. The Dutch are sulk-
ing and the Papuans have just hauled off
and gone home. They are playing a
game of wait and see. When our govern-
ment made the decision to quit New
Guinea the Papuan leaders were very
angry. When they calmed down they,
went to Governor Platteel, who asked
them what he could do. ‘Only one thing >
now’, they replied, ‘leave as soon as you
can. The longer you Dutch stay the
harder it will be for us’. Now they have
more or less gone underground politi-
cally. I do not think they will remain
silent for ever nevertheless.
“So far the country manages to keep
going, but God knows what will happen
in the future. I doubt whether either
UNTEA or the Indonesians have given
any thought to the problems and ex-
pense of maintaining the place. Apart


from unemployment on a larger scale
than you might imagine, there is also the
problem of maintaining such things as
light, power, water, hospital services, tele-
phones, roads, air services. When things
wear out who will replace them? For
example: dynamos? Telephone equip-
ment? Water filtration systems?
“So far there has been no breakdown
of anything in Hollandia, although we
hear things aren’t too good in Merauke.
The really bad things to have happened
so far is the cholera outbreak at Agats
in the Asmat. This was brought in by
Indonesians as we have never had it in
West New Guinea. We also expect
smallpox and other diseases.
“This raises not only a tremendously
grave situation here in West New Guinea
but sooner or later for East New Guinea
and if you pause to think of the daily
air traffic between Port Moresby and
Australia for the Australian mainland
as well.”
POLITICS
A HIDDEN PAY RISE FOR POLITICIANS
An extra £2 10s. a day for Committee work
As I see it
I>ECE N TL Y
the Press
has been under
attack in the Parliament. Parliamen-
tarians, including even such responsible
ones as Mr David Drummond, veteran
Country Party MHR, have suggested
that the Press goes out of its way to
denigrate Parliament as an institution.
These critics do not quote chapter and
verse. They merely make the general
assertion, and in some cases call for
retaliating anti-Press measures.
As I see it, it is about time the Parlia-
mentarians subjected themselves to some
critical self-examination. Is what these
Parliamentarians object to the fact that
the Press reports acts and actions by
Parliamentarians which are to their
personal advantage but do nothing to
enhance the prestige of the institution
they were elected to serve? When Labor’s
Senator Aylett pulled out of Tasmania,
which he was elected to represent, to
take over an estate agent’s functions on
Queensland’s Gold Coast, was he the one
who was doing Parliament’s reputation
no good, or was the Press at fault for
reporting this migration and his attempts
to have established —at taxpayers’ ex-
pense a Parliamentary office for his
convenience in that holiday resort?
The unpopularity enjoyed by the
Press among Parliamentarians extends
even to those members of their own
ranks who either bring to public atten-
tion or threaten to bring to public atten-
tion some aspect of Parliamentary
privilege that they would prefer to enjoy
discreetly. Senator lan Wood, a bachelor,
Liberal member from Queensland, is
currently enjoying this type of un-
popularity.
Wood, a rather independently-minded
man, has been making some inquiries
about the payments being made to
Parliamentary committees. Though the
amounts involved are relatively small,
Wood believes there is a quite important
principle involved.
His view is that Parliamentarians are
elected to do Parliamentary work. Com-
mittee work is an essential part of Parlia-
mentary work. If members do not want
to sit on committees, they should not
stand for them. They are under no
compulsion to do so. But if they do
stand and do take part in the com-
mittee's workings, they should not, par-
ticularly on days when the Parliament is
sitting and their attendance at committee
meetings involve them in no expense and
are their official excuse for absence from
the chamber, put out their hands to
receive £2 10s. a day in addition to their
normal sitting allowances of £4 a day
while they are in Canberra.
Wood's argument is that the scale of
pay and allowances laid down by the
Richardson committee, which investigated
thoroughly Parliamentarians’ needs and
conditions, was intended to cover what
a Parliamentarian should receive for
performing his Parliamentary duties.
The fixing of the basic salary at £2,750
a year and giving electorate allowances
ranging from £BOO to £1,050 a year,
while not lavish, was not ungenerous.
Why should Parliamentarians —or those
who participate in work on the com-
mittees for which payment is made
give themselves an unjustified pay rise?
While the amount is small the principle
is large. These same Parliamentarians
would be the first to object if others in
the community conferred upon them-
selves a similarly unjustified pay rise.
Yet this is what has been happening.
There are three paid committees —Public
Accounts, Public Works, and Foreign
Affairs. There are ten members on the
Public Accounts committee, nine on the
Public Works Committee, and twenty
on the Foreign Affairs Committee. Even
when they meet on days when the Parlia-
ment is sitting, when they could not
possibly be involved in any additional
expense, they receive £2 10s. a day to
add to the £4 a day they already get in
attendance money while in Canberra.
Some individual members are reported
to have discovered that they can make
this a lucrative little bonanza by arrang-
ing for sub-committee meetings which are
also eligible for bonus payments of
£2 10s. a day.
Mr Ward (Lab., NSW) has been con-
ducting similar investigations as Wood,
though, understandably, Ward is ex-
periencing some inhibitions. The Public
THE HANGING PARSON
October 28, 1882
The gentleman who accepted the
commission to hang the Irish
murderer, Hynes, at Cork, is a Primi-
tive Methodist Yorkshire local
preacher. The combination of
preacher and hangman is an odd one
almost as odd as that of Salvation
Army captain and swindler. The local
Methody preacher, however, is said to
be a real good fellow, clever with the
rope, ready with the text, and a first-
class cobbler into the bargain.
The London WORLD says that “it
is clear that the Australians have
not yet learned from the Old Country
one of the cricketer’s most valuable
lessons, how to lose a match well. This
has been no secret in England since
these visits first began, but courtesy,
and a desire to bury all memory of
certain unpleasant reminiscences of
Australian cricket, have led our play-
ers to ignore the fact. It is well
known that our Australian visitors
have scarcely suffered a single defeat
which they have not been able to ex-
plain entirely to their own satisfaction
by a curious theory of luck, which is
tenable only on the ‘heads I win, tails
you lose’, principle. That most hein-
ous of all crimes, disputing the urn-
pire’s decision, appears to be a regular
law of their cricketing code. Dis-
agreeable things have happened before
now in connection with these inter-
national contests. We have agreed to
forget them, and it is to be hoped
the Australians will be well advised
enough not to force us to recall them.”
Now, isn’t it strange that “our boys”
tell exactly the opposite story?


Accounts and Public Works Committees
have Labor members. Because the Labor
Party refuses to participate in its work-
ings, the Foreign Affairs Committee has
only Government members. So Ward
has been concentrating on the Foreign
Affairs Committee.
Ward’s investigations show that of 32
Foreign Affairs Committee meetings in
1960 and 26 in 1961, 27 and 23 respect-
ively were held on days when the Parlia-
ment was already sitting and members
were receiving the £4 a day they were
entitled to for being in Canberra. The
payments to members on these sitting
days have risen from nil in 1952 the
committee was formed in February, 1952
—to £2.396 in 1960 and £1,344 in 1961.
As I understand it, beneficiaries of
these payments have tried to get the
permanent officials of the Parliament to
agree that payments to members for
participation in committee activities are
justified. To their credit, at least, a
section of the officials have refused to
yield to the pressure to give the sanction
of their support to the payments. The
officials have stated firmly the view that
committee activities are part of a Parlia-
mentarian’s normal duties, even though
he is not compelled to participate in
them, and as such do not merit additional
payments. Despite the statement of these
views, the payments continue.
It would seem, in the light of these
rather shaky attempts to justify the entry
of a few pounds into their pockets, the
Parliamentarians should take rather a
close look at some of their own activities
before answering the question whether
it is the Press that denigrates Parlia-
ment or whether their protests are
against the Press reporting actions on
their part that they would prefer to go
unpublicisecf.
ALAN REID
A IS FOR AYLETT
SENATOR AYLETT'S
STRANGE DISEASE
"A quaint piece of genuine Australiana"
SENATOR AYLETT
Polio-Arthritis
HThe absentee Senator Aylett slipped out
A last week from his encounter with
the Tasmanian State Executive of the
ALP with his reputation among a large
body of Labor voters possibly enhanced.
Bill Aylett, these people say, is a wily
bird, and was this not another example of
his admirable ability to baffle his at-
tackers?
In fact, the State Executive’s decision
was made in advance by the Opposition
Leader in the Senate, Senator N. E. Mc-
Kenna. In Tasmania, the party is much
more embarrassed by Aylett’s continued
(and defiant) absence from the State
than by his continued (and defiant) ab-
sence from the Senate. The executive, at
the request of Aylett’s home-town Bass
Divisional Council, examined him,
nominally, about his apparent parlia-
mentary dereliction, but the real under-
current of hostility was generated by his
living and thriving in private business on
the Gold Coast.
However, Nick McKenna lives openly
and unashamed in Sydney; and while
McKenna remains a big and popular
figure in party circles the executive could
scarcely act against Aylett merely be-
cause he had chosen an even warmer
exile.
The protective shadow of McKenna
first spread over Aylett at the 1960 State
Conference of the ALP, at which there
was a determined move by Northern Tas-
manian members against him following
his departure to the Gold Coast. The
revelation of this migration by Alan Reid
a few months before had sparked some
of the angriest and least inhibited rank
and file criticisms of parliamentary mem-
bers since the salary grab. Frank Taylor,
of Launceston, who had quit the Federal
Executive at the time of the grab, was
one of those who led the attack on
Aylett’s absenteeism. The critics, careless
whether some of their shot scattered wide
enough to hit McKenna, demanded that
all candidates for Labor endorsement
should give an undertaking that they
would spend at least 90 per cent of their
time in their electorates. McKenna sup-
porters defeated the move.
Since then, of course, Aylett’s absence
from the Senate has raised him in status
from a local embarrassment to a national
liability.
Aylett went into the Senate in 1937,
the vintage of the A’s. NSW Labor
on that occasion produced Armour,
Armstrong, Arthur and Ashley, reinfor-
cing these baptismally lucky men with
Arnold three years later. Aylett’s record
as miner, timber worker and small
farmer was politically sound. He became
an active, if never very significant, mem-
ber of the Senate and a notable in-
fighter. Alphabetically-assisted, he topped
the party poll in 1943, but stresses were
increasing, and he was dropped from
the party ticket, along with fellow-travel-
ling Senator William Morrow, at the 1952
State Conference.
However, the death of a senator in-
creased the vacancies for the 1953 poll,
and he was reinstated, but as No. 4 on
the party ticket. Undeterred by this slight
misunderstanding, Aylett produced his
own how-to-vote cards and advertise-
ments, on which his name was restored
to its rightful alphabetical slot. He won
Labor’s third seat in a close fight, and
was thereupon severely reprimanded by
the State Executive for his deviation,
Aylett apparently shrugged this off in
accordance with the maxim that the party
could accept him as half a loaf or reject
him and have no bread.
He continued to embarrass the party
privately, though going through all the
motions in his electorate and in the
House, and in the 1958 poll he came
home second, riding in on Justin O'-
Byrne’s big surplus.
No sooner had the new Senate moved
in on July 1, 1959, than Alan Reid's
revelation of the Gold Coast move shook
the party. There were protracted
wranglings as to whether he could move
his government telephone, typewriter,
secretary and ofifice to his new home. In
the end he had to keep his office in
Launceston, where it became the resort
of other Federal members and their
secretaries for morning and afternoon
teas.
He slipped into the oblivion which no
doubt suited him until the beginning of
the new session this year focused atten-
tion on his absence from the Senate. Now
he had become a pain in the neck to
the parliamentary party and the Federal
Executive. Could they have expelled him
from the House so that he would
automatically have been replaced by a
new Labor senator selected from Tas-
mania they would undoubtedly have
done so; but their dilemma has been
whether to suffer his unfavorable Press
and unreliability in the hope that be
would do the right thing in some vital
division, or to expel him from the party
and accept his possible active hostility)
but gain stature in the eyes of an elec-
torate which is singularly disillusioned by
his private activity and public inactivity-
On October 11, the Federal Executive
“expressed grave concern at the be-


m
Hftli *
XT3
TA'o
P*ift»K
r II Av» W ®
Pink
for
girls
If she says “gorgeous", "delightful”, "heavenly",
chances are it’s Romalo Pink Champagne. A gay,
scintillating wine for joyous times ... for parties,
weddings and ever-so-specia! dinners for two.
All over the world sophisticates celebrate with Pink
Champagne. Australia's finest is Romalo.
Trade Enquiries: S. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd.
348 St. Kilda Road, Melbourne
haviour of Senator Aylett and his con
tinued unwarranted absence from Par-
liament, which is an affront to the party
and to the electors he represents (sic)
We will await the outcome of the pro-
ceedings in Tasmania before again con-
sidering the matter.”
The State Executive having “considered
the matter” and accepted Senator Aylett’s
explanation that illness was keeping him
away from Parliament and his assurance
that he would “do everything possible,
having regard to his health, to attend
Senate sittings”, the ball has gone back
to the Federal Executive’s court.
In a television interview last week in
Launceston, in which he emerged as one
mainland interviewer said “as a quaint
piece of genuine Australiana,” Senator
Aylett was adamant that his main trouble
was polio-arthritis. Reporters sought in-
formation about this from doctors and
returned to the senator next morning to
tell him that the profession hadn’t heard
of it. Senator Aylett had the devastating
last word: “Any doctor who says polio-
arthritis is not a disease is a quack.”
COMMONWEALTH GAMES
EMPTY STANDS
Incomplete plumbing
T)erth’s Commonwealth Games image
is showing a little tarnish only a
month before the Games open. Despite
repeated assertions that all the games
sites would be finished on or before
schedule, there are indications that the
swimmers might be ploughing up the
records before empty stands.
The £1,000,000 pool, praised by seve-
ral experts as the best of its kind in the
world, is already about a month behind
its completion date and a walk-off by
the plumbing sub-contractor last week
looks like setting it back even further.
Plumbing sub-contractor J. D. Downie
pulled his men off the job over the
alleged non-payment of £lO,OOO for
work done. It is not quite clear whether
the money is owed by the Perth City
Council or the main pool contractor, H.
A- Doust, but it is certain that if the
dispute is not settled there is a grave
danger that the swimming events will be
conducted without an audience.
Plumbing still to be completed includes
public lavatories and toilet facilities for
the Press, and a Public Health Depart-
ment spokesman has made it quite clear
that without public lavatories a public
building cannot be used by the public.
Conferences between the parties in
erth last week failed to settle the dis-
pute, and the Perth City Council has
now called in a quantity surveyor to try
nnd reconcile Mr Downic’s claims.
COMMUNIST PARTY
DOWN HILL
In Eureka Hall
TED HILL
7 votes
Tn the more successful days of the Aus-
tralian Communist Party, the Eureka
Youth League Hall in North Melbourne
was often the scene of many a happy
dance held to raise funds for the Party
and to recruit many young members
from the surrounding highly industrial-
ised areas. Sometimes top Party offi-
cials, including the Party boss, Mr Ted
Hill, used to attend and smile benevo-
lently.
But a fortnight ago Mr Hill was danc-
ing to the tune piped by visiting Party
officials, Mr R. Dixon, National Presi-
dent, Mr Lance Sharkey, National Secre-
tary, Mr L. Aarons, National Vice-Presi-
dent, and Mr Claude Jones a leading
member of the Central Committee of the
Party and a full-time functionary. The
NSW delegation laid down the current
ideological line to their Victorian com-
rades, and denounced the “left-sectarian-
ism” of Comrade Plill and his few sup-
porters.
By 20 votes to 7 the “outside inter-
ference” of the visiting delegation was
successful and some of Hill’s supporters,
Flo. Russel], Kenneth Miller, and Paddy
Maloney, of the Builders’ Laborers’ Fede-
ration, also came under fire. The Vic-
torian Secretary of the Australian Rail-
ways’ Union, Mr J. J. Brown (who it is
rumored in Party circles is marked for
the axe), lent his support to the criticism
of fellow-Victorian Hill.
The significance of the meeting is that
the Australian Party is now firmly under
Soviet, not Chinese, influence.
In effect this means that the Com-
munist Party’s “peace” fronts will re-
ceive more loving attention from Com-
munist members, “peace” parsons will be
flattered and efforts will be made to in-
crease the Party’s influence inside the
fertile ground of the Labor Party, par-
ticularly in Victoria and Queensland.
Within the trade unions, Party members
will not stand for union positions against
those members of the Labor Party who
are “sympathetic to socialism’’.
Sharkey’s Melbourne journey repre-
sents for him a change of face of a year
ago when all evidence pointed to his
(and the Australian Party’s) adopting the
Chinese “war is inevitable” line. In Party
journals a more sympathetic attitude to
Tito’s Yugoslavia will be adopted, the
World Peace Council and the World
Federation of Trade Unions will receive
more prominence, and there may even be
articles attacking China’s ally, Albania.
If Hill refuses to recant and resists
the ideological pressure, stemming main-
ly from Sharkey and Aarons, he is cer-
tain to be expelled from the Party.
MUGGA


Around Melbourne
MR BOLTE AND THE STUDENTS
F|avid Hirt lives at Picken Court,
the very elegant block in Ormond
College designed by Grounds, Rom-
berg and Boyd. On the walls of his
room are prints by Nolan, Brack,
Dadswell, Botticelli and Picasso; a sign
“ART IS LOVE OF GOD” and a very
small picture of Mr Bolte, presumably
by a Sun photographer. David Hirt
is 26 and he wears a large black beard.
His fellow students call him Castro.
He trained as a sheet metal worker
at Technical School, worked in fac-
tories and in his own words was a
drifter until he decided to go into the
church. He is now a theological
student and he will become a Presby-
terian Minister.
Hirt is chairman of the Students’
Anti-Hanging Committee. He is
worth writing about because he is an
example of a new type at the Univer-
sity, or at least a type we haven’t seen
since the ’thirties. Last year the
students, well-organised, fought a
battle against White Australia through
the federal election. Now on a moral
issue the Movement is even bigger; it
has been more in the public eye and
rarely have the students waged a
campaign so long, so expensively and
so close to the annual examinations.
Rarely too have they so irritated the
Government.
Execution time was not far off when
I met David Hirt at Picken Court —
although execution has since been
postponed. I asked him for the story of
the Movement. He said: “When the
news came through on August 7 that
the Government intended to hang Tait
I was not happy with this decision as
a person. I spoke to several fellow
theologues and told them if necessary
I would picket Pentridge on my own.
I knew the answer I’d get. We started
by picketing Flinders Street Station.
We were abused and spat at. The
general public wants to hang Tait.”
Hirt explained that the next move
came on August 13. Alan Pilkington,
secretary of the SRC, called a meeting,
which was attended by 600 students
(remarkable during the university
vacation) and the anti-hanging com-
mittee was formed.
They purchased 150,000 handbills,
they roneoed fact sheets and they did
such things as sending a copy of
“Hanged By The Neck” (a Penguin
special by C. M. Rolph and Arthur
Koestler) to every member of Parlia-
ment.
Hirt explained that they tried to
issue their literature on street corners
but they were ordered off the streets.
They went to the town clerk and made
application for petition points so that
they could collect signatures. The
application was refused. Later they
applied to collect signatures at the
MCG during the Grand Final, but it
was refused. They asked the RNA if
they could collect signatures during
the Royal Show. This too was refused
although a wild horses petition was
being collected at the time.
“We presumed from this horses
were more important than humans,”
said Hirt. The Committee wrote to
Mr Bolte and invited him to visit the
University and speak about capital
punishment, promising him a quiet
respectful hearing. There was no
reply. The Committee then asked for
a member of cabinet. Mr Bolte then
replied that the Committee, if it wish-
ed, could contact any minister or any
member. The Committee contacted
12 ministers or members. None came.
September 20 they asked if they
could present their petition of
16,000 signatures on September 26.
There was no reply until 1.30 p.m. on
the final day, a call came saying that
they could leave it at the Premier’s
office.
“We were upset about this,” said
Hirt. “It was like saying you can
leave it on the door step with the milk.
Roughly at the same time the Earl
of Harewood on behalf of an Anti-
Hanging group in England presented
a petition of 6000 signatures. His
deputation, at the height of the Com-
mon Market negotiations, was courte-
ously received by Mr Macmillan.
“Eventually we passed on our petition
to the Deputy Leader of the Opposi-
tion, Mr Lovegrove. We feel we
have at least a responsibility to the
16,000 who signed the petition. Even-
tually Mr Lovegrove will present it
but Mr Bolte hasn’t received him yet.”
Mr Bolte visited the University on
October 11 to open the Secondary
Teachers’ College building. David
Hirt said the night before there were
rumors all over the University, that
this was to be a big show, flour bombs
and all. “This was the last thing we
wanted. To prove our sincerity the
whole thing had to be kept orderly.
A silent accusing demonstration would
be best of all. On the day there were
2500 students in the demonstration.
There were megaphones, a bass drum.
They shouted “Henry The Hanger.”
The tyres of Mr. Bolte’s car were de-
flated and one student even lay under
the car. Bolte called them “misguided
juveniles” and was so incensed he can-
celled the annual Cabinet meeting at
the University for the following Mon-
day.”
David Hirt said the Committee
very much regretted the incidents that
took place, but at the same time,
considering the numbers present, he
felt the demonstration was orderly.
The deflating of tyres wasn’t really
that serious. It happened to Mr Mac-
millan every time he went to Oxford
and he never complained.
The next move was the picketing of
Parliament House. Over 100 students
went on to a two hour roster system,
working right round the clock. They
carried a lantern and the idea was
that the lantern would be extinguished
at 8 a.m. on October 22, the moment
of Tait’s execution.
This annoyed the parliamentarians
more than anything. Sir Herbert Hy-
land, the Country Party leader, called
it “The parade of long-haired and
unwashed University students,” and
he wanted to know whether the crowd
out there was the type the Govern-
ment was paying to keep at the Uni-
versity.
Mr Bolte said that the students
parading outside Would be well and
truly amongst the 40 per cent of
failures at the University, and there
was a cry from the back benches
“They are just idiots.”
David Hirt said perhaps there
would be failures. The examinations
were as close as October 29, but the
Committee would carry on even
though it was running into debt. Apart
from the picketing there would be an
all-night vigil outside Pentridge until
the 8 a.m. hanging. This was some-
thing they felt deeply about.
It was nearly 10 a.m., lectures were
starting, so I said, “Good-bye.” As I
departed I spotted something I missed
when I came in. Under the picture
of Mr Bolte was a card depicting two
hands in an attitude of prayer.
BATMAN


STANDING ORDERS
AN UNPUBLICISED THREAT
Limiting Questions in Parliament
By G. S. REID
A few more nails will be driven into
the Parliamentary coffin if the Fede-
ral Parliament accepts as it probably
will the new set of procedural stand-
ing orders recently recommended by the
Standing Orders Committee of the House
of Representatives.
Their effect can best be illustrated in
the Committee’s proposals for Standing
Orders relating to parliamentary ques-
tions. Much has been written of the pro-
cedure for parliamentary questions, as it
has evolved in the British House of Com-
mons, and of its transplantation to par-
liaments in many countries of the world.
Glowing testimonials are usually given
as to its efficacy: The question period is
the democratic answer to the problem of
ensuring that those who exercise autho-
rity can be challenged by the elected re-
presentatives without having to observe
the debating formalities of motion, ques-
tion and decision.
The question period of the House of
Representatives that most Australians
know, mainly through parliamentary
broadcasting, is the period of “Questions
without notice”. Here, answers are un-
prepared, or allegedly so; they are often
evasive and sometimes ill-formed, and
there is no comparable provision for
supplementary questions. But they are
better than nothing.
So it is surprising to find that the
Standing Orders Committee plans to
diminish the effectiveness of the question
period even further. The Committee re-
affirms a provision of the old Standing
Orders (S.O. 142), which sets the scope
of questioning:
“Questions may be put to a Minis-
ter relating to public affairs with which
he is officially connected, to proceed-
ings pending in the House, or to any
matter of administration for which he
is responsible”.
But the Order then sets out to take
away from the House the freedom that
the above provision gives: “Questions”, it
state, should not ask:
“Ministers to state the government’s
policy, but may seek an explanation
regarding the intentions of the govern-
ment and may ask the Prime Minister
to state whether a Ministers statement
represents government policy”.
The provision excluding questions “to
state the government’s policy” crept into
the “permanent” Standing Orders in
1950. Now it has been expanded to ack-
nowledge the ascendancy of the Prime
Minister in Ministerial Affairs.
„ 7 . , .. , , ~
y s ou d the challenge be limited
to matters ot administrative detail? Ob-
viously, the necessity for the clarification
ot the government's policy will arise fre-
quently, and the question period is ad-
mirably suited to this purpose. Is it free
and truly democratic” that any Minister
° t ] ie 5^ rov y n s h° u M have the authority
o the Standing Orders behind him to es-
cape parliamentary responsibility at
Question Time with the assertion That,
I am afraid, is a matter of policy’ ?
There is proposal too that “Ques-
tions should not ask Whether state-
ments in newspapers, news reports, books,
etc., or of private individuals or unofficial
bodies are accurate”; and that questions
“should not contain precise extracts from
newspapers, news reports, books,
speeches, etc.”
Uo loo* f 1 •
•. . ~ \ - p .
7* U °“ S ’ “J' fT imprecise ex-
racts are acceptable The report explains
WvidTb y v a" 8 ,7 “ af
provided he makes himself responsib e
r .. , v .
tor its accuracy, may draw attention to
, . , . J ~ T
a statement in the newspaper, etc . It
„ 7 „„i r . t ~ u i , .
would seem that the who e proposal is
, . . .. , F F
an undue restriction upon the question-
t , , ,■ r Tt • •
ing freedom ot members. If it is pro-
voked by the prolix,ty of questions, then,
surely, it would be sufficient to provide
that questions should be brief and to
„ „ ..... , ,
the point . Or possibly it is provoked
by what is deemed to be an ir.discrimi-
nate use of newspaper extracts. But
newspapers, whether we like it or not,
supply members with a large part of
their basic information for questions.
The members cannot be expected to
vouch for the accuracy of every detail of
newspaper extracts they wish to use in
questions. As a result, under this pro-
vision many penetrating questions will be
excluded. And once more the govern-
ment will gain, for often half-truths are
sufficient to reveal official inefficiencies
and the abuse of power.
But the most serious limitation upon
free speech in the House is embodied in
the new proposal that—
“ Questions should not contain dis-
courteous references to a friendly
country or its representatives”.
Presumably the Speaker is to be left
with the invidious task of determining
impartially what is a “friendly country”
and what is “discourteous”.
More importantly, the provision will
intrude upon the privileges of private
members. Its implications are serious.
The essence of our parliamentary demo-
cracy is that members of Parliament ac-
cept the political responsibility for any-
thing that they say under the cloak of
parliamentary privilege. To curb the con-
tent of their utterances by formal pros-
cription, in any form, even by apparent
self-denial in the Standing Orders, would
be a dangerous precedent. This proposal
constitutes an unwarranted limitation
upon the parliamentary process; it is dia-
metrically opposed to all that the parlia-
mentary institution stands for; and it is
surprising that such a recommendation
should come from a committee com-
prised of members of the House. The
Standing Orders, if this is accepted, will
read like Queen’s Regulations.
(Continued next week: New
Rules for financial business.)
"If if comes to the worst there's always the Melbourne Cup if
only we could learn to gallop."


OUT AND ABOUT
Terrace Houses
The inner ring of the city has become the fashionable fringe
By PATRICIA ROLFE
IT must come as something of a sur-
prise to old-time residents of the
inner ring of Sydney to find they
are now on the fashionable fringe. How-
ever, it has taken a good deal of im-
ported enthusiasm for Sydney to revise
its view of what was usually dismissed as
slums, and for a number of people,
mostly actors and artists and authors and
such to settle for terrace-house living.
Overseas visitors seem, without diffi-
culty, to overlook our new building and
our Colonial treasures, to concentrate on
our terrace houses which have no quality
except their uniqueness.
English architect Dr Reyner Banham
this year was the latest of a long line.
He said that Sydney’s terrace houses
were “superb the best feature of the
city”.
Visitors, who are neither architects
nor of a critical turn of mind (the criti-
cal deplore the red roofs or the subur-
ban sprawl) also tend to annex the ter-
race houses as their own special discov-
ery. A few months ago English actress
Joyce Grenfell was writing back to “The
Sydney Morning Herald”:
“As a visitor who loves Sydney and
who has been inside some of the re-
claimed terrace houses and knows how
pleasantly practical and pleasing they can
be, may I beg that someone with a ‘see-
ing’ eye has the vision to preserve these
terraces for future generations. . . .
Even if you look at the whole subject
solely from a commercial point of view,
it is a good idea to keep something to
show the tourists. Look at New
Orleans.”
Our “seeing eyes” the Cumberland
County Council and the National Trust
have begun only recently to turn their
thoughts towards the domestic architec-
ture of the latter part of the 19th century.
Although there are a few terrace houses
recommended by these bodies for pre-
servation, they are just the gap-toothed,
rare remnants of what were the Georgian
and Regency terraces, such as No. 147
Macquarie Street.
The indefatigable chronicler of our
architectural history, Mr Morton Her-
man, is steadily working his way from
the colonial through the Victorian age,
but, so far, has concentrated mainly on
public buildings. His latest book, on
Blacket, will be published next month
by Angus and Robertson. Mr Herman
has not yet done a detailed study of the
Victorian terrace house, although he de-
clares he “loves” them. “They are per-
fect folk architecture”, he said. “I’d
certainly buy one, if I could afford it. But
prices have gone up from £2OOO to about
£7OOO for some of them in the past, say,
seven years.”
Mr Herman feels he can testify to the
uniqueness of what is regarded as the
typical, or “wedding-cake” terrace house
with its cast-iron balcony and railings
and elaborate plasterwork. He said that
the closest he had seen to them was
in the West of England. New Orleans
is quite different, as even inexpert eyes
have testified. “I have seen some pecu-
liar things in France but nothing quite
like these,” Mr Herman said. Mr Her-
man said that although the Melbourne
development of cast-iron work and ter-
race houses was simultaneous with Syd-
ney there were distinct differences. “If
you mixed a row of Sydney and Mel-
bourne houses I could pick out which
was which in a minute,” he said.
Sydney artist, Mr Cedric Flower, has
brought a loving, if ironic, eye to his
drawings of some of the houses. Mr
Flower has filled several sketch-books,
and some sketches may be the only sou-
venir of houses which have been demol-
ished. He feels that the quality which
makes the houses appeal to visitors is
their exuberance, and he has an extended
theory on how they evolved from the
chaste Georgian terrace.
The great period of the terrace house
was the 1880 s, when the wealth from
gold had become consolidated, when land
was booming in the growing city and
speculators were seeking to make the
most economic use of the land for
which they were paying increasingly high
prices. Terrace houses of three, or four,
storeys, were the answer. (By the 1890 s
the onset of the depression slowed the
building of terrace houses, and the in-
troduction of more mechanical building
methods changed their character.)
As Mr Flower points out, the late
Victorians were able to afford more than
just a house. They were able to de-
corate it, and, characteristically, the de-
coration was all on the facade. Growing
in wealth and self-importance, the late
Victorians borrowed for decoration al-
most every motif which in previous times
had been the symbol of wealth and
power. For their plasterwork and cast
iron they used classic urns, swags, for-
mal fruit arrangements, lions rampant.
In Melbourne, which for once was less
conservative than Sydney, they chose
masks which Sydney used only on public
buildings.
All these, Mr Flower believes, were
the symbols of the new egalitarianism,
the visible signs that the century of the
common man had begun. (One struc-
tural difference in the terrace to show
changed thinking was the disappearance
in the 1870 s of the terrace house with
a basement. Servants were moving up in
the world.) The result of this thinking
may have been the antithesis of that con-
stipated concept, good taste, but it had
enormous gusto and verve.
If the terraces celebrated the egali-
tarianism of the 1880 s, today’s buyers
of them are, perhaps, in the main trying
to escape the levelling effects of the
mid-20th century. Most of them are in
full flight from the outer suburbs. The
terrace-house buyer turns his back both
on the bungalow and the home unit, and
feels, in most cases, that he gains the
benefits and escapes the disadvantages
of both.
He gains privacy and proximity to the
city. Perhaps the most important thing,
from the sociological viewpoint, is that
he is no longer living in an area where
his neighbors have the same income, the
same sized family and the same views
on life generally. The newcomer must
adapt himself to the ways of both the
old-established residents, who may have
lived in the street a lifetime, and the
ways of the Europeans who gravitated
to the terrace house as representing most
closely what they had been used to in
Europe. These adjustments can be a
salutary experience.
The reclamation of terrace houses in
the inner ring of the city is still spas-
modic. A new owner will be scouring
the tips and second-hand yards in search
of cast iron at about £3 a foot to restore
his terrace as a bijou town-house, while
his next-door neighbor is still busy pull-
ing down the cast-iron verandah railing
and replacing it with some nice new
fibro to make a sleep-out for daughter
and her hubby. The new owner may be


"Harold," a pair of houses in Missenden Road, Camperdown.
'Mabel Villa" in Johnston Street,
Annandale.
PvJ IVI I.
Terrace with corner shop in Gurner Street, Paddington.
Detail of terrace house, "Clifton",
at Paddington.
Terrace houses, one surmounted by a lion, in Glen Street, Paddington,
from the sketch-books of Sydney artist, Cedric Flower.


repainting in pale pink with black cast-
iron, while his Italian neighbor is busy
with purple and yellow.
Perhaps Jersey Road, Woollahra, is
the closest to a complete area where the
restoration of houses in sufficient quan-
tity has both transformed the appearance
of the area and added appreciably to the
value of property. Restoration is still not
nearly on the scale of London, where
some very unpromising areas, such as in
Islington, have been restored with a great
deal of profit to the far-sighted who buy
in early and cheaply.
Although the terrace reached its full
flower of development in the 1880 s, and
with the depression declined quite rapidly
in the 1890 s, it was, of course, a con-
tinuous development. The houses in
Argyle Place, the No. 1 showplace of
Sydney domestic architecture of the last
century, span nearly 50 years and a
variety of styles. They thus provide in
a couple of hundred feet examples of
various houses built, but they do not
have the splendid sweep of the London
squares.
However, in spite of their greed and
ambition, the developers, particularly in
Paddington, did a job of street architec-
ture which modern planners could hardly
better, and which is certainly better than
the type of thing being done today. The
senior lecturer in town planning at the
University of NSW, Mr John Shaw, has
pointed out that the terrace houses of
Paddington almost perfectly fit the con-
tours of the landscape.
View From the Laundry
the other hand, the Victorians ap-
” parently were so intent on putting all
the decoration to the front of the house
that they ignored such considerations
as harbor view or aspect. Many of the
Paddington terraces have views only
from the laundry, or perhaps from a
back bedroom. When some of Mr
Shaw's students designed what they
thought was a possible modern version of
the terrace-house, the great single change
which most of the students made was
to place the living-room at the back, so
that it became one with the enclosed
garden.
The Sydney terrace builders, greedy to
get the maximum from their land, gene-
rally ran the back of the house into a
sort of dog leg, where they put the scul-
lery, or what served as a bathroom. In
London, most of the terraces are squared
off at the back, so that the view for those
overlooking the back is almost as pleas-
ing as the front.
Perhaps the great advantages of the
Sydney terrace were the small front
verandah and the extended wail which
gave maximum privacy. However, some
architects now believe that detail, such
as the “drill” of cast-iron overhanging
the verandah were not the brilliant dis-
coveries of local builders to defeat the
hot climate, ft is now felt that most
adaptations to suit a hot climate, such
as verandahs or cantilevered balconies,
came to Australia, via England, from
other hot colonies, such as India.
Although the terrace houses were gene-
rally built by speculators for sale or rent,
Mr Herman believes that nonetheless
some of them were designed by archi-
tects. “Some were substantial houses for
substantial people,” he said. “Most of
them are well built because Victorians
were practical people who demanded
value for money.”
Mr Herman advises anyone buying
one today to have it inspected by an
expert. “Some of them may have thick
walls which are soundproof, but they
may trap water,” he said. “There are
terrific differences in these houses. Some
I wouldn’t touch at any price.”
Some terrace houses in Sydney have
changed hands tw'o or three times since
their rise in popularity and price began.
Now, when a sale is made, the excuse
for the inflated price is that the house
has been “done up”. “Doing up” may, in
fact, mean that poor quality paint has
been slapped on the exterior and interior.
Another improvement may have been
the removal of the cast iron.
Buyers then have to spend money
or, in these times, more probably, time
and energy, in painfully removing paint
from solid wood doors, repainting ceil-
ings and walls which have been painted
in those modern, decorator colors. Then
enthusiasts have had to search for cast-
iron work and pay high prices for it be-
fore the house is back to what it was
before it w'as “done up”.
Sometimes improvements do include
rebuilding bathrooms and kitchens, and
it is w'hen the buyer considers his stan-
dards in this respect that he know's W'hat
his terrace house w'ill cost him. Almost
invariably, a good deal of money has to
be spent on a terrace house before real
value is added to it, and before it can be
said that its life has been indefinitely
prolonged.
You couldn't put a ceiling on what
might be spent. Some terrace houses
have been virtually gutted and rebuilt.
When architect Mr Neville Anderson re-
designed two terraces to make one house
for Professor Denis Winston at Wool-
lahra, he put a whole new back to one
terrace.
The cast-iron which decorates most
Sydney terrace houses has been in
fashion somewhat longer than the houses
themselves. This decoration is essential
to the character of the house.
Mr Graeme Robinson, in his “Vic-
torian Heritage”, which has done for
Melbourne Victorian domestic architec-
ture what no one has yet done for Syd-
ney’s, says that in London the ironwork
is usually “something decorative added
to the architectural work, an eyebrow,
as it were, rather than a part of the
structure of the face"’. But Sydney build-
ers, running inevitably a generation be-
hind English design, went much further
than that.
Although most of the lavish ironwork
belongs to the 1880 s, iron was being cast
in Sydney by Peter Nicol Russell in the
1840 s. By the 1880 s there were many
foundries, all busy, and all, apparently,
also busy stealing each other's designs.
Classic Devices
TVl'any of the designs were based on
classic devices, but later Australian
motifs, including kangaroos, emus and
the sulphur-crested cockatoo, were. used.
Foundries used to register their designs,
and the register was, after Federation,
taken over by the Commonwealth. In
this way, it is often easier to know' who
made the cast iron on a house than it is
to trace who built the house.
The return of the terrace house to
fashion has by no means assured its sur-
vival. Vast plans to rebuild the inner
ring of Sydney are still talked of, but
such an idea is no more than a faraway
look in the eye of the Cumberland
County Council.
Mr Herman is inclined to think that
the restoration in Paddington is enough
to keep that area intact almost inde-
finitely. He believes that if enough
people had the inclination tow'ards ter-
race-house living the Redfern area could
come back just as successfully as Pad-
dington, although there are no harbor
view's. Mr Herman is not too hopeful
about Glebe, although it is regarded by
some as the most fascinating area in the
inner ring. The Church of England owns
a good deal of property there. In the
shadow of an immense block of flats,
the church is at present restoring some
terraces. It has waited until a tenant
left, then moved tenants successively out
of each house while renovating has been
done.
The Maritime Services Board owns
many of the houses in the city area, in-
cluding, of course, Argyle Place. The
board is at present painting a terrace
in Kent Street. The Argyle Place and
Lower Fort Street houses seem safe for
some time, but if and when the Rocks
schemes come to something Susanne Ter-
race, in Gloucester Street, dating from
1844, is due for demolition.
Only a year ago Alderman F. Moran
of the City Council w'as roundly declar-
ing that “all old single homes in the
city should be demolished and replaced
by high-density housing”. The fact that
they are talking like that in the council
is perhaps the best guarantee that the
Sydney terrace house is safe for some
time to come.


5 GOOD
REASONS WHY
I ALWAYS USE
MY
v,' •' ■
V
V
V-
nr
i a
jr
'N. M *
■•'■vs..
\v\
'■
/
V"
• No other pipe has greater strength. Steel pipe is not
fragile or susceptible to damage by stock or fire, so can be
laid above ground, saving cost of trenching. It also with-
stands far greater pressures and that's important, too.
• Steel pipe lasts longer. Steel pipe doesn't deteriorate in
sunlight or with exposure, is not damaged by termites or
rodents. Its inherent strength enables it to withstand all
sorts of external impacts undamaged.
• Steel pipe costs less. On account of its much longer life
and comparatively low initial cost, I have found steel pipe a
far more economical buy than any other type, of
I've tried them all.
0 Steel pipe is easy to instal, handle or store. Steel pipe,
being so sturdy can be surface-laid, then dismantled and
relaid in a new location or stored without risk of damage
in handling.
• Steel pipe has so many uses. Its inbuilt strength and rigidity permit a wide
variety of uses, not practical for other fragile or flexible types of pipe, such
as vertical and overhead installations. That's why I say, "Give me steel pipe
every time."
FOR GREATER STRENGTH . . . LONGER LIFE . . . EXTRA VALUE - INSIST ON STEEL PIPE
St EWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
<iSA.3.5*l


BIG MONEY LOSERS—1962
2. When The Land Bubble Burst
By DON HENDERSON
Looking back over the last two years,
the now chastened business com-
munity can only wonder why it did
not see the 1961-62 bust coming. The
seeds for it were well and truly planted
in the carefree 1960 year.
Over-use of credit by a careless public
had led to misguided expansion on many
business fronts. Motor cars, television
sets, refrigerators and the like were
churned out with little regard to the
nation's ability to sustain this rate of
absorption of what have become essential
living commodities.
The failures and losses that came
to light in 1961 and 1962, however,
did not come in any great number from
the field of genuine industry. Previous
untested efficiencies were put on the spot,
in many cases with natural consequences.
Many small businesses one-man
shows and the like —collapsed under the
strain of the credit squeeze at a time
when their sales were falling in line with
the readjustment of production schedules
throughout secondary industry.
But there was not one major company
to fail because of the “dampening down.”
Several genuine industrialists have in-
deed felt the pinch; but these setbacks
cannot be blamed on the Government’s
economic moves—as much as those did
prompt the setback.
South Australia’s Pope Industries,
Victoria’s Electronic Industries, and
NSW's AEI Ltd headed the downturn
in the television industry. In two of
these cases, a recovery is well evident
already.
There are other major industrial enter-
prises which, too, could be classed as
big money-losers of 1962; some seem
certain to suffer permanent damage; a
few may eventually fail, but most will
be able to expunge 1962 from their
memories.
So, in all, the whole thing was little
more than a temporary pause for in-
dustrial prosperity. The “new look”
industry is that much more efficient and
stable than it was in 1960. False buoy-
ancy—which would have precipitated a
collapse anyhow—has been written out
of the business scene.
Not so other sections of business life.
Whereas industrial overconfidence was
marginal above normal and realistic
levels, 1960 commerce, at its heart, was
not.
If there had been no speculative boom
in land in 1960, there would have been
no major collapses. That much is
certain.
When the Federal Government laid
its traps to catch the runaway economy
in November, 1960 (see Part 1 last
week), special emphasis was placed on
the need to take the bloom off what
must now be regarded as an absurd
boom in land of all types.
The outside market for money—out-
side or on the “fringe” of official market
became irresponsibly exuberant in
1960. Speculation in land became the
main activity of commercial enterprise.
Entrepreneurs, many of little con-
sequence and standing, jumped on to
the band wagon of land. All types of
schemes were designed. Public com-
panies offering ordinary shares, land unit
trusts, private companies with limited
risks on the promoters’ part offered high
interest rates, subdivision schemes,
grandiose development ventures, real
estate agencies zoomed; land holders were
besieged by anxious buyers. Yes, land
was “in”.
Public funds poured into real estate
in 1960.
With the boom came the warnings of
professionals. But, “all heedless of their
doom . . .”, the public was not to be
put off. The boom went on, right up
to November 15, 1960. It failed that
night and from this crash came the
really big money losers of 1962.
Prompted by the very apparent neglect
of fundamentals by real estate developers
in this “crazy” boom, The Bulletin of
June 13 of 1960 wrote of the dangers
inherent in a land boom, saying, in part:
“A land boom can end more quickly
and more disastrously than a share
boom . .
Staniforth Ricketson earlier had said:
“Indeed, the situation approximates the
disastrous ‘land boom’ of the 1880's,
which left many thousands of speculators
licking their financial wounds for two
decades or more.”
He went on to say that “one of the
most serious dangers associated with the
land boom is the fact that the purchase
of many properties for subdivision and
many building projects in city, suburban,
seaside and country areas are being
financed by short term loans and
deposits. Once this source of finance
begins to dry up, as it may well do as
the general public become more aware
of the risks involved, many of the houses
of cards built on real estate speculation
could topple in ruins.”
This was to prove all too true before
12 months had passed.
When the land bubble finally burst
under the weight of the tax on corporate
interest payments and the credit squeeze,
the repercussions were widespread.
Besides the many failures directly
resulting from the crash, there was to
follow a loss of confidence throughout
the economy because of the psychological
influence of widespread failure.
As in the cases of bad basic business
quoted last week, the land failures of
the true speculators was to come quickly.
Newcomer real estate “get rich quick”
developers particularly in Sydney
and Melbourne lost all remarkably
suddenly.
They had no other resources, to repay
the borrowings they had made from the
public, other than land which, in the
first place, lost value sharply overnight
and, more important, could not attract
a buyer even if sale was urgent.
The public’s loss of money (as well
as confidence) must not be underesti-
mated. The actual flow of funds to
vendors in the latter part of 1960 for
speculative land has been estimated at
over <£ 100 million.
A good deal of this was lost, especially
in land purchased for specialised reasons
such as home unit sites, motels, etc., and
subdivisional properties at resorts. This
type of land still remains unsaleable even
at prices down to a third of the 1960 cost.
The larger real estate developers at-
tempted valiantly to cloak the damage
done. They gambled on a quick re-
covery in the economy.
Into this class, goes the much malign-
ed L. J. Hooker group. To protect share-
holders from an earlier than necessary
loss, the Hooker group acted quickly,


selling capital assets to offshoots (Cen-
tenary Estates in Brisbane) and stock
from its widespread Buckland property
to cloak a trying liquid position in its
main development business
As 1961 progressed it must have be-
come patently clear to the Hooker board
that the recovery was going to be longer
coming than was envisaged earlier in
1961. Yet, there were many signs that
did point to recovery.
For those reasons the Hooker group
produced an £850,000 profit for 1960-61,
the bulk of which later was to be re-
vealed as non-trading. The recovery
did not come in real estate; and inevit-
ably the Hooker empire faced the situ-
ation squarely.
Last month the company announced
a trading loss of £639,249 for 1961-62.
It doesn’t end here, for more important
are the losses the group has suffered in
its holdings of real estate subdivision
properties, particularly at resorts. These
are yet to be announced, but several
authorities suggest that the present value
of these holdings is worth less than 50
per cent of what was paid for them
in the land boom of 1960.
A tidier organisation
TTooker’s losses possibly could be
blamed, fairly and squarely, on the
Government’s measures of November
1960. Perhaps that company’s failure to
heed the warnings of others, coupled with
a failure to reasonably value the land for
which it bid up highly, could discount
the attachment of responsibility to the
Government. Certainly it has all the
marks of miscalculation; but, then again,
so did the 1960 share market.
The Hooker loss looks like running
over £3 million when the book position
is tidied up. So, into the Hall of Loss
Fame goes Mr. L. J. Hooker—a victim
of a misspent “gay” 1960.
That others, such as Mr. G. J. Dus-
seldorp’s Lend Lease-Civil and Civic
group, did not share Hooker’s fate,
comes back to basic modus operandi.
The Hooker development operation was
a riskier proposition than the more care-
fully planned development for which
Lend Lease has been noted.
The shareholders in the Hooker group
have suffered considerably worse than
the company has. For, those who held
shares in 1960 have seen them crumble
from 25/- to 3/10, an almost unceasing
downward movement.
The influences causing this appear to
have been an over-enthusiastic share
market in 1960 and an undervalued
current market. The Hooker empire of
today is a much tidier organisation than
it was two years ago; and it is poised to
lead a real estate development recovery.
By mid-1961, efficient management
had weathered the storm. Sydney Guar-
antee, in its final convulsions, poured
forth the sad story of complete failure
which occurs when booms burst.
Not the biggest loser, but certainly a
very complete one, Sydney Guarantee
Corporation was the largest complete
failure of a Stock Exchange public com-
pany to come out of the 1961-62 hat.
A last throw
Another of Mr Menzies’ “fringe”
operators, Sydney Guarantee, had a
chequered career and from about 1958
onwards always seemed to be involved
in litigation of one sort or another.
Hardly in a state to do battle with the
credit squeeze, Sydney Guarantee, headed
by Messrs J. H. Knox, W. Alderton
& F. W. Sutton, got into deep water
very quickly, having no liquid funds to
repay public depositors. A total of £2i
million public funds was held, the main
part of which was not secured against
assets. The assets themselves were boom
assets, mainly in real estate development
(the land boom again).
A last throw of the dice was taken
late in 1961 when the company attempted
to raise additional debenture funds to
allow it to continue work on partially
developed subdivisional property in
N.S.W. and Queensland. By this stage,
however, it was obvious that the company
was insolvent. All was lost.
There were many other big losers in
1961-62 involved in real estate develop-
ment. They were all caught in the web of
no money and unsaleable properties,
either developed, partially developed or
undeveloped.
It would hardly do not to mention
Sydney’s H. & S. Credits and its asso-
ciates (Bloch & Gerber, International
Shipping) before passing off this subject.
Messrs Samuel Harp & Bruce Stuart were
well known in Sydney at the time of
the H. & S. Credits failure, Mr. Cattell
of Latec was with them on the board
of Bloch & Gerber.
H. & S. failed when investors wanted
out, and new investors did not want in.
Again H. & S. was a failure which should
have been avoided by investors; it wasn’t.
The 12 per cent it offered (and, indeed,
paid during the boom) was too attractive
for the small investor to take note of
security warnings.
H. & S. brought down many others;
most unlikely of these was the Standard
Insurance Co. Ltd, of Dunedin, New Zea-
land —a respected member of the insur-
ance business.
The monuments to the false pros-
perity of 1960 are not all clearly visible.
Two or three home unit skeletons —the
steel works only poke up in Sydney’s
elite Kirribilli, Cremorne and Dover
Heights; approved development plans lie
gathering dust in council chambers; sub-
divisions around resort areas look like
cleared farmland; and there are a few
housing schemes in suburban Sydney and
Melbourne which so obviously have stop-
ped in midstream.
This is not much to show for the
boom in land. The bust was on paper
in the main, but the losses were real
ones.
Last we come to the master flop of
the lot: the Stanley Korman empire.
Perhaps it is premature to presume
the failure of the Korman group; and,
to do so, is to underestimate the leader
of the group. But the empire that was
built on one man’s dreams and schemes
has all but crumbled.
The paper war
T>ut for one thing the Stanley Korman
■““* empire probably could have lived
through the storm of 1961 without much
damage. That one thing, however, is a
big thing—the Chevron Sydney hotel.
It is not unreasonable to hold the
Chevron venture as the prime example
of careless enterprise; a carelessness
brought on by complete overconfidence.
This feeling was no doubt aided by the
success other parts of the group were
enjoying in the land boom.
Like his Sydney friend and rival, L.
J. Hooker, Stanley Korman freely admits
to miscalculation in 1960. But, unlike
Mr Hooker, he attributes the present
sorry state of Chevron to the ‘"hurricane”
of November 15, 1960.
Most dispute that, claiming that the
palace which is Chevron Sydney was
symptomatic of boom and, therefore,
a bust was inevitable. One thing is
certain, the carefree spending days of
1960 caused too much to be spent on
building the hotel even to its present
uncompleted stage.
To have any chance of succeeding,
the Chevron Sydney company must com-
plete the hotel. It is currently trying to
raise even more money from the public
to do just that.
Linking loans of the four major com-
panies in the group all end up in Chevron.
SDF, the baby, and Factors Ltd (the
“outsides”) have loaned large sums to
Stanhill, which in turn is the major lender
to Chevron Sydney.
Chevron is losing heavily and does
not appear a likely profit winner until
the second stage of the hotel is complet-
ed. Stanhill, thus, cannot reap any re-
wards—or money—from Chevron and
cannot pay SDF or Factors who both
need it.
This paper war means only one thing;
the public is losing heavily on the £2O
million it invested in one form or an-
other in the Korman group.
• Next week: The lessons
learned will appear in the
World of Business.


PICASSO—
THE MAN,
THE MIND,
THE MYTH
On Sunday October 28, the
Maestro is 87.
By CHRISTOPHER LUCAS
They are the eyes of a kestrel hawk,
predatory, restless, hypnotic, inky
pupils with the sparkle of anthracite.
They would not be misplaced in the skull
of a Grand Inquisitor, even a gunman,
yet their cruelty is softened by the tokens
of laughter, friendly creases radiating
from these intense, questioning depths.
The blacksmith's shoulders are taut-
muscled and square, the skin is young,
smooth and copper-toned yet a silver
tonsure crowns the bald head and the
grizzled arms taper unexpectedly into a
woman's flowing hands, slim and
nervous.
They are the twin forces which have
made masterpieces out of matter, stroked
life into canvas and pinched beauty into
clay, smashed every convention, con-
jured a whole new vocabulary for his
fumbling contemporaries and established
Picasso as a colossus among pigmies, the
creator of the shorthand which is modern
art.
In the milky sunshine of October,
gently filtering through striped umbrel-
las, the sorcerer’s hands fluttered like
uncaged doves and the eyes smouldered
warmly. The maestro was happy.
Pneumatic drills scrambled the con-
crete pavements and the sailboats of
Cannes frisked the horizon, pink Ger-
mans stared inanely and Picasso gamely
twisted the tail of immortality.
“How do I feel?” he demanded, half
mockingly. “Fantastico! I shall prob-
ably live to a century. Death does not
frighten me. I have watched it too often
in the bullring. We Spaniards accept
death, we understand it, because it can
also be beautiful.
“Leger, Matisse, Derain, all my
friends, they are all dead. Yet only the
finality of death is sad. Like when the
mules pull out the dead bull. He can
never fight again, however brave, and
that is sad.
“Time, he is the true torturer. There
is still so much to learn, to discover and
I can almost hear the hours pass. My
only illness, mi amigo, is that I am
eighty!”.
Rumbling in his bass-fiddle Spanish,
he told how he loudly suffered a weekly
examination, how Dr Stehelin regularly
ordered him to halve his painting and
smoking, an order he equally regularly
refused to obey.
Yet, as he talked, the eyes quite sud-
denly clouded with doubt, almost fear,
and the hands drew still. The ageing
satyr had grazed the curves of his own
lifetime and himself realized that time
must have a stop.
The bizarre costume the frilled
shirt from Seville, the Texan string tie,
rope-soled espadrilles and braided skull-
cap from Kazakhstan had lost its car-
nival humor, faded into the bleak, broken
image of the clown, the Picasso
harlequin.
“Work is my only escape, my only
way to be happy. If I do not work I
might as well be dead. I cannot afford
illness anymore”, he reflected cheer-
lessly. “Yet people still do not under-
stand. They do not understand my paint-
ing. Now probably less than ever. They
do not understand that deformation can
also mean formation, that beauty itself
can change.
“And they do not understand the ar-
tist. They do not realise that painting
is also suffering. For years I refused to
exhibit. I would not even allow my pic-
tures to be photographed.
“But finally I knew that I must sur-
render, must strip myself naked like a
whore. Before the critics, before the
public. It takes courage and the whore
who does so has courage.
"People do not realise what they have
when they own a picture by me. Each
picture is a phial filled with my own
blood. That is what has gone into it”.
We were sitting around a table at
“Chez Felix”, where Picasso enjoys the
grilled sardines, facing the Croisette, that
playpen of the indolent and the rich
the maestro, determinedly chainsmoking
Gauloises, his wife Jacqueline, 44 years
his junior, and a few close friends.
Yet, without notice, this rare escape
from the airtight privacy of his villa,
usually an occasion, had degenerated in-
to a wake.
Sunk deep in his wicker chair, hands
stretched on the table, Picasso admitted,
with a sombre quarter-smile: “No, there
is no understanding. Now. instead, there
is fame. Of all things, hunger, misery
and incomprehension by the public, fame
is by far the worst.
“It is the castigation by God of the
artist. It is sad. It is true. People
bring me cakes and chorizos and hats
and whisky. Everything. If only they
would bring me tranquility! It would be
the greatest of gifts. But none ever does
because it costs nothing.
“Everyone is good. All the world is
good and I am bad. Maybe it would be
better if they were all bad and I good.
It would certainly be much easier to
work. Como no!”
Imperceptibly laughter crept back into
the black pupils, the lines crinkled and
the hands fluttered again. “In the old
days in Montmartre I would chase people
away with pistol shots,” he said. “Cer-
tainly it was more successful than my
new electric lock. Perhaps I should start
shooting again!”.
Picasso held up his palms and
chuckled: “But you mustn't always be-


lieve what I say. Questions tempt one
to tell lies, particularly when there are
no answers”, then pointing at me: “Any-
way, nobody ever writes the truth about
me”.
Under such strictures, I can only note
that an octogenarian jauntily ordered
himself a most florid five-course lunch,
ranging the menu from a dozen oysters
to maules marinieres, from a breaded
escalope de veau, generously heaped with
fettuccine, to a frozen eclair, the order
flushed down with half a goblet of Dom
Perignon, two bottles of Evian water and
four cups of espresso.
Fairground Ribaldry, Pitch Despair
>The mercurial host, whose lunchtime
A moods wavered between fairground
ribaldry and pitch despair, encouraged
the alfresco meal to continue for just five
and a half hours, which seems adequate
even by Castillian standards.
Pablo Picasso, the world's most cele-
brated painter for half a century, ap-
proaches his 81st birthday on Saturday
with the volcanic energy of a man half
his age, impelled by a boundless capacity
to wander, insatiable joie de vivre and in-
calculable self-confidence yet a genius
still hounded by the demons of perpetual
doubt, an incredibly complex figure
whose artistic modesty is only matched
by the frenzy of his experiments.
Yet what are the manners and moods
of this amazing man, this slightly manic
personality whose life has become a
myth where fact usually overwhelms
fiction?
For nearly fifty years Picasso, rebel,
heretic and innovator, has been sum-
marily pinioned with every libel in the
language. He has been called charlatan,
jokester, quack, devious swindler and
diabolical seducer, plagiarist and pub-
licity-seeker, a monster greedy for money,
an adventurer hoaxing the public, a
pagan fiend whose only urge is to pollute
beauty, wreck the established order and
distort Man’s image with blasphemous
vengeance.
He has also been compared quite
simultaneously—to the sublime Leonardo
and Michelangelo, devoutly hailed as
the most inventive genius in centuries, the
bold individualist who stormed the sanc-
turies of tradition and ransacked the
debris of a static past, creator of the
modern image, the prophet and inspiration
of contemporary decor and design, archi-
tecture and advertising, the man w'ho in-
vented the clean simplicity of a stream-
lined present.
Without contradiction, he has become
accepted as the most famous, notorious,
imitated, misunderstood, praised and
vilified artist of our century, entering
the dictionary with “C’est du Picasso!”,
a phrase describing anything outstand-
ingly freakish, and entering the cookery
books with “croissants Picasso”, shaped
like the maestro’s hands.
With an enigmatic smile, the protagon-
ist, who has never labelled a single
“period” or picture, views the furore with
predictable calm, quickly scribbles the
figure of an old man on the tablecloth,
then asks simply: “You tell me what it
means. What the man is doing and why.
I don’t know what or why. I never do.
If I did I would be finished, my work
would be over. In my opinion to search
means nothing in painting. To find, that
is the thing.”
Whatever the ultimate verdict, Picas-
so’s record is phenomenal, matching the
versatility of any Renaissance man. He
invented cubism, that lodestone of mod-
ern art, perfected surrealism and expres-
sionism, convulsed the minor worlds of
engraving and ceramics and pottery and
today still surges between the lambent,
natural transparency of his “blue” period
and the most monstrous of distortions.
Pablo Ruiz (Picasso is his mother’s
name) could draw before he could walk,
learned to paint in oil with total control
at 12, once completed a month’s art
course in an afternoon, picked up the
tricks of impressionism “they only
tell you the weather” —in just four
weeks.
Art From Bolts and Saucepan Lids
TTe moulded his most quoted sculpture,
“Man with sheep”, during one day;
timed himself painting the vast UNESCO
mural, some 33 square feet of brushwork,
and finished work within half an hour
of his projected deadline.
He has produced art from gravel and
bolts and wire-wool and newsprint and
saucepan lids and rope and matches,
conjured palm leaves into goats, bicycle
saddles into bull’s heads, toy cars into
monkeys, once outrageously framed his
own unwashed shirt-tails as a college.
Such puckish diversions hardly help a
public already confused by the breath-
less, challenging profusion of his in-
vention and the fragmentary, usually
false details of his surrealist existence.
For Picasso can appear as elusive as
colour itself, a hopelessly tangled pile of
contradictions, a myth without a mean-
ing.
He is a millionaire with a castle and a
Communist party card, probably the
world’s most exceptional Marxist, holder
of the Stalin “Peace” prize and creator
of the “Peace” dove, yet never exhibited
within Soviet Russia and publicly derided
by art connoisseur Nikita Khrushchev.
He has lived in France since 1904,
survived two major world wars in Paris,
refuses to visit Spain while Franco lives,
yet stubbornly rejects every offer to
take a French passport.
He is a self-made tycoon with six
cars and the acquired title of Marquis
yet he still does not own a decent
tuxedo and still prefers eating off the
marble table (price: 2.50 NFs) in the
kitchen.
He has outraged even the most per-
missive critics, yet time and time again
they have been forced to relent and recog-
nise his talent; he is a genius whose artis-
tic humility still needs the comfort and
encouragement of other painters, an
iconoclast who still fears his audience.
He is practically untutored, still
fumbles with the alphabet sequence, yet
possesses a prodigious knowledge of
classical history, philosophy and the ways
of the world; he has earned and spent
millions, yet still does not seize the
differences between a new and an old
franc.
He can be the gregarious companion
who enjoys masquerading as Chaplin, yet
he is obviously happiest in Trappist isola-
tion, he is a natural talker whose olym-
pian silences can be overpowering, yet
who picks worldly Cannes as his home.
He loves women and children, ani-
mals, beaches and sunshine, yet he can
only find peace in the agony which is
creation, and in that still midnight hour
when he enters the kitchen holding a
canvas, its paint still wet, and says with
ingenuous wonder: “Look what I’ve
done!”
This is Picasso, a paradox whose many
parts form just one pattern, each per-
verse strand, whether amoral, political
or financial, reduced to practical usage,
a genius living on the stimulus of his
own contradictions, the daily impulses
which excite his mind, his eyes and,
eventually his hands. To work, to startle,
to find.
The world of Pablo Picasso is a
twilight thing, a surrealist still life popu-
lated variously by hippopotamus skulls
and washing machines, a distorting mir-
ror from a circus and a six-foot brass
amazon, from Matisse, castanets, old
meat bones, banderillas, an automatic
piano, a witch-doctor’s mask from Zanzi-
bar, and the most stupendous private
collection of modern paintings ever
assembled.
The House Picasso Built
HThis remarkable backdrop is animated
by a cast which includes an owl, two
natural daughters, a boxer, two grand-
daughters, a basset named Lump and a
dalmatian named Perro, a stepdaughter,
a malodorous goat, usually sprayed with
Cologne, Jacqueline, a wife half the
masetro’s age, two parakeets and a flock
of pigeons, Paulo, a middle-aged son
who doubles as handyman and a Pro-
vencal fury known simply as “la France”
who drives off the curious and sometimes
sweeps the floors.
Here, within the blighted elegance of
“La Californie”, the home and impreg-
nable refuge of Picasso, the rare visi-
tor will discover a unique proposition—-


E s tab'> shed 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institution* throughout Australia
JACKSON
O SULLIVAN
pry
ARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. I.td.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & C®.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS •: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
Systems & office equipment
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Wl
w
Always ask for
AINSLIE’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd., Sydney
Halloran Manton Pty. Ltd.
anarchy in action, a tour de force in
applied bohemia.
High on a hilltop above Cannes, be-
hind tall metal-sheeted gates, this
architect’s nightmare, pretentious, superb-
ly vulgar and once the property of a
champagne merchant, now holds the pre-
requisites, the raw materials for Picasso’s
art.
The dogs, the goat and the children
roam its vaulted, sun-splashed rooms,
stumbling into overstuffed chairs split-
ting with age, or into a scattered set of
18th century English chairs, inherited
from father Ruiz, supporting canvases,
jamjars, paintbrushes and turpentine. The
walls are tacked with bullfight posters
and false moustaches, sketches, mes-
sages and carnival hats; the parquet floors
now scratched and splashed with paint,
creak under the weight of half-opened
packing cases.
Rocking-chairs lurch crazily, heaped
with cowboy hats and Texan boots, lace
mantillas and Stuart kilts, tilted Stetsons
and sealskin moccasins; a matador’s cape
lies rumpled and scarlet over a Louis XV
table, half-concealing the black coral
which Cousteau brought from Yemen
and the pearl-handled pistols, the gift
of Gary Cooper; and the walnut chests
cringe under the assorted tribute of the
world, mangoes from Kenya, slivovitz
from Zagreb and cheese from Wiscon-
sin, “Bombay” duck and “Oxford”
marmalade.
Amid this alchemist’s extravaganza,
Pablo Picasso, whom Cocteau once mis-
chievously labelled “king of the rag and
bone men”, stands hands on hips, sur-
veys his bazaar and says: “I have a name
for this. Creative disorder. Can’t you see
these things are all in their natural place?
Otherwise they wouldn’t have gone there
all alone?”
“A Picture cannot Speak”
lancing at a Renoir, hanging crooked
and frameless over the fireplace, he
adds: “It’s better like that. If you want
reaily to kill a picture, all you have to do
is to hang it beautifully on a nail. Soon
you will see nothing but the frame. A pic-
ture should be out of line. A picture
cannot speak. It must signal its presence
somehow.
“Paintings must be allowed to live, to
age, to collect dust. Museums and deal-
ers are monsters. They keep cleaning
their pictures to the bone and nothing
remains but varnish. Why the devil don’t
they clean their cars instead?”
I offer these hybrid impressions to
puncture a myth for Picasso’s decor
by default is not arty caprice, neither
is it slovenly, absent-minded nor per-
verse. It is willed.
This will-power, decisive yet malleable,
explains Picasso’s every contradiction,
forges the unchanging pattern where life,
work and play become the same word.
Each object, each person, whether
haphazardly dumped or inexplicably
adopted, is converted into a stimulus for
the shiny-bald Spaniard with untra-sen-
sory vision, the impulse for a work of art.
“Picasso is an intellectual artist,” said
his close friend, the painter Edouard
Pignon. “Yet he is a person who feels
first . . . and then goes on to think.”
The goat, however pampered, has
posed for the master, so have Jacqueline,
the hippo skull and the other bones,
Perro the dalmatian, the African mask
and all the children; yet, when the frenzy
of concentration is past, he still requires
sympathy, company and affection.
Like a child, the washing machine
amuses him (on its arrival he watched
it for hours, then announced wonderous-
ly: “What a beautiful movement!”) as
does his wardrobes of exotic robes, hats
and false moustaches (“Tonight I shall be
Hitler”, he warns his daughters. “You
must all be very frightened!”).
Picasso, who once scavenged the streets
of Paris, needs to be pampered, soothed
and refreshed. Like some orphan he
needs the undemanding adoration of his
dogs, the curiosity of his children, the
love of a woman and the familiar com-
fort of his possesions.
In his eightieth year Picasso’s visual
memory remains phenomenal. He can
remember the date and specific position
of every object, the contents of every
case, the exact place where he has hid-
den thousands of francs behind frames
and drawers and chair seats.
The Picasso menage moved into the
aesthetic waste of “La Californie” six
years ago, promptly rooted out its
bourgeois trophies, the grand pianos, lace
curtains and Persian rugs, and overnight
deposited its own genial mound of bric-
a-brac. Nothing has been changed since
that moment, beyond fixing a new loop
of string to the front-door bell.
In the gardens, whose pines and
eucalyptus scent the villa, the tangled
greenery flowers in jungle profusion, can-
vases lean propped against tree-trunks
and three bronze statues Picasso’s
“Goat”, “Ram’s head” and “Pregnant
woman”, a fresh carnation on her head
stand guard over the gravel drive,
a trio which the master gaily encourages
the dogs to use for their private purposes,
claiming “it improves the patina”.
Among this casual chaos, among the
witty, worthless trivia, the visitor stumb-
les, without warning or catalogue, into
the most fabulous cache anywhere in
the world, the Picasso Collection
Cezanne and Bonnard, Leger and
Braque, Matisse and Utrillo, Van Dong-
hen, Klee and Miro, Chagall and
Douanier Rousseau a hoard of major
modern canvases which is so extensive,
so cautiously-guarded that it has neither
been priced nor numbered
And in a dark, dusty room on the
second floor, next to the studio, the
testament of Picasso: over 1,200 paint-
ings, hundreds of statues and ceramics,
thousands of drawings and sketches, never
shown and never sold, a pictorial diary
of an artist’s life, a monument to ad-
venture, power and perception.
• NEXT WEEK: PICASSO IN
ACTION


MOTORING
IF YOU HAVE £4000
TO £5000 TO SPARE...
It's no longer unpatriotic to buy German
By BOADICEA
I have dealt with the small cars, the
light six-cylinder family cars and
the above-average family cars.
Now, for the lucky few and for those
of us who are interested but not buyers,
let’s look at the luxury car group. I
suppose over £2OOO is as good a start-
ing place as any, though that would
hardly be fair to the Rootes Group’s
Humber which at £1939 can rightly be
said to be the cheapest luxury buy in
Australia today. I remember that it was
£1999 a while back and selling very
well because of its good appointments
and clean, conservative line coupled with
a reasonable price tag. As a matter of
fact the Humber has always been good
value and rather a favourite with the
countryman who appreciates its rugged-
ness. The 3-litre engine motors along
well for a heavy car and disc brakes at
the front arrest it when necessary. The
automatic transmission is a three-speed
affair by Borg-Warner and, while effective
in operation, it is not as smooth as some.
Women and many men find the steering
heavy around town, but pleasant enough
on the highway.
Back to our own £2OOO class in which
1 shall exclude such speedsters as Aston
Martins, Porsches and Volvo 1800’s
which are really grand tourers and in
another category altogether.
We may as well start at the top with
the pinnacle of perfection, the Rolls-
Bently. The current version has a
powerful V 8 engine which emits an
almost vulgar American-like beat from
the exhaust. This would probably hurt
sensitive chauffeurs’ ears but to some
private owner-drivers the power the big
engine develops is the thing. There is
nothing calculated to dent the ego of a
Rolls owner more than having a rough
old Holden blast away from him at the
traffic lights. The fact that it probably
has only a 150 bhp engine glistening
beneath its relatively tatty exterior is of
no account to the Rolls man and even
less to his passengers. But now, should
the Rolls owner so desire, he can flatten
the throttle and the huge car will leap
forward and run over the offending
Holden with no more sound than a soft
squelch under wheel. The old boast that
you could stand a threepence on its edge
on the engine while it was running may
no longer hold true, for there is definitely
some American “rock and roll” in the
V 8 design. However, the performance
is the best yet and I would willingly put
up with a slight increase in engine
whisper for the satisfaction of knowing
the monster would willingly respond
a thing the previous underpowered Rolls
Royces wouldn't do. The bodies of these
new carriages are getting better, par-
ticularly for Australian conditions, and
dust-sealing problems are negligible
today.
However, unless you are prepared to
pay the equivalent price of a small car,
you will find you swelter in a Rolls as
easily as in a Holden on a summer’s day.
For a price you can get refrigeration
which is not standard equipment. There
is £2OO difference in price between a
Rolls and a Bentley. The difference in
price comprises the radiator shell and
the R.R. badges. Otherwise the cars are
identical. I knew of one dear old chap
who always bought Bentleys rather than
Rolls because he thought them less
ostentatious!
For Company Directors ...
YNdr company directors and people like
A that, the Rolls-Bentley is quite a good
buy for it may, if well kept, depreciate
only £l5OO a year from new and this
can be easily swallowed in the books.
Whichever way you look at it the Rolls
is still the status symbol and, whether
you are royalty or bookie, movie star or
mistress, you have made it to the top
when you travel by “the best car on the
road.”
The American Rolls is the Cadillac,
only a few of which are imported into
Australia. Perhaps this is because the
American car buyer here wants the
flashiest for his money and the Caddy is
not amongst these. More expensive and
better styled, the Caddy appeals to the
buyer who likes American cars for their
comfort and not for their looks. The
only time you feel disappointed with the
Cadillac is if you look under the bonnet
or “hood - ’, as it is called in Detroit. Here,
instead of an engine beautifully finished
in the manner of the English and
European cars, is a maze of machinery.
The comparison in craftsmanship is that
of a cabinet-maker and a bush car-
penter. But the Cadillac has comfort,
power, a cavern of a boot and refrigera-
tion and it is a couple of grand cheaper
than the Rolls-Bentley! If it is American
cars that you fancy you have a choice
ranging from the automatic Ford Fair-
lane at £2193 to the Pontiac “Parisienne”
at £3OOO. In between these are the
cheaper G.M. cars, Chevrolet “Bel Air”
and Pontiac “Laurentian” with identical
engines and slightly different body
styles, their price being £2454 and
£2620. Chevrolet has a lusher version,
the “ Imp ala”, at £2875, the Pontiac
“Parisienne” and the “Impala” being
the imported versions of the local
Pontiac and Chewy, hence the price
difference.
Also in this market are American
Motors' “Rambler”, available as a 6-
cylinder at £1999, and the V 8 “Ambas-
sador” at £2380. Advertising 250 bhp,
the Ambassador is one of the most
powerful cars on the Australian road.
Chrysler also have a big car, the 230
bhp Dodge, at £2595. One of the best
looking and most reasonably priced is
the new Studebaker Hawk at £2397.
Three staid English cars: Daimler at
£4990, Rover at £2812 (the automatic
3-litre) and the 6/110 Wols'eley offer
varying degrees of comfort and per-
formance.
The Wolseley automatic at £2210 is
the cheapest, the Daimler has a 220 bhp
engine and consequently good per-
formance, and the Rover has the com-
fort. Rover, for long a sign of the solid
upper middle class, has taken on a new
lease of life with many improvements
for 1963. Not only have they released
a 3-litre coupe, but power has gone up
17 per cent to 134 bhp, while suspension
has been lowered in an effort to ini rove
handling. Rover drivers have suffered
anguish at the hands of owners of faster
luxury cars, they have taken solace in
their cars’ silent comfort and pretended
not to notice its sluggishness. Now this
new model will be able to motor briskly
as well as comforably. But let’s hope
that Rover drivers will, themselves, be
capable of handling this power increase.
I have a friend who never argues the


IISITf
ill I
lily
in
i
m
V
CAN YOU WORK UNDER PRESSURE ...
THINK CLEARL Y... MAKE VITAL DECISIONS. ..
at 46% off your working efficiency?
Business doesn’t wait for the weather. But recent American research laboratory studies
proved that your working efficiency drops 33% in 90° heat, and a disturbing 54% in
95 heat. Can you afford to work at 46% of your normal efficiency—sometimes for days
on end?
Air Conditioning is the Proved and Economical Answer, in summer air
conditioning maintains the correct temperature for maximum working efficiency—and this
need not mean installing a full central air conditioning plant. Westinghouse Room Air
Conditioners aie particularly suitable for management and executive offices,
combining as they do high performance
with low purchase price and operating
cost. And in winter, they provide warm
fresh air—the healthiest heat of all—at
half the operating cost of other electrical
heating appliances. There are three
models, from 8,300 to 20,000 B.T.U.’s
including the Mobilaires which can be
installed permanently in one
place, or wheeled
from office to office j
as needed.
Price from
215 Gns.
Enjoy
Westinghouse
refrigerated room
air conditioning in
your home, too!
you can be SimE..ir it's
n
ROOM AIR CONDITIONERS
Mail the coupon today for full details
i —-
I To: Department R.A.C., Email Limited, Consumer I
, Products Division,
I Box 4, Waterloo, N.S.W.
J Please send me literature and full particulars on J
I Westinghouse Room Air Conditioners.
j NAME 1
| ADDRESS I
I IZIZIIZZII I
I PHONE No I
] PLACE X IN SQUARE IF SCHOOL PROJECT □ I
i
WACI 3 HP
right of way with doctors or Rover
drivers. He reckons they’re just not
“with it’’. But I’d personally rather
tangle with doctors driving Rovers than
doctors driving Jaguars. These silky
projectiles so often get into irresponsible
hands. The Jaguar range stretches from
£2498 for a Mark II 2.4 to the new
Mark X for £3890. All are capable of
topping 100 mph the 3.4 and 3.8
models with contemptuous ease. The
Mark X probably represents the most for
the least and some company secretaries
must quibble at paying out double for a
Rolls when a Jaguar does the job just
as well.
The Jaguar’s main rival, both on and
off the race track and roads of the world,
is the German Mercedes. Highly suited
to Australian conditions because of its
superlative suspension, the Mercedes
saloons cost between £2498 and £5057.
It is no longer considered unpatriotic to
buy German, or Japanese for that
matter, and Mercedes are fast increasing
their hold on the luxury market. Under-
powered by Jaguar standards and for
long underbraked because of the Ger-
mans’ stubborn refusal to admit the
English had something with their disc
brakes, the Mercedes will often out-run
faster cars because of its good handling.
The new 300 series has more power and
disc brakes and must be the equal of
any car in the world.
Another fine car, little known here, is
the Italian Lancia. The coupe is ex-
pensive at £4343 and the saloon costs
£2173. Orphans so far from their native
shores, the Lancias are carving a good
name for ability to withstand our
country roads. Bred on race tracks and
Italian goat tracks, this characteristic is
easily understandable. If you are con-
sidering any of these cars, clont, if you
ever worry about mpg figures, spare
parts cost, service costs, or deprecation.
In fact, if your short of a lot of money,
it is wiser to look elsewhere. Remember
the purchase price may be high, but it
could be the least of your worries before
you are through.
And for those who are often envious
of the big shiny cars, comfort yourself
with the thought that over 60 per cent
of the things aren’t paid for and that, by
the time they are, they'll be obsolete
anyway.
★ ★ ★
DAIMLER INSIDE A JAGUAR
From London Gordon Wilkins reports:
Tn the two years since Jaguar bought
A Daimler the firm has produced a
seven-seater, 100 m.p.h. limousine with
the 41-litre V 8 Daimler engine, but many
people have been hoping to see a new
saloon car with the 24-litre V 8 engine.
This is a very good power unit which is
at present used only in the SP 250 sports
car, where most critics feel the chassis is
not worthy of the engine.
There has obviously not been time to
design and tool for production an entirely
new car, but Sir William Lyons is deter-
mined to rebuild Daimler’s position in the
medium-priced quality-car market. He
has, therefore, decided on rationalisation
as drastic as anything done by the BMC
by putting the Daimler engine into a
Mark II Jaguar.
The result should be an interesting car
that is light to handle, for the engine
weighs 110 lb. less than the 2.4 Jaguar
and produces 20 horsepower more. It is,
however, a sports-type engine with a
steep-sided torque curve peaking at the
relatively high revs of 3700 r.p.m., and
it is, therefore, surprising to find it mated
to the Borg Warner torque converter
automatic transmission, with no manual
alternative on offer.
The radiator grille has the traditional
Daimler flutes, derived from the cooling
fins on the radiator header tanks of the
early models, and the interior trim is in
typical Daimler style.


* * •
m
.
*' '
where experience has been
your host since 1853
3:3:
m
3:33
:
3:3:3:
:3:3k3
3:<3
s@:
s
MS
I
m
mm
■
......
% \
■ ;:g
:*v:
m
m
m
wm
m.
mm
K :• •
£1
.mm
...mW
!
Home of Australia’s most-pampered guests
H MM
&
§
Across the Nation
MENZIES
Melbourne
60-1581
SAVOY PLAZA
Melbourne
62-4141
HOTEL FEDERAL
Melbourne
62-3721
HAMPTON COURT
Sydney
31-7081
WREST POINT
Riviera
Hobart 5-1021
LENNONS
Brisbane
32-0131
LENNONS
Toowoomba
T’mba 2-2433
LENNONS GOLD COAST
Home of Tropicana
Holiday
Surfers 9-2001
COCKPIT
Essendon Air Terminal
39-6133
MENZIES SYDNEY
Opening ’63
in Carrington St.,
opp. Wynyard Park.
For immediate reservations, phone your nea/esl Federal Hotel.
STAY
FH 218


OVERSEAS
THE MAGIC CABINET
OF DR GOH
Singapore would welcome Australian capital investment
FROM OUR SINGAPORE CORRESPONDENT
In the next three to six months, as the
final arrangements for merger of
Singapore with the Federation of
Malaya within Malaysia are shaped, the
complex bargaining on financial issues
will be directed by two distinguished
Malayan Chinese Malaya’s Finance
Minister, Mr Tan Siew Sin, and his
opposite number in Singapore, Dr Goh
Keng Swee.
These extremely able men either of
whom would be a valuable asset to any
Treasury in Asia or the West sym-
bolise the rapid recent progress in poli-
tics and public service of the Malayan
Chinese. A decade ago, Dr Victor Pur-
cell, in his survey-in-depth of “The
Chinese in South-east Asia”, noted signs
of the fading of the overseas Chinese
tradition of aloofness from local poli-
tics and of leaving government and ad-
ministration to others. Resurgent Chin-
ese nationalism and the Communist ad-
vance underlined the lack of leadership
then in the overseas Chinese communi-
ties and of the comparative failure of
competent moderates to take control.
But he was hopeful that leaders would
come forward to guide the Chinese into
a responsible role in the political and
parliamentary life of their adopted coun-
tries. Dr Purcell’s hopes have, in the
face of a decade of Communist violence
and subversion, been more than justi-
fied in the Federation of Malaya.
There the Malayan Chinese Associa-
tion forms a strong, anti-Communist rul-
ing alliance with the Malay and Indian
parties. The MCA has recently repaired
internal troubles and confounded its cri-
tics by playing the major role in the Alii-
ance’s sweep of the latest municipal
elections. In Singapore the process of
the breaking down of Chinese lack of in-
terest, communalism and fence-sitting is
at an earlier, more delicate stage. But
there are many encouraging trends. The
rise of men like Goh Keng Swee, who
will visit Australia next month, helps tell
the Singapore story.
Professor C. P. Fitzgerald recently re-
ferred to the overseas Chinese as “basi-
cally uncommitted, waiting to see what
will be given them in the new nations,
what policy the new, strong China will
follow, and where the limits of her power
will ultimately be drawn”. This certainly
seems true of the majority of the Chinese
in their leaderless communities in Indo-
nesia, Thailand, Burma and Indo-China.
But Malaya and Singapore provide evi-
dence, as Professor Fitzgerald noted, that
choices are being made. Dr Goh and his
political colleagues in Singapore are corn-
mitted men, Malayan nationalists dedi-
cated to leading the Singapore Chinese
into Malaysia and into a non-Communist,
non-communalist political future. Their
part of the task of Malaysian nation-
building and forging local loyalties is cru-
cial. Their failure would mean the col-
lapse of Malaysia and severe political
strains on Malaya,
+• 1 . ,
>"J.cate t he problems,
Singapore is the biggest Chinese e.ty out-
Sl de China and larger than many within.
Three-quarters of the population of 1.7
millions are Chinese. More than half the
adults were not born in Singapore Singa-
pore has been one of the world’s greatest
magnets for migrants. A century aao
the population was only 80,000. By 1890
the city was growing fast develop-
ment of rubber and tin in Malaya was
accelerating Singapore’s trade but few
immigrants were intending to stay long:
there were five men to every woman and
registered brothels totalled 255. What
is Chinatown today a place where
family life and family enterprise is at
its strongest and most vivid was then
a maze of “coolie lines” for the single
labourers. Paradoxically, Singapore first
began to gain a settled and settling popu-
lation through the depression era restric-
tions on the entry of male workers. In
five years from 1933 nearly 200,000
women workers, most of them young,
streamed into Singapore from South
China. Their children are the island’s
younger generation more than half
the population is under 21.
Moulding this diverse population into
a progressive society and fitting it har-
moniously into the multi-racial Malayan
and Malaysian framework presents pro-
blems that make Australia’s migrant as-
similation task seem insignificant. The
emotional pull of China; fears, real and
professed, for the Malayan future of
Chinese language and customs; extrem-
ism stimulated by Peking all these are
obstacles.
Politically, the problem was grasped
by Britain in two of the boldest deci-
sions of its post-war colonial policy. In
1957 Singapore citizenship and franchise
was granted to 325,000 immigrants who
were the parents of the citizen-born
generation. This was a wider, swifter
creation of citizens and voters than had
been carried out in any country, even
at the time of mass migration to the
United States. Then, in 1959, Singa-
pore was granted full internal self-gov-
ernment. Most of the voters in the gene-
ral election that year were Chinese born
out of Singapore. Failure to meet their
anti-colonial agitation and franchise de-
mands would have forced Britain into
virtual military occupation of the island.
So far the double gamble seems to be
working. There are no reasons for com-
placency but many for hope.
Singapore has been maintained by its
new rulers as the cleanest, healthiest,
most efficient, most vigorous and
most prosperous city in South Asia and
its greatest port. Its administration
which includes very few expatriates
is superior to that of some cities in
Europe and many in the US. It has
serious economic problems, but none of
them is insoluble and all are being
tackled.
The Legislative Assembly is unique:
the only one where British parliamen-
tary practices have been taken over and
worked by Chinese. Two-thirds of the 50
MPs are Chinese; except for Mr David
Marshall (Workers’ P'arty), all party
leaders are Chinese. The Prime Minister


(Mr Lee Kuan Yew), Deputy Prime
Minister (Dr Toh Chin Chye) and
Finance Minister are Chinese.
A Migrant to Singapore
TAr Goh himself was a migrant to Singa-
pore. Indeed, of the Singapore
Cabinet only Mr Lee was born in Singa-
pore, most of the others coming down
from Malaya as children. Goh was born
in Malacca and when his family, which
was far from well-off, moved to Singa-
pore he entered the Methodist-founded
Anglo-Chinese School, one of,the top
“English-stream” schools. From there he
won a scholarship to Raffles College,
which was the nucleus of the University
of Malaya. Half the members of the
Singapore Cabinet went to Raffles Col-
lege as scholarship boys. Goh graduated
in Arts in 1940 and stayed on as Econo-
mics tutor.
After the war he joined the Social Wel-
fare Department and made Singapore’s
first social survey. He was then given
a Colonial Development Scholarship, one
of a series awarded by Britain to likely
leaders from emerging nations. Adminis-
trators of Australia’s Colombo Plan aid
and policy-makers for Australian New
Guinea could profit by studying such
selective schemes. At the London School
of Economics Goh specialised in statis-
tics, graduated with first-class honours,
topped his year and won a second
scholarship. Back in Singapore in 1951
he took charge of social research and
published a notable analysis of urban in-
come and housing which was the basis
for later social security schemes and re-
forms. Then he returned to London to
gain his doctorate with a thesis on
national income estimation. In the
colonial years, extremists frequently
claimed that local senior civil servants
were “running dogs” of the British. More
specific and realistic criticisms were that
they were “English-educated mandarins”
drawn from the favored schools and in-
different to the struggles and hardships
of the workers.
In 1959, only a year after promotion
to Economic Adviser to the Chief Minis-
ter, Goh resigned from the civil service
to campaign as a People’s Action Party
candidate. Like many other PAP leaders
who were making good livings in law,
medicine, journalism and teaching, Goh
had nothing to gain personally from poli-
tics. Mr Lee, for instance, could earn
from a single brief what he earns in a
month as Prime Minister. And every
PAP candidate had to promise a third
of his MP’s salary, if elected, to Party
funds. Moreover the PAP moderates
took the risk of being marooned by a
party split. The PAP, which won 43
of the 51 election seats, was an unstable
“united front”. It included, but did not
blend, Western-educated, socialist-minded
intellectuals and disciplined left-wing
unionists, anti-colonial extremists, and
quasi-Communists from the Chinese high
schools. Its victory shook Chinese and
Western businessmen and caused a minor
but highly-publicised flight of capital to
Kuala Lumpur and Penang.
The Encouraging Socialists
T>ut Lee, Goh and the moderates did not
declare themselves for doctrinaire
socialism or against local and foreign
private enterprise. It quickly became
apparent that, as Mr Lee has said, “the
socialists are encouraging the capitalists”.
It was, of course, a matter of having to.
One of Dr Goh’s first statements from
the Finance Ministry declared: “Singa-
pore is no place for normal socialist eco-
nomic planning it has no natural re-
sources or industries that would do better
in public than in private hands. You
cannot take a great and complicated mar-
ket and run it with civil servants. A
socialist in Singapore has to plan for a
just society without upsetting the deli-
cate machinery of trade”.
The reasons for this restraint and prag-
matism are simple. Directly and indirect-
ly, everyone in Singapore lives by the
port’s free trade £ A 1,100 millions
worth last year. And with unemployment
around 40,000, and 80,000 new jobs
needed in the next decade, most of which
will have to be created by industrialisa-
tion, winning the confidence and co-
operation of merchants and investors is
essential.
This is being done and at the same
time the government is fulfilling its wel-
fare obligations. The largest buildings
rising in Singapore today are schools and
low-rent flats; hospitals are being ex-
panded; a new public library is open; a
National Theatre, a trades union head-
quarters and a multi-storey carpark are
going up. In the past two years Dr Goh
has cut the opening ribbons at two oil
refineries, a cement mill, and a bitumen
plant. Construction of a steel plant and
two flour mills has started. A ship-
breaking yard has opened and the Japan-
ese are to start ship-building here. The
biggest official industrial delegation ever
to leave Japan has recently descended
on Singapore to measure manufactur-
ing opportunities. An Economic Deve-
lopment Board has been granted £AIS
millions of government money to loan
to private industrialists willing to put up
money of their own as well. Dr Goh’s
£AI2S millions development plan is well
under way. Its industrial section con-
centrates on utilities and providing fac-
tory space: the airport and wharves have
been further improved, a new power-
station built, water supply expanded, and
an 8,000-acre industrial estate is being
bulldozed from the West Coast swamps.
Three government loans have been over-
subscribed and business confidence
largely restored.
Meanwhile, the inevitable Party split
has left the PAP with only 26 Assembly
seats. But it is not the danger of parlia-
mentary defeat that political arithmetic
would suggest. On important issues the
moderate Opposition group chips in with
its eight votes or abstains. And in the
recent referendum on the terms of Singa-
pore’s coming link with Malaya, the
PAP’s “independence through merger”
campaign won 75 per cent of the votes.
The Party’s next major political test
looms in the general election of 1964.
This promises to be a much tougher
fight against the radicals of the Socialist
Front, a group of former PAP MPs and
cadres, which relies heavily on manipula-
tion of left-wing unions.
Warnings for the Left Wing
Oo far the PAP’s record in administration
has provided little ammunition for
its opponents it is not open to attack
for economic or welfare policies, for in-
efficiency or for graft. Its severest cri-
tics have never doubted the govern-
ment’s effectiveness or honesty. But sell-
ing evolution rather than revolution, re-
form rather than upheaval, has been a
defensive task. But once the PAP was
reduced to its loyal core of moderates
it was free to attack. Dr Goh’s criticisms
of his former colleagues are typical of
the PAP’s strategy of bringing its argu-
ment with the Socialist Front down from
anti-colonial heights to practical levels.
Left-wing unions are warned that actions
which hinder industrial growth are anti-
social; those responsible are a menace to
society and have to be dealt with as such.
Industrialisation is a “life or death” mat-
ter; the shouters of slogans “which can-
not fill empty stomachs” are “amateur
politicians” ignoring the realities of
creating jobs and making Singapore’s
production costs competitive.
Dr Goh’s planned first visit to Austra-
lia is of considerable mutual significance.
He plans to attend the Colombo Plan
conference, but his main job will be to
talk to Australian industrialists. Japan is
showing most interest in manufacturing
in Singapore, but Dr Goh intends to at-
tract a variety of investors. For both
political and financial reasons Japanese
domination of new industries in Singa-
pore is to be avoided and the healthy
investment pattern of Malaya’s new in-
dustries British, Australian, American,
Japanese and European is his ideal.
[Dr Goh is known to thousands of
Malaysian students in Australia. He
wants to take the process further. He is
not seeking big injections of Australian
capital, but believes that Australian in-
vestment in new industries would give
sound and up-to-date management and
technological know-how. His own com-


mercial and trading community has
plenty of liquid resources but it has not
yet got the feel of industry.
Dr Goh’s selling points for Australian
board-rooms are impressive. New indus-
tries are welcomed by the government.
They have official support both in
words and in preferential buying by gov-
ernment departments. New manufac-
turers get complete tax-exemption for
five years, selective tariff protection,
loans, low'-rent sites, first-class utilities,
free movement of capital and profits, a
strategic export location, a local market
with Asia's highest per capita annual
income (£A2OO), and the prospect of a
Malaysian Common Market of 10 mil-
lion customers. On the key questions
of labor and political stability Dr Goh
can afford to be cautiously optimistic.
The government is pledged to act against
political strikes and restrictions on left-
wing union leaders have begun.
The principles of industrial conciliation
and arbitration are accepted. An Arbi-
tration Court has been established (on
the Australian model and with an Aus-
tralian, Dr Charles Gamba, as chairman).
And next year Malaysia is to be
launched. Malaysia is not a panacea
for political troubles. But it permits
hopes of stability. Dr Goh’s visit to Aus-
tralia is timely. Australia’s destiny as a
major trader with Asia is becoming
clearer. And, as Britain proved and
Japan is realising, trade, especially in
manufactures, leads to overseas invest-
ment in processing, assembling or manu-
facturing. Canberra is now prepared to
give encouragement to Australian invest-
ment in suitable Asian enterprises.
Australia is likely to remain a net capital
importer, but investment in Asia will be
necessary to protect and expand our
markets here. Dr Goh expounds Singa-
pore’s opportunities to industrialists in
plain, confident terms. His is not an
impoverished nation seeking aid but of a
going concern planning to diversify.
Dr Goh is typical of its vigorous,
pragmatic managers. They are not yet
as flexible and as socially fluent as their
education and status might suggest, per-
haps because they are the anxious build-
ers, not the self-assured heirs, of tradi-
tion; rejecting China’s new nationalism
and estranged from its old customs, the
Malayan Chinese leaders sometimes have
the sense of loneliness that afflicts most
pioneers. From outsiders they tend to
attract admiration before affection.
Dr Goh is one of the most sociable of
Singapore's politicians. After hard work,
golf ranks as his favorite activity. Dawn
practice has halved his handicap in three
years to what one recent partner, Peter
Thomson, calls a “strong thirteen”.
Malayan newspapers call him “Dr Goh-
ahead”. Australians are likely to find
him an impressive visitor.
FORUM
GETTING OFF ON
THE RIGHT FOOT?
New Guinea's Winds of Change (Contd.)
July 28 we devoted FORUM to lengthy excerpts from the Foot
Report. This week FORUM features excerpts from the New Guinea
Legislative Council’s Select Committee Report on proposed changes in the
Council. The Committee, chaired hy the Assistant Administrator, Dr John
Gunther, comprised Messrs Hurrell, Downs and Carter and three New
Guineans, Messrs Tobaining, Guise and Sigob. The report was adopted
and forwarded to Canberra.
It recommends, while heavily emphasising current native reliance on
Australian skills, fairly extensive changes in the Council’s constitution.
Whether it adequately foreshadows the demands for even greater changes
in the future by the peoples of New Guinea, or even gives sign of
anticipating them, is arguable. It is nevertheless the greatest single
change in political direction ever experienced in New Guinea.
The committee took evidence on 19 days, conducted 119 interviews
involving a total of 463 men and women. Of these 23 were Europeans,
4 Chinese and 4 Mixed Race. In addition some 1662 extra people were
present at interviews but not individually examined; for example at
Kerowagi only 3 men answered questions but some 32 others were present.
In every such case the Committee checked the individual answers given
with the onlookers themselves.
PRESENT COMPOSITION OF THE
LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL AND
SYSTEM OF APPOINTMENT
8. (i) The Legislative Council set up
under Division 2, Sections 35 to 53 of
the Papua and New Guinea Act, 1949-
1960, is composed of —
President 1
Official Members 14
Appointed Members
(of whom 6 are Indigenes) 10
Elected Europeans 6
Elected Papuans and New
Guineans 6,
giving a total of 37, of whom 12 are
indigenes and 25 are Europeans.
(ii) The Official and Appointed Mem-
bers are appointed by the Governor-
General on the nomination of the
Administrator. The non - indigenous
Members are elected from an individual
voting system by enrolled electors from
six electorates and indigenous Members
are elected from an electoral college
system by unenrolled electors from the
same electorates.
THE NEED FOR A CHANGE IN
THE COMPOSITION OF THE
COUNCIL
9. (i) With one exception all of the
people interviewed wished to see an
increase in the number of Members on
the Council, on the ground that the
present electorates were too large to
allow the necessary contact between
Members and their electors. Non-
indigenes also favored greater representa-
tion of indigenes because of their popula-
tion majority. On the other hand there
was a definite feeling against too large a
membership and only four favored a
Council of 100 representatives, the
main reasons given being that such a
Council would be irresponsible, too un-
wieldy to be of any great educative value
and full of talk instead of work, that at
the moment there were probably not 100
indigenes capable of successfully carrying
out duties as Legislative Councillors and
that a Council with so many Members
would be unnecessarily costly. Attempts
by your Committee to modify this atti-
tude were of no avail. The indigenous
Members of your Committee are of the


SOTHEBY'S
(Founded 1744)
34-35 NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W.l
announce the Sale in London
on Wednesday, 7th November, of
THE COLLECTION OF MODERN
FRENCH PAINTINGS
the property ot
rhe Luts
DR. JOHN JOSEPH WARDED. POWER
of Jersey, Channel Islands,
and formerly of Sydney,
including works by
Picasso, Leger, Laurens and Gris
also
IMPRESSIONIST and MODERN
PAINTINGS, DRAWINGS AND
SCULPTURE
including two major works by
PICASSO
"LES BAIGNEUSES", WINTER, 1907-8
the property of
MRS. LOUISE B. M. HANSON-DYER
and
"NOTRE AVENIR EST DANS L'AIR", SPRING, 1912.
Illustrated Catalogues of both sales
10/- each.
SOTHEBY'S ANNUAL REVIEW (1961-1962)
Cloth bound: 230 pages of illustrations,
24 in colour. £2.
Please address all orders to Dept. M.S.
SOTHEBY & CO., 34-35 New Bond Street, London, W.l
Telephone: Hyde Park 7242. Telegrams: Abinitio, Telex, London, W.l
opinion that a Council of 100 is associ-
ated in the people’s minds with self-
government which the people appear to
fear and say they do not want at this
stage.
PROPOSED CHANGES IN THE
COUNCIL NUMBERS OF ELECTED
MEMBERS
10. (i) The great majority of the wit-
nesses desired representation on a Sub-
district basis, with some allowance for
population and geography. For instance
most agreed that although Manus had a
population of only 18,043, it should have
a Member because of its geographical
isolation. Similarly many of those inter-
viewed said that the heavily populated
Subdistricts such as Chimbu might need
special consideration, but not on a purely
proportional population basis.
(ii) There are 54 Subdistricts in the
Territory ranging in population from the
5,022 of Kokoda to the 164,598 of
Chimbu. Upon examination it appears
to your Committee that by joining very
small adjacent Subdistricts into one
electorate and dividing the largest into
two or more electorates, the present re-
quirements of geography, population and
Subdistrict representation could be met
with a Council of about 44 Members.
(iii) The actual boundaries of the 44
electorates will be worked out later by
your Committee.
METHOD OF ELECTION
11. (i) The people of this Territory
have now had some experience of two
types of election; the electoral college
system as used in the election of in-
digenous Members in the last Legislative
Council elections and the individual vot-
ing system now familiar through the
Local Government Council system.
(ii) Many of the leaders were in favor
of the electoral college system on the
ground that the ordinary villager might
be too easily swayed by clan or local
ties, that in any case the village headman
would make the best choice and that it
would be too difficult to arrange for
every individual to vote at a convenient
place.
(iii) However, an almost 3 : 1 majority
of those interviewed were in favor of
individual voting. It was claimed that
it had a twofold effect; not only did it


give the ordinary man and woman a
personal interest in the Council, but it
also placed on them a certain responsibil-
ity to obey the laws passed in such a
Council.
(iv) Your Committee realises that in-
dividual voting will entail much more
work and expense than the electoral col-
lege method and will mean that elections
may have to be held over a period of
perhaps two weeks. Nevertheless, it is
in favor of individual voting and w'ishes
further to point out that this is not only
more democratic and less liable to cor-
ruption or manipulation than the electoral
college method, but it is also more likely
to develop political awareness at the
village level.
METHOD OF VOTING
12. (i) The people of Papua and New
Guinea have also now had the experi-
ence of voting either following the usual
simple majority or the ‘'first past the post”
rule or the preferential method common
in most Native Local Government Coun-
cil elections.
(ii) A small group preferred the simple
majority system mainly on the grounds
of simplicity and familiarity, but a 4 : 1
majority of the people interviewed were
in favor of preferential voting as giving
the fairest result.
(iii) Your Committee, of whom three
hold executive positions in Native Local
Government Councils where this method
has been used, also endorses preference
voting.
(iv) Some of those interviewed ques-
tioned the ability of an illiterate voter to
use a preferential voting system but ex-
perience in this Territory in most Local
Government Council elections, and in
overseas countries, confirms that this
can be done by using symbols. The
detailed mechanics of voting will be
worked out later by your Committee.
VOLUNTARY OR COMPULSORY
VOTING
13. (i) The general opinion was that
in all areas under full control, voting at
the Legislative Council elections should
be compulsory. It was argued that
people failing to vote would later claim
that the Council had no power over them
as they had taken no part in the election
and that they would form a dissident
element; others feared that with a small
number of voluntary voters the wrong
man might be elected by the well-drilled
few and practically all thought that the
Legislative Council elections were so
important that everyone should be made
to take part.
(ii) Your Committee agrees that there
should be compulsory registration of
voters in controlled areas but considers
that in view of—
(a) the varying degrees of develop-
ment within the Territory,
(b) the difficulties of weather and
communication and transport,
and
(c) the fact that this will be the
first general election using in-
dividual voting,
compulsory voting would be impossible
to enforce at present and voting should
therefore be on a voluntary basis.
(iii) However, in view of the very
strong demand for compulsory voting, it
is suggested that the Council might re-
view this matter in 1966.
ELECTORAL ROLL
14. (i) The present elected Members
of this Council were placed there from
separate European and indigenous elec-
toral groups but the overwhelming major-
ity of people interviewed favored elec-
tion and candidature from a Common
Roll. This W'ould embrace all adult in-
habitants of controlled areas within the
Territory, with no educational or property
qualification but including a residential
requirement of twelve months in the
electorate. This residential period, how-
ever, would be waived in the case of an
absentee wishing to return and contest
an election in the area in which he or
she was born or was previously entitled
to enrol.
(ii) Your Committee endorsed the prin-
ciple of the Common Roll but was aware
of the many difficulties in the way of
writing such a Roll in sufficient time for
it to be printed and used in the next elec-
tion, due in March, 1964.
POSSIBLE IMPLICATIONS OF A
COMMON ROLL
15. (i) Your Committee was of the
opinion that with small electorates of
about 20,000 voters of whom about
98.5 per cent, would be indigenous, there
would be little, if any, chance of a non-
indigene being elected from a Common
Roll in competition with a local indigene.
This was confirmed in the interviews
when only three people claimed that a
non-indigene would succeed under such
conditions.
(ii) Realisation of this probability pro-
duced a vehement reaction among the
Papuans and New Guineans and W'ithout
one exception all argued that elected Aus-
tralian Members must remain on the
Council. Your Committee went to some
trouble to explain that there would be at
least ten Official Members but this was
unacceptable to those interviewed be-
cause it was considered insufficient in
relation to a possible Council member-
ship of over forty indigenes, and in any
case, did not include farmers and busi-
nessmen from private enterprise.
(iii) There were several reasons ad-
vanced by the indigenous people for their
insistence of having elected non-indigenes
on the Council . . . (Reasons given
the Committee included those of higher
education, experience, economic and
business skills, familiarity with Parlia-
mentary techniques, higher tax burdens,
evidence of continued Australian interest
and so on.)
CONCLUSION
26. Your Committee wishes to point
out that its recommendations, though
largely based upon the freely expressed
wishes of the people, in fact go well
beyond the conservative proposals which
they themselves put forward. However,
your Committee is confident that the
people will respond to this stimulus and
challenge, and that the implementation of
these proposals will mark yet another
step forward in the democratic political
development of this country.
RECOMMENDATIONS
27. The following recommendations
are made by your Committee—
1. There should be a change in the
composition of the Council in 1964;
2. There should be a President and
ten Official Members together with
44 Members elected from a Com-
mon Roll;
3. In addition there should be twelve
non-indigenous persons elected
from the Common Roll, as Mem-
bers from reserved electorates, but
this provision should be reviewed
before any election in 1967; and
4. Voting should be voluntary, pre-
ferential and on an individual basis
from a Common Roll comprising
all adult inhabitants of the control-
led areas within the Territory,
without regard to any educational
or property qualification but in-
cluding a residential requirement
of twelve months.


LYSAGHT
leads the way in low-pitched roof line beauty
II
■
W si
9RSf
*S
<n .. ,
■» .*-
i£
;>«:
Lysaght
KLIP-LOK*
SIXTEEN
Unique interlocking sheet com-
bines a highly attractive ribbed
finish with the unequalled struc-
tural strength of steel. Suitable for
roofs of any pitch down to I°, it is
fixed to roof members with
concealed straps. There are no end
laps...no puncturing of the deck.
Speeds construction and cuts costs
.. . delivered to the site in
unbroken lengths up to 50 ft. Your
architect and builder know Klip-
Lok ask them before you decide
on any roofing material!
*Anst. Patent No. 222046 (other Aust. and Overseas
Pat. Nos. granted and pending).
m
• mi
bmMMr
Lysaght galvanized
CORRUGATED
If you are planning a modern home,
your obvious choice is a low-
pitched roof-line and for strength,
style and economy, you will specify
LysaghtGalvanizedCorrugatedSteel
Sheet. This most versatile of roofing
materials has dozens of practical
advantages. It is shatter-proof, fire-
proof and storm-proof; it goes up
faster and needs minimum main-
tenance once erected; and it suits
every modern roof, whether skill ion
or butterfly, flat or low gable.
Available prepainted, if desired, and
in all wanted lengths and gauges.
Jiiiisirated above are two homes, LlO2 (top), LlOl
(bottom), selected from the 1962 Lysaght Home Plans
Portfolio. This Portfolio is available to all home builders
without charge. Simply fill in and mail the coupon at
right. As an additional service complete working drawings
and specifications for any Lysaght home illustrated are
also avafiable through the “Australian Women’s
Weekly” Home Plans Service for as little as £lO/10/-,
which includes help by qualified architects in altering
the selected plan to fit in with your wishes and to suit
your site.
For full information, phone or call at your local “Aus-
tralian Women’s Weekly” Home Plans Service.
JOHN LYSAGHT
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Offices at Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane ,
Adelaide and Fremantle.
fmmm
§r
a
SEND FOR FREE HOME PLANS
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited
50 Young St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, free and post free, your new 1962
Lysaght Home Plans Portfolio, comprising a series of
architect-planned homes styled in the modern manner
and designed to be built at moderate cost.
NAME
STATE
B
ADDRESS .........
LIXCC


PROFILE
THE PRIEST OF PROMISE
A hun get to and the scandal of divided Christendom
E ach time a new man is elected and
crowned with the triple crown as
“father of princes and kings, the
ruler of the world on earth, the Vicar of
our Saviour”, he must suffer a weight of
adulation and public flattery that would
bewilder even the Party chairman in
Moscow. John XXIII has been no ex-
ception. It extends even to many non-
Catholics.
In fact he is reassuringly human, but
not too much so. He takes a glass of wine
with his gardener. He visits the bedsides
of old friends. He cracks little jokes. He
patently enjoys being Pope and what it
allows him to do. He twinkles at visitors
and is unpompous.
He seems to share the new hunger of
many sorts of Christians for an end to the
scandal of divided Christendom. He
seems to go easy on the Petrine Thunders
in favour of a less dogmatic charity. And
the favourable popular impression is pro-
bably close to the truth.
Yet, except in one respect, his back-
ground is a clerically conventional one.
John XXIII came from a village on the
edge of the Lombardy plain. His father
was a non-landowning peasant in the
village of Sotto il Monte. Angelo
Giuseppe Roncalli was the third of 13
children and was born in 1881 in a dank
tenement in a village that all but ignored
the Risorgimento and where the men
were strong, slow individualists of un-
complicated faith.
He left home at the age of 10 as a
candidate for the priesthood. As a
clerical student, he did a year's military
service as a sergeant in the infantry,
ar.d after ordination was secretary to his
bishop.
His was the life of a priest of promise.
He taught other candidates for the priest-
hood. He kept a love of his village, his
bishop and his diocese that still shows un-
ashamedly from time to time. He began
a major history of the Church in Bergamo
that he finished 50 years later. He was
called up in the First World War as a
hospital orderly and a chaplain. And at
40 he was taken into the Roman bureau-
cracy.
He was a senior Civil Servant con-
cerned with the spread of the faith. He
still taught and was a specialist in patris-
tics (a study of the writings of the fathers
of the Church) especially in the first six
councils of the Church which were held
before the Latins and Greeks divided.
And then came the experience that set
him apart: in 1925 he was sent to Bul-
garia as Apostolic Visitor and Arch-
bishop, a job that was in part pastoral
among the 50,000 Latin Christians there
and part unofficially diplomatic. For
nearly 20 years he lived among the
Greek Orthodox and later among the
Muslims of Turkey.
A considerable scholar who spoke
Bulgarian, Greek, Russian and Turkish,
he developed some of the traditional ex-
clusiveness of Rome moderated by the
loneliness of representing a suspect
minority. The Orthodox clergy, for
reasons that were even older than the fall
of Byzantium, had little but suspicion of
the Latins and yet they, by Archbishop
Roncalli's standards, were as true priests
as he and only the most trivial doctrinal
points divided them. It was a humble way
of seeing Christian disunity.
He was not, by law, allowed to live
in Athens, but he helped the Greeks with
appeals to the West for food during the
war. He dealt with the Greek Primate,
Archbishop Damaskinos, and treated
him as a superior in honor. He dealt
privately with the Ecumenical Patriarch
in Istanbul. All this experience was radic-
ally different from that of a Vatican
official or an Italian diocesan bishop.
In 1944 he was sent as Apostolic
Nuncio to Paris, a post that, under the
Congress of Vienna, made him automa-
tically dean of the diplomatic corps. He
had to face the demands of the French
for the deposition of bishops who had
collaborated with Vichy. (Three of them
were deposed in the end.) He had to
counsel delay and conciliation when the
worker-priests of the French slums
turned more and more to the political
Left. And he had to deal with the Catho-
lic Government of the MRP.
In Paris, and indeed later in Rome,
he was quietly at pains to avoid identify-
ing the Church with a political party. He
made friends with the French anti-cleri-
cals and received his cardinal's biretta
kneeling at the feet of an agnostic French
President. Later, as Cardinal Patriarch of
Venice, a position of Renaissance splen-
dor, he visited the town council, which
contained its share of Communists, and
said to them “. . . there may be some
here who do not call themselves Christ-
ians, but who can be acknowledged as
such on account of their good deeds.”
He did not in fact tolerate Marxists,
and the laws of his Church still forbid it.
But he was unusually tolerant of the Left.
He was elected Pope when he was
crowding 77. He belonged to no parti-
cular party in the Church. Many thought
he was a safe choice, a transitional pon-
tiff. But despite his Civil Service back-
ground, he had always insisted that he
was a pastor first. As Pope he broke
with recent precedent. Riding in a pre-
posterous old motor-car with a throne
for a back seat, he visited prisons and
hospitals and colleges. He even occasion-
ally ate with an old friend. He raised the
salaries of the Vatican staff, from car-
dinals down to sweepers.
There was little of revolution in his
changes. He made many new cardinals
and broke up the pluralism and centralis-
ation encouraged by Pius XII. But his
new men were still old men. He removed
a shameful prayer offensive to the Jews
from the Good Friday liturgy. He abated
some of the breathless ceremony that
surrounds a Pope. He cared sincerely
for the well-being of Africans, but most
of his words about the new countries
were words of caution. He received a
bewildering variety of religious leaders,
but avoided direct reference to reunion
when talking to them.
A Pope is not circumscribed by a con-
stitution or a democratic system, and yet
the Roman Church is not a one-man
band. A Pope is bound by tradition,
dogma and precedent, and surrounded by
a professional Civil Service and discreet
pressure groups. Uniquely among sove-
reigns, the Pope both rules and reigns
and identifies himself with his predeces-
sors and successors. He is only a part of
a process, and there is no political
urgency in that process. Pius XII has
been a centraliser, a tortured, withdrawn
and, perhaps towards the end, a sick
man. John XXIII introduced both some
of the old ways and a new note of
humanity and charity towards opponents
which the Christian world has found to
its present taste.
His achievement has been his decision
to call a General Council of the Church.
In the past General Councils have tended
to be affairs that the Pope endured rather
than wanted. This Second Vatican Coun-
cil was wholly of his doing and it came
as a surprise to the Church. And not all
the Church wanted it.


LETTERS THE EDITOR
PERSECUTION OF SOVIET JEWS
Sir,
Mr Gamazeishchikov (Bulletin, Oc-
tober 18) uses the language of a Soviet
Press Attache “dirty figment, impu-
dent lies, pure fabrications, etc.”. I shall
not waste your space replying to his
personal insults.
The main points are these:
(1) Mr Gamazeishchikov invokes Soviet
laws protecting minorities. However, in
1956, Khrushchev had to admit in his
“Secret Speech” to the Congress of the
Communist Party of the Soviet Union,
that at least four Soviet nationalities were
“unjustly” deported to Siberia and their
Republics liquidated. He said that “The
Ukrainians avoided meeting this fate be-
cause there were too many of them”.
Khrushchev conveniently omitted direct
references to Jews in his speech, but the
Communist paper “Folksshtimme” ap-
pearing in Warsaw disclosed on April 4,
1956, that Jews, too, were among the
nationalities subjected to persecution.
Delegations of overseas Communists
from USA, Canada, France and Great
Britain visited the Soviet Union shortly
afterwards, and on their return they con-
firmed the “Folksshtimme” story, which
has never been denied by the Govern-
ment of the USSR.
From this it seems that Soviet laws
protecting nationalities are mere paper
laws.
(2) Stalin’s plan to deport Jews to the
Far East was discussed at a Politbureau
meeting on February 28, 1953. This fact
was leaked to the Western press after the
20th Congress of the CPSU in 1956 and
widely reported.
(3) Evidence of present day anti-
semitism in the USSR could fill volumes.
Scarcely a week passes without the Soviet
Press publishing scurrilous anti-Jewish
material, in which Jews are depicted as
“swindlers, rogues, parasites, etc.”. The
following are a few revealing items:
In an editorial, the “Daghestani Kom-
munist’ of August 9, 1960, accused local
Jews of drinking Moslem blood for ritual
purposes, thereby reviving the infamous
medieval blood libel. The author. Com-
rade D. Makhmoudov, was also General
Secretary of the Daghestani Communist
Party.
Grossly anti-semitic utterances are pub-
lished regularly in the Soviet Union. The
following are some of the occasions:
Lovskaya Pravda” 14/12/58; “Prikar-
patska Pravda”, 24/10/58; “Padomir
Daughava”, 14/3/59; “Sovieteskaya Mol-
davia”, 23/7/59; and innumerable others
m 1959 alone.
The material presented is usually a
crude appeal to prejudice published in
areas such as the Ukraine renowned for
pogroms. Mr Gamazeishchikov may
consider it necessary to defend the death
penalty for economic crimes; in reaction-
ary and backward societies a barbaric
penal code may be necessary. But when
the Jewish origin of those accused is
highlighted in a provocative manner by
the press and radio, this can oniy be con-
sidered as anti-semitic. When the deeds
of these “criminals” are linked with Syna-
gogues, Israel and espionage, one recog-
nises the old familiar Stalinist pattern.
The following are some of the recent
innumerable articles in which this was
done: “Pravda Ukraini”, 1/8/62; “Rad-
ianska Ukraina”, 13/6/62; “Robotnisha
Gazetta”, 18/4/62.
(4) References to Birobidjan as a
“Jewish autonomous province” conflict
with official Government announce-
ments. Mr Khrushchev himself even
overstated the total failure of the Jewish
settlement in Birobidjan (there are still
25,000 Jews living there), when he gave
an interview with the editor of the French
newspaper “Figaro” on April 9, 1958.
He said "All that is left now in Birobid-
jan are signs in Yiddish at the railway
stations. There are no Jews there.”
(5) Jewish culture, wiped out by Stalin,
has not been restored. The short stories
of Sholom Aleichem were published in a
limited edition of 30,000 copies on
March 2, 1959, following considerable
overseas Communist pressure. It was the
first Yiddish book to appear in eleven
years, and the few copies not exported
abroad or reserved for tourists were sold
out overnight.
Although in the 1959 census half a
million Jews gave Yiddish as their mother
tongue, with the exception of token con-
cessions to public opinion abroad, Yid-
dish culture is still stifled in the USSR.
(6) Discrimination against the Jews in
the Public Service, and in the Universi-
ties was admitted by Khrushchev in an
interview granted to a delegation from
the French Socialist Party on Mav 5,
1956.
Mr Gamazeishchikov’s other statistics
and red herrings are virtually identical
with those disseminated at the height of
the Stalinist anti-semitic campaign, and
are equally reliable.
(7) In contrast to other denominations,
the Jews are denied a central religious co-
ordinating body, or the right of publish-
ing religious journals. Contacts with
overseas religious Jewish bodies and im-
portation of religious requisites, even as
gifts, are strictly prohibited, though other
denominations may maintain such con-
tacts, however circumscribed.
Four thousand copies of a Jewish
prayer book were published in 1956, the
majority of which were for export. No
Hebrew Bible has been published since
the Revolution. Synagogues are being
closed down, attacked in the press, and
desecrated. Religious Jews are being
prosecuted for teaching their children
Hebrew religion. (Sovietskiya Moldavia,
28/4/60).
The baking of unleavened bread was
prohibited, and frequently those baking
it privately were subjected to public de-
famation and arrested (see Kazakhstan-
skaia Pravda, 12/4/60).
The only religious seminary, catering
for three million Jews, was reduced to
one (sic!) rabbinical student.
Whereas Mr Khrushchev advises Jews
that the loss of their identity is “pro-
gressive”, they are still obliged to classify
themselves as “Jewish Nationality” on in-
ternal passports, presumably for discrimi-
natory purposes.
(9) Mr Gamazeishchikov says “Frank-
ly speaking, the Jews in the USSR are
enjoying better conditions compared with
other Soviet Nationalities”. One shud-
ders to think what the conditions of those
other Nationalities must be.
I have never stated or implied that
Soviet anti-Semitic activity has been
responsible for the physical extermina-
tion of millions of Jews as was the case
with the Nazis. For Mr Gamazeich-
shikov to attribute this to me amounts to
a distortion of reality which diverts
attention from the real and documented
facts under consideration.
ISI LEIBLER
Caulfield (Victoria).
LONG MOVIES
Sir,
I feel compelled to criticise Martin
Long’s film review of “The Counterfeit
Traitor” (Bulletin, September 29).
Firstly, his report could be questioned by
misquoting the first release house as be-
ing the Capitol instead of the Prince Ed-
ward Theatre.
After launching with their first error,
Mr Long’s review settles down to a
wordy tirade on his aversion to what he
considers to be over-long movies. So
he doesn't like long movies? So what?
Plenty of people love them!
And how Mr Long or anyone else, for
that matter, could expect the story of
Eric Erickson’s exploits during the
Second World War to be in less than
two hours twenty minutes is beyond me.
If one read the book on which this film
is based it would become apparent that
the size of this film is a directoral
achievement, as so much detail is com-
pressed into the running time.
The film, incidentally, follows the
book very closely, having been shot in
actual European locations with each
character portrayed a national of' the
country concerned. What a waste of
beautiful Scandinavian scenery to have
filmed this exciting story in glorious
black and white as suggested by critic
Long!


William Holden, who plays Erickson,
does a remarkably good job, and his
narration irresistibly was the last
thing in the world I would relate to
“Take It From Here”, a truly mysterious
comparison.
One can only assume that Martin Long
was overtired before previewing this film,
or that he was not in the mood for this
epic. I recognise and respect the right
to criticise, but feel that such criticisms
must be always fair and balanced.
GEORGE M. NACARD
General Sales Manager,
Paramount Pictures.
Sydney.
BOOM IN LITTLE MAGAZINES
Sir,
For many years The Bulletin has
been publishing inaccurate, and often
mischievous, statements about the literary
journal “Meanjin Quarterly”. The article
published in your September 22 issue,
(Peter Kelly’s “Boom in Little Maga-
zines") is no exception. The alleged
“facts” are totally wrong on almost every
count.
If accurate information about the
journal was wanted it would have been
a simple matter to have approached this
office direct, instead of scrounging odd
pieces of hearsay from dubious sources.
MAMIE SMITH
Secretary “Meanjin Quarterly”
University of Melbourne.
(It seems rather pointless for Miss
Smith to say that our facts are wrong
unless she says where they are wrong.
These columns are open to Miss Smith
or “Meanjin’s” editor. — Ed.)
THE FORRESTER MOTION
Sir,
It was with some relish that I read the
letter of the DLP’s Mr Manning (Bul-
letin, September 29) criticising my
support of “State justice to independent
schools”. After a barrage of criticism
from the “Left”, i.e. “Tribune”, the
Trotskyists, unidentified politicians, the
Century, etc., I was delighted to be re-
turned to the ranks of moderate Labor by
an attack from the “Right”. I was really
beginning to believe the propaganda that
I was “outrageous”, anti-democratic, pro-
NCC, pro-DLP, pro-Santamaria, pro-
CIA, pro-fascist and pro-Nazi.
In the University debate referred to, I
did argue that the DLP had lost its
original significance that there was a
growing body v/ithin .he party which had
a permanent third party approach in
contrast to the party’s original idea of a
“united” Labor Party on its (the DLP’s)
terms. Further, 1 endeavoured to show
that recent Victorian electoral results
showed a weakening of the DLP in tradi-
tional Labor areas and a strengthening in
the newer middle-class suburbs of Mel-
bourne. I made a number of other points
but space will not allow me to instance
them all.
To say that a party is insignificant
when it polls between 400,000 and half
a million votes consistently, would be
stupid. But what I suggested was that
there were degrees of significance. Even
a party of one or ten has some signific-
ance. The thought I do offer to Mr
Manning and his University friends is
that they should be more politically
realistic. To be in support of educational
justice in the DLP is all very well but it
doesn’t help with the practical problem
of achieving this justice, as the DLP
cannot ever hope to legislate. The ALP
has legislated and will continue to do so.
Mr Manning's belief will remain that
and nothing more. Mine may become
law.
JOHN FORRESTER
Lakemba (NSW).
PUBLISHERS
NOT CHOPPING BLOCKS
Sir,
Recent Press and television comments
on Australian book publishing have a
suggestion of the old, and one should
have thought dead, cliches of the wicked-
ness, rapacity, and ineptitude of the
publisher. It might therefore be worth
having a look at some of these current
illusions:
1. That the Australian publisher is
rolling in money.
While he puts on a brave front and
his stock in trade is to be an optimist,
publishing is still a tender plant in Aus-
tralia. Return on capital is low, and the
same capital invested in almost any
other industry would yield higher return.
This is the reason why most publishers
are, of necessity, private companies.
Salaries paid are substantially less than
for equivalent jobs in other industries.
2. That the Australian publisher has
poor judgment and no courage.
A firm rejecting “They’re A Weird
Mob” gets column upon column of deri-
sive comments; comments only possible
because another firm has published the
book, and made a success of it. The
courage needed to publish work such as
“The Australian Encyclopedia”, Iredale’s
“Birds of Paradise” or Robin Body’s
“Australian Ugliness” seems to pass un-
noticed. The Australian publisher’s
supreme demonstration of courage is
being a publisher at all.
3. That the Australian publisher fails
to sell in a world market which
clamors for Australian books.
The percentage of books exported
from Australia is the same as the per-
centage of books exported from the
United States, not withstanding the fact
there is only a flicker of interest in our
books in Europe, and restricted, if ex-
panding need in Britain. The United
States’ interest in Australian books as
such, is equivalent to their interest in
books from Kenya.
4. That on second and subsequent edi-
tions the publisher makes large
profits.
The second edition of the average,
moderately successful book often costs
as much, if not more, than the first
edition, because of changing costs and
the usually smaller run.
5. That Australian writers (of fiction)
do better publishing abroad.
In some instances this is true; but
where books are addressed mainly to the
Australian audience, and that is the
market overseas firms buy the book for.
authors often receive reduced royalties,
and smaller sales because the books may
not be readily available here. I believe
that Australian publishers are scrupul-
ously honest in advising their authors
what is the best deal for them. The time
will come, of course, when Australian
books of wide general interest will be
published and printed both in Australia
and abroad.
The truth is that the Australian pub-
lisher is generally a man dedicated to his
task. Fie works long hours both at his
office and at his home, prompted only
by his belief in the artistic and literary
talent of Australia.
It is tiresome therefore to see the
lavish publicity given to backyard w'riters
who “successfully” publish their own
book (the latest has sold some 200
copies) and listen to embittered, talent-
less authors who cover their own frota-
tions by attacking others.
Australian publishers, just as other pro-
fessional people, are not all angels; they
have made mistakes and will no doubt
make more. But they, perhaps more than
anyone, have demonstrated their faith in
our culture, and ill-deserve being made
a chopping block for the frustrations of
others.
LLOYD O'NELL
Melbourne.
A WRITERS’ TRADE UNION
Sir,
It doesn't matter much, but I was
never a member of the Realist Writers,
as stated by Robert Murray (Bulletin,
October 6), though I once gave a talk
to members of their Sydney group.
For the record, the only organisations
to which I have ever belonged are the
Boy Scouts, the Australian Journalists’
Association, the Journalists’ Club, the
Buffaloes, the long-defunct Workers' Art
Guild in WA, the Sydney Committee of
the Australasian Book Society in the days
when its headquarters were in Mel-
bourne, the Fellowship of Australian
Writers, several movements which tried
to encourage peace, two or three motor-
cycle clubs and a small drinking-club in
London, England.
In my really remote past there w'as a
swimming club, and perhaps one or two
others of that sort which I have
forgotten.
GAVIN CASEY
Manning (West Australia).
A BRONZED BRUTE
Sir,
In regard to Mr Charles Higham’s
“Fat Lady or Christ” (Bulletin,
October 13): if Mr Zooey-Salinger is
polishing his glasses, it is quite obvious
Mr Higham-Lane Coutell is polishing his
looking-glass and dearly loves the big-
bronzed brute he sees.
P. DRAKE FORD
Hawthorn (Victoria).


REVIEWS
TELEVISION
BETWEEN BOUTS OF VERTIGO
By Don Bass
Yllhatever your opinions of Drs Casey
” and Kildare, the animated comic
strips in which they appear each week
are models of order and sanity compared
with the saga of Young Dr Malone. And
if you have not heard of that gentleman
and the zombies associated with him, it
means you work afternoons or live else-
where than Melbourne, where this dis-
ease first struck, or Sydney where it
spread last week in a particularly viru-
lent form because ATN 7 has program-
med it with “The Story of Peter Grey”
and “Autumn Affair”, two earlier blows
at the community’s mental health.
To indicate that this is no exaggera-
tion, let me give you a precis of the
early episodes of Dr Malone, or as much
of them as I was able to catch between
bouts of sheer vertigo. Made by the
NBC in America, with occasional music
recorded at Forest Lawn Cemetery, this
creepy-weepy began with a conversation
between Young Dr Malone and his sis-
ter in a kitchen.
They were talking about Old Dr
Malone, his wife Tracey, and their new-
born baby Jonathan. With clinical de-
tail, Young Dr M. explained to his sis-
ter that Jonathan was not only in hos-
pital with deafness, virus pneumonia and
meningitis, but was entirely without a
thyroid gland, and it could only be a
tragedy for poor Tracey if he lived.
His sister could understand that, be-
cause her husband was. . . . Whatever he
was, she could not bear to say, and
exited to organ music leading to a com-
mercial break which should be snapped
up by one of television’s clinical adver-
tisers.
NBC then introduced a quick succes-
sion of other travesties on the human
race, four deeply neurotic women of
various ages, their noble and long suf-
fering and sometimes erring men, and
their innocently savage children. All of
these people knew one another, and the
Malones, and discussed the tragedy of
Jonathan at length, along with their own
troubles which ranged the entire spec-
trum of human fallibility and self pity.
Some of the prize examples visible
during the first episodes of this ether-
opera were Tracey Malone who could
have blamed herself for Jonathan’s state,
Old Dr Malone who preferred to let her
blame him for sending the baby to hos-
pital where it got the virus, a Dr Erica
Kunz who had a guilty passion for Old
Dr Malone, a Mrs Stepan who had rea-
son to feel guilty about earlier treatment
of her older daughter, who was going to
stay with a Mrs Lionel who was guiltily
jealous of the girl.
To lard it together, there was the
Forest Lawn music, and there was Young
Dr Malone. Unlike his night television
colleagues, he avoids the hospital and
the white blouse, preferring kitchens and
casual mufti. He also offers garrulous
emotion where Dr Casey is satisfied to
sneer. For example, “A quick death
would be merciful if Tracey could adjust
to it. If Jonathan doesn’t die, we’ll all be
up the spout. Some day when the emo-
tions are less raw and time has eased
the pain, then the truth will be known.”
Up with the creepy organ music.
In Sydney, ATN is giving its viewers
this junk before “Peter Grey”, a local
serial which now looks good because it
has only two central neurotics, a clergy-
man and his wife, and “Autumn Affair”,
an earlier local effort centred around
only one neurotic.
The point is that ATN has given Aus-
tralian television its first women's serial
bloc, and in doing so is catering to a
neurotic fringe which radio has aban-
doned some say in favor of a“rhythm-
crazy primitive audience”.
As the ABC offers no viewing at all
during mid-afternoon, which is contempt
of another kind, and the opposing com-
mercial channel has only a re-run of
“Father Knows Best”, many idle people
will have no alternative to Young Dr
Malone.
The next audience survey will show
it, and as success is quickly imitated,
more serial blocs will follow. And then,
to quote the Young Doctor, “the whole
system will be out of kilter and it will
mean a slow, debilitating disintegration”.
It can happen to anyone on a steady
diet of pure garbage.
MUSIC
MAHLER'S "POSTHUMOUS" NINTH
Eighth Subscription Concert. Red
Series and Blue Series. Melbourne
Town Hall.
HPhe only adjectives for this pair of
A concerts are those which Professor
Browne used to apply to good teaching
• stimulating and provocative. The sti-
mulus was given by the conductor’s brisk
accurate performances, and the provoca-
tion came from his choice of music.
Dean Dixon gave nearly all his first
concert to the Ninth Symphony of Mah-
ler, and produced in his second a pre-
miere of von Einem’s “Meditations”, and
the unfamiliar Fifth Symphony of Ber-
wald. Perhaps it was this Berwald which
showed Dixon’s commanding precision
most clearly. It is the kind of music
which demands much in clarity and fine
detail from the conductor, and very little
of the concentration of the listener.
Cheerful, even perky, it continually sug-
gests a rougher and more solid Mendels-
sohn. Its irrepressible optimism, on a
basis of neat and attractive workmanship,
fill in half an hour very pleasantly,
though 1 could not imagine a man’s turn-
ing to it for solace or lasting delight.
In this respect I thought the von
Einem curiously similar. It engages the
mind rather more closely, of course, by
the mere fact of its being contemporary:
though not alone by this, for its cloak of
sophisticated technique, however lightly
worn, is still palpable. It conveys a strong
impression of the active intelligence of
the man behind the music, while giving
virtually no other clue to his personality
at all. The intelligence saves the music
from complete impersonality; it gives, in
some manner or other, a feeling of pur


pose and consistency to a work which is
thoroughly eclectic, to an almost studied
degree. The clean and aseptic treatment
of harmony, the sinewy lines of the coun-
terpoint, suggest a fairly strong influence
from Hindemith; but the composer has
chosen his sources very widely: the enter-
taining flow of rhythmic ideas, and the
changes that are rung on them, are closer
to Broadway than to the academic retreat
of Hindemith.
The music of this second concert,
flanked by good performances of a sym-
phony and an overture of Beethoven, was
well enough received in the Town Hall.
If there were any listeners whose sensi-
bility was wounded by the von Einem,
they were lost in the general enthusiasm
for the work of the conductor. But the
picture was, a little bleaker for the Red
Series concert. Many who essayed the
Mahler in the best of goodwill found
their concentration no match for its for-
midable length.
Even now, some days after the con-
cert, I am in two minds whether they
can be blamed for this. The experts
themselves disagree about the Ninth
Symphony. To a listener who has fol-
lowed the career of Mahler up to the
“Song of the Earth”, and with sympathy,
it will always remain a tragically power-
ful document. The huge climactic first
movement represents all the self-torment-
ing agonies of his life with fearful inten-
sity. Assertion is no longer made with
rhetoric and a shout, but ground out
with a tremendous roar of noise, as of
rending metal: hesitancy is no longer a
shy and disarming gesture.
But the suspicion remains that its
documentary value may be greater than
its worth as art. The process of dis-
solution which Mahler feared and saw
at work around him, the process which
has been found reflected in the sketches
of the Tenth Symphony, seems to me to
cast its shadow over the Ninth as well.
These symphonies are both referred to as
posthumous works; and for once I find
the ridiculous paradox of this phrase,
posthumous works, less of a paradox
and more of a mot juste.
KENNETH HINCE
THEATRE
WHO'S FOR CHARADES?
The Season at Sarsaparilla. Patrick
White. Union Theatre. Melbourne.
“ A Charade of Suburbia” is a rather
alarming sub-title for a play by an
important writer. “Charade” suggests a
silly game; and “suburbia” is the word
we use when we can no longer bear
thinking about the suburbs when we
want a nice soft generalisation to soothe
our irritated minds. It is alarming to find
a man of first-rate creative intelligence
playing, however ingeniously, with a silly
game about a sillier word. Precisely what
we hope for from such a man is salvation
from these easy substitutes for thought
and observation.
Mr White’s sub-title points directly to
the major source of weakness, both them-
atic and structural, in his play. His
attempt to people suburbia produces two
groups of characters who split the play
in half because they do not belong in the
same world. In the first group we have
people like Mavis and Harry Knott, those
“funny but lovable” expectant parents we
know' so well from films, but will never
meet in life; and Mr Eubage, the “impor-
tant man”, whose double used to appear
regularly in Smith’s Weekly cartoons.
These are stock caricatures, animated
half- and quarter-truths, capable of sup-
porting, at best, a mild and inconsequen-
tial comedy, or a rough and ready satire.
Their unreality discredits the highbrow
castigation of modern living which it is
their function to justify.
The other characters are the real
people Nola and Ernie Boyle, Rowley
Masson, and most of the youngsters.
These are splendid creations, but their
very reality discredits the criticism of
suburbia just as completely as does the
unreality of the others. What happens to
them has nothing essential to do with the
suburbs. Poised awkwardly between the
two groups is the character of Roy Child,
a discontented teacher. As well as being
a character, Roy is a kind of combina-
tion chorus, narrator and ring-master,
and as such is the most spectacular
failure in the play.
Despite all I have said, the play is very
well worth seeing. Mr White has an im-
pressive command of the resources of the
stage, and provides plenty of lively enter-
tainment, and some moments of superb
power. There is constant cause for delight
in the brilliance of his dialogue, and in
the ease and skill with which he varies his
style to point up his situations. The
trouble with this play arises from the
weakness of its underlying idea. The con-
sequence of a weak idea is a confused
structure. Given a good idea, Mr White
will undoubtedly write a fine play he
may already have done so in “The Ham
Funeral”, for all Melbourne knows.
John Sumner’s production with the
Union Theatre Repertory Company is
spectacularly good. Zoe Caldwell, Marion
Edward, John Gray and Stewart Weller
are the best in a very strong cast. Anne
Fraser sets effectively a stage which is
somewhat too small for this play.
JAMES MURPHY
RADIO
GRATEFUL FOR
PARLIAMENT?
/Commercial radio was praised b> the
Prime Minister, Mr Menzies, re-
cently, and then backhanded by the
chairman of the Broadcasting Control
Board, Mr Osborne. Briefly, Mr Osborne
claimed that in commercial radio “up to
10 minutes are sometimes given to noth-
ing but advertisements”; he implied a
general assumption in radio that “every
owner of a portable is a rhythm-crazy
primitive”; he deplored a lack of variety
of programme matter; and he said that
“mature and intelligent people increas-
ingly expressed real gratitude for the
existence of the ABC.”
If Mr Osborne was reported correctly,
one of us is listening to Radio Erewhon,
because soon after reading his statements,
at 1.48 p.m. the same day, I ranged the
dial with these results:
Station 1 was playing a Frank Ifield
recording, station 2 had a religious pro-
gramme (“miracles belong to the present”
quoth the preacher), station 3 had a
drammer (“zey drove slowlee along ze
street, Countess”), station 4 was playing
an ‘unnamed melody’ “Night and Day”
and inviting ’phone calls, station 5 had
a balladeer promising to love someone
till the “twelfth of Never”, and station
6 was giving a reading from an Austral-
ian novel. The tv o ABC stations had
some organ music and the weather re-
ports, respectively.
Exactly two hours later, at 3.48, I
found the stations giving a ‘country and
western style’ song, a musical comedy
snippet, a folk singer, another country
and western, a sporting result, an actuality
broadcast and on the ABC, Parlia-
ment and Kate Smith singing “Cockles
and Mussels”.
At 4.48, when anyone might expect
commercial radio to be at its shrillest,
catering for those “rhythm crazy primi-
tives,” I made another run along the dial
and found three vocal recordings in cha-
cha time, two reasonably bearable mod-
ern ballads, and one horror. On the ABC
I heard Parliament (“the Australian Gov-
ament should adopt a policy to achieve
full employment”), and two minutes of
a Chopin prelude before the 5 o’clock
pips. Then the ABC had to offer its
mature and intelligent listeners a choice
of Parliament or Mac and Jimmy in the
Children’s Hour.
Admittedly, that is the only enter-
tainment for small children left on radio,
but neither it nor Parliament seemed
likely to earn the gratitude of the tense
motorist, nudging his way homeward in
peak hour traffic.
DALE MILLER


ART
THE PREVALENCE OF GALLERIES
David Keys. Jazz Gallery, Malvern.
Melbourne.
Michael Goss and others. South Yarra
Gallery. Melbourne.
YI/ith so many galleries working ac-
" tively and changing their show fre-
quently, selection is becoming a problem
in Melbourne. Within a couple of months
of the opening of the Leveson Street
Gallery yet another new gallery has
opened in Malvern with the forbidding
name of the Jazz Gallery.
Gallery A, too, has resumed in South
Yarra under the direction of Janet Daw-
son, and to its former policy of present-
ing the abstractionists, especially the
Sydney ones, it has added the highly
commendable idea of keeping a large
stock of prints on display, which may
eventually be augmented by work from
the print workshop on the premises. The
management believes that many a poten-
tial small buyer is ignorant of the value
and cheapness of prints, and ignorant
of the difference between prints and re-
productions. If they manage to encourage
the making and buying of prints they will
be providing a very important service.
The first one-man show at the Jazz
Gallery was David Keys’s. David
Keyes is a painter who has moved
fairly recently into abstraction with, I
think, considerable success. His paintings,
though essentially studio works, are based
on landscape themes, generally the warm
dry landscapes of the inland. His ap-
proach is purely through the work itself,
and his effects are achieved by a studied
and subtle harmony of shapes combined
with a quite striking, though at times
somewhat bald, use of color. The evoca-
tion of the Australian landscape is im-
mediate and accurate, not only because
the colors and shapes reflect nature, but
also because they blend and interact in
what seems their natural way. The final
effect of these bright flat areas of color
and simple, ungainly but delicately poised
shapes is to suggest what might best be
called a poetic approach to nature, an
approach which simplifies appearances
in order to investigate the complexity of
an underlying harmony and balance.
The glass print monotypes of Michael
Goss, who held his first show at
the South Yarra Gallery, make an at-
tractive exhibition. He handles a wide
range of forms with assurance, and there
is always strong control apparent beneath
the lightness and delicacy of line and
color. The number of accomplished Aus-
tralian printmakers seems to be growing
(the Gallery A collection gives some
evidence of this) and Michael Goss
should rank with the best of them.
Among the small group of recent paint-
ings exhibited with this show is another
ancient world opus from Don Laycock,
“Amana Princess”. It is equal in
scale, style and impressiveness to
his recent “Gilgamesh”, but to suit
the subject, the domineering verti-
cals of the latter have given way to large
curves, beautifully balanced in tone,
which give a soft decorative feeling to
the painting that is very appealing.
In terms of money all these shows are
insignificant. £40,000 was spent this year
from the Felton Bequest and the results,
a wide and stimulating collection, have
been on show at the National Gallery.
I am not conversant enough with markets
to pass any judgments on the wisdom of
buying what is here or the foolishness of
overlooking bargains that went some-
where else. It seems to me an enlightened
and invaluable year’s work.
BILL HANNAN
KOKOSCHKA IN RETROSPECT
ThiE London reviewers have greeted the
A retrospective exhibition of Oskar
Kokoschka’s work with a harmonising
chorus of praise. It is so slight a varia-
tion on the praises of Europe and Ame-
rica (helpfully noted in the catalogue)
that it seems more a tribute to his posi-
tion in the buyers’ market and to the
power of publicity than a reaction to the
300 paintings and drawings crowding the
Tate Gallery, London, until the middle
of next month.
It is perhaps, an expression of grati-
tude to the man more than an apprecia-
tion of his work; after all, he has chosen
to settle in England thus helping the
image of London as an art centre and of
England as a home of freedom, he
deserves to be praised. This kind of con-
fusion of painter and painting, person
and product (a confusion Kokoschka
shares) lets Nigel Gosling exult that
“under our eyes a romantic tempera-
ment, prone to violence and despair, is
confined slowly within the rounded shell
of Rennaissance positivism” and have his
outburst published in the “London Ob-
server” as though he means it and as
though it means something. At the same
time, the radio “Critics” with the ex-
ception of the indoctrinated art-man
voiced with varying degrees of timidity
their unease with the exhibition, even
their boredom.
The show is boring. It is so big that
even the sympathetic viewer, dogged by
the glumness of most of it, can forget
(or, remembering, can over- or under-
rate) its occasional excitements as
color, as decoration, as character, as lyric
poem.
Reading the list of titles, one expects
great variety of subject. That expectation,
at least, must be disappointed. As Mr
Gosling has it, in “portrait, landscape or
figure composition” “Man, clumsy but
thinking man, remains the centre of his
interest.” This statement is an article of
faith to Kokoschka and to his cataloguer.
Again and again, cataloguer and reviewer
have interpreted pictures by taking tone
and content from the writings of earlier
reviewers, who were reacting in parti-
cular political and artistic situations and
from Kokoschka himself. This last is the
saddest.
In the paintings and in the writings, he
appears as an earnest man, thinking as
clumsily as Rodin’s “Thinker”, hamfists
hoping for butterfly-fingers, impressed
and pleased by his intellectual achieve-
ment but broody about his emotions, and
sentimental enjoying emotion out of
proportion to its object, either too great
to justify or too small to do justice to its
starting point.
His art, his self, like Central European
cooking, appears soggy, stolid, safe and
extreme with dainty dumpling and mash-
able potato floating in gravies (colors of
a higher order) which aspire to an eleg-
ance beyond their ingredients. It is a
personality with which I am so out of
sympathy I find it hard to look at its
products intellectually. But should I have
to look at them intellectually? Should the
paintings have so little control over the
viewer as to leave him free for intellectu-
alism, rationalisation and rejection?
There are two enormous triptychs in
the show. Even Gosling, trying to admire,
finds himself “faltering before them”.
“They seem,” he says cautiously, “to
need some vast background to justify
them.” I laughed as I read him. But I
also falter before them. Who am I to
say an honored man of 76 is wasting
his time? He appeared to be wasting
mine.
There is a lot of the theatrical in
Kokoschka’s paintings from the Vien-
nese doll faces in his religious pictures
(crypt-mangers?) to the backdrop lack
of precision in his landscapes. Working
in a theatre, perhaps with the discipline
of production needs might have freed
him like illustration from the
generalised emotionalism in which he
indulges. Nothing is so meaningless as a
sigh; nothing so quickly provokes a yawn
as the sort of sensibility Kokoschka dis-
plays in paint. It is because of this that
he (and the literary reviewers) can ver-
balise and invent the paintings.
RAY MATHEW


THE RED PAGE
THE ESSENCE OF OSCAR WILDE
"He has suffered much from the Eng. Lit. mania for classification"
By ROSS CAMPBELL
The Letters of Oscar Wilde. Edited by
Rupert Hart - Davis, Hart - Davis
1275.
bandit Jesse James vas shot dead
by a friend in St Joseph, Missouri,
in April, 1882. A few days later Oscar
Wilde came to the town on his lecture
tour, and he was amused by the scramble
for relics of the noted robber. He des-
cribed it in two letters, one to Norman
Forbes-Robertson, an English actor, and
the other to an American girl named
Hattie of whom nothing else is known.
In writing the letters Wilde faced a
miniature problem familiar to most of us.
When describing the same thing ir. letters
to several friends, does one lazily use
the same words, as in a circular? Or does
one pay each friend the compliment of
personalised phrasing? This is how Wilde
handled it:
To Norman Forbes-Robertson: “They
sold (Jesse James’s) dust-bin and foot-
scraper yesterday by public auction;
his door-knocker is to be offered for
sale this afternoon, the reserve price
being about the income of an English
bishop. The citizens of Kanzas have
telegraphed to an agent here to secure
his coal-scuttle at all hazards and at
any cost, and his favorite chromo-litho-
graph was disposed of at a price which
in England only an authentic Titian
can command. . . . The America;.:; are
certainly great hero-worshippers, and
always take their heroes from the
criminal classes.”
To Hattie he wrote on the same day:
“(Jesse James’s) door-knocker was
sold yesterday by public auction, and
the man who sold it has retired on a
large income in consequence, today
the foot-scraper and the dust-bin are
to be raffled for, and his favorite
chromo-lithograph has already been
disposed of at a price which in Europe
only a Titian or an authentic Michael
Angelo can command. The Americans,
if not hero-worshippers, are villain-
worshippers . . .”
We notice that Wilde makes the same
jokes but slightly varies the details, and
the variations are equally good. The pas-
sages illustrate, in a small way, the power
of comic improvisation which was his
peculiar and wonderful talent.
The quaint confrontation of Wilde and
Jesse James is one of many fascinating
things made accessible in Rupert Hart-
Davis’s magnificent edition of Wilde’s
letters. Of the 1098 letters included,
comparatively few have been published
before, and rr :>st of those in small scat-
tered books long unobtainable. The editor
has brought together letters from more
than 80 public and private collections,
not to mention auction-room catalogues
and other sources. The resulting book,
unlike most works of scholarship,
amounts to an important addition to
creative literature. Presenting the letters
in chronological order, from childhood
to the end of the writer’s life, it is almost
an autobiography of Wilde. At the same
time it makes available a large new stock
of writing by a man who was, among
other things, one of the great wits of all
time.
Every person or wore r incide re-
quiring explanation is dealt with in the
thousands of urbanely informative foot-
notes. The 80-page ind.x is a delightful
work in itself, full of such ' ems as;
Harte, Bret Indians accused of
reading up privately, 105.
Goodwood Races interfere with
fortune-telling, 358.
Wilde’s personality and story, as they
emerge from the letters, differ in some
ways from the impressions made familiar
by legend. For one thing, on his Ameri-
can lecture tour he was not generally
mocked and derided. He had a very good
time, the trip was a box-office success,
and the letters he wrote (he was then
28) were gay and exuberant. After visit-
ing the stronghold of the Mormons he
said: “The Opera House at Salt Lake
is an enormous affair about the size of
Covent Garden, and holds with ease four-
teen families.”
Despite his self-sought reputation as a
languid aesthete, Wilde clearly was pos-
sessed by nature of great mental energy
and (in his youth) intense ambition. He
could not have taken a double first in
“Greats” at Oxford without hard work.
In his grand remonstrance to Lord Alfred
Douglas, known as De Profundis and
printed here in full, one of the bitterest
accusations is that Douglas by his dis-
solute and distracting habits had pre-
vented Wilde from getting o with his
writing. His ambition, incidentally, is
attested by his diligent presentation of
copies of his early works to influential
persons. He sent “The Happy Prince,”
accompanied by a flattering note, to Mr
Gladstone, of all people.
Of outstanding interest is the way the
letters show the development of Wilde’s
association with Lord Alfred Douglas.
We are able to see this attachment, more
clearly than before, as not just an un-
savory affair but a tragic infatuation.
It would be hard to find a parallel case
in the annals of normal passi_n where a
talent and a career of such brilliance
were thrown away, and for love of such
an odious and worthless person.
Mr Hart-Davis aptly says of Douglas
that he was “in some sense Wilde’s in-
spiration and in every sense his evil
genius.” Wilde wrote him letters in a
strain of crazed ol session, the most
notorious being the stolen one produced
at the trial, in which he said: “Your slim
gilt soul walks between passion and
poetry.” His feelings became increasingly
reckless till they reached a climax in the
near-insanity of his libel action against
Douglas’s father, which led directly to
Wilde’s arrest on sex charges and his
imprisonment. He maintained that
Douglas talked him into that fatal
prosecution, out of hatred for his father.
Douglas was handsome in a sulky way,
and had a small literary gift. He was
also a sponger and a crook, a bad-
tempered egotist devoid of any kind of
decency. Wilde knew all that, but when
he came out of gaol he went back to
him. It seems just possible, when one
reads the letters, that the fascination
Douglas held for Wilde was due in some
measure to his rank. Robert Ross, who
understood Wilde be ter than anyone,
wrote after his death: “Two things were
absolutely necessary for him, contact
with comely things, as Pater says, and
social position.” It was in accord-
ance with this sense of social position
that he should ha’e loved a L rd.
Even if Wilde had n t gone to gaol
and been publicly disgraced, his unre-
strained perversion and especially his
mad passion for Douglas would probably
have ruined h : m. The evidence of
Andre Gide, quoted in one cf Mr Hart-
Davis’s footnotes, is significant. Gide,
an old friend, met him less than a year
before his downfall, when he was at
Florence on a clandestine holiday with
Doujas. Writing to his mother, Gide
said that Wilde, though as always an
extraordinary raconteur, looked “aged
and ugly.” He was then 39.
While he was in gaol Wilde petitioned
the authorities unsuccesstully for re-
mission of some of his two-year sentence,
expressing remorse for the 'loathsome
form of erotomania” which had led to
his imprisonment. But when he was out
again he reaffirmed his belief that
“Uranian love,” as he called it, was
“more noble than other forms.” Writing
to Robert Ross, he said: “It is very un-
fair of people being horrid to me about
Bossie (Lord Alfred Douglas) and
Naples. A patriot put in prison for


EFG
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN BOOKSHOP
28 Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W., Ground Floor
Phone: BW 9807
Sidney J. Baker: My Own Destroyer
A Biography of Capt. Matthew
Flinders. RN 29/6
Hector Bolitho: My Restless Years . . 44/9
H. E. Butler (Ed.): Atlas of the Universe 62/-
X. K. Derry & T. L. Jarman: The
Making of Modern Britain Life
and Work from George 111 to
Elizabeth II 17/-
Andrea Lazzarini: Pope John XXIII
A Life of the New Pope .. .. 20/9
Pierre Mousa: The Underprivileged
Nations .. .. .. .. .. - 49/9
John Stracliey: The Strangled Cry .. 26/-
Joseph Wechsberg: Red Plush & Black
Velvet The Story of Dame Nellie
Melba and her times .. .. .. 37/3
loving his country loves his country, and
a poet in prison for loving boys loves
boys.”
It is sad to read the letters of the five
years between his release from gaol and
his death, with their constant humili-
ations over “that mosquito, money,” and
their admission of the collapse of his
powers as a writer. To one of his friends
he said: “I don’t think I shall ever write
again: la joie de vivre is gone, and that,
with will-powr- is the basis of art.”
The Wilde exhibited in this collection
is not always an entertainer, by any
means. In his serious vein he could be
tiresome, especially in the long self-justi-
ficatory letters he wrote to the editors
of papers which had reviewed his works
unfavorably. But the dominant impres-
sion is of a man who was not only amus-
ing but good-natured and kind. We
notice the warmth and encouragement
in his letters to Shaw, who was still a
battler when Wilde was the rage of the
town. Later, when he had been in
prison, his long letter to a newspaper
exposing the cruel treatment of children
in English gaols was a humane protest
against a monstrous evil.
A renewed pc maintance with Wilde’s
wit in this book prompts the thought that
it is time the orthodox critical attitude to
him was less patronising. He has suffer-
ed much from the Eng. Lit. mania for
classification. The decadence the
aesthetic movement—artificial comedy—
his name has been put into all those old
pigeonholes. Yet the essence of Wildean
wit is unique, a shimmering lightness, a
poetic lift which his many disciples have
never been able to touch. It is singularly
free from malice or even from satire,
being for the most part a playing with
ideas —an expression of his joy in living
which he said was the basis of his art.
It flashes out unexpectedly in the letter
he wrote from Reading Gaol to Robert
Ross with instructions for the copying of
the manuscript of “De Profundis”:
“Of course, the manuscript should
not pass out of your control, but could
you not get Mrs. Marshall to send
down one of her type-writing girls—
women are the most reliable, as they
have no memory for the important—
to do it under your supervision? I
assure you that the type-writing
machine, w’ en played with expression,
is not more annoying than the piano
when played by a sister or near rela-
tion. Indeed many, among those most
devoted to domesticity, prefer it.”
I wonder whether, in the long and busy
history of the typewriter, anyone else has
written about it with such distinction.
In passages like this the letters as-
sembled by Mr Hart-Davis bring one as
close as is possible now to hearing
Wilde’s conversation. The spirit of
him can be felt in a note he sent, in the
days of his prosperity, to William
Rothenstein: “When I go to Paris I shall
wait your coming, and we shall be merry,
as of old, at Sylvain’s,” What fun to
have been there!
THE WANNAN SCHOOL OF "HISTORY"
Very Strange Tales. The Turbulent
Times of Samuel Marsden. Bill
Wannan. Lansdowne Press. 355.
Titled from Dr John Dunmore Lang’s
verse which asserted that “very strange
tales are told of gentlemen of New South
Wales”, Mr Wannan has set out to pro-
duce some tales which his publisher’s
blurb certifies as “authentic”. He him-
self says that the book contains some
“unfamiliar facts” and it has a curious
bibliography at the end.
It would be better titled “Very Tall
Tales” in respect of some of its state-
ments or, alternatively, “Very Strange
Facts”. Mr Wannan appears to be one
of those historians who set up some en-
vied figure as a symbol of capitalist in-
famy, besmear him with every piece of
local spleen that can be found on the
principle that if a statement is libellous
it must be true because he hates the vic-
tim of it; and, if any slander is dis-
proved by indisputable facts, you just
refuse to believe the facts.
A sovereign example of the “authen-
ticity” of his narrative is his treatment of
the arrest and sending home of John
Macarthur in 1801 after he had wounded
his commanding officer in a duel. Accord-
ing to Mr Wannan : Paterson, recognising
the futility of bringing Macarthur to a
court-martial at which Macarthur’s friends
would exonerate him, challenged him to
a duel.. The facts : There was nothing to
court-martial Macarthur about at that
stage, and, if there had been, all the offi-
cers, except four were at loggerheads with
him. Wannan says: “King was shocked
at the duel. . . . He ordered the arrest of
Macarthur and McKellar (Paterson’s
second) and Piper (Macarthur’s second).
He had fleeting thoughts of sending Mac-
arthur into exile at Norfolk Island; but
finally he came to the conclusion that
only one course of action was at all
practicable. Macarthur must stand trial
in England.” The facts : He ordered the
three into arrest but McKellar, who
was his aide de camp and who had car-
ried the challenge from Paterson, only
into token arrest. He ordered Macarthur
to Norfolk Island and he refused to go,
refused to come out of arrest and de-
manded a court-martial as a right. King
could not hold a court-martial in Austra-
lia without court-martialling Paterson, the
challenger, and his own aide de camp,
McKellar. He therefore decided to send
Macarthur to England and suggested pri-
vately that the British authorities should
not let him return. The only witness he
proposed to send, McKellar, was lost
at sea.
When Macarthur arrived to be court-
martialled at his own demand his
trial was impossible for good reasons: (a)
there was no specific charge against him,
(b) no evidence, (c) no witnesses. The
fact that the only charge against Mac-
arthur could have been fighting a duel
he would have been cashiered for
cowardice if he hadn’t fought it and
that he had courted trial does not pre-
vent Wannan and his supporters from
claiming that Macarthur prevented the
trial by stealing or contriving the theft
of relevant documents, and holding them
until he was safe. The facts that (a)
neither Governor King nor any know-
ledgable contemporary ever accused him
of stealing these, or any documents, (b)
that the original document is in the
Colonial Office files in its right place
and marked as received in 1802 be-
fore the case was considered and
that all the vital facts in it were already-
known from earlier despatches, makes
no more difference to the Wannan school
than that the charge of theft was only,
framed specifically in detail against Mac-
arthur on the basis of surmise 111 years
after the event. Macarthur had to steal
the document to suit his enemies and
modern Leftists, whatever the facts.
Otherwise how could he be convicted of
stealing?
The only proven grievance the Home
authorities found against Macarthur was
in his delusion (which was that of a lot
of other officers) that they were en-
titled to demand court-martials to clear
their reputations. Most of the charges
which Wannan says King levelled against
Macarthur were mere libellous exaggera-
tion, with no relation to the proposed
court-martial. They were contained in
an abusive private letter and it would
have gone hard with him had he made
th em official.
M. H. ELLIS


DAVID CAMPBELL'S INDIVIDUALITY
Poems. David Campbell. Edwards and
Shaw. 15s.
Dawns and Trumpets. Stuart Slater.
The Pegasus Press.
A Book of Australian Verse. Selected
by Judith Wright, O.U.P. 18s. 6d.
A mono Australian poets David Camp-
bell occupies a special place, one
that is not always easy to define, or (more
specifically) to assess. In many ways the
fashions of modern poetry have passed
him by—Eliot and Pound seem to have
meant little to him, for instance—and
reading him one is brought back surpris-
ingly to English poetry as it was for the
Georgians. And yet, David Campbell's
poetry hrs more to it than Georgianism,
and it would be wrong to think of him
as writing merely the verse of an amateur,
of a man (as we know) whose life has
been mainly and successfully spent on
other tasks. He is a true and rewarding
poet.
This comes out clearly in some of
the best poems in this, his third collec-
tion, which introduce us to a singularly
attractive and coherent poetic world. In
his poem, “On the Birth of a Son: for
Andrew'' we have his common use of
the short lyric—few of the items in this
book run beyond sonnet length—to ex-
press an experience neatly, lucidly, good-
humoredly; and then, at the end, what is
not always there: a kind of natural wis-
dom that reminds one of Robert Frost.
In this book, accordingly, one can see
that David Campbell is not just a farmer
who writes verse; rather he is a poet of
distinctive gifts whose quality derives a
good deal from the natural setting in
which both his verse and his life are
placed.
Others in Australia before, of course,
have had a rural background; and some
of Campbell's poems are consciously in
the ballad tradition of Paterson. But
what gives this poetry its individual
flavor is the angle of approach—David
Campbell represents a generation and a
class much removed from the balladists
—and its awareness of larger worlds
than they knew. The non-demotic poetic
tradition known to the balladists, if there
was one at all, would at best have been
Shakespeare and the run-down Victorian
mode; poetry of infinitely greater vitality
and control than the latter is available
to David Campbell.
Altogether, this is a book of grace,
tact and considerable poetic skill. The
poetry is rarely stirring or passionate,
but it speaks of our own land with a
genuineness, a love and a sense of tradi-
tion that will give pleasure to many.
Mr Slater, of New Zealand, has a wide
range of intellectual interests, which
come out in the forty-six poems of this,
his first collection. He represents the new-
est generation of NZ poets, we are told;
if so, he presages a far more difficult
poetry than hitherto. Mr Slater’s scientific
training added to the range of his reading,
give him a range of diction and imagery
that is extremely varied, if puzzling to
the non-scientist. His poetry is highly
wrought, but is not moving, and seems
to me too academic.
Miss Wright's Book of Australian
Verse first appeared in 1956; it was
assailed from various quarters then and
some of the emphases of selection have
not lost their strangeness since 1956; but
it remains, I believe, the best balanced
selection of Australian poetry now avail-
able.
GRAHAME JOHNSTON
NINO'S INDICTMENT
Gone fishin’. Nino Culotta. Ure Smith.
18s. 9d.
HEhe doctor told Nino to take things easy
for a spell so he became a profes-
sional fisherman bashing away at his
new occupation with the same modest
zeal that won him the esteem of the
weird mob in the building trades. Al-
though he is now naturalised, married
with two kids, his mythology has not
changed much since John O’Grady
brought him to us from Italy. A bulky
bloke he plays chess, works hard, sings
on occasion, is always polite, a bit of a
lady's man. He is also religious. And he
does not like mullet.
“Gone fishin’ ” is the story of the little
ships and the men who go down The
River in them—Shorty, Pop, Tich, Joe,
Dennis, the Inspector, Nino and all.
Many things happen to them and these
are neatly strung together with illus-
trations by Wep, each chapter being
baited with a scrap of wisdom for the
complete angler: “Old fishermen never
die they only smell that way.”
Most of the characters here we have
met before and their voices are recog-
nisable. The incidents are amusing, the
style lively, the tone sentimental, all
trimmed up with commendable technical
skill. Where one writer may have to tear
the word from his guts, O'Grady pulls it
out of his pocket. At the howyergoinmate-
orright level it is all stirring stuff. At any
other level I reckon she's a crook old
book.
The text does not bear too much criti-
cal weight yet it is still an interesting
document for the way in which it sets
a value on the servile spirit. Nino, a
journalist from the land of con-men, is
the arch-conformist, he could fit in any-
where, and all his observations provide
sustained applause for his adopted
country. ‘‘The Australian people,” he
notes, “have very large hearts . . . Their
hands were hard and capable. I should
be humble in their presence. I would be
humble.” Nino gives me a pain.
What is implicit in the narrative is the
popular fantasy that the good life is
essentially the soft life, that 1 appiness
lies in working and grogging on with your
mates, head down in the same trough,
a thriftless, amiable acceptance of things
present in a land free of spikes and
thorns. Everyone has a blue flower in
the heart somewhere, it seems, .nd all
are having a quiet bludge together.
Accepting this as a rough statement
of our social climate it is not surprising
that it leads to a dulling of the senses,
a narrowing of awareness. Minds of any
quality are likely to fray at the edges
because here the challenges are so slight
that little response is called for. Bored
by it all we stoop or throw in a line and
we find food and we invent nothing. Cul-
turally we are still at the food gathering
stage.
Nino says in praise of Australia: “A
beautiful country. Inhabited by simple
people who love simple things.” It is a
terrible indictment.
DOUGLAS TERRY


POETRY
Four Glances
Astern and already forgotten,
At the end of the liquid furrow,
A dead and dissected world
Slowly fritters away.
On portside a bombastic painter,
With twelve sacrilegious dabs,
Has brushed an island of spinach
On an immaculate platter of sand.
On starboard, offered to my fancy
Within the rigid frame of the sheet and the boom,
The light and maleable mass
Of a string of clouds
Perched on the skyline.
And the bowsprit spearing the future
Is the lithe neck of a thoroughbred
Rearing and plunging
In the conquest unceasingly renewed
Of the slopes of indigo
Rimmed with fleeting snow.
MICHEL TATAR
Storm and After
I rubbed my eyes. The lightning
Caught a curving line
Of tents and lost them. Under
Drowned boughs that thrashed the air,
I heard a double thunder
Over a forest of rain.
Even now, I share
The lives of two that went,
Pinned in their canvas house;
A bole lies across the tent,
And a nest of splintered boughs.
The storm begins to drop
And looks now with an eye
Of winter on wet twigs,
Topless and stripped trees
Like a row of wooden legs.
Last night, when I rose up,
Lightning could magnify
My apprehension: these
Remain one glinting day,
Day after day, when night
Seems far. Beside its prey,
The wide trunk’s fallen height
Forced me back. But morning,
Glistening and slate-gray,
With muted sunlight thrown
From masking clouds, climbs over
The half-dark earth, dark stone,
Dark waters overrunning
Their banks. An inland sea
Moves like a glass-dark lava;
Waves swirl and speed to reach
The camp, turn hills to islands,
Answer my fierce, flawed speech
With the fluent tongue of silence.
ALEXANDER CRAIG
Canberra to Kosciusko
Who runs may read: hills closely written
In a black round hand, scribbled right down
To their margins, turn .past in succession.
Further, the script thins into algebra
Or verse, then many pages of blank linen
With fading water-stains, pencil-scrawls, the roads
Freehand line, occasional words.
An ill-kept diary, written in a cypher
Best learnt in childhood, untranslateable,
That tells us only what we know
Nothing that hurts. The children gaze out, reading,
As the car rises, climbs now through mountains
Frenziedly written and over-written, leading
To endpapers of bright blue, brighter snow.
J. R. ROWLAND
The Flames Go Leaping Still
The flames go leaping still,
Flowing up as water would flow down.
What jester sets in fire the weeping will?
Circling the wasted coal,
Thought is washed and burned in streaming fume
And the act dies out that reason sheltered from.
But the flames go leaping still.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM
Business World , Ground Floor
In the foyer of Consolidated Zinc
the carpets flow in floral waves across the floor
lapping gently at the muted walls
and tiding about the jetty-legs of desks and chairs.
The telephones on glass-topped tables poise
complacently on images of themselves
like light, cream bubbles. Discreetly, a calendar
(changing each midnight with a muffled click)
suggests the date, hints at the state of the moon,
though not with conviction or offensive certainty,
and all with the blandness of chrome and gilt.
Through palid veins along the acoustic ceiling
fluorescent light whirrs quietly, shadowless . . .
Buoyed upon this static sea,
watched and accounted for by mechanical time,
bloodless like wax in the light of these ascetic suns,
the young men of Consolidated Zinc inhabit their
suits,
orchestrating their faces to the moods of clients
who, dragged headlong in by their briefcases,
are purchasing, one assumes, consolidations of zinc.
Girls with structured breasts and columned hair
ply the carpet seas like ballooning yachts,
on sinister purposes concealed even from themselves.
The glass doors are horizon to this ocean,
but so subtly glazed and polished
that people, unknowing, collided with their solid
transparency
which to prevent, an emblem was engraved (in gilt)
reading, unobtrusively, “Consolidated Zinc.”
BRIAN MATTHEWS


"THE AUSTRALIAN EXECUTIVE'S MANUAL"
COMPLETELY FREE
TO NEW SUBSCRIBERS
TO RYPGE'S
Every new subscriber to Rydge’s Business Journal
will receive a complimentary copy of “The
Australian Executive’s Manual This 400 page
book has received first-rate reviews from the
Australian Institute of Management: “This Aus-
tralian book is an excellent manual.” (Sydney
Division). “The book is recommended to those
readers ivho desire a successful business career
. . —(Melbourne Division).
A Brief Description of Rydge’s Business Jemal
For 34 years Rydge's Business Journal has been recognised
as Australia's premier authority on business and invest-
ment matters. It is essentially a practical publication and
each month articles are written by well-known authors
dealing with such important matters as selling techniques,
collecting outstanding accounts, successful advertising,
minimising tax, executive development, etc. . . . etc.
Below in very brief detail you are given some idea of the
latest contents.
ARTICLES FOR
BUSINESSMEN
The below listed article titles give a
quick idea of the subject matter covered
in each month’s issue of “Rydge’s.”
1. Sales Training in the Small Business.
2. How to Sack Top Executives.
3. Is a Bank Overdraft the Answer?
4. Long Service Leave Principles Explained.
5. The Importance of Leasing in Today's
Economy.
6. Writing Readable Letters and Reports.
7. Cost Reduction Techniques for Use in
the Office.
8. Hew to Build Your Self-Confidence.
9. Forecasting Sales... Six Months Ahead
10. Meeting and Beating Competition.
11. Tax Advantages of a Company.
12. Company Publications and Their
Potential.
13. How to Save Executive Time.
14. Salesmen's Cars ... The Cost of
Different Arrangements.
INVESTORS
The last one-third of each month’s
journal is devoted to investment matters.
Each month we recommend a particular
share to subscribers this is normally
sure of a good price increase. Following
the recommendation are articles dealing
with such important matters as asset
backing for shares, interpreting financial
statements, the significance of earning
percentage, etc., etc.
Attention is also drawn to shares
which look to be good buying on today’s
market, and other specialised situations
which we feel investors should be made
aware of.
In addition to these interesting articles,
a regular feature of each month’s Finan-
cial Section is an analytical review of 20-
30 public companies’ accounts. These
reviews have, through the years, become
very well respected for their accuracy
and penetration.
FREE YEAR BOOK
In May each year, all subscribers re-
ceive free a copy of Rydge’s Year Book.
This sets out the type of business con-
ducted, registered office, directorate, cap-
ital, etc., of every public company in
Australia, together with completely de-
tailed tax rates of depreciation now al-
lowable as deductions.
"THE AUSTRALIAN
EXECUTIVE'S MANUAL"
Recognised as- Australia’s most practical.
valuable and up-to-date book on executive
development this volume contains 54
chapters divided into four main parts. It
is designed to help the young and junior
executive on the road to the top as well as
act as a guide and book of reference for
senior executives.
SOME CHAPTER TITLES
Skills you Must Develop—Developing your
Leadership Techniques Your Social
Activities—How Good are your Communi-
cations? How to Tackle a Problem—Can
You Persuade? Being a Good Conversa-
tionalist Are your Interviews Effective?
Techniques of Decision Making The
Art of Delegation—lmproving your Con-
ferences — Originating and Implementing
Ideas - A new Look at the Specialised
Executive Advice to the Middle-Aged.
Middle-Rung Executive.
In more than 100.000 words this book
presents knowledge and advice that can be
/o'" the rest of your life.
ijaaaaaaifiaiiaiimuuisiiiatfaaaaaanaaiiaasflnaflnnnaaimnii
TO: RYDGE'S BUSINESS
JOURNAL
449 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
Please send me free your book described
above, and enrol me as a Journal subscriber.
My cheque for £3/15/ is attached.
Name
Address


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Market Advances Cautiously
u | it cool, man” may be the best bit of advice to
Y be heeded by those returning equity investors who quite
vigorously made their presence felt through Australian
sharemarkets last week. Perhaps, though, congratulations are
first in order —for having overcome a frigid and too pro-
longed indifference more or less at the correct time.
With a warning proviso that the old and careless enthusiasms
should not reassert themselves, investors can now go ahead
and forget the reproaches heaped upon them for past tardi-
ness. If many have learned that it’s better to be fairly sure
than foolishly sorry, a year or so’s hypertrophy of the markets
has not been suffered in vain.
Not that the rapturously greeted forward moves did really
exhibit anything but a moderate and still cautiously inspired
drive towards recently touched better levels. It’s good, of
course, to realise that genuine buying pressure can manifest
itself so quickly, eked out as it was by largish parcels of
Woolworths’ shares.
Yet the proper ground for a repetition has been laid—“the
prolonged rise at least to the heights existing in early 1960, or
even earlier this year,” of which we wrote last week. Quotes
on the Friday after the initial clear advance appeared a little
chastened. That happily pointed to a lack of recklessness
and a sound pace to come.
So far,, the smaller private investor has not suffered undue
disturbance from much returning institutional buying. Indeed
the fixed-interest wave is far from spent. But, equity-wise, it
seems possible to maintain that most adverse market influences,
local and overseas, have been healthily discounted among the
non-professionals.
There’s still a few solid company knocks to come—Hooker
in total, Reid Murray, the much-buffeted Korman group, and
perhaps a few actual trading losses. There’s still a sense of
stiffening and adequate forethought to be given to lingering
overseas apprehension. A hint of care seems suggested by
what institutional buying there is being squarely guided by the
conservative concept of dividend yields.
No one, however, need feel that an advance is unjustified.
And it certainly does not repose entirely among the leaders—
they were the first to display end-of-week fatigue. Keep an
0} e on the less known and both eyes on earnings yields!
UNITED FRONT FOR
COAL EXPORTS
Paragraph 33 in the 15th annual report of the Joint Coal
full B ° ard tabled in Parlia ment last week bears repeating in
The coal deposits of eastern Australia are the country’s
greatest natural mineral resource. They are destined to make
a growing contribution to our internal development and to
our vital export income. The Board, therefore, expresses its
pleasure at the development taking place at Kianga-Moura.
it is of great national significance, apart altogether from its
regional importance to Central Queensland. In the best
interests of the marketing of export coal from the two States
the closest possible association between Queensland and New
South Wales is of high importance, so as to ensure that mis-
understandings do not arise leading to unnecessary competitive
price reductions to the disadvantage of all concerned in both
States. The ultimate profit instability which might arise
could have unfortunate consequences which in the long run
would result in benefit only to those in other countries
supplying the export market. The Board has no doubt that
our principal market, the Japanese steel industry, does not
desire such an outcome. The Australian interests concerned
in New South Wales and Queensland will need to protect
themselves by fostering their mutual interests and avoiding
conflicting policies.
The Joint Coal Board—a rather unique marriage of Federal
and one State (NSW) authority—has become more or less an
advisory body in recent years. It was originally a very active
force in winning coal itself, showing the way for private
enterprise.
It would be a foolish proprietor in the expanding coal
export business who did not heed the Board's lofty view of
the situation. A hard business at the best of times, it is
intriguing to ponder the mutual development of Placer Develop-
ment, CRA, Thiess-Peabody (the Kianga field), CAIL, Bell-
ambi and others in the export field. They, in a national sense,
should provide a united front to win new markets; not cut
each other’s throats to gain the available business.
Thiess-Peabody (Peabody being the largest coal group in
the USA), is developing the Kianga-Moura field. It has an
important role to play in exports of coal from Australia, having
a distinct freight advantage over its southern rivals.
The JCB frankly expects Queensland’s Moura field to gain
“an important share” of the Japanese market in the next few
years. Last year Queensland exported (mainly from Kianga-
Moura) some 292,000 tons, against NSW’s imposing total of
3,162,000 tons.
Export business is to be terribly important in the years
ahead, not only in the national sense but also for the singular
profitability of the coal industry.
Privately, it can be felt that the JCB would dearly love to
see a united coal export drive, even if this could only come
from amalgamations of the larger exporters into one unit.
CRA (Rio Tinto) probably has similar ideas.
One factor emphasising the future importance of coal
exports is the solid inroads being made by competitive fuels.
This, of itself, presents a worrying picture for investors, pro-
ducing what the JCB admits to be a “generally dull” market.
Refinery gases, fuel oil and industrial diesels are becoming
major competitors to the natural resource of black coal. And,
to make matters worse, the growing proportion of the energy
fuel market “coming from the oil industry is in a position to
meet successfully competition coal can offer.”
The export market, then, must fill the gap of over-supply
until the steel industry, mainly, and power generation take up
the slack by using larger amounts of coal.
Then, in the JCB’s own words, “it may not be until 1965
that we shall see the beginning of another period of growth.”


TRADE EXPANSION
NEW STYLE
A world-wide chorus of enthusiasm which greeted the pas-
sage of President Kennedy’s Trade Expansion Bill, late in
September, has been a little muted under closer examination
of its terms. While most critics still concede that the bill repre-
sents a notable advance in America’s long attempt to loosen up
international trade, they are hastening to moderate earlier and
exaggerated claims.
Nevertheless last week both Mr Menzies and Mi Calwell,
in speeches on the Common Market, went out of their way
to suggest the Bill contained favorable implications for Aus-
tralia. Some more radical British Labor parliamentarians, not-
ably Mr Douglas Jay, have roundly asserted that this new Bill
makes UK entry into the European Economic Community
unnecessary.
Such an obvious wish-dream plainly claims too much,
especially as the Kennedy Administration’s approach was
largely conditioned by the competitive bulk of the EEC, with
Britain eventually inside it. For the President clearly needed
a lever to budge Europe from a tariff position disadvantageous
to American industry.
Other loftier and liberalising motives stand behind the
Bill’s details, however. Allowing for some domestic backslid-
ing (base metals, chemicals, textiles, for instance), many mem-
bers of the present US Executive have wished distinctively to
free trade from the shackles of a restrictive protectionism.
What powers do they now gain?
Over the measure’s relatively prolonged life, five years,
the President is permitted to reduce any import duty by 50
p.c. and to abolish wholly tariffs on goods where US and
EEC activities comprise 80 p.c. of world trade. The intent,
naturally, is to wedge a sizeable proportion of US trade into
the Common Market orbit.
Most remarkably, Mr Kennedy may cut tariffs on com-
plete categories in one move. This constitutes a break with
an almost rigid American tradition, which has confined tariff
reductions to single items.
As well, earlier reductions were limited to a peak of 20
p.c. and hedged around with “peril points” designed to succour
any tender domestic industries. Presidential authority was also
conferred for only two years.
Instigated, as we have seen, pretty well entirely by US-
Western European trading possibilities, where does the bill
confer advantages on the rest of the world? Is it merely a
gambit in a struggle between two essentially protectionist blocs?
Are both groupings only aiming, in Sir John Crawford’s elo-
quent description of the Common Market, “to freeze out any
competition whatever”?
That hardly appears as the spirit of the US move. And,
technically, the US and Common Market tariffs are each
“most favored nation” tariffs. Any mutually negotiated reduc-
tions therefore benefit all countries enjoying “most favored
nation” treatment from these principal parties.
Again, the form of local protection offered by the Trade
Expansion Bill to any injured American industry is by way
of subsidy to individual companies and to employees who may
lose their jobs. That sounds a quite startling intervention by
US standards, yet looks very far from a straight-out protec-
tive device.
Whether Europe will henceforth be attracted by the
chances of easier entry into America remains to be seen. If
it is, naturally Europe, through the same bargaining, opens
itself to the flow of American goods. Brought to the test
are all those who can show more than lip-service to the oft-
declared necessity of freer international trading.
Unfortunately, too, foodstuffs so much a concern
with ourselves and the less-developed countries seem scarcely
embraced by the Expansion Bill. The heavy arm of the Com-
mon Market’s agricultural policy descends here, to the detri-
ment of the very economies that call for most consideration.
Taking all in all, the Bill deserves a great deal of the
praise it has received. Yet the duty reductions it contemplates
must be mutual the President’s wishes depend upon a simi-
lar liberal mood in Europe. One can only hope this will be
manifest and perhaps also that the blemish of removing most-
favoured-nation treatment from Poland and Yugoslavia be
sometime taken from the Trade Expansion Bill itself.
MR MENZIES SEEKS
A BLUEPRINT
While the scope of the inquiry to be made into economic
potential has been stated only in the broadest terms, it
would be a pity if it were merely confined to an assessment
of the likely availability of resources, a sort of fact-finding
exercise.
“What we all need,” the PM stated last week, “is light upon
the possibilities rather than guidance upon how to go about
achieving this or that objective. We hope to have drawn up
—as far as it is possible to do so with the information that
can be had—a chart or prospectus of our economic potential.”
There is certainly a mammoth job to be done in assessing
the likely availability of resources, not so much in respect to
internal as to external resources, though at this stage of the
evolution of the Common Market and of our exploratory export
efforts in other markets the best equipped team of inquirers
could not be expected to make a very accurate assessment of
the latter. It is common ground that an exercise on these
lines is worth attempting for its own sake. Indeed it would
be surprising, in fact shocking, if the Government itself has
not been in the continuous process of forecasting likely trends
of the availability of resources, because without this it would
have been economic policy-making in the dark.
Perhaps Government officials feel they need some assistance
on this, or perhaps Cabinet is dissatisfied with their efforts.
But, given the Government’s own obligation to forecast the
availability of resources, the greatest need at present is to throw
analytical light on the workings of the economy and to bring
under survey the whole complex of instruments, including the
Government’s own as well as the Tariff Board, the Arbitration
Commission, the Reserve Bank and others, which combine to
affect the level and direction of economic activity.
In particular, the business world wants a clearer view of
the role it can confidently expect the Government and the
various quasi-Government authorities to play in economic
affairs. This appears to be an essential end-result of a
strong committee, while, in its turn, the Government needs
to be better acquainted with the mechanics of business so as
to avoid throwing spanners into its works.
Over the last two years the Government has learned many
lessons on what happens outside Canberra, but an impartial
analysis of the effect of the economic decisions on business
over this period (even going back to the lifting of import
restrictions in February, 1960) would be useful to put on the
record as a guide to future policy; a sort of lead to future
Cabinets.
A study of the affect of income generation sources on
economic tempo and, indeed, employment might be the best
method of making such an analysis, as it is particularly suited
to getting a synthesis of the effects of Government deficit fin-
ancing, public and private investment and capital inflow on
economic activity, labor absorption and so on.
The inquiry will doubtless make an assessment of the direc-
tions on which growth can best proceed. An objective assess-
ment is sorely needed on the relative possibilities for the
development of primary and secondary industry and the future
reliance for full employment on the tertiary industries and
Government services.


CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Btb March, 1950.
I°/
2/0
PER ANNUM
3 YEARS
The main business of
Cambridge Credit
Corporation Limited
is to make loans on
the security of first
mortgages on prop-
erty and the ac-
ceptance of selected
hire purchase agree-
ments.
r
80 ON
*/2 % P.A. 3 years
% P.A. 2 years
V? % P.A. 12 mths.
FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN IN A PERSONAL EMERGENCY
APPLICATIONS MUST BE MADE ON THE FORM ATTACHED
TO THE PROSPECTUS, WHICH IS NOW AVAILABLE FROM:
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House, Corner Wharf and Quern Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street,
PERTH: 81 St. George's Terrace.
CANBERRA: Ist Floor, Northbourne Chambers, Northbourne Ave., City.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Straet.
WAGGA: 147 Bayliss Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any of the following Brokers to The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
TRUSTEES FOR THE NOTEHOLDERS:
Bankers & Traders Insurance Company Limited CCI46/AB
Clip and Post Coupon
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the prospectus with application forms.
NAME
ADDRESS
HOW FULL IS EMPLOYMENT?
By “Croesus”
Satisfaction with the drop in unem-
ployment figures to 76,000 last month
should be tempered by the evidence in
the Minister of Labor’s review that there
could soon be an acute shortage of
skilled labor all over Australia.
Persons who claimed when registering
with Commonwealth Employment Ser-
vice that they were not employed and
who were recorded as unplaced at Sept-
ember 28, totalled 75,951 (49,600 males
and 26,351 females). This was a fall
of 7425 (5550 males and 1,875 females)
since August 31, the largest reduction
recorded in September except for 1949.
The main falls occurred in Victoria
(3087), New South Wales (2050), and
Queensland (1047).
Over the last year the numbers of
skilled building and construction workers
unemployed has dropped from 5225 to
2162 and the ratio of these to vacancies
for such workers has fallen from 8.4 to
1 to 1.9 to 1.
The growing shortage is even .more
marked in skilled metal and electrical
workers whose unemployed numbers
have declined from 3998 to 1617 and
the ratio of unemployed to vacancies
from 1.9 to 1 to 1.0 to 2.4, a situation
in which there are more vacancies than
unemployed men to fill them.
The trend towards over-full employ-
ment of skilled workers is also evidenced
by the Department of Labor’s sample
figures of overtime. Hours of overtime
worked per employee in basic metals
industries has risen from 2.6 to 3.4 over
the last year. In other metal manufactur-
ing industries they have increased from
1.4 to 2.2 and in all industries also from
1.4 to 2.2.
Given a degree of geographical and
other immobility in labor movement, and
allowing for job changing (labor turn-
over in manufacturing industries seldom
drops below 4 p.c. of the work force in
these industries), it is obvious that the
skilled worker force is now fully employ-
ed in a strict economic sense, and that
future additional increases in hours work-
ed by the skilled labor force must largely
come from additional overtime.
The prospect is looming in which addi-
tional output over a wide range of in-
dustry can be achieved only by the pay-
ment of penalty labor rates.
This is a sobering thought, if not for
the labor force, then definitely for the
economy as a whole and for the export
industries in particular. With rising labor
costs per unit of output, the hope of
sustaining the rate of productivity in-
creases, which have been quite notable
in some manufacturing industries during
the last year or more, lies in the fuller
employment of industrial capacity.
It is against this background that the
Minister of Labor is pushing ahead with
his plan to step up the training of ap-
prentices.
This aspect of the employment situ-
ation is in marked contrast to the position
of unskilled workers, but here also there
has been an enormous improvement over
the last year.
For instance, the ratio of applicants to
vacancies for unskilled manual workers
has dropped from 66 to 1 to 14.8 to 1
over the last year, and that for all occu-
pations has dropped from 10.6 to 1 to
3.6 to 1 for males and from 4.5 to 1
to 2.6 to 1 for women.
The Minister’s main employment prob-
lem now lies with the unskilled and the
large numbers of juniors coming forward
from schools in December. He still had
some 19,000 juniors (8451 youths and
10,812 girls) on his books on September
28. They comprised about a quarter of
the total unemployed on that date.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
PLAYING CRICKET ON THE TARIFF
The vigorous protests of the textile
industry against the removal of
temporary duties on man-made fibre
piecegoods and their reduction on wool-
len piecegoods were strongly condemned
last week in a spirited defence of the
Tariff Board by the Associated Chambers
of Commerce.
The Associated Chambers of Com-
merce have certainly done a service in
condemning the blatant attacks made on
the board, the worst of which seems to be
that of the chief executive director of
the Textile Conference of Australia, Mr
A. J. Burgess, who accused the board of
laziness, the use of antiquated methods
of assessing the textile industry’s needs
and of ignoring the General Textiles Re-
ference in its latest decisions. Mr Burgess
openly disputed the board’s judgment.
The Chambers of Commerce are dead
right when they say that such remon-
strations by those unwilling to accept
board recommendations not going in their
favor put the whole principle of impartial-
ity in tariff-making at stake. “Unless the
board’s independence is fully preserved
there can be no hope of rational tariff-
making.”
The public are inclined to view the
matter rather too narrowly, thinking per-
haps too much of the desirability of
imports replacement and the maximising
of local employment at any price and
not enough of the excess costs of pro-
tection stemming from tariff rates high
enough to ensure a living for the least
efficient firms, which hit their own
pockets.
Perhaps the Tariff Board’s strongest
suit lies in the strong threads of logic
which run through its never-ending series
of reports. Many may disagree with its
arguments but not with its consistency
and impartiality.
As a guide to the board’s thoughts the
following findings taken from recent re-
ports issued after full enquiries made
into industries are illuminating.
Polyethelene (31st December, 1961):
production was a logical development of
the plastics industry; it is a capital inten-
sive industry, provides considerable
employment and warrants protection pro-
vided the cost is not unreasonable. The
board suggested a review of the industry
within two years. (Tariff fixed at 25
per cent ad valorem BPT and 35 per
cent MFN.)
Glucose (30th November, 1961): Aus-
tralian producers at substantial disability
vis-a-vis UK (main source of imports)
with regard to both factory cost and
selling and distribution expenses. A large
part of factory cost disability was due
to UK producers obtaining glucose from
low cost imported maize not available to
Australian producers because of quaran-
tine regulations. Review within four years
recommended. (Tariff was increased.)
Tyre Yarns (sth February, 1962): the
local industry had a cost disadvantage of
about 30 per cent and its product was
subject to a price disadvantage somewhat
greater than that provided for by the
duties operating at the time of the in-
quiry. (The tariff was increased.)
Nitrogenous Fertilisers (6th March,
1962): assistance by way of duty would
raise the costs of nitrogenous fertilisers
for many farmers in Australia who sell
their products on world markets. (A
bounty of £2 a ton was recommended.)
Refined Petroleum Products (23rd
June, 1961): the board saw three avenues
for the industry to increase its profitabil-
ity—the extension of the “borrow and
loan” system to save transport and hand-
ling costs, the buying of crudes at the
lowest competitive prices, and the ad-
justment of refinery patterns more in
line with consumption pattern. (Removal
of duty recommended but the board
stated that, while it is not its function to
determine prices, it felt compelled to
point out that equitable prices for petrol-
eum products in Australia generally must
allow for appropriate return to the re-
finers of those products as well as the
marketers.)
Though the textile industry may often
think so, the Tariff Board doesn’t see
itself merely as a champion of the law
of comparative costs, even if this may
well seem to be prodding it all the time,
as it certainly was during its recent tex-
tiles enquiries when the Special Advisory
Authority was clearly out of sight.
For the Special Advisory Authority to
give an industry a bit of help during a
recession is quite a different thing in the
Tariff Board’s book to the writing in per-
manent scales of protection.
In asking for more than transient help
the board rightly requires an industry to
show much more than that it has simply
been hit by a temporary lapse in local
demand.
For instance in the case of the recent
woollen piecegoods enquiry there was
the question of whether the industry had
put its house in better order since it last
applied to the board.
The board’s 1959 report on this indus-
try told it bluntly there was a need for
re-organisation within the industry which
would include modernising of plant and
the scrapping of apparently obsolete
equipment.
This time it came to the conclusion
that, though something had been done
along these lines by putting in new weav-
ing and finishing equipment, the industry
was still too overloaded with idle and
out-of-date looms, so much so that “even
if the industry supplied the whole of the
Australian market it would still have con-
siderable unused capacity.”
So once again the board came to the
conclusion that there is scope for re-
organisation and decided that “to suggest
that the only corrective method to lift
certain sections of the industry from their
present condition would be by the im-
position of particularly high duties has
not been demonstrated.”
An industry is also expected to be
fully represented at a tariff enquiry.
But in the case of the woollen piece-
goods industry, only eight of the 103
mills bothered to fill in the board’s ques-
tionnaire. And though the Wool Textile
Manufacturers of Australia stated that
these eight mills were typical and repre-
sented about one-third of the industry’s
total production, the board expressed
doubts whether the evidence and informa-
tion it received was truly representative
of the industry as a whole.
Further, an industry is expected to
refrain from operations which could only
be supported under excessively high
tariffs.
So the board says frankly that, al-
though it believes the man-made fibres
piecegoods industry can hold a reason-
able share of the Australian market under
the now appointed tariff, “to raise the
level could add an increased burden of
cost to other manufacturing industries
and consumers and lead the weaving in-
dustry into the less economical produc-
tion of short-run fabrics.” In any case,
the board considers the appointed rates
high for an industry which imports most
of its raw materials.
Nor is it sufficient for an industry to
show it is simply the victim of cheap
buying of overseas goods, such as end-
of-production runs of overseas factories.
The board isn’t satisfied that a protective
duty of the usual type meets such cases.
Again, an industry cannot expect full
immunity from the threat of a continual
flow of cheap imports, but only, as in
the case of low price range Italian wool-
len piecegoods, with an “adequate”
rate.
However, as its decision earlier this
year on fabric dress gloves makes indel-
ibly clear, the board is not prepared to
grant even “adequate” protection in all
cases where over a period of years cheap
imports have caused a severe contraction
in a local industry.
Between 1954 and this year the num-
ber of Australian firms making fabric
dress gloves dropped from 17 to six and


N
'.V
V
i ,
!/ / ‘' :: ; :
•
<>& r
<!»-•••>:-?
: r
■ % *
>■ i.
S&
W
♦
m
\
y /
<
V
V"
Jr-
-£fc,
m
■!’-!-
0:m
„ 7 .
r-i£~z :
■ IS ' ■ r
1
0
With luxury accommodation
at Perth's most modern hotel.
Riverside Lodge is Perth's finest
and friendliest hotel bringing you
delightful surroundings, luxury
facilities and impeccable service
to make your stay in Perth a happy
experience. Your suite commands
magnificent city and river views and
gives you the added luxuries of
private bathroom, private balcony,
TV, phone, all season heating
and air conditioning. If you are in
Perth on business you'll appreciate
the nearness of Riverside Lodge
to the business centre of Perth.
Enquiries and Bookings to:-
RIVERSIDE LODGE
MOUNTS BAY ROAD, PERTH, W.A. PHONE 21 4721, 6 LINES
employment from 467 to 154. They cur-
rently supplied about 20 per cent of the
local market and their share dropped
by 10 per cent in the last three years.
The industry suffers price disabilities of
60 per cent and 100 per cent against
gloves made in Malta and Hong Kong
respectively.
Yet the board concluded (February
1962) that “the local industry could be
adequately protected only by the im-
position of duties higher than were
usually regarded as compatible with
economic and efficient production in
Australia.”
A sudden flood of cheap imports
is a different matter and if there is a
leakage of cheap imports through the
appointed barrier, the board is prepared
to suggest something should be done to
stop it, even if it is not always prepared
to recommend any precise measure.
Sometimes, as in the case of the
alleged dumping of Japanese cement at
Cairns (November 3 961 ), it is prepared
to wait to see if dumping becomes a habit.
In others, such as the importation of
woollen cloth containing reclaimed wool
in the guise of virgin wool (June 1962),
it points the need for special action out-
side its province.
The public can take comfort from the
Tariff Board’s high standard of perform-
ance but few will envy it the job of de-
ciding where to draw the line between
industries deserving protection or not and
what the appropriate tariffs for this or
that industry should be. Doubtless there
are many split-hair decisions, but which-
ever way they go they should be accepted
as impartial and objective findings.
POWER COST IS
PROBLEM
FOR EXPORTERS
least of the impediments to the
expansion of Australian exports of
manufactured goods is our high cost of
energy compared with some of our big-
gest competitors in export markets, so if
the World Power Conference meeting in
Melbourne this week throws any light
on how to get it down it will be most
welcome.
Strict international comparisons are
not easy to come by, but it seems that
costs of electricity in Victoria are 54 p.c.
higher than in the United States and 50
P.c. higher than in the United Kingdom.
As the bulk of our industrial energy
is consumed in the form of electricity
this places our exporters of manufactured
goods at a big disadvantage.
What is more, our price of electricity
has increased substantially in recent
years, whereas both in the US and
Britain it has risen comparatively little.
It has moved up 34 p.c. in Australia
since 1955, but only 9 p.c. in the United
States and 11 p.c. in Britain. On the
other hand, the major part of the in-
crease in Australia since 1955 occurred
in 1955 and 1956. Since 1959 prices
have been stable here and relatively so
in Britain and the US.
One reason for the stability in the last
few years has been the increasing use
of fuel oil in electricity making here.
For though the price of fuel oil in Aus-
tralia is still considerably higher than in
Britain and the US and higher even
than in Japan, it has dropped consider-
ably in the last few years—though this is
true of all four countries under compari-
son.
Clearly the main devil of the electric
power piece in this country is the high
cost of freighting coal to power stations,
since coal still provides the bulk of the
power for electricity generation. While
freight charges have risen, the price of
coal at the mines has fallen.


POPE STILL MEETS IN COUNCIL
TSThat a post-squeeze and post-loss
struggle for liquidity can actually
mean was plainly demonstrated last week
by Pope Industries in its complete 1961-
62 accounts. It would be nice to be able
to declare that the battle has been toler-
ably won, but that happy solace for
shareholders is not just yet.
Nevertheless, in these gaunt situations,
honor where honor is due. On the sur-
face, to turn the shattering 1960-61 loss
of £686,527 into a £62,015 group
profit looks no mean feat. This was
partly accomplished, however, by bring-
ing in an old £20,000 provision no
longer required.
On the repeated misadventures of the
past year, directors sound a trifle too
bland. There’s a measure of abracad-
abra in the following jargon: “Profits
were adversely influenced by non-recur-
ring electronics subsidiary losses absorb-
ed during the year by writing off further
unexpected losses on the realisation of
assets consequent upon the TV rational-
isation programme formulated in the
previous year.”
Reduced to hard facts, that only means
that the group still had to wrestle with
mistakes “consequent upon” an over-
exuberant leap into television. In the
company of many another supplier, it
grossly exaggerated the available market
and had to carry some of its sufferings
into a further year.
Prior planning and a three-year pro-
gramme were struck at the peak of
seasonal activity by the Federal Govern-
ment’s 1960 actions, Sir Barton Pope
explained last year. Here, once more,
some managerial miscalculations surely
occurred and the Government cannot
take all the blame. In order that Pope’s
example be not felt invidious, it is only
necessary to recall that Electronic Indus-
tries as well endured the selfsame mis-
calculations and both companies had to
embark upon the selfsame heartsearch-
ings and reorganisations.
After all this cavilling, we hasten to
say that the two examples cited give
every evidence of pulling round. Elec-
tronic, of course, has held its dividend
through the troubles. Pope must remain
uncertain somewhat longer: “It is hoped
that, if current trends can be maintained,
your company will be able to return to
dividend payments.”
The tribulations have most certainly
led to a healthier balance sheet. High
and constant intangibles, £384,126, are
apparently to linger a little longer. But
directors may be justly proud of a
“substantial correction to the difficult
liquid position which was evident at the
end of 1961.”
Total liabilities were brought down by
£1,106,650 and stood at £4,145,865 at
June 30. Maturing unsecured notes
totalling £199,000 have been completely
repaid. Short-term borrowings have
come down from £1,535,955 to reach a
mere £15,000. “It is anticipated that
a further improvement in the liquid posi-
tion will be reflected during the current
year.”
There’s still a hefty wad of long-term
liabilities, £2,319,037, though overdraft
took a tumble from £996,663 to
£434,619. Stocks, despite the assurance
that “early release of new models has
generally enabled prior clearance of
superseded stock,” still look difficult at
£3,688,860 (previous year, £4,377,688).
Reserves of £1,180,624 support capi-
tal of £2,564,000 (ordinary £ 1,750,-
000; preference £814,000) and net
tangible assets backing of the ss. ordin-
aries “is slightly in excess of 7s. 3d.
Recovery has not been won by neglecting
development necessary for profitable par-
ticipation in a more normally buoyant
economy.”
Where so much is at stake, both fin-
ancially and managerially, in these in-
dustrial matters, it is fitting to end with
some admonition from Mr. Warren Mc-
Donald, addressing the Australian Associ-
ation of Advertising Agencies in Can-
berra on Monday last.
“But what is still needed is leadership
training in industry and commerce to
make the best use of the great potential
of our work force. We have the skilled
men, but we need better managers and
foremen to lead them,” Mr. McDonald
believes.
In another part of his address, he re-
ferred to the “little more than amateur
status” possessed by some of our market-
ing men. This harshly competitive world
scarcely permits us the luxury of living
“on our fat.” We must grow the hard
professionalism and the comprehensive
skills which are beginning to distinguish
the latest generation of businessmen in
France, Germany, Japan and England.
These strictures are in no way used
by us to apply only to Pope Industries —
other examples can all too easily be
brought to mind. In a highly developed
economy, luck must often play a part in
turning customers to one of a range of
roughly similar products. Yet, as Louis
Pasteur observed many years ago,
“Chance favors only the mind which is
prepared.”
the world of business
Dear Sir, —What will be the value of my 2000 shares in "Transport-
Credits Ltd" in five years' time?


m
'HvV;-
AiK
&&AND
A\ c ®’*»JU*D C A\ATU**® ,®
s -agi?c s
,toy.v-‘>-'.
I^HTI
YOUR
FAVOURITE
BRANDY
fine Australian
pot-still
THREE STAR
Distinctive in flavour and bouquet
OLD LIQUEUR
A superb quality Liqueur Brandy ✓
T
BRANDY
Forgive, but don’t forget
Investors will have to do a lot of for-
A giving in coming months as un-
fortunate results of a difficult year come
to hand from some of our favorites.
Condemnation should be held until
results of this year, even 1963-64, are
available for reading.
Last week, for instance, the full
accounts of former firm friend Aus-
tralian Chemical Holdings made rather
grim reading. But, make no mistake, it
is clear that the severe profit fall (from
£408,026 to £211,388) reflects a tem-
porary difficult period.
And, to quote directors, “it was not
until the last two months of the year
(to June 30) that the A.C.H. group ex-
perienced a noticeable lift in sales
volume.”
The profit fall has not affected share-
holders’ income unduly, as directors,
supremely confident about a rapid
improvement in earnings in the current
year, paid out a little more than the
whole of the profit earned. The dividend
rate is back from 12i to 8f per cent on
considerably higher capital.
The share market appears to have
been more than slightly pessimistic,
cutting the 10/- share price from a peak
of 34/9 earlier this year to 17/6. If
dividend were to move up to 10 per
cent, dividend yield would rise from its
present 5 per cent level to just under 6
per cent.
The company has no immediate
liquidity problem, having recently bor-
rowed £750,000 from institutions at 7i
per cent for 10 and 15 years.
Profit will have to rise substantially,
however, in the 1963-64 year, for
ordinary capital goes up by £897,850 on
the conversion of unsecured notes in
May next year. This is well within the
scope of the group which in recent years
has considerably lessened its dependence
on the chemical and paint industry by
moving solidly into engineering through
the acquisition of Frank G. Spurway and
Die Casters.
This is a stock to forgive, pending
knowledge of the 1962-63 profit, which
could well enforce restoration of glory.
The interim profit should be awaited to
confirm the theory that all is again well.
What of AWA?
t>UT options secured recently on Amal-
gamated Wireless of Australia Ltd
signified some apprehension as to the
company's future.
The 1961-62 results, due for presenta-
tion next month, will probably not equal
last year’s which were only about two-
thirds of the 1960 profits. (The 1960-
61 earning rate was 22 p.c. on capital.)
What is adding to shareholders’ dis-
comfort is the conversion of £774,137
in notes to shares last June 30, bringing
paid capital to a round £3 million. The
new shares, of course, do not rank for
dividends from 1961-62 earnings.
The attitional cost of servicing this
more expensive form of capital will be
over £130,000, assuming retention of
the 14 p.c. dividend rate established last
year.
The old shares sold around 20s. to
return 3.5 p.c., and the new shares (ex
notes) were about 6d. cheaper.
Nice rake-off chance
npHE margin of about 18s. between the
A contributing and fully-paid shares of
Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd allows
a nice rake-off for the investor happy to
wait until next April 1 to pay his final
15s. call.
The 20s. shares recently sold at 525.
6d., while the contribs were 345. 6d. with
15s. to pay (including ss. premium).
The dividend difference is about Is. 6d.
and there is a 3d. saving in brokerage by
buying the contributing shares. Even-
tual yield is a very satisfactory 3.8 p.c.
after allowing for brokerage.
Reinsurance—Australian made
A N impressive lineup of businessmen
will guide the destiny of a new
institution for Australia Reinsurance
Co. of Australasia Ltd, which floats
this week among the other institutions.
The public will be invited into the
company in several years time.
Backed and operated by world-wide
General Reinsurance Co. of the USA,
Reinsurance Co. has a bright future.
General, by the way, will not dominate
the share register, as present plans
envisage the American group holding
about 40 per cent of the capital.
General will be represented by three
on the board of seven. From Australian
interests comes Warren McDonald of
the Commonwealth Banking Corpora-
tion, Sir James Kirby of Sydney, Sir
Alexander Fitzgerald of Melbourne, and
John Blaiklock of Sydney's investment
banking group, Development Finance
Corporation.
The reinsurance business in Australia
is a limited one. Australian - owned
insurers, such as Bankers and Traders,
AMP Fire and General, Mercantile
Mutual, Manufacturers Mutual, Queens-
land, MLC Fire and General, National
Mutual Fire and General, etc., are all
shareholders in the Reinsurance Co. Pty
Ltd, a company which was formed way
back in 1950.
Even so, a good deal of Australia’s
reinsurance business is at a net flow out
of Australia. Impossible to estimate,
this net outflow, because reinsurance
runs into something like £l5 million a
year, possibly more.
The overseas-owned local insurers,
for instance, do very little local re-
insuring and certainly do not appear to
spread much of their overseas risks in
Australia.
Even if facilities for local reinsurance
are extended, it is difficult to imagine
that overseas-owned insurance groups
will alter the traditional pattern of
remission of most of their reinsurable


funds back to head office or to a re-
insurance affiliate.
Reinsurance is an international activity.
A reinsurer in Australia, for instance,
could conceivably carry a small burden
of, say, fire insurance in Naples. Aus-
tralia's purely local groups must there-
fore become large enough to share in the
international swim, as well as to gather
and retain domestic business.
The Gloved Hand
FFhere are few Australian-owned com-
panies in the food business of any
size or influence. The growing affluence
of Marrickville Holdings Ltd, therefore,
attracts attention.
Profit for the year to June rose strong-
ly (for the tenth year in succession)
to £552,750. The tax provision of
£427,863 suggests a conservative assess-
ment of the profit.
From the original margarine and edible
oils and nut foods, Marrickville has lately
moved into tea, flour, and potato crisps.
Observers detect the gloved hand of
Procter and Gamble (for whom Marrick-
ville distributes soap and detergent) in-
fluencing the direction in the company’s
expansion. The arrangement with Proc-
ter and Gamble was made within the
last two years. It does not involve share
ownership at present.
Through the Marrickville organisation
this US firm appears to be entrenching
itself for a solid campaign against the
world-wide Unilever organisation.
In any event the Marrickville shares
are a solid buy at 255. 3d. at which price
they yield 3 p.c.
Freighters, and Ghostly Stock
distinguished commentators (our-
selves included) and at least one very
distinguished broker have erred on
Freighters Ltd. But at least these pro-
pensities to error were halted by last
December's interim report, when a defin-
ite trading loss was revealed and the
dividend passed.
Simple error has now to bang its too-
confiding wrongheadedness against the
worst company situation of all—flagrant-
ly misleading information. Commenta-
tors and brokers are also to be joined
by directors.
For of Freighters’ total 1961-62 loss
of £380,000, revealed last week, some
£300,000 is made up of stock losses —a
£200,000 write-down and a £lOO,OOO
correction of an overstatement of stock
in the Victorian branch at June 30, 1961.
A “deliberate inflation” of this latter
item only became known to two execu-
tive directors “about late April or early
May, 1962.” The interim report saw
the light in March.
The formal write-downs, damaging as
they are, sound understandable enough
■—“mainly caused by the conversion of
fork-lift truck and transport equipment
to new American designs in accordance
with the company’s licence agreements.”
An overstatement raises other and far
more dismal ghosts. Internal auditing
had to take the matter in hand, a senior
executive has been dismissed, and “an
independent firm of chartered account-
ants” is now to report to the full board.
Once more our old friends the regular
auditors, the impeccable guardians, are
regrettably seen to possess feet of clay.
Difficult and complicated as a just stock
appraisal may be, a few more situations
like this and stringent examination of
the profession’s duties and practices will
be called for. Examples are becoming
distressingly prominent.
The professional bodies, dispensers
alike of standards and certificates, have so
far stood aloof from a growing volume of
public discussion. In the absence of
other legally and morally constituted bod-
ies, surely the whited robe would not be
stained by some expression of concern
and some evidence that respected stand-
ards are to be defended?
“Felt’s” takeover bid
HThough seldom on the prowl. Felt and
A Textiles of Australia Ltd proved to
be the bidder for bedding maker and
distributor C. C. Rawson Ltd, of Sydney.
Rawson shareholders were advised three
weeks earlier of a possible offer.
The terms —6s. cash for the ss. ordi-
nary shares—were pitched close to the
company’s asset backing. Preference
shareholders were offered a full return
of capital.
Rawson also makes tubular steel furni-
ture in competition with Sebels (Austra-
lia) Ltd.
First loss after 11 years
A nother victim of the lifting of import
restrictions is Nile Textiles Ltd
which last week announced a group
loss of £20,372 after 11 years of profit-
able operations as a public company.
Cheap imports from mainland China
and elsewhere cut stock values and pro-
fit margins.
Profits of the group had declined from
a peak £85,149 in 1957-58 to
£49,285 in 1960-61.
Appointment as sole distributor in
Australia for Bradford Cotton's new
sheeting, and in NSW and Queensland
for Warrnambool Woollen Mills in 1960,
were considered bull points for the com-
pany’s shares. But apparently the local
cotton products could not compete with
imported goods.
Having paid shareholders 121 p.c. for
three years, the company last year cut
this to 8 p.c. paid in a final distribution.
The interim dividend of 4 p.c. in 1961-
62 receives no follow-up.
Little difference
A bsorption of Claude Neon Industries
Ltd made little difference to the earn-
ing rate or tangible asset backing per
share of W. R. Carpenter Holdings Ltd
in the year to September 30. The group’s
absolute profit rose 35 p.c. Comparing
the 1961-62 profit with the sum of Car-
penter’s and Claude Neon’s 1960-61
profits, there was an improvement of 7
p.c.
Earning rate was steady at 35 p.c. on
capital increased from £2,806,684 to
£3,933,093. The asset backing per ss.
share was in fact reduced from 245. 9d.
to 235. 7d. At about 31s. 3d. the shares
are 4s. 3d. below this year’s top price.
Back to lists?
A utomobile Advance and Agency Co.
Ltd intends to notify the Sydney
Stock Exchange that its present distribu-
tion of shares should qualify it once again
for listing. The company was removed
from the list in March 1962.
Another small profit was made for the
year ended May 31, 1962, the second after
four successive losses, but directors de-
cided not to pay a preference dividend.
The preference shareholders have been
paid up to May 31, 1961.
The company continued to collect HP
outstandings, then placed the funds on
deposit at 10 p.c. per annum, as a bridg-
ing operation. It intends to move into
selected real estate development in Syd-
ney and into short-term mortgage finance.
Some private companies are being investi-
gated with a view to takeover.
Net tangible asset backing per ordinary
share is 2s. IOJd. Paid capital is £171.875
in 607,500 ss. shares, 9694 7 p.c. cumu-
lative preference 10s. shares and 30,306
5 p.c. cumulative preference 10s. shares.
Still down the drain
Shareholders of General Industries
Ltd, the one-time leader, will draw
little comfort from the announcement
that the company is once more profitable.
Only a small profit before tax (and
last year’s loss of close to £500,000 com-
pounded by another £300,000 write-
downs should eliminate liability for tax
for some time) and a continued absence
of dividends is more important in share-
holders’ minds than the considerable in-
crease in sales.
Directors point to the substantial non-
recurring expenditure associated with the
moving of Metters stove production from
Alexandria to Bankstown, as a factor
affecting profit.
The 20s. shares have to double to
achieve parity, while the 20s. convertible
notes are about ss. down to yield 10
p.c. On present indications they both will
linger round these levels for a long time.


WORLD-WIDE
X24G
100% British Made
the light
that never
fails...
The Tilley Storm Lantern
is proof against wind
and weather. . . giving
12 hours of brilliant
light on one filling
(I 5 pints of ordinary
kerosene).
For economical everyday
use, for unfailing service
in an emergency, you
can put your trust in
TILLEY.
Obtainable from all good Hard-
ware Stores. In case of difficulty
write to:
m.
W\
>llllll
II!)
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LIMITED
?CS2 MT, ALEXANDER ROAD, ESSEN DON, W. 5. AUSTRALIA
The Wrong Horse
who consider the ss. shares
of Latec Investments Ltd are worth
10Jd. for the sale of tax losses are back-
ing the wrong horse.
The losses were incurred by the sub-
sidiaries and are therefore valueless for
takeover purposes.
Ambitious expansion
TLJotels of Australia Ltd directors are
now imbued with the idea of provid-
ing first-class accommodation for travel-
lers beyond Australian Territory. New
Zealand, the UK, even Europe hold com-
pelling attractions for the company which
already, with 37 motels, is the largest
individually-owned motel chain in the
world. (Six more motels are currently
under construction.)
Directors consider that, as the field in
Australia has been well penetrated, there
is greater scope for profitable expansion
outside.
Acquisition of the Carapark group was
made purely for the motels, and remain-
ing activities have been dropped. The
motel chain now comprises Caravilla and
Travel Lodge units.
Profit for the year to June, reported at
£221,012, represents an improved earn-
ing rate of 28.4 p.c. on capital. The ss.
shares at 9s. 9d. or thereabouts afford the
excellent return of 6.4 p.c. in income and
14.6 p.c. on earnings. There’s no need
for the investor to shy away from this
motelier.
Gains in profit and stature
Droject Development Ltd survived
the demolition work done by the
Federal Government over the last two
years, and gained stature by producing a
profit of £166,105 for the year ended
June 30 last.
This allowed payment of the first year’s
dividend fully in cash. (Last year a 10 p.c.
dividend was satisfied by the issue of
shares in Wynyard Holdings Ltd, which
then was more than half-owned by Pro-
ject. Now Project holds about 40 p.c. of
Wynyard’s capital.)
The Bs. demanded for the ss. Project
shares (dividend yield 6.1 p.c. and earn-
ings yield of 11 p.c.) is a fair assessment
of their present worth. But the 6s. or
so required to buy the ss. Wynyard shares
seems to be rather less justified in view of
the fact that no dividend is expected to be
paid out of earnings before the final com-
pletion date of October 1963.
Completion of the car park two months
ago, as well as the finishing touches now
being put to the second shopping con-
course and the obvious progress of the
office block (Wynyard House), due for
completion next month, have aroused in-
vestment enthusiasm.
Wynyard shareholders are entitled to
a one-for-three bonus on or before com-
pletion of the project, which takes paid
capital to £2.2 million, and averages the
cost per share to any current buyer down
to 4s. 6d.
Some comparison can be made with
Melbourne’s Southern Cross Properties
Ltd, which estimated in the original pros-
pectus that, on an 80 p.c. occupancy rate,
earning rate on the £2 million capital
would be 14.4 p.c. The hotel opened in
late August, and the ss. shares are linger-
ing around 3s. lOd.
Wynyard coincidentally worked on an
80 p.c. occupancy rate for the hotel
(Menzies Sydney) and with office and
shop rents also expected to earn 14.4 p.c.
on capital.
Time for a change
I>eters Ice Cream (Vic.) Ltd may
assume a new mantle by forming a
holding company with a name which is
more appropriate than its present one.
After all, its interests now include
Gordon Edgell’s canneries in NSW and
Tasmania, International Canner’s plant
in Tasmania, Holdenson and Nielson and
other companies’ dairy products in Vic-
toria, Peters Ice Cream (Tasmania), Four
’n’ Twenty Pies in Victoria, and the
Gourlay Cabinet business.
The only part of the Peters’ empire to
suffer in the past year to June was milk
products, where lower prices coincided
with rising costs.
Annexation of new territory, so to
speak, was accomplished smoothly and ef-
ficiently, so that earning rate on trebled
capital was actually higher in 1961-62.
Transfer of the ice cream business to
the new factory at Petersville will mean
that capital expenditure is unproduc-
tive for a time, but judging by Peters’
successes in 1961-62 with perhaps more
formidable tasks, this one should be a
cinch.
The 2s. shares trading at Bs. 6d. or
thereabouts look worth every penny.


MINING
ABERFOYLE'S NEW TIN PROGENIES
Anew tin float, Ardlethan N.L., will
be made by the Aberfoyle Holdings
group within the next few months.
Mr Kenneth Craig, chairman of Aber-
foyle, told The Bulletin last week that
a public issue of shares which would give
the public about a 35 per cent interest
in Ardlethan would be made probably
early next year. Aberfoyle would hold 50
per cent and other interests 15 per cent.
Between 1952 and 1956 several com-
panies, including Mt Isa Mines Ltd
(copper and silver-lead-zinc producer),
North Broken Hill Ltd (silver-lead-zinc
producer) and Aberfoyle Tin N.L. (tin
and wolfram producer), made an examin-
ation of the Ardlethan field, which lies
about 40 miles from Narrandera in the
Riverina.
Aberfoyle first looked at the project in
1956 when the price of tin in London
was £7BB a ton (it is currently around
£B5l stg.). Investigations show ed that rich
pipes which produced substantial quanti-
ties of tin in earlier years were sur-
rounded by a mass of lower grade tin
ore, believed to average about 0.4 per
cent a ton.
North Broken Hill and Mt Isa decided
not to proceed with development of the
Ardlethan field presumably because, at
the then current price of tin, the pro-
position appeared to be marginal. Aber-
foyle Tin NL came to a similar decision at
that time.
As a result of a further examination of
the potential of the field early in 1961
and taking into account the higher tin
price, the stability of the market and the
the improvement in recovery techniques,
the company took an option to purchase
the property. This option allowed time
for a comprehensive wagon and diamond
drilling programme to evaluate the grade
and quantity of ore available.
The option was held originally by
Aberfoyle Tin NL and is still held by that
company. The Aberfoyle Tin Develop-
ment Partnership, which comprises Aber-
foyle, NAUC, Paringa, Metal Exploration
and South Alligator jointly, and whose
object is to develop alluvial tin areas in
WA, does not have any interest in Ard-
lethan.
In the last 12 months Aberfoyle Tin
has spent about £40,000 in intensive and
extensive testing at Ardlethan. Some
16,000 ft. of wagon and diamond drilling
have been carried out, and diamond
drilling is continuing. The Mines Depart-
ment of NSW contributed £3,500 to the
programme.
These operations led to the proving
of 1.6 million tons of ore reserves and
pointed to extensions laterally and in
depth giving another 4 million tons. The
value of the ore has been established at
0.4 per cent, in accordance with earlier
estimates.
Research and pilot plant testing has
been performed by the Australian
Mineral Development Laboratories, Ade-
laide, and the Tasmanian Mines Depart-
ment Laboratories in Launceston to
enable introduction of the latest and most
efficient recovery processes.
On the confident (and expert) expecta-
tion that the world price of tin will hold
at least at £B5O stg. and probably rise
substantially in the next 10 years,
and by using modern open-cut methods
of mining, Aberfoyle believes it can
develop a profitable tin mining operation.
A complete crushing plant, in excellent
condition, has been purchased from Lake
George Mines Ltd. Production is ex-
pected to start within a year.
Although it is a product of the same
stable, Ardlethan is an entirely indepen-
dent operation to the Aberfoyle Tin
Development partnership formed in Sep-
tember, 1961, in which Aberfoyle Tin
NL, NUAC, and Paringa Mining and
Exploration Company Limited each have
a 25 per cent interest and Metals Explor-
ation NL and South Alligator Uranium
NL have a joint 25 per cent.
The partnership has been formed to
finance exploration and development of
prospects over a two-year period. A
number of attractive tin prospects have
been secured, from which directors
expect at least two active mining and
treatment operations will be established.
The immediate objects of this partner-
ship is to develop the Greenbushes and
Smithfield alluvial tin deposits lying
about 140 miles inland from Bunbury in
WA and near the current operations of
Western Titanium NL, which also has a
20 per cent interest in these two fields
(leaving 20 per cent each to the four
partners in the Aberfoyle Tin partner-
ship).
The four partners will put up £55,000
each and Western Titanium £15,000, in
respect of Greenbushes.
One of them, Paringa Mining and Ex-
ploration Company Ltd, an old esta-
blished but lately inactive WA mining
company, has been reorganised (and revi-
talised) to participate in the partnership.
Paringa was formed in 1909 with
London headquarters and had a good
dividend history in its early years, mainly
due to profitable gold recovery in the
Kalgoorlie field. More recently the com-
pany searched for uranium in Queens-
land but with little success.
The company has now been registered
in Melbourne as a preliminary to a
proposed modest issue of shares. Its ex-
isting issued capital has been reduced to
a nominal figure of £9OOO sterling.
Authorised capital is £500,000 sterling
(£625,000 Australian) in 2i million 4s.
stg. (ss. Aust.) shares.
Of the £88,500 new issue proposed,
£27,500 stg. will be raised in London
and the rest in Australia. Both issues will
be underwritten and listing will be sought
in Melbourne (but listing in London will
be retained as an aid to capital raising).
Management of Paringa will be trans-
ferred from London to Australia. A
majority of directors will now be Aus-
tralian.
As well as the tin partnership pros-
pects, Paringa will be taking a half share
in promising copper leases in the North-
ern Territory.
Deputy chairman of Paringa, Mr K.
W. Craig, was responsible for bringing
the negotiations almost to completion on
his recent visit to Britain. The other Aus-
tralian directors are Messrs E. R. Jeffrey,
J. A. Roche and H. K. Turner. Directors
in the UK are Sir Ernest Wood (chair-
man) and Messrs J. C. du Parc Braham
and K. Nordon.
Provincial reporting
"Readers will appreciate the expansive-
•*-* ness shown by directors of Samuel
Allen and Sons Ltd in their 1961-62
annual report, to wit: “The Balance Sheet
and Profit and Loss Accounts have been
compiled in conformity with the require-
ments of the Companies Act of 1961.
For this purpose, figures for the previous
year have been recast and will not com-
pletely reconcile with the accounts pre-
sented last year.
“Your directors report or. the state of
the Company’s affairs as follows: The
Parent Company and all Subsidiaries re-
turned profitable results.
“The state of the Company’s affairs is
sound, as disclosed by the Balance Sheet.
“Capital Profits Reserve has been in-
creased by £3369.
“Property Revaluation Reserve has
been increased by £11,223.
“Stock has been written down to the
extent deemed necessary to value it at
the lower of Cost or Market Value.
“The amount written off for Bad Debts
was in excess of the amount required in
recent years. Apart from this, the results
of the Company’s operations have not
been materially affected by items of an
abnormal character.”
Samuel Allen is a provincial merchant,
carrier and agent in Northern Queens-
land.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
PUBLISHERS HOLDINGS LTD
GENEROUS BONUS LOOKS CERTAIN
Tn one move late in 1961 Publishers
Holdings Ltd solved its liquidity
problems for some time to come and
provided the basis for a very substantial
capital handout to shareholders. The
move was the takeover of Green’s
Products Ltd, which by the use of the
high premium on the Publishers’ shares
enabled the company to acquire sub-
stantial cash reserves at about 4s. in
the £.
Publishers Holdings was formed in
1950 to acquire all the issued capital of
a number of magazine publishing com-
panies, including K. G. Murray Pub-
lishing Co. Pty Ltd and Kenmure Press
Pty. Magazines published by the group
included Man, Man Junior, Australian
House and Garden, Cavalcade, Adam,
True Story, Photoplay and True
Romance, as well as colored comics.
Initial paid-up capital was £200,000
of which the public held £50,000. From
its inception, the company's profitability
has been high. Earning rate in its first
year of public status was 28.8 p.c. and
reached a peak of 59.3 p.c. in 1960-61.
Dividend of 7k p.c. in its first year
was doubled in 1952, and after six years
at 15 p.c. and one year at 17k, the next
four payments were at 20 p.c. and in
each year the distribution took less than
half the profit.
In the 10 years to 1961, capital growth
was slow. Shareholders were offered a
one-for-four cash issue at par in 1955
and a one-for-five bonus in 1960.
This had the effect of lifting capital
from £200,000 to £300,000. In the
meantime the company had expanded
and diversified its activities, principally
by cash takeovers. Acquisitions included
publications covering a wide range of
sporting activities, road guides and
maps, motor manuals, fashion and
women's magazines and a record club.
By the end of 1961-62, the group was
publishing 19 monthly magazines, three
quarterlies and more than 30 publica-
tions of one-time frequency as well as
many comic titles.
In 1959 the company entered a com-
pletely new field the leasing of the
Perisher Valley area of the Kosciusko
State Park and its development as a
holiday resort. First move was construc-
tion of the Sun Deck Hotel in the area,
opened in time for the 1959 winter
season, but six months later it was
destroyed by fire. But it was rebuilt
in six months and opened within weeks
of another hotel in the same area, the
Man From Snowy River. The whole
area has since been developed rapidly
with construction of ski lodges and
skiing facilities.
However, all these developments,
although not immediately affecting
profitability, led the company into an
acute lack of liquidity. Between 1958
and 1961 working capital declined
steadily from £141,741 until current
liabilities exceeded current assets by
£9562. Directors solved this problem
by making a takeover offer for Greens,
a company with cash reserves of nearly
£700,000 following the sale of its
activities to Kraft Food. The offer, on a
two-for-five basis, with the payment of
1/- cash for each Greens’ share, involved
the issue of 573,600 Publishers’ shares
and the payment of £72,000 in cash.
Included in the takeover was a pub-
lishing company owned by Greens,
Grenville Publishing, but its acquisition
was only incidental to the main
acquisition—the cash funds. In fact, at
the time Grenville presented some mis-
givings to Publishers’ directors because
it had accumulated losses of £50,000
and was trading adversely. But with
Publishers’ “know-how” the company
was soon back on its feet and the break-
even point was reached early in the
current financial year. Most of the other
Greens subsidiaries will be liquidated
or sold as opportunity arises.
Acquisition of Greens and Penrod
Publishing Pty, owner of the trade
journal Tailor and Men's Wear, also
during 1961-62 by a share exchange,
created the huge share premium reserve.
At June 30 this stood at £625,578 —-
£598,854 from the Greens’ takeover and
£38,480 from -Penrods, less £11,756 cost
of acquisition. This with assets revalua-
tion reserve of £58,000, is sufficient to
make a three-for-two bonus—and direc-
tors have promised a bonus issue in the
current year.
Profit for 1961-62 of £179,948, equal
to 48 p.c. on average capital, is almost
large enough to support a three-for-two
bonus with a continuance of the 20 p.c.
dividend on the higher capital. But this
would be too generous unless profit for
the current year is running substantially
ahead of the 1961-62 figure. A one-for-
two or two-for-three seems a more likely
prospect. Final decision will probably
depend on the result of an appeal against
a Taxation Department ruling on a sink-
ing fund on leasehold improvements.
Should this fund be allowable as a
deduction, tax for 1961-62 will be over-
provided by about £33,000.
Movement of fixed assets during the
year was only minor considering the
number of acquisitions. Book figures
showed a rise of £64,466 to £807,461,
due principally to increases in the book
valuation of plant. However, the move-
ment in current assets was spectacular.
Cash items went up 1500 p.c. from
£20,077 to £326,361, including £250,000
in short-term deposits. Stocks rose
from £233,234 to £393,787 reflecting
the inventories of Penrods, Scientific
Magazines, Grenville and Gregory’s
Guides, while trade debtors went from
£78,309 to £192,032.
Shareholders’ funds more than doubled
from £735,075 to £1,512,127 subject to
£118,463 in goodwill arising from the
latest takeovers. Net tangible assets
backing of the 5/- share at June 30 was
15s. 6d., compared with 12s. 3d. in
1960-61 and 11s. lid. the previous year.
Working capital at the start of the
current 1962-63 year stood at £551,337.
This is rapidly being transformed into
fixed assets. Funds are being channelled
into the Perisher Valley where four new
ski lifts are planned for the 1963 season
as well as a number of new lodges.
Large amounts were spent on two new
Miehle printing units for Kenmure Press
Pty. These give Kenmure the potential
to accommodate a large proportion of
the publications acquired in the take-
overs.
However, development is not being
confined to this. Building extensions
have been planned, financed by funds
from Greens. Completion of these will
enable Kenmure to enter the commercial
printing field.
Publishers has always been held in
high esteem by the market. At present
the shares are selling around 375. to
show a 2.7 p.c. dividend yield and 6.5
p.c. earnings yield. Even at this price
they appear a lock-away prospect.
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 352 353 366 349 940
Less current liabilities 210 .233 337 359 389
Working capital 142 120 29 -10 551
Investments - 4 38
Fixed assets 315 389 691 743 807
Goodwill 118
Total capital 475 509 720 737 1514
Represented by:
Minority interest 3 3 3 2 2
Ordinary capital 250 250 250 300 449
Reserves 204 256 467 435 1063
457 509 720 737 1514
Depreciation 27 34 33 39 44
Taxation 55 68 99 79 105
Net earnings 98 105 159 178 180
Dividend 44 50 55 60 75
Surplus 54 55 104 118- 105
Earning rate p.c. 39.1 42.3 57.8 59.3 48.0
Dividend rate p.c. 17£ 20 20 20 20
Div. yield (a) 7.6 4.7 3.7 3.1 2.8
High price (b) 13/6 22/3 28/- 35/3 39/-
Low price (b) 7/10 12/9 21/- 21/- 33/5
(a) End of Sept., month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.


INVESTMENT ADVISOR Y SER VICE
Of IHE BULLETIN Can Use
a persona] investment advisory
service.
It you have an investment prob-
lem, write to the Financial Editor
attaching the coupon at right.
The Bulletin financial staff will
seek out the information you require.
Selected letters of enquiry will oe
published (without the names of
writers) together with the Editor’s
answers.
All communications will be treated
as confidential.
COUPON
ATTACH REQUEST, AND POST
TO:
FINANCIAL EDI l OR,
The Bulletin, BOX 2521 G P 0..
SYDNEY
MR
NAME MRS
MISS
ADDRESS:
DRUG HOUSES OF AUSTRALIA
MERITS HIGHER MARKET RATING
Tntegration of the activities of Drug
Houses of Australia Ltd by re-
organisation on a divisional basis may
mark a new phase in the company’s
history.
Established as a holding company in
1929 by amalgamating the principal
wholesale druggists of Australia, the
group had grown unwieldy. The units
controlled by Drug Houses now fall into
the following divisions: Merchandising,
wholesale chemists and druggists,
suppliers of dental requisites and equip-
ment; manufacturing; rural; national
sales and exports.
The products made by DHA include
pharmaceutical, chemical and patent
medicinal preparations, medicinal jujubes,
anaesthetic and solvent ethers, industrial
refrigerants and fumigants, and ethyl
chloride, etc. The rural division makes
and supplies agricultural and veterinary
chemicals and instruments, stock foods
and veterinary medicines.
Factories are located in Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane and Auckland.
A new pharmaceutical factory is planned
for Derrimut (Vic) which should be in
production towards the end of next year.
Many manufacturing activities were
duplicated in various States in the past,
the chairman told shareholders in his
annual address, and their centralisation
will produce “substantial cost savings”
which “could well assist our efforts in the
export market.”
DHA has a minority interest in Bis-
muth Products Pty of Sydney. A joint
company was formed with American
Cyanamid Co. of New York, known as
Cyanamid DHA Pty, in November 1961.
A pharmaceutical manufacturing unit and
warehouse was erected at Laverton, out-
side Melbourne, and is now in full produc-
tion. A fermentation plant is scheduled
to commence operations towards the end
of this year.
DHA had been distributor and later
licensee for the American company’s
Lederle products for over 12 years. The
initial investment in the local manufactur-
ing project was estimated at about £l4
million, of which the major part will be
contributed by Cyanamid.
DHA expects many lasting benefits to
derive from this wide relationship with
the American partner, and in his 1961
address the chairman forecast that the
new company would be operating profit-
ably by the end of 1962.
The year 1962 brought bumper sales
and profits. Turnover was 8 p.c. better
than in 1960-61. Management anticipates
that Singapore, Bangkok and Hong Kong
will prove important outlets.
The net profit for 1961-62 improved
from £1,043,178 to £1,073,642 after
higher tax of £769,046 (1961 £732,732)
but slightly lower depreciation of
£213,372 (£224,061). In fact, opera-
tions were more profitable than is indica-
ted by these figures. In 1960-61 £lOO,OOO
was put aside for sundry provisions other
than for depreciation, renewals or diminu-
tion in value of assets or income taxation.
The 1961-62 provision was £220,000.
These provisions were made before
arriving at the published net profits. The
known conservatism of the company’s
management leads one to believe that
these provisions could in future turn out
to be no longer required.
The reorganisation of manufacturing
activities appears to have been accom-
panied by a clear-out of old machinery,
producing a capital loss of £48,437. In
previous years small profits had been
made on the sale of fixed assets, and in
1958 a very substantial capital profit
accrued from the sale of two subsidiaries
(DHA Chemicals and Beetle-Elliott) to
Monsanto Chemicals (Aust.) Ltd and
several redundant properties.
Reserves, comprising £684,193 capital
reserves, £1,221,409 share premiums,
£1,498,190 capital assets revaluation,
£2,925,352 general, and £371,208 profit
and loss appropriation account, give the
20s. ordinary shares a net tangible asset
backing of 41s. 9d.
Investments were enlarged during the
years to £315,585, including £156,650 for
shares in listed companies whose market
value at balance date, June 30, 1962, was
£85,159 higher.
Overdraft, partly secured, increased by
about £250,000 to £1,009,967, but the
working capital position appears very
satisfactory. There are no long-term lia-
bilities.
Since the war the group’s development
has been financed partly by issues to
shareholders three premium issues
followed by two par issues, the last one
in December 1956.
Certain properties were revalued con-
servatively in 1956 to show a £H million
surplus. (Book value of properties is
now £4.1 million.)
Shareholders deserve greater rewards
than the gentle dividend increases (from
6 p.c. in 1953 to the 11£ p c. rate estab-
lished in 1959) and occasional share
issues. The rationalisation process now
well under way, and the closer alliance
with Cyanamid, must hasten the arrival
of greater benefits.
Unfortunately this opinion is shared
by many investors, as the present price of
the 20s. shares at 675. 9d. yields 3.3 p.c.
(earnings yield 5.4 p.c.). But in this
calendar year the shares have been as
high as 775., so there could still be plenty
of quick bounce in the stock. The present
position of the company merits a higher
market rating than it has ever had before.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY £'ooo
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 9120 9249 9905 10,705 11,215
Less current
liabilities 3148 3303 3544 4341 4818
Working capital 5972 5946 6361 6364 6397
Investments 115 118 78 130 316
Fixed assets 4607 4785 5224 5492 5625
Intangibles 239 239 292 346 330
Total capital 10,933 11,088 11,955 12,332 12,668
Represented by :
Deferred
liabilities 109
Minority interests 10 9 8 8 3
Preference
capital 100 100 100 100 100
Ordinary
capital 5729 5729 5860 5860 5860
Reserves 4985 5250 5987 6364 6700
10,933 11,088 11,955 12,332 12,663
Depreciation 153 190 213 224 213
Taxation 507 580 701 733 769
Other provisions 100 220
Net profit 794 870 935 1043 1074
Earnings for ord. 788 864 929 1037 1068
Dividends 573 645 657 659 659
Capital profits 891 13 44 9 -48
Surplus 1106 232 316 387 361
Earnings p.c. 13.8 15.1 16.0 17.7 18.2
Dividend p.c. 10 1U Ilf Ilf Ilf
Dividend yield (a) 5.6 4.3 3.5 3.7 3.3
High price (b) 35/ 40/ 59/ 70/6 69/
Low price (b) 29/ 31/ 39/ 50/ 50/
(a) End of September, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.


A. 1. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L NEVIT'i. A C. DRAPER.
N. W C. DRAPER
(Members a] Ensbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor.
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street. Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO"
Phone. 31-2761 P.O BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone 6089
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members ol the Sydney Stock Excharm
16 O’Connell St.. Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
150 Queen St.. Melbourne
67-5957 (7 lines)
43 Northbourne Ave.,
City, Canberra, A.C.T.
4 0365-66
Flinders House, Crown St., Wollongong
B 5900
Telegrams and Cables.
“Rosdale” Sydney. Melbourne
or Wollongong
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street. Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone. BW 5721.
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. W GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road.
Melbourne.
Telephones: 51-6243 51-6245
Est. 1939
HELP
all the year round. Donations
Elizabeth Street. Svdnev. BM :
169
2001
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
ffTiE notable thing about last week was
not simply the strong rise in the share
market but the change of heart in the
House of Fairfax. Even though the
“Sun-Herald” had declared on the Sun-
day, “Stage Set At Last For Stock Market
Recovery,” I still thought I was having a
mad dream when I saw the front page
headline on the “Financial Review” on
Tuesday: “Share Market Looks Set For
Recovery.” Then, as if to assure readers
this was not a misprint, the “Review”
followed this up on Thursday by saying
“There can be no doubt that the outlook
for Australian business in the next 12
months has improved substantially in re-
cent months and that thin should be re-
flected in increased profitability in 1962-
63—and in higher share prices.”
MCRESCHS has finally broken through
on Broadway. Interpreted, “Mcßeschs”
comes from M for McDonald (Mr War-
ren); C for Coombs (Dr H. C.); R for
Ricketson (Mr. Staniforth); E for the
author of this Diary; S for Syme (Mr. C.
York); C for Crawford (Sir John); H
for Holt (Mr Harold); S for Schrapnel
(Mr Philip).
At least the House of Fairfax knows
the elementary rules in the art of hand-
ling criticism—ignore it, even exploit it,
but never give your critics the satisfac-
tion of knowing they are annoying you.
On the market front last week, while
contentedly watching a lot of my shares
rising in price, I was also laboring under
the foul accusation of having bought
“crummy” stocks the previous week—
Kauri and Wancol. I realise now that it
would have been better to buy the others
I was considering at the time, Finance
and Guarantee and Ralph Symonds, or
even CIG.
Wounded by this “crummy” stock
business, I turned last week to what looks
to be a first-class little company, Night-
ingale Supply. Nightingale makes a whole
lot of chemicals with impossible names
that I don’t understand.
The point about Nightingale is that it
has one of those beguiling small capitals
—only £148,000 in ordinary shares.
Earning rate last year was 30 p.c. and
the tax provision w’as obviously very high.
All in all, a tidy proposition, so I bought
400 and was lucky enough to get them
on Wednesday at 14s. lid.
By the end of the week I was back
in my old speculative ways. Having man-
aged to get 500 Ferris at 3s. 3d. before
the price got away, I then tried to buy
some Sonnerdale on a takeover rumor.
When will I learn?
Sonnerdale has had a pretty dismal
record of late but with its 10s. shares
selling at only 7s. 6d. it looked as though
I could hardly go wrong. Only there was
no seller in the market by the time I
came along.
This led me into my first venture with
stock options. I have made one or two
abortive attempts in the past to get
options but either none was available or
the premium was too high. But on Fri-
day there was an underwriter prepared
to give me a one month call (buying)
option on 1000 Sonnerdale at the then
last sale price of 7s. 6d. and at a pre-
mium of 9d. So I have a month in which
to see if I can make any money out of
my first option. It means the price will
have to go above Bs. 3d. (plus broker-
age) before I am making anything.
These three purchases ran me into
£427, which, with the £l4O owing from
the previous week, raised my total in-
debtedness to £567.
This I was able to cover very nicely,
but rather reluctantly, by selling my
longest-running stock, O'Donnell Griffin.
I originally bought these 14 months ago
at an average price of 13s. 6d., so I was
able to make one of my better profits,
£177, including £3O in dividends.
O’Donnell Griffin strikes me as a com-
pany with quite exceptional prospects,
particularly in Western Australia now
that it is linked with the American firm
of Fischback and Moore. But its pros-
pects are going to take a year or two
to be realised and in the meantime I
must move on to pastures which, while
perhaps not as green, are at least closer.
BOUGHT
500 Ferris at 3/3 £B4
400 Nightingale at 14/11 £305
1000 Sonnerdale options at 9d.
premium £3B
SOLD
660 O’Donnell Griffin at 19/- .... £590
This left me with a whole £23 in
cash and a portfolio which rose in value
by £3OO during the week. Just goes to
show how we all get helped along by a
general market rise, although Hanimex
and Marcus Clark were responsible for
more than half of the week’s gains.
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
2000 United Motels 20/11/61 3/9 3/9
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 26/6
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 6/6
400 Malleys 3/5/62 20 9 23/-
2000 Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11 8/-
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 27/-
300 Marcus Clark notes 22/6/62 27/6 38/-
100 James Hardie 29/6/62 98/- 96/6
100 CSR 1/8. 61 49/- 52/9
400 AWA 10/8/62 20/- 19/9
500 R. W. Miller 21/8/62 17/3 18/9
1000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9 5/10
100 AOG 27/8/62 55 6 56/3
1000 ANI 14/9/62 4/- 4/5
400 Western Mining 19/962 15/9 17/6
200 Shipping News 20/9/62 24/- 23/6
1000 Vesta 27/9/62 3/9 3/6
500 Kauri 11/10/62 6/6 6/4
400 Wancol 11/10/62 12/8 12/8
500 Ferris 15/10/62 3/3 4/-
400 Nightingale 17/10/62 14/11 15/9
1000 Sonnerdale opt 19/10/62 8/3 7/6


THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
From a large number of readers' letters seeking "The
Bulletin's" advice on investment matters, these have been selected
for publication. The balance have been answered personally.
My portfolio includes the following,
with average purchase price shown: —
1100 Tooheys, Bs. 7d.; 500 Grace Bros.,
13s. lid.; 90 Fenwick, 215.; 300 Pyrox,
75.; 600 Bellambi, 165.; 200 Aeron, 55.;
500 Cousins, ss. 3d.; 200 RMC, 17s. 3d.;
200 Concrete lnd., 14s. 3d.; 243 BHP,
60s. 1 am losing on the above, when
coupled with several earlier transactions.
Would you recommend any changes? —
N.J.B.N. (Canberra).
Apparently you bought before the quiet
period set in, for all your shares show
a depreciation. For the main this is not
great and with a recovery of the market
the paper loss could well be wiped off and
a profit made by judicious selling.
Tooheys and Pyrox we would hold. Fen-
wick, if sold, would not lose you much,
and the money gained could be better
employed. On Bellambi the loss would
be considerable, and with the fair divi-
dend yield you obtain we feel that you
have all to gain and little to lose by
hanging on. This almost applies to RMC,
with the difference that this stock has a
greater chance of quick recovery than
your coal interest.
★ ★ ★
Should I put the following into BHP
or CSR shares: —£1000 debenture in
H. G. Palmer, maturing January 28,
1963; £l4OO Custom Credit, maturing
January, 1963; £lOOO Mercantile Credits,
maturing January, 1963? I have also
£4BOO in the bank at 4 p.c. — D.J.
(Brisbane).
Obviously you are more interested in
return than growth, but you also desire
security. If you were to invest in either
BHP or CSR your returns by way of
dividend would be small; in fact, with the
premium you would have to pay the
yield would be below your fixed deposit
interest, so there appears no point in
investing in the shares mentioned. What
you want is a few good debentures.
In January 1963 you will have £3400
in debentures etc. maturing. You do not
tell us what rate of interest you now
derive from these investments, but doubt-
less the companies concerned will ask for
reinvestment by way of a new debenture
issue. In your place we would spread the
principal a little more as follows:
Reduce the three mentioned debentures
to £BOO each, the £lOOO remaining being
augmented by £3OO from the fixed
deposit making £l3OO in all. £BOO of this
you should use to purchase Esanda deben-
tures (another is due shortly we believe)
and the £5OO balance in Felt & Textiles
debentures. Thus you will have maximum
security with a good return.
★ ★ ★
A year ago 1 bought 800 20s. Kauri
Timber ordinaries at 10s. 9d. Has the
company the reserves to sustain a pro-
longed recession in the timber industry
without going bankrupt? Should I sell and
cut my losses? — J.A.W. (Yallourn, Vic.).
Kauri Timber has a net tangible asset
per ordinary share of 295. This means
your 20s. par share, which cost you 10s.
9d., is backed by 295. worth of assets, dis-
counting any intangible assets in the cal-
culation. Many companies that haven’t
this size of backing are equally in a de-
pressed state, but there is no talk of bank-
ruptcy. Remember Kauri paid 8 p.c. or
better for many years up to 1960.
If you can you should certainly hold.
In fact, if you have surplus funds the
possibility of reducing your average cost
by buying another 200 at the reduced
price is a thought. This would give you
a lower ceiling at which to sell to get out
of the stock when prices improve.
★ ★ ★
Last April 1 received 125 bonus shares
in Mayfair Hams, eligible for dividend
from January 1, 1962. Should the value
of these shares be shown as income in my
tax returns or are they tax-free? — W.A.P.
(Rockdale, NSW).
Unless the Taxation Department
classifies you as a “trader” your bonus
issues are not taxable income, but the
dividend derived from them is taxable.
To be classified as a trader one must
derive one’s income from the professional
trading of stocks and shares. For example
a share broker is a trader, so is an invest-
ment company. The private individuals
who invest a little here and there are
allowed to operate without tax penalty on
capital gain.
★ ★ ★
I have 1000 York Motors’ shares
bought in 1955 and have been awaiting
a bonus issue. Should 1 sell or wait a
little longer? — F.H. (Auckland, NZ).
We note that you are worried that York
Motors has not declared a bonus issue.
As you bought in 1955, you will have
received in dividends 221, 20, 20, 15, 13f,
15 p.c. on a ss. share and 181 p.c. on a
2s. 6d. share, plus 2s. 6d. repayment of
capital—or Bs. 3d. a share held. You
still own a 2s. 6d. share worth 12s. on the
market. Why do you want to sell? Divi-
dends are very good and a bonus issue is
always possible.
★ ★ ★
Would you advise a good and relatively
simple publication on the fundamentals
of the stock market? — R. R. H. (Mor-
v,en, Q.).
Making money on the Stock Ex-
change is a very difficult proposition,
but by the calculated investment of funds
in certain shares a fair yield can be
obtained for one’s money. If, therefore,
you approach the position from this angle
you will be reasonably safe.
First we suggest you purchase a copy
of Harrison’s book “Share Buying and
Investing,” published by Rydge’s Business
Publications, of York Street, Sydney.
Study the book in detail. Applying the
methods outlined therein, pick out one
or two shares, and then go along to a
share broker and discuss the shares with
him and take his advice. Remember,
he is an expert. One don’t—Don’t take
tips from friends “who know” and
plunge. Discuss them with your broker.
★ ★ ★
1 hope to sell all or enough of my
shares by February, 1964, to provide me
with at least £B5O. Could you advise
on the following portfolio and what
alteration should be made: 1050 Clarke
Bros., bought at 7s. 6d.; 100 G. J. Coles,
12s. 10d.; 300 Geo. Fielder, 65.; 400
Jaywoth con., 3s. 2d.; 100 L. J. Flooker,
Bs. lid.; 100 R. W. Miller, 12s. 6d.;
200 Moulded Prod., 14s. 6d.; 200 Olym-
pic Bowling , 4s. 9d.; 200 RMC, 14s. Id.?
—J. R. B. ( Cronulla, NSW).
Your present portfolio cost about
<£loso. On present values it would sell
for about £865. Admittedly the market
is in process of recovering, but what it
is likely to be in February, 1964, is any-
one’s guess.
Given reasonable trading and economic
conditions the majority of your shares
should appreciate on present prices, but
whether some will recover to your cost
price is problematical. In this category
are Clarke Bros Holdings, Jaywoth con.,
L. J. Hooker and Olympic Bowling. These
we should hold for a rise before deciding
anything. Moulded Products reports im-
proved trading but appears at about its
peak. Perhaps when they reach your
cost or show signs of falling below 13s.
6d. you should sell and re-invest in Stirl-
ing Henry or Hanimex.


HELP
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
(HOLDINGS) LIMITED
An issue at
par (£100) of
£500,000
registered
first mortgage
debenture
stock
Per Annum
5 and 10
2 YEARS 6j% P.A.
3 YEARS 7% P.A.
4 YEARS .... 71% P.A.
AND SHORTER TERMS AVAILABLE
METHOD OF INVESTING Application for Debenture
Stock will proceed only on one of the forms of application
referred to in and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus
obtainable from and lodged with
h JAMES WALLACE (HOLDINGS) LIMITED,
123 Sussex Street, Sydney.
■ The Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney Limited any branch in New South
Wales or the Australian Capital Territory.
■ Any member of a Recognised Stock
Exchange.
Underwriting Brokers
■ RALPH W. KING & YUILL (members of the
Sydney Stock Exchange), 20 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, with offices at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Grafton, Tamworth.
rG7B4e
ONE TO BUY
D.J'S VIRILITY IS PAYING OFF
Tnvestors in all States should appreci-
-*■ ate this week’s selection of David
Jones Ltd ss. shares as One to Buy. The
evidence of David Jones dynamic de-
velopment is before their eyes.
Demolition and complete rebuilding of
the Adelaide store, remodelling of the
Townsville (McKimmins) store, enlarge-
ment of the Newcastle store and plans
to treble the Wollongong (Walter Lance)
store, and modernisation of the Brisbane
(Finney Isles) and Sydney city stores
keeps the buying and investing public
interested.
DJ’s operates in all States, with the
exception of Tasmania. Advent of
Myers to Sydney has apparently had no
effect on DJ’s trading; after all, Farmers
has always provided solid competition.
The chairman’s report on the Parra-
matta store (opened in November last)
effectively contradicts rumors round the
trade that it was not doing well. After
writing off all establishment expenses, the
store operated profitably for the nine
months it was open.
Canberra people, starved for quality
fashion goods, are waiting eagerly for
the opening of DJ’s store in the new
regional shopping centre, as are those
of the Sydney seaside suburbs to be
catered for at Brookvale.
With all these ramifications, DJ’s is
raising just under £2 million in an issue
of ss. shares at 3s. premium to share
and note-holders in the proportion of
one new share for six old shares or
three 10s. convertible notes.
On the £7,183,106 capital at balance
date, July 31 (of which £6,097,926 was
ordinary) there were reserves of
£9,785,644, plus £1,046,000 set aside
for the increased cost of building replace-
ment and £1,012,338 as a provision for
diminution in the value of stock.
The chairman told shareholders in last
week’s address that the asset backing
would be considerably higher if pro-
perties were revalued.
Turnover was reported to be well over
£4O million in 1960-61, but no figure was
revealed for the year under review. But
1962-63 has opened with sales “substan-
tially higher" than last year, and expenses
have been closely controlled.
The company encourages all forms of
credit, and it builds tremendous customer
goodwill by its willing exchange of mer-
chandise.
Past benefits for shareholders have
been the right to subscribe to the conver-
tible note issue (one-for-four) in April
1961, a 78-for-100 bonus in 1958 and a
one-for-two par share issue in 1950.
The 12 p.c. increase in profit for 1961-
62 to £l.B million gave an unchanged
earning rate of 28.7 p.c. on capital.
Directors predict continuation of the 12-h
p.c. dividend rate on the higher capital.
Purchase of the shares cum rights (up
to December 31) at the current level of
about 18s. sd. would average down to
16s. lid. after the issue to give an even-
tual return of 3.7 p.c.
The Bulletin has for some months
been recommending purchase of a retail
portfolio. David Jones shares would
provide an excellent foundation.


MARKETING
ADVERTISING A "BLESSING TO BOTH
FIRMS AND CUSTOMERS"
Tn setting out to discover how far it
was possible to measure the effective-
ness of advertising by its results on sales
the authors of Advertising in Action de-
liberately eschew the wider question of
the power of advertising to draw atten-
tion to the product or service advertised
which they take up in a second book
Advertising and the Public, a subject at
present even more controversial in
Britain, where the study was made, than
it is here.
In this way Harris, who is director of
the UK Institute of Economic Affairs,
and Seldon clear the decks for an objec-
tive study of case histories of the influ-
ence of advertising on the sales perform-
ances of about 70 products and services.
And in case any potential Australian
reader should think that these British
experiences might have an academic
flavor at this distance from the Austra-
lian advertising scene, the thought should
be dismissed.
For one thing he will find many pro-
ducts that are household names here.
He will also find reflections of local Aus-
tralian battles between such advertising
leviathans as the detergent makers, the oil
and petrol sellers, the cosmeticians, the
instant coffee people, the tooth paste
kings, the soft drinks manufacturers and
a host of othem who pay for space on
screens and paper here as well as there.
Probably the most intriguing result of
reading Advertising in Action is to dis-
cover the variety f these combinations
and the ranges of appropriateness for
individual products.
For this reason the boo 1 ' assumes
something of the status of a text book
for company executives /ho will find in
it a wealth of ideas to put them on the
right track in advertising, just in case the
advertising agencies are falling short of
the ideal formulae for putting their pro-
ducts across.
Equally, firms making their debut on
the marketing scene will find much in
some of the case studies to assist them.
The advice implicit ir the establishment
of Brylcream in the US market by a
British company, for example, could be
taken to heart by all Australian exporters
of manufactured goods attempting to
break into overseas markets at present.
Other companies which may feel they
have pressed advertising to the limit in
sales promotion might turn with profit
to the experience of a leading maker of
washing machines, known as well here
as in Britain, and the results of ringing
the changes between newspaper and tele-
vision advertising.
Others may take the lesson from a
leading oil company’s attempt to foster
oil for central heating and during the
campaign discovered that although it was
spending huge amounts both on tele-
vision and newspaper advertising, in
splitting its campaign between the two
media “it lost by failing to dominate
either”.
No firm will be able to escape the
message which runs right through this
book, that advertising is the more effec-
tive the better the quality and reputation
of the product. But there are lots of
examples in which failure to achieve
hoped-for results is due to other causes.
For instance it is difficult to assess the
effectiveness of advertising where changes
in the market itself are slow, and when
so many other factors influence sales it
is difficult to isolate the effect of adver-
tising.
Advertising agencies can take some
comfort from the conclusions of Harris
and Seldon that “however technically ef-
ficient the advertising, its effectiveness is
always limited by the merits, availability
and price of the product or service in
relation to those of its competitors.”
Press and television have no reason to
be pessimistic, either. The authors re-
cognise the value of advertising as re-
vealed by their case studies, though the
appropriateness of the various "media
varies from product to product.
Though they looked for cases to fol-
low up where advertising had failed to
establish a market in the UK, they found
only these—instant tea, a shampoo, a
packaged food and some minor deter-
gents
They also think advertising is a bless-
ing in that it yields economies to firms
both in increasing or stabilising their
scale of production and by reducing or
eliminating other marketing expenses.
“In an economy where private and
public restrictions on competition are
kept to a minimum it is generally likely
to benefit not only the "firms but also
their customers.”
They draw the conclusion that al-
though some of it may be wasteful be-
cause advertising is not yet a scientific
instrument and although it may some-
times excite demand by improper appeals
to fear, greed, envy, or by cynical ex-
ploitation of sex, advertising is yet one
of the most dynamic influences in mak-
ing an economy progressive.
The authors say they find it “difficult
to visualise a substitute for advertising
that not only avoids its weaknesses but
also embodies its advantages”.
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
Sir,
The whole tenor of your comments on
the ABC “Forum of the Air” on advertis-
ing shows that the level of intelligence
and integrity of your commentator is no
higher than the organisation men who de-
fended modern advertising. How any
reasonable person could conclude that
Mr Wheelwright lost his case is beyond
comprehension. No real attempt was
made to sincerely answer any of his
criticisms —loud-mouthed plausibility and
personal abuse being the only defence
offered.
How can you debate with a group of
bigots who deliberately and blatantly mis-
construe the stated hypothesis to avoid
discussion on it? Your own heading to
the review similarly distorts the subject
of the Forum.
Mr Fabricius’ purported answers to Mr
Wheelwright’s criticism of the cost and
morale of advertising would be ludicrous-
ly funny if the consequences of this type
of fantastic unreason were not so vital to
the community. None but the most gul-
lible would accept Mr Fabricius’ figures
for the cost of advertising. Less biased
sources are not so kind to his cause. His
persistent and ridiculous innuendo that
Mr Wheelwright was attempting to take
from the consumer his freedom of choice
leads one to believe that Mr Fabricius
and his henchmen dissemble: and that
their only real concern is to preserve
their own freedom to importune the
public in whatever manner they please.
You report that someone asked of ad-
vertising “But what would you put in its
place?” The stupidity of this question
is only surpassed by your own final com-
ment that “the question has yet to be
answered.’ Mr. Wheelwright did not at
any stage state that advertising should be
abolished. His was an appeal for sanity,
moderation and honesty, which in the
face of your views, and those of the
organisation men, certainly seems a bit
forlorn.
D. P. Michelmore, Hazelwooa Park,
S.A.
G. H. Roeger, Burnside, S.A.
I. N. McDonald, Hazelwood Park,
S.A.


NEW DISEASE-RESISTANT
POTATO; HEAVY YIELDER
new disease-resistant variety of
potato has been released by the
NSW Department of Agriculture. It is
named ‘'Kurrel” (form rly the seedling
52854).
“Kurrel’’ is an aboriginal word mean-
ing “more”, reflecting the fact that in
trials over several seasons this variety
has consistently out-yielded most others.
The tubers are round with white,
usually russeted, firm skins, ensuring that
they will withstand rough handling and
carry well to mrrket. Cooking quality
is rated as excellent.
Missing Friends
TO: BRIAN KENNETH REOCH, formerly of
Yeerongpilly, Brisbane, and North Rockhamp-
ton, but now of parts unknown. TAKE
NOTICE that RUBY GWENDOLINE REOCH
has instituted divorce proceedings against
you on the ground of desertion and separa-
tion., and that unless , you file an Answer in
the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme
Court of Victoria, on or before the 3rd day
of December, 1962, the case may proceed in
your absence. MOLLOMBY & MOLLOMBY,
Solicitors, 99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
WILL: LESLIE THOMAS JARVIS, formerly of
Ballarat, and husband of the late Mrs. ELLEN
BEATRICE JARVIS, formerly of 15 Scotts
Parade, Ballarat, please communicate with
THE FIDELITY TRUSTEE COMPANY LTD.,
of 101 Lydiard Street North, Ballarat.
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
for
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
for
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of residence at St John's
College and an allowance of up to £25 per annum, payable at the discretion of the Trustees,
or
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £l9O per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under the Will of the
late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient to enable
their sons to study Agricultural Science and must satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at
the University of Sydney, or of Entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case
may be.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later than the 19th
November, 1962, in the case of Bursaries tenable at the Hawkesbury Agricultural College and
not later than the 7th January, 1963, in the case of those tenable at the University of
Sydney) and further particulars may be obtained from:
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED,
33-39 u ’'ter Street,
Sydney.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: CECIL PERCIVAL HARRISON, late of 40
Plateau Road, Springwood. TAKE NOTICE that
BARBARA JOCELYN HARRISON has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2050 of 1961 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for two years and upwards. If you
wish to defend you may enter an Answer in
the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, by the 14th December. 1962.
and obtain a copv of the Petition without
charge from EDMUND C. LECKY. Solicitor, of
15 Bligh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS.
Registrar.
TO: BARBARA JOAN PASCOE, formerly of
South Perth, Western Australia, address now
unknown. TAKE NOTICE that your husband
JACK PASCOE has presented a Petition to
the Supreme Court of Western Australia for
a decree of dissolution of marriage against
you on the ground of separation. If you desire
to defend the petition or institute proceedings
against the Petitioner you must file your
Answer in the Central Office of the Supreme
Court of Western Australia at Perth within
TWENTY-EIGHT days from the date of this
publication. In default of your so doing the
case may proceed and the Court will pro-
nounce judgment and make orders against
you in your absence. DATED this Bth dav of
OCTOBER, 1962. G. BOYLSON, Registrar.
FRED CURRAN & FERRIER. Forrest Place,
Perth, Western Australia, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: NELLIE ILMA McLOUGHLIN formerly of
61 Pitt Street, Redfern. TAKE NOTICE that
Robert Leslie McLoughlin has filed a Petition
for divorce No. 3195 of 1962 on the ground of
your desertion without just cause or excuse
for a period of not less than two (.2) years.
If you wish to defend you may file an answer
in the Divorce Registry. Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by 6th
December, 1962, and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion and Notice of Petition without charge
from A. J. Taylor & Statham, Solicitors, 27
Hunter Street, Sydney.— C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
Feiffer
The fresipent
PROPPEP BM FOR
BREAKFAST
mesterpam.verm
PWEXPEETEP.
WHM, Of COURSE. HOUR
HOUSE IP ON THE WAM
TO MY HOUSe". WE
HAP LUMCH.
I W H!H I WA4-
WRIT[IJ6 MM IHURS'
PAM COU'MM ON
executive rower.
1 THINK ITS TUP
KEM TO EVERY-
TH I H6f
oh, is that where, he p\c<iv
THAT UP? I SHOUIEP HIM MM
FRIPAM COLUMN ON THE
COMMON MARKET. THAT'S
THE KEM TO EVERMTHIWO.
HE SFEMEP TEERIBW
IfJTERESTEP. HE EAiP
LOCCOOiO CISCOS'?
If FATHER AT THE
WHITE HOUSE REOEPTiOIJ
FEE KATHERIUE AMWE
PORTED.
rut fomhou mapket'
THE em& FREE WJRLP
IWCORPORATEP IIOTO A
tariff Feet excHAuee
of Ml%[te tOARHEAPSf A
MATO ALUAMCE
fez mmvfii
tolp
POWER, r mo HIM.
THE PEVIOUS lIOFIuEMCE
OF POWER.' HE REAP
MW COLUMM WITH
AVID INTEREST. PI/eM
FASTER THAM USUAL.
OF COURSE-
ALUMS SMS TO
Hi-"dc£, mo
MATTER HOW FAST
I feat? HOD alums
FIMSH THE PA6E
AHEAP OF
<W,V He “
'VZmWW’ l SMfr(THOUGH
ive known him for Hem i
(/Till REF6R TO HI M W HIS
ceueMouiAL Tim);if i me
KIPEP form police iw AW
WAM* AS A WTWSPAPBR MAR) IP
RATHBR WOT fCMOu) ABOUT IT."
*me SAH7,
500TTM.'
RFPl.!££?.
'Joe;he leakep to
ME, "MOURE WORTH
FIFTEEN PEAM RUSK'S '
'COME OFF IT SIR'I
ANSWERS, 'I AM
BUT A NEWSPAPERMAN"
I AM THE
WEW
FRONTIER.
A)Q MOURE
(OOTf /T 5
Me?
mi


SfAmg it ke/u and Xm/xA
04 a tiot e£®fek ~Okatt you, think
SPRING IS HERE AND XMAS IS A LOT CLOSER
THAN YOU THINK. SOON YOU'LL HAVE TO THINK
ABOUT PRESENTS FOR THE FAMILY, FOR
RELATIVES, FOR FRIENDS BOTH HERE AND
MAYBE, OVERSEAS. WHY NOT A
subscription to "The Bulletin"
AUSTRALIA'S OLDEST (ESTABLISHED 1880)
AND BIGGEST MAGAZINE OF NEWS AND
COMMENT? YOU CAN ORDER IT FROM YOUR
NEWSAGENT OR BY FILLING IN
THE FORM AT RIGHT
1
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
name
address
please arrange for my BuKnN to
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT '
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick (vO whichever method of
delivery you prefer. .. . su b-
For those desiring direct suo
SCr pfeas°e n find enclosed my cheque/money
orto for months subscription to
RATES (Australia and Brftish
EomSiiul 0- Other countr.e. -
S.'&EBCRimOKS f.»it £ tO BOS^
Wellington. N.Z. 1 year curr ency).
currency to '
PzofoA aAe, taMing mx/oz cvnd mote a/mit tfuz Bu/leUfv
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 716
ACROSS
I—Lodgings in Melbourne in early November? (8)
s—Early English fishes. (6)
10— Discriminatorily exclude a dance in Harlem. (9)
11 — Renegade and Italianised proportion. (5)
12 — You can be seen in the East. (4)
13— An egg I re scrambled in accord with others. (8)
15— Bore for running water in Spain. (4)
16— Draughtsman’s accessory in favor of farm machin-
ery. (10)
19— A youngster having some shut-eye crime. (10)
20— A use for a biblical victim of a confidence trick. (4)
23—Part of the ship which makes
the back fat and feeble. (8)
25—Before backing a terroriser of
Sicilians. (4)
27 Satan’s phone number? Or
the answer you get on ring-
ing? (5)
28— A Russian novelist given true
revision. (9)
29 — A French novelist in stupor.
(6)
30— Platypus to evade a demand
for money? (8)
DOWN
1— Snaky business with salt water.
(7)
2 An unrendered wall isn’t so
shot. (9)
3 Name of an island group, or
Cayenne you upset. (6)
4 Concerning morning station-
ery. (4)
6 Rams none into a W.A. min-
ing area. (8)
7 —Allotment takes it up for an
Italian composer. (5)
8— Correct batsmanship is not to
be expected of this South
diarist. (7)
9 Paving slackens with colour.
(9)
14—Pitt’s rasp, (anagram) (9)
17—An operatic heroine in
doubled up conductor. (9)
18— Land-lovers in Irish disturb-
ances. (8)
19— Craft in the air? It’s so
saucy. (7)
21— Disentangle a French com-
poser. (7)
22 — A long strip of colour differ-
ing from the rest takers in
disorder. (6)
24 —I fool with a binder. (5)
26 —Continental woman with a
fur. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 715


ills
•M
ft
m
m
I
*
lit
v.
> •••> •
*' f ? M
mmmmm
..."
m
I47.PPC
Bright new idea:
BRANDY FRESHERS
with the golden taste of sunshine
Freshers can be long or short, sweet or tangy, but
always the base must be good Australian Brandy . . .
because our Brandy is the joyous golden-hearted spirit
of sun-blessed grapes, winner of many overseas awards,
least expensive base of all for countless summer cool-offs.
Moderate people who like to live the good life enjoy
Brandy often. You, too?
TRY THIS! BRANDY FIZZ! Into a large tumbler put 2 tablespoons
cracked ice. 1 ounce (about 2 tablespoons) Brandy and an orange slice.
Peel a lemon spiral fashion, hook one end to rim ol glass, till with Dry
Ginger Ale. serve with straws. SEND NOW FOR FREE LEAFLET lull
ol recipes lor exciting long drinks, short drinks and punches with Brandy.
Just write to the Wine Inlormation Centre in your State.
Box 3634, G.P.0.. Sydney Box 155 C. G.P.0.. Brisbane Box T 1650, G.P.O Perth
Box 4057. G.P.0.. Melbourne Box 260 D. G.P.0.. Adelaide Box 809 H. G.P.0.. Hobart
AUTHORISED BV
THE AUSTRALIAN
WINE BOARD


1
xiocn
mi
urn
V
■
i
a
F>T TvJ TC
SHAMEAOU*
*•■ i ;
pink for girls
i^ er T n ' Ce when offered wine she may merely be
being polite. If she says "gorgeous”, "delightful”, "heavenly"
wi ®p C 1 1 s Romalo Pink Champagne. A gay, scintillating
dinners times • • • for parties, weddings and ever-so-special
Australia'!" S RomSfi CateS celebrate Wlth plnk Champagne.
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD. Distributors:
Swift & Moore Pty. Ltd., Sydney & Brisbane.
Australian Wines Ltd., Adelaide.
Ferrall, O’Byrne Pty. Ltd., Launceston.
Importers Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
E. Benson & Co., Perth.
