

The
Bulletin
Register ed in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
January 13, 1962
WHITLAM
in search
of
an image


OIL DEVELOPMENT N.L.
Chairman’s Address to Shareholders at Annual Meeting
29 th November, 1961.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
1 he Directors’ Report and Statement
of Accounts for the year ended 30th
June. 1961, have been in your hands
for some time and it is not proposed to
comment further on these at this stage.
I do wish to take this opportunity, how-
ever, to brieflv review progress to date
and our planning for the future.
LOCATION OF DRILLING
TARGETS
With the exception of Penola No. 1
Well and our share in South East Oil
Sv Delicate Beachport Well currently drill-
ing, all work to date, comprising geologi-
cal, gravitv. seismic and shallow structure
drilling, has been designed to locate
drilling targets within our Lille areas.
In this vve claim to have been successful,
having now defined the sites for five wells
each of which lias an attractive oil and/or
natural gas potential.
, These include two structures located
bv seismic survey in our Great Artesian
Basin holding in Queensland, one closed
structure at Spirit Hill in the Northern
Territorv section of our Bonaparte Gulf
interests, one stratigraphic trap well in
the Eorquav area, Victoria, together with
a deep well to be drilled on the Mt
Salt structure south of Mt Gambier,
South Australia. This well earns a per-
manent interest in two one-hundred
square mile blocks in an area which must
be rated very highly among Australian
prospects. The operation will be shared
between Santos Ltd. and Oil Develop-
ment NT. with, in addition, possible
participation bv an Overseas Group. This
well is expected to commence bv March,
1962, and the site will be located in
conjunction wit h Mr C. G. Willis, head
of General Exploration Go. of California,
Eos Angeles, I’.S.A., a successful “oil
finder" who will visit Australia at the
appropriate time specifically for this
purpose.
In addition, gravity work just com-
pleted in the Western Australian section
of the Bonaparte Gull Basin is expected
to provide ample justification for drilling
the Devonian reef targets in that area.
Seismic work in the Sydney Basin of
N.S.W. is planned foi 1962 to be followed
by drilling. Following comprehensive
seismic work, Australian Oil k Gas Cor-
poration Ltd. has commenced a drilling
programme for natural gas some thirty
miles to the north of our Sydney Basin
holding. The value of a natural gas field
so close to Sydney, Wollongong and Port
kcmbla will Ire obvious’.
OVERSEAS NEGOTIATIONS
The point it is wished to make to
shareholders is that we have largely com-
pleted the first and unproductive phase
of oil exploration. That is the location
of targets. This is necessary, as due to
limited financial resources we must
achieve a position where we have some-
thing to sell to other Groups, local or
overseas, whereby drilling will result on
our holdings at little or no cost to the
Company. We have had approaches
from overseas organisations .and are at
present carrying on negotiations which,
as stated, we hope will result in drilling
of a number of wells for us on favourable
terms. Your Directors wish to arrange
the drilling of wells on specified areas
rather than the handing over of whole
areas to other Groups. In other words,
we wish to ensure active and adequate
exploration of our various holdings.
SPREAD OF HOLDINGS
Another aspect which seems largely
to be lost sight of is the spread of our
holdings. Strategic interests are held
in most of the Sedimentary Basins with
real potential for discovery of commer-
cial oil and natural gas. With the
exception of Wapet drilling in the
Carnarvon and Perth Basins, success in
any of the other oil exploration activi-
ties currently being conducted through-
out Australia would have a beneficial
effect on your Company’s prospects and,
incidentally, share market. 1 instance
the Glentulloch well just commenced
by the A.A.0., Interstate, Sleigh Group.
This well is located only about 20 miles
East of the South Eastern corner of our
Great Artesian Basin holding iti
Queensland. Also the Australian
Oil & Gas Company drilling immediately
to the North of our Sydney Basin Title,
and Woodside/Atlantic drilling in
Gippsland.
NEW SUBSIDY LEGISLATION
The third favourable factor is the new
Subsidy Legislation just introduce*! by
the Commonwealth Government provid-
ing for a larger allocation of funds and
a definite subsidy formula based on
footage chilled irrespective of whether the
wells are furnishing new geological in-
formation or are follow-up wells designed
to find oil. This latter feature with
the quite generous footage subsidy rates
must surely lead to greatly increased
drilling activitv and further participation
by overseas organisations in Australian
oil exploration.
CONCLUSION
Summing up, your Company has passed
through the unproductive and prepara
tory phase of oil exploration including
provision of drilling equipment necessarv
to achieve best results. During this
phase it is most difficult to retain public
and share market interest in the Com-
pany’s activities and heavy calls for
finance have necessarily to be made on
shareholders. Because of our activities
to date we now are in a position to bene-
fit from increasing interest and activity
in Australian oil exploration, to be ex
pected as a result of the recent Subsidy
Legislation, in a number of ways, in
par! icular:
Firstly, drilling of wells within the
Company’s holdings by other organisa-
tions;
Secondly, drilling bv other organisations
adjacent to certain of our holdings which
are well spread into the areas of major
interest; and
Thirdly, our joint ownership with
Santos Ltd. of drilling equipment will
enable us to achieve substantial savings
in our own drilling costs and also places
us in an advantageous position to secure
participation in other attractive projects
from time to time.
I now have pleasure in moving the
adoption of the Report of Directors and
Accounts for the year ended 30th June,
1961.
K. W. CRAIG
Chairman.


Tanner
"GAINING FACE IN ASIA CALLS FOR MORE FLEXIBILITY IN
ABANDONING PRINCIPLES"




PLAIN ENGLISH
LESSONS FROM [?]EST NEW GUINEA
can be happy about what
is happening in the West New
Guinea crisis—least of all the Federal
Government. The quick change in
tone between the Prime Minister’s still
firm statement of December 30 and
the statement made by the new
External Affairs Minister on January
4; the apparent helplessness of Aus-
tralia in affecting the issue; the failure
of the Dutch so far to secure any firm
allies; the naked fact that President
Soekarno’s threats of force have been
the operative factor . . . these are all
dismal warnings of what can happen
in this part of the world if Australians
do not quickly wake up to their pre-
dicament.
What may prove to be the West New
Guinea fiasco has already shown up
five great weaknesses in our national
position: our defence forces are too
weak; we do not spend enough money
on New Guinea; we have not got allies
we can depend on; we tend to put up
policies that we have not got the
strength to enforce; and faced by the
realities of foreign policy we become
perplexed and naive.
These weaknesses are shown up
most brutally if we apply them not to
the present West New Guinea crisis
but to the next New Guinea crisis, that
is to say. the crisis that will soon
emerge over the future of East New
Guinea. It is a sign of our weakness
that we do not yet act as if such a
crisis could exist.
DEFENCE
'T'HE deplorable demagogy of Mr
Calwell's intervention in the debate
should first be dismissed. His cry for
the return of our small forces in
Malaya to Darwin was patently a poli-
tician’s attempt to get himself off the
hook. The neutralist wing of his party
has firmly committed him in writing
to pulling out of Malaya and pulling
out of SEATO as well. The West New
Guinea crisis has for him simply been
an expedient for trying to make his
party’s present neutralist and poten-
tially treasonable foreign policy appear
a policy of patriotism.
Mr Calwell’s own isolationist and
anti-militarist instincts lend them-
selves easily to this trick. His contri-
bution to the fighting against the
Japanese in 1942 and 1943 was to lead
an isolationist campaign against Mr
Curtin in the Labor party, which had
the object of limiting the area in which
Australian soldiers would fight in the
defence of their own country. His
contribution to the discussion of de-
fence problems in last year’s deplor-
able election campaign was something
even worse than isolation; in the tiny
part of his speech he bothered to de-
vote to defence he seemed to suggest
that we should not have any defence
forces of our own at all. but hand them
over to the United Nations.
The motives of others who criticise
our present defence forces are not so
suspect; but the criticisms are vague
and often mainly destructive. They
ignore the central facts that Australia
spends proportionately only about half
as much on defence as the United
Kingdom, and only a third as much
as the United States, and that of all
the countries in the world we have
proportionately less fighting men than
anyone else. This ludicrous weakness
cannot be due mainly to bad manage-
ment. It is mainly due to the fact that
we do not spend enough. Of all the
countries in the world, we are the least
prepared to set aside a little present
convenience for future security. We
should spend at least twice as much.
Our defence expenditure averages £2OO
million a year. We should spend £4OO
million.
This money must come from some-
where. It cannot come from trimming
Government expenditure without dis-
mantling some of the apparatus of the
Welfare State. More politically feas-
ible would be to raise some of it by
indirect taxation, particularly on some
imported consumer goods. From the
viewpoint of morale, the best method
might be to raise most of it by a series
of Defence and Development Loans in
which two of the great pillars of
national strength could be linked in a
propaganda campaign that would
stress our national weaknesses and the
need for some immediate sacrifice in
the interests of the future. And, of
course, many development projects are
themselves a form of defence.
MONEY
MUHATEVER happens to West New
Guinea we can be reasonably sure
of this: our wish to maintain stability
in East New Guinea will come to
nothing if we do not pump a lot more
money into it. Whether we continue
to administer the area ourselves for
some time to come or whether we are
forced to rig up an autonomous state
there sooner than we intended, it is
going to cost us at least £5O million a
year in development. If we are not in
a position to find that money fairly
quickly we may as well give up now
and seek some other solution.
If by diplomacy and luck we hope
to control the administration of the
area over a reasonable period we must
spend money on it. We will not get
sufficient world support for our nerve
to hold if we don’t. With the world
running out of colonies to worry about,
East New Guinea will increasingly
provide a field day for troublemakers.
If we are doing a good job there it
may not be impossible to persuade
many other nations that this is so. If
we are not doing a good job this will
become impossible.
If our luck runs out and we are
forced to make the area “autonomous”
before we are ready to do so. and
before there is anything approaching
stability in the area—and this is
extremely likely—there is still a
chance that we can control its destinies.
But this may cost us even more money.
And it will be money that we shall be
putting up without any guarantee that
we shall ever get any return on it.
ALLIES
r y HE greatest weakness in the present
position of the Dutch is that they
have failed to get anyone—even us —
to underwrite their policies. Many
nations feel vaguely uneasy that the
West New Guinea crisis should be
solved by force or threats of force; but
none of them has so far been prepared
to guarantee to defend West New
Guinea against invasion. Unless one
can have guarantees of this kind
policies become hopeless bluffs that
are some day bound to be exposed.
This could happen to us with East
New Guinea. But it need never be
so. If we can produce a more posi-
tive sounding policy and put some
money behind it we should be able to
get friends to support it. The first
friend we must seek, of course, is the
United States, and if we could persuade
the U.S. that stability in this area
matters to the extent of putting up
some money we would go a long way
towards solving our problems.
Another avenue might very well be
found in some of the newly created
African States. It is worth remember-
ing that 13 of these sponsored a motion
at the U.N. General Assembly stating
that if negotiations between the Dutch
and the Indonesians failed a U.N.
Commission should investigate the pos-
sibility of setting up a system of inter-
national control over West New
Guinea. This proposal was similar to
the Dutch proposal, and 53 nations
voted for it. It is among those nations
that Australia should, by diplomatic
and propaganda activity, try to sell
whatever policy it finally puts up about
East New Guinea. But it should start
interesting these nations now—not at
the last minute. A proper presentation
in Africa of our problems in New
Guinea might prove to be the begin-
ning of getting some Afro-Asian sup-
port. If we do not finally get Afro-
Asian support our policies will fail.
POLICIES
jpERHAPS the greatest lesson we
have learned from West New
Guinea so far has been that there is
no point in having policies that we
are going to back down on later. In
doing this we display our weakness to
the world and demoralise our own
people. It is better to begin with a
lesser policy, to talk a little less big at
the start and perhaps end a little more
strongly.
We must develop policies on East
New Guinea that might be successful
only if we are militarily, financially
and diplomatically strong enough to
sustain them—and then achieve—
or even try to achieve—the strength
necessary to maintain them. At the
same time this means that we must
realise early that there may be some
policies we might never have the
strength to obtain, except with luck
that no longer seems to be running
our way.
If this is so, we may have to do
better than we are at present doing on
East New Guinea, where our policy
is that we shall keep it as a colonial
territory until we think it is right for
self-determination. Although this
policy is based on practical and,
indeed, humane considerations, it is
going to be a tough, and perhaps an
impossibly tough, policy to main-
tain. Why not realise that now—and
put up a different one?
If the world is going to demand
self-determination sooner than we are
now prepared to give it. and if we are
likely to lack the strength to stick to
our own programme, why not come up
with a solution that will still give some
promise of stability in the area, still
give us considerable control over its
administration (if we put up enough
money), but will also work?
There is no space here to canvass
the schemes that have been put for-
ward, but one that might yet be
adopted is that, as the Indonesians
formed Indonesia and the Malayans
are moving towards Malaysia, we might
propose a new country —Melanesia—
compounded not only of East New
Guinea but of neighboring territories
and islands. Like any possible solution,
it might not look much good, but—
with the preconditions already given—
it might work.
PERPLEXITY
of what has so far been men-
tioned is the kind of thing that it
is going to be easy for this country to
do. It will be impossible for us to do
if we are intent on maintaining all of
our present ways. But if we do not
follow some such policy our present
ways may be impossible to maintain,
anyway.
What must accompany such plans
may be even harder to achieve—and
that is a realisation that we are play-
ing big ring now, and for keeps. What
foreign policy we have adopted on
this issue or that has previously not
usually had any decisive effect on Aus-
tralia, because the decisions were made
by others. On these matters we must
now stake ourselves.
This would seem to call for a re-
orientation of attitude towards the
making of foreign policy and the carry-
ing out of it. We might have to spend
more on the External Affairs Depart-
ment and even strengthen it with out-
siders. It must soon be given the
undivided attention of a" Cabinet
Minister, with another Minister assist-
ing him full time.
But what is needed even more is
to recognise that there is no safe
way out for Australia now. We
take risks in whatever we do,
and making concessions can some-
times be more risky than standing
firm. There are propaganda and bluff
and gamesmanship in all foreign rela-
tions, even if the games involve
people’s futures, or their lives. We
must recognise these features in others,
and we must learn to practise them
ourselves.
Long diplomatic crises and negotia-
tions require strong nerves in a Gov-
ernment and imaginative and bold
leadership of a people. They become
exacerbated by the comings and goings
of political pressures, and while we
have previously kept foreign affairs
out of politics in the sense that they do
not get talked about at elections, they
are going to be talked about now. Out
of all this stress and strain we shall
find out what kind of a nation we really
are—survivalwise.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OEFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol. 83
No. 4274


This Australia
RELIGION
THE PRESS
WAS NOT ENCOURAGED
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
DIANA TRASK
A simple case
/"Ane of the several remarkable features
of Miss Diana Trask’s marriage to
American razorblade salesman Mr Tom
Ewen in the little weatherboard Church
of the Sacred Heart in the holiday town-
ship of Warburton last Saturday was the
fact that the Press reporters and photo-
graphers were given little encouragement
to record the occasion—despite the fact
that the wedding drew a crowd of almost
3000 and Miss Trask has had a meteoric
career as a singer in America where she
was reported to be earning £lOO,OOO a
year before she returned home. The
Press was definitely not admitted to the
champagne and turkey reception.
It may be surmised that the Trask
family, headed by Diana’s father,
furniture-manufacturer Llewellyn Trask,
have not been particularly pleased with
the treatment accorded to Diana's
romance since she and Ewen arrived here
early in December. Advance reports
described the 35-year-old Ewen as a
former Marine and a Doctor of Psycho-
logy from the University of Southern
California who had divorced his first
wife some two years ago. The couple
passed through Sydney and reached Mel-
bourne with this image of Ewen untar-
nished Two days later, as the result of
some sleuthmg by its New York office,
the Melbourne “Herald” was able to state
that Ewen was not a former Marine nor
a Doctor of Psychology, it established
moreover that he had obtained a Mexican
divorce from his wife less than three
weeks before flying to Australia.
Mrs Ewen, mother of his two children,
seemed bewildered by the turn of events
when interviewed in San Diego, Cali-
fornia. In Melbourne, neither Miss Trask
nor Mr Ewen offered any comment on
the “Herald’s” data.
The couple are Catholics and
wished to marry in their Church. Ewen’s
first marriage, however, raised problems
which had to be referred to the Diocesan
Tribunal for Matrimonial Causes. In
Melbourne, the Tribunal’s Chief Judge
is Father Edward Fennessy, parish priest
of Gardenvale. The Full Tribunal con-
sists of six or seven priests, assisted by
a staff in an East Melbourne office which
makes relevant inquiries and collates
evidence. Complicated cases of Catho-
lic matrimony might require the
attention of the Full Tribunal, while even
more complex ones might be referred to
Rome. Ewen’s case, however, was judged
to be a relatively simple one, within the
competence of the diocese and needing
only the attention of a single Judge,
Father M. B. Ahern.
Ewen gave evidence to the Tribunal’s
staff on the place, date and circumstances
of his first marriage and these statements
were checked in the United States. The
inquiries did not involve Miss Trask but
only Mr Ewen and the validity of his
civil marriage to his first wife. Less than
24 hours before the scheduled ceremony
at Warburton, the Tribunal ruled that he
was free to marry in the Church. Judg-
ing from the unimpeded flow of wedding
preparations, the couple were not in
much doubt as to the decision.
Ewen’s first marriage had been at a
civil ceremony in New York. While this
could be civilly binding, the Church could
not recognise it as a valid union for
Ewen, one of its subjects. In other
words, he was never really married in the
eyes of the Church. Since, in addition,
he was civilly free to marry as a result
of his Mexican divorce being recognised
in Victoria, there was no impediment to
his marriage to Miss Trask. The fact
that the first Mrs Ewen was not a
Catholic did not alter the principle,
Father Ahern explained, although the
case may have required more involved
investigation had she been a member of
the Church.
CIVIL DEFENCE
ON THE LOWER DECK
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
in Australia is civil defence
taken so seriously as in Darwin,
which was devastated by Japanese bombs
during the war—and more than once by
cyclones in peace-time. With this in
mind, public-spirited citizens headed by
the Legislative Council Member for Port
Darwin, Mr Dick Ward, and the Mayor,
Mr Harry Cooper, met early last year
to form a Civil Defence Organisation.
Rich in Government promises, but
poor in money, the group spent £2OO
setting up its committee and getting
organised. The local St John Ambulance
Brigade kicked in with £l6l from its own
funds, trusting the Commonwealth Gov-
eminent to repay them in due course.
Volunteers were selected as civil-defence
leaders. Two—the Town Clerk, Mr Bill
Sullivan, and Mr R. Lamshed of the
Lands and Survey Branch—were sent to
Victoria for training at Mount Macedon
Through months of waiting and frus-
tration, the enthusiasm of the men con-
cerned did not wane. The job might
seem thankless, but they thought it was
worthwhile. The crack came early in
November when the recently appointed
Commonwealth Director of Civil
Defence, Captain A. E. Buchanan, visited
Darwin. Members of the local organisa-
tion went along to meet him.
Captain Buchanan was blunt.
The CDO secretary, V. Millbank,
complained: “He talked to us as though
we were on the lower deck and he was
on the bridge of his destroyer. When
told that the St John Ambulance Brigade
buildings would be available for use by
the CDO, he was not interested. His
attitude was most insulting.”
At the time, the Darwin volunteers
swallowed their rage and said nothing.
But it was just too much for them when
the Administrator, Mr Nott, recently
announced “15 civil-defence leaders”
would attend a 12-day training course
at Mount Macedon. Mr Millbank said
the first he knew of the move was when
he read it in the newspapers. Angry CDO
officials, checking the list, found it was
composed of Public Servants, only one
of whom, Mr Brian Egan, had shown any
previous interest in civil defence. The


15 “leaders” did not even include
Darwin’s only trained experts, Messrs
Sullivan and Lamshed.
An original committee member, Coun-
cillor Peter Spillett, said: “Now that we
have served our purpose we have been
wiped cold.” Mr Millbank said: “A
coterie of Public Servants will not be
able to do the job. We will need possibly
1000 volunteers to make civil defence
work. I say the City Council should
have been included in the civil-defence
planning; also the combined unions,
who did a lot to help. But they have
gone ahead without reference to this
committee. We had carefully selected
from volunteers men with the ability and
capacity to become civil-defence leaders,
But they have rejected them all.”
At its last meeting Darwin's volunteer
Civil Defence Organisation decided to
disband.
JUVENILE VIOLENCE
THE FLAGELLATOR'S ROOM
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
DR ALAN STOLLER
The law is cold
"Clogging is still on Victoria's statute
book for a number of offences,
including treason, setting fire to a ship
with intent to murder, and various gross
and indecent assults. But there has not
been a flogging since 1958, and before
that for 15 years. (The 1958 victims
were murderer William John O'Meally,
then 35, and gunman John Henry
Taylor, then 29, who were each given 12
strokes. They were sentenced to the
whippings after a warder was shot
during an escape bid by the two crimin-
als.) These days corporal punishment is
something which Victorians read about
in brief newspaper dispatches from
Adelaide. The section of Pentridge once
used by the flagellator is now a lecture-
room for prisoners taking evening educa-
tional classes.
But last week the Rev. Peter Thomson,
Curate of St Mark’s Anglican Church,
Sunshine, urged reintroduction of whip-
ping for youths guilty of crimes of vio-
lence. Pointing to the increase in
juvenile violence, Mr Thomson said that
youth of today regards authority as
laughable. “The way to stamp out The
push element, gangs and violence is to
show who is in command. For the sake
of a few stripes, a lot of lives could be
saved.”
Mr Thomson, 25, married, was chap-
lain to the children’s welfare depart-
ment for nearly two years and has also
served as chaplain to young offenders at
Pentridge Jail. Before moving to Sun-
shine, he w as rector of St Albans, North
Melbourne, where last year he intro-
duced the New Orleans Jazz Band to an
evening service. A record congregation
turned up to hear “When the Saints Go
Marchin’ In” and other classics. “The
Jazz we heard tonight,” explained Mr
Thomson, “consisting of Negro spirit-
uals, expressed admirably a form of
worship of Almighty God.”
The Archdeacon of Melbourne,
Archdeacon Sambell, was one of the
many clerics who disagreed strongly with
Mr Thomson about getting tough with
juveniles He thinks flogging is a very
degrading influence on the person inflic-
ting the punishment, as well as on those
receiving it. The staff chaplain at Pent-
ridge, the Rev. W. L. McSpeddon,
thought that Mr Thomson's statement
“over-simplifies the whole problem of
child delinquency. Society might well
consider raising its own standards before
taking it out on youth.”
Another to cross sw'ords with Mr
Thomson was the Rev. S. J. Henshall of
the Collins Street Independent Church
who warned that “we ought not to be
stampeded into harsh methods because of
a wave of criminal violence.” Our penal
system, Mr Henshall said, had evolved
from brutal punishment towards reform
and educational methods aimed at rehab-
ilitating the offender.
Unperturbed, Mr Thomson defended
his position in a TV interview. He said
his views were based on his understand-
ing of human nature and that he was
convinced that strong deterrents would
be more effective than “soft pushing” of
juvenile delinquents. Dr Alan Stoller,
Chief Clinical Officer of the Mental
Hygiene Authority, disagreed. There was
a vast difference, he said, between cor-
poral punishment inflicted by a parent
and the “cold, calculated and delayed”
variety dispensed by the law.
DEVELOPMENT
BIG CHEESE
FROM W.V. DAVIES IN SCOTTSDALE
/"An Friday, December 22, 1961, the
North East of Tasmania emerged
from the gloom and entered the limelight.
On that day the mighty Kraft Holdings
took control of a factory that had been
under sentence of death passed by the
Federal Government, but had been
reprieved through the efforts of a group
of businessmen and primary producers.
Kraft had the rich acres of the North
East of Tasmania under survey for a
long time before they made their initial
takeover bid. What they discovered dur-
ing that survey must have pleased them,
because when shareholders of Dewcrisp
baulked at disposing of their assets at
the first figure offered, a week was all
that was needed for Kraft to up the ante
by a cool £19,000.
A few of the “I told you so'’ people
are saying that the ante could have been
forced much higher. But only H. G.
Osborne of Kraft can confirm or deny
this, and he is in the habit of playing
close to the chest.
At the buffet supper given to the erst-
while shareholders, Mr Osborne moved
among them saying much and little. New
developments at the factory would take
place, he said—but the competitive nature
of the food-processing industry did not
allow him to elaborate. He did say the
Reece Government has promised to
assist Kraft Holdings wherever possible.
Coupled with talk of port development
and remarks on the salmon-canning
industry (Kraft already has two canneries,
one at Eden and one at Narooma) and
the fact that Dewcrisp have been ship-
ping peas direct to interstate markets via
the Bass Trader, this could mean a pro-
mise, or a promise of a promise, has come
from Premier Reece or his Department
of Industrial Development. The only
hard fact that came out of the talk of
developments is that a supply of vegetable
products in addition to the factory’s
normal needs will be required.
But the emergence of Tasmania's
“Cinderella” from the gloom spells the
end to its own acceptance of its back-
water status. A new awareness of the
area’s rights to amenities commensurate
with its potential has already shown itself
in a move to have the North Eastern
Soldiers’ Memorial Hospital brought to
the standard where it can cope with cases
of all kinds on the spot without sub-
jecting them to the rigors of an ambu-
lance trip over the mountain range that
has for so long been a barrier to expan-
sion. Staff quarters are inadequate, it is
said, staff discontent is high, and staff
turnover also high. But now at least
there is hope of a change.


TRADE
TRADING WITH
SOUTH AMERICA
FROM EUGENE BAJKOWSKI IN SYDNEY
J. McEWEN
Enthusiastic
many years Australia’s exports to
-*■ South America have been handi-
capped not only by strong American,
European and Japanese competition but
also by the lack of a direct shipping
link and personal contacts. At last there
are grounds to hope that a change for
the better is under way.
The Boomerang Cargo Lines —a direct
shipping service linking Australia with
ports on the western and northern coasts
of South America —is being inaugurated
this month. This step is being taken
by the Swedish-Orient Line, which is
servicing the new run with M.V.
Vegeland, a 5840-ton, 16-knot cargo
liner, expected to take 16 days to sail
from the last port of call in Australia
to the first port of call in South America,
providing an average turnaround of once
every two months v Mr William Thoren,
managing-director of the Swedish-Orient
Line, said at a Press conference that “if
the trade develops sufficiently we will
have no hesitation in allocating more
shipping to the route.”
The new shipping line has the enthu-
siastic blessing of the Minister for Trade,
Mr McEwen, and his Department and
hopes to build up the run “to an econo-
mic business over a two-year period.”
The Boomerang Service will be supple-
mented by a second direct shipping line
to South America next April, when the
Melbourne firm of Wm Heale Pty Ltd
will inaugurate a direct service to Argen-
tina, Uruguay and Brazil with a 6000-ton
cargo vessel.
However, direct shipping links are only
a part of the story. Cargoes carried to
South America must work their way into
the highly competitive markets. Fortu-
nately, the quaint idea that South Ameri-
can markets can be penetrated by remote
control from office desks in Australia
is rapidly giving way to intensive on-the-
spot selling drives.
Last year a preliminary trade-survey
mission visited Latin America, its suc-
cess has prompted the Department of
Trade to organise another mixed trade
mission, headed by Mr Donald Mac-
kinnon—a former Minister and Ambassa-
dor to Brazil —and comprising some 40
Government officials and businessmen.
This selling group, the sixteenth major
Australian trade mission to go overseas
since 1954, will leave in April and is
expected to visit most of the countries
which will be serviced by the two new
direct shipping lines. The Federal Gov-
ernment is supporting the drive by
opening a Trade Commissioner post in
Caracas, Venezuela, early this year and
publishing a Spanish edition of the
“Austral News.”
ABORIGINES
IN WHYNOT STREET
FROM JOHN HIGGINS IN BRISBANE
nPHERE was little of the spirit of Christ-
_L mas around Whynot Street, in Bris-
bane’s West End, over the holidays. The
announcement that the assimilation
organisation OPAL was negotiating
for the purchase of a house and block
of flats in the tightly packed, narrow
residential street triggered off a blaze
of most unchristian resentment. For
behind OPAL was the West End
Methodist Mission—and behind both of
them was a plan to use the home and
flats as a “staging house” or hostel for
colored people.
Forty irate householders signed a pro-
test petition, and quite a few of the
signatories were also members of the
Mission. “I won't sleep at night if we
have an aboriginal hostel in our street,”
said one irate housewife. “They’ve got
to have somewhere to stay, but why put
them on our doorsteps?” said another.
West End Mission head, the Rev. Arthur
Preston, also a member of OPAL,
admitted ruefully that strong opposition
to the scheme had been encountered,
including members of his congregation,
but blamed ‘‘ignorance of the true facts”
as the prime cause.
The move to establish a color hostel
has been given added urgency in Bris-
bane by news of the pending closure of
a Melbourne Street hostel run by Mrs
Joyce Wilding, described last year by
Police Commissioner Bischof as a
“wonderful woman.”
Mrs Wilding's hostel is practically the
only one of its kind in Brisbane and fills
a dangerous gap in the city’s structure.
Despite claims to the contrary, Brisbane
is a color-conscious town. Its colored
inhabitants are segregated in fact if not in
theory in the south-side semi-slum dis-
tricts immediately across the river.
The State Government is to be asked
to assist OPAL and the West End Mis-
sion in its plans to establish a proper
hostel to replace that run by Mrs Wilding.
Whether or not it will be in Whynot
Street remains a matter for conjecture,
with so many of its residents saying
“Why?” instead of “Why not?”
“Of course you're the only one in
my life, Friday .”


“If only Canon Bennie could hear fiery Dr ‘Goebbles Graham stirring the sub-human elements to a dangerous
frenzy of spiritual intoxication !”
PERTH FESTIVAL
SWEATING FOR CULTURE
FROM JOHN GRAHAM IN PERTH
WAL CHERRY
Venturesome
T>erth’s Lord Mayor, Sir Harry Howard,
is not noted for his humor, but he
raised a laugh from his audience when
he lauded the W.A. climate as a reason
for the development of the annual Perth
festival at the official opening of the 1962
festival last week. Sir Harry gave his
opening speech before a sweating first-
night audience to the Old Vic’s “Twelfth
Night.” The temperature was hovering
in the 90s at eight p.m. and did not fall
much below that figure for the next four
days. Day temperatures hit the century
for five straight days and the Old Vic
players sweated off plenty of grease
paint on the stage of His Majesty’s
Theatre.
It did not mar the Old Vic’s perform-
ance, but it did point to one of the main
weaknesses of this so-called outdoor
festival—the lack of a good outdoor
theatre. If the festival committee had
searched the world they could not have
found a production more suitable to an
outdoor setting than Robert Helpmann’s
version of “Twelfth Night.” The static set
would have fitted like a glove into the
Sunken Garden, the traditional venue for
outdoor productions at the festival, but
the garden does not have enough seats
and could not carry the Old Vic's power-
ful lighting arrangements.
So “Twelfth Night” went into His
Majesty’s Theatre and audiences to the
“outdoor” festival sweated for their
culture.
The only proper outdoor theatre in
Perth is the Somerville Auditorium in the
university grounds which has to provide
the venue for all the orchestral and
operatic performances at the festival and
some of the films. This leaves only the
Sunken Garden in the university grounds
for outdoor drama —charming but
small and unwieldy.
Plans are afoot to enlarge the Somer-
ville Auditorium so that it will take
companies of the magnitude of the Old
Vic, to re-design the Sunken Garden for
increased seating and provide a third
outdoor theatre within the university
grounds. An indoor theatre adjoining
the Somerville Auditorium is also
planned. This would justify the festival
organisers’ description of the festival as
outdoor, but so far the plans are still
on the drawing board.
Despite these limitations, the festival
continues to increase in scope. Though
it is still small-time compared with the
biennial Adelaide Festival, it has
attracted the Old Vic, Dame Sybil Thorn-
dike and Lewis Casson, producer Wal
Cherry, a Chinese pianist and a Urugu-
ayan soprano to this year’s programme.
Artistically, it is still unexciting. The
most venturesome production this year
is Dylan Thomas’s “Under Milk Wood,”
produced by Wal Cherry with a cast
from the university dramatic societies.
For the rest it sticks to the beaten track
of proven classics.
This is no reflection on the festival
committee. It is just that bitter experi-
ence has shown all Perth entrepreneurs
that experiment does not pay in the west.


LIQUOR
THE GREAT REFORM
FROM A DARWIN CORRESPONDENT
“SLIM” TAYLOR
Rueful
The Territory’s Great Liquor Reform
Bill—the recently-passed Licensing
Ordinance —proved a bit of a headache.
When it first came up a couple of years
back a wary Legislative Council set up
a Select Committee to investigate and
hear ideas on the subject. Normally
Select Committees in the Northern Terri-
tory find it hard to rake up sufficient
witnesses to keep them busy, as evidence
is given voluntarily and never by compul-
sion—and generally people up here are
not much interested anyway.
But this one was about Grog, the local
obsession (Guinness Book of Records last
year noted Darwin people as World
Champion Beer Drinkers). And people
rose to the occasion with tropical exub-
erance.
Clubs wanted the right to remain open
round-the-clock, seven days a week . ..
Pubs wanted Sunday sessions ... Some
interested parties wanted the breweries
to make a special “light beer’’ for abo-
rigines .. . The investigators took a long
time, but eventually compiled a report.
Then it was the turn of the Legislative
Council itself. No less than 156
amendments were passed before the thing
was finally got away to Canberra. There
was some trepidation about what might
happen there, but it went through all
right and comes into effect this month.
As far as most of the public were con-
cerned, the result of all this was a damp
squib. But it still amounts to as good
an all-round deal for the drinker as can
be found in this country. Each hotel in
the major towns —after fulfilling certain
conditions —already had the right to one
“late licence"’ (liquor till midnight) each
week. This has not been interfered with.
In addition the Bill grants:
9 Allowance of 15 minutes after
closing time (normally 10 pm) to finish
drinks and carry bottles out of the bar.
9 Changes in requirements for rest-
aurant licences, which make certain the
springing up around Darwin of a number
of eating houses where beer and other
liquor will be served with meals.
£ Provision for a new type of licence
for “roadside inns”, which will be
allowed —under certain conditions cover-
ing such things as meals at certain
times of the day—to supply liquor to
anyone at any hour of the day or night,
including Sundays, Christmas Day, Good
Friday, etc. These licences cannot be
granted within 35 miles of Alice Springs
or Darwin and must be not less than 15
miles from any other roadside inn or
licensed hotel.
• Provision for mine managers to sell
beer to employees after a shift.
0 The right to 11 p.m. closing for
clubs, but vastly increased licensing fees
for them, and restrictions on taking
liquor away from premises (aimed at
stopping the clubs’ thriving sale of kegs
in competition with hotels).
Hotel managers perhaps had never
been very confident of achieving their
hoped-for Sunday sessions. So they
seemed quite pleased with the finished
Bill. Darwin's Don Hotel licensee Alf
D'Ambrosio was tickled pink with the
15-minute grace for drinkers after 10
p.m. and described it as “one of the
greatest things that ever happened.”
Round the clubs, however, all was
gloom and despondency. “Slim”
Taylor, manager of the Workers’ Club
which has the longest bar of any licensed
premises in Darwin, ruefully calculated
that the new law would boost his club’s
licensing fee from £2O to £l6OO. The
Buff Club fared even worse.
No one was very worried about the
restriction on sale by clubs of more
than 12 big bottles of beer, two big
bottles of wine or spirits to any one
man in any one day. (Slim Taylor:
“Impossible to police. A man could buy
one lot of beer in the morning, another
at noon, and another at night, when
different barmen were on duty”). But
there was a hint of sour grapes about
their reaction to the right to close at
11 p.m., instead of 10. Most said it would
“not be profitable” but that they might
“give it a go” on Friday and Saturday
nights. Be that as it may, and the
Darwin drinker being what he is, there
is no doubt that the vast majority—if
not all —of the clubs will be doing busi-
ness till 11 p.m. soon enough.
To the man in the street the whole
tedious business seemed a bit academic.
Hopes of Sunday pub sessions, 24-hour-
a-day boozing in clubs, etc., had faded.
“But at least we got an extra 15 minutes
after 10 p.m.,” commented one veteran
Darwinite. “1 suppose we shouldn't
grumble.”
EDUCATION
UP TO 17?
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
nTHE recent announcement by the
A Premier, Mr Reece, that it might
become necessary to increase the Tas-
manian school leaving age to 17 has not
caused one hundredth of the storm that
raged 16 years ago when attendance at
school to the age of 16 was made
obligatory.
Despite the obvious failings of the
higher leaving age, the State is well
satisfied with the experiment. It is true
that some children leave before reaching
16, by getting exemptions on the ground
of hardship or because they are begin-
ning apprenticeships. Much more unsatis-
factory, many who remain at school
merely go through the motions, learn-
ing little or nothing, and disrupting
school activities. But thousands of others
have advanced their education to a stage
they would never have attained had not
their attendance been mandatory.
Lifting of the leaving age, Mr Reece
admitted, “would impose an increased
burden on educationists and parents, and
in some young eyes it would be an
unpopular curtailment of civil liberty,”
but it would be a “very good thing for
the community.” Direct cost to parents
apart, it would pose big financial pro-
blems for the Government, since Tas-
mania has already come under the
scrutiny of the Commonwealth Grants
Commission for seeking from the tax
pool money to maintain education,
health and other services at a higher
standard than those provided in States
which get no grants. Education Minister
Neilson has claimed that deficits total-
ling more than £H million in the Educa-
tion Department budget in 1955-57 paid
for improvements that “forced other
States to raise their education standards,”
but N.S.W. and Victorian taxpayers may
sensibly ask how their subsidising of
superior Tasmanian school facilities
improves their own education systems.
Initially, the raising of the leaving age


did not impose much strain on Tas-
mania’s schools and teachers. The
immediate problem was in providing for
the post-war leap in primary-school
pupils. More recently these children have
entered the secondary schools, as is
shown by the increase in school leavers
from 5400 to 7000 in four years, but a
big programme of building has generally
kept pace. In Launceston alone, high
schools have been increased from two to
five. Building of some “modern”
schools and extension of the curriculm
in area schools catered broadly for those
children unable or unfit to benefit from
further academic secondary education.
More recently, the “modern” school
system has been dropped in favor of the
so-called “comprehensive” high schools.
These, as the private schools have always
done, take all comers. The Modern
School Certificate, the end of the road
for those at area and modern schools,
never amounted to much, and the Gov-
ernment has bowed to pressure to make
a qualified form of the Schools Board
Certificate, normally attainable in the
16th year, a possible goal for most pupils.
Not surprisingly, lowering of the Schools
Board standard has rendered the curricu-
lum less adequate for those pupils who
are to sit the following year for matricu-
lation, more especially since the first-year
failure rate at the university has promp-
ted an effort to raise the matriculation
standard.
An additional year at school, involving
two years of study for the matriculation
examinations, is strongly favored by
private school headmasters and
mistresses. State school heads cannot
make public statements, but they pri-
vately support the suggestion. To that
extent, the lifting of school leaving age
to 17 would tend only to make com-
pulsory what is being undertaken vol-
untarily by those going on to higher
education. Its effect on those already
sick to death of school at 16 would be
equally apparent.
Meanwhile, parents have sourly noted
that if less time were wasted at schools,
notably in the weeks which elapse
between final exams and Christmas holi-
days, the additional year’s schooling
could readily be packed into the school
career of a child leaving at 16.
RELIGION
CAIN'S WIFE
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
DR BILLY GRAHAM
East of Eden
TAR Billy Graham has been sniped at
in both Brisbane and Adelaide
recently. In Adelaide no one went as far
as Canon A. P. Bennie of All Saints’
Anglican Church, Brisbane, who said Dr
Graham had learned his methods from
Dr Goebbels, but passions rose never-
theless. It all started when someone
asked Dr Graham (whose “My Answer”
appears daily in Adelaide’s “The Adver-
tiser”) where Cain got his wife from.
Dr Graham had no trouble: he got
her east of Eden, in the land of Nod
(Gen. 4:16). But since the questioner
clearly wanted to know how Cain could
find a wife at all, since Cain and Abel
were the only children mentioned of Adam
and Eve, Dr Graham pointed out that
in Old Testament times girls were not
included in the records (they were usually
the “etc.” that followed a list of sons.)
“Hence there obviously were girls born
to Adam and Eve, and Cain married one
of his sisters or neices. The blood
stream of the race had not become as
polluted by sin in those days, so that
intermarrying had little effect on the
offspring as it does today. In fact, Cain
could have had the choice of hundreds.”
To many churchmen this answer must
have made dull reading since it was
merely a restatement of a very old
opinion. But not to Anglican firebrand,
the Rev. Norman Crawford. In “The
Advertiser’s” letters’ column, he launched
an attack on Dr Graham’s “fundamental-
ism.” “Many must think that all Dr
Graham’s views presented in the
daily ‘Answers’ you publish rep-
resent the views of churchmen in general.
If so, a grave disservice may be done
to the intelligent reading of the Bible.”
He argued that the word “Bible” means
“library”, that the Book of Books is a
collection of writings “in divers man-
ners”, that its truths are enhanced when
they are regarded as being embodied in
stories which should not be taken liter-
ally.
All this was too much for some Christ-
ians. One letter writer under the
pseudonym “Old Timer” (pseudonyms
are far too common in the “Advertiser”)
said that the term “fundamentalist”, as
used by Mr Crawford, had outlived its
usefulness “except for the purpose of
insult.” Another writer named “On-
looker” said that “the theology of Billy
Graham is in accord with such state-
ments as the 39 Articles and the West-
minster Confession.”
Mr Crawford, who had drawn first
blood, did not return to defend or eluci-
date. Whether the hierarchy of the Angli-
can Church in S.A. felt embarrassed by
his attack on Dr Graham can only
be guessed. But four days after the orig-
inal letter had appeared three prominent
Adelaide ministers appeared as co-
signers of a letter on the subject. One
of the co-signers was the Rev. Lance
Shilton, Rector of the Anglican Holy
Trinity Church, situated in the City on
North Terrace opposite the Adelaide
Railway Station. The post of Rector at
Holy Trinity has always gone to the
brighter men of the Anglican Church,
and although still relatively young Mr
Shilton is already recognised as a very
able theologian.
Other co-signers were two Baptists.
They are the Rev. Dr E. G. Gibson,
principal of the Adelaide Bible Institute,
and the Rev. E. T. Brailey, chairman of
the Adelaide Keswick Convention.
The three treated the issue quite
simply by quoting a letter which appeared
in “The Times” (London). It was
written by the Rev. J. R. W. Stott, of
All Souls’ Church, London. The letter
read: “It is surprising that your corres-
pondents on this subject have not paused
to define the term fundamentalism. It
clearly has different meanings .. . The
Oxford Dictionary defines fundamen-
talism as ‘strict adherence to traditional
orthodox tenets held to be fundamental
to the Christian faith . ..’ More recently,
however, the term has become associated
with certain extremes and extrava-
gances ... Now fundamentalism is
almost a synonym for obscurantism, and
it is generally used as a term of oppro-
bium. It appears to describe the bigoted
rejection of all Biblical criticism, a
mechanical view of inspiration and an
excessively literalist interpretation of
literature. It is doubtless in this sense
that Dr Billy Graham and others associa-
ted with him have repudiated it ... It is
neither true nor fair to dub every con-
servative evangelical a fundamentalist.”
With this final say the controversy
appears to have ended. The tree-lovers
and upholders of civic rights have their
letters column back.


WHITLAM
In Search of an Image
By PETER KELLY
THAT morning, the day after Boxing Day, Edward
Gough Whitlam took his two youngest children,
eight-year-old Catherine and 11-year-old Stephen, to
a morning session of “South Pacific.” The kids were
seeing it for the first time and he for the fourth. After
a quick snack he then took them to see “King of
Kings,” picked me up afterwards and drove to his home
in Cabramatta. 18 miles from Sydney. His house is like
one of the many images Whitlam projects: just a little
more luxurious than one normally expects in its surround-
ings. It is brick, probably worth around £lO,OOO, with a
large combined lounge-dining room with a glass wall lead-
ing on to the back garden. Like most suburban houses with
the wherewithal for viewing, it has no view. Only a little
wider and a little bigger than the usual Cabramatta house,
it has four bedrooms. Next door there is a paddock with
scraggly looking bush, and opposite is a revolting paling
fence —it is used by someone to keep his horses in. The
house on the other side of the Whitlams’ is brick, not
quite as impressive as theirs. Almost, but not quite.
At home the Whitlams are hospitable hosts. It was
a family dinner—with the oldest son. 18-year-old Anthony
(a law student at Australian National University), arriving
when we passed from steak and mushrooms to Mrs Whit-
lam’s apple strudel. The other son, 16-year-old “Nick,”
who takes after his mother in swimming ability (he was
junior breastroke champion of New South Wales when he
was swimming under-14), poured the apple cider. Even
before, and once during, the dinner Whitlam mentioned his
“image.”
The “image” is something that Whitlam lives with all
the time; if he is speaking with friends, allies within the
Labor party, political enemies, academics,’ students or
journalists the image varies. It is quite possible for Whit-
lam to speak separately with two people of opposing views
and for both of them to come away thinking he supports
their case.
Even in unimportant personal matters such as his
height, the obsession with the image can be seen. Off
guard he will tell you he is 6ft 4ins; in fact, for publication,
he is 6ft 3ins. During the war he served in the Pacific with
the R.A.A.F. (1941-45) as a navigator, but that, too,
needn’t be mentioned, as a large number of people still
regard him as a fighter pilot. Presumably the basis for
this kind of thinking is that electors are supposed to be
more likely to vote for fighter pilots than unexciting navi-
gators. These are unimportant sidelines, but they point to
his obsession with his public image. But so ineffective has
this been (or effective, depending on how you look at it)
that few people seem to know what Whitlam is really like.
Does he belong in the Left wing of his party or is he in
the Right wing? Is he an honest politician or a man purely
of expediency? Is the current Liberal M.P.’s epithet of
“smarty pants” justified? Or is this an adolescent manner
of belittling him? Is Alan Reid’s nickname of “Golden
Boy” accurate? Should he be called “smoothy,” as he is
by some trade unionists, or not? Despite his almost nine
years in Federal politics, man and politician, he is still
relatively unknown. As he will tell you proudly, even the
political cartoonists still have to label him —they have, as
yet, “not managed to capture me.”
To date, Whitlam’s search for an image has changed
with the changing face of the Labor party. After the Labor
split in the mid-fifties Whitlam was Left wing, as indeed
the Labor party was. But at this time Left wing meant
anti-Grouper, anti-Santamaria, 1921 socialist and, in effect,
pro-communist in the sense of docilely following any line
in the party which could not be labelled “Grouper.” In
foreign affairs it followed Soviet policy and in trade unions
it left them open to any action by the Communist party. This
quite often meant that members of the party felt they had
to be “Left wing.” Otherwise they would have been out.
At 45, he is the youngest of the parliamentary leaders.
Whitlam is projecting more of an image of a middle-of-the-
roader. If the party goes against “White Australia,” Whit-
lam will surely go with it, although in private and in
selective gatherings he believes it will inevitably go. Of
course, if he is to retain his deputy leadership he must
project the image inside the party of a man who is open
to persuasion both by the Left wing and the Right wing.
In fact, as the party oscillates between the Left and
the Right wings, so, too, must the Whitlam image.
At 46, he is the youngest of the parliamentary leaders.
In his own party his leader, Arthur Augustus Calwell, is
65; “Nick” McKenna, the Senate Opposition leader is 66
and his deputy, Patrick John Kennedy, is 58. Prime
Minister Robert Gordon Menzies is 67 and the Deputy
Prime Minister, Jock McEwen, is 61.
nrHIS young man in an old man’s party was born in part
A of the present Prime Minister’s electorate, Kew,
Victoria, in July, 1916. His father, Harry Frederick Ernest
Whitlam, who was 32 when his son was born, was already
well known for his work in the Commonwealth Crown
Solicitor’s office. He became Commonwealth Crown
Solicitor in 1936, and in 1946 he was on the staff of the
Australian delegation to the Paris Peace Conference. He
was later appointed Australian representative on the
Human Rights Commission of the United Nations, and, as
a strong Presbyterian, he was the Australian member of
the World Council of Churches on international affairs.
Quite obviously Whitlam comes from a home which
seems to have nothing in common with people’s usual
impressions of Australian Labor politicians. With an
educational record of industriousness rather than bril-
liance, he was educated at Knox Grammar and Telopea
Park High .School in Canberra. Then at Sydney Uni-
versity, where he lived at St Paul’s Church of England
College. He had already taken his Arts degree (English,
Latin and Greek) when the war interrupted his Law course.


Serving as an articled clerk, he completed his Law degree
in 1946 after he came out of the R.A.A.F., and in 1947
he was admitted to the Bar, where his speciality seems
to have lain in tenancy cases. Prior to that he had been
associate to Mr Justice Maxwell and Mr Justice Owen.
When he married Margaret Dovey in April, 1942, he was
as far away from the Labor party, in background, as any-
one could be. His wife is the only daughter of Mr Justice
Dovey, of the fashionable suburb of Vaucluse
He married into prominence and the Law and this
was evident when he became junior counsel to the New
South Wales Liquor Royal Commission in 1951. His
father-in-law was then a senior counsel assisting the Royal
Commissioner, Mr Justice Maxwell. When his father-in-
law became ill during the hearing he was replaced by his
son-in-law. As in most things, he did this competently
rather than outstandingly. In those days he was a little
more pedantic than he is now, and his former boss demon-
strated this during the hearing of the Royal Commission in
April, 1952. The following exchange took place:
Whitlam: “What is your full name?
Witness: “Horace John Book.”
Whitlam: “What is your private residential address?”
Mr Justice Maxwell: “He means, ‘Where do you live?’ ”
did not join the Australian Labor Party
until he was 29. “I started thinking about politics
and the Labor party while I was serving overseas. You
know, in the Services you’ve got plenty of time to sit
around and talk.” Partly because of this late start, the
most persistent rumor about Whitlam has been that he
was once a member of the Liberal party. Various versions
of it are around: “He could never get on in the Liberal
party so he switched”; “He never could decide what his
politics were, so he chose the one where he could get into
Parliament quickest”; Mr Bill Wentworth was supposed
to have a photostat copy of Whitlam’s application to join
the N.S.W. Liberal Party. Like all rumors, it was impos-
sible to run to earth. Mr Wentworth said it was “non-
sense.” and Whitlam himself categorically denies it even
to the extent of saying he never joined any student political
group in his university days. The rumor is generally
thought to have been reinforced by Whitlam’s enemies
inside the Labor party.
Whitlam was extremely lucky in 1950 when he failed
to gain election for the new State seat of Sutherland.
Apart from a few fiddling and not very successful attempts
at Municipal Council elections, the State seat of Sutherland
was his first big attempt. His big chance came in 1952
when the New South Wales party endorsed their candi-
dates almost two years before the 1954 Federal election.
Mr H. P. Lazzarini, who was the sitting member for
Werriwa, decided not to seek re-endorsement because of
illness. Nine candidates in all contested the pre-selection,
and. after preferences were distributed. Whitlam won by
249 votes to 163. Lazzarini died, the by-election was held
on November 29. 1952. and Whitlam more than trebled
Mr Lazzarini’s previous majority. Even for a by-election
at the time, the 12 per cent, swing to Labor was surprising.
As far as anyone’s rise in the Labor party can be
dated. Whitlam’s probably started when he advocated the
recognition of Red China in a Foreign Affairs debate in
1954. (Mr R. A. R. Downer also said then that Australia
must ultimately recognise Red China and that China might
prove a more trustworthy Power than the “arrogant,
scheming and vicious Japanese.”) This action turned the
Left wing’s eye on Whitlam when the Labor-party
machine was still largely in the control of the Groupers. It
was the beginning of the days in the Labor party when
it was safer to put the left foot before the right.
With mild attacks on the Government from time to
time, Whitlam wasn’t particularly prominent. He sniped
at housing, national development, television and Press
monopolies and, surprisingly enough, the salaries of Com-
monwealth Judges. At a summer school of the Institute
of Political Science in 1955 in Canberra he claimed that
Judges of the High Court had used their positions for
political purposes. He alleged that the Pharmaceutical
Benefits and Banking Acts of 1945 had been endorsed by
the people at the 1946 Federal election but were invali-
dated by the High Court. He alleged that they delayed
their retirement because they expected a change of Gov-
ernment. Although there was a minor outcry over this
attack, the main effect politically was to give Whitlam some
publicity.
At this time he was moving to the Left wing, more
in the sense of personalities than ideologically. He
attacked the Groupers and outside control of the Labor
party. He proved himself a strong Evatt man in May,
1955. when the Labor party was in turmoil. He moved
in the Labor party Caucus for a “spill” (declaring most
party positions vacant). The “spill,” Whitlam’s first
serious entry into Labor machine politics, was aimed
at removing his present leader, Mr Calwell, from
the deputy leadership. It failed. Whitlam was the
front man for Mr Eddie Ward, and, in retrospect, it seems
he may have been used by Ward's supporters. He made
no secret of the purpose of the “spill'’: it was to remove
from office those Labor M.P.s who “had not supported
strongly enough the decisions of the last biennial party
conference in Hobart” which withdrew recognition of the
Industrial Groups and opposed the sending of Australian
troops to Malaya. Had the “spill” succeeded Mr Ward
would have been deputy leader to Dr Evatt—a position
that Dr Evatt wasn’t too happy about. This defeat, 39
votes to 33, put Whitlam back where most Labor men at
that time thought he belonged. The Whitlam axe turned
out to be a rubber tomahawk. The chief man who “closed
the ranks” was Senator Kennedy, the man who was to
regain his title as kingmaker when Whitlam was elected to
the deputy leadership in March. 1960.
XX/HITLAM retired and licked his wounds. He next hit
the headlines when, in the course of one debate, he
said of Mr Wentworth that “his speech showed an heredi-
tary streak of insanity” and described Mr (now Lord)
Casey, the then Minister for External Affairs, as “the old
lackey, the Bengal tiger who rides again.” He followed up
this type of parliamentary language in 1957 by calling
another Minister, Mr W. McMahon, a “dingo.” He apolo-
gised to the House a few days later, but he returned to his
former habits later during a debate on the Crimes Bill
when he described another Minister as a “bumptious
bastard.”
He again ventured into machine politics in May, 1958,
with Ward when he sponsored, along with some other
Federal parliamentarians, including Mr Leslie Haylen. an
A.L.P. Anti-Eviction and Tenants’ Protection Committee
whose chief aim was to get control of the N.S.W. State
Conference. When some of the party bureaucrats attacked
Ward and the committee Whitlam was a little quicker this
time to see which way the wind was blowing, and he
resigned.
With occasional Press notices, a few successful TV
appearances and an improvement in his work in the
Federal House. Whitlam was regarded by a few commen-
tators as having an outside chance for the deputy leader-
ship after Dr Evatt became Chief Justice of N.S.W. in 1960.
He was safe as far as the Left wing and the middle-
of-the-roaders were concerned: he was an Evatt supporter
and had attacked the Grouper influence in Labor politics


as often as necessary; he was young; he followed party
policy on nationalisation and other topics; his legal train-
ing had given him a natural advantage in debates in the
House; and at this time he was thought to be likely to
win votes as the coming TV star of the Labor party.
Above all these he had one obvious but little-known
advantage at that time: Senators Kennelly and McKenna
—two of the most powerful and shrewdest members of the
Labor Caucus —supported him. Senator Kennelly, despite
his long history of Labor intrigue, always has an eye open
for any advantages to the party. He did a little checking
around, even to the extent of finding out what Whitlam’s
father was like, and made his choice. Of course, if
Senator Kennelly was successful, this also would put him
in a stronger position in the party.
AS expected, Mr Calwell easily beat Mr Reg Pollard for
the leadership by 42 votes to 30. There were four
candidates for the deputy leadership, Ward, Whitlam,
Haylen and Harrison —all from New South Wales. Frank
Crean, a Victorian who was to have been a candidate, with-
drew at the last minute claiming heatedly that he had been
trapped into standing by Ward’s supporters only to damage
Whitlam’s chances. Whether that is true or not doesn’t
really matter now, but Kennelly is reputed to have been
the one who broke the news to Mr Crean. Crean’s with-
drawal. as it later transpired, was the key factor in Whit-
lam's rise to the deputy leadership.
In the first ballot Ward only polled 28, Whitlam 22,
Haylen 12 and Harrison ten. The required quota for
immediate election was 37. At the next ballot, with Harri-
son dropping out, four of his supporters went to Ward,
giving him 32, and six went to Whitlam, giving him 28,
with Haylen staying on 12. The next vote was obviously
the crucial one. and even then, though Ward knew he
hadn’t gone as well as was expected, he still was confident
of picking up most of Haylen’s 12 votes. However, this
champion Left-winger from the ’thirties received only two
of Haylen’s votes (one obviously from Haylen), and Whit-
lam received the other ten, giving him the deputy leader-
ship by 38 votes to 34.
There is little doubt that Whitlam knew he would
win. and there is also little doubt that he was (and is)
too inexperienced a general in Labor machine politics
to have generalled his own victory. He still claims today
that he doesn’t know whether Calwell voted for him or
not. although it is almost certain that he didn’t vote for
Calwell.
From the moment he became Deputy Leader. Whit-
lam was in the news —attacking peripheral groups such as
wowsers. Masons, Groupers. His biggest blunder was in
April. 1960. By-passing Labor machinery, a mistake for any
politician, he wrote personally to Prime Minister Menzies
on April 4 and said: “On two occasions during the last
month, when I have entered the Commonwealth Bank
premises in Sydney to go up to my parliamentary office
after hours, I have met Mr A. J. Dalziel as he was leaving.
On several other occasions during the same time, on enter-
ing or leaving the bank premises, I have noticed Mr
Dalziel's signature on the ‘non-staff’ sheet with a notation
indicating that his business took him to the eighth floor,
on which most Senators and Members have their offices . . .
The only work upon which I know him to have been
engaged during the past month, and the principal work
on which I know him to have been engaged for some years
past, is the preparation of articles . . .” Mr Whitlam indi-
cated he was writing to the Prime Minister —“as one of the
tenants of the premises.”
This blunder, which earned him nothing but disap-
proval all round, was aimed at Haylen and Dalziel, who
for years have been accused of writing anonymously for
Jack Lang’s “Century.” In “Century’s” columns, which
supports the Ward-Haylen faction in the Labor party,
Whitlam had been variously described as “Winsome
Whitlam” or “Goof Whitlam.”
Whitlam’s motives for acting against Dalziel seemed
fairly plain. He certainly was keen to stop the attacks on
him occurring in “Century,” but to try to do it by an
“appeal” to the Prime Minister was generally considered
to be rather naive. One still suspects that some shrewd-
head in the Labor party used Whitlam as the front-man.
'yuHERE does Whitlam stand on Labor’s policies? He
now sees the Labor party not as a socialist party but
as a “party of reform.” He is now not a doctrinaire
socialist but more of a Gaitskellite.
The Liberal party is less happy with Whitlam as
Deputy Leader than they would have been with a
nationalisation-happy Ward. It is a wonder that Whitlam
has got away with so much. Apart from attacking Masonic
influence (which probably helped him get elected to his
position), he has publicly supported private enterprise, but
says that, while it has developed Sydney and Melbourne
satisfactorily, it has done little in other parts of Australia
—especially in the north.
In foreign affairs he was part of a minor Labor revolt
against his leader’s attitude on self-determination on New
Guinea. He wanted immediate self-determination for New
Guinea, and his leader, at that time, envisaged something
like a 20-year plan.
If he is still Deputy Leader when and if a Labor
Government is returned, he will be the Minister for External
Affairs. Although he would be a natural for the portfolio
of Attorney-General, this is marked down for McKenna,
and Whitlam would not be so foolish to go back on one of
his supporters and seek to become the Attorney-General.
Unfortunately, it is in foreign policy that he is prob-
ably at his haziest. Like any schoolboy, he is more aware
of Australia’s need for closer relationship with South-East
Asian countries; but that is about as far as it goes. He is
still blessed with that blind faith in the United Nations
which most Labor men share. As far as specific policies
go. he appears to have none. His success in debates in
the House on foreign affairs appears to come mainly from
his advocate’s skill in nibbling at the Government’s case
rather than in putting forward positive ideas. In a party
which has few capable debaters, it is easy to shine.
As far as the Labor party’s greatest problems are con-
cerned. unity tickets and the Victorian A.L.P. executive,
his present attitude is a little easier to discover. He has
unequivocally attacked unity tickets in the Boilermakers’
Society elections and the Victorian branch of the Aus-
tralian Railways’ Union. On the big and current question
of whether or not he is in favor of the Federal executive
intervening and removing the Victorian executive, he is
unsure. At the Federal executive meeting in Canberra
last year he sided with his political backers. McKenna
and Kennedy, in their attitude towards Victoria. He did
not go so far as suggesting intervention when he addressed
the executive, but he did drag out the behavior of that
State executive in relation to unity tickets. On balance he
would probably be against intervention, but this is prob-
ably because he doesn’t understand the depth of Labor
corruption in that State executive and because he doesn’t
sufficiently understand the machine politics of his party.
He is known to favor “a few heads rolling” (or four) rather
than intervention.
But like most of his actions in the next few years, he
won’t stick his neck out unnecessarily. If he does the
“image” might become too blurred.


A Melbourne Criminologist Examines:
THE VICTORIAN
MURDER RATE
By STANLEY JOHNSTON
By the end of December the police reported the record
number of about 60 murders for any one year in
Victoria, compared with 18 for the whole of 1960 and an
annual average of 29. But these figures should be
approached with caution.
The Court figures paint a very different picture from the
police figures, apparently decimating the police estimate to an
annual conviction rate of about three only. Police and Courts
mean different things by the word ‘‘murder.” The police offer
a tally of victims, not offenders, and quite frequently one
person will effect a multiple killing. The police figure is their
appraisal of those deaths which appear at first to have been
deliberate criminal killings. Some of these will prove to have
been suicides or accidental killings, and sometimes a suspect
is not found. Sometimes a suspect, who is insane in the
opinion of doctors, is detained in a mental hospital without
trial.
Of those prosecuted, many will be found not guilty of
any offence at all, or guilty of the lesser offences of man-
slaughter or infanticide, or “not guilty on the ground of
insanity.” The latter verdict means that the accused person
actually committed the crime, but in the opinion of the jury
was insane at the time. In practice, such a verdict makes no
difference to the defendant, since he is not released free into
the community, but is committed to a maximum-security
institution, usually an ordinary prison.
Murder conviction rates are distorted by an astounding
political fact observable from interstate comparison of the
statistics. The Australian federation is an interesting laboratory
for comparative analysis, for the policy of the government
in power directly influences the behavior of murder juries. It
is the policy of all Labor parties in Australia never to put a
criminal to death ; but the conservative parties decide in each
case between death or long imprisonment.
Juries, not always ready to trust the government, commit
a pious perjury, and bring in fewer verdicts of the capital
crime, murder, under a conservative government than under
a Labor government. On the Court figures, therefore, the
murder rate gives the grotesque appearance of rising under a
Labor government and falling under conservative governments.
In the three potentially hanging States in which Liberal
party governments are currently in power (Victoria, South
Australia and Western Australia), the manslaughter rates are
inordinately higher than the murder rates. In the Northern
Territory (with its white juries and usually black killers) the
murder rate is double the manslaughter rate.
Jury verdicts, therefore, are no indication of the extent
of murder: they reflect rather a sustained criticism of the
death penalty by those members of the public who are obliged
to take a responsible interest in killings. Virtually the only
persons found guilty of murder are those for whom, from the
limitations of our present understanding of human personality,
the jury can find no excuse or sympathy.
The real rate of criminal homicide lies somewhere between
the misleading extremes of police and Court figures. A func-
tional figure is the total of those persons who receive any one
of those four verdicts from the jury (murder, manslaughter,
infanticide, or not guilty of murder on the ground of insanity),
a figure which is not officially published anywhere in Australia.
One may hazard the guess that this significant rate, though
still lower than American averages, is on the increase. It
would be surprising if it were not. Our population is increas-
ing, and we must expect absolute crime rates to keep rising.
Add to that the unfortunate Australian habit of herding some-
thing like 54 per cent, of its total population into its six State
capitals, and you find that other criminogenic, or crime-
producing, factors come into play. In crowded cities, which
bring new tensions and a false sense of anonymity, crime rates
go up disproportionately faster than the numerical increase of
people.
What might have caused the real rate of criminal homicide
to rise in the last 12 months? Increasing world unrest? The
credit squeeze? One improbable but examinable idea is that
it is due to the weather! It is well known that suicides increase
in summer in temperate zones, and this year has been warm
in Victoria: with practically no winter, Victorians have been
watering their gardens since September. Possibly the aggres-
sion that is turned suicidally inwards during the heat and
humidity, when we are more lightly pushed beyond our frus-
tration tolerance, is also directed outwards towards family
and friends (the usual victims).
Tt is difficult to take preventive or avoiding action, because
we do not know the causes of criminal homicide. We are
not seriously trying to discover them from the best source, the
criminals themselves. Persons who receive any one of those
four verdicts all tend to suffer exactly the same fate: imprison-
ment for 10-13 years.
Only very exceptionally now is a criminal put to death
in Australia —and almost exclusively in Western Australia.
N.S.W. and Queensland have legislated against the death sen-
tence for murder ; and it is some years since a murderer was
hanged in Victoria, South Australia or Tasmania. There is
no evidence that the death penalty has any deterrent effect
here. Indeed, it is possible that the State which administers
the death penalty actually contributes, by its example, towards
an increase in crimes of aggression.
There are three jurisdictions in which the criminal homicide
rates are proportionately higher than average: the Northern
Territory, Queensland (abolitionist for half a century) and
Western Australia (the hanging State). These jurisdictions,
across the north and down the west of the continent, hold the
bulk of the aboriginal population. And if aborigines are not
actually more lawless than the European community, then
the difference may yet be attributable to the culture clash that
comes with mixing two races at vastly different levels of
development.
We shall not make much headway in the deliberate control
of crimes of aggression until we patiently observe and analyse
the behavior of criminals themselves under experimentally


controlled and changing social conditions. When we hang
them, or leave them unobserved for years in a fixed and
artificial environment in prison, we deprive ourselves of this
chance.
We can afford to use limited periods of trial leave or
parole for selected murderers. There would be some risk
to the public, but not as much as it would appear at first. The
ordinary murderer is no less horrified by his crime than is the
next man by the contemplation of such a crime ; and in a
good many cases the man who has murdered once will be so
deeply sobered by the experience as to become less of a threat
against any law than the ordinary citizen. Amongst the rates
of recidivism, murderers are very low on the list. Certainly
the current police reports are no cause for alarm.
QUEENSLAND HAS MADE UP ITS MIND
Once you followed the fences; now you follow
the power lines
By M. H. ELLIS
IN contrast to its inland areas, Queensland’s coastal littoral
has made vast progress in the past 40 years or since the end
of World War I. Inland, many areas have gone backward
in population ; any increases have been in islands of mineral
development or due to some particular local cause which has
drawn a few more people into some restricted area. But along
the coast there have been dynamic moves forward and not
the least important factor is that, after a long period of making
up its mind, Queensland has decided that it is no different
from other parts of Australia ; that its northern coastal regions
are not in a chronic state of tropical invalidity ; that it can
develop industrially with as much or more confidence than the
cool (?) south and that it can throw overboard all the claims
to sympathy which used to be put forward and begin to
sympathise a little with other States which haven’t the same
scarcely touched resources.
When World War I ended, the Queensland coastal region,
stretching round into the Gulf of Carpentaria, was a disparate
area, unco-ordinated, the inhabitants of each part of it going
round uttering the words “land of opportunity” with punch-
drunk insistence, but meaning only their own localities. They
exhibited their resources to the world —volcanoes of minerals,
coal, timber, but the world of capital gazed glassy-eyed and
unenthusiastic on the wonders displayed ; for isolation, lack
of roads, lack of means of dealing with the resources hidden
away in the bush along, at best, boggy waggon tracks over
waterless country and through rain-forests as impenetrable as
those of South-east Asia, were the key factors in the situation
and there was no recipe for dealing with them.
There was no unified policy of development, no fully
connected transport system by land even between districts and
main cities. There was no means of quickly building roads
and keeping them in order. The grader, the bulldozer, the drag-
line, the headloader and the Euclid and other giant carriers were
in the very dim future —not even sketched in the imagination
of the technicians of heavy industry.
All this has changed. Heavy transport developed with
World War 11. New metals and technology and new concep-
tions raised power production to the nth degree. New chemistry
dredged out of materials products never thought of 40 years
ago. Salt, for instance, then seeping in hundreds of thousands
of tons into the beds along the Australian coast, was just salt;
but today it is the material of vast chemical production-—the
chlorides, caustic soda —the basis of tremendous industries.
This is only one. Sugar was sugar, but a hundred by-products
today, from vegemite to building materials and power-alcohol,
come out of it.
The restricted means of transport which hampered develop-
ment in the north have been expanded to meet the needs of
growing industry—railways linked up all along the coast;
bitumen road nearly complete all the way from the southern
capitals to beyond Cairns ; daily air services that bring Sydney
and Townsville within six hours of each other. The problems
of lading and the manpower that go with development have
been solved by the giant bulk-loading instalments of the sugar
and coal ports. Sea carriage is done in bigger and bigger
licks. Feeder roads have become easy—run a grader through
the bush track and keep it moving, producing a two-way path
for the Euclids and the heavy prime-movers—one path always
in process of being put in order by the roadmaking plant,
the other being battered to bits under heavy loaders by the
14-tonners and the semis.
But the basic need, the framework on which all great
and permanent progress is being built, the blood flowing in
the arteries of the immense dynamo which is slowly pervading
the north, is electric power. It is also the mapper of the lines
of effort. Where power goes, progress goes.
Ocarcely a wheel turns in heavy industry today without
electricity, the basic facility, the be-all and end-all, and
generation plants and transmission lines are the bases and
circuits which are being laid down all through the north to
mark the greatest change that has taken place in the face of
coastal Queensland and in the picture of its future.
Anybody who wishes to see development in the north
finds himself with a new guide. Once you followed the fences
and they would take you somewhere. Now to find your way
to the places where things are happening you follow the
power lines, and in time you will reach some great project.
The planning is recent, for though Queensland has always
been electrically minded and its plants were as numerous as
the sands of the sea, there was till recently little inter-
connection until the vision of the new breed of engineers, whose
whole life is electricity, was applied to the problems with a
wider than regional outlook.
Neil Smith, head of the Electricity Commission, is a Tas-
manian whose age and cares sit lightly on him, and who thinks
a good place to take a holiday is the Electricity Commission
Headquarters. Tom Priestley, who rules the Townsville
Regional Authority, the son of the first Professor of Engineer-
ing at Queensland University, was born into the electrical
trade. De Kretser, of the Capricornia Board, boss of the
Central District expansions, was once the king of the Electricity
Service in Ceylon. Tom Ingle, a former Tasmanian Rhodes
Scholar, ministers in Mackay to the growing needs of one
of the richest districts in Australia. These are the high priests,
themselves encouraged by working to their own concerted
scheme which was produced by the State Commission on an
assignment delivered to it in 1958. Its work was done in


conjunction with Messrs Merz and McLellan, a United King-
dom firm of global experience which, incidentally, was cur-
rently consultant also on the construction of the gigantic and
problem-loaded Kariba Dam in the heart of darkest Africa.
Out of this piece of planning has come the pattern which
has been built round a “study of Queensland’s vast coal
resources, many of which can be cheaply mined”-—like that of
Callide, where, initially, before the proportion of overburden
bumps up the cost, coal is producable at mine for power-
house use at 15s. 44d. a ton, and later at around £1 per ton.
Linked with the systems which produce electricity at the pit-
head will be the output of the great dams of the heavy-rain belt
of the north. The 1700-mile long littoral of the Queensland
coast is being forged into a series of electrical communities
with central policy control. Basically, in the £l7O million
scheme of expansion, planned for completion by 1970, if
necessity does not expand it into something greater before the
decade is over, each of five communities will look after itself
and a cluster of industries, the annual expenditure in
building them and consolidating each area into one
piece representing 60 per cent, more than the present annual
capital outlay. But each will have interlocking features with
some other community so as to be ready to take up part of
the weight out of peak loads. Each, at the same time, will
feed over its high-voltage lines out from its generating centre
for up to 400 miles. And the outlay envisaged takes no account
of western towns which have industrial potential and private
ventures, like Comalco, which may be large enough to create
their own electrical generating centres.
South Queensland will be served by more power stations—
two provided for and one more to cost £36 million on the
West Moreton coalfield within easy reach of Brisbane and
covering all the more populated south with its lines and with
a potential of nearly a million horsepower. The second base
will be expanded at Howard coalfield near Gympie and will
continue, as now, to serve the Burnett and Wide Bay districts.
The Central District, which is served by a considerable
coal-powered station at Rockhampton fired with Dawson Valley
coal, and subsidiaries in the western towns as far out as
Clermont, will have a new station on the Callide coalfield
about 70 miles west of Gladstone to add about 225,000 h.p.
to the 70,000 h.p. now generated in the district.
Its initial stage will cost £9.2 million, its completion in a
later stage £23,450,000, including transmission lines, with a
£2-4 million dam for cooling-water and possibly irrigation.
And this is to be set down in the bush, yet logically
beside its coal supply with no present community as large as
five thousand souls within 50 miles of it; yet with a potential
of an electrified railway, for which a franchise is assured, to
develop a major export of coal to Japan, through the magnifi-
cent deep-water harbor of Gladstone, which has no parallel
in advantages north of Sydney, unless it be Port Alma (which
every Gladstonian would dispute). Central Queensland,
helped with the water and cheap power that the Callide and
other Dawson River projects may bring, could become the
site of a great chemical and fertiliser industry (of which the
high priest and prophet is Mr Glen Sheil, the Great Digger of
Mt Morgan) and of the irrigation and settlement for which the
Dawson and Fitzroy River systems have the potential.
Further north will come the tying to Collinsville and
Bowen of the current generated far off on the Tully in the
70-inch rainfall forests and rugged mountains of the Cardwell
Range. This power will be fed to the tablelands and down
through the rich sugar country and developing industrial city
of Townsville, as far as Mackay, 470 miles from its source, as
well as into its main reservoir of the Cairns-Mareeba districts
in which it will be linked to the Barron River scheme. The
Tully River scheme has cost about £ls million.
Here, then, are the bases of the war of progress of which
the first campaigns are already in being in the north. Anybody
who has viewed them swiftly, as I did recently, passing quickly
from one base to the next and thus being able to relate them
all to each other and to the whole fabric of northern develop-
ment and to the thinking of a veritable army of keen rooters
for the north and centre and purveyors of recipes for growth
salted with practical faith and experience, will be amazed at
their ramifications.
BREAKING A LONG SILENCE
From NEIL McINNES in Brussels
"Anarchy and subversion will spread through the Congo;
the U.S.A. and the U.N. will be unable to stop it"
AS a director of the Union Miniere du Haut-Katanga,
Monsieur P. was being faithful to house traditions
when he asked that he not be named personally in
accounts of our interview. Like so much that the
Belgians built in King Leopold’s Congo, there is something
monarchial about the Union Miniere. In the company's
head office in Brussels (a palace that combines the atmosphere
of old India House with that of the British Embassy in Paris),
where he received me, one could not imagine anyone speaking
to a journalist on his own account. Indeed, until lately, one
could not imagine anyone there speaking to a journalist at
all, for the Union Miniere has surrounded itself with what it
took for discretion and what others took for secrecy, until it
acquired the sinister reputation of a king-making monopoly
like Anglo-Iranian, Suez Canal or United Fruit. Shades of
this excessive discretion, which has made U Thant’s allegations
against it seem plausible to many, still linger, for M. P. asked
whether I might not report his remarks as “things learned in
Brussels.” It was enough to produce that morning’s Brussels
papers—full of racialist attacks -on U Thant, Nehru and
sundry Negroes, of violent anti-Americanism and hysterical
denunciations of the U.N.—to show that this would not
serve ; Union Miniere is in grave difficulties, but it has not
lost control of its nerves.
Accepting, then, to speak for the company, M. P. answered
direct questions frankly—provided they were the right ones.
What is Union Miniere’s annual sales figure? Secret. What
is the value of its assets outside the Congo? Secret. Its
profits from uranium production? Secret, too. In short, no
financial information outside what it deigns to reveal in its
impeccable but rather uninformative balance sheet. On recent
events in Katanga, M. P. was more communicative.
Did you finance Tshombe’s secession? “Not at all. Like
any foreign company, we had to pay up to the effective local
authorities, and M. Tshombe happened to control all the points
of exit from Katanga. If we hadn't paid our export duties
(and these are most of the finances we have given the Katanga
regime) our copper and cobalt could not be exported and we
would have had to shut down. The political connection be-


tween the local and the central authorities is none of our
business.”
Mr Adoula, chief of the Leopoldville Government, says
these payments were illegal and will demand that Union
Miniere pay him all arrears, starting from July, 1960. “Such
a claim would be disastrous, but has no legal or moral basis.
How could we have paid Leopoldville, when Elisabethville
claimed to be independent and effectively controlled our
region? As for ‘arrears,’ if the Adoula-Tshombe pact sticks,
Adoula will have to settle this claim with Tshombe, who
received our taxes. If that pact is not implemented, Leopold-
ville's writ will not run in Katanga. We have never financed
Tshombe, but simply paid our taxes to the local authority.”
"Dut did you prefer Tshombe’s regime to any other?
“Naturally, as any firm would. Our mines and smelters
have lost only a few days’ work since the independence of
the Congo, until the U.N. offensive. In contrast, the rest of
the Congo was in anarchy, while the region controlled from
Stanleyville is the scene of communist subversion.”
Did you oppose the U.N.’s effort to integrate Katanga
in the Congo? “No, although such integration would
adversely affect our interests, for it will mean simply the
extension of violence, instability and communist subversion
to a region hitherto free of them.”
Yet the U.N. says that Union Miniere premises and.
officials played a large role in Katanga’s resistance, so that
your buildings had to be bombed and your communications
destroyed. “Notice first of all that the U.N. bombed our
installations in Liulu, where there was no fighting and hence
no resistance ... As for the fighting around Elisabethville,
if you know what a mining centre is like you must know
that the company’s premises constitute the natural rallying
point and refuge for the foreign community. So our buildings
were full of white people once trouble began. The U.N.
chooses to call them mercenaries (what, pray, are Gurkhas?),
but many of them are the company’s technicians, and some
of them in turn are Belgians born and bred in Katanga. The
concentration of whites in our premises, which seemed
abnormal to the U.N. commanders, was protective not
hostile.”
Protective? The U.N. troops say they were sniped at from
your buildings. “Look, the Germans have been here in
Brussels twice in my lifetime and both times they swore they
were being sniped at from buildings and took reprisals.
Soldiers invading a city always imagine they are being sniped
at.”
But there are specific cases, e.g., shooting from your head
offices in Elisabethville toward the U.N. command post in
the Lido. “There was mortar fire, but that can come from
anj/where and cannot be neatly localised. As for the rifle
fire, this relief map of Elisabethville will show you that it
is an impossibility to hit the Lido from our office.” (Indeed,
it seemed to show that.)
So the Union Miniere’s personnel and facilities played no
role in the resistance to the U.N.? “Our facilities (I am
thinking especially of our communications, the best available
in a poor country that has nothing but our mines) were
naturally commandeered by the Katanga authorities. How
could we resist? Did not Mr Tshombe threaten to flood our
mines and scorch the earth if we refused? Our men on the
spot have admitted that Katanga gendarmes may well have
occupied some of our property (you know we have 17 sub-
sidiaries in the Congo apart from the Union Miniere itself,
everything from flour mills to insurance offices) and offered
resistance from there. None of that engages this company’s
responsibility.”
What do you think of allegations in the European Press,
not only in Belgium, that the U.N. war is a sinister effort
by U.S. mining interests to oust you from the fabulously rich
Katanga mineral belt? “I know of nothing to support that.
Some people indeed want to chase us out of Katanga, but not
Washington acting as agent for rival U.S. interests. The truth
as it seems to us —and it is no less unpleasant—is that once
our uranium resources ceased to matter to U.S. defence,
Washington decided to sacrifice us for short-sighted political
ends, to please certain Afro-Asians. Our uranium made the
first American atom-bombs and we sold it to them at patriotic,
war-effort prices. Now our uranium is not needed any more
(there’s plenty of richer ore elsewhere), so instead of gratitude,
we are thrown to the wolves.”
You say that U.S. aims are short-sighted, but Adlai
Stevenson says that in the long run the Katanga secession
would have given over all the Congo to the communists. “It
is pure illusion to think that the Gizenga secession, which is
communist, will be reduced by the U.N. using the methods
applied against Tshombe or any other methods. Anarchy and
subversion will spread to the whole country ; the U.S.A. and
the U.N. will be unable to stop it. In Katanga it had been
stopped. It is bad engineering to think that you begin con-
structing a barrage by destroying all the smaller barrages that
exist.”
If your view of the Congo’s future is so gloomy, there
might be something in reports that you will pull out r.nd
repeat the performance of the Suez Canal Co., that is, invest
profitably elsewhere your non-Congo assets? “We are not
quitters. We have no plans to leave the Congo. Indeed, we
have a programme to invest one billion Belgian francs in
1962, as we did in 1961 —mainly in West Katanga, well away
from the ‘old Congo’ around Elisabethville where the fighting
has been. Working conditions might deteriorate and the
profitability of our enterprise decline, but we will stay as long
as we can. Our concession lasts till 1990, though the Congo’s
known mineral reserves are good for a generation beyond
that date. Our mines and refining plant are run by people
who have lived all their lives in the Congo and can adapt to
any new situation.”
Are you afraid of nationalisation, or, rather, expropria-
tion? “If you had asked the Suez people that the night before
Nasser made his declaration they would have said no.
Nationalisation would not benefit the Congolese, for they get
more in taxes and royalties than they would earn by running
the mines themselves. Nevertheless, it is always possible, being
a matter of political passion rather than economic calcula-
tion.”
Tt is true that since the trouble began the Belgian Societe
Generale, traditionally the most powerful interest in your
firm, has sold out to North Americans? “Quite false.
American offers have been made in the past, but were refused.
Perhaps that was our big mistake. The biggest shareholder
in Union Miniere will be the Central Congo Government
when the political situation clears.”
Will that not give Leopoldville the chance to hinder your
activities? “A chance to profit from them, rather. If it wants
to hinder them, it can do so otherwise than through its share-
holding, just as the country's Government.”
One last question: Did you make a profit in 1961? “Of
course we did. We sold 300,000 tons of copper and 8000
tons of cobalt, etc., which was 8 per cent, of world copper
output and much more for sundry other metals. Our working
was perfectly normal until the U.N. attack. We have declared
a normal interim dividend, but we do not know whether we
shall get permission to pay it in foreign currencies ; we do
not even know whom we have to ask for permission. We
shall have to see how much damage the U.N. has done our
property before we decide what to do with our profits. We
are in the Congo to make profits, like any firm. We are not
king-makers. We are a mining company.”


FORUM
AFTER THE
LOTUS YEARS
Excuses can be found for the West New Guinea crisis,
but perhaps we should blame ourselves
By PETER HASTINGS
QNE might guess that future historians will succumb to the temptation
to describe the period in Australia between 1945 and 1961 as The
Lotus Years years in which we lived high and ate well and as a people
were distressingly indifferent to the changing world about us. At all events
they are years which have ended with a bang (the whimpers in full force
are yet to come) in the present confrontation of Indonesia and Holland
over West New Guinea.
"Excuses can be found for our general
■ Ly unpreparedness for the situation and
things, as well as people, can be blamed.
We could blame our false sense of
security arising from peopling a large
continent and our sense of physical iso-
lation which leads us to view things as
being smaller and farther away than in
reality they are. We could blame poli-
ticians and Cabinets whose members—
with one notable exception —have all too
plainly regarded New Guinea as dull and
uninspiring even without the added com-
plication of West New Guinea.
Perhaps we could do best by blaming
ourselves. As a people we have, apart
from a vaguely proprietorial notion about
our side of the island, shown little interest
in New Guinea’s future, little interest in
its fragmented peoples, in their welfare
or ultimate future. This was brought
home to me by the most unlikely person
in the world, Indonesia’s Foreign
Minister, Dr Subandrio. In a conver-
sation with him last September in which
he pressed his country’s claims to West
New Guinea and the benefits deriving to
this country by recognising them, he said
wonderingly: “I sometimes wonder
whether the people of Australia are
interested in Asian relations. I some-
times think Australians are not really
interested in what happens in New
Guinea.” He was not, at that moment,
propagandising. A particular thought
had struck him in a particular way. In
a particular way he was right. Just how
right was indicated by an afternoon
newspaper poster last week which read:
DUTCH SELL OUT IN NEW
GUINEA
Allowing for the banalities of after-
noon journalism, or any sort of jour-
nalism, is that the only comment that
could be found for ten years of Dutch
effort to remain in the island, their tough
and tenacious adherence to the principle
of self-determination, their determination
to stick with very little practical help
from their nearest neighbor and ally?
All that effort, all those hopes, all those
guilders in skills and men?
In the last three weeks the newspapers
of Australia have editorialised in mixed
accents of anger, gloom and bewilder-
ment that Indo-Dutch talks should some-
how be the end of the affair. Of course
it is not the end. It is rather more the
beginning of another and more important
phase. It is about this next phase that
Australians, if they are a people capable
of thinking, or even worthy of looking
after their own interests, should think
long and hard. Even the most hopeless
looking situations can change and very
often compromise can be achieved.
Nobody can quite predict the exact
nature of any agreement which may be
negotiated between Holland and Indo-
nesia. It may involve handsome con-
cessions on both sides. It should also
be remembered that a full-scale Indo-
nesian attack —even if it were in the
Republic’s capacity at this moment—is
a political risk and the fruits of victory
could turn very sour. But on balance
it is difficult to avoid the conclusion that
sooner or later the Dutch must evacuate
the island and Indonesia, in one form or
another, become the sovereign power.
At all events, as a nation we must face
up to that possibility.
There may be important concessions on
both sides to achieve this, but this may
surely be the only end result of the cur-
rent Dutch offer to hold “open” talks.
Australia will then have to live with the
fact that its border in New Guinea will
demarcate not Dutch and “friendly”
territory but Indonesian sovereign terri-
tory. That will become an immutable
fact. What can or should we do
about it?
What concessions can we extract from
Indonesia? What room do we still have
for manoeuvre in our own interests?
First of all, it would seem of para-
mount importance to ascertain just what
Indonesia wants to do with the terri-
tory of West New Guinea. There have
been repeated gestures from Djakarta
that the new territory will receive a very
large degree of regional autonomy —a
larger degree than that accorded to other
Indonesian territories within the frame-
work of the Republic. Responsible, con-
servative Indonesians claim that they have
learnt a well-merited lesson through the
rebellion which was caused by the
greediness of the central administration
in Java and its refusal to allow regional
political development and representation.
There is also an evident desire on the
part of some Indonesian leaders to match
nearly as possible the economic and
social achievements of the Dutch adminis-
tration in West New Guinea and a some-
what ironic determination to borrow the
money from the U.S. (if need be) to carry
it out.
Tt may well be that Indonesia and Aus-
A tralia could reach a treaty arrange-
ment over West New Guinea which could
lead ultimately to West New Guineans
exercising the right of self-determination
—either to opt out of the Indonesian
Republic or remain within it. There is
every reason to suppose that, the Indo-
nesian Communist Party excepted,
Indonesians fear the southward exten-
sion of China and would gladly seek with
Australia territorial guarantees for the
whole island. The possibility of creating
a separate, independent New Guinea
guaranteed by Indonesia and Australia
must be considered.
The problems in the way are consider-
able. Australia and Holland shared
common Western ideals and democratic
institutions, common notions of political
development. Indonesia, so far as it is
anything, is Islamic. Its political concepts
are not ours, consequently its political
administration of West New Guinea


would be quite different from our poli-
tical administration in Papua and the
Territory of New Guinea. The Indo-
nesians would inherit Dutch imported
Malay as a lingua franca in West New
Guinea. English is eventually to be the
common language of Australian New
Guinea. The problems of co-operation-
even if accord is forthcoming—will be
formidable. But they must be thought
about and investigated.
It may prove that there can be no
accord and no administrative co-opera-
tion and that, for all intents and purposes,
the present New Guinea border will be
closed. This would invite development
of East New Guinea towards federation
with the Solomons and eastern islands,
leaving the peoples of West New Guinea
to work out their destiny with Indo-
nesia. It may just be possible that, the
bogy of Dutch “imperialism” having
been laid, the U.S. and Britain would
help underwrite a federation of Austra-
lian New Guinea with the Solomons and
surrounding islands. But only just pos-
sible, for the British are retreating in the
Pacific and Asia and unwilling to tangle
with colonial issues any longer. It may be
that Indonesia, as occupying power, will
prove in West New Guinea as expansion-
ist as many of us have feared, and the
Dutch have so uncompromisingly pre-
dicted, and start subversive activities from
across the border which it will take
considerable courage, initiative and great
sums of money to withstand.
There is the added fear —already more
than half realised in recent U.N. debates
—that the Soviet Union, by exploiting
irresponsible anti-colonialist feelings in
the newer nations, will successfully use
our administration of East New Guinea
as a means of poisoning our relations
with Asia. Where, for example, will
Indonesia stand on that issue in the years
to come?
Even without these fears Australia will
have to spend huge sums of money in
Australian New Guinea in the coming
years and Australians will have to face
up to the fact that it may prove money
down the drain. That is part of the
risk. But there are risks in whatever we
do and with the years the risks grow
greater, the stakes greater, the chances
of getting exactly what we want on the
terms in which we want it proportionately
less. But we still have room to
manoeuvre, we still have concessions to
give as well as seek. If anything, we
have fewer problems than Indonesia,
greater resources in skills and techniques.
Our friendship is worth having. We
should bargain for it and get the best
we can in return for it. But the days
of lotus eating are over for ever. From
now on we are, in the geographical and
political sense, hard up against the tough,
cold facts of emerging Asia. This is not
the end, it is just the beginning ...
LETTERS
AMORALISTS ALL
Sir,
Mr Norman Gear, in his review
(Bulletin, December 23), asks the
(perhaps rhetorical) question: Can the
serious contemporary novelist do with-
out Freudian analysis? I’d like to have
a shot at saying “Yes.”
Mr Gear, with all respect to him,
implies here a literary viewpoint that I
consider merely “chic.” The expression
“research in depth” smacks of the scien-
tific, and belongs most properly in criti-
cism, philosophy and psychology. But,
accepting it for the moment as applying
to the CREATIVE art of the
novelist:
Novelists who were psychologists
existed long before Freud made The
Couch part of the cartoonist’s stock-in-
trade. Freud and some of his colleagues
have publicly admitted their great debt
to these novelists. (In fact, part of an
analyst's training is to analyse a selected
fictional character.) Dostoevsky didn’t
need Freud, nor did Flaubert or Sten-
dhal. It is more likely that, in the
beginning, Freud needed THEM.
There are methods of “illuminating”
the human state other than psycho-
analysis. The poet manages to convey
profound truths about human experience
without Freudian analysis by the ancient
method of image and symbol. Shake-
speare gave us the (Edipus Complex in
Hamlet. (And how much does Freud
owe the Greeks?) It was Freud's job to
find out HOW Hamlet got that way, but
when he finished —would we still have
Hamlet? So often the soul of a charac-
ter escapes through the incisions made
by the vivisectionist. Nerves are exposed
all right—but ours fail to be touched.
Does “research in depth” endow a
character with unforgettable life?
Dickens would prove otherwise. Does
motivation give more meaning and
power to action? The portrayal of im-
pulse springing from chiefly emotional
goads seems a surer way to win posterity
and influence it. It all depends what
you want the novel to do for you. I
like mine to enhance life for me, to be
cathartic, to touch the nerve of absolute
rightness with that exquisite feeling
called “the shock of recognition.” But
best of all, I like the shock BEYOND
recognition— to feel the MYSTERY of
life through a novelist who has
approached the Unknown and dashed
back by the skin of his teeth with his
loot.
The novelist who relies trustfully on
current techniques like psychoanalysis
is apt to find himself obsolete or absurd
when future discoveries render those
techniques invalid.
Then on what may the novelist basi-
cally rely? The same old “square”
things, I’m afraid —the knowledge dis-
tilled by him from whatever enters the
receiving-station of his several senses —
and any others we have not yet located.
The strength and validity of his revela-
tions will depend not on Freud but on
the penetrative power of HIS OWN
built-in equipment.
His indebtedness will be, as always,
to the masters of his craft before him,
and to those people in his life he has
devastated or who have devastated him.
He is not concerned with being “chic” —
though (like the inelegant Mo of another
profession), he may be amazed to find
“chicness” thrust upon him!
Will the Freudianism of our time one
day be as embarrassing as the piety and
sentiment of lesser Victorian writers is
to us?
The approved literary reflex of today
seems to be situated in the cerebellum
rather than the belly. I’m afraid I’m a
confirmed Lawrencian. I like to “feel it
HERE!” But, then, I also like Souza
marches, music-hall, melodrama, horror
films, The Three Stooges, honky-tonk
piano and low life, so perhaps I’m not
a good judge. I also like Freudian
analysis—but taken neat, not as an
ingredient in the cocktail of the con-
temporary novel, or only in the hands
of a master.
But, who knows, next year it may be
chic to be square!
THELMA FORSHAW
Lane Cove ( N.S.W .)
THE AUSTRALIAN FLAUBERT
Sir,
It may well be ridiculous for admirers
to dub Laurence Collinson “a latter-day
Flaubert,” as pointed out in “Out and
About” (Bulletin, January 6). But the
cheap sneer at Mr Collinson’s poetry is
another matter. Criticise a man’s work
by all means, but to snigger at it in a
gossip column is unforgivable.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE
University of Melbourne ( Victoria)
FREEDOM FIGHTERS IN
BATTLE FOR BENNELONG
Sir,
I am a permanent reader of The
Bulletin and an article in the Decem-
ber 9 issue of this year has drawn my
particular attention.
Under the title “Freedom Fighters in


Battle for Bennelong” your Sydney
Correspondent gave a few points in
which it referred to the Yugoslav Con-
sulate and members of its staff.
For the sake of reputation of The
Bulletin, I venture to give you the facts
and help you clear the picture.
On 26th July, this year, there was a
luncheon arranged by the United Nations
Ladies’ Auxiliary, where the wife of the
Consul General was one of the guests
with the Consul’s wife and a number of
distinguished ladies of Sydney.
At the moment when the compere
wanted to give a description of a Yugo-
slav National Costume, an individual
stepped on the stage, took the micro-
phone, started talking in an insulting
way against the Consul’s wife and the
ladies, who protested against his intru-
sion, and called a photographer, who
came with him to take a picture of him.
Some of the ladies told him to get out.
It is worthwhile to mention that
nobody clapped him, but some ladies
nearly pushed him out and none of the
ladies left the party until it was finished.
Through the staff members of the
Hotel it was established later that the
man appeared to be one Lj. Urbancic.
During the I.A.T.A. conference, the
Hotel asked the Consulate to supply it
with the Yugoslav Flag, which it got and
what happened later I do not know, but
the Hotel management promised to
return the flag.
The Yugoslav Community of Sydney
celebrated the Yugoslav National Day
and held an evening party on the 25th
November, 1961 at the Paddington Town
Hall. The Consul was one of the 500
guests who gathered there that night. I
was there too. It was a nice evening and
the programme was exceptionally good.
All the evening ran in the sign of
Yugoslav-Australian Friendship.
The Yugoslav National Dance was
started by a Yugoslav boy and an Aus-
tralian girl. It was a real success and
the Organising Committee got a top mark
from everybody. So the Consul was a
guest, but not an organiser, of the party.
About a dozen men stood in front of the
outer door and tried to persuade patrons
not to go in and threatened some. Their
behaviour was so nasty that police were
attracted and some plainclothes police-
men were engaged in arresting one who
possessed a dangerous cutting instru-
ment.
Those men were not satisfied with it,
but went up Oxford Street, found the
Consul’s car parked and overturned and
damaged it.
That man Urbancic, presumably was
again the leader in this action.
I am not sure about the identity, but
the individual under the same name, i.e.
Lj. Urbancic, appeared to be very well
known in Slovenia, Yugoslavia, during
the last war.
In conclusion, Sir, I wish to point out
your correspondent’s ending in which he
expects to hear more about this kind of
activity. Does he expect to hear of the
murder of the Consul or some other
members of the staff or some of their
children, because after the damage done
to the car, damage might be done to
those who use it, the alive objects?
If he thinks so, and if he is experienced
enough, he would report immediately to
the Police, otherwise the spirit aired in
the ending of his article could be inter-
preted as an incitement to the worst
crime.
S. BJELICA
(Secretary to the Consulate General
of Yugoslavia)
Double Bay (N.S.W.)
PROFILE OF A CAMPAIGN
Sir,
Alice Irwin (Bulletin, December 30)
suggests that I should have patience.
However I don’t think that this is a time
for patience. I don’t believe that Aus-
tralia’s future is so secure that I or
anybody else can be complacent about
our relationships with foreign countries.
While we have a White Australia Policy
our good relationships with many
nations are more difficult to maintain.
I don’t think this is a matter with which
one can afford to have “patience”.
It is then suggested that I will grow
up, given time. Alice Irwin does not
mean grow up—she really means become
conservative, and with this idea I would
agree. As I grow older I possibly will
become more conservative —but I think
it’s preferable that one should be a
young radical and an old conservative
rather than a young conservative and an
old reactionary.
I am sorry that Alice Irwin was
“irritated” ; one can only assume that it
is her conservatism that caused her to be
so. If that is the case I am not sure
there is need for an apology.
J.M.C. KING
Parkville (Victoria)
WILCANNIA OR BUST
Sir,
By all means let us, the public, and
the theatre-going public in particular,
have criticism of plays. An intelligent,
fair review of the production, the plot
and the actors is invaluable and essential.
This criticism should evaluate all plays
on an equal footing as no one in his right
mind would want preferential treat-
ment for Australian plays. Favored
reviews of Australian works would do
profound harm to the development of
Australian theatre. In Madeleine Arm-
strong’s scathing comments on “Thata-
way the Kings Go” ( Bulletin, Novem-
ber 18) she remarks that the budding
interest in Australian plays will not
survive the “black frost” of such inferior
work as this play.
I would like to ask how will Austra-
lian plays survive the “black frost” of
virulent, inaccurate criticism such as her
review of this particular play. After
reading the review I saw the play, and
while I ageed with her up to the point
of saying that it was not a good play, it
was just as certainly not the complete
and utter failure she claims it was. It
had plenty to say that was worthwhile
and the writer, Malcolm Robertson,
showed promise of better things to
come.
Surely the first essential of a critic is
to at least have the facts correct. Miss
Armstrong indulges in a bitter avalanche
of brutal writing which includes the state-
ment that “Malcolm Robertson’s charac-
ters do not make a single remark which
is not a cliche.” Although the dialogue
was rich in cliches and lines impossible
to imagine any real person speaking, it
is as completely untrue to say that all
the lines were cliches as it is insulting
to infer that the Union Repertory Com-
pany would accept for production a
play in which there were cliches in every
remark.
Neither was this the first review in
which Madeleine Armstrong’s inaccuracy
and shattering comments were pro-
foundly irritating.
Congratulations to the Union Reper-
tory Company for their fine work and
the nurturing of budding Australian
playwrights even though their first plays
are not immediately in the front rank.
IAN PARKER
Hawthorn (Victoria)
INSIDE ALICE SPRINGS
Sir,
Writer Keith Willey really goofed in
his article “Inside Alice Springs”
(Bulletin, November 25).
His reference to pastoralist Ted
Hayes, of Undoolya Station, “ who
lives mostly in Alice these days . .was
an incredible bloomer. Ted Hayes, one
of the Territory’s best-known cattlemen,
died in March, 1960.
He makes another classic bloomer
when he refers to Mr Phil Muldoon and
says “ ... Muldoon, a former policeman,
runs Australia’s most comfortable jail.”
The Alice Springs jailer is Mr Vince
Seymour, who has been running the jail


for at least two and a half years—since
Mr Muldoon took his accrued leave
pending retirement.
. Mr Willey is also well off the beam
when he says of the present devestating
drought: “Ten years ago the drought
would have meant a business depression
in Alice Springs. Today, though the
main topic of conversation, it has caused
scarcely a ripple financially.” Few of
the town’s business people would agree
with him! Business-wise, things have
been pretty tough in the Alice.
And as for saying the late Albert
Namatjira could not read and write, any-
one closely associated with the old
artist could have told him he could read
and write —and not only in English, but
in Aranda as well!
A minor point, Namatjira did not
serve his prison term at Areyonga
reserve, it was at Papunya reserve in
different country altogether.
There are a lot of smaller “blues” in
Mr Willey’s article that paint an incorrect
picture. For example, a check would
have put him right on the correct height
of Ayers Rock. . . the Club's “late
licence dance'’ is not a liquor-until-mid-
night affair (we wish it was), it’s liquor-
until-eleven and off-premises by 11.30 . ..
the de Fontenay’s date farm is not “Aus-
tralia’s only successful date plantation”
by any means, but it's the only
commercial one .. . and the distasteful
expression “yeller fellers” is not an Alice
Springs term for part-coloreds, that’s a
Top End expression and you hear it
seldom down here.
Might I suggest that next time writer
Willey goes “inside” anywhere, he stays
inside long enough to get his facts
straight.
A. REIDER
Alice Springs (N.T.)
TWO DISASTERS, ONE
ENIGMA
Sir,
David Martin’s memory has led him
astray (Bulletin, December 30). The
great German satirist Kurt Tucholsky,
whom he mentions as editor of the
“Weltbiihne,” never languished in a con-
centration camp and in fact had com-
mitted suicide in Sweden in 1935. David
Martin has confused him with the radical
pacifist Carl von Ossietzky, organiser of
the movement “Nie Wieder Krieg,” who
was imprisoned for his exposure of
German rearmament in 1931 and released
only to be arrested under Hitler. He
spent the rest of his life in concentra-
tion camps. It was he who received the
Nobel Peace Prize in 1936. He died on
May 4, 1938.
J. M. RITCHIE
Newcastle University College (N.S.W.)
TEARS ON THE TYPED PAGE
Sir,
In her Forum article, “Tears on the
Typed Page” (Bulletin, December 30),
Eunice Hanger made her thrusts at those
concerned with the production of plays
by Australian playwrights, with the
accomplished “on the defensive”
efficiency one has come to expect from
the practising playwright.
Although I generally agreed with each
point she made in respect of Australian
plays, and in particular “The Virgin of
Treadmill Street,” one sentence sent me
to my copy of David Ireland’s work.
To quote—“and the play is by a Sydney
playwright with no means of achieving
production unless he can persuade some-
one in an amateur theatre to do it.
Which is not easy, amateur theatre
directors being handier at saying they
want to do locally written plays than
at turning to and really doing them.”
Firstly, let us put the record in order.
“The Virgin of Treadmill Street” con-
sists of three extraordinary settings—a
modern lounge-dining room; an ultra-
modern bedroom ; and a combined two-
sided street (must be workable) with
bedroom annexe. Any mention of the
multiple sets was carefully avoided in
the article. Likewise, the author’s note
to the settings (which must be considered
when production is contemplated) was
not mentioned. The importance of this
note to prospective producers bears quot-
ing—“ Throughout, the players are seen
larger than life size. The doorheads are
lower, the doors narrower, steps rise at
small intervals and so with the furnish-
ings.” In short, three settings specially
constructed and of no further use to a
theatre after the play has finished its run.
In addition to the luxurious and costly
furniture and furnishings some of the
properties required include a chrome-
plated wheelchair, two television-sets and
a wardrobe of costumes requiring the
backing and resources of a first-class
couturier if the visual effect the author
demands is to be achieved. Enough to
make a professional entrepreneur blanch
let alone the director of a little theatre
on a limited budget.
Although the stigma of that often mis-
used word “amateur” personally rankles,
and more so because I was the producer
of the play by Ireland mentioned in the
article, and the director of the little
theatre responsible for its production, one
continually asks oneself —“Will play-
wrights never learn?” To the case in
point: there are 15 scenes in “The Virgin
of Treadmill Street” (in my copy the
author ceased numbering them after
reaching 12). The playwright makes no
attempt to indicate how the settings are
to be changed ; whether the scenes are
to be played continuously or broken up
into the format of three acts to allow
for a change of scene between acts.
Eunice Hanger may be correct in her
assertion regarding amateur theatre
directors, but, after all, they too must
have an eye on the box office, work to
a budget, and when it comes to basic
facts these are the main reasons for their
neglect of the Australian playwright.
How right is your editorial comment
in the same issue, Plain English—“ Local
theatre cannot do without Australian
writers and Australian dramatists cannot
do without local theatre.”
Competitions produce plays—but are
they actable plays? Are they good
theatre? Do they stand up against the
overseas product in all respects? My
experience is that it is harder to obtain
copies (for reading with a view to pro-
duction) of the ten finalists in a com-
petition than to obtain a bank overdraft
during the credit squeeze. The whole
system of play competitions is futile if
the winners never have their plays pro-
duced —and they never will if little
theatre directors are not afforded the
opportunity of reading them! By all
means let us have competitions, but at
the same time let us be practical. There
is considerable merit in Eunice Hanger’s
suggestion that what is required is a
medium to put “amateur theatre in touch
with the plays available.” One is tempted
to suggest that this is a job for the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust to tackle. But
is it? Does the Trust, or, indeed, should
that body be expected to know and
understand the requirements of the
amateur theatre when, as a commercial
enterprise, it is actually competing with
the little theatres for the services of the
playwright. NO! ! The Trust on one
hand and the little theatres (or amateur
theatre movement) on the other can be
likened to the proverbial sandwich, with
the Australian playwright as the meat
between. Playwrights have come to
regard the Trust as their “guardian angel”
and when the angel (in their eyes) fails
them they turn and blame the amateur
theatre for neglecting them. So “they”
or “we,” whoever “they” or “we” might
be, are accused of “passing the buck,”
and pass it we do —right back where it
belongs—with the playwright himself to
remedy.
As Eunice Hanger obviously considers
“The Virgin of Treadmill Street” the
forgotten or ill-treated child of the Aus-
tralian theatre, both professional and
amateur, it would be interesting to hear
from her (as an amateur producer of
some note) the reasons why she has not
produced this play herself in the little
theatre with which she is connected, and
whose resources, one assumes, would be
available for this purpose.
NORMAN McVICKER
Pocket Playhouse,
Sydenham (N.S.W.)


OUT and ABOUT
SPORTSMAN
Eluding his opponent, knowledge,
He kicked and bowled his way through
college ;
And now that he has entered heaven,
He plays for Peter’s Ist XI.
Anton Vogt
Where Do Things Swing in
Adelaide?
AN eastern States visitor, bent on hav-
ing a pre-Festival look at Adelaide,
asked a local coffee-shop habitue, “Where
do things swing around here?” He was
told, “Nothing much happens at the
moment, but you should have been here
a couple of months ago when Hackney
was going—it was the Cross of Adelaide.
Well, anyway, there were four cellars.”
The most striking thing about Adelaide
to the visitor is the contrasts that
Adelaide people accept without question.
Just along the road from, and almost
in the shadow of, the new skyscraper
Australia Hotel, Adelaide’s most modern,
is an all-night hamburger joint like any
in Woolloomooloo or St Kilda Junction.
Further along the same arterial road,
O'Connell Street, tiny family fruitshops
and ageing restaurants are found in
Adelaide’s most fashionable residential
district, North Adelaide, home of the
best of South Australia’s colonial archi-
tecture and the new Bonython art gallery.
In the centre of town, busy Rundle
Street, home of the city’s biggest depart-
ment stores, is also the narrowest street,
giving way, over King William Street, to
Hindley Street, the cosmopolitan eating
centre. Here Chinese restaurants rub
shoulders with greasy Greek cafes, smart
new espressos, barbecue grill-houses
(Adelaide’s equivalent to a charcoal grill)
and a bistro cellar, La Cantina, which
for size, service, decor and charm beats
any of the smaller arcade bistros which
have sprung up in the next street. In
fact, La Cantina would be easily the best
place in Adelaide for civilised, modern
eating. Outside and up the road is the
Theatre Royal, the facade of which looks
more like an old fun-parlor. In the
street, well-dressed and fur-coated theatre-
goers mingle with the crowds of young
and old men in shirtsleeves.
For the formal meal, Adelaide’s most
exclusive eating place is Ernest’s, on the
weir. The decor is plush, the trio subdued
and the food excellent. But La Cantina
would rank as the best spot for enjoy-
able modern food and atmosphere.
One reflection of the visitor
sampling the fare of Adelaide eating
houses must be the excellence of table
wines, which seem generally of higher
quality than anywhere else in the country.
And wines are available in places which
cater for every pocket.
The South Australian art world runs
five big galleries. All but one are in
Adelaide; the other, the Hahndorf
Gallery in the heart of the Streeton
country, has little to do with the activi-
ties of those concerned with modern art,
centred at the Kym Bonython Gallery
which is in a charmingly converted house
in North Adelaide.
The house cost close on £lO,OOO to buy
and remodel, but Bonython is getting a
fair return. A large number of success-
ful eastern States painters has booked
exhibition space and the more important
painters have sold well. And, of course,
the Nolan show—with £7OOO worth of
sales —really put the place on the map.
The opening show by Italian-scholar-
ship-winner Lawrence Daws brought
£l2OO worth of sales, while Dickerson
sold £9OO worth and Gleghorn £BOO.
Future shows will include local painters
Jack Hick, Ostoya-Kotkowski and
Dutkiewicz, and several important young


"I’m not Worried about beating them, but can the chief deadlock U.N. while
We eat them ?”
Sydney painters like Robert Hughes and
Ross Morrow.
The other three galleries, the Went-
worth, the Peel Street and the Royal
Society of Arts, do not do as much busi-
ness, favoring local, parochial and
academic painters. An unusual feature,
however, is that the Royal Society works
in closely with the Contemporary Arts
Society and members of the latter society
use the former’s gallery extensively, and
the two, which are often opposing bodies
in other States, sit on the same
committees.
Adelaide people are among the friend-
liest, most courteous and least snobbish
city-dwellers in the country.
Dumb Tow
YI/orld War ii veterans of the R.A.N.,
the River-class frigates Condamine,
Burdekin and Hawkesbury, have come
to an ignominious end. They are being
towed to Japan for a Hong Kong busi-
ness syndicate to be broken up for
scrap and perhaps returned to Australia
as razor blades.
Some 20 British seamen have spent
weeks making these old derelicts ready
for the dumb tow to Yokahama. A
dumb tow means the ships are
unmanned. The seagoing tug Pacific
Reserve will do the job. The skipper of
* be Captain N. Ingleton, who
writes under the name of Kenneth
Ainslie and has already made towing
history taking minesweepers from the
U.S. to the Philippines, hopes to write
another book about this tow of some
4000 miles.
His first book, “Pacific Ordeal,” is a
classic of seagoing adventure. When
he left Sydney recently with his mile-
long tow heading for the typhoon
area it looked as if there were another
exciting book to be written about this
voyage.
At the last minute the Sydney harbor-
master refused to let them take all
three ships as the tug, also a wartime
veteran, didn't look as if she could handle
them. Old Hawkesbury will wait for
the next trip when perhaps H.M.A.S
Hobart will be her companion.
Napoleonic Mystery
'T'hat Napoleon died on St Helena in
P2l is something every school-
child, or, at least, every television quiz
contestant, knows. However, it has never
been clear what he died of. Recently
scientists analysed a lock of his hair
with the aid of an atomic reactor and
reached the conclusion that he died of
arsenical poisoning.
Now the mystery remains—was it
murder, suicide or misadventure. After
his death an autopsy was carried out
by his physician whose opinion was
that Napoleon had died of liver disease.
But the five British doctors who signed
the death certificate gave the cause of
death as cancer of the stomach.
Napoleon was sick for at least five
years before he died. If he suicided, he
must have had an accomplice to supply
him with the arsenic, and must have
been able to get it only in small doses, so
that the agony was prolonged. If it were
murder, it must have been someone
in close contact with him over those
years, and possibly somebody who
wanted to do the job in as long-drawn-
out and painful a way as possible.
That Was Australia
“Nestor:” Apropos “The Toll of the
Surf” headline, now almost “standing
matter” in the Sydney daily press. Why
do our authorities not adopt the Euro-
pean method? Here it is, as may be
seen on any Continental beach. The
sauvetage (life-saving) boats patrol the
waters just outside the breaker-line. If
a bather passes the breaker-line a
trumpet is sounded for his return. If
he persists, he is followed and arrested.
They don’t allow people to lose their
lives and risk other lives through pure
angora foolishness. Life is too valuable.
If the patrol boat cannot go out, then
the surf is dangerous and the bathers
are forbidden to go in. Consider the
difference between this simple method
and all the fuss and feathers of life-
saving on our beaches. The dramatic
alarm, the rush with the reel, the pic-
turesque paying-out of the line, the
heroic leader with the life-belt, the smaller
fry helping, the crowded spectators en-
croaching on the picturesque workers,
the lady admirers of the heroes, the
photographer, the descriptive writer—and
the victim drowning all the time! Had
the patrol boat been there, and no one
allowed in the surf save under its pro-
tecting wing, the dailies might have the
headline “Toll of the Surf” melted down,
for the sensational rescues and unsen-
sational drownings would be things of
the past.
—“The Bulletin January 29, 1914.


FOR THE OBSERVER
GETTING THE DRUM
tt was 3.20 a.m. when the policeman
knocked on the door and I had to
agree with him it was a late hour for
a drum duet even at Kings Cross.
“We’ve had complaints from all
around the neighborhood about those
bongos,” he said.
When I told him I had no idea it was
so late he gave me the look that said
all disturbers of the peace told him
that.
“We’ll stop them,” I assured him.
“You will,” he agreed, “otherwise
you'll get a visit from the Vice Squad.
People don't go for those native drums.”
While wondering what the Vice Squad
could pin on any of the participants of
our remarkably sober and virtuous
party, I considered his latter remark.
1 didn't think he was right. The drum-
mers at our party —Albert Laguerre from
Haiti on conga, Jimmy Mac Kay from
Jamaica on bongos—had certainly held
the attention of a mixed lot.
Our guests included a clothing sales-
man, several illustrators, an art director,
a railway ticket collector, a few news-
papermen and assorted housewives.
Few, if any, had heard the drums
before. Most probably they lumped all
hand-beaten drums together under the
general heading of “bongos” and associa-
ted them with beatniks.
Yet the fact was that during the drum-
ming they'd all sat entranced and the
boys had played for more than 20
minutes creating an incredible number
of rhythm combinations without ever
repeating a theme.
All (with the possible exception of the
neighbors too far away to discern the
subtleties of it) agreed that they had
heard an exciting, evocative art form.
The drumming aroused sufficient interest
for me to probe a little deeper. Albert
Laguerre gave me the information.
Drums, he said, were part of the local
sounds of his native Haiti. In fact they
could be heard in all West Indian islands
and South American spots that had a
large negro population.
Undoubtedly they originated in Africa,
but their rhythms have given rise to
music blended with native West Indian
themes. Cuba, Brazil and the Calypso-
conscious Trinidad all had evolved their
own music based on drum rhythms.
Albert never remembers a time when
he was not drumming on something.
There are frequent folk-music festivals
in Haiti and he was inspired to enter
one of these. A carpenter by profession,
he made his own drums and presumably
was something of a wow.
So much so that two visiting American
schoolteachers heard him and told
Katherine Dunham, then on a visit to
Port-au-Prince with her famous dance
troupe.
She quickly signed up Albert as
drummer for the troupe and he toured
with the Katherine Dunham dancers for
five years.
When the troupe came to Australia
Albert was with them. He liked the
country enough to return after the
dancers disbanded in Japan.
During his period here he has played
his drums on television, in night clubs
and for innumerable reunions, ranging
from the R.S.L. to the B'nai B’rith. He
recently performed at a white-collar
workers’ concert and brought those
usually unemotional office workers to
their feet in wild applause.
But engagements come in rather
slowly. Few people can concieve of
hand-played drums as being serious
musical instruments.
Laguerre and his friends have dis-
cussed the possibilities of staging a West
Indian Festival at some big hall. They
visualise dancing, songs, poems and, of
course, drums. With the few West
Indians domiciled here and a handful of
Australians of West Indian origin there
might be sufficient for such a night. But
it has never got beyond the talking stage
so far.
Meanwhile, Albert accepts engage-
ments on TV channels and occasional
one-night stands. He could get regular
work at some of the less dignified night
spots around the Cross. “I won’t play
in dives where they don’t appreciate
drums,” he says; “it would spoil my
status.”
Talking with Albert Laguerre raised
the inevitable question of how popular
these new type drums are becoming.
He referred me to Australia’s only Congo,
tumba and bongo drum factory.
When I climbed a wooden ladder to
a loft workshop in deepest Darlinghurst
to interview drum-maker Les Fraser, I
wondered what was in store for me.
I was prepared to find a couple of gone
cats, bearded and unwashed, squatting
beside a few half-finished drums.
How wrong I was! The workshop
was a maze of lathes, drills and grinders
with three dungaree-clad, very dinki-di
types at work.
Les Fraser, a sandy-haired, blue-eyed
man about 38, with a businesslike air
about him, crossed the floor. He was,
he explained, an engineer by trade. He’d
turned to drum making about four years
ago. He lit his pipe.
“It began when blokes who were try-
ing to make their own drums approached
me to tool up some of the metal work,”
he said. “I made inquiries. The only
drums available were imported r o T got
interested and started a bit of research.
“Well, it got me in, you know. After


all, the drum was man’s first musical
instrument. There are three main types
of hand-played drums.
“The conga, that’s the sort Albert
plays and it’s the granddaddy of them all,
probably originated in Africa. But now
it’s played throughout the Caribbean.
Then there’s the tumba —you pronounce
that ‘toomba’—that’s smaller and popu-
lar with the Latin-American drummers.
Lastly there are the bongos, kind of
smallish twin drums that came from
Cuba.”
I decided that Les Fraser is about as
far from a beatnik as it’s possible to get.
“I went into this thing thoroughly,”
he said. “I studied the different types,
and then examined the existing drums.
I saw the important factor about all the
good ones was the dimensions .. . the
proportion between the size of the head,
the belly and the taper of the bottom.
That combination is what produces the
special tone of a conga and a tumba.
“Now a lot of these drums look pretty
on the outside. But the sound doesn’t
come from the outside . .. have a look
at these.”
He showed me the barrel-like inside
of a half completed tumba. The finish
was as neat and smooth as the exterior
except that it wasn't varnished.
“That’s the part of the drum that
counts and that’s why ours are good
drums —we make a thorough job of
them,” Fraser said.
He uses Queensland corkwood of not
more than 351 b. weight to the cubic
foot.
“The blokes down at the Forestry
Commission gave me a lot of help when
I started looking into this and we finally
settled on corkwood as the most suit-
able timber,” he said.
“Most visiting drummers get around
to visiting us up here and most of them
buy a couple of drums to take back with
them. It’s not only that they’re good
drums, but they’re a dashed sight cheaper
than those made anywhere else in the
world.
“The Mexicans make a lot of drums,
but if I could export these I could under-
cut them and with a better drum.”
Perhaps this is an angle the Minister
for Trade should look into, and it’s not
impossible that one day the conga bands
of Latin America may be beating out
their rhythm on Australian drums.
Meanwhile, Fraser has a steady trade
in Australia. “Can't keep up with the
demand,” he said.
Does he play the drums? “Can’t. ..
I’m like a piano tuner. I can tune a
drum for the most exacting professional,
but I can t play and I ve seen too many
amateurs make fools of themselves to
try.”
Some philistines have suggested he
make drums in fibreglass. This causes a
frown to cross his rugged countenance.
“Look,” he said when I discussed it
with him, there isn t a sound created by
any musical instrument that can’t be
reproduced electronically, right? Well,
.hen, why make any musical instrument?
•■No, timber is a drum's sound box
just as it is a violin's. Drums have always
been made of wood. That's the way I'll
continue to make them.’’
And he continues forming his drum
bodies, tooling the metal hoops and
tightening screws, producing “the great-
est output of conga, tumba and bongo
drums in the southern hemisphere.”
“What, South America included?” I
asked.
“Yes, including South America,” he
assured me
~ , T .
.°" * he Way OUt 1 , nearly ran ,nto *
B,ant c ° nga drUm stand ' ng near ' he
door ' Eraser. > aughed , w " hout
umour ' , tha ‘ £or a s ° me
ago \ Spec ! al ord f' , 11 545 mches
, lg : 1 a inc ( Ic ‘ ld ' Biggest
da ™*d conga ever made . • only he shot
thr ° Ugh and left 11 on “Y J hands „ Know
anyone wan,s an ° utsize drum?
CHARLES SRIBER
TRAVEL
THE END OF AN ERA
IVTow I know what John Gilbert said
when Jolson cried “You ain’t heard
nothing yet,” what Vilma Banky said as
her world fell about her ears like a bad
home perm. And it wasn't “bother!”
My “Jazz Singer” came in Karachi.
I leapt from the deck of the good ship
Sabarmati. My third visit to Pakistan
in nine years. Good old Pakistan! The
Customs officer fumbled through my
passport, said, “You killed Hammarsk-
jold!” and chopped the page reserved for
Observations.
I walked into town briskly. In my
hand I clutched a manila envelope con-
taining a new story. Another story.
One of the stories that had been keeping
me going for nine years.
Bunder Road is the city’s main
thc-oughfare, a one-way street. A sort
of Pitt Street with camels. I was pleased
to see that the humpies of the Moslem
refugees that had defaced the road
during my last two visits were gone.
(They have moved out to a better suburb).
1 was heading for the offices of the
daily “Dawn.” Of course they would
take my story. In 1952, “Dawn” had
published the very first article I’d ever
written. In English, that is. I’d had
the same article published before in
Istanbul, only in Turkish.
But I left the “Dawn” sub-editor’s den
still clutching my manila envelope and
its new story. “If it’s about hitchhiking
or s:ootering or travelling across Asia
in a luggage rack take it away globe-
trotting isn’t news any more.”
THAT’S how you recognise the end of
an era: “. . . it isn’t news any more . . .”
I was stunned. Twenty-five yeais old
and I was the End of an Era. The Age
of the Young Traveller on a Budget that
I had helped give birth to as a Bright
Young Thing of 16 ... . dead. So that's
what Bulwer Lytton meant when he said
dead, dead and never called me mother.
I was sixteen and a little bit more
when I arrived in Karachi in’s2. By
Arab dhow. I left three weeks later.
By plane (the ticket the gift of a wealthy
Pakistani businessman and why not, he
could afford it?).
Those were the days! My “Dawn”
story, a series of talks on Radio Pakistan
(I remember, they took 49 per cent,
income tax) and lectures to schools and
the gymkhana. Ah yes, these were the
days ....
I was 23 and a little bit more when I
arrived in Karachi in 1958. By plane
(the ticket a complimentary from Iran
Airways for promising to write a story
about them. I never did.) Two weeks
later I left. By diplomatic bag, running
the gauntlet from Lahore to Amritsar
in a DC limousine.
It’s sad to be the End of an Era at 25
(and a little bit more).
But what I really remember about
Karachi, 1961, was beef.
In Hindu-ridden Ceylon, India and
Nepal a cow is really somebody’s mother.
As such it is inedible. In Benares I saw
villagers cremating a cow that had died
(presumably of old age) beside the
Ganges on a ghat. The smell drove me
mad. I had to swallow hard and remind
myself that it wasn’t a barbecue at East-
wood, go back to the railway refresh-
ment room and pick at curry and rice.
Vegetable curry and rice.


In Moslem Pakistan, however, a cow
is a living, breathing T-bone steak. On
Mondays.
Tuesday, the waiter told me “Sorry.”
Tuesday is a meatless day. So was
Wednesday. 1 don’t know if it’s a meat
shortage or a spectacular advertising
promotion to Eata Extra Fisha Day, but
1 do know that I couldn’t lay knife and
fork on a beefsteak again in Pakistan.
You see, I had to bypass the Khyber
Pass. Not satisfied with fractured rela-
tions with India, Pakistan was currently
not talking to Afghanistan either. That
meant I had to take a 24-hour luggage
ride on Thursday to Quetta (where the
earthquake was) and then a 36-hour
luggage ride across another desert from
Quetta to Zahidan. In Persia.
I posted a letter from Quetta post
office. The clerk sold me a pretty stamp
picturing a map of Pakistan and India.
The State of Kashmir and Jammu was
marked in white. Bold black letters
proclaimed: “Disputed Territory.”
The post office clerk said, “Where is
your letter going to?” I told him Aus-
tralia. “Oh, that’s all right then,” he
said. “Because you can’t use this stamp
on letters going to India. It might
cause an internatio" ff incident. They
think Kashmir is theirs!”
And then the train left.
DON WHITE
ABORIGINALITIES
MORNING IN THE CLEARING
nPHE strength of the sun is just beginn-
A ing to permeate and warm the morn-
ing air as I approach the clearing among
dense tea-tree and mallee scrub: as the
final screens of leaves part, I stand
quietly at the edge.
A rabbit darts from a clump of grass
quite close. It gives me a start. Suddenly
it seems strange to me that anything
should move in this still, remote place.
But soon a flock of red-backed parrots
rises from the ground. They fly in dis-
order and confusion to a nearby tree
where they alight, uneasily giving their
distressed whistles and answering
chatters; calling to stragglers who
haven’t yet left the ground; fluttering
from branch to branch, tree to tree,
whistling, chattering, unsure. An embar-
rassed moment of silence, then a cautious
outbreak of continued whistling and
“chicking,” rising to a timid but insis-
tent climax, and they leave the trees for
others, a little distance away. Circling,
calling, they locate and join their mates
and children, flit-fluttering and landing ;
eyes wide, necks stretched, and bodies
crouched, ready to leave at my slighest
move.
I feel it is my social duty to apologise
for disturbing them.
Some little zebra finches leave the
grass at top speed, swerving from side
to side, their small checkered tails mark-
ing out an upward curve. They reassure
each other with brief, muted trumpet
notes. Confident that they are acting
correctly, resigned and calm, they land
in a nearby bush and turn to face me,
flicking their tails. They hop energeti-
cally from twig to twig, the males’ black-
barred white breasts puffed out defiantly ;
the females more level-headed and obser-
vant: “Keep an eye on him, you never
know these humans!”
“Nonsense,” reply the males, some of
them breaking out into their confident,
well-rehearsed “fluffety” songs. They
hop, puff, sing ; then suddenly, unexpec-
tedly, leave in a staccato of mono-
syllables, their twisting, swerving flight
curving over the tree tops out of sight.
A diamond sparrow shoots out noise-
lessly from almost under my feet. He
perches good-naturedly on the nearest
twig. Hop! He turns to face me ;
flick! goes his tail. “Gave me quite a
fright you did,” he beams at me. He
pauses, gives his mournful, questioning
“tseeeee” rising to a crescendo, glances
round cheerfully, hops to another branch
and flicks his tail at me twice.
I try to imitate his call. He flies over
me from tree to tree, calling back, peering
down at me, puzzled: “That's funny, I
could have sworn I heard someone
calling me!” Finally, with a philosophic
flick of his tail he flies back to his
feeding ground.
A ground lark appears from the grass
near me, looks up at me cheekily, stoops
and dashes off between clumps of grass
in a business-like manner, his legs just
a blur. After running a few yards he
stops dead, raises and lowers his tail,
stands upright, looks at me, looks around
and dashes off again. Behind a rock now
he stands on his toes to peer at me over
the top; but as I walk towards him he
takes to the air at a steep angle in a
slow, but capable flutter, farewelling me
with a casual “cheep.”
At the far end of the clearing an emu
is standing. When I see him I get quite
a fright—such a startlingly, relatively big
thing. It walks towards me with charac-
teristic, bold curiosity, but, suddenly,
realising that he shouldn't be so close to
a human, starts walking away at a
rapidly increasing pace, finally disappear-
ing in a rustle of feathers, swaying like a
girl in a grass skirt.
I stand at the edge of the clearing.
Everything is still. They won’t return
for hours. I plunge back into the bush,
heading for home, and breakfast.
DAVID SCHLUNKE
“It heats me why the nations of the world Want to live together like one
big family.”


REVIEWS
MUSIC
BREAKING THE MOULD
By EDGAR POOLE
HThis year's Jazz Convention in Adelaide
was not a sensational one ; only
twenty registered bands were on the pro-
gramme —though there was a healthily
large number of pick-up groups —and the
emphasis was on enjoyment and group
participation rather than on showiness or
hard-headed concert organising. The loss
of many top bands and individual musi-
cians now in England, and the several
good groups here whose commercial
obligations prohibited their attendance,
was compensated for by the at times
surprisingly high standard of younger
bands, particularly those from Melbourne.
Considerable improvement was shown
by the Yarra Yarra, Southern City and
Peter Shields bands, who all exhibited
great enthusiasm and at times an interes-
ting and fresh concern with interweaving
melodic development that augers well for
the continuance of local jazz traditions
and the possible extending of stylistic
horizons. For the great fault of our jazz
is its fundamentalism ; if you can develop
the unified diversity of group impro-
visation and impetus the jazzman calls
“swinging,” you’re all right Jack ; let’s
make each chorus hotter than the last,
one more time, daddy, one more time.
This is not to say that this is wrong
but rather that it is not enough. The
great bands of Morton, Oliver, Arm-
strong and Williams all had front line
instrumentalists who could swing like
life itself and also create inspired melodic
lines of ever fresh and fluctuating con-
trapuntality. And the work of Bix Beider-
becke was as hot as it was lyrical.
The Australian jazzman does not have
the same emotional make-up as Negro
originators and it is not surprising that
our jazz should have its own flavor. This
is a solid earthiness of sound and a more
consistent rhythmic base, with none of
the subtle manipulations of beat or the
delicate sprung rhythm of the Creole
bands. However, modern recording pro-
cesses have enabled us to hear much
more easily the work of a much wider
range of bands than was available in
the late ’forties when Australian jazz
really boomed and the earthiness, often
heaviness, of much of our playing could
be due to laziness or indifference as much
as to more stolid emotions. And there
is an unhealthily cultish feeling against
any playing that strays too far away from
the accepted norm. In fact, it was this
lack of musicality and distrust of origina-
lity that deterred American cornet player
King Fisher, undisputed star of last
year's convention who was, unfortu-
nately, unable to attend this convention,
from remaining in Melbourne (which
would have been lucrative) and led him
to seek musical satisfaction (and find
near-penury)in Perth.
This notwithstanding, healthy signs of
advancing musicianship were exhibited
at this convention by Shields's trombonist;
Graeme Spedding, alto and clarinet, and
Bob Learmonth, trombone, from Syd-
ney ; and an itinerant Melbourne trum-
peter, John Patterson, who played with
great thoughtfulness at an after-concert
party —also, to a lesser degree, by the
bands of Roger Hudson, Willie
Mclntyre and a pick-up group featuring
Learmonth, Alec Frame, trumpet, Jim
Loughnan, soprano, and Graham Coyle,
piano. Outstanding solo work was done
by Sydney trombonist Ken Longman,
Loughnan—some haunting blues in the
Bechet idiom —and young Adelaide bass
player Ron Williams, whose singing
brought the house down.
Good jazz singers are rare here and
the defection to England of Paul Marks
and Elvie Simmons has left us much the
poorer, except for a promising young
blues singer, Judy Jaques, in Melbourne.
But the singing that made Ron Williams
possibly the most popular individual per-
former at this convention was of a differ-
ent order to the folk and classic blues of
the others ; it was not a singer's singing
but a vocalisation of his bass playing,
his phrasing chordal rather than over-
ridingly melodic. This is jazz singing in
the truest sense, a sense rarely experi-
enced here, and then usually in the heat
of very impromptu jazz making.
Williams's singing, however, was not
mere “rorting”; it was consciously con-
ceived music making, rich in both verbal
and musical humor, and displaying a
sense of the relationship between singer
and band which this reviewer finds inor-
dinately sophisticated for this country —-
from the point of view of the mouldies.
blasphemously close to the scatting of
Dizzy Gillespie.
The reason for this is Williams's
interest and work in more contemporary
and urbane jazz styles. His scatting on
the old Ellington tune, “It Don't Mean a
Thing,” which came about because
Willie Mclntyre played an unfamiliar
progression (and Williams was too busy
anticipating chords to worry about
words), was, in fact, much closer to
Gillespie's “Schooldays” than to Arm-
strong's “Heebie Jeebies.”
Williams seems important because he
is the most accomplished of a growing
group of musicians whose interest is not
in factional rivalries but in playing
jazz, any jazz style that suits them. When
this group grows and becomes dominant
we stand a chance of developing some-
thing like a valid indigenous musical
idiom. Even now large numbers of
musicians—and by no means all of them
young —can in the same breath talk of
Morton and Mulligan, Picou and Parker,
St Cyr and Christian. This leads one to
reflect on whether or not the conventions
are being run as they should —by
musicians for musicians—or being
subtly controlled by diehard mouldies
from the jazz clubs, many of them record
collectors.
EDGAR POOLE


cm™
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £893,311.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,075,028.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
YEAR ENDED
30-6-61
£12,857,865
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/11/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
HD82.11
8.13/1
THEATRE
TOO SOPHISTICATED
Alice in Wonderland. Phillip Theatre.
Sydney.
TI7ILLIAM Orr’s adaptation of Lewis
Carroll’s classic has all the basic
theatrical skill and visual appeal that
Sydney has come to rely on from Mr Orr,
perhaps our most experienced profes-
sional producer. Costumes have expen-
sive glamor, and the settings—a sequence
of enormous framed pictures—have a
piquant delight for the eye.
And yet there is a final unsatisfactory
flavor to the show; many hints of what
might have been, and not enough solid
achievement. The show does not fully
succeed in communicating itself to the
audience —children make no allowances,
they chatter, swing their legs, kick the
theatre chairs, kick their neighbors.
A rising hum of inattention is the
inexorable sign to cast and producer that
the goodwill of the audience is ebbing.
Just why “Alice” goes astray in this
fashion is explained by the sophistica-
tion of the show. Producer Orr has
assumed that all who see the show know
their Lewis Carroll, and further assumes
that because of this foreknowledge, the
characters will be funny solely because
they are the Dormouse, the Mad Hatter,
the Queen of Hearts.
This isn’t good enough ; the characters
as seen on stage must exist purely on
their own merits. They must tell the story
clearly, and be exceedingly funny because
of what they do and say there and then
on the stage —not seem funny because
they remind us of earlier days when the
Carroll characters in the book amused us.
Playing to children is a broad and
innocent affair. Everyone involved, the
producer and his entire cast, must get
back to the clear and primitive eye of
childhood. The child sees different facts
to adults—he selects less than the adult
mind, stuffed with concepts. The child
sees more of reality, takes in more. He
responds less to reminders of past
experience, cares little for memories com-
pared to the glorious flood of his present
intense moment of living and perceiving.
Because the child takes in so much,
uncritically, he is grateful when it is easy
for him to recognise items of environ-
ment. When things stand out very clearly
against the whirl of sense impressions,
the child responds—and so the way to
play to children is to use style which is
broad, bold, colorful —-a style which
makes the characters stand out easily
from all around and enables the child to
relate such a typical figure to some
elements of his very small experience.
This is, of course, old stuff to anyone
who has played in pantomime or had
much to do with children’s theatre. But
it’s old stuff that the Phillip Theatre needs
reminding of.
In performances, one or two excellent
jobs of work stand out —Grant Taylor, as
Humpty Dumpty and the Queen of
Hearts, was larger than life and first-class
in style. John Unicomb’s Mad Hatter,
handicapped by a table far too small
to give the full absurdity of the Tea
Party scene, had the right drollery and
life, as did Jim Hannan’s Duchess. The
one scene which captured the Carroll
spirit and the audience alike was that
gruesome bit of jugglery—the Duchess
and the Cook throwing the baby about
as if it were a football..
Miss Patsy Ann Noble, as Alice,
showed up better than one would expect


Estab’isbed 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
■jACKfeON &
. O SVJbUV A \.
ti, PTYITD v
W '*Mk 1 %
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating’
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE HAND :MCTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYI'ERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS •; PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented Ore
Concentrator has proved over many
years to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin to the
sole manufacturers:
GUTHRID6E PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents ior
Kai»i<l Magnetting Machines, George
Ellison Switch hear, etc. Makers of
Classifiers, Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
ib
HELP
£
from her television appearances, though
she still needs to give more, to find
greater richness of experience, more
resource. She was pert and sweetly
appealing, however, and adequately
heard.
Miss Noble’s TV associates, the Allen
Brothers, as Tweedledum and Tweed-
ledee, were a different proposition. It
would appear that they have parlayed
their very slender talents into some
acceptability for television, via micro-
phone and echo. Deprived of these on
the live stage, their level of skill was
sadly unfitted to the rest of the company,
If your young have some knowledge
of Alice, and are a little older than four,
by all means take them along. Despite
the gloss of over-sophistication, there’s
still enough to delight all but the most
blase eight-year-old.
KEVON KEMP
ART
LETTS PAINT
Exhibition of Latvian Arts. Adelaide.
HThe effects of and on the various ethnic
A groups which have come to Aus-
tralia in the last few years are constantly
interesting. Who is absorbing whom?
The Latvians are few, but sufficiently
vigorous and self-conscious to organise
regular festivals of their own in different
cities in turn. Performances and exhibi-
tions cover a wide field and are well
attended. A colleague, reviewing in a
daily paper the musical parts of their
recent display in Adelaide, pointed out
that he had no knowledge of Latvian
music by which he might set standards
of criticism, but generally he found the
performances and the attitudes admir-
able. One gathered, then, that the music
was very distinctively Latvian, but this
was to be expected of an art which
readily develops marked national charac-
teristics and which, once composed, is
performed with few variations.
Painting, through constant re-creating
and because of its person-to-person
rather than person-to-public qualities,
might be expected to react more quickly
to a change in situation, even though it
were the product of an avowed national
school. On an overcast day, with the
thermometer at a hundred and four,
I looked to see what a hot dry country
was doing to these painters from a cold
wet one, seeking glimmers of the coming
heterozygous culture. The paintings were
not outstanding except for those of
Ojars Bisenieks, which dominated the
others ; and his three typified the rest.
One was an abstract. The other two were
“Refugees” and “New Horizon”. The
refugee theme is appropriate. The
horrors of occupation and reoccupation,
mixed loyalty, flight, dispossession,
separation, hunger, pain, and death,
could fill all the canvasses the Australian
Letts could ever paint, and still have our
sympathy ; but now one hopes that this
is part of a looking back .
What I thought was strange was that
Biseniek’s “New Horizon” seemed also
to be in northern Europe; it
hadn't even the barest dab of
a desert Drysdale in it. It was generally
true of the others; they looked back-
wards or to the north. The flowers, the
little girls, were Baltic. I looked around
for anything which seemed to be a
reaction to Australia, and out of the six
or seven dozen for sale (and therefore,
I presumed, painted recently) 1 saw only
one, a group of tall angular figures
erring uneasily in orange and yellow
light. I looked at the catalogue. It was
called “The Blind” by Janis Puika and
may have been what I sought and fair
comment on my attitude.
Obviously the organisers of the exhibi-
tion wanted it to represent Latvian art,
and an attempt to preserve, archaeology-
wise in Australia, a grand nostalgia for a
Lativa which no longer exists (in the
hope of remaking it one day?) is a
human, and perhaps a useful and reason-
able, thing to do. But a non-Latvian
might ask those who will present future
festivals not to exclude some items which
say in uncompromising fashion what
Latvians think and feel about Australia,
to which they are such a worthy
addition. It is the Grand Mixture which
will have such possibilities. We should
all egg it on ; not put it off.
EARLE HACKETT


The Red Page
MAKING SILENCE GOLDEN
By PETER HASTINGS
“pvAUC HT E R of Silence,”* according to
its author, Morris West, “is the
reverse side of the medal: man isola-
ting himself by egotism, and finding that
his dignity and salvation can only be
established on a recognition of his depen-
dence and his need for absolution from
his follies.” The reference to the medal
is, of course, a reference to West’s
earlier and highly successful novel “The
Devil's Advocate”. As a comment all
it seems to prove is that West, who is at
any time distressingly serious about what
he writes, can also be solemn.
“Daughter of Silence” was originally
conceived 'as a short radio play based
on an actual incident in postwar Italy,
later worked into a successful novel and
an unsuccessful play. Mr West is
currently negotiating film rights either
to the play, which had a very short run
on Broadway, or to the book. Handled
with sensitivity it could doubtless be
transformed into a highly successful film-
play enjoyed by those audiences all over
the world who mistake as serious and
thoughtful something which is little better
than a collection of very tired cliches.
Mr West is one of those authors who
like it both ways and possess a talent for
convincing themselves that it is possible
to have it both ways. The recipe is an
old and familiar one. Take a dramatic
incident, sketch in a lot of characters led
by a highly romantic, appealing old man,
every four of five pages lard well with
serious thoughts about God, sex, man,
marriage, responsibility, selfishness or
anything else that’s likely to appeal to
the Book Club girls ; bind together with
pseudo-sophistication and you have it.
The principal incident of the book is
fascinating. A young girl arrives in a
village outside Siena one hot afternoon
and shoots the local Mayor. She is
arrested and charged with murder. Her
case is taken up by the son-in-law of
Italy’s most famous advocate, staying
with whom is none other than a “quirky
faced” Australian psychiatrist of inter-
national reputation. Due to their collec-
tive skills the whole story is produced
in court and the girl acquitted. She was
merely revenging herself for her mother’s
murder. The Mayor had been a partisan
leader in the latter stages of the war.
Unable to get the girl’s mother to
sleep with him, he arrested her on fake
charges, of collaboration, raped her and
had her shot. The girl, who was only
eight at the time, went slowly mad plot-
ting the murderer’s death. That’s all right,
but Mr West’s handling of the theme
isn’t. There is a great deal of psychiatric
talk of a depth and profundity scarcely
likely to induce a trauma in the most
tender mind, culminating in a court
scene in which the youthful advocate
gets up a full head of steam and in which
it becomes apparent that nothing short
of an earthquake can stop the girl getting
off:
“It was a magnificent moment, an
instant of vision such as great preachers
sometimes impose on their audience. The
paradox of the human estate was sudden-
ly laid bare, the pathos of it and the pity
and the massive terror that attends the
most banal imperfection. In the court
a woman sobbed brokenly. Ninette
dabbed at her eyes and old Ascolini
blew his nose in a great trumpet blast.
The white-haired President wiped his
spectacles and his assistants tried vainly
to mask the emotions that this youthful
advocate had stirred in them.” One
would have to have a heart of stone to
observe these proceedings and not laugh.
However, the court scene finale, the
girl’s acquittal and removal to an asylum
for three years, is only part of the
author’s serious notions. Apart from the
girl, the principal characters of Mr West’s
novel are Ascolini, the aged advocate,
Valeria, his spoilt daughter, Carlo, his
uncertain son-in-law, and the head-
shrinker from Australia—Peter Landon.
Ascolini’s trouble is that he is too intelli-
gent and cynical for the midgets around
him. A magnificent, white-haired, culti-
vated old man, he destroys everything
he touches, only loving what he can’t
obtain. Valeria has been so corrupted
by him that she is dissatisfied with every-
thing, including Carlo, who is too weak to
woo her but begs for affection. Lan-
don’s trouble, according to Mr West, is
that he is isolated, proud, ambitious.
He fixes Landon’s trouble by getting
him to marry a French girl. The troubles
of the others remain just about unfixable.
Carlo falls in love with the mad girl and
by so doing makes her irretrievably
mad. Valeria is left with the knowledge
that Carlo is a permanent mess.
Ascolini is left with both of them
and the knowledge that he is mostly
responsible for the way things have
developed. At least that’s how 1 believe
Mr West intended things. He has set his
best-selling novel down in a superb set-
ting—moonlit villas, the turrets of Siena,
the cafes of Florence—which is sure to
tug at quite a few impressionable heart
strings. And he hasn’t hesitated to use
some of the most banal language I have
come across in a long time.
“The piece was one of those early
nocturnes, tender, limpid, plangent...
the notes fell pure as water drops.”
Siena.. .“was a place of paradox, a
field of fusion for historic contrarieties:
beauty and terror, spiritual ecstasy and
gross cruelty, mediaeval ignorance and
the cold illumination of the age of
unreason.”
“Abruptly she turned away and left
him alone in the vaulted library with
two thousand years of wisdom on the
shelves and no remedy at all against
winter and disillusion.”
“He felt no need of caution with this
woman, and she made no drama of this
first intimate nocturne.”
“She shrugged and pouted like a true
Parisienne.”
One world-famed psychiatrist talking
to another: “You will agree with me. I
think, Landon, that we are still the pion-
eers of an inexact science . . .”
Landon, the great psychiatrist, to
Carlo:
“Damn it, Carlo! You’re a big boy
now. What do you want? A new book
every night with the pages cut and
nothing written on them anyway? A
new maidenhead every bedtime and
people cheering when you hang out the
sheets in the morning? ..
Of course, all this tedious nonsense has
to end sometime, which gives Mr West
an excuse for employing one of the more
memorable bits of fade-out prose in con-
temporary literature:
“As they drove down the winding path
to the gates, they could see him solitary
and gallant on the terrace, the moonlight
silver on the lion’s mane, listening to the
lament of the nightingales.”
* Daughter of Silence. Morris West
Heinemann. 20s.


Secure this HIGHER INTEREST
For 7, 15 or 35 years
THE
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
5i%
LOAN
Is unconditionally Guaranteed by
The New South Wales Government!
HIGHER INTEREST. 5f% is substantially above the 3j% interest paid
by savings banks.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY. Interest payments every 6 months and full
repayment of principal at maturity are UNCONDITIONALLY GUARAN-
TEED BY THE NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT.
TAX CONCESSIONS FOR PENSION AND SUPERANNUATION
FUNDS. The Loan is an approved investment for Trustees wishing to
qualify for the taxation concessions provided for in recent legislation relating
to these Funds.
CASH AND CONVERSION. £5O is the minimum investment. Holders of
securities in two Loans maturing Ist February. 1962 —No. 79 (£4/2/6%) and
No. 173 (£5/5/- %) —are invited to convert to the new Loan and make
certain of HIGHER interest without interruption.
INVEST OR CONVERT TODAY at any office of the
Commonwealth Trading Bank;
Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
Bank of New South Wales;
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited;
English. Scottish and Australian Bank Limited;
Rural Bank of New South Wales;
Or through a Stockbroker;
Or at the Sydney Water Board offices.
An Authorised Trustee Investment in New South Wales,
Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania.
THE SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
MW 250/62
FLATTERED GHOST
The Spirit of Wharf House. C. E. T.
Newman. Angus and Robertson.
425.
A ll too many inexperienced and self-
interested writers are entering the
field of Australian biography and spoil-
ing that field for more competent
authors.
The form and pattern of their books
is uniform. They ape the scholarly work.
They provide introductions, mostly non-
commital but impressive, by historians
who may or may not be competent. They
have appendices of “reference notes”
which hint at vast delvings among
original documents and learned authori-
ties, and “bibliographies” to indicate a
wide reading by the biographer. All
this leads the unwary reviewer to give
them certificates of reliability. And often
they are only as reliable as a speech by
a politician about himself.
Mr Newman, who produces this bio-
graphical narrative of the family of Aus-
tralia's first regular merchant store-
keeper, Robert Campbell of the Wharf,
belongs to this class of writer. A descen-
dant of his main subject, his book pur-
ports to be a well-documented study of
the facts of Robert Campbell's life in
particular.
In his version, that young man, a mem-
ber of a firm of Calcutta merchants, was
lured by the trading opportunities of
New South Wales to bring the ship
Hunter, tactfully named after the
Governor and loaded with merchandise,
to Sydney in June, 1798. He was, it
appears, “anxious only to sell his cargo
at a decent price.” The author suggests
that, after talking to him, the Governor
was “satisfied that with the co-opera-
tion of Campbell there was some hope
that this cargo at least would not fall into
the hands of officer traders”, in fact,
“the syndicate of Army officers, who had
assumed the right of a monopoly of
trade for some years.”
What actually happened was that, on
the ship appearing, the principal inhabi-
tants and the officers of the regiment
agreed to appoint two or three persons
to purchase the whole cargo in order
to avoid profiteering by middlemen, the
inhabitants “having the right to claim
their proportion of such purchases ...
which will be the means of their receiving
the articles at a much lower price.”
And the Governor hastened to sanction
that arrangement. As Campbell himself
said later, he was compelled to sell at
the inhabitants’ prices, which seemed to
make him sad.
According to Mr Newman, Campbell’s
foundation years seem to have been


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D.” Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—Action,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
. iee search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. Sydney.
spent largely warring, in the interests of
clean commerce, against the wicked rum
monopolists, especially John Macarthur
and his allies. In his enthusiasm he is
even led to the extreme of accusing me
of having written that Macarthur’s
“closest friends and nearest military
subordinates” believed “the prime objec-
tive of the overthrow of Bligh to have
been to re-establish themselves as a
trading monopoly,” particularly in
respect of rum. I certainy did not write
anything of the kind. Mr Newman’s
version of that matter is on a par with
a very great deal of the remainder of
his history of the foundation years of
the great firm of Robert Campbell.
As a biographer, his blind eye and his
defective powers of observation are often
among his conspicuous features. He
blames ships’ captains for the Campbells’
persistent attempts, during Governor
King s time, to land mountainous cargoes
of illegally imported rum. He misses the
evidence of Campbell’s friend and
brother-in-law, Commissary Palmer,
before the Select Committee of 1812,
that there was no monopoly of rum by
the N.S.W. Corps and Civil officers. He
has failed to discover Governor King’s
plea to the Colonial Office for more
efficient steps to stop the Campbells’
rum trading and to “prevent a conduct
that, however much it may add to his
[Campbell’s] and his partner’s interest,
will infallibly lead to the destruction of
the Colony.” He misses, also, the chance
to observe that his story of Campbell’s
ardent support of Bligh in putting down
the rum trade should be considered in
the light of the knowledge (a) that on
oath before the Court which tried
Colonel Johnston for mutiny against
Bligh, Campbell was unable to swear
whether officers of the N.S.W. Corps
traded in rum, much less whether they
had a monopoly, (b) that Campbell’s
support of Bligh may have been influen-
ced by the circumstance that he had a
virtual monopoly of the right to land
rum during Bligh’s time, apart from the
fact that (as somebody put it) “Bligh
chose Robert Campbell, speculator of
this Colony, to be the receiver of His
Majesty’s [Customs] duties which it is
his interest to evade.”
On the whole, Mr Newman does
Campbell little service by whitewashing
him and some of his friends. He was
a tough, enterprising trader and mer-
chant ; equally, he was a great pastoral
pioneer whose sheep were the first to
go down into the pastures of the
Molonglo in November, 1823 —Mr New-
man seems to have missed that point too.
Being a Scot he made most posts win-
ning posts. He did great service to Aus-
tralia, but not always from motives of
unadulterated patriotism. Duntroon and
Yarralumla are his monuments and those
of a talented family which still throws
up distinguished members. But his ghost
must feel flattered as he reads Mr New-
man’s estimates of him and his character.
M. H. ELLIS
HIGH AND DEATHLESS SUN
Selected Poems of Kenneth Mackenzie.
Edited by Douglas Stewart. Angus
and Robertson. 255.
r PHis selection of Kenneth Mackenzie's
poems, which is edited by Douglas
Stewart, was long overdue. Because the
poetic experience has been broadened by
the best of the younger Australian poets,
and quietly and gradually by the older,
new emphases, new stresses have tended
to obscure such a poet as Mackenzie.
He cannot be described as a poet of
great influence, save upon technique;
but his stance is a significant and almost
unique one in our literature.
He must be judged finally as a poet
whose great concern is the love of man
for woman. And Mackenzie is the poet,
the contemplative, of the consummation
of that love. There is little of the directly
personal. Sometimes indeed there is the
impersonality almost of the catalogue:
This perfect belly sculpted more
mysteriously
Than all her other parts: mysterious
curves
That are and yet are not. Here will
love lie
Navel to navel if the match be right,
And those white thighs will know
their strength at last
And she her weakness. Those full,
velvet buttocks . . .
After all this we might prefer the per-
sonal winning wave in the tempestuous
petticoat—even if the poet must take the
trouble of partly clothing his lady.
But one of his finest poems, “The
Moonlit Doorway,” gives us a fuller con-
templation of love and its symbolic
value:
This was my fine reward . . .
That in some hour or two there
should have been
Utter forgetfulness of me and life
In this profundity of face-to-face
Against a doorway full of the moon-
lit sky.
The doorway is the world outside ; it
is “slashed once by the dagger-sounds of
a dog’s barking”; even the disturbance
is ornamental, and all night is sub-
servient. In Mackenzie’s leisurely, but
passionate, unstrained line I find this
poem deeply moving. Our one poem
which I might compare with it is the
recent “To Praise a Wife,” by Vincent
Buckley: here the outside world intrudes,
speculations harry, there are irony and
dim comedy ; but the tone and measure
of the two poems are much the same.
The best and most typical of Macken-
zie’s poems are consciously unrhetorical,
but sometimes, as in the “Eight Sonnets,”
he approaches Judith Wright in deep
feeling:
Passion still says, you are absent as
the sun
At midnight, and your absence is that
thing
That makes the eyes close sadly, the
blood run
Solemnly home and out, and the
heart sing:
‘Why is she absent as the sun at
night?’
■—and beat and beat and beat you
into light.
And in “A Search” he pinpoints his
contemplative attitude:
To know the cool, unmeasured joy
of absolute self-integration,
purged of all temporal alloy
of laughter, desire, indignation,
is to be so secure that none
can come unbidden to that dwelling
where, like a high and deathless sun,
shines godliness beyond all telling.
But “Our Earth” is disappointing.
Here is a new approach, without the
old humility, a gusto and self-assurance
which cover Mackenzie uneasily: in this
poem he purports to embrace all things,
and fails, whereas, paradoxically, his less
pretentious and humbler poems do in a
manner embrace all. Love and genera-
tion are abiding symbols of all creative
truth and experience, when held in focus.
No poems can be more moving than
by so-called pantheists Wordsworth,
Dylan Thomas, et al.; but “Our Earth”
proclaims a pantheism in which there is
no place for suffering, good, evil. Still,
the poem is studded with quiet and
inevitable images:
Here dusk
Walks womanlike, swaying bare-
footed where
Silence is kindest . . .
“A Fairy Tale” is one of the later
poems, and among the loveliest of all.
Addressed to a young girl, it shows how
Mackenzie’s love, despite some earlier


THIS VITAL FLESH
by
WILLIAM BAYLEBRIDGE
Volume 1 of the Collected Works of William Baylebridge (Memorial Edition),
edited by P. R. Stephensen.
THIS VITAL FLESH is a statement of the socio-political philosophy of a major
Australian poet who died in 1942. In its strictly limited edition of 1939 this work
was awarded the Gold Medal of the Australian Literature Society. It has been out
of print for many years, and is now for the first time made fully available.
30s. (postage 1/3)
FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS OR FROM THE PUBLISHERS
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD., SYDNEY
erotic vaguenesses, was always a true and
central one. Here he comes steeply yet
quietly into grips with the Present:—
Death sniping
Merrily from the void wipes out a
c - t y
And with a mighty shout as of one
vo j ce
We all scream‘Pity-give pity! And
money!’ and then . . .
And he concludes- ’ *
* ’
In this bed
is nothing but a small warm girl who
must
always, always sleep veiy peace-
_
and not scream in the night
(I trust. I trust.).
I can say little of Mackenzie the crafts-
man. But surely such poems as “Figure
of a Stooping Woman,” “Legerdemain”
(well named) and “The Snake” can speak
for themselves. For us, Mackenzie can
be the technical innovator whose skill
in matters of cadence is matched only
by Hart Smith’s. What this poet might
have accomplished but for his tragic
death 1S anybody’s guess. Later poems
show a widening range, conscious enrich-
ment of the commonplace. But what he
did ac j 1 j eve ca nnot be denied. It com-
prises some of the finest poems of love
in our literature, and many others which,
while not profound in modern senses of
the word, develop image and form as
surely as our best writers can.
FRANCIS WEBB
INTERNATIONAL VOICES
Sandalwood Island. Russell Foreman.
Heinemann. 20s.
La Bora. Philip M. Jones. Angus
and Robertson. 18s. 9d.
The Scarlet Blossom. Craig Stirling.
Heinemann. 21s.
The Good Looking Women. Ruth
Park. Angus and Robertson.
21s. 6d.
TTnlike Patrick White, Xavier Herbert
and some others, the four Australian
writers represented in this selection of
new novels have not struggled to achieve
individual or national voices: they work
with a standard style, and the tone of
these books is remarkably the same,
despite great differences of theme. This
flat, neutral writing is international, as
between London, New York, San Fran-
cisco, Sydney and Melbourne, and some-
times gives the devoted novel reader the
impression that all but a fraction of i.ew
books are written by one übiquitous
writer.
In Russell Foreman's “Sandalwood
Island,” which is entertainment of the
best kind —though hardly more than that
—a richer prose would perhaps have
justified Mr Foreman’s claim that the
book is partly historical. There is a
certain amount of surface detail of life
in the Fiji islands 150 years ago—the
period in which the novel is set —but the
deeper levels of primitive concept and
animistic obsession are not sounded. For
Mr Foreman, and, no doubt, for most of
his readers, the story is everything, and
his style is stripped to keep it moving.
The hero, Oliver Slater, escapes from
a Sydney guardhouse in 1805 and sails
north to an island on which he had
discovered great quantities of sandal-
wood, the successful harvesting of which
would make him a rich man. He takes
as partner an American sailor, and the
two of them experience a great many
perils and adventures before the treasure
is possessed. Everything is here to make
perfect holiday reading—muskets are
loaded, cannon are primed and cutlasses
are sharpened ; there are a great deal of
fighting, a massacre, two rapes, battles
between cannibal tribes and a steamy
love affair. It is all very exciting, and
it is only when you remember how
Conrad treated the same kind of tale
in the same kind of setting that its
shallowness becomes apparent.
“La Bora,” a first novel, is set in
Trieste in the postwar years, and its
central character is an Australian immi-
gration officer whose duty it is to decide
which are the sheep and which the goats
in the desperate crowds of Europeans
and refugees who want to go to Aus-
tralia. He is uneasily aware that he is
acting like God —sending the good to
the dinkum paradise and leaving the bad
to rot in poor old decaying Europe. He
does his best to be fair, despite the
distractions of a rather pallid love affair.
The impressions of a refugee camp are
the best part of the book, and the des-
peration of the camp’s inhabitants is
sympathetically presented. This will
probably be a somewhat chastening book
for Australians to read now, when, after
the collapse of the great Australian
myth in 1961, the immigration flood has
subsided and the stream has even begun
to flow the other way, to an awakened
and vital Europe united in the Common
Market organisation.
“The Scarlet Blossom” is another first
novel with a large plot scheme about
one Australian and one German woman
growing up on opposite sides of the
world between the wars. The intention
of the book was, it would seem, to com-
pare and contrast different ways of life
and to seek channels of communication,
but I found the writing so flat, with so
many cliches and so little originality in
the thinking, that I lost patience with it
before the end. I felt I had read it all
before—and better.
The best book of these four is Ruth
Park’s “The Good Looking Women.” It
is about a Catholic family living
in a Sydney suburb and the tensions
that build up between them when one
of the four daughters of Mr and Mrs
Pond claims to have had a vision of the
Virgin Mary. The members of the family
are beautifully drawn, and Miss Park
has a marvellous way with children,
bringing them to life with a few deft
words. The Catholic way of life
is fully and understanding)} described.
In the end, the human decencies
triumph over the rigidities of
dogma for some of the family, though
others have been destroyed. This is a
moving, compassionate book, and in
Miss Park’s hands the “flat” style of
writing is justified, for the material
comes through raw, alive and compel-
ling, with none of the distortion of a
personal vision.
NORMAN GEAR


Feiffer
e$ x"wA5 mm w the park fwm>
V6M RESfbUSIBiE BECAUSE M M
sou wed I obeueo the lw)
AMP TOOK SHELTER-10HEU I REA'
uzev m hap seer
TH6R6 FOR AfO Aa)*
i LOM TIME.
"THE Alt CLEAREST
CERTAINPY HAI/6...
W
so ue fi6oF>ev oor the rwe arp
IT RAO pees* OVER. FOUR HOURS.
50Me OF „ m CROIOO
ioaßtev ro 6o our .
OR THE STREET put
L iv? auoms peer
I A NATURAL
fc LEAVER 50 I
To OR CHARbE
ARP 6AIP-
"u)e took sheurea hcaose the
LAW T OlO OS To IF U)e LfAl/e
eeR?Re tne lam
tells vs to, uOE'RE
as OA(7 those
PEOPLE 51T1706 OUT
IN) THE PARK MHO
insist Tm
move dost'
kess is
iwsAioe."
eveßHoue a eeeeo that tee ctermiM
tomeo ro mhm rue lmj. calm
toaa RteTozeo, after to)0 m<?r6 Hawes
mr m, A
mvous Hornet*.
sAio~*u‘>reb,
i'm suße r
HEAR SOMt
) HmMßK>r
rour xnepei
rue
i has
■y£s/ cmeo evEwotte. "th 6
must have
BROK 6& ! * BuT OHCB
I Hors r brought
U>6lC TO TH6 SCetJS
i saip ( - m t>AW cue nusf
wait for tup wev. ip iioe cewe
eeFCRt WP HPAP- TWC
6/ReM PVB) IP IT
BRoKBti Mtt as
Bso as rnote
\?eoPte 6ITW&
\ our |M TH£
who
AIMSIST THIS
WHCTP gi/$-
% Ik)SAM6r
its deeu -XHR.ee vme &oud amp rnose
ioho hRe snu conscious art ee&iH'
MIM6 TP STIR. VRBTTH Soos lU
UAVe TO
Ispe a< up
A6AJKJ.
without pßopee
Res peer for rne
LM, zoaeni
f CROM6ie.


The Wild
Cat Pages
GOLD AND SILVER
GLOOM AND GUTTER
FINANCE BUSINESS ECONOMIC COMMENT INVESTMENT OIL AND MINING
TVlo matter what can be said against
any one or all the three forms of
the gold standard, its existence facilitated
international trade because rates of
exchange between different countries
were safe and certain and price levels
were —or at least tended to be —equal.
However, the disadvantages of chaining
the internal purchasing power and price
levels to the balance-of-payments were
too great for modern times and so, in
favor of greater autonomy, fluctuating
exchange rates became the rule of the
day. It did not take long for this greater
autonomy to turn into an international
menace, and ever since the world has been
searching for a regulating body to do
what gold and silver can no longer
accomplish.
The International Monetary Fund
(IMF) should and could have assumed
this role, but events are moving too fast
today for most conservative bankers to
adjust themselves in time to new condi-
tions. That is why the last meeting in
Vienna arrived at resolutions it should
have adopted a few years ago.
In the meantime, still hoping for some-
thing better, the world of international
and government finance is muddling on
with temporary tie-overs like the un-
written Basle convention of early 1961.
The latest move by ten European coun-
tries —based on this agreement—which is
to provide 6000 million dollars extra
credit for the IMF, supervised or con-
trolled by the Organisation of European
Co-operation and Development (OECD),
still young and untried itself, will at least
provide a breathing space.
But the situation for currencies, gold
and even silver is so confused, and in
many cases so contradictory, that it is
impossible to get a clear picture of what
is going to happen in the next 12
months. Most of the confusion stems
from the behavior of the two “reserve
currencies,” dollar and sterling, which to
a great extent have taken over the
functions of gold.
There is a distinct chance that the
sorry spectacle of the world speculating
against the dollar, the currency of the
wealthiest country in the world, will be
repeated in 1962. Gold exports in 1961
from America have pierced for the first
time the magical (and mythical) minimum
conditions of 17 billion dollars in Fort
Knox, and the remarkable thing is that
it was not private speculation but a
calculated conversion by the Bank of
England which led to the massive out-
flow.
As a matter of fact, just now the
private demand for gold has receded, with
the Central Banks of Europe taking over
the role of buyers. It is anybody's guess
what this means, if anything in particu-
lar, but it could be that Central European
Note Banks have come round to the
belief of the Bank of England that
reserve currencies should be backed by
gold and not by each other’s currencies.
If this is the case, the weakness of the
dollar and the increased outflow of gold
from America might only mean the
realisation of this concept.
There arises, of course, the question
whether the backing of any currency, by
gold or another currency, is really
important, as long as the country under
pressure has sufficient access to inter-
national credit. It is here that the IMF
could —and might—play a much greater
role, but not without additional facilities,
which unfortunately the meeting in
Vienna failed to produce.
Two factors have been conveniently
1 overlooked in Tondon and more so
in New York. The first is the growing
influence of the West European countries
and their rising reserves in gold and key
currencies, which make them feel strong
enough to rebel against what they call
Anglo-Saxon predominance within the
IMF. Looking at the situation from
France in particular, there is little hope
of a real modernisation of the fund with-
out giving the Central Banks of the
Common Market countries a much bigger
say in the control of credits. The new
role of the OECD in this set-up is
obviously designed as a compromise
solution to placate Continental interests.
The second factor is the stubborn
refusal of America to take trade by
countries behind the Iron Curtain with
the world at large into serious calcula-
tions. Transactions between the Come-
con (communist economic pact) countries
and the so-called uncommitted nations,
including South America, play an ever-
increasing role and only serve to under-
line the shrinking liquidity of monetary
resources in the Western world. It would
be ironical indeed if persistence in this
attitude would create a fertile ground for
one of Mr Khrushchev's favorite
dreams: a convertible rouble, good
enough for the new countries and un-
affected by the lack of recognition from
the West.
Distrust of most currencies is the
problem of the day, unfortunately
destined to stay with us for a long time
to come. Dollar and sterling are see-saw-
ing, the Canadian dollar is floating with
nobody knowing at what eventual firm
level, hot money is leaving the Deutsche
mark. Only the Swiss franc is a stable
point in the whirlwind of rumors and
kite-flying. The French franc, subject
to Algiers and some other political snags,
the Italian lira dependent on massive
capital imports and coalition peace of
the government parties, and the Austrian
schilling always under the shadow of the
“Staatsvertrag” (agreement between gov-
ernments) with Soviet Russia, are today
considered “hard” in this topsy-turvy
world of international finance.
And sooner or later every discussion
in this field comes back to gold. The
problem looks frightening, when in a
world which should—and in places does


—register an annual gross national
product growth of 5 per cent (and more),
gold and foreign exchange reserves have
only risen from 49 billion dollars in 1951
to 61 billion dollars ten years later, an
increase of just 24 per cent or less than
half of the proportional rise. The
American reserves have fallen from
roughly 23 billion dollars in 1951 to just
on 17 billion dollars in 1961, but Central
Europe has jumped from 6 billion in
1951 to about 24 billion in 1961, which
means it took every bit of the overall
increase —all that America lost and some
more from the rest of the world as well.
The dollar and the sterling, America
and Britain, are living with a peren-
nial deficit in the balance-of-payments,
while on the other side the Central Euro-
pean countries are piling up reserves
with the help of impressive export
surpluses. This includes such unlikely
countries as Spain, which is waxing fat
through American military spending and
international tourism.
The situation in West Germany is
changing rapidly. No longer is the
Deutsche mark the hardest currency in
the world and since the revaluation in
March, 1961, the German Central Bank
has lost around £540 million in reserves,
a respectable sum, but still less than half
of what Germany raked in during 1960.
The boom is slowing down and exports
are receding. Revaluation, however, has
kept prices down and employment up.
Just before Christmas the rumor of a
revaluation of the Italian lira was sweep-
ing through the financial capitals of the
world, only to be firmly denied both by
the Government and the Governor of
the Bank of Italy. But then denials are
always firm and fast, without necessarily
being valid. Italy’s gold and foreign
exchange reserves have risen during the
first nine months of 1961 by 185 billion
lire (£l2B million), mainly in gold, and
now stand at £1470 million. The discount
rate is down to 34 per cent., compared
with Great Britain’s bank rate of 64 per
cent.
There is, however, little chance for
the lira to be appreciated, as Italy cannot
afford to weaken her competitive position
in the world export trade, and many
millions are badly and quickly needed for
internal investment. Imports rising more
rapidly than exports, although less
acutely in 1961 than in the previous year,
will not permit Italy to export capital to
any great extent and certainly not on a
long-term basis.
more and more gold stored away
in the vaults of Continental Central
hanks, and with the ever-increasing
volume of international trade in general,
there is little wonder that the two
“reserve currencies,” bound by law to a
gold cover, are regarded with suspicion.
To make things just a little bit worse,
statistics show that for the last five years
an ever-increasing percentage of the
world’s gold supply has flown into private
holdings. In 1956, when about 1125
million dollars’ worth (£5OO million) of
gold was offered, public and official
reserves roughly took half and half. In
1960, however, the private sector took
1000 million dollars’ worth of the total
gold supply of 1350 million dollars, leav-
ing only 350 million dollars for official
reserves.
Changes in the character of credits
from the IMF again tell a story which
should not be misunderstood. Between
1947 and 1957 the fund granted credits
amounting to 2900 million dollars (£1290
million), of which 92 per cent, were in
American currency, 7 per cent, in sterling
and 1 per cent, in “others.” By the end
of September, 1961, the dollar content of
total credits of 2405 million dollars had
fallen to 34 per cent., with sterling at
5 per cent., Continental Europe at 54 per
cent, and “others” at 7 per cent.
In the meantime—after the rumpus in
October, 1960 —the official gold price in
London remains more or less stable
thanks to the vigil of the Bank of Eng-
land and the reluctance (or impotence)
of Soviet Russia to throw more than
average quantities of gold on to the
market. On the other hand, gold coins
are commanding better and bigger pre-
miums, with an average of about 25 per
cent., climbing to 55 per cent, for Ameri-
can “half eagles” and 86 per cent, for
German 20-mark pieces.
The movement of “Kaffirs” (South
African goldmining shares on the London
Stock Exchange) seems to convey a
similar message. From a high of 90
Index points just before Macmillan’s
“winds of change” speech in the begin-
ning of 1960 to an all-time low of 52
points in June, 1961, these shares have
since climbed back to 64 points by the
end of 1961, in spite of all the other
negative aspects of the South African
economy.
Although silver is no longer a direct
currency cover and a return to
former bimetallism is unlikely, recent
developments in this metal have done
nothing to put the world at ease. For
years America has supplied the world
with silver at 904 cents an ounce from
the Treasury’s “free stock” (against the
“coinage stock"), and so bridged the gap
between an annual demand of about 300
million ounces against the supply of
roughly 220 million ounces. This gap of
80 million ounces, expected to rise to 140
million ounces between 1961 and 1965,
created a good opportunity for specula-
tion, and when America stopped selling
at the fixed rate from the free stock the
price shot up by about 10 per cent.
Theoretically, there is still room for a
further rise, but Russia and, even more
so, China are reluctant to let the quotes
go up further as this would bring dozens
of marginal mines back into production.
At present any price under 110 cents is
considered a barrier to the reopening of
old or the developing of new mines.
Another warning for speculators is
contained in attempts by some American
Congressmen to have smaller bills, up to
“Khrushchev explodes a 50 megaton bomb and HE'S worried about a
couple of lousy blots."


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charier A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the economic
growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kmdersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
10 dollars, incorporated in the Central
Bank issue, which would eliminate the
need for 1700 million ounces of silver
now held as monetary reserve.
And what does all this mean to Aus-
tralia? Nearly every week a cheerful
statement from the Reserve Bank
reassures us that our own reserves have
risen a million or tw'o. Unfortunately,
nice as it is for the moment, it means
little in the long run. This year’s recovery
is thinly based on windfall orders (from
Red China), IMF borrowing (not draw-
ing, a w'ord which misses the meaning of
pay-back), capital inflow (at its conveni-
ence to stay or to leave), limited imports
through rising tariff barriers and a
general deflationary economic policy
introduced by the Government in
November, 1960. And overshadowing
everything else —a deterioration in the
terms of trade to about 63 for Australia,
as against 115 for the United Kingdom,
111 for the United States and 106 for
Continenal Europe.
Against the gloom there is the glitter
of the news from Queensland. Sufficient
oil to make Australia independent of
crude-oil imports would go a long way
to make this continent safe economi-
cally, not to mention its strategic
importance.
J.G.H.
WOOL
IS WOOLCLASSING SATISFACTORY?
HThe Australian Wool Bureau's decision
to convene a c nference in Mel-
bourne on March 9, 1962, to discuss
complaints about the standards of Aus-
tralian woolclassing is a timely move.
Everybody knows that wool is Aus-
tralia's chief export asset. It is all the
more unfortunate that recently there
have been a number of complaints about
the standards of Australian woolclassing.
It is particularly distressing that most of
these complaints seem to have come
from Japan, which is our best wool
customer.
Perhaps some of the complaints may
be exaggerated or made in unfairly wide
terms. Mr Eric Thompson, Federal
President of the Australian Primary
Producers’ Union, who is expected to
attend the Melbourne conference, said
that he hesitates to admit that difficulties
with woolclassing do in fact exist “1
cannot hold personally that the standard
of classing has deteriorated. The criticism
seems to be aimed at the smaller holder. ’
This may be true, but it does not alter
the situation. In any business the
customer is always right. And if Japan-
ese or other overseas wool buyers
happen to question the standards of some
of our woolclassing the only way out is
to try to see their point of view and do
whatever is possible to meet it. In this
competitive world the primary pro-
ducer's main concern is to make his
product as attractive as possible to the
customer within the limits of physical
possibility.
This is particularly true with wool,
which is being subjected to a steady
onslaught of competitive man-made
fibres. Mr Thompson is probably right
in feeling that most of the complaints
were provoked by the smaller wool pro-
ducers. This seems to be one of the
main difficulties because many smaller,
not to say marginal, woolgrowers do not
have adequate means to present their clip
in a way which would fully satisfy the
requirements of overseas customers. All
the clip sold overseas should be passed
by properly trained and experienced
classers, even if it comes from the smaller
holdings.
The whole question of wool sales must
be held under constant scrutiny and
changes introduced whenever they be-
come necessary, without waiting for the
buyers’ complaints.
Jt may be advisable to set up a per-
manent body within the industry, which
would maintain continuous contact with
the principal overseas wool buyers and
exchange ideas on how to make Aus-
tralian wool meet the changing require-
ments of the international wool market.
EUROPE
THE EURODOLLAR
T iving in the shadow of the European
Common Market we are coming
more and more often across some
baffling new items of the economic and
financial jargon. One of the terms most
frequently used is the Eurodollar.
The Eurodollar simply means dollar
balances placed on short term deposits
by some non-American banks with other
non-American banks, which in turn lend
them also on short term to banks
and important financial institutions. As
“Prospects,” the Swiss Bank Corpora-
tion's business news survey, points out,
the word is not a very happy one be-
cause dealings in Eurodollar balances
are by no means confined to Europe.
Transactions in Eurodollars extend to
certain Asian countries, notably Japan,
and do not constitute a particular cate-
gory of dollars. There is no special rate
of exchange quoted for them.
Dealings in Eurodollars owe their
existence to the fact that U.S. banks
generally pay lower interest rates on
deposits than European and Asian banks.
On deposits lodged for less than one
month American banks pay no interest at
all. Moreover, American banks charge
comparatively high interest rates on
advances. This gives non-American banks
with sufficient dollar reserves a certain
competitive edge, which is strengthened
by the general reticence with which U.S.
banks regard international commercial
credit. This means t U Eurodollars are
very handy for many transactions for
which direct American dollar credits
are not readily available.
For instance, Eurodollars may be
obtained to finance imports from the
dollar zone. Banks then convert these
dollar deposits into their national cur-
rency, and use the funds to provide
credits or for domestic investment. Euro-
dollars can also be invested profitably in
other money markets.
At this stage, London is the main
centre for Eurodollar transactions. The
Swiss Bank Corporation feels that the
large rise in Eurodollar turnover may have
placed New York at some disadvantage
as the focus of international finance.
The extension of the European Econo-
mic Community to include the United
Kingdom and some other EFTA
countries, and the Common Market's
dynamic development, should increase
the scope of Eurodollar transactions and
strengthen the international position of
European finance centres, particularly
London. However, the United States also
derives some important benefits from
Eurodollar deals because they increase
the demand for dollars and help to main-
tain the free market exchange rate.


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. K. L. DOWLING,
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. r!
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfin House, 16 O'Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne, 67-5957 (1 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney
Melbourne or Woolongong.
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you properly
covered? Now is the time to
review your insurances. Serious
financial losses can result on private
and business premises that are
improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
73 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your
fancy write to the Manager, who will
quote you a price for the original.
COMPANY REVIEWS AND NOTES
J . GADSDEN AUSTRALIA LTD
EARNING RATE REMAINS STEADY
'T'here has been a shake-up in the
A packaging and container industry,
with the entry on the public lists of
Reed Paper Products Ltd, re-organisa-
tion of Broons Containers Ltd with a
one-for-two bonus issue, the recent take-
over of the Carlton Box Industries group
by Dodge Consolidated Industries Ltd,
and the expansion of W. E. Smith Ltd,
just to mention a few.
The reason for all this activity is
apparent. Overseas, particularly in the
U.S.A. and the U.K., the packaging and
container industry has proved a very
lucrative business. The goods are non-
durable and once used are thrown out.
J. Gadsen Pty Ltd had its origin in
Melbourne in 1879, when the late Jabez
Gadsden manufactured calico and
hessian bags. The business was then
extended to manufacture plain and
printed cans for packaging foodstuffs, oil
and paints ; canvas goods such as tents ;
Venetian blinds ; spring rollers and stock-
inette wraps for the meat trade. There
is a valuable contract to supply packag-
ing for the popular Rothman’s cigarettes.
A branch was opened in Adelaide in
1902 and operations were later extended
to each State and to New Zealand. In
1950 the New Zealand business became
a public company to form a separate
and independent entity, j. Gadsden
(N.Z.) Ltd. This offshoot has merged
with Alex Harvey & Sons Ltd of Auck-
land. Alex Harvey offered 11 ordinary
10s. shares for every five 20s. J. Gadsden
ords., and one Alex Harvey 20s. pref.
share for every J. Gadsden 20s. pref.
J. Gadsden Australia Ltd, the holding
co., was registered in Melbourne on
March 15, 1954, to acquire the issued
ordinary capital—l,223,soo 20s. ords. —
of J. Gadsden Pty Ltd. Consideration
was 6,000,000 10s. ords. Subsequently,
1,500,CM) 10s. ords. were offered to the
public to get Stock Exchange listing.
The organ sation comprises J Gadsden
Australia Ltd, the holding company,
which functions through the following
subsidiaries:
J. Gadsden Pty Ltd holds shares in Fish
Canneries of Tasmania Pty Ltd and Paper
Sacks Pty Ltd, and with subsidiaries in its
own right operates: Queensland Bag Co. Pty
Ltd, Wood Industries Pty Ltd, Russell and
McDonald Pty Ltd and J. Gadsden (Qld.) Pty
Ltd, which is located in Brisbane, Queensland.
Vulcan Can Pty Ltd was acquired in 1955-56
lor a share consideration involving 200,000 10s.
ords. Packs Ltd was acquired in 1956-57 for
a share consideration involving 174,680 10s.
ords. Gadsden-Hughes Holdings Ltd operates
through its subsidiaries, Gadsden-Hughes Ltd,
and All Packs (Australia) Pty Ltd, which owns
factories in Sydney, N.S.W.' Gadsden-Hughes
Holdings Ltd was formed in 1951, by a merger
of J. Gadsden Pty Ltd (N.S.W. interest) and
Richard Hughes Pty Ltd. In 1958-59, J. Gadsden
Australia Ltd acquired the whole of the issued
capital of Gadsden-Hughes Holdings Ltd for
a share consideration involving 3,221,076 10s.
ords. James Robertson Pty Ltd was acquired
in 1959-60 for a share consideration involving
880,000 10s. ords., each at a premium of 4s.
During the year the company acquired
from W. E. Smith Ltd shares held by
that company in W. E. Smith-Gadsden
(Q!d.) Pty Ltd, making the latter
a wholly owned subsidiary of J. Gadsden
Australia Ltd, for cash consideration.
Paid up capital of J. Gadsden Austra-
lia Ltd was £6,567,143 at June 30, 1961,
after the one-for-eight par issue in
February, 1961.
Trading results seemed satisfactory,
considering the difficult economic con-
ditions.
The meat packing industry has suffered
severely because of the widespread
drought conditions. Stock losses in
Queensland alone for the year to March
31, 1961, totalled 2,000,000 sheep and
400,000 head of cattle. Northern
Victoria has also experienced a setback ;
however, the full force of the dry con-
ditions has not yet been reflected.
The imposition of credit restrictions
had an impact on some clients, especially
those connected with the building trade,
resulting in a reduction of demand for
paint cans. The restrictions came at
the most inopportune period of the year,
when the greatest pressure was put on
the liquid resources of the company. The
major problem was to arrange finance
so that there would be no reduction in
output, and the company found it
necessary to make a one-for-eight issue,
which was used to create liquidity and to
provide for expansion of a capital nature.
Net profit for the year ended June 30,
1961, rose by £1491 to £624,102, after
setting aside £329,972 for taxation (down
£74,508), providing £339,169 for deprecia-
tion (up £6085), and writing off £112,847
(down £3343) to interest on fixed loans.
During the year the company had written
off £120,000 as bad debts —£70,000
charged against the profits for the year
ended June 30, 1961, and £50,000 against
the reserves created at June 30, 1960.
This was necessary because of the with-
drawal of financial support from a large
South Australian cannery by the State
Government. These debts were incurred
in years prior to 1960-61.
Earning rate remained pretty steady


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on the Bth March, 1950.
(ASSETS EXCEED £9,000,000)
1
PER ANNUM
5 OR 6 YEARS
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
INTEREST PERIOD
9Va%P.A. 5 or 6 years
9% P.A 4 years
8V2% P.A. 3 years
8% P.A 2 years
7Vi% P.A.. ...12 months
6Va% P.A._- .S months
~ REGISTERED .
REDEEMABLE DEPOSIT
I. \ NOTES 5
PERIOD
INTEREST
9Va% 4 years
9% P.A 3 years
BVi% P.A 2 years
8% P.A 12 months
7% P.A 6 months
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal emergency
Applications for Debenture Stock and Notes accepted only
on form of application attached to prospectus, obtainable from
Any BRANCH of the Bank of N.S.W.
OR
The Company's Offices:
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: sth Floor, T. & G. Building, 137 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
NEWCASTLE: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street,
Newcastle West.
OR
Any Member of a Stock Exchange
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
CC.IIB/M
The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Canberra, Australia)
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
at 10.4 p.c. on average ord. capital, com.
pared with 10.7 p.c. in 1960, 10.5 p.cJ
in 1959, 10.9 p.c. in 1958. Dividend
remained steady at 8 p.c. and took
£481,590; £3OOO was appropriated to'
long service leave. Reserves increased by
£219,401 to £1,554,636, subject to intan-
gibles, £665,593 (up £15,924):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. f Dividends— A serves. serves. 1
£ p.c. £ £ £
1959 .. 516,930 8 = 395,825 121,105 1,022,051!
Profit sale assets, £29,991 .. .. 1,052,0421
Tax overprovided, w/back, £65 7 9 .. 1,058,624
Provision doubtful debts, £55,000.. 1,003,621
Share premiums, £176,000 .. .. 1,179,621
1960 .. 622,611 8 = 466,997 155,614 1,335,235
Profit sale assets, £72,436 .. .. 1,407,671
Tax overprovided, w/back, £7453 .. 1,415,1241
Prov. for long-service leave w/o ft',
£3OOO 1,412,121
1961 .. 624,102 8 = 481,590 142,512 1,5 5 4,63!
* Subject to intangibles, £665,593 at June 30, 1961
The consolidated balance sheet
indicate expansionary possibilities of the)
co. Paid up capital rose by £729,682 to
£6,567,143, while outside interests stood!
at £68,949 (up £113). Redeemable prefs.
of a subsidiary fell £18,500 to
£86,500. Mortgage on freeholds stood at
£565,000 (down £2000) and deposits at
call at £1,134,562 (down £75,204). Bant
overdraft rose steeply to £954,874 (up!
£336,454). Creditors rose £150,329 toj
£722,953:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1959. 1960. 1961.
Paid capital .. £5,391,419 £5,837,461 £6.567,143
Reserves .. 1,022,051 1,335,235 1,554,631
Outside interests 68,593 C 5,836 68,94!
Notes . . . . 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,00!
Mortgage . . 600,000 567,000 565,00!
Redeemable prefs. 123,500 10.5,000 86,50!
Deposits . . 1,238,097 1,209,706 1,134,56!}.
Overdraft .. 70,293 618,420 954,814
Creditors . . 849,320 572,624 -722,953
Tax provision. . 327,258 441,248 829,9i!|
Final div. .. 203,909 233,498 248,091
£10,894,440 £11,989,088 £13,232,6811
Land, buildings 2,277,983 2.532,800 2,845,946;
Plant .. 2,470,232 8,156,367 3,4 3 7,54 if
Investments .. 3 25,005 250,57 s
Stocks .. 3,935,369 3,555,179 3,642,0®.
Debtors .. 1,925,174 2,068,645 2,388.191'
Cash . . . . 622 1,423 2,2«tj
Intangibles . . 285,057 649,669 665,59!
£10,894,440 £11,989,088 £13,232,681
Land and buildings were up £313,146 at
£2,845,946, plant (less depreciation) al[
cost was £281,178 higher at £3,437,545/
Investments rose by about ten times Mi
£250,575. Stocks were £86,843 up ai
£3,642,022. Book debts increased by
£320,146 to £2,388,791.
There was a most satisfactory increase
in sales of small and large beer cans and.
demand continues to grow. The Taras'
organisation pioneered soft drinks in caff
which are now in production, and the
future is promising. The output of flip
top cigarette-packs supplied to Roth
mans increased appreciably.
During the present year the new build
ing at Fremantle has been completed
Production began in the Goulburn Valle;
(N.S.W.) area. A factory has been erected
at Shepparton (Vic.) to service the con
tract for Campbell’s Soups. The t«
buildings for Australian Packagin'


Industries Pty Ltd af Altona, Vic., and
Granville, N.S.W., were completed on
schedule. Plans are under way to expand
production of flexible packages and
land was acquired at Bankstown
(N.S.W.). The company is still greatly
influenced by seasonal conditions, and
further diversification is advisable.
At the last sale in Sydney, the 10s.
ords. fetched 15s. 3d. for an immediate
return of 5.2 p.c. p.a. on the basis of
the 8 p.c. div. rate. Net tangible asset
backing works out at 11s. 4d. for each
10s. ord. share, calculated on the
basis of book values in consolidated
accounts.
CONSOLIDATED METAL PRODUCTS LTD
PROFIT EDGES UP
T'he co. was formed in 1950, and con-
A trols a large group of subsidiaries
engaged in lead smelting and refining
and manufacture of lead oxide. At
present the co. is pressing on with the
installation of improved laboratory facili-
ties, encouraged by the new outlets found
for the various lead products. It also
manufactures equipment and component
parts for the assembly of storage bat-
teries. The actual manufacturing and dis-
tribution of finished batteries are left to
others, and the co. is able to sidestep
some of the marketing and distribution
problems in a severely competitive field.
In addition, there is a large investment
portfolio.
Export business in all divisions steadily
increased, although reduced local, pro-
duction of some lines had removed the
advantage of well-spread costs.
During 1959-60 the co. acquired the
New England Antimony Mines N.L., for
a consideration of 25,000 10s. f.p. ords.
at a total premium of £1274. All cosis
of development of the New England
antimony mine, formation expenses,
goodwill and other intangibles, and costs
of acquisition of subsidiaries—including
premiums on subsidiary shares acquired
were eliminated from consolidated
figures.
The most recent acquisition was Grass-
lands farming equipment division,
designers, manufacturers and distributors
of ‘'Grasslands” forage harvester; fodder
conservation equipment ; mechanised
feeding systems for livestock ; precision
seeding equipment for pasture improve-
ment ana automatic irrigation and
pasture spray equipment for fodder pro-
duction. The takeover was accomplished
by an exchange of shares.
Books show that Consolidated Metal
issued 125,000 10s. f.p. ords. at a
premium of £43,437 as purchase con-
sideration. Grasslands operates in all
States and in New Zealand.
Jhe takeover coincided with a world
tour by Mr Rex Schoeft'el, genera]
manager of Grasslands farming equip-
ment division ; the trip produced
important agreements with two American
concerns.
In the second quarter, particularly
November, the situation changed. The
co.’s main outlet for lead alloys—auto-
motive battery trade —suffered a major
recession, from which it still shows only
faint signs of recovery a year later. The
tempo of business sagged and confidence
was undermined.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended June 30, 1961, was £2567 higher
at £98,738, after providing £47,374 for
depreciation (up £10,348) and setting
aside £46,882 for taxation (up £1250):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June. Profit. —Dividends—— N serves. ■ serves.*
30, £ £ £ £
1957. . 90,521 124 p.c. = 50,521 40,000 230,850
Profit sale assets, £3OO .. .. 231,450
1958. .115,800 124 p.c. = 56,250 59,550 291,000
Assets revaluation reserve capitalised,
£lOO,OOO 191,000
Profit salt assets, £BlO .. .. 191,813
Unexplained addition, £l3O .. .. 191,946
1959. .427,179- 11 p.c. = 61,125 66,054. 258,000
Share-premiums, £1274 .. .. 259,274
Assets revaluation, £84,741 .. .. 344,015
From inner reserves, £24,023., .. 368,028
Profit sale assets, £41,773 .. .. 409,811
Goodwill on consolidation, £13,843 .. 423,654
1960. . 96,171 11 p.c. = 67,325 28,846 452,500
Profit sale assets, £19,673 .. .. 472,173
Share premiums, £43,437 .. .. 515,610
Asset revaluation, £11,057 .. .. 526,667
Less intangibles w/off, £54,494 ... 472,173
Less unexplained reductions, £16,053 456,120
1961.. 98,738 11 p.c."= 70,813 27,925 484,045
* Subject, to intangibles, written-off 30/6/57,
The £98,738 profit was equal to 15.3 p.c.
on the average ordinary capital com-
pared with 15.7 p.c. in 1960, 22.9 p.c.
in 1959, 25.7 p.c. in 1958, 22.4 p.c. in
1957. The dividend was steady at 11 p.c.
on higher capital
Reserves position looks complicated.
Disclosed consolidated reserves increased
by £43,437 share premiums, £19,673
capital profits on sale of assets and
£11,057 assets revaluation ; but in rather
involved book entries they were reduced
by £54,494 write-off of intangibles and
£16,053 unexplained reduction. After
adding in the £27,925 transferred from
the year’s net profit, reserves appeared
at £4B4,o4s—free of intangibles. This
shuffling was mainly caused by the
acquistion of Grasslands.
The rise in fixed assets was due to in-
inclusion of Grasslands book figures.
Investments were revalued and were
shown in the balance sheet at £268,481 —
said to be about 15 p.c. below market
value at June 30, 1961:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1959. 1900. 19G1.
Paid capital .. £OOO,OOO £012,500 £075,000
Reserves-.. .. 258,000 152,500 484,045
Overdraft .. .. - 38,752
Mortgage . . .. - —, 20,240
Tax provision .. 74,314 49,170 49,780
Creditors .. .. 127,743 152,281 259,163
Final divs. .. 33,0‘D0 33,388 37,125
£1,093,030 £1,338,891 £1,525,356
Freehold . . . . 231,619 244,983 299,129
Plant, machinery,
etc. .. .. 128,025 155,032 189,789
Investments .. 242,503 417,394 238,481
Stock .. .. 277,451 282,750 403,118
Debtors, etc. .. 178,155 189,141 207,327
Cash .. .. :35,307 49,588 157,512
' £1,093,030 £1,338,891 £1,525,356
The company is planning plant im-
provements and extensions to be able
to diversify production. Good liquid
position during the most difficult period
was a big factor in maintaining satisfac-
tory trading.
At balance date net tangible asset sup-
port for the co.’s 10s. shares was 17s. 2d.
on consolidated accounts.
At the last sale in Sydney the 10s.
ords. fetched 17s. 6d. The yield is 6.3 p.c.
p.a. on the basis of the 11 p.c. dividend
distribution.
KERN BROS, LTD
BOOM EXPECTATIONS FAIL
■pouß years of \2\ p.c. dividends and
steadily rising profits are no mean
achievement, so the reversal in form of
Kern Bros. Ltd, the Townsville (Qld)
building contractor, came as a bit of a
shock.
Although the industry generally was
known to have suffered during 1960-61,
the effect of this alone was not sufficient
to change a record year for Kern Bros,
in 1959-60 into its first loss since assuming
public status.
Much of the trouble arose from expect-
ing the boom conditions —which the com-
pany enjoyed since 1956 —to continue
indefinitely.
In 1956, Kern Bros, acquired the
family partnership of R. G. Kern, which
had operated in the Townsville area since
the end of World War 11. Purchase
consideration was £25,070-—£5570 in cash
and £19.500 in 20s. fully-paid shares.
Following a small issue of £2502 for cash,
in April, 1957, the public took up £40,000


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£A363,000, 000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
in ords. —lifting paid capital to £62,002.
Another cash issue last year —a two-for-
five, at ss. a unit premium—lifted paid
capital to £126,700 and created a £7994
share-premium reserve.
Kern Bros, has always considered itself
as primarily a building company and in
fact claims as its backbone the two
active —and up to 1960-61, profitable —-
low - cost, home - building subsidiaries
operating in Townsville and Brisbane.
Other activities include blue-metal
quarrying and ready - mixed concrete
production, but not to the extent of dis-
placing home-building as the main profit
earner.
A glance at the subsidiaries shows how
the group has grown:—-
Kern Bros. (Qld.) Pty, Kern Bros. (Towns-
ville) Pty, Kern Bros. (Ipswich) Pty and Kern
Bros. (Cairns) Pty operate in the held ol civil
engineering and general contracting. Home
construction is handled by Kern Bros. Modern
Homes Pty and Kern Bros. (Brisbane) Pty.
Blue-metal and concrete activities are carried
on by Crushed Metal and Screenings Pty and
Stan Sellars and Son Pty, both in Ipswich,
and Kern Bros. (Rockhampton) Ply and
Capricornia Carrying Co. Pty, both in Rock-
hampton.
Dazzled by the prospects of growth in the
Townsville district, the company entered
the land-development field and learned
to its cost, as have so many others in
the southern areas, that in tight times
this may bring trouble.
Just prior to the start of the credit
squeeze another 101 acres of land near
Townsville was acquired, bringing the
holdings to 294 acres —all bought since
1957. But when money dried up it was
found that although the slogan “real
estate is solid as a rock'’ might be true,
it could also be a millstone round the
neck.
Liquidity was seriously affected, and
the interim dividend was passed. This
helped slightly, but the period October,
1960, to March, 1961, was the worst in
the company's history. The last quarter
was more hopeful and most sections
operated profitably, but not enough to
erase the adverse result for the year as
a whole. At June 30, 1961, huge sums
were still tied-up in fixed assets and
liquidity was tight:
Parent Only. Consolidated.
10.38. 1939. 1900. 1901.
Paid capital . £-62,002 £02,002 £S2;000 £120,700
Reserves .. 7,311 11,423 23,779 21.893
H.-p. contracts 10,420 30.901 26,477
Notes . . 20,600 26,102 32,700
Mortgage . . 12,000 22,395
Sundry creditors 84,184 93,186 102,413 173,548
Overdraft . . 7,294 23,918 22,719
Tax provision 8,600 5,070 12,094 10,208
Final dividend 3,875 3,875 5,125
£115,972 £213.870 £380,332 £430,035
Freeholds .. 27,510 28,803 42,323 74,19-4
Plant, etc. .. 20,302 53,100 117,919 184,093
Stocks and work-
in-progress 38,559 53,910 67,212 91,7 19
Book debts .. 17,116 69,725 103,624 77.917
Cash, etc. . . 6.455 8,332 49,254 8,112
Intangibles . .
£115,972 £213,870 £380,332 £436,035
Book value of land which appears in the
accounts at £51,280 is actually worth just
about 160 per cent. more. An independ-
ent valuation valued it at £132,800,
creating an inner reserve of £81,520.
The loss—£9Boo, contrasting with a
profit of £15,672 in the previous year —
was the main cause of the 15 p.c. (£3886
to £21,893) fall in disclosed reserves. The
£7994 lift given by share premiums was
largely offset by writing-off £2OBO good-
will :
Parent.
To Re- Re-
June Profit. r~ —Dividends , serves, serves.
36, £ £ £ £
1958 .. 11,914 121 p.c. = 7,750 4,164 9,260
Preliminarv expenses written-off, £1949 7,311
1959 .. 11,802 121 p.c*. = 7,750 4.112 11,423
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Profit sale freehold, £2653 . . . . 14,076
Preliminary expenses written-off, £584 13,492
Provision for contingencies, £2006 . . 11,492
Capital surplus on acquisition of sub-
sidiarv, £761,5 ... . . . 19,107
1960 .. 15,672 121 p.c. = 9,000 6,672 25,779
Goodwill written-off £2OBO . . . . 23,699
Share premium, £7994 .. ... .. 31,693
Loss
1961 . . 9800 Ml N T il 21,893
Despite the splodge of red on its record,
the company may be the better for it ;
the outlook is much healthier.
The first quarter of 1961-62 was the
most profitable in the company’s history.
The second quarter seems equally pro-
mising. But the same note of un-
bounded optimism is not apparent. In
a more cautious approach, despite the
bright start, consideration of a dividend
will be deferred until results for the full
year are known and financial prospects
can be more accurately assessed, in order
to build up liquidity.
Prospects for the remainder of the
current term are good. Contracts in
hand exceed £1,000,000 —below the
£1,250,000 held a year ago, but satisfac-
tory in view of the state of the economy.
Uncompleted work is valued at about
£750,000 (£850,000). Turnover from all
sections of the business should exceed
£1,500,000.
Perhaps the market is being too
cautious with the company because of its
first fall from grace. The 20s. shares
are currently around 15s. —half what
they were a year ago.
Net tangibles at June 30, 1961,
amounted to 225. 4d. for each 20s. ord.
unit.
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
UNUSUAL OFFER
TA i rectors of Australian Guarantee
Corporation Ltd have rejected a take-
over offer from Associated Securities
Ltd.
Associated Securities offered three ss.
ords. plus 18s. cash for each four Aus-
tralian Guarantee ss. ords., representing
a total value of about £22.4 million.
Australian Guarantee directors made it
clear they would object to a direct
approach to A.G.C. shareholders. If a
direct approach is eventually made, the
Bank of New South Wales will be in a
key position with its 40 p.c. shareholding
in Australian Guarantee Corporation.
On the face of it, the original Asso-
ciated Securities offer looks a bit
unusual —Associated Securities (also a
Bank of New South Wales client), with
a paid capital of £1.7 million, is trying
to absorb Australian Guarantee with a
paid capital of £6.9 million. The cash
portion of the offer is being underwritten
by the Royal Bank of Scotland and by
Messrs Ord and Minnett, Sydney brokers.
If the takeover materialises the Royal
Bank of Scotland will become a partner
with The Wales in A.G.C.
SHIPPING
P and O BUILDING
'T'he P and O Company of Australia
1 Pty Ltd will build a major office
building in Sydney at an estimated cost
of £2,500,000. The building, with front-
ages to Elizabeth, Hunter and Castle-
reagh Streets, City, will be 217 feet high
with two basement floors for ca- parking. '
It will rise 18 floors above the street level
and will be opposite the Qantas building


ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVAL COLLEGE,
JERVIS BAY, A.C.T.
VACANCIES
for
MASTERS
CIVIL PROFESSORIAL STAFF
THREE PERMANENT POSITIONS
(A) MATHEMATICS (B) PHYSICS (C) FRENCH
SALARY RANGE £lBl6-2101 WITH ELIGIBILITY FOR ADVANCEMENT AS
SENIOR MASTER, £2166-2426 ON COMPLETION OF SIX YEARS’ SERVICE
AS MASTER. COMMENCING SALARY, WITHIN RANGE, ACCORDING TO
EXPERIENCE AND QUALIFICATIONS.
Applications are invited from University Graduates experienced in teaching to
Matriculation standard and qualified to teach at First Year Australian University
standard. Housing will be available.
Applications stating qualifications and teaching experience in the required
subject and any others, to the Secretary, Department of the Navy, Canberra,
A.C.T., by 20th January, 1962.
land the new Commonwealth offices.
The building will be surmounted by
a service tower and a radio mast.
I p and O-Orient Lines of Australia Pty
ltd will occupy the lower floors for its
headquarters; the rest of the office space
jwill be available for letting.
| The contract has been let to T.C.
I Whittle Pty Ltd. Messrs Fowell. Mans-
field and Maclurcan are ,he architects.
‘There will be pedestrian colonnades on
t the Elizabeth and Castlereagh Street
'frontages and architectural character
“will harmonise in form and color with
[the other buildings facing the new Eliza-
beth Street Plaza." The building should
(be ready for use by the end of 1963.
OIL DEVELOPMENT
NEW SHARE ISSUE
iTAii. Developmeni N.L. has announced
an issue of 3,766.000 ss. shares, one-
Ifor-one at par. payable Is. on application.
I The issue is being underwritten by
| Messrs Eric R. Jeffery and Son and
[Messrs Leonard G. May and Son (Mel-
bourne brokers), Messrs Pring. Dean and
Co. (Sydney brokers) and Messrs Marriott
land Treloar (Adelaide brokers). Funds
! provided are to be used “towards financ-
ing the drilling of structures determined
by seismic and other surveys in the
company's Queensland Alpha District
Authority to Prospect area 8 IP.” This
is on the same flank ot the Bowen-Surat
basin as the Glentulloch w'ell.
"Present planning is directed towards
the avoidance of calls on new issue shares
until 1963, whilst pursuing an active
drilling programme. It is expected that
no further calls will be made on the old
issue contributing shares for at least two
years.”
The share register will close at 5 p.m,
on January 18. 1962. to determine entitle-
ments.
Present capital of Oil Development
N.L. is 3,220,000 ss. ords. paid to 3s. 6d.
and 546.000 fully-paid ss. vendors ords.
At the last sale in Sydney the 3s. 6d.
paid ords. fetched 6s. 7d. each.
The new issue may be favorably
influenced by the promising tests at the
Union Oil-Kern-A.O.G. Moonie No. I
well. Last week the A.O.G. ss. ords.
touched 755. when trading opened on the
Sydney Stock Exchange after the holiday
break
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 675
Across
I—Quartets composed for our early pastoralists and
graziers. (9)
| s—No taxi is coming back for an essayist. (5)
B—None think against the same treasure-unfolding
I words. (4. 6)
ilO—Delicacy of the square of 10.50 a.m. (4)
[ 12—Long-distance noses of mammoths. (6)
15 — This girl places father second
in a strike against the grain. (7)
16 — Food vehicle. (5)
17— Flowers of the field introducing
a girl to some scallywag and me
in another case. (4, 5)
19 —One begins by steamship in one
article country. (9)
21— Blush! Unfortunate in the bull-
ring. (5)
22 — Strike some girl on that knee-
cap. (7)
24—A parent to nurse tomorrow'. (6)
27 — Grub alters direction slightly. (4)
28 — Remodelled lass remade a Wag-
nerian number. (5, 5)
30— She is appearing in an un-
healthy color. (5)
31— Clerk participating in some hen
supper. (3-6)
Down
1 — Not long to loaf? (10)
2 Inequitably. (9)
3 -Change in a set direction. (4)
4 Mother’s upset by the musket-
dropper. (3)
6 Australian dairy town has busi-
ness with a resin used for
dyeing. (5)
7 When I’m dead in an Alaskan
town. (4)
9 —Six pronounced with a slightly
French accent suggestive of these
Asians. (5)
11 —Central American boy. (4)
14—Scent sign to guide motorists to
the Eternal City. (5)
15—Blow him who spreads marma-
lade, etc., in a ship. (10)
17 — Last fish-balancer on Jolson. (5)
18— Marsh engulfing some profligate
in a Moroccan city. (9)
20 — Study course. (4)
21— Railway employee affected by a
drug. (5)
23 —The careless may drop such a
reason for scratching. (5)
25 — The article of the lady god-
dess. (4),
26 — Hock a minor chessman. (4)
29 —Circuit friend is upset. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 674


1 FOR SPEED
V 1 (First issues off the press)
CONVENIENCE
(Right to your mail-box)
CONTINUITY
(No chance of missing out)
HAVE
The
Bulletin
DELIVERED BY POST
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SUB./RENEWAL
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque / money-order for
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
NAAIE !• . . .... • a . ... ... • • ._. a a a.• •• • a a.« ....
ADDRESS: ........... .. .
RATES (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; | year—£l 6s.
Post free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign:
£3 16s.
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; | year—
19s. 6d. British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether
the subscription is paid direct to The Bulletin
or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
TH E B U L LETI N
IS AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
NEWS MAGAZINE-
-52 pages of top-flight information. The press,
the radio, TV will dish you up the headline
news . . . but The Bulletin has time to bring
you the news inside the news.
AND ITS PACKED WITH
ENTERTAINMENT
Nearly every facet of modern life is reflected
in The Bulletin’s pages, so no'wonder
anyone can find a little of himself4-or herself
—in The Bulletin. -
