

h
\ mt
m? * *■
ntfiu?
wmm
m iill
111,
i
mm
j»H| m \ ■
Y^SLia
:;>: |
travel CO.
PTY.UD
E m t> e 14
when the going is good
The
Bulletin
Registered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
March 17, 1962
r-


8
o many
things that
make life
happier
come through
S&L steel pipes
BHHH
3
mam
B Hi
HHB
mmsm
.
:>.
Hi
■MB k
■
i
■
// I \
-
.■ ■ '
ThROUGH steel pipes of every conceivable
size, flow the oil and raw materials that keep the
continent’s industrial wheels turning; the life
preserving water; gas, steam and the electric
current that provides power, lighting and com-
munications.
Steel pipe is so easy to form and join and has
the inherent strength and stability to take tough
assignments for long periods. Costwise, steel pipe
stands alone for low initial cost and low installa-
tion cost.
Before finalising your next project, talk “steel
piping” with Stewarts & Lloyds; the leading
Australian producers of welded and seamless steel
pipes.
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie
SSG.I .61


JOHN BIRCH
American Fascism? .. 20
©
Travel .. .. ..- ..12
De Gaulle’s Next Steps .. .. 18
Senator Spooner Protests .. 25
Temporary Gentlemen .. .. 38
Three Poems by Francis Webb .. 40
©
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
THIS AUSTRALIA - - 6
AROUND SYDNEY - •• 9
AROUND MELBOURNE 11
LETTERS 24
WILD CAT 26
SPECULATOR’S DIARY 33
FEIFFER 34
REVIEWS •• *• •• 35
RED PAGE 38
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5:71.
Vcl. 83
No. 4283
PLAIN ENGLISH
NEW GUINEA—
THE RIGHT TO RIOT?
story from our New Guinea correspondent on the recent Buka riots
in New Guinea (page 6) casts a long shadow over new legislation
passed in Port Moresby granting Territory natives the right to form trade
unions and to strike.
One intransigent nominated member of the New Guinea Legislative
Council, Mr B. E. Fairfax-Ross, has already questioned the legislation’s
effectiveness claiming that New Guineans don’t know the difference
between a riot and a strike. He may be right at this stage. But doubts
about New Guineans’ capacity to develop and use a trade union and
arbitration system are beside the point.
If New Guinea is to develop politically and Australia is to meet the
pressure of increasing outside criticism, there must be a New Guinea trades
union movement. If anything the Government and Administration have
started to remedy the defect much too late in the piece even though there
is already an embryonic trades union organisation in New Guinea —the
Papua-New Guinea Workers’ Association—run rather tentatively by Dr
Reuben Taureka.
The new legislation on the one hand regularises trade union activities
in New Guinea, but on the other hand and with genuine reluctance, places
the activities of future trade unions under the newly created Labor Depart-
ment. While this runs contrary to accepted Western trade union practice
it is essential at this stage when most natives scarcely know why they are
organising at all. It is also aimed at preventing emerging trade union
associations from being exploited by the familiar New Guinea figures of
the extortionist and the political demagogue.
The bill provides for free association of persons for industrial purposes
and for free negotiation on industrial matters between employers and
employees. It also provides for the Public Solicitor to act in preparation
and conduct of all industrial claims for the simple reason that New Guinea
lacks native advocates and lawyers and will for many years to come.
Many will cavil at these protective clauses, and both the Government
and Administration must be prepared for a savage attack on them by the
next visiting UN Mission. Neither Asian nor UN anti-colonialist think-
ing will see anything else in the bill than a covert attempt to perpetuate
the colonialist system.
Trades unionism in an emerging primitive society like New Guinea’s
will eventually turn into something uniquely shaped by New Guinea
society. For one thing there are only about 70,000 New Guinean employees
in the island. They are far outnumbered by the self employed, small land-
holders making a living through cash crops. They in turn are over-
whelmingly outnumbered by the primitives.
Thus, the Administration in seeking ways and means of developing
trades unionism in the island must avoid imposing too rigid an Australian
pattern on New Guinea’s society. Whether in the short time left, Australia,
as administering power in New Guinea, can develop successful notions
of trades unionism adapted to New Guinea requirements is another matter.
It may be too late.


National
Notebook
The Professionals
of the world’s best selling pro-
fessional writers dropped into the
Bulletin office this week, his coat hung
casually over his arm. He has just
finished his 104th book ; he sold neariy
3 million of them last year (with the
usual 10 per cent, royalty each copy);
and he is now visiting Australia for the
Melbourne publisher F. W. Cheshire to
get material and local color for the Aus-
tralian books he plans to write. He is
Ronald Ridout and he writes English
textbooks for schools.
After failing to find a publisher just
after the war for a detective novel —and
at first glance this lean, intense, enthusi-
astic Englishman looks more like a thriller
writer (or a poet) than a pedagogue —
he turned to textbooks. He soon became
the leader of the new movement based
on the idea that texts actually teach the
subject and allow for student initia-
tive rather than merely provide tests.
(This fills a need all the more urgent in
English where so many of the teachers
are non-specialists who have never been
properly trained to teach English.) Having
conquered the field in England he moved
on to textbooks for foreigners—
a valuable market since there are now
more foreigners learning English through-
out Africa and Asia than there are in
countries where the mother tongue is
English. From there he moved into
International English textbooks for
taxi-drivers in Rome or waiters in Tokyo
who need some English for the tourists.
Then he moved into the Australian field
with a series of five “English for Aus-
tralian Schools.” (No one could say he
wasn’t needed here: in some Queensland
schools they are still using textbooks
written in 1881.) After this trip he will
prepare a few more. There are only two
other professionals in his field whose
success is equal to his throughout the
English-speaking world. One is an
Englishman, Brigadier C. F. French, and
the second is an Australian —Professor
F. J. Schonell, the Vice-Chancellor of the
University of Queensland whose English
texts for primary schools have been
enormous sellers.
When we asked if he would ever
return to writing detective stories, he
said, firmly, “No.” Pursuing the matter
we asked what new fields were there to
conquer in English textbooks, and he
replied: “There’s always America.”
Strzelecki*s Lolita? _
TThe season for debunking the explorers
is on again. The storm that broke
out a year or so ago over the drinking
habits of one early explorer looks like
being repeated this year over the morals
of another —but this time the contestants
are not old Adelaide families but New
Australians —Poles.
The trouble started with Miss Helen
Heney’s recent book “In a Dark Glass”
about Strzelecki, the Polish discoverer of
Gippsland and Mt Kosciusko, and the
official hero of (some) Polish migrants.
Miss Heney not only convicts Strzelecki
of being a showman, a mediocre explorer,
an unpatriotic Pole but also of having a
flirtation with a 15-year old nymphette,
one Adyna Turno.
This was altogether too much and soon
the Polish counter-attack was launched.
In Melbourne “Tygodnik Katolicki”
(“The Polish Catholic Weekly”) ran a
series of articles alleging errors and
misinterpretations in her book and ques-
tioning Miss Heney’s motives. Then
the Polish scholar Mr Lech Paszkowski
wrote two criticisms (one in Polish, one
in English) of the book, claiming that
not only was she wrong about Strzelecki’s
morals but she misspelt Polish names!
Next another scholar, Mr Mouni Sad'hu,
attempted to rubbish Miss Heney’s
scholarship and has been invited to
expand his views in the Sydney “Polish
News.” Poor Strzelecki, the one thing
no one seems to want to discuss is the
only thing that matters —the value of his
exploring. In the whole controversy the
best the Australian critics have been able
to contribute is a complaint abmit Miss
Heney’s “cumbersome” style. Or perhaps
they’re playing safe: They know they’re
not very good at spelling, either.
Short-Necked Monster
A N agitated Perth correspondent writes:
r\. “yh e short - necked tortoise,
pseudemydura umbrina, six inches long,
has lived unchanged for an estimated 180-
million years. It is found in only one
place in the world, an area limited to
about 500 yards square in the Bullsbrook
district 25 miles from Perth.
“The first specimen was co M ected by a
German naturalist in the very early days
of the Swan River colony and sent to the
Vienna Natural History Museum. How-
ever, as a century elapsed without another
being reported it was reluctantly written
off as a myth. Th -n in 1953, the organi-
sers of the Wild Life Slow, held in the
Perth Town Hall, were staggered
a schoolboy named Robin Boyd casually
brought one along, the first to be seen
for 114 years. Since then others have
been found in the same small area,
bringing the total eight specimens.
“The State Minister for Fisheries has
now arranged for a total ban on its
capture and the WA Government has
allocated £lOOO for the purchase of 100
acres of land for a sanctuary. A fund is
said to be in existence, but after two
years only £2BB has been received. The
pu’ lie is not to be blamed for this
seeming lack of interest, many people
being ready and willing to contribute to
the cause, but the whole thing is being
stifled under a blanket of bureaucratic
secrecy. Nobody can find out who is
sponsoring the fund nor where to send
donations nor how it is proposed to
spend the money.”
SATURDAY
“It’s half-past five and time / went,
We’re due to hit off sharp at six.
Be sure you go and fetch the grog;
You kids can carry out my sticks.”
Thus left alone she makes the beds,
And does the dishes, cooks the food,
Whilst restless, whining children break
A normal weekday solitude.
But why despair? That afternoon
A glad reunion will come —
For him at Randwick with his mates,
For her with her own thoughts at home.
Down at the Men’s Club social he
Relaxed and gay sits down to sup;
While she, a busy waitress, helps
Put out refreshments —standing up.
But see! At last her hour has come
When eager to forget it all
The laundry, kids and cleaning rooms —
She sets forth radiant to the ball.
He leads in with possessive pride
This glorious rose, and makes his bow.
That duty done, he joins the boys;
The rose becomes a wallflower now.
At night upon the marriage bed
He gives her bliss beyond compare —
The scent of her sweet loveliness
Commingled with the fumes of beer.
MICHAEL SEARIE


Festival Blues
As the opening day of the Adelaide
Festival of Arts draws near the
locals are preparing quite a souvenir
for the literary visitors to take away, The
Festival lads have obviously been more
than embarrassed by such an esoteric
feature as public verse readings in the
Sound Shell, and have been quite unsure
where to place it in the list of attractions
in the advertisements for the “serious”
side of the Festival —the Drama, Music,
and Opera. So the poetry readings have
taken their place in the Festival Fun
Fair, and not quite at the bottom of the
programme. Johnny O’Keefe and the
Wild Ones, Digby Wolfe, the Old Time
Night, Tommy Hanlon Junior and the
Massed Spectacular of Marching Girls
all take precedence over the literary
events. At the bottom of the advertise-
ment visitors will find Poetry Reading
linked with Police Displays.
Pianist Hepizbah Menuhin will also be
startled when she reads the Official
Adelaide Festival of Arts programme.
Presumably she will borrow Yehudi’s
bow, place her Bernstein Grand piano
under her chin and go to it, for she is
down to perform Beethoven’s Violin
Concerto with the London Philharmonic.
The Brisbane Lines
'T'hey don’t muck about in Brisbane.
A This week a strange ritual ended in
the Supper Room of the City Hall which
is going to change the entire lives of
many Brisbane citizens. A score or so of
multi-colored maps were displayed setting
out the city’s proposed Town Plan and if
your land is marked mottled grey or
broken red you’ve had it: a road will be
built through it. And as of now you
don’t know when it will be resumed
(tomorrow or in 15 years), you don’t
know what compensation you will get,
and you don’t know what right of appeal
you will have. But you do know that
overnight the value of the property has
dropped has become virtually unsale-
able. There are also scores of business-
men who are turning chameleon colors
according to the various shadings on
various maps —the men who have bought
valuable land on a main road and held it
for years in anticipation of shopping area
sales. Now a £5OOO block may only be
worth £5OO. Meanwhile in response to all
the complaints the buck-passing is just
getting under way. Lord Mayor Jones has
said the Town Planning Committee was
appointed by the State Government and
that the City Council is not to blame.
To which Premier Nicklin replied: “I
hope this does not mean Alderman Jones
is trying to place responsibility for
the Town Plan on the Government.”
Keeping up with the Joneses
we understand from our
usually well - informed brush
salesman, who is very particular about
these matters, have become the latest
status symbols in Sydney. Chimes are
all very well but the lady who as of now
heads the field has installed an electrical
music box which, when the buzzer is
pressed by the butcher, baker or bridge-
table maker, gives out with 30 seconds of
“Come Into the Gai'den, Maude.”
Tanner
"YOU KNOW, FRED, IF IT'S A FEMALE WE MIGHT FIND LITTLE ONES!"


This Australia
NEW GUINEA
THE BUKA RIOTS
FROM OUR NEW GUINEA CORRESPONDENT
JOHN GUNTHER
Emergency airlift
Tytow that the immediate urgency of the
Buka Island native cult trouble has
been met, Australia’s administration of
the island cannot avoid a searching
examination into the affair. What then
was the full story behind the situation?
Was the trouble avoidable and was Aus-
tralia justified in the ultimate step of
despatching an armed police patrol?
For the record the bare bones of the
events are as follows: a native-formed
welfare body at Hahalis village on Buka
Island initially supported the general
principle of community development, but
later opposed Government authority
within the community. Its members
decided to ignore the Government and
to set up an independent social structure
founded largely on tribal tradition and
superstition. A civil patrol went to the
area late last year to collect two pounds
tax from each of 70 men.
But the men refused to pay because
of their new found “independence.”
Police patrols then took over from the
civil patrols and last month suffered two
savage attacks from the natives. The
natives capitulated after Assistant Admini-
strator Dr lohn Gunther ordered an
emergency airlift swelling police strength
to 550.
The patrol eventually made more
than 400 arrests and one party of
prisoners was marched 25 miles to a
detention barracks. Most of the men are
now in jail following their conviction on
charges of rioting.
It is important at this stage to appreci-
ate the economic background of the
people who defied authority. The
Hahalis area is part of a string of beach-
side and clifftop villages stretching nearly
40 miles along the east coast of the island.
The people do not work for bosses either
white or Chinese but live on their own
land which they cultivate. Their culti-
vation consists of sustenance crops for
their own community and coconuts for
export. Their marketing facilities, the
prices they receive, and the Government
advisory services they can obtain aie
identical with those which apply to any
man in the New Guinea planting industry
irrespective of race. Pig raising and
fishing supplement their sustenance
crops Some of the cash they earn from
their coconut groves buys rice from out-
side but in general they can supply their
own food requirements. Their land
tenure is secure because the law allows
no interference with native land owner-
ship. Their housing standards are low
but so is their agricultural efficiency.
They could increase their incomes tenfold
if they would work their properties
properly and accept free agricultural
advisory services. It is an unfortunate
trait in their character however that they
prefer to let the trees look after them-
selves and they harvest crops only when
they either need a meal or require some
immediate ready cash.
In spite of their attitude they neverthe-
less remain as a landed race with a firm
economic background. In this regard
they are far better off than are many of
the New Guinea mainland races.
The tragic paradox of the Buka situa-
tion was that the Hahalis welfare society
from which the trouble stemmed was
formed in the first instance to improve
living standards and agricultural
efficiency. What went wrong? There
seems little doubt today that the main
factors in the trouble were impatience,
superstition and idleness among the mass
of the natives, a power consciousness
among a few native leaders, and a
lenient delay by the Australian Admini-
stration in New Guinea before taking
firm corrective action.
The native impatience stemmed
from a childlike belief that something
planned today would automatically even-
tuate tomorrow, a true manifestation of
what is termed the Cargo Cult and which
accuses the white man of appropriating
magic gifts which the gods intended
should be the property of all races.
The power consciousness came into
the picture when a few intelligent native
leaders turned the situation to their own
advantage. They fanned the cult by set-
ting up internal clubs and societies, and
their illiterate followers paid out hard
cash for the privileges of membership.
One classic example was the Hahalis
stones racket in which two pounds Aus-
tralian entitled a man to the ownership
of a box full of stones. To the true
believer the stones were a new brand of
currency with a value far transcending
that of the Australian legal currency.
The leaders of this racket pocketed the
Australian money.
Behind everything was a thread of
idleness which tied together all the other
factors into a parcel of real trouble.
Government, the Church and commerce
alike all realised trouble was building up
but in the absence of specific offences
against the law the Government hesitated
to infringe native liberties. Such a policy
was laudable and indeed technically
correct but a more dynamic approach
might have saved later trouble.
The scene shifted somewhat when the
natives began openly flouting normal
civil obligations such as census raking,
agricultural regulations, and tax paying
and also began flouting the churches’
moral codes. The natives looked for a
specific point on which to hang their griev-
ances and seized on a complaint that the
Government had not given them an aid
post for treating minor sicknesses and
injuries. They ignored the fact that the
Government subsidised a nearby mission
hospital. They also ignored the Govern-
ment's free medical services at Sohano
Hospital, and they conveniently forgot
that serious cases were flown free of
charge to the New Guinea island’s base
hospital at Rabaul, 200 miles away. The
entire history of the affair was a text-
book case of discontent springing from
ignorance to breed an illogical hatred of
authority.
Police entered the story only when it
was apparent that the islanders were pre-
paring to repel authority with violence.
Natives attacked the police patrol and
from that stage the tax issue became
insignificant compared with the task of
enforcing law and order. The reinforced
patrol carried arms when it set out to
make arrests and its members would
have been fools to go without arms. A
terrible ambush awaited the police in a
narrow pass and only an act of God made
the police take a different track at the
last moment. The final clash was preci-
pitated when a white police officer with-
out force or subterfuge placed his hand
on a man’s shoulder and said “I arrest


you.” The savagery of the fight is
exemplified in an attempt to castrate a
native policeman who was held prisoner
in a cave. The fight was a physical
defeat for the police who were out-
numbered ten to one, but it marked a
turning point.
Four days later the natives capitulated
and offered themselves for arrest. The
march of some of the prisoners 25 miles
along a muddy road to a detention
barracks may read like a chapter of
indignity but in truth it was a walk of
necessity over roads which no vehicle
could pass. The sturdy native police-
men who for days had endured rain and
physical danger marched with the
prisoners but showed only stolid
indifference. Sometimes they called a
man into line but their batons hung at
their hips and their attitude was simply
one of “that’s another job done.” In
jail the prisoners work an eight-hour day
cutting grass, trimming gardens and
maintaining roads. They get a free
tobacco issue and three good meals a
day.
In this regard they are better off than
in the final weeks of their cult when
superstitious frenzy had driven them to
neglect their food gardens. They have full
rights of appeal with free legal advice
and their prosecutions were conducted
under normal British court procedure.
The Government is ensuring that their
womenfolk and villages are adequately
protected and sustained during their
absence.
The facts and the background of the
trouble enable the following conclusions
to be drawn: Firstly, taxation was not
the issue involved either for the Govern-
ment or for the natives. Secondly the
stem of the trouble was native impatience
and cargo cult superstition coupled with
power hungry leadership. Thirdly,
although the natives became increasingly
contemptuous of Australian authority on
their island they did not revolt against
specific Australian policy or influence.
Fourthly, the Australian administration
in New Guinea was possibly remiss in not
taking firm and even high-handed action
at an earlier date despite the possibility of
United Nations criticism. Fifthly, once
having committed itself to the firm and
justified action of despatching a police
patrol the administration was forced to
play out the affair to the limit. Any
weakening would have wrecked the entire
structure of legitimate authority through-
out New Guinea. Sixthly, the patrol itself
acted with the utmost responsibility under
all circumstances and its prisoners were
properly treated and fairly dealt with
according to British law.
ELECTIONS: WA
THE DLP HOLDS THE KEY
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
D. BRAND
On his record
\JU ith- two weeks to go before polling
~ day, the outlook for the Govern-
ment parties in the Western Australian
elections is strengthening. Premier David
Brand delivered a policy speech which
should appeal to the swinging vote and
tne Democratic Labor’s preferences look
like clinching the Government’s return to
power. The only imponderable factor
which could upset the growing Govern-
ment confidence is a continuation of the
Labor swing noted in the South Aus-
tralian and NSW elections into WA.
The policy speeches revealed the Gov-
ernment parties in a confident mood,
making no vote-catching promises but
relying on their achievements in the
field of industry, development and pri-
mary production. Mr Brand pointed to
the £130,000,000 worth of industries
attracted to WA since he took office
three years ago and the 3,000,000 acres
of virgin land opened up by his Govern-
ment. Opposition Leader A. R. G.
Hawke came in with a list of promises
that looked very attractive on paper, but
mostly turned out to be a re-statement of
basic Labor policy. He undertook to
provide equal pay for equal work, three
weeks’ annual leave for all employees, a
State expenditure of £lOO,OOO a year on
housing for old age pensioners and an
approach to the Commonwealth for a
grant which would bring it up to £300,000
a year. Mr Hawke also undertook to
appoint an expert committee to look
into the operations of the Government’s
Totalisator Agency Board which replaced
Labor’s legalised s.p. bookmaking system,
but he did not promise to replace the
TAB. He branded the Government’s
industrial development drive as favoring
combines and monopolies, but again he
did not promise any drastic changes in
his own party attitude towards industry
beyond saying that it would examine
existing agreements and make changes
where it thought fit. He also undertook
that no State-owned industries would
be sold without prior approval from
Parliament.
Perhaps his most unusual promise was
an offer to abolish compulsory preferen-
tial voting and to provide first past the
post polls in the Legislative Assembly or
what he called “preferential voting with
party designations printed opposite the
candidate's name on the ballot papers.’’
This promise looked like an attempt
to neutralise the DLP vote, which on
present indications will put the Govern-
ment into power for the second time. DLP
preferences gave the Liberal party victory
in at least two vital city seats and one
country seat in 1959 and this year the
DLP has again nominated in vital seats.
They look like assuring Government
victory in Karrinyup, Maylands and
Subiaco and also in Murchison, the seat
which tipped the scales in 1959. The
DLP campaign is based on an attack on
ALP support for communist candidates
in union ballots, notably the AEU and
the WWF.
The big question now is whether the
DLP will be able to muster enough
votes to distribute substantial preferences
to Government candidates to offset any
Labor swing. Their vote in WA in the
last Federal elections, though reduced,
was still big enough to make the Labor
victories in Kalgoorlie and Stirling very
close indeed. The final result may
depend on whether the electorate is of
a mind to make a clear decision between
Labor and Liberal, as was the trend in
SA and NSW, or to perpetuate the DLP.
as a true third party in State politics.


COMMUNIST PARTY
THE PURGE
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
TED HILL
Axed
'T'he resignation of Mr E. F. Hill as
Victorian State secretary of the
Communist Party climaxed the party’s
biggest top-level power struggle since
Blake and Henry were dismissed from
the national secretariat in 1953. Hill’s
resignation was conveyed to the mem-
bership in a brief report on the front
page of last week’s “Guardian.” This
said that Hill had resigned “following
his disagreement expressed in the Cen-
tral Committee with the recent policy
decisions of the Central Committee.”
The new : State secretary is Mr Frank
Johnson (formerly president) and the
new president is Mr Ralph Gibson.
These decisions consisted of a blanket
endorsement of the resolutions taken
at the Congress of the Soviet Communist
Party held last year. The resolutions
included veiled attacks on the Chinese
communists and open attacks on the
Albanian party and government for its
pro-Chinese policy. The stubborn cam-
paign waged by Hill and his supporters
in support of the Chinese position, rather
than the Russian, is shown by the fact
that the Victorian State committee of
the party was the last such body in
Australia to endorse the central com-
mittee’s line-up with Khrushchev.
The dispute between Peking and Mos-
cow which is accelerating the decline
of world communism is anything but a
debate between scholars and theorists.
Jt is essentially an ideological mask for
a power-struggle on a world scale. In
the same way, the struggle between Hill
and the local general secretary, Lance
Sharkey, is also a power-struggle dressed
up in ideological wrappings.
A power-struggle in the communist
party must always show itself in ideo-
logical forms. Slobsky may covet Gab-
blesky’s job and may in fact be younger,
more energetic, more intelligent and
generally better fitted for it. To take
issue on these grounds would be to
reveal himself as a “shameless careerist”
in a party which preaches selflessness for
the sake of the Cause. Hence Slobsky
can only advance himself by proving
that Gabblesky is “off the line” and is
committing deviations. By a further
equation, theoretical error is tantamount
to moral sin.
While Lance Sharkey was in prison,
1950-51, the supreme command of the
Australian Communist Party, the
national secretariat, consisted of three
officials Sharkey’s life-long trustie,
R. R. Dixon (alias Walker) and two
younger men, Jack Blake (from Victoria)
and Jack Henry (from Queensland).
These two set out to take control and
rapidly filled up a number of key posi-
tions in the headquarters apparatus with
their own followers. Blake drew his
“cadres” from Victoria, where he had
been State secretary for many years,
while Henry imported Queenslanders.
When Sharkey came out of jail he
found he had almost lost control of the
party. Initially, he had to move cau-
tiously in his struggle to destroy Blake
and Henry. The main methods, at this
stage, were whispering campaigns to
undermine their prestige. When he was
ready, he had them voted down on the
central committee and removed from the
secretariat. The ideological facade to
this operation was a “confession” of
“Left sectarianism” by Blake and one of
“anarcho-syndicalism” by Henry. As far
as the rank-and-file membership was
concerned, it was presented as a matter
of w'rong ideology, not position-seeking.
At a later stage Blake and Henry were
removed from the headquarters pay-roll,
ending their careers as full-time officials.
Henry went to Queensland and ob-
scurity, while Blake took a job as an
office-cleaner in Sydney. Neither counts
in communist affairs these days.
It was Blake’s fall which left the way
open for the ambitious Hill to enter the
top four of the secretariat, along with
Laurie Aarons of Sydney. Aarons is
still riding high and time alone should
eventually give him the General Secre-
taryship. Hill may abandon his struggle
and join the long list of former Aus-
tralian communist big-shots. However
any announcement that he plans to go
abroad could be taken as a sure sign
that he was carrying on his fight and
seeking help from the Chinese and
others abroad.
MONEY
SWEATED POLITICIANS
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
TX/hen the Tasmanian House of
Assembly faced electors in May,
1959, the electorate had been brought to
the boil by the Federal “salary grab.”
The Liberal leader Jackson and the ALP
Premier, Mr Reece, both pledged party
members not to seek pay rises during the
life of the Parliament —customarily five
years. Now in the third year of leisurely
repentance of their hasty renunciation,
Tasmanian members of Parliament have
been electrified by the decision of the
ALP State conference that Labor mem-
bers should not be held to their pledge.
Labor Caucus at this week's pre-
sessional meetings will certainly talk a lot
about salaries, but action is unlikely
in the face of the adamant Mr Reece,
who has never hidden his impatience
when some of his members have pressed
their case. Like it or not, he has main-
tained that he is firmly held by his pledge
to the electors, and even among his more
poverty-stricken followers there is a sub-
stantial agreement.
One of them is the Whip, Mr Ray
McDonald, who in July, 1960, told
the board set up to enquire into salaries
and allowances that he could move
around his electorate only by getting
rides with Ministers perambulating in
their official cars or by hitch-hiking.
Mr Ward told the board that in one
year he had spent £lOOO more than his
income in order to carry on as a parlia-
mentarian. His household had been kept
going only by his wife’s earnings.
The board recommended a general
salary rise from the present £1382 to
£lB5O, with “electorate” allowances of
£250 to £875 (present £250-£500). The
allowances vary with the size and re-
moteness of the electorate.
Soon afterwards, Mr Reece introduced
a bill to set up a tribunal to fix salaries
and allowances every three years. This
tribunal would take determination of
salaries out of the hands of Parliament,
and so shield members from criticism
for setting their own pay. But, true to
his pledge, Mr Reece proposed that the
tribunal should not be instituted until
July, 1964, when the present Parliament
would have run its time.


Around Sydney
SCHISMS AND SCANDALS?
VI/'hile the Methodists last week
harmoniously celebrated their
150th anniversary with speeches and
rallies the quality of charity was
decidedly strained among Sydney’s
Greek, Anglican and Jewish
communities.
Preparing for the first General
Synod of the Church of England in
Australia under its new constitution,
Dr Gough, Sydney’s Archbishop and
Australian Primate, faced a personal
challenge. An influential group of
Anglicans proposed a new system of
electing a Primate. Instead of the old
system where the Primate was elected
by the 27 bishops of Australia, from
the Metropolitans of Perth, Sydney,
Brisbane and Melbourne, the rebels
want the Primate elected (from any of
Australia’s bishops) by all delegates
to General Synod—bishops, priests and
laity. Already it is being said that two
archbishops (Perth and Brisbane) and
two bishops (Tasmania and Armidale)
can command 40 votes which would
swamp Sydney’s 34.
With a big following south of the
border and west of the Murray Mel-
bourne's Archbishop Woods is also
tipped as Primate elect under the
proposed new voting system. Moder-
ates hope there will be a compromise
which will allow Dr Gough to continue
as Primate for another five years before
the new election system —if adopted—
comes into force.
By comparison the Jewish com-
munity split is a straightforward one
based on personalities—chiefly that of
Rabbi Israel Porush of Sydney’s Great
Synagogue. Rabbi Porush, whose face
has been made familiar to large
sections of Sydney in recent weeks
as the subject of Wep's prize-
winning Archibald entry, is by
virtue of office leader of Sydney’s
Jewish community. He recently
refused to join a Rabbinical Assembly
formed by five other Sydney Rabbis —-
Drs H. Freedman (Central Synagogue),
S. Coleman (South Head), A.
Grozinger (Kingsford-Maroubra) and
A. Tarsis (Newcastle).
Rabbi Freedman, the president of
the Assembly, said he and the other
four had been “reluctantly compelled”
to go ahead without the co-operation
of Rabbi Porush. Dr Freedman
explained that: “In recognition of the
fact that Rabbi Porush has been
longer in Sydney than any other Rabbi,
the presidency (of the Assembly) was
offered to him for an extended period
of two years, to be followed by the
honorary presidency for as long as
he is Chief Minister of the Great
Synagogue. However, he insisted on
a minimum of five years for himself.”
Rabbi Porush also objected to mem-
bers of the Assembly taking it in turns
to represent the group at public
functions. In a scathing letter to the
Sydney “Jewish News,” Dr Porush
declared that the Assembly had been
formed “under unfortunate and
unethical auspices,” claiming that the
motive was largely “personal jealousies
and ambitions.”
Rabbi Coleman replied that the aims
of the new organisation were simply
to strengthen Orthodox Judaism in all
its forms. He accused Rabbi Porush
of mud-slinging which was “ill-befitting
the office of any Rabbi.”
The Central Synagogue itself
has backed Rabbi Porush and
threatened to break away from the
NSW Federation of Orthodox Syna-
gogues “if the gap between the
Rabbis” can be healed.
'T'he row in the Greek Church which
has aroused strong feelings among
the Greek laity centres on the powers
of the Orthodox Metropolitan, Bishop
Ezekiel. Amid the thunder of accusa-
tion and counter-accusation, it seems
that Bishop Ezekiel wants to intro-
duce a new constitution for Aus-
tralian Greeks. Some Greek com-
munities fear that the new constitu-
tion will infringe their secular rights.
Already members of the committee
of one Adelaide Greek community
have been excommunicated along
with two priests.
Meanwhile those who enjoy a good
sectional fight are also watching for
any signs of a collision in police
force circles between Lodge Mackay
and the Catholic Guild of Policemen
now that Protestant Norman Allen
has succeeded Catholic Colin Delaney
as NSW Police Commissioner.
BLIGH
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
PLAYFORD'S LAST THROW?
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
'T'he result of the 1962 SA State
■*" elections will go down in history
books as one of the most dramatic
and debatable that SA has ever
seen. In what was probably its
greatest reverse since 1938 the Play-
ford LCL Government lost two
seats of the 20 it held in the 39-seat
House of Assembly. In doing so the party
lost its absolute majority on the floor
of the House. Six days had to pass after
the electors went to the polls before one
could say definitely that the constitution
of the Assembly would be: ALP 19,
LCL 18, Independents 2. The Govern-
ment lost the seats of Unley and Chaffey,
the ALP none.
Although the ALP has now the
strongest party strength in the Assembly
the final determinant of who is to rule
for the next three years will not come
until after Easter. Premier Playford has
said he will advise the Governor, Sir
Edric Bastyan, to assemble Parliament
as soon as possible after Easter. A vote
on the floor of the House will decide
which party has the support of the two
Independent members, and consequently
the majority right to rule.
The two Independent members are
Mr T. C. Stott, MP, and Mr P. H.
Quirke, MP. Mr Stott has been an Jnde-
pendent member of the Assembly since
1933. Mr Quirke, who represents the
country electorate of Burra, is a former
member of the ALP. Both he and Mr
Stott have voted mostly with the
Government in the past, particularly on
major issues. On the strength of their
past histories both Independents can
be expected to support Sir Thomas when
he attempts to continue office.
There were several course’s open to
the Premier. He could have blandly con-
tinued in office and not called Parlia-
ment together until the second half of
this year; he could have resigned, let
Labor form a Ministry at the invitation
of the Governor, and then tried to defeat
them on the floor of the House; or he
could have taken his present course of
recommending recall of Parliament
earlier than usual. The second course,
although it would have been a shrewd
tactical move, has its disadvantages. To
give Labor the reigns of power unneces-
sarily might be dangerous. Even if the


Government thought it had Independent
support it could be argued that the In
dependents had the right to change
their minds at any stage and could
decide Labor should be given a chance
to prove its mettle. And even if the LCL
could defeat a newly installed Labor
Government team on the floor of the
House and force another election there
would be the danger that the election
result could be even more unfavorable.
The over-all percentage vote recorded
in favor of ALP candidates may have
been slightly staggered on last election’s
figure (from 48 per cent, to 54 per cent.).
This was because there were more con-
tests this year in strong ALP electorates.
Entry of DLP candidates in four such
seats made elections necessary.
One significant feature of the ALP
vote is that the party has now surpassed
the support it received before the entry
of the DLP into State politics. In 1953
the ALP percentage of the vote was 51
per cent. The entry of the Labor Party-
Anti Communist (now DLP) in 1956
helped to depress the ALP share by
about three per cent. The same pattern
was set in 1959. The extent to which
the ALP has survived DLP exposures
in this election can be seen in figures for
the marginal seat of Unley. ALP can-
didate, international cricketer Mr Gil
Langley, won the seat from the LCL
by obtaining a majority of primary
votes. Some members of the LCL
thought DLP preferences would save
the seat for them.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT
"DRUNKENNESS, MISMANAGEMENT,
INCOMPETENCE..."
From Keith Willey in Darwin
T\arwin City Council has never been
the most tranquil of bodies. Threats
of resignation, accusations and counter-
accusations, even the use of a four-letter
word have punctuated its debates. Now
it is in ferment again. During a marathon
meeting which did not end until 2.40 a.m.
(when one councillor suggested that the
Mayor send out for breakfasts of liver
and bacon all round) Cr Geoff Spence
charged some staff members with
drunkenness, mismanagement and incom-
petence. In a half-hour speech he said
he either knew or had information
that:
# Reports of drunkenness had been
made to senior staff members, apparently
without result.
# A senior man and some of his staff
had been found drunk in a private house
during a working day.
# He himself had seen a foreman
walking out of a hotel during working
hours.
# Council vehicles were available for
private use by some staff members at
nights and weekends.
# A quantity of gelignite found at the
Council depot had been wrapped up,
taken out to McMillan's Road, on the
outskirts of town, and thrown over a
fence on to RAAF property.
# Security at the council depot was
slack and materials had disappeared.
Mayor Harry Cooper, looking at Cr
Spence with no friendly eye, summoned
up the Town Clerk, Mr Bill Sullivan, who
read reports from the Inspector of Local
Government Accounts, Mr C. R. Stahl,
the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Mr
Clive Graham, and others relating to
allegations made at a meeting in the
Mayor's office. The report of that meet-
ing said a former overseer named
Clements had alleged : “The shed is being
stolen blind .. . Stuff is going off left and
right, including petrol, tyres and other
stuff.” But when the Mayor sent for
police, the report chronicled. Clements
had said. “If the police are brought into
this I'll deny everything.”
All the reports indicated that a
thorough examination of books and stores
procedure had been made, with spot
checks of some stores items. There were
no discrepancies. Despite all this
councillors agreed to have a special
inquiry.
There matters stood for a few days,
simmering ominously, until the special
meeting was held to thrash out Cr
Spence's allegations fully. Cr Spence
repeated his claim that two senior
employees were “alcholics” and
added: “If this council cares to
indemnify me against cost of legal action
I will name them." The council then
heard a report of the meeting between a
deputation of council employees on the
one hand and Mayor Cooper, Deputy
Mayor Ted D'Ambrosio and Town Clerk
Sullivan on the other.
After the report on the deputation had
been read to the meeting Mayor Cooper
ruled that under the bylaws any com-
plaints had to be in writing, and signed
by the person making them. Until this
was done council had to ignore Cr
Spence’s allegations against staff.
Cr Spence put a motion of dissension
against the Mayor’s ruling which resulted
in a three-all voting deadlock. (Several
councillors were absent). Mayor Cooper
then used his casting vote to quash Cr
Spence’s motion. But he said the ruling
applied only to allegations against
STILL IN THE JUG
bulletin
MARCH 18. 1882
During the week Messrs Haynes and
Archibald have been visited at their
quarters, Darlinghurst gaol, by numerous
friends, including many prominent citizens.
The imprisoned journalists have received
addresses of sympathy from the Sydney
District Convention of the Independent
Order of Good Templars, and the School
of Arts Debating Society.
In response to a circular, signed by
Messrs G. H. Reid, MP, D. O'Connor, MP,
and P. R. Holdsworth, a number of gentle-
men met on Tuesday afternoon, at the
Royal Hotel, to consider as to the best
means to be taken to evoke a public
expression of sympathy with Messrs Haynes
and Archibald, now confined in Darling-
hurst gaol, for non-payment of the
plaintiffs’ costs in the celebrated Clontarf
libel case. The meeting was a preliminary
one. After a conversational discussion be-
tween Messrs J. P. Abbott, Holdsworth,
and Dibbs, the first-named gentleman was
voted to the chair. The case under con-
sideration having been ventilated sym-
pathetically, a resolution should be taken
to raise the funds necessary to procure the
liberation of the incarcerated journalists.
Stress was particularly laid on the value of
public meetings. A second resolution was
carried to the effect that an appeal should
be made to Parliament to amend the libel
laws. Messrs G. H. Reid, MP, D. O'Connor,
MP. P. R. Holdsworth, G. R. Dibbs, J. P.
Abbott and E. Jones were appointed a sub-
committee to act as they thought desirable
in carrying out the views of the meeting.
The sub-committee meets daily at Mr.
Holdsworth's office, Temperance Hotel, at
4 p.m. Messrs G. H. Reid, D. O'Connor,
and P. R. Holdsworth act as honorary
secretaries to the movement, and Mr G.
R. Dibbs as honorary treasurer. Already,
encouraging promises have been made from
several unexpected quarters. We are in-
formed that a branch subscription com-
mittee has been appointed at Newcastle.
* * *
“The Bulletin Libel Case.—A preliminary
meeting was held at Mr George Wallace's
(solicitor) offices, Newcastle, on Tuesday
evening, re Bulletin libel imprisonment
case. After consideration amongst a number
of influential residents present, it was
decided that the matter be made a public
one, seeing the general import it bore
with regard to the general weal, and
further it, was arranged to request the
Mayor, by requisition, to convene a public
meeting to consider the question.”


employees and not to the general inquiry
into management of the council as a
whole.
As the Territory’s only fully-elected
Local Government body—in fact the
only fully-elected governing body of any
sort—the Council must be taken seriously,
and citizens will watch with weary interest
the preparations for yet another inquiry
into its affairs.
LAW
WAITING
FROM A NSW CORRESPONDENT
Tn May of 1956 such unions as the
Federated ironworkers’ Association,
the Amalgamated Engineering Union, the
Australian Society of Engineers, the Elec-
trical Trades Union and various other
unions lodged a log of claims to make
up a new steel award. Because of its
importance the case had to be heard by
three of the judges of the commission.
The “money matters” of the steel
award were finally decided in November
of 1958 —a delay of only two years from
the time the case was first listed. This
left 24 clauses relating to hours, overtime,
public holidays and similar conditions
still unheard. It wasn't until April 1961
that “the commission in full session”
(Justice Richards, Beattie and Kelleher)
commenced hearing the remaining 24
clauses still outstanding from 1956. On
Tuesday, March 6, of this year (only six
years later), two of these 24 clauses.were
finally argued. When the other 22 clauses
will finally be determined is anyone's
guess but it is safe to say it won’t be too
soon.
The unions, with some justification,
are smouldering at such interminable
delays. They point out that under the
Industrial Arbitration Act of NSW, the
Government can appoint “not more than
12 persons” as judges of the Industrial
Commission. The NSW Labor Govern-
ment has seen fit to appoint only six. The
unions involved in the steel case point
out that because their case has to be
heard by three of the six judges one of
them is often needed to settle some
dispute which threatens to boil over into
strike action. This makes for mors
delays because cases which may lead to
trouble must be settled quickly. They
say it in fact pays to strike and looking
at the six-year delay of the steel award
they may be right.
The last the unions heard from the
Labor Government was “something will
be done after the elections” ; but whether
this referred to the 1962 elections or
the 1965 elections nobody said.
Around Melbourne
FOOTBALL AND TV
TThere are many things that move
A Melburnians deeply the chop-
ping of trees, closing hours, the per-
fect decorum of the Melburnian
Sunday—but above all we feel deeply
about our football. And this is the
exciting, romantic part of the year
when every team is full of hope. The
newspapers are devoting even more
space than usual to stories about 7ft
tall recruits from the country, who
with unbelievable ease can kick sacks
of wheat 100 yards with either foot.
We realise, all of us, that after the
passing of May these Goliath recruits
will never be heard of again, but
we can dream. And, of course, now is
the time when the shops are stacked
with club towels, club hearth rugs,
club bath mats, club scarves, club
beanies, club socks, club flags for
one’s car wireless aerial. Even the
banks have club money boxes.
I tell you this just so that you can
get some idea of the size of the i sue
that has been worrying Melbourne
during the past week to televise
or not to televise the last quarter of
the League football. There have been
leading articles and street polls ; it has
rarely been oft' the front pages of
the newspapers.
The Victorian Football League
permitted the televising of the last
quarter of League matches during
1958, 1959, and 1960. During that
period attendances declined steadily.
Last year, despite offers of £14,000
from the TV stations the League
banned the telecasts. It was a bumper
season. There was an increase in
attendances of 341,000 spectators.
Because of this and because of in-
creases at country football matches
the VFL banned the telecasts for
1962. If the TV stations wished they
could show films after the play.
Alf Brown the football com-
mentator made it clear that no red-
blooded Australian Rules supporter
would sit at home just to see the last
quarter. He said the increased attend-
ances last year had little to do with
television. They were due to two things,
an unusually balmy winter and the fact
that almost forgotten teams like St
Kilda, Footscray, and Hawthorn had
downed the champions. A letter-
writer, speaking on behalf of invalid
pensioners, called for a spectators’
strike. Mr. Bolte, the Premier, said if
he were a football administrator he
would allow the last quarter to be
televised, so too did the Minister for
Lands, Mr. Turnbull.
Opinion within the League was by
no means unanimous. The most
stirring speech came from Frank
Galbally, a Collingwood committee-
man, a former Collingwood player
and a famous criminal lawyer of our
town. To 700 people in the Colling-
wood Town Hall he said the VFL’s
attitude was mean, shortsighted, and
arrogant. He called for a referendum
on the subject in which every ticket-
holding member of the 12 clubs would
have a vote. At the week’s end the
stolid Victorian Football League
looked remarkably unmoved.
T7ictoria’s tallest structure, 24
* floors, the 324 ft 64in Con-
solidated Zinc Building was occupied
last week. For some months while
the riggers were still on the job, we
proudly claimed it as the tallest build-
ing in Australia. Now that honor must
go to Sydney’s new AMP building.
The building is at the so-called Paris
end of Collins Street ; it rises in a
thin slender tower, showing solid,
unbroken brick walls on either side.
Yet it is not true to say that the
building destroys Collins Street’s
beauty, although we would have pre-
ferred the old Melbourne mansions
and Mr. Jonas’ marvellous fruit shop,
which it replaced. The Consolidated
Zinc is set back quite some distance
from Collins Street, and the work-
men are in the process of making an
attractive grassy courtyard. The com-
pany has also announced that there
will be a sculpture by no less a man
than the famous if controversial
Italian sculpture Amelio Greco.
But while the AMP Building was
opened by the Prime Minister and an
all star cast, plus supplements in the
newspapers, the occupancy of Con-
solidated Zinc was practically a secret
in Melbourne. The Melbourne Sun
recorded that there would be no
official opening.
No doubt the Consolidated Zinc
Company is showing a dignified re-
spect for the times, but this lack of an
opening must have been aggravating
for Mr Bolte. Mr Bolte is known as the
greatest opening Premier Victoria has
ever known. Frequently he has opened
as many as three buildings a week
and recently he even opened a super-
market, but this 25-storey opportunity
passed him by.
BATMAN


TRAVEL
When the Going is Good
By PATRICIA ROLFE
afp and sea Pccssd@/~~1,
When the travel agent opens his
shop in the morning he has no
stock to dust, no goods to
display, no persuasive salesman
on his doorstep with a new line to push.
He is selling something you can neither
see, feel, taste, smell nor wear. He is
selling something that has no trade-in
allowance; something that can’t be
brought back and exchanged ; something
he doesn’t own, hasn't grown, produced
or prepared in any way; something
which, until there are regular space
flights, is extensive, but limited.
All the agent has to help him are some
travel folders and posters, some com-
plicated, off-putting timetables, and
some ground plans of ships, in which the
four and six-berth cabins in which so
many young Australians go to Europe
look much more commodious than they
seem somewhere in the Red Sea.
The customer goes off on his trip with
his 10 or 20 feet of airline tickets, or his
folder with ship’s passage ticket, luggage
labels and travellers’ cheques. When he
comes back he has absolutely nothing
left, except some expensively acquired
memories, and possibly a Rome tummy,
or Tokyo ’flu or the Karachi wog.
Yet travel in 1962 is one of the fastest-
growing industries in the world. Over
the past decade expenditure by Aus-
tralians on travel, as it affects the balance
of payments, has grown by 257 per cent.,
faster than expenditure on any other
single commodity. The market is fiercely
competitive. Even wealthy countries
such as America can no longer ignore
what happens to the balance of pay-
ments because Americans spend far more
overseas than do visitors to America.
Although people have always travelled
for pleasure, the tourist, travelling on a
budget, and probably on his own, is to a
large extent a post-war phenomenon.
Pre-war, Australians went to London,
Americans to Paris, but the restless surg-
ing from country to country was under-
taken only by an intrepid few.
A Sydney grandmother who took off
recently round the world by air for three
months with two cases, which she can
carry herself if need be, went pre-war with
23 pieces of baggage and took two years
to “go round the world.” Sydney agent
Roland Hill says that most Australians
travel so simply these days that their
luggage is often many pounds below the
maximum allowed by the airlines.
The post-war tourist comes from
almost every country, and goes to almost
every country, but Australians, per head
of population, go further and more often
than anyone.
Travel in one sense sells itself, but it is
one of the most painstaking and exasper-
ating commodities to handle. An agent
might spend a couple of days arranging
a schedule and making bookings for a
world traveller. The next day the
traveller comes in and says, “A chap at
the club was telling me that I should
stop over in Chicago and see the meat-
works. Fix it for me, will you?” and the
schedule slowly comes apart at the seams.
Perhaps because of these frustrations,
travel agents, shipping and airline com-
panies, in fact, everybody associated with
travel take care to maintain friendly
relations with their rivals. They have to,
because a rival is generally the only
person who can help you when a client
changes his plans.
The travel market is extraordinarily
sensitive to economic slumps and to
wars and rumors of wars. None-
theless, the researchers say that,
given stable political and economic con-
ditions over the next decade, the growth
of the market should be startling. One
estimate is that by 1969 three-quarters of
a million people will reach or leave


Australia. This is slightly less than
double the 1959 figure of 431,000 people.
Increases in travel are very closely
tied to rising standards of living and
education, greater leisure and improved
means of transport. As newer countries
become better off, more of their citizens
will travel. The tourist trade, both in
America and Australia, the two late
starters in the field, is still undergoing
what they call “research in cepth.”
Countries in Europe don’t worry too
much about this sort of thing, although
they do spend a great deal of money
advertising their tourist attractions, and
in trying to filch customers from each
other.
Americans and Australians are both
rather haunted by the feeling that they
haven’t really got anything that anyone
woul<J pay to come and see, that they are
large, flat countries, where nothing ever
happens. Both seem to feel like the girl
at the party, who is better-looking, better-
dressed, and better-off than the other
girls, and wonders why she is not found
interesting.
A market research organisation in
Sydney recently did a survey for the
Government-established United States
Travel Service, and also one for local
purposes. The US Travel Service was
told by the researchers that “curiosity”
was probably the reason why most
Australians travelled, and that the
Americans’ best chance of getting more
from the Australian tourist was by en-
couraging businessmen, who go to
America, to stay a little longer and see
a little more, and to try to get Aus-
tralians, who go to Europe, to come
home via the States.
'T'he task of encouraging visitors to
come to Australia rests on the
shoulders of the Australian National
Travel Association. Although the associa-
tion was founded in 1929, the machinery
and money for the association to do a
large-scale job of promotion have only
lately been available.
Last October the Minister for Trade,
Mr McEwen, told the association that
the Government regarded it as the
major means of promoting Australia
abroad. The. Government trebled the
association’s subsidy from £50,000 to
£150,000, and also guaranteed to match
pound for pound grants from other
sources. This could give the association
an annual income of £300,000, although
it won’t quite reach this figure this year.
The association is now under the De-
partment of Trade instead of the Depart-
ment of the Interior. The Department of
Trade, the Prime Minister’s Department,
and the News and Information Bureau
will be represented on the board. The as-
sociation, which previously submitted
an annual report to Canberra, will now
also submit advance plans so that its
programme can be considered with the
Budget estimates.
The president of the association, Mr
John Bates, believes that the association,
which, as well as Commonwealth
Government representatives, includes
representatives of the States, the air and
shipping companies, hotel and motel
interests, banks and shops, is more suit-
able for Australia than the Government
agency the United States have set up.
With a budget of nearly £300,000,
what does the association plan to do?
The association has decided that the best
hope for more business is from the
United States. An office was last year
established in New York, because most
of the tourist trade is from the eastern
States. An office already operates in San
Francisco.
The association, after an American
advertising agency carried out a survey
and made recommendations, advertises
in such magazines as “Holiday” and
Esquire.” The tenor of the advertise-
ments is “Only one in a hundred people
will visit Australia this year; will you be
that one?” The association has been
criticised for the negative aspect of this
slogan, but the agency says that with the
well-known desire of Americans to be
different, this is the type of advertisement
to appeal. Also, only one American in a
hundred actually has the time and money
to come here.
The next stage of the association’s
campaign will be to sell Australians,
rather than Australia.
“How do you persuade people to go
to Australia?” a Los Angeles travel
agent was asked.
“I don’t sell Australia. 1 sell Aus-
tralians,” he said.
The most appealing thing about Aus-
tralians so far as the Americans are con-
cerned is that although we may write
“Eternity” on our footpaths, we don’t
scrawl “Yanks, go home” on our walls.
This simple fact is enough to make the
American feel loved and wanted, which
is the way his psychiatrist has told him
he wants to feel.
How fast is the tourist trade growing
in Australia and what is it worth?
Last year, the total number of short-
term visitors to Australia was 99,295 —an
increase of 17.3 per cent, over 1960. The
Australian National Travel Association
had hoped the figure would reach
100,000, but the New Zealand total, the
largest single figure, and representing
about four out of 10, was down. This
is presumed to be because of that
country’s economic uncertainties follow-
ing Britain’s decision to join the Euro-
pean Common Market —a good example
of how sensitive the tourist trade is to
economic changes.
The Australian National Travel As-
sociation expects 120,000 visitors to come
here in 1962 and to spend £23,000,000
and is hopeful these figures can be raised
to 187,000 and £36,000,000 by 1965.
What brings people here? The figure
of 84,623 visitors for 1960 (the 1961
figures have not yet been dissected)
is broken up into 21,000 in transit, 15,000
on business, 30,000 on holiday, 3000
for education and 5000 not stated.
How is the tourist cake divided? The
American Hotel Association splits it
up: Hotels 25 per cent; department and
retail stores 20.8 per cent; non-hotel
restaurants 17.8 per cent; entertainment
15.8 per cent; miscellaneous 17.7 per
cent. The Australian pattern may not
follow this. The Treasury knows how
much foreign currency is spent here, but
no one knows how much is spent on
tipping the toothy waiter and how much
is spent on plastic boomerangs and
imitation-fur koalas.
TThe other side of the coin is the
constant procession of Australians
overseas. There is no particular reason
why what we spend overseas should tally
with what visitors spend here, any more
than any other item in the balance of
payments should cancel itself out, but
there is no reason why it shouldn’t.
The disparity between the numbers
of people who come here and those who
go overseas each year is not great. It is
not as great as the United States which
has 2,000,000 departures and 600,000
arrivals each year. Short-term arrivals
have risen from 65,000 in 1949 to 130,000
in 1959, while departures have grown
from 65,000 to 137,000 in the 10-year
period. These figures make it clear that
departures are increasing at a slightly
faster rate than arrivals although the
next few years may show this has been
checked or reversed.
Although numbers of arrivals and de-
partures are not significantly different,
the amount each group spends is. It is
obvious that Australians will spend more
money during their travel, when they
may visit 20 or 30 countries, than
visitors, who may also visit several
countries, will here. There are other,
smaller factors which throw the com-
parison out of kilter. However, the
Statistician’s figures show that in 1959
Australian residents spent £30,000,000
overseas (an average of £464 per person)
while visitors spent £8,600,000 (an
average of £126 per person).
Travel from our shores is not all loss.
Fares paid here, except those to Qantas,
do eventually find their way overseas,
as Australia does not have an overseas


How to travel
Trouble free
Book through
ELDERS
TRAVEL SERVICE
When you come to Elders for help in
planning your trip, in making reservations,
hotel hookings and tours, you are dealing
with experts who have made a career of
stretching travel budgets.
We also give you assistance in procuring
passports, visas, health certificates,
traveller’s cheques, etc. A real bargain for
you as these services cost you absolutely
nothing.
CRUISES
CASTEL FELICE\
18th April, 14 days.
Nukualofa, Suva,
Noumea. One class from £95
ORIANA
13tli June, 11 days.
Hayman Is., Honiara, Suva.
Tourist from £82 \ First Class from £115
WANGANELLA
29th June; 25 days to
Auckland, Suva, Apia,
Vavau. Nukualofa. Bay of Islands.
From £185
AURELIA
18th August 15 days to
Nukualofa. Vavau, Suva,
Noumea. One class from £102
ORION,
24th August, 23 days to
Auckland. *ltaratonga,
Papeete. Suva.
* Passengers will not be permitted to land
on Raratonga Island. Tourist from £155
KUALA LUMPUR ■
2nd September
and 24th October,
46 days, from Fremantle to Singapore,
Hong Kong, Kobe, Yokohama, Manila, Bali.
From £350
SUPERLINER,
Christmas Cruise, 14
days approx, to be
announced shortly.
POLYNESIE
return voyage to New
Hebrides and New
Caledonia, departing every few weeks.
From £130
TJIWANGI-TJILUWAH,
6 weeks round voyage, 11 days in Japan,
5 days in Hong Kong. Sailings monthly.
From £210 return
REMEMBER,
it costs you no more to
book through ELDERS,
and yon get the benefit of selecting from
ALL the transportation available, plus our
wealth of experience. Elders have been
in Travel since 1839 . . . for your benefit.
Book through a RELIABLE Travel Agent.
For further details, write, phone or call—
ELDERS TRAVEL
SERVICE
9-11 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Phone: B 0138
OPEN SATURDAY MORNING
Established 123 years in travel.
shipping company. The shipping and
air companies produce work for Aus-
tralians and buy stores here. There is a
certain stimulus to retail trade, even if
mainly in the luggage department.
There is the intangible gain for a
country geographically isolated of having
large numbers of its citizens visit other
countries and learn something of other
peoples. A travel agent said that any
man who married one of the thousands
of Australian girls, who go overseas for
a couple of years, was “a very lucky
fellow.” However, what sort of bargain
she is getting in someone whose horizon
is as wide as the rim of his beer-glass
is another matter.
The researcher’s Dutch uncle in Can-
berra, the Commonwealth Statistician,
breaks up departures and arrivals into
several categories. Th - Statistician’s
figures do show the great increase in
air travel, compared with sea. In the
decade from 1949 to 1959, the number
of sea arrivals went up from 41,945 to
46,977, while air travellers increased
from 23,467 to 82,897. Departures by
sea went up from 42,430 to 55,507,
while air went from 22,247 to 81,154.
When the figures for departures are
broken up into age groups and sex
divisions, the patterns of Australians on
the move begin to emerge. From 15 to 24
females leaving Australia exceed males.
These figures include the bands of young
hopefuls who each year take off for
Europe on working holidays. From 25
to 39 men exceed women. This is the
period when many women are tied to
young families and are generally unable
financially to think of travel. This is the
time when young men —those busy,
striving young executives —are sent over-
seas, either as reward or incentive.
After 40 the figures begin to flat-
ten out. In the fifties the number
of businessmen travelliing is about
the same as the number of women
who are on the move. Round the age
of 60 there are slightly more women
leaving Australia than men, but the
difference is not nearly so pronounced
as in the American figures. Not nearly
so many Australian women yet succeed
in working their husbands to death at
an early age so they themselves can
travel in luxury through their widow-
hood.
Satisfactory figures for interstate
travel do not exist. However, the Aus-
tralian National Travel Association esti-
mates that we spend about £250,000,000
a year on inter and intrastate tourism.
With the enormous and rapid develop-
ment of travel as an industry, it would
seem that this is just the line of business
for an up-and-coming millionaire. How-
ever, all sections of the industry im-
mediately shrink away from the idea,
and insist there is no money to be made
in it at all.
'T'ravel does seem to be only spottily
profitable. After the War, when
everyone wanted to go somewhere and
berths were scarce, the travel business
generally made money easily, but things
have got steadily, or spasmodically,
worse.
The director-general of the Inter-
national Air Transport Association
(lATA), Sir William Hildred, in his
report to the association’s annual general
meeting, held at Sydney last year, said
that the association members —92 of
them covering 86 per cent, of the world’s
scheduled passenger routes were
operating on an average profit, before
taxes, interest and dividends, of one per
cent.
Most shipping companies are extra-
ordinarily sensitive to chill breezes
through the economy. The London-based
Peninsular and Oriental Steam Naviga-
tion Co. this month announced a net
profit fall of 85 per rent., or
£5tg.4,448,145 to £5tg.763,677, for the
year ended September 30, 1961.
Nor are hotels invariably profitable, as
debenture holders in the Sydney Chevron
Hilton could glumly testify. Travel
agents are also quick to say that theirs
is not the profitable end of the business.
The difficulties of the small man can be
great and the tendency is towards a
larger company, which can spread capital
outlay over several years, and can use
the profitable branches to prop up new
agencies through the first years of life.
One agent told a conference of the
Federation of Australasian Travel
Agents that gross profit to turnover in a
Sydney branch of his company averaged
6.25 per cent. Overhead was £10,389
and new profit before tax was £1653 or
.81 per cent. This amounted to £llOO
after tax. “This,” he said, “is not exactly
an exciting prospect for shareholders,
bearing in mind that debtors average
£15,000.”
There has been no survey of the
travel agent’s business in Australia. How-
ever, an American investigation for
ASTA (the American Society of
Travel Agents) concluded that there was
no profit and no future in selling travel
tickets. Only those agents able to profit
by tours, which generally yield 10 per
cent, commission, could afford to carry
the overhead of ticket sales. Because
Europe is the best field for organised
tours, Australian agents cannot skim
much of the cream off the top of the
milk.
However, the “package” tour either to
the East or to Europe is growing in popu-
larity here, even with travellers who
formerly might have turned up their


WHEN BUSINESS
GOES ABROAD ...
I
Organising a business trip is a most
important matter, requiring careful thought
and planning.
Experienced businessmen have found that
it pays to consult A.N.Z. Bank. In addition
to unsurpassed facilities for foreign currency
arrangements, complete travel services and
worthwhile business introductions are provided as normal features of the
Bank’s highly organised service for travelling businessmen. Officers of
A.N.Z. Bank too, are constantly on the move throughout the world, and
their experience ensures that A.N.Z. Bank’s service for travelling businessmen
is always up-to-date.
Every A.N.Z. Bank Manager is backed by specialised departments which make
full use of the Bank’s contacts throughout the world.
When planning a business trip: “Ask A.N.Z. Bank M
A-N-Z BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
Over 930 Branches and Agencies of Australia and New Zealand
Bank Limited throughout Australia and New Zealand, in Fiji, Papua
and New Guinea, and in London. Agents throughout the World.
TRAVEL SERVICES
A complete travel service is available through every branch of A.N.Z. Bank.
Travel Departments in Australia are located in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
ANZ .484.272!


PiO - ORIENT
journeys
are all
too short
r
m
t
m:
All the world’s our stage ..« On P& O -
Orient Lines’ Holiday Cruises or Pacific main-
line services, you can sail luxuriously to
romantic, lovely places on short or long vaca-
tions. To lush, scenic islands like Tasmania
and New Zealand . . . fascinating ports of the
Far East . . . palm-fringed South Sea isles . . .
the modem wonderland of North America.
★ On world-wide services, in the Pacific and
on our Suez Route to Europe, P & O - Orient
Lines cater superbly for your entertainment.
Consult any Authorized Travel Agent.
IX
\
P & O - ORIENT LINES’ WORLD-WIDE SERVICES VIA SUEZ AND VIA PACIFIC
G.IO,
noses. Some of the shipping companies
now have an air-sea agreement with the
international airlines companies so that
a more flexible tour is possible.
Perhaps the happiest position among
the agencies is that of the pastoral com-
panies, such as Elder, Smith and Dal-
getys, which in the name of diversifi-
cation, have expanded their shipping de-
partments to full-size travel departments.
The pastoral companies have a ready-
made clientele, and when prices are high
what is easier, after your client gets his
wool cheque, than to steer him down to
the travel department to spend some of
it there? However, Elder, Smith, whose
shipping department dates back to the
founding of the company in 1839 and
who have had the P. and O. agency since
1870, say that nowadays not much more
than 50 per cent, of their travel business
comes from people who have other con-
nections with the firm.
/"\ne of the most striking factors in the
travel business in Australia is that
some of the trading banks run travel
departments, which collect commissions
and operate exactly as any other agency
does. Travel agents say that nowhere
else in the world do banks do this.
Banks in other countries have travel
departments, which are run as a service
to customers, and which have confined
their activities to providing this type of
service.
Some agents regard the banks as un-
fair competition. They say that as an
agent must operate a bank account, the
banks have confidential information re-
garding the travel agents’ activities and
know who the agents’ clients are. They
say, too, it is possible that a commercial
firm, which has an overdraft, and which
wishes to send someone overseas, may be
virtually forced to travel “through the
bank.” Although this controversy was
fairly bitter in the early days of the
Federation of Australasian Travel
Agents in 1957 it has now quietened
down. Some of the banks have joined
the federation and have been accepted
as members. The travel agents, in their
turn, say that the banks appear to be
using less forceful methods to canvass
travel business.
Most of the trading banks’ travel
departments antedate all but a few local
travel agencies. The Bank of NSW now
claims to be the largest local travel
agency. The manager of the travel de-
partment at head office, Sydney, Mr.
N. M. Cameron, said that the bank
began its travel services in a “haphazard,
amateurish way” back in the twenties.
The first object was to help foreign
businessmen, particularly Americans
who came here with investment in mind,
but who often had difficulty in arranging
transport and accommodation so they
could see the country quickly and easily.
In the early days the bank did not
take commissions from carriers, but in
the fifties, when, with the increasing
number of Australians going abroad, its
business began to expand rapidly, the
bank applied for accreditation to
lATA and the Australian and New
Zealand Passenger Conference, which
is an association of most of the British
and some other shipping companies
which touch Australia.
The Bank of NSW now has 24
agencies in Australia, New Zealand, Fiji,
Port Moresby and London. Mr. Cameron
believes that about 52 per cent, of the
bank's travel business is with private
clients (Australian girls going to Europe
make up a substantial portion of these)
and the rest are businessmen.
Accreditation with lATA or the Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Passenger Con-
ference, which is generally known as the


srv.vxw
mm
Pi/hm's Memorial
Qhurcl-\
:
mm
is®
m
*
I i :
g ■
m s
w.
.Serpentine tSorcje,
c St3»d ley (^ti3Sna
Choose from
these Colourful Central Australian Tours
from Alice Springs
AYERS ROCK - MOUNT OLGA
Ayers Rock, grand, unforgettable—the world’s largest monolith
and Mount Olga, with its ever-changing colours. Rich in
the age-old culture of the world’s oldest race.
PALM VALLEY - FINIvE GORGE
The “Namatjira” country with red canyons, pools, palms
and snowy-white gums; where you drive along the bed of
a river and pass the grave of “Flynn of the Inland.”
3
MACDONNELL RANGES
The tour of colourful fantastic Gorges . . . Serpentine,
Ormiston, Glen Helen and Ellery Creek. Splashed and
smothered with unbelievable Central Australia colouring.
Also day and half-day tours.
See the “CENTRE” the BEST way on an
ANSITT
Central Australia Holiday
Only with ANSETT can you really relax and
enjoy the colour and contrast of the
wonderland of the “Red Heart” of our
great Continent. Never before has the
“Centre” offered such touring facilities for
an unforgettable holiday as now with the
fine combination of services of Australia’s
leading Holiday Organisation.
With ANSETT-ANA’s frequent Golden Boomerang Services
to Alice Springs, “The Centre” is but a few short hours
away. Only ANSETT-ANA provides the comfort of the
giant, pressurised, air-conditioned, radar-equipped, de luxe
Viscount 832 aircraft.
PIONEER TOURS
Years of experience, millions of road miles, under all types
of conditions, make PIONEER TOURS the largest and
most experienced Road Passenger Organisation in Australia.
All road travel throughout your holiday will be with
PIONEER, in vehicles specially designed for the conditions
including luxurious dust-proof Scenic Clipper coaches and
specially-built four-wheel-drive vehicles.
ANSETT HOTELS
MOUNT GILLEN HOTEL, with accommodation for 130,
licensed for your convenience, is the most modern in Alice
Springs. Amenities include swimming pool, air-conditioned
lounge and dining room. Fully air-conditioned bedrooms
with private shower and toilet are also available. ANSETT
HOTELS also operate comfortable lodges at Ayers Rock,
Serpentine Gorge and Palm Valley.
BOOK NOW FOR YOUR
ANSETT CENTRAL AUSTRALIA HOLIDAY
At any Anseft-ANA booking office and all recognised Travel Agencies.
★ Packaged Tours wiil be arranged to suit your individual requirements.
ATI. 83


conference lines, is the crux of the travel
agent’s business. The small man, who
plans to open an agency, is in something
of a dilemma. He cannot operate suc-
cessfully without accreditation either
to lATA or the conference lines,
(although an agency for lines outside
the conference is useful) and he really
wants both, but he cannot get accredita-
tion until he can show that he can suc-
cessfully and reputably carry on a travel
agency. Some agents do open, and after
a year or so, when they get accreditation,
the commission may be made retrospec-
tive. Once the agent is accredited to the
association or the conference, he must
then apply to those of the individual
member companies, for which he thinks
he can get a reasonable number of book-
ings, for permission to act as their agent.
Some years ago Qantas said it cost £lOO
a year to furnish an agency with the
materials necessary to act on the air-
line's behalf. The figure would be much
higher now. Carriers have to keep agents
supplied with publicity material as well
as manuals, fare schedules and time-
tables. P and O —Orient have recently
begun holding two-day conferences,
sometimes on shipboard, for their agents,
at which the agents are brought up to
date with new aspects of the company's
activities.
An expert on local travel said that
of about 750 agencies "in the Com-
monwealth only about 500 had either or
both accreditations. Both lATA and
the conference lines pay seven per cent,
commission on bookings, internal air-
lines pay five per cent., most State rail-
ways now pay five per cent. Some local
hotels pay 10 per cent., but the per-
centage goes as low as five. Some
Australian hotels pay none. “We get
plenty of business, why should we pay
commissions?” is their ruggedly
individualistic attitude. Most motels are
paying commission, and so are coach-
lines. These commissions are the travel
agent's gross income.
To try to get higher commission out
of airlines and shipping companies or
from other sections of the industry,
would seem at the present time quite
pointless. More realistic agents look to
getting the permission of shipping com-
panies to charge cancellation fees. No
matter how much trouble an agent has
been to for a client, if the client cancels,
the agent gets nothing. Agents, in general,
also feel there sh o, ’j be a scale of
charges for getting passports, visas and
taxation clearance certificates for clients.
It does seem ridiculous that all the
complications of passports and visas—
particularly for the air traveller from
Australia who sets down in such dicky
places as Indonesia, Korea and some
countries of the Middle East—should be
shouldered by the agent for nothing.
At present most local agents charge only
for out-of-pocket expenses. Most over-
seas agents charge for getting passports
and visas. However, there is a deep-
seated aversion by the Australian to pay-
ing for intangibles. He is a reluctant
tipper, and is apt to regard service as
something which should be free.
Australian travel agents also get a
smaller proportion of available business
than in some other countries. In America
it is estimated that agents handle 85 per
cent, of travel sold, but the percentage
would be lower here. This is partly be-
cause carriers here in general canvass
more directly and more strenuously.
Qantas, in particular, has a large sales
staff, much larger, in proportion to its
size, than the American airlines. But,
again, as with passport fees, the matter
comes back to the public. Australians
are slow to regard travel as a specialised
job, and to realise that a specialist is
worth an adequate return for his
knowledge and experience.
There is generally little or no resent-
ment on the part of carriers at the
growth of agencies. They feel that
agencies have helped the spread of the
idea of travel, that information about
tours and places to see becomes readily
available to people who might not have
thought of travelling.
The tourist trade, then, on the level of
national promotion, offers a rosy pros-
pect. Bring more people here, and you
increase our foreign earnings, help to
achieve a more favorable balance of
payments, and stimulate local industry.
But, at the level of the agent in his office
working out his commissions, the inter-
national airlines looking forward from
fantastically expensive jets to even more
fantastically expensive supersonic jets,
shipping companies hunting round for
more effective means to counter the com-
petition of air travel, the scene is rather
more clouded.
If we double the number of tourists
who come here, will we only double our
difficulties? Or will the industry in the
next decade successfully shake down
after the rapid development of the past
10 years and achieve a more stable
formula?
DE GAULLE'S
NEXT STEPS
"Gaullism has nothing to do with fascism even when
it looks like it."
From NEIL McINNES In Paris
While it is still thanking God and
de Gaulle for the ending of the
Algerian nightmare, the French
people will be invited to elect
a new Parliament, probably in May.
Firstly, the present Assembly is entering
its last year and will be unable to vote
a rational Budget next December if it
has its eyes on a forthcoming election.
Secondly, the Guallists want to accredit
in France, for the first time, the British
practice of elections held at dates decided
by the party in power and at moments
it considers favorable to its fortunes—
for this produces a “polarisation” of
opinion instead of the dispersal of votes
that paralyses Latin Parliaments. Thirdly,
gratitude for the Algerian peace will
certainly yield a big Gaullist majority,
which will repay the loyal services of
the general’s followers and —above all—
give him the instrument for a profound
Constitutional reform.
This reform, which is the ultimate
objective in de Gaulle's eyes, will have
two parts: abolition of the Senate, to
be replaced by an assembly representing
economic, social and regional organi-
sations, and election of the President by
popular suffrage instead of, as at present,
by a college of notabilities. Since both
of these things—a corporativist Senate
and a Bonapartist president—will be
interpret d abroad as steps toward
Fascism, it is worth repeating the familiar
demonstration that Gaullism has nothing
to do with Fascism even when it takes
the risk of looking like it. Its intentions,
at least, are to adjust the republican
tradition to the new society created by
Europe's economic revolution.
In 1958 the French were obliged to
break, at long, long last, with the
ridiculous and degrading system of gov-
ernment by omnipotent assemblies, and
to shift power and initiative to an
Executive controlled by the assembly but
drawing its moral authority directly from


WORLD-WIDE
X 246
100% British Made
the light
that never
fails...
The Tilley Storm Lantern
is proof against wind
and weather. . . giving
12 hours of brilliant
light on one filling
pints of ordinary
kerosene).
For economical everyday
use, for unfailing service
in an emergency, you
can put your trust in
TILLEY.
Obtainable from all good Hard-
ware Stores. In case of difficulty
write to:
■ssss
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LIMITED
1092 MT, ALEXANDER ROAD, ESSENDON, W. 5. AUSTRALIA
popular support. (Unlike Americans, who
can see that their system works this way,
Australian schoolkids are still submitted
to parliamentary mystification and
taught that the House elects the Execu-
tive ; their fathers know better, when they
vote for Menzies or Calwell, the only
difference being that they cannot
choose an assembly and an execu-
tive of different colors.) Ihe popular
origins of de Gaulle’s power were too
evident to make election by universal
suffrage necessary; the man and the
legend sufficed. This will not be so lor
his successors, so they will need to issue
from a universal vote. Parliament being
reduced, as elsewhere, to a function of
control, one house will suffice; not being
a federation, France needs no Senate to
defend States’ rights as in Australia, and
not being a caste-society, it needs no
House of Lords and Archbishops, as m
Britain.
Yet a second chamber has a role
created for it by the passage of govern-
mental economic management from
annual budgets to national plans extend-
ing over several years. The French
system of democratic national planning
has succeeded so well that it is finding
imitators in Britain, Italy and Belgium,
but it has also revealed that a complex
economic plan lies quite beyond the
competence of the geniuses thrown up by
parliamentary elections. The councils
that write it (drawn from trade unions,
employers’ associations, consumer groups
and universities) are competent and
democratic but not representative ;
Parliament is representative but incompe-
tent. If men can lay the ghost of the
“corporate State’’ frauds perpetrated by
Salazar, Franco, etc, it should not be
beyond their ability to find a chamber
that for the first time in a western
democracy, is capable of composing and
controlling the plans to which European
peoples increasingly want their affairs
entrusted, while leaving the classic defence
of political interests to another house.
Granted the Gaullists get the support of
the economic groups now represented
in the plan councils for this, the new
upper house could work ; but of course
if they try to do sectional interests good
in spite of themselves, it will become the
hollow shell of Iberian corporate
assemblies.
Direct election of the president will
be more vigorously opposed. Opposi-
tion is usually explained by reference to
France’s experience of Bonapartism, but
this is a cover for the real fear that
lurks under all Latin political specula-
tion : what about the communists? Once
25 per cent, of electors vote communist,
the democratic system, just to survive,
has to be rigged to cancel out their
votes. This is easy in Parliament (two-
round elections enable the national parties
to gang up on the communists second
time around and wipe them out) or in
any indirect election. But in a presiden-
tial election, every communist vote
counts. The result must be either a
Leftist president elected mainly by com-
munist votes, whose authority is there-
fore challenged by the Right and Centre ;
or else an eternal succession of Centre-
Right presidents, wherupon the demo-
cratic Left say the system is crooked. If
the Gaullists are willing today to count
communist votes, by directly electing a
president, it is because they claim that
the various elections and referendums
held since 1958 (all of which had a
plebiscitary character) have proven that
the communist party monolith can be
broken by a sufficiently charismatic
personality—over one million com-
munists voted for de Gaulle, against
party instructions, in the last referendum.
The authoritarian risks of de Gaulle’s
reform exist, but not where they might
first appear. All democracies seem nowa-
days vowed to a “personalisation” of
executive power, as the Menzies and
Macmillan phenomena show ; a directly
elected president would be no exception.
But elsewhere there are effective counter-
weights in the shape of powerful political
parties and regional assemblies. Neither
exist in France, where there are no
national parties but only parliamentary
alliances. (The two real parties, in our
sense, that do exist, the communist and
socialist, are not local growths but
branches of the Third International and
Workers’ International, respectively).
And the discredit of these pseudo-parties
and parliamentary alliances is complete
since the ignominious end of the Fourth
Republic, which was their creature. To
accentuate and institutionalise the per-
sonalisation of executive power in this
political vacuum could prepare the way
for an authoritarian regime some time
after the French have lost, with de
Gaulle, their ideal : the republican
monarch.


FORUM
AMERICAN FASCISM?
1.—The Yahoos
From JOHN P. ROCHE in New York
J-JASN’T the tune come for a moratorium on exposures of the fohn Birch
Society and the Right-wing conspiracy? Hardly a week passes, it seems,
without the mailman delivering a monograph or a package of documents
portraying in ominous tones the resurgence of the radical Right. Similarly,
the liberal journals are studded with articles on the new threat to liberalism.
One might think from all this that we have in the United States a powerful
Right-wing junta, mobilised and waiting for the signal to crush the helpless
Kennedy Ad ministration.
vte/hile it is, of course, useful to reveal
’ ’ the activities and the party line of
the Right-wingers, it is silly to get hys-
terical about their machinations and
give them a lot of free publicity. Any-
one who has spent any time in liberal
pressure groups knows the extent of our
organisational weakness, recognises the
degree to which the liberal monolith is
a creation of Right-wing fantasies. How-
ever, he usually fails to consider the other
side of the coin: the extent to which the
“menace from the Right” is in effective
political terms an equally mythical bogy,
a vapor of the perfervid liberal imagina-
tion. We simply lose our perspective.
While among ourselves we may suspect
that Americans for Democratic Action
(known in Right-wing circles as the
politburo of the Liberal Machine) could
not fight its way out of a wet paper sack,
we take the John Birch Society on its
own assessment as a tightly knit, single-
purposed conspiratorial cadre.
Ten years ago 1 suggested that in this
identical sense McCarthyism was a
spook. In October 1954, for example, I
noted in “Current History” that
politically McCarthyism had no future.
1 added: “Where does the Senator go
from here? Although one must be very
cautious in reading lessons from history,
the fate of past extremists seems to offer
some insight on this matter. Psycho-
logically, the extremist must attack,
attack, and then attack again . . . the
road to power for such a man is un-
ceasing assault. But there are risks in the
perpetual attack —it becomes increasingly
extreme, shrill, and, finally, boring. Un-
less a demagogue can seize commanding
positions of State power in the early
stages of his campaign, he is likely to
end his days in the political wilderness,
HTHE first of these articles (by
an American leftist writer)
ridicules the panic some observers
experience over the antics of such
semi-fascist American groups as
the John Birch Society. The second
claims that Americans have deve-
loped a cruel indifference to the
persecution of communists.
a rejected prophet. And it is precisely
this fate which American political insti-
tutions tend to prepare for the extremist.”
In his Senate committee chairmanship
McCarthy had an ideal position for con-
ducting guerrilla warfare and campaigns
of attrition. Yet the most he could
achieve was the status of a nasty, vicious
nuisance. In no sense did he pose an
organisational threat to the American
political system; he built no party and
left no inheritance, even in his native
State; he was, as Richard Rovere sug-
gested in “Senator Joe McCarthy,”
a nihilist with only destructive capa-
bilities.
For saying this 1 was accused of all
sorts of odd heresies. I was “whitewash-
ing McCarthy” said one critic, and a
junior Marxman in ‘ Dissent” managed
to convince himself that I was objectively
anti-civil rights. I know from long exper-
ience that nothing can prevent people
who do not read articles from writing
stupid critiques, but as a perennial
optimist let me say right now that I am
in no sense arguing for inertia in dealing
with the Birchers—or that McCarthy was
a nice man.
My attitude toward McCarthy in his
day was the same as my current view of
the Birchers and their kind: one of con-
tempt rather than fear. And this is no
heroic pose; there are a lot of things
that scare me to death —nuclear war,
automobile accidents, lung cancer, to
mention but three —but 1 have only a
limited time to devote to fright. I there-
fore have a scale of priorities on which
the “menace from the Right” ranks 23rd
-—between fear of being eaten by piranha
and fear of college presidents.
Put bluntly, much of the liberal frenzy
about the resurgent Right seems to rest
on the submerged premise that the
United States in the 1960's resembles
Weimar Germany in the Great Depres-
sion. (I actually attended a cocktail
party a few years back where the main
topic was, “Will Eisenhower be the
American Hindenburg?") What this
analogy assumes, without demonstrating,
is that the US has a political vehicle for
this Right-wing extremism, that the
Yahoos have a party which presents the
American people with a meaningful
alternative to the status quo. To state this
proposition is to reveal its absurdity.
There is no Yahoo party, and their
chance of taking over the existing
political machinery except on a sporadic
local basis are virtually non-existent.
They simply have nothing to offer; their
very nihilism militates against successful
organisation; they are not political men
and they have no conception of how one
conducts a rationally irrational campaign.
(This is not intended to be cute or
delphic: One of the most interesting
aspects of American campaigns is the
degree to which irrational elements—
demagoguery, charismatic displays, etc.
—are treated by politicians and voters
as part of the staging. It is considered
bad form either to be a “nut,” that is, to
act as though you believed your own
Press releases, or —as Adlai Stevenson
discovered—to deprecate the political
act.)
Because they are alienated from con-
temporary American life, Right-wing ex-
tremists have no real self-confidence.
They are wanderers in a hostile land
who go into battle with a brooding sus-
picion that history itself is conspiring
against Truth. When you know that they
have the dice loaded, that they have
poisoned the wells, that they are every-
where, it is hard to have the stomach
for a sustained fight. It is usually hit
and run. Indeed, at close range a Yahoo
crusade is a quite pathetic congery of the


insecure; confronted by intelligent and
vigorous opposition, what appears to
be a solid phalanx degenerates into
paranoidai atoms which scuttle into
hiding babbling of Jews, fluorides and
UNESCO.
There is no reason then for the liberals
to hit the panic button. These boys aren’t
so tough. In fact, I would argue
that we should take every opportunity
to drag them out into the open
and have it out. With the ex-
ception of William F. Buckley Jr and
his cadre, who are really in a different
class, they are not very effective in
ideological warfare, and they much pre-
fer to operate from the shadows. The
extreme Right's chosen weapons are the
scurrilous letter (I have a collection that
would make a First Sergeant blush), the
nasty anonymous phone call, the sordid
little tract. The last thing one should
ever do with Yahoos is display fear or
the slightest willingness to compromise—
this will bring down the whole pack
howling for blood. The best liberal
strategy comes from the folk-wisdom of
County Mayo: “Stand firm, boys —and
when a head comes over the wall, hit it!”
T spent an exasperating evening recently
A disposing of the thesis that
UNESCO has corrupted American
education, and that UNICEF Christ-
mas cards are part of the com-
munist plot to take Christ out of
Christmas and thus destroy the religious
foundations of American civilisation.
(Typical question from Bircher in
audience: “Will you comment on the
fact that Janie Davis of 347 Woods St.,
Suisun, California, read a UNESCO
pamphlet on nationalism and then spat
on the American flag?” It is a sad,
sickening business, but nobody is going
to take care of them for us.
This is, I suppose, what disturbs me
about many of my liberal friends and is
probably just another formulation of the
complaint of the activist. They are dis-
tressed about Right-wing extremism, ex-
aggerate the power and the efficiency of
the Right-wingers, and then await cosmic
intervention to avert “fascism.” No one
in his senses prefers debating with a
Bircher to an evening at home, but we
have to make a commitment to slug it
out whenever there is a public audience
involved. (There is no point in wasting
time in private combat. Some local
Yahoo has been trying to get me to
debate the immorality of the income
tax before his Freedom Fighters local.
I have resisted by offering an alternate
topic: “Resolved, the Kansas-Nebraska
Act is a national disaster.”)
The most important thing for us to do
is cut out the paranoia, stop looking
over our shoulders at Nazi Germany
every time a sick nut pushes an anti-
Semitic tract, stop feeling sorry for our-
selves for living in a time when —despite
our obvious virtue and dedication to
Truth —people say nasty things about us.
After what we have done to the Yahoos
in the United States over the past 30
years, can we really expect them to love
us? Let us leave self-pity to the Right-
wingers and devote ourselves to giving
them sufficient justification for its
exercise.
Finally, we should take our bearings
from American history, and not from
German history. The United States has
always been a rough country with a tur-
bulent political tradition at the local level ;
those who denounce the Birchers today
are surely in no worse shape than Albert
Gallatin was in 1794 when he told his
neighbors to pay the whisky excise and
stop behaving “like a mob,” The crowd
ominously referred lim to a recent local
resolution proclaiming “that if anyone
called the people a mob, he should be
tarred and feathered.”
It was inevitable that the election of
a liberal Democrat to the Presidency
would unleash the full force of Right-
wing extremism, but what we must not
overlook is the clear fact that the
Yahoos have been there all the time.
Now, at long last, they have a clear
sighting on their target: a President
who believes in Government. (It was
difficult to get Eisenhower in the sights:
it was obvious that, whatever his
ex-officio role, Ike really did believe in
the withering away of the State —though
not for the reasons adduced by Robert
Welch.)
Furthermore, the politicians of the
conservative coalition, while they will
not link their destinies with Right-wing
extremists, are delighted to take box
seats at the bullfight. They may even, on
occasion, become picadors, stimulating
the Yahoo bull against the handsome,
self-confident + oreador, secure in the
knowledge that no bull has ever replaced
a vanquished bullfighter.
My diagnosis then is that for at least
the next six years, and hopefully for the
next 20, we will have to pay the price of
power and put up with a savage Right-
wing assault. The extremists will swarm
here today, there tomorrow (but always
in Los Angeles, the American Munich)
and the unsophisticated observer may
get the impression that there is a power-
ful movement surgin ■ toward native
fascisim. Nothing could be farther from
the truth. Never have the Right-wing
stalwarts been as far from power and
influence in the United States as they are
today.
We have a tough, liberal President
who has made it clear that he will take
no nonsense from the Right. The death
of Senator Styles removed the
last Yahoo magnate from the upper
house—a decade ago we had a good
half-dozen. And most important, the
American electorate has probably never
been more stable and less susceptible to
extremist appeals.
Right-wing extemicm, in other words,
is an ideology without an institutional
base. Its epigone have an almost un-
believable capacity for generating tumult
and hate on an ad i.oc basis, but they
have developed no institutional roots
and do not, in my view, constitute a
serious threat to our free society. Thus,
in our continuing struggle against these
twisted prophets we should never under-
estimate their talent for trouble-making
and for hurting the innocent, but at the
same time we should keep our perspec-
tive and act like men.
2.—Unpersons, USA
From MURRAY KEMPTON in New York
T HE flagellation of the American Communist Party has become a national
rite questioned as seldom by the respectable opinion which passes as
advanced as by the disreputable opinion which is dismissed as reactionary.
Now it is being accelerated under the administration of a President distin-
guished for \indness, balance and common sense in all other matters.
American liberals in power seem to have a particular compulsion to demon-
strate to the nation that they have no sympathy with communists as
politicians by displaying inconsiderate cruelty to communists as people.
TTnder President Truman there began
the prosecution which sent thirteen
national leaders of the American Com-
munist Party to prison for five years
each for “conspiring to advocate the
overthrow of the Government of the
United States.” In 1954 the United
States Senate narrowly rejected a bill
stipulating five-year penal terms for any-
one belonging to the communist party ;
this was a measure proposed by Senator
Hubert Humphrey, a paladin of the offi-
cial American Left and supported by
Senator John F. Kennedy. And now the


100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
S,±H
OVSAI
ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE • BARBED WIRE
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
•••• • ■
ism
mm
mm
M
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
LYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. ltd.
Reg'd Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
United States Department of Justice i>
moving to enforce the Internal Security
Act, which, after ten years of legal chal-
lenge, has finally been held broadly consti-
tutional by a Supreme Court majority
decision.
The Internal Security Act is peculiarly
new to the national tradition because it
gives the force of law to the presumption
of the guilt of anyone whose affiliation
with the communist party can be estab-
lished to a jury. A communist can, as
an instance, now go to prison merely for
requesting a passport to travel abroad
or for applying for Government employ-
ment. A society w hich began by denying
to communists the freedoms of ordinary
citizens now makes it a crime for com-
munists even to ask for them.
Henceforth, any material mailed by the
communist party must bear the label:
“Issued by the Communist Party of the
United States, a Communist organisa-
tion.’’ The stated purpose of this device
is to alert any innocent recipient.
The party must also label the outside
envelope: "Issued by the Communist
Party of the United States, a Communist
organisation’’; the unstated purpose of
this proviso must be to alert any
recipient's innocent neighbors.
The American communists began the
decade which brought them to this
dehumanisation with an estimated 10,000
members in a nation of 160 million
citizens. The party is reduced now to
2000 members, more thanks, one hopes,
to Khrushchev and Stalin than to the
Department of Justice ; it is hardly
pleasant to think that one’s Government
has been able to destroy even a political
party as unappetising as this one. But
destroyed the party is; it is without
influence except on the sympathy of the
too few Americans w'ho are disturbed
by the troubles of individual commu-
nists. Never a real danger to their
country, the communists have become its
victims, branded not for acts but for
affiliations.
And the same national consensus which
has put the communists below the level
of human beings continues to elevate
J. Edgar Hoover, director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation and their chief
tormenter, toward the plane of divinity.
Mr Hoover, after 40 years as hunting
dog, is a Washington monument whose
headquarters annually draw more
pilgrims than the Jefferson Memorial. He
was the first public official to be re-
appointed by President Kennedy.
This month, Mr Hoover is being cited,
in debasing tones of piety, by liberal
mass communicators grateful to him
for some veiled comments which they
could interpret as critical of the John
Birch Society. Mr Hoover also com-
posed a warning to American lawyers
against excessive zeal in the defence of
communist clients ; it was published in
the journal of the nation's largest organi-
sation of lawyers, which, instead of being
affronted, expressed its gratitude in an
accompanying comment.
Mr Hoover has never been troubled
by the slightest criticism from the Ameri-
can Civil Liberties Union, whose charge
is the defence of the private citizen
against the excesses of Government. The
Civil Liberties Union has not even ques-
tioned Mr Hoover’s maintenance inside
the communist party of a cadre of
volunteer and professional FBI agents.
Yet the character of some of them would
ordinarily seem productive of disturb-
ance. An example is MLhael John
Ondrejka, who joined the party as an
FBI agent in 1949. Pursuant to his
duties, Ondrejka reported to the FBI on
his fiancee, and continued to record and
transmit her sins after they were married
and through the birth of their three
children. Mrs Ondrejka was putting
away his shirts in 1954 when she found
a copy of one of his FBI reports. And
Ondrejka remains a witness so persuasive
to the courts that not long ago his testi-
mony was the main factor in convicting
a defendant who was sentenced to five
years in prison for falsely swearing that
he was not a communist.
During his visit to Japan, Attorney-
General Kennedy had to run a series of
questions from university students about
his Government’s treatment of American
communists. His answers were as un-
embarrassed as they were disingenuous.
Official America no longer needs to
know or tell the truth about the condi-
tion of American communists, because,
for it, communists no longer
exist as people. These petty malignities
are not offered to support any illusion
that the average American lives under a
terror. Americans do not bow down
to J. Edgar Hoover through fear ; what
is sad is that most of them approve
what he is doing. To call America a
police State would be nonsense ; it is a
reality quite unfortunate enough by itself
that our most enduring national hero is
a policeman.


WORKING FOR AUSTRALIA
With seven large mills
throughout Australia, and
others now building,
A.P.M. is contributing
largely to State develop-
ment and decentralisation of industry. All-Australian,
A.P.M. is owned by 30,000 investors and provides
employment for 5,000 Australians.
With its continually growing supplies of
raw materials and over 90 years experience
of our local market and conditions, A.P.M.
is Australia’s largest producer of papers
and paperboards and can supply the
present and future needs of Australia’s
vital packaging industry. SCHOOL PRO-
JECTS: For material on A.P.M. activities,
write to “Projects”, A.P.M., G.P.O. Box
1643, Melbourne.
□
.
m
m
m
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
SOUTH GATE, SOUTH MELBOURNE. SALES OFFICES IN ALL STATE CAPITALS.
D 2


LETTERS
THE DLP CRIES WOLF
Sir,
Your articles “DLP Cries Wolf” and
“These Elections” (Bulletin, March 3)
merit some comment from me.
Firstly let me deal with your conten-
tion that the reason for the DLP’s
existence is that “it does not want to see
the Labor Party in office as long as its
prominent officials and members are
prepared to co-operate with leading mem-
bers of the communist party.”
Since 1955, the DLP, whilst building
electoral support throughout Australia
for its own policies, has set itself the task
of denying electoral success to the ALP
whilst ever that Party’s policies favor the
foreign policies of Russia and Communist
China abroad, and the plans of the Aus-
tralian Communist Party at home.
Our objective is to build a new Labor
party based on democratic principles
inflexible in its opposition to communism
and socialism and one that is dedicated to
restoration of morality in public life.
So effective has the DLP been in achiev-
ing its objective that we now witness
attempts by the ALP, especially in NSW,
to create and sell to the electors an anti-
communist image. The occasional
expulsion of members on Unity Ticket
charges and anti-communist statements
must not be allowed to disguise the fact
that the NSW Labor Party and all
members of the Heffron Government are
members of a federal party, and are
bound by the federal party’s decisions.
Now let me deal with your comment
on my answer to a question on TCN’s
“Meet the Press.”
The question as I understood it then,
and recall it now, was “if communists
influenced the NSW Labor Government.”
If as reported, the questioner used the
word “dominated” and not “influenced”
then, as you say, I behaved “rather
stupidly” in answering “Yes.”
Nevertheless, as your other comments
show, you, like most other people, do not
regard the NSW branch of the ALP as
being bound by decisions of the party’s
federal conference, which in fact assist
the plans of the communist party. Let
me here instance two of them.
The communist party in its official
organs, and through unions it dominates,
demanded the abolition of “Court
Ballots” and the repeal of the penal
clauses of the Arbitration Act.
The Menzies Government in 1951
amended the Commonwealth Arbitration
Act, to permit union members to petition
for Court-conducted ballots. This legisla-
tion was used effectively to defeat com-
munists in the Ironworkers and other
unions. The communist-dominated
Building Workers Industrial Union here
escaped the consequences of clean ballots
by restricting its registration to the NSW
Arbitration Act.
The NSW Labor Government, con-
forming with party policy, refused
repeatedly to bring the NSW Act in line
with its federal counterpart. Thus mem-
bers of NSW unions are deprived of
protection against ballot riggers and
union manipulators. As to the NSW
Arbitration Act, the State Government
is under direction from the NSW con-
ference to repeal the penal clauses in it,
and has already repealed some of them.
I submit that these two points alone
are sufficient to prove that the ALP in
this State, like the ALP in other States,
is pledged to policies which in fact help
the communists.
J. T. KANE
(General Secretary DLP)
Sydney
WITHOUT FURTHER COMMENT
Sir,
As you found space to reprint
(Bulletin, March 3) something of Mr
Judah Waten’s quaint correspondence
with “Australian Book Review,” may I
ask for enough to say that I am not a
member of the National Civic Council;
that I did not review Mr Waten’s book ;
that I have not read Mr Waten's book ;
that I knew nothing of it and little of
Mr Waten himself until he gratuitously
introduced my name into his matter ; that
perhaps you and Mr Max Harris should
have some credit from Mr Waten for his
promotion in the public notice.
PARL McGUIRE
Grafers (SA)
THE MIDNIGHT HORRORS
Sir,
I should be glad if you would permit
me to comment on the article “The Mid-
night Horrors” (Bulletin, February 24).
Midnight picture shows have been
conducted in Victoria since 1929, and at
least 5000 such shows have taken place
over that period of 33 years. A conserva-
tive estimate of the attendances at those
shows is 2| million. On only two occa-
sions has it been suggested that unruly
incidents on the same night as midnight
shows were in any way connected with
the shows in question.
Now, you don’t ban a form of enter-
tainment because a disturbance occurs
once in 2500 times. If you did, you would
have to ban all sorts of entertainments.
Incidentally, on the recent occasion
when brawls took place in Thornbury,
there were no disturbances of any note
in the Regent Theatre. The manager was
not —as alleged —clubbed with a bottle,
nor did the police enter several times to
restore order. Six youths who persisted
in stamping their feet were ejected by
the theatre staff, but apart from that,
nothing untoward happened. The ejec-
tion of noisy youths is not of course
something which happens only at mid-
night performances!
Some comment has been made re-
garding the type of films screened at the
midnight shows on 28/29 January. The
29 feature films screened on that night
are classified by the Commonwealth
Film Censor as follows: Suitable for
general exhibition nine, not suitable for
general exhibition (i.e., regarded as suit-
able for persons over 16 years) 18, and
suitable for adults only two. None of
the films shown that night was classified
as a “horror film.”
The picture industry is not unmindful
of the fact that it has, in common with
other sections of the entertainment in-
dustry, the Press, publishers and others,
a duty to the community. It does not
believe, however, that it should be
pilloried because disturbances occur—
away from the theatre —after .04 per
cent, of midnight shows.
J. E. GRAHAM
(Chief Executive Officer
Cinematograph Exhibitors’
Association)
Melbourne
WHERE EGGHEADS PEEP OUT
It is interesting to find that we have
had to wait for your critic, Mr Hannan,
(Bulletin, February 24) to give us the
kind of reaction to this exhibition which
we had half-expected from the supposedly
unenlightened public.
Rather to our surprise, the Melbourne
public, as well as the critics Arnold Shore
and Allen McCulloch, have reacted very
favourably to the exhibition, and I can-
not help feeling that not only did Mr
Hannan’s sense of humor fail him on
this occasion, but also his perceptive
senses.
The exhibition is in fact very witty—if
the amusement of the many people who
have seen it is any guide—but it has also
been recognised as something else: as a
very successful revolt against conven-
tional art forms, and the pomposity,
precociousness and sheer phoniness which
are undoubtedly associated with many
displays of paintings.
The three artists in this exhibition
have shattered the “sanctity” of “Art”
by the deliberate abandonment of ac-
cepted materials and forms, and by
the use instead of that inexhaustible sup-
ply of junk—both verbal and physical—
which is thrown up by our modern
civilisation.
However, most important to me is the
fact that in this process of revolt the
artists have succeeded in creating their
own aesthetic, and it is impossible to deny
much of the exhibition its own proper
recognition in the field of art.
I would thoroughly recommend to Mr
Hannan that he should read Mr Elwyn
Lynn’s very perceptive and well articu-
lated introduction to the catalogue.
JOHN REED
(Director, Museum of Modern
Art of Australia)
Melbourne


THE SENATOR PROTESTS
In Defence Of The Snowy
By SENATOR W. H. SPOONER, M.M.
The Bulletin, February 10,
1962, published “Snowy Elephant?”
by W. H. Herbert in which he
raised the question whether the
Snowy River Scheme will ever pay
off and criticised the authorities for
their “autocratic and puerile”
refusal to answer criticisms of the
scheme. In this article Senator
Spooner, the Minister for National
Development, answers some of Mr
Herbert’s criticisms.
Mr Herbert has consistently criti-
cised the Snowy Mountains
Scheme. His earlier papers
were directed against the cost of
the scheme as it affected electricity
interests and, as with his Bulletin article
on irrigation aspects, these contained a
number of errors, half-truths and
wrongly drawn conclusions.
The ill-informed basis of Mr Herbert’s
present criticism may be judged by his
statement that the “Snowy got approved
and twelve years under way without
any agricultural economics’ analysis
worth the name.”
This is an astonishing statement to
make in view of the fact that a committee
consisting of Australia’s foremost experts
in this field was set up during the plan-
ning stages of the scheme to advise the
Governments concerned on just this
aspect.*
The report of this committee, together
with a similar hydroelectric investigation
and analysis, was the forerunner to the
final report by Commonwealth and State
officers in May, 1950, on the “Diversion
and Utilisation of Waters of the Snowy
River’’ which led to the formation of the
Authority.
Investigations into particular aspects of
the Snowy Mountains Scheme, both in
the power and irrigation fields, have
been carried out from time to time by
appropriate State and Commonwealth
organisations.
The Snowy Mountains Authority has
also carried out detailed economic
appraisals of the gross and net values of
farm production from Snowy Scheme
irrigation water.
It is appreciated that the results
obtained from such economic appraisals
depend to some extent on a number of
assumptions, such as the market price of
various types of farm produce and the
capital costs of farm development works.
However, on the basis of information
currently available from the State Irriga-
tion Commissions, the Authority’s studies
have shown the 1,900,000 acre feet of
water which will be made available by
the Snowy Mountains Scheme w ; ould,
after allowing for losses, be sufficient to
support about 2400 farms with a total
area of some 750,000 acres producing
mainly fat lambs, beef and wool with
some dairying and fruit growing.
Using the United States Bureau of
Reclamation’s established principles for a
benefit-cost study of this type of irriga-
tion development, and having regard to
local conditions, it has been shown that
the total irrigation benefit of the Snowy
Scheme will be in excess of £3O million
per annum.
After making allowance for the gradual
accrual of these benefits during the
development phase, and taking account
of expenditure on head works, distri-
butor works, the cost of farm develop-
ment, the investment in associated local
urban development and in the provision
of services, the calculated benefit-cost
ratio, on a “present worth” basis, is in
excess of 1.3.
In addition, the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development recently
carried out a comprehensive examination
of the economics of the scheme. All
aspects of the scheme were examined
most searchingly by engineers and econo-
mists of the Bank’s staff. The fact that the
International Bank’s detailed and inde-
pendent investigations have resulted in
a loan of $lOO million being made avail-
able to the Commonwealth for financing
the Snowy Mountains Scheme is further
conclusive evidence of the overall econo-
mic soundness of the scheme.
y et me now review the achievements
and future programme of this nation’s
largest engineering enterprise. The
Snowy Scheme is now twelve years old.
The Upper Tumut Works are complete
and in operation. Contracts for the
Snowy-Murray Development have been
let. A turning point in the history of
the Scheme has been reached. The
Snowy’s tributary, the Eucumbene, has
been diverted inland and some 500,000
acre; feet of additional water is now
available each year for irrigation in the
Murrumbidgee Valley. On completion of
Blowering Dam by New South Wales, this
figure will increase to 1,100,000 acre feet
per annum.
Already 660.000 kilowatts of peak load
hydro power, almost 25 per cent, of last
winter's maximum demand on the
interconnected electricity systems of New
South Wales and Victoria, is in use.
The Authority's immediate objective is
to achieve initial operation of Murray 1
Power Station by the winter of 1966.
This massive surface station will house
eight 95.000 kilowatt turbo-generators, the
largest high head units of their type in the
world. Its total capacity of 760,000 kilo-
watts will represent the largest installa-
tion in the scheme.
In 1966, when the Murray 1 Power
Station begins operation, the first diver-
sion of Snowy River waters to the River
Murray catchment will also take place.
This initial diversion will amount to some
400,000 acre feet per annum or about half
of the ultimate gain to the Murray
irrigation areas.
From now until 1966 the Government
will need to provide over £lOO million to
finance the construction of the Snowy-
Murray Works. This will be offset, how-
ever, by returns to the Treasury by the
sale of power of about £3O million in
the same period.
Over the remainder of the scheme’s
construction period total revenue will
exceed construction expenditure.
Despite higher interest rates and an
increase in the general level of construc-
tion costs since the scheme started, peak
load electricity is being produced and will
continue to be produced at about Id. per
kilowatt hour which is a favorable rate
in relation to. the cost of generating
electricity at 25 per cent, load factor in
thermal stations. As production of elec-
tricity from the scheme increases so does
the return on the Government’s invest-
ment.
* This committee comprised:
Dr H. C. Coombs, M.A., Ph.D., Hon. LL'.D.,
Governor Reserve Bank of Australia, at that time
Director General, Department of Post-war
Reconstruction ;
Sir Allen Brown, M.A., LL.M., A.C.1.A., Deputy
High Commissioner for Australia in the United
Kingdom, at that time Director, Regional Plan-
ning Division, Department of Post-war Recon-
struction ;
Professor Sir John Crawford, M.Ec., Director of
the Research School of Pacific Studies, Australian
National University, Canberra, at that time
Director, Bureau of Agricultural Economics,
Department of Commerce and Agriculture;
Mr G. J. Evatt, Chairman, Australian Canned Fruits
Board, at that time Deputy Food Controller and
Commissioner for Water Conservation and Irriga-
tion, New South IVales ;
Mr C. R. Lambert, C.8.E., F.A.S.A., Secretary,
Department of Territories, at that time Member,
Rural Reconstruction Commission and
Professor Sir Samuel Wadham, M.A., Hon. LL.D.
Agr. Dip., member of the Advisory Council, Com-
monwealth Scientific and Industrial Research
Organisation and a member of the Commonwealth
Immigration Planning Council, at that time
Member, Rural Reconstruction Commission.
The committee was assisted by Mr J. K. Taylor,
M.Sc., B.A. B.Sc., Agr., Chief of the Division of
Soils, C.5.1.R.0., at that time Deputy Chief of that
Division.


The Wild
Cat Pages
INTERVIEW WITH EEC's PROFESSOR HALLSTEIN
FINANCE BUSINESS ECONOMIC COMMENT INVESTMENT OIL AND MINING
From SAMUEL BRITTON in London
\T7HAT is your own reaction to
Britain’s application to join the
Common Market?
It was a great decision which required
courage. We appreciate what an effort it
required for the British Government to
take this step. It was much more difficult
than it would be for some other Govern-
ments which are still hesitating whether
to apply.
But didn’t you have some doubts
when the British application came in
last August?
I had absolutely no doubts whatever
about the British Government’s sincerity.
But I was apprehensive on two points.
First, 1 wondered whether the European
Community had reached a sufficiently
advanced stage in its own development to
tackle a problem of the size presented by
Britain’s application, without over-strain-
ing itself.
Second, I did not know whether the
British would fully understand the state
of mind we had developed through work-
ing together as a family for eleven
years (since the pioneering days of the
Coal and Steel pool in 1950).
Look at the blackboard outside. Every
day you will find notices of meetings of
every sort of specialist from the Six
countries. Sometimes several groups will
be meeting on the same day. It is not
just the institutions or the agreements
reached, but the habit of working
together.
Have these doubts now been removed?
Yes, entirely. The agricultural agree-
ment reached in January has enormously
strengthened the Community. And I am
very impressed by the quality of the
British delegation [now negotiating in
Brussels with the six Common Market
countries]. They completely understand
the way we work.
What do you think are the most
difficult problems in the current negotia-
tions?
We are not convinced that Britain’s
domestic agriculture is the main problem
we have to face. Naturally. Mr Soames
has to stress the agricultural difficulties.
After all. he is the Minister of Agricul-
ture. You should have heard our own
Ministers of Agriculture when they were
here in December and January.
Do you agree with the widespread
view that the main difficulties will be
for Commonwealth temperate agricultu-
ral products?
Yes, probably. But I should hesitate
to say that they are definitely more
difficult than industrial exports from
Asian countries such as India or Pakistan
or from Hong Kong.
Do you think the negotiations will
succeed?
It is against the rules in any negotia-
tions to say that one is certain of success.
But we do want to come to some solution
that is agreeable to both sides. Personally,
I should like to rule out any idea of
failure.
It is rather like our own agricultural
negotiations, when the French Minister.
M. Pisani, said: “We are condemned to
succeed.” Only don’t take the word
“condemned” in the wrong spirit!
The whole atmosphere of the present
negotiations with the British is utterly
different from the abortive Free Trade
Area talks in 1957-58.
How long will it take to reach an
agreement?
I cannot possibly say at this stage. It
depends partly on what kind of treaty it
will be—whether it will stick to general
principles or whether great detail will be
expected.
Do you look forward to a United
States of Europe?
I should envisage something with a
capacity for concerted action in inter-
national life, something that can act as
a unit with a personality of its own. But
we should move ahead pragmatically. The
differences between federation and con-
federation are not in my view all that
important, even in theory. The vital thing,
as I have just said, is not institutions but
habits of working together.
But isn’t it going to be difficult to
harmonise, for example, Britain’s views
on Cold War tactics, with those of some
of her Common Market partners?
There are differences on such problems
within the Six. You don't really think we
could work out now a common attitude
to Algeria, or the Oder-Neisse line, or
NATO defence?
These differences are due to the diffi-
culties of the problems themselves, not
to the individual views of any new-
comers. The value of the Community
does not depend on reaching agreement
on all points of substance.
What is your view' of the future of
the Commonwealth?
It is a really admirable institution. It
is not our intention to harm in any way
the values it has developed, which are of
benefit to the whole free world. But I
am not certain how far they can be trans-
lated into commercial terms.
Of course it is difficult for those of us
who are used to Continental ideas of
orderly and rational structures to under-
stand the Commonwealth. I find it hard
to make up my mind, for example, what
weight to give to trade as a Common-
wealth link.
Do you think the Commonwealth will
survive?
Yes. Certainly.
Do you really think the Common
Tariff is vital to the existence of the
Community?
At one time I didn’t think so. But I
now think it is important, not only as a
political symbol but also technically to
make an economic unity out of Europe.
But of course there is no reason why the
tariff should not be made zero for certain
items as a conscious act of policy.


NOW AVAILABLE IN THE FAMOUS
INTERNATIONAL PACK
f The new round bottle ’
NKCSCOTOI
WH
SB'JCH
ASCOW SCO
BLACK & WHITE
„ BUCHANANS
CHOICE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
C4t«TAWCM(*S oiSTIUfUY MUIBtM WtSIW «OTl*“ 9
*ET CONTENTS I PINT 6 FLUID OZS
COHmonwia'iTm CuS'o“»
You’re so right ...
insist on
SCOTCH WHISKY
“BUCHANANS”
By Appointment
Scotch Whisky Distillers
to Her Majesty he Quern
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD.
GLASGOW, SCOTLAND
LONDON
4721
TASMANIA
SOMEONE ERRED
Jn the foundation days of Van Dieman’s
Land a blunder was made and per-
petuated, mainly by the city that grew
out of it.
The city and its port, built on the
upper reaches of the serpentine Tamar
River has flourished in spite of the
navigational difficulties presented by its
turgid waterway.
Now, however, it appears that the
blunder made so many years ago is
in the process of being corrected, with
the port of Bell Bay about to assume the
role of a deepwater port which nature
had intended for it.
The corrective process has not been
easy—the implied threat posed to the
city was recognised when the estab-
lishment of an aluminium industry at
Bell Bay seemed imminent and the out-
cry was loud and long.
Fortunately, the outcry was unheeded,
and the Bell Bay aluminium works were
born. With expansion of the plant
and continued agitation for a bridge
across the Tamar to serve the munici-
palities of Beaconsfield and Bell Bay
the threat has become a reality and the
city of Launceston seems certain to
lose some of its sea-borne trade in the
foreseeable future.
When it is realised that freight con-
signed to Launceston can be off-loaded
at Bell Bay, and be at the consignee’s
depot while a ship is threading its way
up the twisting channel to Launceston,
the thought of all interstate shipments
being discharged at Bell Bay and thence
sent by road to their destination is quite
probable.
Linked with developmental plans for
the North-east of Tasmania, the
emergence of Bell Bay as a major
terminal port is a significant factor.
The proposed new access road for
the North-east opening up a considerable
area of hitherto undeveloped land will
take the district's products direct to
mainland markets, at an economical
figure hitherto impossible because of the
tyre-tearing, engine-wearing convolutions
of the Sidling.
There exists in Launceston a group
which holds the view that the whole of
Northern Tasmania is centred in Bris-
bane Street. Ostrich-like, they deny the
existence of any other centre, but, as
in the stories told of the ostrich, its
tail feathers are plucked while it has
its head in the sand.
The port of Bell Bay and the North-
eastern access road are a couple of
feathers that already have been plucked.
And the outcry is loud. A move is now
afoot whereby the North-east could be
robbed of its direct coastal outlet in
favor of a road running through already
developed country in the Lilydale
municipality.
This attempt to salvage some of Laun-
ceston's trade seems doomed to failure
and success of it would seem to hinge
directly upon the site of the lower Tamar
bridge. Should the bridge be built
downstream at its logical point the road
through Lilydale could not serve the
North-east of the State.
This will be an important decision,
which will affect the future development
of North-eastern Tasmania which is
now rapidly coming into its own.
W. V. Davies
Scottsdale, Tasmania.
MARKETING
ACCEPTING THE CHALLENGE
nrHERiz is much practical common sense
in each marketing profile in the 136-
page “Australian Marketing Projects,”
dealing with eleven entries for the 1961
Hoover Award for Marketing. Many
Australian and overseas marketing
challenges are tackled.
One, for example, concerns Western
Australian onions. As the teport of the
Western Australian Onion Marketing
Board points out: “Export markets
usually require onions of particular sizes,
usually small, as consumers favor quantity
for their money. Larger sized onions have


FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS. £893,311.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,075,026.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORO
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
YEAR ENDED
30-6-61
£12,857,865
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/11/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
HDB2.U
B. 17/3
to be sold to processors or caterers. Con-
sistency in color is another requisite that
is not easy to fulfil. With the modern
tendency for retailers to sell small quan-
tities in plastic bags, visibility, with
appearance, is also paramount.”
The same report also touches on what
is considered of importance when
packaging for wholesale distribution.
Packaging must:
Protect the product, allow ventilation, be
of a size for easy handling, and not be too
big for retailers’ requirements, and be easily
identified as Western Australian produce.
There is much civic vigor evident in
the Fremantle City Council’s report on
“A Consumer and Economic Research
of Fremantle, WA and Surrounding
Districts.”
I feel that much of the value of indivi-
dual examples in the book is lost, how-
ever, because points of personal compari-
son are not possible. The terms of
reference for the award have unfortun-
ately not been included in this excellent
collection, and neither has the judges’
report as to why the joint winners,
Hunter Douglas Australia Pty Ltd and
the Sydney Stock Exchange, were suc-
cessful.
A point of inconsistency occurs in the
editing which credits, without explana-
tion, the use of external professional
consultants only by the joint winners. In
my opinion these two winning reports
lose objectivity by “over-padding.”
Though it is appreciated that there is
difficulty in not giving away advantages
to competitors when speaking about a
company’s administration, 1 feel that ail
the reports could have been improved n
they had stated, in outlining what was
achieved, what was not achieved, how
these faults, if any, could have been pre-
vented, and what would be recommenda-
tions to overcome the drawbacks.
“Australian Marketing Projects” is an
important step in the advancement of
management techniques through its
willingness to share experience.
The publication is priced at 255., and is
available only from tne National Com-
mittee of the Hoover Award for Market-
ing, Box 101, PO West Ryde, NSW.
B. H. CLAPCOTT
WOOL INQUIRY
MARKETING
r T' , HE eagerly awaited report of the Wool
Marketing Committee of Inquiry,
tabled in the House of Representatives
last week, recommended that an inde-
pendent wool commission should be
established lor the whole industry, and
that the present auction system be
retained. Proposals for a reserve prices
for wool were rejected.
The report is a painstaking and sober
document, which goes a fair way towards
putting into the right perspective the
basic problems of Australia's most vital
industry.
It stressed the fact that wool prices
will probably continue to ease and that
the output of man-made fabrics will
increase. The industry’s main efforts
should therefore be directed at improv-
ing the market quality of wool exports —
through uniform classing, better bulk-
classing and inter-lotting—and at research
for a satisfactory blend of wool with
artificial fibres.
It seems that there is scope for
specialised wool fabrics, especially for
tropical and sub-tropical wear. This
possibility has so far been largely
neglected.
Finally, the committee felt that “pies”
do exist and are undesirable but do not
constitute the industry’s main problem.


ii
SAGU6§
SRANDt
YOUR
FAVOURITE
BRANDY
fine Australian
pot-still
BRANDY
COMPANY REVIEWS AND NOTES
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
SAVINGS FIELD ENTERED
'T'here was little of the unexpected
1 in the recent decision of the National
Bank of Australasia Ltd to enter the
savings bank field. Of the major trading
banks there are only two now, the Com-
mercial Bank of Australia Ltd and the
Bank of Adelaide, not engaged in savings
bank activity.
The new savings bank is to be set up as
a wholly owned subsidiary. It will have an
authorised capital of £lO million and a
paid up capital of £1 million. Business
will be conducted throughout Australia,
New Guinea and Papua through the
co.'s 888 branches and agencies. The
parent co. guarantees repayment of
deposits.
Smarting under impact of official
monetary controls restrictions on ex-
pansion of advances, the direction of
advances, the fixing of interest rates on
deposits and advances by agreement with
the central bank and the payment of
a purely nominal interest rate (at present
15s. per cent, p.a.) on funds lodged
with the central bank under the special
reserve deposits system —the trading
banks, in an attempt to rejuvenate
profits, have ventured into new fields of
endeavor —investment in the h.-p. indus-
try: the setting up of affiliated savings
banks ; and, in the case of the Bank of
New South Wales and the Australia and
New Zealand Bank Ltd, unit trust
activity.
The National’s latest move, now seen
as inevitable, could not have been effected
at a more opportune time. The bank is
well placed to sustain any initial drain of
deposits from its trading bank to its
new savings bank. Its L.G.S. ratio (liquid
assets and Government securities to
deposits) in December, at 29 per cent.,
was 2.3 per cent, better than the average
for all major trading banks, and 13 per
cent, above the minimum level established
by agreement with the Reserve Bank.
Furthermore, the bank is carrying a
very high proportion of its total deposits
in interest bearing term-deposits,
and these deposits, something like 36
per cent, of total deposits, a ratio not
approached even remotely by any other
of the major trading banks, could have
been jeopardised, that is lost to com-
petitive savings banks, were it decided
soon to reduce term-deposit interest
rates below the present high range of
4} per cent, assuming, as would seem
likely in present circumstances, that the
3y per cent, savings bank deposit rate
would remain unaltered; the savings
banks being a major source of semi-
Government and low-deposit housing
finance.
Established in Melbourne in 1857, the
National Bank is among the three big-
gest trading banks in Australia. Take-
overs, absorptions and share issues have
played a large part in the bank’s
enormous growth and paid capital, as
a result, is now upwards of £lO million
—£10,089,037 in 5,589,037 20s. fully
paid ords and 7,200,000 20s. ords paid
to 12s. 6d.
The bank has swallowed one rival after
another, the Colonial Bank in 1918,
the Bank of Queensland in 1921, the
Queensland National Bank in 1947 and
the Ballarat Banking Co. in 1955, but,
from an equity viewpoint, a tight-fisted
policy had set in by the 1930’5. In the
last 34 years there has been only one
issue to existing shareholders, a one-
for-two in 1955 at a premium of 30
per cent. During the period 1919-28 the
National had raised its capital by £3 mil-
lion to £5 million in six share issues
netting, all told, £948,832 in share
premiums.
At the end of last term, at September
30, 1961, after opening nine new
branches converting one receiving office
into a new branch and opening eleven
receiving offices and closing 15, the
bank finished up with 892 outlets, an in-
crease of five outlets in the 12 months.
Apart from its banking strengths the
National has a very valuable 40 per
cent, capital interest in Custom Credit
Corporation Ltd, the big h.-p. financier.
With Custom Credit ss. ords. fetching
12s. 9d. on ’Change, the value of the
bank's holding works out at about £7.5
million (market value) This means that
each National fully paid share is worth
15s. in Custom Credit shares ; each 12s.
6d. paid share 9s. 6d. The bank’s
investment would have returned £420,000
in divs. last term.
The National’s 103rd year reflected
the shock to business confidence
administered by the Federal Government
in November, 1960. Even so, profits
improved, “mainly because of the im-
position during the year of more real-
istic charges for certain of our services,
and an additional income from an in-
creased volume of business in some sec-
tions of the Bank’s operations”. This
can be' taken to include benefits from
increased overdraft rates which,
operating immediately, more than off-
set higher fixed-deposit interest rates
which applied only to new and maturing
deposits.
Consolidated gross earnings increased
by £556,121 to £12,201,383; consoli-
dated net profit, a record, by £94,603
to £1,074,887 —an increase of 9.7 per


Estab’ished 1868
extractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
sOSULUVAN
PTY LTD c
'&R «
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOC KERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
cent., as against a fall of 4.8 per cent, in
the previous term :
National and Subsidiaries.
Dividends. Writ- To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 8 p.c. ten-off. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Surplus liquidation Q.N. Bank,
£500,000 5,934,866
1953.. 669,004 538,082 100,000 30,922 5,965,788
9 p.c.
1954.. 741,394 605,342 100,000 36,052 6,001,540
Share premiums, £1,008,904 .. 7,010,744
From inner reserves, £991,096 . . 8,001,840
Unexplained addition, £7135 .. •• 8,008,975
1955.. 900,056 762,640 137,416 8,146,391
1956.. 954,152 908,013 -A 46,139 8,192,530
1957.. 926,807 908,013 18,794 8,211,324
11 p.c.
1958.. 972,322 1,100,794 8,073,852
9 p.c.
1959.. 1,029,696 908,013 121,683 8,195,535
1960.. 980,284 908,014 72,270 8,267,805
1961.. 1,074,887 908,013 166,874 8,434,679
The net profit was reckoned after paying
expenses totalling £10,232,553 (up
£177,598), and £893,942 income, land
and other taxes (up £283,919). It
represented an earning rate of 10.7 per
cent, on unchanged equity, compared
with 9.7 per cent, in 1960 and 10.2 per
cent., 9.7 per cent, and 9.2 per cent,
back to 1957. The div. rate, steady at 9
per cent., took £908,013, leaving £166,874
for reserves, disclosed at £8,434,679.
There were some noteworthy changes
in the balance sheet. Trends in liquidity
in the financial system as a whole, in
July, August and September, were in
marked contrast to those experienced 12
months before. International reserves
were then receding at a rapid rate, the
seasonal deficit in Government financial
transactions was relatively modest and
bank lending policy was extremely tight.
The lift in bank deposit rates, in
November, 1960, from 2} per cent, to
4\ per cent. —since reduced to 4} per
cent, in July, 1961 —for a 12 months
fixed deposit, coupled with ;he temporary
tax imposed on increased fixed-interest
borrowing by other financial institutions,
caused a sharp increase in term de-
posits at the expense of other deposits,
including, to some extent, those of the
savings banks.
There were also successive reduc-
tions in the special reserve deposit ratio.
In the September quarter, 1961, the
volume of bank deposits and cash, in
the hands of the public, rose £6B million,
compared with a small seasonal increase
of £24 million in the three months to
September, 1960. International reserves
yielded an increase of £22 million com-
pared with a fall of £BB million. Govern-
ment spending exceeded revenue and
loan subscriptions by £105.5 million
compared with a deficit of £53 million,
financed chiefly by a larger seasonal
increase in the treasury bill issue to the
banking system.
But, although deposits with the major
trading banks rose by £13.2 million in
the three months to September, 1961,
advances fell by £19.3 million. In 1960, in
the same three months, deposits fell by
£34.6 million, advances rising by £62.5
million.
Thus the trading banks are possessed
of a surplus of liquidity. With credit to
burn but no takers, they have channelled
large sums into Government securities,
and the National’s cash holdings,
Government securities and other liquid
assets, as a composite, had risen by
£29,891,247 to £129.231,985 at September
30 last. Government securities alone had
risen by £35,427,108 to £69,748,488,
compared with a fall of £16,443,873 in
the previous term.
The bank’s deposits, bills payable, pro-
vision for contingencies, etc. finished up
£12,071,372 higher at £321,562,368 (c.f.
an increase of £16,674,493 in the
previous year). Special reserve deposit
fell £11,842,000 to £34,052,000 (up
£6,757,000 in the previous term).
Advances sagged £16,203,513 to
£164,388,940 (up £24,081,739 in the
previous term). Borrowings from other
trading banks declined £9,041,407 to
£452,625 (up £9,197,454 in the previous
term):
3 959. 1960. 1961.
& & &
Paid capital . . 10,089,037 10,089,037 10,089,037
Reserves .. 8,195,534 8,267,805 8,434,679
Deposits, bills
payable, pro-
vision for con-
tingencies . . 292,816,503 309,490,996 321,562,368
Due other banks 296,578 9,494,032 452,625
Notes, in circu-
lation .. 47,478
Final dividend 454,007 454,007 454,007
311,899,137 337,795,877 340,992,716
Cash, Govern-
ment securi-
ties. other
liquid assets 102,849,356 99,340,738 129,231,985
Statutory de-
posit with
Commonwealth
Bank . . 39,137,000 45,894,000 34,052,000
Advances . . 156,510,714 180,592,453 164,388,940
Premises, furni-
ture .. 9,548,671 9,512,084 9,766,939
Other assets . . 3,853,396 2,456,602 3,552,852
311,899,137 337,795,877 340,992,716
Advances as p.c.
of deposits.. 53.5 58.4 51.1
Liquid assets as
p.c. of deposits 35.1 32.1 40.2
Total assets of the bank, including
valuable freeholds shown at next to
nothing, were entered in the balance
sheet at a record £341 million. Ratio of
advances to deposits had settled from
58.4 per cent, to 51.1 per cent. Liquid
assets finished up at 40.2 per cent, of total
deposits (32.1 per cent, in 1960).
The bank, with its vigorous, progres-
sive management, is assured a healthy
participation in any increased demand
for banking facilities. With Australia's
holdings of international currency, gold
and foreign exchange at record levels,
with the export balance running in the
nation’s favor, with wool prices higher
than they were 12 months ago and still
firming, with Commonwealth loans well
supported and a falling trend in interest
rates, with a rise in public spending,
with bigger housing loans and tax cuts,
with selective tariff protection and in-
vestment allowances for industry, the
business horizon is brighter than it has
been for some time.
A cut in fixed-deposit rates might help
further. If the upsurge in economic
acti'ity eventuates the National can
expect increased business and increased
profits, too, although these may be
affected if the h.-p. ancillary fails to
pick up in the next four months. Custom
Credit balances June 30. It may think
fit to reduce its div. rate if earnings are
reduced in the current term.
The bank’s shares are already firmer
than they were two months ago. Fetching
335. then, the 20s. ords. recently touched
345. 3d. Immediate yield is 5.3 pe r
cent. The 12s. 6d. ords. also return 5.2
per cent, and they can be purchased at
21s. 9d. —they were fetching A. 9d
when ’Change opened after the New
Year. Earnings yield is not unattractive
at 6.2 per cent.
At close of accounts, net tangible cover
per £1 share, including uncalled capital,
worked out at 335. 3d.


While you
in Europe
visit the
are
POZNAN
INTERNATIONAL FAIR
JUNE JO-24, T 962
The world’s achievements in industry, techniques
and science displayed and demonstrated by over 55
countries.
The Best Meeting Place In The World For East-West Trade Transactions
All information can be this expansive review of world progress, the
obtained immediately from : organisation of the POZNAN INTERNATIONAL
COMMERCIAL DIVISION FAIR presents congenial opportunities for personal
Polish Consulate General, contacts between businessmen from all countries, in
62 Drumalbyn Road, every field of commercial enterprise.
Bellevue Hill, Sydney. 36-2005 ... r . . , . ..
Cables : “polhan,” Sydney. Visas obtainable in Sydney at short notice .
NOCK AND KIRBY
SCOPE FOR IMPROVEMENT
nPHE growth of water sports in Aus-
tralia and developments taking ad-
vantage of this new interest have placed
the Sydney-based retailer, Nock and
Kirby Ltd, in an improved position.
More and more Australians are spend-
ing increasing sums on small pleasure
craft, water skis, outboard motors, etc.
Competition is developing, but there still
seems to be some scope for expansion.
The company was formed in 1906 to
take over an ironmongery business,
which even then was over 30 years
old. It converted to a public company in
1955 with an issue of 200,000 10s. shares
at 155., lifting paid capital to £400,000.
From the original ironmongery busi-
ness, the company has gradually spread
its interests through a wide variety of
allied fields. Builders’ hardware and
household goods are the backbone of
the company, but it is also a substantial
furniture retailer. In recent years its in-
terests also expanded to the boating in-
dustry. A subsidiary manufactures
small launches and runabouts, while
Outboard Marine Australia Pty, in
which it holds a 25 per cent, interest,
makes outboard motors at Bankstown
(NSW).
The main store has for many years
been situated in George St, in the heart
of Sydney’s shopping area, and develop-
ment into the outer suburbs in the im-
mediate postwar years was slow. In
1955, three stores were in operation—
the main city store and one each at
Bankstown and Wollongong (NSW).
From these the company has grown
until it now operates through 13 sub-
sidiaries —nine retail and the remain-
der finance or manufacturing. It operates
15 stores, mainly in the Sydney, New-
castle and Wollongong areas. The lar-
gest expansion move was the acquisi-
tion in 1959 of Sydney furniture re-
tailer Beard Watson and Co. for cash
plus a share exchange. In the same year
it also acquired a substantial holding in
a company formed to manufacture
kerosene appliances.
Shareholders have been well treated
during the company’s six years of public
status. In 1958 ihey were offered a one-
for-four issue at par and two years
later a one-for-eight, also at par.
Numerous small issues have also been
made to vendors in acquisition of
property.
Profits during this period have shown
a fairly steady upward trend, except in
the last year. But the earning rate has not
kept pace with the growth in capital. Peak
earning rate was 24.3 per cent, in 1956-
57, but last year it was down to 7.5 per
cent. —just over half the previous year’s
14.9 per cent.:
Nock and Kirby and Subsidiaries.
To re- Re-
Aug. Profit. , —Dividends.—, serves. serves.
31. £ £ £ £
1959.. 101,963 10 p.c. = 82,652 19,311 1,029,388
Asset revaluation, £657,342 .. 1,686,730
Sale of assets, £25,935 .. .. 1,712,665
Share premiums, £61,458 .. .. 1,774,123
Tax overprovided, £447 .. .. 1,774,570
1960.. 143,795 10 p.c. = 96,767 47,028 1,821,598
Addition to general reserve, £459 . . 1,822,057
Premium on consolidation, £39,808 1,861,865
Intangibles w/o, £31,214 .. .. 1,830,651
Tax underprovided, £544 .. .. 1,830,107
1961.. 83,652 5 p.c. = 55,993 27,659 1,857,766
Last year’s result was after cutting tax
by £24,678 to £51,984; but depreciation
was lifted from £43,972 to £47,062.
Reserves have shown a steady increase
until at last balance date the tax-free
element totalled £l,322,663—exceeding
paid up capital by £102,803. The general
reserve and surplus profits stood at
£535,103. Last year the reserves bene-
fited by £39,808 surplus on consoli-
dation, following the acquisition of a
store at Campbelltown (NSW). However,
£31,214 intangibles were written off.
Shareholders can look forward to the
time when these will be distributed in the
form of a tax-free benefit, but they may
be delayed until earnings pick up.
The company’s dividend record shows
a consistent 10 per cent, for every year
since flotation, until last term. Following
the fall in profit (from £143,795 to
£83,652) and the uncertainty of condi-
tions in the current year, directors de-
cided not to pay a final dividend, so that
the interim 5 per cent, became the rate
for the year. In view of the healthy
st°te of the company’s reserves this de-
cision seems hard to understand, as main-
taining the 10 per cent, rate would have
required a mere £20,316 from last term’s
profits. In justification, directors point
to expansion programmes which will re-
quire finance.
The balance sheet shows a highly
liquid state, with current assets nearly
two-and-a-half times current liabilities:
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
1959. 1960. 1961.
Capital .. .. £882,265 £1,057,235 £1,119,860
Reserves .. .. 1,029,388 1,821,598 1,857,766
Overdraft.. .. 536,897 486,492 320,692
Deposits .. .. 125,419 279,644 371,597
Creditors .. .. 514,252 548,382 529,626
Taxation .. .. 69,761 76,601 81,027
Final div. .. 44,113 50,779
Mortgages .. 398,500 383,700 370,900
Debentures . . 700,000 900,000 1,250,000
Staff fund .. 161,712 152,036 159,901
Long term loan .. 44,370 75,245
Outside shareholders 1,936 18,335
£4,462,307 £5,802,773 £6,154,949
Freehold .. .. 1,431,607 2,319,108 2,436,870
Plant . . .. 295,790 345,671 394,828
Debtors. .. .. 1,313,995 1,398,079 1,617,062
Stock .. .. 1,389,588 1,634,301 1,582,970
Cash .. .. 3,136 6,637 9,273
Investments .. 5,425 79,004 113,946
Intangibles .. 22,766 19,973
£4,462,307 £5,802,773 £6,154,949
Fixed interest borrowings—mostly long
term —were increased by an additional
£350,000 of debentures, but bank over-
draft and creditors were reduced. Despite
the slowing of business activity, stock —
at cost —showed a fall, partly matched
by a rise in book debts. Freehold at
cost or valuation (all below V. G. figures),


Top
people
to-morrow
bank ‘RURAL’
to-day
Once, it was only the ‘Top People’ who
used a Cheque Account; the average person
paid bills by cash.
Today, however, more and more young
people realise the advantages of a
cheque account; they know that people at
the top all have cheque accounts . . .
That’s why ‘Top People of tomorrow bank
Rural today’,
RURAL BANK
FOR EVERY CLASS OF TRADING BANK BUSINESS
“makes money work”
HEAD OFFICE: Martin Place, Sydney
less an unstated amount for depreciation,
rose by £117,762 to £2,436,870.
With all intangibles now written off,
assets backing for each 10s. share is
265. 7d.
Trading conditions were not easy in
the past year and results of the Wollon-
gong store were alfected by rebuilding
operations. With the retail side becoming
more and more competitive, the non-
retail activities of the group should
make larger contributions to earnings.
The one to show most promise at the
moment is the boat-building subsidiary,
Norlin Products Pty, which is rapidly
expanding and now has an Australia-
wide distribution.
Prospects for the future appear a great
deal brighter although the main task
still appears to be to increase turnover
and cut costs. Consolidation of activities
will assist, and the disposal of surplus
freehold should free additional funds.
Last sale of the shares was at 16s. 4|d.
to show a dividend yield of 3 p.c. and an
earnings yield of 4.4 p.c. There appears
to be some scope for improvement.
OIL
O.D. PLANS
|"\il Development N.L. has announced
that a 16f p.c. interest has been
acquired in the 100 sq.-miles block on
which Beach Petroleum N.L. is drilling
its Grange, Adelaide, well. The well is
being drilled by Reeding and Bates
(Australia) Pty, in which Oil Develop-
ment holds a 49 p.c. interest.
Drilling on seismic targets in the north-
western corner of the 19,500 sq.-miles
concession in Queensland is scheduled to
commence late next April. This conces-
sion adjoins A.A.O.’s Glentulloch area.
A 10.000 ft well will commence in April
on the Mt Salt structure. Oil Develop-
ment will be joined by Santos Ltd,
Beach Petroleum N.L. and another part-
ner in this operation. The Mt Burke
structure in the northern section of the
co.’s 2460 sq.-miles Sydney Basin con-
cession is scheduled for drilling during
June, 1962.
A contract to carry out a large scale
seismic programme in Queensland has
been let to General Geophysical Com-
pany of Houston, Texas, USA.
A.R.C. INDUSTRIES LTD
AHEAD
T ate in 1956, A.R.C. Industries Ltd,
manufacturer of wire mesh fencing,
scaffolding, concrete reinforcing, refused
a takeover bid from Cyclone Co. of Aus-
tralia Ltd. The offer was one 10s. Cyclone
ord. plus £1 cash for each 10s. share in
A.R.C. It was worth 51s. at the time. Im-
mediately after, A.R.C. made a one-fo*-
one bonus handout. The shares are now
selling for 50s. 6d. and the holder of one
10s. share before the bid now has two
shares worth 101 s.
In the meantime, Cyclone shares have
slipped to 255. Id. on announcement of a
cut in interim div. from 6 } p.c. to 5 p.c.
Both companies lean heavily r the
state of activity in building and con-
struction industries for their prosperity.
Last year’s earnings equalled 29.9 p.c.
on ord. capital against 17.7 p.c. for Cy-
clone. A.R.C. paid 15 per cent, in div. and
Cyclone p.c.
The boot is on the other foot now. If
anyone is in a position to make a take-
over bid now, it would be A.R.C. The
company is going ahead.


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT. A. C. DEAFER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members o] Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761
(4 lines)
P.O. BOX
No. 1887 W
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building,
150 Queen St., Melbourne,
67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court, 423 Little Collins St.,
Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
There's
better
reading
tor all the
family in
Everybody's
Why not
order your
copy now.
It's only
I
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Monday, March 12
Jt’s not often that I go along to the
Sydney Stock Exchange to take a look
at the proceedings. But last Tuesday, the
day Planet was listed, promised to be an
occasion worthy of a visit. So I set off
for O'Connell Street with my modest
holding of 400 shares tucked safely in
my pocket. Walking through the glass
doors into Kindersley House was like
stepping from reality into fairyland—or
was it Luna Park? The roar of excite-
ment in the vestibule was drowned only
by the shouting on the trading floor.
There brokers’ operators seemed happy
to break ribs to make fortunes. For my-
self I was more than pleased to throw my
400 shares into the melee. I got ss. 6d. to
show a profit of £B6 on an outlay of £2O.
For the life of me I couldn't see why a
400 p.c. or 500 p.c. premium should be
accorded to the shares of any oil pros-
pecting company whose leases are quite
ordinary and which hasn't even scratched
the surface of the earth. But, as I said
last week, reason plays a very minor role
where oil is concerned.
The oil hysteria enthused even me to
the point where 1 seriously toyed with
the idea of buying 100 A.O.G. for the
simple reason that it was the company
that had, ndirectly, found the oil. And
last week A.O.G. suffered something of
an eclipse while all the excitement raged
round Planet, Beach and others which
had little more than A.O.G.'s reflected
glory to recommend them. But I couldn’t
quite muster the courage to pay £5 10s.
or £5 15s. for A.O.G. so let the idea slip.
Elsewhere the share market was ex-
periencing quite a sharp decline. A
variety of reasons was being given but
none was very convincing. To me the
industrial market was suffering largely
from neglect. Of course, certain stocks
were having their own private breezes
blowing though them —Moulded Pro-
ducts and John Lysaght with their profits
halved, B.H.P. with its debenture issue.
Rothmans with the UK lung cancer
report, and the newspaper-television
group faced with new commercial TV
stations in the capital cities.
The resultant price falls all seemed
logical enough except in the case of
B.H.P and maybe Rothmans. When
B.H.P. dropped to 645. 6d. on Thursday
I bought back in again in the hope of
an early increase in the dividend rate. It
seems inconceivable, as one broker is
pointing out, that B.H.P. will go on
paying less (6} p.c.) on its risk capital
than it is on its secured debenture
borrowings which will carry 7 p.c. in-
terest. I'm hoping that this anomaly will
be rectified one Friday soon when B.H.P.
declares its final dividend for 1961-62.
As if to carry my current mood of
conservatism one step further, I also
bought 400 Kandos on Friday at 21s.
Kandos shares are not cheap, even on
the present ex-rights basis, but this com-
pany, or at least its operating company,
Australian Portland Cement, is a real
blue chip. A.P.C., like 8.H.P., is engaged
on a formidable expansion programme
which will lift annual cement production
beyond the one million ton mark by
next year. So growth in profits should
also be assured.
On the selling side, the obvious thing
to do seemed to be to sell some of my
1000 Fibre Containers which are tying
up the best part of £lOOO. But Fibres
have slipped in price since the bonus
issue and I am going to hold on, at least
until the dividend announcement due
some time this month. Instead, the news
of more competition on the commercial
TV front seemed to make it an oppor-
tune time to take my leave of
Southern Television which I’d held since
last June. By the time I was able to
sell the price had dropped to 255. 6d.
but I was still able to show a profit
of £47.
The balance of the money needed
came from Western Mining which I de-
cided to sell now that Fve thrown in
my lot in the aluminium industry so
heavily with Hunter Douglas. Besides
there was a nice profit of £l4O to be
taken on Western Mining and I was also
absolved from paying the call due later
this month.
SOLD
400 Planet at 5/6 £B6
200 Southern TV at 25/6 .. .. £252
500 Western Mining at 14/3 .. £350
BOUGHT
100 B.H.P. at 64/6 £328
400 Kandos at 21/- £430
These transactions gave me a lucrative
week with a profit of £273 and left me
owing £32 and holding these shares:
Cost Cur-
Ao. of Name of Date fer rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
300 Hornibrook 4/3/61 23/- 20/6
400 O'Donnell
Griffin 28/8/61 11/8 14/9
200 Shipping News 25/9/61 17/3 . 24/-
800 Southgate 6/11/61 8/6 8/6
1,000 United Motels 20/11/61 . 3/6 4/-
1,000 Harris Holdings 5/12/61 7/- 9/.
200 Hunter Douglas 7/12/61 26/- 43/-
200 Hunter Douglas
notes 21/2/62 36/- 37/-
200 Beau Monde 8/12/61 25/- 33/-
1,000 Fibre Con-
tainers 13/12/61 17/6 18/3
400 W. J. Manufac-
turing 24/1/62 11/9 12/-
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 23/
300 Mauri Bros. 16/2/62 22/6 23/
100 F, W. Williams 20/2/62 36/6 37/6
1,000 Mid-Eastern
rights 22/2/62
200 Pen folds Wines 2/3/62 9/3
400 Anderson Meat 2/3/62 12/ 12/9
100 B.H.P. 8/3/62 64/6 65/-
400 Kandos 9/3/62 21/- 22/-


Feiffer
ouTM6 I 566 W
to ee meu
m ITS o#\M
a meuise
lUSIOC l
eee m-
seif as
SELF
twee me,
lotiew
A Mi?
MFfecWAU-
AMP F&M
TIMS TO
TlMt IV
go ovr
im
&RI6HT
6\£LG Mo
HAP iM-
GI6HT AMP
imv
GAG-
V 'l CM
set
RI6HT
r mo&\
°tou
wmmeiez”
"WM ootewe
mo 666 H TO
2>6 6TABL6
am sxem-
m\Ds mw
R6ALW %tf
?mm, (M-
-oztme,
Lotiem amp
mmcxuAi''
SO OF
COURSE
IV
FAU
Itf
io\ie
WlfH
TH£M.
30f THft) LAST
11)66K turn
our m am
ttmisw
Bf?I6HT 6IRL'
mam
6RAVUAT6'
MQG& FOR
TIM IMC-
m we
-SAIO-
* r cm see
RI69T ftfßom
m BSRMARP
metmiez'-
■'miuou&tve noo
566 M TO &B
sTme a w
sTzm-m\M
YOU'RE CRUEL,
wrrm,
Slk)li>Ts£
AMP
6 eufm!'
CM W
IMA6INB?
l meiw u)!fH
H6R ml em-
mil low
m THAI*
Mi M
01HBR 61R 15
WHO THOOOHT
THSW <SAW
THROO6H M 6 '
- om r see
mat shb
7HOU6HT
SH6 $Au)
THROUGH
M 6!
Bur mu
Arouap i
B66AU LST-
rm our
AM MJCOtf'
TmiABU
LOW
uew
LAU6H -
m rtm
£\iew once
10 a mu
l FOUOQ '
'
TWl^f-
IN6
tf£R
ARM |
FiMAIU SH£
mr home.
SH6 $All?
ir m
tne most
PAT 6" SH6P
tffcß HAP
IfO H6R
life.
I F6U
Assoiutem
v tMMIQW


REVIEWS
FILM
THE RETURN OF DE SICA
Two Women. Lido. Sydney.
A De Sica film these days is an un-
expected pleasure. The impression
was that the bustling commercialism of
the Ita.ian cinema had smothered the
post-war Italian realist school and
silenced, bought or banished its out-
stanoing talents. De Sica has been seen
mainly plying his original trade of
actor; the only De Sica-directed films
that have reached here since “Umberto
D " are (if I am not mistaken) the un-
characteristic “Indiscretion of an
American Wife'’ (made for Hollywood),
the mutilated “Gold of Naples,” and the
latest arrival, “Two Women.”
“Two Women” represents a sort of per-
sonal renaissance for De Sica com-
parable with Rosselini's renaissance in
“General Della Rovere” (to which De
Sica, incidentally, contributed powerfully
as an actor). Significantly, both films are
backward-looking, with a wartime setting.
This may suggest that the social climate
of the present time is unfavorable to
the neo-realist style, quite apart from the
economics of the industry.
“Two Women” is in every way much
closer to the spirit and quality of “Shoe-
shine,” “Bicycle Thieves” and “Umberto
D” than to the intervening De Sica films.
It has the same compassion, though per-
haps not the same passion; it is smoother,
less pungent.
Based on an Alberto Moravia story,
it is, like all De Sica’s major films, less
a story in the conventional sense than a
study of people and their reactions to
random circumstances and events. De
Sica’s heroes and heroines seldom control
their own destiny, and the heroine of
“Two Women,” though more positive
than most of them, is no exception in
this.
Essentially the film is a study not of
two women but of one, richly and warmly
portrayed by Sophia Loren. She is a
widowed Roman shopkeeper, peasant-
born, who combines a robustly forthright
outlook and manner with a tenderly
protective devotion to her shy teenage
daughter. At the beginning of the film
the widow inveigles out of her coal-
merchant lover the train fare from
threatened Rome to her native hill-
country of Euphemia. Mother and
daughter live here among mutually dis-
trustful peasants and refugees until, with
the arrival of the victorious Allied troops,
they set out on foot for Rome again.
To this point, despite its harsh back-
ground, the film has had as much comedy
as pathos. The climax is brief and
violent. Mother and daughter resting in
a ruined church, are discovered, attacked
and raped by North African soldiers.
After the attack the daughter is left in a
state of shock —she is silent, apathetic and
remote. The mother's anguish is
sharpened by the girl's obstinate with-
drawal. It takes a second tragedy to
reunite them.
De Sica fills out the story with a
wealth of telling incident and portraiture.
Nearly all of it has an irresistible ring of
truth ; one feels that this really is the
way Italians—or the kind of Italians
represented in the film—lived and thought
during the turmoil of the invasion. Only
a few of the episodes—mainly those
involving Germans and militant fascists —
have a suggestion of angry exaggeration.
De Sica, too, has been well served by
his players, notably lean Paul Belmondo
as an idealistic young teacher, Eleanora
Brown as the daughter, Raf Vallone,
appearing briefly as the widow’s
co-operative coal merchant —and above
all Loren herself.
If for De Sica the film marks a return,
for Loren it marks the high-point in her
progress from amateurish glamor-girl to
stylish and confident non-glamor-girl.
Some of the extreme praise she has had
for the performance perhaps gives too
little credit to the director, but it is still
a magnificently vital, responsive and
wide-ranging portrayal.
MARTIN LONG
ART
GREY, AIRLESS WORLD
Bob Dickerson. Rudy Komon Gallery.
Sydney.
A mono these 22 paintings and 14 draw-
ings by Bob Dickerson one finds
plenty of evidence to show why his
work should continue to find an in-
terested audience. As objects of purely
aesthetic attraction many of the paint-
ings are singularly distasteful. The
color is harsh or non-existent, the
drawing summary, often repetitive, the
paint indifferent and yet these very things
assist in putting across his message a
private world of isolation, misery and
despair.
Since the early works (one here is
dated 1949), Dickerson has played this
theme, sometimes with irony, sometimes
with sardonic humor, occasionally
with compassion. If more than one
figure, usually just head and shoulders,
appears in a painting we can be sure
that each person is self-enclosed in some
private emotion. His characters are
scared, from the kid hiding behind a beer-
bottle (NSW Art Gallery) to the “Punter
at Night” who has obviously done his
chips. Nearly all have faded to the color
of panic or death, grey bladders peering
out of their own psychological darkness,
a darkness symbolised in paint.
The images indicate a certain weak-
ness, the narrow-range experience which
cannot widen into real tragedy because so
many facets of the human being are just
ignored. Especially is this the case with
the paintings and drawings of his all
too adult children. Above everything
children have the happy capacity to cast
off negative emotions and live in the
present. Some of the drawings, notably
“Boy's Head No. 3,” “Study of a Girl,”
“Child” and “Hands” show a greater
feeling for form than comes through in
the paintings. The suffocation realised
in the “Harlequins” is authentic; the
“clown” likewise is thoroughly as-


phyxiated. “Man in Moonlight” might be
potentially a suicide. “Girl Thinking”
faces some unknown threat, perhaps
from a sly “Man in Paddington.”
“Children in Paddington” provides a
clue as to Dickerson’s method psy-
chological intensity through a denial of
any “air” to his compositions. If his
people screamed no ear would hear;
sound needs air and space. The “Opera-
tion,” with figures of doctors, evokes a
patient’s final horror-filled moments be-
fore anaesthesia. “Before the Operation”
combines this feeling with one of silent,
painful suspense. At his best Dickerson
depicts his grey world as well as Ber-
nard Buffet his, with sophistication per-
haps, but without Buffet’s professional
slickness. People are bound to see at
least one aspect of themselves in this
show.
J. HENSHAW
ET equals 2c minus x
Edwin Tanner. Bonython Gallery.
Adelaide.
li/rATHEMATiciANS, engineers, laboratory
1 A workers, the title is to catch your
eye. Read on.
The major premises of Snow’s Hypo-
thesis (which your reviewer accepts) are
that there are two cultures, and that is
a bad thing. There are then three ways
to harmony. One, eliminate the scien-
tific-technological culture ; two, eliminate
the literary-intellectual culture ; three,
mix them into a single new culture. The
last is the accepted approach, on a basis
of democratic live-and-let-live, and that
the intellectuals need antibiotics and tele-
vision sets, while the scientists agree with
their Sir Isaac Newton that poetry is a
kind of ingenious nonsense, so it would
be a pity if it died out like Aepyornis.
Not much to start from, but better than
civil war between the castes.
Culture-mixing can be carried on self-
consciously in our educational system,
but the painful, mature, overt synthesis
will depend much upon the artists from
each side (and scientific-technological
innovators can reasonably be called
artists) finding out about the other and
demonstrating their findings. There will
have to be multiple frontier forays and
skirmishes, but at present there is very
little terrain on which both sides can
deploy their forces.
In the beginning was the Word. In the
beginning of science was the Number.
Scientists have found areas of truth,
action, and sensuous reality which are
non-verbal and cannot be communicated
in any adequate sense except through
mathematics, for the only way to “under-
stand” a mathematical symbol is to learn
to use it directly. It is a separate mode
of inter-human communication, as is the
ikon, or the musical note. Of all the
arts, scientists in general are said to take
most readily to music, which has affinities
to mathematics and a weaving of non-
verbal forms which are not confined to
a set of physical surfaces, but no real
fusion of the cultures seems to be taking
place in the concert chamber. Painting
may have even fewer such possibilities,
but one can note two crashingly obvious
things. First, painters, like scientists,
have retreated from the Word until today
no picture tells a story using classical
literary humane symbols, but in spite
of this painting survives and certainly
belongs to the non-scientific camp.
Second, both painters and scientists
“write” their symbols on the flat.
If a painter-scientist or a scientist-
painter were to use any of the written
symbols of science-technology in his
pictures he would at least surmount some
of the initial barriers of convention which
separate these two human activities. This
is in what Edwin Tanner is doing. It is
important, because although some
examples of the long-established literary
mode known as “science fiction” are a
comparable form this is not one which
is taken very seriously by the literary
intellectuals. But they accept painting,
and so it has one of the essentials for
being made into a bridge.
Mr Tanner is a qualified civil and
structural engineer, born in Wales, living
in Melbourne, who took up painting
when he was thirty. Now, ten years
later, he has given up the engineering
and paints all the time for his living.
So he is a real, compulsive painter. His
work shows technical mastery and a
high degree of unlikeliness. His symbols
derive from mathematical logic, and from
the electrical circuits, galvanometers,
switches, conduits, and gauges of an
engineer’s blueprint. Many of these
remind him of the human face, and he
gives them Fougasse mouths and an eye
of carborundum powder. The dark
colors of his recent paintings are those
of a fitter’s bench with its grease and
abrasives, of a squat furnace, or of a
factory basement switchboard. Some
have brass screws let in for strength and
dependability. The frames are engineered
with slotted corners to allow for thermal
expansion and contraction so that the
work will not buckle with climatic
changes. Mr Tanner is no take-it-or-
leave-it artist. He hammers out good
jobs.
And what do his paintings “say”? From
the point of view of senior Culture
Number One, almost nothing .... no
mums and babies, no fights or flights,
no geography, no psychiatric tensions,
no rhythms or patterns, just some inter-
esting surface textures and a quaint lot
of unfamiliar round and linear symbols.
Hopping into junior Culture Number
Two, the ear hears a familiar language
called out in a strange accent in a big
place where personal human suscepti-
bilities get mixed with what one had been
told was the impersonal business of
scientific techniques. These current
works should therefore attract Number
Two more than Number One, but given
a few more years Mr Tanner might be
saying something readily intelligible to
both sides, between which he has built
this tiny bridge, and so reduced the
difference between them by X (sic), which
at present has a very small but positive
value, much less than C (sic). The titles of
his pictures show his personal awareness
that the areas in which he is operating
can best be hinted at with religious allu-
sions where myth and symbol merge, T. S.
Eliot-like . . . “Trinity,” Limboid,” “The
Father,” “Some Dead,” “Hierarchy,”
“The Board of Directors,” “Souls in
Purgatory,” and so on. In time he, and
others like him in other fields, may find
the conditions under which C no longer
has to be doubled (which can be when
ET himself is equal to a whole C and
to X at the same time). When that day
dawns, metaphor and equation will not
be as separate as they are now.
Buyers’ guide: institutes and labora-
tories, put a Tanner at the head of the
stairs; it will turn out to be a good
investment at a tenth of the price of a
spectrophotometer.
EARLE HACKETT
NEW DEPARTURES
Sydney and Melbourne Painters. South
Yarra Gallery. Melbourne.
'T'he South Yarra Gallery’s first show
for the year is remarkably good.
Sixteen of Melbourne's and Sydney’s best
painters are represented, and each has
something stimulating to offer. In a
couple of cases there are interesting new
departures. Don Laycock has stepped off
in a quite different direction with a
large, dominating head study (“Oracle
of the Sphinx’'), which goes close to steal-
ing the show even in this good company.
Fred Williams, too, has changed to a very


Divorce Notices
Matrimonial Causes Act 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
IN THE MATTER OF DOROTHY MARTIN
Petitioner AND ALA NAY MARTIN Respondent.—
TO ALANAY MARTIN whose last known address is
Reid House Reid Canberra in the Australian Capital
Territory. —TAKE NOTICE that the above mentioned
DOROTHY MARTIN has commenced a suit against
you m this Honourable Court and is applying for
a Decree of Dissolution of. her marriage to you
against you on the grounds that since the marriage
you have without .just cause or excuse wilfully
deserted the said Dorothy Martin for a period of
not less than .two years and that since the marriage
you have for a. period of not less than two years
been a habitual drunkard AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to file an Answer to the said suit
at the Office of the Registrar of this Honourable
Court at Canberra in the said Territory on or
before the Twenty-eighth day of April One thousand
nine hundred and sixty two and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner may proceed
and the suit heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding A copy of the Petition filed
herein may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge. DATED this eighth day of March,
One thousand nine hundred and sixty two. —B. R.
GALLEN & KELLY, Solicitors for the Petitioner,
8.M.1. Building, Alinga Street, Canberra City. A.C.T.
—J. D. BUTTON, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
In Divorce.
TO HUGH LOGAN BROWN late of 162 Lane Lane
Broken Hill in the State of New South Wales.-—■
TAKE NOTICE that VERNA IRENE BROWN has
filed a Petition for divorce No. 373 of 1962 on the
grounds of desertion If you wish to defend you
may enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Macquarie Street Sydney by the 18th
April 1962 and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MARSHALL, MARKS, DEZARNAULDS
& JONES, Solicitors, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydnev,
or JOHN R. EDWARDS, BROWN & BROWN,
Solicitors, 281 Argent Street, Broken Hill. —C. A. IT.
HARMS, Registrar.
simple, almost bare style which nonethe-
less sacrifices nothing of his warmth and
delicacy.
Among the others, the styles will be
more familiar. What is especially striking
about the majority of them is their
beautifully controlled and lyrical use of
color. Solemnity and protest are making
a welcome departure from painting.
Even John Brack’s box-like suburbia has
been turned into an attractive painting,
without losing any of its bite. In fact the
care taken by all these painters to create
something that is above all beautiful is, I
think, most encouraging. Certainly this
has been one of the important effects of
abstraction on our painters. John Olsen,
Leonard Hessing, Eric Smith and Fred
Williams all clearly give the impression
that they have thoroughly penetrated the
basic problems of their style and can
now produce balanced, polished, warm
and vital work.
Others who paint more to themes are
marked by the same richness and warmth
of color, and by clear, strong imagery,
Blackman’s two pieces are soft, gentle,
simply designed, immediately appealing ;
Len French’s study for “The Creation” a
further sample of the extraordinary rich-
ness he has achieved over the last couple
of years ; Robert Hughes’s “Owl” ari
elegantly modulated, strongly designed
study in muted color. When one is not
strong on superlatives (despite corres-
pondence to the contrary) it is hard to
squeeze everyone in. The really surprising
thing about a collective show like this is
that such a large number of very good
painters should come out of such a
visually ignorant community,
BILL HANNAN
THEATRE
AN ACTING EXERCISE
The Caretaker. Pinter. Independent
Theatre. The Break. Philip Albright.
Union Theatre. Elizabethan Theatre
Trust Company. Sydney.
HThere can be little doubt that what the
controversial Mr Pinter has written
is a superb acting exercise. The point
and appeal of the “play” consists in the
chances it gives to actors to display their
own richness of observation and comic
or macabre invention. Given good
acting, and a producer who will allow the
proper time to his cast’s speaking. “The
Caretaker” will come across as a pretty
dazzling night of theatre.
There is no plot, no sequence bar a
sketchy bringing together of three odd
characters at odd moments and the
only significance of the play is the
admirable way in which acting craftsmen
can make an accurate recording of the
threats and boredom of everyday talk
and action into something of value.
Pinter puts plenty of shock into his
dialogue, the workers and destitutes pro-
vide him with an uncluttered life rich
in oaths and bawdry and rebellion. He
brings in the threats of violence W'hich
still rule a good part even of civilised life
as a piece of vaudeville drama—highly
effective for a middle-class audience
whose dreamlife is their only taste of the
tomato sauce and body blows of the
gutter.
The comedy of the play comes from
two notions that a destitute tramp is
still a vigorous talker, finicky about his
tatty clothing, keeping to the end all the
prejudices and behavior patterns of the
lusty worker earning good wages. Pinter’s
tramp is far too alert for his starved
stomach to support; a tramp as alive as
this is hard to believe in. He has so
much vigor that one at once looks for
some steady source of economic upkeep
but the playwright denies him one.
Pinter’s main notion is that of incon-
gruity. He plays with incongruities of
speech and feding with remarkable skill,
and if the device does pall towards the
end, this is the risk of all devices.
Great measures of time are given to
commonplaces by Pinter, and the gift of
time, ordinarily reserved for profound
words, deep ideas or news of
moment, gives to the banal conversations
a fantastic comedy of their own. May
Hollinworth’s most skilful production
adds to this use of time with her own use
of space: the characters are poised and
balanced in compositions that could be
used feelingly for Greek tragedy, and
again the comedy of this incongruity
pulls us inevitably to laughter.
In the long run though. “The Care-
taker” has so much pastiche about it —
whole slabs of the first act could have
come straight from the master pastiche
merchant, T. S. Eliot; and the speech
ending the second act owes a lot to
Tennessee Williams’s “Suddenly Last
Summer”—that there can be no memory
of solidity or lasting worth about it. It
is not playwrighting in any proper sense
of the term, it is far closer to the best of
improvisations in any good acting class,
brilliant, highly amusing, but eminently
forgettable.
Nevertheless, this mad night of theatre
should make real money for the Inde-
pendent, and if it encourages them tc go
on with productions of this order of skill,
and to employ the magical talents of Miss
Hollinworth, it will all be worthwhile.
Richard Meikle was outstanding in the
cast of three, with Edward Hepple and
Robert McDarra doing their best work
for some seasons in the other roles.
Decor by Michelle was perhaps the best
we have so far seen from her, and an
example to the lesser designers around
Sydney theatre in how to provide exactly
the right sort of evocative acting space.
Michelle sets always allow actors to
move, the basic requisite.
Philip Albright’s “The Break” which
finished the Elizabethan Theatre Trust’s
season of three Australian plays at the
Union Theatre was an appalling event.
An earnest stupid play which piled in-
credible situations on to even more un-
believable people, a setting which
suggests a flat laid out on nightmarish
lines, trite production filled with appro-
priate cliches of movement and gesture
—even to the villain tapping an envelope
significantly on his fingers—combined
to provide one of the worst nights in
recent theatre.
How the Trust came to choose such a
turkey as this —1 am informed that the
play won second place in a recent major
competition, which casts grave doubts on
the judges ahead of many other local
plays is just one more of those enticing
mysteries that the Trust has been pro-
ducing lately. Fine actors in Alan Trevor
and Grant Taylor were quite wasted in
this trash.
KEVON KEMP


INCREDIBLE AFRICA
WIUARD PRICE
Author of "THE AMAZING AMAZON” etc.
A fascinating record of a round-the-continent journey made by one
of the most stimulating of travel writers.
THE RED PAGE
TEMPORARY GENTLEMEN
By PETER HASTINGS
“T myself am not a gentleman,” says
Simon Raven in his book on The
English Gentleman, “ . . . there are a
number of reasons why I am not a gentle-
man . . . but chief among them is that
I have no sense of obligation. I am
happy to enjoy privilege. I am also
prone to evade or even totally to ignore
its implicit commitments. This defect
would not necessarily disqualify me from
being ‘upper class,’ but it does mean that
I can never be a gentleman which is a
very different thing.”
While thus defining in a backhanded
way the chief characteristic of a gentle-
man a sense of obligation Simon
Raven adds that he is not upper class
because his parents were middle class,
and because he suffers a chronic lack of
money, has a sneaking fondness for
baked beans on toast and has
a sneaking sense of guilt at
behaving in a non-upper class way. He
is, he says, prepared to arrogate privilege
and disown obligation with the best of
them but he feels guilty about it.
An exile from both worlds he devotes
several long chapters to describing the
evolution of the English gentleman, as
he conceives him to be, from the feudal
conception of obligation through the
Restoration, the XVIII century, Dr
Arnold’s splendid Christian prefects to
his virtual latter-day disappearance.
All this is fair enough and at times of
compelling interest for Simon Raven is
a talented, graceful and controversial
writer and the author of a singular and
arresting novel. But the principal effect
of reading anything like a treatise on
the English gentleman by anyone so
confessedly ungentlemanly as the author
is an intense desire to find out more
about the author. With a fair amount
of cunning Mr Raven has anticipated
this by making the book to some measure
autobiographic.
He is 35, went to Charterhouse, was
expelled for homosexuality, joined the
post-war army and loved it, served in
Kenya, returned to England and was
allowed to resign his commission one
step ahead of dishonor in the shape of
unpaid debts and, one supposes, “took
up writing.”
Raven enjoyed Charterhouse. Robert
Graves did not. But as Raven pointed
out Charterhouse produced Addison,
Thackeray and Max Beerbohm as well
as Baden-Powell. It sought to impart a
liberal education and to produce Christ-
ian gentlemen under a firm but kindly
discipline. Raven makes out a fair case,
allowing for the sort of romanticism
that school recollections evoke in a
certain sort of Englishman, for Charter-
house as a succesful, humane, liberal,
rather superior educational institution.
But the question of who and who were
not gentlemen is one that he never quite
successfully settles. There was a clod of
a boy called Holtby who quite against
Charterhouse's liberal -laissez fairs prin-
ciples determined that his House should
compete and compete properly (it was
war time) for the Annual Drill Compe-
tition prize judged by Sandhurst drill
sergeants. Holtby regarded the war
seriously and he drilled his House ragged.
Nerves frayed, tempers blew and there
were ugly scenes. But he went on dlilt-
ing as if the outcome of the war depended
on it. In a sense it did.
The great day came and Holtby
House romped home. The Grenadier
sergeants were stupefied by his expertise,
deafened by his words of command.
Holtby himself got a Guards Commission,
saw action, was severely wounded, refused
a permanent commission because of the
backbiting and meannesses of peace-time
soldiering and just faded away--
unmourned, unforgotten except by those
who remembered the splendid asininity of
that one far, fierce hour and sweet. A
gentleman?
Then there was Tower. A nice fellow
and Raven’s closest friend. They used to
walk together while Raven illicitly
smoked. Tower became a Monitor which
produced a great crisis of conscience. He
knew' Raven smoked and this was illegal
Raven was a friend. What should he do?
What every gentleman should? Give
fair warning and not knowing for certain
what Raven was up to —follow him
everywhere. Thus began one of the most
fascinating games of cat and mouse
recorded in English literature. Every-
where that Raven went poor Tower
forced to go. Life was unbearable.
Tower was miserable. Raven was in a
frenzy of smoker's frustration. Raven
solved the problem. Voluntarily he went
to Tower and swore on his honor that
he would not smoke. Tower was relieved
of a terrible duty and Raven smoked
his head off. Tow'er was a gentleman who
fell for a simple trap set by non-
gentleman Raven. And then there were
de Freville and Ernie Stein. De Freville
was moneyed and well connected,
possessed of cool, good manners and
arrogance. Ernie Stein was an ugly,
likeable Jew. De Freville liked Stein in
his own way but was acutely conscious of
Stein’s Jewish looks and teased him
about it. Stein whose manners were no
less elegant than de Freville’s used to
tease him back. Stein was an excellent


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D,” Box 26*1, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let ns find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BECOME A
FREELANCE WRITER!
AND EARN IN YOUR SPARE TIME
Th ere is a constant demand for well-
written stories, articles, pars, radio
and TV scripts, etc.
Write today for free details of STOTT’S
excellent Correspondence Courses in
Literary subjects.
15!) Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 1)9 Castle-
reagh St.. Sydney; 290 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide;
22 Howard St., Perth.
— CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me. without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (S.B. 662)
slow bowler and bat, assured of his
colors. De Freville was a reasonable
cricketer but owed his team position to
his distinguished looks and manners more
than anything else.
With the Eton match looming de
Freville went to the team captain and
said Stein should be dropped. He didn’t
think Eton would stand for those looks.
The captain adamantly refused and Stein
played against Eton and was treated with
the same exquisite courtesy as everybody
else. De Freville politely refused to play,
pleading an urgent dentist's appointment
in London. Now who was the gentle-
man in that episode? The durable Stein?
The uncompromising captain? The
elegant, unyielding de Freville?
HPhe story of Raven's expulsion is a
fascinating one, revealing much of
the sort of temperament that afflicts
people like him and doing him little
credit. But it is germane to his theme, as
he says, although his theme, as he doesn't
say, might easily have been that of the
English non-gentleman. He fell head
over heels in love with a younger boy,
Alexis. The boy spurned his friendship
at first. He distrusted him for Raven had
that easy competence and graceful
intelligence that arouses agitated uncer-
tainty in many. Cyril Connolly makes
the point elsewhere in his own autobio-
graphical essay.
For Alexis’ sake he took up sport, cut
smoking, joined a wartime summer
camp and became a model of school
rectitude and enthusiasm although one
gathers that intelligent, tolerant but
rather sceptical masters had their doubts.
By slow degrees, with much thought and
loving attention to detail, Raven master-
minded an elaborate plan of seduction.
From rigorous observation of school rules
and esprit de corps (which the puritan-
ical Alexis insisted on) Raven slowly
moved in for the kill, seductively pushing
the Greek example of a “sweeter, earlier
wisdom.'’ He almost got what he wanted
but the timid, not altogether foolish
Alexis realised he had been played for
a sucker like Tower and others. He
walked out. Throwing all caution to the
winds, self-destructively confident
because of his sporting and scholastic
prowess (he had won a scholarship to
King's) Raven embarked on a course of
wholesale seduction which proved his
undoing.
He was expelled. The army offered
him anonymity and success. He abused
that and narrowly escaped grave scandal
through the kindness of his CO and
brother officers. A tolerant King's took
him in and kept him even though he
abused their rules, too. Raven, from
his position of a non-gentleman, main-
tains that this world no longer has room
for gentlemen, that it is now quite
impossible for gentlemen to be gentle-
men. Considering Raven’s own admis-
sions, the most interesting postscript to
his book—quite apart from its implica-
tions about contemporary English sexual
tolerance—is that he is now a fully paid
up, accepted member of the Old
Carthusian’s Association.
THE DELINQUENTS
The Delinquents. Criena Rohan. Gol-
lancz. 18s. 9d.
“Tt is the first Australian novel for
A many years,” says Kylie Tennant on
the dust-jacket, “to soar up strong and
free in the true tradition of Australian
literature, full of laughter and pain and
generosity.” Lorbidding though it seems,
the description is not too bad (if we
ignore the guff about “the true tradi-
tion”) ; and the book emerges
triumphantly readable.
This is so despite the writing. “The
Delinquents” seems to be a genuine
“primitive” novel, and it is the genuine-
ness that wins the reader despite the
crudity of the writing, the occasional
pretentiousness, and Miss Rohan’s
complete uncertainty of tone when she
moves out of her depth, especially in
dialogue.
It is the story of Brownie, the son of a
lower-class country woman kept by a
succession of squalid lodgers, and Lola,
a Eurasian girl, ignored as completely as
possible by her husbandless mother—a
woman with social ambitions in a very
small way. These two fall in love and
have sexual relations, resulting in Lola’s
pregnancy at fourteen, her abortion, and
their separation.
All this first part is handled unevenly.
The children's love is not untruthfully,
let alone implausibly, described ; but it
is handled with neither delicacy nor per-
ception. It is in fact novelettish. Miss
Rohan’s sole point here is that her
characters are much younger than the
conventional novelette's hero and
heroine: and that seems less sensational
to me than she might suppose, as it
would certainly seem to the poor social
workers that she, not only through her
characters, treats always with such
uncompromising scorn (“and, oh, dear
social worker, of all things beware the
adolescent dreamer with a bit of guts”).
On the other hand, the squalid milieu of
the children, though perhaps over-drawn,
is handled firmly and unsentimentally.
Brownie is forced to sea and Lola,
more circuitously, on to the street, until
they meet again in Melbourne. Again
Miss Rohan’s handling of the squalid
milieu is good, while the continuing love
of the two is presented simply and con-
vincingly. After their meeting, they hang
together while they have money, and
in between times Brownie goes to sea,
while Nola is variously sick, charged
with vagrancy and beaten into a mis-
carriage during a riot at the Reformatory.
Brownie then takes jobs in the harbor
and on the river, which keep him nearby
while they enjoy a comparatively idyllic
existence, given dramatic punch, how-
ever, by the death in childbirth of an
English girl they have befriended.
All this is convincing, at least when
there is no dialogue or authorial com-
ment ; and more important, the validity
and fidelity of their love emerges beyond
question. The book moves all too re-
lentlessly towards either a tragic ending
(the Death of Lola, who has been frail
throughout) or a happy one (the Con-
summation of True Love in Marriage),
and Miss Rohan has chosen the latter
and less painful course ; but, while this
seems a drearily conventional ending,
and, in fact, rings hollow in Miss Rohan's
treatment, I don’t see how it could have
been avoided, for Brownie and Lola have
convincingly dedicated themselves to
each other.
I do not believe that Lola “had just dis-
covered Conrad, and decided he was her
favorite author” while living on and off
the Melbourne street; nor that she said


“Nothing like that in good old, sweet
old, wholesome, pure little Brisbane, best
little town this or any side of the Black
Stump, where the old-fashioned virtues
are practised, and families are large as
of yore, and the peasants are contented,
if poor. God, how I detest this cruel
bastard of a place!” nor that Brownie
said—but there is no point in quoting
him, too, speaking in that half-smart
and completely out-of-character fashion.
Nor do I admire Miss Rohan’s prose at
the best of times.
But while there is too much in the
novel that I neither believe nor admire,
I do believe and admire the truth, fidelity,
misery a d joy of Brownie’s and Lola’s
love, and that’s a good deal. It does not
make “The Delinquents” a la idmark in
Australian or any other literature: but
it is a warm and likeable book which I
read effortlessly at a sitting.
EVAN JONES
Three poems from Aroun[?] Costessey
Gerard, S. J.
(a)
The dinghy runs aground. This tiny bay
Is clenched in the obsessive bowels of night.
Cannot abide the broadening vent of day
And the odd strictures of invading light.
A gull is delivered, screams in heavy flight:
I am delivered, wading from the grey
Placenta towards the insufferably bright.
A wilderness of approaching hands and feet.
The frightened country family, and the giant
Queen, and the nomad goatherd are my band:
Assemble them in one lean Tudor Street
And let me talk of darkness and the pliant
Ocean and wading into light and land.
(b)
Topcliffe is earth’s face. His volcanic whim
Has hung me here suspended by each wrist,
My senses rapier back and forth for him,
Lava’s upon his beard and prodding fist.
His face is splintering (should his face exist).
Passages from some old forgotten hymn
Sway like cloaked figures, meditate, and twist:
I dangle, Topcliffe dangles. Which grows dim?
If this should not be death, I’ll pace again
The fenland of his temples and the shale
Of the pocked skin below his cheekbones, ask
A cloud to bawl and beg some show of rain,
Till there erupt from him the rose-en-soleil
Dangling and swinging. That is all my task.
Adagio of Bruckner’s Ninth
(And a tree, fishlike, engaged for its instant with air.)
For certain it is on a day very like this one
That he breaks the submarine and constricting
circuit
Of doctors and nurses —patiently woven algae—
That he rises to this sun so rotund and benign.
—Old man, they have torn the stocky Vienna
apart,
Plotted each motion of the bowels and
sluggish timpani of the heart;
Cock-crow is the thermometer; fingers caress
the wrist;
All love is become this mothering smother-
ing beast . . .
The sun is assembling, as on all days at this hour,
His entire barony. Tiny preoccupied cows
Lounge their slow mile, and even the knotted
rural
Walkingstick sounds gravel as by a sort of writ.
—Old man, Hans Richter smiles in the
ruined city,
Like a fine cat on a gatepost. Pad and claw
of pity.
Yes, you are greater than Beethoven. The
furtive griefs.
Gulps, quick inhalations and moist handker-
chiefs . . .
He watches this flower, pistil and stamen in a
ruby.
Dilating of a sudden, flushing out all its pockets,
Panning talents of fire from the old marl and
stone,
Squatting as a good tippler under the suzerain
sun.
—Old man, bones are breaching the very
integument;
St Florian’s organ mumbles in its argument
With the polyphonic dust settling like sin
OTHER PEOPLE'S WINDOWS
Winter’s Tale 7. Stories from modern
Russia. Edited and with an intro-
duction by C. P. Sno wand Pamela
Hansford Johnson. Macmillan.
295. 9d.
r T'HE editors’ introduction to this mixed
1 bag of modern Soviet Russian short
stories raises the question whether it is
possible to read Soviet writing merely
as literature, i.e., divorced from its poli-
tical and social context. Their contention
is that it is both possible and desirable,
and they urge the reader “not to read
Soviet stories as if they were documents
in the Cold War.” The stories in the
collection are possibly chosen because


BY FRANCIS WEBB
Upon stops and upon the pipe’s smudged
peasant-grin . . .
He pauses near the trees, the suave chevron,
lozenge, tongue,
Heraldic in blossom. This breeze is the rustic
pauper
Skirling for pence, and the autumnal sun
Sifts archives with a warm paternal hand.
—Old man, the young students edged in on
ecstatic feet
Towards the savors of greatness, the pro-
found steaming meat;
They have supped upon boorish gruel,
tasteless and dull;
They are time transposing the line and rigor
of your skull . . .
The sun is at a standstill. And it is time to go
back.
Is not this his house, is not this the shining room?
He weighs them: the room, and the ruined city
of his failure.
Where is the light at its most exacting, most
truthful?
—Old man, where are you going? The burly
overgrown
Climax of steepling horns is overthrown;
Pause, suck in breath, while dying Vienna
turns pale.
The huge Theme masses. You are wasted
and frail . . .
But look, even the portly sun bows down to this
man;
The silver river prostrates itself; cattle and old
houses
Go down on their knees; only the wind rising
up and up
Where he shakes, taps homeward, with his nervy
shadow behind him.
—Old man, old man . . .
The Tower
Come on Easter Monday to our Poor Meadow.
Here is a childhood: the florin of the sun aglow ,
A twopenny rook dipping home like Bleriot,
The elm’s engraved and hypostatic shadow,
And the river wickered with working profiles
of an eddy.
You are young, young, cradling the sacred bowl
And knife of flint. Ages leap in your body
And flood into the unselfconscious soul.
I alight here beside you like that old lag the
crow
Telling you to go now and never return
That today may lie quiet against ages when
you burn
In vats of the cruel smelter—only go now, go—
When all things are full of labor; and the mind
Fretting and hammering at itself will drag
A landscape, a universe, to be refined
Out of its nature, drifting in rotten slag.
Yes, I have seen Costessey in every weather
Enslaved and bowing in the rubbing heat
Upon the abrasive sand of self-deceit
At the time of gathering the stones together;
Seen sun, tree, river all distorted, straining
With lever and pulley; the dead gutted bird
Lolloping in the wind; the mad process gaining:
I could not stand and feel,, nor write a word.
And why do I look from you at this dead thing?
It cannot hold your innocence, nor your eye.
Out of the quicksands and the anarchy
1 see a strangeness stretch and flap a wing:
This tower of a red stone, eroded whistling
ghost
Where bush and grasses cross themselves and
cower
And juvenile pigeons play at being lost
And the airman’s initials rest one single hour.
What frightens you must be a ruin, and waste.
But on this Easter Monday I will drink
Your Costessey to the dregs, and likely think
To find in these red stones the selfsame taste.
For out of my soul one hundred times before
Has leapt a ghostly thing, bare in its power,
As faith, and to the ceaseless causeless war
Brought truce, bearing itself like this old tower.
they are comparatively apolitical, and
some of them are splendid examples of
the art of the short-story writer.
Reading, for example, Alexander
Tvardovsky’s “The Stovemakers,” a
genial story built round the skilled but
ageing craftsman who figures so much in
Soviet writing, one is inclined to agree
with the editors. Both this and Kon-
stantin Paustovsky’s “The Telegram,” a
gently pathetic study of the real meaning
of the Soviet platitude “solicitude for
people” (i.e., as individuals), are ex-
tremely well-written by men of genuine
feeling. Then, Mikhail Sholokhov’s
“The Destiny of a Man,” translated
under the title “One Man’s Life,” has a
meaning transcending the adventures of
his hero, Andrey Sokolov.
Nevertheless, when reading other
stories in the book, it can help the reader
to take into consideration the peculiar
position of writers in the Soviet Union
and the factors which govern a writer’s
choice of subject and his treatment of it.
Nikolai Yevdokimov’s “Light From
Other People’s Windows” is not so much
the pleasantry the editors suppose as an
example of Soviet misuse of literature: a
story written to illustrate a current party
propaganda theme. Vladimir Tendrya-
kov’s “Potholes” is in itself a good short
story, even in the Chekhovian mould
with its unobtrusive plot and excellent
character studies, but it is also interest-
ing as an example of the work of one of
the best young writers to follow Valentin
Ovechkin in writing since 1953 about
the Soviet countryside and its tioubles.
Tendryakov is a modest writer: the
reader will see how, in “Potholes,” he
lets the story tell itself, keeping his own
opinions well concealed. This style of
telling fits the tale very well —yet in 1954,
shortly before “Potholes,” it brought
upon Tendryakov accusations of objec-
tivity and impartiality, two qualities
which are not normally tolerated in


ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVAL COLLEGE - JERVIS BAY, A.C.T.
VACANCIES
MASTERS
CIVIL PROFESSORIAL STAFF
THREE PERMANENT POSITIONS
(A) MATHEMATICS (B) PHYSICS (C) FRENCH
ransre £lBl6-£2lOl, with eligibility for advancement as Senior Master,
£~166-£2426, on completion of six years service as Master. Commencing salary, within
range, according to experience and qualifications.
vr.. ApP l li " ationS . a^ e i nvite , d from University Graduates experienced in teaching to
*° te ‘ Ch “ Pl "‘ University
Commencing date will have regard to present commitments of successful applicants.
-Applications stating qualifications and teaching - experience in -the . required subiect
and any others on forms available from the Secretary, Department of the Navy
SvnnPv la ’pi A vii ea po Admmi | St Affi IVe Officer, H.M. A . Naval Establishments, Garden Island!
Clvi . 1 ersonnel Officer, Navy Office, Victoria Barracks. Melbourne, and Naval
gtan Offices m other States to the Secretary, Department of the Navy, Canberra, A.C.T.,
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ALAN LYNCH whose present whereabouts are
unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife GLORIA
YVONNE LYNCH has commenced an action against
you for dissolution of marriage (Matrimonial
Petition No. 159 of 1962) on the ground of your
desertion without just cause or excuse for a period
of not less than two years If you wish to defend this
action you must, file an answer to this suit or an
address for service in the Registry of the Supreme
Court of New South Wales on or before 20th
April 1962 and you may obtain without charge a
copy" of the Petition and Notice of Petition from
MESSRS. B. J. MACREE & CO., Solicitors, 380
South Terrace, Bankstown, by their Sydney Agent,
H. C. BOYLAND Esquire, 114 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GORDON WALLACE JERVIS formerly of West
Hyde.—TAKE NOTICE that JUNE ELEANOR
JERVIS has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 34 of
1962 in the Supreme Court of New South Wales on
the ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for two years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 20th April 1962 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from MESSRS. S. T.
HODGE & CO., Solicitors, of 4 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO LIONEL VINCENT CASEY late of C/- Post
Office Menindie. TAKE NOTICE that ELLA
DAPHNE CASEY has commenced a suit No. 338 of
1962 against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the ground of cruelty
and take notice that you are required to enter an
Answer to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the 26th day of April 1962 and
in the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding A copy of the Petition
filed herein may be had on application to G. H.
HAIN Esq., Solicitor, Coonamble or his City Agent
BRYAM G. TURNER Esq., Solicitor, 10 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RONALD PATRICK ELLIS formerly of Merry-
lands.—TAKE NOTICE that SHEILA JEAN ELLIS
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2741 of 1961
in the Supreme Court of New South Wales on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse for
two years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may' file an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney' by' the
20th April 1962 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. S. T. HODGE & CO.,
Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IT'S ONLY
and there's
more to
read for
the whole
family in
Euerybody’s
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM 2001.
Soviet authors. At least three others,
though highly respected writers, have
been the centre of extremely bitter con-
troversy, two in the past, but one as
recently as last year. Whatever reserva-
tions one may make about the quality
of the translations, which are workman-
like rather than brilliant, one cannot but
be glad that their work, and the work
of younger writers like S. Zalygin, should
have been made accessible in this way.
ROSH IRELAND
STODGY DEMOCRATS
Dissent. Volume 2, Number 1. March,
1962. 2s. 6d.
An interesting and hopeful feature of
University in the last few
years has been the emergence of quarterly
magazines devoted to politics and social
criticism. The most outstanding to date
is “Prospect” which may maintain its
high level if Mr Vincent Buckley con-
tinues to take a leading part in editing
it. Unlike “Prospect” the magazine
“Dissent,” described as “radical,” is not
a specifically Catholic periodical though
Mr Peter Wertheim, a Catholic layman
and on the editorial board of “Prospect,”
has taken a leading part in setting it up.
He edits it with Mr James Jupp. Both
editors are junior members of the Uni-
versity staff. Mr Jupp, an English
socialist and graduate of the London
School of Economics, has gained some
prominence in Victorian politics as a re-
lentless and intelligent critic of the ALP
Central Executive in Melbourne. Much
of this criticism is summarised in the
editorial written jointly by both editors.
Other articles, most of them good, cover
the Bazeley case, Student Action, the
relation between technologists and public
utilities, wages and general problems of
culture. Among the book reviews Mr
Thomas’s on Crisp’s “Chifley” is the
most interesting, in that it highlights the
neglected fact that Chifley was a political
operator. Shortcomings of “Dissent”
are its inappropriate title and stodginess
of presentation—an incurable failing of
Social Democratic publications through-
out history. A more serious inadequacy
is the absence —except for a brief and
witty letter from London by Howard
Nathan—of any discussion of foreign
policy or, indeed, of issues other than
purely local ones.
Those in Melbourne given to local
patriotism will be cheered by comparing
the rational “Dissent” with the egregious
Sydney “Outlook”, a magazine intended
for the same kind of reader and the
mouthpiece of Miss Helen Palmer’s
redemptionist zoo of not-quite-disinfected
ex-communists, some of them socially
influential and at present dangerously
interested in—God help us —education.
Yet “Dissent” sells about twice as many
copies as “Outlook” and its average
reader is 25 as against “Outlook’s” 35.
FRANK KNOPFELMACHER


"Water !!!”
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 684
ACROSS
1. —Hair for battle wizards. (8)
5.—A peach chopped up by this redskin. (6)
10. —Salon of the Scottish johnny’s receivers of a Pauline
epistle. (13)
IT —A Chaldean’s capital with a surrounding atmosphere
of something. (4)
12. —Solid figure makes Death croon. (10)
14. —Sampler re-worked by these pilgrims from the Holy
Land. (7)
15. —Tropic growth. (6)
19. —About the earless search’s re-
freshment for Sydneysiders. (6)
20. —One of the last thoughts of
Shaw’s St. Joan near Albury.
(7)
23. —The beak parent with the es-
sence of the matter to tax. (10)
25. —Ask to get a country town in
N.S.W. (4)
27. —They deflate the top psychia-
trists (4-9)
28. —Strip the French of the birth-
day (-suited) lair due to be
changed. (6)
29. —C.S.R. puts out these
daughters of Roy Rene. (8)
DOWN
1. —Shelter for the redskin cover-
ing for the bald stomach when
upset. (6)
2. —Clubmen suggesting nonsense
to those born under the Sign
of the Ram. (9)
3. Frank writer on love. (4)
4. —Luck, sirs, is affected by this
part of a flapper’s hair-do
(4-4)
6. —Pool to age the French corn?
It’s worth thinking about. (10)
7. —X-squared locks the professor’s
position. (5)
8. —The Spanish and the Chinese
about a tragic Shakespearean
address. (8)
9. —Vermin which, if false, need
further falsification. (5)
13. —Dime’s shape is altered if
stressed. (10)
16. —They’re the opposite chats. (9)
17. —Mr Death's reconstructed
shelter tor a form of transport
now abolished from Sydney.
(4, 4)
18. —Stock Exchange manipulation to
study a dance. (8)
21. A roar to be expected from an
N.S.W. shire. (5)
22. —Boys from Adelaide courses. (6)
24.—King George has one in the
texture of the wood. (5)
26. —The Salvation Army is after
me, this changing the same flat-
topped hill. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 683


m
BY APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD.
FOR THE SCOTCH WITH A CHARACTER ALL ITS OWN
cisk for
“Johnnie Walker”
THE SCOTCH OF SCOTCH
A
.
Now in miniatures, 5 oz.
flasks, 13 oz. in flasks and
square bottles, and the pop-
ular 26 oz. square bottles.
BORN 1820 —STILL GOING STRONG
