

The Bulletin
DECEMBER 29, 1962
Australia New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION - EST. 1880
COVER STORY —PADDINGTON TODAY
• LOOKING BACK AT 1962-Books, Films, Television


n '%*:■? kl il?,***** '' W i^l/Alo^in
iiiiiiiiliiiniiiM ”* A, ' , '* l, - , ‘ t *-* ■» ? -
iiiSiffS
/'II
ill
Shhl
t The
Mi
■ •
■ r .
jj| ’ ' | igjjj | :
m£.
gm
■
biß -
IF W: i!:
:-; ' ■'':
'^<s*
I
»iSf- n:
. T > w. Jljyt
i
*Y«.
~ jS§
% /AY. - /
a
jf-'4
A-1
■ / ' s%
jgr . A; $5 *
§«»:.§
> ‘'v BML*LW>Mflr"llw ?> *^mb'.
■*&« ■ yM' M'
- 4.>< ->^"*ii£3fe#fe
*.J ifefe *> ~ '* ~
.*TTT
1 - ■■■:
git
- 1 ' .-5\ C* - \a&iwßKJ I
; ■
:? 't-*
I
5^
<4.
r ii
Y >h
m
Jj|
Lf
V :o^«.
Y%
Lv-.,*«A£ Jsssss*. ■
V
. : ■:
i 1
■■' s A
i
■ A
■MM
■
BM
■ i
: :':.;;.AA;\ •. :'
■■■ -#
. A
g|f§||li||ls
.
■
■WmM
YY
:
m
Y : :1
k
FAMOUS COVERS.
IMPORTANT COVER STORIES
In 1962, THE BULLETIN not only reported news. It made news, too.
• A series of specially commissioned paintings were used on BULLETIN
covers during the year.
• About 10,000 new readers started to buy THE BULLETIN every week.
• After 82 years of presenting the world to Australia, THE BULLETIN
took wings, and by means of an air express edition, started to present
Australia to the world, first to New Zealand, later to Malaysia; soon it is
planned to go further afield.
• BULLETIN stories made world news. One of them, the story on the
plight of the Jews in Russia, had international repercussions, and by
focusing world attention on the problem went some way towards
solving it.
THE BULLETIN is proud of its achievements in 1962, confident that
it will gain more readers in 1963, and that it will continue to
expand its services to all its readers in Australia and overseas.
You can be sure of your copy of THE BULLETIN
each week by filling in this subscription form. Or
you can get a friend off to a good start in 1963
by giving him a BULLETIN gift subscription.
The Bulletin
The magazine for interesting people
The Circulation Manager, The Bulleti'n, Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
a. Please ask my newsagent to deliver/reserve THE BULLETIN for me each wee
b. Please post THE BULLETIN to the address below each week. I enclose chequ'
money order for twelve months subscription and postage.
Name of addressee
Address
Signed
RATES (Australia and New Guinea): 1 year, £2/12/-; i year, £l/6/-, post fre
British Dominions, £3/6/-; other countries, £3/16/-. N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS. K
mit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.: 1 year, £2/12/-; i year, £l/6/- (N.Z. currency
Please add exchange to cheques.


National Notebook
Noted
British Major-General Sir Rohan Dela-
combe, KBE, CB, DSO, has been
appointed Governor of Victoria. He was
GOC of the British sector in Berlin until
last May. We note that in “Who’s Who”
he gives his recreation as “normal.”
When Greek Meets Greek
When a Greek of our acquaintance
" announced he was opening a new
restaurant we expressed enthusiasm and
wondered at his guarded reaction. After
some prodding he admitted that the
menu would be Australian although he
would be happy to cook Greek dishes
specially for us.
We enquired whether he didn’t think
there were sufficient Australian restau-
rants already and whether there weren’t
in Sydney anyway too few Greek
eating houses. He ad-
mitted that this might be
so, but being a business-
man he was not prepared
to risk his investment in
a restaurant that would
certainly be patronised by
few Greeks and might not
appeal to sufficient Australians. In-
terested, we enquired why there didn’t
exist more “tavernas” of the type we
recalled in Athens where Greeks dined
to guitar music, sang nostalgic songs and
leapt into dance at the drop of a kom-
boloi.
Our restaurateur shook his head sadly.
“Greeks,” he informed us, “don’t spend
money on such things in Australia;
there they are inhibited by the Great Il-
lusion.”
We asked him to amplify. “Nearly
every Greek comes to Australia with the
idea of saving money for his return to
Greece,” he said. “Over the first three
years they sacrifice, buy a house and put
every spare pound in the bank.
“Within that period they’ve often
married, children arrive and they have
added expenses this leads to more
economies. But they still dream of going
back to Greece. By the time the children
have grown to school age the parents see
that the children hardly know any Greek,
couldn’t care less about Greece and con-
sider themselves as Australian as the
children next door.
“The parents slowly very slowly
realise the world has moved along and if
they did go back to Greece the children
wouldn’t be integrated and there’s a
damned good chance they themselves
wouldn’t be either. By this time it’s
usually too late to consider enjoying
themselves-”
We could see this, but wondered
whether the impoverished Greeks in
their homeland mightn’t be expected to
be even more economical than their local
compatriots. “Why should they?” our
friend said with a shrug, “most of them
are in debt, life couldn’t be much harder
so they reckon they might as well blue
what little money they do make on
having fun while they can. You see, they
don’t suffer from illusions.”
A Question of Importance
A traveller, just back from the
United States, gave us his account
of the American reaction to the Cuban
crisis. He was in New York at the
time. New Yorkers, with 180 million
other Americans, were tensely awaiting
the speech by President Kennedy. As
the time came for the speech the whole
city came to a standstill. Traffic
stopped, people stopped
work and tuned every
available radio and TV
set. “The President,” the
announcer said simply,
then Kennedy made his
speech.
After it, the announcer
returned. “And now this important
message . . .” followed by the jingle of
a toilet-paper commercial.
Wedding March
drums of Mer, which once sup-
plied background music for savage
acts of cannibalism, will soon throb on
Darnley Island, 140 miles north-east of
Thursday Island, at one of the most
colorful weddings Torres Strait has ever
seen.
About 400 Torres Strait islanders,
travelling in pearling luggers, island
trading vessels, fishing boats and canoes,
converged on Darnley during the week
for the wedding of Thursday Islander
Brian Seddon to Ella China.
Seddon is a crew-member of North
Queensland’s biggest fishing vessel, the
Trader Horn, which is based in Cairns.
Last week, while Seddon and his bride-
to-be were on Darnley making arrange-
ments for the wedding and the week-
long festivities to follow, the best man,
Kevin Fogarty, also of the Trader Horn,
was in Cairns buying Miss China’s
wedding dress and trousseau.
Fogarty’s main worry was in buying
the right-sized wedding shoes. The only
guide to size he had was an outline of
Ella’s right foot on a piece of paper
which he produced in a shoe store,
asking: "Give me something to fit that.”
A few days ago the Trader Horn,
IMDOMESIA 1962 Page n
“Richness of Symbological Fantasy.’’
•
An Abyssinian Monkey Skin
Carpet 9
Paddington Outside Looking
In 10
Rose and Madigan A Matter
of Communication 14
Petty Sessions Jokes 16
Indonesia 1962 17
Short Story by Douglas Terry 20
Books, Films and Television 25
Films and Television 25
Sharemarket Rise For 1963 35
1962 Investment Restraint 37
New Wool Board Old
Problems 44
•
TANNER 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 8
AROUND MELBOURNE 9
OUT AND ABOUT 10
JOKES 16
OVERSEAS 17
SHORT STORY ...... 20
LETTERS 23
REVIEWS 25
RED PAGE 33
WORLD OF BUSINESS 35
MAN ON THE LAND 44
FEIFFER 46
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone
27-5971. Melbourne: Phone MF3341. Bris-
bane: Phone B 2691. Adelaide: Phone
W 4121-3.
Vol. 85
No. 4323


with the bride's wedding outfit, trous-
seau, a three-tiered wedding cake, hams
and cases of soft drink, set out from
Cairns on the long trip to Darnley
Island, which could lake five days.
Skipper “Snowy” Whittaker plans to stop
off at Murray Island (the modern name
for Mer) to pick up a squad of dancers
and their drums. Not so very long ago
the bloodthirsty Mer islanders were
partial to human flesh. Captives w ; ere
decapitated and their headless bodies al-
lowed to gyrate in a twitching dance of
death as the drums beat. Darnley Island
also had a bloodlust. Each year Darnley
folk, who number about 250. hold a
dance to commemorate the massacre of
a number of early missionaries. Mean-
while every person on Darnley Island is
looking out to sea for the first sight of
the Trader Horn.
At the w'eek-long feast that w ill follow'
the wedding, fish cooked in coconut
milk, yams, pigs, crayfish, ham and
many exotic island dishes will be fed to
the revellers. Before the Trader Horn
left Cairns a Torres Strait Islander
working on the boat commented: “If
they aren't satisfied with the tucker we
might try a bit of missionary.”
The Last of "old“ Darwin
of the last unlamented relics of
“old” Darwin is about to disappear.
The Administrator, Mr Roger Nott,
announced this week that Army huts
used as “temporary” housing ever since
the W'ar w'ould all be demolished by the
end of March. These include the shanty-
town suburbs of Stuart Park, Pee Wee
Camp, and Winnellie—the latter a corru-
gated-iron slum where “booze-ups”
racket through the night, colored women
change hands at bargain prices, and
escaped patients from nearby East Arm
Leprosarium turn up occasionally to
join the fun.
Originally all the huts were un-
sew'ered and undrained. Airy structures
60 feet long, they were divided in tw'o,
with each end housing up to 20 people.
“Flaming fury” toilets, crazilv-built of
timber and black iron, dotted the sur-
rounding bush. Open drains carried
household water through the camps and
down the gullies. Fever and dysentery
w'ere endemic. So was drunkenness
on beer. wine, rum and. for those who
preferred a hardier tipple. White Lady
(methylated spirits broken dowm by
powdered milk).
Often police were called several times
in one night to quell disturbances. The
start of every wet season brought its
crop of suicides, and murder was not
uncommon.
Seven years ago probably half the
town —including most of the employees
of private enterprise lived in Sidney
Williams huts. These formed a seedy
fringe round the spanking £6OOO homes
which housed the new' elite of Public
Servants. Gradually all this changed.
A Housing Loan Scheme made finance
readily available to home-builders. In
more recent years the Government
established a Housing Commission.
From shaky beginnings (its first designs
were derided as “adobe huts' 5 ), it has
grown to a stage where Administrator
Nott says it is capable of housing the
last few hundred shanty-dwellers.
Oases
of the concrete jungle of
Sydney’s King’s Cross have always
relished the few oases scattered around
the area. One of these is the Florence
Bartley Library where librarian Miss
Helen O'Reilly has introduced flow'ers,
lectures and film nights. But, even the
most sanguine local library-goer w ; as re-
cently set back on his heels to find the
place decked out with butterfly chairs
and cane, form-fitted lounge chairs.
Intrigued by the sight of so many
furnished-room types luxuriating while
they flicked through two-months-old
copies of the New' Yorker, Vogue or
Theatre Arts, w ; e approached Miss
O'Reilly for the story behind the innova-
tion. It appears that this imaginative
young lady has long held unorthodox
views on how libraries should be run. In
place of the institutionalised, drab musty
halls she favors bright, attractive places
which pamper the reader.
She recently confronted the City
Fathers with a request for comfortable
chairs and they responded by handing
her a sum of money with the instructions
that she go out and buy them herself.
She chose the most comfortable avail-
able at the price and so the Florence
Bartley library now resembles an upper
crust, slightly arty sunlounge. The
following American defence policy
has fed Britain to the very brink


readers have responded by using the
chairs with general sighs qf satisfaction.
Hardly a night goes by that the assis-
tants don’t have to nudge some dozing
patron around closing time.
Only negative note has been the few
occasions when bulky women readers
have found themselves unable to struggle
out of the butterfly-type chairs. The
staff have always been most happy to
lend a hand.
Boots and Spurs
\ correspondent with fine feeling for
English life writes:
“Back in 1918, a firm in Dover Street,
London, made a pair of field boots and,
of course, spurs for me. They were some-
thing. When I walked about the streets
in them even the policemen saluted (I
had, of course, the King’s uniform on as
well). People used to stop me in the
street and say ‘Excuse me, General, but
may I have a look?’ And then they’d bend
down and have a look at their reflection
in the boots. I used to wear them in the
riding school, too, and there I noticed
that horses, which had never taken me
seriously before, were always on their
best behavior.
“But that is not the point of the story.
That firm made other boots and shoes
for me and then I went away to the
other side of the world, owing them
money. Years went by and they never
sent the account. Then one day, 44
years after I got the boots, I said to
myself, ‘Well, it’s time old So and So got
paid.’ So I wrote to them, reminding
them of the matter and back came the
reply. It was typed on paper which in
the top left-hand corner bore the royal
arms and ‘Bootmakers and spurriers to
His late Majesty King George Vl.’
“The letter began: ‘Sir —We beg to
acknowledge the receipt of your letter
and would like to say how pleased we
are that you have been able to get in
touch with us again. The amount of your
old account is £l4 7s. 6d. and we shall
be glad to receive a cheque in settlement
thereof at your convenience.’ It was
signed ‘Yours respectfully’.”
Talking Books
VITe didn’t know that Australia was
" well ahead of Britain and, in some
opinions, of the US, in providing talking
books for the blind. At the rather sombre
stone Royal Blind Institute in Sydney the
other night the N.S.W. committee respon-
sible gathered to compliment themselves
on raising £150,000 which has provided
2000 talking books for 1200 blind
people in New South Wales. Britain has
only just reached the 2000 mark and has
a waiting list of 120,000 blind people.
In the U.S. they still record on the rather
cumbersome discs.
Not one to rest on anybody’s laurels,
grey - haired and distinguished - looking
Kenneth Bruce, president of the organisa-
tion and himself blind for 30 years, told
us the aim is to have 4000 more talking
books by the end of next year.
He passed us on to an attractive young
lady called Veronica (everyone is on
first name terms in this organisation it
appears) who told us she came from
Hungary and worked as tfie committee’s
recording technician. She led the way to
the well-equipped studios in the base-
ment where Sydney actors drop in to
record books on tapes that are wound
into easy-playing cassettes used on the
machines issued to the blind. ,
We were told that talking books have
made an incredible difference to blind
people, many of whom have never been
able to master braille. One old lady who
was handed a recorded version of “Pey-
ton Place,” listened intently and remark-
ed, “Well, well, books have become in-
teresting since I read my last one —let
me see; that must have been about 25
years ago.”
News from the mainland
fkNE of the Tasmanian Government’s
clumsy Legislative chickens had come
home to roost. It had been hatched in the
heat of the Government’s headlong rush
to the Parliamentary recess. In those
hectic hours members were called upon to
amend the Shops Act in order to
sanction some of the extensive Sunday
trading that operates with public
approval in defiance of the law. Butter,
honey, breakfast food and newspapers
were among the items to be added to the
limited range which suburban corner
shops might sell “out of hours.”
Tasmania has no Sunday paper, but
air transport has brought the benefits of
Sydney's civilisation to the State. The
Sydney papers were at first sold only at
airports and airline offices, but their
availability created a demand for them.
So the amending bill provided for
Sunday sale of newspapers. Its duty
done, Parliament closed down until
March.
It was then discovered that the bill
could not override the Printing and
Newspaper Act 1911, which expressly
forbids Sunday sale of any publication
costing more than 6d. The Tasmanian
Saturday evening newspapers and the
“Herald” and “Sporting Globe” from
Melbourne escape, but the air-delivered
Sydney newspapers cost a shilling and
are therefore banned, at least until
Parliament can get around to some
further amendments.
Broadening
TVs an old story but it happens all
the time, and probably the moral
of it is that the best thing to do with
honest lefties is to send them on a trip
to Communist countries. Take the
case of Bert James, the Labor MHR
for Hunter, typical of the old-
fashioned Labor leftists. He was fam-
ous, for example, for his open mind
on Cuban and Soviet questions. Re-
cently, however, he made a trip to Cuba
and Russia. And was he glad to be
back! He couldn’t get out of Cuba
quickly enough, he’s been telling his
Labor mates back in Canberra. It
was like an armed camp and he was
shocked by the sight of girls walking
around toting their pistols. As for
Russia, they may have social security
over there but the complete absence of
freedom of speech left him winded.
Worse still, he was shocked to see
Russian women doing laboring work
that you wouldn’t dream of asking a
man to do in Australia. The girls
are bad enough in good old New South
Wales, but at least they don’t carry
around shovels or machine guns. Travel
broadens the mind all right.
Rising Sales
The Audit Bureau of Circulation report
for the six months ended September
31 shows The Bulletin’s weekly sales
average 38,174. Eighteen months ago
The Bulletin’s weekly sales were
26,000.
Tamer
of having to abandon the
Aidermaston march."


THIS AUSTRALIA
EDUCATION
TEACHERS v.
BUREAUCRATS
Traps in the Blackboard Jungle
D. TAYLOR
Art illegal strike?
Otories of “Blackboard Jungle” condi-
tions; teachers being victimised by
sexually imaginative school girls; de-
mands of smaller class loads; the demand
for a setting up of a special Education
Commission; in fact anything which had
the slightest- bearing on education was
thoroughly discussed by 500-odd teach-
ers who gathered at Sydney University
just before Christmas for the NSW
Teachers’ Federation's 44th Annual
Conference.
Teachers told the conference of inci-
dents in schools where they had been
assaulted by their pupils, or how in some
cases they were frightened to turn their
backs on their classes for fear of having
things thrown at them. One teacher actu-
ally said he had a mirror on the black-
board so he could watch the class while
he was writing on the blackboard. Mr
Swann, a teacher at Mt Penang, told the
conference how even on his first day at
the school the students threw pieces of
chalk at him “at an average of three times
each half-hour. Two teachers at Mt
Fenang had nervous breakdowns, and an-
other developed hypertension within a
few months.” Mr Swann told of another
case where a teacher had been bashed
from behind with a leg of a chair. The
teacher was in hospital for several weeks
but the wielder of the leg was exonerated.
Others told of cases in which teachers
had received a rough deal not only from
students but from the Public Service
Board.
There was one case in which one
school girl had complained that a teacher
had acted indecently against her. He
was automatically suspended and was
then charged by the police with indecent
assault. After a delay of about nine or
ten months, when the case came to Court,
it was thrown out because there had not
been sufficient evidence in the Court’s
opinion to proceed with the charge.
During that time the teacher could not
teach but had to earn his living as best
he could outside of his profession, and
he and his family suffered the usual social
disabilities of anyone who is faced with
an indecent assault charge.
When the Court proceedings were
finished with the Public Service Board (in
camera) heard the charge, found him
guilty, and dismissed him. The teacher
did not appeal against the decision to the
Crown Employees’ Appeal Board because
by that time his wife's health had deterio-
rated too much because of the nature of
the case and the time it had taken to have
the issue decided. The teacher in the
meanwhile is teaching at a leading Catho-
lic school in Sydney.
In another case the wife of a teacher
alleged her husbarid had died prema-
turely because of the shame and delays
over an unjustified scandal.
In the end the teachers condemned
“the conduct in camera of trials by the
Public Service Board on issues for which
teachers have already been charged by
the ordinary processes of law when they
have been found not guilty or not been
proceeded against. The finding of teach-
ers guilty and the imposing of penalties
by the Board acting as judge and jury
are a denial of the elementary canons
of justice and the basic right of trial by
jury.”
The most far-reaching proposition
adopted, however, was the Federation’s
demand that the State Government im-
mediately establish an Education Com-
mission subject to Parliamentary control.
The Federation wants a body of five
people to be responsible for the formula-
tion and administration of education in-
cluding the control of teachers. The
teachers propose that this body of five
consist of two members from the
Teachers’ Federation, two to be ap-
pointed by the Government, with a
chairman whose appointment would be
approved by both sets of representatives.
This Commission would replace the
control over education by the Public
Service Board which in “recent years
has clearly shown itself to be a central-
ised and authoritarian bureaucracy, the
exercise of whose powers can be tyran-
nical and dangerous to the professional
security and citizen rights of teachers.”
The Federation is also attempting to
reduce the size of Glass loads. It passed
a motion that as from next June no
teacher is to teach a class of more than
45. This is to be reduced gradually to
a limit of 35 pupils per teacher by 1965.
Immediately the conference had passed
the motion the Secretary of the Public
Service Board, Mr K. J. Trott, said that
if the teachers carried out their policy
this would mean that they would be
conducting an illegal strike under the
Industrial Arbitration Act. Mr Trott
warned the Federation that the Public
Service Board would act if the teachers
enforced their loading policy.
The President of the Federation, Mr
D. A. Taylor, clashed with his deputy,
Mr Lewis, over a motion seeking to
make Lewis's position a full-time one
next year. Mr Lewis eventually won but
there will be some trouble when and if
he takes up full-time office.
The only topic that the teachers did
not discuss was the curly one of State
aid. In the light of the year’s events
with Goulburn, the arguments within the
Government and the Opposition parties
this was surprising. Had it discussed the
issue at all. there would have been no
change away from their opposition to any
Government assistance to private schools.
PETER KELLY
LOCAL GOVERNMENT
THE BATTLE OF TENTERFIELD
From Federation to Fluoridation
VUhen voters in Tenterfield, NSW; went
" to the polls last weekend to elect
their nine-man municipal council they
found themselves for the first time con-
fronted with a choice of 20 candidates
and two how-to-vote tickets. The
“official” or “council” ticket consisted
of six of the retiring aldermen; the
other was the “Anti-Fluoridation and
Democratic Society” licket.
The history of the fluoridation issue
in Tenterfield began over ten years ago*


when the Council decided that fluoride
was to be added to the town’s water
supply. The “Tenterfield Star” in
banner headlines announced that Tenter-
field had made history for the second
time! (The first time, as any Tenter-
fieldian will tell you, was in 1889 when
Sir Henry Parkes delivered his Tenter-
field oration calling for federation.) But
nothing further was heard until three
years ago when the Ministers Fraternal
issued a statement opposing fluoridation.
A year ago- the same body imported Mr
C. Harding of Rockhampton to address
a public meeting on the evils of
fluoridation.
The struggle began in earnest in June
this year when the Anti-Fluoridation and
Democratic Society was formed. After
the Council had announced its accept-
ance of the Health Department’s offer
of a 50 per cent subsidy towards the
cost of installing the equipment, the
Society presented a hastily drawn up
petition signed by 289 residents.
Angered at the Council’s inaction the
society held a public meeting and again
requested a referendum. The Society
president, local plumber W. H. Mc-
Catter, told townsfolk that: “The price
of liberty is eternal vigilance, and remem-
ber this goes on for ever.”
- The Council, in due course, rejected
the petition byt, as Ambulance Superin-
tendent Athol Bailey said, “We are not
helpless as long as we have the ballot
box.”
Then the ALP and Country Women’s
Association branches announced that
they opposed fluoridation. A corres-
pondent to the “Star” suggested that
these branches must have been “got at”,
as they are normally subject to State
Executive control. Election week
brought a printed pamphlet, which was
distributed into letter boxes, sponsored
by Mr Eric Butler’s Australian League of
Rights, and seemed to imply that
fluoridation was a plot of American
aluminium interests to dispose of sodium
fluoride.
The result of this long dispute is a
council to which three retiring aldermen
were returned (the town’s dentist, John
Perrson was soundly defeated) and four
anti-fluoridation aldermen were elected
and two independents.
With a line-up that shows a 5-4
majority for fluoride, but a 6-3 majority
for referenda, it appears as if the
decision will lie in the voters.
Meanwhile 88 per cent of the town’s
children are dentally unfit with an
average of 3.6 teeth decayed.
LAW
IMPROPER BUSINESS
PRACTICES
Skulduggery under £ 15,000
A. RYLAH
Next year
Sir Garfield Barwick is having
a close look at some of the business
practices of our industrial and commer-
cial giants, the Victorian Government
has turned its attention to skulduggery
in the field of small businesses, those
worth less than £15,000. Its Statute Law
Revision Committee last week released a
report recommending big changes to
curb unscrupulous sales of milk bars,
mixed goods shops and similar busi-
nesses.
The Committee conducted an inquiry
following advice from the Attorney-
General’s Department that “certain ven-
dors and business agents were inducing
persons to purchase small businesses by
supplying incorrect statements as to turn-
over, net profit, etc.” It decided, after
hearing evidence, that they certainly
were.
It received details of a deal in which a
mixed business was sold for £3250, after
the purchaser was assured that it had a
weekly turnover of £386. The actual
figure was £3OO and the net profit £2l
weekly. In another case, an ex-service-
man bought a milk-bar by borrowing
£2700, repayable over three years at
£23 a week. Working a 98 hour week,
he found his net profit averaged
£lB/10/-.
Many of the cases reported to the
Committee followed similar patterns of
gross deception in figures of net profit
and turnover. A great deal of valuable
evidence came from the Discharged
Servicemen’s Employment Board which
has the responsibility of investigating
small businesses on behalf of discharged
members of the forces.
The Committee was greatly impressed
with the Board s work and expressed the
opinion that its services should be avail-
able to all persons needing advice on the
purchase of small businesses. It also
recommended that its activities should
be more widely publicised.
It urged “drastic action” to prevent
purchasers of small businesses (whom it
noted were “usually inexperienced or
gullible”) from being hooked with in-
correct, misleading or inadequate par-
ticulars. This should include an obliga-
tion on any vendor of a small business
to set out in concise form details of
average weekly sales, gross profit, over-
head costs, hire purchase obligations,
tenancy agreements and other relevant
details covering the three years before
the intended sale.
However, it noted that “because of the
high rate at which small businesses
change hands, in a large proportion of
cases, vendors will not be in a position to
supply details of the businesses for the
preceding three years.” In such case, it
is proposed that certified figures for the
period of occupation would suffice, to-
gether with statements showing claims
made by earlier vendors.
It also attacked high rates of com-
mission charged by agents for the sale
of businesses far in excess of those
prescribed for sales of houses and land.
It recommend statutory action to cut
back the commission of business agen-
cies to the real estate level, noting rather
drily that from “the evidence of the high
turnover in small businesses usually
milk bars and mixed businesses the
Committee concludes that these can be
sold without any great effort by an
agent.” It also urged abolition of the
separate commission which agents re-
ceive on the stock of small businesses,
over and above the commission for the
plant, equipment and goodwill.
In the same report, the Committee
urged legislation to forbid the employ-
ment of part-time sub-agents in the real
estate business. At present, casual and
week-end sub-agents can, after three
years’ experience, pass into the ranks of
full real estate agents. It recommended
that any agent employing part-time sub-
agents should be guilty of an offence.
Changes in the law to deal with mis-
leading advertising, both in the real
estate and small business field, were also
recommended. The report quoted one
advertisement in which it was stated that
“electricity is right through the estate”—•
and so it was, in the sense that power
lines did run through the property. How-
ever, the State Electricity Commission
had advised that no connections could be
made until some indefinite future time
when the power supply was increased.
The recommendations were greeted


with approval by spokesmen for the
Confectionery and Mixed Business Asso-
ciation, the Delicatessen Association and
the Real Estate and Stock Institute. More
important, the Attorney-General, Mr
Rylah, said his Government would exam-
ine the report with a view to preparing
legislation for next session of Parliament.
CREDIT UNIONS
LAN DA v.
THE ANTIGONISH MOVEMENT
An attack an small credit unions?
A. LANDA
Not the right spirit
•T'he question is whether the Bill now
"*■ before the NSW Legislative Assem-
bly to amend the Co-operatives Act is
really intended to destroy small credit
unions and building societies in the in-
terests of large State-oriented co-opera-
tives. The principal brawl is between the
Antigonish Movement of Australia in
one corner and the Minister for Co-opera-
five Societies, Mr A. Landa, and the
Registrar of Co-operative Societies, Mr
A. R. Crosky, in the other.
The spokesman for the Antigonish
movement, Mr K. V. Franklin, claims
that Mr Landa and Mr Crosky are simply
trying to drive his movement out of busi-
ness. Mr Landa claims he nothing
against the movement as such, but .that
the so-called Antigonish Movement in
Australia is not an Antigonish move-
ment at all a claim reiterated by Mr
Crosky.
Mr Landa’s chief objection to the
movement is that it operates in a w 7 ay
which, he thinks, is contrary to the spirit
of co-operation. Firstly, it charges a high
rate of interest on borrowings, 10 per
cent flat. The present legislation pre-
scribes a maximum a 1 per cent per
month on unrepaid capital. Secondly,
units within the movement lend , money
to each other to such an extent “that it
is impossible'to know where the money
is gone” and people who put their money
in credit unions controlled by the Anti-
gonish movement could not get their
money when they wanted it because it
has been re-lent to other organisations
which had not yet repayed it. “Their
s °le justification for doing this,” he said
i n Parliament, “is that it is permitted
under the current legislation.”
Miss R. Gallagher, Secretary of the
Australian Antigonish Movement, told
“The Bulletin” that Mr Landa’s accu-
sations were unfounded and that in any
case the fact that an activity was per-
mitted under the Act was sufficient
justification for it.
The Australian Antigonish Movement
is based on a similar movement in Nova
Scotia, Canada, run by the St Francis
Xavier University. Though the chief
organiser, Father Cody, is a priest the
movement is not officially sponsored by
the Catholic Church. Besides Nova
Scotia the movement concentrates on the
new democracies and backward coun-
tries and sees co-operation as a potent
anti-Communist force.
Basically a credit union is where a
group of people, in close contact with
each other, pool their savings. They can
then make borrowings from the pool
should they be in need. Any profit the
union makes is either given back to the
members in the form of dividends on
their shares or put back into the pool.
It is here that the differences between
the Antigonish movement and Landa
arise. The movement claims that it is
OK to re-invest the money, for. example
to lone it to a building co-operative. Mr
Landa says the funds should be at all
times reserved for the sole use of the
members.
Over the past three years inspectors of
Mr Crosky’s department have made 10
inspections of Antigonish units. The
Movement claims this is far too much
departmental interference, the department
claims it is not nearly enough.
One of the more objectionable aspects
of current proposals, according to Miss
Gallagher, is that it will compel directors
of credit unions to have a total of <£soo
each invested in the co-operative. This
would have the effect of excluding work-
ing men from being co-operatives’ man-
agers. Apparently Mr Landa thinks that
a man with £5OO to invest is better able
to run a credit union than one with, say,
£499.
Mr Crosky showed “The Bulletin”
two large files devoted exclusively to the
battle between himself and the Antigonish
movement, that has lasted two years. It
is he who has been most responsible for
the criticism of the movement; it was
his notes which Landa read verbatim to
the House during the debate on the Bill.
The leading light in the Antigonish
Movement in Australia is Father J. Galla-
gher, Miss Gallagher’s brother. Fr
Gallagher is a man committed to an ideal
of co-operation. Even Mr Landa had to
describe him as “sincere.” Father Galla-
gher thinks that Mr Landa wants to
destroy the Antigonish movement and
other small credit unions and develop a
system of large State-orientated co-opera-
tives led and subsidised by the Govern-
ment. The Antigonish Movement, he
said, would accept no subsidy, even it
offered one.
ROBERT MURRAY
CHRISTMAS POETRY, 1882
'j^ulLetCn
December 30, 1882
O what joy to think these weary hours
ev'ry one have passed,
And that infernal Christmas Day is
really gone at last!
That day with greetings hollow that
are piped from door to door,
With stimulated jollity the whole
an awful bore!
’Tis gone with its smug parsons, who
are quavering from use,
And -preaching well - worn sermons
when their thoughts are full of
goose!
’Tis gone with all its dinner-smells,
that put me in a rage
Its steaming scent of gravy, and its
vapour-baths of sage.
’Tis gone with all its chiming bells,
with madness in each chime,
Its beery voices with their “Merry
Christmas!" all the time;
Its mince-pies that breed nightmares,
its pudding that is sent,
For human crimes to be a most
terrific punishment.
With night the Christmas vapours all
have fleeted far away,
Yet some belated evellers still “keep
up” Christmas Day! !
They have a concertina oh, good
heavens! how they shout
“Who, Emma!” Yes the sentiment
of Christmas is played out.


Mi
<
w
m
m n
wm
y “
Pink
for
girls
If she says “gorgeous”, “delightful”, “heavenly’*,
chances are it’s Romalo Pink Champagne. A gay,
scintillating wine for joyous times ... for parties,
weddings and ever-so-special dinners far two.
All over the world sophisticates celebrate with Pink
Champagne. Australia's finest is Romalo.
Trade Enquiries: S. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd,
348 St. Hilda Road, Melbourne
Around Melbourne
A RUG OF ABYSSINIAN MONKEY SKINS
this past week has
A been like the last scene in Mac-
beth. We have had bodies spread all
over the stage. A financial loss was
barely worth mentioning unless it
was up around £4 million or £6
million. We have witnessed the
scenes of the receivers marching into
Stanhill and Reid Murray and we
heard Stanley Korman’s passionate
appeal to his shareholders. Now in
the midst of all this a man came into
the news that we had almost for-
gotten, Emmanuel Margolin. He
stared out at us through a photo-
graph in the Sun, in the full dress
of a Spanish matador, specially
tailored for him in Madrid. As this
department has said before, Mel-
bourne is extremely light on interest-
ing characters. But Emmanuel is a
character if ever there was one-
Back in 1959 Emmanuel was on
his way to becoming a millionaire.
After arriving from France in the
Stratheden in 1952 with only £7,
things had gone beautifully. He had
eight used car yards, his annual turn-
over was nigh on £4 million and he
was selling 250 cars a week. He
claimed he was the world’s biggest.
Number two was a car dealer in
Chicago. He started this incredible
gimmick of selling a car with his own
face. His ads were peppered with
pictures of Emmanuel. The peak
came one day in 1960. He had 360
pictures of himself on one full page
ad. in the Age. It seemed to sell cars.
He was often in the news. Early in
1959 he bought a Ford Thunderbird
from another used car dealer for
£3OOO. No sooner had he taken
delivery than it was seized by the
Customs.
He was determined to have that
car. He waited for the auction and
he bought it for £2600. Maybe he is
the only man who has ever paid a
total of £5600 for a Ford Thunder-
bird.
The story of the decline and fall
of Emmanuel has been told in the
finance pages. Like many another he
was hit by the credit squeeze, and
left with £200,000 worth of used
cars that he couldn’t sell. He lost
£150,000 in a year. His £lOO,OOO
cattle stud “Langley Park” at Gem-
brook has been sold for £30,000. His
house at 60 Hopetoun Road, Toorak,
has been sold for something in excess
of £34,500 and he now has an-
nounced that in March he will sell
his collection of just about every-
thing.
It was high time that your pioneer
called on Mr Margolin. Outside the
two-storey house in Hopetoun Road,
there was a sign advertising the
auction of a “Bluthner_ grand piano,
furniture, antiques, five TV's, Ford
Thunderbird, chandeliers.”
Emmanuel met me at the front
door. He was young, only 33, and
every girl’s dream of what a hand-
some Frenchman should be. His suit
was well cut in the Parisian style and
his stiff cuffs were held by tasteful
gold links. But the interior! Give me
time to get my breath.
As soon as you entered the door
you stepped on a great outspread
hide of a zebra. Further over there
was a hide of a Bengal tiger, further
still a magnificent skin of a seven-
foot Russian black bear. In the living
room there was a circular mat made
from the tails and paws of 14 leo-
pards. Yet the mat that really took
the eye was a gorgeous thing. Said
Emmanuel: “That was made from
the pelts of 500 Abyssinian monkeys.
There are only two of them in the
world.”
Ah, the furniture! There was a
Louis XVI room, there was a
Chinese room, an antique American
room. The furniture had real class.
You could take your pick of the
Princess Josephine cabinet, the
French exhibition vases, the Napo-
leon vases, the Sheraton tables, the
1718 French cabinet or the Louis
XIV desk.
Emmanuel brought out his prize,
the outfit of the matador. Politely he
never gave any prices, but it must
have cost a fortune. He had the
whole works. Shoes, waistcoat, jacket,
cape, trousers, white socks, plus the
canvas and killing capes for the
handling of the bull and the ferocious-
looking killing swords. The suit was
specially made for Emmanuel in
Madrid by the matador tailor. It was
made of mauve silk and embroidered
like crazy with gold “The suite
of lights.” Did he have ambitions to
be a bullfighter?
He said that he took lessons for
10 days in Spain. He explained: “I
haven’t the courage.”
All this, matador’s gear, guns,
furniture, skins, Thunderbird, plus
such items as the suit of armor of a
French general goes up for auction,
and the Margolins will move out into
a £l2 a week flat. Yet the fascinating
thing is that Emmanuel is not the
least overcome by this. He is as gay,
charming and as confident as ever.
“I’m young. I have the knowledge.
This country is loaded with oppor-
tunities. I’ll have it all back in five
years.”
He has no intention of leaving
Australia. Maybe it’s pride, he says,
but he wants to do it again here. He
very kindly drove me back to the city
from Hopetoun Road. I was a little
disappointed, we went in the Mer-
cedes. You see, Mrs Cecile Margolin
drives the Thunderbird and it stayed
at home. I have never had a ride in a
Thunderbird.
BATMAN


OUT AND ABOUT
PADDINGTON-OUTSIDE
LOOKING IN
Distinguishing between the dry-sherry drinkers and the dry-red drinkers
By ROBERT WALKER
Most cities can be divided into
sectors according to the type and
degree of activity which may be
found there. Sociologists of a precise
and scientific bent recently gave areas of
Sydney ratings on the basis of housing
standards and presumably social accept-
ability— thus producing a rash of con-
versation snippets from the socially-
conscious. Other observers have
suggested that a- combined socio-culture
analysis is more appropriate: a “dry-
sherry belt” and a “sweet-sherry belt”.
From the sociologist’s point of view,
Paddington must be both an enigma and
a delight. Most of its houses were built
in the late 19th century, as w'ere those
in other suburbs forming a ring around
the city: Woolloomooloo, Surry Hills,
Redfern, Glebe, Pyrmont and Balmain.
Then, it was perhaps a more fashion-
able area than the others. But passing
years, middle-class desires for a garden
and at least a backyard, and, in secon-
dary effect, a changing and denser popu-
lation, brought upon it the label of a
slum area.
But in the last five years, a change
has taken place. Terrace houses which
Sydney once considered eyesores, took
on an air of socially-acceptable quaint-
ness. No longer slums, they were “gems”
of Victorian architecture. Visitors, rang-
ing from Stravinsky to Joyce Grenfell,
have been eloquent in their praise; archi-
tects have extolled their practicability.
During the. thirties, most terraces in the
Paddington-Woollahra district could be
bought for as little as £200; now', the
worst examples sell quickly at £2500,
with considerable outlays necessary on
repairs and restoration. Most bring be-
tween £4OOO and £7OOO.
King’s Cross has traditionally been
considered the hub of Sydney’s night-
life, and consequently the mecca of those
members of the smart set not over-
burdened by domestic responsibility.
Once arrived, they assumed the address
of Potts Point. But suddenly, King’s
Cross-Potts Point was seen as congested
and noisy, and many migrated to the
larger air (and cheaper rentals) of Pad-
dington.
Wealthy graziers bought" a city home
there. Graziers’ divorced wives settled.
Theatre people, w'riters and journalists
arrived and multiplied. When finally
members of the professions moved, it
was obvious that Sydney had acquired a
new standard of desirable living.
One by one, the time-honored orphan-
age-brown walls of the terraces were
being repainted, usually in white by the
artistic, but in many cases in garish
greens, blues and pinks by home-cons-
cious “locals”. One house even wears
buttercup yellow with purple ornamenta-
tion.
Inside the terraces, the activity is more
apparent. There was for some time a
cult of covering walls with painted
hessian; now, more popular are “House
and Garden” type “natural” walls. New
occupants often tremble with anticipa-
tion as they probe the plaster in the
hope that it covers bricks of terracotta
and not muddy grey.
It is interesting to distinguish between
the “society” residents (dry-sherry drin-
kers) and the “arties” (usually dry-red
drinkers, but depending on finances and
motives). Apart from the inevitable
student population, Paddington has in
fact developed into a substantial art-
colonv. Current residents include God-
frey Miller, Donald Friend. Len Hessing,
David Strachan, William Drew, Fred
Jessop, Brian Dunlop and Ross Morrow.
Further, of Sydney’s seven or so art-
galleries with continuous showings, four
are in Paddington-Woollahra.
The boundaries of Paddington are
confusing and vague to the uninitiated
and residents alike: Mr Rudy Komon's
gallery, though on the corner of Pad-
dington Street, is in Woollahra. Mr.
Koraon deals in both wine and art; and
not surprisingly his gallery is a con-
verted wineshop.
A Czech in his mid-fifties; he started
off as a journalist, branching into art-
dealing without a gallery. He arrived in
Australia nine years ago. bringing with
him a collection of European works, and
opened an antique shop-cum-art gallery
at Waverley. In December. 1959, he
•opened in his present premises, which
still retains much of its old character
what with openings and occasional meet-
ings there of the Wine and Food Society,
of which he is a cellar master.
Komon’s application of European
dealing techniques staggered the art
W'orld at first. He gave artists advances
on exhibition sales, and occasionally
entered into arrangements with them to
acquire their entire output. Or by
stockpiling the works of particular artists
over the years he was able to corner the
market and reap the rewards of the
monopoly.
Even so, he still handles the work of
the “subterranean realists” three ar-
tists one could broadly describe as
Dadaists, and who charge prices ex-
pressed in pounds, not guineas. He was
quick to discover an Australian “primi-
tive” Samuel Byrne, an 84-year-old
Broken Hill painter, predictably tagged


Company Meeting
J. GADSDEN AUSTRALIA LIMITED
CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS
EIGHTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS
Held on FRIDAY, 30th November, 1962, at 12 NOON at the Registered
Office: Corner ABBOTSFORD AND IRELAND STS., WEST MELBOURNE
Gentlemen,
It is again my pleasure to place before
you the Director’s Report and Annual
Accounts of the Company for the year
ended 30th June, 1962.
TRADING RESULTS
These have shown a satisfactory in-
crease over the previous year, the relative
figures after providing for taxation,
being:—
1961 1962
Profits £629,465 £752,625
Increase for 1962
£123,160
Sales for the year showed a substantial
increase with a higher volume of profit.
Two factors contributed to this im-
provement and they were the more
stabilized conditions which occurred in
the later part of 1961 coupled with the
policy of our Directors to react vigorously
to the challenge brought about by the
financial measures introduced by the
Federal Government.
In my address at the Annual Meeting
in 1961, I drew attention to the problems
with which management was faced, fol-
lowing the imposition of Credit Restric-
tions, and outlined to you the steps taken
by our Directors to meet the situation
and provide finance.
This was of course most important but
it was not the omy major matter to
engage our attention.
Changes in Government financial policy
which so vitally affect Industry, should
emanate from sources directly in touch
with the Commercial world.
Such changes, particularly when they
are announced suddenly and unexpect-
edly, disturb the thinking of the business
community and the public generally and
destroy confidence.
In order to combat this state of affairs,
our Directors decided that there should
be no deviation from the plans already
laid and pursued these with the utmost
vigour with, I am happy to say, beneficial
results to the Company.
CONSOLIDATION
You have been informed each year of
the progressive moves we have made
all of which were very necessary and in
themselves intensely interesting exercises
to those engaged on carrying them out.
Our immediate future policy is to con-
solidate the efforts already undertaken
a most necessary procedure in view of the
complexities associated with them but
nevertheless there will be no compla-
cency amongst the members of our Board
and they will continue to be alert for
further opportunities for expansion.
OUR REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
You will observe that we have this year
included photographs of our manufactur-
ing centres.
We have referred, in the Reports of
previous years, to our Expansion in
Buildings, and it was felt that it would
be of interest to you to see a reproduc-
tion of them, and to hear a brief reference
to them.
The West Melbourne Building was com-
pleted in 1927 and represented the first
major advance in construction of a
rapidly expanding family owned business.
This was followed by Adelaide in 1941,
the Company having moved its Plant
from Port Adelaide where it had been
established since 1904.
The premises at Coburg were completed
in 1956 to supply to expanding demands
of the Victorian business.
In 1960 the new Brisbane Building was
finished and the old premises vacated and
sold.
1961 saw the sale of the existing Fre-
mantle property and the erection of the
new premises.
In the same year the Shepparton Works
were completed.
The premises at Hobart were purchased
by us in 1942 when we first commenced
operations in Tasmania.
The Sydney premises are occupied by
Gadsden-Hughes Ltd., the main operating
centre there supported by other wholly
owned subsidiaries.
We thus have the picture of continuous
growth which has necessitated expansion
in manufacturing area and equipment,
and this has been the problem constantly
before our minds, and perhans you -will
agree that it was a not inconsiderable one.
GENERAL
Since the closing of our accounts at
30th June, no circumstances have arisen
which call for comment.
The seasonal outlook appears to be
stable, always an important factor in the
economy of this country.
It is no function of mine, as Chairman
of our Company, to make optimistic state-
ments regarding the future, but I can
say that our organisation will continue
to grow in step with the natural develop-
ment of our Country.
We advise, with deep regret, the death
in November, 1962, of Mr G. L. Senior, our
Manager for Queensland.
Mr G. L. Senior joined this organisation
in 1955, and the following six years saw
new projects undertaken and his enthu-
siasm and devotion assured the success of
these ventures.
We wish to place on record our acknow-
ledgement of Mr G. L. Senior’s outstand-
ing service during the years of his asso-
ciation with us.
DIRECTORS AND STAFF
In conveying to my Co-Directors and
the Staff of the Company my thanks for
their work, I do so not in the form of a
duty, which one feels must be done, but
with a very real appreciation of the great
contribution they have made.
It is not the spectacular things that
occur which alone merit appreciation,
but the day to day administration coun-
sel and advice so freely given by those
who form the personnel of a complex or-
ganisation, and on your behalf I wish to
pay a warm tribute to them.
N. C. GADSDEN,
Chairman,
30TH NOVEMBER, 1962.
“Australia’s Grandma Moses”. With the
prices charged (and received) in the
Kornon Gallery, his clientele is naturally
quite exclusive.
Sydney’s most talked-about gallery is
run by Mr Barry Stern in what was
previously a shop of unrevealed activity.
At the age of 30, Mr Stern has led a
somewhat controversial career in the
art world. Twice he has operated gal-
leries which, he states, were intended
“purely as display centres” to show his
own collection, “merely to show another
point of view in art.” In November,
1961, he opened in his present premises;
with the contacts gained earlier, and a
business acumen acquired while work-
ing in his family business the Stern
Disposal Stores his gallery is thriving.
A sign of acceptance
"Oecently, his gallery came into prom-
inence with the headline-making sales
of a young painter, John Bell. At a special
buyers’ preview, £2500 worth was
reputedly sold in an hour. Soon after-
wards, his backing of Brian Dunlop
resulted in another rapid-selling exhibi-
tion exceeding the £2OOO mark.
Despite acid comments from the
critics as to the desirability of such suc-
cess to artists still in developmental
stages, such fostering and promotion of
talent is precipitating a drift of many
painters away from less active dealers.
The hanging of a Godfrey Miller paint-
ing in Stern’s Christmas show is taken
by many as a sign of acceptance.
Referring to the Bell sellout, Mr Stern
said: “If I can do this in 10 months of
business, imagine what I can do in
another 12!” Yet despite his success, he
emphasises that he is not running the
gallery to make money, but only to live
the life he chooses setting his own
pace, encouraging young artists, and
fostering the arts in Australia generally.
Much the same idealism would seem
to have prompted Major Harold Rubin,
a Queensland millionaire, to open a
gallery nearby. Its activities were res-
tricted to showings, but it was an-
nounced that it was intended to sell
works later, at the lowest rates of com-
mission in Australia.
Major Rubin later decided to abandon
his idea, and the lease of the gallery was
taken over by Miss Betty O’Neill, the
previous manager. The opening exhibi-
tion saw the premises refurnished and
totally charming, with a collection of
paintings representative of current Syd-
ney trends. The catalogue gave no prices;
according to those who steeled them-
selves to inquire, they were very high.
Just “over the border” in Woollahra
is the Frances Jones studio, which, alas,
can make no claim to a romantic
building transformation. It was con-
verted from a private house, and still
looks much the same. In actuality, it is
a combination gallery and studio. Its
proprietor is Miss Frances Jones. In a
chic attic room, she adorns such mun-
dane items as dust-pans with sketches of
flora and fauna, and the gleaming end-
products ultimately find their way into
city stores.
Exhibitions are opened in the after-
noon to cater for housewives. When
asked what the record attendance was,
Miss Jones good-humoredly replied
“Two”. This, it transpired, was the
smallest number.


The University of Adelaide
and the W.E.A. of S.A.
SUMMER SCHOOL OF POLITICS
"Australia—A Dynamic Society?"
Adelaide, January 11-18, 1963
Lecture topics include
Will federalism work? How lively are the parties?
Is there any real competition in business? Are
trade unions behind the times? The mass media
—forces for conformity? What our schools
produce.
Forces for Change
A new conscience about the Aborigines and the
Asians. Dissent in press and parliament. Arts
festivals as boosts for culture? Trading in the
post ECM world. Making up our mind about the
bomb.
Summing Up
An alternative to the electors' apathy? The
future pattern of the economy. What does mate-
ship amount to?
Details of programme and
enrolment from the
DEPT. OF ADULT EDUCATION,
UNIVERSITY OF ADELAIDE.
Closing date, January 7, 1963.
Fees: For the week, £4/4/—; one
day, 1 5/—; one session, 5/—.
Concurrent with w'hat has been des-
cribed as a “boom” in art, is a con-
siderable amount of discussion in the
sphere. Not unexpectably, discussion
often centres around personalities, as, for
example, the artist who held a studio-
party after the opening of his exhibition,
to which he invited “buyers,” and, as a
party-trick, colleagues. It is recorded
that sales were subsequently gratifying.
Naturally, a creative community dis-
cusses those at the other end of the
scale: the critics, and, more generally,
those accepted as authorities. One
cynical artist described how a person of
moderate talents could reach such a
status. With an investment of at least
£lOOO, one should buy the works of
fashionably avant-garde painters. Imme-
diately, one is known as a “collector,”
and consequently invited to numerous
art-world parties and cultivated by
dealers. With reference to art books and
in particular overseas magazines, one
may soon converse w'ith an air of ab-
solute authority. It follows that one will
be invited to open an exhibition or two.
And thus, contacts plus a repertoire of
apt phrases provide the formula for al-
most instant success.
Good business in Sydney
is a saying, “what is criminal in
Hobart is sharp practice in Mel-
bourne and good business in Sydney.”
Some would argue that this holds in the
realm of “art business.” There is a story
of one enterprising individual who pur-
chased a large number of the w'orks of a
well-known Paddington street-scene
painter through a friend of the artist, at
consequently reduced prices. Then, one
of the paintings was put up for auction,
and through dummies the price W'as
raised to about thrice current values
and indirectly repurchased by the cur-
rent owner. The final step was that of
showing the other works to prosperous
North-Shore matrons, saying “one of
this period sold for £l5O at auction last
week, but you can have it for £100.”
The old inhabitants of Paddington
have not quite become adjusted to the
new world opening up around them.
Not that Paddington is without other
eccentricities. On occasions, undermined
sections of roads have caved in under the
wheels of startled motorists, who have
come to rest with sunlight far above
them.
In the weekends, hawkers abound. It
is a common sight to see an apple-laden
semi-trailer cruising the streets. In at-
tendance are gypsy-like men and women,
plying their wares at “4/6 a bucket.”
Frequently, there are arguments with
customers over custody of the con-
tainer.
Daytime often sees students from the
nearby National Art School at East
Sydney Technical College engaging in
“outdoor painting”. A curious body, they
kneel on the footpath or cut statuesque
poses before easels, all self-consciously
trying to look unselfconscious.
While the area has no night life to
compare with that of King's Cross,
nevertheless it is not entirely devoid of
evening diversions. The locals go to the
“local”. Best known is the “Windsor
Castle,” a pub also frequented by
artists and dogs. Since the raw-brick
walls of the bar have been covered with
hygienic-looking bath tiles, the aesthetic
appeal to artists has diminished: the dogs
know 7 no such triviality. Whenever a
door is left ajar, animals of curiously
mixed ancestry saunter in.
Lion couchant
Ane hotel known as the “Excelsior”
wears a plaster replica of a lion
couchant on its rooftop, and sports in its
bar a fascinating and apparently exten-
sive collection of brewery signs of 20 or
so years ago. When these are viewed
alongside the faded photos of racehorses
and boxers, one feels that little change
has occurred in the furnishings since
then.
If a Tuesday morning or afternoon
finds you passing the Victoria Barracks
in Paddington, you may see a “cere-
monial changing of the guard.” The
Army Barracks have been maintained
over the years as something of a show-
piece. Now, only WRAACS and the
Nursing Corps train there. The rest is
occupied by the Eastern Command
Headquarters. One of the sentries in an
unguarded moment commented that the
barracks were maintained just for (to
paraphrase his jargon) pomp.
With foresight, the Paddington Town
Hall was built on top of a hill, where
it is certainly a landmark. First erected
in 1890, it was added to in 1923 and
re-modelled in 1933. In various stages
it thus acquired a domed tow'er, a vast
number of flagpoles, cavernous corridors
and an interior dominated by bulky
pillars. The exterior is painted a delicate
apple-green.
Every so often, a promoter presents
a series of wrestling matches in the
Upper Hall. Here is seei. a gathering of
many nationalities. It is a family affair
for many: Mediterranean mothers stand
with their tiny babies in their arms,
good-hearted schoolboys ply autograph
books at both winner and loser. At ring-
side is a row of blue uniforms St.
John Ambulance and the District Am-
bulance.
The audience may be surprisingly
sportsmanlike: even when the performers
are pulverising each other with legal
blows, they are apt to reprove them with
commands to “wrestle.” The commen-
tator groans and grunts with each piece
of activity seemingly suffering more
than the muscular masochists in the
ring.
A wall in the district bears the slogan,
“Go home dagos,” Italians counter
with such anecdotes as “Australia is a
good place but too many bloody Austra-
lians.” And so there are national clubs,
which do a thriving business. The shop-
ping centre contains the usual batch of
coffee shops filled with a profusion of
potted palms, decorated with garish
murals (even a giant-size copy of the
Mona Lisa!) and selling frothy espresso
coffee. There are also a fair sprinking
of remnant shops. More esoteric are
those selling old wares. The suburb con-
tains more antique shops than possibly
any other area of Sydney.
The one prestige restaurant in Pad-
dington is the “Hungry Horse”, above
which Betty O'Neill has her gallery.
Sadly unlicensed, it is semi-colonial in
decor, and the waitress carries the menu
on a blackboard, which she props on the
table, and proceeds to translate from the
French.
This, then, is Paddington to-day. Years
ago, razor gangs terrorised the God-
fearing and otherwise. These days, since
the Slasher unaccountably ceased opera-
tions, the sensational happenings are in
real-estate and art. One resident said,
“All the characters of Paddo were killed
off during the war.” But “Paddo” would
seem to be gaining a new' batch of
characters.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
5A413,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
MOTORING
LATER THAN
YOU THINK?
With both hands on the wheel
By BOADICEA
TTow often have you heard a driver
say, “That fellow ahead is a bit
dicey, think we'll give him a wide berth”?
Experienced motorists can read danger
signs in other motorists as surely as a
black tracker can follow a miscreant
through the scrub. And in each case
there is a pinch of black magic about it
all. What makes a driver suddenly
become alert to possible trouble ahead
when to the average passenger the car
in front is steaming along happily enough
and minding its own business? There
are the more obvious signs that con-
centration may be lacking in the ob-
served driver, concentrating on driving
that is the number one quality necessary
for good driving. The driver may have
his arm around a girl, have his rear
window plastered with “I’ve been there”
stickers, car club transfers, advertising
signs or the rear vision cut down by
striped cushions, dangling dollies or toy
tigers. He may unnecessarily have three
passengers in front and so nullify the
effect of his driving mirror or he may
have his mirror pushed to one side where
his passenger has left it after making
up her face. These are all easily picked-
out signs that stamp your man ahead
as a poor driver. More difficult to spot
is the driver who, with correctly-adjusted
mirror, never flicks his eyes to it unless
he hears a horn or a brake squeal. The
good driver’s eyes are constantly read-
ing his mirror and so is an fait with the
traffic flow behind. Just as you can pick
a man’s golfing prowess from the way
he picks up a club, fingers curling sen-
sitively around the grip, so a driver can
be judged from the way he sits behind
the wheel, how his hands hold it and
where. It is safe to assess as poor the
driver who habitually drives one-handed
or drives with both hands at the top, or
bottom, of the wheel. The man who sits
uncomfortably close to or too far from
the wheel, the small man who is too vain
to sit on a cushion to improve his view,
these are bad drivers because they are
not in full control and therefore not
ready for the split-second action that is
necessary to avoid an accident.
The driver who drives mile after mile
with a direction flasher winking is obvi-
ously not on the job for he hasn’t checked
his dashboard as frequently as he should.
Similarly the driver who has his wipers
going after the rain has stopped is sig-
nalling his inattention.
Ownership of certain makes of cars
stamp a driver as a man who appreciates
his vehicle and is therefore more likely
to be a better than average driver. The
condition of a car is another good clue
as to whether its driver is a potential
menace or not. Worn tyres, ineffective
shock absorbers, broken tail lights, dilap-
idated exhaust systems are all warning
signs to the experienced motorist.
The position of a car on the road,
how it attacks a corner, if the brake
lights flash at wrong times, whether it
is being lugged along in top when it
should be in second, these are all as
good indications of the driver's ineffici-
ency as if he failed to give any hand
signals whatsoever. The baulking driver
who hogs the road centre, ignores cour-
teous horn signals, speeds up when about
to be overtaken in the hope of forcing
you head-on into the oncoming traffic
is an example of the mentally unsuited
driver who should never be allowed out-
side his own front gate but unfortunately
is because our present licensing tests fail
to show the kinked mind. Never mix it
with these drivers for they are as un-
predictable as sharks and even less
pleasant. I have my own pet theories on
driving and what I can learn from
behind. I am sure that close observation
of the driver ahead makes for safer
driving if only by making one concen-
trate harder. I am particularly aware of
drivers in Homburg hats and smokers of
large cigars. Women carefully dressed
and coiffured for a party are apt to be
more interested in not crushing their
dress and keeping their hair in place
than attending to their driving. Doctors
are always slightly suspect for I like to
think they are rushing to a critically ill
patient, not a game of golf when they
hurry past. The doctor who recently
passed me and then two semi-trailers,
going uphill round a long blind curve,
over the double line was undoubtedly
late for an appointment with death which
wouldn’t have been so bad had he not
endangered other lives too —it is disturb-
ing to think that such good minds ap-
parently have blank spots when behind
the wheel of a car.
Members of that worthy Veteran
Motorists’ Association are often con-
sidered mobile hazards by younger
drivers because they are frequently ven-
erable old men. To be members of the
V.M.A. a driver requires an accident-
free driving record but the young cynic
replies that the record never shows the
number of accidents the V.M.A. mem-
ber has caused but not been involved in.


A DEGREE OF COMMUNICATION
Murray Rose and Tony Madigan: after the games ore over
By JAN SMITH
At 10 o'clock swimmer Murray Rose
and English diver Liz Ferris, w'ere
sitting barefoot eating mangoes in
the living room of swimming coach Sam
Herford at Mosman, where Rose is cur-
rently staying. They looked as if they
would like to go on eating mangoes.
But duty before pleasure. “Eating the
messy bit off the stone's the best part'’,
Rose said reproachfully.
With Rose and Miss Ferris offstage
repairing the ravages, Mrs. Herford con-
fided the vegetarians were devils in the
kitchen. She was making a Christmas
pudding and “I have to keep hiding it
because Murray picks out all the nuts”.
Deprived of his mango, Rose fiddled
with a retractable ballpoint pen. He
didn’t smoke, wouldn’t have coffee.
When swimmers turn actors —Rose was
in the ABC’s television production of
“My Three Angels” last week their
troubles begin. With the pressure of re-
hearsals there hadn't even been time for
a swim since the Games, and he could
hardly wait to get to the beach.
Swimming wouldn't be totally neglect-
ed, though. “I like it better than any
other sport, but after 18 or 19 a swim-
mer is past his prime”, he said. So at
23 he is staying in Sydney indefinitely
to pursue an acting career. He had
never thought of being a commentator
or a sports writer because, he said, it
would need a wider knowledge than his.
At the moment there was nothing lined
up for after “My Three Angels” but
“one or two things have been discussed
that aren't settled yet, and I'm making
a film about swimming. “For whom? I
don't know. I've only just read the
script”.
In “My Three Angels”, produced by
Alan Burke for ABN, he played the part
taken by Aldo Ray in the film version,
one of three escaped convicts who
attach themselves benevolently to a
French Guiana shopkeeper and his
pretty daughter.
I didn’t see the film but that’s probably
a good thing”, he said. “I heard it was
quite different from the way we’re
doing it. It's really more of a French
farce but the film was strictly for yerks
and the emphasis was all wrong”.
Was he the hero? Nup. Did he get
the girl? Nup. Who did? “The future,
I guess”.
Rose is quietly spoken, Anglo-
American style, and though not a highly
emotive type, at least a few notches
above a cigar store Indian. If he has
hidden fires, they are not for display at
interviews. But for female viewers,
cruelly starved of watchable homegrown
men, one glorious hour of unadulterated
Greek-hero-worship may go a long w'ay
to cover any deficiencies.
Yuh, he said, he liked foreign films.
“Black Orpheus” and “Mon Oncle”. The
business with the fountain was hysterical,
wasn't it? Yuh. very funny. Bergman?
“His symbolism is terribly obvious. I
didn’t like ‘Virgin Spring’ at all”. Too
drawn-out? “Oh, I don't mind them tak-
ing their time about these things. They’re
living in a different culture, working
towards a different market. Like the
Oriental films. I was in Japan for a while
in 1957 and I learnt enough about their
mores and their culture to be able to
appreciate their approach to films”. Like
“Rashomon?” Yuh.
He hates theatre in the round. “It’s
gimmicky and I’ve never seen a produc-
tion that wouldn't be better on a pro-
scenium stage. Not that they’re all bad.
They did ‘The Crucible’ beautifully off
Broadway. But it embarrasses the audi-
ence for at least the first act, and often
the players too’’. He likes Chekhov—
“mainly as comedy. It's only outside
Russia people see it as anything else”,
and Tennessee Williams, “when he isn’t
being perverted which he usually is’’.
He doesn't like lonesco but he played in
a student production of “The Bald
Soprano”, which he thinks was probably
his best. “It's called ‘Prima Donna’ here,
is it? That’s definitely the wrong trans-
lation”.
“I didn’t decide to be an actor over-
night’’, Rose said, “like I must go on
stage or bust”. The interest built up
gradually during a Bachelor of Arts
course at the University of Southern
California, w'here he majored in Commu-
nications, an unfortunate w'ord suggestive
of telephone repairs and cable laying.
“It's a study involving the various forms
of expression, at a personal level. It's a
much wider curriculum there for Arts.
English, History, French, Philosophy,
all in the first year. The whole atmo-
sphere is much freer”.
Born in England, he came to Australia
as a child and went to Cranbrook from
primary level up—“l could take it or
leave it”—and couldn’t have cared less
about the Old Cranbrookians’ Ball re-
ported in the social page that morning.
A good thing to keep away from? Defin-
itely yuh. However, he is getting out
and about since the Games, awarding
prizes at the dogs, drawing lotteries for
jaguars, and officially opening a Christ-
mas art exhibition at Barry Stern’s gal-
lery. “I wasn't much of a painter at
school but I made dirty great ashtrays
in ceramics class”, he told a crush of
festive art lovers. He came away with
an Egyptian mother-and-child figure. “I
understand it's not very valuable here,
but in Southern California it'd probably
be a collector’s item”.
His parents now live in New York
and he doesn’t see much of them. “They
might as well be in Sydney, it’s so far
away from Southern California”, he said.
He is on the defensive about vege-
tarianism—“yuh, say it's mainly relig-
ious. It's the simplest explanation”—but
was interested in the seaweed bread made
by some of Sydney's Welsh community.
“I’m sure it's very good for you. It’s
only in the sea you get the full mineral
spectrum. . .” In Southern California
there was a big emphasis on care and
maintenance of the body, he said, “It’s
a sunny outdoorsy sort of climate and
you get a lot of different people from all
over with new ideas'’. He does yoga exer-
cises, “but real yoga is a lifetime study”,
and has no time for doctors. “They're all
right individually, but get them together,
like the A.M.A. and they're. . .oh, what's
the word I mean? Well, you know how
they are”.
When he gets sick?. . .well, he hardly
ever was. “Aspirins? Oh. God, no. I
cure myself"’. Presumably he advocates
natural childbirth, but then he has no
plans for getting married. If anything
makes Rose run, it appears to be a deep
belief in all things raw' and natural.
No one expected athletes to champion
social causes, but now he was on the
fringe of the unholy trade, did he have
any opinions, desires, axes to grind?
Would he for instance blast the critics,
(a popular pastime), picket Pentridge
gaol, campaign for distressed animals?
He hadn’t met any theatre critics,
carnivorous or otherwise, but “I guess
they're the same the world over. No
worse and no better”. Brumbies, well it
was the meat question again, really, but
the cruelty involved w'as shocking. And
animals didn’t like processed food any-


way. He’s against capital punishment
and the worst thing about drugs like
thalidomide was that they should never
have been invented and promoted for
human consumption in the first place.
“But your opinions about those sort
of things are your own. I’d never picket
anything. You just go along with what
you hope is right, and who's to say,
anyway?”
Holdens for Stacks
Ooxer Tony Madigan is a pleasantly
articulate member of the new breed
of athletes with a yen for communicat-
ing. He is big (technically speaking a
light-heavyweight), rugged and gentle-
looking with an unblemished nose, neat
ears and a generally kempt appearance.
He is selling Holdens for Stacks, which
may-account for some of the polish, and
is keenly interested in clothes. “Women
are ghastly tie pickers”, he said, pausing
lovingly outside a store window. “They
choose them like they choose a dress.
Most men are pretty conservative you
know”.
So the thought of Christmas made him
groan. Still, there was an interview (o
be got through, so he dutifully answered
background questions about his trips
abroad, title fights and medals. “Don’t
write it down”, he pleaded. “Everyone is
tired of hearing it and I feel like a Fitz-
patrick travelogue Helsinki, Berlin,
New York, Vancouver. . .” It saved a
trip to the library, though, so what hap-
pened after the British Empire Games
in Canada?
Well, he went down to Mexico for
the International Diamond Belt. “It’s just
an ordinary belt, only it’s got one dia-
mond here”, indicating a trim belt buckle.
“It’s hanging on the wall at home and
Sybille’s always saying she’s going to
toss it out”.
To Sybille, his German-born wife
whom he married in New York, belts
are probably a dirty word. “She keeps
whipping up these lush continental
things full of cream and wine, so it’s a
bit of a battle to stay at my best weight”,
he said. Which was?
“Gosh”, said Madigan, now visibly
nervous. “I thought everyone knew
about light-heavyweights. In these days
of mass communications. . .” So, how
often did he read the theatre reviews?
“Nearly always, I like theatre. I went
all the time in London because it was
cheap and you could see something dif-
ferent every night'’. And in New York
he went to most of the big shows. “I
saw Paul Schofield in ‘A Man For All
Seasons’. But since we’ve been here (15
months) we’ve been a bit lazy- But I’m
definitely interested in theatre and tele-
vision”.
His interest began in New York,
where he worked as a model. “I hap-
pened to come along at a time when
they needed rugged-looking blokes, so
if anything tough came along they got
me”. He shaved, drank and smoked his
way through the glossies, mixed with an
arty fringe, and eventually got some
small parts in “Naked City”, which
was fun. Yes, he met Paul Burke. Wasn’t
he a lot older than he looked? “Old? Oh,
gosh no. He’s only about 32, and that’s
not old. I hope. Me? I’m 32. Yes, I
suppose for a boxer it’s getting on”.
Granted young athletes improved with
age, but what about old boxers? Did
they get punchdrunk, fade away, or
what? “Well”, said Madigan, playing
with an empty matchbox and figuring
the calories in a second capuccino, “you
see most of them are pretty illiterate.
They’ve been laborers or truck-drivers
or something, so there’s not much prob-
lem. They can always go back to un-
skilled work. They don’t starve or any-
thing”.
Not that Madigan is on the breadline
in the car business, but he feels his ex-
perience and knowledge in the sporting
world could be .put to good use, pre-
ferably as a television commentator. He
is negotiating with the ABC, hoping to
begin in a small way, gain experience,
and eventually travel about (They are
at present living in a flat at Woollahra).
“I haven't really seen much of Australia,
being away so much, and Sybille doesn’t
want to be tied down with a house and
all that”.
Self-confidence
“T wouldn’t want to specialise in box-
ing, of course. I like all sports and a
commentator should be able to do any-
thing”. Boxing is marvellous for self-
confidence and self-protection, and his
son, 16-months-old Kendall, will be en-
couraged to take it up later, but only if
he shows an inclination. Madigan started
boxing at seven, and rose to proficiency
during his years at Sydney’s Waverley
College. “It’s not cruel or dangerous
really. They can’t hurt themselves at
that age, because they haven’t the skill.
And the gloves muffle any brute force”.
“And boxing is one sport where you’re
completely on your own. You can’t
blame someone else for throwing a
sloppy pass or muffing a shot”.
Had he ever found boxing necessary
for self-protection? Once or twice, per-
haps, in New York, but boxers had to
be careful. There was one referee with
a vile Irish temper whose career was
finished after facing a manslaughter
charge. Did he have a vile Irish temper?
“Probably”, he smiled, “but I keep it in
check”.
For emergencies, how about judo?
He'd never tried it. Karate? “I went
along to a place in New York just to
see how it worked. The instructor was a
lethal-looking bloke about five six and
200 pounds, with internal callouses in
’ his knuckles and hands like a jellyfish.
He used to spend hours bashing at
things. But you’ve got to have a bit of
a kink to take it up. All the people there
were weedy little blokes who’d never get
in a fight in a million years. I guess
they just got sucked in with those ads.
I suppose it’s all right for self-confidence,
but where you’d ever use it without
killing someone. . .”
Naturally bullies have never been a
problem for Madigan, who has a
brother seven years his junior. “I just
thought he was a pain in the neck, you
know how kids are. But boxing is a
good way of working off your aggressive
tendencies. Yes, like 10-pin bowling is
for housewives”. His father was a
dentist and there were family plans for
putting him through university. ‘'But I
always found study absolute torture,
and then to spend the rest of your life
pottering around in people’s mouths—
I’d have gone crazy”.
A real heavy
ITe is fairly familiar with Australian
television, having appeared in one
of the “Whiplash” episodes. “I was a
bushranger type, a real heavy. I lost a
fight with Peter Graves and died an
awful death. It took about three hours
to get the scene right”. There have been
no dramatic offers since, but if someone
offered him a part, “I’d have a stab at
it, provided it was something I felt I
could handle. I’d be no use in a romantic
part”. (Undue modesty, but then he looks
tougher in photographs than he really
is).
And his bad memory worried him. He
remembered the interview, sure, but
people’s names and faces he was always
forgetting. “They must think I’m a real
snob, but I honestly can’t remember”,
in “Naked City”? “Well, I only said a
few words, follow that cab, or some-
thing. Nothing very long”. And if his
bad memory ever ruled out commentat-
ing, he’d be quite happy as a sports-
writer.
But it wasn’t a matter of life and
death to him, so pending negotiations,
it was back to the Holdens. Before that
there was a job with Rothmans, “a sort
of public relations They still send
me cigarettes, but I don’t smoke any
more”—and once in Germany he sold
encyclopaedias. “I spoke a little German
but. all my clients were British service
people, so it was a piece of cake. I’ve
never made so much money before. Or
since”.


Petty
Sessions...
"LEAVE IT WILSON, LEAVE IT!"
"WHERE, DID YOU SAY??"


OVERSEAS
INDONESIA-
1962
"A richness of symbological fantasy"
From our SINGAPORE CORRESPONDENT
According to President Soekarno,
1962 has been a “year of triumph”
for Indonesia. For the President
himself this is certainly true. But for
his country it has been yet another year
of hardship, decay and betrayal.
Soekarno can look back on 1962 as a
period in which his personal power
increased, his opponents were crushed or
controlled, his obsession with West New
Guinea triumphed, his yes-men increased
their subservience, and in which symbols
satisfying to his stupendous conceit
proliferated. He also survived two more
assassination attempts. In Macassar in
January he switched cars and a few
minutes later 17 chunks of grenade
shrapnel, any one of which would have
killed or seriously injured him had he
stayed, struck his usual car. . In Djakarta
in May a bullet fired by a Darul Islam
gunman bounced off the steel vest
Soekarno had taken to wearing beneath
his uniform. In January Soekarno
arrested and imprisoned a dozen
Socialist and Masjumi leaders who’d
had the guts to oppose the re-
placement of the parliamentary system
by “guided democracy” in 1960. They
are still in gaol at Madiun, East Java,
except for the most able of them, the
moderate socialist, Sutan Sjahrir, who
had forced the reluctant Soekarno to
make the declaration of independence in
1945. In November Sjahrir had to be
transferred to a military hospital in
Djakarta seriously ill with high blood
pressure and a heart condition. In or
out of prison, Sjahrir is no longer a
threat to Soekarno, nor is any other
Indonesian unless the Communists make
a move.
In August he performed the opening
ceremony of his second-string obsession
of recent years, the Asian Games. As a
symbol of Indonesian ability to waste
Russian credits the Games stadia were
perfect. And all of them from the
100,000-seat main oval to the tennis
courts (now reserved for General
Nasution and his favourite colonels) —•
were named after Bung Karno. During
the year an incredible motley of foreign
VIPs, ranging from a crooked Filipino
lobbyist seeking Djakarta’s support for
a claim to North Borneo, to the Presi-
dents of Mexico and flocked
to Soekarno’s sultanesque court bearing
gifts, praise and platitudes. Djakarta
housewives queuing for baby's milk-
powder (obtainable on doctor’s prescrip-
tion only) were able to watch in Sep-
tember the unloading at the palace gates
of crates of gilded divans imported from
Japan. In the same month, in another
part of the city, early-bird shoppers seek-
ing cooking oil (the ships that usually
bring it from Celebes were still in the
hands of the West Iran Command) were
able to watch the Army marshalling
4000 soldiers, policemen, National Front
hooligans and Communist Party youth
cadres, for a march on the Indian
Embassy because an Indian delegate had
dared to “insult the President” by point-
ing out that barring Taiwan (to please
Peking) and Israel (to please Cairo)
from the Asian Games was against the
rules. Also in September, of course,
Soekarno’s long, expensive and hysterical
campaign for West New Guinea finally
succeeded when the UN General
Assembly endorsed the Holland - Indo-
nesia agreement on the territory.
All in all, 1962 was a good year for
Soekarno. The aftermath will be diffi-
cult Soekarno now has no emotional
and nationalistic issue comparable with
West New Guinea and no excuses to
delay attempts at economic progress
but the present is heady. Officially, the
“year of triumph” dogma (the phrase
is repeated ad nauseam in the inter-
minable lectures that Cabinet members
deliver when they should be working)
rests on three main so-called achieve-
ments.
These are the restoration of internal
security, the winning of West New
Guinea, and the staging of the Asian
Games.' The first, in fact, was completed
in 1961. What happened in 1962 was
that the last handful of Darul Islam
fanatics were rounded up in West Java
and their leaders executed for their part
in the attempt to shoot Soekarno. Staging
the Asian Games was an achievement for
Indonesia in a limited, technical sense.
Some of its engineers proved that given
unlimited money, unlimited priorities,
unlimited labour and plenty of foreign
technical advice they could build large
non-productive concrete structures. If
this experience, gained so expensively, is
now put to work in building large
concrete structures that are productive
it may have been worth the price. Apart
from that the Games accounts are mainly
debits: India was alienated, half of Asia
went home from Djakarta with detailed
complaints of “cooked” draws and par-
tisan judging, and Djakarta has another
50,000 squatters (their homes were
demolished to make way for the stadia).
To that minority of Indonesians who
cared deeply and consistently for the
claim to West New Guinea the securing
of the territory is, no doubt, an achieve-
ment, a memorable moment that may
briefly buoy their spirits against the
pressures of inflation, shortages, bureau-
crats, and the other drab, frustrating
results of what one of them calls “this
fifth-rate revolution”. Support for kick-
ing out the Dutch and, at the same time,
disenchantment with the direction of the


revolution is not inconsistent or un-
common. Disenchantment is likely to be
increased by the approaching evidence of
the extra burden that West New Guinea
will place on Indonesia. The money,
doctors, nurses, technicians, shipping and
aircraft services, teachers, medicines and
administrators that Indonesia will have
to supply merely to maintain the status
quo there w'ill mean further gaps and
shortages in the already threadbare eco-
nomies and services of the home islands.
Indonesians are experts at making
sacrifices and they have been led to be-
lieve that the “liquidation of colonialism’’
in Indonesia would remove many
obstacles to material progress.
Costly xenophobia
many years the reverse is likely
to be true. Indonesians have already
'had a bitter taste of the cost of their
leaders’ professional xenophobia. In
1957-58, again in the magic name of
West Irian, 30,000 skilled Dutchmen
were forced out of Indonesia. The Dutch
lost £AIOOO millions in assets. Indonesia
lost an economy. More than 500 vital
enterprises—plantations, mines, factories,
merchant houses, and power stations—-
most of them earning or saving foreign
exchange were taken over by bureau-
crats and colonels who had neither the
skill nor the energy to manage them
effectively. The self-sufficient, subsis-
tence-level section of the population,
involving perhaps 70 million peasants,
jogged along much as before, contribu-
ting little to the economy and receiving
even less from it, resilient but stagnant.
The productive cash-earning, trading
economy of the rest of Indonesia, in-
volving about 20 million people, was
plunged into a disorder, quickly followed
by decay, from which it has not yet
begun to recover and which, in fact,
shows many signs of worsening.
The Humphrey Report, the recent
American survey of the Indonesian
economy containing proposals for future
US aid, which is shortly to be considered
by Congress, is a painfully restrained
document but even its tactful authors
cannot conceal their dismay. They
recommend US grants and
loans to Indonesia totalling between
$196,000,000 and $232,000,000. (The
latter figure is just $70,000,000 less than
the total of foreign exchange reserves
that Indonesia managed to squander in
1961 alone on imports of civilian in-
essentials and military equipment.) The
Humphrey recommendations come with
what Afro-Asian neutrals call “strings”
—the report says, in effect, that the US
should only give the money and credits
for American-selected essential projects
and refuse it for inessential or premature
projects no matter how keen the Indo-
nesians are on them. The report was
released at the height of the State De-
partment’s pressure on the Dutch and
thus the “strings” attracted no open
reactions in Djakarta then. But now the
government, particularly the Foreign
Office, is attacking “strings” on aid with-
out, of course, naming the Americans.
This campaign conveniently forgets that
all Communist bloc .non-military aid to
Indonesia (more than $650,000,000 in
credits since 1956) has come with the
tightest of instructions.
But Indonesia cannot press its pro-
fessed suspicion of aid conditions too
far; it is absolutely essential that another
lump of American money arrives and
the Japanese, whose $400,000,000 re-
parations payments are almost finished,
are also now being alternately courted
and squeezed for more. For the Eight-
Year Plan (1961-69) is still stuck fast in -
the mire of near-bankruptcy. The Plan
is more a list of desired achievements
than a blueprint for material progress.
It was drawn up by the late Mr Yamin
who arranged his 5000-page shopping
list in eight volumes, 17 chapters and
1945 items to match, with what Soekarno
delightedly called a “richness of sym-
bological fantasy”, the date of Indo-
nesia’s independence declaration—August
17, 1945. The Plan’s symbolism has yet
to be translated into more cloth or more
rice or its astronomical proposed budget
(240,000 million rupiahs of which
$1,700,000,000 is required in foreign
exchange) into revenues.
And the odds are that they will not
be in this decade. The Humphrey team
says the Plan's rice targets “appear un-
attainable”; that its estimates of foreign
exchange revenue are “over-optimistic”;
that the planners “underestimate the
effects of inflation”; that the Plan’s in-
clusion of “cultural projects’’, its
emphasis on consumption in the early
years, and its reluctance to increase
taxation are all “inconsistent with a
serious effort at economic development .
The team doubts that “the true economic
costs of the projects have been cor-
rectly assessed” and that “the priorities
implied in the scheduling of projects are
rational”. In other w'ords, the Plan is a
fabrication, a piece of window-dressing
designed to dazzle the masses and for
Indonesian delegates to quote from at
the innumerable international confer-
ences they attend between their overseas
shopping sprees.
And, in effect, the Plan has been
abandoned as were the Plans of 1951
and 1956. What is being attempted is
a disjointed collection of textile factories
(on Japanese, Chinese and British credit),
steel mills (Russian), fertilizer plants
(American. Russian, Japanese), mineral
surveys (Russian, Japanese), hydro
schemes (the French are building one,
the Russians surveying another), rice
“ranches” (the Czechs are having a dis-
astrous time m the wilds of Sumatra and
Borneo), and rehabilitation of the ram-
shackle railways (German and American
rolling stock) and the scanty inter-island
shipping services (freighter deliveries
from Poland and Yugoslavia are pro-
ceeding smoothly).
Still inexplicably absent, however, is
a top-priority, nation-wide drive to grow
more rice—the self-sufficiency target is
1963 but next year's imports will cost
Indonesia at least $100,000,000 in hard,
spot cash. Successive governments have
played with this problem but none of
them has tackled it with the only means
it will respond to: higher prices to
farmers, more rural power, roads and
irrigation, and cheaper and better-
distributed chemical fertilizers. Mean- .
while Indonesia goes on paying increas-
ing amounts for imported rice from its
steadily decreasing foreign exchange
revenues. This is the Gordian knot of
the economy. And there's nobody in
sight with a sword.
The exporting section of Indonesia’s
agriculture is also deep in trouble. The
Humphrey reporters estimate that more
than half the country's rubber trees are
now at the age for cutting down.and
replanting. “Production,” they say, “is
bound to decline sharply in future,
especially on small holdings”. By neglect-
ing replanting (now estimated as 20 -
years behind) Indonesia is ruining an
industry that provides between one-third
and half of its export earnings. In
suggesting an eight-year replanting pro-
gramme (the trees do not yield for
at least five years) the Americans
recommend Indonesia be granted a
$45,000,000 World Bank loan to com-
pensate for the interim loss of exports
caused by felling old trees.
The latest figures and estimates avail-
able for major crops are those of 1961.
Unless there have been miraculous re-
coveries this year current production of
rubber, coffee, sugar, fibres, palm oil, -
tea and copra—all hard-currency earners
—is lower than in 1938. Sugar produc-
tion is down about 40 p.c. on 1955.
Rubber exports are down 20 p.c. on
1959, coffee exports down 20 p.c. on
1957, copra exports down 50 p.c. on
1957, fibre exports dow n 50 p.c. on 1956,
and palm oil exports down 25 p.c. on
1957.
The reasons for this comprehensive
and accelerating decline are various. The
revolution and later insecurity often
made good or consistent husbandry
difficult, governments have neglected
maintenance of rural services, inflation
has reduced the incentive to farmers to
produce exportable crops, the expulsion
of the Dutch experts has left priceless
plantations in the hands of bureaucrats,
and the banning of Chinese traders from
rural areas has completed the chaos in
the agricultural credit network caused


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Hanking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
ill?
JACKSON
OSUCUVAN ./
: PTYLTD
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd,
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Fruiters, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHBRS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
by the closing of the Dutch banks and
commodity buyers. And the frightening
increase in the population which
totalled 89 millions in 1958, 100 millions
now —means that much that was once
exported is now consumed at home and
much land that once produced cash
crops has been turned over to family
food crops.
The potential of the country remains
enormous and President Soekarno claims
that Indonesia can provide “food and
comfort for 200 millions.” In 25 years or
so, when even the pessimists do not
expect Soekarno still to be alive, that is
likely to be the actual population of
Indonesia.
Spurious' Revolutionaries
"Out the present Djakarta government
which is responsible for planning now
for this testing future and, as it is now
promising, for attempting to alleviate
the current hardships is singularly un-
fitted for either task. The present
Cabinet, the majority of which Soekarno
gathered around him in 1959, is a col-
lection of professional hypocrites and
spurious revolutionaries more interested
in denying power to others than using
it themselves.
Several of its 30 civilian members,
Dr Subandrio and Mining Minister Mr
Chairul Saleh, for instance, are talented
enough to be fit for tasks other than
peddling left-wing neutrality and harry?
ing foreign oil companies. The rest dis-
play only the ability occasionally to catch
the President's ear and daily to parrot
his speeches, theories, lies and promises.
Their ineptitude as administrators is
further compounded by the deficiencies
of the enormous, under-paid, under-
trained and dispirited civil service. The
Army group, which controls the minis-
tries of agriculture, labor, communica-
tions, industry and public works as well
as defence and police, has failed to intro-
duce any of the order or discipline of
its barracks into its civilian duties. In
the mid-fifties, when the ping-pong of
45 political parties had produced ten
coalition cabinets in eight years, the
military looked the hope of Indonesia.
.Today it is almost completely discredited
except as an anti-rebel force. Its elite
has been corrupted by the pickings of
civilian power, it has toed the Soekarno
line which bans “Communist-phobia”, it
has been the instrument of the suppres-
sion of the Press and the detention of
moderate politicians, and, in the political
charade of preparing for a military
campaign it knew very well it would
never undertake because of the physical
difficulties of West New Guinea and its
approaches, it has allowed the impover-
ished country to be saddled with a
military debt of at least SUSSOO millions
to the Soviet Union. General Nasution,
Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces, no
doubt considers himself a patriot, but
in the last three years he has contributed
enormously to the continuing betrayal
of the Indonesian revolution by its
leaders.
Theoretically, Soekarno’s search for a
political system appropriate to Indo-
nesian conditions seemed to have struck
paydirt when he announced his 1959
political manifesto of “guided democ-
racy”. In hobbling parliament and the
political parties and forming a strong
executive he seemed to be opening a
way for plans to become actions, orders
to be obeyed, corruption to be purged
and resources to be well-spent. But none
of these needs have been met. Instead
the opportunities of power have been
used only to satisfy the obsession with
West New Guinea without counting the
cost, to pursue the mirage of Afro-Asian
bloc leadership, to suppress all criticism,
to allow the Communists more scope in
exchange for lip-service and Russian aid,
to soak the rising generation in the
dogmas of ultra-nationalism and to
slander the parliamentary system and
liberalism.
The “palace guard”, which clusters
opportunistically around Soekarno and
which must take its share of the blame
for Indonesia’s present state of material
and political health, has its rivalries
despite its single-minded dedication to
staying in power and reaping material
rewards. Currently, it is undergoing its
severest tensions since it took office. Dr
Djuanda, the mild and insignificant First
Minister, is ill and expected to step
down. For his place there appear to be
three contenders: Dr. Subandrio (who, if
successful, also wants to hang on to the
Foreign Office portfolio); Mining Minis-
ter Saleh, whose claims are being
pressed by the Murba (originally Trot-
skyites) faction; and Lt.-Gen. Hidajat
(his wife is the naive mouthpiece of the
Communist-controlled Indonesian Peace
Council) who is Nasution's man and his
chief assistant at the Defence Ministry.
Complicating these rivalries is a push by
Mr Roeslan Abdulgani. Soekarno’s top
political theorist and formerly Foreign
Minister, for a higher Cabinet post. On
the recent death of Mr Yamin, Abdulgani
was lifted from temporary disfavour
to the Information Ministry and is
now setting his sights on the
Foreign Ministry again. It is safe
to say that he could get that post only
over the dead body of Dr Subandrio and
after a walk-out by the Army group
(which arrested him for corruption back
in the braver days of 1956). No doubt
the decisive factor in these swirling
rivalries will be the word of the Presi-
dent after he has weighed on his
sensitive political scales the present
positions of the Army and the Com-
munists and their likely truculence or
pleasure in reaction to all possible
Cabinet variations. Further complicating
matters is the posture of ambition being
displayed by General Ahmad Jani who
made his military reputation against the
Sumatra rebels in 1958 and who
recently succeeded Nasution as Army
Chief of Staff.
Jani is now reported by some of his
former associates to be a “palace man”
and this disturbs them at a time when
Army solidarity is needed. The Army is
not at all happy about Soekarno’s plan
to lift the State of Emergency, imposed
in 1957. This gives the military counter-
manding powers over most civilian
authorities, especially in the provinces,
and allows it, in the name of security, to
initiate regulations. These Emergency
controls have long been a main target
of Communist Party attacks because,
inter alia, they restrict public meetings,
strikes, publishing and travel. In propa-
ganda, recruiting and labour agitation
the Communists have often managed to
evade these controls but they want them
scrapped. The Party’s chairman, Mr
Dipa Aidit, is now gleefully sitting on
the committee Soekarno has appointed
to dismantle the Emergency apparatus.


WELCOME
HOME
SHORT STORY BY
DOUGLAS TERRY
He waits on patiently , tormented by a burning pair
of almond eyes and the mirage of a distant country.
IN his new suit with a camera slung
over his shoulder he looked like a
tourist. The taxi-driver at the airport
mistook him for one and tried to take
him round all the back streets and then
cheat him over the fare but Ahmed,
hands gesturing in mild irritation, spoke
sharply to him in his own dialect. The
driver threw his bag onto the pavement
and drove off muttering to himself.
Ahmed was home.
It took those inside the house some
time to come to their senses. His mother
dropped her broom in the kitchen,
screamed with her hand over her mouth
and had to sit down while she recovered.
The servants scurried about getting in
everyone's way. They opened his case,
ran their hands through the contents, re-
moving the souvenirs he had remem-
bered to bring back. Someone phoned
his father at the office and while Ahmed
waited the word spread along the street
and the neighbours began to drift in, to
embrace, shake hands and to hear the
latest. . - /
“Salaam wa aleikum.”
“Wa aleikum salaam.”
“You have changed, Ahmed. You are
fatter but your clothes fit you well.”
They stood off to admire, nodding their
heads with approval. “Your trip has done
you good. We are delighted to see you.
May your shadow never grow less.”
They fingered his coat, smiling with envy.
“How do you see Australia?”
“It is a good country. I am going back
there after a few weeks.”
They frowned in disappointment, a
pursing of lips, a shifting of stance.
“That is a special grief for us. You
should settle down here. This too is a
good country, don't forget. Your father
will not be pleased. He has made many
sacrifices.”
“I shall talk to him.”
Then he was shown over the new
house with its European fittings, the
strips of fluorescent lighting, the tele-
vision set, the garish mantel ornaments. It
looked he thought as if the whole tribe
had just moved in from their tents and
squatted with their desert habits in that
bleak modern house. The drains dis-
charged onto the uneven tiled floors, the
windows were warped from the hot sun,
the back door was nailed tight shut and
some electrician for convenience had run
a live wire through the keyhole. The
toilet door would not close properly and
someone had cut a rectangle out of it to
stop it banging against the seat. There
were no books on the shelves, no paint-
ings on the walls and no privacy. It was
all terribly familiar yet somehow he felt
memory had lied to him. It was hard to
believe that not so long ago he had lived
in much the same manner.
“May Allah look after you, my son.”
“Peace to you, father.”
“After five years in a foreign country
you have changed, I think.” He held a
cube of sugar between his teeth and
sucked his tea through it. He flicked a
string of amber beads in his right hand.
“Had we known in time,” he said, “we
could have made suitable preparations
for your arrival.”
“Did you not receive my cable?”
Ahmed asked. “I sent it a week ago.”
His father shrugged his shoulders with
the air of one long accustomed to such
misadventures. “The postal authorities
are not very expert. Things often go
astray. Perhaps it was in Australia that
they made the mistake. It will show up
in due course.”
He gave orders foi the servants to get
food from the souk. \
They scampered off while the others
found places on carpeted benches set
up round the walls. They were bursting
with interest and made him repeat
everything he -had ever written to them
about the strange country Australia. It
was very trying, he might have been
talking about another planet. He could
see even now they hardly believed a
word he said. When was Australia going
to become independent? they asked.
Hew could a State be free when the
Queen was English and the people there
had no choice? He tried to explain but
it got very complicated and they didn't
understand. They talked about food,
clothing, the manners of foreigners,
everyone it seemed had a contribution
to make. Australia is an island? Yes. Like
Bahrein? No, bigger. And the sheiks are
bigger? No, there are no sheiks. But
there are camels? Yes, there are camels.
Are the people black? Some of them.
What language do they speak? Wagga-
waggaulladullamilparinka. What does
that mean? I don’t know. You studied
fer five years and you don't understand
their language? That is a special tongue,
only the mullahs use it. What God do
these Australians worship?
After an hour or so of this interroga-
tion Ahmed’s head was ringing, his im-
patience mounting. They stood round
tables where there were plates piled high
Vvith rice and chunks of chicken and
sheep and chattered on endlessly. His
father gave special place to Ahmed's


first cousin. The girl had almond eyes,
prominent breasts and bangles of tur-
quoise that jangled when she moved.
Ahmed saw through the plot. The girl’s
mother had visited the holy cities and
her pilgrim eyes savoured temptation
darkly through a veil. The father owned
a carpet shop in the souk near the North
Gate. He stood in a glossy suit running
a string of beads over his fingers as he
calculated the dowry. Ahmed was in-
different. His father was annoyed.
“Tt is better for you to forget now,” he
A said, wiping some rice from his chin.
“You are home. You have finished your
studies. It is time you married a Moslem
girl and settled down with us. We have
many friends in high positions who can
help you. Your loyalty is to us and to
them.”
“I am not a child, father,” he whisper-
ed back as the neighbours jostled like
camels close to the food. “In Australia, as
I have told you, I have a car, a fiancee,
a small flat and a Kuwait chest full of
clothes, all waiting for me there. I came
back only because you begged me to see
you in your old age. I have done my
duty. Prosperity has come to this house
and I am glad. But I do not wish to
share it.” He nodded a greeting to a
cousin who was nudging his arm. He
turned again to face his father. “I have
completed my examination in Engineer-
ing and after Christmas they will grant
me the degree. I have an excellent job
arranged with a firm for next year. Per-
haps after a little while when we are
established you will honor us with a
visit. But I say with respect, I have a
return air ticket with me and I propose
to use it.”
His father frowned, smiled politely to
one of the neighbours then drew Ahmed
aside. “You students are all the same,”
he said fiercely. “You go to University
and pick up all sorts of corrupt ideas.
You reject your own past, your country
is now not good enough. This is a sick-
ness that is becoming common in our
city. A fish rots from the head down. I
should never have let you take that
scholarship.”
“You don't understand at all.”
“I understand very well. You are my
son, I wish you to succeed. But here
where you are needed, not in Australia.
However, I do not quarrel with you.”
He shrugged his shoulders gloomily.
“This is your mattress. You must lie on
it.”
When the others had gone he was
shown to a back room where things had
been arranged for him. The news that
he was shortly returning took the edge
off much of their pleasure, especially
his mother's, but they all laughed and
joked with him. kept plying him with
sweetmeats that upset his stomach and
sat on his bed for hours until he was
ready to drop.
When he was not swapping small talk
with relatives he was out roaming the
town looking up old friends. Some of
them he discovered had got caught up
in politics and were in prison or had
been exiled. Others had left the country.
The few that remained were surprised to
see him and he had difficulty resuming
the old ties. He had been away too long
to feel at ease.
He plodded along under the colon-
nades of the main street peering into
shop windows or just sitting in the chai-
khana yawning and watching the crowd
pass, the lean desert types muffled up in
sheepskin coats, the women in black
abbaya, gold flashing from teeth and ear.
At dusk the vendors of boiled turnips
were out with flaring lamps trundling
their barrows. It was all a leisurely dig-
nified life but it came to him raw and
sharp like brushing an exposed nerve.
Images of Australia kept rattling round
inside his head.
Pf'tHE city was not his, really. There had
been too many changes in his ab-
sence. The discovery of oil had stimu-
lated an exaggerated growth. Bulldozers
were tearing down the old quarter and
modern buildings with lifts in them
were going up. There were now large
concrete blocks of government offices
and stores displaying the latest styles
from Europe.
After a week he was ready to go.
He went to the Passport and Resi-
dence Permit Office. It was in an old
Turkish-styie house by the river.
The man at the enquiry desk was a
civilian, thin, electric, with a blue bow
tie. He sliced the air with a manicured
hand. He had been abroad, too, he quick-
ly informed Ahmed, to America, and his
manner was smug and comfortable. He
flipped through the passport. “Yes, you’ve
come to the right place,” he said. “We
issue visas in forty-eight hours. There’s
no difficulty. There’s the form you must
fill in. It’s an exit visa you want? Good.
Just answer the questions and leave the
form with us. We make a very modest
charge for the service.” He ran his eye
over the passport again. “The only
document we'll need from you at this
stage is your army clearance. Have you
brought it along? No? Never mind.
Bring it tomorrow.”
“What army clearance?” he asked.
“It’s nothing much,” he said. “Just a
trifle really. Under a new regulation,
brought in last week I believe it was,
we cannot issue visas to our own nation-
als unless they provide proof of having
completed military service. It's just one
of those regulations. You’ve been in the
Army, of course?” he asked.
Ahmed shook his head. It didn’t look
too promising.
“Not even as an officer?” The man
was surprised, then indignant. “But
you have been to school, you can read
and write. How do you account for this
omission?”
Ahmed gave him a precis of his life
history. He had never been much inter-
ested in the Army as a career he said
and likewise the Army had never dis-
played much interest in him. Then he had
been away for the last five years. It
could all be easily checked from the
records.
He clicked his tongue. “It’s only my
idea, friend,” he said, “but I would say
that you are eligible for eighteen months
military duty. If you go near the proper
authorities they will snap you up. A
man with your training would be an ac-
quisition to any Army. Just between our-
selves, I suggest you keep clear of them
and risk being fined for evasion.”
“If I do that, how then can I get a
visa? After all, I’m only here on a quick
visit to pay my respects to my family
and then leave. It’s not as if I propose
settling down.”
“It makes no difference,” he said,
lighting a taper under the visitor’s nails.
“We have our regulations to follow.
There is, of course, one possibility. You
can pay an amount in cash to the Army
Welfare Fund which is accepted in lieu
of service. All the intellectuals like myself
are doing it. I personally can recommend
it. In the long run it works out to your
' own advantage.”
“How much is the payment?” Ahmed
asked.
“Well it varies you know. It is really
calculated on the basis of one’s capacity
to pay. Or put another way, it’s 5 per
cent, of your possible earnings over
eighteen months. Your salary I imagine
is quite high, not as high as Europeans
here but higher than that generally being
paid to locals who haven't been abroad.
Sc 5% is a very reasonable sum. Let’s
not haggle about it.” He jotted down a
few' figures on paper. “In sterling I sup-
pose you would be up for about £l5O.
That’s quite modest, isn't it?”
Ahmed didn't think so. It was more
than the price of his fare to Aus-
tralia. The omens did not look at all
favourable. He came away feeling a
condemned man. He was beginning to
suspect treachery.
The officer in the Ministry of Defence
had not tried to buy his w'ay out of the
service. His chest was aflame with ribbons
which for a country free from war for
fifty years was in itself remarkable.
“I want an army clearance permitting


me to get an exit visa so that I can re-
turn to Australia, to my friends, to my
fidncee and to my studies,” he said.
The officer pushed the papers aside
on his desk. His manner was like a
bayonet, sharp and to the point.
“Have you a letter to say you are a
student? No? Then we need some formal
proof that your present studies are in-
complete. We can defer your call-up until
you have graduated.”
“What sort of evidence would be ac-
cepted?” he asked.
“You must bring a letter from the
University authorities and another from
whoever is our diplomatic representative
in Australia, the consul or the ambas-
sador.” He thought for a moment. “Yes,
two letters should be adequate.”
Ahmed couldn't see either of these let-
ters forthcoming. His particulars
were taken down, University of Mel-
bourne, Engineering, the lot. He had
time to count fifteen different service
colors on his tunic. “This must go be-
fore the Board. I'll see that they con-
sider your case favorably.”
Time and money were both slipping
by. Ahmed grew anxious. He read where
a company trading in earthmoving equip-
ment had a vacancy for an engineer. It
wasn’t much of a job but it would do as
a fill in. He applied and was listed for
an interview. The employment manager
crouched behind a desk the size of a
billiard table and spoke in short gasps.
He explained apologetically that he had
been to a friend’s wedding and one of
the other guests in celebrating had acci-
dentally shot him in the chest.
“You say you are an engineer?”
“I have completed my studies and I
am waiting to receive my degree.”
“Officially, then, you are not an en-
gineer.”
“Officially, no. But the awarding of
the degree is only a formality.”
“Does the Ministry of Education
recognise University degrees issued in
Australia? We are not interested, you see,
in the second rate. I shall have to make
enquiries at the Ministry.”
Then Ahmed got involved in a long
rigmarole about University documents.
No, he had not brought them, he said,
because he had not planned on staying.
They would find it difficult to employ
him, the man said, if he were contem-
plating leaving soon but, if he could
bring all the necessary documents, he,
the employment manager, would person-
ally see that something was done. He
turned to answer the telephone. Ahmed
noticed he kept the drawer of his desk
open. He did not feel like making a sub-
scription. He walked out.
At the small department store nearby
he fared no better. The grapevine re-
ported that they needed a translator
there. The pay was pitiful, translators
were ten a dinar, but he needed the
money so he went along to the inter-
view. A little Armenian with a row of
steel teeth gave him some passages to
turn into English and he came through
with flying colours. He said Ahmed
could start the following Saturday but
first he had to check his military service
card. There was a new regulation you
see dealing with the employment of
nationals. Ahmed began explaining. Five
minutes later he was out in the street.
They were all sitting round the room
eating dates, drinking glasses of tea when
he got home. They enquired after his
health and chattered on about the events
of the day. There was a letter for him,
said his father, casually removing it from
his pocket. Ferhaps it was important, it
might be of help. He passed it over to
his son, eyeing him intently. The others
watched in silence as he removed it from
the envelope. It was a helpful letter
certainly, one that were better gone
astray. It informed him that he was
officially eligible for military service
forthwith.
Ahmed went off to his room to write
a few air-letters.
next day he reported to Army Bar-
racks. They lay on the outskirts of
town near the airport, a bleak shabby
place of tents and wooden huts. Under
some gum trees a detachment of sol-
diers was practising rifle drill and in the
distance a line of light tanks was churn-
ing up the dust. By the entrance gate
were tethered some horses and their
riders were dozing in the shade of a
hedge. High overhead in a wintry sky
there were eagles turning lazy circles.
His presence clearly embarrassed the
corporal on sentry duty. He examined
his papers twice. “Come back tomorrow,”
he said, frowning and rubbing his mous-
tache. “We are not ready for you yet.”
“But it says here,” Ahmed indicated
the place on the document, “that I have
to report today. That is what I am doing,
reporting to you, today.”
“Ah, that's the Commanding Officer,”
he said knowingly. “You mustn't take
him too literally. He is young and enthu-
siastic, he does not know our routine
yet. The Army is much more tolerant
really.” He smiled at the newcomer as he
handed back the papers. “We don't wish
to take men immediately from their
work. Many of them are married, they
have children and other responsibilities.
You know how it is. We like to give
them plenty of notice so they can pre-
pare themselves. In any case we have
too many men on our list. If they all
turned up where would we put them? I
ask you. The place would be a mess in
no time. They would all have to be fed
on the government account; some would
need horses, others rifles and uniforms.
Imagine the planning involved in all
that.” He paused, closing his eyes to
imagine all the planning. “Now I have
a better idea,” he offered. “Why don’t
you make it easy for us and pay a sub-
scription to the Army Fund? It’s quicker,
more efficient, it makes for good rela-
tions between the community and the
Army which after all is only its agent.
In addition we give receipts. It’s not
taxable and it frees you of the incon-
venience of living in barracks.”
He rattled the bolt of his rifle a couple
of times to indicate the speech was over;
the Army had spoken. He turned aside
to bark some orders at a few in uniform
lounging nearby. They too had somehow
failed to find a subscription for the
Fund.
“It’s all very well for you to talk like
that,” said Ahmed, not taking the dis-
missal so lightly, “but this a question
involving the liberty of the citizen. Free-
dom requires the exercise of certain
duties. One of my duties is to defend
my country. We are surrounded by
enemies, we must be ever vigilant. It is
as our government says. These are
troubled times. I know my rights in the
matter. I demand to be called up.”
A lieutenant came along on a bicycle
and he listened while Ahmed said his
piece. He called up a captain and they
went over the same ground again. It did
no good at all.
“Come back tomorrow,” they said.
“I know my rights.”
“Tomorrow,” they said.
“I owe it to my country.”
“Tomorrow.”
Ahmed goes back to them every day.
His loyalty is intense. He sits on a bench
and watches the horses parading, the
men practising rifle drill, the light tanks
churning up the dirt. Overhead an occa-
sional aircraft passes, flying possibly
east towards Australia. He drinks tea
with the officers and reads their news-
papers. They are his friends now and
some of them, he doesn't doubt, will
come and visit him when they go on
leave. He cannot get a job because he has
no army clearance. He cannot get a
clearance because they are not quite
ready for him. He has no money and has
to borrow from his family. His father
has offered to pull a few wires for him.
In Australia he had a car, a fiancee, a
flat, a trunk full of clothes. They recall
a time of happiness and the memory
deepens his sorrow. He carries a string
of beads like everyone else but is barely
aware of it. He waits on patiently, tor-
mented by a burning pair of almond eyes
and the mirage of a distant country.


INTERNATIONAL
LABOUR OFFICE
Vacancy for Member of Division, Public
Information Division, 1.L.0., Geneva
Duties: Administrative assistance in the 1.L.0.
visual information programme, which includes
television and film production, preparation of
filmstrips, booklets, posters etc.
Qualifications: University degree or equivalent
professional experience, thorough technical
knowledge and administrative ability. Working
knowledge of French. Candidates must be
Australian, between 23 and 35 years of age.
Salary: U.S. $6,130 $9,870. Starting salary will
depend on qualifications and experience.
Family and education allowances payable and
salary free of tax.
Applications: to be made on special form
obtainable from Higher Appointments Office,
Commonwealth Employment Service, in capital
city in each State, and to be returned to these
offices not lai'er than 25th January, 1963.
letters
to the
editor
ANATOMY OF A
FELLOW-TRAVELLER
Sir,
I was surprised to find in the The
Bulletin (December 8) the ingratiating
journalistic vitriol of Mr Fairbairn given
space under Forum. Mr Fairbairn’s chief
criticism of the Fellow-Traveller which
one can just distinguish among the
“clever” sexual imagery and specious
argument is that he lacks the courage to
stand openly as a member of the Com-
munist Party.
Because of this Mr Fairbairn assumes
the man to be some poor-spirited invert.
I fail to see the logic of this assumption;
how many members of the Liberal or
any other party would have the courage
of their convictions if the public reaction
to their views were similar to the
attitude towards Communists in this
country?
Doubtless this lack of courage would
be wounding to such blazing integrity as
Mr Fairbairn’s but these weak (perhaps
homosexual!) people are nevertheless
allowed to vote. Surely one of the
reasons for the secret ballot is to prevent
such persecution as Mr Fairbairn expects
a minority to embrace with orgiastic
ecstasy.
GEORGINA BATTERHAM
Paddington {NSW).
ACCURATE HISTORY
Sir,
In The Bulletin of November 24,
M. H. Ellis said that an article I wrote
in “Meanjin”, “More on Ellis v. Evatt,”
was “marred by schoolboy howlers in
statement of fact, prejudice and school-
boy judgments.”
1 uphold the judgments of my
“Meanjin” article, and suggest that The
Bulletin sponsor an independent
enquiry into their validity.
MICHAEL ROE
University of Tasmania {Hobart).
HISTORY WITHOUT FACTS
Sir,
Messrs Gardiner and Martin's sugges-
tions (Bulletin, December 15) that, be-
cause Shakespear’s name is spelt in a
number of different consonant ways, an
historian would be justified in writing it
Shakegrin; and that because some cap-
tains are now loosely called skippers the
words may be treated as having been
synonymous in 1606. do not appeal to my
degenerate antiquarianism.
On the other hand their real or feigned
lack of understanding of the nature of
the complaint against Professor Clark’s
work, does. Their cry for a “Companion”
has touched my heart. I shall write one
to Part One during the coming week, and
offer it for publication under the title:
KLIO, ETWAS GEBtiCKT.
They must not blame me if Professor
Clark translates that wrongly for them.
J. W. FORSYTH
Avalon {NSW).
P.S. May I offer here an apology for
having wrongly stated (Bulletin,
November 3) that Professor Clark gave
the date of Brouwer’s trial of the new
route as 1610.
BITCHES AND DOGS
Sir,
In reply to Mr Louis O. Bancroft
(Bulletin, December 15), “a small
grazier for forty years pitting his wits
against the dingo,” of Eidsvold (NSW).
My comments are: (1) If he can trap as
many bitches as dogs then he has a for-
mula unknown to trappers in Western
Queensland; (2) If he catches 15 a year,
and his small neighbors do the same, the
dingoes must be so thick they are crowd-
ing each other into the traps; (3) If the
numbers 1 and 2 are nearly correct, and
if the scalp money is worth-while, he
could knock off being a small grazier and
make big money as a professional trapper.
In conclusion, and without a number:
How does he know the destruction of
bitches doesn’t keep the numbers down?
By my reckoning seven and a half bitches
would have an annual increase of just on
40 pups. The dingoes must indeed be
thick when a yearly addition of 40 isn’t
noticeable, even to a small grazier.
HENRY G. LAMOND
Greenslopes {Queensland).
THE CURRIE AFFAIR
Sir,
The Bulletin has now documented
the presence of undercover Communists
in three State branches of the ALP—first
Victoria, then Queensland, and now Tas-
mania (Bulletin, December 15).
This is more serious than the mere dis-
comfiture of the present official Opposi-
tion in Federal Parliament, and in fact
underlines a situation which is dangerous
to our survival as a free country.
The Communist Party now plans to
come to power in democracies like Aus-
tralia by packing undercover Com-
munists into the major Social Democratic
Party, which, in Australia, is the ALP.
British Labor leader Herbert Morrison
last year reprinted and distributed copies
of a Communist text-book describing this
method, as a warning to the democracies
to be on guard. In the foreword he de-
scribed this as the greatest threat the
system of British Parliamentary Demo-
cracy had yet faced.
Despite the mounting evidence not one
ALP member has been expelled in the
last three years in any of these three
States for Communist associations.
With the ALP now so obviously un-
able to extricate itself from the Com-
munist toils, the need for an alternative
party to replace the ALP as the Federal
official Opposition is essential for a
healthy democracy.
While things remains as they are,
national survival will require the con-
tinuation of the present Federal Govern-
ment in office indefinitely, which is not
good for democracy.
GEORGE COOK
Brisbane.
UPFIELD AND DAVISON
Sir,
In your issue of December 1 there is
a four-column interview with detective-
novel writer Arthur Upheld, by Patricia
Rolfe, in which I was much interested to
read the following: “But the main
trouble with Australian writing has been
people writing for each other and not for
the market. In the ’twenties Frank Dalby
Davidson (my italics) and Vance Palmer
used to write books. Then they would
review each other's and praise them to
the skies. People would buy them and
find they were no good, and then they


DIRECTOR OF RESEARCH
AND PUBLIC RELATIONS
required by
AUSTRALIAN BANKERS' ASSOCIATION
DUTIES: To plan, organise and control the activities of the Association’s
well-established Research and Public Relations Offices in Sydney
and Melbourne.
QUALIFICATIONS: An appreciation of economic issues, established skills
in public relations and advertising, a dedication to the Free Enterprise
way of life and executive talents of a high order are essential.
Practical experience in banking would be an advantage. Age about
35- 50.
SALARY: Minimum emolument at high level together with substantial
executive privileges appropriate to the important status of the position.
APPLICATIONS: Confidential. Please detail qualifications, experience, age,
training, ’phone numbers and other relevant information.
Apply in writing before 5.00 p.m. Thursday, 3rd January, 1963, to:
Executive Selection Division,
JOHN P. YOUNG & ASSOCIATES PTY. LTD.
Management Consultants,
CALTEX HOUSE, 167 KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
or to our offices in Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
wouldn't buy any more Australian
books.”
I don't mind dear Upheld giving his
rugged version of recent Australian
literary history and forthright evaluation
of his contemporaries to your interviewer
if it makes him feel good; but there are
things that matter, and I do wish that he
or Miss Rolf, or you, or your proof-
reader or somebody had taken the trouble
to spell my name correctly.
FRANK DALBY DAVISON
Arthur's Creek {Victoria).
AUSTRALIAN JEWS
Sir,
Your otherwise accurate report on
the ECAJ conference in Sydney
(Bulletin, December 8) did not bring
out one matter of considerable political
interest.
Jewish leaders in Victoria are cur-
rently being blamed for two things: It
is alleged that they did not approach the
ALP first, that is, before the Liberals,
on the matter of Soviet Jewry, and,
secondly, it is said that they did not
warn ALP politicians that the matter was
about to be brought up by the Liberals
in parliament, thereby confusing the
ALP on the issue.
Yet Mr Liebler, in his public relations
report at the conference, made it per-
fectly clear that Mr Einfeld, the then
President of the ECAJ and Labor MHR,
was asked to bring up the matter of
Soviet Jewry as early as March, and
that he did nothing, and that he was
warned by Mr Liebler personally about
the impending Liberal intervention in
July, three months before that inter-
vention took place. Mr Liebler further
disclosed that Senator Kennelly said
categorically that Mr Einfeld had told
him nothing about all this and he
blamed Mr Einfeld for the subsequent
embarrassment.
It also appears that Mr Einfeld,
despite his claims to the contrary, did
not approach Sir Garfield Barwick or
any other member of the Cabinet on the
matter of Soviet Jewry. If the Victorians
under Ashkanasy’s leadership had not
dealt with the matter, it would have been
left unattended.
The channels of communication
between the ALP and the Jewish com-
munity broke down because Mr Einfeld,
for reasons better known to himself,
decided to clog them.
MARY RINGELBLUM
Sydney.
WILLIAM LENNON’S KNEE
Sir,
In his Tom Mutch Memorial Lecture
(condensed in The Bulletin of
25/8/62), M. H. Ellis exhorted
historians to find out the facts and pre-
sent them in “a just setting .... unen-
hanced and, also, unbleached by too much
sunlight or obscured by too much pro-
paganda fog, or prejudice.”
The rest of the lecture appears to have
been devoted to quoting examples of how
other Australian historians have departed
from the principles laid down by M. H.
Ellis.
However, when M. H. Ellis reviewed
Clem Lack's “Three Decades of Queens-
land Politics 1929-60” in The Bulletin
of October 20, he quoted several passages
relating to the political career of William
Lennon which were classic examples of
what M. H. Ellis expects every historian
not to do.
There may be some excuse for Mr
Lack, because his work would have been
completed before he had the opportunity
of hearing M. H. Ellis’s lecture. There
is no excuse for the reviewer embellish-
ing Mr Lack’s embellishments.
An example—Mr Lack assumes that
William Lennon uses a sore knee as an
excuse to vacate Brisbane, and subse-
quently returns limping, at which stage
of the story M. H. Ellis titters “but not
too painfully.” Unfortunately, no author-
ity is given for the degree of pain suffered
by William Lennon, and the comment
which would be humorous from the pen
of a racy raconteur in a Sunday Supple-
ment smacks more of witty self-expres-
sion from the pen of M. H. Ellis.
Then comes the statement that William
Lennon “continued to be Lieutenant-
Governor doing nothing whatever for the
salary . . This is not history, secret or
otherwise. Fantasy continues to be
served up as fact, but one more sample
will do:— “The Moore Government
abolished it [the salary] in 1929. Where-
upon he resigned the vice-regal office.”
Lack's concession to accuracy is “there-
upon.” Actually, the historical fact is
that the salary ended on September 30,
1929, and the holder of the office, at the
age of 80 years and in failing health, re-
signed at the end of December of that
year—hardly consistent with “where-
upon” and “thereupon.”
AUSTIN LENNON
Ascot ( Queensland ).
INDIA AND UNILATERALISM
Sir,
The ideals of disarmament and atom-
free zones are admirably attractive. Uni-
lateral disarmament in practice has, how-
ever, led to unfortunate results in the
past as the growth of Nazi Germany has
proven.
The recent example of India could
leave little doubt about the results we
can expect if we renounce atomic
weapons whilst other nations do not.
G. HARDY
Murrumbeena ( Victoria ).


REVIEWS
FILMS
1962 WAS HOLLYWOOD'S YEAR
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Sixty-Two has seen the re-
surgence of the American cinema,
in hard times, to something like the
energy and briliance of the immediate
post-war years; continued activity in the
booming British cinema; three new
works by Ingmar Bergman, and little of
interest from France, Russia and Italy.
Famous personalities have died (Jerry
Wald, Marilyn Monroe, Charles Laugh-
ton, Thomas Mitchell) and several direc-
tors have shown interest in making films
in Australia; Darryl F. Zanuck has re-
turned to take over Twentieth Century-
Fox; “Cleopatra” still rolls or>. and both
the French New Wave and the English
Industrial North have begun to look
over-familiar.
Films one thought would be bad (“El
Cid,” “Sweet Bird of Youth”) turned out
to be good; much-vaunted films (“Rocco
and His Brothers” and “Advise and Con-
sent”) turned out to be pretentious duds,
and talent turned up in unexpected
quarters: Rock Hudson’s witty perfor-
mance in “Lover Come Back,” Eva
Marie Saint’s subtle portrait of frustra-
tion in “All Fall Down,” Lionel Jeffries’
superb Marquess of Queensberry in “The
Man with the Green Carnation.”
It has, in fact, been a vintage year:
rich in surprises and excitements, with a
list of successful enterprises topped by
one superb and incomparable musical
“West Side Storv” which is likely to
remain one of the great works of art of
our time. Not far behind it came An-
thony Mann’s “El Cid”: who would
have thought that a Hollywood spectacle
film, enormous and top-heavy with stars,
could turn out to be not a monolithic
bore but a subtle and beautiful re-crea-
tion of its period, directed with a flourish
and brio that splendidly captures the
flavor of the story? And who could have
foreseen that a low-budget “sleeper” call-
ed “All Fall Down” would turn out to be
an ironic, exquisitely made send-up of
the “Rebel Without a Cause” tradition?
Most welcome of all has been the re-
birth of comedy, and of American
comedy in particular—dead, one would
have thought, for more than a decade.
We had Frank Tashlin’s intensely sophis-
ticated “Bachelor Flat,” Delbert Mann’s
“Lover Come Back,” Kubrick’s “Lolita”
(a deadpan version of Nabokov’s voyeu-
rist romance), Jack Arnold's “Bachelor
in Paradise” and Blake Edwards’ “Break-
fast at Tiffany’s.” From earlier days
came “Harold Lloyd’s World of Com-
edy,” with some brilliant, breakneck
chases and at least one long sequence
from “Movie Crazy” (1932) which
ranks with the greatest of screen farce.
An isolated melodrama Robert
Rossen’s “The Hustler” about pool-
room crooks, was marred by excessive
directorial fussiness but strongly written
and played. There were several inventive
documentary films, not all of them new,
of which “Jazz on a Summer’s Day” and
“The Savage Eye” were the most not-
able; Tennessee Williams’ fantasies were
made permanent in two films, both ex-
cellent (“Sweet Bird of Youth.”
“Summer and Smoke”), and Geraldine
Page emerged in both as the greatest
actress of her generation.
Britain also had a vintage year. One
won't easily forget Bryan Forbes’ beauti-
ful “Whistle Down the Wind,” about
children who discover a tramp they take
to be Christ, or John Schlesinger's
equally first-rate “A Kind of Loving.” by
far the best of the British neo-realist
works. Jack Clayton’s civilised version
of “The Turn of the Screw” entitled
“The Innocent”), Basil Dearden’s film
about homosexuality, “Victim,” and
Joseph Losey’s “The Criminal,” were all
beautifully made, intelligently written
and played, while Ken Annakin’s “The
Swiss Family Robinson” was a fine,
healthy version of the children’s classic.
From Sweden, we were lucky in
having three Ingmar Bergman films, fas-
cinating to watch, unlikeable, and in-
tensely misanthropic in mood.
“The Magician,” “The Seventh Seal”
and "The Devil’s Eye” each emerged
from a world which Bergman has made
his own: a world populated by coldly
leering and predatory men and willowy,
blonde women, ruled by superstition and
magic-Nordic, heartless and cruel. None
of these films seems to me very impres-
sive cinematically, and I persist in re-
garding Bergman as a literary man
rather than a man of cinema; for me, his
films remain cold blueprints, devoid
of warmth, blood and color. Like a
marble frieze, his films unfold elegantly,
calmly and lifelessly. The only emo-
tion one is conscious of is a brutal
dwelling on details of human suffering as
unrestrained as Hitchcock's. Wilder’s, or
Kurosawa’s. The peculiar broth of sex,
sadism and graveyard humour in Berg-
man has always seemed to me quite in-
digestible.
In France, the New Wave now on
the ebb has thrown up some curious
bits of flotsam, including one elegant
ruin: Louis Malle's “Une Vie Privel”
(“A Very Private Affair" as it was
knowingly entitled here). This film at
least has the merit of the funniest se-
quence of the year: the final one, in
which Brigitte Bardot, perched on a
roof, is watching an open-air opera in
Spoleto: stepping on an insecure tile, she
sails earthwards in slow motion, like
Alice down the well, with an expression
of bliss on her face and a chorus ooh-
aahing on the soundtrack. Idiotic from
beginning to end, this farrago is proof
positive that when it comes to the Higher
Absurdity, the French have it in spades.
Philippe de Broca’s ‘'The Five Day
Lover” and Francois Truffaut’s “Jules et
Jim” were widely admired, but I found
them both precious, inbred, tiresomely
over-decorated and fussy. At their worst,
however, they were superior to Claude
Chabrol’s “Leda,” atrociously acted by
Jean-Paul Belmondo and a distinguished
cast.
From Italy, “Rocco and His Brothers”
was the most ambitious film produced
there in quite a while, solemnly discussed
in learned quarterlies as though it were
a work by Eisenstein, yet little more
than a slick boxing melodrama of the
kind which Hollywood used to turn out
by the dozen 20 years ago (Anatole
Litvak’s “City for Conquest,” shown on
TV this year and covering much the
same territory, was vastly superior).
Two works of Vittorio de Sica (Two
Women” and an episode in “Boccaccio
70”) were respectively admired and dis-
liked, but seemed to me identical in their
shoddiness and shallowness. The insolent
lack of technique in so many Italian
films seems to stem from a (perhaps
correct) assumption that anything badly


made in a foreign language will captivate
English-speaking critics: this grass-is-
greener snobbery is amusingly reflected
in Europe, where bad American films
are extravagantly admired in the high-
brow press.
Quite a number of films which should
have been shown in 1962 must be listed
among the missing: notably Luis
Bunuel’s “Viridiana,” described as a
masterpiece in some quarters, but so
savaged by the censor that the distri-
butor refused to show it; Roger Vadim’s
“Blood and Roses,” adapted from a
short story by Sheridan Le Fanu, and
reputedly banned outright; Roger Cor-
man’s “The Pit and the Pendulum,” an
equally praised ghost film; William
Wyler’s “The Loudest Whisper” and Elia
Kazan’s “Splendor in the Grass” are also
absentees.
Lastly, a roll-call of booby-prizes:
Otto Preminger’s “Advise and Consent”
and “Exodus,” Jack Cardiff’s “My
Geisha,” Vincente Minnelli’s “Two
Weeks in Another Tow'n.” Four bad
films from Hollywood but it has still
been Hollywood’s year.
TELEVISION
ONLY A FOGGY PLAIN
By FRANK ROBERTS
Looking back over the year’s tele-
vision 1 have a strong feeling that
there should be peaks where there
seems to be only a foggy plain. Perhaps
viewers who could be more selective can
remember some fine moments in 1962’s
programmes, f know that I enjoyed a
good proportion of the hours spent
w'atching the small screen, but I can
recall few' moving ones.
In the grab bag are good recollections
of parts of "A For Andromeda,” “Bio-
graphy,” “Naked City,” the “Dick
Powell Show,” "Fred Astaire Theatre,”
“Thriller,” "Age of Kings,” Reginald
Rose's early episodes of “The De-
fenders,” Fred Astaire dancing with
Barrie Chase, “The Rag Trade,” “Calvin
and the Colonel” . . .
We pause for identification. Were
there no good Australian productions?
That requires a greater effort at re-
collection, but i do remember the three
one-hour episodes of "The Gold Rush,”
w'hich may stand for some time as the
classic in bringing history to life with
graphics, bits of old film, oldtimers’
reminiscences, quietly haunting folk
music, and last and correctly least,
spoken commentary.
It became attenuated in the last epi-
sode, but never palled, and because it
was very Australian and very good, it
held me still and silent in the rocking
chair for one hour on successive Satur-
day nights. "The Gold Rush,” the story
of gold in Australia, researched and
WTitten by Tom Prior, photographs col-
lected by John Smith, produced by Noel
Swanson, was that rare thing, true-blue
television and nothing else, and it has
my nomination for the aw'ard of the
year, or Anni, an imaginary freeform of
aerial pipes, gold plated.
This may not be as valued as the
Logies which will go, undoubtedly, to
such sterling ventures as “The Joan
Sutherland Hour,” “Startime,” the
“Mobil-Limb Show,” “It Could Be You”
and so on, but think of the fun Tom
Prior will have trying to point it out on
his sideboard when visitors call.
Let’s see, there should be awards for
drama too (but there none, so that’s
out), for the personality of the year (I’d
nominate a certain fat, white bulldog
who was a sitdown riot on a fairly recent
“Mobil-Limb Show”), for the best va-
riety programme (“Sunnyside Up,” be-
cause I haven’t had to watch it this year),
and the best panel show (you couldn’t go
past “The Critics” quickly enough).
If nominations are in order for the
worst Australian programme of the year,
the bronze Booboo would have to be
divided among a large number, including
the “Southern Cross Show”, any of the
dozen or so dramas inflicted on viewers
during the year (as though television is
some little provincial theatre suitable for
try outs), “Video Village,” “Peter Grey”
. . . let’s not pursue the thought.
In local comedy I have probably
missed some of the best sketches because
sudden attacks of snow blindness have
consistently prevented me seeing the
whole of any episode of “Startime,” that
top-rated show.
There w r as a film clip of George Wal-
lace and Eddie Edwards in an early one,
and it reminded me that I would not
swap one “George Wallace Theatre
Royal,” with all its production handi-
caps, and all of its honest Australian
flavor, for any five of “Startime,”
“Mobil-Limb” or Graham Kennedy.
However I could be old fashioned,
and Australians may no longer w'ant
traditional humor. They may prefer
Bobby Limb's overdone mugging, or
“Gray’s” relaxed slapstick, or Dawn
Lake’s monotonous comedy voice, or
even Jonathan Daly’s nasal needling.
Looking back more in sadness than in
anger, 1962 was the year Australian
television confused drammer with drama,
mistook sheer determination for talent in
most of its variety performers, invented
bigger and better treadmills and mazes
for women daytime viewers to watch,
continued to neglect its best comedian,
learned very little more about its brand
of photography, established its first
women’s daytime serial bloc (afternoons,
ATN-7) and produced its first true “spec-
tacular” in the “Joan Sutherland Hour.”
Painful though some of these matters
are to recall, they have stirred a few
more shapes from out of the fog a
Kennedy sketch in which he neatly
mimed Robert Mitchum, Candy Devine
singing in Trad Jazz, Digby Wolfe’s last
appearance on Revue 62, his successor’s
trouble with an arm one recent night (to
pocket the hand or shove the whole
thing behind the back was the question),
Michael Charlton’s splendid Perth edi-
tion of “Four Corners,” Jimmy Hannan’s
ease and tolerance as a compere, Lui-
sillo’s Dance Theatre, Margot Fonteyn
and Co, “Taming of the Shrew.”
If few of these were peaks, some were
distinct hills, and one had a distinct
beacon on it. That was a Gerald Lyons
interview with Sir Harry, of the usually
misquoted Pilkington Report on British
Television, who said, “Entertainment
that, first of all —” when asked what
television should offer. Long may he ride
his bicycle to directors’ meetings at the
Bank of England.
That leads to the matter I’ve been
dodging, the popularity of “Startime,”
and the proliferation of shows called
“Sing Sing Sing,” “Music Time,” “Singa-
long,” in addition to “Bandstand” and
the “Bryan Davies Show.”
I try to repress it, but the question
springs what stars? Most of the solo
performers would not draw a small
shower of silver in a hotel lounge. One
ululating amateur after another faces the
viewer, with build-ups that would have
made P. T. Barnum blush.
Whether the performers are strolling,
dancing or standing still, if “pop”
singing with movements becomes the
big thing in evening television, as
“games” have on afternoon TV, then
commercial television will have begun
to deserve some of the slanging it gets,
and the proponents of drier, duller, de-
dicated television will have solid am-
munition.
If these offspring of Revue 61 are en-
tertainment, the television medium is
stretching the term to a new meaning.
They are for the birds who do not wish
to be disturbed, and their compound of
blinding white, meaningless movement,
low grade “talent”, waffle dust and
bubbles will induce a fine hypnotic
euphoria in enough people to make them
popular, in the very worst sense.
Let’s hope the viewer wakes in a bad
temper, induced by hunger for more
solid fare, some time in 1963.


THEATRE
THE HEY-DAY OF LITTLE LON.
The Ballad of Angel’s Alley. J. Un-
derhill and B. George. Repertory
Society. Canberra.
T>eaders in other States may need a
little briefing on this entertaining
southern musical. It is set in Mel-
bourne’s golden age before the govern-
ment moved to Canberra and is based
on the actual rivalry between two razor
gangs (Angel’s Alley and the Romeo
Lane Push). The story opens with the
Angel’s Alley Gang lamenting the death
of their chief, Tom Tiddler, ignobly
from influenza. Without Tom, they are
at the mercy of the Fiddler gang, and
indeed are in the process of being carved
up by these boys when they are saved
by the dramatic arrival of the late Tid-
dler's daughter. (Her existence was
hitherto unsuspected, but she is accepted
because of her remarkable likeness to her
revered parent, and her dazzling skill in
fighting, slashing, arguing and picking
pockets: also proof of the true Tiddler
strain.)
Well, after this the plot moves swiftly
and with increasing absurdity till the
long, long arm of coincidence achieves
a happy ending, with wedding-bells in
something like the best musical-comedy
tradition. But only something like. The
absurdities are treated with a joyous de-
light in their absurdity, which allows and
even demands that the actors give them
the exaggerated emphasis of melodrama.
This together with the ironic acceptance
of gang moral standards gives the whole
affair a little more satiric comment than
the usual musical.
Producer Alan Harvey made the most
of this. Realising that he had a team
who were strong on acting but some-
what less on singing, he wisely diverted
our attention from the weak spot. Many
of the songs were played for their humor
and vitality in recitative, and always with
a good deal of amusing mime and move-
ment; we had our music straight only
when it could be safely permitted, that
is, in the entr'actes in the excellent hands
of Buridla Millett at the piano. Further-
more he stressed the melodrama, by
simply wallowing in pathos over Tiddler’s
death and glorying in True Love Tri-
umphant over All; and by giving us a
villain with handle-bars, bowler and
curling lips and a heroine petite, de-
murely-dressed and obviously destined
for ill-treatment at the hands of Cruel
Men. This, of course, increased the fun
when the demure miss shot up the rival
push, and the villain succumbed to
paternal affection when his son turned
up, product of an irregular past.
The script of “Angel's Alley” is clever.
It uses the Australian gang slang with
enjoyment; makes the most of its double-
entendres (usually ironic, not smutty),
devises some wonderful situations (as
when the two gangs view-hallo a sailor)
and turns a witty phrase which also says
something (like the little Colonel's “I
don’t want a place in the sun; only a
corner out of the wind”).
The result of all this was a riotous
evening, less musical than might have
been expected, but certainly riotous. It
is hard to award credits among actors
who were not only a good team but
were also high-spirited and truly comic.
But Meril Harvey as Maria Tiddler and
lan Maclean as Fiddler carried the lead-
ing parts ably and looked exactly right.
Moreover they could sing. All the dolls
and no-hopers were an endearing lot,
but I confess to a special affection for
Graeme Campbell’s craven Nobbier and
Stan Davies’ little Colonel. Mr Camp-
bell must be a wonderful man to have
around: he possesses a voice and features
which can do anything and also seems
to have indiarubber limbs, so that his
rough handlings by the Fiddler gang
ended in ignominious contortions which
I found irresistible. Mr Davies's highest
moment was when disguised as Maria
Tiddler he had to ward off the advances
of an amorous policeman. This was
rendered as a pas de deux and was so
funny I forgot I had ever met the situ-
ation before.
Comedy was general and continuous.
Not perhaps entertainment for the whole
family, but certainly to be recommended
for adult members; especially those dis-
placed Melburnians now resident in
Canberra who should not miss this op-
portunity to indulge in nostalgia for their
home town.
HOPE HEWITT
ART
CHRISTMAS COLLECTIONS
Robert Klippel. Clune Galleries. Syd-
ney.
Christmas Shows. Barry Stern Gal-
leries. Sydney. Rudy Komon Gal-
lery. Sydney.
VfiNETEEN mature works in bronze,
copper, steel and various junk
materials make this one of the most
interesting exhibitions of recent years.
Sculptor Klippel has resolutely developed
beyond the levels reached in work
shown in Sydney before his departure
for the USA, and further, has thoroughly
assimilated technical lessons from the
flourishing school of metal sculpture to
be found there. Having pushed his re-
search through this barrier he can now
move freely within a wide area, limited
only by his vision.
Klippel’s method seems fairly simple
take one idea, work it out in the
concrete and find how out of a problem
of thrust, of space or tension reaches
towards meanings not evident before.
Nothing in this show suggests the acti-
vity of repetition. Things are searched
out, revealed, made the groundwork of
a neat problem. Essentially one sees the
architect as much as the sculptor, if one
imagines architecture to enclose space,
and all these works to an extent do this.
Almost literary this, the taking of dis-
carded objects, rescuing them as it were
from oblivion of the heap, exploiting
their intrinsic quality of form, carrying
their dead utility into the wakefulness of
the gallery. In one sense this attempt to
find lost contexts for the offal of industry
is almost a moral necessity, it is cur-
iously worldwide. Number 10 of these
untitled (happily untitled and for once
we are spared some drivelling porten-
tiousness) sculptures appear as some
wayward daddylonglegs relaxed and
slowly rotating in space. Parts of 17’s
typewriter still moves but the thicket of
small forms suggest some phenomenal
complexity brought forth by non-human
agencies.
Most satisfying, however, are the ex-
cellently wrought towers of steel rods,
bronze and copper planes. Usually four-
square jobs, they describe large spiralling
arcs, gently ascending through a fine
variety of surface shapes, expanding and
contracting from climax to climax, in-
ducing the viewer to explore an extra-
ordinarily precise world <"»f delicately
poised structures. Subtle color modifies
the quality of reflected light to hint at
a note of elegance. One comes away
wondering how he manages to pack such
a feeling of spaciousness and scale into
such moderately sized works.
Some 69 items, from attractive New
Guinea, Nigerian masks and two Egyp-
tian figurines in a mixed bag of drawings
and paintings, indicate the eclectic range
of the Christmas show at Sterns’. One of
Nolan’s Central Australian landscapes
from happier times carries all the subtle
charm of his less sophisticated style,
qualities much more endearing than are
to be found in a lot of later work. There
is a Drysdale from his Albury period
and below a rather tired Gleghorn of a
few years back together with a reason-
ably well composed Elwyn Lynn. The
outstanding painting, however, is God-
frey Miller’s “Still Life with Musical In-
strument”, full of a marvellous resonance


all of its own, reaching out into a trans-
cendant vision of creation which is un-
surpassed in contemporary art. Mel-
bourne will be doubly fortunate to
have it.
At Komon’s the Nolan “Leda” looks
a pretty thin effort with gimmicky paint
surface trying to lift a banal image out
of the rut. Blackman’s “Alice” has more
of a comic strip vitality than her
Wonderland prototype, much less con-
vincing as an entity than Dickerson’s
serio-comic GrifYo. Hodgkinson’s densely
assertive forms have less than usual of
his sweep, perhaps they have been
slowed down by the rougher textures
and closer tonalities. Olsen’s heads
shriek their way back and forth from a
world where forms arise, dissolve and
reappear and where all values revolve
around the anarchy of the brush. The
Coburn is a full bodied effort from the
Helena Rubinstein and dominates the
room. Passmore, after a long silence,
shows a painting on newspaper, almost
two paintings since the tough, fractured,
heavily knifed left side contrasts vividly
with the soft, thin areas on the right.
There is intense struggle, the direction is
being uncovered and the drama is played
in brittle white light but the command
of space remains.
JOHN HENSHAW
A FRACTIONAL VIEW
Charles Blackman, Arthur Boyd,
David Boyd, Lawrence Daws,
Louis James, Keith Mitchell, Sid-
ney Nolan, Tony Underhill, Brett
Whitely. Bonython Gallery. Ade-
laide.
HThese are big names. Twenty-two
recent paintings by “Some Aus-
tralian Artists Abroad” shown recently
at the Bonython Gallery gave us in this
neck of the woods a fractional view of
the current work of men who have
successfully entered and in some cases
influenced the main stream of con-
temporary Western painting.
One can make a few general and
modest reflections. Nolan has returned
again to Ned Kelly. Arthur Boyd has
undressed the Half-Caste Bride into a
white nude, without her bridegroom
(who died, you remember), and indeed
she, too, is simplified, half cast away.
Lawrence Daws is painting in great loose
forms totally unlike the geometrical
wire-netting which was his previous
mark. Louis James presents classical
abstracts as beautiful and isolated as this
cul-de-sac style can become; having
reached this end one either incorporates
abstract expressionism into figurative
painting, or indulges a death wash by
joining the splash-bang-and dribble boys.
The high Australian “content” of
Nolan’s and Arthur Boyd’s work helped
to establish it with a London public
seeking a Wild West with which to
redeem a sooty subtopian life, but this
can have only a superficial, gim-
mick reaction. The intellectual char-
acteristic of their work in the last
few years, and that of much leading
painting everywhere, is its equivocation.
Making puns has had a respectable
history since Peter heard he was a rock,
and metaphor is the oldest and the basic
literary achievement, the more notable
because it antedates and underlies the
scientific concept of the equation.
Modern painters, following the writers
by some centuries, now seem to be in-
creasingly interested in relating the visual
and the conceptual in a deliberate
ambiguity, where the concrete and the
abstract is fused to charm the mind.
Nolans and Boyds produce those
startling associations which arise when
a poet forcibly relates two or more un-
expected images in the strained metaphor
the schoolmaster used to call catachresis.
Ned Kelly, a child's cut-out, lies or
floats with a vague horse in a featureless
stifling desert. Who is he? He is a hero,
a fool, a man who armoured himself
against Australia, who faced it, didn't
face it, conquered it, lost it, ambiguity
personified, Nolan the painter and Nolan
the man, caught, like Leda with the
Swan, between gross biology and the
intellectual power of a god. Arthur
Boyd showed four versions of a nude
drinking at a water hole, a loosely
painted degenerate pair of floating limbs,
female, but so ambiguous that a vice
squad would be hard put to say whether
the hair was pubic, axillary, or on the
scalp.
Lastly, we are now sufficiently estab-
lished as a well-lit country of in-
dividualists to make it possible that
some of the leading painters of Europe
or America might visit Australia and
paint here for a while. Such an event
could come about through the influence
of our Nolans and Boyds and the rest on
their friends, combined with some
support from enterprising local in-
dustrialists, arts festivals and galleries.
The effect of Australia on Francis Bacon
or Larry Rivers might quickly establish
a few corollaries. They would find that
in population terms our environment is
now more urban than outback, and we,
through their eyes, might find out that
as a people we are offering something
more significant to the world of art than
a light dressing of kangaroos, aborigines
and bush ballads.
EARLE HACKETT
COPS AND
CONVICTS
Adrian Linden: Moreton Galleries,
Brisbane.
is Linden’s first one-man show in
Australia. He is a very young Dutch
painter with a genuine regard for huma-
nity, a very thoughtful approach to its
pains and terrors and a very original way
of expressing himself, using three main
techniques: a series of pictures showing
convicts in the thrall of cops not because
he specifically hates either but rather the
conditions that make them necessary or
unavoidable.
Then in his more serious works he has
groups in perfect symmetry, the indivi-
dual portraits being cubist square-heads,
the color being very bright, usually a
rich red. “Nuclear Scientists” is de-
signedly portentous and a brilliant job—
a trinitarian huddle of researchers
against a row of politicians, financiers,
common folk waiting tensely for some-
thing in the way of doom. The moral
is a bit too obvious but on the whole
the thing convinces. His third style is
conventional figure work. But the im-
portant feature is Linden’s fine handling
of color: one, Cops and Convicts, com-
bines an exquisite light chocolate juxta-
posed with a transparent yellow green
like young corn and he also uses a most
unusual collection of fluorescent blues,
greens and mauves with effect.
An unusual and satisfactory show.
J. V. DUFLIG
WATERCOLORS
A collection of watercolors by six
Tasmanian painters is to be shown
at a number of centres throughout that
State. It is sponsored by the Adult Edu-
cation Board; and one of its aims is the
foundation of a Tasmanian Institute of
Watercolor Painters.
Tasmania has atmosphere and climate
ideally suited to this medium —as Robert
Campbell declared during his sojourn
there; and certainly his best work was
done at that time.
In the show under review Carington
Smith has eight paintings, which, if lack-
ing something of substance, lack nothing
in spirit. His sensitive distillations of the
Bruni Island Scene are evoked in a deli-
cate short-hand. Max Angus, this year s
winner of the Minnie Crouch Prize, re-
veals a steadily maturing style of great
verve and charm, which also achieves
at times an Oriental brevity of statement.
Harry Buckie paints in a warm tradi-
tional manner.
LESTER MCLNTYRE


AUSTRALIAN POETRY 1962
THE RETURN OF FREE VERSE
—and tough-mindedness
By VINCENT BUCKLEY
{Poetry Editor of The Bulletin)
“fTtRENDs” are the easiest of all things to
spot in a country’s poetry, but the
hardest to identify with any accuracy:
especially when your period is little more
than 12 months.
Those trends may, in any case, be
more appropriately looked for among
publishers and public than among the
poets themselves. The last two years
have been boom-time for Australian
books of poetry. Almost everyone who
is anyone has a new book out or nearly
out; and some most interesting first books
have arrived or are on the way. The
publishers’ advertisements are confident,
even fervent; the reviewers seem to com-
mand more space than ever before; the
very air buzzes with the assumption that
poetry is important for the cultural con-
sumer.
Yet I, for one, get the impression that
the poetry-reading public is no bigger
than it was. and that the poets themselves
are not so intoxicated with their own
activity as one might have expected.
There is little of the genuine excitement,
the sense of poetry as a communal ven-
ture and achievement, which existed a
few years ago.
Year after year the reviewers of the
annual anthologies express satisfaction at
the growing “competence” of our poets,
and at their emergence from provincial-
ism. Yet there is something absent-
minded about such a satisfaction, some-
thing woebegone in the usual expressions
of it.
I have unfortunately seen very few of
the books published here in the last two
years, and my view of the present activ-
ity is founded mainly on the anthologies
and on the sort of thing people send to
The Bulletin and Prospect. Even this
limited experience shows a surprising
reliance on two conventions.
One of these has been dominant in
Australia for many years. It is the con-
vention of the formal lyric, which sits
firm and shapely on the page, an ad-
vertisement for the virtues or orderliness,
regularity, for the poem which takes a
pride in its own appearance. Character-
istically, its logic is that of a progression
from (a) visual observation or reminis-
cence, through (b) expression of senti-
ment, to (c) reflection on the “universal”
implications of the “experience.” I don’t
want to appear cynical about such poems,
and they are a phenomenon certainly not
confined to Australia; but it is depressing
to find them providing the staple of a
country’s poetry.
Usually they take their starting-point
from some observed phenomenon and,
for all their aspiration towards universal-
ity, seldom get beyond it. Sometimes,
however, they can carry a pressure of
inward experience, of recollected feeling,
which enlivens the whole form. Francis
Geyer, for example, begins one lovely
short lyric, “The Diamond Sparrow,” as
though he were a disciple of Douglas
Stewart, and then briskly rounds on the
suburban-nostalgic expectations he has
aroused:
... Well there’s no dearth of song
To celebrate the death of birds.
1 think now of a prison wall
Pockmarked with bullet-holes. The
stuff
Of poetry is man, and words
Are all he has, often enough,
In this age. Still, a ritual
Was followed for the children’s
sake . . .
The other convention which seems to
be coming into popularity is that of the
informal non-lyric. It is self-deprecating
in manner, tentative or questioning in its
conclusions, seldom blazes out, is reluct-
ant to affirm anything except safe gener-
alities about the human condition. It is
a form peculiarly well suited to the
creative needs of poets who are both in-
creasingly open to overseas influences and
increasingly unsure of the stances which
they may adopt in the world. It is gov-
erned, one may say, by a notion of the
infra dig.
Yet it can be just as glib as the formal
lyric; and its practitioner is easily tempt-
ed into tricks for simulating alertness
and individuality. As I write these words
I chance on an example as startlingly apt
that it would be self-defeating not to
quote it:
It is there; though with a lover’s
presumption, l had thought
the street too must be down, and
those bare
walls where we made love
be hanging like our broken
vows above the square.
And still, as between four walls of
an abandoned
dream, stands the real,
the solid furniture:
table, chairs, the iron
bed that way, we thought, quite in-
cidental
to the affair.
This is by David Malouf, a young poet
whose work is usually stronger than this
and in different modes. The “it” is a
Hotel Room Revisited.” We notice how
one line turns to another on the weak
pivot of an adjective, how each stanza
(or paragraph) ends in a cadence of
ironic rejection, how much the sense of
reality aimed at depends on the mere
curt mention of inanimate objects.
Clearly, this poem is the honest product
of an unwillingness to deceive oneself;
but it is lacking in imaginative pressure.
It is a poetry, in short, for those who
regard a watchful self-consciousness as
the prime virtue.
Of course, the use of this free-verse
convention does not lead inevitably to
limpness. It does not in the best work
of Bruce Dawe, for instance; but Dawe
has an exact and sophisticated sense of
the way lines can be balanced against
each other, largely (one suspects) because
he has a strong and persistent sense of
the paradoxical nature of human life.
It does not, either, in those of Gwen
Harwood’s poems which approach a free-
verse rather than a regular noun; but
Gwen Harwood has a fierce sense of the
world’s shapes and colors as analogues
for human states.
It does not, either, in a fine poem like
“Sunday Morning” by a very young poet,
Wilson Blackman, who is likely to have
an exciting creative future if only because
he regards writing poetry as more im-
portant than “being a poet”—that occu-
pation which, in a country and a decade
like ours, is its own occupational
hazard.
I would hesitate to say that the preval-
ence of poems representing what we may
call this free-verse view of life shows a
new trend in Australian poetry; but cer-
tainly the good poems which come to
The Bulletin are often of that sort.
The result is, that the poetry page (ap-
pearing every three weeks) sometimes
has a broken and distracted look, like a
page of kitchen recipes hastily jotted
down. And it is possible that what creat-
ive energy there is finds this view and this
form more congenial than before, especi-
ally since the formal lyric is at last show-
ing the debilitation which comes from
having run out of subject-matter.
If so, it is because our poets are be-
coming less simple-mindedly cocky about
the implications of being a poet in our
sort of world. It is not merely, or even
chiefly, a matter of the favored verse-
forms; it is probably a matter of an atti-
tude to the actual condition of contem-
porary men, a matter of increasing
tough-mindedness.
I would mention R. D. Fitzgerald’s
“The Wind at Your Door,” and suggest


that the critical acclaim which greeted it
is a revealing sign. I would mention,
too, the fierce questionings of experience
that give such power to Gwen Harwood’s
forthcoming book; the poems in which
Bruce Dawe interrogates the cultural
values of totalitarians and of Western-
style suburbanites alike; “A Dream of
Carricades,” the long poem in which Evan
Jones analyses a violence which perpetu-
ates itself; Chris. Wallace-Crabbe’s accel-
erated movement away from lyrical
moods to cultural diagnosis; the domestic
ferocity of Miriam Stone; the increasing
readiness of Alexander Craig and R. A.
Simpson to face the more terrible facts
of ordinary lives; the fact that, in Francis
Webb’s latest book, that most moving
poem on the shared experience of dying,
“A Death at Winson Green” is accom-
panied by the still more frightening “The
Brain-Washers.”
The younger poets, too, are affected.
Rodney Hall, in his brief records of per-
sonal experience, often uses images of
public violence; Andrew Taylor tackles
the confusion of warfare; even David
Malouf writes an “Epitaph for a Monster
of our Times”:
Who sat at his desk, a slave
to files and paper-clips,
while children died and cities
burned at his fingertips.
One does not want every poet to
develop these concerns or these perspec-
tives; but one can reasonably hope that
more Australian poets will open their
senses as well as their sentiments, and
their minds as well as their tear-ducts.
I think one of the most notable facts
about the work that comes to The
Bulletin and other journals these days
is that a fair amount of it shows just
such an opening-up. But to note this
may be be to record a trend; which is
what I promised I would not do.
AUSTRALIAN NOVELS IN 1962
A Poets' Year
By NANCY KEESING
1961 was a peak year for Australian
novels. 1962, by an almost inevitable
contrast, has seen a levelling to a more
even though by no means featureless
plain. It was, furthermore, an extremely
important year for Australian literature
of other types. 1961 saw Patrick White’s
“Riders in the Chariot”; Hal Porter’s
“The Tilted Cross” and Xavier Herbert’s
“Soldiers’ Women” overshadowing some
five or six excellent other novels. 1962
produced, scarcely surprisingly, nothing
to set beside “Riders in the Chariot.”
In a historical-literary sense 1962 be-
longed first to two poets —H. M. Green
(a poet in his youth) who happily lived
to see his tremendous “History of Aus-
tralian Literature” published and whose
death is a loss to us all; and Dame Mary
Gilmore —poet and social reformer who
died in December. As Dr Colin Roderick
pointed out in his funeral oration for
Dame Mary, she shared with Henry
Lawson among Australian writers the
distinction of having become a legend
in her lifetime and was accorded, like
him, the honour rare to all citizens
and rarer still to writers, of a State
funeral. Although she did not attempt a
novel as far as I know, her working
life compassed successful essays at most
of the other forms of literature and
much of her poetry will endure.
Not only death made this a poets’
year—this is not the place to note the
impressive list of books of good poetry
published during 1962. There were,
too, a number of important historical
works ranging from Banks’ “Journals”
to Barnard’s “History” and the first
volume of Manning Clark’s “History,”
and the symposium “Australian Civiliza-
tion”; issues of the “London Magazine”
and the “Texas Quarterly” were devoted
to Australian literature, and two of
Patrick White’s plays were produced in
Australia.
For all this a poets’ year: and ap-
propriately of the novels I have read
during the past twelve months two by
poets are outstanding. I should first
qualify the remark: “of the novels I
have read.” Few people can read all the
novels by Australians and about Aus-
tralia published in any recent year.
Between twenty and thirty books are
submitted annually for the Miles Frank-
lin award alone, but even the Award
judges may well miss seeing other books
because some publishers do not submit
entries for that competition. My selec-
tion is made from what I have bought,
borrowed or reviewed during 1962 and
I especially regret that I have not yet
seen John Naish's “The Cruel Field.”
(His first, semi-autobiographical book,
“The Clean Breast” which I read a
couple of years ago was excellent and
the new novel has been highly praised.
Neither have 1 read “Gone Fishin’ ”
by Culotta O’Grady, or Nancy Cato’s
“But Still the Stream,” the concluding
volume of her Murray River trilogy, or
Gavin Casey's “Amid the Plenty.”)
To return to the two novels by poets:
David Martin’s “The Young Wife” and
Thea Astley’s “The Well Dressed Ex-
plorer.” They are very dissimilar books.
Thea Astley’s perhaps has the edge on
Martin’s in the sense of the novel as
art form, which is not to suggest a lack
of art in Martin’s. Both take in a wide
sweep Astley’s of time, Martin’s of
society and varied character. Each is a
completely adult book by which I mean
simply a book that mature people will
read with respect. Each, and herein may
lie their greatest joint interest, looks
long- and honestly at love, though Thea
Astley’s gaze is maliciously direct and
David Martin’s both passionate and
compassionate.
These two writers have outgrown an
appalling defect which has dogged Aus-
tralian fiction for most of its history—
the tendency to glance uncomfortably
at married life and love (often of
course two separate things) and skirt it
via farce, or sentimentality, or plain
avoidance. The two books, despite
utterly different approaches to the craft
of the novel, stand together essentially
for the roundness of their telling, their
care for construction. Martin’s is, I
think, unique in that no previous writer
has so woven together the threads of
“Old” and “New” Australians that in-
creasingly influence our way of life —
the theme of migrant influence must
recur —it is seldom that a first state-
ment says so much.
1962 must also be remembered as
the year that David Forrest nearly
brought off a long satirical farce. The
book was not constructed quite tightly
and therefore lacked complete success,
and Forrest laboured a couple of his
jokes to the point of tedium, but
overall “The Elollow Woodheap” is truly
funny and a magnificent gift for any
bank officer (or worker in a similar
large organisation) who has not yet read
it.
The year’s minor disappointment was
Jon Cleary’s glossy “The Country of
Marriage;” its major one J. T. and A.
E. Martin’s vaunted £l,OOO prizewinner
“The Hive of Glass,” a poor and his-
torically unconvincing attempt at pro-
viding underprivileged Australia with a
“Peyton Place” of its very own. If the
mooted film takes shape it may man-
age to achieve what the book failed
sadly in, though 1 should have sup-
posed Catherine Gaskin’s competent “I
Know My Love,” including as it does
Romance, Eureka and Early Melbourne
the better cinema bet.
Donald McLean’s “The World Turned
Upside Down,” however, stole the his-
torical honours —its fine jacket designed
by Frank Beck heralded an intensely
readable tale. Unfortunately, a cleavage
that affected the whole book disqualifies
it for judgment in “the novel as work
of art” stakes. It wavered too greatly
between real history (the marvellous re-
creation of the Sydney of its period, the
hard factual core of the Mount Rennie
rape trials on which it was based) and
McLean’s 20th century understanding of


some of the forces leading to youthful
delinquency.
In this connection may I pay tribute
to the best Australian novel I read dur-
ing the year? It was a very old one—
“ The Escape of the Notorious Sir Wil-
liam Heans.” In it William Hay, untram-
melled by any specialist learning of de-
linquency and assisted by a most
powerful (and essentially nineteenth-
century) imagination, created a true
classic of the criminal mind. Perhaps
we are at present too close to the psy-
chological discoveries of this century
for such fully identified writing as
Hay’s about crime and criminal impulse
• —for the creation of indisputable sym-
bols. This may also be one reason why
'Criena Rohan’s “The Delinquents” seems
to say so much more than McLean’s book,
although I could not share in the gen-
eral and little qualified admiration for
this novel, and do not think it really
says very much at all. I thought it one
of those books that is so thoroughly
imbued with the immediate atmosphere
of the present day that its basic falsity
and sentimentality goes unrecognised,
as happened with many passages of
Dickens. Nowadays also, if you appear
to be unsentimental you can get away
with a lot —a fact demonstrated far more
definitely by Donald Stuart’s “Yaralie”
whose central figure, a young half-
aboriginal girl, was as impossibly good
as any mid-Victorian heroine in the
“edifying” volumes of over a hundred
years ago.
On the. other hand Nancy Phelan’s
“The River and the Brook,” which to
some extent made a greater play for
the reader's sentimental involvement,
proved in its total impression to be a
starker indictment of certain current
social problems than either Rohan’s or
Stuart’s accounts. It too dealt with
aspects of delinquency, mostly among
people who could not be described as
rich, but equally were not “under-
privileged.” It may be no accident that
Nancy Phelan more or less incidentally
tossed off a picture of a “bodgie” or
“leathery” type of boy which I remem-
ber perfectly without any need to look
at her book again.
Apropos “The World Turned Upside
Down,” “The Delinquents” and "The
River and the Brook,” I am assured by
a publisher that fiction dealing directly
with delinquency sells very badly. If
this is true it is a stringent indictment
of Australian readers: novels like these,
despite their faults, are roundly pre-
sented and well explained, and provide
more insight into the problems they
discuss than do all the garish court re-
ports, "Peyton Places” and memoirs of
Polly Adlers, though these things, of
course, sell very well.
By one of those peculiar juxta-
positions that occur in surveys like this
one of the oldest (in years) of our
novelists and surely the youngest are
ranged together. Norman Lindsay’s “The
Age of Consent” though first published
in America in P 938 must be considered
' as a new book because hitherto the Aus-
tralian public has not been allowed to
glimpse its amusing and quite enchant-
ing pages thanks to a censor who pre-
sumably allowed his prurient mind to
draw impossible conclusions from the
title alone. One’s primmest great aunt
would find nothing to offend in its first
Australian edition. It is a book of no
fashion old or new which I shall trea-
sure for one of the funniest pieces of
writing in all literature: an interview be-
tween a shy artist and a soulless police-
man who prides himself on knowing a
paintable view—the human conversa-
tionalists are counterpointed by two
memorable dogs. “Age of Consent” is
written (and illustrated) purely to enter-
tain and here lies its similarity to Juliet
Rolleston’s “In My Lady’s Chamber”
which I described as “distasteful” in
these pages very recently. Since then I
have been taken to task for this view
by an Australian poet whose judgment
I must respect. I persist in my im-
pression of the book as a whole, but
do agree with my critic, and with plea-
sure say here, that Juliet Rolleston’s
descriptions of a beach resort near
Sydney and of some of its inhabitants
are beautifully written and conveyed
with a verve and charm that promise
very well for her future books.
Two novels remain. If sincerity
guaranteed success these would be suc-
cessful books but unfortunately this is
not so. Each attempted to portray and
convey the essence of an eccentric
central figure. In “Don’t Speak to
Strangers” G. R. McCallum wrote of a
dumb-struck little boy but her book,
though it made an odd and compelling
temporary impact, was too tenuously
based, too illogical, to be viable; once
the reading was finished. Helen Heney,
in “The Leaping Flame” presented a
woman ruined by her inherited power
over a small community. The force of
Miss Heney’s book, as I noted here
(again very recently) was dissipated in a
highly complicated plot several of whose
devices militated against its central theme
and also against her interesting pre-
sentation of certain problems of partly
assimilated aboriginal people.
To conclude: 1962 may not have
been a year of the novel, but in recall-
ing its books one cannot feel other than
optimistic. It produced proportionately
very few books so poor that one prefers
not to mention them in this survey by
name (only two), and at least two (or
counting “The Cruel Field” by hearsay
as it were) three really good ones. Many
of the novelists tackled difficult themes
with courage and realism. One author,
Thea Astley, made a real contribution
to prose style and one other, David
Forrest (though quite differently), almost
did. There was no single truly great
book, but greatness in any country,
large or small, can rarely be expected.
"Why does he keep giving me these 'neurotic ' roles?"


HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM2OOI. *
ON MY SELECTION
The best of 100
By ROSS CAMPBELL
(Author of “Daddy, are you married?”)
Reviewing books for a newspaper
is a job where one is usually
short of time. A good deal of
the time is taken up in reading the book,
so reviewers tend to prefer short books.
Often it takes more time to write a
short review of a long book than a long
review of a short book.
But reviewers also prefer to read
books they enjoy, so they will frequently
choose to review a long good book
rather than a short bad book. The
lightest task, I suppose, is to write a
short review of a short good book. The
most arduous is writing a long review of
a long bad book. People who can do
this usually finish up on The Times
Literary Supplement.
In the past year as a reviewer for
The Daily Telegraph I read about 100
books. I hope I can claim that my
regard for good books overcame my
indolent preference for short books,
because the two that made the deepest
impression on me were both long.
Barbara Tuchman’s August 1914 I
consider not only one of the books of
the year but one of the books of the era.
This is the first time the vast, shapeless
theme of the First World War has been
mastered by historiography in the grand
manner.
What a dark horse of literature was
this previously unknown American lady!
Gibbonian in her grasp of material and
her sardonic wit, Tolstoian in her sense
of the tragedy of war. Part of her
achievement is in showing that history
can still be big and exciting not just
niggling and dry, as it has been in the
hands of the Namierite school (and
goodness knows we too have our Early
Australian Namier-ites, arguing end-
lessly about when Governor Macquarie
changed his socks).
The other book which pre-eminently
sticks in the mind is Rupert Hart-Davis’s
edition of The Letters of Oscar Wilde.
This splendid work of scholarship will
probably come to rank with classics like
Birkbeck Hill’s edition of Boswell’s
Johnson. The assembling of the huge
collection of letters from many sources
was a social diplomacy as well
as literary zeal, and might never have
been accomplished but for the personal
influence of Hart-Davis (Coldstream
Guards, nephew of Lady Diana Cooper,
etc.). In this collection Wilde appears
a more warm, humane, and moving
figure than ever before. There are signs
that the book will bring about a more
sympathetic reassessment of this genius
of conversation.
In the fiction field I am an occasional
reviewer, not one of those who bear the
burden and heat of the day. A novel
I shall not forget was I. R. Salamanca’s
Lilith. This extremely creepy story
recounts the amour of a male attendant
in a high-class private mental home and
a beautiful blonde nut. The American
author writes with delicacy and subtlety,
none of that coarse, windy style that is,
alas, almost orthodox in US fiction.
There is a scene where the young man
enters the room occupied by his deranged
inamorata, and finds her weaving her
long, fair hair into the tapestry she is
making. They don't do better than that
on the Hitchcock Show.
I enjoyed also an Australian novel,
less widely known than it deserves to be
Nancy Phelan’s The River and the
Brook. The trials and anxieties incident
to rearing a restless teenage daughter
among Manly's para - bodgies are
described here with a piercing accuracy.
For pure photographic squalor, the
year's purple certificate should be
awarded to Mrs Phelan’s report on the
flat occupied by “the Smith boys”, a
fascinating group of waterfront hominids.
Among Australian books of the bio-
graphical division, John Thompson’s On
Lips of Living Men setting down the
words of his broadcast programmes
about eminent personages was out-
standing if only for the wonderful
reminiscences of Melba. It is becoming
likely that there will never be a good
full-length biography of Melba. The
latest effort, by the American Joseph
Wechsberg, is a romantic plush-and-tiaras
job which misses the gross "and ruthless
quality of her electrifying character.
That is exactly what John Thompson’s
programme preserves. Glorious bits like
the remark of Peter Dawson: “Tetrazzini
couldn't get into Covent Garden with a
tin-opener while Nellie was there.”
Future musicologists may have to rely
on this record as the most authentic bit
of Nelliana that has escaped oblivion.
In the exotic division —• Africa, as
usual, predominated. Just as conspi-
cuously Elspeth Huxley’s The Mottled
Lizard overshadowed other books on
Africa. Writing of the Kenya of her girl-
hood in the 19205, she made that beauti-
ful and sinister region more vivid than
all the blood-soaked I-know-the-Mau-
Mau chronicles of the past decade.
Another brilliant scene-painter was Jan
de Hartog, the Dutchman who in Waters
of the New World described a journey
along the coastal waterways of the south-
east US. This is a book of impressionistic
flashes the frogs of Florida who lie on
their backs in the rain, waiting to be run
over by cars the woman guide in an
old Southern mansion who said: “Mr
Wadlow once carried his bride across
this threshold like a fluttering bird.”
The best of present-day English writers
on Italy, to my 'mind, is Bernard Wall,
and his picture of Rome in A City
and a World was a fine evocation of
grandeur and futility. I found saddening
his report of the modernisation of the
plain of the Campagna, once poisoned
with malaria and painted by Claude and
Poussin now healthily drained and
lit by neon ads for sewing machines.
A stimulating and informative book, I
found, was the collection of essays en-
titled Australian Civilisation. The rather
grudging and patronising reception ac-
corded to it in some quarters demon-
strated the endemic one-upmanship of
Australian intellectuals.
Among memoirs, Lord Casey’s enter-
taining Personal Experience, 'on his
VIP years in World War 11, made him
appear a more supple and attractive man
than those might think who know only
his earnest public image.
A volume of letters by Raymond
Chandler had the acid wit and readabi-
lity one would expect, though it left un-
illuminated most of his strange life-
history. One extraordinary thing about
Chandler was the way he bridged genera-
tions. In youth he contributed to the
Liberal weeklies of Edwardian England;
in middle age he dominated the era of
trying American private-eye movies; and
just before his death he wrote a foreword
to Bang to Rights the book by ex-
convict Frank Norman that inaugurated
the new vogue of British rough stuff.
Chandler spanned the gap between Ber-
nard Shaw and Brendan Behan, by way
of Humphrey Bogart.
Postscript: on the comic side, a note-
worthy performance was Patrick Den-
nis's Little Me. Not for the text, which
spun out too long its burlesque of Gabor-
type actress memoirs, but for the faked
photographic illustrations, which were
both funny and (in places) amazingly
rude.


THE RED PAGE
THE WHITE NEGRO
40 Days Around the South
By ALEX SAYRE
Black Like Me. John Howard Griffin.
Collins. 225. 6d.
Tn November of 1959 a white South-
•*- erner from Texas shaved his head,
darkened his skin under guidance of a
dermatologist, and for several w'eeks
passed as a Negro in Louisiana, Ala-
bama, Georgia and Mississippi. His
struggle to maintain dignity in a hostile
white environment and to establish
transient relations with Negroes are des-
cribed in “Black Like Me,” together
with a good deal of personal philoso-
phising and an account of the aftermath.
As a Negro in w'hite society, he is
subjected to the "hate stare,’’ especially
from elderly women. White ruffians
-taunt him and a bully trails him threat-
eningly for agonising minutes. While
hitch-hiking he must listen to obsessed
white barbarians plying him with ques-
tions about Negro sex practices and at
the same time unabashedly unburdening
themselves of every personal corruption.
This forms the most revealing part of
the narrative. Before the Negro, who is
regarded as scarcely human and thus
devoid of morality, the w'hite man feels
free to bare his pent-up cravings, while
reserving for "decent” white society the
cocktail party charm, the benign count-
enance, the perfect table manner, the be-
guiling banter with children and the
wives of lriends- One such member of
the master race, unsurpassed in cynicism,
informs the author, I "We figure we’re
doing you people a favour to get some
white blood in your kids.” And later,
“I’ll tell you how' it is here. We’ll do
business with you people. We’ll sure as
hell screw your women. Other than that,
you're just completely off the record as
far as we’re concerned.” But when Grif-
fin accompanies two Negroes who are
passing out leaflets in a white area and
meeting with rude rebuffs, a young white
stranger approaches and says, "I don’t
suppose it does any good, but I apologise
for the bad manners of my people.” At
a Trappist monastery the author finds
compassion and communication.
Finally Griffin removes his disguise,
having found life as a Negro unbearable.
“I took a seat beside white men at the
counter and the waitress smiled at me.
It was a miracle. I ordered food and
was served, and it was a miracle. I went
to the rest room and was not molested.
No one paid me the slightest attention.
No one said, ‘What’re you doing in here,
nigger?’ ” The coda of the story con-
sists of ardent pleas for brotherhood,
unfortunately heavily larded with the
most obvious platitudes . . . our only
redemption is through love for each
other, many Christians are hypocrites,
Negroes are humans like us, justice
makes the man.
Although sincerity rings true through
the book, this breakneck version of
“Forty Days Around the South” some-
how feels unrewarding. If presented in
direct journal form, shorn of its maw-
kish cliches and its unnecessary prologue
and epilogue, the impact of the piece
might be greater for a serious audience.
In advance Griffin dismisses as “picay-
unish" the most obvious rebuke: that this
is not the story of a Negro in America’s
South, it is the story of a w hite man who
had a dermatologist tint his skin, a man
who was at liberty to return at will to
w-hite society. It is all too superficial,
too hurried, too gross, too lacking in an
understanding of the inner subtleties of
Negro life in America. When the squalor
of a tenement hovel overwhelms him,
when a town gets too “hot,” he cashes a
traveller's cheque and goes to the bus
terminal. Negro society at higher social
levels is hardly depicted, but rather the
mass of Negroes in tense contact with the
mass of w'hites. Neglected also is the
human problem of maintaining two radi-
cally differing cultures in a side-by-side
relationship: if integration is to be the
choice, how' to “integrate'’ the American
Negro into a basically Anglo-Saxon
society without destroying the precious
qualities of a highly original Negro
culture.
Finally, if Griffin has truly experi-
mented in “what it is like to be a Negro
in a land w'here w'e keep the Negro
dow'n," the message has been conveyed
with far more depth and eloquence by
Negro w-riters themselves. The most
memorable lines in this book come from
the verse of Dream Variation by Negro
poet Uangston Hughes, reprinted on the
flyleaf:
Rest at pale evening . . .
A tall slim tree . . .
Night coming tenderly
Black like me.
SWAPPING TRUE CLICHES FOR WRONG
May Man Prevail? Erich Fromm.
George Allen & Unw'in. 345. 9d.
Qne of the features of intellectual life
in this century has been the growing
tyranny of psychology. Already psycho-
logists lay down the law on educational
theory and in other fields, ranging from
literary criticism to penology, their in-
fluence is large. Recently they have also
started to interest themselves in interna-
tional politics, usually marching under
the banners of Disarmament. Peace and
Sanity. This book by Dr Fromm, one of
the ablest and best knowm of the ency-
clopaedic psychologists, is an interesting
example of their approach.
Dr Fromm w'ants to establish the case
for disarmament and co-existence. To
do this he sets out to prove that the
Soviet Union is not expansionist or
revolutionary but is on the contrary con-
servative and defensive in outlook. And
to do this he makes some extremely
dubious statements of fact and resorts to
even more dubious methods or argu-
ment.
Among the latter is the well known
gambit, to which psychologists are per-
haps professionally disposed, of focus-
ing attention on the supposed state of
mind of one’s opponents rather than on
their arguments. Thus Dr Fromm begins
by characterising the thinking of those
who regard the Soviet Union as a
country dedicated to world domination
as paranoid thinking. As he does this
before he has attempted to show that
their views are mistaken, one can only
regard it as an attempt to prejudice the
whole argument before it begins by
calling the sanity of his opponents into
question. Dr Fromm characterises pa-
ranoid thinking as thinking which makes
possibility rather than probability the
test of truth and goes on to say that
“if only possibility is required as a con-
dition of truth, it is easy to achieve
certainty. If, on the other hand, proba-
bility is required, there are relatively few
things to be certain of." There are two
things to be said qbout this. One is that
those who regard the Soviet Union as
insatiably expansionist and “co-existence*’
as a tactical manoeuvre rather than as
a genuine desire for a modus vivendi
support their views with a mass of
evidence drawn from the past record of
the Soviet Union, the nature of Com-
munist ideology, the statements of
Soviet leaders, and the current activi-
ties of the Soviet government. That is
they think that they are talking about
probabilities, not merely possibilities. The
second thing to be said is that for some-


one who starts by saying that relatively
few things are certain for the same man,
Dr Fromm is remarkably willing to
make the most dogmatic statements
about very controversial and complicated
issues. He refers to Yugoslavia, Djilas’
country, as a society in which the “pos-
sibility of living, thinking, speaking
without fear of reprisal” is a fact. He
says that China “has an economy geared
to the welfare of the large majority”. He
repeats the view, already demolished by
Theodore Draper, that the United States
government forced Castro to turn to
the Communists and he has the mis-
fortune to dismiss the assumption that
Russia wants a military base in Cuba as
“unreal” (as it would be if his premise
were true). On matters such as the Sino-
Soviet dispute and the character of
Stalin, on which experts are tentative,
and cautious, all is clear and certain
for Dr Fromm.
Much of what Dr Fromm has to say
about the Soviet Union is true enough
and follows familiar lines. It is, as he
says, a managerial and bureaucratic
system and in some respects it is con-
servative. But when he deals with the
role of ideology he tends to go to pieces.
In his anxiety to show that the system
is not expansionist, he plays down this
role to the point where he compares it
with that of Christianity in Western
society and writes that “the only people
who take the Communist ideology
seriously are we in the United States”.
Elsewhere, however, when he is con-
cerned with explaining the difference
between the way the Soviet leaders really
feel and the way they speak, he writes,
“Khrushchev cannot, however, give up
his Communist - revolutionary ideology
. . . without undermining his own
system.” Which suggests that someone
other than Americans is taking it
seriously.
His discussion about the foreign policy
aims of the Soviet Union is made ob-
scure and irrelevant by his concern to
show that it is not really “socialist” or
“revolutionary”, a concern which arises
out of his misunderstanding of the views
he is attacking. The charge against the
Soviet Union is not that it is socialist
nor that it is revolutionary but that it
is a totalitarian state which regards all
governments not under its own control
as things to be undermined and, if pos-
sible, destroyed.
Dr Fromm, like many of those ob-
sessed by disarmament, has the irritat-
ing habit of urging one “to break
through the thought barrier”. What they
seem to mean is that one should give
up one’s own cliches in order to embrace
theirs. But theirs aren’t even true.
OWEN HARRIES
SOME CLUES TO HENRY
Melbourne Studies in Education 1960-
1961. Edited by E. L. French. Mel-
bourne University Press. 475. 6d.
TT'his series of essays is the fourth and
■*- longest of its annual species issued
from Melbourne University. They might
be described as learned annuals devoted
to the' collection of important lectures
and papers on Australian historical sub-
jects, placed between hard covers, illus-
trated and sold at the kind of prices that
Melbourne University Press seems to
find it necessary to charge when its
work is not subsidised, and which make
one wonder whether there is not some
cheaper way of making Australian
scholarship available.
The book comprises four sections.
The first holds two lectures by Dr A. W.
Martin of Melbourne University deli-
vered at the Theodore Fink Memorial
Seminar held at the University in July
1960, one on “Sir Henry Parkes: Man
and Politician” and the other on “Politics
and Education in New South Wales”.
The second section holds two rather
flatulent lectures on “The University
System” and “The Students and the
University”, by Professor Partridge
which display the author’s capacity for
saying a very little in a great quantity
of words and making the little look more
important than it is. The Third section
holds a pair of documentaries “The
Administration of Education in France”,
by Oliver Wykes, senior lecturer in
Education at Melbourne University and
“Recent' Educational Reforms in Com-
munist China,” by Stewart A. Fraser,
Assistant Director of the International
Students’ Office at Harvard, who shows
an all-too-credulous respect for Chinese
official information and statistics. The
section is topped off with a strictly acad-
emic paper on “Teaching English as a
Foreign Language”, by W. A. Lees, a
vocational guidance officer of the Labor
and National Service Department of
Western Australia which somewhat re-
sembles the curate’s egg in that some
of it is elementary and some of it is not.
The final compartment contains a
mixed bag of four papers—The “More”
and the “Less” in the Teaching of Aus-
tralian History (A. G. Austin, senior
lecturer in Education, at Melbourne),
A. A. Morrison’s “Queensland: A Study
in Distance and Isolation,” R. L. Reid’s
Adelaide University contribution “South
Australian Politicians and the Proposals
for Federation” and F. K. Crowley’s
informative memoir of Lady Forrest,
which is an important contribution to
biography providing a framework round
which to build a biography of Forrest
himself, one of the much needed panels
in the as yet unpainted picture of the
incipient periods of Federal history.
The most important papers are Mar-
tin’s lectures on Parkes and his education
system, which provide an epitome of
much that has been printed with some
recourse to Parkes’s own papers. The
tendency in writing of Parkes has been
to deal with him in compartments, ac-
cording to taste, making, except in
Deakin’s writings, either a black picture
or a white one. In fact, he was an incre-
dible political adventurer of imposing
capacity both as a spellbinder and, in his
prime, as politician: a man whom ill-
report and scandal could not harm and
who seemed to be securely armored
against the consequences of financial
wrong doing and unsocial behavior.
There is no adequate biography of
him yet, or for that matter anything that
can be truly called a biography at all.
The hardiest biographer is apt to quail
in the presence of his shade which
belongs only to yesterday, since he still
has a son alive. But a few brave spirits
are at last laying the ground work for
a comprehensive view of the real Parkes
—the Parkes who incredibly dominated
New South Wales political atmosphere
for more than 20 years projecting, be-
fore the public, as Dr Martin writes, “a
vision of himself as the wise, capable,
indispensable leader, confident in his own
capacities, proven in his own intuitive
grasp of what constituted the public'
good”, yet still leaving mazed observers
who look backwards at him unable to
properly distinguish as yet “where cal-
culation merged into idealism; where
deception of the public became in fact
self-deception.” Or as Deakin put it, it
was (and still is) a problem “where the
actor posturemaker and would-be sphinx
ended or where the actual man under-
neath began.”
M. H. ELLIS
A Man's Book
Prison Feud. James Preston. John
Long. 15s. 6d.
IN the same terms in which you can
talk of a woman’s book, “Prison
Feud,” is a man’s book. There is a good,
strong plot and plenty of good, strong
but not very subtle characters. However,
within the limits which the author, Mr
James Preston, of Melbourne, has im-
posed on himself it is extremely compe-
tent. There seems no doubt that Mr
Preston, having got over the hurdle of
the first novel, could fly higher next
time.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Sharemarket rise on the way
Pundits representing quite a wide spectrum of opinion
broking, institutional, economic, even the financial
Press now seem ready to agree that the sharemarket
will make a more definite advance early next year. It is nice
to be able to concur with these views.
To put the situation at its most prosaic, the careful and
admonitory Mr Staniforth Ricketson has once more repeated
his homily of the past two or three months. “In the circum-
stances, at the present realistic level of share prices, the time
appears to be appropriate for investment in the stocks of
selected and well-established companies operating in sound
industries in the expectation of reaping handsome capital and
income benefits in the years that lie ahead,” he intones.
Nevertheless, investors need not expect anything too violent,
at least until 1963 has got going for a while. Yet the final
trading of 1962 gives plenty of evidence of the New Year
opening at clearly higher levels. And fortunately for the health
of the market this opening should only partially depend on
the recent stimulus provided by oils.
A variety of influences, both technical and external, have
only lately impinged to put many purely investment sections
into much better shape.
Those investors who remained in the ring during the
market’s period of drought many of course congratulate
themselves that a reiterated and much-noticed policy of
“cautious selectivity” has helped to establish a more sensible
range of average prices. The relative absence and patent
reluctance of the institutions to re-enter equity trading
prematurely also aided the thin volumes of mid-1962 to correct
what remained of inflated and boom quotes. Not that very
many of these had held very far into the present year.
Ane technical factor as well which encouraged overall
adjustment was a fairly marked decline in sheer leader
domination. BFIP, a hitherto unquestioned king of kings, has
been pulled down for more reasons than one. The lesser
princelings surrounding the throne have therefore taken their
tumbles at the same time and all the blue-chip group must
henceforth justify itself on results and true prospects.
Chasing the leader-swayed index is no longer a particularly
profitable hobby. So emerges, and a crowd of brokers’
circulars testify to the new circumspection, the search for
the good second-liner. Outside economic circumstances are
well in process of seeing to it that there are a sufficiency of
these around.
No lack of actual liquidity, especially among institutions,
really held back interest in equities through most of this year.
Quite clearly, a large volume of available money went into
bonds and other fixed-interests. That particular wave looks
spent. So, where economic and technical stimulants seem to
meet in the fresh direction of available funds the pointers
are tending to direct themselves towards ordinary shares again.
In passing, it can perhaps be mentioned that the prolonged
heart-searching, which must undoubtedly be directed upon
debentures and other fixed-interests as one result of the Reid
Murray - Stanhill happenings, could, the times being ripe,
increase the equity demand.
“The times being ripe” brings us at last, and of necessity
in brief summary, to the prime origin of hope for a more
vigorous investment atmosphere the country's economic
indicators. Investors are at last forced to take industrial
improvement seriously. To the mystification of many observers
over the last months, they have avoided doing this for too long.
It has therefore been somewhat of a wonder that share
prices have not moved forward before now. It's been a
complicated year, though, and calm was most likely the best
protection through the difficulties. The Budget didn't attempt
to give much of a kick.
Qimply to itemise, the markets have tried to cope with the
sceptically regarded February measures of the Federal Gov-
ernment, a whole year’s doubts on the Common Market, uncer-
tain commodity prices, and then, as a culmination, the Cuban
crisis. The latter produced a two-day slide, merely on
imitative grounds derived from overseas exchanges, that in
retrospect seemed casual and unnecessary. Indeed, over much
of 1962, London and New York probably played an undue
part in holding back Australian sharemarkets.
The internal situation being favourable, here is one influence
which our alleged sophistication should examine more cannily.
Anyhow, at the end of it all, we arrive at a local market
considerably livelier and better prepared for a judicious take-off
than at the start of the year. It is no bad thing that, of the
main investment sections, only banks, other finance and
pastoral stand at higher average price levels than they did at
the end of 1961. For these there are special and limited
reasons.
At this present juncture, we may again assert the relative
unimportance of the index as a guide to the clear benefits of
selective, earnings-yield-conscious investment. The leaders
have gone down: very well, many other industrials must have
gone up. And the static index proves that.
Far more to be stressed at the crux of improvement is the
present widening of ranges and turnovers, so much in contrast
to the finish of 1961. No foreseeable reason exists for the
process to stop.
INQUEST ON INTEREST
AND COSTS
¥>erhaps the most significant of all the general statements
made on the economy by Sir lan Potter at the Australian
United Corporation meeting in Melbourne was that “the
burden of interest in some industries is already pressing heavily
and if we are to improve our competitive position in the world
we cannot afford to ignore this important element in costs.”
As he sees it “unless opportunities such as those now present
are used to bring down interest rates they may be expected to
rise to still higher levels when the demand for capital revives,
as it inevitably must.”
Present trends are towards an accentuation of the flush


internal liquidity, he stated, though they are subject to the
pattern of public finance which may “by expenditure on public
works or by taxation drain off some of the resources available
to the private sector.”
He wants to see this flush liquidity work out its effects on
the interest rate structure and thinks it would be unwise to do
too much to drain it off.
Sir lan could well have widened his observations on the re-
percussions of the heavy burden of interest to mention that
this is at heart of the trouble of the distressing array of de-
velopment companies now pretty near the end of their tether
and of the disrupting effect they are having on the whole
structure of interest rates and the revival in private investment
alike.
However, it seems that as a result of the irresponsible hand-
ling of the mass of public money invested in the presently
harassed development companies, the public and the authorities
as well as the stock exchanges will henceforth be very much
more alive to the perils both for the private investor and the
financial structure in allowing unbridled access of such con-
cern to the capital market.
In the getting together of heads in the next few months to
explore means of curtailing access to the capital market it is
to be hoped that attention will be given not only to the max-
imising both of interest rates and extent of permissible
borrowing in relation to share capital and shareholders’ funds
but also to intra-group lending of public money of the type
practised by the Korman group of companies.
One need only mention one example of the latter in which
Factors borrowed heavily from the market on debentures,
notes and deposits at rates varying from 6 to 81 p.c., some
of it secured by trust deeds, and loaned equally heavily to
Stanhill Consolidated, a sister company, on the flimsiest of
security at 16 p.c. —its ultimate destination being, probably,
Chevron Sydney, a third public company in the group.
Mr V. T. Gladstones’, the chairman of Factors, retort on
this to a questioning shareholder at the meeting this time last
year remains a classic “you can’t expect high grade security
for a loan such as this on which 16 p.c. interest is being
charged.”
No inquiry will be complete unless it brings this sort of
second line destiny of public money into its purview.
“DAIRYMEN THE PAWNS
IN BLINDFOLD CHESS”
TTf greater importance to all Australians than acknowledged
publicly, the dairy industry again has been criticised. For
a change, however, the criticism is aimed at those w'ho allow
the industry to progress in the way that it has.
“The Australian dairy farmer is hog-tied by red-tape and
operates merely as a pawn of Government economists in a
game of blindfold chess. He will become, unwillingly, more
and more of a problem for the country.”
This forthright comment on the £7OO million (and ailing)
Australian dairy industry comes from New Zealand’s top agri-
cultural journalist for 1962, Mr David K. Yerex, associate
editor of the “New Zealand Dairy Exporter.”
Mr Yerex toured farms and research centres in Victoria
and New South Wales as a guest of the Bank of New South
Wales. After his tour he was critical of many facets of the
Australian dairy industry. His criticisms included:
• Efficient Australian dairy farmers had no incentive
to push ahead under the subsidy system.
• Given the chance Australian dairy farmers could put
their products on the Australian table at a compe-
titive price without costing the nation a penny.
• Standards on some Australian dairy farms were higher
than he expected BUT on others standards were
lower than he had thought possible in a country
which exported dairy products to earn overseas
income.
• Prospects of increased production in Australia were
very great, but Australian dairy farmers needed a
much bigger field team of advisers to help them apply
modern techniques of farm management and scien-
tific production.
• The price of butter in Australia was creating a
market for margarine and the price of milk was doing
nothing to increase consumption.
Mr Yerex’s remarks are certain to cause a minor storm in
the dairy industry . . . but they are equally unlikely to have
any marked result.
Already plagued with big butter surpluses, threatened with
the loss of its major export market, should Britain enter the
Common Market, and faced with declining butter consumption
at home, dairy farmers have nothing to be complacent about.
Many of them will be forced out of the industry in the next
few years, but industry leaders seem either uninterested or
afraid to meet the problem.
The Federal Government, seemingly unwilling to offend
(especially in the politically sensitive State of Queensland,
where most of the inefficient dairy farms appear to be har-
boured) is unlikely to take any radical steps to put the dairy
industry on a sound basis.
It is therefore up to the industry to face and solve its own
problems. If it cannot do this without further Government
subsidies it knows it can expect a sharp reaction from the
tax-weary Australian public . . . they will eat still less butter.
AFFAIRS, YES —B UT
MARRIAGES, NO
Tn the same week that Tania Verstak reported New Zealan-
ders willing to consider union with Australia (and to ap-
propriate her as Miss Australasia), Tasman Pulp and Paper
Co. Ltd of NZ and Australian Newsprint Mills Holdings Ltd
announced a swopping of 2 million £ 1 shares.
Was it also a coincidence that Australian Paper Manufac-
turers Ltd and New Zealand Forest Products Ltd announced
a new joint venture to make soft moulded pulp products? The
first line will be a tray for packaging fruit exports.
The ANM-Tasman Pulp deal will be of considerable signi-
ficance. Both companies are making a one-for-ten bonus, and
will have representation on one another’s board. Indeed, an
admirable partnership across the Tasman, but hardly an all-
consuming domination by the Australian group.
The two companies will arrange orderly manufacture and
marketing of newsprint in Australia and New Zealand. At
present Australian annual consumption of newsprint is about
300,000 tons, of which 90,000 is supplied by ANM. The
balance comes from Canada, under long term contracts, and
New Zealand.
The NZ Government has a large financial interest in
Tasman —a loan with an option to convert to participating
preference shares and therefore must have given its whole-
hearted blessing to the engagement of its pride and joy.
However, no such blessing was forthcoming for the marriage
planned in glass. The Government would not hear of
the takeover terms of Australian Consolidated Industries Ltd
for McKendrick Glass Manufacturing Co. Ltd. The new
NZ company is in technical difficulties, but the Government
was not prepared to agree to an immediate rise of £lO a
ton in the price of sheet glass, or to guarantee a monopoly for
ten years.
It would seem the “shaky isle” is nervous of trusting itself
in the hands of erstwhile suitors from across the Tasman.
Partnerships seem the more desirable form of Australian in-
vestment in New Zealand. The paper moves are on that basis.


CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
■
0
PER ANNUM
FOUR f EARS.
sd
fs
<^tP
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal emergency as set
out in the Prospectus
Applications for these Notes must be made on the form
attached to the Prospectus, which is now available from:
All branches of the Company's Bankers, THE BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Floor, Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
PERTH: 7th Floor, 81 St. George's Terrace.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Baylis Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any of the following Brokers to The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Trustees for the Noteholders are the Bankers &
Traders Insurance Company Limited
CCIS3/AB
- Clip and Post Coupon
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the Prospectus with application
forms.
NAME
ADDRESS
A YEAR OF INVESTMENT RESTRAINT
By “CROESUS”
A year ago one suggested that if pro-
duction could be lifted out of the
doldrums early in 1962, then we could
well see the revival in industrial invest-
ment so necessary to get the economy on
to the plane of full employment but “we
would not bet on this being in full
throttle by September . . . and it could
be much later.”
Looking back over the year, probably
the most disappointing aspect has been
the slow rate of recovery in private in-
vestment. For though production was
lifted rather higher than expectations
and did result in an upsurge in invest-
ment in stocks there was no correspond-
ing rise in fixed investment.
Psychological depressants inherited
from the dark days of 1961 undoubtedly
played their part and these, which now
show clear signs of being finally shaken
off, would certainly have been forgotten
if the recovery had been faster.
Instead in the interest of maintaining
stability the Government preferred a
measured tempo of recovery and in
fact was hurried into stimulating the
economy more than it probably wanted
to simply because of the adverse verdict
of the electorate on its go slow policy
in 1961.
The Government itself being a little
fearful about the degree of stimulus an-
nounced in February, business was not
wholly convinced of its intention to go
on with them or indeed of the extent to
which it was intended to finance the
stimulus by new injections of spending
power by way of Treasury bills.
Business was confirmed in its doubts
on whether the Government was to push
ahead with more vigor in stimulating the
economy when the authorities failed to
lower bond rate in August and the
Budget was based on altogether too
gloomy a view (since confounded) of
loan raising in 1962-63.
And as late as October business was
called on to digest official figures for car
registrations, retail sales, bank advances
and production in September which
together suggested the recovery was at
best marking time.
Even if in fact the September lull
proved to be but a temporary one and
has subsequently given way to renewed
buoyancy, business registered the im-
pression that recovery was to some extent
irregular in tempo and that for the final
quarter of the year seasonal influences
would be working in favor of the figures.
So the year goes out on a mild note of
doubt in the minds of businessmen on
whether the economy is moving suffi-
ciently rapidly forward to cope with its
employment tasks and wondering
whether the Government has retired into
the long summer months complacent
about the position.
Business attitudes cannot thus be
deemed as overflowing in optimism, or
confident enough yet to launch a new-
wave of industrial expansion on the basis
of hard and fast expectations.
The slight reticence would be less im-
portant for the level of fixed capital in-
vestment were it not for the physical fact
of unused capacity still waiting to be
taken up in various industries.
It would also be diminished in impor-
tance if industrialists were convinced
that a period of inflation lies ahead, as
mooted by an Australian correspondent
in a recent article in the London Econo-
mist. For if they were convinced of this
they would take the brakes off new in-
vestment in capital equipment and such
considerations as the rate of interest
would shade into insignificance as deter-
ring influences.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
MANAGEMENT UNDER THE MICROSCOPE
TV/Taybe more good managers are born
■*■*•*■ to the job than made, though all
are better for fashioning, whether it be
in the hard school of experience in the
firm, by so-called scientific precept or by
a combination of the two.
An examination of the chances
afforded management material in Aus-
tralia would probably reveal striking
changes over the years but looking
around top management here today most
of the successes appear to be “naturals”
nurtured through the ranks of compa-
nies and from a wide cross-section of
social classes rather than products of
deliberate schooling outside.
Except for summer schools in the
capital cities and the Administrative Staff
College we haven't gone very far in the
cultivation of managers in academic
rather than everyday business atmo-
spheres, certainly not as far as in the
US and Britain. It is not so much that
academic study and training in scientific
management techniques have been
slower of acceptance here than in some of
the more advanced overseas industrial
countries but rather that we have been
feeling our way towards a break-
through. a process which the Australian
Institute of Management has been ably
hurrying on these last few years.
The break-through point has been
brought a stage nearer by the establish-
ment of business administration schools,
first in the University of New South
Wales under Professor Wills and now at
the University of Melbourne whose new
professor, John Willett, has recently
arrived here from a similar job at Cam-
bridge University (UK). Both these
professors are presently hard at work
shaping courses and though their impact
on the Australian management scene is
bound to be slow there can be no doubt
it will be certain and it could be revolu-
tionary.
Scientific approach?
Tt is not too much to say that the
direction these courses will take is be-
ing eagerly and even anxiously awaited by
many businessmen and also by those
who have been working strenuously to
get them established. For there is a deal
of scepticism both here and abroad about
the scientific approach to management.
Talking about w'hat he calls the
“rather patchy history of the British In-
stitute of Management” in his “Manage-
ment Principles’’ , recently published by
Hutchinson of London, Sir Walter
Puckey, chairman of Britain’s leading
management selection concern and a
leading authority on management tech-
niques, states it had failed to develop and
wasn’t likely to develop “a set of manage-
ment principles good enough to rank
with those developed by, for instance,
physicists and engineers or even by
economists or psychologists”!
Sir Walter believes “it would be wrong
to describe the various courses as other
than largely descriptive, with the empha-
sis largely on ‘know-how’ rather than
‘know-why’.”
He says that “even those who lecture
on management are not united on the
possibilities or opportunities for develop-
ing better organisation principles or
laws”, and quotes an official UK report
as stating that “the widely accepted as-
sumption that there are principles of
management valid for all sorts of pro-
duction systems seemed very doubtful
a conclusion with wide implications
for the teaching of the subject.”
One gets the impression from Sir
Walter that while he is very suspicious
of scientific management he is all in
favor of a scientific approach to manage-
ment which means “our examination of
the management decision involves first
a careful analysis of the problem and
finally the application of personal quali-
ties such as judgment, discretion and
compassion which quite frequently mo-
dify or even reject the scientifically
based evidence.”
America’s failings
TTowever, this scepticism is nothing
compared with that of American
Professor David Garnet in another re-
cently-published Hutchinson book en-
titled “The European Executive” in
which the author pours very cold water
indeed on the idea that scientific manage-
ment as practised in the USA is as suc-
cessful as it is usually cracked up to be.
Garnet comes pretty near to saying that
this is one of the biggest myths ever to
come out of America.
To start with, he blows the lid com-
pletely off the idea that American in-
dustry is “the top international per-
former.”
While it is quite true, he says, that on
the bare figures, since 1901 the US has
increased its output nine times com-
pared with 5.5 in West Germany, 3.9 in
Britain and France, and 3.1 in Belgium,
the picture is transformed when one
discounts the figures for population
growth and eliminates the production in-
creases in the First and Second World
Wars which were concentrated in the
US while production fell on the Con-
tinent.
As a result of this exercise Garnet
finds that taking 1901 as 100, the index
numbers for industrial output in 1959
were top of the list France with 352,
then West Germany 291, Britain 269,
the United States 255 and Belgium 242.
“By this more relevant long-run test,”
he states, “the United States has run a
poor fourth in peace time per capita
industrial expansion during this century.
Only our great population growth com-
bined with our good fortune during two
wars has pulled us into the lead.”
So he asks, “What is there in this
record to indicate an overwhelming
superiority of American management
methods? . . . Perhaps it is Western
Europe which has the magic answer to
the question of what makes for good
management.”
European approach
spent a year in Europe on a
Fulbright scholarship to try and find
the answer and as a result of his faith-
fully recorded experiences confirms him-
self as one of the sceptics about scientific
management . . . “in any country the
world of management is a curious one;
the more one sees of it the more diffi-
cult it becomes to comprehend just w'hat
is actually done by successful managers
the ones who get to the top in their
organisation and also to see what
distinguishes a ‘good’ executive from a
‘bad’ one.”
Bluntly, “the concept of management
seems radically different in large Euro-
pean businesses from that in the ortho-
dox American firm. In European eyes
management is in no sense a professional
field with a content that can be learned.
Various tools exist such as mathema-
tics, engineering knowledge and cost
accounting but these are applicable
only to specialised functional areas
supervised by people of junior and
middle management grade. In making the
important general management decisions
none of these tools are particularly use-
ful.”
In fact “what is needed in top manage-
ment is something quite different.”
One has space here only for his gene-
ral view, but his findings on the various
approaches to management in individual
European countries are well worth
reading.
For instance, in Germany there is a
rather mystical feeling of calling and
loyalty to private entrepreneurship, in
France it is the trained intellect which
is required, in Belgium class decides, in
England “it is men of breadth whose
background shows character that are
wanted and so it has increasingly moved
towards the promotion of public school
boys to the exclusion of others and to
heavy reliance on managerial trainee
programmes.”


FACTORS COULD SURVIVE
THE KORMAN DEBACLE
Leading Melbourne accountant Mr
V. T. Gladstones has had a mam-
moth task unravelling the tangled
skein of interests held by Factors Ltd
since he took over (somewhat reluc-
tantly) from former chairman Mr
Oswald Burt 18 months ago. Though he
has not yet managed to bring share-
holders within sight of the promised land,
in wiping the slate of Rockmans he has
removed the main obstacle, albeit by
the heaviest single write-off yet in Aus-
tralian company history.
Whichever way one looks at the
group's loss on Rockmans, which, in-
cluding £1,010,514 to July, 1961, and the
.1961-62 write-off of £2,275,116 comes to
£3,288,632 (or the total cost of Factors’
-stake in that company), it is largely re-
sponsible for the huge drop in the
group's assets even if Mr. Gladstones
is probably right in his view that there
is a good case for not consolidating the
Rockmans’ figures with those for the
rest of the group for the reason that
Rockmans had no shareholders’ funds at
July 31st, 1962, and the cost of the
Rockmans’ shares had been entirely
written-off. (Incidentally the inclusion
of Rockmans in the, consolidation was
largely responsible for the delay in pre-
senting the accounts for 1961-62).
The sale of the 6,065,483 ss. Wool-
worths’ shares received for Rockmans’
properties (Woolworths bought all ex-
cept five of the properties under option)
netted £4,325,102 or just sufficient to
cover the payment of the liabilities of
the Rockmans’ group leaving nothing
over for Factors.
Mr Gladstones told The Bulletin he
has gone about as far as he can at this
stage in his attempt to ensure thaQthe
company’s £2.3 million advance to
Stanhill Consolidated is not a dead loss.
However, he said that the securing of
an equitable mortgage over Stanhill land
at Broadmeadows ( v ictoria) had been
a six-months long battle but now with
Stanhill very much on the legal carpet
the future of these advances is very
problematical.
For the moment however Factors had
elected to write off only about a quarter
(£550,000) of the amount outstanding
and as well as interest due and not paid
on it, about £200,000.
His third piece of accounting surgery
has been to cut the book value of the
group's investment in Queensland Mines
(its 50 per cent capital stake together
with advances made to the company by
Factors) by £237,953 to nil. (Mr. Glad-
stones told us that this company’s bounti-
ful resources of uranium ore could pos-
sibly become valuable in the event of a
war, however).
Factors also elected to write off
£251,168 from the cost of shares in
companies (other than Rockmans) to a
bare £26,000. These are holdings in
Stanhill Consolidated, Stanhill Develop-
ment Finance and Chevron Sydney, all
now having only nominal values.
So we have the position that the assets
of the group have been severely writ-
ten down to what now look much more
realistic values and the running sore of
Rockmans on group earnings has been
dried up.
The big question now is whether
Factors’ drain of funds from its money-
spinners the two Holeproof groups -—•
is also at an end, paving the way for a
new era.
Mr. Gladstones seems pretty confident
that it is, though still keeping his fingers
crossed on the big headache of the loan
to Stanhill.
„ He told us that with the removal of
Rockmans from the scene, the potential
prosperity of the Factors group is now
far more secure than it was a few
months ago.
Profits earned by the Holeproof com-
panies both in Australia and New Zeal-
and in the latest 12 months far exceeded
results for the previous year and there
is every indication that this .trend will
continue, he said. These profits were
£502,538 (net of minority interests) but
were more than offset by other group
trading losses of £654,749, making the
net group trading loss for the year
£91,214, and its total loss including
write offs £3,505,028.
The manufacturing capacity of the
two Holeproof companies and'the diver-
sification programmes actively adopted
by directors has ensured a much sounder
approach in the coming year, Mr. Glad-
stones said.
He believes that although results of
the parent Factors’ company were ex-
tremely disappointing in the year just
closed, heavy write-downs of goodwill
and provision for losses from associated
companies are most unlikely to occur
again.
Moreover, if certain measures of con-
solidation can be effected, he thinks it
probable that taxation benefits will accrue
in the coming year. As an instance of
the expense to the group which the lack
of consolidation brought about, one can
point to the taxation, provision of
£444,604 in the year to July. This total
was attributed to both the Holeproof
companies, despite the heavy losses in
Factors and Rockmans group.
In a nutshell, Mr. Gladstones is con-
fident that the trend of higher sales and
profits now evident in the Holeproof
group will be reflected in better results
for Factors as a whole in 1963.
The £loi million indebtedness to the
public in the form of debentures and
notes, etc. remains the rock on which
Factors could founder. Assets now ex-
ceed these liabilities even after omitting
the “asset” debt from Stanhill. But pres-
sure for payment of these securities will
see forced wind-up of the Holeproof
companies.
In all, Factors has the best prospect
of survival in the Korman group. But
this will depend largely on the goodwill
of debenture holders at a meeting on
March 15.
So much on his mind!
“HThere is so much on my mind. .
said Mr Korman at the meeting of
Stanhill Consolidated in Melbourne last
week. Yes indeed, and if these are not
grave times for all of us, as he suggested,
they are certainly grave for the 50,000
or so whom he once chose to call the
great family of investors in Korman
companies.
But to get down to brass tacks and
rise above the soft stuff of his prepared
speech the key question now is what
the receiver will do.
Is there really something in Mr.
Korman's plea that “it is a great pity
that trustees in a time of crisis should not
be permitted to join the board of directors
and help to rejuvenate a company in-
stead of merely winding up and dispos-
ing of assets?”
Talking about this question of
liquidating assets to Mr V. T. Gladstones,
who certainly has no axe to grind in
the matter so far as Stanhill companies
are concerned since he joined the board
of Factors as a favor to help them out
of their mess, The Bulletin got the
firm impression that he believed the
right course for everybody was to make
a strong concerted effort to avert liquid-
ation.
Moreover Mr. Gladstones seemed to
be pretty confident that creditors and
debenture holders alike would talk
turkey when it came to the point as they
have so often done in the past, creditors
especially.
Double-talk accounts
TTenry Jones Co-operative Ltd, the
•*- jam maker, does not excel at clear
and informative reporting.
Its first consolidated accounts still
contain the inner reserve created by
conversion of English, South African
and New Zealand currencies on a par
with Australian currency, as if the 1931


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stick Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “N’EVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2701 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
3 Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5957 (7 lines)
43 Northbourne Ave.
City, Canberra, A.C.T.
4 0365-66
Flinders House, Crown St., Wollongong
B 5900
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor
58 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5731
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. W. GRANT & CO.
\
549 St. Kilda Road
Melbourne
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Telephones: 51-6243, 51-6245
Est. 1939
RETIRING??
Then read on — .
SEAVIEW PARK is the Place.
An ideally located tract of land on a hillside—
overlooking the sea, with Hayman and Hook Islands
just 20 miles offshore.
It is fronted by a bitumen road and the
Esplanade.
Below lies Boathaven Bay.
The climate is ideal, 10 months of sunshine, an
average 75 degree temperature.
Your own private Park with a canopy of fig
trees covering the entire area, assuring 10 degrees
cooler temperature in the summertime.
All homesites are 66 feet by 132 feet.
We are not boasting v.'hen we say it has the
best View on the Coral Coast.
For information, write "SEAVIEW PARK", P.O.
Box 1. Proserpine, Qld.
devaluation of the Australian £ never
happened.
“The board of directors is very much
aware of the dangers of giving recogni-
tion in the consolidated balance sheet to
theoretical and unrealised gross surpluses
that may arise through the conversion of
other currencies to Australian cur-
rency ...”
Their argument is that the original
capital invested in overseas subsidiaries
was provided when the Australian £ was
on a par with the overseas currencies;
the capital and retained earnings is
mainly invested in fixed assets overseas,
and thus not available for remittance;
and any such remittance of retained
funds would be subject to exchange con-
trol and further taxation.
The company reports its profit for the
year to October 31, 1962, as £351,100
from Australia (1960-61 £319,600) and
£410,800 (£392,300) from overseas.
A full list of subsidiary companies
also makes a maiden appearance. Invest-
ments in the consolidated balance sheet
total £903,100 of which £681,400 is in
shares, debentures or notes listed on the
Stock Exchange, having a quoted market
value of £886,600. Investments not dealt
in on prescribed stock exchanges have
been materially reduced in 1961-62 and
a £25,000 appropriation was made from
the year’s . profit against possible loss
thereon.
Almost £250,000 provided by subsi-
diaries in previous years is no longer
required and has been written back and
transferred to general reserves.
If we tend to rate highly the compa-
nies which report most frankly, the 755.
which the 205.. shares of this company
commanded is based on the expectation
that Henry Jones will not always be
such a reluctant reporter or dispenser
of favours.
Constancy is apparently to receive
some award, for the directors are coh-
sidering a par issue in the middle of
1963. On this effulgent news the shares
went to 765. 3d.
Strong Electronic recovery
After the verbal duel with directors
of Mick Simmons (Holdings) Ltd
earlier this month, concerning the trend
of trading profits and tangible asset
backing versus share prices of their re-
pective companies, Sir Arthur Warner,
chairman of Electronic Industries Ltd,
must have been pleased to make his in-
terim report.
Trading profit for the six months to
December 31 is expected to be higher
than that for the whole of the previous
twelve months.
In 1961-62 the trading profit applic-
able to shareholders of Electronic was
£406,035, insufficient to cover the usual
dividends. In the preceding year, trading
resulted in a substantial loss.
So, it seems that the 1962-63 dividend
will again be 123 p.c., and will be
covered. At the present price of 15s. for
the 10s. “B” shares, a yield of 8-3 p.c.
is available. That seems to represent
value for a short hold.
Meanwhile shareholders of Mick
Simmons are wondering where their
company is headed, now that Sir Arthur
and his associates are in control of their
company. The shares are, if anything, a
shade weaker, at 4s. 4d.
Offer declined
TVrectors of Sargood Gardiner Ltd
gave shareholders a vague undertak-
ing that if business did not improve with-
in a couple of years, they would con-
sider pulling out of the softgoods field,
and making a distribution to share-
holders.
This seems a poor answer to the
problem of perennial underemployment
of shareholders’ funds. Directors should
not complain that F. W. Williams Hold-
ings Ltd are only offering 275. 6d. cash '
for shares worth a possible 645. lOd. in
terms of assets. Nobody on the open
market has been prepared to pay as
much as 275. 6d since 1951.
Sargood directors circularised share-
holders not to accept F. W. Williams’
offer because it clearly had no interest
in the softgoods field, and only wanted
the company to break up the assets.
F. W. Williams only made one refer-
ence to its plans in the brochure for its
takeover scheme. It proposed “as soon as
practicable (to) review the trading as
softgoods warehousemen and it may
therefore be necessary to terminate the
services of any director who is an ex-
ecutive and any service agreements
which may be in existence.”
Sargood directors must see the writing
on the wall.
Good summer fare
Shelleys Drinks Ltd was registered in
Sydney with a capital of £1 million
in ss. shares earlier this month. A
placement will be made at 6s. 53d. plus
brokerage, total 6s. Bd., through a Syd-
ney broker.
The company’s earning rate is believed
to be about 22 p.c., so the earnings
yield is a very attractive 16.6 p.c., and
on a 10 p.c. dividend basis, the immedi-
ate return is 7.6 p.c.
Two companies in the soft drink field
have joined the lists in recent years
Schweppes (Australia) Ltd, a subsidiary
of the UK company, and Tarax Drinks
Holdings Ltd, a local outfit.
Without perusing the Shelleys pros-
pectus, we would hazard the opinion that
the shares would move rapidly to a good
premium.


WORMALD SHARES SEEM TOO LOW
By “SECURITY”
HThe recent activity in the .ordinary
shares and convertible notes of Fire
Fighting Equipment Ltd was brought
about by an overseas approach for a
merger, which has since proved abortive.
The shares, which had been as low as 6s.
Bd. following a poor result for the 1961-
62 year, went as high as 11s. 6d. (12s. 6d.
a share was suggested as the price that
.would be paid by the overseas company).
Strangely enough the only effect on
Wormald Brothers, its massive com-
petitor, was for the latter's shares to
decline a little further presumably be-
cause investors felt that Wormald would
not be able to meet the competition
from the possible new combination.
While the possibility of another over-
seas competitor would probably make
things more difficult, it is as well to
remember that Wormald has been associ-
ated with the fire extinguishing business
for more than 70 years and has been
manufacturing Simplex extinguishers
since the beginning of the present
century. Furthermore, the group in-
terests cover the manufacture and dis-
tribution of office and storage equip-
ment, office furniture and various build-
ing materials, in addition to the
traditional areas of fire protection and
detection.
This diversification is not recent.
Manufacturing activities were extended
to steel shutters and metal windows
nearly 50 years ago and steel shelving
was first manufactured in 1916. Acquisi-
tions since the end of World War II
appear to have been made mainly to
strengthen the group's position in the
fields of office and storage equipment.
An interest in Metalcraft Ltd of Adelaide
was acquired towards the end of 1958
after the N. Le Roy Tracy companies
had been acquired from L. J. Hooker
Investments Corporation in June, 1958.
At the end of 1959 H. C. Durant In-
dustries Pty Ltd, bookbinder and printer,
was acquired. In August, 1960, the
holding in Metalcraft was increased to
give Wormald Bros a controlling interest
and later two Johnson & Hey companies
were acquired. McCarron Bird Pty Ltd,
a long-established printer of Melbourne,
was acquired in 1961.
Looking at the figures, it would seem
that this vigilance has paid off. If it is
accepted that the return of capital
invested (i.e., net working capital plus
fixed assets) is the key to management
efficiency, then it is interesting to note
that the trend was downwards until
1957-58. then increased until 1960-61
but declined markedly during 1961-62.
During the last seven years the com-
pany has made three issues of ordinary
shares to shareholders and one issue of
convertible notes. These issues totalled
approximately £1,459,000 and during
the same period £1,017,000 was issued
to other than existing shareholders.
Nevertheless, this preponderance of
issues to shareholders has had the effect
of increasing the dividend income to
shareholders by over 26 p.c. or approxi-
mately at the average annual compound
rate of 4 p.c. per annum.
Where a company has made several
issues to shareholders at par when the
market value of the shares has been sub-
stantially above par, there is scope for
some considerable difference of opinion
on the method of calculating per share
earnings. Similarly, some problems are
presented by the shares which have been
issued in takeovers (particularly when,
although issued after the close of the
financial year, they have participated in
the final dividend for that year). Conse-
quently in the table below, “average”
capital has been calculated on a time
basis for new cash issues only, and it
has been assumed that capital issued for
takeovers was employed for the whole
of the year. The second line shows the
variation which occurs when the bonus
element in the ordinary share issues at
par is eliminated. Convertible notes have
been treated as ordinary capital after
adjusting earnings for the note interest
less tax.
EARNING PER CENT OF ORDINARY CAPITAL
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
"Average" capital 11.6 10.7 14.0 13.7 11.9
"Average" capital
adjusted for bonus
content 9.9 ' 9.4 12.4 13.7 11.9
It seems fairly clear that there was a
decline in per share earnings until 1958-
59 with a' fairly marked recovery in
1959-60. There must be some specula-
tion regarding the trend in 1960-61, but
it is quite certain that there has been a
decline in 1961-62.
The directors’ report of September 17,
1962, states that an increase in net profit
is expected for the 1962-63 year, and
mentions various steps that are being
taken to improve control of stock levels
and general expenses. It is also interest-
ing to note that out of the total borrow-
ings on mortgage and unsecured loans
amounting to just over £1.2 million,
£444,000 (37 p.c. approximately) is due
to be repaid before June 30, .1963.
At current prices of just over 10s.,
the shares are priced at about 17 times
earnings to show a dividend yield of
about 4.9 p.c. Over the last four years
shares have sold at prices to show a
price/earnings ratio as high as 21.4 and
a dividend yield as low as 3.3 and the
lowest price has never shown a yield
greater than 5.3 p.c., or a price/earnings
ratio less than 13.6.
Generally it would seem that the
shares are low at present, and with pros-
pects of improved earnings this year
could well be purchased up to a price of
about 11s. to show an immediate divi-
dend yield of 4.5 p.c. with a price/earn-
ings ratio of 18.7. This price would be
in anticipation of a 124 p.c. increase in
earnings during 1962-63 which is prob-
ably within the group's capacity.
WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRIES LTD
LOOO
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 2998 3041 3349 4104 4714
Less current liabilities 1469 1606 2000 1943 2487
Net working capital 1529 1435 1349 2161 2227
Fixed assets 1883 2154 2281 2715 3470
Investments 16 95 199 98 127
Intangibles 234 100 122 155 205
Total capital . 3662 3784 3951 5129 6029
Represented by:
Loan capital 573 486 432 681 1206
Minority interests 142 167 166 222 261
Preference capital 320 320 320 320 320
Convertible notes 400 400 400 400 400
Ordinary capital 1424 1607 1714 2497 2715
’ Reserves 803 804 919 1009 1127
Estimated operating income 501 580 758 930 876
Earnings 187 198 279 356 353
Dividends 150 161 159 251 271
Surplus 37 37 110 105 82
Dividend yield % (a) 5.4 4.4 3.3 4.7 4.6
Earnings yield % (a) 5.6 4.8 3.7 5.4 5.5
*{a) Based on last sale in month accounts presented.


MINING
A RACE BETWEEN COMALCO AND ALCOA
llThile it will be another year or more
" before the long term demand-
supply pattern in the Australian
aluminium metal industry begins to take
shape, the marketing task ahead of Alcoa
is not being made any easier by the
remarkable speed at which new capacity
is being installed by Comalco at Bell
Bay, Tasmania.
On a visit to the latter plant last week
The Bulletin got the impression that
every nerve was being strained to lift
output sufficiently to cater for the whole
of Australia’s aluminium consumption
by June next year.
Already both from the re-adaptation
of the original 12,000-ton capacity built
in 1955 and the new type furnaces in-
stalled in. the current expansion pro-
gramme, total capacity has been raised
to 35,000 tons a year as against current
Australian demand of around 50,000
tons.
Capacity has been trebled in the last
15 months, Mr ,M. A. Mawby, Comalco
chairman, told us at Bell Bay. The first
stage of the expansion had been com-
pleted five months ahead of schedule and
was featured by the installation of 84
modern-type electric reduction furnaces
and related facilities, including equip-
ment for casting rolling slabs up to 3,500
lbs. weight. In addition modifications to
the original plant had lifted its capacity
to 15,000-16,000 tons a year and was
being further stepped up to 17,000 tons.
With considerable assistance from the
six Kaiser Aluminium experts at Bell
Bay and the acknowledged ingenuity of
Comalco’s own technical and operations
staff, which together are largely respons-
ible for the rapid progress to date, it is
expected that the second stage, which is
already well advanced and entails the
addition of another 84 furnaces bringing
annual capacity up to 52,000 tons, will
be completed by June next, about nine
months ahead of schedule.
Indeed, by the time the first 20,000
tons of Alcoa’s smelting capacity at Port
Henry,- Victoria, is scheduled for com-
pletion next March, the first of the two
lines of furnaces in the second stage of
Comalco’s expansion programme at Bell
Bay will be pouring metal, so as to give
it a capacity of 43,500 tons.
Not that the appearance of Alcoa on
the Australian aluminiurq smelting
scene since the agreement was signed and
the £271 a ton guaranteed price (up to
1964) for all the metal it could produce
for local sale were not huge incentives
to get on with the job at Bell Bay as
speedily as possible.
In the current sales period Comalco
is providing about 70 p.c. of Australian
consumption and this is expected to be
stepped up to around 85 p.c. in March.
Then, as Alcoa metal becomes available,
the selling battle between the rival
groups will begin in earnest and, as now,
imports will progressively fade from the
picture leaving only special fabricated
types open to them.
The real test of market strength
between Alcoa and Comalco will not
come until after the loss of protection
for the metal in 1964, but in the mean-
time as supplier to all Australian
fabricators Comalco has a good leg-in
across the whole market and this is going
to take a lot of shifting.
The costs positions of the two groups
are also unlikely to settle down for a
year or more. Neither of the companies
is forthcoming on exactly how these are
likely to work out, although Mr Mawby
told The Bulletin that ultimately
Comalco would have few secrets from
anybody (smelters in the US admit to
there being very little difference in their
costs).
The decisive element for both Alcoa
and Comalco could well be the cost of
power, because, as Mr Mawby told us,
every tenth of a penny difference in
power costs means £8 a ton difference
in costs of metal.
"Dell Bay enjoys very favorable power
■*** costs, though how favorable is not
known. The charges of the Tasmanian
hydro-electric authority are believed to
be little more than id. a unit to the Bell
Bay plant.
On the other hand Alcoa will be
drawing its power from the Victorian
SEC at a negotiated price until the
mooted Anglesea power station is built
(suggested date for this is 1967). It
would be surprising if power costs from
this station prove to be as low as
Comalco’s for hydro-electric power, or
even as low as Alcoa’s own interim
supply from the SEC for the next few
years.
The future position of raw material
supplies for the rival smelters isn’t even
as predictable as power costs.
Until the end of next year, Alcoa’s
Port Henry smelter will be consuming
imported alumina entirely, but will draw
all its supplies from the bauxite refinery
being constructed at Kwinana (WA)
when that is completed in 12 months.
Bell Bay is at present also working
mainly with imported bauxite, largely
from India and Malaya, the rest coming
from Weipa (Qld). Bell Bay’s own
capacity for refining bauxite is limited
and at present it is using a large quantity
of alumina from the USA. It is not in-
tended greatly to expand bauxite refining
capacity at Bell Bay.
fFHE key to Bell Bay's alumina supplies
"*■ is the speed at which a refinery
is to be erected in Queensland to refine
Weipa bauxite on the spot, and it would
not surprise if some announcement of
definite plans about this were known
soon.
However, a lot of head scratching
clearly is still being done by Comalco
on this score, mainly, one supposes,
because the Manapouri project to smelt
Weipa ore in New Zealand has got
bogged down both financially and
politically. The company expects to
make a further announcement on the
future of the New Zealand project
before long. As Mr Mawby explained,
Comalco is enamoured of the prospects
of smelting at Manapouri because of the
very low cost of power involved one-
fifth of a penny a unit. He sees an
ultimate 450,000 tons of metal coming
from Manapouri.
In fact, the sooner both Alcoa and
Comalco free themselves from reliance
on imported alumina the better. On
present indications Alcoa is likely to
achieve this much sooner than its rival.
As for the extent of the local market
available to the two groups, the industry
is confident of rapid expansion. As Mr
Mawby pointed out, present consumption
of about 50,000 tons a year is double
that of five years ago.
This is not to say progress has been
even, because consumption dropped
quite sharply during the recession (to
about 36,000 tons annual rate) and has
begun to exceed its 1960-61 rate of
44,000 tons only in the last six months
or so.
Consumption will probably continue
to fluctuate from year to year on a
rising trend. Mr Mawby thinks that with
vigorous development of existing applica-
tions and the introduction of new uses
for the metal it will double again (i.e.,
to 100,000 tons) before the end of the
decade.
With present envisaged smelting
capacity here put at 55,000 tons
(Comalco) and 40,000 tons (Alcoa) this
would leave a small margin above
capacity, but in the interim it is pretty
obvious that if both smelters are going
to be fully occupied, some outlet for
metal in export markets will have to be
found. One would expect Kaiser on the
one hand and Alcoa of America on the
other to look after that.


Behind the Balance Sheets
RALPH SYMONDS LTD
OLD CONFIDENCE SLICED
Tt is many years since the ss. shares
of Ralph Symonds Ltd were scraping
around par, as they are today. But
failure to cover a reduced dividend and
absence of any tax liability in 1961-62
have robbed investors of their confi-
dence in the business.
Admittedly the timber industry gener-
ally has been very much affected by im-
ports competition and the low activity in
the building industry -since late 1960.
Australian production of timber fell
from 1,521 million super feet in 1959-
60 to 1419 million and 1318 million in
the next two years.
But the reported decline in Ralph
Symonds’ sales was 17 p.c. in the latest
term to June 30, or considerably greater
than the 7.2 p.c. drop in all timbers.
Ralph Symonds’ business is timber
engineering. The founder was a technical
genius in plywood, and his death in
January 1961 must have been a severe
loss to the company,
v Through his initiative and inventive-
ness the company became Australia’s
largest producer of sliced veneers for
furniture. Plywoods were developed to
be waterproof, fireproof and immune to
insect infestation. They could be bonded
to copper, aluminium, stainless steel or
plastic, and are used in homes, shops,
motor bodies, railway carriages and
locomotives.
Other products include laminated
timber arches, beams and roof trusses.
Much of the output is tailor-made for
clients, and prefabricated buildings and
boats are also handled. There is a
Scottish subsidiary controlled by the
Australian company.
( Veneers are sliced at the source of
supply in Queensland, a-nd other manu-
facturing activities are carried out on a
15-acre site at Homebush (NSW) in a
large factory built within the last three
years. A plastics division produces water-
proof glue and plastic surface materials
for the timbers.
| In March 1960 Ralph Symonds took
over Beale and Co. Ltd, the piano, ply-
wood and cabinet maker, from under the
nose of Mercantile Credits Ltd.
Ms The statement in January 1962 that
the press department and rotary veneer
mill would be in full production through
the holiday period did not prepare share-
holders for the interim announcement
three months later that sales and profits
were lower, and for the final publication
of the year’s results late in November.
Profit dropped 37 p.c. from £160,808
to £101,866, after increasing the depre-
ciation and amortisation provision mar-
ginally to £92,618. In 1960-61 tax pro-
vision was an apparently low £32,000,
but none was necessary in the period
under review because of increased con-
cessions for amortisation, investment
and export promotional allowances.
Export markets in South America
were actively wooed and the com-
pany has been selling to South Africa,
USA, Canada and Britain for some time.
A sum of £23,000 was spent in export
promotion and project development
during 1961-62.
The trend in profits has been fair until
the last period, but a trebling of fixed
assets since 1958 means the company
has a much larger capital (both preferred
and ordinary) to service.
The company was unfortunate that
the enlargement of its capital commit-
ments coincided with the death of its
top executive, and a radical change in
its market situation. Much of this change
will be fairly permanent.
Lower sales and debtors and a signi-
ficant lift in stocks are unhealthy signs.
If the company cannot trim the stocks
without price reductions, future profita-
bility is endangered.
Fixed assets at £2,787,067, consisting
mainly of an excellent factory at Home-
bush Bay, exceed shareholders funds.
The shares did actually drift to par
not long before the annual meeting of
December 19.
On the day of the annual meeting, at
which evidence of squabbles appeared,
the shares ran up to 6s. 6d. before falling
back to ss. 9d. At that price they are of
speculative interest only.
The company looks very vulnerable to
a takeover for its assets, if management
cannot resolve its problems.
Present shareholders must cling for
comfort to the chairman's statement that
since October business shows marked
improvement and, notwithstanding the
fire in the plastics division, this trend
was maintained throughout November.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY
£'ooo
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 648 725 1140 1225 1247
less current liabilities 742 998 581 914 855
Working capital —94 —273 559 311 392
Fixed assets 895 1564 2275 2709 2787
Investments 10 11 12 12 12
Intangibles .12 10 21 3 1
Total capital 823 1312 2867 3035 3192
Loan capital 100 348 740 631 741
Minority interests 11 2 2
Preference capital 100 100 100 293 350
Ordinary capital 300 300 1050 1050 1050
Reserves 323 564 966 1059 1049
823 1312 2867 3035 3192
Depreciation 33 40 56 93 93
Taxation 65 56 47 32
Net profit 108 124 154 161 102
N'et profit for ords. 102 118 148 155 74
Dividends 38 38 81 131 84
Surplus 64 80 67 24 —lO
Earning rate 3* 1 3° A n- - w-7 0 ?
Dividend rate 12J
Dividend yield 5 ... Uo
Price/earninas ratio 7 S 07 *> 0
High price ~ 8/103, 12/9 17/6 25/- 12/9
Low price 6/6 9/6 13/- 11/3 5/4
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
BUILDING SOCIETIES
Sir,
I refer to your issue of November 17
and the article on Building Societies and
their liquidity.
I enclose a copy of the Mutual Per-
manent Building Society’s Fifth Annual
Report and Accounts. The Society’s situa-
tion furnished the provocation for
your comments. I should inform
you that since I spoke to your
reporter some months ago this Society
has again been subject to an investigation,
on this occasion under the terms of the
Companies Act rather than the Building
Societies Act. The report of the second
investigation is not yet published and
consequently our request for assistance
to overcome the liquidity difficulty can-
not receive an answer. The Board is,
however, adamant in its refusal to fore-
close on a large number of borrowers
and, in fact, is merely awaiting sufficient
assistance to enable it to re-
instate its borrowers in the security of
tenure which they enjoyed before falling
into breach of their mortgage. The
Board fully agrees with your final para-
graph and has for many months been
advocating effective Government control
and supervision designed to preserve the
true aims of a Building Society, that is,
a fair return to investors and a fair in-
terest charge to borrowers, both meas-
ured against some recognisable standard.
The Board is convinced that the use of a
Building Society to provide fringe bene-
fits for other finance institutions such as
Finance Companies, Construction Com-
panies or Life Assurance Companies is
not in the true interests of the Society's
members both investing and borrowing
nor of the community as a whole.
B. ALLEN
(Secretary)
Melbourne.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
THE OLD PROBLEMS FACE
THE NEW WOOL BOARD
Will the new Australian Wool Board,
" ’ due to begin operations early in 1963,
really solve the wool industry’s problems?
Will it, in point of fact, achieve anything?
These questions are being asked follow-
ing a rash of glowing and optimistic
predictions that the new Board will
“bring order out of chaos.”
Everyone will hope the optimists are
right, but observers close to the industry
fear much of the optimism is based on
misconceptions.
What are the fields in which the present
system has failed?
• Almost constant squabbling be-
tween rival woolgrower organisa-
tions.
• Perpetuation of these divisions
within the Australian Wool
Bureau.
® A multiplicity of organisations
and bodies not closely enough
linked.
• Lack of independent expert
knowledge in the top counsels
of the industry.
The new Wool Board will form a link
between several of the present wool or-
ganisations in the field of promotion and
research. It will enable experts such
as scientists, textile men or retailers
to have a say in the way wool is pro-
moted.
BUT the Wool Board will (although
not solely comprised of growers, as is
the present Wool Bureau) still be domi-
nated by woolgrowers. At least six of its
eleven members will be growers.
And there is a very real danger that
the Board will perpetuate the split be-
tween the two major grower organisa-
tions.
The six grower members of the Board
will be appointed on the nomination of a
Wool Industry Conference. This confer-
ence, a non-statutory body, has already
been formed by the two main grower
organisations.
It consists of 25 members from each of
the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers’
Council and the Australian Wool and
Meat Producers’ Federation, and an in-
dependent chairman.
The Minister for Primary Industry, Mr
Adermann, described the Conference as
forming “a national forum of wool-
growers.” But will it?
How will it differ from the present
Wool Bureau, except in size, when it
comes to contentious wool industry
matters? The Bureau consists of three
men from each of the two grower orga-
nisations and a Government nominee.
Tn the Wool Industry Conference the 25
A growers from each organisation seem
certain to vote along organisation lines
on lively issues. Unanimity is unlikely.
The Conference will resemble the inter-
mittent meetings which have taken place
between the Federation and the Council
in recent years meetings renowned for
their atmosphere of mutual distrust and
unreadiness to compromise.
It has been said that the findings of the
Federal Government’s wool marketing
committee of inquiry, presented last
March, form the basis for the legislation
setting up the Wool Board.
'This is undoubtedly true, BUT the in-
quiry’s report made it clear that it viewed
the division of the Wool Bureau along
organisation lines as a major failing of the
present system and did not wish to see
this situation repeated in the proposed
new set-up.
Just to complicate the situation a little
further the new Wool Industry Confer-
ence this so-called “national forum of
woolgrowers” will not even represent
all woolgrowers.
The Australian Primary Producers’
Union, which claims at least as many
woolgrower members as the Woolgrowers
and Graziers’ Council, has been deliber-
ately excluded from the Conference by
the two older bodies.
The Federal Government has hinted
that it would like to see APPU men in-
cluded in the Conference, but by making
the Conference a non-statutory body it
has shrugged off responsibility for its
composition.
The APPU appears to have no chance
of winning a place in the Conference and
its members therefore have no chance of
appointment to the Wool Board.
The new Wool Board will not by the
mere fact of its creation heal any of the
long-standing breaches between the two
main woolgrower organisations.
Indeed, when on listening to the talk
at some woolgrower meetings, doubts
spring as to whether these divisions can
ever be healed.
Nor will the establishment of the
Wool Board reduce the number of wool
industry organisations, except insofar
that it will take in as divisions the pre-
sent Wool Bureau (promotion), Wool
Research Committee and Australian
Wool Testing Authority.
The Wool Board does not, however,
look like shortening the long and tor-
tuous trail any major change must follow
before it can win woolgrower approval.
Should the Wool Board want to in-
crease the wool promotion levy, for
example (and it will probably attempt to
do this in its first year), it will, presum-
ably, first ask the main woolgrower or-
ganisations for their approval.
They, in turn, will ask their State orga-
nisations and the debate will continue
right on down through State executives,
branch meetings and perhaps even State
annual conferences.
And finally, when the numerous State
bodies have each decided their various
policies on the matter, the whole weari-
some and time-consuming process must
be reversed until finally members of each
national organisation on the Wool Board
learns how he is expected to vote.
Like as not the six grower members
of the Board will be evenly divided and
the decision will be made by the three
“other members” nominated by the Fede-
ral Government, the Government rep-
resentative and the chairman.
It is not inconceivable, of course, that
a section of woolgrowers would then
be so incensed by having their finances
tampered with by non-woolgrowers that
they would refuse to pay the levy!
Much of this threat would have been
removed had the Wool Industry Confer-
ence been made a statutory body like
the proposed Wool Board, and its mem-
bers elected by a ballot of ALL wool-
growers. Conference members would not
then represent any organisation, but
woolgrowers as a whole. This attitude
would automatically follow through into
the Wool Board.
A proposal along these lines was made
by the APPU, but apparently received
little consideration.
While on the subject, we wonder who
will be the first chairman of the
Australian Wool Board? The question
is being actively canvassed throughout
Australia, and, wherever it is asked the
one inevitable reply is Sir William Gunn,
the “Big Gunn from Goondiwindi.”
When the board is constituted, prob-
ably early next year, its first chairman
will be appointed by the Federal Gov-


Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF VICTORIA
GLORIA MARY DOYLE v.
CLARENCE THOMAS DOYLE and
MAY ROBINSON
No. 1237 of 1962.
To MAY ROBINSON whose last address is
believed to have been 136 Burlington Street,
Crows Nest, in the State of New South Wales,
but now of parts unknown. TAKE NOTICE
that GLORIA MARY DOYLE has instituted
proceedings against CLARENCE THOMAS
DOYLE for a divorce on the ground of
adultery with you. Unless you file an Answer
in the Office of the Registrar of the Supreme
Court of Victoria at Melbourne on or before
the Ist February, 1963, the case may proceed
in your absence. D. CONDON, 469 Little
Collins Street. Melbourne, Solicitor for Gloria
Mary Doyle.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO; CHARLES MAXWELL BERMAN Junior
late of 51 Upper Street, Tamworth.
TAKE NOTICE that MARY VALERIE
BERMAN has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2898 of 1962 on the ground of desertion. If
you wish to defend you may file an answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court,
Macquarie Street, Sydney, within 28 days
from the date of this publication and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
LIGHTOLLER. TALTY & BROOKE, Solicitor,
231 Macquarie Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: ALFRED FREDERICK FROEHLICH.
TAKE NOTICE that PATTY SYLVIA FROEH-
LICH has filed a Petition for divorce No. 3554
of 1962 on the ground of separation. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer in
the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, by the 28th day of
February, 1963, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO JAMES ERNEST RAMSAY formerly of 74
Sophia Sti-eet, Surry Hills (last known
address 82 Regent Street, Paddington). TAKE
NOTICE that MAVIS MARY RAMSAY has
filed a Petition for Divorce number 2753 of
1962 on the ground of desertion. If you wish
to defend you may enter an answer in the
Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, by the 15th day of February,
1963. and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from Gilbert Charlton Murdoch,
Solicitor, of 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar
eminent. In subsequent years the chair-
man will be elected by the board itself.
Whether they like him or hate him,
woolgrowers agree it would be hard to
go beyond Sir William Gunn for the
post.
As chairman of the Australian Wool
Bureau and, more recently, in the ad-
ditional post of chairman of the three-
nation International Wool Secretariat,
he has combined knowledge of the wool
industry with a critical businessman’s ap-
proach and a readiness to take expert
advice. This is one of Bill Gunn’s
greatest virtues. Unlike many w'oolgrow-
ers he does not believe that a few years
on the Wool Bureau automatically
make him an expert on promotion.
He is not universally popular. In
fact, in many quarters he is heartily dis-
liked for his w'ell-known skill in the old
game of wool politics. His opponents
have learnt that he has a habit of
getting his. ow n w'ay. But they acknow-
ledge, too, his undoubted ability and
intelligence.
They admit he took over a Wool
Bureau which w'as under fire from
almost every section of the w'ool industry
and the general public and built it into
an efficient and useful organisation.
The only question is whether Sir Wil-
liam w'ants the job. When he took on
the Wool Bureau chairmanship he an-
nounced that his aim w'as to w'ork him-
self out of a job to build up an
efficient piece of machinery and then
step out and let it run itself.
But Bill Gunn is too strong a
character for that. On at least one oc-
casion it has been forcibly demonstrated
that there is nobody he can hand over
to. So instead of working himself out of
a job he has worked himself more
deeply into it.
His other posts in primary and sec-
ondary industry and commerce take a
large part of his time. . . so much that
he now seldom sees his Goondiwindi
property. When in Australia he com-
mutes regularly between Brisbane (his
home), Sydney (the Australian Meat
Board) and Melbourne (the Wool
Bureau). Is he willing to keep this up
for another year?
The other, less vital, post to be filled
in the new' wool industry set-up is the
chairmanship of the Australian Wool
Industry Conference the woolgrower
body which will elect the six grower
members of the proposed Australian
Wool Board. (The board will consist of
a chairman, six woolgrow'ers. three
other members representing the in-
dustry, and an appointed Federal Gov-
ernment representative.)
The Wool Industry Conference will
consist of 25 growers from each of the
two major woolgrower organisations and
an independent chairman. This chair-
man will, for the first year at least, be
appointed by the conference from out-
side its membership.
Several names have already been men-
tioned for this post, including that of
Sir John Crawford, although it is not
known if he would be interested.
SAND IN THE SULTANAS
near-enough-is-good-enough atti-
tude still prevails in some of Aus-
tralia's primary industries, even in these
critical days of cost-price squeezes and
Common Markets.
- The dried fruits industry one of
the most seriously threatened of all by
the Common Market is a case in
point. This industry has to export three-
quarters of its annual pack, but the
home market is its best market.
Yet in recent weeks these two letters
from irate housewives have appeared in
Victorian farming papers:
LETTER 1: "I never buy seeded
raisins and 1 buy only half the quan-
tity of sultanas I would like to.
"I w'aste many hours washing dried
fruit before 1 use it.
“When 1 buy dried fruits 1 want
just that. I don't want half a Mallee
"sandhill mixed up with the berries. If
1 want a sandhill I'll buy a sandhill.”
LETTER 2: “1 don't know whose
Idea it is to mix sand with the sultanas
we buy from the shops, but 1 think it
is marvellous. It is obviously good
hard Mallee sand too.
f “I haven't had to buy sand for our
children’s sandpit for years. The re-
sidues from my sultana washing have
kept the pit full.”
These letters came hard on the heels
of a warning to dried fruits growers by
the Chairman of the Australian Dried
Fruits Control Board, Mr Eugene
Gorman. Ele warned growers they would
lose a lot of markets unless they pro-
duced grit-free fruit.
It is this casual attitude to quality,
packaging and presentation that has led
to so much of Australia’s export primary
production being rated second or third-
rate overseas.
ON PROMOTING
PIGS FOR 9d.
HThe Australian pig industry is the latest
of our primary industries to hoist
the flag of self help.
The Australian Pig Society has de-
cided to ask for a Commonwealth-wide
slaughter tax of 9d. a head on pigs to
finance promotion and research.
The proposal is that most of the
£70.000 a year expected from the levy
will go to research.
NEW GOAT CLASS AT
EASTER SHOW
Okitish Alpine, a comparatively new
breed of goat in NSW, is provided
for in the 1963 Royal Easter Show
schedule. The goat schedule includes
seven type and production classes, nine
classes for Saanens and five for any
dairy breed.
The revised classification for Toggen-
burgs or British Alpines and lor Anglo-
Nubians is as follows: Doe, any age, in
milk; goatling, 12 months to 2 years,
maiden; kid, under 12 months.
Entries will close on January 21.


Feiffer
m
m c )_
100{?
I
MOT T OO m cm. (SALL.UP HAS
W QOiCti &t OH P6CM SSSfGV-
steam vp ?.* on 6S-rnu6 tough
WITH Lt&te.QOMi**.
4% oh eerrn-Jo
T om WITH X
BUSIMC-O.
HOW
A BOUT
gopen?
\
£6?SfZ m nou OP Z?‘Cs
?mc re'snJe, coum 3/. on '
HEOiCkZS, OP 4% on yov&
pmucM v
FPO6RAM- f
MMM-
lohat
QCEh '*
HARRIS
HARRIS HAS WO UPZtiM OUR. FAILORC 10
reach Ai'eeMA, op iy.w
OOP FAILURE TO REACH A6RES^
HEW IUVIETUAM AW£7 ' *
STAUP/U6 PAT 0W CIVIL
mrs.
mmm-
60T
me
TOTAL
OtO
PR£%
COMMeMf?
I
sir.- iks wsgic uppmm
was cautious, KsroiJ fWRji.,
awp inmxx
MOROSS/C MIPS '
WATCH FUi, AUi?
KCMPTOU
pAffoep-
HflWl
POPULAR.
AM I?
\
MfiRS SO IUAM LAST WEEK.
[£Sh A (TEAR A6O
AT THIS TIME- \
6£T THOSe REPORTS
OV6R TO PWIOIOIU6
AIOP HAVS TH£M
WTO
A PPfUAR POUCH.
lets PUSH THO9£
RATIU6S UP! " >-
IT'S TIMe 10 6£T THE
COWJTRM MOWU6 A6AIO,
EH, CHIEF ? '
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 725
ACROSS
I—The asthmatic fags. (7)
s—Gainsborough painted this little chap after some
brawl. (4, 3)
8— None fit up in marble in the first place. (10)
9 Employer sure to change. (4)
11—Dairy farmer to intimidate a winged talker. (3-5)
13—Imagines the plural of this stage of insect life. (5)
15— Any one philosophy or religion or cult is one
thousand. (3)
16— Bill with this business, love. (3)
17— A floor covering seen by one
famous Italian maker of
stringed instruments. (5)
18— Nine of the Greeks when
nearly too much for it. (5)
19— Forty winks back in kitchen-
ware. (3)
20— One far from expert vessel
tree is back in the face. (3)
21— Moore disturbed this lover.
(5)
23—Gold name changed by a
bro. (5-3)
25 Tt helps a fish to breathe in
five fluid ounces. (4)
26 This product of butchery
throws hardwood. (5, 5)
28— This vessel will work. (7)
29 Musical instrument gives a
sort of relief shortly. (7)
DOWN
1— —Olga knocked about the
penitentiary. (4)
2 A moral sin is to be expected
of a naval rating. (9)
3 Disembowelment takes it on
a service. (12)
4 Just the drink for 2-down. (3)
5 Not Baby Hughes! (5, 3,3,)
6 Arabs hiding in a Persian
Gulf city. (5)
7 Can’t take a trick. (10)
10—Single name is changed by
such rights to dig. (6, 6)
12—Naval joint of Canberra?
(7, 4)
14—Diana’s old man does his
lolly slanders. (10)
16—Bellbird to live in a tent with
a Roman emperor. (9)
22—This makes me pound a
soprano. (5)
24—Hide mixed inks. (4)
27—Corn found on this male
swan. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 724


LOOK FOR THESE L
FEATURES IN f
Qwtift&aji
MEN'S
WEEKLY
Gardening
Expert advice for the
home gardener including
color pictures of new
varieties in book form.
At Home
df
Margaret Sydney’s
weekly diary of
her suburban
home and family.
Are the Sydneys
your next door
neighbors?
IV SECTION
' pictures of
stars and the
shows news
gossip from
! <! the studios.
sd
It
seems
to me
Mi. «f
Dorothy Drain’s popular
column of keen observation
and amusing comment, with
a topical verse.
Fashion
Services
The latest overseas
co 1 i ections, Fashion
Frocks ready-to-wear
or cut out ready-to-
make, Fashion Pat-
terns and expert per-
sona] dress advice.
7
y.
Elsa Murray re-
veals this week’s
lucky number,
colors and days.
AS I
READ
THE
STARS
PRIZE
RECIPES
A weekly prize for the best
reader’s recipe plus exciting
dishes from The Australian j
Women’s Weekly’s own test
kitchen.
?*•
m
%-
»*<*> V7 1
Color previews, reviews of the
week’s new shows, plus news
from the major world studios.
(32oss Qr&mpidUL
A whimsical look at the world
and its ways through the eyes
of a suburban father.
■
e
- *
*
WEEKLY
• LETTERS PAGE
• ROBIN ADAIR’S
COLUMN
• HERE’S YOUR
ANSWER
• NEW DISCS
• FASHIONS,
FEATURES,
COOKERY,
COMICS
ASK YOUR
NEWSAGENT
TO HOME
DELIVER
z?o/vr </oc/& co&y/


The Greatest Classical Record Value in Australia!
12 33 s r.p.m. microgroove Classical
Records for only 32 6
r MONO OR 1
L STEREO J
World s Greatest Orchestras, Artists & Conductors
All in Colourful Original Jackets All records fully guaranteed
{(m
X s
, X
mk /
\/,/w .)
is»v
MOZART
Sir Adrian Boult
"Eine Kleine Nachtmusik"
and Symphony No. 40 in
G Minor. Sir Adrian Boult
conducts The Vienna State
Opera Orchestra. Mono,
C 49; Stereo, SC49.
\
11
&
TCHAIKOVSKY
Swan Lake (Ballet)
13 of the favourite items,
played by The Utah Sym-
phony Orchestra, con-
ducted by Maurice Abra-
vanel. Mono, C 53; Stereo,
SCS3.
u
fsdfsfsd
Pi
IMB
ROSSINI
H. Scherchen
"William Tell", Auber's
"Fra Diavolo", Herald's
"Z a m p a", Reznicek's
"Donna Diana" Overtures.
The Vienna State Opera
Orchestra, conducted by
Hermann Scherchen. Mono,
C6O; Stereo, SC6O.
&>-%• V
RACHMANINOFF/
TCHAIKOVSKY
Two great Piano Concertos
Rachmaninoff's Piano
Concerto No. 2 in C Minor,
and Tchaikovsky's Piano
Concerto No. 1 in B Flat
Minor. Felicja Blumental,
pianiste, with The Vienna
State Opera Orchestra,
conducted by Michael
Gielen. Mono, C 64; Stereo,
SC64.
(41
»-
sr
BRAHMS
Symphony No. 1 in C Minor,
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
William Steinberg. Mono, C 74;
Op. 68. The
conducted by
Stereo, SC74.
SCHUBERT
Symphony No. 7 in C Major ("The Great").
The Vienna State Opera Orchestra conducted
by Rene Leibowitz. Mono, C 73; Stereo, SC73.
BEETHOVEN Hubert Reichert
Violin Concerto in D Minor, Op. 61. Lauten-
bacher, Violin, with The Symphony Orchestra
of Westphalia conducted by Hubert Reichert.
Mono, C6l; Stereo, SC6I.
- - - Hurry Mail this Coupon Today! - -
To POPULAR RECORD CLUB PTY. LTD., Box 3410, G.P.0., Sydney. Or call at
153 a Clarence Street (opposite Barrack Street), Sydney. 8X4710.
PLEASE NOTE: To order any records listed above please write
the space* provided below (e.g., C 49). (The prefix S denote
in stereo.)
* Fill in with catalogue numbers of your choice.
numbers
available
Of
"V'VX'A-
S.DEC
mi
Please tick if you require STEREO records
□
Please tick if you are already a member of Popular or Symphony Record Club
I wish to purchase those records I have marked above.
□
r
Mr.
NAME Mrs. (BLOCK LETTERS)
Miss
ADDRESS
(Private address, please not P.O. Box number)
STATE
I enclose cheque/Money order/Postal note for £ : : (32/6 for each record),
being full cost of records (please add 3/- for postage for one L.P.; 4/- for two or more).
B 29/12/62
Over 250 other great 12" L.P/s
available in Classical, Popular, Ever-
green Categories Write for FREE
Catalogue.
HOW TO JOIN
The Club membership fee of 10/- is
included in the price of the first 12"
L.P. record purchased by you, but non-
purchasing members can obtain a 12
months' subscription to the Popular
Record Club Digest for 10/-, including
postage, by filling in the coupon, attach-
ing 10/- cheque, money order, or postal
note, and sending to Popular Record
Club at Box 3410, G.P.0., Sydney, or
calling at 153 a Clarence Street, Sydney.
Remember THERE IS NO OBLIGA-
TION TO BUY IN THE POPULAR
RECORD CLUB.
New Zealand readers may purchase by ordering
through P.O. Box 697, Auckland.
