

The Bulletin
DECEMBER 1. 1962
Austr
New Zealand 2/-> MnicvUa $1
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAi
tCST. 1 860
ARCHBISHOP MANNIX: Painting by CLIFTON PUGH, Story by GERALD LYONS


a
%
&
*/■
i liL
g|HH
EXTRAS
mpmmmwmim,*...
20
...... @*iW
Carlyle EXTRAS the distinctive American
blend cigarette with so many extras
EXTRA FLAVOR: Carlyle Extras give you that extra mellow
flavor of fine costly tobaccos blended to taste so good,
EXTRA FRESH N ESS: Carlyle Extras are the genuine American
blend made right here in Australia for unimpaired full freshness.
EXTRA SIZE: Carlyle Extras are 18% bigger make regular
American size look small. Enjoy extra smoking pleasure in Carlyle Extras size.
Only Carlyle could . . .
taste so good it’s blended
&
00
'with just
a touch
of Turkish
World Copyright
MANUFACTURED FOR THE AMERICAN CIGARETTE COMPANY (OVERSEAS) PTY. LTD.
CE.113.8.62


National Notebook
The Mannix portrait
“T never thought I’d live to see the
-*■ day that my portrait would be on
the cover of The Bulletin,” Mel-
bourne’s Catholic Archbishop, Dr Man-
nix, told artist Clifton Pugh. But Dr
Mannix, 99 next March and 50 years a
bishop, has lived through such a remark-
able span of events, that a change of
heart by an old - established magazine
can hardly surprise him.
With the portrait, which has already
been sold to Newman College, Mel-
bourne. for an undisclosed sum, and
which will be entered in the Archibald
Prize next year, Mr Pugh sent a cover-
ing letter.
“It is a little difficult to say very
much about Dr Mannix,” he wrote, “as
the times I was there I was concentrating
rather hard on the sketches I was doing
in the limited time. Also I feel most of
what I received from him would show
in the painting.
“I felt very nervous at first calling on
Dr Mannix for two reasons. It was the
first time I had a time
limit on a painting and
also 1 had decided to
work from sketches and
not directly on to the
main painting as I have
done in the past. Secondly,
I was nervous approaching
the man himself, not being a Catholic
and from many stories I’ve heard. Within
five minutes I was completely relaxed
which I'm sure came from Dr Mannix.
He had without saying much put me at
ease and I feel had let me know my job
was to paint and he was not in any
critical or unsympathetic role. I said
very little that sitting. It was to have
been half an hour but we went on for
an hour.
“He understood I was just going to
do a sketch, but I had become so excited
by the presence, bearing and dignity of
Dr Mannix that I asked if I could come
again. He was quite agreeable, so I went
home and started the main painting,
while I still retained the impression of
him. When I had reached a stalemate
in the painting I went back for another
hour’s sitting, sketching and looking at
him. 1 then finished the painting within
a fortnight. I would like to feel I have
shown in certain measure what I feel
about Dr Mannix. Words are a little
hard for when I think in words I can
only think of the abstract ones —dignity,
power, compassion, a very strong feel-
ing of leaving a man secure within him-
self. I was not aware of the age of the
man as I had expected to be. Ninety-
eight years! He was of no age.”
The illustrations on page 12 and
above the index are Mr Pugh's working
drawings.
The strong legged
Ambassador
A long-legged, smiling 42-year-old
Tasmanian who has run 2000 miles
a year for the last 20 years is soon to
become a toiling ambassador for Aus-
tralia over the 890 weary miles between
John o’Groats and Land’s End. He is
Bill Emmerton, of Launceston, who is
being sponsored by public supporters
and the Tasmanian Government to
attack the 15 days 19 hours record for
the British super-marathon established in
1960 by Frank Musgrave, of England.
Emmerton, who sets out cheerfully a
dozen times a year to make long-distance
runs to publicise sports meetings, the
National Heart Campaign or any other
cause offering, regards his efforts as a
challenge to morale rather than physique.
He can run a mile in 4
min. 15 sec., five miles in
about 27 min. or 33 miles
in 4 hr. 5 min. Coach
Percy Cerutty, who has
advised Emmerton in his
training, reckons the Tas-
manian could cut the
John o’Groats to Land’s End time to an
even 14 days. Only a few weeks ago
he covered the 158 miles from Launces-
ton to Queenstown in 484 hours, run-
ning alone in gales and sleet over the
4000 ft. mountains of the Central High-
lands with an electric torch in his hand
to guide him through the night. Run-
ning and walking non-stop for 14 hours
and then resting, he covered the first
100 miles in 20 hours.
His sponsors say that conditions in
Britain would be much easier, but he
would have to take more rest periods
than he did during his two-day run to
Queenstown.
Moustachioed Maidens
T ast week, intrigued by a certain
amount of beating the drum for
the Ceylonese Cultural Delegation to
Australia, we went to Sydney’s Union
Theatre for a Press conference. First
thing we saw was a group of young
girls in national costume and wearing
lamp-black moustaches. Wondering
about them, we turned to the handout
for enlightenment.
“Miss Mallika Karunagoda,” we read,
“has a shy appearance, never speaks at
DR MANNIX Page 12
An Impression by Gerald Lyons.
•
Rediscovering the Yarra .... 10
Arthur Upfield Fame With
Some Bloody Money 16
Jokes In the Land of Nodt 17
Aborigines The Last Chance? 20
India Menon’s Bitter Harvest 24
Abortion The Medical Case
Against 28
The Sports Cars 29
Finch’s Wilde The Second
Player Plays High 33
Mau Mau The African
Tragedy 36
Trade Japan’s New Status 41
Price Stability In Hot Pursuit 44
Rabbit Plague Undercover
Opposition 56
•
TANNER r ..... 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
80 YEARS AGO 6
AROUND
MELBOURNE 10
OUT AND ABOUT 16
OVERSEAS 24
FORUM ...... ...... 28
LETTERS 31
REVIEWS 33
RED PAGE 36
WORLD OF BUSINESS 41
MAN ON THE LAND 56
FEIFFER 57
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney.
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone
27-5971. Melbourne: Phone MF 3341. Bris-
bane: Phone B 2691. Adelaide: Phone
W 4121-3.
Vo!. 85
No. 4319


once. Wears her hair in the ordinary
style.” Miss Jennie Winifredda, “has a
sweet voice and has been singing film
songs. Always keeps a dot on her fore-
head.” Seventeen-year-old Miss Vienitha
Vitharanage “wears her hair in flaps
over the shoulders when she is not en-
gaged on the stage.”
After digesting this information we
approached Senator S. D. S. Somaratne
who said he was responsible for bringing
the group to Australia. He told us that
the move was sponsored by the Ceylon
Tourist Promotion Company Limited, of
which he was the principal. The Arts
Council was doing the sponsoring in
Australia. His government had shown
approbation by granting permission for
the group to take the necessary currency
out of the country.
We left the theatre still in the dark
about the moustachioed maidens but a
Ceylonese friend enlightened us. They
were playing the part of men in low
country dances because the men with
the troupe knew only Kandyan dances,
a different sort of thing entirely.
Our informant said there w ; as some-
thing of a schism in Ceylonese dancing
and suggested that we withhold judg-
ment on this group until the arrival of
the Chritrasena-Varija Ceylonese Ballet,
due in Perth on January 19, 1963, for a
tour that will include all capitals. This
group, we were told, has advanced the
traditional dances to the state of com-
pleted dance drama or ballet forms, have
toured Europe, Russia and India and
drew accolades from pianist Claudio
Arrau who, “when the drums began
throbbing . . . took a pair of small
cymbals and beat time in quite apparent
ecstasy.”
Leaving myxo. for dead
Duke of Edinburgh will obviously
A be horrified at this. Rabbits in Vic-
toria are soon to be treated to a taste of
a new exterminator that apparently
leaves myxomatosis, which has held the
field for the last 12 years, for dead. The
idea is to guarantee a total kill by forc-
ing a deadly foam into the four corners
of the warrens.
1.C.1.A.N.Z. which has developed the
stuff as yet w'ithout a name is con-
fident that any rabbit entering a warren
within two or three days after it has
been treated with the foam will have
“an excellent chance of suffocation.”
Undress uniform
"C'arly complaints from the Australian
teams at the Commonwealth Games
were of irregularities in dress (men’s
trouser cuffs were too narrow, women’s
uniforms did not fit); these have been
followed by reported complaints about
undress.
The general manager of the Australian
team, Edgar Tanner, said that he has
“checked out” a report that the Austra-
lian women’s team had complained of
Pakistani male athletes running about
their own house in the Games Village in
the nude.
“The Australian women have not
made any such complaint,” Mr Tanner
said, adding, just for the record, that the
Australian women “get around” inside
their house in a way that “you and I
would not get around.” “You should see
them,” Mr Tanner said, “They’re near
nude.”
Mr Tanner said there was nothing
wrong with the way Pakistani male ath-
letes dressed around their own house.
“They do look as if they are wearing
long singlets and no pants,” he said. “I
don’t know whether they are actually
wearing pants or not.”
No treat for the Dutch
“T feel like the mayor of a burnt-out
town, ’ Mr D. H. Hofmeyer told us,
“and i do not feel optimistic about the
future.” Mr Hofmeyer is director of the
Netherlands Emigration Service in The
Hague, and has just finished four weeks
here, trying to find out why so many
Dutch migrants are returning home.
“The more money we spend on pub-
lishing pamphlets, books and other
means, the fewer people seem to
migrate,” Mr Hofmeyer said. “Dutch-
men today are spoilt creatures. They
are more interested in old age pensions
than in pioneering. Times have certainly
changed since Tromp and Tasman.”
Mr Hofmeyer said that only two
thousand Dutchmen were scheduled to
come to Australia this year and that
an equal number was returning home.
Had he found any clues on why this
exodus was taking place, we asked.
“Migrant hostels look much better on
glossy pamphlets than in reality.” Mr
Peace and friendship know no
boundaries.
And boundaries know no peace
and friendship.


Hofmeyer said. “No matter what people
say, I find them very gloomy places and
I can quite well see why people hate
eating in community kitchens and
sharing bathrooms and toilets. Besides,
I believe most hostels are too hot in
summer and too far away from the
cities.”
Our Expansive Past
TTistorian Geoffrey Blainey reminded
a Ballarat audience recently that
their city and Bendigo as well
once had a Stock Exchange which was
far busier than the ones in Melbourne
and Sydney. Mr Blainey, secretary of
the Victorian Branch of the Business
Archives Council, was in Ballarat for
the council’s annual meeting, held in
conjunction with a meeting of the city’s
local historians.
In those days, said Mr Blainey, specul-
ation was not confined to the wealthy,
but drew in many miners, laborers and
tradesmen. He considered that the spe-
culative instincts of Australians had
changed vastly over the years, since the
nineteenth century, and found it strange
that at a time when Australia had struck
oil, little money was forthcoming for
further search. Working people were no
longer drawn to speculative investments
in the same way as their forefathers in
Ballarat and Bendigo.
Dr W. A. Sinclair of Monash Univer-
sity also reminded Ballarat of its robust
days of yore: in 1888 it had 13
breweries and had been for a time the
main centre of Australia’s locomotive
industry.
Tanner
PLAIN ENGLISH
KARACHI WHEN ARE
STATESMEN POLITICIANS?
J> ED CHINA seems to have bought several victories for the price of one
in its dramatic break-through the Himalayas to the plains of Assam.
It has managed to humiliate India as a military power, a lesson that must
have shaken most Asian countries; it has caused India to divert men,
money and resources from urgent development schemes to defence; it
has contrived to withdraw its armies giving the impression of peaceful
second thoughts while remaining in control of the disputed areas; it
appears to have challenged the Soviet to commit itself and it has managed
to bring Pakistan to a frenzy of anti-Indian suspicion and resentment.
ARACHI’S leaders are fully aware that Kashmir is a bigger impediment
to India’s successful prosecution of a war with China than ever were
Mr Menon, arms shortages, lack of unity and poor productive capacity put
together. Fifty per cent, of India’s Army its best troops with the best
equipment still manoeuvres around the Kashmiri border in anticipation
of a Pakistan military adventure. Already there have been open statements
by leading Pakistani Muslim figures that a Sino-Indian war is the time to
strike. Ayub Khan who has always managed to convey a statesmanlike
image to the world—especially the western world where many regard him
as the soldierly, sensible antithesis of all that Nehru represents—must
be under tremendous pressures from Pakistani extremist elements to act.
Plence the threatening talk about withdrawing from SEATO, CENTO
and the Commonwealth; the anguished cries that the Sino-Indian conflict
is a sham war in which, according to Ayub Khan, India has made “a
mountain out of a molehill.” Hence, too, the unreasonable rejection of
Indian guarantees that western equipment would be used only for a Sino-
Indian war, subject to inspection and returned at later date.
So far Ayub Khan has been adroit in managing to withstand the
wilder elements in Karachi, although his statement on the Indian situation
reported in Washington was shrill with reproaches to India and
condemnation of Nehru. j
mHE Kashmir dispute has been long, bitter and complex but it is not
improbable that India would be willing to cry quits on the issue if an
equitable and acceptable way of retreating from its present stand could be
found. At the present moment such a retreat seems impossible.
Hindu right-wing extremism is increasingly powerful in India and
retreat on the Kashmir issue would almost certainly bring upon India’s
50,000,000 Muslims all the communal horrors experienced during Parti-
tion. Now, perhaps, is the time for India and Pakistan to reach a generous
agreement with each other, shelving the issue until the crisis with China
- their common enemy is settled, which may take much longer and
prove more hazardous than is generally supposed. One thing is certain.
If Kashmir embroils India and Pakistan in war they will destroy each other
and the rest of South Asia with them thus saving China the trouble.


THIS AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENT
THE FRASER-GOODWIN LTD
CASE
A matter of "put up or shut up"
As I see it
ALLAN FRASER
Super optimist —
THhere is a
A temporary
lull in the
Allan Fraser-Goodwin Ltd hire pur-
chase hostilities. But indications are that
this could be the quiet before a heavier
engagement on a wider front.
Last week when 1 visited Fraser,
Labor MHR for Eden-Monaro, at his
Parliament House office, for a progress
communique from his battle headquar-
ters, Fraser was engaged in tabulating
what he meticulously insisted on terming
“allegations” as distinct from “evidence”.
Indicating a thick file from which pro-
truded intriguingly completed hire pur-
chase contracts, Fraser said: “On these
documents and the fact that every per-
son who has submitted documents or
letters to me is prepared to allow me to
make public his or her name to Parlia-
ment and to give evidence before a
properly constituted inquiry, it does
seem that these people believe and
have even reason to believe—that the
complaints they make about their treat-
ment as users of some of the existing
hire purchase facilities are correct. I
accept that these” he tapped the
thick bundle of papers “are as yet
purely allegations and do not merit the
description evidence until they have been
proffered to and examined by a com-
petent tribunal. But the first require-
ment the proffering has been met,
and an inquiry should follow.”
On the type of inquiry that should be
held, Fraser's sights seem to have lifted
above Goodwin Ltd, the hire purchase
organisation, with which on August 30
in the House of Representatives, Fraser
opened a running fight by accusing the
company of “misleading” the public in
its advertisements. Fraser’s claim was
that the company stated that its cus-
tomers got 30 per cent off the TV set of
their choice with five years to pay, but
even when customers gained every bene-
fit Goodwdn Ltd offered they still had to
pay £315 for a set with a list price of
£240.
Fraser now states that he has had
brought to his attention in the shape of
documented instances a sufficient number
of examples of flaws in the ACT law
covering hire purchase agreements being
used with complete legality but tyran-
nically by hire purchase companies
operating in NSW to justify the NSW
Government setting up a Royal Commis-
sion to examine methods whereby NSW
citizens can, in his w'ords, be protected
against “the harsh operation of Com-
monwealth law'.”
Now that the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment has rejected his request for a
Commonwealth inquiry into Goodwin
Ltd's alleged practice of enforcing con-
tracts made w'ith people in NSW,
Queensland, and South Australia in
Canberra Courts, Fraser intends to ask
the Heffron State Labor Government to
set up such a Commission to inquire not
specially into the operations of Goodwin
Ltd but on the wider aspects of how
hire purchase companies are using Com-
monwealth law against NSW citizens.
Says Fraser: "On the documented allega-
tions similar, presumably, to those
the Attorney-General, Sir Garfield Bar-
wick, conceded in the House of Repre-
sentatives he had also seen and ‘did not
like’ Commonwealth law is being
used in such a fashion as to make it
financially impossible for persons not ex-
tremely well-to-do (and few well-to-do
people use HP) to present a defence of
any kind.”
Fraser thinks that the NSW Govern-
ment might agree to such a Commission
whose findings, if adverse, would be an
embarrassment to the Menzies Govern-
ment.
Personally, I think Fraser is a super
optimist. It might suit the NSW Labor
Government to embarrass the Menzies
Federal Government but the final em-
barrassment might not be Menzies’ but
the Labor Party’s. Though Labor is con-
stantly complaining about the high in-
terest rates charged by some HP opera-
tors, some quite prominent individuals,
including Parliamentarians, in the Labor
Party accept their stockbrokers guidance
ahead of their Party’s for investment
purposes.
They are reported to have quite sig-
nificant holdings in HP companies w'hose
reputation of being hard on defaulting
customers eclipses that of companies run
by men who do not pretend to be in the
business other than for the purpose of
giving an efficient service and making a
reasonable profit.
As Fraser concedes, if his allegations
against Goodwin Ltd are unfounded,
Goodwin Ltd has been done a serious
injustice. The company w'hich claims
that it undersells its three main compe-
titors (and to this extent does a public
service in keeping prices low'er than they
would otherwise be) could have been
commercially ruined without its side of
the case reaching the public.
ALAN REID
LOCAL GOVERNMENT
THE BATTLE OF THE "INDEPENDENTS"
A matter of amalgamation
HPnis wee! the triennial battle for con-
trol of Sydney s City Council w ill be
held when Sydney s voters go to the
polls. The Australian Labor Party is
fighting to keep its 15-5 majority against
a strong challenge from its opposition,"’
the Civic Reform Association. The
election for the post ol Lord Mayor of
Sydney has developed into a fight be-
tween Aid. H. die sitting Lord
Mayor, and the CRA s candidate Aid.
W. H. Northam, who hopes to end
Jensen's six-year reign,
Labor is also making a strong attempt
to gain control of many of the non-
Labor councils. It has endorsed more
than 600 candidates for the elections,
also to be held this Saturday,
Typical of Labor’s effort is its cam-
paign in Woollahra, which includes
Sydney's bluest of blue-blood districts;
Vaucluse and Point Piper. Woollahra


Council elections are usually the most
bitterly fought and most publicised local
elections in NSW.
Up till now Labor has had only one
representative on the council, against
fourteen “independents”. In Wool-
lahra Labor is up against the combined
forces of the Woollahra Action Com-
mittee and the Vaucluse Progress Asso-
ciation.
Civic Reform, the WAC and the
VPA all have the professed aim of
keeping politics out of local government
and all deny that they are political
parties. Although most voters as a matter
of course assume them to be anti-
Labor.
In Woollahra the “independents” at-
tack Labor as the Party which wished
to amalgamate Woollahra with the City
Council. This proposal which also in-
cludes Randwick, Waverley, Botany,
Leichhardt, and Marrickville —is known
as the “Greater Sydney” plan.
“Greater Sydney” was first mooted in
1954 and ever since has been official
Labor Policy. The Liberal Party made
much of it in the unsuccessful referen-
dum to abolish the NSW Legislative
Council in 1961.
ALP officials realise that with amalga-
mation as an issue against them they
have little hope of gaining a foothold
in Woollahra. They have done their ut-
most to disown their own official policy.
Typical of this was the statement
made by the Minister for Local Govern-
ment, Mr Pat Hills, who said that he
had “no plans” for amalgamation. How-
ever he is awaiting the decision of a
local government boundaries commis-
sion, and it is conceivable that this com-
mission could recommend amalgamation
■ — after the elections.
Mr Hills probably hopes that he can get
enough Labor councils to solve the
problem for him by “asking” for amal-
gamation in the way Labor MLC’s were
expected to vote for the abolition of
the Legislative Council. At the moment
Labor only controls the Botany and
Marrickville councils.
A surprise entry into the Woollahra
fight was NSW Treasurer and Deputy
Premier, Mr J. B. Renshaw. Speaking
in support of the seven ALP candidates
for Woollahra he said he would like to
see a council which would support
government policies in the municipality.
Some ALP candidates seem reluctant
to admit their party affiliations. They
have, for instance appeared on posters
posing as “independents” with no sug-
gestion that they represent the ALP.
One Labor candidate for the Vaucluse
Ward, Mr Lew Levi, has been telling
voters that amalgamation was no longer
ALP policy. Not even Messrs iensen,
Renshaw and Hills have gone this far.
ROBERT MURRAY
THE GAMES
ACROSS THE NULLARBOR..INTO THE PUB
"It was all a little embarrassing"
VTo town has ever wanted so passion-
ately to succeed. No town has ever
looked so anxiously for world recogni-
tion. As one newspaperman said “We’ve
always been the Cinderella State, we've
always taken things slow and easy, but
this is the sign that we can achieve some-
thing. After this people will take notice
of us and Perth will really go ahead.
Then, just to stress the situation Perth
is calling itself the “world's most isolated
major city”. It is 1650 miles from
Darwin and 1415 miles from Adelaide.
Maybe the best way to describe it is to
tell what happened to me.
As soon as we stepped off the plane
at 10 p.m. a squadron of Perth ladies
ran forward welcoming us to Perth and
they pinned visitors’ badges on our lapels.
Then they pressed folders into our
hands which contained bookets, road
maps and everything about the Games.
This didn’t just go for journalists, it hap-
pened to every Perth visitor and they
were meeting planes after two in the
morning.
We checked in at the Games stadium,
we were given a plastic folder which
contained cigarettes, a key to a private
locker, plus a pile of at least 50 folders
and booklets which told everything about
Western Australia from its glorious city,
its lovely wildflowers, its unequalled
climate, to its caves, resorts and primary
industries.
One English journalist was so startled
he said: “What do they want us to do?
Cover the Games or to come here as
migrants?”
We were advised that telephone calls
were free, typewriters were provided,
all public transport was free, there was
a bar just beside the Press room, and
an official hostess was on hand who
happened to be Miss Dawn Ryan —•
Miss Western Australia 1961. Everything
was laid on and for veteran newspaper-
men it was all a little embarrassing.
They like to be insulted occasionally
just to keep in form. They would have
felt happier if a few people had walked
about with placards saying “Easterners
Go Home”.
The money that has been poured out
is overwhelming. For example the city
decorations are superb, none of the
second rate like you get at Moomba and
the Waratah Festival. The old Swan
brewery was decorated with lights so
that it looked exactly like the Queen
Mary sitting on the river and the streets
were decorated with great illuminated
birds. For example over the intersec-
tions were enormous pregnant-looking
black swans.
Some of the officials were fearful
that before the week was out someone
would paint white spots on the road
underneath.
Wherever one went there was the
cry for reassurance “what do you think
of it all?” The hoped-for answer was
THE BULLETIN’S ELECTION PROGRAMME
December 2, 1882
A ustralia for the Australians—not
for Gall-soaked Bigots, not for
the Bloody Quarrels of Old-World
Superstition.
No Battles of the Boyne or Irish
Rebellions in this country.
Keep the class of' Priests and
Parsons off the Ballot-Box, and keep
their beetle-crushers out of Politics
Let them look after Paradise. Well
look after New South Wales.
T£ r
It you vote tor 1 ARKES, you vote
for the Government which hanged a
nigger and dared not hang an equally
guilty white.
Remember PARKES’ Privileges’
Bill, which made it penal to criticise
Parliamentary Rogues.
Vote for Australians. Cut off the
ears of every foreign bigot who has
ten centuries of brogue or ten cen-
tunes of twang.
Vote for a Libel Law like that of
England a Patent Law like that of
nf F°° d Adulteration
V t .• ranc e-
Let yOUr hquor law be one which
B °° d h ? t£,S ’ Snuffs . C ! Ut
tnTfh f ’ a ? C ° pp °f d , by
down-the-harbour larrikins and their
hosts. No holy measuring of your
beer. No holy law as to when you
shall not drink.
Vote for a Purely Secular System
of State Education. The majority of
our criminals cannot read and write.
They can all pray—on the gallows.


“wonderful. Better than the Games in
Melbourne". The only criticism came
from a Melbourne journalist w'ho dis-
covered that the pool was lopsided, the
measurements inaccurate and further-
more the wind across the open air pool
caused ripples with resulting slowing in
times.
This criticism w'as an affront.
A local newspaper described it as a
blistering attack and there was even talk
of disaccreditation. Yet mostly there has
been great admiration for what Perth has
done.
The Games Village is quite adequate,
and the houses comfortably modern
yet one winders w'hat it would be like
living in such houses after the Games.
In the traditional Perth style there are
no fences, no privacy, and to borrow a
cup of flour one would only have to
lean out the w indow.
The most impressive and puzzling
thing at the village was the barrier be-
tween the sexes. Between the girls and
the boys w-as a barbed wire fence 6 ft.
7 ins.- high. 300 yards long. It was one
of the most noble structures ever put up
to preserve propriety and it w'as called
the “Berlin Wall”. How'ever, one of the
organisers said not to think of it that w'ay.
The fence was six feet seven inches high
but it should be remembered that the
high jump record for the Games w'as
six feet nine.
Of course there were many famous
personalities present but once again the
most colorful of all w'as Percy Cerutty.
This time he cut something of a sad
figure, for the first time in years he had
no great runner of his own and most
galling of all Herb Elliott still looking
as fit as a man could look W'as w'orking
as a journalist.
Percy w'ould w'ave his arms and say
“I could have made thousands for that
boy, thousands. Look at him now,
weighted down by mother-in-law and
wife. What can you do when you have
three children in three years. You have
to face it—it’s like asking the sun to
stop shining.”
Yet the wonderfully organised Perth
Games has even done the right thing
by p ercy. He has his passes; he can go
in and out the Games Village; he can
eat with the athletes.
There's no challenge in it anymore,
everything has gone almost without a
hitch. Perhaps the only affront to a visi-
tor was reported by Mr Kirwan Ward of
the “Daily News”. The Adelaide Harriers
panted on foot 1713 miles across the
Nullarbor carrying a baton bearing a
message to Perth’s Mayor Sir Harry
Howard. When the last harrier reached
civilisation he did what anyone in the
world would do after running across
the Nullabor he headed for the near-
est pub. The barman looked at him in
his sweaty, dust-covered singlet and
said. “I’m sorry, sir, I can’t serve you —-
you’re not wearing a shirt.”
All-in-all it has cost <£3,500,000 to
stage. Perth has acquired some superb
sporting stadia which may be white
elephants for years to come. Almost
everyone here has worked tremendously
hard for success and if success comes
their way it w'as never more richly de-
served.
SWAN
DEVELOPMENT
"POPULATE THE NORTH-
OR HAND IT TO ASIANS”
Stirring up some ghosts
ALD. H. H. HOPKINS
Populate!
HTwo very different ideas emerged from
the National Council for Balanced
Development conference held recently at
Wagga Wagga, NSW.
Aid. H. H. Hopkins, Chairman of the
People the North Committee, told the
conference of the urgent need to popu-
late the north. His committee aims at a
northern population of over a million.
The People the North Committee w'as
formed in October 1961 by the North
Queensland Local Government Associa-
tion, a well-organised body which has
been functioning since 1944. The head-
quarters of the committee is in Towns-
ville.
The committee believes that £lom. a
year should be spent on Northern de-
velopment, and that this should be done
in the w'ay the Snowy scheme was,
undertaken and financed by the Com-
monwealth Government.
The committee has an annual budget
of £7,500 most of w'hich is devoted to
publicity. This comes from shire and
city councils, regional boards and from
private industry. Their aim is to give
maximum publicity to the potentialities
of the north.
Aid Hopkins warned the Conference
that if Australia did not quickly popu-
late the north we would be forced to
hand it over to an Asian country which
would develop it for us.
A different aspect of northern de-
velopment w'as raised by Mr A. R.
Driver, a former Administrator of the
Northern Territory.
Mr Driver, stirred some ghosts when
he advocated attachment of Alice
Springs and its district to South Aus-
tralia.
Mr Driver’s notion—frivolous though
it might seem to outsiders swiftly be-
came a live issue in his old stamping
grounds of the Northern Territory.
South Australia ran the whole of the
Territory until 1911. when the Common-
wealth took over. Links remain, includ-
ing the education system which is con-
trolled and staffed from Adelaide. Many
in the Centre, plagued by pettifogging
restrictions and denied proper demo-
cratic representation, would welcome a
return to State control.
Culturally and economically, Alice
Springs is tied to South Australia.
9 Ninety per cent of its cattle are
railed to Adelaide.
• It fields a girls’ hockey team in the
SA Country Carnival.
• The Alice CWA branch has refused
all Darwin’s blandishments to swap
its Adelaide affiliations for a place
in the new NT Division.
• The Central Australian Basketball
Association is attempting to break
away from the NT and attach itself
to Adelaide.
® Most of its people are originally
from SA.
Little love is lost between “The
Centre” and “the top End.” Alice
Springs damns Darwin and all its works
with a virulence comparable to that
which inhabitants of the northern capital
reserve for Canberra. In Darw'in the
bugbear is “remote control from Can-
berra." In Alice it is “remote control
from Darwin.”
Central Australians see themselves as
an active self-supporting community be-
devilled and held dowm by an army of
semi-troppo clerks based a thousand
miles away.
This comparison, though hurtful, con-
tains certain home truths.
The Centre has built thriving cattle
and tourist industries. Despite lack of
water local farmers grow' a good propor-
tion of their own fruit and vegetables.
Darwin, on the other hand, w'ould
starve in a week if left to its own re-
sources.


iSclCri
m
, •
hS.
m i
V-,
*4>*
PHiNTK
i Ham T*j±G* %i £'
jjppas
■ <*>
Pink
for
girls
If she says “gorgeous”, “delightful”, “heavenly",
chances are it's Romalo Pink Champagne. A gay,
scintillating wine for joyous times ... for parties,
weddings and ever-so-special dinners for two.
All over the w.orld sophisticates celebrate with Pink
Champagne. Australia’s finest is Romalo.
Trade Enquiries: S. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd.
348 St. Kilda Road. Melbourne
BANK OFFICERS
AN UNPRECEDENTED ACTION
Federal Award for Bank Officers?
The series of tremors passing through
the banking world at the moment
show no signs of abating. Opening the
mail one morning recently private bank
officers all over Australia, from junior
clerks to grey-haired branch managers,
were startled out of their after-breakfast
complacency to discover that their em-
ployers were presenting them individually
with a letter of demand accompanied by
a frightening-looking log of claims that
amongst other things proposed to peg
salaries for a period of five years. With
trembling fingers they read that “failing
notification of acceptance of the fore-
going and accompanying log within 21
days of service, the respective employers
will consider themselves in dispute with
you in relation to such claims . . .”
In the minds of the banks’ elder ser-
vants this action by employers acting in
concert stirred memories of the Rawson
case of 1921.
Harry Rawson was a prime mover in
the formation of the United Bank
Officers’ Association when it was first
seeking registration as an industrial union
in New South Wales in 1919-1920.
Registration was bitterly opposed by the
banks. It was an era when senior bank-
ers could stili be heard to mutter in
the sanctity of their clubs that bank
clerks were a rabble with no more right
to an organisation than a mob of sheep.
When it was learned that Rawson,
accountant at the Pitt Street branch of
the Bank of New South Wales and a
trusted, highly thought-of officer, of 20
years’ service with that bank, was the
leader of a movement to form a union,
the bank took prompt action. Rawson
was ordered to Dubbo. When he object-
ed, alleging that he was being victimised
lor reasons he must well have suspected,
he was dismissed. Some months later
the ÜBOA of New South Wales was
legally recognised, the Rawson affair was
the opportunity for the Association to
jest its strength. It pressed for his re-
instatement, first unsuccessfully through
negotiation with the hank, then by resort
to the New South Wales Industrial Arbi-
tration Court for an award of reinstate-
ment.
Week after week, bank clerks through-
out the country were able to enjoy the
spectacle of senior officials of Austra-
lia s leading private banks being unmer-
C| fully trounced by the Association's
eminent counsel, A. B. Shand, K.C.,
a nd finally severely criticised by the
Arbitration Court judge in the course of
his judgment. Various intimate associa-
tions between the legal and banking pro-
fessions were sundered for all time.
The bank, and by implication the
whole institution of banking, came out
of the case very badly. The grand pand-
jandrums of finance, the “pot-bellied
exploiters” of the newspaper cartoons
had been clearly guilty of highly quest-
ionable behavior. A branch manager had
been persuaded to concoct false, mali-
cious reports of Rawson's character and
ability, a metropolitan inspector’s evi-
dence was dismissed as unsatisfactory,
the conduct of a general manager was
left open to doubt.
It has been evident in the exchanges
between the private banks and the staff
associations in the past few weeks that
the Rawson affair still rankles in some
minds, though it is just as evident that
relations in the banking industry have
improved out of sight since 1921. The
log of claims served on individual offi-
cers, the Bank Officers' Associations have
discovered, is primarily a device to bring
banking awards for the whole Common-
wealth within the jurisdiction of the
Commonwealth Arbitration Court.
At present, only in Victoria, Tasmania
and Commonwealth Territories, do
private bank officers belong to the Aus-
tralian Bank Officials’ Association cov-
ered by a Federal award.
For many years the major trading
banks with their principal establishments
in NSW and Victoria, and their ramifi-
cations in the other States, have been
pursuing for reasons of convenience and
policy, the ideal of uniformity of salaries
and working conditions throughout Aus-
tralia. For their part, the staff associa-
tions in the various States, have also been
seeking strength in unity, but legal and
administration complications have so far
delayed the formation of an Australia-
wide association.
If the banks are successful in their
efforts to achieve a Federal Award to
cover the whole industry, undoubtedly
the State most affected will be NSW. It
offers to employees in banks as well as
other industries, a far better deal in
matters such as overtime conditions,
classification of positions in Head Offices
and in capital city offices. A Federal
award would automatically suspend all
the privileges gained by the existing
banking award in NSW and deny the
NSW Association further access to the
State industrial courts.
Uniformity in salaries would also
operate very unfavourably in NSW where
prices generally are higher than in most
of the other States.
In Sydney, Stan Card, general secre-
tary of ÜBOA of NSW laid down the
gage of battle to the banks. “Their action
in approaching bank officers individ-
ually” he says, “is absolutely unprece-
dented in Australian bank history. The
banks came at us with a gun and this
Association is going to fight them no
holds barred”.
In 1947, Mr Card was one of the
heroes of the campaign that fought bank
nationalisation, but the banks know him
better as a redoubtable opponent around
the conference table. He has the reputa-
tion of being the kind of unyielding
advocate who enters negotiations pledged
to obtain, say, <£soo p.a. and comes out
with £550. He is hoping that the banks
in their attempt to undermine the
achievements of the ÜBOA of NSW will
remember Rawson. No decision to the
fight is expected until after Mr Com-
missioner Portus of the Commonwealth
Arbitration Commission begins hearing
the case on December 11.
E. G. DOCKER


ALGINATES FOR
TASMANIA
Wanted: fresh water
thousand acres of seabed off
the South-East coast of Tasmania
are to be systematically farmed for sea-
weed for production of alginates.
The Minister for Industrial Develop-
ment, Mr R. F. Fagan, said last week
that beds in the vicinity of Actaeon
Island, Research Bay and Maria Island
would yield annually up to 15,000 tons
of “wet” seaweed initially. In round
figures, this seaweed would produce up
to 150 tons of sodium alginate, which is
used as a thickening, jelling and stabil-
ising agent employed in ice-cream, tooth-
paste, paper sizing, textile printing, food
packaging and water treatment.
Alginates Australia Pty Ltd, a sub-
sidiary of Marrickville Holdings Ltd, of
Sydney, have been granted the licence
to exploit the seaweed. A capital ex-
penditure of £750,000 is involved in
the processing plant to be established
near the fishing village of Triabunna.
Dr D. H. Teplitzky, Marrickville Hold-
ings’ chief consultant, told a Tasmanian
Parliamentary Public Works Committee
meeting that nowhere else in Australia
were there beds of seaweed suitable for
the alginates industry. “There is enough
seaweed on the East Coast for us to
become at least one of the leading pro-
ducers of alginates in the world,” Dr
Teplitzky said. Laboratory tests in the
Sydney pilot plant had shown that the
Tasmanian seaweed produced the world’s
whitest alginates.
Mr Fagan has revealed that barges
will be used to cut and gather the sea-
weed. Overseas experience, he said,
indicated that regular, controlled harvest-
ing improved the beds, encouraged
rapid regrowth and decreased the damage
caused by storms.
The main problem has been an assured
supply of fresh water. The plant will
require two million gallons of filtered
water a week from the start, increasing
to five million gallons a week later. The
Public Works Committee has recom-
mended to Parliament that a water
scheme estimated to cost £135,500 should
be put in by the Rivers and Water
Supply Commission. The company will
pay up to 2/3d. a thousand gallons for
the water.
Much of the plant needed has already
been ordered, and construction will
begin almost immediately. From the start
employment will be provided for 40
men.
Around Melbourne
REDISCOVERING THE YARRA
VTothing about the Queen’s visit
next February looks, at this stage,
like being more memorable than the
rediscovery of the Yarra—the Yarra-
consciousness that the occasion is
bringing forth might even be more
than temporary.
This would be a good thing in it-
self. Also, it would show that good
things which somehow don’t get done
just for the natives can get done in a
large way when the natives need to
put on a show for royalty.
Last time the Queen came here, in
1954, she made her processional entry
from Essendon Airport. This northern
approach, leading through the Barry
Humphries country in Moonee Ponds,
is nearly as dreary as the course from
Mascot Airport to Sydney, and is also
a good deal longer.
This time, the Queen is to arrive in
Melbourne in the royal yacht Britannia
to be berthed at No. 1 North Wharf,
not far from the spot which that man
Batman decided would be the place
for the village. Then, as the Britannia
can go no farther, because of bridges
and other obstacles, the Queen will
complete her voyage by royal barge,
one and a half miles upstream to the
Henley Landing.
The royal barge will start from the
bleak brown commercial section of
the Yarra and finish where the lawns
are wide and green, where the vista is
prosperous, and where photographers,
amateur and professional, seek their
most impressive shots of Melbourne.
The Planning for the Queen’s voy-
age up to the Henley Landing had
been imaginative and practical. Over
the last stage, it will provide a good
view from both banks to many people
for whom the Yarra, previously, may
have been an abstraction.
Suitable provision has been made
for the royal couple to pass beneath
Spencer-Street Bridge. We are really,
I assure you, quite alert to bridge
problems down here now. And what
would be the point of having a sailor
—Vice-Admiral Sir Roy Dowling—
as Australian Secretary to the Queen
if the little matter of headroom be-
tween the royal barge and the arches
of the bridge couldn’t be expertly pro-
vided for?
All that is necessary is for those
sailors who normally stand to atten-
tion on the royal barge to sit to atten-
tion as it chugs beneath Spencer-Street
Bridge: and for the mast bearing the
royal standard to be hinged so that it
may be lowered under the bridge and
then straightened out again.
After all, Sir Roy Dowling is satis-
fied that there is no danger of the
sailors losing their heads or of the
royal standard losing its dignity. So
why should the citizenry trouble too
much? As a Vice-admiral, he needs
no reminding that the Queen’s hus-
band is an Admiral of the Fleet who
could be critically sensitive to any
nautical mishap occurring in waters as
conspicuously unadventurous as those
of the Yarra.
Still, as a precaution, spectators will
be allowed on none of the four bridges
under which the royal barge passes.
And once the guard of honor is inspec-
ted at Henley and the royal salute
given, the transport arrangements soon
become orthodox again.
Ten minutes after leaving the royal
barge the Queen will be off, by road,
to Flemington Racecourse.
Meanwhile the Yarra is promised
the kind of clean-up it has long
needed. No 1 North Wharf received
a £lO,OOO sprucing from the Harbor
Trust in 1956 when the Britannia
berthed there for the Duke of Edin-
burgh’s opening of the Olympic
Games, and of course it will be
touched up again.
We may be fairly sure that all, or
most, of the hulks and rubbish in or
by the mid-town stretches of the Yarra
are gone by February 23, the day the
Queen arrives. If they aren’t gone
then, and if the shabby banks haven’t
become a lot tidier, then probably they
never will.
Indeed, Melbourne was on a leisur-
ely way towards some little improve-
ment even before the announcement
of the Queen’s arrival by river set the
panjandrums giving assurances that
the Yarra would not, at the most im-
portant moments, too closely resem-
ble the Yarra.
Two years ago, construction of the
pontoon landing for the helicopter ser-
vice to Essendon Airport helped to in-
vite attention to floating trash, rotted
half-sunken barges, and decayed land-
ing-stages. People who dumped rela-
tively small quantities of rubbish else-
where in Melbourne might sometimes
be fined. But nobody, it seemed, ever
was fined for leaving rubbish, some-
times as large as a barge, to rot for
years in the- Yarra.
FAWKNER


■lUJlua
CLYDE
SECURITIES LIMITED
D
Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stock.
Earning Interest at the rate of
Other rates and currencies
available at subscribers’ option:
per annum for
10 or 12 years
Clyde Securities Limited
was registered on April
26th, 1960, and its paid-up
share capital is £1,000,000.
This current offer opened
on November Ist, 1962, and
will close on April 30th,
1963. Applications for De-
benture Stock will proceed
only on one of the forms of
application referred to in
and attached to a printed
copy of the Prospectus,
available from:
® Any Branch of Clyde
Securities Limited.
® Any Branch of the E.S.
& A. Bank.
• Members of recognised
Stock Exchanges.
• Any office of the Under-
writers, lan Potter & Co.,
360 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne (Members of The
Stock Exchange of
Melbourne).
The main business of Clyde Securities Limited is to raise funds to
assist in the expansion of the Clyde Industries Group of Companies.
Write to Investment Department
CLYDE SECURITIES LIMITED
90 Ocean Street, Edgecliff, N.S.W., Australia
.CS2S/62
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Onion Australia GroupJ
ESTABLISHED 1872
Head Office: Anchor House, 234-242 George Street, Sydney
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS' BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne
Queensland Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek Street, Brisbane
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
Secretary. K N F INLAIt
POLICEMEN
ULCER MONEY
South of the bonder
A policeman's life is not a happy one,
** and in Fitzroy, Victoria, it is
hazardous, according to evidence given
to the Police Classification Board last
week during a hearing for a general pay
rise for the Victorian constabulary.
Senior Constable R. T. Grose told the
Board that Fitzroy’s 464 acres harbored
more criminals than any other police
district and that there had been 50 as-
saults on police from the start of the year
up to mid-September. The assailants had
paid fines averaging £6 3s. 3d. each and
many of them apparently considered it
well worth the price.
Fitzroy, continued Senr. Const. Grose,
had 27 hotels and an unknown, but large
number of clubs where liquor was sold
illegally. The clubs often consisted of
little more than a few tables, chairs and
an electric light globe. Some had run up
as many as three dozen convictions for
liquor offences, but it w’as difficult to
deal with them by fines because of the
frequent changes in ownership.
Usually the owners waited until there
were three or four summonses out
against them for liquor offences and then
flitted away. After eighteen months work
in Fitzroy, Senr. Const. Grose had de-
veloped ulcers necessitating four weeks
leave.
Sergeant W. W. McKay of Brunswick
told the Board of grappling with a lunatic
armed with a rifle in the very foyer of
Russell St. police headquarters. On an-
other occasion he was attacked by “a
huge man” who subsequently killed him-
self playing Russian roulette. Fleas,
picked up in filthy houses, were another
worry to Sergt. McKay who confided to
the Board his method of disposing of
them: “I used to undress in the bathroom
and shower while wearing my shirt, socks
and underclothes which I would remove
in the bath. I would then kill the fleas
which were handicapped by being wet.”
Evidence in support of a pay rise was
given by the president of the NSW
Police Association, Sergt. L. H. Griffiths.
He told the board that he believed a Vic-
torian senior-constable did harder work
than a third-class sergeant in NSW. He
said he had visited stations in East Kew
and Preston where senior constables
were in charge; in NSW such stations
would be run by a third-class sergeant.
In Victoria a senior constable gets
£1550 a year, while NSW sergeants range
from £1671 to £lB4l and Sergt. Griffiths
a greed with Mr A. E. Woodward (assis-
ting the Board) that wages and salaries
in NSW were generally higher than in
Victoria.


DR. MANNIX
"I won't be as good as that talkative lady...
Clifton Pugh’s working drawing for the cover portrait.
Some impressions by GERALD LYONS
“YOUR GRACE, it’s doubtful if any man of the Church, Catholic or non-Catholic,
has exercised as much influence in Australia in this century as you.
-Not only in areas which some might regard as the ‘purely' religious’ sphere
of Roman Catholicism but outside that your impact on the social and
political scene has been, for a churchman, if 1 may say so, amazing.
"Looking back now, the events which stand out perhaps more Than others are-
“ Your support for Irish Independence.
“Your stand against conscription in the First World War
in 1,101 e iecent times, your fight against Communism linked with the
foundation of the ‘Movement’
So ran my rather long-w'inded intro-
duction to the TV interview with Dr
Daniel Mannix Melbourne’s Catholic
Archbishop.
That was almost a year ago today.
And yet, perhaps because I am once
again in the Archbishop's private study,
the words rise into my mind easily with-
out effort.
Now this is rather a curious thing.
Since then I have interviewed
hundreds of people some of them
outstanding political figures and public
“personalities” from Australia and over-
seas countries.
Without a transcript to remind me I
could remember nothing, or what was
said, nor even—the subject under dis-
cussion.
With the Archbishop I recall almost
every word of that hour-long interview,
how he looked and his slow careful, pre-
cise manner of speaking.
A few minutes previously Dr Mannix’s
housekeeper, Miss Jean Virgona, had met
me at the front door of “Raheen” and
led me to the study.
Vigilant, quick eyed and chatty, Miss
Virgona showed no surprise when I
asked if I might see the study and make
a few notes for this article.
Born in Australia of Italian parents
Miss Virgona has been the Archbishop's
housekeeper since 1944.
Out of the sunlight and into the cool
gloom of the entrance hall 1 followed
her as she Jed the way down long car-
peted passages to the study.
All the way she kept up a brisk
patter.
“We've been so busy all those
people going to Rome called here . . .
“And of course before that there was
His Grace's Jubilee —we had the Press
and the Bishops.
Was His Grace well —I had heard
he'd been sick?
“Oh he’s very well again now but
he finds the stairs difficult without help
—he likes to be independent you know.”
I knew only too w'ell. When we were
filming we had to move his chair and
i d put my hand on his arm to steady
him he shook it off gently.
Miss Virgona opened the study door
and stood there w'atching me curiously
w'ith her head on one side as I walked
in and looked around.
The study was as I had remembered
it.
Just as it had been when 1 met the
Archbishop for the first time a few
weeks before the interview.
There, with its broad maroon back to
me, w-as his chair facing the fireplace.
I would not have been surprised to
see him sitting in it and looked for
his biretta over the high back.
Beside the chair, a dark polished
round table piled w'ith books, a yellow
utilitarian reading lamp w'ith its globe
pulled over the chair, and within easy
reach reading glasses resting neatly on
a pile of typescript.
A small baby grand in another cor-
ner. Above it a signed sketch of
Eamon de Valera.
On the opposite well an autograph of
Pope John XXIII.
Does he still watch television?
"Oh yes—often—he’s up there fa
his bedroom now w'atching Bob Santa-
maria’s programme.”


1 Miss Virgona glanced upwards at the
a lofty smoke-blackened ceiling.
“Well I’ll leave you to it. If there’s
1 anything you want let me know.
I nodded, thanked her, sat in a rather
'severe black leather armchair and pulled
but nty notebook and the transcript of
I the television interview.
Importance of Being Earnest
- ■■ ■ .
Twenty feet or so away from me be-
-*■ yond the high ceiling in the bedroom
tbove, His Grace the Most Reverend
Dr Daniel Mannix, 98-year-old Roman
Catholic Archbishop of Melbourne, was
watching Mr Santamaria’s weekly tele-
vision commentary.
It was Mr Santamaria who was pre-
sent at the filming and the private inter-
view weeks before that.
| I wondered what he was saying
walked across and switched on the set.
1 Mr Santamaria’s bland face swam into
view preceded slightly by his fluent
(persuasive voice.
I This week Mr Santamaria with great
[earnestness was discussing a Pastoral Let-
ter signed by the Cardinal-Archbishop of
Santiago, Chile, and his bishops.
Suddenly Mr Santamaria’s countenance
| was replaced by a picture of the Car-
dinal standing in a paddock watching
'some people ploughing.
Over it all Mr Santamaria’s voice went
on—
. . . you see him in this picture
watching the ploughing of land previous-
ly owned by the Diocese, which he has
now divided among the peasants.
“The Pastoral Letter, entitled ‘Social
and Political Duties’, signed by the Car-
dinal and his brother bishops, hit hard
at the pattern of utter poverty and social
injustice which distorts the lives of the
eight million people of Chile, and indeed
°f the other 200 million who inhabit
the entire continent of South America.”
I switched off and returned to my
chair.
A year before in this room Mr Santa-
maria, soft voiced, sibilant, and charm-
mgly persuasive, bent low over the Arch-
bishop’s chair as he outlined what might
be involved in a television interview.
The Archbishop listened intently,
nodded and turned to me
“l only hope,” he said, his voice was
so ft, speech well rounded, with an under-
hitig Irish burr, “I will be good enough
~~~ I’m sure that I will not be as good
as that talkative lady you were speaking
*° last night.”
The ‘talkative lady’ was I recalled
koelia, Duchess of Westminster.
His Grace’s description was most apt
fold him, but this would be an inter-
Vieyv °f a vastly different kind.
He was a national figure in the true
Sense - I wanted to discuss without bit-
terness or rancour perhaps even with
a touch of humor —some of the events
of his life.
Perhaps, too, such an interview con-
ceived with this honest and disinterested
intention on my part could dispel some
of the myth, superstition and suspicion
which surrounded him.
If successful it would remain in our
historical archives.
As he spoke 1 watched him carefully.
It came as a gentle shock to me that he
was so old.
Suddenly, too, a number of fears en-
tered my mind. Supposing the interview
were too strenuous for him?
He was, after all, ninety-seven, well
on the way to his ninety-eighth birthday.
He leaned forward to hear what I was
saying. 1 apologised for having a heavy
cold and would not go too close to him.
“1 never get colds, Pm a very hardy
Irishman apparently,” the Archbishop
said.
His voice then, as it was during the
interview’, was low and steady. He spoke
slowly, finding each word, looking at it
in his mind, then uttering it, with logical
precision.
He placed his fingers together and
peered at me. His hands were covered
with white flesh almost translucent, you
could see the veins underneath. The
fingers long, with beautifully kept nails.
On the fourth finger of his right hand
his heavy episcopal ring shone.
His purple biretta was perched at
rather a rakish angle, with wisps of silver-
grey hair curling outwards and upwards
from the rim at the sides.
He wore a red-trimmed black soutane
with a cape about his shoulders linked
with a chain.
He looked at me with a slightly quiz-
zical expression, weighing me up, his
mouth was firm, the blue eyes old, dull,
but alert.
We appraised each other in silence.
He was one of the most dignified men
1 have ever met.
1 talked about his past, he listened
very carefully, nodding now and then.
Yes, he was willing to talk. He would
answer anything I asked. But his me-
mory of his early life was not too good.
But he would do his best.
We agreed on times and dates and 1
was gently dismissed.
On my way back to my office 1 tried
to sort out the impressions the Arch-
bishop made on me.
He was courteous, precise in the selec-
tion of words and friendly.
I was a little disappointed not to dis-
cover any of the fire or even gentle
sarcasm of the man who could inspire
thousands with his speeches.
Speeches like this one which he gave
introducing a Jesuit speaker in one of
the ‘‘National Foundation Stones” Lec-
tures which he gave in 1917.
7 read the address in the Advocate
during my researches and it went like
this:
Referring to the lecturer, Rev. W. J.
Lockington, S.J., the Archbishop said:
“When I undertook to preside at this
lecture tonight, and at future lectures
as far as may be possible, I thought I
was associating myself with a very
worthy object, and with quite reput-
able people. But, apparently, I have
been deceived. For this morning, when
I took up the paper, I read a sen-
sational address, which, no doubt, you
also have read. (Laughter.) I always
read Monday's paper with great inter-
est. (Laughter.) And sometimes I ex-
pect to find some genial pleasantries
about myself. (Laughter.) But even
when I have a silent Sunday, and there
is no room for an attack upon me, I
look up Monday morning's paper, be-
cause, as we all know, on the word of
our kind, truthful friends, we Catho-
lics are not allowed to read the Bible.
(Laughter.) The Word of God is, for
us, a closed Book. (Laughter.) And
therefore it is no wonder that our
parched souls on Monday morning
pant for a draught of the pure Gospel
teaching of the latter-day saints as it
issues from the Auditorium or from
Scots Church. (Laughter.) Or from
some other tabernacle of sweetness and
refreshment here in Melbourne.
(Laughter.)
The day of the interview came and
when I arrived at half past nine the
study had been transformed into a
studio.
It was very hot that day with the tem-
perature in the nineties. The air-condi-
tioning had been running all morning
but seemed to make little headway
against the big studio lights.
There were eleven technicians, three
or four people from the Press and
Mr Santamaria who asked if he might
be present during the filming.
Miss Virgona dashed in and out with
pots of tea, coffee and iced drinks for
the crew.
Finally all was ready.
The camera crew knocked, off and
stood in the sun outside, chatting, wait-
ing for the Archbishop, who was due
at 10.30.
I put down my notebook and looked
around the room. A year ago waiting
for the Archbishop I filled in time look-
ing at his books.
I wondered if any changes had been
made in his bookcase.
A few: I was startled for some reason
to find a copy of Lilian Roth’s “I’ll Cry
Tomorrow” in his bookcase the last
time I was here.
Today I could find no trace of it.
But the political journalists of the 1930's
were all there Douglas Reed’s “Dis-
grace Abounding”, Gladstone and the
Irish Question —side by side with a stout
theological volume on The Roman Mass.
And next to it “Life on Other
Worlds”. Then Jeane Heal's recently
published “1001 Australians” few


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON FT?
O'SULLIVAN /j
-a. PTYLTD.
trade
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
THE FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA
LTD.
FIFTY (50) YEARS
OF SERVICE
19 12—1962
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT, PUBLIC
RISK, WORKERS' COMPENSATION &
MOTOR VEHICLE
20 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALFRED S. WHITE Esq. (Chairman),
H. H. MOULTON Esq. (Managing Director)
E. G. CONEN Esq., T. K. MAGNEY Esq,
A, G. PARKER Esq., DOUGLAS WADLEY Esq.
B. J. LANE, Manager.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
Phone: 27.7401
books on religion, mostly history, philo-
sophy, psychology and current all airs.
I one didn't know the owner one
might be forgiven for imagining him to
be a statesman or politician with a taste
for religion.
“Looking around this study of yours
and the books you have here it seems
more like the study of a statesman than
a churchman—would you at any time
of your life have preferred to have
been a statesman rather than a church-
man?”
The Archbishop smiled very slightly
at this question and leaned forward not
to miss any of it.
“I’ve been all my life glad that I’m
not a politician, although I’m greatly
interested in political and social matters,
still I think the work of a politician is
most difficult.
I decided to take this a stage further.
How did he see his own involvement in
political questions. He had directly
intervened in the 1958 elections when he
said every Communist sympathiser in
Australia wanted a victory for Dr Evatt
and the A.L.P. Did he think an Arch-
bishop had a right to come out like this
one day before an election?
“When a man becomes a Bishop he
doesn’t cease to be a citizen and a res-
ponsible man has the right to make up
his own mind and his own conscience.
I’ve always been protesting that l was
speaking not as an Archbishop but as a
citizen and that’s my attitude down to
the present day and 1 don’t want any-
body to take my view because I’m an
Archbishop. I want them to listen to
me as a citizen and make their own
judgment.”
1 felt he was evading me and gently
told him so:
“With due respect your Grace, I won-
der if it’s not possible that people will
accept what you say as a citizen because
of your high ecclesiastical position?”
With a wry smile around his mouth
the 91 -year-old Archbishop replied:
“There may be difficulties but I have
done my best to prevent them and have
always insisted publicly that I’m talking
as a citizen.”
I looked around the quiet study, at
the bust of Irish patriot John Collins
(which had tottered and nearly fallen
when a cameraman moved it to another
position) and wondered whether the old
man had changed very much since our
last meeting.
At the golden jubilee of his consecra-
tion he had sat very still in his bedroom
with a rug over his knees.
His face had shrunken slightly, the
blue eyes were duller, but unwavering
under the flashlights and TV lights.
He was absolutely still, watching the
priests and Pressmen.
A statement was made for him in
reply to reporters’ questions by Mon-
signor I. P. Moran (Administrator of the
Archdiocese).
Monsignor Moran on that occasion
spoke for the Archbishop on the pros-
pects of Church union and on capital
punishment.
The Archbishop's views on capital
punishment, said Monsignor Moran to
the reporters clustered round the huge
brass bedstead, remained the same as
in 1924.
Then, Dr Mannix had said the deter-
rent effect of hanging could easily be
over-emphasised.
Dr Mannix sat and watched the goings
on around him with almost complete
detachment.
The only words he uttered were his
thanks to the photographers for “taking
so many shots.”
As I make these notes the Arch-
bishop is listening in his bedroom to
Mr Santamaria coming to the close of
his commentary on the Chilean Bishops,
“What,” I asked in our interview,
“are your relations with Mr Santa-
maria?”
To which he made his now famous
reply.
“Well, friendly on my part —7 don’t
know what he thinks, but on my side
they are very friendly and I regard him
as well —” he paused and more strongly,
his voice wavering slightly, “the saviour
of Australia in the present time . . .”
For his part Mr Santamaria told me
he regards the Archbishop as ‘my
dearest friend’.
Just after the Archbishop’s reply we
ran out of film and had to stop.
Santamaria, with tears in his eyes, ob-
viously deeply moved by his Arch-
bishop’s reference to his role in the fight
against Communism, came over and took
my seat as we turned off the lights and
put on the air-conditioning to give Dr
Mannix a rest while we changed the
film.
It was at this point that a curious
thing happened.
The study was empty, the lights off
and Dr Mannix was left with Mr Santa-
maria. The technicians went out into
the sunlight, I stood in the passage drink-
ing coffee.
Just behind me was our recording
equipment. The microphones had been
left on and l couldn’t help overhearing a
conservation between Dr Mannix and
Mr Santamaria.
I listened absent-mindedly with my
thoughts on the next ‘take’.
What l heard l shall never repeat but
it was enough to show that at that time
last year the Archbishop had a mind of
his own and a lively interest in
politics.
Somewhat embarrassed, I switched o§
the monitor and concentrated on the
next part of my discussion.
In the gloomy stillness of the study
I stood up and walked to the window
outside and watched weaving in and out
of the dappled sunlight and shadow over
the lawns a flock of emotional starlings.
The muted rumble of the Sunday
morning traffic came from the road
beyond the trees.
I wondered if Mr Santamaria had
finished and switched on the TV again.
He was more earnest than before:
I switched off and prepared to leave.
And what, I thought, of Mr Santa-
maria, when the Archbishop is with us
no more —will he too stick to his guns?


Now you can have...
Highest quality single copies
Lowest cost multiple copies
from the one Kodak Verifax Copier
Streamline your office copying Verifax now does
these TWO basic jobs with the one machine!
1. Highest quality single copies with the new Verifax
Fine-Line matrix. When overall appearance is important
... or when critically sharp rendering of fine detail essential
.. . use the Verifax Fine-Line matrix. It reproduces delicate
line-work, fine detail, half-tone pictures and solid areas
with amazing crispness and fidelity—even from the most
difficult originals. Copies made with Fine-Line matrix are
black, sharp and of premium quality—ideal for sending to
customers, clients and executives.
2. Lowest cost multiple copies with the famous
Verifax regular matrix. When several copies are
needed in a hurry use the regular Verifax matrix
and it will give you up to five dry, white, permanent
copies in 60 seconds. It will reproduce practically
anything written, typed, printed or drawn pencil,
ink, ballpoint, paints and crayons. Tests show
that Verifax copies can last up to 100 years and
longer.
K
km»tm
The cost of Fine-Line matrix and regular matrix is the same; both can be used inter-
changeably in any Verifax copier, without adjustments of any kind. Yours for the asking.
•.. You are invited to contact your nearest Kodak Branch.
A representative will call and demonstrate
how Verifax can streamline your copying procedure.
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.
Branches in all States


OUT AND ABOUT
WITH FAME-SOME "BLOODY MONEY"'
"There's a gold mine in this country for writers "
By PATRICA ROLFE
Mr and Mrs Arthur Upfield had
sought the far shore of the sea of
orange chairs and black-topped
tables which is the main lounge of the
Carlton-Rex Hotel, Sydney. Mid-after-
noon the room is sparsely filled with
slow, deliberate drinkers, but the Up-
fields had settled themselves cosily
around a table laden with sandwiches
and chocolate cake. Twenty years on the
track had taught Mr Upfield the trick
of getting a decent cup of tea even out
of the sort of pots served in big city
hotels.
The Upfields were in town for a rare,
few days to publicise his latest book,
“The Will of the Tribe,” brought out by
Heinemann. They live at Bowral on
the southern highlands. Although it is
more than 30 years since Mr Upfield
gave up the wandering life outback, they
still move house fairly regularly. They
went to Bowral from Bermagui, on the
South Coast, six years ago, and seem to
be thinking of pulling up stakes again
now to live somewhere else. But not, of
course, in Sydney.
Mr Upfield is 71 now. With more than
30 books published, if he has not pro-
duced a masterpiece he is at least a
going concern. Heinemann have been
bringing cut a new Upfield mystery,
with the part-aboriginal detective
Napoleon Bonaparte, as chief character,
each year, while Angus and Robertson
regularly reprint old titles.
Whether he has earned more than
any other Australian writer over the
years, or in any one year, is impossible
to gauge, and is also something which
doesn’t worry him much. He is shrewd,
kind, unpretentious, but he likes very
much being a selling author. Success is
more fun than failure.
“The thing about writing,” he said,
“is to be prepared to gamble on yourself.
I’ve never been a betting man, but 1 do
like to gamble on myself. It’s much
more interesting than horses. The odds
are longer for one thing.”
Was there a point at which he de-
cided it was now or never?
“Yes,” he said decisively, “I had been
knocking about the bush for 20 years.
This is all in Jessica Upfield’s book,
‘Follow my Dust.’ She’s the real author
in the family. She wrote ‘Follow my
Dust’ and then gave up. I don’t know
why. She’s my best critic and best help.
I show everything to her in the first
draft. Sometimes she says, ‘That’s
terrible. Go away and do it again.’ So I
go away and do it again and she says,
‘Why didn’t you do that the first time.’
“But, anyway, as I said, I’d been
knocking around the bush for 20 years.
My father sent me here from England,
because he was sure I’d never get the
fare back again. 1 came to Australia for
Australia’s good. Then I wrote my first
novel in a boundary-rider’s hut, and made
£25 from it. But I first got going when
I did a piece for 'Wide World’ magazine.
Then ‘Wide World' asked me to write
a series on ‘The Emigrant’s Chances in
Australia.’ The emigrants’ chances! In
the ’twenties! There was terrible unem-
ployment then. The emigrant had no
chance at all. But I didn’t say that, of
course.
“My first five novels were accepted
by Hutchinson. The sixth was turned
down. This game is full of heart-breaks,
you know. And old Hutchinson died a
millionaire. He made it out of people
like me.
“I remember once when we were
living at Bermagui on the South Coast.
Things were a bit tough and we were
waiting for some royalty cheques to tide
us over. The mails came from England,
but all I got from the publisher was
some reviews. Good reviews they were,
too, out reviews don’t pay the bills. So
I said to Jessica, ‘All fame and no
bloody money.’ And that’s been my
motto ever since. I’ve got that on my
letterhead, just to remind myself.
“At one stage 1 went to work for the
Melbourne ‘Herald' for six months. I
wrote 400,000 words in that time, articles
based on my experiences in the out-
back. And do you know what I got
for that? The sack. 1 was doing too
much work. That was the trouble.
“But it was the war that made me,
you know. The Yanks wanted to read
everything they could about Australia
and they started publishing my books
over there. Do you know that book col-
lectors in America will pay up to 22
dollars a copy now for my books pub-
lished during the war years. The Ameri-
cans are funny people. They know that
a second-hand copy will bring 22 dollars,
but they won’t bring those old books
out again in paper-back. They must
always have something new. Not like
Germany. Germany is second to the
United States in sales of my books.
Australia is only a second-class country
as far as I am concerned. The Germans
seem to know exactly what they are
doing. They might have been Nazis and
all that but I love them. They bring
out a hard-cover edition, then they bring
it out in paperback. Sixty-thousand
copies in paperback. Never more, never
less. If that sells out they print again.
Another 60,000.
“A lot of my fan mail comes from
Germany. I had a letter from a professor
at Essen who said he thought my books
were tops in the field-work of anthro-
pology.
“I write regularly to eight professors
in the United States. I call my writing
mystery writing in creative literature.
“I get a lot of other letters, particu-
larly from people who want to migrate
here. I’m a one-man tourist bureau.”
At this stage we switched from tea to
beer, the waiter bearing oft the cake
and sandwiches.
“Now I suppose that what The
Bulletin wants is something about how
I write and what I think of writing,”
Mr Upfield said. “I haven’t read the
Bully for years myself, but 1 suppose
it still wants that sort of thing.” He drew
a piece of paper from his pocket. “1 was
doing a television talk last night and 1
made a few notes. I’ve got them here.
They’ll be something to start off with.
“Who or what is a successful author?”
he read. “He who is able to write for
whom he likes and when.” He paused.
“To become a successful writer one must
be dedicated and serve a very stern
master to the best of his ability and
gifts.” He continued reading. “The true
author of creative literature pulls his
forelock to no one and to nothing, other
than to his inherited gifts.
“And I suppose you want to know
how 1 go about writing?” he demanded.
“I write for six months of the year and
I rest for the other six. I begin a book
with just an idea, and with some notion
of how it will end. I don’t work out the
plot in detail. I just work towards the
end. The idea is generally something in
nature, like the crater in the desert in
‘The Will of the Tribe.’
“I don’t find it a tremendous effort
to write. I just plug away with two
fingers on the typewriter. The big thing
is continuity. You simply have to be
able to get down to it each day. This
winter I had a heart attack and Mrs
Upfield wasn’t well, so I practically gave
up work.
“The other thing is privacy. Arnold


FROM
THE
LAND
OF
NODT
Mr Chaucer . . . you may be the father of the English
language, but to me you're just a Dirtie Olde Mannel!"
"powder room
*fACE
TALCUM
A.P.C
RUNOUT
"All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy,"
"/ SAW that."


Bennett used to have a wife, a secretary
and a butler, all busy keeping people
away from him while he was working.
I generally work in the afternoon and
Mrs Upfield would no more think of
interrupting me while I’m at work
than any other woman would think of
walking into her husband’s office while
he was at his job.
“I find that Angus and Robertson
do a much better job of editing than
Heinemann. Heinemann just put it in
as I write it, and then the critics say the
writing is no good. I can’t be too worried
about spelling and all that. I just want
to get the story down and let someone
else tidy it up.
“But the thing is to keep at it. That’s
the trouble with most young writers.
They get one thing published and they
think they are made. I remember one
young writer and I don’t know many
writers. Don’t mix with them much at all.
We knew E. V. Timms and his wife —”
“Lovely people,” said Mrs Upfield.
“Anyway, this young man sent me his
novel and I sent it to my agent in Lon-
don. It got published. Then he turns
round and joins all those literary
societies and began writing for the lit-
erary magazines. How on earth can you
write if you spend all your time at
literary societies?
“And people won’t write for the
market. People say I should write
‘straight’ novels. I wrote ‘straight’ novels
and made no money out of them. I am
quite happy with the sort of books 1
write.
“I don’t read many Australian
writers. 1 have a whole boxful of books
at home, but when I have finished work
I just want to sit in front of the TV
and relax. John Steinbeck is still the
writer I most admire.
“ ‘Of Mice and Men’,” Mrs Upfield
said. “Simply wonderful.”
“We were delighted when Steinbeck
got the Nobel prize. The best I’ve ever
done in that line is runner-up in the
Crime Club's annual award and runner-
up in the Mystery Writers of America.
Runner-up each time.
“But the main trouble with Australian
writing has been people writing for each
other and not for the market. In the
’twenties Dal by Davidson and Vance
Palmer used to write books. Then they
would review each other’s and praise
it to the skies. People would buy them
and find they were no good, then they
wouldn't buy any more Australian books.
“But most of that has gone these
days. There’s a new sort of nationalism
here. New Australians want to read new
Australian books.
“But another thing I can't understand
is why all these writers go off to London.
There’s a gold mine in this country for
writers. Why do they want to go off to
a ruddy worked-out copper mine?”
A MEAL ON THE HOUSE
"No meat tastes as good as the neighbor's"
By DON GRADY
On the back country cattle stations
there is no shortage of good
animals to kill for house beef.
Some station owners, who are sticklers
for doing things by the book, kill their
own cattle . . . those bearing their own
brands and earmarks. But many others,
though down-to-earth, God-fearing men,
regard “knocking off” a neighbor’s stray
steer, bullock or cow as fair sport, if
you can get away with it.
There are men in outback NSW today,
who will tell you, that “no meat tastes
as good as the neighbor’s.” In a country
where time has little meaning, they find
regular killing and eating of their own
homegrown meat rather irksome. This
is why, out in the West, one station eats
the best beef belonging to the neighbor
and vice-versa. When I visited the far
outback of NSW recently, 1 found that
the locals looked upon shooting a neigh-
bors cattle for fresh meat as a type of
sport. The degree of excitement de-
pended how, or where, the deed was
carried out.
More often than not, one station
“knows” that the other station is taking
its beef. But unless the offenders are
caught in the act . . . the offence is next
to impossible to prove.
Some battlers of the outback bush-
workers who have large families and
own no land or cattle sometimes kill
a neighbor’s cattle of economic necessity.
Sometimes the station-owner victims, if
they’re affluent or goodhearted enough,
are known deliberately to turn their
heads the other way. Many a big cattle-
station owner in the outback remembers
he was a battler himself once.
“I 'knock off’ a neighbor’s beast only
when 1 have to have meat,” one battler
told me. “The station owners around
here know that. They often say to me:
‘How are you, you thievin’ bastard?’
But that is as far as it goes.’ ”
It w'as two such battlers as this one,
who recently invited me along to watch
them kill a steer for meat on a neigh-
bor’s property.
We headed off into the bush. There
were just the two of us on board. We
had arranged a rendezvous at a certain
spot some 10 miles away, with the other
battler. All “the equipment” was in the
back of the “waggon.” The set of three
skinning knives, with curved blades
honed to sharpness on an oilstone and
steel, were concealed in an old potato
sack. The steel was there in readiness
for quick re-sharps. The .210 rifle and
a clip of bullets to make the kill were
there. So were three sacks to carry one
battler’s “split” of the meat and a length
of wire.
At the arranged spot we met the other
man and began a search for a suitable
beast to kill. It was not as fast a job
as the two men had previously thought.
Recent duststorms had sent the cattle off
temporarily in other directions. For two
hours we reconnoitred slope and valley,
the two four-wheel drive vehicles quickly
covering a large tract of people-less land.
Two hours before dusk, a mob of 20
or-so mixed cattle were sighted. They
included cows, steers, bullocks with a
few calves in tow. “We’ve got to find
a beast that has strayed on to this sta-
tion,” said my companions. “We person-
ally never kill a man’s cattle on his
own station. “That would be rubbing
salt into the wound, wouldn’t it?”
In a matter of seconds the outback
born-and-bred battlers had inspected
every brand and earmark of the mob.
“There’s only two foreigners among
’em,” said my companion. There's that
black cow over there with the horns, or
that young white-an’-tan steer in the
middle. The steer looks the best . . .
we'll have him.”
My companion sent his dog out to
separate the white-and-tan from the
mob. As the beast tried to “break,” the
dog hung on its heels.
My companion fired his rifle. The
steer sank slowly to its knees. While the
outback sun beat down upon their heads,
they cut the pick of the meat off the
animal with incredible speed.
Their knives flashed in the sun. One
worked cutting the front of the beast
and the other from the hind. They slit
the warm hide along the legs and in an
arc across the steer’s middle. Off came
whole roasts, chuck steak, ribs for
grilling, undercuts. As knives became
blunt, they quickly swapped them for
others.
Within thirty minutes the bags of
meat and knives had been piled into
the four-wheel drive vehicles for taking
home. One man hitched a length of No.
8 fencing wire around a hind leg of
the carcase. He quickly lashed the other
end of the wire to the rear of his
vehicle. He towed the remains 60 yards
into the thickest patch of scrub within
miles. “You'd need x-ray eyes to find
that,” he said.
“I'll bet you there'd be a few butchers
in Sydney that would give a few quid
to have a pick over what we have left
behind. They don’t waste a thing down
there.”


EXPORTERS: This wiil interest you even if you’ve never thought of using Air Cargo before!
BORING
PICTURE
INTERESTING
STORY /
%1
■wm
h
Qantas Export Experts
turn world-wide delivery
problem into routine drill
Mindrill Limited of Melbourne make regular
deliveries by air of Australian earthdrilling equip-
ment throughout the world. Most drilling units are
actually custom-made for particular drilling condi-
tions in the areas concerned. Every consignment is
urgent! The consignee is waiting for the drill in
order to start operations. Qantas came up with the
answer which minimised cash and time outlay.
Qantas evolved methods of handling this high
value/weight ratio equipment—sometimes requiring
no packaging other than Qantas’ special pallets,
designed for the job. The extensiveness of Qantas
routes has brought many export mai’kets almost as
close in time to the factory as the domestic market!
As an engineer from Pittsburgh said, “We sure
struck pay dirt when we ordered these ‘diggers’ from
Down Under!”
mm am mo
42 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
HOW THIS EXPORTER BENEFITED:
1. A big export market assured with increasing trade
to new outlets in new, important industrial areas
of the world.
2. Capital released quickly, not tied up for months
in profitless delays and demurrage.
3. Exporter’s reputation for accurate, custom-built
work PLUS fast on-time delivery enhanced.
4. Engineer consignees satisfied that replacements/
spares can be obtained readily, without delay.
HOW THE QANTAS EXPORT
CONSULTANT SERVICE CAN HELP YOU:
Qantas puts at your disposal one of the most compre-
hensive transport systems in the world. Qantas
analyses each export/import problem individually and
offers you this Qantas six-point service—FßEE.
1. Distribution time and static time analysis gives you
a time and motion plot on your goods from despatch
to arrival.
2. Costing breakdown on your complete shipping
operation.
3. Systematic appraisal of packaging with suggested
modifications for the lighter, more economical
handling and packaging of your freight needs.
4. Advice on alternate routings, accelerated cartage,
taxation and insurance reductions.
5. Analysis of current economic situation of world
markets, quarantine, import, currency and customs
regulations.
6. A business venue in many overseas countries in
Qantas offices in Europe, America, Asia, the Orient,
New Zealand and Africa.
EXPORT it by QANTAS if it’s
IMPORTant to you!
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in association with Air India, 8.0.A.C., S.A.A. and TEAL.
QAC66.FP8.102


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A II 3.000,000
Offices:
SYI)NE t, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
ABORIGINAL RESEARCH -
A LAST CHANCE
Car ban dating the Talgai shall
By ROBERT MURRAY
"Oefore Federal Cabinet at the moment
is a proposal to establish a body to
be known as the Australian Institute of
Aboriginal Studies.
The idea behind it originated in the
fertile mind of W. C. Wentworth MHR,
who has a long standing interest in the
subject. The Prime Minister, Mr R. G.
Menzies, gave the go ahead for the sett-
ing up of an Interim Council which in
November 196! was given the task of
working out the details. Its report is
now before Cabinet.
Members of the Interim Council in-
clude Emeritus Professor A. D. Tren-
dall, Deputy Vice-Chancellor of the
Australian National University (Chair-
man); Prof. J. A. Barnes, ANU; Dr R.
M. Berndt, University of WA; Prof. A. P.
Elkin, University of Sydney; Mr F. D.
McCarthy, Curator of Anthropology,
Australian Museum, Sydney, and Mr
Wentworth.
The whole thing is being treated by
Cabinet, and the Council, as a matter
of urgency. The big question is, is it al-
ready too late?
Mr McCarthy claims that it might
be too late to accomplish all the Insti-
tute's work, but says that there is still
much that can be done.
The Institute will not be interested in
the problems connected with assimila-
tion; its only task is to study the Abori-
gines. This is made plain by the list of
functions set out in the report. It will:
• Engage in and foster research of
a scientific, anthropological and cultural
nature on the Australian Aborigines;
• Treat as a matter of urgency those
studies for which the source materials
are disappearing;
• Establish and conduct a museum of
Aboriginal art and culture, and a library
of books, manuscripts, and recordings
relevant to Aboriginal studies;
• Encourage co-operation with and
between scholars in the museums and
universities;
• Publish and support the publication
of the results of research;
• Co-operate with appropriate bodies
concerning the financing of research,
and the preservation of sites and col-
lection of records;
• Promote the training of research
workers;
• Establish and maintain relations
with relevant international bodies.
The immediate emphasis will be on
research “in fields where, by their nature,
the source materials are rapidly disap-
pearing or where for other reasons some
other action appears necessary.” Thus
studies regarding the pre-history and
origins of the Aborigine will be left till
some later time.
The question may be asked why the
position has been let deteriorate to such
an extent that the Institute is now “a
matter of urgency”? There are several
answers.
The most obvious reason for the dry-
ing up of source materials is the com-
plete dominance of European civilisa-
tion. Aborigines have been actively en-
couraged to forget their old ways and
‘'assimilate” in the white-man’s world.
Because of this the old tales, myths
and bush lore are being forgotten. The
young Aborigine shows less and less in-
terest in things of the past and the old
men who remember and re-teli the
legends are dying out.
With European technology has gone
Europe’s religion. The missionaries have
played their part in destroying the cul-
ture of the Aborigine. The artifacts used
in ceremonies have been destroyed and
are no longer made. Bark paintings,
which used to depict the spirits of the
Aboriginal religion, now only represent
motifs which are harmless in the eyes
of the missions.
Another reason is that Australian
Universities, according to Mr McCarthy,
have been slack as far as this field of
study goes. In the Departments of
Archaeology, for example, the emphasis
has been on the archaeology of the
Middle East rather than Australia. Also
funds for research in Australia have not
been forthcoming. There are at present
12 professional archaeologists working in
Australia.
However, this is being remedied and
the universities and other organisations
are showing increasing interest in Abor-
iginal studies. Whereas research used to
be left to private individuals such as
Bill Harney who has collected much of
the tribal lore now scholars, supported
by such grants as the recent Nuffield
Foundation grant of £3.300 to Mel-
bourne University archaeologist J. Mul-
vaney, are coming into the field with
their specialised research methods.
As the Aborigines never invented
writing, all their lore and customs have
been handed down by word of mouth.
The professionals will collect these not
by writing them down but by recording
them. The recordings will preserve the
originality of the material for times when
the Aboriginal, in his native state, is a
thing of the past.
Films will be made of tribal customs
and rituals and these too will be pre-
served in the Institute’s library.
Aborigines in a sufficiently native
state to be useful to the Institute are
now few in number, and already the In-
stitute is toe late to retrieve anything


i
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,(75,000
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
71
p.a. for 6 years
5% p.a. for 12 months
Other rates and terms available see
Prospectus for full details. Your copy
available from all Members of Stock
Exchanges, over 750 branches of the
A.N.Z. Bank Limited and I.A.C.
Branches.
Applications for stock will proceed
only on one of the forms of application
referred to and attached to a printed
copy of the Prospectus.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Registered 19th December, 1929 )
Branches at
SYDNEY MELBOURNE —BRISBANE —ADELAIDE PERTH
HOBART CANBERRA
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney,
Adelaide and Brisbane.
5223 N
of value from any but the remotest
regions; the whole of Eastern Australia
is useless in this regard.
But these immediate anthropological
tasks will gradually be accomplished
leaving the field to the archaeologists to
study the difficult problems of the Abori-
gines’ pre-history and origins.
Since the Aborigines kept no historical
records their pre-history means pre-white
men. In fact very little is known about
the pre-history of the Aborigines, and
guesses as to their origin range from
Malaya to the Mediterranean coast.
There are five methods that the In-
stitute will make use of in discovering
data about early man in Australia. The
first three use the method of carbon
dating, whereby the remains of abori-
ginal civilisation are subjected to various
chemical tests to test the age of the
carbon deposits in the relic. The five
main methods are these:
• The testing of mineralised human
remains, notably the Talgai skull found
near Warwick in Qld., the Keilor skull
found near Melbourne, the Cohuna skull
found near the Murray River in Vic-
toria, and the Tartanga and Devon
Downs skeletal finds on the lower
Murray in South Australia.
• The testing of prehistoric stone im-
plements or other artifacts and carvings
found in various places.
• The testing of deposits of mar-
supial fossil bones, together with the
remains of the dingo.
• Collection of data about trade
routs, language, and religious beliefs of
the Aborigines.
• The various theories of the origins
and affinities of the Australian and Tas-
manian Aborigines.
Norman Tindale, Curator of Anthro-
pology at the SA Museum, has made the
claim that the first men in Australia
were the Negrito pygmies now confined
to the Atherton Tableland in Queensland.
These are thought to have arrived about
25,000 years ago, before the race known
today as the “Aborigines”.
Whether the Negritos are a separate
race is a disputed point. Mr McCarthy
claims that the Negritos may be just an
example of the extreme variability of
the Aborigines. It is this variability that
has led seme to say that the Aborigines
originated around the Mediterranean. A
section of the Aborigines regularly pro-
duces children with blond hair; this is
a characteristic of Mediterranean Man.
Much work is being done at present
on the Negritos, but it is hard going.
Because of their habit of cremating
their dead we cannot subject their re-
mains to the usual age tests as we can
peoples of the Near East or primitive
man. Basically the Negritos, whatever
their racial affinities with the rest of
the Aborigines, are of the same stock
as the extinct Tasmanian race; which
shows that at one time they had a wide
distribution over Australia.
This has led to theories of two
migrations to Australia instead of one.
First the Negritos came, driven out of
their native lands by physically stronger
races. Some settled in New Guinea where
they are still found in some inaccessible
mountain regions, the rest came on to
Australia, perhaps being driven from
New Guinea with the arrival of the
Papuans. They were then driven to re-
mote places in Australia by the Abori-
gines.
Mr McCarthy claims that one day it
will be possible to write a history of
the Aborigines built up on archaeological
evidence, in much the same way as the
pre-history of Egypt has been. It would
contain the story of the Aborigines
coming here, and their contacts with
other native peoples in New Guinea and
Indonesia.
At one time it was thought that the
Aborigines were completely isolated
until the advent of the white man. This
is untrue. All through the centuries there
were contacts with other peoples.
This contact came about both through
trade and through migration. Malay,
Indonesian, Japanese, Samoan, Papuan
and Chinese vessels all visited the Aust-
ralian mainland long before the Euro-
peans and the Aborigines borrowed from
them.
For example the Australians bor-
rowed certain religious practices from the
Indonesians. The existence of bark paint-
ings, made in the identical way as in
Australia, in New Guinea established a
likely contact between these two peoples.


■ •;
One nice thing about an air-cooled engine
Inhale.
Exhale.
Now you know exactly how the Volkswagen
engine is cooled. With air.
Water has nothing to do with it.
A big fan swooshes cooled air through the
engine and swooshes it out again.
The faster you go, the bigger the swoosh. So
the engine stays calm, cool and collected.
Or you can inch along all day in hot and
heavy traffic. You may not enjoy it, but at least
you won’t have to worry about boiling over.
VW7C64


You never run out of air
You also won’t have any worries about top-
ping up your radiator.
There is no radiator. Or hoses. Or water
pump. Or rust. So most VW owners rarely see
the engine. The engine compartment is opened
only when the car is serviced,
However if you feel you owe your Volkswagen
engine a little something special every now
and again you can do this much.
Just run it once around the
block and let it air itself out.
VWTOWf


THE UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Established 1862
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
J. W. Dunlop (Chairman), Sir Edward R.
Knox (Deputy-Chairman), R. J. Vicars
A. Murray Jones, Hugh Dixson D. A. T.
Dickins, K. B. Myers, A. E. Stephen.
Fire. Marine and Accident Insurances
of every description.
J. O. LEWIS. General Manager.
OVERSEAS
MENON'S BITTER HARVEST
Western Weapons? "Only oyer my dead body"
By PREM BHATIA
Editor of The Times of India
the Chinese opened their big
offensive in the northeast sector,
the Indian losses have not been
catastrophic in terms of territory, but
the ease with which the enemy has
pushed forward has shocked people in
India w'ho had been led to believe that
their army w'as more than a match for
the invader along this limited front.
Some hard thinking has already taken
place, but there is still a great deal to
be told.
The unpreparedness resulted not only
from an inadequate military programme,
although that was serious enough, but
also from a faulty assessment of Chinese
intentions. India's adoption of neutrality
was a political strategy as w'ell as an
expression of its profound faith in
Gandhian pacifism. Neutrality was con-
sidered a political necessity because the
country was anxious to avoid military
animosities so that it could devote its
energies to economic development. Since
Gandhian pacifism was a basic creed, the
adoption of neutrality was an easy step.
It also gave Indian political leaders a
sense of mission, which in turn led to a
feeling of moral superiority in the con-
duct of international relations. Only
another small step was required for
Nehru to accept in all good faith the
famous five points of Panchsheel put
forward by China in 1954 as a pledge of
non-aggression and peaceful co-existence
between the tw'o nations.
War, cold or hot, was an evil to be
avoided, and the possibility of w'ar, so
far as India was concerned, came to be
almost totally disregarded. What Nehru
forgot was that irrespective of India’s
own abhorrence of war, the Chinese
might want to start a fight. I was with
him during his visit to China in October,
1954. After we had been shown some
examples of the Chinese economic effort,
I asked the prime minister whether he
did not think that China’s increasing
strength might prove to be a threat to
India. He w'as categorical in his reply.
The Chinese, he said, were so occupied
w'ith internal development that they
would not have the time for any form of
aggression for at least twenty-five years.
And yet only a year or two later the
Chinese were occupying the Indian ter-
ritory in Ladakh on the frontier of
Kashmir. In 1957 they had also built a
road linking Sinkiang with Lhasa across
Indian territory. Today the Chinese are
massed in strength in both Ladakh and
the northeast sector and show every
intention of moving into the Brahmaputra
Valley to Assam.
If the government of India is now
shocked at Chinese aggression, the blame
does not lie with the Chinese but with
Nehru and his colleagues. For at least
five years the Chinese had given plenty
of evidence that they meant to get what
they wanted. During those years a
series of protests were sent from New
Delhi to Peking against the steady
Chinese advance in Ladakh. The warn-
ings remained practically unheeded, and
it was not until August, 1961, that the
army was given clear and unambiguous
instructions to build a network of
military checkposts. Hasty preparations
were also made to build a few mountain
roads and generally to improve com-
munications in that difficult terrain.
Nevertheless such military preparations
as were undertaken to meet a real or
potential Chinese challenge remained
inadequate. Until about three months
ago Nehru and his then principal defence
adviser, V. K. Krishna Menon (whose
resignation was received with cheers on
November 7), were still not convinced
that the Chinese would risk a war with
India by inviting a military conflict in
Ladakh or the North-East Frontier
Agency.
These political and psychological
errors were not the only factors respons-
ible for unpreparedness. There was also
the obvious physical difficulty of pro-
viding and equipping a force to operate
in mountainous country several hundred
miles away from military bases. This
difficulty led to a further weakening of
the will to resist China. Even if the
realisation had dawned earlier that the
Chinese Communists are a ruthless
enemy, other obstacles prevented an
adequate military build-up. Some two-
thirds of India’s armed strength has been
deployed on the Pakistani borders since
1947 in the belief that the greatest threat
came from there. Menon repeatedly
referred to Pakistan as India’s Enemy
No. 1. While this w'as regarded by many
Indians as a deliberate diversion of
attention from the Chinese danger, fear
of Pakistan could not be ignored. But
even Nehru did not believe until the
spring of this year that the threat from
Peking was substantial. Not much more
than two years ago his retort to
Pakistan’s suggestion for a joint defence
pact with India was, ‘Toint defence
against whom?”
A ll these are more or less familiar
facts of recent history. What is not so
familiar to many people—including some
Indians —is that military and strategic


i
Beaches that shine like gold
in the sunshine swimming,
surfing, water ski-ing, sailing
■— everything to suit the timid
toddler or the adventurous
teenager. Victoria’s Peninsula
Paradise where tea tree shaded
foreshores provide bountiful
picnic spots for the family on
holiday.
21
For further information about
these Victorian Holiday Resorts
post this coupon.
*
THE VICTORIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAUX
276 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
78 ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
28 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
32 KING WILLIAM ST., ADELAIDE
... •
mm
Please send me detailed information
about
NAME
ADDRESS
3362 B.
requirements have been completely
neglected in the formulation and execu-
tion of defence policy. That the military
should take orders from the civil
authority in a democracy like India goes
without saying. An example of how
zealously this principle is followed in
India occurred in 1959, when the then
army chief of staff, General K. S.
Thimayya, resigned his post following
a serious difference of opinion with
Menon over certain senior army appoint-
ments. The general was persuaded to
withdraw his resignation, but in a
subsequent statement in parliament
Nehru strongly defended Menon on the
ground of civil supremacy. Nehru’s
statement amounted to a snub to the
army chief of staff and was widely
resented by the armed forces as being
calculated to put the army in its place.
There were other reasons for keeping
the army down. The example of military
supremacy in the immediate neighbor-
hood, especially in Pakistan, made Indian
leaders wary of considering the armed
forces as anything more than a not par-
ticularly cherished branch of the civil
service. The privileged position enjoyed
by the army under the British dis-
appeared swiftly after 1947, despite a
brief period of glory in the Kashmir
operations in 1947-1948. Any publicity
given to individual officers was severely
frowned upon, and a strong civil
secretariat in the defence ministry made
sure that generals, all marshals, and
admirals were rarely seen and heard even
less.
Although the advent of Menon as
defence minister brought the armed
services somewhat higher salary scales,
it did nothing to increase their prestige
and influence. There was in fact an
increased anonymity. The posts ot prin-
cipal staff officers, who function as advi-
sers in the making of defence policy and
its execution from headquarters, came
to be filled by people known for their
discretion and silence. Two of India’s
best fighting generals, K. S. Thimayya
and S. P. P. Thorat, who are still re-
membered for their firm stand at the time
of the Korean armistice, retired in bitter-
ness and disgust. Some of the very
senior officers under Menon thus became
yes men, who gave the defence minister
only the kind of advice he clearly
favoured. Menon also successfully
blocked the channels of communication
between his subordinates and the prime
minister, and the rest of the cabinet,
thoroughly ignorant about subjects per-
taining to war or military strategy, was
content to leave the whole business in
Menon’s “expert” hands.
There were, however, certain excep-
tions. Chief among these is Lieut-
General B. M. Kaul, who has gone
on long leave. General Kaul was
brought to army headquarters in
New Delhi three years ago in
the belief that he would be a yes
man. Indeed, for a long time he lost
favour with many of his colleagues for
that reason. In due course, however, his
real independence and concern for
national security brought him into con-
flict with Menon. The showdown came
finally over the procurement of weapons
for the army. There were constant com-
plaints about shortages of equipment and
obsolete arms, but Menon was opposed
to approaching the West —he is known
to have remarked that western weapons
would be obtained only “over my dead
body.”
For reasons of security, those com-
plaints were not made public, mainly
owing to India’s long dispute with
Pakistan. But the inadequacy of arms
supplies was obvious to the commanders
and became a glaring scandal during the
limited operation in Goa, when even
army boots were not available in the
required numbers. Menon’s invariable
reply was that the arms needed by the
army could be obtained from the Soviet
Union. Yet no effort was made to get
supplies from Russia. For items manu-
factured at home Menon depended
almost entirely on government ordinance
factories; his leftist beliefs did not allow
him to mobilise the sources of the private
sector of industry.
Meanwhile the public—which included
parliament—was being kept in complete
ignorance about the government’s think-
ing on defence. When the mic. deal with
the Soviet Union (now apparently in a
state of suspension) was initiated, only
three persons in the government knew
about it. They were the prime minister
himself, the defence minister, and a
senior officer of the Air Force who was
sent to Moscow to make the initial
soundings. It was only after the news
leaked out in the Press that the cabinet
was informed. Even at that stage, the
cabinet was not given all the facts, and
it was only under pressure from parlia-
ment that a team of experts was sent to
the West to try to find alternative
resources for fighter aircraft. While the
experts were still in London, the manu-
facturers of the French Mirage 111
fighter offered to set up a factory in
India to match the Russian offer Menon,
however, turned them down on the
ground that he was “committed to the
Russians.” This fact has still not been
revealed to the cabinet, nor has the
cabinet been told yet that the experts
who went to Moscow considered the


m
THE BOOK OF Tf THE HOUR
for every thinking Australian
ARTHURBRYANTS
“A CHOICE FOR DESTINY”
The renowned historian, Sir Arthur Bryant, has
ripped away the political excuses for the Common
Market issue and uncovered the dangers that have
been ignored or overlooked. Here, free of political
self-interest, are the far-sighted facts—the wilful
destruction of an independent democracy that has
been a thousand years in the making—the callous
desertion of blood-brother allies in two world wars
—the ill-advised liaison with erstwhile enemies
and present day irresponsibles—the blind repetition
of one of the most monumental political blunders
of all times.
Read it today! Know what the Common
Market means to your life and livelihood.
EDITION LIMITED 2/6 AT ALL BOOKSTORES
PUBLISHED BY THE TESTRO GROUP IN CO-OPERATION WITH COLLINS
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented Ore Con-
centrator has proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient, simple and
inexpensive to operate. Send for
illustrated Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
“Everlasting” Boiler Blow off Valves, Rapid
Magnetising Machines, George Ellison
Switch Gear, Blasting Mats, Explosives,
Log Splitting Guns, etc. Makers of Classi-
fiers, Water Filters, Steam Valves, etc.
mig-21 unsatisfactory for India’s pur-
poses. Menon carefully suppressed all
that information.
The net result of Menon’s ascendancy
in defence matters has been reflected
in the operations against the Chinese.
India’s peacetime army has come to be
looked upon more and more as an
additional branch of the social services
—to be used for organising relief during
floods and rail disasters or to assist the
civil authority in time of internal dis-
order and less and less as an active
fighting force for defence against an
external enemy.
The excellent fighting potential of
India—the Sikhs, the Rajputs, the Jats
and Gurkhas and many other traditional
fighting classes—has remained unused in
the armed services. The officer class
has found itself without real initiative in
planning and strategy thinking. With all
their undoubted virtues, the senior ranks
have been functioning as uniformed
bureaucrats over a period of fifteen years.
Because their earlier British training
made the Sandhurst-educated officer
rather conservative while the younger
generation of trainees from the National
Military academy in Dehra Dun has not
yet entered the planning echelons at the
defence ministry, there has not been
much originality in strategic thinking.
Morale is still fairly high, especially
because the civil population today is
united in anger against the Chinese in-
vasion. But the armed forces need a
generous supply of modern weapons and
sound political leadership that would
leave no room for doubt about the
government’s intentions vis-a-vis the
Chinese. Since the conflict with Peking
is going to be long and exhausting, a new
official approach to the status and value
of the armed forces is also called for.
The Indian armed forces are patriotic,
loyal, and reasonably efficient, and do not
deserve the neglect they have suffered
at the hands of the civil authorities.


When A.M.P. was founded
in 1849, policemen
looked like this _
■u
• # •
■
%: '■'■■>■:. ;SSS
vmrnmmm
wmm
tmm
•,
-f-
-&
S
0=
7
51538
TO MEET MODERN NEEDS, police work for com-
munity protection has become more comprehensive. So
has A.M.P. protection for the individual. Make sure you
are protected against every contingency which may arise
in relation to life and property by calling your A.M.P.
man into consultation.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Australia’s largest and oldest life assurance organisation
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE. Offices in cities and towns throughout
Australia and New Zealand and in the United Kingdom
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by funds of £550,000,000
which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.


FORUM
ABORTION-THE MEDICAL
CASE AGAINST IT
A high post operative morbidity rate . . .
Tn his article on Abortion (Bulletin
Oct. 20) Mr Henry Mayer states
that “most of the arguments” for and
against legalised abortion “seem to me
quite muddled” and he sets out, pre-
sumably, to clear the ground for an ob-
jective examination by presenting “the
law, the facts” the “key issues” in the
case. Unhappily Mr Mayer has not pre-
sented all the arguments against legal
abortion and in my opinion has actually
added to the “muddle.” His principal
omission is the medical case against the
complete legalisation of the termination
of pregnancy and it is with this that
I propose to deal for it appears to me to
be the most important part of the case.
The supporters of legalised abortion
propose an extension of the grounds
upon which an abortion can be legally
performed, e.g., the expressed wish of a
pregnant woman. It must be remembered
that the existing law in Australia con-
dones abortion on certain and clearly
defined medical grounds. The case for an
extension or relaxation of the law rests
upon some facts and their interpretation:
illegal abortion both professional and
amateur is common; that by legalising it
the “mother” is less likely to have re-
course to the “backyard butcher”; that
in countries where abortion is legalised
the death rate is “very low” (Mr Mayer’s
words) less than one per thousand
abortions. On the surface such a case
appears strong but if we look below
the surface there are considerable
grounds for alarm.
In Scandinavian countries maternal
welfare organisations have had a con-
siderable influence on legalising abortions
and relaxations of the law have oc-
curred in each of the countries in the
group at some time since 1938, e.g.,
Sweden 1938 and 1946, Denmark 1939,
Finland 1950. The results of this legalis-
ation have been well documented and
obviously such evidence is vital to the
case.
Since 1938 the operative death rate
from abortions in Sweden has fallen
from 1.5-5.5 per 1000 cases to 0.2-0-7
per 1000 cases; this is a low death rate.
But since the maternal welfare program-
mes, such as Mother’s Aid in Denmark
began, the incidence of abortion has
risen by 900% in Denmark and 700%
in Sweden in 16 years. Expressed as a
percentage of observable pregnancies the
Denmark increase is of the order of 0.7
to 6.6%. In Norway the incidence has
risen by 2900% in 34 years. The rate of
increase in abortions being greater than
the rate of decrease in the death rate,
the total number of deaths has increased
and, unless something is done to arrest
the trend, will continue to increase.
Under such a system, therefore, the lives
of young women are legally placed in
jeopardy and the fact that they are
human beings, not cows or sheep, must
not be hidden in cold statistics. There is
little need to go further with the argu-
ment, for I do not know how we can
TN the October 20 issue of THE
BULLETIN, Henry Mayer in a
clear, concise article summed up
many of the "muddled" argu-
ments about abortion. In this
article, P. E. Rossell, of the
University of Sydney (Newcastle)
states a medical case against
abortion.
justify, on any principle, an operation
which is not essential on medical grounds
and which involves the patient in the
slightest risk of death.
However, the lives of many more than
one per thousand aborted are jeopar-
dised. There is considerable evidence
that abortion has a high morbidity; mor-
bidity can take the form of delayed
mortality from bowel obstruction, re-
current peritonitis or from operations
to remove tumors or cure chronic diseases
caused by abortion: 712 therapeutic
abortions were performed at Drammen
Hospital in Norway between 1940 and
1953; there were no deaths but “post-
operative complications appeared in
10.3% and were serious in 2.7%. Secon-
dary complications included involuntary
sterility in 3.4%, menstrual disorders,
frigidity or dyspareunia in about 13%
and serious late mental sequelae in
4.5%.” So while a woman may stand
only a slight risk of death in the theatre
during an abortive operation, she stands
a grave risk of permanent damage to
her physical health; indications in some
group studies have been as high as one
in four.
Morbidity of mind is less easy to mea-
sure, but there is disturbing evidence.
Of the 9,800 patients who had artificial
abortions at the Keio University Hospi-
tal (Japan) in 1955 “1.2% complained
of sterility following abortion. However,
every sixth woman who had her first
pregnancy ended by abortion remained
sterile.” Thus, a young woman who has
terminated a pregnancy, may, at a later
date when she wants children be reduced
to a most distressing state of mind. Even
where successful child bearing follows
abortion there is evidence for mental
anxiety. In one Swedish control group,
out of 100 such women, “14 stated they
had desired to have a substitute for the
child they had not borne and 20 could
not tolerate going through another
abortion although the pregnancy was
unwelcome.” The attitude of these 34
women tow'ard the new pregnancy pro-
vides evidence that guilt feelings cannot
be regarded as trivial but rather as
serious complications. There may be
a link between such facts and the high
suicide rate in Sweden. A high suicide
rate is but one reflector of the mental
climate of a country and its people. It is
interesting if not wholly relevant to note
that according to Dr Rydberg of Copen-
hagen, the Scandinavian abortion rate
has risen because of the “weakening of
religious faith and the decline in autho-
rity of the church,” coupled with the
“feminist forces at work” against which
the medical profession has been unable
to stand.*
But this is almost in the realm of
speculation. What is not, however, is
that suicide rates are lower among
pregnant women than among any other
group of the female sex.
The whole problem is so serious and
the rates of morbidity so high that one
section of the world’s medical opinion,
perhaps the most responsible, is forced
to favor legal infanticide rather than
complete legalisation of abortion.
This is by no means the whole of the
medical argument; I merely wish to
demonstrate that Mr Mayer has omitted
to give the whole case. Such a case might
be summarised as follows:
1. The problem of legalising abortion is
* These facts and quotations are drawn
from “The Year Book of Obstetrics and
Gynaecology” 1958-59 ed. Professor J.
P. Greenhill (Chicago) pp. 60-69.


HELP
LEGACY
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
not merely one of the mother V
foetus, or “the human-at-birth”, or a
question of the “social consequences
of the sanctity of human life.” We
are discussing human beings in a
particular state of health —pregnant
patients.
2. The problem concerns the patient’s
welfare, which includes her health,
physical, mental and her future hap-
piness.
3. The risks from abortion are great and
include death and morbidity of a high
degree.
4. Risky termination of pregnancy can
confer no benefit on the patient or
upon society.
(a) There is no evidence that it is of
benefit to any patient. To establish
benefit on sound scientific grounds
it would be necessary to establish
carefully selected control groups
and subject some to abortion and
others to “no abortion.”
(b) Abortion is an inferior and costly
method of birth control. In Japan
the rate is 1 19 abortions per physi-
cian per year with a total of
1,300,000. Apart from the costs
of medical training, hospital capital
costs, even with a low complication
rate of 15%, this would cost the
community 700,000 bed days per
annum or at Australian costs and
including specialists’ fees not less
than £AlOm. and probably as much
as £A2Om.
5. The law already condones abortion on
essential medical grounds and there
are no valid arguments for relaxing
the law. There is a strong case for
the reverse process.
6. There is an equally strong case for
more research into methods of con-
traception and an accompanying
sexual health-education programme.
It is generally pleasing to find specia-
lists making excursions into the specia-
lised fields of others. As a worker in the
field of adult education this is something
I am concerned to encourage. But it is
equally distressing to find them ill
equipped for the excursion. The argu-
ments against abortion are far wider and
the whole problem, involving medicine
in the service of society, is of much
greater magnitude than Mr Mayer is
apparently aware.
MOTORING
THE
SPORTS
CARS
When brake lights
flash ...
By BOADICEA
Sports cars are often said to be owned
by two groups of motorists —the
youngsters who can’t afford them
and oldsters who can afford them but
can’t drive them. There are obvious
exceptions such as the lucky youngster
whose father provides the car and the
oldster who has driven well all his life
and can still knock off Melbourne to
Sydney in eight hours of safe, clean
motoring.
The sports car has always been a must
for youth and if he survives the initial,
reckless driving period and learns to
handle the machine a better and safer
driver can sometimes emerge from this
crysalis stage. Sports car sales through-
out Australian form a very very small
percentage of the market and the num-
ber of successful sports car operators
wouldn’t reach double figures.
There is more money in repairing
sports cars than selling them. Yet buyers
come from all classes, top and bottom
drawers, both rich and poor. Single girls
have graduated from scooters to small
inexpensive two seaters over the last few
years, middle aged widows sometimes
succumb to a long suppressed desire to
motor spectacularly with the wind, if
not the rain, in the hair.
Walter Mitty at the wheel
rpuE perennial playboy stakes his re-
mittances to a flashy and often
pseudo sports car and uses it as
bait. Dark glasses, motoring cap and
string-backed driving gloves complete the
picture of a “Walter Mitty” who is usu-
ally found in fourth gear instead of
second and whose brake lights flash
with uncertainty through the corners.
There is also the true sports car lover,
a fairly rare type these days. The
machine is cared for more lovingly
than spouse or family. It may be seen
travel-stained on the open road but never
dirty around the town.
And what is offering in the way of
sporting cars for these sports men and
women? Assuming that sports car buy-
ers are like family car buyers, only more
so, their eyes will be bigger than their
cheque books.
The modest buyer is well catered for
with the pretty little Austin or MG
Sprites, economical, fun to drive and as
fast as the average saloons; the faster MG
‘AY and ‘BY (the latter a more domesti-
cated MG than ever before with wind up
windows), and the rally-proven Triumphs
the latest of which are designated TR4.
A relative newcomer to Australia is the
Sunbeam Alpine a well-styled and suffi-
ciently fast car which has yet to earn its
spurs in local competition.
In this under £2OOO group there are
also two pseudo sports cars, the comfort-
able long lasting 80 mph Karman Ghia
by Volkswagen and the very chic Floride
by Renault. Both cars, if enterprisingly
driven, can hang on to more spartan
conveyances particularly if the going is
rough and winding. With the big Austin
Healey seldom imported nowadays the
£2OOO-£3OOO class has almost become
the happy preserve of the sports Daimler.
Even its own mother might find it diffi-
cult to call it beautiful but the Daimler
is endowned with a superb V-8 engine
and out of the ordinary performance. A
much better car since the take over by
Jaguar, which immediately put the engine
to work in their own Mark II body shell,
the sports Daimler is quickly gaining
ground and stealing sales from the higher
priced bracket. A well-timed entry into
the field of “production sports car rac-
ing” gave Daimler an initial impetus.
The plum of this price range is the safe,
economical, high cruising Porsche
available in various stages of tune.
Australian distribution of Germany’s
specialist car has been haphazard to say
the least and this, rather than the price,
has been responsible for a falling off in
the sales. In many countries Porsche goes
hand in hand with her working sister, the
VW, to the benefit of both. The advent of
Sweden’s tough good-looking Volvo
PIBOO is a direct threat to Porsche in the
luxury sports coupe field. Similarly priced
it often becomes a matter of whether the
buyer has preference for rear or front
engine cars or which discount better off-
sets the lack of solid dealer organisa-
tion. Fortunately both Porsche or Volvo


in spite of what
CELLARMASTER
said in THE BULLETIN
November 17th issue (page 22)
. . celebrated names appear on bottles
of what is quite often inferior wine.”
THIS IS NOT SO HERE 'u
O ©
V.
m
. 1 > # j a
h:
5C
O O . o 0 o
to „ •
» £
S
THE PROPER WAY TO KEEP CHAMPAGNE
IS ON ITS SIDE BUT WHEN YOU
BUY
STOCK
“ASTI SPUMANTE”
(WHICH EVERYONE CALLS THE
ITALIAN “CHAMPAGNE,” BUT THIS IS A
FRENCH REGIONAL NAME), YOU WON'T BE
WORRIED ABOUT KEEPING IT, YOU’LL
FIND THAT YOU PREFER TO EMPTY THE
BOTTLE AND ENJOY IT.
WITH NO APOLOGY IT’S MADE IN AUSTRALIA
AND DESERVES THE IT’S KNOWN BY
IN 57 COUNTRIES!
TRY
■ ■ - YOU STICK TO
STOCK
BRANDY ® VERMOUTHS • LIQUEURS • ASTI SPUMANTE
Trade Enquiries: L. J. Stock Distilleries (A/asia) Pty. Ltd.,
40 Henry St., Leichhardt. 56 7797.
have fine international reputations for
long, fast, trouble-free miles so an en-
thusiast who delights in home mainten-
ance has only the spares problem to con-
sider.
Over £3OOO and the choice is as long
as your cheque book. Daimler-Benz of
Stuttgart make a fine roadster—it was
never intended as a sports car—the Mer-
cedes 190 SL. Bearing the magic symbol,
chock full of comfort, capable of ex-
ceeding the three figures by a handful,
the little Mercedes is a delightful touring
car, almost a “pseudo sports” by accep-
tance rather than design and could be
likened to a fast fully-fledged Karmann
Ghia. For longer cheque books Daimler-
Benz still markets the 300 SL—the car
that set the pace for the motoring world
in the mid-1950’5. Fierce in performance,
capable of over 130 mph, the big Mer-
cedes calls for first class driving to sample
its charm fully. Australian roads give
little chance to the fast-in-a-straight-line-
and-brake-for-the-corners-motorist to get
the 300 SL really steaming and it is pro-
bably just as well. Similarly affected by
our bad roads are equally fast convey-
ances such as E-Jaguars, DB4 Astons and
GT 250 Ferraris. Developed in each case
from fine competition cars the Ferrari
is the only one to have made the transi-
tion satisfactorily. The E-Jaguar still re-
tains some of the faults of the famous D
if the latter is put to ordinary road use.
The heat from the big engine isn’t
effectively insulated from the driving
compartment and the passenger’s feet
are gradually roasted by the exhausts.
If used for competition the newer E would
be run down by the almost obsolete D.
Astons have tried making a competition
version of their DB4 using a lightweight
body by Zagato but its poor showing over-
seas has been reported in Australia where
it is obvious that all is not well in the
handling department particularly on tight
circuits. Only Ferrari has managed to
combine road and track requirements in
his shovel-nosed Berlinetta version of the
GT 250 and so completely dominates this
market, small as it is.
Because of this the Ferrari insignia of
the black prancing horse rates the high-
est as a motoring status symbol. Gradu-
ally awakening to the sports car market
is Detroit where in the past the Ameri-
can pseudo sporting motorist has been
offered a bewildering array of optional
engines with vast power outputs capable
of moving the giant sized automobiles at
frightening speeds in a straight line. Now,
with the unveiling by General Motors of
the Sting Ray and the smaller competi-
tion-inspired Monza, both from GM's
Chevrolet stable; and Ford’s rear engined
V-4 Mustang, the American sportsman
can not only hurtle down the straightaway
at high speed, he can also safely negotiate
the corner at the bottom.


letters
to the
editor
SOVIET ANTI-SEMITISM
Sir,
In case any of your readers might
think that it is only those “on the right”
who have detected anti-Semitism in the
Soviet Union, w'e would like to draw
attention to the report of radical British
Labor MP R. H. S. Crossman, a regular
contributor to the “New Statesman.”
After a visit to Russia, Mr Crossman
said:
“The position of Jews in the Soviet
Union, which I had an opportunity to
see for myself two years ago is alarming,
Moreover, there is no doubt that it can
deteriorate if we forget about the prob-
lem, and it can improve if the Soviet
government takes note that public
opinion is well informed and alive to
the position of the Jews in the Soviet
Union. For these Jews, all objective
information about their actual situation
is a matter of life and death.”
This statement made in 1960 has
proved prophetic.
RODNEY ALLEN,
PETER SAMUEL,
(Executive members of Melbourne
University ALP Club)
Victoria.
Sir
In “Plain English”, (November 10)
you say l would rather deny my own
people than criticise the Soviet Union.
It does seem rather fatuous for The
Bulletin to presume to tell a Jew what
constitutes loyalty to the Jewish people
considering that for many decades The
Bulletin was at the head of the anti-
Jewish pack in Australia. I have been a
Jew all my 51 years and I well remember
the years when The Bulletin carica-
tured Jews and fought against the ad-
mission of Jewish refugees. A little more
humility on your part might have covered
up the obvious political aim hiding be-
hind your new pose as the friend of the
Jews.
The attitude to the alleged Jewish
question in the Soviet Union is not a
test of loyalty to the Jewish people. It
is simply an expression of political atti-
tudes. Hundreds of thousands of Jews
all over the world, including Israel where
there is a legal Communist Party, and
many organisations friendly towards the
Soviet Union believe that the Russian
revolution emancipated the Jews from
Czarist bondage and that the Soviet Jews
enjoy full equality and like the rest of
the people of the Soviet Union are
builders of the new order of Commu-
nism.
Opposing this view are Jews, like Mr
Leibler, who abhor Communism and the
Soviet Union just as does The Bulletin.
But by trying to advance the cause of
anti-Communism by alleging that anti-
Semitism exists in the Soviet Union you
have landed in a ludicrous position.
Who do you expect will take you
seriously after your pronouncement that
“there is not the slightest difference be-
tween Czarist pogroms and present day
Soviet persecution”? Only someone com-
pletely ignorant of the history of Czarist
pogroms could have written that. There
were thousands of pogroms in Czarist
Russia between 1882 and 1917.
The Universal Jewish Encyclopedia,
Vol. 8, writes about the notorious Kish-
enev pogrom, Easter 1903: “It lasted for
3 days, during which 45 Jews were
killed, 86 were severely, and some
hundreds slightly injured, and 700
Jewish-owned houses and 600 shops were
demolished.” During the same years
there were bad pogroms in Gomel and
Zhitomir. Between October 18 and 29
1905 there were “609 pogroms, of which
all but 24 were within the Pale of Set-
tlement.”
Even you have not suggested anything
similar in the Soviet Union. You quote
Mr Leibler as an authority on Soviet
Jewry. In his letter on October 27 in
The Bulletin he asserted that “Grossly
anti-semitic utterances are published re-
gularly in the Soviet Union. The follow-
ing are some of the occasion: Lovskaya
Pravda, 14/12/58; Prikarpatska Pravda,
24/10/58; Padomir Daughava, 14/3/59;
Sovietskaya Moldavia, 23/7/59, and in-
numerable others in 1959 alone.”
I think you have been the victim of
another hoax. I personally do not believe
such papers exist. However if they do I
would challenge Mr Leibler to send the
copies he mentions to the Editor of The
Bulletin, so that he can obtain an
independent translation of the material
which is suposed to be anti-semitic.
Might I conclude by stating that I owe
my allegiance to the Australian people of
which the Australian Jews are a part.
Their best interest can only be served by
refuting untruths about the Soviet Union
which can only prolong the cold war.
JUDAH WAIEN
Melbourne, Vic.
1. As Mr Waten says for many
decades THE BULLETIN w ; as anti-Semitic,
it was also notoriously anti-Asian. It is now
neither and has not been so for some time,
as Mr Waten very well knows.
2. Mr Waten also knows, just as I do,
that there is a deliberate, systematic anti-
Semitism in the Soviet just as there was
in Imperial Russia. Soviet anti-Semitism is
today causing despair and disquiet through-
out the world. Of course it is used as anti-
Soviet propaganda. What does Mr Waten
expect? This is beside the point, which is
that anti-Semitism is a vile and wretched
thing whether practised by Nazis or Com-
munists. Would Mr Waten agree?
3. Anti-Semitism under the Czars was a
matter of frequently spontaneous, sometimes
officially (Government and Orthodox) in-
spired outbreaks against Jews, their families
and their property. Soviet anti-Semitism is a
much smoother and more efficient thing.
Jews are being executed in Russia —a
nice touch of barbarism in a so-called civil-
ised slate —for alleged “economic crimes.”
As Edward Crankshaw, a fair-minded
Soviet expert pointed out in a recent
BULLETIN, the number of Jews charged
and liquidated is “out of all proportion.”
Their real crime consists of being Jews.
In the Stalinist period when Jews were
being arrested in large numbers, falsely ac-
cused and judicially murdered Mr Waten
was silent except on those occasions when
he got up and said Soviet anti-Semitism was
a myth. When de-Stalinisation brought
official Russian admissions of Stalinist
crimes against Jews, Mr Waten remained
significantly silent when others inside Russia
and out —Senator Cohen included —were
loud in their condemnation of Stalinist
brutality.
On that sort of showing why should any-
one believe the latest protestations of an
impenitent Stalinist like Mr Waten?
In a state which claims equality of reli-
gions and races within the USSR it has
been officially admitted that hundreds of
Jewish intellectuals were massacred in the
Stalinist period, that Jewish culture (which
at least maintained itself under the
Romanovs) has been systematically de-
stroyed and Jews deported to Siberia.
Even today there are actual physical out-
breaks—presumably with official approval
—such as the stoning this year of the Mos-
cow synagogue on the Day of Atonement.
4. The newspapers (referred to by Mr
Leibler) whose existence Mr Waten doubts
—certainly exist. Translations are avail-
able and if Mr Waten wants to pay the
costs, photostats of the originals can be
made available to him. Quotes from those
newspapers appear below. I believe they are
anti-Semitic and I think most people
will agree. For good measure I also throw
in an infamous article which appeared in
the Buinaksk “Kommunist” in December
1960. Will Mr Waten agree that this ex-
tract is anti-Semitism of the vilest sort?—Ed.
From “The Reactionary Essence of
Judaism/’ (“Sovetskaya Moldavia” 23/7/59.)
“Religious rituals contribute significantly
to the propagation of religious ideology.
These are cultivated not by ministers of
religion, but also by swindlers and moo's.
who* warm their hands on the obscurity
and ignorance of religious believers.
From “The Reactionary Essence of the
Judean Religion.” (“Lovskaya Pravda”
14/12/58).
“The reactionary essence of the Judean
religion lies in the fact that it preacnes
the following: hate towards representatives
of other religions, towards atheists; national
separatism of the Jewish peonle: distrust
and enmity towards other nations. Many
prayers contain references to these ser-
mons and emphasise the exclusivity of the
Jewish people, which has allegedly ‘been
chosen by God’.”
An anti-Jewish article (“Prikarpatska
Pravda” 24/9/58) called “The Priests o.f
the God Jehovah.” begins:


E SAND A
The main business of Esanda Limited is to conduct hire purchase
and finance operations as a wholly owned subsidiary of the
E.S.&A. BANK
through the Australia-wide branch system of the Bank
EiiMilLmillljiililll
m\
1*
ESANDA LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
Registered Office: 3G5 George Street, Sydney
EL Af
“Ticks are loathsome and filthy creatures.
They grow in dark, filthy, forsaken corners
where the hand of the solicitous landlord
does not reach them. They are blood-
sucking and feed on all kinds of rubbish.
They are afraid of light. When they gather
in great numbers they fall upon the weak.
It is in their power to hurt man, to embitter
his life and to devour him.” (It turns out
that the ticks referred to are Jewish rabbis.)
From “Contrary to Preachings.” (“Pado-
mir Daugava”, 14/3/59).
“The numbers of worshippers at the
Jewish synagogue dwindled considerably,
and with them the profits of the institu-
tion and its Rabbi. The latter, Borouch
Geselevich Eliashberg, did by no means
turn his suffering eyes to heaven and did
not request Yahve, who had already proved
his wonder-working capabilities, to fill the
fairly empty money chests of the syna-
gogue. He had already long before stopped
believing in material assistance from
heaven. The preacher of truth and love to
one’s neighbor thus reverted to a purely
commercial transaction. He purchased se-
veral dozens of ordinary copybooks at 15
kopeks a piece, split them into two and
fabricated so-called religious calendars
which he sold at 5-10 rubles each. The
income found its way into his own pockets,
of course.”
Buinaksk “Kommunist” (August, 1960).
“The Jews claim their religion is the
genuine religion, and say: We will go to
Paradise, Moslems will go to Hell because
their religion is false. . . .
“For instance, they believe, in accor-
dance with their religion, that the drinking
of Moslem blood at least once a year
would be counted as a good deed. Many
Jews consequently buy 5 to 10 grammes
of Moslem blood which they mix with
water in a large barrel and sell as water
which has had contact with Moslem
blood.”
THE PUBLISHING RAT RACE
Sir,
Max Harris in his article “The Publish-
ing Rat Race” (The Bulletin, Novem-
ber 10) says: “It is likely you won’t have
heard of, let alone read Barbara Jef-
feris’ outstanding novel” (“Solo for Sev-
eral Players”).
An astonishing statement as 850,000
readers of the “Australian Women’s
Weekly” have not only heard of Miss
Jefferis but they have also read her
novel, “Solo for Several Players”. It
appeared as a serial in the “Australian
Women’s Weekly” in October and
November last year. Her previous novel,
“Half Angel” was a two-part serial, also
in the “Australian Women’s Weekly”
in December 1959 and at the moment I
have the manuscript of her latest novel
on my desk.
BETTY NESBIT
Fiction Editor, “Australian Women’s
Weekly.”
Sydney.
POETRY GANGSTERS
Sir,
The review by G. Johnston of the NZ
Poetry Year Book, 1961-62 (Bulletin,
13th October, 1962), showed little effort
at analysis of the best work. Certainly
there is but a handful of genuine poets,
several of these new contributors,
though not new to the art. It is true
J. K. Baxter, a versifier much over-rated
in NZ contributes an unnecessarily large
number, none remarkable, and some
feeble; also a petulant foreword of no
value. The Year Book editor should try,
in future issues, to prune more severely,
also to allow each contributor to be
represented by a similar number of
poems. The few outstanding poems are
by F. M. Makay. Paula Haneer-Birch,
Angus Burton & Alistair Campbell.
Indeed, Paula Hanger-Birch, once well
known as a Bulletin contributor, has
given the selection its only prophetic
verse on a lunar theme a significant
one these days and presented in
vigorous and lyrical style. As long as we
have a few writers of such quality,
ready to asseverate, to see the flash of
light instead of egoistic melancholia,
there is hope. A few sounding chords
amid the jargon.
MAURICE TAYLOR
Wellington (NZ).


REVIEWS
FILMS
ANOTHER LOOK AT WILDE
By MARTIN LONG
The Man with the Green Carnation.
Embassy, Sydney.
story of Oscar Wilde and his
downfall, sternly ignored through-
out the cinema’s previous lifetime, be-
came in 1960 the subject of two almost
simultaneous English films. (It is re-
ported that the first of these two films,
starring Robert Morley, was still being
edited two hours before the London
Press screening in order to get a five-
day lead over the second film.) As a
result of this rather ludicrous race the
second (and better) of the two films,
“The Trials of Oscar Wilde,” was not
released here at the time, and has only
just emerged, more than two years old
and retitled “The Man with the Green
Carnation”.
Considered as an artistic entity in
itself the film is stylish and absorbing.
It is carefully dressed, carefully posed
and photographed, and acted by a gener-
ally skilful cast. Whether it is a true
picture of Wilde and his associates, and
whether it comes across as an account
of something that really happened to real
people rather than as a period melo-
drama are more complex matters to
decide.
Factually the screenplay would seem
to stand up fairly well (though I cannot
pretend to be a Wildean authority). In
its handling of the relationship between
Wilde and Lord Alfred Douglas it does
make clear that Wilde was not the
corruptor, as he appeared to the eyes of
his contemporaries, but rather the instru-
ment and victim in the feud between the
unsavory Douglas and his father, Lord
Queensberry. It points if somewhat
melodramatically at the cruel hypo-
crisy of the general rejection of Wilde
after his arrest. And the trial scenes, of
course, rely heavily on the actual trans-
cripts.
But Peter Finch’s portrait of Wilde,
and writer-director Ken Hughes’s nar-
rative technique tend to conflict some-
what with authenticity. Finch's perfor-
mance is enormously professional and
deserves most of the praise heaped on it.
Yet I feel that his skill only compen-
sates for his basic unfitness for the role;
it does not overcome it.
It seems clear that Wilde’s outstand-
ing quality, even more than his wit, was
his unfailing charm.
This is just the quality that Finch,
for me, fails to reproduce. He is too
sombre, even sinister; he can express
despair and bitterness, but the sparkling
good humor in which Wilde so obviously
excelled eludes him, and for that reason
something of the pathos of the tragedy
is lost.
At the same time the director's studied
evocation of a “period” atmosphere
tends to reduce, if anything, the feeling
of actuality, for it reinforces the im-
pression that all this happened a long
time ago to a lot of people in funny
clothes. And Hughes intensifies this im-
pression by his occasional lapses into
melodrama and artificial sentiment. One
feels at times that he has taken as his
model not Wilde’s own personality and
times so much as the more stilted and
less admirable of Wilde’s stage works.
So the film must be assessed at two
levels. As drama it is unquestionably
successful; but as a fair and accurate
picture of Wilde and his circle it is open
to qualification.
THEATRE
ONE TOUCH OF WIT
Les Syiphides; One In Five; Excerpts
from Don Quixote; Melbourne Cup.
The Australian Ballet, Her Majesty’s
Theatre, Sydney.
“A Touch Of The Dark” Marien
Dreyer, County Council Dramatic
Society, Anzac House, Sydney.
Tt is with real pleasure that I report
A the second program of our new
national ballet company as being quite a
measure in advance of the opening pro-
duction. Overcoming their premiere
nerves, the entire company was more
relaxed, more at ease with stage, audience
and each other than when posed against
the dread shadows of “Swan Lake”.
Much attention was focused on the
major new ballet, “Melbourne Cup,”
but for me the real delight of the evening
was tne smaller, also new, piece titled
“One In Five.” Here was something
authentically in the Australian style
strong, a little crude in sensibility, full
of humor.
The work of Mr Ray Powell, the
choreographer of “One In Five,” is
eminently worth watching, for he has
the rare ability to be acutely, consciously
witty through movement. His dancers
made elegant imitations of other choreo-
graphers’ cliches almost, at times,
they “punned” in terms of movement
and always they showed us the marks
of a highly creative and finely organised
talent. Mr Powell even contrived to be
witty about sex helped prodigiously
by Miss Marilyn Jones, who showed a
bent for comedy so remarkable that it
demands instant attention from the
authorities of her company. Miss Jones
commanded the very stuff of comedy:
that exuberance and excess of energy
that must have an outlet by exaggerated
reaction to environment, by probing into
things one normally wouldn’t, by extra
movements and play.
“Melbourne Cup,” theoretically the
major work of the programme, seemed
of a lower order of creation altogether.
It may well prove to be a popular piece,
particularly if it is pruned hard and skil-
fully, but as of now it smacks far more
of musical comedy than ballet. Fine
dancers such as Miss Kathleen Gorham
and Mr Garth Welch could make little
impact with the uninspired choreography
and movement cliches provided by Rex
Reid. One wonders a little why Mr Reid
was given so major an assignment, when,
for example, one of our genuine talents
in ballet, Dorothy Burgess of Ballet
Australia, does not appear to have been
asked to work with this promising new
company.
For the claque (and, really, Sydney


is developing a pretty monstrous one!)
principals Sonia Arova and Erik Bruhn
gave a reasonably exciting technical dis-
play in the “Don Quixote” pas de deux
and variations. Their virtuosity, however,
seemed somewhat tame after the recent
Bolshoi tourists.
“A Touch of the Dark,” a play by
Sydney writer Marien Dreyer, rates a
mention not so much because of the
play’s innate quality as because a tribute
is due to the courage of a minor amateur
society. If more companies would follow
the lead of this Sydney County Council
group and undertake the production of
Australian plays, a service would be done
to Australian drama.
Most amateur groups undertake rela-
tively worthless plays, usually English
comedies, imperfectly produced and
badly acted. Surely to heaven it is
obvious that everyone will get a deal
more entertainment and value out of an
average Australian work, one which
otherwise might not be produced. In this
instance, the County Council group and
its young producer, John Gully, is to
be applauded.
Miss Dreyer's play is not on a very
elevated level, is given to some overlong
fiery speeches, and the characters shift
strangely in the quality and range of their
diction. Nor does the play yet seem to
know exactly what it is about but
the device of a petulant Hollywood
actress flood-bound with dinkum Aussies
has some possibilities. Here and there,
some of the dried humor of the out-
back crackles into lively laughter, and
the homespun contrast of the actress
and the bush people retains power.
If Miss Dreyer treats this as a work-
shop showing, and gets properly to work
on her play, it may yet turn out an
excellent vehicle for theatre particu-
larly in the country, where the local color
will find a warm response.
KEVON KEMP
A VEHICLE FOR MISS WITHERS
Woman In a Dressing Gown. Ted
Willis. Comedy Theatre. Melbourne.
After a season in Sydney, this play
will go to London in March.
Googie Withers, for whom it was
written, will go with it. As it stands, the
play is a good vehicle for Miss Withers,
but it has little else to commend it
its central relationships are unreal and
over-simplified, and it is dramatically
incoherent and indecisive. Miss Withers
shows us Amy Preston, a good-hearted
slattern of 40 or so, fond of music and
sweets, hopeful but inexpert as a con-
tributor to magazine competitions.
Vaguely she dreams about the future
she will buy when she wins, and in the
meantime is content to bask in the tole-
rant affection of her husband and son.
But her husband has more definite plans
for the future, involving his young, at-
tractive, and “understanding” secretary.
When he asks Amy for a divorce, she is
appalled. Vaguely and inexpertly she
fights back and, much too easily,
wins.
The main trouble is that the dice are
too patently loaded in Amy’s favor. The
first scene, for example, concentrates on
establishing Amy’s fool’s paradise her
husband’s unhappiness is only lightly
touched. When he appears in the second
scene as the ardent lover, we are not
surprised (since we know what sort of a
play this is going to be), but neither are
we persuaded. He and the girl do not
come adequately alive, despite sound
performances by Grant Taylor and
Gerda Nicolson. And since we cannot
readily believe in them as real people,
we cannot ultimately believe very
strongly in Amy either, and sc are never
really caught up in her fate.
Miss Withers’ performance is a bril-
liant tour-de-force. Her extraordinarily
expressive face, fine voice and sureness
of gesture are put to the service of a
firm conception of character. Richard
Campion’s production is well-paced and
expert, and the sets, by J. Alan Kenyon
are well enough conceived, though a
little rough in execution I found the
plastic sheeting used for windows some-
thing of an eyesore.
JAMES MURPHY
POW's SEEN FROM WITHIN
The Naked Island. Russell Braddon.
Repertory Society. Canberra.
This is another war play in which the
author uses a small group of soldiers
and a single, unprepossessing set. He has
to solve the problem of conveying his
drama, physical and psychological,
against this background of squalor and
deadly monotony, which is the back-
ground of war. This limitation of cast
and set can heighten the dramatic im-
pact tremendously, it handled with in-
sight into human relationships and
awareness of the spiritual issues behind
small actions.
Russell Braddon brings both qualities
to his play about five Australian
pows in Changi prison during the last
two weeks of the war. He moves so
confidently among these men that he
has no need to resort to such obvious
devices to achieve unity or variety as a
carefully developed plot or different
nationalities among his small group.
These five are all Australians and all
individual. The physical excitement-
turns on the hidden radio set which they
operate in their quarters to supply news
to the camp. Every entry of the Jap
guard is a danger. Once he interrupts a
receiving session, and the attempt to
cover up successfully is one of
the play's crises. A valve is broken, and
two of the men carry out a raid on
Jap stores to replace it. They, too,
succeed, but the scene when the others
try to play cards until they return is
tense with the fear of the unseen.
Braddon works on understated effects,
and the result is that his dramatic
moments seem the higher in contrast.
The end of the play is the end of the
war: the news of Hiroshima first, then
of Nagasaki, then of the armistice. The
set remains undiscovered.
The common danger of working the
set unites the five men into a team. But
the rest of the time they are separate,
in intimate contact, sick in body, haunted
in one way or another in mind. The
author and Repertory’s performance
caught the tension and the friction per-
fectly; especially Warwick Ongley as
the irrepressible Magpie, always acquir-
ing new words and Jap possessions; Ken
Loach as the introspective but far-seeing
Jacko, and Ken Granger as a really nice
bloke, simple but unbreakable, knitting
interminable socks.
Russell Braddon has given us a sort
of documentary of war, what happened
in one part of it at one time, and how
it affected those to whom it happened.
With a fine sense of balance, he makes
it comic and tragic, physical and
spiritual, individual and universal, and
the production (by John Wells) sensitively
responded to his intention.
HOPE HEWITT
RADIO
EMPTY VESSELS
Oome things seem too obvious to need
statement, one being that hard and
fast cricket is the right of the people who
pay to see Test matches. Another is that
radio audiences must be given lively,
interesting, and if possible challenging
programmes or there will be no radio


audiences. Everyone is selling “brighter”
cricket these days, only because the ob-
vious was ignored and stonewalling nearly
allowed to kill the game, as slapdash
could kill radio. If it happens it will
be because that old essential, the public,
has been scorned again.
Recently I heard some 20 minutes of
prime time being wasted on a taping
of a Cricket Association welcome to the
MCC team. The microphone was
planted in front of the speakers, it re-
corded what they said, and when they
had finished a voice announced, “That
was taped at a welcome to the MCC
team earlier this evening. In a few
minutes you will hear a policy speech
. . .” Not me, brother.
This is the essence of radio’s pro-
blem. It can remain a portable juke
box, or it can try to interest and enter-
tain everyone. It flinches from the better
alternative, or throws us sops like the
MCC welcome, in which an official and
a Minister spoke at length before the
MCC captain and manager were heard.
Then Ted Dexter said his team hoped
to provide some “tough cricket, good
cricket and cricket you'll enjoy.” The
Duke said the team was here for “good
friendship and good cricket.” He made
glancing reference to Commonwealth
relations, and sat down. It was interes-
ting to hear the voices of these two men,
but that was all the programme had to
offer.
There are other signs that radio is
trying to find better night programmes,
having found it has listeners after all.
A natural thought would be “public
interest” programmes because, literally,
talk is cheap. It could lead to a rash of
argumentative, two-man or panel discus-
sions—to more recordings of official
welcomes or farewells to much dull,
humorless hot air.
We can only hope that wiser counsels
will prevail. When “brighter” radio ar-
rives it will be talkative, but I hope the
talking will be done by a new breed of
vital, voluble people. Not bores, or
record pushers or magpies, but genuine
entertainers. Radio used to have a rare
few in its earliest days, but most were
lost in the search for this or that “sound”
in announcers, which radio imagined its
listeners would prefer. It may be time
the medium stopped listening for new
kinds of empty vessels and found some
durable pots brimming with honey, earth
and other useful things.
DALE MILLER
ART
COBURN'S ANSWER
John Coburn: Johnstone Gallery,
Brisbane.
IV¥r Coburn seems to provide a sig-
nificant corpus of expression. A
few years ago Australian landscape art
was nearing its dead end in the repre-
sentational form. Pugh and Tucker
worked well in individual symbols but
young artists were tired of gum-trees
and cows and Sydney Harbor blues. The
color camera had killed all that. As a
medium of expression they were then
provided with a ready-made style geared
to ideas derived from political revolu-
tionary doctrine: it was the language of
protest and anger and just suited the
bewildered youngsters.
Some more serious and genuine prac-
titioners, sadly few actually, claimed that
this abstraction purported to express a
subconscious version of a visual experi-
ence of external reality. For the most
part all it did was to present an endless
series of mutual imitations of stock pat-
terns. In actual fact, the style was out-
of-date in Europe, its ancestral home,
by the time the migrant ship from
Central Europe brought it here. But in
rare cases it did communicate something
beyond an ominous greed for prize
money, something new in Australian
art and of refreshing individuality.
1 think John Coburn will help to pro-
vide an answer. He has gone some dis-
tance towards an intelligent personal
symbolism of what he sees. He imitates
nobody, has a serious approach and
evidently makes a genuine effort to
think. He shows 23 works, in oils alone
or oil on polyvinyl acetate which gives
a rich depth of color of a coarse texture
which some people like as they do in the
case of fabrics. In two versions of
‘'Burning Bush”, (Nos. 2 and 14), “Sea
Urchins” (16) and “Bonfire” (17) he
presents an emotional aspect correspond-
ing to the label, a feat in itself. The
emergent pattern is recurrent, circles in
white arranged tangentially in a matrix
of rich red and blue and in “Forest of
the Night” (5) a luminous tender light
green.
This is the first wholly abstract show
which has given me any intellectual
pleasure. Coburn is sure to develop
further.
J. V. DUHIG
AUSTERITY
Grahame and Inge King. Argus Gal-
lery. Melbourne.
Louis Janies. Museum of Modern Art.
Melbourne.
Olack, metal-plate construction with
all the welding showing has recently
dominated exhibitions of sculpture in
Melbourne. Not long ago we saw the
master of the style, Clem Meadmore,
develop to a fine point of subtlety the
spatial harmonies which can be created
with this sharp, weighty and austere
material; and both Max Lyle and
Stephen Walker have made varied use
of it, ranging from the purely formal to
the near naturalistic.
Inge King, who is exhibiting now at
the Argus Gallery, is closest to Mead-
more, at an earlier stage, with the im-
portant reservation that she is never so
severe or single-minded. Her larger
sculptures are essays in the enclosure
and unfolding of the complex spaces
created by a close arrangement of long,
narrow plates. The weight of the metal
is subdued by tall vertical composition,
by the penetration of open spaces and
by the careful and intricate balancing
of plates edge on edge. In spite of an
occasional lapse into melodrama to
achieve that eerie, aged effect which
seems inherent in the style, both her
large and small works are effective. In
broad outline they achieve a satisfying
austerity and the intricate balance of
spaces within is always firmly controlled.
Prints by Grahame King sit happily
with this sculpture. Both monotypes and
lithographs reveal a fine craftsman and
a thoughtful artist. His forms are simple
abstractions, some dramatically opposed,
others delicately repeated in overall
patterns. The color toning is exception-
ally refined and attractive, and the com-
position is always clear and unified.
South Australian painter, Louis
James, has been in England more than
10 years, and seems to have dug
common ground with abstract animators
like Alan Davie, which means roughly
that the paintings may be judged as
lively, colorful formal patterns, but that
a whole little world of half-images
peoples the recesses of the paint, at least
in the most recent paintings. A wide
range of both bright and soft colors,
compositions which meander like child-
ren’s paintings but always tie up with
adult certainty, and an enticing wealth
of detail give James’ paintings an im-
mediate appeal and a lasting interest.
Above all they are attractive, without
being over pretty, technically very ac-
complished, and touch an instant res-
ponse to the artist’s warm, rich imagin-
ation.
BILL HANNAN


THE RED PAGE
AN AFRICAN TRAGEDY
How to eat people and gain independence
By DONALD HORNE
The State of Emergency, Fred Maj-
dalany. Longmans. 31s.
T spent only a few weeks in Kenya
but it was at just the right time for
a reporter. After a lot of fumbling
the British had decided what to do.
They were planning “Operation Anvil,”
the purge of Nairobi that was to mark
the beginning of the end of “The Emerg-
ency.” The bustle had acquired meaning.
They were also secretly using the cap-
tured “General China” to negotiate a
Mau Mau surrender. This incident gave
me that rare thing, a world scoop. It
happened like this: one of the people I
had felt bound to cultivate in Nairobi
told me about the use of “China.” Be-
fore and after breakfast I sent off several
apparently unrelated cables to our Lon-
don office. Each of them was fairly
meaningless but put together they made
some sense. Then I sent a key cable to
another registered cable address (but at
the same office). It said “THE TWO
SONGS ARE QUOTE REMEMBER
CHINA UNQUOTE AND QUOTE
TOKYO BAY IS NOT FAR AWAY
UNQUOTE.” To show that he was
awake to what 1 was doing the London
editor cabled back “PLEASE ATTEND
FLAG DAY CEREMONY.”
I was happy to think I had scooped
the free world’s Press on what was then
a front page story. When I got back
to London I found that my paper in
Sydney, although it had used my other
pieces quite generously, had thrown the
“General China” scoop away.
This anecdote has been told less to
stake a retrospective claim to a Walkley
Award for the Best Australian World
Scoop For 1954 —as to bring out the
Evelyn Waugh flavour of the Kenya
Emergency.
Majdalany’s book is a readable and
comprehensive summary of everything
that we knew in April, 1954. Eight
years later what is needed is the view-
of-life treatment that Waugh uniquely
could give. (But why bother? “Black
Mischief” and “Scoop” covered most
of the theme years ago.) The Kenya
Emergency was the essence of that blend
that Waugh understands: the place of
savagery in life; the absurdities of events;
the tragicomedy of the British in de-
cline.
The British had to be in the picture
for the Mau Mau to make a significant
story. It has not been an uncommon
thing for peoples to eat the brains or
private parts of their enemies; nor to
slaughter and mutilate children and preg-
nant women; nor to terrorise their fol-
lowers more than their enemies; nor to
run a protection racket as a gangster-
political swindle; nor to invent magic
rituals of oathtaking involving symbols
of revolt (drinking menstrual fluid or
copulating with dead animals and so on).
Such activities come from the savage
side of man's nature and some of them
have been commonplace. What set the
story going was that all this happened
to the British in the late nineteen forties
and early nineteen fifties. Here was
Britain being so frightfully decent about
dismantling its colonies, then all this
had to happen.
The funny British bit began with that
dreadful fake, Jomo Kenyatta. Despite
Mr Majdalany’s certainties, Jomo’s role
in the Mau Mau is still obscure. But it
doesn’t matter much whether he did
what he did in full knowledge, or half
knowledge or from blinding vanity and
stupidity. What happened is that here
we have a man who was fattened on
British enlightenment for 25 years and
when he goes back to Africa he pre-
sides over a most unenlightened atavism
•—and is hailed as a kind of Nehru.
Also funny was the British enlighten-
ment that stayed at home. Even the
Lavi massacre and the emergence of a
clear pattern of Mau Mau as a move-
ment intended primarily to terrorise
Africans—even the unhygienic nature of
the Mau Mau oaths—could not destroy
a British obsession that Mau Mau was
a “genuine” colonial liberation move-
ment. There was no place in the Hamp-
stead imagination for the recognition of
its barbarities.
Some of the more disgusting British
newspapers campaigned throughout the
Emergency against their own country’s
troops. (“Is your son a Murderer?”)
Even when some of the facts about Mau
Mau bestialities had been printed by a
squeamish Press the “New Statesman”
spoke of Dedan Kimathi as an “able
man excluded from effective political
power.” Kimathi “who called himself
Field Marshal Sir Dedan Kimathi,
Popular Prime Minister of the Southern
Hemisphere” was mentally deranged. It
is unbearably funny to think of him
described in “New Stateman” cliches.
He used to eat people.
Also funny was the long time it took
the British to wake up. The Mau Mau
was going for three or four years before
it was declared an illegal society in 1950.
Because its leaders were able to exploit
British laws on arrest and evidence and
because the Governor did not believe the
few intelligence reports that came to
him the Mau Mau then had another two
years fairly clear run. When it had con-
solidated its control of the Kikuyu edu-
cational system, trades unions, ex-ser-
vicemen’s organisations and the Nairobi
underworld and had forced 80 per cent
of the Kikuyu to take the first grade
Mau Mau oath the Administration still
claimed that reports of the seriousness of
the Mau Mau were “overstated”.
Even when the killing and intimidation
of the Kikuyu became public nothing
much happened. The previous Governor,
who was reputed to know just as much
about Africans as a man could know
(“I know these Africans”), was on re-
tirement leave for three months. The
colony could not afford to pay a new
Governor until the old one had exhausted
his holiday pay provision. When Sir
Evelyn Baring finally took over it took
him all of nine days to declare the State
of Emergency.
The bustle then began. Troops moved
in. Generals arrived. Maps were pinned
on walls. Shooting began. But where
would the troops move and who would
they shoot? The British still knew very
little about the Mau Mau and they shot
away more or less in the dark. The Mau
Mau murders and mutilations of fellow-
Africans went on for another 18 months.
Sense began when a sensitive and bril-
liant intelligence officer befriended the
captured “General China” and found
out the facts. Sensible plans were pre-
pared on the basis of these facts. More
facts arrived. The Mau Mau were
cleaned up. '
Funny, isn't it? If I may go back to


LEARN
STORY
WRITING
STOTT'S CAN TRAIN YOU
SUCCESSFULLY
If you have a flair for writing, then STOTT'S
Literary Courses will develop your talent.
Practical Home-Study instruction, under the
guidance of expert instructors will teach you
to write successfully for Australian and
overseas markets. There is a constant
demand for well-written work in the lucra-
tive field of Authorship.
Write today for free details of Stott's Cor-
respondence Courses in Literary subjects.
Stotts Correspondence College
15!) Flinders Lane, Melbourne: 149 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney: 290 Adelaide Street. Brisbane;
21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide: 254 Murray
Street, Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT’S: Please send me. without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and lull particulars
of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE
B 2062
Waugh for a moment: Waugh seems
funny to us because his novels suggest
that events are absurd in that they differ
from the kind of pattern and meaning
we give them; but when the illusions
about these patterns and meanings go,
might not Waugh appear tragic rather
than funny? And the Mau Mau an
African tragedy for which the British
were responsible? They were supposed to
be the grown-ups in charge of the play-
ground. But they had the wrong rules
for the game.
P.S. To avoid being described as il-
liberal may I add that I am for colonial
liberation in Africa and therefore against
the murder, mutilation and eating of
Africans.
ANYONE FOR VATICAN ROULETTE?
Tranquillizers For His Cup. Gene
Laborde & Hazel Beatrous. Ham-
mond, Hammond. 15s.
TJeople who think a humorist is a jolly
A soul with a permanent stitch in his
side from laughing, are ignorant of the
. facts of fun-making. The real comic likes
to take his constitutional in cemeteries,
gloomily whacking the heads off lillies
with a switch, peering critically into
mausoleums like a flat-hunter, and envi-
ously watching funerals out of sight,
murmuring: “Lucky dog!”
If he is Thurber he “goes around play-
fully slapping gangsters on the back be-
lieving them to be old school-friends, or
he drinks furniture-polish for stomach-
bitters.” And he always makes the same
mistake till the end of his days.
According to Tony Hancock, girls look
at him with doubt, and worse. Even the
most unimpressive males condescend to
him. But he is much sought-after by
other “rejects"— a species which one can
only classify as Unidentified Objects,
until one has gone thoroughly into them.
The Arts reluctantly accept him with a
snobbish air of superiority, and his child-
ren are always saying: “Why aren't YOU
sensible like other people?”
The true Fool is one who has given up
in despair trying to be sensible like other
people. He has a touch of Lucifer, which
makes him fear for his soul. (The Devil
is often portrayed as a droll and wittv
fellow; "Dr Faustus": “The Screwtape
Letters".) He is a dedicated sufferer,
.and leads a hell of a life, even if he has
an oil-well and a harem. And the dignity
he aspires to will only be his when he
dons his last suit—the wooden one.
The writers of “Tranquillizers For His
Cup,” Mesdames Gene Laborde & Hazel
Beatrous, of the Genus Funmaker, would
never, one feels, drink their furniture
polish by mistake, though they strongly
imply that domestic life might drive them
to it as A Way Out. They are toughly
and shrewdly funny in such a way that
nobody would dream of calling them
Fools. It is plain from the no-offence-
meant tone of their beguiling book that
they intend to giggle all the way to the
bank, Public willing.
This work comes under the category
of the What-It-Feels-Like-To-Be-Me
book, originated by Betty MacDonald's
“The Egg and I,” and followed thick and
fast by the jaunty confessions of doctors
in the house and brothers in Law. I think,
too, a dentist also had his merry say,
somewhere, and I know there was a bar-
maid, and a never-say-die prostitute. I
couldn't keep up with the rest.
One difference between these and the
unsavoury revelations of a “Moll Flan-
ders” or a Rousseau, is that all these
books are savory. They approach their
inevitable bawdy passages with that effec-
tive de-sexing device—jolliness. I am
sure that nobody in the world can be
jolly and inflame one's passions at the
same time. (Rabelais and Boccaccio are
no longer with us.) It is a well-known,
if puzzling, fact, that if you want to cool
off a lustful pursuer, laugh at him, though
I wouldn't guarantee it, having never
wanted to prove it. There might just be
the rare bird who finds a woman’s ridi-
cule deliciously aphrodisiacal. But then
he would probably have a psyche that
needed attention.
The co-authors of this domestic spoof
recount with brave gaiety the horrors of
a happy marriage. Their greatest trial is
being practising Catholics and, so,
doomed to bear endless children. Each
boasts five, as a result of what they diver-
tingly call “vatican roulette.” They are
forever clad in “hatchin’ jackets,” and
dryly observe that Johnson’s Baby Powder
ads. “sell more babies than powder.” In
one gay, bold chapter they enumerate
the lurks resorted to in order to distract
their husbands from their fatal come-
hitherness. This chapter will have only
.“specialist” appeal; that is, it is slanted
towards other Catholic wives who are
kept on their toes by ‘Vatican roulette.”
Others, who are not in such dire predica-
ment, thanks to the more negative pro-
ductions of Johnson & Johnson, will con-
tinue assiduously to bring out in their men
what these self-styled “incubators” strive
to suppress in theirs.
It is very much a book for women,
as the two authoresses describe with en-
gaging egocentricity every one of their
ten children—hair, eyes, type, criminal
propensities and qualifications for saint-
hood or genius—and actually get away
with it!
It is the sort of talk, skilfully trans-
lated into print, that goes on over coffee
with one—in this case, two —of those
sparkling, on-the-ball housewives who
do so much to lift the spirits of their
more earnest and humorless sisters. She
is as necessary to her “set,” as pep-pills
are to the Sobersides who lack her fizzy
influence. She is a Comicatalyst—one
who makes people dance little jigs and
bellow gay little songs instead of just
sitting around softly screaming. She sets
out to convince you that your hairshirt
only tickles, and doesn't itch unbearably.
And there is genuine relish in Gene-&-
Hazel’s transmutatory knack of turning
the heeby-jeebies into humor.
Nevertheless, this composite-she is no
Fool. But, despite the bright, stereotype
narrator(s)’ voice—which makes all
Look On The Bright Side books sound
as if they were written by the same per-
son—she is sure to attract giggling hordes,
and is worth every penny her book costs,
in a world which waits for someone to
make The Bomb and its jealous foster-
fathers so absurd that, at least, we can all
die, laughing.
THELMA FORSHAW


A MANY-SIDED POETRY
No Fixed Address. Bruce Dawe.
Cheshire. 17s. 6d.
HThe poetry of Bruce Dawe does to
A the reader what poetry alone can
do but all too rarely achieves: it touches
him with surprise. There is something
about a good poem that takes our
breath away, not necessarily by its
audacity, its skill or its inner meaning,
but by a quality which, while it par-
takes of all these things and many more,
cannot be identified with them. Call it
a dimension of life that belongs to
poetry alone, a kind of inevitability
reached at the intersection of thought,
feeling and language. There is no sub-
stitute for it, and to give it to us a poem
does not have to be great. But when it
is there it reaches alike the critic and the
common man.
Proof ot the unhappy condition of
poetry in general—borne out by minute
editions —is that most poets have almost
lost hope of the power of all but
minorities to respond to their art. Dawe,
obviously, has not lost hope, for all that
his verse can make considerable demands
and that it never crudely glorifies the
individual. Strands run through it
which could be in conflict with each
other; scepticism and optimism, piety
and irreverence, a sense of loneliness and
a sense of kinship. It means nothing
more than that it is alive and that it
spans many octaves. Although its
technical range is not impressively wide
and content is not always deep, it has
exceptional flexibility and covers a large
area of experience and emotion. On the
face of it it is not “popular” poetry,
yet one can predict with certainty that
it will be read and remembered.
One of his poems begins:
Happiness is the art of being
broken
With least sound. The old, whom
circumstances
Has ground smooth as green bottle-
glass
On the sea’s furious grindstone, very
often
Practise it to perfection.
Acceptance rather than resignation
(and they are two very different things!)
becomes the key-note of this poem,
based, one feels, not on abstract
philosophising on old age but on the
loving and ironic observation of many
old men. And this is true of whatever
mood he writes in.
The first thing the dead-beat does
Is flash his badge . . .
If you’re in uniform
I’m an old digger myself, he says.
If coming from Mass
He’s Catholic of course and loyal as
hell,
While if you’re wearing corduroys,
carrying books,
He’ll grimace towards learning’s
obscure god,
And —like a child opening its hand
revealing
A pet frog for your wonderment —
disclose
Literacy squatting somewhere in
his family.
Or, as the final stanza in a poem
called “The Broken City”:
The overwork! looms closer, its
dimensions
determined by a Father’s boundless
pity,
stigma of light, the Southern Cross
of love
wheels still in its radiant arc above
the city.
Or again, in the title poem:
His form the Daily Globe enfolds;
Within its printed tent
In alcoholic innocence he builds
A firmament
Where men may live and know they
will not even
Die cold and lonely,
Nor do the boarding-houses in his
heaven
Say: CASUALS ONLY.
The originality here is not that of a
Manley Hopkins—the fierce, subjective
compression is missing nor the sim-
plicity that of a W. H. Davies, though
he shares the latter’s freshness of vision.
Bruce Dawe is, in fact, sophisticated
and even goes to fashionable themes.
Nevertheless the total impression of the
book is of innocence . . . the unspoiled.
It is youthful and shrewd, without the
hard-worked youthfulness that often
damages the work of talented poets; it is
spirited without being unspiritual.
The author is a convert to Catholicism,
unusual in that he does not, as far as I
can see, try to be a mystic. The religious
vein is genuine, but with a healthy dis-
respect at right moments, as in “The
Decay of Preaching”. Bruce Dawe will
probably be criticised on several familiar
scores. He will be accused of being a
good fellow, of superficiality or of not
possessing an “absolute”, artistically
fully authentic voice. I hope he will
laugh it off as he can afford to
especially when he is criticised by other
poets—for while there may not be one
“absolute poem” in the whole book,
there is poetry everywhere, and in any
case the quest for absolute poems is the
worst trap of all. It’s hard to say
whether his life view is properly tragic.
In the classical meaning perhaps not,
but it is many-sided and moving. If you
want tears, you will find them.
Of course there are defects: some-
times ideas and images are incomplete,
now and then prosiness creeps in, as in
“Cool Sweetheart”, where simplicity is
too simple. But it does not happen
often. Dawe’s reputation will depend
not on whether his poetry can grow and
mature but on whether it can retain its
directness and vitality without sliding
into facile lyricism or clever under-
statement. There seems little danger of
it now. A book like “No Fixed Address”
needs others to follow it at fairly
frequent intervals. This poet may have
been discovered by Melbourne Univers-
ity, but he does not belong to the
Academics. It does them credit that
they saw his merit first.
DAVID MARTIN
A BLOODLESS REFLECTION
The Wizard of Mordialloc. Maurice
Cavanough. F. W. Cheshire. 15s.
TTundreds of books have been written
about cricket, and scores about golf,
but very few about racing, although
there are more Turf writers in the
country than any other kind of journalist,
and more people directly interested
than in any other sport.
Maurice Cavanough proved that a
market exists for such books when his
“Cup Day” sold well, and now he has
followed that with a lightweight entry,
“The Wizard of Mordialloc”, purporting
to be “The Life of Jack Holt”. The sub-
title is unfortunate. It appears on the
dust jacket, and makes it impossible to
review the monograph in any way but
seriously.
A “Life” needs to be more than a
handful of dry notes, a bloodless reflec-
tion, and a book of 68 pages about one
of Melbourne's most successful racing
trainers should at least offer some
opinions as to the reasons for his
success.
The author mentions on p. 24 that
Holt “made a close study of every
horse’s personality and idiosyncrasies . . .
and whims and fancies, considering not
only its food requirements and the type
of training best suited to it, but also its
habits and degree of intelligence."’
Cavanough quotes instances of Holt’s
ability to tell a good horse from a bad
one at a glance, and sound-out a horse
with his hands. But where he gained
these talents?
Michael Holt who became Jack was
born 1879 at Berwick near Melbourne.
His father was an Irishman who had
been brought up “with horses”, and who
made his Australian living as a horse-
breaker and trainer. Jack Holt learned
to ride early, delivered mail on a pony,


New
6
Penguins
FIVE NOVELS BY
GRAHAM GREENE
The Power and the Glory (5s 6d)
The Heart of the Matter (5s 6d)
The End of the Affair (5s 6d)
The Quiet American (5s 6d)
Our Man in Havana (5s 6d)
FICTION
DAN JACOBSON
The Evidence of Love (5s 6d)
GIOVANNI GUARESCHI
Don Carnillo and The Prodigal Son
(5s 6d)
KEITH WATERHOUSE
Billy Liar (ss)
HAN SUYIN
The Mountain is Young (10s 6d)
FRANCES PARKINSON KEYES
Fieldings Folly (7s)
EVELYN WAUGH
The Ordeal of Gilbert Pinfold,
Tactical Exercise, Love Among
the Ruins (5s 6d)
P. G. WODEHOUSE
Meet Mr Mulliner (4s 6d)
CRIME
ERLE STANLEY GARDNER
The Case of the Dangerous Dowager
(5s 6d)
WILLIAM HAGGARD
Closed Circuit (4s 6d)
SPECIALS
BRITAIN IN THE SIXTIES:
HOUSING
Stanley Alderson (5s 6d)
BRITAIN IN THE SIXTIES:
THE FAMILY AND MARRIAGE
Ronald Fletcher (6s)
POETRY
YEVTUSHENKO:
SELECTED POEMS
Trans, by Robin Milner-Gulland
and Peter Levi (4s 6d)
HANDBOOK
THE PENGUIN BOOK OF DOGS
Ed. by Margaret Flannery (8s)
PUFFINS
A BEAR CALLED PADDINGTON
Michael Bond (ss)
THE FUTURE TOOK US
David Severn (ss)
HISTORIC HOUSES OF GREAT
BRITAIN
Helen and Richard Leacroft (7s 6d)
PELICANS
ELEPHANTS
Richard Carrington (12s 6d)
HUMAN HEREDITY
C. O. Carter (8s 6d)
THE SIMPLICITY OF SCIENCE
Stanley D. Beck (6s 6d)
PENGUINS FOR
GOOD READING
ADVERTISEMENT
PENGUIN NEWSLETTER
This month’s Penguin feature is five
novels by Graham Greene. V. S.
Pritchett said of Graham Greene. “There
is no better story-teller in English today,
and he is one of the two or three living
novelists who really count.” The five
novels are: The Power and the Glory,
the disturbing story of a modern priest-
hunt in Mexico; The Heart of the
Matter, a wartime tragedy in West Africa
which is brief in extent but in content
tremendous; The End of the Affair.
William Faulkner called this frank
account of a love affair and its mythical
aftermath “one of the most true and
moving novels of my time, in anybody’s
language.” The Quiet American, a story
of American innocents at large in Asia.
Our Man in Havana. Sir Alec Guinness
played the title role in the film of the
Secret Service experiences of a vacuum
cleaner dealer.
We are all used to seeing the book of
the film but this month Penguins offer
you the book of the play Billy Liar by
Keith Waterhouse. This was a best sell-
ing novel in hardback and the play at
present running in Sydney had a very
successful run in London’s West End.
The “Sunday Times” called it “a sad,
savage, sick, funny book.”
Another Don Camillo book is now
available, Don Camillo and The Prodigal
Son. Communists may curse, but who
else has offered us so much fun with so
little malice or cruelty as Giovanni
Guareschi? In the second of the series
he gives us further reports from the
little world down there in the Valley of
the Po.
Dan Jacobson, the author of The
Evidence of Love, is another of the
South African writers who have appeared
in such profusion since the war. The
theme of this book is one of race con-
flict, the story of a Cape Coloured boy
who marries a white South African girl
in London. They decide to return to
the Union and face the so-called Im-
morality Act which forbids mixed
marriages. The story proceeds towards
a n ugly and dramatic climax.
Last April “Time” Magazine devoted
a considerable amount of space to
Russia’s young poet Yevtushenko. This
month Penguins introduce his work in
their Poets series. He has the reputation
of being Russia’s most notable and out-
spoken young poet. This volume includes
Zima Junction, the brilliant record of a
visit to his home in Siberia.
Is there any truth in the murky picture
painted by pulpits, rostrums, and the
more deeply entrenched batteries of
press and radio about the decay of
family life? Immorality, divorce, and
delinquency stalk the land ... or so we
are told. Ronald Fletcher, in a new
Penguin Special The Family and Mar-
riage, gives a counter-blast against those
who deplore the decay of family life,
which in fact is regenerating.
Another Penguin Special analyses the
housing situation in Britain and discloses
that slums are being created faster than
they are being cleared. Although these
two books are mainly concerned with
Britain there are many facts which apply
equally well to Australia.
For dog lovers there is The Penguin
Book of Dogs edited by Margaret
Flannery. This comprehensive guide
includes information on the history,
origins, and personality of the dog as
well as illustrated descriptions of the
most popular breeds of today.
For younger children (4-8) this
month's Puffins include A Bear Called
Paddington by Michael Bond, being the
adventures of a very small bear named
for the railway station where he was
found. For older children, boys par-
ticularly, there is a science fiction, The
Future Took Us. Two boys are suddenly
and mysteriously transported into Britain
of A.D.3000. What they find in the city
of Ondin (London) is hardly what they
expected of the future.
Richard Carrington’s interesting book
Elephants is available in the Pelican
series this month. No other wild beast
and only perhaps two domesticated
animals are held in such universal
affection as the elephant. In this delight-
ful “popular monograph” you will find
almost everything that is known about
the two surviving species of elephants,
and much about some 300 extinct mem-
bers of the same order.
A complete list of all the latest releases
is shown on this page. If you are in the
midst of Christmas buying we strongly
recommend that time spent browsing
through the large selection of Penguins
will not be wasted.


PRESS CLIPPINGS
WILL TELL YOU
Keep fully informed by letting us
supply you, or your office, with
press clippings on any subiect in
which you are interested.
We offer a complete coverage of
newspapers and magazines, all
States, city and country. This
press clipping service enables you
to keep a complete tab on any
matter —your company, trade or
profession, financial news, com-
pany reports, publicity mentions,
new industries, political and
“diforial mentions, publicity
checks, press releases, sales
leads, competitors' news.
We will supply clippings on
any subject you may care
to specify.
A.N.Z. PRESS CLIPPING SERVICE,
199 Liverpool St., SYDNEY. 61-4230.
played billiards with the owner of Ber-
wick Boys’ Grammar School, who
“taught him the manners of polite
society so that in later life when Holt
became the companion of rich and dis-
tinguished people, he was never ill at
ease in any company.” Aged 17, young
Holt set up as a trainer, and won his
first metropolitan race three years later,
his first really big race twelve years after
that, in 1911. He was one of the big
mT™ 2 ° S u d 3 ° S ’ W i th *? aII
ar 4 ury mic, er ° ic and other
great horses. He and his two sisters
b , , ~ ,
moved to Mordialloc in bayside Mel-
, * * ~ , . .
bourne, where they lived in perfect
, Ft 3 F
armony c.
According to the foreword by Eugene
Gorman, QC, “this gracious man caused
no one to grieve— except when he died.”
It seems generally agreed that Holt was
a very nice bloke, and these are the
difficult people for a writer to make
interesting It can be done, though, and
Mr Cavanough does not seem to have
tried. The occasional anecdotes which
spice the book are of the kind that a
man’s best friends might recall, search-
ing for something to illuminate his life.
They are as dull as the run of the
author's prose, of which, “Truly, on a
racecourse, the rain of abuse falls on the
just and the unjust alike,” is a fair
sample.
The brightest spot in the book occurs
on p. 41 when the author weighs in
with some unintentional humor. “High-
land . . . was one of the most profitable
horses Holt ever trained, always running
well when he carried the stable’s money.”
“The Wizard of Mordialloc” has an
excellent jacket design by Robin Wallace
Crabbe, and the printing is impeccable.
It would be a handsome and harmless
gift to give to a friend old enough to
recall, or be interested, in racing in the
pre-war days.
Don’t send it to “Scobie” Breasley.
He might not appreciate his mention
on p. 11 as the jockey who “threw away
an important race that seemed safely
won, by dropping his hands on Chanak
in the 1947 Caulfield Guineas.” But
even that, in Cavanough’s book, did
not ruffle Jack Holt’s saintly calm. He
must have been an unusual trainer.
DISCUS
MORALITY AND METHOD
The Rhetoric of Fiction* Wayne C.
Booth. University of Chicago Press.
$6.95.
Ane of the dirtiest words in current
literary criticism is “rhetorical.”
References to a poet’s or novelist’s
rhetoric are commonly taken to mean
that the culprit is a Mussolini manque,
engaged in improper coercion of the
reader through strained language.
Rhetoric is assumed to imply an
exaggerated or insincere appeal to the
emotions; but such a derogatory defini-
tion of the word is itself emotionally-
charged.
The primary definition of rhetoric is
simply the arts of language designed to
persuade; a study of the technique of
the fiction writer as he tries, consciously
or not, to impose his fictional world upon
the reader is surely one of the most
fruitful critical approaches. Neverthe-
less, it is not fashionable because it is
assumed that rhetoric is incompatible
with art, that the artist must be bent
only on creating his work and not, at
the same time, his readers, and that the
novel has abandoned rhetoric, whereas,
in fact, while it was overt in Fielding’s
day it is disguised in ours.
In other words, rhetoric is an impurity
and, while purity may seem old-fashioned
in some spheres, it is the go-word in art.
Purity means that the author should dis-
appear behind his work, that he should
construct an object which it is the duty
of the reader to interpret. But while
authors as guides to their works vanished
they found a means of involving readers
by giving an inside view of their
characters which allowed an intense
identification. One result has been a
blurring of distinction between the
author’s point of view and the charac-
ter’s.
One of Booth’s most valuable achieve-
ments is his careful examination of the
costs authors have paid in achieving such
a high degree of naturalistic illusion: he
instances Henry James’s confused effects
in “The Aspern Papers”, “The Turn of
the Screw , ‘ The Liar”, backs his claims
with James’s intentions as recorded in
his “Notebooks” and his revisions of
these stories, and even enlists contrast-
ing critics to support his case. Booth
argues that the diametrically opposed
judgment on James by critics is due to
the author’s inability to present the
norms against which he intended his
characters to be judged.
One can find champions of any
artistic aberration and there are those
who would praise the ironic richness of
the ambiguous “Aspern Papers.” But
James at least would have been upset to
find it led to opposed but equally
justified interpretations for he did not
aim at producing a slice of life in the
raw, nor even a ripe piece of ironic
ambiguity, but lucidity within com-
plexity.
Commentators and critics enjoy the
confusion of current fiction for it pro-
vides fodder for endless explications. To
divert for a moment from the novel to
a parallel field, Robbe-Grillet has been
cute enough to provide them with the
material they need in films such as
“Marienbad” and the one he is making
now, in which any interpretation of the
events is feasible. In these “open
structure” works the artist does not
make the audience, but the audience the
artist.
They are amusing enough games, but
Robbe-Grillet’s novel “The Voyeur” is
something else. It achieves the sort of
sympathetic identification James aimed
at, although with a different method. It
manages to make the reader identify
himself with a homicidal maniac. And
its method is such that it voids the world
of its human depth, leaving only the
surface of things. If one is to take
Robbe-Grillet at his words, the concen-
tration camps not only reduced us all
as men but we are to accept this
situation.
Obviously there are moral judgments
involved here and it is a merit of Booth’s
book that, with tact, he tries to trace
the relationship between morality and
method. A brief review of his 400-pagc
study may make it seem a reactionary
tract designed to convince novelists to
produce dramatised essays after the
worst 18th century style, with morals
appended to each story. Rather it is a
thorough and complex discussion, based
on the “Chicago critics” development of
Aristotle’s method with its attention to
structure, character and event rather
than to verbal analyses.
It examines patiently, but sometimes
without regard to the reader’s patience,
attitudes to telling, and showing in
fiction, the types of narration and, in
detail, “Tom Jones”, “Tristram Shandy”,
“Emma”, “The Turn of the Screw”,
“Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man”,
all with a pragmatic aim: to free novel-
ists and readers from the prejudice of
abstract rules about what novelists must
do, by showing them what good novelists
have in fact done.
DESMOND O'GRADY


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Japan's New Trading Status
The Australian-Japanese Trade Agreement, signed in 1957,
is now under process of re-negotiation. That latter
eloquent term may be covering a mixed host of past
evasions and present difficulties.
Many observers still believe the new treaty will be com-
pleted before the end of this year. Yet its possible framework
seems overlong concealed and public discussion at a minimum
Governmental sources have been notoriously cautious.
Perhaps the prevailing situation may not be surprising in
the light of our recent tariff excitements and the fresh dis-
cussions of principle these have called into being. As well,
the old agreement itself appears to have engendered some
nagging doubts.
For the 1957 arrangements were actually due for revision
in June 1960. A mutual extension brought their application
up to September, 1962. No more delays can possibly be
tolerated. So the new shape must be hammered out.
It is completely obvious that the situation between the two
countries has changed extraordinarily since 1957. Both nations
know they will be affected basically by the European Common
Market structure. Both look for a rising, and in many respects
similar, stake in Asian-area trade. Japan in particular wishes
to divert a too heavy reliance upon the American orbit. Aus-
tralia, likewise, wishes to re-channel its continuously declining
trade with Britain.
These are clearly rather general determinants. What is
likely to be very strictly at debate in the discussions is Japan’s
express desire and claim to be granted full most-favoured-
nation treatment in any future agreement.
The tide and necessity of protection for several Australian
industries runs somewhat high at present. The old agreement
certainly rendered more than lip-service to MFN requirements.
Yet Australia was conceded specific undertakings by Japan on
wool, wheat, sugar, barley, cattle, skim milk and vine fruits.
Japan itself has also embraced voluntary restrictions on
certain items, notably textiles, and held to this machinery
scrupulously. We, however, kept a capacity to retain and
invoke the famous Article 35 of the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade. Such right to unilateral discrimination
against Japanese imports fails to accord the status Japan long
feels she has earned.
Qn this, and on other grounds, some guidance can surely
be obtained from the Treaty of Commerce and Navigation
between the UK and Japan, signed only on November 14
last. This, too, was a long time in negotiation six years in
fact!
Britain has forgone the use of Article 35. Special discrimin-
atory tariffs and controls will, if needed, be affected directly
With Japan. Japan naturally possesses the same recourse
Vis-a-vis Britain.
The provision is one Japan especially esteems and will
jealously guard. Most assuredly she will strive for it in all
coming treaties. Saving Australia, only France, Belgium and
Italy continue to deploy the hated article against Japan.
Of very great interest to us in the Anglo-Japanese agreement
are the protections enshrined in a list of “sensitive” trade
items. These still are to endure control and the device may
well be under consideration in our negotiations. It certainly
offers a refinement of presently available practices.
Briefly, and without specific examples which would vary
from country to country, the safeguards are managed in three
main groups. Where it can, Japan will bring some sensitive
items under voluntary export control. In the same manner,
other items are subject to British import control.
Lastly, items not amenable to either of the above techniques
may be added directly to the sensitive list, for mutually de-
fensive actions.
It is many a long year since any country has been granted
the luxury of considering Japan as technologically retarded,
solely imitative and concentrating only upon lower quality
goods. Even in our own particular bugbear, textiles, Japan is
tending to concentrate upon high and medium quality. Cheaper
articles have become the province of Hong Kong, Taiwan and
India.
Asa corollary to this, and as another element of gigantic
industrial expansion, Japan will also wish to export such
things as machinery, chemicals, photographic goods and the
products of a skilled and originative electronics industry.
Among such types of exports there seems fairly sure to be
some clash with our own developing industries. Yet the
coming agreement cannot merely be manipulated in terms of
lofty protection against all these possible entrants. There
is plenty of room for special flexibilities and the British pattern
might now be serving as a guide.
It hardly seems necessary to recall, we hope, that one
concomitant of Japanese progress has been an increasing
standard of living and a steady growth in real wages. What-
ever distaste may linger within Australia cannot be summed
up in words like cheap and shoddy labour.
Some immediate and recently pressing Japanese problems
are without doubt casting a new light on the Canberra negotia-
tions. It does not look as if Japan's existing balance-of-pay-
ments situation is susceptible of quick or easy solution. To this
extent, our newer markets for coal and iron ore do not look
so easy and so buoyant.
Only last week Japan had to announce fairly drastic cut-
backs for a hitherto active and markedly competitive steel
industry. These are the kind of output reductions which, if
maintained for too long, spread unhealthily to less basic sectors
of the economy. Their implications for Australia stand out.
Equally apposite is our concern, together with Europe and
America, to contribute to the success of Japan's current long-
range national plan. This will not be done by merely taking


into account her relative and apparently permanent lack of
self-sufficiency, particularly in some of our principal primary
products.
That situation does not bear interpretation simply in terms
of our own advantages. Indeed it should be clear by now that
Pacific and Asian developments will bring the two countries
much closer over the next few years.
Both must vigorously pursue exports. Japan's prevailing
trade imbalance with ourselves can but support a request for
more liberally conceived policies, even if a technique of safe
controls is being worked out at the same time. After all, Japan
constitutes the largest Asian markets for our much lauded
export drive.
Of Japan's position as a “Western” and responsible type of
economy there can remain no doubt whatever. It is under the
over-riding significance of this condition that the “re-negotiat-
ed” trade treaty has to be considered.
BANK LENDING CONTROLS
SELF-DEFEATING
llThile the trading banks have been acutely concerned for
’’ their role in the financial system and also for their profits
in face of the growing diversification of para-banking institu-
tions, an article in the November Review of the Bank of New
South Wales says the lessening of the influence of official
monetary policies on the general economic scene is more
important.
In the past, says the Bank, the Government has tended
to rely on banking controls to offset the effects of inadequate,
but politically more acceptable, budgetary measures and of
unduly low interest rates on public borrowing. It is not that
the authorities lack adequate powers through the Budget and
bond market operations to effect the necessary state of liquidity
and interest rate pattern in the economy, but simply that
they have preferred direct controls on banking instead and
these have proved ineffective.
“It is short-sighted,” says the Bank, “to enforce relatively
low bank interest rates when advances are subject to quantita-
tive restriction if borrowers are obliged to seek additional
accommodation at high rates from other leading institutions.
Such a policy tends to favor established businesses at the
expense of the expanding newcomer and is a curb on an
evolving economy.”
In any case “the rapid increase in the velocity of circulation
of bank deposits, particularly in the last six years, the reduced
impact of credit restriction on the state of business activity
and the emergence of specialised financial institutions, together
with the widening range of activities of others, have combined
to demonstrate the diminishing effectiveness of direct banking
controls.”
The findings of the Radcliffe Committee in Britain are cited
in support of the view that a wider extension of monetary
controls is unnecessary, would impose increasing administra-
tive burdens, and would be ineffective in face of the con-
tinued growth of new institutions to serve needs for finance.
Much better, says the ’Wales, to rely on variations in the
interest rate structure which would affect the willingness to
lend of all institutions.
But the article admits that the authorities have increasingly
recognised that attempts to rely primarily on direct restrictions
on the quantity or direction of bank lending are highly dis-
criminatory to borrowers and banks alike, and are also
eventually self-defeating.
“In recent years the Reserve Bank has successively with-
drawn its specific instructions about the fields of lending in
which the banks might engage, although it still directs their
attention to the need for special consideration for certain
nationally desirable activities such as housing, primary industry,
and export promotion.
“During the past year the trading banks have been actively
encouraged to expand their lending in order to assist the
revival of business activity. The inauguration of term loan
facilities completes the revision of the earlier attempts to
circumscribe narrowly the function of bank lending.
“Although it still maintains control, in the past two years
the Reserve Bank has allowed the interest rates which the
banks may charge on their loans and pay on their deposits to
rise to more realistic levels. As a consequence, the banks have
been permitted to take a more active part in financing the
needs of the growing economy.
“At the same time the Reserve Bank still maintains continu-
ous supervision over the trend of bank lending. The emphasis,
however, has shifted to closer scrutiny of the rate of new
lending by the banks and of their total advance commitments.
Consultations between the Reserve Bank and the trading banks
about the appropriate trend of lending are close and continu-
ous, and as a constant reserve of authority the Reserve Bank
has its powers to increase the Statutory Reserve Deposit ratio.”
Admitting that responses of bank lending to a change in
official credit policy have been slower than desired in recent
years, the 'Wales says that restriction of bank credit would
still be only partially effective if the general monetary climate
in the economy still encourage expansion.
What is needed is “consistency over the full range of mone-
tary policy dealing with interest rates and the liquidity of
the whole financial structure.”
SAFFLOWER OIL VENTURE IN
AUST. HOLDS PROMISE
A ustralian Chemical Holdings Ltd takes a most worthy
step with its scheme to manufacture safflower oil in Aus-
tralia. The group has up till now been content to import some
3500 tons a year through the Hatrick subsidiary at a cost of
about ,£750.000. This quantity satisfies industrial uses only.
But as readers of the hardened arteries department may be
aware, safflower has striking medicinal and dietetic value.
Domestic usage here so far is practically negligible. As know-
ledge of its high, poly-unsaturated advantages over other edible
vegetable oils spreads, the non-industrial market may be
expected to grow. The virtues of avoiding heart attacks are
almost self-advertising.
Not that ACH will be able to yield to this demand all at
once. Immediate plans cover industrial purposes only, in
making alkyd resins and white house paints. Safflower, again,
is the only oil which really keeps paint white.
ACH is making its move in association with Pacific Veget-
able Oil Corporation, of San Francisco, the world's biggest
processor of safflower seed and responsible for nearly 75 p.c.
of all US production. A joint and equal partnership. Safflower
Corporation of Australia Pty Ltd, has been formed with
PVO’s subsidiary, Pacific Oilseeds Inc.
Initial expenditure involves an estimated £500,000, including
a mill to be built by Pacific Oilseeds. An agreement to supply
seed has been reached with the Queensland Graingrowers
Association.
By the end of 1963, 12,000 acres under growth should yield
6000 tons of seed containing about 30 p.c. oil. Production
is gradually to be expanded, with one eye on increasing indus-
trial usage and the other on hopefully awaited domestic
requirements. A by-product of milling gives a supplemental
cattle feed.
The whole plan seems eminently well conceived. Pacific
Oil Seed's agronomist president, Dr Carl E. Classen, is a
world authority and has examined Australian possibilities
thoroughly. The new corporation has also engaged a local
agronomist to work closely with the growers.


FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
PAID UP CAPITAL £775,000
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
Financing the
distribution by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies of
world-famous
products
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD. - 12
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 10/9/62, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS.
HD62
BUSINESS PROPOSITIONS
SPACE, TECHNICAL KNOW - HOW, MACHINERY, OFFICE
PERSONNEL, AND FINANCE WOULD BE AVAILABLE FOR
SUITABLE PROPOSITIONS WITHIN THE MANUFACTURING
AND/OR OTHER ACTIVITIES. FIRST DETAILS ARE INVITED
FROM PRINCIPALS ONLY INTERESTED IN PARTICIPATING
ACCORDINGLY.
POST OFFICE BOX 19, EAST BRIGHTON, VIC.
DEVELOPERS IN
RETREAT
By “CROESUS”
Tn his own field of land conquering a
A couple of years ago, Mr L. J. Hooker
rivalled Napoleon, and there is also a
similarity in their great retreats.
It is not so much that the second in-
stalment of the L. J. Hooker Investment
Corporation’s results last year told a
sorry tale of breaking off engagements
and cutting losses in prized fields, but
more the disenchantment of investor
followers along the path of retreat and
the dispelling of illusions on the role of
break-neck advances in the task of
orderlv expansion.
With all this Hooker money and a lot
more in ventures like Latec gone to the
flames, one doesn't have to search much
deeper for reasons why development is
presently hanging fire or why another
round of :t is likely to be delayed until
the disenchantment fades.
The question is whether the economy
has yet been purged of all the specu-
lative matter created in the boom,
whether realistic accounting has still to
uncover more millions of inflated assets
values (sav. in Reid Murray) before all
the had matter is out of the boil.
While the hope must be that we have
come pretty nearly to the end of purg-
ing the rot. the sour taste of capital losses
in developing companies epitomised by
the continuing lack of enthusiasm for
equity investments in general and those
of developing companies in particular, is
unlikelv to be removed while the score
is still being told.
This is not to say that while the
developers such as Messrs Hooker,
O’Gradv and Korman, who were in the
van of the last round of development,
still wrestle with the fates—and Mr
Korman for one looks still to be as
deeply involved in this exercise as any
—a solid platform is not being created
from which a new development advance
can be made.
On the contrary, in a climate notably
free of the spurious speculative forces
which propelled the economy to its last
spill-over, the economic base is shaping
very nicely and it is just as well that
the more adventuresome of the dethron-
ed developers are still on their knees
lest all the discredited nonsenses start up
again.
The time to be aware of new economic
and financial excesses will be when these
gentlemen get on their feet again, when
real estate is out of the wood and the
stock exchanges rise from their Slough
of Despond to enchant the investor with
Prospective capital, gains. But that won’t
be yet awhile.


HEADMASTERSHIP
OF
BARKER COLLEGE, HORNSBY
N.S.W. AUSTRALIA
A leading Secondary School for Boarders
and Day Boys.
Enrolment—223 Boarders, 422 Day Boys.
A capable and experienced person as Head-
master is required for the abovementioned school.
Duties to commence as soon as possible after
16th May. 1963. Applicants should be communi-
cant members of the Church of England, either
clergymen or laymen. Salary is at rate of £3,500
per annum with allowance for expenses, super-
annuation, free residence, electricity, telephone,
gas, etc. Car provided.
For particulars and conditions apply to:—
The Hon. Secretary,
The Council of Barker College,
9-13 Bligh Street, SYDNEY.
Applications close 31st January, 1963.
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
THE PURSUIT OF PRICE STABILITY
of the economic discontents of
the past two years,” says the
Noven.oer issue of the Bank of New
South Wales Review, “a notable achieve-
ment has been the re-establishment of
price stability after the shocks given by
wage adjustments of late 1959 and the
speculative mania of the boom.”
As the Bank points out, the price of
this was that last year gross national
product rose by slightly less than 1 p.c.,
the smallest increase in any post-war
year.
It goes on to say that this picture of
“relative stagnation” was strikingly re-
lieved by the experience in the June
quarter this year, when the preliminary
estimate of GNP was 7.2 p.c. higher than
in the previous June quarter and also
by the subsequent maintenance of this
rate of recovery.
While September economic pointers
threw a shadow of doubt on the main-
tenance of the tempo of recovery,
October’s seem to remove it.
Employment and production figures
were particularly good in October, instal-
ment credit had its best upward move
since its recovery began in April this
year, and even bank advances moved
higher for a change (though new lending
commitments were stationary.)
Moreover, the latest consumer price
index figures (for the September quarter)
indicate no breach of price stability as
the economy gathers in its slack.
In the light of the measured pace of
the revival in private investment, the
Government’s more sparing use of
Treasury Bill finance to support the
public works programme, and the still
substantial under-employment of indus-
trial capacity, the process of gathering
in the slack has some way to go yet
before excess demand again becomes a
problem.
Judging by the more turbulent mood
of labor seen in an increase in in-
dustrial disputes as well as in pressure
to get on with a variety of claims includ-
ing higher margins and longer holidays
as the recovery proceeds, it would
seem that the earliest threat to price
stability is likely to come from strains in
the labour market than from any mone-
tary influence working towards an excess
of effective demand.
It is certainly too early to be worrying
about pressures on resources reflecting a
new wave of economic expansion from
the investment side, but not of pressures
building-up from the consumption side,
even if these are not yet strong enough
to threaten price stability.
Tn his Rising Prices in Australia, pub-
blished recently by CEDA, Gerald
Firth, Professor of Economics in the
University of Tasmania, has made some
pertinent comments on the play of forces
operating at this stage of the economic
cycle.
“As demand for labour strengthens,”
he writes, “some wage rates will tend to
rise above awards ... no acceptable
method has been found of preventing it.
“On the other hand,” he continues,
“the history of price movements since
1953 suggests that a closer approxima-
tion to price stability can be achieved
when total demand is not excessive.
Between June, 1957 and June, 1959,
retail prices rose comparatively slowly.
Unfortunately, many people would con-
sider that during this period the rate of
economic development was a good deal
slower than the economy could reason-
ably have been expected to sustain.
“In theory a way out of this dilemma
might be found by cutting back private
consumption in one way or another, so
as to free more resources for develop-
mental projects. Unfortunately it is poli-
tically much easier to cut back capital
expenditure, whether private or public,
than it is to reduce consumption. The
possibility also exists that, if sufficiently
drastic, cuts in consumption may reduce
the incentive to undertake some of the
private capital expenditure which is such
an important element in economic
growth.”
Professor Firth thinks that a practical
solution of the problem could be found
in measures to co-ordinate individual
plans for capital expenditure. “It has
been suggested,” he says, ’’that agree-
ment on a broad programme for several
years ahead would make it easier for
both private businesses and public auth-
orities to co-ordinate their developmental
projects, so that (for example) power
supplies would be increased in propor-
tion to demand and utility services made
available before new houses were
erected.”
He believes that among the more im-
portant advantages of such co-ordination
would be the possibility of estimating
labour requirements in sufficient detail
to avoid generating excess demand, so as
to avoid the emergence of shortages of
specific grades of labour in particular
places. Given the level of total demand,
he says that a more rational distribution
of demand within the labour market
would reduce the significance of over-
award payments and similar de. .and-
induced increases in effective wage rates.
As for award payments, Professor
Firth believes that “the only wages policy
which makes economic sense is one
which allows wage rates to rise as pro-
ductivity increases. A wages policy of
this kind ought to be followed as closely
as possible. Wage rates should be ad-
justed quarterly in accordance with esti-
mates of the current rate of increase in
productivity, and these estimates them-
selves should continuously be corrected
in the light of the most recent informa-
tion. So that cumulative inter-action
between wage rates and prices may be
avoided, it is particularly important that
wage rates should not be adjusted in ac-
cordance with current rates of increase
in any kind of prices.”
is a point the Arbitration Com-
mission should chew over on a long
night next year before deciding to im-
plement quarterly adjustments of the
basic wage to retail price fluctuations.
By February next, when they are to con-
sider this matter, a rise in the basic wage
might prove very untimely on general
economic grounds.
However, Professor Firth maintains
that even the most rational wages policy
could not by itself ensure a stable level
of prices. “If all external prices rose, for
example, some increase in Australian
prices would be bound to occur, unless
the exchange rate were deliberately
altered,” he says.
“Again, an upward drift in the prices
of manufactured goods would be inevit-
able unless competition or tariff cuts
ensured price reductions in all industries
where productivity had increased more
than the average. It follows that any
policy measures which compel firms to
pass on to customers the benefits of
technical or organisational improvements
will help to slow up price increases and
should be encouraged for that reason.’


V
4 .:>
V ; y 0
GIFTS —costing
exactly what you
desire to
give!
I
at your nearest branch of
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
OIL
IS NEW GUINEA HIDING A FIELD
"OF GREAT MAGNITUDE"?
A year back Mr G. B. Kater, chair-
man of Oil Search Ltd. remarked
at the annual meeting that the company
would “resist the temptation to put down
a hole simply for the sake of being able
to announce that we are drilling, but
once the decision has been reached we
intend to proceed with the utmost vigor.”
In fact, as last week's report shows,
the company lost little time in siting its
first well in New Guinea once it was
ready, the permit area of its current
lamara No. 1 well only being acquired
in June this year. The spudding in of
this well was delayed for a few weeks,
but since drilling started on October 29
the well has gone down to 3500 ft.
Its immediate programme is to drill
lamara No. 1 well to basement, expected
at about 6,000 feet. The purpose of the
hole is to test for stratigraphic trap con-
ditions and the development of reservoir
sandstones in a Mesozoic sequence on
the flanks of the Oriomo basement high.
The zone of interest is expected from
about 5,000 feet down to basement.
The company’s consultants say that no
structural closures are indicated in this
area, hence any test well drilled must be
considered primarily as one for strati-
graphic information. If geologic condi-
tions are generally as favorable as postu-
lated, and if large quantities of hydrocar-
bons were generated in this area
and trapped along the updip limit of any
porous horizon found in this section, an
oil field of very great magnitude might
well exist.
If, on the other hand, say the con-
sultants, such an oil field is not found,
as the result of one or perhaps two wells
located on the best available interpreta-
tion, the prospect can no longer be con-
sidered favourable. They say this will be
true even if the possibility still exists for
finding an oil field of moderate size,
since the probable cost of locating a
smaller field is considered too great in
relation to the probable return which
might be realised from such a discovery.
If the results of drilling lamara No. 1
prove geologically favourable, a second
hole will be drilled, or alternatively, a
seismic reflection survey will be under-
taken to aid the location of a second
hole. Should the results prove entirely
unfavourable, the area will be abandoned
and the exploration effort will be trans-
ferred elsewhere in the concession areas.
It should be mentioned that permits
Nos. 18 and 33 have been excluded from
the Burmah-Murphy option as they are
not contributing towards the cost.
A seismic reflection survey in the area
of critical closure at Paibuna will also be
undertaken at an early date. In order
to lessen cost, the survey will be fitted
into any Fly River programme of seis-
mic surveying, and in the event of
lamara failing to reveal any encourage-
ment, Paibuna will be proceeded with
immediately.
The company says that no forward
planning with respect to the gas areas in
central N.G. is possible until Burmah-
Murphy has reached a decision with res-
pect to its option. Should it exercise that
option, the first step would be to drill a
second hole on the Barikewa structure
and concurrently to carry out a detailed
geological survey of the surface anti-
cline, to obtain more information of the
extent of the gas reserves proved by
Barikewa No. 1 well.


L. J. HOOKER CUTS TO THE BONE
npHE L. J. Hooker Investment Cor-
A poration has, on the face of it,
accomplished a ruthless and honestly
self-critical accounting miracle. A too
confident boom-fed exuberance, and
carelessness go into limbo. The whole
organisation steps into the future with
all assets in thoroughly contemporary
shape, absolutely in accord with possible
markets.
That position is now, of course,
largely expressed only on paper. In
other words, the new look must still
justify itself by actual trading per-
formance.
To put forward such a view may
sound rather carping in the light of
investors’ smooth acceptance of the
terrific write-downs. Share prices really
did move forward a little after the
complete revelation. Yet full recovery
will obviously be a long, hard process.
No valid purpose can be served by
attempting to disguise this fact.
After all, shareholders have had to
suffer a decline in their funds from £10.5
to £6.6 million. A 1961 assets backing
of 10s. Id. a ss. share goes down to
6s. 4d. —a far cry from a 1960 heyday
at 16s. 6d.
A return to moderate dividends say
of the order of 10 p.c. might seem to
demand profits of almost £2.5 million.
That looks like a three-year job.
Yet when the worst has been said,
much remains for hope. The knife was
forced to cut deep and clean. But what-
ever had to be cut and pruned, a lot of
decidedly healthy stock survived.
At a time when there are other great
developers still to be examined with pro-
found suspicion, the corporation keeps
its solvency and its basic structure.
Indeed Mr Hooker is able to speak as if
relatively small areas have been impaired.
“You will be pleased to learn that the
disposal programme in respect of super-
fluous assets is proceeding very satis-
factorily and contracts already entered
into and consummated, exceeding some
millions, have preserved your corpora-
tion's liquidity,” he will tell the annual
meeting.
“Our financial programme, which pro-
vides for the repayment of loans matur-
ing during 1963, is ahead of schedule. If
this is maintained, a considerable reduc-
tion in the corporation's interest burden
could be reasonably expected. The pro-
gramme particularly provides for the
necessary and important development of
certain existing assets.
“I am happy to be able to report that
the corporation earned satisfactory
profits for the quarter ended September
30 last,” the easeful address continues.
Nevertheless the projections do appear
to be following the realistic path laid
down by the present financial overlord,
Mr J. K. Campbell. Mr Campbell it was
who urged and achieved the equally
realistic write-downs.
These, of course, constitute the core
of the newly disciplined approach and
the ultimate promise of a genuinely
profitable future. For when all the past
year is remembered the previously dis-
closed trading loss of £639,249 would
come as no surprise.
To it, though, on the revenue side,
Mr Campbell has added an “amount
written off realty and other stocks,
acquired prior to lune 30, 1961
(£1,408,294) and provision for a loss
pursuant to a guarantee” totalling a net
£1,527,808.
A further debit of charges, expenses
and antecedent provisions not applicable
to 1961-62 (£75,477) brings revenue
carry forward to a debit of £1,947.872.
This is not the full tale, since capital
profits and loss account bears another
debit of £750,154. Mr. Campbell asserts
a careful and rigid distinction between
revenue and capital losses. Best of all,
this distinction will be properly main-
tained in future accounts.
For the present accounts, no asset,
revenue or otherwise, has been in any
way written up, “although definite sur-
pluses are apparent in many instances.”
It can hardly be surprising that some
of the old Mainguard items yielded solid
losses. But the heavy downturn £752,650,
on the sale of the corporation's shares
in C. G. A. Fire and Accident Insurance
Co. Ltd is perhaps evidence of heedless
negotiation—even taking into considera-
tion the necessary alliance with the un-
fortunate Sydney Guarantee Corporation
(In Liquidation) (Receiver Appointed).
We have earlier expressed disapproba-
tion of the boom-lusty attitude towards
special purpose land which in the end
had to endure the heaviest of write-
downs. Here it’s clearly a case of cut
and come again, more sagely.
There can still be plainly descried a
worthwhile parade of assets attesting to
the corporation’s possible growth and
recovery—real estate, housing land,
hotels, pastoral (this last with a hefty
hidden surplus above book values).
It can be no accident that the cor-
poration has held the lending respect of
a hive of institutions and banks.
the world of business
"It's sickening the way you come toadying in here, whining for a raise...
haven't you any self-respect, Dad?"


0
PER ANNUM
5 TO 10 YEARS
R
*
m
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
0% p.a 5-1 Oyrs.
QVz% p.a....... 4 yrs.
8% p.a 3 yrs.
7*A % p.a..;... 2 yrs.
7Vz % p.a. 1 2 mths.
6%P-a... 6 mths'.
Funds may be withdrawn in
a personal emergency as
set out in the Prospectus
NEW
ISSUE
Incorporated under
the Companies Act of
New Sooth Wales on
the S h March, 1950.
Applications for these Notes must be made on
the form attached to the Prospectus which is
now available from
All branches of the Company's Bankers:
THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lons-
dale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House, Corner Wharf
and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68
Grenfell Street.
PERTH: 7th Floor, 81 St. George's Terrace.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Baylis Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from the following Brokers to The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Trustees for the noteholders are the Bankers and Traders Insurance Co. Ltd.
CCISI A/B
Clip and Post Coupon
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the prospectus with
application forms.
NAME
ADDRESS
c^jb
Bricks for Rio
Tn the massive mountain of interests
A of CRA, bricks may seem to rank
well below a variety of metals. But the
£2m. venture into this field by Rio Tinto
at Campbellfield, north of Melbourne,
which is due soon to be producing about
half a million quality face bricks (to be
delivered in packages strapped by steel)
is important nonetheless.
At present the plant is about three-
quarters finished and by the time a
second kiln is eventually installed, capa-
city will be 50m. bricks a year • a
handsome contribution to Victoria’s
building materials.
Melbourne committee
A fter 20 years’ service, Sir lan Potter
has bowed out of the Stock Ex-
change of Melbourne committee by not
seeking re-election last week and in his
stead firm member Mr C. T. Looker is
on for the first time. So is Mr Gerald
Noall, who had a rest from the com-
mittee after his successful year as chair-
man in 1959-60, the third generation of
the Noall family to serve. Mr W. R.
Dougall and Mr A. E. Watkin were re-
elected. Other members are Messrs D.
M. Bennett, A. Campbell, L. J. Day,
L. M. Gillon, R. Hauser, J. C. Johnston
and H. W. Nankervis.
Slow wedding march
IThe original banns were read in mid-
A March, but the conditions of the
marriage between H. C. Sleigh Ltd and
Bitumen and Oil Refineries (Australia)
Ltd are still under debate.
In pre-engagement days, the shares
were quoted at 13s. 3d. for Sleigh and
295. 3d. for Boral. Since then they have
skittered about, but always close to a
two-to-one ratio.
This year’s lows were 10s. sd. and
20s. 6d. respectively, while present prices
are around 11s. lOd. and 235. 9d.
Investors cannot afford to be bored
with the delay, for these prices give
entree to what will be a most influential
house.
Mammoth task for Motels
"Investigators of Motels of Australia
A Ltd may be pardoned for a little
confusion as to the company's earnings.
The sum total of £221,012 is not in
dispute, but the rate is open to several
interpretations. Capitalising the 12i
p.c. dividend paid, the rate is 28.4 p.c.
Including capital issued for Carapark
for the second half year, the earning
rate on average capital is 14.4 p.c.
The company prefers to stick to 19.9
p.c., as the relation of profits of the
parent (old Motels of Australia group
members) to the average capital em-
ployed. On this basis the ss. shares at
Bs. Bd. yield 11.4 p.c. in earnings and
7.1 p.c. in income.
Since balance date the company has
arranged a further loan of £200,000
from Mercantile Credits Ltd, and a
£500,000 loan from another large
institution which also took up 300,000
ordinary shares at 7s. 6d. Otherwise
there are no plans to call on shareholders
for more capital.
Directors assert that any further ex-
pansion must not affect current earnings,
and- that future projects, small relative
to the growth already achieved, should
improve the earnings.
But to maintain 20 p.c. on the new
capital of £2,611,185 will require a 135
p.c. increase in profits to £522,000
a truly formidable task.


: • J
■' j rhsettFmsht Express
W
iPf'*
EVERYTHING GOES . . .
AMSETT
EXPRESS
GETS THERE ON TIME!
For further particulars phone:
Melbourne 68 0541 • Sydney 67 0533 • Adelaide 45 5337 • Canberra 4 6005
Brisbane 47 1481 • Perth 24 4434 • Tasmania-Devonport 2 2659
P»0!4
Investment Opportunity
We are interested in a man with a successful business career behind him, to occupy
an important position in the expansion of a really good business. The position carries an
excellent salary and opportunity for good returns as well.
The work is interesting and varied offering scope for a man of initiative to develop
his earning capacity quickly. A preliminary training period is envisaged where the man
selected will get every opportunity to judge potential to his own satisfaction.
There is no manufacturing, and previous experience is not necessary.
Please write initially, setting out personal details, experience, etc., to:
5146, BULLETIN.
Average result for engineer
lndustries Ltd never quite
fulfils expectations. After a good
year in 1960-61, the company now re-
port a profit reversal of 17 p.c.. The
latest earning rate is 10.5 p.c. giving fine
margin for the 9 p.c. dividend.
Interim report was of improved trad-
ing, and the report for the year to June
30 confirms this, but adds that costs
rose, and a new research division was
introduced.
The progressive conclusion of the
RAN frigate contract has been partly
compensated for by new products in the
heavy engineering division.
The price of 6s. 7d. for the ss.
shares to yield 6.8 p.c. is about average
for this company and the industry.
“Twisties” Come to ’Change
T atest earnings cover looks good for
the forecast 10 p.c. dividend on the
ss. shares of General Foods Corporation
Ltd, maker and distributor of Twisties
and other popular food items, to be
placed soon at ss. 2id. plus brokerage
and stamp, by Melbourne brokers John
N. Robertson, Thompson and Company.
Earnings have risen strongly since
1959-60’s 5.3 p.c. to 12.2 p.c. in 1960-61
and 17.8 p.c. last year on present capital
of £200,000.
Assets backing for the shares of this
up-and-coming company in the foods field
—it is not related to the US concern of
the same name, but owned wholly in Aus-
tralia—is 4s. 6d. a share.
Shares being placed rank for dividend
from July 1962 and will receive interim
dividend expected in March next year.
Plenty to cheer him up
Victorian MP Mr Peter Garrisson
" knocking so loudly on the board
room door and familiar mining faces
like Julius Kruttschnitt and J. Malcolm
Newman victims of the new Companies
Act, Mr K. A. Cameron cannot be so
happy with affairs at Mount Morgan.
But there is plenty to cheer him up
in Melbourne where at 100 Collins St.
he chairs the mineral sands (and now tin)
ventures of Western Titanium NL. True
to its promise Western Titanium has been
stepping up both its production and
shipments of ilmenite on a massive scale
to fill its big contract at higher prices
than last year with Laporte Titanium
Ltd.
W. T.’s production of ilmenite for the
three months to November 1, was about
50 p.c. higher than in a similar period
last year, while its shipments of 43,206
tons in the period were more than a
third higher than current production.
Also on the beach sands front things
are looking up for Westralian Oil whose
up-to-date plants operate around the
same territory in WA. After many years
in the doldrums both in oil search and
beach sands, Westralian Oil looks to have
a big plum in its contracts for the sale
of ilmenite to British Titan products of
the UK.
Recently the company stated it hoped
to get a net return of £130,000 in the
current year without taking into account
possible sales of leucoxene (a low qual-
ity substitute for ilmenite) which could
add another £lOO,OOO.
Last year Westralian Oil incurred a
net loss of £12,758 and an even bigger
one the year before that.
Novel financing technique
T usty newcomer, Olims Consolidated
Ltd, has novel financing techniques.
One month after directors’ announcement
that bonus issues would be made at
appropriate times so long as the earning
rate could be kept about 20 p.c. per
annum, it announced a plan for a six-
for-ten issue of ss. deferred shares at a
premium of ss.
Three months later all shareholders will
be entitled to a one-for-four bonus of
ordinary shares, which will rank equally
with existing ordinaries. The deferred
shares do not rank for dividend until
January 1, 1966.
The market valuation of the rights to
the deferred shares will be a puzzling
exercise in higher mathematics.
But a purchaser of ten ordinary shares
at 18s. 6d. will pay 10s. each for six
deferred shares and receive four bonus
shares, averaging down to 12s. 3d. each.
When these are all paying dividends to
him in 1966 his yield will be 5.1 p,c.
but in the interim his return is 3.4 p.c.
(Deferred shares rank equally for cash
and bonus issues).
The company impresses with its dyn-
amic management. The trend to stream-
lining of paperwork by private and pub-
lic institutions makes this supplier of
sensitised photocopying paper, chemicals
and equipment very attractive to inves-
tors.


COMPANY ANALYSIS
ENGINEER REASONABLE BUYING
By “Security”
(Castlemaine) Ltd is
certainly not very well known to
investors and the fact that it is engaged
in an industry which lacks investment
glamour probably means that it has
missed the public eye despite the new
issue at a 100 p.c. premium made in
June, 1961.
The present company was formed in
1946 and shares were issued to the public
during December of that year. The
business was founded nearly a century
earlier and was first incorporated as a
proprietary company during 1913. In
1949- the company made a l-for-3
issue to ordinary shareholders and a 2-
for-5 issue of preference shares to
preference shareholders, followed in
1950- by a l-for-4 issue of ordinary
shares and another 2-for-5 issue of
preference shares to the preference
shareholders. Ten years then elapsed
before any further capital was raised and
in May, 1961, an ordinary share issue
in the ratio 35-for-100 was made at a
20s. premium.
The company's main works, which
incorporate foundries, forges, machine
shop, toolroom, is situated at Castle-
maine, Victoria, and at Williamstown
there is a branch works which has
tended to specialise in the manufacture
of pressure vessels. The company is
essentially a manufacturer of heavy
engineering equipment. Its products
include equipment for electric power
generation and transmission, heavy
forgings for railways (as well as railway
points and crossings for which a new
shop was erected at Castlemaine in
1958), pressure vessels for oil refining,
etc., and bucket dredges for mining.
This is sufficient to indicate that the
company supplies a fairly wide range of
secondary and primary industry as well
as the governmental authorities.
Tn October, 1961, Thompsons (Castle-
maine) was appointed a major sub-
contractor by Bovine and Co. (ANZ)
Pty Ltd for the Murray 1 station on the
Snowy scheme. Under this sub-contract
Thompsons will supply about half of the
Australian-made items required for the
station. Previously the company had
secured a contract to manufacture the
majority of the points and crossings for
the Sydney-Melbourne standard gauge
railway. No doubt the experience gained
in the Snowy contract will put the com-
pany in a strong position to obtain
further contracts in the future and there
is, of course, considerable pressure at
the moment for conversion of other rail-
way lines to standard gauge.
The new issue mentioned earlier was
made partly to finance the purchase of
Williamstown Engineering Company, a
steel fabricator and one of the biggest
contractors for the erection of the
carbon black plant at Altona. The
balance of the funds raised was to make
the necessary extensions to the buildings
of the acquired business. During the five
years prior to this acquisition the com-
pany appears to have spent nearly
£440,000 on additions to fixed assets,
financed entirely out of retained profits.
During this same period it has also found
a further £240,000 approximately to
finance an increase in working capital.
this sizeable plough-back for
a company whose paid capital during
the period was only £507,000, the
dividend payout was increased by 50 p.c.
in 1958-59. It is well worth pointing
out that even disregarding the small
bonus content in the rights issue of June,
1961, dividend payout over the last ten
years has increased by 87i p.c. from
increases in the dividend rate alone. This
means that on average a shareholders’
income has been increasing at the
average annual compound rate of 61-
p.c. per annum.
If the company can reproduce this
result over the next 10 years (and if
afterwards the rate of increase is halved),
the present price of about 575. 6d. would
show an ultimate return of 91 p.c. per
annum.
This return is so attractive in com-
parison with the maximum which would
seem possible from many of our leading
“growth” stocks that one wonders why
the shares are not more highly priced.
Naturally there are a number of factors
which will determine the price of a
share, one of which is the “availability”.
One factor which is important is the
trend in per share earnings and in
Thompsons’ case recent trends have been
downwards. The following figures show
the trends in earnings and dividends over
the last seven years:
Shillings
Year to 30th
June 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Earnings per
share 6.66 7.18 6.56 5.64 5.44 3.92
Dividend per
share 2.00 2.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00
Even if we make allowances for the
fact that the reorganisation of Williams-
town Engineering meant that it did not
make any worthwhile contribution to
profits during 1961-62, the downward
trend seems to have been in evidence
since 1957-58.
This in confirmed by the trends in
net operating income as a percentage
of total capital employed (at the begin-
ning of the year):
Year to 30th
June 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Percentage 24.7 27.5 23.5 20.8 20.1 17.4
These figures suggest that the down-
ward trend has been evident over the
whole period (if we ignore the fluctua-
tion in 1956-57 and 1957-58).
There is little justification on these
trends for attributing “growth" prospects
to the company at this point of time.
Share prices over the last four years
suggest that the minimum yield that
an investor is prepared to accept from
this stock is about 4.9 p.c. or the
maximum price is 61s. 3d. With the
long and satisfactory post-war record one
feels that despite the disappointing profit
ratio trends the shares would be reason-
able buying up to 605., particularly as
the 15 p.c. dividend is still covered
over 1.3 times in what appears to have
been a difficult year and even with fixed
assets well written down net tangibles
would appear to be about 495. per share.
Significant Ratios
1956-8 = 100
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 104 97 108 147 131
Current liabilities 93 71 84 128 121
Working capital 11l 121 132 133 161
Fixed assets 108 112 112 121 161
Intangibles 100 100 100 100 400
Total capital 108 115 120 144 161
Deferred provisions 91 87 81 75 106
Preference capital 100 100 100 100 100
Ordinary capital 100 100 100 100 135
Reserves 126 143 156 168 206


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phoner 6089.
LANCS GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: Bff 5121
Telegrams and Cables:
"LAGRAM,” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members ol the Sydney Stock Exchange
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5957 (7 lines)
43 Northbourne Ave.
City. Canberra, A.C.T.
\ 0365-66
Flinders House, Crown St., Wollongong
B 5900
Telegrams and Cables:
"Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc..
J. VV. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road
Melbourne
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Telephones: 51-6243, 51-6245
Est. 1939
RALPH W. KING & YU ILL
Members of Sydney Stock Exchange
W. KEITH YU ILL—KEITH C. PHILLIPS
lAIN C. WALTON—GORDON G. KING
WALTER 1. SUMMONS
WILLIAM S. SHUGG
33 BLIGH STREET. 2-0137
84 William Street, Melbourne. 67-5089
340 Queen Street, Brisbane. 31-2191
Telegrams and Cables: “Ralphking ”
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Grafton
and Tamworth
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
LI/’ith a Duke here and a Duke there,
" it’s not easy to concentrate on the
sharemarket, particularly if you have a
bit of a “thing” about cricket or swim-
ming. Needless to say the market has
remained unmoved by these frivolities.
In fact, all those optimistic forecasts
and statistics early last week actually
had the effect of putting the market
down. In the first three days of the week
the Sydney Stock Exchange’s ordinary
share price index actually shed three
points.
It took some really bad news to get the
market moving up again. That happened
on Thursday, the day we heard of L. J.
Hooker’s multi-million pound loss, the
Rockmans debenture debacle and the
Government investigation into Sydney
Guarantee and others. “The blackest day
in Australian company history,” as the
“Financial Review” called it. On the
strength of all this, the index rose two
points.
All just a little baffling.
Maybe I should have demonstrated my
rock-solid conservatism by buying some
BHP when they went under 50s. But the
market's disenchantment with BHP has
been too prolonged for my liking.
What nearly did tempt me last week
was F. W. Williams’ bid for Sargood
Gardiner. F. W. Williams is offering 275.
6d. cash for each of Sargood’s 20s. ord-
inary shares. Now, Sargood is one of
those companies whose only drawback is
a rather serious one —a complete inability
to earn worthwhile profits. But it has
assets, largely in the form of a valuable
building in York Street, Sydney. In fact,
the assets give the ordinary shares a
book value of 675. Bd. each. So that
F. W. Williams, whose 10s. shares are
selling at about 325. 6d., is hardly letting
its head go in offering 275. 6d. a share.
Sargood’s directors aren’t rushing
things, either, in giving their opinion on
the offer. Wisely they seem to be play-
ing a waiting game, presumably in the
hope of attracting a counter bid, or at
least a better one from F. W. Williams.
But in view of my previous unfortunate
experiences with this sort of venture, I
resisted the temptation to buy any Sar-
goods.
A more certain proposition looked to
be L.N.C. A sunburnt vision limped up
to me the other day unable to contain
his enthusiasm about this stock. He
pointed out that although profit fell to
£106,000 last year (equal to only nine
p.c. on capital), this was after deducting
losses of £128,000 on the Audio Visual
subsidiary.
Directors are now getting rid of this
expensive little toy and claim they have
fully provided against the possibility of
any further losses. The absence of this
loss alone should double LNC’s profit this
year. But not only should the Audio-
Visual loss be non-recurring; it should
also give LNC a very worthwhile tax
benefit in the current year. On top of this
LNC should be having a much better
year with its Volkswagen distributorship
in NSW. Volkswagen sales this calen-
dar year are up 50 p.c. on last year.
All this constituted a pretty attractive
proposition to a Volkswagen owner of
some year's standing—so many years in
fact, that the NRMA was recently
pleased to put a value of only £325 on
my 1957 model. (As if that wasn’t bad
enough, they added insult to injury by
noting tersely: “Requires some atten-
tion.” Pity they don't keep remarks like
that to themselves.)
Be that as it may, I ordered 2000 LNC
contributing shares during the week and
got them, over a period of a day or two,
at an average price of 2s. Bd.
To pay for these I sold my 50 Ship-
ping News rights and my 400 Avala
shares. A new issue from Avala was
something I had not bargained for and,
frankly, I didn't like the sound of such a
big issue (one-for-two) at a premium of
2s. 6d. so early in this company’s public
history. I sold out at 11s.
BOUGHT
2000 LNC ctg. at 2s. 8d £275
SOLD
400 Avala at 11s £215
50 Shipping News rights
at 12s. 3d £3O
These two sales left me exactly square
(so to speak). This is how 1 wanted to be
because next week I will be presenting my
third annual report. Every effort will
be made to conform with the new Com-
panies Act.
The portfolio as my financial year
draws to a close is:—
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Pries
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 26/-
400 Mai leys 3/5/62 20/9 23/-
2,000 Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11 8/-
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 26/6
300 Marcus Clark notes 22/6/62 27/6 39/6
100 CSR 1/8/61 49/- 50/9
400 AWA 10/8/62 20/- 19/9
1,000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9 5/6
100 AOG 27/8/62 55/6 53/9
1,000 AN I 14/9/62 4/- 4/2
400 Western Mining 19/9/62 15/9 18/9
200 Shipping News 20/9/62 24/- 22/9
1,000 Vesta 27/9/62 3/9 2/9
500 Kauri 11/10/62 6/6 7/9
400 Waned 11/10/62 12/8 12/8
400 Nightingale 17/10/62 14/11 17/-
400 Aeron 1/11/62 12/ 12/11
400 Functional 2/11/62 7/7 8/-
1,000 Prasby 8/11/62 2/8 2/11
1,000 A. G. Campbell
rights 9/11/62 6/9 6/9
400 Jacoby Mitchell 12/11/62 15/- 15/6
200 Waugh &
Josephson 14/11/62 16/6 17/3
2,000 LNC 23/11/62 2/8 2/9


MINING
BRIGHTER PROSPECTS FOR "BARRIERS"
Though nobody is saying that the
better world statistical position of
lead and the reasonably satisfactory one
in zinc presages that the long-term pro-
blem of oversupply of both these metals
is on the way to solution, share markets
have rightly been giving a lift to the
Barrier mining companies producing
these metals.
The recent International Lead-Zinc
Study Group meeting in Geneva forecast
that this year new supplies of lead would
fall 75,000 tons short of demand, and
new supplies of zinc were expected to
be slightly in excess of demand but not
significantly in relation to this year’s
world consumption of 2.75 million tons.
The current statistical position of lead
is very much improved on the two pre-
vious years when there were 100,000 ton
surpluses of new supplies. World stocks
of lead have fallen 60.000 tons this year
and are only high in the United States.
Looking ahead to the middle of 1963,
the meeting took the view that demand
and supply would be in approximate ba-
lance, with demand not growing as fast
as the surprising 5 p.c. rise in 1962
(3 p.c. has been the average rise in lead
consumption in recent years) and
supplies increasing somewhat faster than
this year.
In contrast to lead, world zinc stocks
are on the rise now and the Study Group
expects to see this trend continuing well
into next year, because the increase in
world demand has slowed to about 3k
p.c. as against a 6 p.c. rate of increase
last year. At the same time world output
has been rising more rapidly this year.
Backed by these findings, chairmen of
Barrier companies have been extolling
the improvement in prospects, while a
spokesman at 95 Collins Street told The
Bulletin that the non-ferrous mining
industry was reasonably assured with the
outlook for both metals on most counts
though not on the score of price.
It is not so long ago (1959) that the
former chairman of New Broken Hill
Consolidated, the late Mr L. B. Robin-
son, reaffirmed that from the producers’
viewpoint a “satisfactory” combined
price for lead and zinc was £stg. 175. So
it is worth recalling that the combined
price averaged only £stg.l6l 9s. in
1960, dropped to £stg.l42 last year and
is currently around a mere £stg.l24
with lead £stg.s4£ a ton and zinc
£stg.69i a ton. At this time last year
lead was £stg.s9? and zinc £6B a ton.
This attrition in the combined price,
coupled with the continuance of restric-
tions on production at the Barrier mines,
led to sharp cuts in dividends. However,
while the price of zinc is not expected
to move much from its present level in
the next few months, cautious optimism
is expressed by the industry for a further
improvement in lead from the low point
of £stg.so a ton reached in August.
It now remains to be seen whether
the substantial rises in mine output since
March, albeit without much assistance
from prices, are going to restore profita-
bility sufficiently to warrant the Barrier
companies restoring the dividend cuts.
(Both Broken Hill South and North
Broken Hill have cut their interims for
the current year).
Without an improvement in world
prices, or at least some firmer hope of it,
for both lead and zinc and sounder
justification that Australian producers
will, in the absence of restrictions on
production here (they were lifted on
March 31 this year), win out in the
inevitable rat race for world markets in
the event of world surpluses emerging
again, present optimism could prove
short lived.
very body is wary of the effect of the
Common Market. Mr E. Cohen,
chairman of Electrolytic Zinc, says in the
recent annual report the proposed final
common external tariff of the EEC is
£A6 a ton for zinc metal (ores and con-
centrates being duty free), but the UK
is seeking to have zinc metal admitted
duty free, as in the case of lead metal.
Equally some experts, such as Dr J.
A. Dunn writing in “Mine and Quarry
Mechanisation,” think that no solution
of the problem of the long-term surplus
of lead is in sight.
In the meantime. Australian producers
are going fiat out to catch up on output
lost during the restrictions lifted in
March. The latest 12 weeks output of
New Broken Hill shows an increase of
nearly 50 p.c. in ore milled, compared
with the like period last year, a more
than doubling of gross lead and silver
outputs and a rise of about a third in
zinc concentrates recovered.
Similar increases are recorded by Zinc
Corporation (a subsidiary of CRA which
also has a 32 p.c. interest in New
Broken Hill).
Mr Lindesay Clark told the BH South
meeting early in November that the
company had liftted mine output bv
about 50 p.c. so far this year and that,
with the higher production, costs per ton
had been reduced substantially.
Output increases have not been as
spectacular as this at North Broken Hill
this year, but the company has been
working at a higher and increasing rate
of output since March and with the
hoisting of ore from the No 3 shaft
commencing early in October a further
big increase in output is proceeding.
Mr M. L. Ballieu told the recent
meeting that the importance of the com-
pletion of the No 3 shaft, which was
commenced as far back as 1948, “cannot
be overstated” from the viewpoint of
shareholders.
HThe only big Barrier mining company
A wholly wrapped up in the future of
lead and zinc these days is New Broken
Hill Consolidated, whose investment in-
come is relatively insignificant, (inter alia
it owns 25 p.c. of Sulphide Corporation)
so it is perhaps right that its ss. shares
should have been making the best res-
ponse lately in a market sprinkled with
a little more optimism about the future
of these metals.
North's 10s. (fully paid) shares at 18s.
3d. and South's ss. shares (fully paid) at
10s. 6d. have also been sought after.
Both companies have mighty investment
portfolios, valuable tie-ups in smelting
and fabricating, and substantial interests
in the rapidly moving Alcoa project.
Norths look the more interesting in view
of the completion of its No. 3 shaft.
Zinc Corporation, of course, went out
of direct investors’ sight into Consoli-
dated Zinc a dozen years ago and be-
came more submerged still in the re-
cently formed amalgam of CRA.
In the case of Electrolytic Zinc, which
gets into the lead-zinc act both for its
being the one public smelting (Risdon)
company and for its West Coast (Tas.)
mining operations, the future is tied
mainly to zinc and (less so) to lead, with
superphosphate and ammonium sulphate
also important and investment income
from a sizeable portfolio helping to a
minor degree.
This company is full of confidence
now with its successes in exporting zinc
over the last year in face of the chal-
lenge from Cockle Creek (Sulphide Cor-
poration) in the local market. (Cockle
Creek is believed to have some market-
ing problems of its own at the mo-
ment.)
Finally, far beyond Barrier horizons,
Mt Isa Mines Ltd must be considered as
another company likely to reflect to
some degree the better outlook for lead
and zinc. But as the company didn't fall
in line with the lead-zinc output res-
trictions of the Barrier mines up to
March this year, its main hope lies in a
higher price, not so much in an ex-
pansion of output.
Early in November the chairman, Mr
G. R. Fisher, joined in the chorus of
optimism on prices, saying that prices
should be higher by this time next year.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
BONDS INDUSTRIES LTD
STRONG DESPITE IMPORTS
As the largest knitted cotton maker in
Australia, Bonds Industries Ltd has
endured the cold blast of imports com-
petition better than others in the in-
dustry. But it would be foolish to believe
that it has not been affected.
Sales for the year ended June 27,
1962 were slightly lower than in the
1960 record year. But since then £1.2
million has been expended on a fine
spinning mill at Wentworthville, which
was in production for the full period
1961-62.
Nevertheless declared profit improved
in 1962 from £403,096 to £412,556,
after providing £40,110 less for tax at
£302,590, and £58,933 more for de-
preciation at £250,470. The latest re-
sult was arrived at after also charging
£lO,OOO for fluctuation in stock values,
£2,530 for fluctuation in investment
values, £8,500 for doubtful debts and
£15,000 for Bonds’ share of the cost
of applying for a TV licence with J.
Fielding and Co. Ltd.
That net result, of course, has been
exceeded in three previous years, 1958,
1959 and 1960. The latest earning rate
of 30.5 p.c. is again highly satisfactory
in its margin over the usual 124 p.c. divi-
dend.
All this is a far cry from the profit
of £8,663 ten years ago when ordinary
dividend had to be omitted due to a
temporary lapse in profit-making.
The most detailed group balance sheet
yet published was put out for 1961-62,
but was unaccompanied by a chairman’s
printed address. The accounts reveal for
the first time a £750,000 provision for
fluctuation in the value of stocks, which
left a net value of £1,448,291 com-
pared with the opening figure of
£1,630,996.
Holding £1,120,000 in fixed deposits
and at call, plus £70,000 in Common-
wealth Bonds compensates for the ap-
parent decline in the working capital
position.
The one-for-five issue of 20s. shares
at 10s. premium was not fully paid until
November 28, 1962, so the extra divi-
dend charge in 1961-62 was nominal.
The group spins, dyes and bleaches
cotton which is supplied to outsiders
and to subsidiaries which make up under-
wear, sportswear, baby wear and towels,
in plants at Camperdown, Wentworth-
ville, Five Dock and Dee Why in Sydney
and at Cessnock and Port Kembla. The
latter plant was opened in 1961-62, and
productivity has shown improvement.
Australian spinners are at a disad-
vantage compared with the UK and
Japan, for instance. They cannot afford
to specialise and must handle a large
range of counts. As the textile industry
is also highly labour consuming, and
wages are relatively high, Bonds has
found that it can compete only by taking
advantage of technological changes, and
aiming for the highest productivity.
An example was the elimination of
the roving process in yarn manufacture
by installation of a new short cut spin-
ning system in the older section of the
Wentworthville mill. This equipment was
the first commercial production unit
supplied by the makers.
Before the latest cash issue the last
capital move was a one-for-four bonus
in October 1957 from revaluation of
assets. Visible reserves as at June 30,
1962, gave each 20s. ordinary share an
asset backing of 535. 2d., strong support
for the current market price of 61s. 6d.,
which yielded 4.1 p.c. in income and
9.9 p.c. on earnings.
Although no capital benefits can be
expected in the short term, the shares
deserve continued support in view of the
statement by the chairman on November
1 that production in all mills and fac-
tories has been restored to the previous
high output.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY, £'ooo
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 2422 2249 2195 2239 2110
less current liabilities 795 735 1139 1440 1476
Working capital 1627 1514 1056 799 634
Investments 364 775 1422 567 1210
Fixed assets 1529 1519 1599 2850 2790
Total captal 520 3808 4077 4216 4634
Represented by:
Loan capital 555 531 517 433 432
Minority interests 6 1111
Preference capital 400 400 400 400 400
Ordinary caoital 1250 1250 1250 1250 1375
Reserves 1309 1626 1909 2132 2426
3520 3808 4077 1216 4634
Depreciation 155 162 182 192 250
Taxation 372 370 441 343 303
Net profit 434 437 461 403 413
Net profit for ords. 406 409 433 375 385
Dividend 156 156 156 156 158
Surplus 250 253 277 219 227
Earning rate 32.5 32.7 34 6 3A 0 s
Dividend rate 121, ]2| 121, 121, 12 \
Dividend yield (a) 7.9 5.0 4.2 4.4 4 2
Price earnings ratio (a) 4.8 7.6 8.6 9,5 9.8
High price (b) 32/6 39/6 58/ 66/6 59/
Low price (b) 21/6 24/ 39/6 46/ 45/
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
J. GADSDEN AUST. LTD
FINE STOCK TO LOCK AWAY
T. Gadsden Australia Ltd can
** justifiably claim that it can package
anything in Australia, for during the
past 87 years it has been specialising
in just that.
The business began in Melbourne in
1875 with the manufacture of calico and
hessian bags, but was later extended to
making plain and printed cans for food,
paints, etc., crown seals for bottles,
canvas goods and stockingette wraps for
the meat trade. It later moved into the
manufacture of multi-wall sacks for
packing cement and fertilizers, and in
1956 acquired Packs Ltd which extrudes
and converts polythene.
Operations were Australasia-wide, but
New Zealand manufacture was handled
by a separate company and in NSW it
was handled by Gadsden-Hughes Ltd.
However, Gadsden Hughes and J.
Gadsden merged in 1958 when the
present company exchanged 11 10s.
shares for every eight 10s. shares in
Gadsden Hughes. This created a group
with a paid up capital of £4,797,878.
Subsequently two cash issues at par,
l-for-8 in 1959 and again in 1961, and
an issue for the takeover of James
Robertson Ptv TJd, have lifted capital
to £6,567,143. all in 10s. ordinary shares.
Outside shareholders also hold 68,000
20s. 5 p.c. preference shares, of which
18,500 shares are redeemable at par on
June 30 of each year with the option of
redeeming an additional 25,000 shares
at a premium of 6d. a share on Decem-
ber 31 and June 30 each year. During
the past two years directors have not
exercised their option in respect of the
additional shares.
During the past year the company
expanded its activities into a previously
untouched but vast market in NSW in
the manufacture of cans for beer. It
also began the canning of soft drinks
for the Tarax group.
Gadsden was successful in winning
the Tooth canning contract, the largest
in NSW, leaving the Tooheys contract
to its competitor, Containers Ltd.
Despite the difficulties throughout
industry generally, the group was able
to lift sales substantially, resulting in
another lift in profit the fourth in
succession.
Result, for the year which ends on
June 30, was £747,781 after deducting
outside shareholders’ interests of £4,844.
In addition there was a capital profit of
£46,364 (£72,435 in 1960/61) trans-
ferred direct to capital profit reserve. Jn
1960/61 profit was £624,102 after out-
side shareholders’ portion of £5,363.
The profit was after an apparently
low tax provision of £427,600 (£329,972


in 1960/61) and £384,025 for deprecia-
tion (£339,169).
Earning rate was up to 11.4 p.c., the
best for eight years, while dividend was
held at 8 p.c. for the eighth successive
year, absorbing £525,371.
The company maintained liquidity
during the year. Stock was cut from
£3,642,022 to £3,112,372, partly offset
by a rise in debtors from £2,398,791
to £2,592,415. Overdraft was down
from £954,874 to £731,352 and deposits
at call from £1,134,562 to £707,272,
but creditors were up from £715,953 to
£948,976.
Issued capital of £6,567,143 is
supported by reserves and surplus profit
totalling £1,798,993, including capital
reserves of £730,650. Subject to
intangible items of £659,236 net
tangible assets of the 10s. ordinary shares
is 11s. 9d.
Land and buildings at £2,939,296
show little movement on the previous
year and are in the books at cost or
1953 valuation less depreciation. Plant,
etc., is £176,187 higher, reflecting the
introducton of the beer canning
machines in NSW and the manufacture
of flip-top cigarette packets in Victoria
for Rothmans.
Since its venture into the plastics
container field, J. Gadsden has been
suggested as a takeover prospect by the
giant Australian Consolidated Industries,
but with much of the capital held by
family interests this is largely discounted.
The company demonstrated its
strength and the virtue of its horizontal
expansion by maintaining its earning
rate at practically an unchanged figure
through the worst of the credit squeeze.
With the general economic pick-up w'ell
under way, the company stands to do
w'ell in the current year.
The shares are currently selling around
18s. 9d. to give a dividend yield of 4.3
p.c. and an earning yield of 6.2 p.c.
At this price they appear a good lock-
away proposition.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £'ooo
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 3584 5861 5625 6033 5707
Less current
liabilities 1697 2689 3075 3390 3118
Working capital 1887 3172 2550 2643 2589
Investments 3 25 250 250
Fixed assets 3242 4748 5689 6283 6553
Intangibles 432 285 649 666 659
Total assets 5564 8205 8913 9842 10051
Represented by:
Ordinary caoital 3187 5391 5837 6567 6567
Reserves 913 1022 1335 1555 1799
Outside
shareholders 214 192 174 155 137
Mortgages 435 600 567 565 548
Notes 815 1000 1000 1000 1000
5564 8205 8913 9842 10051
Depreciation 133 272 333 339 384
Taxation 179 306 404 330 428
Net profit 347 517 623 624 748
Dividend 256 396 467 482 525
Surplus 91 121 156 142 223
Earning rate p.c. 10.9 10.5 10.7 10.4 11.4
Dividend ra*? p.c. 8 8 8 8 8
Dividend yield (a) 5.7 4.4 4.6 5.3 4.3
High price (b) 15/- 19/9 20/- 17/3 20/-
Low price (b) 12/- 14/1 15/6 14/1 15/-
(a) November month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
A J CHOWN HOLDINGS LTD
PALM FOR INFORMATIVE REPORT
A. J. Chown deserves a palm for the
detail of its reporting for the year to
June 30. 1962. Other accounts may be
glossier, but few are as informative.
Chown's report contains a complete
list of the principal activities of subsidia-
ries and companies half-owned, and one
cannot fail to be impressed by the
group's diversification during the last 12
months alone.
Five takeovers during 1961-62, the
most notable of w'hich was James Sandy
(industries) Ltd, and two since balance
date, have spread Chown interests to
glazing, tinplate kitchenware, art jewel-
lery, plastic filament products and mil-
linery.
These have been grafted to the im-
porting and wholesaling of china, glass,
cutlery, toys, plastic footwear, manches-
ter, textiles and knitwear; the wholesaling
and retailing of builders’ hardware in
Sydney, Bankstown, Wollongong, Ultimo,
Grafton, Coffs Harbour, Maclean and
Canberra; the manufacture of veneers
and plywoods at South Grafton for
wholesaling in Sydney; and the manu-
facture of sheet metal products.
Half-interests are held in Precision
Golf Forgings Pty, maker of golf clubs
and accessories, Basil Dynon Pty, whole-
saler of china, glass and cutlery to insti-
tutions, and in Chown House Pty which
owns the 103 York Street freehold. The
parent owns more than half of the capi-
tal of Hardwock House, 48 York Street.
The grow'th of the group is evident in
the multiplication of fixed assets and
investments, as shown in the accompany-
ing table. Current liabilities include
£514,506 unsecured deposits maturing
before next balance date. The loan capi-
tal includes £201.350 call deposits and
£242,964 fixed term deposits maturing
after June 30, 1963.
Loan capital also includes £lOO.OOO
in 71 p.c. notes which will be converted
into ordinary shares on December 31,
1962, bringing paid capital to a tidy
£1 m.
The James Sandy takeover added
£134,111 to share premium reserve.
Asset backing per ss. share has improved
from 10s. to 10s. 4d.
At the 1961 annual meeting directors’
forecast of higher profits but a some-
what lower earning rate on appreciable
higher capital, proved accurate in 1961-
62.
Profit moved up from £123,890 to
£141,188, atter tax of £68,271 and de-
predation £33,127. The tax liability was
reduced by losses of certain subsidiaries
carried forward, but mostly by pre-
acquisition losses of new subsidiaries.
The first half of the financial year was
a relatively poor trading period, but the
second half was distinctly better for sales
and profits, and this trend continues in
1962-63, although the textile subsidiaries
are not as healthy as the rest of the
group.
A complete reorganisation of the sheet
metal business (Chown Bros.) arrested
losses early in 1961-62, but was too late
to produce a profit for the year.
Without knowing the capital involved
in takeovers since balance date, it ap-
pears that dividend commitments for
1962-63 should not be substantially
greater than in the year under review,
as the conversion of notes does not in-
volve a large sum. Directors predict
in a negative way that profits should
show a “very marked advance"’, and one
hazards a guess that the earning rate
will improve on the latest 15.8 p.c.
The 20s. notes which shortly convert
to four shares looks the best value if they
can be picked up for 445., as against
the current share price of 12s. (yielding
5.3 p.c.). The notes collect 9d. interest
in December, whereas four shares should
collect 2s. 6d. in the final dividend of
4-Vd. and a 3d. interim next May, but
the capital gain outweights the income
differential.
The accounts suggest Chown will be
looking for a more permanent form of
finance than unsecured deposits now to-
talling close to £lm., and unless mort-
gages or debenture issues are arranged,
shareholders may be asked to contribute
funds sometime in 1963.
It has been the company’s practice to
make frequent calls on shareholders in
easy ratios. Five such issues have been
made since 1955, the last in late 1960.
ACCOUNT SUMMARY £'ooo
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 735 902 1198 1859 2123
less current liabilities 390 661 859 1185 1297
Working capital 345 241 339 674 826
Fixed assets 231 432 747 873 1304
Investments 52 53 92 183 3u3
Intangibles 37 23 27 91 124
Total capital 665 749 1205 1821 2617
Represented by:
Loan capital 138 117 179 128 601
Minority interests 51 48
Ordinary capital 350 350 500 793 900
Reserves 177 231 526 895 1068
Sales 665 749 1205 1821 2617
Depreciation 10 19 21 27 33
Taxation 57 57 75 78 68
Net. Profit 91 96 114 124 141
Dividends 44 44 63 88 113
Capital profits 1 17 10
Surplus 47 53 51 53 38
Earning rate 25.7 26.1 22.9 17.5 15.8
Dividend rate I2J 12J 122 122
Dividend yield (a) 6.4 4.2 5.0 5.6
Price earnings ratio (a) 7.5 11.3 10.9 12.8 13.7
High price (b) 8/9 10/6 15/3 20/- 12/3
Low price (b) 6/8 7/5 10/9 9/6 10/11
(a) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.


INVESTMENT ADVISORY SERVICE
T>eaders of The Bulletin can use
a personal investment advisory
service.
If you have an investment prob-
lem, write to the Financial Editor,
attaching the coupon at right.
The Bulletin financial staff will
seek out the information you require.
Selected letters of enquiry will be
published (without the names of
writers) together with the Editor's
answers.
All communications will be treated
as confidential.
COUPON
ATTACH REQUEST, AND POST
TO:
FINANCIAL EDITOR,
The Bulletin, BOX 2521 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
NAME
MR
MRS
MISS
ADDRESS:
STATE
THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
From a large number of readers ‘ letters seeking "The
Bulletin's" advice on investment matters, these have been selected
for publication. The balance have been answered personally.
1 am alarmed at Winchcombe Carson’s
failure to cover dividend. Wool prices
were superior to the previous year, and
production was' a record. Also other
woolbrokers like Goldsborough-Elders
increased profit. Should 1 sell Winch-
combe shares on the present market? —■
N.W.P. (Goulburn, NSW).
The lower profit of Winchcombe Car-
son was due to higher operating costs
and lower livestock turnover. It would
be expected that because of better wool
prices, profit should have risen, but v/00l
broking is only a portion of the com-
pany’s activities.
The current year should show an
improvement and costs will be watched
closely. Livestock turnover is rising.
The shares should be held for a rise.
The current price is only a little above
the low points of the last two years.
★ ★ ★
1 have purchased a parcel of ss. shares
in Discount Facilities Ltd, and would be
glad of your views regarding their poten-
tial. J. N. H. (Findon SA).
Discount Facilities is the first Austra-
lian company to specialise in the dis-
counting of bills. It is a well-established
practice overseas. The company has only
reported on trading for the 4+ months
to June 30, 1962, when a satisfactory
earning rate of 17.2 p.c. on a i annual
basis was achieved. At the time of
flotation in Feb. ’62 directors said they
expected earnings to be sufficiently high
in the first year of operations to pay a
dividend. An interim dividend could
therefore be considered next April when
results for the 6 months to Dec. ’62
are known.
When the company was floated in
March 1962 the issue was heavily over-
subscribed, so it can only be the slack-
ness of the market generally which has
allowed the shares to drift below par.
The 10 p.c. interest held by Lensworth
Finance Ltd (itself 40 p.c. owned by
Elder Smith) added prestige to the float.
The company looks an interesting
venture in a new field. Stay with it until
you have a better measure of manage-
ment.
★ ★ ★
1 have £2OO to invest in shares for
short to medium term capital growth.
What do you recommend, and what are
your views on Motels of Australia? —
D.M. (Lismore, NSW).
Your £2OO will buy parcels of shares
in several companies offering good capi-
tal growth prospects over the next 12
months or so. In this category we re-
commend Braemar Industries, Strata,
Woolworths and Bisley Clothing. A
holding of 200 shares in each of these,
at current prices, will give you some
dividend return as well as the prospect
of capital advancement.
Motels of Australia is probably the
best of all the listed motel companies.
It did particularly well in 1961-62, but
about now should consider consolidation.
The company has plans for a motel-
hotel right in the heart of Sydney, but
this might be a little beyond its capacity,
although directors will not proceed with
the venture until all their plans have
been thoroughly checked by experts. At
current prices the shares are a sound
investment.
★ ★ ★
Please advise me of the ways and
means of investment, starting from the
basic principles. I would appreciate a
brief list of the sources of information.
—G. McC. (Maroubra, NSW).
The principles of successful investing
are multitudinous and cannot be grasped
in three easy lessons. However, share-
brokers are trained to give the advice
which you seek. Their advice is free
and without obligation.
The only charge that is made is a
brokerage charge added to all transac-
tions, both buying and selling. Write to
the Secretary of Sydney Stock Ex-
change and he will send you a list of
sharebrokers. All are governed by a code
of ethics.
Should you want to learn more about
investing the Stock Exchange runs a
series of classes on the subject. Again
the Stock Exchange secretary will help
you and give you the required informa-
tion. The Research Bureau of the Ex-
change also has a few brochures which
broadly explain share investment.
★ ★ ★
What is your opinion of Ralph
Symonds Ltd, Bisley Clothing Ltd and
Australian National Industries at present
prices? — C. B. (Parkes).
Of the three companies Bisley Clothing
is enjoying the best trading results.
ANI at current prices offers some
prospects of capital appreciation but re-
mains in the realm of speculation.
Bisley profit fell in 1961-62 due to
higher tax and depreciation but the cur-
rent year looks much better. The com-
pany, because it does not itself manu-
facture but contracts the work out, is in
a much better position to control ex-
penses. At 7s. lOd. the shares are a good
holding proposition. Recent purchase of
a loss company will enable a substantial
profit rise this year.
ANI has been hit by two years of
falling profits and the passing of the
dividend last year. However, on current
indications the company could return to
the dividend list later this year. For that
reason, the shares at 4s. sd. offer pros-
pects of capital appreciation.
Ralph Symonds results are not due
out for about another four weeks, but
a fall in profit appears certain. Dividend
could be reduced from the 12i p.c. paid
in the six previous years.
At 6s. 9d. the price could go lower,
but at anything around 6s. they must
be worth picking up for future recovery.


ONE TO BUY
TYREE INDUST.
FACES
BRIGHT FUTURE
HPyree Industries Ltd sprang a surprise
A last May by announcing its inten-
tion to lift the year's dividend from 10
to 12J p.c., without paying an interim
dividend.
The final results for the year to June
30 appeared a month ago showing a 27
p.c. increase in profit from £47,491 to
£77,095 progress indeed from the
loss of 1958. Tax provision was a solid
looking £53,745, and depreciation and
amortisation £18,614.
The company is one of the major
manufacturers of power distribution and
rectifier transformers. As Australian
electricity consumption is increasing at
the rate of 8 p.c. each year, or doubling
in nine years, the market for transfor-
mers is a dynamic one.
Plants are located at Kingsgrove
(NSW) and Hendon (SA), supplying the
needs of Electricity Authorities in all
States of Australia. As all production is
to orders, no finished products are
carried, but Government departments
are apt to order at irregular intervals
and export business is therefore being
pursued in South East Asian countries.
An exclusive Australasian licence to
make large power transformers to the
US Westinghouse design was announced
last week.
Several orders have been placed with
Tyree for underground transformers,
which have operated successfully in
Europe but are novel to Australia. The
first one produced by Tyree went into
operation about six weeks ago.
Production is roughly divided into
three sections according to the size of
the transformer. Only one is considered
to be at present working below capacity.
The larger units do face competition
from imports, but Australian producers
have no trouble in satisfying the domes-
tic market for the smaller units.
Earning rate of 33.0 p.c. on capital
of £233,576 gives the ss. shares (listed
only in Sydney) a higher earnings yield
(9.2 p.c.) than other similar companies.
The income yield of 3.5 p.c. from the
present price of 18s. could be increased
next year by a dividend increase, if pre-
sent favorable trading conditions con-
tinue.
Intangibles of £16,396 were written
off in 1961-62, and net tangible asset
backing was reinforced from ss. 9d. to
6s. lid. per ss. share.
MARKETING
ADS OF "FATUOUS FLAPDOODLE"
BY ROGER WELCH
A dvertising has changed over the
years. Everything has, of course.
But has advertising changed for the
better?
Once upon a time advertisements were
unpretending and unadorned. They told
the story and they sold the goods. But
that was long ago. Then too many cooks
got to the advertising broth, and turned it.
in many cases, into a stew of inedible
goo.
To labor the point, let's take a hypo-
thetical product and see what can happen
to it in a few decades.
Fifty or sixty years ago, a man went
to the office of an advertisement agent
and he said: —
“I want to advertise my product.”
“What is it called?” asked the agent.
“Brindle's Horse Wart Remover.”
“What does it do?
“It removes warts from horses.”
So the advertisement writer wrote.
“BRINDLE'S HORSE WART RE-
MOVER REMOVES WARTS FROM
HORSES.”
There it was: a simple message, simply
stated. There was no ambiguity. People
learnt about the product, and those who
had horses afflicted with warts bought it,
and the manufacturer prospered.
Prosperity made the manufacturer a
patron of art. He demanded an illustra-
tion in his advertisement. “I want,” he
said, “a picture of a horse.”
So a line block of a horse was added
to the advertisement: and thus a note of
vagueness was introduced .... only one
horse perforce could be illustrated (a
Clydesdale) which inferred that the rem-
edy was ineffective for other breeds.
Then came the vogue of putting pic-
tures of babies in advertisements.
Cherubic children publicised Robinson's
Patent Barley, and “Arnott’s Bonny
Babies” were so chubby-cheeked you
could scarcely see their mouths. Brindle
decided to delete the horse from the
advertisement and insert a baby picture
instead. “Even a Child Can Use It!” was
added as an explanatory caption.
This further obscured the sales message,
It implied that children could apply
Brindle’s Wart Remover to their own
warts which proved a painful practice.
In due season, the fashion in advertis-
ing changed to the “pretty girl appeal.”
The Gibson Girl, pigeon-breasted and
big-bustled, was featured in hundreds of
advertisements. Brindle’s was amongst
them. The girl in the Brindle advertise-
ment had a blotchy complexion due to
poor process engraving, and she had a
balloon coming from her lips saying, “I
Am So Glad I Put Brindle's Horse Wart
Remover On Black Beauty.”
It may have stopped misunderstandings
to state that the stuff was strictly for
horses.
So it went on: each fresh approach got
farther from the straight-forward selling
story.
In course of time, the trend of advertis-
ing turned to the ‘"human interest" type of
appeal. During this stage, fine line draw-
ings were de rigueur, with copy dripping
with prosy poesy. Accordingly. Brindle's
advertisement showed a rural scene, with
trees and rippling rills and a young couple
unloading a picnic basket while their
horses nibbled the grass. The hand-let-
tered text was enclosed in a scroll, and it
read. “How lovely it is to be out in the
woods, “far from the madding crowd.’
After a smart gallop. Gwyneth and
Humphrey are ‘hungry as horses.' What
‘goodies’ have they got n their lunch
basket? Pigeon pie and cold collation and
a "bottle of the best.’ And. of course,
they have not forgotten to bring
‘Brindle's Horse Wart Remover’.”
Lured by the advertisement, misguided
people ate Brindle's Horse Wart Remover
on bread and butter and it made them
sick.
Advertising specialists now began to
achieve public acceptance, if not social
standing. They applied scientific selling to
Brindle’s product, and in due course gave
birth to the slogan, “Not A Horse Wart
Remover But A Way Of Life.” This con-
fused anyone who simply wanted a horse
wart remover.
The years slipped by and Brindle's sales
slipped as well. So a research organisa-
tion was called in to find out why. After
much diligence and expense, it came up
with the answer that even a backward
sparrow knew: horses had been super-
seded by motor transport.
Then a score or more merchandising
experts and packaging consultants and
space salesmen and assorted soothsayers
got into the act. The name of the pro-
duct was changed to Brindle's Car Polish
and it was marketed as a polish for motor
cars.
But do the modern masterminds of ad-
vertising use the phrase (strong in ; ts
pristine simplicity) “Brindle's Car Polish
Polishes Cars”? No! The advertisement
features an astronaut in a spaceship,
flanked by a thousand words of fatuous
flapdoodle.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
"UNDERCOVER" OPPOSITION TO
RABBIT CONTROL
/Commercial rabbit trappers, usually
regarded as a powerful lobby
against effective rabbit eradication
schemes, come under indirect criticism
in a leaflet issued by CSIRO and State
rabbit control authorities.
The leaflet states that commercial
trapping, like inadequate poisoning,
does not kill a very high proportion of
the rabbit population and often merely
makes the problem worse by stimulating
the breeding rate.
The leaflet hammers home the point
that “it isn’t the number of rabbits killed
that counts . . . it's the number left
alive”.
And this, too, could be interpreted as
a criticism of commercial trappers, as
many trappers deliberately stop short of
“trapping out” an area, leaving enough
rabbits to breed up a fresh population
for next year’s visit.
Australian graziers, of all people,
should be aware of the dangers of the
rabbit and especially of the return of
the rabbit plagues of the past. But every
attempt to organise effective, co-opera-
tive control or eradication campaigns
meets with opposition—not only under-
cover opposition from the rabbit trade,
but from the graziers themselves.
Hence this leaflet, which is going to
tens of thousands of landholders. It
seeks to convince them of the urgent
need for effective rabbit control pro-
grammes.
“The urgency of launching a thor-
oughly effective control programme
must be stressed because if a run of
suitable breeding seasons comes while
Australia’s rabbits are not under effec-
tive control, then, in the absence of
adequate restraint by myxomatosis, the
population will explode into plague
numbers,” the leaflet says.
“Rabbit control has reached a cross-
roads. Present methods, although kill-
ing many individual rabbits, merely tend
to stall off the plague and will never
solve the rabbit problem. Myxomatosis
alone cannot be relied upon to eradicate
the rabbit. The disease is losing viru-
lence and rabbits are developing
resistance.”
The leaflet says “effective control”
means reducing the rabbit population to
a low level at which it may be held
continuously with a minimum of effort.
The ultimate in effective control is, of
course, complete eradication, which can
be accomplished at low cost by neigh-
borly co-operation.
NEW FACILITY
FOR AUST.
MEAT EXPORTS
/Continued access to their traditional
markets is the most urgent need of
many supplying countries such as Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, an American
business executive told meat distributors
in London recently.
Mr A. Thomas Taylor, chairman and
president of the Chicago-based Inter-
national Packers Limited, spoke at the
dedication of a new London facility de-
signed to improve distribution and sales
in the important British market of meat
from Australia and New Zealand,
among major world-wide sources.
The company is an important factor
in the export of lamb, mutton and beef
from New Zealand and Australia to all
parts of the world. The new plant is
equipped to process 60 million pounds
of meat annually.
“The trade channels must be kept
open for all supplying countries, with
particular attention to the needs of such
economies as those of Australia, New
Zealand, Brazil and Argentina”, Mr
Taylor said. “Providing opportunities
for self help is the best method to com-
bat the creeping virus of international
communism, and so help prevent en-
croachments on the free world such as
Soviet domination of Cuba.”
At the new London plant, located
near Smithfield Market, imported as
well as domestic beef, lamb and mutton
will be processed. Meat will be cut and
boned to customers’ specifications. The
installation consists of 130,000 square
feet of floor space and provides 159,000
cubic feet of freezer storage space. The
company’s London headquarters will be
located in the building.
NO SWEET "COP”
IN HONEY
T>eekeeping is certainly not the
** steadiest and most profitable occupa-
tion in Australian primary industry.
Indeed, most commercial apiarists would
rank even lower than poultry farmers
on bankers’ lists of credit risks.
There is always something wrong in
the bee business. If Red China isn’t
knocking the bottom out of the inter-
national honey market, there is disease
in the hives. And there’s no certainty
about honey production from one year
to the next.
Take Victoria, for example. Over the
last five years honey production has
varied from 5 million lb. to 10 million lb.
Everything depends on the honey
“flows”. Last season everything “clicked”
—and there was a phenomenal flow of
honey in the red gum forests the full
length of the Victorian Murray.
These red gum flows usually occur
only every second year. Often the flow
is in the Upper Murray one year and
the Lower Murray the next. Then some-
times an area will go two years without
a flow and in the third season the whole
Murray will yield honey.
According to Victoria’s 1276 bee-
keepers, this is what happened last
season. The result —a record 10,314,129
lb. of honey.
But a good year last year doesn’t
mean a good one this year; in fact the
opposite tends to be true. There will
be very little red gum honey this season
and present prospects are grim—at least
until the autumn.
Honey prices have been woefully low
in recent years—chiefly due to stiff com-
petition on the world market where
about half of our production must be
sold. In addition the industry’s market-
ing set-up encourages price-cutting and
the hawking of honey door-to-door at
giveaway prices by apiarists who
desperately need the cash.
Even the important by-product, bees-
wax, is suffering from the general
decline.
Very few of Australia’s registered bee-
keepers make a living out of the
business. Most keep only a few hives in
the backyard and many others are side-
liners with 200 hives or less.
The true migratory apiarist usually
has 300 or more and may range over
three States in his search for honey.
And the number of men making a full-
time living from the game seems to be
dropping. Many oldtimers are giving
it away . . . “There’s not a living in it
any more,” they say.


NOXIOUS PLANT CONTROL
TO RE SYSTEMATISED
recently established Noxious Plants
Investigation Committee has made
its first major decision —to tackle sys-
tematically the eradication of noxious
plants in NSW.
Mr K. R. Green, of the Department
of Agriculture, who is chairman of the
Committee, says it has been decided to:
• Classify noxious plants according to
their harmful effect on the rural
economy of the State and set up an
order of priority of eradication.
• Consider altering or extending the
present system of county council
control over weed eradication acti-
vities.
• Invite immediate submissions from
farmers’ organisations and local
government bodies on weed control
and eradication.
• Consider the question of weeds on
Crown lands and the position of
councils which default in their res-
ponsibilities.
The Committee will send a circular to
councils on the noxious plant problem
inviting comments and suggestions.
£2OOO FOR RAS FLOWERS
donors have given special
prizes and trophies valued at nearly
£.300 in the horticulture section of
Sydney’s 1963 Royal Easter Show. Total
prize money for the section exceeds
£2OOO for more than 1200 classes.
POSITIONS VACANT
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
Preparatory School Master
A vacancy exists for a Master to teach
in the Preparatory School at North Sydney.
Apply in writing to the Headmaster giving
details of career and qualification.
—B. H. TRAVERS, Headmaster.
The King's School, Parramatta
Master required from beginning of First
Term, 1963, qualified to teach Science
and/or Mathematics throughout the Senior
School.
Applications, with copies of two testi-
monials and names and addresses of two
referees, should be sent to the Headmaster.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
TO: WILLIAM JAMES WADE.—TAKE NOTICE
that LELLA IVY WADE has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3248 of 1962 on the ground of
desertion, if you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by the
4th day of January, 1963 and obtain a" copy
of the Petition without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Elizabeth
Stieet, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: ROY EDWARD STEAIN late of Arncliffe,
New South Wales. TAKE NOTICE that
NANCY MAY STEAIN has filed a petition for
divorce No 1260 of 1962 on the ground of
separation. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Si’dney, by Bth
January, 1963 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion and Notice of Petition without charge
from HAROLD MUNRO. Esq., Solicitor, of 81
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. If you do not wish
to defend but wish to obtain copies of all
documents filed herein you must file a notice
of address for service.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
the
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the
rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
A. H. CASH, M.A. (Oxon),
Headmaster.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP
NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: The Co-Respondent, MICHAEL PURCELL.
TAKE NOTICE that JOHN CLIFFORD
DRINKWATER has filed a Petition for
Divorce No 2121 of 1962 on the ground of
your adultery with MARGARET ROSEMARY
DRINKWATER. If you wish to defend you
may enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before Bth day of
January, 1963, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from Moore and
Valkenburg of 9 Bligh Street. Sydney. If you
do not wish to file an Answer but wish to
receive a copy of the document plea in the
proceedings you should file a Notice of
Address for Service on or before such date.
C. A. H HARMS, Registrar.
Matrimonial Causes Act, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: DOUGLAS LYONS BLANCHE, late of
Sydney. TAKE NOTICE that IDA HELEN
BLANCHE has filed a Petition for dissolution
of marriage Number 3286 of 1962 on the
ground of separation. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney, by the 10th day
of January, 1963, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from Messrs HARRIE
R. MITCHELL & EVANS, Solicitors, of 350
George Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
Feiffer
Plod AMP I ORElO op
106eiWBt. W£MT TO
SCHOOL T066THER.60T
OUR FIRST JO&S
Toeemcfz. toeioees
PAl^.
"THEM PICK - &>T PROMOTE? AWP
ioe priftep apart. ; uwe&roop
IJM.CF COURSE. MW6 JOB
LEVEL? JW AN) OFFICE LIKE OORE>
15 FROWMEp OPOfO. ,HO(/JEVER-,
LOO ALUM 6
SAip HEUO
!U THE HALL.
-mu i 6or PRcmev ro
PICK'S Level AMP tUE W6GE
PALS A6AIM. WE HAP A
TAMILS RElXHOM AMP HIS WPS
m M STARTSP PLAPlUS WITH
MH WPS.
THEM DICK SCn PROHOlgp
AfJP wf priftep apabt.
THEM I 6or pRoMotei?
AMP W6 BECAME Pals
A&AINS. them I 50T
PROMOTE P OVER
PICK'S HEAP Ak)P
lOe PRlFTEP APART
pick Mevee cauoht up to
ME. m KV6 auir pla«-
lk)6 o)itk ws kips. S'
IT to ks fRcmw
M. H OUlEVeP
b)€ SOME'
ms saip
HELLO W
THE HALL-
I E££AME pg&oM EU
MAtOA6ER THE i?A4
U)£ LET PICHT 50-
iVi V£Ry 6LAP-
MOW m Ck M
?Ald A6AM.


PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME-
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BUL-
LETIN to be delivered to me each
week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick ( V ) whichever
method of delivery you prefer.
For those desiring direct sub-
scription :
Please find enclosed my cheque/
money order for months
subscription to THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea): 1 year,
£2/12/-; 1/2 year, £l/6/-, post tree; British
Dominions, £3/6/-; other countries, £3/16/-.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS: Remit to Box 965,
Wellington, N.Z.: 1 year, £2/12/-; 1/2 year,
£l/6/- (N.Z currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
ONLY FOUR MORE
WEEKS TO XMAS
"The Bulletin” Crossword No. 721
ACROSS
I—Blue outcome of eating unplucked poultry? (4, 2,
3,5)
8— A little weight demonstrated by one superior oxygen
region associated with love. (5)
9 Ingrates disturbed in an African city. (8)
11—Grant’s adversary put back fish. (3)
13— Measures the initials of “Love’s Labours Lost.” (4)
14— Nude aunts having dessert? (3, 6)
16— Who perform this jinx? (6)
17— Truth unexpected of this back rail. (4)
18— Powerful chemical firm here in France. (3)
20— Irishman v/ith one rib broken.
(6)
21— Type with woollen coats; iron
’em badly. (6)
23—Papal representatives with
capacity attendances. (9)
25 — This makes an American
private love the difference be-
tween the real and nominal
value of coin and paper cur-
rency. (4)
26 Musical twosome of the Gal-
licised circle. (3)
28— They start sink. (8)
29 An islander and I wander
back. (5)
30— Club furnishing a crook who
is somewhat better off than
the Venus di Milo. (3-5, 6)
DOWN
1 — Doctor Love, the animals’
friend, and the side view of
a bed novel over 500 remov-
ed their reasons. (5, 4,3)
2 Textile mill equipment rings
50 ducks in East Sydney. (13)
3 Be within nine of a quad-
ruped. (4)
4 They’re outsize thanks in
cans. (6)
5 A drinking vessel alienated a
great scientist. (8)
6 None nipped you with a
zodiac sign in notes on the
lamented. (10)
7 Socks evident on a prophet.
(5)
10—Not a teddy-boy from the
communist section of York-
shire. (3, 6,4)
12 —Webster, for instance, men-
tioning the French cricket
team business journal is tea.
(12)
15—Roger can dig into listed
errata in a publication. (10)
19—Our cricketers set up tees and
upset Mae. (4, 4)
22—Relative to one goddess. (4)
24 —Operatic funny-man coloured
nothing. (5)
27 —Novel enough for them and
mother. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 720


II
m
m SI m
k
t
o
.
.....
/
■
Wmmm m '
If
.
m mi
Bsn
.
k ,
ss*
■v
..
\ I
i«S
Mi
T< J
flHH
■ k::.
k >1
*
? # x»
?*
. .,5
t
,,vr r - ' . ,
• ■ i »
mKM
m
mi
tei
m
% ■
■
m
1
■
d? ?W
■f i 1 111
t>,
gp-. <J|
144.FPC
Friendly idea:
BRANDY FRESHERS
with the golden taste of sunshine
The new way, the great way to welcome friends, is with
Brandy Freshers—short or long, sweet or tangv, but
always with a base of good Australian Brandy. Our
Brandy is the joyous, golden-hearted spirit from sun-
blessed grapes, winner of many overseas awards, least
expensive base of all for countless summer cool-offs.
Moderate people who like to live the good life, enjoy
Brandy often. You, too?
WELCOME FRESHER! BRANDY COLLINS: 2 ozs. (about
4 tablespoons) Brandy, 1 dessertspoon castor sugar, juice 5 lemon. Shake
and strain into long glass, add ice lump and fill with soda water. Great!
SEND NOW FOR FREE LEAFLET of recipes for exciting long and
short Freshers and punches with Brandy. Just write to the Wine
Information Centre in your State.
Bo* 3634. G.P.0., Sydney Box 155 C. G.P.0.. Brisbane Box 11650, G.P.O. Perth
Box 4057. G.P.0.. Melbourne Box 2600. G.P.0., Adelaide Box 809 H. G.P.O . Hobart
AUTHORISED BY THE AUSTRALIAN WINE BOARD
'


■■■■ ■:
■ *
■
■
-
wasssi
1 m
MS*
•V
SELECTED
ftOTTUNC
:
■ ■-.'.. /■ ‘ .
KB
hI&M.
UNDEMAM W
S ¥PN«V,
mm-
HMr. a 9 U «rs,
&
rawSEs «sP*
Elected p .~
HOCK.
tofeta t.f »««««
IMAN LTD.
6a»»
COWTCNTS (PT
Good Food Deserves
CAWARR
A noble wine for a noble roast! Cawarra Claret, the most
popular red table wine in Australia, was selected exclusively
by the French Olympic Team on their visit to Melbourne.
When you choose white wine order Cawarra Riesling,
dry, delicate and delightful in every way.
I
t,
40
%* ft*
marts
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
