

The Bulletin
VEMBER 3 1962
AUSTRALIA 1/-, N.Z. 2/-, SINGAPORE, UALAYA $1
AN AUSTRALIAN OPINION - EST. 1880
,r\i’" r - '
• MIGRANTS CRISIS?
• PICASSO
• CASTRO'S CUBA: WHAT NOW?


MU
LM)
g
If
EXTRAS jr
20
;
aN"
eap
iGHt L
s«
Carlyle EXTRAS the distinctive American
blend cigarette with so many extras
EXTRA FLAVOR: Carlyle Extras give you that extra mellow
flavor of fine costly tobaccos blended to taste so good.
EXTRA FRESHNESS: Carlyle Extras are the genuine American
blend made right here in Australia for unimpaired full freshness.
EXTRA SIZE: Carlyle Extras are 18% bigger make regular
American size look small. Enjoy extra smoking pleasure in Carlyle Extras size.
Only Carlyle could . . .
taste so good it’s blended
'with just
a touch
of Turkish
World Copyright
MANUFACTURED FOR THE AMERICA COMPANY (OVERSEAS) PTY. LTD.
CE. 113.10.62


National Notebook
No Substitute
TDarely has the Wool Bureau held its
-*■* head so high. Last year Mr Terence
Greene of Khancoban station, Corryong,
NSW, decided it was high time jockeys
wore wool. He had a dressmaker fix him
a set of racing “silks” in wool, and the
jockeys on his horses around Wagga,
Albury and such proved there was ab-
solutely no substitute. Well, Mr Greene
gave his idea to the Wool Bureau in
Melbourne and Mr J. L. Madden, a
VRC man and a woolgrower from
Camperdown, put his jockey into wool
for several races in Melbourne.
The big test was to be the 1962 Spring
Carnival. The Wool Bureau needed a
winner. It’s hard to get a win with a
local horse but there was splendid co-
operation with the New Zealand Wool
Board. Mr J. Wattie, owner of the NZ
stayer Even Stevens, came to the party.
Special woollen silks were made, 4}
ounces lighter, mind you, than silk silks.
Right up to the last moment the tension
was awful at the bureau, because Even
Stevens only got into the race in the final
ballot. But, as you may have heard,
magnificently Even Stevens
won the race. Admittedly,
the jockey, Les Coles, came
home covered in mud and
one could not see the fine
colors and texture of the
wool, but wait, everyone
knew the wool was shrink-
proofed, flat set and drip dry.
Now the Wool Bureau, Les Coles,
Mr Wattie and Even Stevens, all working
as a team are ready to carry off the
Melbourne Cup.
Emotional Experience
XU e didn’t know that Indian dancing
began about the same time as the
classic age of Greece, that both sprang
from the temple rituals and that there
was probably a link between the two.
But tall, berobed Professor N. Krishna-
murti (“I believe I am a distant relation
of the philosopher”) told us this and
more at a recent Sunday night reception
in the studios of the Elizabethan Theatre
in Sydney’s Woolloomooloo.
With his slim and glamorous daughters,
Yamini and Jyothi, of the Indian Song
and Dance Group he had found Sydney
audiences appreciative but probably not
completely “with it,” critics rather super-
ficial—“much of what they wrote
sounded like gossip columnists”-—and the
streets strangely fuller of cars than
people.
“Understanding of our work is not
so important,” he said. “After all, many
people in India don't understand us
either. I often think understanding can
destroy appreciation and our music and
dance is essentially an emotional expe-
rience.”
The professor, clean shaven and
speaking English free from the rise-and-
fall cadence of most Indians, was chosen
by his government to bring his song and
dance group on a month’s tour of New
Zealand and Australia. The group is con-
sidered to be among the finest exponents
of a sort of Indian new wave that found
its form in a dance renaissance spear-
heading a cultural revival. Indians believe
that their dance is the most characteristic
part of their culture.
He pursed his lips at mention of the
word. “Culture is sometimes suspect, no
less in India than elsewhere,” he said.
“But it is essential to know that the
dances did not spring from folk dances.”
Indians do not, it appears, dance for
the joy of it and the origin of the dances
performed by the group come from the
vestal virgins who served in the temples
similarly to their Greek and Roman
counterparts.
It was probably an act by the British
Raj 30 years ago that as-
sured the dances’ endurance.
The enlightened white mast-
ers banned temple dances as
detrimental to public morals.
When independence came
there was a natural upsurge
of self-conscious cultural
activity. Today the young Indian girl
does not dream of becoming a film star;
she wants to be a dancer.
We asked him about Ram Gopal, once
considered the greatest exponent of In-
dian dancing overseas. “Ram Gopal is
not very popular in India. In fact all his
success has been achieved overseas and
I think it is mainly his fine body that
has made many people fall in love with
him. But when he returned to India after
successes in America nobody came to see
him.” Professor Krishnamurti frowned,
“I understand he is now dancing in a
nightclub in Tel Aviv.” It was obvious
that in the professor’s scheme of things
this was the lowest depth to which an
Indian dancer could fall.
Organisation
FFhe first meeting of the newly-formed
A writers’ trade union was held in
Sydney last week in the rooms of the
Fellowship of Australian writers. Under
faded portraits of Henry Lawson and
Joseph Furphy, representatives from Syd-
ney writers’ groups listened to speeches on
the subject of how badly off writers are.
President of the PEN club, Maysie
CAR RACING Page 22
120,000 At a Time
•
Labor Changes its Defence
Policy 6
The Man from Macmillan’s .... 16
Albert Finney—-Bushranger .... 18
Mr Macmillan Does it Again—
From John Pringle 19
Picasso—Millionaire and Com-
munist 21
Moss, Brabham, Surtees & Co. 22
Women in Australia 25
Cuba—A Theory of Conventions 28
A. D. Hope on Pasternak 37
Cuban Crisis Inhibits Invest-
ment 41
The Big Money Losers—Part 111 44
New Era in Advertising Art? .... 56
Tariff Problem on Vegetable
Oils 57
•
TANNER ' ...... 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
AS I SEE IT 6
80 YEARS AGO 7
AROUND MELBOURNE 10
OVERSEAS 12
OUT AND ABOUT 16
London NEWSLETTER 19
SPORTING NOTIONS 22
FORUM 28
LETTERS 31
REVIEWS ...... 34
RED PAGE . 37
WORLD OF BUSINESS 41
MAN ON THE LAND 57
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone
27-5971. Melbourne: Phone MF3341. Bris-
bane: Phone 82691. Adelaide: Phone
W 4121-3.
Vol. 84
No. 4316


Greig, called on publishers to grant pen-
sions to writers. Olaf Ruhen, vice-presi-
dent of PEN told of the evils of maga-
zine publishers who reprint stories with-
out paying the author. Don Houghton of
the Australian Radio, TV and Screen
Writers’ Guild said that only unionists’
material should be accepted for Austra-
lian radio and TV. Dal Stivens spoke
of the work done by the Authors’ Society
of England. Others said that since pub-
lishers have an association, writers should
counter with one of their own.
At the end of the meeting the chair-
man, Mr Walter Stone, called for a dona-
tion of £5 from each group. The only
response came from Dennis Kevans, the
young Communist poet, w'ho paid for the
Realists on the spot.
After the meeting Miss Greig sadly
told The Bulletin that she thought it
would all come to nothing. “They’re
trying to be like the Authors’ Society in
England and that group has never done
anything constructive,” she said. “There’s
still no superannuation fund for writers.”
Sitting it out
/"kNE man who is not worried about the
threat of thermo-nuclear war is
cavesitter Bill Penman, who has been
below ground near Katherine now' for
more than five weeks. He is so com-
fortable there by now that he has taken
up subterranean horticulture and reports:
“Potatoes are sprouting tubers like mad.
Onions take well and marigolds grew
three inches in 24 hours.”
Great heat added to humidity which
at times reaches nearly 100 per cent has
caused rapid germination and develop-
ment. Samples have been sent to
Agriculture Branch experts but they
believe lack of sun will soon kill the
plants.
Penman, an experienced speleologist,
descended into a vast limestone labyrinth
south of Katherine five weeks ago “to
prove that in the event of atomic war
man can go back to living in the caves”.
In a sense his aim has misfired. The
Civil Defence Organisation, which he
hoped to impress, is more or less
ignoring the whole show.
But the newly-formed NT Tourist
Board is sitting up and taking notice.
“With proper lighting and access roads
these could rival the Jenolans,” said a
board member, who saw the Katherine
caves for the first time when he went
down to visit Penman.
Melodrama
melodrama “East Lynne” has had
great success over the past 2} years,
first at Melbourne’s Bowl theatre-restaur-
ant and then at Sydney’s Music Hall
Restaurant. During the last three weeks
the plav has been the subject of a legal
tangle in Sydney.
The play was adapted from an earlier
play which itself was an adaptation of the
novel “East Lynne” written in 1860 by
Mrs Henry Wood. The latest adapter
was the late Philip Stainton. Mr George
Miller, who owns the Bowl and the
Music Hall, decided to end the show at
the Music Hall in the middle of
November. This did not suit some of
the cast, and, in particular, Mrs Betty
Stainton. Mrs Stainton arranged with
the Quo Vadis restaurant in Martin
Place to move the play there and to
open on November 2.
This meant there would be two “East
Lynnes” playing in Sydney at the same
time. However, Mrs Stainton took out
an injunction to prevent Mr Miller
continuing the show at the Music Hall.
Mrs Stainton claimed that she owned the
copyright to the show. Mr Miller
counter-claimed that “East Lynne”, being
more than a centurv old. was out of
copyright. He further claimed that it
wasn’t Mrs Stainton’s in the first place
because he had hired Philip Stainton to
write it. Mrs Stainton denied this claim-
ing that her late husband had decided
to do the adaptation before Miller had
offered to put it on at the Bowl.
For three weeks in succession the case
failed to come to court. First Mr Miller
asked for a postponement and then Mrs
Stainton asked for one. Finally it was
settled out of court. Neither side would
disclose the terms of the settlement.
However, “East Lynne” starts at the
Quo Vadis on November 2 but will not
finish at the Music Hall until November
17.
Hands Across The Sea
"Orobably few Australians have heard of
Charles Osborne, but he may be one
of this country’s most effective publicists
Tamer
"We said Russia wasn't
building missile bases in
Cuba
"And we are not.
"We're dismantling them."


in Britain and Europe. At present pay-
ing a brief visit to Melbourne, Mr.
Osborne describes himself as a literary
journalist, largely specialising on the work
and activities of Australian artists, writ-
ers and musicians, since he settled in
London in 1953. Before that he was a
radio script writer and actor in Brisbane.
Last year Mr. Osborne, now 33, edited
an anthology of modern Australian short
stories for Faber & Faber, and before
coming on this trip he edited a special
Australian number of “London Maga-
zine/’
Mr. Osborne’s main mission in Mel-
bourne is to open an exhibition of work
by the contemporary Spanish painter Jose
Guevara at the Museum of Modern Art.
This 36-year-old artist has had his work
shown in the Tate Gallery and at the
Venice Biennale. According to Mr. Os-
borne, Guevara’s Australian admirers
include Mr and Mrs Harold Holt, who
came across his paintings in Spain.
We asked him how he managed to
keep abreast of Australian contributions
to the arts from as far away as London.
Mr. Osborne takes all the Australian
literary periodicals, buys lots of books
and can always turn to the British
Museum. However, he emphasised the
opportunities London affords to meet
Australian writers and artists—and reeled
off a list which included Joan Sutherland
(a close friend), Barry Humphries, Hal
Porter and Arthur Boyd. Wait in London
and most of them show up sooner or
later.
Mr Hal Porter has returned home
after his trip to England, which was cut
short because he felt his mission to
refresh his knowledge of the London
literary scene—was accomplished in the
few days during which he attended the
writers’ conference at the Edinburgh
Festival.
The first volume of Mr Porter’s three-
volume autobiography will be published
by Faber and Faber early next year.
This volume, called “The Watcher on
the Cast-Iron Balcony” takes him up to
the age of 18. Mr Porter is now
beginning work on the second volume.
He will also be busy with a directory
of Australian stage and screen person-
alities he is compiling for Rigby’s.
He expects, too, to begin work on
another play soon. His play, “The
Tower”, will be produced soon by the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust and will
appear in a Penguin early next year,
together with Douglas Stewart’s “Ned
Kelly” and Alan Seymour’s “The One
Day of the Year”,
The lot
T'he film slogan that has everything:
"Sodom and Gomorrah the Pic-
ture that has Everything.”
PLAIN ENGLISH
MR K's RETREAT...
M r Khrushchev’s climb down over Cuba is the West’s most spectacular
cold war victory. What makes it so fantastic is not so much that the
Russian leader should have retreated from an untenable military situation—
and the risk of a nuclear war—in the face of a determined show of strength
by President Kennedy but the manner of the retreat. Mr Khrushchev
has blandly and unctuously admitted that the Soviet was building nuclear
missile bases in Cuba. In effect he has made public liars out of his
Foreign Minister (Mr Gromyko) and his UN Ambassador (Mr Zorin).
While in retreat he may be trying to save the Communist take-over
of Cuba he has made no bones over saying, once again in effect, that
Dr Castro’s prestige in Cuba or South America wasn’t worth fighting for.
While the West may legitimately rejoice in unexpected victory where
it had seemed on the brink of nuclear war it would do well to tread
warily. The Soviet retreat seems too complete to be accepted at face value.
Just what Mr Khrushchev has in mind is a matter for speculation. Certainly
it is already apparent that he has obtained a considerable amount of
propaganda value out of his ‘"statesmanlike” withdrawal from the situation.
Dupes like Lord Russell are already acclaiming his action as a generous
and constructive effort to reach world understanding and peace. There is
little doubt that the Russian action will create a great deal of sympathy
for any campaign it may mount for the dismantling of US missile bases
in Turkey, for instance, even though the US has point blank refused to
horse trade in this regard.
What may now be expected is a determined Communist campaign
to promote the peaceful image of the Soviet. If the Soviet in the full
panoply of its power can retreat from a situation “in the interests of
peace” may not the United States be expected to make similar concessions?
To this sort of propaganda there can only be one question. If the
Soviet is to be considered through its retreat in Cuba as genuinely bent
upon peace and accord with the West why then did it undertake the
reckless adventure of erecting nuclear bases in Cuba in the first place?
DR GOUGH AND THE SCHOOLS
'J'he incursions into the field of education by the Archbishop of Sydney,
Dr. H. R. Gough, have not always been happy ones. A year ago he
startled Sydney by discovering that the University philosophy departments
were fostering Communism and then had to climb down later when he
found he had got his facts wrong. More recently in one speech he both
opposed State Aid to Catholic schools and demanded that the State
school be Protestantised. This second demand took the form of advocating
the extension into secondary schools of a course similar to the social studies
syllabus recently introduced into the primary schools—a syllabus teaching
an evangelical and sectarian brand of Protestantism which is offensive
to almost all secularists, Catholics and Jews as well as to many Protestants.
It is a syllabus which should be removed from the primary schools rather
than extended into the secondary schools. But it does not seem to have
occurred to the Archbishop that the case against State Aid for Catholic
schools becomes an impossible one if State money is to be poured into
Protestantised schools. The main grounds for opposing State Aid is the
separation of Church and State and the preservation of a secular education
system. If the Archbishop wants State Aid for Protestant schools he would
have to support State Aid for Catholic schools too.


THIS AUSTRALIA
POLITICS
LABOR CHANGES
ITS DEFENCE POLICY
In the light of China, Indonesia and Cuba
As I see it
DR J. CAIRNS
A shift in emphasis
fFHERE was a
perceptible
shift in atti-
tudes in last week’s debate on the
Defence estimates. Anti-Americanism
had waned. Labor's rightwingers for the
first time for years lost some of their
timidity. They wanted more and not less
defence. The leftwdngers lay either caut-
iously low, or as in the case of Dr J
Cairns (Lab., Vic.), gave indications that
they were not blindly shutting their eyes
to the significance of recent international
events.
Though Cuba and the tension between
the United States and Russia arising
from Russian arming of Cuba naturally
got the most mention the debate took
piace while it was still uncertain whether
there would be an incident between the
US blockaders and the arms-carrying
Soviet freighters my impression is that
other developments were primarily res-
ponsible for the difference in tone
between this debate and that on the
Defence estimates in 1961.
These developments were (1) the
emergence of Indonesia as a relatively
major military power due to Soviet-
supplied arms, and (2) China’s attack
upon India, which had pursued the policy
of relying almost exclusively upon a cul-
tural, economic and educational associa-
tion to protect itself against aggression
a policy which Labor in 1961 was insis-
tently' maintaining should receive the
approbation of Australian imitation.
Leftwinger Tom Uren (Labor NSW)
still stubbornly adhered to the line that
Moscow and Peking controlled Commu-
nist Parties in non-Communist countries
assidulously peddle mainly through peace
movements. He described suggestions for
greater defence expenditure as “so much
hysteria”. But even Uren w'as susceptible
to the prevailing climate.
Cairns’ speech was an interesting exer-
cise. Though inclined to be a bit erratic
in some things, Cairns is usually and
justifiably rated as among the most intel-
ligent of the the leftwingers. When he
applies his mind to a subject he can be
an impressively logical and clear thinker.
His speech on the defence estimates was
both thoughtful and thought provoking.
It contained no anti-Americanism as such
though he was highly critical of aspects
of American policy, w'hich in his view
“has driven Cuba into the Russian camp - ’.
He came very close to advocating a
national, non-party attitude on Defence.
Labor's rightwing for once was unin-
hibited and threw off temporarily at least
its fear of Leftw'ing reprisals for the
public stating of rightwing viewpoints.
Gordon Bryant, w'ho though a Victorian
and as such exposed to the influence of
the leftwing Victorian ALP Executive,
could hardly be described as an extremist
of any kind, probably gave the lead.
Bryant, an ex-soldier and former school-
teacher, is still an active member of the
CMF and the convenor of a Labor
Defence Committee.
Bryant's attitude like Cairns’ also shows
a shift. In 1961 Bryant's tone was one of
anti-Americanism. “The Menzies Gov-
ernment slavishly followed the USA in
its foreign policies and military policies,”
he then told the House of Representa-
tives. As he then saw Asutralia's defence
need, it was most likely to be to provide
a contingent to a United Nations’ force
in a place such as the Congo, Syria, or
“wherever else we may be required.”
Now he sees Australia in a different posi-
tion and in a different role. “We are not
necessarily surrounded by enemies, but
we are a long way from our potential
friends,” he told Parliament last week,
obviously speaking with the USA in
mind as one of Australia's “potential
friends”. “Our fundamental duty is see
how this country is to be defended.”
Probably heartened by this lead, the
rightwing started enunciating viewpoints
that were very close to those on the
Government side of the Parliament.
Queenslander William Riordan was
shocked by the inadequacy of the Gov-
ernment’s defence plans. Why had not
the Government announced the acquisi-
tion of six submarines? What about a
nuclear powered underw'ater force? Rior-
dan’s fellow Queenslander George Gray,
an ex-soldier and seemingly a tank expert,
wanted to know why only 60 new Mirage
fighters were provided in the Air Force
programme. “What contribution is that to
the defence of this country,” he asked
scornfully. Les Reynolds, of Sydney’s
Barton, even dared to commit the sin of
sins in leftist eyes. He spoke favorably
of the United States. ‘I have faith that
the United States would not stand by
and see Australia invaded,” he said.
Labor's rightwingers, undoubtedly
shocked from timidity by recent inter-
national events among which Cuba may
have been less of an influence than
China's attack on India and the devel-
opment of Indonesia's military power,
set the Labor tone for the defence
estimates, and were to a considerable
extent responsible for the perceptible
change in the Labor attitude.
ALAN REID
UNIVERSITIES
ACADEMICS' WAGES
A strike?
Last Thursday in the Sydney Town
Hall about 1500 of the 26,000
members of the NSW Teachers’ Federa-
tion condemned the NSW Minister for
Labor and Industry, Mr J. I. Maloney,
for referring a new' university teachers’
award made by Conciliation Commis-
sioner Gorman to the Full Bench of the
Industrial Commission. On September
25, Mr Gorman granted wage increases
to members of the New South Wales
University Staff Association ranging
from £356 to £lO3l.
With over 600 on its academic staff,
and everyone from the lowliest tutor to
professors receiving a rise (professors,
went up by £B3l to £5125 w'hile Assoc-
iate Professors received rises of from
£6Bl to £lO3l, bringing their salaries up
£3875 and £4525) the generosity of Mr


Gorman embarrassed the Labor Govern-
ment.
Mr Maloney’s unprecedented action
means that when the Full Bench of the
Industrial Commission begins hearing
the matter on November 18 all the evid-
ence argued by the parties before Con-
ciliator Gorman can be re-examined and
any new evidence which counsel for the
Government considers relevant could be
argued before the Full Bench. In theory
this could take months or even years.
The members of the Staff Association
of the NSW University are all members
of the NSW Teachers’ Federation and
through them are the only University
academics who can take industrial
action.
The real issue involved in the case,
and the reason why Mr Maloney took
action which was not designed to in-
crease his popularity with anyone, is that
if the NSW Staff Association members
get their rises almost any one who is
among the growing army of white collar
workers will receive a rise. It is a ques-
tion of one in all in. Nearly all of the
people who belong to organisations affi-
liated with the growing white collar rival
to the ACTU, the Australian Council of
Salaried and Professional Associations
would also hop in for their chop. With
37 organisations affiliated to it ACSPA
can already claim a membership of
around 150,000. No one knows its poten-
tial but it is said by some that if all
white collars workers in industry were
unionise dit would be a quarter of a
million.
If any proof of the increasing milit-
ancy of the white collar workers was
needed the meeting of teachers last
Thursday is enough. There was sober
talk of strike by the teachers, and despite
appeals from the floor of the meeting
by some less militant members of the
Federation, no one there had any doubt
about their determination to oppose Mr
Maloney.
If the NSW Teachers’ Federation can
convince the Trades and Labor Council
that Maloney’s action is really an attack
on the Conciliation and Arbitration
system, the Government will have a fight
on its hands.
MUGGA
LEPERS
WHAT DARWIN DOES TO LEPERS
"Unclean! Unclean!"
A problem as old as civilisation itself
faced Darwin last week when
Fannie Bay Gaol guards refused to
admit two prisoners who had committed
offences at East Arm Leprosarium. What
should or can be done with leper
criminals?
A 15-year-old leper boy had been
sentenced to three months gaol for in-
decent assault; and a man to six months
for supplying liquor to aborigines. There
have been outbreaks at East Arm before.
Fights, particularly after drinking parties,
are not uncommon. And several years
ago a corroboree ended with a spearing
affray.
But normally the offences are not
serious. In the past patients who mis-
behave have been placed in the deten-
tion hut at the leprosarium for varying
periods until they “calm down.” But the
nature of this week’s offences was such
that the nuns and others who staff East
Arm did not want the two on the
premises. When police took them to
Fannie Bay Gaol guards refused to open
the gates, claiming they were paid to
look after a prison, not a hospital.
A guards’ spokesman said later the
guards were frightened of the “psycho-
logical effect on their wives and familes
who may be ostracised in the com-
munity.” Mr Carroll, secretary of the
North Australian Workers’ Union, said
the guards had decided they could not
accept the responsibility. One had told
him: “My wife just won’t have it. If
this happens I’m going to have serious
domestic trouble.” The fact that lepers
were segregated for treatment could only
mean there was a danger of affecting
others, Mr Carroll said.
In an effort to break down the op-
position, an expert on leprosy, Dr Spike
Langsford, addressed the guards. He told
them leprosy could be transmitted only
after prolonged and intimate contact. Dr
Byrne himself later weighed in with a
statement to the Press: “The doctor in
charge at East Arm, Dr John Hargrave,
treats leprosy and operates on patients
every day of his life. He lives in a house
occupied by other medical officers. No-
one shuns him. I have regular contact
with him and nobody shuns me.” Dr
Michael Ryan, who had a wife and three
children, also worked among leprosy
patients. Nuns who were completely de-
voted lived at East Arm permanently,
Dr Byrne said.
His statement, attempting as it did
to break down a prejudice as old as
recorded history, had little immediate
effect. The cry of “Unclean! Unclean!”
ringing down the ages with its over-
tones of despair and personal tragedy
had not yet ceased to echo. But by
Monday night the gaol guards had finally
decided to reverse their stand. On Tues-
day the two lepers were admitted to
Fannie Bay prison, where they have been
installed in the women’s section, which is
well separated from other prisoners.
Guards will have no physical contact with
them. The nearest they will come will be
when handing them meals.
In Darwin the leper problem is a
bigger one probably than anywhere else
in the country.
East Arm has about 200 patients.
HANGING THE INSANE
November 4, 1882
/Cunningham, the convict who tried
to kill a warder at Berrima, is to
be hanged. It does not matter in this
colony that to kill a man who has not
killed another is murder. Besides, Cun-
ningham undoubtedly is mad mad
as any lunatic in Gladesville. How-
ever, he won’t be the first lunatic
whom members of the present Govern-
ment have assisted to hang.
A fter floods of talk, miles of lead-
ing articles, and constant pro-
fessions of conviction that Federation
is necessary for the development of
Australian progress, the colonies have
not arrived one jot nearer union than
before the idea was first mooted. The
actual tendency in Australia is in fact
rather centrifugal than cohesive. The
population of Northern Queensland is,
at the present time, actively organising
a movement for separation from that
colony,
It would not be a little singular were
the first step towards Australian Fed-
eration to proceed from this separatist
movement. Yet there seems a possi-
bility that this may actually come to
pass. It is almost certain that the Im-
perial authorities would not consent
to further slicing off of new colonies.
But, on the other hand, there seems
every likelihood that the Colonial
Office might, if the case were aptly
put before the officials, lend every
countenance and support to a move-
ment for creating out of the excessive
and unwieldy territory of Queensland,
two colonies, distinct, yet united by a
Federal Government.


Many more are treated on settlements
in the Top End of the Territory, or
wander as runaway groups in inaccessible
parts of Arnhem Land. The disease is
endemic among aborigines, with inci-
dence in some areas reaching 10 per
cent an extremely high figure by
world standards. Proximity of East Arm
to Darwin, plus not-uncommon cases of
lepers breaking out to attend parties in
the tin-shanty suburb of Winnellie, have
roused public disquiet from time to
time. There have even been reports in
the past of patients picked up while
attending the Darwin picture show.
In a bid to combat prejudice the
Northern Territory has strict regula-
tions preventing publication of anything
likely to identify victims of the disease.
Modern treatment avlosulphone
tablets twice weekly is far more
effective than the old painful injections
of chaulmoogra oil. The number of
“arrested cases” who eventually return
to normal life outside the leprosarium
is increasing. Yet leprosy still has baff-
ling features. Scientists have isolated the
bacillus which causes the disease, yet
they do not know how it is transmitted,
It seems fairly contagious among natives,
with their low standards of hygiene, but
it has affected only a tiny proportion of
whites. Some knowledgeable quarters, in
Australia and overseas, even doubt the
necessity for total segregation of patients,
though until more is known this no
doubt will remain the official policy,
KEITH WILLEY
SP IN VICTORIA
THE PUNTER PREFERS SP
What's Wrong with the Tote?
When Victoria turned its back on
the legalisation of SP bookies and
set up the TAB last year nobody,
even the churches, seemed to be unduly
worried that the legalisation of off-course
betting in the Agency s conveniently
situated shops all over the State might set
off a gambling spree or even make gamb-
ling a habit among people who never
thought of betting except on the Mel-
bourne or Caulfield Cups before.
T .
In fact there was no gambling spree
and when the TAB announced it took
about £l4 million in off-course bets in
its first ten months of operation this
d.dn t seem an outrageous figure to any-
body. There were a few murmurs of dis-
appointment from chanties and the
racing clubs but the Agency said it was
confident turnover would be much higher
in its second year with many more shops
m operation. It was confident the 1961-
62 figure would be doubled and profits
for beneficiaries would be considerably
h.gher this year.
For the Caulfield Cup the TAB hand-
led double the bets put on the on-course
tote and altogether it seems pretty
pleased with its performance thus far.
Nor is it at all inhibited in telling the
public that its business is thriving, an
attitude which may seem surprising in a
State still sticking religiously to “Six
O’clock Closing” (TAB agencies them-
selves stay open till 10 on trotting nights
and on Caulfield Cup eve they were
open till 8).
The TAB is as aware as anybody that
for all its pristine growth it is still a
system superimposed on a much bigger,
albeit an illegal, system—off-course SP.
It has to face up to the fact that the
preference of most of the big and inve-
terate off-course bettors is for SP. It is
not going to win most of these over
easily, if it succeeds in doing so at all.
The plain fact is that thousands of people
like SP betting and will continue to place
their bets SP through habit and prefer-
ence.
TAB s growth to date has been mainly
amon g the little men ’ sa y those P uttin S
at most a P ound or two each wa V on a
horse. Inveterate bettors find certain
aspects of betting with the t A B unsatis-
fadtory such as havine t 0 place be t s 40
minutes before a race w and not be i n g able
to co u ect winnings on the day of a race,
The litt|e man is not s 0 much bothered
by these restrictions . This is evidenced
by the fact that the
agencies do very
little business after 2 o’clock on the day
of a race . He is more inte rested in a
flutter than anyt hing else, though increas-
j n g numbers are finding that, thanks to
the TAB the i r flutters are becoming daily
affairs taking in country as wel j as metro-
poljtan
racing and trotting meetings.
People pour into Melbourne’s TAB
agencies every lunch hour whenever and
wherever a meeting is on, indulging pre-
dilections in many cases about numbers
rather than form, betting indiscriminately
more often than not.
, , . ,
But even so ’ in terms of bl § bettin S
business, it is all very small beer.
Maybe the TAB has cut into the
business of SP operators in Victoria and
all the evidence suggests there are no
ir - ore than 2000 of these at present
operating, but the volume of off-course
SI 3 is still far in excess of the money
§ oin g on the off-course tote and it seems
likely to remain that way.
There is a huge turnover of off-course
money which the TAB is unlikely ever
to attract and the fact is that it is only
likely to be tapped for the benefit of
charities and racing clubs in the event
of the compulsory registration of off-
course bookies at a stiff registration fee.
Nobody can estimate accurately the
turnover of off-course SP bookies in Vic-
toria or any other State. The Royal Com-
mission into the off-course betting ques-
tion in Victoria in the mid-1950s was
given a figure £l6O million, the equiva-
lent of about £2OO million today allow-
ing for the intervening fall in the value
of money, increasing population and
so on.
But any such figure would have to be
reduced by at least a third to allow for
laying-off operations between SI bookies
and probably another third for factors
such as impulse betting promoted by the
immediate availability of winnings and
credit facilities to get a comparison with
the present turnover of the TAB and the
scope for its further intrusion into off-
course SP business. Possibly a net figure
for off-course SP business in Victoria for
purposes of such a comparison with TAB
volume today would be something be-
tween £5O million and £7O million a
year.
In other words this is the area of off-
course betting turnover on which no per-
centage goes outside the “ring”. The only
way to bring some of this money back
into racing and to assist charities, State
funds and the like would be to introduce
licensed off-course bookies and to charge
them a very stiff registration fee.
It has been estimated that providing
the registration fee was not prohibitive
as many as 10,000 off-course bookies
v.’ould be in the betting business in Vic-
toria, though this number may seem a bit
high with the TAB running in parallel.
A registration fee of £5OO a year on
that number would bring in £5 million
a year whereas the TAB will be lucky
if the distributable profit from this year’s
operations will be much in excess of £1
million. So the TAB can only hope to
get a trickle of the money that could be
tapped for charities and the racing clubs
from off-course betting operations in
Victoria and from that viewpoint the
scheme can only be rated a partial
success.
This is the most pertinent argument
for the introduction of a system of off-
course betting control based on the regis-
tration of bookmakers such as is favored
by most of the leading racing personali-
ties in New South Wales. But given this,
there is no gainsaying the success of the
TAB in Victoria where it has been ac-
cepted as part of the community scheme
of things and brought off-course betting
out of the back lanes and local holes in
the wall, perhaps giving it rather more
wholesome quality than it truly deserves.


BRAMBLES INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Eighth Annual Report
Highlights from the Chairman’s Address and Annual
Report presented to shareholders at the Eighth
Annual General Meeting on 29th October, 1962:
• The Group net profit for the year ended June 30,
1962, is £471,128.
• The total of dividends paid for the year 1962 is
£427,772.
• The dividend is maintained at 20%, a rate which has
been steady for the past five years.
• The Subscribed Capital of the company is £2,138,858.
• Reserves and Accumulated Funds stand at
£3,334,939.
• Shareholders’ Funds have risen from £22,726 in 1955
to £5,473,797 in 1962.
9 Net asset backing per ordinary 5/- stock unit is 12/10.
• Improved trading for the first quarter of current year,
compared with corresponding period of 1961.
Wi
<**
'V
Ostf'
HEAD OFFICE:
50 MILLER STREET, NORTH SYDNEY
ABC
THE PURGE
Adams and the Eavesdroppers
rpHERE has been an unusual air ol
-*• gloom among national ABC an-
nouncers over the past week. A curious
body called the Federal Announcers’
Review and Auditioning Committee
(FARAC) has been meeting again, and
casting its judgment on the work of some
of Australia’s top radio announcers
and news readers. The Committee in-
cludes retired studio supervisors like
Charles Rosenthal, and top ABC drama
department men Paul O’Loughlin and
Jimmy Pratt. Chairman of the Committee
is the ABC’s Controller of News, Wally
Hamilton, who is such a rising star in
the organization that he is already being
tipped as the next General Manager
when Sir Charles Moses retires within
the next few years.
FARAC listens to tape-recorded
snippets of the work of Federal announ-
cers, and can then recommend sweeping
changes of status —even demotions to the
extent of up to £2OO a year. Although
the Committee is meant to review an-
nouncers’ work over the previous two
years, “samples” are usually taken off air
at the last moment for their criticism.
The Committee is reported to have
taken as its target last week the breezy
early morning announce; on 2FC, Reg
Adams.
Adams’ popularity is so great that in
his “Yours for the Asking” listeners’
request session trom 9 to 9.55 a.m. each
weekday (the first half-hour all over
NSW), Adams receives more than 200
letters a week—a boast few other ABC
programmes could make. It was Adams’
breeziness that caused a question in the
House of Representatives last year, when
Mr Jim Fraser drew attention to the
fact that a top ABC official had repri-
manded Adams for his earlybird humour.
The top official was not the ABC’s new
Assistant General Manager, Program-
mes, Clement Semmler, who afterwards
told Adams he was free to do his
programme as he pleased.
FARAC last week recommended that
Adams be demoted. Then a few days
later, they reversed their decision. And
at the same time it became known that
Semmler had asked Adams to run the
Breakfast Session next January during
Russ Tyson’s annual holidays. But be-
tween those two happenings, Adams
sounded or. the air like a dying duck in a
thunderstorm, like a schoolboy who has
just been rapped on the knuckles by the
headmaster—and that, apparently, is how
FARAC likes the A.BC’s early morning
announcers to sound.
The question now among the announ-
cers is: Who will win in the end—Semm-
ler or FARAC? The betting is on Semmler.


Around Melbourne
"LA VILLE DE BEAUTE" (AS THE FRENCH SAY)
M/e are very happy with ourselves
this week. Melbourne has won
the title of the Conference City. Not
flibbertey-gibbit stuff, you understand,
like Atlantic City with businessmen
running off with their secretaries, but
really big-time international get-
togethers. As gentlemen like Mr Bolte
have been quick to point out, Mel-
bourne was the logical choice. It had
the climate, it had the hotels and it
had the facilities. Actually the weather
for visiting delegates has been most
interesting. It has been crisp. On
October 24 the maximum in Mel-
bourne was 53, in Sydney 74, in
Brisbane 87, in Perth 72 and in
Adelaide 61. Furthermore it has
rained almost continuously, but, don’t
you see. there was this advantage—
delegates had the opportunity of
seeing the world’s purest water supply
in action at first hand, and never could
they return home with an impression
of the beastly arid nature of Aus-
tralia.
But let’s talk about these con-
ferences. The first was the triennial
World Conference of the Associated
Country Women of the World with
1200 women delegates from 25
countries. Then came the sixth plenary
meeting of the World Power Confer-
ence with over 1000 delegates from
45 countries. From October 30 to
November 17 we will have the Co-
lombo Plan Conference with 175 dele-
gates from all 21 Colombo Plan
countries; then from November 26 to
December 8 we will have the Asian
Regional Conference of the Interna-
tional Labor Organisation, 300 dele-
gates from 25 countries.
Of all these the most splendid is
the World Power Conference, the
greatest international conference this
country has seen, with delegates from
Iceland. Israel, Brazil, Costa Rica,
Ghana, USA and the USSR. No, of
course, it hasn’t anything to do with
the Cuba crisis, this is a meeting of
engineers and the theme of the confer-
ence is the “Changing Pattern of
Power.”
It opened superbly with an all-star
gathering in the University’s Wilson
Hall. Mr Menzies was there. Sir
Dallas Brooks was there, plus such
colorful characters as the Chairman
of the International Executive, Sir
Vincent de Ferranti of England, and
Franz Hollinger of Australia, the
Director-General, who is said to be a
dab at Viennese waltzes and climbed
the Matterhorn at 69.
There were 15 speeches at the
opening and I don’t think this record
has been exceeded since the opening
of the Melbourne to Bendigo railroad,
exactly 100 years before, when there
were 18 speeches. Originally Sir Dallas
Brooks was to open the conference as
last speaker. However, he was smart,
he got wind of the vast array which
included the Prime Minister. As an
old county cricketer he decided there
was a great advantage in going in
first wicket down.
The man largely responsible for
running the conference is Willis Con-
nolly, Chairman of Victoria’s State
Electricity Comission, 6ft 2in., un-
smiling, and our most highly-charged
civil servant. He has conducted
matters with a real electrical engineer-
ing efficiency and he has attended to
even the most trivial details himself.
HThe conference has printed a fair
dinkum daily newspaper in two
languages, English and French. And
we have been charmed to note that
the paper has described Melbourne as
“La Ville de Beaute” and that it’s
noted everywhere for its Rues
bordees d’arbres et ses pares magni-
fiques.”
There were six interpreters sitting
in glass boxes, everything done on the
lines of the UN. It was reported that
one Australian sat happily taking the
French translation. When asked why,
he said he’d always wanted to know
what Mr Menzies sounded like in
French.
The delegates were issued with
earphones attached to a little tran-
sistor receiver.
The receivers had a range of 150
yards outside the building. Theoretic-
ally one could lie on the lawn outside
Wilson Hall and still hear the
speeches. Or one could go to the free
conference bar in Union House. It
would be unkind to say delegates
listened to speeches there, but there
was a fine range of drinks available —
beer, gin, whisky, brandy, orangeade,
everything oddly enough, except
vodka. According to the barman,
whisky was the favorite international
drink.
There was an SEC first-aid man in
constant attendance. He had a special
room equipped with stretchers and
oxygen resuscitation equipment, and
car outside waiting to scoot over the
road to the Royal Melbourne Hospital.
The city laid on non-stop entertain-
ment, concerts in the Town Hall, tours
to the hills, barbecues in the rain, but
the grandest of all were the two
mighty dinners in the Exhibition
Building. These were the greatest sit-
down banquets Australia has ever
seen.
On both occasions there were 1600
guests and they sat at tables in the
main hall of the Exhibition Building.
Perhaps you are aghast at the very
thought of this but the dear old place
looked superb. There were carpets,
there were magnificent long drapes,
there were lines twirled round the old
pillars and the ceiling was illuminated
with colored floodlighting which
showed off to advantage the bosoms
of the mid-Victorian maidens that
decorate it—in mural form.
One could go through the list,
there were 24 cooks, 224 waiters,
45,000 pieces of crockery, cutlery and
glasses and 150 dozen bottles of al-
coholic refreshment for each dinner.
The fascinating part was that the
kitchens at the Exhibition could never
cope with such a feed, so everything
for each course had to be brought in
by convoys of trucks loaded with hot
and cold boxes. Even the coffee came
in by vacuum flask. So there was a
rush back and forth from Federal
Hotels, first with hot food then back
with dirty dishes.
All this was impressive, but most
impressive of all was the way they
brought the guests from their hotels
to the dinner. They came in specially
chartered Melbourne City tramway
buses, complete with their ads for
biscuits and headache powders. It was
an entirely new experience to stand
outside the Exhibition, cameras
popping and all, and watch ermine,
autumn haze mink and diamonds
stepping out of a Melbourne City
tramway bus.
BATMAN


•x ■
is
4
-J*
AMPACS^£
Pink
for
girls
If she says “gorgeous”, "delightful”, “heavenly”,
chances are it's Romalo Pink Champagne, ft gay,
scintillating wine for joyous times ... for parties,
weddings and ever-so-special dinners for two.
All over the world sophisticates celebrate with Pink
Champagne. Australia’s finest is Romalo.
Trade Enquiries: S. Wynn & Co. Pty. ltd,
348 St. Hilda Road, Melbourne
STANDING ORDERS—H
A THREAT TO PARLIAMENT
To save Ministers "embarrassment"
By G. S. REID
Last week in the first of these two
articles I dealt with the restrictions
on parliamentary questions and,
therefore, on parliamentary democracy
that are involved in the proposed new
standing orders recently recommended
by the Standing Orders Committee of the
House of Representatives.
But .he most important, radical change
proposed by the Committee is for the
overthrow of the complex and antiquated
procedures that the House of Represen-
tatives has followed since 1901 in its
consideration of financial business.
The Committee proposes to abolish
• . - the complex and time-consuming
procedures founded on the obsolete sys-
tem of preliminary consideration of
.financial proposals in Supply, Ways and
Means or other Money Committees. .
It is true that the existing committee
arrangements for financial business are
complex and beyond the understanding
of most MP’s. They are, moreover, a
mystery to the Australian public. The
House will be a better place without the
meaningless terminology they import. But
members ought to remember that in
making a new start, they have to deter-
mine at what point in the trend toward
government domination of the House the
new start is to be made. That is, how
much freedom for the proposal of
amendments to the government's finan-
cial policies do they wish to preserve
for themselves? Their decision in this
respect will determine the scope and effi-
cacy of financial debates in the future.
On this subject the Committee makes
extensive use of the expression “the finan-
cial initiative of the Crown”, but has ob-
vious difficulty in justifying its interpre-
tation. It points out that the “parliamen-
tary law” (whatever that may mean) of
‘financial initiative”, in its application to
expenditure proposals, is expressed in
Section 56 of the Constitution, and that
this Section provides that a vote, reso-
lution, or proposed law for the appro-
priation of revenue or monies shall not
be passed unless the purpose of the ap-
propriation has been recommended by
the Governor-General (in reality, this
means the recommendation of the Min-
istry). The words I have italicised are
significant. It is clear that Section 56
does not preclude the introduction of
such proposals by any member of the
House it merely prohibits such pro-
posals being “passed” without the Gov-
ernor-General’s (i.e., the Ministry's) re-
commendation. But the House, under
government influence, has been increas-
ingly restrictive in its procedural inter-
pretation of this Section. And now, the
Standing Orders Committee (containing
a majority of government members) up-
holds the previous practice by proposing
new financial Standing Orders which im-
ply that “shall not be passed” in Section
56 really means "shall not be intro-
duced”. Is this what members want?
It is the same with taxation business
in the House. The Constitution makes
no limitation upon the right of initiative
of members of the House in matters of
taxation. Yet the Standing Orders
Committee has recommended Stand-
ing Orders that prohibit members
of the House, with the exception of
Ministers of the Crown, moving amend-
ments to the Government’s proposals
which, if carried, would increase taxa-
tion. Do members of the House wish to
grant governments absolute immunity
from such initiative?
In these days of party government, to
give members freedom to move amend-
ments that would increase the cost (or
the tax charge) of the Government’s
financial proposals would not mean that
the initiative in finance would be taken
out of the Government’s hands. It would
simply mean that members of the gov-
ernment parties, from time to time,
would be called upon to defend their
policies and be prepared to vote for them
in the face of alternative proposals from
other quarters of the House. The alleged
“parliamentary law” of “financial initia-
tive” is devised, preserved, and inter-
preted restrictively so as to protect gov-
ernment parties, including Ministers,
from the political embarrassment that
this would sometimes entail.
¥>ut the great paradox of the new fin-
ancial proposals is that, in spite of
their modern pose, and the apparent com-
prehensiveness of their expression, the
fundamental unit of modern public fin-
ance the Budget is not mentioned
in the 403 Standing Orders. It is
puzzling that a House of the national
Parliament, in designing for itself a code
of procedure for modern conditions,
should not see fit to acknowledge in it
the central unit of national fiscal ar-
rangements, and indeed, of its own
financial business.
The new proposals envisage that the
annual Budget debate will be conducted
at the second reading stage of the annual
Appropriation Bill. This is as unrealistic
as it is illogical. It subordinates the Bud-
get, concerned as much with revenue as
with expenditure, to the annual spend-
ing bill. Obviously there should be a
specially designed procedure for Budget
consideration possibly providing for a
motion to be moved by the Treasurer
“That this House agrees with the Gov-
ernment’s Budget”, and for the Opposi-
tion to move reasoned amendments ex-
pressing its attitude to the policies the
Budget embraces. Under the Commit-
tee's proposal the Budget debate is hid-
den in a procedure ostensibly designed
for another purpose. This will distort the
whole financial process in Parliament
to the Government’s advantage.
During its first fifty years the Stand-
ing Orders of the House were amended
to restrict the extent of parliamentary
interference with the Government’s will;
the restrictions, however, were largely
quantitative; they related to the use of
the time of the House. Now. the inten-
tion is to declare qualitative restrictions
limitations upon the content of mem-
bers contributions in the parliamentary
process. This is an ominous threat to a
“free and democratic” institution.


OVERSEAS
THE CUBA STORY
How Kennedy Found Out
FROM A SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
Ten days ago at nine o’clock on the
morning of Tuesday, October
16, Robert McNamara, Secretary
of Defence, paid an early call to the
President at the White House. The
atmosphere at that time was reasonably
calm, the President’s father had just
come to stay; Ben Bella of Algeria had
just been received in ceremony, and
alarming reports of a week before in
a right-wing Miami paper that long-
range missiles had been seen in Cuba
were widely disbelieved. The current
world problem was not Cuba but Berlin.
But what McNamara had to show to
Kennedy was in fact powerful photo-
graphic evidence of Russian long-range
missile sites in Cuba, taken from Ameri-
can reconnaissance planes over the
island. The President reacted: remem-
bering previous phoney intelligence re-
ports about Cuba and the failings of the
Central Intelligence Agency which had
led to the Bay of Pigs fiasco of 1961,
he ordered a stepping up of recon-
naissance to provide more cautiously
conclusive photographs.
He ordered fighters and bombers to
be moved south to airports in Florida.
He also announced that he would re-
ceive Gromyko on Thursday which com-
mentators assumed would be about Ber-
lin. But for the rest of the day he con-
tinued his planned programme.
He entertained astronaut Schirra with
his wife and two children (“I know who
you are,” five year old Susanne Schirra
said to him), took them to see Caroline’s
ponies, and dined that evening with
friends, who found him calm and re-
laxed. The next morning he even found
time to make a cool personal phone call
to a friend in England.
For the whole of that week, Berlin
was assumed to be the only crisis. On
Thursday, Gromyko had a two-hour talk
with Kennedy, followed by four-and-a-
half hours with Dean Rusk, which were
believed to be about Berlin. On Friday
morning the President flew off on his
electioneering campaign, addressed large
crowds, and stayed in Chicago. At din-
ner that night he was observed to be
rather restrained in his remarks about
Republicans. Otherwise, he seemed in
good electioneering form.
On Friday night, at the Sheraton
Blackstone Hotel in Chicago, the Presi-
dent decided that he should return next
day to Washington. At twenty to ten on
Saturday morning his Press Secretary,
Pierre Salinger, told the accompanying
Press party that Mr Kennedy’s doctors
had noticed, on the previous evening,
that his voice was husky and had diag-
nosed an infection of the upper respira- j
tory tract. The reporters, used to trust-
ing Salinger, did not disbelieve it and by
nightfall the President was back in the
White House. There, the fresh evidence
he had ordered was ready for his inspec-
tion.
This time, he decided, the evidence
was irrefutable. Not only were the
missiles there, with Washington in their
sights, but they were being built with
extraordinary speed. Two photographs
showed the same site on two successive
days: the first showed nothing but 40
vehicles and some tents, the second
showed seven missiles, four erector laun-
ches, tents for 500 men, and 100
vehicles. During the four days since
McNamara had shown him the original
photographs, some missiles had apparen-
tly been made operational. And while
this evidence was accumulating, Ken-
nedy had heard the Russians lying, blat-
antly and persistently, about their inten-
tions in Cuba.
On the Thursday, when Kennedy had
already most of the facts, Gromyko had
blandly assured him that missiles in
Cuba had only defensive capabilities.
Clearly, the Russians were deliberately
and openly challenging the American
Administration. The photographs
showed little attempt to conceal the mis-
sile sites from the air. All the informa-
tion and guidance available from the
colossal machine in Washington—from
the teams of aerial photograph analysts
and the students of Russian behavior —•
was now before him. Now he had to
decide.
The President had braced himself for
such a challenge ever since his election.
It might have come in Berlin or even
Laos. Now it looked like Cuba. But it
was still almost incredible that Khrush-
chev, who had shown he was prudent as
well as ruthless, should choose a duelling
ground where Kennedy was bound, for
every military and political reason, to
react more fiercely than anywhere else
in the world. A ground, too, where
for once the military advantage lay with
American sea and air power.
What was Khrushchev really after?
Were the Cuba missile bases meant to
be a serious military threat? Were they
meant as bargaining counters in some
future Summit talks? Or were they prim-
arily a political test of America’s will to
defend herself?
The answers would affect the Presi-
dent’s choice of action. Wrong intelli-
gence had already led him into one great
mistake about Cuba. This time he had
to be sure. His choice might mean war.
It was almost exactly two years to the
day since Kennedy, in his own election
campaign for President, had laid down
his five-point plan for ousting Castro
from Cuba, which promised that the


Cuban exiles would have a free hand
and Khrushchev would be warned off
the Western Hemisphere. But the exile
raids and invasion had proved a huge
fiasco and Russian influence in Cuba had
been steadily increasing.
In the middle of July an unusual con-
centration of Soviet cargo ships in
Cuban ports turned out to be bringing
Soviet technicians into Cuba. The ad-
ministration at first thought they might
be for civilian electricity power projects,
but air reconnaissance throughout
August indicated an intensive military
building program in Cuba.
Rumors of missile bases spread but
the administration said they were only
short-range anti-aircraft missiles: all of
them, put end to end, (said George Ball
of the State Department) would not
reach Florida. The President had re-
fused to be rushed into hasty military
action, but warned that American policy
might change if Cuba got offensive wea-
pons. Now he was confronted with un-
deniable evidence of offensive missiles.
A matter of timing
President considered four possible
-*• courses of action: first he could do
nothing; second, he could invade Cuba;
third, he could institute a blockade to
prevent further shipments of missiles
and combine it with a high explosive
aerial strike to eliminate existing missile
sites; fourth, he could institute a block-
ade alone —and at the same time make
a diplomatic demarche at the United
Nations and try also to secure the full
diplomatic backing of the Organisation
of American States. It was not a decis-
ion that the President was to make with-
out profound agony.
The President found no great differ-
ences of view among his key advisers
when they met in the Cabinet room of
the White House. The Cabinet room is
quiet and business-like, most of it taken
up by a large table shaped like a boat
with flat ends, and with armchairs up-
holstered in dramatic black leather.
Among the ornaments is a model of a
clipper which broke up on the coast of
Cuba in 1846.
The President sat with his back to a
large window giving on to a rose-
garden. Next to him was the Vice-
President, Lyndon Johnson, who had
flown back by military jet from Hono-
lulu. Around the table were General
Maxwell Taylor, Robert McNamara,
and his assistant, Roswell Kilpatric, the
main representatives of the Pentagon,
(to whom this new move came as a mas-
sive challenge), the President’s brother,
Bobby, still his prop and shield,
McGeorge Bundy, from Harvard, the
only one of the intellectuals Kennedy
had taken into the White House who
had shown a capacity for decision w'hich
the President could respect, John
McCone, the rigidly anti-Communist
new head of the Central Intelligence
Agency, Tommy Thompson, the former
American Ambassador in Moscow and
one of the West’s leading Kremlinolo-
gists, Dean Rusk from the State Depart-
ment who had had much to do with the
decision to send American troops into
Korea, the President’s alter ego, the
craggy Nebraska lawyer, Ted Sorenson,
Dillon from the Treasury, George Ball
from State. It seems that the principal
support for the idea of a blockade came
from McNamara, Maxwell Taylor,
Bundy and the President’s brother.
The principal discussion among the
President’s advisers was on the matter of
timing, whether the blockade should go
into action at once, or whether it should
be preceded by consultation with US
allies and an appeal to the Security
Council. The blockade was not seen as
an alternative to invasion. The Presi-
dent’s military advisers argued that the
President should make a public demand
for the dismantling of the missile sites
aireauy msdGed in L.uba. And thev
pointed out that since the Cubans would
never agree to the intervention of UN
inspectors, it was entirely possible that
the missile bases could be removed only
by a direct American attack. Thus the
possibility of invasion was not ruled out.
Seen from the Pentagon, the two most
alarming features of the missile build-up
were proximity and speed. Radar would
give 15 minutes warning of a missile
attack from Russia, but only two-three
minutes from Cuba. Medium-range
missile bases can be constructed in
hours or days. Within a month, if
the United States sat tight, Russia could
get 200-300 missiles in position—enough
at least in theory, to knock out a large
part of the US retaliatory forces in a
surprise “pre-emptive” attack.
Strategic blackmail
most serious threat from such an
A attack would be to “command and
control” the American system for
giving orders and taking decisions. This
was a central pre-occupation of Mc-
Namara and it was on this ground, re-
portedly, that he advised President Ken-
nedy that the Soviet build-up could
“cripple the US defence syestem.”
This did not mean that Khrushchev’s
central intention was to equip himself
for a surprise attack on the USA. The
missile deployment was provocatively
public and he cannot have expected to
build up a substantial threat without
interference. Thus his action could be
seen as confirming the predictions of
some US strategists, who argued that
Russia’s growing long-range missile
strength at home might tempt her to
brinkmanlike “nibbling” and strategic
blackmail. This thesis was a central
tenet of General Maxwell Taylor, the
scholarly Chairman of the US Joint
Chiefs-of-Staff, who had as much influ-
ence as anyone with the President on
defence. Taylor had been pressing for
the build-up of conventional and com-
mando-type forces, believing that Russia
would mount a series of threats, short
of all-out war, and arguing that America
must possess an equal variety of means
with which to respond. Cuba, it seemed,
might prove his case.
Dean Acheson—Presidential barometer
A s long as the nerve of both sides
held there was one apparent paradox.
According to current intelligence esti-
mates, Mr Khrushchev was launching
his unnerving adventures from a position
of considerable relative nuclear weak-
ness. Fifty to 75 ICBM’s were thought
to be deployed on Soviet territory, com-
pared to the American force of 130
ICBM’s some 140 Polaris missiles in
submarines and 1500 strategic bombers.
Mr Khrushchev thus had a “missile
bis"'effect' in Cub aNhi
partly an attempt to fill it. Tha?~3afur-
day one distinguished American was
called in who had been excluded from
earlier discussions and who did not
assemble with the President’s inner
circle.
Even since Kennedy came to office
Dean Acheson had been a barometer of
Presidential policies towards the Rus-
sians. Acheson had fallen out with Mr
Kennedy when the US opened negotia-
tions with the Russians over Berlin. The
President, he had said with bitterness,
failed to understand that the Russians
always interpreted a desire for negotia-
tions as weakness. Now the outstanding
exponent of the “hard” school diplo-
macy was called to the White House,
briefed on the reasons for the blockade
decision and asked to fly secretly to
Europe to see General de Gaulle and
Chancellor Adenauer.
Having decided to enforce a blockade,
Kennedy and his advisers clearly felt it
necessary to play on the crisis and to
generate an atmosphere of “maximum
peril.” The speech that was prepared for
delivery on Monday made no attempt to
calm world fears. The accusation, twice
repeated of Russian duplicity, the con-
centration on Cuba to the exclusion of
everywhere else and the brisk, jerjey
language all emphasised that Kennedy
was reacting to an immediate challenge
with a bold, dramatic response. Kennedy
evidently saw himself confronted with a
daring, insulting gesture from Khrush-
chev and felt that his own and his
nation’s pride were at stake. He dared
not risk the charge that he - was
“chicken”.
In making this response Kennedy was
aware that he could not be confident of
all-out support from his allies. He did


THE ‘MAYFAIR’ 0 AT MELBOURNE’S SOUTHERN CROSS
0 Reservations
Suggested
You would expect to pay more at
Melbourne’s Southern Cross Hotel
but you don’t!
Rates commencing at just £4 single, £7.4.0 double,
are just the first of many attractions awaiting you at
Melbourne’s Southern Cross, Australia’s largest hotel, backed
by the skill and experience of the world’s leading international
hotel group. Others include elegant new restaurants, intimate
coffee lounges, cosy bars, and underground parking for over
300 cars. Comfort and good taste are the keynotes to every
individually air-conditioned guest room and suite.
SOUTHERN
HOTEL OF NEW HORIZONS
131 EXHIBITION ST., MELBOURNE
Book NOW through your travel
agent, or by contacting direct,
The Southern Cross (Melbourne
63 0221, grams “Inhotelcor”).
r
-
6
mm*
Ivi'lltl /!■ >V IV !\t fi/ft./i
1HC15.24
iktercontinentrl hotels
-
not consult the NATO powers—he in-
lormed them only just before his speech.
The British Government reacted with
some dismay: “We are not sure” said
one Cabinet minister “what this young
man is up to.” In Paris where Acheson
arrived secretly at 2 a.m. on Monday
morning and saw de Gaulle at five in the
afternoon seven hours before the
speech, the General was a bit worried
about the American legal case but other-
wise was cordial and fairly uncomplain-
ing. Just before the broadcast, at ten
that night, Acheson informed the NATO
Council, which had been hurriedly
assembled. They asked a few questions
and expressed solidarity (at the end of
the week the NATO spokesman in Paris
still refused to admit officially that any
meeting was held at all). As the world,
alerted and alarmed, waited on Monday
night, Kennedy knew that the decision
and the confrontation with Khrushchev
were his alone. He was about to make a
move that would change the whole bal-
ance and framework of East-West dip-
lomacy and which would reverberate
throughout Latin America and Asia and
would take the whole of mankind into a
new and possibly terrifying unknown.
BEHIND THE TIME
GAP
The Trimetrogon, Forward Oblique
and Split Vertical
Tt started as a trickle of ominous but
A unconfirmed reports from refugees.
Weeks later, President Kennedy disclosed
to the world that The United States had
unmistakable evidence that the Soviet
Union had built offensive nuclear missile
bases in Cuba.
Behind the time gap is a story of how
the latest techniques of photography and
its interpretation ripped a shield of
secrecy from the Soviet missile buildup.
With no need to fly over Cuban terri-
tory, planes carrying highly-sophisticated
photographic equipment took thousands
of feet of film of the Cuban landscape.
And as the first photographs were
developed, men trained in the art of
photographic interpretation turned their
skills and specialized equipment
toward examining the pictures. They
used tooin accurate than the
naked eye. They studied the photos with
high-powered microscopes and with
stereoscopic lenses that gave dimension
to their subjects.
They used slide rules and calipers,
they studied the standard measurements
of, for example, Cuban railroad tracks
and highways.
These became frames of reference for
the job to be done. So exact is photo
interpretation today that by overlapping
two photos and viewing them through
stereoscopic devices, the height, length
and width of objects can be precisely
determined. Just as productive is the
complex photographic equipment used.
Banks of automatic cameras click away
miles from the object to be photo-
graphed. No longer is it necessary to fly
over an area to photograph it, pictures
taken at an oblique angle are just as
telling.
Using this technique, known as peri-
pheral photography, cameras easily take
high-altitude pictures covering an area
from as far as 100 miles (160 kilometres)
from the subject. The names of the
cameras would baffle the layman Tri-
metrogon, Forward Oblique, Split Verti-
cal but each serves a specific purpose.
Aerial photography and its partner,
photo interpretation, have so advanced
in recent years, that discovering a mis-
sile base is one of the simpler tasks.
Thus, President Kennedy was equipped
with final and incontrovertible proof,
provided by photo interpreters, when he
told the world Monday night in these
words: “. . . unmistakable evidence has
established the fact that a series of
offensive missile sites is now in prepara-
teion on this imprisoned island.”
US Information Service


#
W? v 'v r X
-'*• V•• ' -1' "K - '■«*'
% * .♦>
V ■'-~ • ■•*. 7
1 Jt
Mfc
%**'
• «■
i
H
mm*
r-? V- >
&*?***.
- ■ ■ ''■Zjjr' '
> r J&tf.. A - *** -<>■
i
*9
*»«?%<,;? Hr *- 'r&PWVfg&ri
k T
ye
Sometimes Vo/kswagens feel lonely
Volkswagensgowhereothercarscan’t.
They keep going when othercars don’t.
In summer when some cars sit on
the side of the road with overheated
engines, Volkswagens keep going.
VW’s air-cooled engine just can’t boil.
It can’t freeze either.
Volkswagen’s rear engine means
more weight on the driving wheels,
better road grip. Volkswagen takes
you through mud, sand or snow
places only VW can go.
VW’s don’t stop at petrol stations
often either. They don’t need to. 37
miles between gallons is a long way
and that’s what VW’s do with normal
driving.
Volkswagens go in for service regu-
larly, of course. They go to authorised
VW service agents. That’s the best
service there is. Ask a VW owner.
Volkswagen owners aren’t lonely.
They’ve got a lot of friends; over
130,000 VW owners in Australia
alone. That’s not surprising. You
get so much more with Volkswagen
that it’s commonsense to own one.
It’s fun, too.
Your authorised Volkswagen agent
will show you many ways Volks-
wagen is better. Some you’ll only
find by driving VW. Why not give
yourself one of the most enjoyable
driving experiences. Drive Volks-
wagen soon.
FROM
£849
TAX PAID
(State Capital Cities)
mm
IT’S A VOLKSWAGEN WORLD TEST DRIVE VOLKSWAGEN AT YOUR VW AGENT
A product of Volkswagen (Australasia) Pty. Ltd.
VW6985


OUT AND ABOUT
A SYMPATHETIC EYE ON
AUSTRALIAN AUTHORS
"There is not much you can do with a writer whose sole idea
is to make money"
By PATRICIA ROLFE
For Mr Horatio Henry Lovat Dick-
son, a director of the British pub-
lishers, Macmillan’s, coming to
Australia is coming home. Mr Dickson,
at present here on business for his firm,
was born at Mitta Mitta, near the New
South Wales-Victorian border. His father
was a mining engineer, who, after mar-
riage in Melbourne, lived and worked in
various parts of Australia, including the
north-west. At one stage he was in part-
nership with the brothers of Thomas
Browne, who was Rolf Boldrewood.
When Lovat Dickson was seven, the
family went to South Africa, thence to
England and Canada. This is Mr Dick-
son's first return to Australia, but he
finds he is not in entirely unfamiliar ter-
ritory. The Hotel Esplanade where he
stayed in Perth was the same as when
he stayed there as a boy and played
on the upstairs front-verandah. When
he drove around the Sydney waterfront
it seemed familiar because in his child-
hood all interstate trips were made by
sea.
Mr Dickson has also met “hundreds”
of cousins some of whom were, when he
last saw them, young, fresh-faced men,
convalescing after Gallipoli in the Dick-
son house in England.
This coming back to his beginnings
has made Mr Dickson at 60 consider his
nationality, something he has perhaps not
thought about very much in the 33 years
he has lived and worked as a publisher
in England. His conclusion is yes, he
does think of himself as Australian. “I
don’t suppose I have ever been accepted
as English by the English,” he said. “In
the first place, my voice. When I first
went back to England, after study at
the University of Alberta, I had a
Canadian accent, which, being acquired,
soon vanished, leaving me, I suppose,
with my original Australian accent. Now
I think of myself as having an Empire
voice, if such a thing exists.”
Any British publisher who comes here
has twin, interlinked purposes—to see if
he can sell more books and to see if he
can find talented people to write books
which will sell. Mr Dickson feels that
the fact that he is the only Australian
among 250-odd British publishers puts
him in a slightly different position from
others who. come here to survey the
market. It also seems to give him a
particularly sympathetic eye for local
writing and a sympathetic ear for the
troubles of local writers.
Mr Dickson believes that the volume
and quality of writing being done by
Australians—“ Patrick White and so on,”
he said, but would not specify “so on,”
at present could not be approached by
any other English-speaking country, ex-
cluding, of course, the United States and
Britain. “I was most impressed by the
October issue of the ‘London Magazine’
and the recent Australian issue of the
Texas Quarterly,’ ” he said. “If you
tried to get Canadians to put together
something like those, you would find
about five writers and they would be
squabbling among themselves all the
time. Of course, there is much good
writing by South Africans, but it is often
polemic, and many of the best South
African writers have had to leave their
country.”
Mr Dickson believes that the place for
Australian writers is Australia. “If I
were 30 I would come back here to
live,” he said, “but although I do regard
myself as Australian I could not, of
course, write an Australian book. It
is a good thing for an Australian to go
elsewhere for, say, five years but he must
come back here, otherwise he will not
know what is happening here or how to
record it. On the other hand, he must
not be provincial.
Having made clear what the standard
is for Macmillan authors, Mr Dick-
son talked of what his company
hopes to do here. He cannot discuss
detailed plans, because they do not yet
exist. However, Macmillan’s do hope
to publish more books in Australia. At
present, they publish only a certain
number of those bread-and-butter items
school textbooks.
Mr Dickson hopes, too, that his com-
pany will make a “conscious effort to
develop the creative Australian writer.”
The best way to do this, he believes, is
by providing skilled editors to work
hand in hand with the authors. “But,
please,” he said, “we had better not talk
too much about it now, or we may be
overwhelmed by manuscripts.”
Mr Dickson, as editor of general
books, works closely with his firm’s staff
of editors, and talks with great eloquence
of the close relationship which can exist
between author and editor, a relationship
which to the outsider seems the most un-
promising of human conjunctions.
Mr Dickson does not see it that way,
and his latest book, “The House of
Words,” to be published in January,
deals largely with how author and editor
can and should work together.
“These days publishing is a costly
business,” he said, “and an author re-
presents an investment to a publisher.
A book also represents an investment to
an author. It is so expensive to starve
in a garret these days. Young editors
and authors should become associated
early and develop together. An author
is like a young race horse. He must be
disciplined, trained and given direction.
On the other hand, there is not much
you can do with an author whose sole
desire is to make money.”
Mr Dickson said that Macmillan’s do
not look for best-sellers, although, natur-
ally, they are gratified when writers on
their lists, such as C. P. Snow, Pamela
Hansford Johnson, Eric Linklater and
Muriel Spark, do reach the best-seller
lists.
“Macmillan’s has no popular library
list,” he said, “which is just as well,
because the popular library in England
has almost vanished and people are buy-
ing paperbacks instead.”
He said, however, that the company
still sells about 3000 copies in cloth and
12,000 to 15,000 in paperback of “Gone
with the Wind,” which, he admitted, was
“a very good book of its type.” He
recalled that Macmillan, London, had
turned down “Forever Amber,” publish-
ed in America by the then existing Mac-
millan company there, although the
English company knew it would sell
well.
He calls the Australian book market
a “beautiful” one and believes it is an
expanding one. He regards Australian
bookshops as particularly good and at-
tractive, and booksellers as considerably
smarter than their English counterparts,
because they are mostly ordering books,
sight unseen. However, Mr Dickson is
entirely aware that to Australian pub-
lishers, booksellers, book buyers and


'iffi
SBi
SALES
JWlk Ml MW 'MM?
Pinnock Fridor can successfully promote and
place your products on world markets. The
Pinnock Fridor Group is engaged in the manu-
facture and distribution of domestic appliances
and industrial products. Factories or distribu-
tion centres are in Great Britain / Ireland /
South Africa / North America / Holland / Bel-
gium / New Zealand / South East Asia.
The Pinnock Fridor Group is also interested
in TAKE OVER or COMPLETE PURCHASE
of suitable organisations.
ENQUIRIES:
THE PINNOCK FRIDOR GROUP
Office of the Chairman
Land Trust House
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY / TELEPHONE: 28-4795
authors, the beauty of the local scene
is somewhat obscured.
“I understand and sympathise with
Australian publishers,” he said. “They
naturally resent being made to stand
aside while English and American pub-
lishers contend for the English language
rights to a book which is sure to sell
well. I sympathise with a book buyer
when he reads about a book in an over-
seas magazine, then his bookseller tells
him he cannot have it, because ‘the mat-
ter is being discussed’ and Australia must
wait until the battle of the giants is over
and a British publisher brings out an
edition, which even later in the day is
available in Australia.”
Elowever, Mr Dickson believes that if
the market were further split up and
Australia became involved in the “battle
of the giants” America would capture the
world market.
Mr Dickson said that the Australian
market represented about 10 per cent,
of his company’s output (about 44 per
cent, of which was exported), and was
the largest single customer outside the
United States. “The Australian market
represents a tremendous underwriting of
our production,” he said. “If it went,
we would not be able to publish so
many titles and the Australian book
buyer, bookseller and author might suffer
in the long run.”
He believes Australian publishers can
and will sell more overseas and sets a
possible figure for Australian export of
10 per cent, of production.
NEW GUINEA
ART: DEMAND
OUTRUNS SUPPLY
Primitive art
becomes a craft
industry
Interest in New Guinea primitive art
has increased greatly in New York
since Michael Rockefeller dis-
appeared while engaged on a collection
expedition last year. The objects collected
by Rockefeller in the Asmat region of
south-west New Guinea have been
assembled in a striking outdoor exhibition
in the grounds of the New York Museum
of Primitive Art. The exhibition has
drawn so many visitors that the closing
date has been extended.
The Museum curator, Englishman
Douglas Newton, told The Bulletin
that there is a considerable demand for
New Guinea art.
“There is not so much as for good
African and pre-Columbian objects,” Mr
Newton said, ‘'but, of course, the demand
has only existed for some five years. The
problem is rather with supply. There is
very little left there that is any good.
“fake the Sepik area for example.
Since 1959 there have been at least four
major museum expeditions and two
private expeditions, to my knowledge.
And they are pretty thorough. When you
realise that an expedition takes out as
many as 2000 pieces, you will realise they
have picked the area fairly clean.
“With the demand that does exist, the
natives are quite definitely carving for
sale. Then the missionaries encourage
carving, influencing the natives to pro-
duce pieces that will produce income
for the church. There is quite a craft
industry in some areas. This is not what
we mean by primitive art.
“The really sad thing is that the Aus-
tralian museums are neglecting their
duties. No real effort is being made by
them or for them to assemble a collection
from north-east New Guinea.”
Mr Stephen Kellner, one of Sydney’s
largest wholesalers in New Guinea art-
works, claims it is futile for expeditions
to go to New Guinea because in the
regions that the expeditions have access
to there is nothing of value left to collect.
Museums here and overseas are being
supplied increasingly from private col-
lections, he said. These collections con-
tain valuable material that was collected
before the post-war boom began,
There are about 20 dealers in New
York carrying stocks of New Guinea
primitive art. One of the biggest is the
Carlebach Galleries, which occupies a
choice corner piece of Madison Avenue
real property, across 79th Street from
Duveen Brothers. Short, portly and
bald, Julius Carlebach is the proprietor
and resident expert on primitive art.
The Carlebach collection runs to
shields and masks, not unlike those in
the Museum outdoor exhibit, but lacks
the more striking pieces assembled by
Michael Rockefeller such as ancestor
poles and soul ships. The collection was
said by Carlebach to be assembled over
12 or 15 years from disparate sources,
“Some of it comes from European or
American or New Guinea collections,”
he said. He had no regular supplier in
New Guinea, he said.


Established 3 868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON fl'lf
O'SULLIVAN y /j
:a, ptyltd Cfr'
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE and linotype
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON. MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS r: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
THE UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Established 1 862
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
J. W. Dunlop (Chairman), Sir Edward R.
Knox (Deputy-Chairman), R. J. Vicars
A. Murray Jones, Hugh Dixson D. A. T.
Dickins, K, B. Myers, A. E. Stephen,
Fire. Marine and Accident Insurances
of every description.
J. O. LEWIS, General Manager.
ALBERT FINNEY-BUSHRANGER
From Cocteau To Ned Kelly
By CHARLES HIGHAM
“'VTed Kelly would turn in his grave
if he could see you now!” The
speaker was Frank Clune, who was
reprimanding Albert Finney, co-pro-
ducer and star of Karel Reisz’s forth-
coming “Ned Kelly”, for sticking to
lolly-water during an exhausting evening
of TV, radio and Press interviews at Syd-
ney’s Chevron-Hilton Hotel. (Clune is
acting as unofficial technical adviser on
the film. Finney, a tall, heavy-set man
W'ith a mop of sandy hair, a hint of
moustache, darting truculent eyes and
a cheerful grin, w 7 ent smoothly through
the three and a half hours of interviews,
obviously relishing his fame, amused by
the earnestness of some enquiries and
ready to clasp a girl reporter in mock
embrace if she asked him too determined
women’s-magazine questions about his
romantic interests (“Want me to show
you?”). Relaxed in a corner after aTV
interview replete w'ith technical hitches,
Finney pushed his hands into his pockets,
smiled broadly, and started to talk about
his stage and screen career.
He began life in Manchester, in a
suburb where Shelagh (“A Taste of
Honey”) Delaney also
lived, and after the usual
hurdles of RADA and
repertory, he vaulted to
success at Stratford with
the help of Charles
Laughton, w 7 ho got him
the job of Olivier's under-
study in “Coriolanus”.
When Olivier strained a
knee tendon, Finney took
over; after that it was
one smooth sprint to the top. As a
teddy boy in “The Lily White Boys”, in
Cocteau’s “The Infernal Machine”, as
Arthur Seaton in Reisz’s film “Saturday
Night and Sunday Morning”, as Billy
Liar and Luther, he established a reputa-
tion which is now second to none among
English actors under 30.
“Eve just finished making ‘Tom Jones’,
from Richardson’s novel”. Finney said.
“It’s a £600,000 sterling production of
Tony Richardson’s, with Susannah
Yorke, Edith Evans and your Diane
Cilento in supporting roles. As usual
with Tony, there haven’t been any studio
scenes at all—it’s been done on location
in Somerset and Dorset, with the few
interiors in Londonderry House, Park
Lane. The art director, Ralph Brinton,
has concentrated on evoking the period
without trying to get down to tiny little
details”.
Finney said they hadn't tried to follow 7
the novel closely—it's a sprawling work
and most of the first third deals with
events before Tom Jones is born—but
had simply striven to seize on its most
excitingly dramatic features. Going on
to talk about Ned Kelly, he said Zoe
Caldwell had interested him in the
character, and he'd read eyery book
available on him, finally seeing that he
must play the part. Later, he hopes to
do a screen version of Brecht’s “The
Resistible Rise of Arturo Gui,” a play
about a Hitler-like individual w 7 ho rises
to power in the Chicago underworld.
“I see Ned as a rebel'’, he said, “a
man who likes to say that to society!
But we mustn’t let ourselves forget he’s
a criminal character as well, and we
won’t attempt to whitewash him”. I
asked about David Storey, the 29-year-
old English ex-postman who wrote the
screenplay, and wondered if he’s come to
Australia to do any of the groundwork.
Finney shook his head. “Didn’t leave
England at all,” he said. "Karel simply
talked to David—w'ho did the script for
Karel’s ‘This Sporting Life’ after a
treatment by the playwright John Arden
didn’t work out too well, and David
w'ent away and read the Royal Com-
mission report on the Kelly affair. He
returned with 30 pages which he’d done
in his own time, without payment. Karel
and I liked them, and Karel asked him
to do the script.
Among Finney’s biggest headaches, he
said, w 7 as finding locations
which weren't too far
apart to be used success-
fully: transport problems
loomed large, and, as the
film has a March 1 start-
ing date, there’s the
problem of heat. “People
said to us in London, why
don’t you do it in Spain?
After all, the rocks and
sand are the same there.
But they aren't the same, are they?
I mean, there’s something extra-
ordinary, something wonderful about
this country. It's huge, frightening.
And it’s right for the story as nowhere
else could be”.
Both Reisz and Finney were anxious
to point out that the conception they
had of the Kelly story wasn’t a romantic
one, that it was a harsh and stark story,
and that period trimmings would be
pared down to a minimum. Carmen
Dillon’s sets would be simple, designed,
like Brinton’s for “Tom Jones”, to evoke
the period rather than recreate it in
detail. (“We're making one wall of the
Kelly house white”, Reisz said. “And it
wasn’t white. But what the hell!”) This
lack of fussiness, lack of concern with
unimportant minutiae is very character-
istic of the British film-makers of today.
Concluding, Finney said the film
would probably be shot entirely in New
South Wales, with studio interiors done
in Sydney, and the unit, with David
Storey, would arrive in January. I wished
him well as a TV unit swooped, more
flashbulbs popped, and the 100 or so
remaining guests darted forward to the
attack with notebooks and gleaming eyes.


London Newsletter
HOW TO
GET BACK
ON TOP
Mr. Macmillan does it again
From JOHN PRINGLE
T must begin with an apology not,
this time, to my readers but to Mr
Harold Macmillan, Prime Minister of
Britain. Only two months ago I wrote
that he was old and tired, that his grouse-
shooting with the Duke of Devonshire
made him seem ludicrously out of date
and dangerously reminiscent of Neville
Chamberlain, and that, by his dramatic
purge of the Cabinet, he had apparently
made himself redundant. A reign was
drawing to a close, I wrote with the
ghastly self-confidence which afflicts
journalists it was only a matter of
time.
I could hardly have been more mis-
taken. That, indeed, was how it looked
two months ago to many others beside
myself. Conservative MPs were freely
discussing whether the party could pos-
sibly win another election with Mr Mac-
millan as leader, and more daring rebels
were already plotting who should use
the dagger and who should succeed. If
the deed had to be done, they whis-
pered, t'were better t’were done quickly.
The possibility that a change of leader-
ship might also mean an end to joining
the Common Market did not greatly
worry Conservatives who had never
cared all that much about Europe and
who were painfully conscious of the
growing opposition in the Commonwealth
and the country. One got the impres-
sion that some of them would have been
only too glad to drop the whole em-
barrassing business.
Yet today, only two months later, how
different it looks! The Conservative
Party has overwhelmingly endorsed the
Prime Minister’s policy. The anti-Com-
mon Marketeers put up only the feeblest
fight. Not a single one of those who
had been mentioned as possible rivals
spoke against the Prime Minister or
against the Common Market. Lord Hail-
sham stayed at home —his wife was ex-
pecting a baby. Lord Avon never ap-
peared. Mr. Selwyn Lloyd was cheered
• and accepted the job of reorganising
the party. Mr Butler for the first time
spoke out strongly for the Common Mar-
ket and was duly praised by the Prime
Minister. Moreover the Conservative
Party left Llandudno in tremendous
spirits, apparently convinced that it can
fight and win an election at any time
on this issue which only a short time
before had looked a certain loser.
Jaded air and drooping moustaches
Tt is an astonishing achievement by Mr
Macmillan. One cannot but admire
the political skill and steely nerves of
this curious Edwardian figure, with his
jaded air and drooping moustaches, his
deceptive mannerisms and aristocratic
relations. Throughout this summer al-
most everything seemed against him. His
Government was losing by-elections like
buttons off an old coat. Public opinion
polls showed that over 50 per cent of
the nation was against Britain’s joining
the Common Market. The Common-
wealth was up in arms and some of the
members of his own Cabinet were notor-
iously shaky. General de Gaulle and Dr
Adenauer could hardly have been less
helpful. Yet Mr Macmillan kept quietly
on, ignoring minor reverses, surviving
even the battle of the Commonwealth
Prime Ministers, counter-attacking on
television and in a pamphlet written by
himself, until his final triumph at Llan-
dudno. He has now manoeuvred his
party into total acceptance of a policy
which it never wholly liked, and seems
certain to take Britain into the Common
Market which, even now, few people
understand. Only Mr Menzies, perhaps,
could appreciate the real measure of his
achievement.
It was made easier, of course, by Mr
Gaitskell’s decision to lead the Labor
Party in opposing Britain’s entry on the
present terms. Dr Johnson said that the
knowledge he was to be hanged, helped
to concentrate a man’s mind wonderfully.
Certainly the knowledge that a general
election is in sight helps wonderfully to
unite a party. The Labor Party closed
ranks against a policy in which some
of them openly believe: the Conservative
Party came together behind a policy
which a good many of them secretly dis-
like. But, whatever the cynics may say,
it has certainly simplified things in
Britain. With the Conservatives for the
Common Market and Labor against,
there seems no reason why an election
should not be fought on this issue before
the Treaty of Rome is signed pro-
bably in May or June next year.
But, if the parties have now made up
their minds, the agony of reaching a de-
cision still troubles a great many ordi-
nary people. (The public opinion polls
show that over 20 per cent are still
undecided.) As one might expect, the
anguish seems particularly acute among
the intellectuals. This has its comic side.
Mr Gaitskell rashly claimed that not a
single experienced economist put the eco-
nomic arguments for joining as more
than fifty-fifty. “The Observer” promptly
polled all academic economists ir. Britain
above the rank of Reader to find out.
The answers sent in from 83 out of 127
showed that a very large majority in fact
believed that the arguments favoured
Britain’s joining. Forty-nine were in
favor and 12 against, with 18 sitting on
the fence. But Cambridge, the home of
Keynes and the University with the high-
est reputation for economics, was
against.
Other intellectuals are just as divided,
as you can easily discover in any Fleet
Street bar or Oxford Common Room.
John Osborne produced a blast of his
most brilliant rhetoric in “Tribune”
against joining the Common Market
without revealing a single rational argu-
ment. (He seemed to think that it was
all a Catholic conspiracy.)
In the end most men will choose either
because of their own temperament or
for political reasons. Indeed few people
now deny that it is a political decision.
The economic arguments for and
against are closely balanced and, for the
ordinary man, almost impossible to un-
derstand. Even the political arguments
are obscure because so much is un-
known. Certainly the Government in-
dulges in a good deal of double talk
about the political future of Europe. As
Mr Gaitskell fairly pointed out, the
Prime Minister “on the one hand tells
us we must go into the new Europe be-
cause it is going to be a great force in
the world, rivalling the United States and
Russia. On the other hand he assures
us that he is against the creation of a
European federation. These two asser-
tions cannot be reconciled”.


PICASSO-
WHAT SS
NOT ART?
2. The Dead Sparrow
By CHRISTOPHER LUCAS
Tt was just a dead sparrow, its wings
blood-flecked, a still, small creature
without life. In the midnight emptiness
of Provence, Pablo Picasso knelt on the
highway and picked up the bird’s broken
body, holding it gently under the
yellow beams of the headlamps.
With care he opened its glazed
eyes, then cradled it in his hands for
a moment, glancing unhappily at
the windscreen which had shattered
its frail bones.
When the ancient Hispano-Suiza
drove off, Picasso was still holding the
bird, alone in the back seat, gloomy,
morose and impenetrably silent. The
afternoon’s corrida, the six dead
bulls, the implacable blood-lust of the
arena were forgotten.
A bird, a small, anonymous
sparrow had touched him, intruded
into Picasso’s existence—and that
night it became the stuff of painting,
resuscitated a dozen times, a tiny,
winsome thing perched on a shoulder,
a jug or a window.
It is a trivial incident, maybe, yet
it provides the touchstone to Picasso,
the man and his mind. For in the
restless, convulsive flow of his genius
there is consistency, even order, the
simple continuity of an equation
where life equals art, where these
twin forces become intertwined, in-
separable and interdependent.
“What is art?” he asks incredulously.
“What is not art?”
In his 80th year Picasso lives with the
intensity and the curiosity of youth.
Everything touches him, even the death
of a sparrow, and everything becomes
art. During one lunch I heard him
variously marvel at the colour of the
peas, at the sheen of an Indian’s sari, at
the texture of an apple, at the size of a
waiter’s nose.
With equal enthusiasm, his antennae
will draw stimulus from a bull-fight’s
cruelty, from the smile of Jacqueline,
from the death of a friend, from the
result of an election.
For Picasso's art is never abstract. It
can be influenced by war, by love, by
politics, it can be prettified or viciously
distorted, yet it will always show some-
thing a centaur, a dove, a picador,
assimilated, analysed and clearly showing
Picasso’s signature.
“What can I tell you?” says Picasso,
eyes burning. “Everything I have to say
is in my painting. Reality is more than
the thing itself. I look always for its
super-reality. Reality lies in how you see
things. I can watch your face. But I can
also see more than your face.
“In Paris, many years ago, I painted
the portrait of Gertrude Stein. When she
saw the finished picture she was very
upset and said it did not look a bit like
her. I told her it would. Many years later
she came to see me and I was quite
right!”
Pablo Picasso, the artist impeccable,
can paint with the realism of Goya or
the delicacy of Velasquez, yet he can
find no challenge in the facile repetition
of techniques he mastered and discarded
at 20.
In this century, still digesting the im-
pressionist pill, no painter has shocked,
startled and defied convention more
savagely than Picasso, no artist has
strained more furiously to jolt the public
out of time-worn cliches and established
ways, more drastically reassembled the
human anatomy, tumbling art into
anarchy and carrying even his closest
collaborators to the brink of incompre-
hension.
Yet, to Picasso, his stunted, often per-
verse, shapes appear as routine as a duck
by Peter Scott or the banal horseflesh
of Alfred Munnings.
“Why don’t some of my figures have
feet?” he asks querulously. “Because
there are no feet on Nature! Art is a lie
that makes us see truth. Everyone al-
ways wants to understand art. Why don’t
people try to understand the song of a
bird? Why do people love the night, the
flowers and everything around us without
insisting on understanding them?
“Yet when it comes to a picture,
people think they must ‘understand’ it.
If only they would realise, once and for
all, that an artist creates because he must
create, and that no more attention should
be paid to him than to any other things
which delight us although we cannot
understand them”.
Adding, with a puckish half-smile:
“When we love a woman, it does not
occur to us to take her measurements
first. We love with our desire”.
When bitterly aggravated. Picasso will
turn on his inquisitors, angrily de-
mand why Raphael's cherubs have no
bodies, why Leonardo's martyrs have
haloes, why Michelangelo’s saints
have wings. “Sacred cliches, that's
all!”, he once snapped. “Yet nobody
claims anything wrong with these dis-
tortions of reality!”.
Piqued by lack ot understanding,
Picasso does enjoy the odd prank at
the public’s cost, humours himself
by using bicycle handles for a bull’s
horns or a split coconut for a goat's
udder, yet his aesthetic good taste
survives, miraculously unhurt.
“Painting and sculpture are, after
all, merely exercises in seeing more
profoundly”, he reflected. “People
simply don’t pay enough attention
these days. Cezanne is Cezanne be-
cause when he stood before a tree
he watched it like a hunter stalking
big game. Once he caught a leaf he
would never let go again.”
Picasso, himself, examines his vic-
tim, whether animal or mineral, like
a surgeon dissects a corpse, hatches
his private discovery for days, maybe
months, eventually moves to his easel
without haste yet with complete cer-
tainty, attacking the bare canvas with a
technique which is prodigious, a study in
time and motion.
The maestro, who has never taught
painting to anyone, finds little sympathy
for his disciples and imitators, openly
despises most young painters for their
blatant lack of artistic fibre and applica-
tion.
“It’s almost farcical how the young
ignore technique”, says Picasso. “Imagine
a matador who knows absolutely nothing
facing his first bull! The result is the
same.
“But this is the age of publicity, the
age of the celebrity, the star, and these
young men are just like their public.
“They cover a canvas, stand before it,
call in the photographers, then sell the
painting next day. Van Gogh cut off an


HELP
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM 2001. °
ear, but these artists dash off to ski or
to buy sports cars. And their painting is
full of sadness, oh, so tragic. C’est formid-
able!”.
Unlike the pricey platitudes of Buffet
and the abstract doodlers, Picasso’s work
has always ignored the easy success of
repetition, devising, discarding, then re-
suming its lonely, uncompromising pro-
gress, usually to a baying chorus of criti-
cal abuse.
“What is my favourite period?” he
demands. “The next! One period is
neither better nor worse . . . just differ-
ent.
“I have used many manners, I know,
yet they were never steps towards an
unknown idea of painting. I have never
made trials nor experiments. Whenever
I had something to say I have merely
expressed it in the way I felt it should
be said. Different motives invariably re-
quire different methods”.
Even his most shrewish critics will
admit that Picasso’s integrity is granitic,
almost Biblical, and that his technique
is without bounds. They might even
accept the Picasso equation, that each
period, each painting, each complex
brushstroke reflects a man's life, the
pictorial biography of an emigre
Spaniard, his private tensions and his
public conflicts.
The evidence would seem undeniable.
Why the bleak, emaciated images of
the “blue” period? Because Picasso was
penniless, because he painted at night
by the blue light of an oil lamp (the
single bed was only free during the day),
because the only models he could afford
were beggars and off-duty prostitutes.
Why the softer optimism of the “rose”
period? Because Picasso was in love for
the first time, with the sensuous Fernande
Olivier; because he had enough money
for the circus, could study its clown and
tumblers and harlequins.
Why the angular distortions of cubism?
Because Picasso had now become a
recognised painter and could break with
the past, because he was convinced there
was painting beyond photography or the
powderpuff hints of Renoir.
Why heads with two profiles, dis-
jointed eyes and noses? Because Picasso
wanted to smash all taboos, because he
wanted to paint both sides of a face at
the same time.
Owls, Doves, Guitars
VS/By the übiquitous owls and doves,
guitars and picadors? Because Picasso
is immutably Spanish, because these birds
nested outside his home in Malaga, be-
cause he always kept a guitar in his
studio, because the corrida’s cruel ballet
appalls yet fascinates him.
Why the agonised apocalypse of
“Guernica”? Because Picasso was
wracked by the tragedy of Spain's civil
war, by the “pain and death of this bar-
barous bombardment” and desperately
wished to express his indignation.
Why the demented portraits and the
tortured, flame-seared monsters of the
war years? Because Picasso had watched
his tranquil world explode in compulsive
madness, because he was deeply unhappy
and alone in his Paris studio, without
friends, food or heat.
(During the occupation, Picasso, a
neutral, retired into olympian isolation,
refused every favour offered by the
Nazis. One evening Otto Abetz, the Ger-
man ambassador, visited him, spotted
“Guernica” in a corner and asked: “Did
you do that?”. “No”, replied the artist,
bitterly, “you did”.)
And why the bubbling lyricism of the
immediate post-war years, the jaunty
centaurs and piping fauns? Because
Picasso had moved to Antibes, to the
Riviera’s sunny peace, because he was
once again in love, and because his
companion, Francoise Gilot, was bearing
his child.
“Picasso?” says Daniel-Henri Kahn-
weiler, his dealer and friend, “a man of
the immediate moment!”.
Even Picasso’s Communism, his most
controversial attitude, was animated by
an artist’s spontaneity, by the immediacy
of the moment, combined with an en-
during compassion for the poor and the
oppressed Marxism in its ideal sense,
without dogma or Party line.
“I did not name the Murderers”
Tn the grey months after the liberation,
A it happened, Picasso was painfully
lonely, a helpless observer without a role,
so, quite simply, he joined the world’s
biggest political family.
“I was so anxious to find a homeland
again”, he recollects. “I had always been
an exile and now I was one no longer.
The French Communist Party had
opened its arms to me and I found there
all the greatest scientists, the greatest
poets, all those whom I esteem most.
“Look, I am no politician. I am not
technically proficient in such matters.
Rather I am like the eagle who flies high
and sees everything. When he discerns
something new he plunges down and
seizes it. Personally, I feel that Com-
munism is working towards the realisa-
tion of certain ideas which I believe.
“What is an artist, in your opinion? A
fool who is nothing but eyes if a painter,
nothing but ears if a musician? Far from
it: he is necessarily also a political being
who constantly and personally experi-
ences all the threatening or joyful events
in this world, who creates every thing in
his own image. It is impossible for him to
remain indifferent to his fellow-men.
“Remember St Francis of Assisi. He
was probably the first militant prophet of
true socialism”.
Whatever Mr Khrushchev’s scoffing
opinions, Picasso still enjoys Russians
(“They drink too much and talk too
much. Just like Spaniards!”), silently suf-
fered official Party censure for his por-
trait of Stalin (“He did not look fatherly
enough”) and his “Massacre in Korea”
(“I did not name the murderers”).
More recently the maestro, who
already owns seven homes and six cars,
consented to accept a goat from the
Communist Party in Vallauris, the
potters’ town, but regrettably the gift, a
musty specimen, died after just two days.
Millionaire and Communist
T)icasso, whose humor can be savage,
promptly invited the Communist mayor
to lunch, asking innocently: “And what
do you think you’re eating, M. le
Maire?”. After a touchy silence, the host
gaily answered his own question: “No,
my friend, it is not gigot. It is goat! And
if only the Central Committee knew . .
Picasso’s Communism is evidently un-
orthodox, yet it remains an essentially
humanist gesture, reticent, highly per-
sonal yet loyal. After the Budapest mas-
sacres he signed a mass protest, yet
stubbornly refused to resign from the
Party, arguing: “Do Catholics disavow
their Church because some Popes were
criminal? Did the Americans disavow
their President when he invaded Cuba?
No. Everyone can be fallible”.
Even in politics Picasso retains the
artist’s humility, the privilege to doubt,
to explore and to tolerate.
This is the young bohemian who once
smoked opium, who fired pistol shots at
the tedious, who wore a bowler hat in
court when charged with abducting the
“Mona Lisa”, who kept his most famed
painting hidden for 30 years.
This is also the mature, hypersensitive
human who marvelled at the Sputnik in
the sky yet was more impressed by the
bat that settled on his shoulder that his-
toric night, the craftsman who saw his
first picture hung in the Louvre, then
remarked with candid relief: “You see,
it’s all the same, all the same!”.
Hounded by his own fame yet im-
pervious to riches, he works beyond the
frontiers of perception, despised by some,
admired by others, envied by all, arro-
gant in art yet gentle in life, millionaire
and Communist, anarchist and grand-
father, the mercurial paradox who can
appreciate both a child’s smile and a
bull’s roar of pain.


SPORTING NOTIONS
MOSS, BRABHAM, SURTEES & CO.
When 120,000 Watch A New Sport — It's Arrived
By DISCUS
]V|otor racing became top Australian
spectator sport earlier this year
when more than 50,000 and nearly
120,000 people attended international
meetings at new road racing circuits at
Warwick Farm, Sydney, and Sandown
Park, Melbourne. The 118,000 at San-
down Park created a new attendance re-
cord for any event in this country. When
a sport beats the Australian Football
League record for attendance in Mel-
bourne, it has arrived.
The drawcard in each instance was
that magic phrase, “international driv-
ers”. Moss, Brabham, McLaren, Surtees
and Bandini were in the country. Add
that every fourth Australian owns a car
and every second Australian drives one
at some time or another; that the new-
circuit motor races are held on Sundays,
in green belt areas a comfortable drive
out from the cities; and that racing driv-
ers are high among the heroes of today’s
male youth. Then the big attendances
are logical, and the sport seems a natural
for the future.
That future has been a long time com-
ing in Australia. The world’s first Grand
Prix was raced at Le Mans in 1906 (and
won by a Renault at 63 m.p.h.), the
British Tourist Trophy for sports cars
began in 1905, and the Indianapolis 500
goes back to 1911. Until very recently
there were rarely more than a half dozen
outmoded Grand Prix cars racing in this
country, on circuits as distant from the
cities as Mt Panorama, near Bathurst,
the RAAF strip at Ballarat, and the aero-
drome strip at Lowood, well out from
Brisbane. The Australian meets, from
Grand Prix down, were the picnic races
of motoring, by world standards, with a
few aged racing cars and little MGs for
the young, aspiring drivers.
Something of that picnic charm per-
sists in the new racing at Lakeside,
Queensland, and Warwick Farm and
Sandown Park. On a dour, windy day
at the Farm two Sundays ago, there were
a few' MGs and twice as many Coopers
and Lotuses, but there were also 20,000
people with picnic baskets, rugs, auto
ice boxes, and the usual stumbling chil-
dren. The spectators, a majority young
and male but the minority entirely re-
presentative, ate barbecued steaks and
hot snacks, wore bulky sweaters and car
coats or walked around car-rugged and
colorful, and in pairs sat close, and
watched, and chewed, and cheered. The
racecourse was there, too, as one will be
later at Sandown Park. Only the horses
and jockeys were missing, replaced for
this occasion by helmeted drivers lying
almost prone and barely visible in cars
so small that, as we saw later, a tow
truck can lift one and carry it slung.
The differences between old and new
racing cars were shown very clearly dur-
ing that afternoon, when a fine old col-
lection of fish-tailed Bugattis, 1933-34
Alfa Romeos, early models of MG,
Maserati, Austin 7, Aston Martin, Vaux-
hall, Wolseley and Mercedes Benz were
wheeled onto the track for Australia’s
first Vintage and Historic Handicap in
years, for sports and racing cars.
“How would you be, driving that?”
TTow they bellowed and fumed, waiting
for the start, as big and dangerous
as fighting bulls in the chute and pro-
bably as hard to handle. The program
showed their ages ranging from a long,
rakish 1923 Lancia Lambda to a 1947
Formula One Maserati. (A 1920 s model,
I realised at last that I was Vintage and
Historic.) It was a very noisy race, five
times around, 2i miles to the lap, with
some fierce driving and a surprise re-
sult. The Lancia won. There's still nip
in us vintage models, given a big enough
start. The fastest lap was driven by
Laurie Rofe in a 1934 Alfa Romeo
which was once the terror of the cir-
cuits, when Lex Davison owned, post
war. It did the lap at an average speed
of 60.72 m.p.h. Later in the day, a Mor-
ris 850 did better than 63 m.p.h. lap
average. In the Ladies Handicap Miss
Hill’s Lotus sports car averaged 66.28
m.p.h., and in the big race of the day
for modern little GP cars the best lap
was at an average of 80 m.p.h.
Watching the race, and listening to
some of the comments, it was possible
to make a shrewd guess at one reason
for the sport’s new popularity. As one
of the Bugattis roared along Pit Straight,
in front of the grandstands, a boy in
youth’s current uniform, red and black,
turned to another and said. “How would
you be. driving that?” His friend turned
a thumb down. Out in the park they
had one of the late model sports cars in
which it is quite possible to sit and
imagine you’re Stirling Moss.
On this particular Sunday in October
1962, Stirling Moss was not present, ex-
cept in reflection and perhaps in a
reflection of his on the new Formula
Junior which may eventually affect the
sport here and elsewhere. There used to
be three, and then two, Formulas for
Grand Prix cars. Formula 1 was for
supercharged engines of 1500 c.c. and
Formula 2 was for 500 c.c. engines. But
the ratios were changed, and eventually
Formula Junior came in, for racing cars
up to 1100 c.c. with a racing car and
stock car component mixture. Recently,
while waiting to see whether he could
ever race again, Moss said, “When For-
mula 2 was done away with and For-
mula Junior put in its place, a great
many aspirants regarded it as just ‘one
step’ below Formula 1 racing. It is not
so, for in Formula Junior it is the most
courageous man that wins, not the best
driver and courageous drivers fade
out fast.”
That is one man’s opinion, probably
not shared by Jack Brabham, who is a
business man making Formula Junior
cars. Moss has “a vehement hatred for
Formula Junior”, but to most it seemed
an inevitable change for the Federation
Internationale de I’Automobile to make,
and a valuable one for countries such as
Australia where not too many ‘aspirants’
could afford up to £lO,OOO for a For-
mula 1 or 2 car. From about £2500 up,
the Formula Junior machine is a pos-
sible, and it has made Australian racing
car production possible too, for local
works such as Elfin in Adelaide and
Nota and Lynx in Sydney.
There were 11 Formula Junior cars
in the second race at the Farm, six Lotus
Fords, two Lynx Fords, a Nota Ford, a
Rennmax Ford, and one entry from the
Lynx works, the Lynx BMC which won
the Junior section of the race, although
a Lotus Ford had the fastest lap. Over
the whole program, with only about 20
entries, the Elfin-Nota-Lynx marques did
well enough, winning three sections in
the day’s events and recording three
fastest laps.
One of these was a sectional win for
one of Australia’s best ‘younger’ drivers,
Frank Matich, who drove an Elfin Ford
into first place in the Under 1500 c.c.
class in the main event, the Sam Hor-
dern Trophy, named after a late member


now! l ij/S2X= [PUSH
SUPERANNUATION
from
for all SELF-EMPLOYED PERSONS
professional men, businessmen, farmers, graziers
and ALL EMPLOYERS and their STAFFS
Commonwealth legislation now enables the A.M.P.
Society, Australia’s No. 1 Life Office, to offer you
tax-free superannuation which can provide for -
0 RETIREMENT with adequate
cash resources.
& PROTECTION for your family
against death duties and against
sickness and accident.
• CAPITAL APPRECIATION
through A.M.P.’s large holdings
of equity shares and real estate.
• GUARANTEED by£sso million
of A.M.P. assets.
For all information,
contact your A.M.P. man or The Superannuation Manager,
A.M.P SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE
A purely mutual society largest underwriter of superannuation in Australia
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security ciffo-ded by funds oj
£ 550,000,000 which the Society seeks tc invest to the
greatest benefit to member ••
MSB


IX L
This World Famous Brand is Manufactured
and Distributed by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES AND
ASSOCIATED COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
of the Australian Jockey Club, which
formed the Australian Automobile Rac-
ing Club Ltd to run the motor side of
things at Warwick Farm.
There is confusion for spectators new
to motor racing in the mixing of classes
of car in the one event, so that in reality
two or three races are in progress on
the circuit at the same time. The 2500
c.c. Cooper Climax entries, several 1500
c.c. cars, and a number of Formula
Junior machines were all engaged in the
Sam Hordern Trophy Race. Within the
23 laps, the leading Coopers had caught
the tailenders by lap 7 and from there
on had increasing traffic ahead. But cars
in the middle of the field were fighting
out the Under 1500 c.c. section of the
race.
The Farm races begin at the ‘pits’,
which are no longer pits, and the cars
race around Paddock Bend, follow an
elongated S into a long straight (Hume),
hit a very tight corner (Creek), go into
more S bends and then almost completely
circle a small lake to reach a wide cor-
ner (Polo), a short straight, Leger Cor-
ner, and into Pit Straight. Spectators
have a choice of the Leger and Paddock
enclosures, or another on the far side
of the course, along Hume Straight where
the GP cars do 130 m.p.h. before brak-
ing for Creek Corner.
The other Sunday it rained for the
big race and until the shower was over
and the track had dried out, the drivers
braked down to 45 m.p.h. and less on
the corners, with occasional skids and
quick applause from the crowd for the
good recoveries with split-second conside-
ration for those behind.
Last year’s trophy winner, Bib Still-
well, led from start to finish in a 2i litre
Cooper Climax, but it was a race from
lap 10 on, with David McKay’s car edg-
ing up a little each time around until lap
21, two circuits from the checkered flag,
when McKay made his bid to brake late
and shoot ahead at Polo Corner.
From the grandstand, McKay seemed
to vanish in a puff of blue smoke. In
fact, the outside wheels locked as they
sideslipped on the wet grass verge, and
the Cooper hit a safety barrier, slipped
behind it and out of sight, and hit a
temporary toilet structure. McKay was
unhurt, but the machine was much dam-
aged. During the presentation ceremony
Norman Jones, one of the AJC commit-
tee and a friend of McKay’s, remarked,
“I’ve known David to hurry in that direc-
tion, but I’ve never known him to take
the car there with him before”.
With McKay gone, there were only
two of the top ten in Australia’s Grand
Prix Drivers’ Association still effectively
in the race, Stillwell and John Youl. The
other two who had started, Lex Davison
and Arnold Glass, had mechanical
troubles, Davison as early as lap 6. In
the final two laps after McKay's vanish-
ing act, Youl closed on Stillwell and in
a late model Cooper Climax bought from
Brabham, he was only 50 yards behind
at the flag. Youl had the fastest lap, at
80.52 m.p.h.
The Trophy race was a good pointer
to the future, which some motor racing
experts have tended to see as a driver-
less one. Of the top ten, only Youl, Still-
well and Glass are much under 40. But
third and fourth men in the Trophy,
Chris Anion from NZ and Frank Matich
of NSW, are two obvious comers. John
Youl, at 29, has spoken of retiring from
a sport which cost him about £9OOO
last year, but it seems unlikely that he
will. The Youl family runs a property
in Tasmania, with its own private motor
circuit. Another member, Gavin, has
been driving with Brabham’s Formula
Junior team overseas but returned for the
Australian FJ championship on October
28. Lex Davison is also a virtual ama-
teur, a manufacturer and farmer, com-
peting for £lOO GP prizes in cars worth
a hundred times as much.


WHAT'S WRONG WITH AUSTRALIAN WOMEN?
An Englishman looks them over, finds them wanting
Tlhis week Mr Norman MacKenzie’s
Report to the Social Science
Research Council of Australia on
“Women in Australia” has been pub-
lished. (F. W. Cheshire, 505.) Mr
MacKenzie, an editor of the Lon-
don “New Statesman,” collected the
material for his Report in Australia
in 1959 and 1960. What began as
an inquiry into the role of Australian
women in professional and public life
broadened into a more general in-
quiry into the position of women in
Australia today the first detailed
examination of this matter ever pub-
lished in Australia.
Tie 1959 Australian “Who's Who”
lists over 8500 people who by any
standard have had distinguished
careers in Australia. Barely 500 of these
are women. It is one of the curiosities of
Australian life compared with British,
American or West European practice that
women are not only excluded from senior
posts in business, the professions, the
public service, but also have difficulty in
getting ahead at levels even below the
senior posts. Whether this shows how
backward Australia is or how sane she is
in a crazy world may be debated, but the
fact remains; and even if a great percen-
tage of women are quite contented with
things as they are a large number of talen-
ted women are obviously very discon-
tented.
It is a double curiosity, because Aus-
tralian women are formally emancipated
in almost every possible way and were
among the first women in the world to be
so emancipated. In fact formal emancipa-
tion was hardly ever in issue in Australia.
But this formal emancipation was not fol-
lowed up, and, generally speaking, Aus-
tralians still regard women as finding their
proper place only in the home, no matter
how many women want to get away from
the home or what their training may be.
Women still suffer discrimination in
appointments, promotions, pay and tenure
-—and are excluded altogether from some
jobs on marriage. Their status outside the
home is still essentially an inferior one
and they are educated for this inferior
status —the result being that in experi-
ence, training, education, know-how,
sophistication—they are inferior.
There are many theories why mid-Vic-
torian ideal of a woman’s place has re-
mained so strong in Australia when it has
almost disappeared in some other coun-
tries. Some have seen the country’s need
for population as a pressure forcing
women not to think beyond having chil-
dren. But the trouble with this theory is
that over the past 100 years the fluctua-
tions in fertility have been the same in
underpopulated Australia as in overpopu-
lated Britain. The old “Populate or
Perish” propaganda seems to have had no
effect whatsoever on people’s willingness
to propagate or so to confine women to
this speciality. Another theory is that the
Churches’ influence has been mid-Vic-
torian, especially the Catholic Church’s:
only a few years ago priests would write
in Catholic newspapers: “a young woman
becoming a wife should think of her new
state not as one that is to make her happy
but as one in which she is to make her
husband happy . . .! The good wife con-
tracts to forget self and puts her husband’s
happiness above her own wishes and
desires.”
But in fact no one has ever proved
that Catholics are particularly influenced
by this sort of doctrine, and in his new
book “Women in Australia” Norman
MacKenzie writes “I encountered strik-
ing examples of sex prejudice on the part
of Roman Catholic males in the public
services, the professions and business. But
I could match them with equally strong
views held by Protestants in similar posi-
tions. There are, moreover, Roman
Catholics —including members of the
hierarchy—who hold liberal views on
such matters as equality of opportunity
and pay for women, and who find sup-
port for such opinions in papal pro-
nouncements.”
Another theory is that the depression
set back the position of women. Austra-
lian men have always had a strong sense
of job-protection and when the depression
struck they tried to exclude marginal
workers from the labor force, especially
women who worked for lower pay and
were less well organised. The doctrine
that woman’s place is in the home fitted
their needs perfectly, and mid-Victorian-
ism got a new lease of life. It is a plau-
sible theory and even if the depression
did not have this sort of influence in
other countries the extra severity of the
Australian depression may help explain
why it did here.
But whatever the explanation the mid-
Victorian ideal continues to govern Aus-
tralian attitudes to women. The value of
Norman MacKenzie’s book is that he
shows, for the first time, how this works
out in detail.
As an Englishman, the difficulties of
the professional woman in Australia strike
him particularly. There are women
chartered accountants in England but
hardly any here. In Europe a high pro-
portion of dentists are women (and were
before the war), but there are hardly
any here. Women reach the highest levels
of the public service in Europe or
America, but hardly ever here. The same
applies in architecture, law, science, and
all the professions. This, in turn, encour-
ages school-girls not to think about pro-
fessional training, even if they have the
ability, but to leave school earlier or avoid
subjects necessary in the professions.
According to MacKenzie ‘‘the number of
women who actually enter professional
employment each year is but a fraction of
those with the requisite talent. It follows


An aquatic paradise, Yarrawonga
on Lake Mulwala, 161 miles from
Melbourne safe swimming, ex-
tensive boating and water ski-ing
areas, and facilities for golf, tennis
and bowling. Sunny Yarrawonga
provides for a holiday with variety
in a peaceful setting of Australian
bushland that surrounds lovely
Lake Mulwala. The mighty Murray
Cod attracts the fisherman to the
nearby Murray River.
For further information about
these Victorian Holiday Resorts
post this coupon.
2EEEE
THE VICTORIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAUX
276 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
78 ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
28 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
32 KING WILLIAM ST., ADELAIDE
w^m^SvSvSvrai
l : 'j
«§«
mmm
Please send me detailed information
about
NAME
ADDRESS
32938
WE
EXPLOSIVES Log-splitting and
post-hole guns. Powder and fuse
for same. Blasting mats. Tamping
rods. Magazines. Carrying boxes.
Exploders and all accessories.
STEAM VALVES Everlasting
valve. Particularly suitable for
boiler blow-off or full on.
WATER FILTERS For farm,
household and industrial use.
TUYERES Hot air for forges.
MINING Curvilinear tables for
ore concentration. Classifiers. Rapid
magnetting machines.
TOOLS Barrows, pinch and other
bars. Jumpers, mattocks, picks,
handles, shovels, quarry tools, road-
lamps, etc.
ENQUIRIES TO
GUTHRSDGE PTY. LTD.
78 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
that the largest untapped reservoir from
which scientists, technical staff, doctors
and other needed professional workers
could be drawn lies among the able high-
school girls who for one reason or another
do not go on to higher education.”
The most obvious discrimination
against women is in public life. There is
official reluctance to appoint women to
statutory boards, advisory councils and
hospital boards, or to consult women’s
organisations on matters that are clearly
within their competence—such as the de-
sign of community buildings, or the pre-
parations for civic occasions, or even
philanthropic campaigns in which women
will be expected to do most of the routine
work. There is a notorious unwillingness
to appoint women to official and semi-
official missions overseas,
Or take for example the right to serve
on juries which various women’s organ-
isations have agitated about for years. It
was not until 1947 that an Act was
passed in NSW giving women this right
and the Act was not proclaimed until
1951—because courts did not provide
lavatories for women. The absence of
such “facilities” has been solemnly dis-
cussed in Parliament and served up time
and time as an excuse for not having
women on juries: somehow or other,
“facilities” could be found for female
prisoners, female witnesses and female
members of the public but not for female
jurors. When pressed for stronger objec-
tions some conservatives have said women
jurors would have to hear unpleasant evi-
dence —a chivalrous but unconvincing
argument. Others say male jurors may
feel uneasy with women jurors in the
jury room and not speak frankly—to
which the reply is that it is time men got
over such unfortunate embarrassment.
The real reason is clearly a prejudice
against women entering a male province.
rjt H E absence of women from politics, or
at least local government, is astonish-
ing—though here female reluctance rather
than male prejudice seems to be the clue.
It is understandable that the cards are
stacked against them in the big national
machines. The politician is a person of a
definite type. He has to spend years build-
ing up contacts with unions, business
interests, farmers or churches, going to
the races, football matches, annual din-
ners, pubs and clubs—a range of activities
which is largely male. He also has to raise
cash for his campaigns. But these ob-
stacles do not crop up in the local gov-
ernment field. Party endorsement is often
not required there, no deposits are re-
quired and campaign costs are small.
Local government too is one field for
acquiring political experience useful in
State or Federal politics; it is, as women
have found in America and Britain, a
first step to higher politics. Further, it
is difficult to find men willing to give
time to suburban activities while they
are a natural outlet for women interests
and an extension of work they do in
voluntary organisations.
Yet Australian women are still reluc-
tant to enter local politics. If there were
hundreds of women in local politics the
contrast between this and the fewness in
State and Federal politics would suggest
that the party machine is holding them
back. But this is not so and clearly they
have little interest in public life. It is not
surprising therefore that Dame Enid
Lyons said that when she was in the
Federal Cabinet: “they only wanted me
to pour out the tea.”
The same thing applies throughout the
work force generally. Although there is
an increasing number of women working
or wanting to work, they are accepted at
an inferior status. This is most clear in
the public services where, apart from
NSW, married women are a category of


second-class employees temporaries
without prospects of promotion, security
of tenure, superannuation, rights. Even
in NSW women public servants feel there
is a marked tendency to pass over women
when training and selection for higher
positions are concerned, to avoid putting
women in charge of men and to confine
women to jobs considered suitable to their
sex.
One of the results of all this is that girls
are educated for an inferior status. They
leave school sooner than boys and are
generally less well educated than boys.
Of every 1000 boys in government
schools in 1945, for example, 42 were
still at school at the age of 17, but only
23 girls. By the time a girl is old enough
to consider seriously whether she wants
some post-secondary training, such as
preparation for nursing, teaching, or a
commercial course—let alone a university
degree—relatively few are still at school.
Parents and daughters alike see education
as less important for girls than boys. Even
in the "career” pamphlets issued , to
schools, Mackenzie” says~how ’struck' fie
was by the number of times phrases were
included to say a particular occupation
was “suitable for boys” or “does not offer
good prospects for girls”: many occupa-
tions take masculine exclusiveness for
granted by referring to entrants only in
the masculine gender.
Ane point that must be noted is that
v/ women themselves often encourage
this exclusiveness even after they have
broken into some “male” field, say, local
government, by setting up women’s
organisations within that field —as if they
were freaks needing a special organisation
rather than ordinary participants.
There is however a tendency, especially
among younger women, to shun the old
“women’s organisations” which are losing
their numbers and appeal. Younger
women are less interested in “women’s
questions than in their specific interests
as professionals, trade unionists, members
of political parties and community
associations.
Modern developments are also making
some of the older women's organisations
superfluous. For example, traditionally
women's groups have been important
money-raisers for churches through their
organisation of fetes, teas, concerts,
amateur dramatics. Now such methods
as the Wells system of money-raising do
far better than the women and this sort
of thing will in time be extended to hospi-
tals, schools and so on. The skids are
under the women's groups.
When all is said and done, of course, it
remains true that many women like things
just as they are. But there are two other
considerations: the present situation
causes hardship and unhappiness to a
number of women who do want to pursue
careers; and in time Australians will have
to decide whether they can continue to
afford such a colossal wastage of talent in
a hard and competitive world.
'IV/|'acKenzie concludes his survey with
some recommendations in the fields
of official policy. Emancipation could set
women the goal of competing with men in
education and employment; it could not
alter their enduring goal of success as
wives and mothers. The contemporary
problem is how to provide for both goals,
to realise that they may be consecutive
rather than alternative, and to minimise
the conflicts of value and aspiration that
this duality of role involves. We are
faced by a unique situation in which one-
half of the population is offered two goals
in life, the home and a career —a situa-
tion so new that we seem unable to pro-
pose social policies to deal with it.
Social policy must necessarily pursue two
objectives. One is to remove the remain-
ing arbitrary discrinfinadons on grounds
<Jf sex; the other is to recognise and cater
for the special needs of women that arise
from distinctions of sex.
“If, therefore, it is desirable,” says Mac-
Kenzie, “to make better use of the range
of natural talent that girls possess—both
to give them the advantages that more
education offers and to provide a larger
supply of trained woman-power to meet
the needs of Australian society in the
second half of the 20th century—it seems
urgent to consider first what should be
done in the schools. There are unfilled
opportunities for women in a number of
fields that have traditionally been con-
sidered women’s occupations, as well as
severe shortages in others in which women
have hitherto shown little interest. If the
expanding demand for teachers, nurses,
welfare workers, para-medical employees
and other semi-professional personnel is
to be met, and if the new technological
and scientific occupations are to be pro-
perly staffed, the wastage of able girls in
the schools must be reduced.
“If the conventional view that the
women of 40 are a poor source of re-
cruits for professional, semi-professional
and skilled work is abandoned, then it be-
comes possible to propose even more
imaginative and socially useful measures.
I am thinking of the woman who has had
a good secondary education, but no
tertiary education, or who has previously
acquired a qualification which has no
direct vocational bias apart from teach-
ing (such as the arts graduate), or whose
interests have changed so that she wishes
to take a different training. There are
many, and there will be more who find at
some age after 35 that they have the
time and inclination to do a job, but dis-
cover that reasonably well-paid and inter-
esting work is almost closed to them. The
difficulties that wives who went to college
have in this respect are well-known in
Britain, and they are becoming more
obvious in Australia. And I am concerned
equally with those of ability who never
went to college in the first place but have
a good level of intelligence, some con-
siderable experience of family and social
life, and may well have shown in a volun-
tary organisation the talents that could
be put to more effective use. They will,
moreover, have a fairly long and uninter-
rupted working life ahead of them if they
choose to go back into employment.
“TPhis raises the second problem—the
help that can be given to older
women to enter the labor force. I have
just been discussing this problem as it
affects women with secondary or higher
education. But at lower levels there is also
a difficulty. Women are too often con-
signed to menial and repetitive work with
poor rates of pay because they can be
fiijcd cheaply—they are not union con-
scious for ffie most part —and because no
one thinks it worthwhile to give them
training. They are also liable to compete
with juveniles for employment because
both are recruited to the low-grade ‘entry’
occupations: this conflict may be marked
in the next few years as larger numbers
of juveniles reach working-age at the
same time as the number of married
women seeking employment is increasing.
If this is not to depress conditions in the
industrial, retail and clerical occupations
which recruit their employees from these
two sources, and if there is not to be a
direct antagonism between them, it will
be necessary to ensure both an expansion
of the occupations available to these two
groups and to open new types of work to
them by raising their skills.
“It is this that has led to persistent
suggestions from women’s organisations
that Australia should set up a Women’s
Bureau on the model of those already
established in the United States and
Canada.
The purpose of such a Bureau, as a
government agency, would be to act as a
clearing-house for information about
women’s employment, as a centre for
formulating standards and policies. If
would deal with such matters as oppor-
tunity of employment, pay and conditions;
the trade union rights of women; the
access of women to apprenticeships and
technical training; the provision of part-
time work and communal domestic ser-
vices, with the problems raised by auto-
mation; and with the difficulties encoun-
tered by married women and widows.”
But, of course, it is far easier to get
rights for women than to ensure that they
take advantage of these rights.


FORUM
KHRUSHCHEV AND CUBA
By DONALD HORNE
of the troubling of the spirit that came when President Kennedy
first announced his action against the Russian bases in Cuba derived
from more than fear of nuclear warfare or illusion about the nature of the
Castro regime or Communism. It came just as much from perplexities
about the kind of world we live in and the realities of the relation between
the great world powers. It came from a simple inability to know WHAT
to think.
It is one of the paradoxes of our times that in a century of unrivalled
savagery (seventy million human beings enslaved or killed in fifty years),
in an age of despair haunted by nightmares of barbarism or final destruc-
tion, so many people still try to give a pattern to great affairs that is of
a kind so ordered, gentle, rational and suburban that one can think of no
other period in history in which such illusions prevailed so widely.
There is no mistake about this. They
are illusions. The world is not a civic
centre controlled by some impartial body
that sorts out rights, settles quarrels, pro-
tects the weak, orders the affairs of the
strong and lends a gentle predictability
to everything. Although most of us do
not wish it so, the world is locked in
gross conflict. All of the old ploys of
force and bluff are engaged in a uni-
quely dangerous end game that probably
must be played out to some conclusion.
That is not to say that there are not
rules. A game is being played that has
its own rules. They are rules that arise
from the situation, not rules and
more’s the pity that have been im-
posed on the situation by ideals about
what the relations between nations should
be.
One of the most significant of the
rules of the cold war can be stated quite
simply: the area of struggle (although not
its purpose) is over a number of “con-
ventions”, a convention being “any claim
by one side that is accepted by another”.
Putting up claims and denying them is
what most of the tactical skirmishes of
the cold war are about.
Issues are not judged only on their
ntrinsic importance. (Is Berlin strate-
gically necessary? Can we do without
Quemoy?) They are also judged as the
means by which the struggle for sur-
vival, and therefore for power, is waged.
Most important, they are also judged on
their very novelty. There is no logic
which says: You do this here, therefore,
we shall do that there. The reality is:
You are trying to do something new
and we shall contest it. Quickness, per-
cipience, bluff and good luck along
with miscalculation, timidity, stupidity
and bad luck determine whether
claims are established or denied.
The Americans successfully establish-
ed a convention that they had a right to
bases in Turkey; the Russians success-
fully established a convention that they
could dominate the foreign policy of
Finland.
The history of the isolated half city of
West Berlin abounds in conventions. In
1948 Russia established the right to
close the land route to Berlin at will.
There was no particular reason in mora-
lity or international law or sheer power
politics that this should be so. The Rus-
sians claimed the right and the Americans
accepted it. This became a convention,
to be challenged only at a risk of nuclear
war. With the Berlin air lift the Western
Allies had second thoughts and estab-
lished a convention of their own: that
they could do what they liked within an
air corridor. In the 1958 crisis this con-
vention was challenged on one detail by
the Russians. Jets could be used on this
route economically only if they flew
above 10,000 feet; the Russians tried to
limit the air corridor to a ceiling of
10,000 feet; the Americans flew their
jets above that height, got away with it
and extended their air corridor conven-
tion.
When the East Germans flung up the
Berlin wall the Americans’ reflexes were
slow. The wall stayed up too long for
them to knock it down without risking
world war. If they had moved their bull-
dozers in as soon as the wall went up
they might have knocked it down and
kept it down. But they lost their chance.
Once a convention is established, to chal-
lenge it forcibly (and at that stage no
other challenge means anything) is to
risk war.
When the East Germans began shoot-
ing East Berliners who tried to cross the
wall and left them to bleed to death the
Americans were again too slow. They
helped the East Germans to establish
the convention that East Berliners could
be shot at will and left to die like dogs
while we looked on.
There was no doubt where ordinary
morality lay. Any decent person would
go to the aid of a boy who was bleeding
to death. Sarah Gainham says in “The
Spectator”: “We live in a time when great
ships go hundreds of sea miles off course
and whole fleets of aeroplanes search for
days at a cost of thousands of pounds
in the faint hope of saving one man who
has fallen overboard. . . . Yet human
beings are allowed to die all the time be-
cause they want what we call liberty . . .
Out of fear of trouble we let them die.
There is something wrong with our think-
ing somewhere.”
What is w ; rong with our thinking is
that we are inclined to urge reasons for
acquiescing in any Communist claims to
a new convention. For us it becomes im-
moral to contest a new claim, or to try
to maintain a claim of our own, even if
this habit (which is the basic habit of
the Lippmanites for example) allows the
simple moral turpitude of letting a child
bleed to death.
We don’t ourselves claim many new
conventions. Our minds are clogged with
illusions about the nature of the cold
war. The Russians’ minds are clearer
than ours. The Russians will squabble
over every pettyfogging detail, contest
every advance, probe all the time for
weaknesses. We don't really concentrate
on this job. We tend to take things
up when the Communists have taken the
initiative often too late. Perhaps not
even that. To quote Sarah Gainham
again: “In Berlin small details come up
almost every week. The Russians and
East Germans must have whole teams
of lawyers and diplomatic experts work-
ing like ants to evaluate every tiny detail
of every circumstance that affects West
Berlin. It is often said that we have no
policy of our own and only react to
Russian actions. But we do not even
do that; so far from emulating the Rus-


EXPORTERS: This
you T ve never thought of using Air Cargo before!
mm
m
■ s
M
V:
BORING
PICTURE
INTERESTING
STORY
Qanfas Export Experts
turn world-wide delivery
problem into routine drill
Mindrill Limited of Melbourne make regular
deliveries by air of Australian earthdrilling equip-
ment throughout the world. Most drilling units are
actually custom-made for particular drilling condi-
tions in the areas concerned. Every consignment is
urgent! The consignee is waiting for the drill in
order to start operations. Qantas came up with the
answer which minimised cash and time outlay.
Qantas evolved methods of handling this high
value/weight ratio equipment—sometimes requiring
no packaging other than Qantas’ special pallets,
designed for the job. The extensiveness of Qantas
routes has brought many export markets almost as
close in time to the factory as the domestic market!
As an engineer from Pittsburgh said, “We sure
struck pay dirt when we ordered these ‘diggers’ from
Down Under!”
QAHTAS AIK CARGO
42 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
HOW THIS EXPORTER BENEFITED:
1. A big export market assured with increasing trade
to new outlets in new, important industrial areas
of the world.
2. Capital released quickly, not tied up for months
in profitless delays and demurrage.
3. Exporter’s reputation for accurate, custom-built
work PLUS fast on-time delivery enhanced.
4. Engineer consignees satisfied that replacements/
spares can be obtained readily, without delay.
HOW THE QANTAS EXPORT
CONSULTANT SERVICE CAN HELP YOU:
Qantas puts at your disposal one of the most compre-
hensive transport systems in the world. Qantas
analyses each export/import problem individually and
offers you this Qantas six-point service—FßEE.
1. Distribution time and static time analysis gives you
a time and motion plot on your goods from despatch
to arrival.
2. Costing breakdown on your complete shipping
operation.
3. Systematic appraisal of packaging with suggested
modifications for the lighter, more economical
handling and packaging of your freight needs.
4. Advice on alternate routings, accelerated cartage,
taxation and insurance reductions.
5. Analysis of current economic situation of world
markets, quarantine, import, currency and customs
regulations.
6. A business venue in many overseas countries in
Qantas offices in Europe, America, Asia, the Orient,
New Zealand and Africa.
EXPORT it by QANTAS if it’s
IMPORTant to you!
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in association with Air India, 8.0.A.C., S.A.A. and TEAL.
QAC66.FP8.102


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£4413,000,000
c
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z,
sians we do not produce even the most
obvious answers.”
I have dwelt on Berlin because here
one finds the struggle for conventions
par excellence. This is why Khrushchev
keeps on coming back to Berlin: it is
the prize symbol in the whole pattern
of cold war diplomacy. But the system
can be seen operating in all of the active
areas of the cold war. The Americans
have established a convention that Que-
moy may be shelled but not invaded. The
communists are establishing a conven-
tion that they can do what they like
in South Vietnam; we have not establish-
ed equally strong conventions in North
Vietnam.
In this struggle for conventions what
meaning can be given to the phrase
“peaceful coexistence”? In the Russian
usage the answer is none. Their aim
of winning the world is still clearly and
persistently repeated (although Edward
Crankshaw does not seem to have rea-
lised it). For them peaceful coexistence
is simply a method of gaining their ob-
jectives (without running the risk of de-
struction) by demoralising their oppon-
ents into conceding conventions. Softly,
persistently catchee convention.
So far as one can work out Kennedy
has a policy that could meaningfully be
labelled “peaceful coexistence”. It seems
to be a policy of a status quo in con-
ventions. He will not claim new rights.
But he will contest new Russian or
Chinese claims. His backing of the Com-
mon Market, the Alliance for Progress
and the munificent aid programmes are
a policy of building up strength. Sur-
vive and prosper and let the tensions of
communism destroy communism.
This is a realistic policy (although not
the only possible one) and it could work.
A large part of the non - Communist
world is getting more prosperous and
stable. If the front is maintained long
enough, the tensions between Russia and
China, the agonising confusions of poly-
centrism in all Communist parties, the
strain of keeping Eastern Europe in sub-
jection, the chronic destitution of tens
of millions of peasant families, the struc-
tural inability to deliver the consumer
goods and the revolt of new generations
could destroy the Communist order as
it now exists.
But the pivot of this policy is that
the whole front should be held, that
Communist claims to new conventions
should be systematically and persistently
opposed down to the least significant
detail.
Taking all this as background, there
is no longer any need to be confused
about Kennedy’s policy on the Russian
bases in Cuba. The threat they con-
stitute is in itself gross enough to en-
gender some kind of action under any
diplomatic system: they make nonsense
of the whole American defence alert sys-
tem, increase the chances of hitting tar-
gets accurately, challenge a century and
a half of American foreign policy and
even without missiles Soviet bases per-
petuate the Castro tyranny and provide a
threat to the rest of Latin America. (They
could, for instance, be used as training
bases for guerrillas in North Brazil). In
total they represent a significant shift in
power.
Most people accept this. What wor-
ries them are questions of consistency
and logic. And questions of international
morality and international order.
The logic runs: the Americans have
bases in Turkey, why shouldn’t the Rus-
sians have them in Cuba? To this, one
can only answer that cold war life is
not like that. It is not based on the con-
struction of ideal systems or simple bar-
gains of tit for tat. (If it w'ere, if we
could get tats for all of their tits, we
would win in a couple of years.) It is
based on the system of conventions.
There is no comparison between Turkey
and Cuba because in Turkey the Ameri-
cans have established a convention
whereas in Cuba there is a struggle over
a new claim.
The deadly thing about the Soviet
bases in Cuba is that they represent a
critical interruption of the status quo, a
huge leap forward in claims to estab-
lished conventions, an attempt to force
a new way of going on, a crucial point
of conflict. As Kennedy put it, the
Russians’ action has been “clandestine
and provocative”. He had warned the
Russians against doing what they have
now done; they denied that they had
done it, then they did it. To allow this
conduct is to make anything except phy-
sically hostile relations between Russia
and America ultimately impossible. Un-
der the rules, it is the Russians who have
threatened world peace.
Ignoring the time factor, one can see
that Kennedy is trying to keep the rules
of the cold war, the rules that keep it
cold. But in this game the time factor
cannot be ignored. To be slow is to al-
low a situation to grow in which to
mount effective opposition too late is to
risk nuclear war. The effective chal-
lenge must be made ideally seve-
ral moves before the new claim is made.
To quarrel over a lesser claim is to avoid
a quarrel over a greater one. If the
challenge is left too late the risks of
physical involvement become terrifying
and at some stage inevitable. To state
clearly what will not be accepted and
to act as if this were so may prevent
it happening. But if it does happen some
physical acts become necessary ex-
hortation is merely the surface blather
of cold war diplomacy and the risks
are then enormous.
If Western statesmen would tune up
their reflexes so that they could give in-
stant challenge to new claims they would
run fewer risks and increase our chance
of surviving.
I have used the word “game” to de-
scribe the struggle over conventions, but
this was not because I felt cynical about
it. It is a “game” in the sense that
however serious the results of mistakes —■
it has discernible rules, operates almost
completely on bluff and keeps the peace.
But it is not a game that we play
for its own sake. It is a deadly game in
which we are concerned with the great
issues of the whole meaning of life. And
here there can be a clash between the
greater and lesser moralities.
In facing domestic threats to freedom
we have to decide sometimes which is
better: to maintain essential freedoms or
to maintain all the rules of- an open
society, even when maintaining them
might end in a situation in which all our
freedoms are destroyed. In facing the
world struggle we must sometimes decide
which is better: to maintain our demo-
cratic ways of life and comparative pro-
sperity and humanitarianism, or to fol-
low each little rule of a code of inter-
national conduct that has never existed.


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
THE KANGAROO KILLERS
Sir,
Reading the letters of Spike Milligan
and David Fleay in your issue of October
6 on the killing of kangaroos for com-
mercial meat purposes, prompts me to
ask: why should they be protected?
My living is precariously taken from
a wool growing business in the far west
of New South Wales where we have
enough trials and tribulations without
the kangaroo, who eats our grass in his
hundreds and thousands and breaks
down our fences, and gives not one thing
in return.
No one has made a “song and dance”
about the destruction of the rabbit, and
the kangaroo is of no more use to us
than the rabbit.
A. L. CARROLL
Golgol Station, Mild lira, Victoria.
Sir,
I thank the two gentlemen who wrote
in reference to my article (Bulletin,
September 15) on this subject and I
also extend appreciation of the many
others whose effusions were not printed.
If they had paid attention to what I
wrote, and not to what they imagined I
might have written, half their objections
would have been wasted. The other half
is taken from page 1023, “The Pastoral
Review'”, September 18, 1962.
That is from their South Australian
correspondent. He certainly never saw
my article in The Bulletin before he
wrote his report. I am as positive I
never read his opinion before writing my
article. In short, I don’t know' who he is
and have absolutely no connection with
him. I quote from “The P.R.”:
“There has been a spate of criticism
from ill-informed writers to the Press
about the slaughter of kangaroos for pet
meat and for export. Those people fail
to appreciate the vastness of this country
and the inaccessibility of much of it.
“Professional shooters will never deci-
mate the ’roos, as owing to very high
costs they can only operate at a profit
in areas where kangaroos are in plague
proportions. They must move out when
numbers get low.”
Mr Fleay states 133 kangaroos are
needed to supply one ton of meat. That
works out at about 171 b. dead weight,
which would be on and about 301 b. live
weight. My comment on that is they
must be taking them off the teat. If Mr
Fleay had ever tried to grow a vegetable
garden on a western station, during a dry
time, he would not need to quote others
about what ’roos favor: he would know
they are dainty selectors and big eaters.
At about the time The Bulletin ap-
peared with my article printed I heard
over the air of a meeting of graziers, and
I think it was on the western Darling
Downs. One gentleman cursed the ’roos,
stated they were a pest, should be ex-
terminated. Another advocated keeping
the kangaroos: they saved a lot of calves
dingoes would prefer running down
and killing a roo in preference to mak-
ing a meal of a calf.
I assume both those gentlemen were
genuine in their beliefs. Though I do not
agree with them I respect their opinions.
I mention them here as an indication of
varying views of the Kangaroo Killers.
HENRY G. LAMOND
Greenslopes (Queensland).
HISTORY WITHOUT FACTS
Sir,
Your reviewer, M. H. Ellis
(Bulletin, September 22), tells us that
he finds the first sixty pages of Pro-
fessor Clark’s “History of Australia” the
most thorough in the book. He may be
right: but is not the real question whether
the author's treatment of his subject
accurate and complete enough to make
his work useful to readers?
Limitations of space will prevent me
from dealing with all the professor’s
misconceptions and mistakes in all those
pages. I shall deal with some of those
occurring in the twenty or so in which
the “facts” with regard to European dis-
covery between 1605 and 1644 are
scattered amongst the author's views on
Catholic Christendom, Calvinism, filthy
lucre, the conduct of trade for profit and
other aspects of human depravity.
Let me begin with the voyage of
Quiros in 1605-6. Clark tells us at p. 15
that he appointed as his second in
command Luis Viez de Torres, a Portu-
guese, about whose life nothing is known
except his part in the voyage. Luis
Vaez or Baez de Torres was in command
of Quiros’ second ship and we know of
him that he was not a Portuguese but a
Breton.
At p. 16 Clark tells us that at Aca-
pulco on Quiros’ return he gave a part of
the “true cross” to a priest who fastened
it to the high altar. What Quiros gave
the priest was not a part of the “true
cross” but a cross of lemon wood which
he had had made at Espiritu Santo.
Clark also tells us that, before Torres,
the Spaniards, using “the central route
from Callao to the Moluccas” had sailed
along the north coast of New Guinea.
There was no such route. Trade between
Peru and the Moluccas was doubly
prohibited. The only Spanish ships known
to have visited that north coast were that
of Inigo Ortiz who discovered it sailing
from the Moluccas to New Spain in
1545 and perhaps two others sailing from
the Philippines for America.
Incidentally, Clark is also wrong where
(at p. 13) he says that Saavedra dis-
covered that coast in 1526. Saavedra
did not leave New Spain until 1527 and
did not at any time discover the north
coast of New Guinea.
With Torres we reach the first of the
Spaniards who might have discovered
Australia; yet Clark does not attempt to
deal with the question w'hether he did
or not, or where the lofty C. San Pablo
or his land of Camburu were. Instead, he
refers us to a paper published in 1925
(he wrongly says 1926) and written
before de Prado’s account of the voyage
was known, by a writer who was un-
aware of the contents of Torres’ report
to Quiros.
Having thus finished with “Catholic
Christendom”, and provided his readers
with a map which, in contradiction of
the account of the voyage to which he
refers his readers shows the track of
Torres reaching C. York, our author
passes on to the “Protestants”.
At p. 22 he tells us that in 1623 the
Dutch captured the English garrison at
Amboina. There was no such garrison
to be captured. Amboina was Dutch.
What happened was that they arrested
and imprisoned there a number of
English merchants and their servants.
Clark next tells us that the Dutch applied
the water torture to the captives “till
their entrails burst out of their noses,
their mouths, and their eyes”!! The pro-
fessor’s anatomy seems to be on a par
with his history.
At p. 23 the voyage of the Duyfken
is dealt with and we are told that her
captain was Jansz and her supercargo
Rosengrin. Janssen was not a captain
but a skipper under the merchant whose
name was not Rosengrin but Rosengain
or more properly Roossengin. We are
also told that the vessel sailed along
220-odd miles of the undiscovered S.
coast of New Guinea. She did nothing
of the kind, as Clark would have seen if
he had consulted Wieder’s copy of her
track-chart which he cites, instead of
relying on an incorrect Dutch account
of the voyage, proved so thirty years ago,
and mistranslating the Dutch word
“mylen” as “miles”. He next tells us
that the Duvfken's people “as they put
i.t were constrained to return finding no
good <o be done”. Here is more history
without facts. We do not know what the
Duyfken’s people said about the voyage.
The words quoted are those of the
Englishman John Saris, who in Bantam
had a secondhand account of the voyage
from an Indian. Finally, we are parti-
cularly told of the voyage as “an irony
of history” that it was reported to the
Dutch at Bantam by this Indian. There


is no evidence whatever that he reported
anything to the Dutch.
At p. 24 Clark deals with the voyage
of the Pera and Arnhem. He tells us that
the Dutch despatched them from Bantam
to search for gold on the S. coast of
New Guinea. They were not despatched
from Bantam but from Amboina, over
1000 miles away. They were not des-
patched to the S. coast of New Guinea
but to Aru, and thence to go by a sup-
posed strait to the north coast of New
Guinea and along that to the islands to
the eastward.
At p. 25 Clark explains Brouwer’s
new route to the East Indies. He tells us
that Captain Brouwer in 1610 tried a
new route to Djakarta. Brouwer was not
a captain but a commander and a
merchant; the incident happened in
1611, not in 1610; and Brouwer was not
bound for Djakarta but for Bantam. He
tells us further that Brouwer sailed due
east from Capetown for 4000 miles be-
fore turning north. Capetown was not in
existence till more than 40 years later;
Brouwer did not sail due east from any
part of Africa but stood down into 36°
S. to catch the westerlies; and he did
not sail east for 4000 miles but for
about 3200 miles.
On the same page Clark deals with
the voyage of "the Eendracht (Concord),
skipper Dirk Hartog”. The man in com-
mand of the ship, Gilles Mibaise or
Miebais, surely deserved some mention.
He tells us that the Eendracht’s people
almost certainly discussed what they
had seen with the Bugis at Macassar,
but that on the conversations there
“history is silent”. History is not silent.
We are fully informed of their doings
at Macassar and that they could not
have discussed what they had seen with
the Bugis. What is more, if Clark had
read the article by Ijzerman, to which he
refers as one of his authorities (wrongly
calling the author Izzerman), he would
have known it.
then deals with the voyage of the
Gulden Seepaart which he tells us
was blown so far out of its (sic) course
that it missed C. Feeuwin and sailed as
far east as the Is. of St. Francis and
St. Peter. Once again history without
facts. It is not known for certain whether
her reaching those islands was accidental
or was the outcome of a planned voyage
of discovery. Such little evidence as
there is points rather to the latter explan-
ation.
At p. 26 Clark mentions Pelsaert’s
voyage, and states that he put ashore
two delinquents, Wouter Foos and Jan
Pelzroende. The second man’s name was
not Pelzroende but Pelgrome de By.
At p. 27 the voyage of the Haring
and Hazewind is discussed and we are
told that Coen issued orders for their
equipment on 29 Sept., 1622, but that
their departure was delayed by more
urgent business and this is identified as
wars waged against, among others, the
English. There was no such delay, the
vessels sailed on the 30th September,
but were deflected from carrying them
out by the need to rescue some Dutch
ships in distress off the S. coast of Java.
There was no war against the English
at that time; they were the allies of the
Dutch.
From 1623 the story jumps to the ac-
count of Tasman’s first voyage without
any mention of the discovery of Van
Diemen’s Fand by Pietersen in 1636. As
Clark does not, in dealing with the
Arnhem’s voyage, mention the discovery
of Arnhem Fand and likewise makes no
mention of the Vianen’s discovery of De
Witt’s Fand, the story of the discovery
of our N. and N.W. coasts is rather
distorted; readers being given the impres-
sion that the whole of it was left to be
discovered by Tasman in 1644.
At p. 22 Clark criticises the clear in-
structions given to Tasman for his
voyage of 1642-3, as reflecting certain
confusions in the minds of the Dutch.
His criticism, so far as a reader can
follow his arguments, seems to arise
from his own lack of understanding of
the instructions and his strangely mis-
taken views of geography. He seems to
imagine that C. Valsche is not only not
part of New Guinea but is part of Aus-
tralia
At p. 29 he tells us that the vessels
given to Tasman were 60 and 100
tons with crews of 60 and 50 respectively.
How 60 men could be expected to make
a year’s voyage in a 60-ton yacht he
does not explain. He is of course wrong.
The ships were 120 and 200 tons.
At p. 31 he tells us that it must have
been a surprise to Tasman to sight
Tasmania. Why it should be a surprise
to anyone who is searching for unknown
lands to find some, he does not explain.
He next tells us that Tasmania was
sighted at 4 p.m. at an estimated 10
miles distance. It does not seem to have
occurred to him that the weather being
good, the skies clear, and the land very
high, there was need to check this dis-
tance. It is of course wrong. The land
was sighted at about 40 miles off. A few
lines later he presents us with another
example of his method of treating his
evidence. He describes the bay in which
Tasman first came to anchor as a good
harbor with white and grey fine sand and
a naturally drying bottom. There must
be something wrong with a naturally
drying bottom in a good harbor; the
more especially as Tasman applies the
description of the bottom to his anchor-
ing place in 22-fathom water. A tidal
range of 132 ft. would be, to say the
least, unusual. Yet, instead of suspecting
“drying” as a mistake, he half conceals
the absurdity by omitting the reference
to 22 fathoms.
At p. 32 he tells us that this first
anchoring place was at Cape Frederick
Henry Bay. There is no such place.
Frederick Henry Bay is some distance
away. The anchoring place was North
Bay, the southern part of Marion Bay.
On the same page Clark tells us that
on the 3rd December “they landed on
the south-east shore of Cape Frederick
Henry.” This is not so. The landing
in question was made in a bay to the
west of that Cape.
At p. 33 we pass to New Zealand,
where Clark informs us that the sighting
of J and was “celebrated” by firing a gun
and hoisting a white flag. The act was
riot one of celebration but was a signal
to their consort. He informs us further
that it was decided to call the sea
between Tasmania and New Zealand
the Tasman Sea, and that in this way
Tasman scratched his name in the history
of the coming of Europeans to Australia.
This is incorrect. What was decided was
that the name “Abel Tasman’s Passagie"
(route) should be given to the route by
which they had sailed. If Clark had
looked at the relevant maps he would
have seen that this name was applied
to the route from Mauritius to Tasmania
as well as to the route from there to
New Zealand. On the same page Clark
also informs us that on the way to the
Solomons Tasman called at the Hoorn
Islands. Nothing of the sort took place,
as he would have seen if he had glanced
at the maps on pp. 18 and 30 of his own
work. He next complains that Tasman
never even attempted to find the answer
to one of the questions put to him by
the Council at Batavia, whether there
was a passage between New Guinea and
False Cape. No such question was asked
of him.
Finally, on p. 34, he tells us that the
Council was not impressed by Tasman’s
exploit because, inter alia, he had not
charted the dangerous west coast of
Australia. The Council had not asked
him to visit, still less to chart, that coast.
Professor Clark’s “History of Aus-
tralia” is a very unreliable guide to the
facts regarding the discovery of the
country between 1606 and 1644.
J. W. FORSYTH
Avalon (NSW).
HOW “MEANJIN” BEGAN
Sir,
Although you did not publish my letter
commenting on Peter Kelly’s mis-state-
ments about “Meanjin Quarterly’’
(Bulletin, September 22)*, 1 hope you
will allow me to reply briefly to J. V.
Duhig’s letter in The Bulletin of Oc-
tober 20.
To my certain knowledge, the only
literary magazine in this country to pos-
sess a complete record of its history over
the 22 years of its existence is “Meanjin
Quarterly”. Reference to the files discloses
that Dr Duhig agreed late in 1942 to
“cover” the editor against possible finan-
cial loss, if called upon, up to £IOO.
Although this offer enabled the editor to
enlarge the journal and gave him a cer-
tain measure of security during 1943,
Dr Duhig was not required to meet defi-
cits nor did he in fact put any money into
the venture. He was not “manager” nor
(as he sometimes claimed) “publisher”.
The business transactions and secretarial
work were carried out by his office assis-
*(Mrs Smith’s letter was published in our
last issue. We repeat our invitation of
last week: these columns are still open to
either Mrs Smith or the editor of “Mean-
fin Quarterly” to point out where the
original facts are wrong. — Ed.)


tants —first by Miss Homer and later by
Miss Gwen Jones—until all business af-
fairs were placed in the hands of a
chartered accountant at the end of 1943.
Melbourne University Press did not begin
publishing “Meanjin” until 1945 a time
when Dr Duhig had long ceased to be
associated with the journal.
Dr Duhig is quite right in pointing to
the absurdity of Peter Kelly’s assertion
that “Meanjin”, like Topsy, “just growed”.
Many other factors were responsible,
which Mr Kelly did not bother to investi-
gate.
“Meanjin” has never been free from
financial worry, as the records clearly
show. What it needs now, as it did in
1942-43, is adequate financial support
to enable the editor to concentrate on im-
proving the literary content of the maga-
zine still further.
MAMIE SMITH
Secretary, “Meanjin Quarterly”
University of Melbourne.
CUBA AND AMERICA
Sir,
With reference to Mr Kemshead’s
comments (Bulletin, October 13) on
The Bulletin article “Queensland
Labor’s Key to Canberra?” (Bulletin,
September 29), a check through his ar-
ticles on International Affairs in the
"New Age” reveals the following state-
ments:
“Cuba today belongs to its people”,
“The professional anti-communists deli-
berately deceive people by claiming that
Cuba is a Communist State”, “In the
course of three years Cuba has become
the first genuine workers’ State in Latin
America; a pattern for others which will
follow”.
These sentiments are, of course, more
fully developed in the articles from which
they are quoted.
Their full significance lies in the fact
that Mr Kemshead’s articles are featured
on page two of every issue of the “New
Age” which carried the banner line of
“The Official Journal of the Australian
Labor Party in Queensland,” and no con-
trary views to those of Mr Kemshead are
expressed therein.
This serves to confirm that the Aus-
tralian Labor Party in Queensland is in
the same category as the Australian
Labor Party in Victoria.
GEORGE COOK
Newmarket (Queensland).
SCHIRRA MAKES HIS SPLASH
Sir,
In radio we take criticism in good part.
To have lived alongside Alexander Mac-
Donald these long years should be suffi-
cient evidence of that. But you were
rather unfair to our station, 2GB, in Dale
Miller’s article in your issue of October
13. He was criticising our station for its
broadcast of Commander Walter Schirra’s
orbiting.
This is the way in which the Macquarie
News Division at 2GB handled the
launching and the return to earth of the
Commander:
2155 (“Monitor” news) “Schirra off any
moment now . . .” (and in same news
broadcast)
“Short delay in sending Schirra off”.
2200 (2GB-only news) New story saying
flight delayed.
2210 (Esso news flash) “Schirra blasted
off”.
2222 (Esso news flash) “Schirra in orbit”
Thereafter the story was the lead in
all our hourly broadcasts, which brought
the flight, literally, right up to the mo-
ment of broadcast. Stories were read
direct from cables. There was no incident
to call for “flashes” during the night.
From 0500 the moves to get Schirra
down were reported every half hour,
again direct from the cable “snaps”,
which were coming in a steady stream.
At 0700 we announced that Schirra
was being brought down, and at 0729-J
we announced that the capsule had
“splashed ’ down in the sea. This was
H minutes after the actual “splash”.
At 0817 we “flashed" that Schirra had
emerged safe from the capsule. The story
then continued in the normal way in our
hourly broadcasts and the news at noon.
ERIC BAUME
Executive Editor, 2GB
Sydney.
PERSECUTION OF SOVIET JEWS
Sir,
I read with more than a little interest
the article by Mr Isi Leibler on “The
Persecution of Soviet Jews” (Bulletin,
September 24) as well as Mr Gama-
zeishclikov’s highly articulate, yet some-
what emotional, reply (Bulletin,
October 20).
It is evident from Mr Gamazeish-
clikov’s reply, as from Mr Leibler’s
original statement, that the main concern
of both is the determination of truth, as
well as the elimination of those policies
allegedly discriminatory against religion
and against the Jew.
It is therefore with sincere hope that
Mr Gamazeishclikov will privilege my
statement with thoughtful consideration,
that I write at this time.
Discrimination in general is a very
sensitive thing. Its subtleties are many,
and its varieties unending. In the Soviet
Union at the present time there are
3,000.000 Jews, yet in contrast to com-
munities in which the Press is privately
owned, and the publishing of the Hebrew
Bible, as well as prayer books and
Rabbinic tracts flourish, no Jewish Bible
has been published since 1917, and only
4,000 prayer books were published in
the past forty years.
Matzos (unleavened bread), a basic
requirement for the celebration of the
Passover, was unobtainable in recent
years in urban communities. Neverthe-
less those Jews in urban areas who baked
privately were frequently denounced as
“swindlers and crooks”, and prosecuted
under laws relating to “unsanitary con-
ditions violating paragraph 127 and 129
of the MSST Penal Code’’.
The Jews are denied the right to a
central religious co-ordinating body, and
have no recourse when they are pro-
hibited to import religious requisites not
obtainable or producible locally. The
existence of a religious seminary limited
to one Rabbinical student has done little
to alleviate the difficulties.
The Soviet radio has condemned cir-
cumcision for “imbuing Jews with re-
pugnance and hatred of those who do
not possess this special sign”, and one
Communist newspaper even went so far
as to imply that the drinking of Gentile
blood was a holy Jewish sacrament.
Under these circumstances, there are
very many people who would like, from
a Soviet Press Attache, a more reason-
able, less emotional, and factual explana-
tion of the Soviet treatment of its Jewish
minority.
RABBI B. RACKOVSKY
University of Melbourne.
THE FAT LADY OR CHRIST?
Sir,
I was surprised at the dishonesty
of Charles Higham’s article on
J. D. Salinger’s “Frannv and Zooey”
(Bulletin, October 13).
To fortify his judgments, Mr Higham
intentionally misreported three significant
segments of the book under review, not
to speak of other mere distortions:
(1) He described the character Lane
Coutrell as a “Yale athlete . . . the foot-
baller who wants to impress his girl-
friend with a line of intellectual patter.”
This was clearly done to give point to
Mr Higham’s attack on Salinger's
“hatred” of “healthy, tanned people”.
Far from being athlete or footballer,
Lane Coutrell was in fact depicted as a
college intellectual.
(2) Of the character Franny’s
“narcissistic twitter”, Mr Higham writes:
“Franny remembers how she suffered at
college—people made her jump into a
pool for a can of Medaglia d’Oro coffee.”
In the book Franny related a dream in
which she was forced to dive repeatedly
for a can of coffee: no such incident
took place at her college or elsewhere.
(3) From Mr Higham's review: “He”,
i.e., Zooey, “tells Franny that he and
she are exclusive—‘We're freaks, that’s
all. Those two bastards’ (their parents,
of course) ‘got us nice and early and
made us into freaks with freakish stand-
ards’.” The two bastards referred to by
Zooey were Seymour and Buddy, his elder
brothers, not “their parents, of course.”
Mr Higham fabricated this to exemplify
what he regards as Salinger’s distaste for
old people.
I have some sympathy with Mr
Higham’s moral verdicts on this book,
and emphasise that these three items are
not set down as opinions or issues: they
are instances of deliberate misreporting,
which is the ultimate offence of any
critic. Indeed the article cannot be
described as a critique—it was a polemic
of the type sometimes found in under-
graduate student publications.
This cheating calls for quick censure.
RUSSELL SEAICH
Lakemba (NSW).


REVIEWS
FILMS
DON JUAN DEFEATED
The Devil’s Eye. Gala. Sydney.
Tn “The Devil’s Eye” Ingmar Bergman
A moves back towards the satiric style
of “Smiles of a Summer Night,” which
was the first of the films of this Swedish
master to be seen here and remains, for
this viewer, the most completely satisfy-
ing. A recent reacquaintance with that
earlier film enlarges the admiration for
perfection, and in comparison
fne later Bergman films, despite their
greater ambition and intellectual com-
plexity, seem a little strained and ob-
scure. Even “The Devil’s Eye,” though
subtitled “a rondo capriccioso” and in
much lighter vein than any of the inter-
vening films seen here, still lacks the
sparkle of “Smiles of a Summer Night”;
a little of the sombreness of Bergman’s
later style enters into it; the wit is drier
and more cerebral, the general effect a
little chillier.
But it still has something of the magic
that attends every Bergman film, a fas-
cination that derives from the feeling of
contact with an original and exacting
artist who controls every detail of his
productions, from the writing (he is here,
as always, his own screenwriter) to the
fine cut.
“The Devil’s Eye” reintroduces, more
playfully, the supernatural visitations of
“The Seventh Seal.” According to the
proverb, “A woman’s chastity is a sty
in the Devil’s eye,” and the story begins
in Hell an elegantly theatrical Hell
where Satan is indeed suffering from a
sty in the eye. He and his aides (one
of them is Count Armand de Roche-
foucauld) identify the source of the
trouble a young girl, beautiful, 20
years old, engaged, and still a virgin.
Satan despatches one of his most dis-
tinguished charges, Don Juan himself, to
remove the irritation. Don Juan’s instruc-
tions are to seduce the girl and destroy
her belief in love.
The Don has no luck. The girl’s inno-
cence, he finds, is strangely compounded
with shrewdness and boldness. At the
end of the appointed time he returns to
Hell hopelessly in love, with his mission
unaccomplished. Ironically, it is Don
Juan’s earthy serving man, a combination
of Sancho Panza and Leporello, who
has success in arousing the girl’s mother,
a neurotically inhibited woman married
to a kindly bore of a pastor. If this
episodic material in Bergman’s “rondo”
tends at times to overshadow the main
theme it is not altogether to the film’s
detriment, for there is more truth and
1®“ tftKrciiaioiusrof
Don Juan and his elusive prey.
Don Juan as conceived by Bergman
and interpreted by actor Jarl Kulle is
a curiously bloodless and introspective
seducer and this contributes to the slightly
dehumanised quality that pervades much
of the film. Another contributing factor
is the deliberately artificial and theatrical
atmosphere; the story is divided into
“acts”, each introduced by a chorus-like
commentator. The screenplay, in fact,
could with very little adjustment have
been-a stage play; it depends upon dia-
logue more than the other Bergman work
that we have seen, and for that reason
one is much more conscious of the frus-
trations of an incomprehensible language,
for the subtitles translate the Swedish
rather sparsely at times. And this in
turn, though it is not ah intrinsic fault
in the film, must contribute to the sense
of remoteness for the non-Swedish speak-
ing viewer.
MARTIN LONG
THEATRE
LOOK BACK IN DISBELIEF
Look Back in Anger. John Osborne.
Canberra Repertory Society. Can-
berra.
/Asborne’s play has become so famous
in its short lifetime that Canberra
should be grateful to the Repertory for
the chance to see it performed. Yet fame
has its drawbacks. All the details of
Jimmy Porter’s unusual domestic set-up
have been familiar for years from gossip.
The original London audiences, I under-
stand, gasped with delight and shock
when Act 111 opened on the same set
as Act I, same ironing, same shirt but
a different girl. There is no such pleasure
in store for an audience in 1962.
Lame has also dimmed the originality
of Jimmy’s unflagging bad manners, and
surely an Australian audience feels that
the whole play is distanced by some of
its non-Australian assumptions. We can
share the assumption that the younger
generation should be angry with the
mess its fathers have made of its birth-
right: that is the timeless and conven-
tional revolt of every younger genera-
tion; but the revolt is worked out in such
very class-conscious terms. I had to re-
mind myself frequently that class bar-
riers are stronger in England and more
zealously defended. Then too, Jimmy’s
failure to do anything—we are assured
he never will do anything—has always
seemed an odd trait for a whole genera-
tion of young Englishmen to recognise
as their own. I do not feel that the post-
war Australian was anything like as
willing to acknowledge himself ‘beat’.
So “Look Back in Anger” has always
seemed a little remote to me when read.
If in performance it did not still seem
remote, this was thanks to the conviction
of the acting and the vitality of Os-
borne’s dialogue. It did, however, seem a
play about individuals, not as it did in
1956, a play of wide contemporary signi-
ficance. These two girls might contend
for the honor of ironing Jimmy’s inter-
minable shirts, but it was quite impos-
sible to carry the situation further and
see Jimmy as a white-tile University
Mellors fascinating the effete upper-
classes with his plebeian vigor; or to
believe in the existence of thousands of
Jimmys who would never do anything
but talk.
Still in the end, Osborne is right in the
most important thing. He has given us,
as he claims, a play about people: ill-
mannered, selfish and uncertain or ami-
able, considerate and uncertain, but un-
questionably real. And he can make
them talk: Helena complained with
reason about souls stripped to the waist
in public. The process was comic, infuri


THE FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances
effected at lowest current rates.
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims.
DIRECTORS:
Alfred S. White (Chairman). E. G.
Conen, T. K. Magney, A. G Parker,
Douglas Wadley.
H. H. Moulton, Managing Director.
B. J. Lane, Manager
Phone: 27-7401 (Branches in all States)
20 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
ating, embarrassing, pathetic, but it made
us understand these people, Jimmy
especially as- we can never understand
the inarticulate.
In a uniformly well-acted production,
Graeme Campbell deserves special men-
tion for his sympathetic portrayal of the
non-angry Cliff. Alan Walker’s Jimmy
was a rich, full-bodied Porter, but he
could emphasise more the sadistic plea-
sure Jimmy takes in baiting the women
with his offensive eloquence. Alan
Harvey’s production was smooth, and
the set by Robert Warren suitably de-
pressing and claustrophobic: for once
what was called for admirably fitted the
limited area of Rep’s theatre.
HOPE HEWITT
THE TWAIN MEET
A Majorify of One. Leonard Spigel-
gass, St Martin’s Theatre. Mel-
bourne.
HThis is a pleasantly sentimental comedy
about a Jewish matron from Brook-
lyn who visits Japan and charms a
wealthy Japanese businessman, in the
process greatly alarming her daughter
and son-in-law, whose enthusiasm for
tolerance tends to the abstract. In telling
his story Mr Spigelgass touches, lightly
and sensibly enough if not profoundly,
upon such matters as inter-racial and
inter-cultural misunderstandings. Each of
his eight scenes develops its point clearly
and economically, there are plenty of
smiles, and a number of good strong
laughs.
Irene Mitchell has given the play a
thoroughly expert production, notable
for its liveliness and splendid attention
to detail. In the principal role Frances
Einhorn is richly human and appeal-
ing. On the first night she overplayed
a few of the broader sequences, but
there is the basis in her performance for
a small classic of character acting. She
is well matched by Zena Fantle, a busy-
body neighbor in the Brooklyn scenes,
and by Norman Kaye, who handles with
great dignity and intelligence the role
of Mr Asano, the Japanese businessman.
Charmian Jacka, Bruce Barry and Joseph
Szabo are excellent, and Tony McGrath
handles well the only merely foolish
role in the play. The costumes are most
attractive, and John Truscott, given the
rare opportunity of designing four sets
for one play, surpasses even his own
very high standard. Mr. Truscott’s depart-
ure for study in Europe next year will
leave Melbourne theatre much the
poorer.
JAMES MURPHY
OUT OF THE CHURCH HALL
The Ham Funeral, Patrick White,
Brisbane Twelfth Night Theatre
Her Majesty’s Theatre.
Any form of theatre, really, is terribly
suspect in Brisbane, but it is usually
tolerated as being at least a good source
of income for church halls. However,
Patrick White’s play was apparently
rumored as being “too much.” So with-
out further ado Those In Power threat-
ened to cancel the Twelfth Night
Theatre’s booking of their hall on the
eve of performance. Sweet justice that
the management of Her Majesty’s
Theatre came to their aid and the play
is now being given the full professional
treatment!
The quality of Joan Whalley's produc-
tion fully deserves such a setting. The
pace and timing were admirable on the
opening night, and this is important in
a play with so many wordy passages and
so many different planes of approach
and such contrasting technical devices.
Betty Ross was a living and intensely
moving Landlady and it was she who,
rightly, became the central point of in-
terest rather than the Young Man, played
too hysterically by Ron Finney. His part
is so overwritten that the audience be-
comes provoked against him from the
beginning, and so the many good points
the author makes through him are ef-
fectively diminished.
The scene of the two alley ladies,
which most shocked those members of
the Brisbane audience sitting near me,
was quite effectively done, and the Four
Relatives were agreeably grotesque.
Their subsequent scene at the Wake
contained some of the best theatre and
it was here most of all that the pro-
duction compelled admiration. These
grotesques lack the ferocity of those of
Beckett but they gain in dimension be-
cause of this, for they are more easily
able to flick back and forth from puppets
to masks to persons, with the most telling
effect.
The play as a whole left the audience
confused and rather dazed. Most of
them, I am sure, would much rather
have seen the usual drawing-room
comedy in the local church hall. All the
more praise, therefore, for Twelfth Night
Theatre in their courage and persever-
ence.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT
TELEVISION
AFTER MONTHS
OF MUSH
"jWTow I know how it feels to be given
a fairly solid meal unexpectedly
after months on a diet of mush. The
experience occurred last week, when I
saw two tolerable local television plays
on the one night. If I praise them too
much, it is because their virtues were
such a pleasure.
The first was “The Runner”, by Alan
Seymour, produced by Brett Porter, with
Lew Luton, and it was a one-hour glance
at the career of a distance runner whose
coach had a garbled conception of the
Percy Cerutty method.
Anyone who used to watch a horror
show called “Penthouse” would know
that Lew Luton, once its male ingenue,
had what then seemed vain hopes of
becoming an actor. He has succeeded.
In “The Runner”, allowing for brief
experience, Luton seemed the most ex-
citing prospect we have for dramatic
roles on television.
The play investigated the possible
harm of mixing sport and sport-phil-
osophy in the mind of a not particu-
larly bright athlete, with predictable re-
sults . . . the head swelled, the outlook
hardened, the importance of other
people diminished, winning became liv-
ing, and the traditional break with the
coach occurred.
I don’t know whether this was what
Alan Seymour intended. Some reviewers
suggested that he had attacked another
“sacred cow”, and they implied satirical
intent. I saw the play as an interesting
drama with sufficient conflict to hold
me for the hour.
The second surprise of the night fol-
lowed when I switched to the last half
hour of “Fury in Petticoats”, from an
English script, produced in Melbourne
by Christopher Muir, with a cast of
genuine actors. Perth viewers who had
to suffer Muir’s earlier production “Boy
Around the Corner” last week might
find any praise hard to swallow, but
“Fury” was a big improvement.
FRANK ROBERTS


ART
FACILITY IN THE BEST SENSE
Albert Tucker. Australian Galleries.
Melbourne. Jon Molvig. Argus Gal-
lery. Melbourne.
Tn his most recent paintings Albert
Tucker has returned to the Australian
bush. Being the very skilful and in-
ventive painter that he is, he has drawn
a wide range of fruitful ideas and images
from his subject. Some are simply forest
scenes, refined and meditative; others
blow up a detail, portion of a tree trunk
or a piece of bark, into bold simple
paintings whose appeal is more obviously
formal. Every one of the paintings gives
the impression that to Tucker technique
is no longer even a minor problem. He
has an unfailing talent for isolating and
organising the essentials of his subject.
It is facility in the best sense profes-
sional equipment in the hands of an
artist.
It is interesting to see in this exhibi-
tion the return of one of the most vigor-
ous pioneers of modern painting to a
quite traditional feeling for the Austral-
ian landscape, a feeling free from highly
charged metaphysical overtones. The
most militant diehard would acknowledge
that the uniqueness of the bush, its rough,
disordered beauty and muted angular
harmonies, is here in full. Tucker’s ap-
proach might be best described as lyrical,
but it is a carefully guided lyricism. The
forms derive from a careful examination
of broad basic shapes, and the composi-
tions both in colour and organisation
are creative evocations of nature rather
than speechless reflections.
Jon Molvig’s exhibition at the Argus
Gallery covers 10 years’ work. The early
part of it will no doubt be familiar. It
is vital painting which hops from style
to style with zest and assurance. The
most recent works are yet another de-
parture a sort of symbolic abstrac-
tion based on the theme of Adam and
Eve. Five are large, heavily textured,
massive compositions labelled “Eden In-
dustrial”, and the remainder are pre-
dominantly flat black grounds rubbed
out in part to uncover square, machine-
like figures in transparent red and sea
green. These latter are attractive works,
intelligently conceived and well con-
trolled, but their content is elusive. There
are hints of a universal theme of growth
and decline, of a primitive cycle as strong
now as ever it was, but it does not
emerge strongly. Where, as in other and
earlier works, the aim is more limited,
success has come from vigor. Here there
is more formal restraint, and the vigor
has not yet fully transferred to the ideas.
BILL HANNAN
THE FLOOD TIDE
Margaret Olley. Johnstone Gallery.
Brisbane.
Tn this show Margaret Olley has 11
drawings and 40 oils. The huge
blaze of color throughout makes an
almost stunning impact; it is all a joyous
bravura. The drawings pen drawings
with a light color wash are superb: in
this medium, for sheer skill, Miss Olley
outstrips all other artists in Australia.
Her combination of draughtsmanship of
a high order with a color filling is real
virtuosity. Donald Friend is the only
one I know who could compete. I have
always liked this kind of picture and the
show under review strengthens my orig-
inal critical opinion about it.
The oils, flower still-life studies and
nine nudes are literally colossal in power,
skill and color. They gaily refute the
current idea, that great art, the best in
the country according to some commen-
tators, is done exclusively in mud color
and battleship grey. The dull mono-
chromes one sees are not even tranquil-
isers; indeed to me they are emetic. And
so when 1 had got over the blinding
Damascene light of the pictures, I re-
joiced. Practically all the flower studies
are life-size. At first they seemed to
have got out of control but in a close
view they are carefully and deliberately
painted and nothing I have seen in
Australia matches them for design, good
color plots, technique or restrained
power. The nudes are nicely posed, very
well drawn and carried out in a warm
russet brown with overtones of the purple
present in the “black” skins of the abor-
iginal.
Margaret Olley has reached the flood
tide of her art and has stepped up to the
top rank of our artists and in the pro-
cess she has at least broken the current
tabu on three dimensional design and
color over the whole range of the spec-
trum from just inside the ultra-violet to
just within the infra-red.
As a rather perhaps sordid detail, the
show was nearly a sell-out at the preview,
it grossed £3OOO that day (an Australian
record for a woman) and found, of
course, no reaction at all in the Bris-
bane Art Gallery Trustees. I expected
all that.
J. V. DUHIG
THE ROUNDNESS
OF AN APPLE
Fred Jessup, Margaret Olley, David
Strachan. Dominion Art Galleries.
Sydney.
HThe enjoyment these three painters
A have felt in their subjects is an
affirmation of faith in the possibility
of transforming the facts of everyday
vision into the stuff of contemp.auon.
In some respects it takes considerable
will to see something new in the round-
ness of an apple and renounce the dish
of gravy slops with all its pseudo-mystical
implications. Jessup, for instance, strives
to grasp a world of chromatic brilliance,
a bunch of flowers amid the stews of
Sydney painting. His forms are delight-
fully flat, crisply defined in the manner
of French still life intent on exploiting
a rich evocative line.
In most of these pictures it is the still
life which succeeds in its assurance of
subtle harmonious color, texture and
form in arousing a warm response.
Recent Tweed Heads paintings, for
instance, where boats, nets and fish are
as much the subject as fishermen, water
or sky, this long experience of still life
imparts a strength to the whole. Some
of Jessup’s silvery greys, greens, stuble
orange-duns and purple-browns mark
him off as an individual colorist of real
distinction. He is not afraid to attempt
on the other hand, the tightrope of tra-
ditionally “lolly” harmonies, often with
huge success.
Margaret Olley’s forms are denser,
more plastic in a sculptural sense than
Jessup's, but her method is to play
a low relief against the flat patterns of
the backcloths. Her paint is rapid and
dry and most appealing in paintings such
as “Fish” or “Blue Still Life.” Her very
real delight in handling warm oranges
against cerulean is readily communicable,
an urbane temperament fully at home in
the rich tapestry of the visual world with
untroubled subject matter.
David Strachan is a sophisticated pri-
mitive with obvious affinities in Utrillo
or Bombois. He can roughen the plaster
of his Palazzo walls with the finesse of
the montmartre master or arrange the
forms of still life with disarming simpli-
city which relies less on calculation than
on intuitive logic. Silvery harmonies are
inevitably restrained but can achieve sur-
prising spatial tension as in “Vallee de
Chevreuse, France”.
This show can easily be dismissed, but
it reaffirms conviction in the preservation
of appearances, that painting can still
come into form as well as disintegrate
and explode.
J. HENSHAW


THE RED PAGE
PASTERNAK THE POET
The price of beating the system
By A. D. HOPE
In The Interlude; Poems 1945-1960.
Boris Pasternak. Translated into
English Verse by Henry Kamen with
facing in Russian text. O.U.P.
Pasternak became known to the world
*■ at large with the publication of his
novel Dr Zhivago in 1958 and the subse-
quent award of the Nobel Prize. In this
he was in the tradition of the Russian
writers. The Russian novelists are almost
as well known outside their country as
in it, but Russian poets are hardly known
except as names. This is due to two
things: the fact that Russian verse, though
it is well within the European tradition,
is written in a highly inflected language
rather remote in its structure and
its effects from Western European
languages, and therefore does not trans-
late well; and the fact that very few
people read Russian. Pasternak was a
famous poet in his own country, as fam-
ous as T. S. Eliot in the English speaking
world or Paul Valery in France, and quite
as long as these two have been famous;
but his poetry has had to wait for the
succes de scandale achieved by his novel,
to come to the attention of the western
European world.
Now the mass translation of his work
into foreign languages has begun. Paster-
nak the Poet has arrived rather ironically
as a fellow-traveller of Pasternak the
Novelist and Pasternak the Hero of the
Resistance.
The Hero is of course the one of these
three characters who looms largest today
and this is natural enough. To have
resisted all pressures to conform in the
most skilful and savage tyranny the world
has known, to have resisted when almost
every other writer of genius conformed,
was executed or committed suicide, like
Esenin and Mayakovsky, to have resisted
successfully as a’ single individual for
forty years and to have beaten the sys-
tem is something that is hard not to
admire in a world which is singularly
short of heroes.
Yet I wonder whether the success of
the Hero has not been unfortunate for the
novelist and the poet. Pasternak himself
was quite clear about this. He depreciated
the political propaganda to which his
success lent itself not only because he
had insisted all his life that art is and
must be non-political and not only be-
cause he was dismayed at becoming an
instrument of propaganda against his
country. He was even more concerned at
the misinterpretation of his work which
this process involved.
The most important effect of the hero-
worship, however, has been an unfortun-
ate attempt to present Pasternak as a
greater genius than he was, to put Dr.
Zhivago among the great novels of the
world, which is absurd, and to claim that
as a poet he is one of the masters. Pas-
ternak’s place is among the considerable
poets of our time. He was perhaps a
man of genius but he suffered from a
number of limitations, limitations largely
due to his epoch which, I believe stopped
his development and left him, in the end,
one of those writers whose genius is de-
feated by their talents.
The formative influences on his talent
were those of the turn of the last cen-
tury. He grew up among artists, musi-
cians and poets of what was then the
avant-garde. Like T. S. Eliot and Paul
Valery he came under the influence, the
excitement and the charm of symbolism,
in his case, the symbolism of Alexander
Blok. He joined a group of writers who
called themselves Futurists and soon fell
under the spell of Mayakovsky. Like Blok
and Mayakovsky he had immense virtu-
osity which made him free of the tech-
niques of verse at an age when most
poets are struggling for control of their
medium. He rapidly became master of
the allusive and obscure style, the odd and
compressed syntax and the experimental
rhythmic effects which were the vogue
of the day. He was saved from mere
brilliance by a genuine and natural lyric
gift. For all that, he suffered the limita-
tions of all his contemporaries who for-
sook the main tradition for poetry based
on the exploitation of idiosyncracies of
style and image. It must have been fun
to write lines like the often quoted:
The old on this point have opinions of
their own,
But surely, surely, your opinion is
absurd :
That in thunderstorms eyes and lawns
are violet
And the horizon smells of damp lilac.
(My Sister Life, 1922).
But it proved before long to be a road
leading nowhere. The orgy of sensibility
did not take long to exhaust itself. Pas-
ternak was silent or was silenced for a
great part of the Stalinist period. He is
credited with the curious remark about
the poems of Yury Zhivago that they
were his poems but written from the
point of view of a character because to
write in one’s own person in that era
one would have had either to be nervous-
ly ill or a woman. When he began to
write poems in his own person, he pro-
fessedly abandoned the symbolist and
futurist styles. “I dislike my style before
1940,” he wrote, “just as I quarrel with
half of Mayakovsky’s writings and with
some of Yesenin’s. I dislike the disinte-
grating forms, the impoverished thought
and the littered and uneven language of
those days.”
It is true that the poems in the present
volume have a calm lucidity and simple
strength which is a contrast with the
earlier work. Yet one cannot say that he
ever really got it out of his system. In
one of the latest poems, dated January
1959, he describes the sun setting over
the snow
Look how the monster poked
In the snow with his plump snout,
The colour of red-currant liqueur,
Sat down, waned and went out.
The second limitation which Pasternak
imposed on himself was again an idea
common in his period. He was devoted
to music and in his autobiography des-
cribes the powerful influence of Scriabin
on his youth. It was natural that he
should subscribe to a theory of his time
that all art tends to the condition of
music, and that he should have tried to
write poetry which worked by words and
images and rhythms in the way music
works by sounds. There is an analogy
between the two arts but it cannot be
pushed too far on either side without
detriment to both. On the side of poetry
a point is reached where meaning dis-
solves in atmospherics, impressions and
evocations, which are ineffective because
the poem does not really say anything.
Even in the best poems of his later period
Pasternak’s themes often seem to melt in
romantic evocation and suggestive atmos-
phere. It is often very effective but cuts
him off from the range of great poetry.
And lastly he was limited by a per-
sonalist doctrine of poetry which he in-
herited from Blok who said that his
poetry was written and should be read as
if it were one long single diary. The
theory that poetry is self-expression, that
the poet writes mainly to reveal himself
is one of the curious heresies of roman-
ticism. No one denies that a poet may
set out to do this and write very good
poems. The heresy consists in regarding
this as the essential function of poetry
and the poet who takes this view is con-
fined within the circle of his own per-
sonality; he is cut off from those higher
reaches of art in which he loses himself
in his subject and has a chance to achieve
the impersonal or super-personal mastery
which is the mark of great art. Paster-
nak wished to be remembered and judged
by his later poems, and they can only be
described, moving as some of them are,
as episodes from a personal diary. One
feels of course a great deal of sympathy


for the attitude of mind, since it was
part of his defence against the pressure
on Soviet writers to make their art a
servile instrument to the party line. But
one must recognise the cost at which the
defence was made.
Yet if Pasternak as a poet does not
achieve the rank his admirers would like
to claim for him, these poems are cer-
tainly the work of a gifted and sensitive
artist. Those who hope for a revelation
of the hero may be disappointed. The
Zhivago poems, of course, have over-
tones of the view's of their supposed
author, but the later poems have only
an occasional veiled reference. There is
a sad poem on the occasion of his re-
fusal of the Nobel Prize, another on the
deaths of his friends in the terror, but
they deaf more with his personal feelings
than w'ith general issues. They are in no
sense political. A majority of the work
consists simply of traditional nature
poems, reflections on the countryside,
evocation of the moods of nature in the
fields and the woods in the various times
of the day and the various seasons of the
year.
Apart from occasional touches of the
old style, they are often in a language
and from a point of view that is nowa-
days almost old-fashioned and nine-
teenth century in manner.. None the
worse for that of course one gets
an impression of the old poet turning his
back deliberately on the world and its
affairs and conducting a deep and solitary
dialogue with the spirit of the forests and
the fields, of a life which he knew' was
drawing soon to its close, drawing near
to the simplest and most enduring form
of life. Interspersed are personal inci-
dents: going for the mail, travelling by
train, an evening and party in Moscow' on
the occasion of the performance of Maria
Stuart of Schiller which Pasternak trans-
lates, impressions of going into hospital
on the occasion of his heart attack in
1952, and so on. The tone of all these
poems is that of a man thinking aloud
rather than that of a man addressing his
thoughts to a reader. Their spirit may be
indicated, though not the mastery of
form, by one of the translators most
successful eforts Ploughing:
Where is the landscape we once knew?
The frontiers of earth and sky.
Are zone, and fields like chessboard
squares
Alone stretch further than the eye;
And these expanses, hewn and
ploughed.
Lie spread so eventfy out there
That you might think the mountains
had
Been levelled, or the vale swept bare.
On just these days, in one clean breath
The trees that fringe the furrowed soil
Burst green into their early leaf
And stretch till their full heights uncoil.
For no specks mar the new-sprung
maple
And nowhere are there hues so pure
As is the pale-green of the birch
Or as the ploughland's grey allure.
This catches the spirit of the original
though the exigency of finding a rhyme
has enfeebled the last two lines which
in literal translation run
Then the pale green colour of the
birches
And the pale grey colour of ploughed
soil.
Mr Kamen has not done too badly
as a translator. He has kept as dose
to the original as possible and has made
this his first aim, as a translator should.
And this is excusable in a translation
w'hich has the Russian text beside it and
which is ti.erefore not expected to stand
by itself. Mr Kamen also manages to
catch something of the movement and
the metre of his original and for the
most part renders it line for line. These
are all considerable achievements. But
there are many passages where the trans-
lation cannot be regarded as more than
a travesty of the original. Jn one of the
Zhivago poems, for example the speaker
is addressing the woman he loves and
winn'^f’ ’ m* b 'd h®
° f „ ““ Hay Jard and Manya
Haran. one stanza reads
years wz7/ pass, you will marry.
l°“ f ° rSe ‘
h IS « great step to be a woman,
To drive others mad is heroism.
This is about the best one could do
and is clear enough in its context. But
Henrv Kamen . s s , = nza
The years wiU pass > "Mrry and
Fotget these wayward days you had :
Flow gieat it is to be a woman!
Heroic to drive others mad!
not only turns the original quite insipid,
it loses the idea of one step which has
another and greater beyond it and so
makes nonsense of the idea. Basically
Mr Kamen’s defect is that he is just not
enough of a poet.
HISTORY WITHOUT RESEARCH
The Sydney Scene. Alan Birch and
David S. Macmillan. Melbourne
University Press. 475. 6d.
npHE fellow who invented this sort of
volume will probably be awarded
D. Litts. by all the Australian universi-
ties because it has provided a means
whereby academics can produce volumes
without too much brain fatigue. An
anthology titled The Melbourne Scene
1803-1956, produced by James Grant and
Geoffrey Serle has naturally led to the
issue of The Sydney Scene 1788-1960 and
will no doubt be followed by the Queens-
land Scene, the South Australian, West-
ern Australian, Tasmanian, Northern
Territory and Norfolk Island Scenes all
anthologised by people in a hurry and
largely from unreliable authorities.
The “Melbourne Scene” was a work-
manlike job, but the “Sydney Scene” just
issued is scarcely up to its standards. Its
anthologists are only sketchily acquainted
with some of the scenes they anthologise
and one would have expected something
much more consistently reliable from
the Chief Archivist David Mac-
millan at Sydney University and the
head of the Business Archives Depart-
ment, Dr Alan Birch.
To begin with, in their preface, for
instance, they recommend to their read-
ers for a comprehensive purview of early
Sydney and its social and physical en-
vironment, two works of Miss Marjorie
Barnard Macquarie’s World and
Sydney as having “vividly recaptured”
the picture of the times as they existed.
What Miss Barnard's works do represent
are the application of a novelist's mind to
the products of some of the worst and
most mordantly inaccurate writings about
the times. Inter alia, she makes Mac-
quarie arrive in the wrong ship, cap-
tained by the wrong captain, makes him
have a quarrel with that mariner that
never happened, makes him arrive on
the wrong date, land on the wrong date,
hold his inauguration in the wrong place.
She charges Greenway with having de-
signed Sydney Hospital though he
didn't arrive here till it was nearly com-
plete. She turns the 1469 square miles
of the County of Cumberland into 9000
square miles, makes Captain Philip Gid-
ley King launch a ship a year after he
was dead and three years after he left
the Colony, makes another hero live in
a house years after his death, shifts Syd-
ney Common into the Domain and per-
forms a lot of other feats which scarcely
are to be expected to earn the recom-
mendation of University archivists.
They themselves, however, proceed
somewhat in the same tradition. Their
notes introducing the various periods are
marred by mistakes and anachronisms.
Meehan’s map was not the “earliest re-
liable presentation of the town of Syd-
ney”. Both Phillip’s (Dawes’s) and
Grimes’ 1800 map were accurate pre-
sentations and the latter, not Meehan’s
which is a sort of moving festival
since some copies which are represented
as the original w'ere brought up to date
without any annotation later on shows
the town taking permanent shape.
Messrs. Macmillan’s and Birch's know-
ledge of the earlier periods is just about
as sketchy as Miss Barnard’s, as shown
by their introduction. Anthony Hordern,
for example, did not “begin his em-
porium on Brickfield Hill” in 1825: it


WRITE STORIES
SUCCESSFULLY
Stott s can train YOU
Many Stott students pay. for their Course be-
fore completing it.
Stott students are taught how to write stories
that sell and are advised by the College of
the names and addresses of reputable Literary
Agents in various countries who may be trusted
to handle Students' MSS to the best advan-
tage. If YOU have a story to tell, learn how
to tell it. The lucrative field of Authorship is
waiting to pay well for good work.
Stotls Correspondence College
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh
Street, Sj’dney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane;
31 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; 22 Howard Street,
Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT'S: Please send me. without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full particulars
of your Literary Courses.
ADDRESS
AGE
B 1962
NAME
was in that year that Mrs Anthony
Hordern started her emporium at the
corner of George Street and Charlotte
Place and the Horderns did not go to
Brickfield Hill until the early 1850 s or
thereabouts. The Australian Club was
not founded in 1825 but in 1838. The
dates on the illustrations are sometimes
wrong or open to question. For instance,
their illustration of “Redfern (the city
railway station till 1906) in 1870. . . .
From the ‘Town and Country Journal’ ”
show's the main station not built till 1873.
The picture is not from the “Town and
Country Journal”, but from the “Illus-
trated Sydney News”, June 24, 1875.
There is, again, a picture of “wood-
blocking Martin Place, 1892,” about
which I have grave doubts. The name
“Martin Place” did not appear in the
directories till 1896 and the upper part
of the street east of Pitt Street shown
in the picture was not completed as
part of Martin Place till a good many
years later. The picture designed to be
representative of “American Servicemen
in Sydney 1944” showing small Austral-
ian boys blacking the boots of super-
cilious negroes scarcely does justice to
its subject, if it does do justice to the
current passion prevalent in some Aus-
tralian universities for the non-white
races.
Anthologies of this sort perforce
consist of snippets intended to provide
vignettes of life in particular times. And
they naturally lean to the picturesque
rather than the accurate. But at least
one has a right to expect from the lead-
ing university archivists of the city that
their selection shall be responsible and
present the picture as accurately as pos-
sible. This is scarcely done by their
selection, for example, of the account of
the landing on Sydney Cove. There are
a number of contemporary accounts basi-
cally accurate, of the events of January
26, 1788, by people who were there
King, Collins, and others; but the archi-
vists go to the pickpocket Barrington
who was not there for their story, w'hich
is second-hand, imperfect and inaccurate.
Their glimpse of John Macarthur is
a very suspect one and written by one
of his enemies who incidentally,
though he was generally a solid man, was
not by any means trustworthy since he
described later in detail the kindness of
Bligh’s daughter on a voyage home which
he himself made, but which Bligh’s
daughter certainly didn’t.
However, the selection improves as the
volume progresses and the final selec-
tions by Alan Birch are infinitely bet-
ter than the first section for w'hich he
also was responsible.
The whole makes an amusing volume
to browse through, provided it is not
taken seriously as representative social
history.
M. H. ELLIS
LIFE AND LOVE IN LITERARY LONDON
Fanfrolsco and After. Jack Lindsay.
Bodley Head. 375. 3d.
Tn Australia we have long regarded the
Lindsays as an institution. For gene-
rations we have relied upon the family
for entertainment and even inspiration
and they have excited our admiration
and affection. You can be and often
are startled by the Lindsays, shocked and
even infuriated, but you have a right to
expect that anything a Lindsay writes
about his activities will not bore you.
So you’d think a history of any member
of this extraordinary family, each of
which has more than a dash of genius,
couldn’t possibly be dull.
It comes as a shock to find that much
of “Fanfrolico and After”, the third deck
of Jack Lindsay’s mighty autobiography
is just that. There was movement and a
generous measure of life in his earlier
volumes telling of his boyhood on the
North Shore and in Brisbane, but in this
latest effort Jack really gets you bogged
down in the heavy stuff. There are grains
of corn in this mountain of literary chaff
but whether it’s worth going through so
much to get so little is debatable.
There’s far too much of it. He’d
have told a neater story in half the num-
ber of words. As it is it’s a sort of
indigestible treatise on life and love in
literary London with no holds barred.
This is the story of his career from
the day when like Napoleon on the
Bellerophon he looked his last on his
native shore from the deck of a ship.
Immediately you open the book you
become aware of the thing that has nag-
ged Jack all his life his consciousness
of his father’s neglect and unconcern for
him is ever present and even intense
bouts of industry have failed to blunt its
edge. It appears to have permanently
soured his outlook too, as he frequently
expresses a perverse pleasure in ugly
things a form of masochism with
which Lindsay’s book reeks throughout.
On arrival in London Jack didn’t waste
time getting down to work in an atmos-
phere of grubby bohemianism that is so
much out of date it is again struggling
back into fashion. In the Cafe Royal he
overheard a “young fellow talking about
Australian poetry and insisting that the
coming man was Jack Lindsay”. This
remarkable speech stunned him, he says,
and he took it as an omen that he was
“right in avoiding the respectable literary
world”.
Respectable or not the circles in which
he moved were literary artistic and
musical, too. His narrative teems with
names: Robert Graves, D. H. Lawrence,
the Sitwells, Aldous Huxley, Constant
Lambert, Liam O’Flaherty, Norman
Douglas, Peter Warlock, Augustus John,
Eugene Goossens, and many more. The
publisher's blurb claims that Jack gives
glowing portraits of them, but after read-
ing the book you haven’t a clear mental
picture of one and he’s one of the best
name-droppers in the business.
In Paris'Jack renewed his friendship
with P. R. Stephensen whom he had
known at Queensland University and in
his company found the city “ten times
more lively and charming, the French
girls attractive, chic, amorously-bot-
tomed, and French. The wine glowed
with red earth-fires.”
Then he met Elza, “a strange and
lovely girl” who was living with an Aus-
tralian musician, young, “a pioneer in
evoking community songs at football
matches.” And Lindsay’s book is largely
the story of their unhappy love-affair.
They soon set up house together and
Elza inspired much verse he wrote, large
slabs of which he quotes together with
Elza’s ventures into poetry. With Stephen-
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. "D", Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.


sen and his wife they holidayed in France
giving Jack the material for the most
readable chapter in the book as it is
here he relates Elza’s strange story a
tale of unhappy childhood, jobs in cafes,
tobacconist’s, draper’s, a third-rate
chorus, “victimised, seduced, driven out,”
then with her husband ill and broke in
Paris.
At this time Jack and Stephensen were
establishing the Fanfrolico Press in Lon-
don dedicated to the production of limit-
ed editions, some the work of his father,
Norman.
He appears to have been industrious
enough to please his toughest taskmaster
—himself. From a welter of dead lan-
guages, beer and the bed bugs of Blooms-
bury basements he has produced 108
books and edited 17 other works all
listed at the end of the book.
Suddenly Elza announced that she
wanted to live in the country. She had
surprised Lindsay by bringing over from
Paris a child of her marriage of whose
existence she had told him and who he
had taken to be a fictitious counter to
his story of a “wife in Australia”.
“I was afraid of children,” he re-
cords. “I think my fear marked an in-
tense but repressed wish to become a
father; the fear was that I would repeat
my own father’s irresponsibility and de-
sertion.” Jack took yet another room in
London and Elza and the child rented a
house overlooking the Stour Valley where
he threw away the golden opportunity
to write more about his neighbors, a
stumpy naval petty-officer and his wife
whose strange private life would have
provided material for a lively novel.
By now Lindsay was in the throes
of producing “The London Aphrodite”,
a magazine limited to six issues and he
gives at great length the story of its
contents, contributors and troubles.
Inevitably while Elza was in the
country Jack took up with another girl,
Betty May. The “Tiger Woman” Epstein
model, drug-taker, nympholept, man-
eater, “who had just left her fifth hus-
band.”
She made no bones about going with
others while Jack was in the country and
once pointed to a large bedstead in a
shop window. “I spent last Wednesday
night, i that,” she told Jack “Y had the
shop keys and we pulled down the
blinds.”
The sinister Aleister Crowley enters the
narrative here with Betty May’s hair rais-
ing accounts of such witchcraft hocus-
pocus as watching a white cockerel bleed
to death over the naked body of a girl
and “sex-magic carried out to the accom-
paniment of hymns, payers and symbolic
performances.” Jack seems to have had
a lively time with her until one day she
said. “Do you mind if I go and live w'ith
Edgell?”
The reader gathers that he raised no
objections. In spite of his literary efforts
Jack seems to have been perpetually hard
up and at times quit 2 broke as he con-
tinued his pint to pint career through
Bloomsbury and on to a succession of
decayed country homes.
His brother Phil had joined him in
London and helped with the Press and
Brian Penton with his wife Olga shared
a flat with Jack and Elza until the in-
evitable split-up ended the menage while
Penton worked on his novel, “Land-
takers”.
He gives in great detail his anguish
at the decline in Elza’s devotion and her
disconcerted mood that found expression
in constant changes of residence. Lind-
say’s book is packed with the stories be-
hind the writing of his books and even
of his most trivial works and his glimpses
of literary London have flashes of inter-
est. But when he says Penton returned to
Sydney to become editor of the Sydney
Morning Herald the reader is entitled to
doubt the accuracy of some of his state-
ments about "/ell-known people he met.
The book is illustrated with specimen
pages from some of the Fanfrolico pub-
lications including illustrations by Nor-
man; a portrait of Jack heavily bearded
by Lionel Ellis; photographs of his as-
sociates; two staggering studies of Betty
May and last but not least a snapshot
of Jack in uniform.
A Lindsay in the army! Now we have
seen everything.
B.B.
For the Boys
The Quest for Golden Dan. Frank
Kellaway. F. W. Cheshire. 19s. 6d.
T>ecause it was true for me, I have
** always been convinced that the best
books for boys are Robinson Crusoe,
Westward Ho, Treasure Island and The
Cloister and the Hearth; all based upon
outstanding characters who go in magni-
ficent progression from one crisis to the
next so that suspense is maintained at a
maximum. With the exception of these,
r haven’t read a book intended for young
adolescents for years, and it was with aty
appreciation amounting to excitement
that I recognised the blood-relationship
of Frank Kellaway’s book.
In the first hour of his arrival in Aus-
tralia during the excitement of the Gold
Rush, Dan is kidnapped and, thereafter,
races headlong from one adventure to
the other, some of them highly imagina-
tive, but all quite credible. In the pro-
cess he becomes interested in just about
every phenomenon of last century’s Aus-
tralian life; and with a considerable talent,
Kellaway transfers that interest to the
reader.
OLAF RUHEN
The Centre
Form Colour Grandeur. A Photo Study
of Central Australia by Allen David.
Introduction by Russell Drysdale.
Grayflower Publications. 635.
{Central Australia has usually and un-
derstandably left writers clutching for
cliches Red Sand and Spinifex, the
Dead Heart, etc. No generalisation is large
enough to take in all its strange grandeur.
As Russell Drysdale says in his introduc-
tion to this book: “The paradox of such
a wide land is that it is often glimpsed
more sharply through small pointed
details.” Hence the painters have done
more justice to it that the writers. Now
the artist David Allen has turned photo-
grapher and presented the most beautiful
and compelling collection of pictures ever
published about the Centre. Of this sort
of book one can only say: buy it, look
at the photographs and see for yourself.
White Australia?
Immigration: Control or Colour Bar?
Edited by Kenneth Rivett. MUP
12s. 6d.
tpHOSE readers who took Kenneth
Rivett’s side against Jim Forbes in
the Forum controversy on Asian Im-
migration (Bulletin, October 13) will
find Rivett’s position argued out in full
detail in this book. It claims that non-
Europeans should be allowed to settle in
Australia and become citizens but their
admission should be regulated. It covers
all the legal, economic and social aspects
and contains an appendix of political
statements by A. R. Downer, A. Calwell
and the DLP (which is the only Party to
adopt a position similar to that of the
Immigration Reform Group.) It also has
an invaluable thumb-nail history of the
“White Australia” Policy, by David
Johanson. The book is essential reading
for anyone interested in our immigration
policies.
1830
The Touch of Jade. Lola Irish. Robert
Hale.
This light romantic novel is set in Syd-
ney and the Windsor district in the
1830 s. Despite some obvious historical
research by its author the book is too
improbable to appeal to critical readers
with any knowledge of the period. The
plot leans heavily upon coincidence and
postulates a set of circumstances which
one feels were unlikely to have occurred.
For those who can accept Jadie Hen-
nessy, her scapegrace brother and the
peculiar domestic arrangements alleged to
obtain on a large property called Wir-
raway, the love affairs, schemings and
adventures narrated here might prove
sufficiently engrossing.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Cuban Crisis Inhibits Investment
By “CROESUS.”
T '4E further decline in bank advances, coupled with a less
impressive performance by industry in September and
the continued buoyancy of the bond market, only go to
emphasise that interest rates need pulling down to get money
more useable in the private sector. This cannot be done by a
stroke of the pen in Australia because here we have no counter-
part of the Federal Reserve discount rate in the USA or Bank
Rate in Britain to implement monetary policy in this direction.
As a matter of fact, although some experts in the money
market have been saying lately that interest rates are more
likely to be reduced than to stiffen in the near future, it is by
no means certain that the Reserve Bank is seeing things this
way. This interpretation could be placed on last week’s deci-
sion to reduce the liquidity of the trading banks by clawing in
more of their deposits into Special Deposit Account at the
Reserve Bank.
On the other hand, the Reserve Bank may now be thinking
that sheer pressure from high liquidity is not the answer to
lowering commercial interest rates. This method has been on
trial for more than a year and the Reserve Bank is entitled,
perhaps, to be thinking along other lines. It is inconceivable
that it should regard the current level of commercial interest
rates as appropriate for setting the stage for another round of
economic expansion in Australia.
The process of getting commercial interest rates down through
sympathetic contagion from the lowering of yields on bonds
through open market operations by the authorities has not been
given a full run yet. Nor is there any certainty that, having
failed to cut bond rate for the September loan and having been
swamped wih subscriptions as a result of this, the authorities
have grasped the nettle in their open market operations.
And now that the PM has failed to call an early meeting of
the Loan Council, as requested by the Premier of Victoria, it
would seem that the authorities are at present reluctant to play
much more than a neutral role in the bond market.
Naturally, the authorities have been watching the share mar-
ket very closely for signs of any swing of investment funds
away from fixed interest in its direcion, a movement which was
confidently predicted to occur about this time by at least one
of the biggest operators in the bond market.
Before the untimely complication of the Cuba crisis last
week they could be forgiven for thinking that at long last the
share market had taken the promising economic bull by the
horns, or at least was prepared to ride forward into the uplands
with it, setting at least some of its cautionary doubts aside.
Now they can comfort themselves with the reassurance that
m the prevailing international crisis share markets are un-
likely to run away with the bond market’s clothes.
On the contrary, the cautionary motive which has been the
main pillar of the bond market's strength vis-a-vis equity shares
m the last 18 months or more, will have been strengthened as a
result of the USA’s action over Cuba. This strengthening will
certainly assist the authorities in the bond market, but unfor-
tunately the international crisis will tend to harden commercial
interest rates.
So while bonds are likely to remain buoyant, one would not
expect to see any easing of commercial rates until the crisis is
resolved. This is a pity as it will inhibit private investment, the
one tardy element now standing in the way of a vigorous for-
ward movement in economic activity.
HOW MUCH HYDRO
POWER IN FUTURE?
IyiESSRS. H. E. Dann, K. C. Fraser and R. A. K. Palmer in
a joint paper told the World Power Conference in Mel-
bourne last week that when the Snowy Mountains hydro-elec-
tric scheme was completed in 1980 it would provide only 11
p.c. of the energy requirements of the Victorian, NSW and
A.C.T. power system, that is, assuming the annual system load
factor to be 55 p.c. The bulk (87 p.c.) of the system’s
energy demands would be met from base thermal electricity
plants burning coal.
However, they said that although modern power stations on
the coalfields should be capable of operating at an annual
capacity factor of 85 p.c., owing to the limits imposed on the
operation of base load plant, it was anticipated that base
thermal plants would be providing only 60 p.c. of power re-
quirements, leaving the Snowy to provide 24 p.c. and other
peak plants 16 p.c. of total power.
These proportions give only a general indication of the divi-
sions between loads on the system for various classes of gener-
ating plant. The overall economy ot electricity production
from the integrated hydro and thermal sources of generation
will, they said, depend on the magnitude and cost of the sev-
eral components.
The authors say that the most economic combinations of
the various components can only be arrived at from empirical
studies of costs including future capital, fuel and operation
costs in detail at various stages of the growth of the system
and over a number of years of operation. These studies, they
said, were being facilitated by the use of high-speed digital
computors.
But clearly the lion’s share of future electricity generation
is going to rest on thermal plants, for they say that “in keep-
ing with the growth of the system and technological advances,
progressively larger thermal generating units are being in-
stalled. The reduced capital cost per kw provides the main
economic incentive to install these large units, but lower
operating costs also are obtained from higher efficiencies and
fewer staff are needed for the operation and maintenance per
kw of installed plant.”
Mr K. C. Fraser, who is manager and secretary of the
Electricity Commission of NSW, was also general reporter to


the section of the conference dealing with the economic evalu-
ation of alternative energy sources, which met on the final
day last week.
He drew attention to the rate of interest as being an im-
portant factor influencing the choice between alternative
systems of power development, particularly when high cost
hydro-electric or nuclear-electric schemes are compared with
conventional thermal schemes.
Though with the provision of money for the Snowy scheme
coming from consolidated revenue interest rates have not had
an over-riding effect on that project, several Conference papers
stated that high and rising interest rates made hydro schemes
uneconomic in some countries, Italy and Turkey for instance,
compared with thermal power stations.
Broadly, Mr Fraser expects that, in the world as a whole,
hydro power will tend to provide a diminishing proportion of
the total but its value can be enhanced by integration in large
power systems. Most studies are no longer concerned merely
with a simple comparison of hydro costs with thermal costs,
but with finding the optimum combination of hydro and ther-
mal developments. This is leading to the installation of more
hydro plant for peak-load operation.
HONEYED WORDS. ..
AND BARE KNUCKLES
■VTever before has the advertising industry in Australia had
such concentrated attention bestowed upon it as in the
last couple of weeks. For no fewer than four conventions and
one exhibition, representing various branches of the industry,
brought opportunities for self-examination and consequent
widespread publicity.
The Australian Association of National Advertisers started
off with its convention in Adelaide, followed at Katoomba
(NSW) by the Federation of Commercial Broadcasting Stations.
Then the Australian Commercial and Industrial Artists’ Associ-
ation staged a noteworthy exhibition of advertising art in
Sydney, at which the Governor of NSW (Sir Eric Woodward)
paid compliments to the advanced standard of commercial
art in this country. Not to be outdone, the Australian
Association of Advertising Agencies won the limelight at its
convention in Canberra and the Australian Outdoor Advertis-
ing Association received ministerial patronage in Sydney.
All the functions featured addresses by top brass, including
the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Trade (Mr Mc-
Ewen), the Federal Treasurer (Mr Holt), the Minister for
Supply (Mr Fairhall), and the Chairman of the Commonwealth
Banking Corporation (Mr Warren McDonald). Many aspects
of Australia's economic problems were stressed and plenty
of advice was offered, most of it in familiar tones. The
guest speakers, of course, with natural politeness, refrained
from direct criticism of their hosts; they merely urged greater
efforts towards efficiency and harder work to produce more
goods to sell internally and externally for the benefit of the
national economy.
But not all the speeches were marked by honeyed words
and pious thoughts. For example, Mr Tom Carruthers,
president of the 4A’s and managing-director of the J. Walter
Thompson agency, strongly attacked questionable marketing
practices, and Mr Paul Fabricius, of the Unilever group, told
the AANA convention a few home truths about certain
advertising lacking honesty and sincerity.
Mr Fabricius’ criticism was mild and circumspect, but Mr
Carruthers took the gloves off and fought with bare knuckles.
The chain stores were his target. Powerful retail chains, he
said, were adopting unhealthy retailing practices which could
lead to consumers getting lower quality goods while paying
higher prices.
“There is too much buying power in too few hands,” he
said. “Today, only 4.2 p.c. of grocery stores do 28.9 p.c.
of total sales, and 17.5 p.c. of stores do 55 p.c. of sales. One
big chain alone which moved into groceries oniy in recent
years has an annual turnover of about £4O million—almost
10 p.c. of the Australian sales total —through only 500 food
stores.
“Concentration of buying power, disorderly price trading
and the absence of appropriate legislation, such as the Ameri-
can Robinson-Fatman Act, has placed grocery manufacturers
in a real rat race. Manufacturers are being forced to pay
unnecessarily high charges for co-operative advertising or
suffer the penalty of not having their products promoted in
the stores. Only a handful of manufacturers are holding out
against the questionable practices of powerful chains seeking
bigger discounts, playing one manufacturer off against another,
and putting the squeeze on companies wanting the chains to
stock and promote their products.
“Far-sighted manufacturers might welcome legislation on
the lines of the Robinson-Patman Act to curb these unhealthy
practices . . . Disorderly price trading, through its very sug-
gestion of cheapness, can in fact cheapen the public image
of the quality product. In the long-term it can be detrimental
to retailers by breaking down trading margins and profitability
and disrupting pricing generally. That means that other lines
are often unfairly priced upwards to balance the retailer’s
ledger. And when price becomes the only significant factor,
the manufacturer is forced to downgrade quality standards.”
WHAT IS AHEAD
OF AUSTRALIA?
A ustralia’s vast potential as a supplier of goods and ser-
vices to hundreds of millions of people in neighboring
lands and, indeed, as far away as South and North America
and the Mediterranean area was brought vividly before
advertising men last week by Mr Warren McDonald, chair-
man of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation. He was ad-
dressing the convention of the Australian Association of Ad-
vertising Agencies at Canberra on the subject “What is ahead
of Australia?”
Starting with “that operative word, ‘potential’,” he empha-
sised that its meaning was “capable of coming into, or being
brought into action”.
“It is a definition with an almost military flavor”, he
said, “and, in a way, potential is logistical because resources,
whether known or suspected, material or psychological, are
a country’s weapons of survival and expansion. Resources by
themselves are not potential, which is the ability to discover,
develop and use.”
Mr McDonald stressed that in a world of rapidly in-
creasing population and shrinking space world population
has jumped to 3,150 million Australia was extremely for-
tunate because her potential for development was almost un-
limited. With only 11 million people in an area almost as
large as USA, Australia had plenty of room to expand when
and where she needed it.
“Australia is a long way from the limit of her production
potential in most primary products”, he said, “and many crops
like fibre plants for semi-arid areas and many oil seed plants
have not yet been exploited at all. Nor have we hardly begun,
in a major way, to grow the timber we so seriously lack.”
Mr McDonald mentioned that the total area of rural
holdings in Australia was about 1100 million acres, of which
about 300 million could be intensely developed. But of this 300
million acres, only about 80 million acres had so far been


PLANNING 9
BUSINESS EXPANSION
!f so, the C.B.C. will be
happy to discuss your
plans with you.
The C.B.C. is banker to
many of Australia’s largest
commercial and industrial
undertakings and many
other smaller but import-
ant enterprises. The bank
knows the Australian
market and its potential.
Many successful firms
have found this bank’s
advice a valuable guide to
planning.
Whether you are a
customer, or not, you are
invited to call on any of
our managers who will
gladly explain how the
bank’s services can help
you.
n
!*>*. A
ySLI
x C ''
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member ol Commercial Union Australia Group;
ESTABLISHED 1872
Head Office: Anchor House, 234-242 George Street, Sydney
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS' BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne
Queensland Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek Street, Brisbane
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
Secretary. K. N FINLA7
brought to a point of acceptable develop-
ment through irrigation, pasture improve-
ment, cropping and so on. The only real
limitation on our land was a shortage of
water. Then he proceeded: “We have
been inclined to forget, as a predomin-
antly urban people, that our water short-
age is a challenge to society and its
ingenuity.”
Mr McDonald went on to describe
the “vast deposits of most known minerals
and vast suspected deposits” and re-
minded his audience that Australia was
in close range of industrial and industrial-
ising countries which needed our ores.
“And every developing country thinks
early of a steel industry,” he added.
“We have the raw materials of steel,”
he said. “Our reserves of high grade
iron ore total 356 million tons, and huge
deposits of low grade ore await the
development of cheap power or the in-
vention of new processes to convert them
into a major mineral asset. In addition,
our reserves of black coal are 16,000
million tons, and brown coal 27,000
million tons.
“Australia is the world’s largest pro-
ducer of lead, third largest producer of
zinc, fifth in the world in gold produc-
tion. We have large deposits of bauxite,
the raw material for aluminium, and
throughout the world the use of alumin-
ium is increasing so that mining and
refining our bauxite is most important.”
Skipping through copper, uranium, tin,
beach sands as sources of many rare
metals, asbestos, and pyrites for sul-
phuric acid, he said, “but we lack ele-
mental sulphur or phosphate rock which
are almost the only weaknesses in the
mineral story apart from nickel and
chrome, whose importance is declining
as the use of plastics develops.
“Perhaps it is not generally realised,”
said Mr McDonald, “that, excluding coal,
the value of mineral production from
arid Australia is 60 p.c. of the total —
and arid Australia also carries 30 p.c.
of Australia’s beef cattle and about 25
p.c. of its sheep. Add to this the magic
word ‘oil,’ now on the verge of commer-
cial production, and our mineral poten-
tial is immense.”
Mr McDonald pointed to the vast
populations of South East Asia—“geo-
graphically we are almost a part of Asia”'
—Egypt, Turkey and Iran, mentioning
that from the eastern Mediterranean to
the Philippines there were at least 750
million people who needed our goods
and services. Add to these the populations
of China, Japan, Korea, Hong Kong and
Formosa and we have about 1500 million
customers or potential customers, or
nearly half the population of the world.
“For most of our history we have
virtually ignored the tremendous op-
portunities in this immense Asian arc
about us. Now is the time to go out
and sell.”


BIG MONEY LOSERS-1962
3. The Lessons That Should Have Been Learned
By DON HENDERSON
There has been a lot of lessons
to learn from the 1960-62 “burst
of the boom” yet none so im-
portant as the one we knew all along—
“easy money is dangerous money”. For
it was this very axiom that was neglected
by almost all of the big money losers
of 1962.
Investors who lost heavily were those
who were attracted by fundamentally
unsound enterprises offering high in-
terest rates or promises of large reward.
This applies equally to those trapped
in vending machines, land schemes and
overpriced shares.
The big money losers, themselves,
were caught in the fatal web of thund-
ering overconfidence. The acceptance of
easy profit as a permanent thing was
the root cause of downfall in the com-
mercial world.
In the first two articles in this series
attention has been drawn to the basic
weaknesses of the operations that have
lost large sums of money since Novem-
ber 15, 1960. In retrospect, the losers
have only themselves to blame.
These were the speculators and there
is little doubt that the 1960 speculators
were the big losers of 1962. These en-
trepreneurs, operators and investors en-
gaged in business deals with the main
aim of making profit from price fluctua-
tions rather than from earnings; a true
definition of a speculator’s objectives.
Speculation is not to be condemned;
it is the salt of all free markets, cut-
ting off the peaks and cushioning the
troughs of price movements. But when
the speculator steps away from the fringe
of commerce and becomes the leader
then “thin ice” is ahead for such a
situation engenders false prosperity
through false prices. Intrinsic values are
neglected.
Instead of remaining the servant of
markets, speculation became the master
in 1960. The end result was inevitable.
The “burst”, then, had to come; that
it was delayed by timid Government
action earlier in 1960 is, perhaps, the
reason why it has been such a painful
transformation of the economy.
The lessons learned from the “bust”
are mainly those which preclude the
development of a “bubble.”
• “Borrowing short and lending long”
—The layman probably finds this a
complicated and obscure influence to be
one of the causes of his problems of
1960-62. But, it is not.
For, failure to recognise the dangers
that stem from a pattern of operation
that includes “borrowing short and lend-
ing long” was a prime factor in many
of the cases of the 1962 money losers.
In 1960, many financiers and entre-
preneurs were borrowing (at lower in-
terest rates) on short-term from public
investors and placing the funds so bor-
rowed into long-term enterprise mainly
land and real estate development, at
unreal prices.
Interest and principal repayments were
expected to come from new investor’s
funds until the schemes themselves bore
fruit. Big profits were made by using
this scheme —until November 15, 1960.
At 8 o’clock that night Treasurer Holt
put the blanket on the economy and the
shroud on most real estate development.
The schemes had no buyers and, worse,
no new investors came to light.
The short borrowings had to be paid
back to the public, plus interest, at
varying times throughout early 1961.
With absolutely no avenue available to
raise funds, the long-term lender on real
estate was forced to liquidate to repay
principal.
But, his assets were mainly unsaleable;
so he became a money loser.
If these operators, who unwittingly
did so much to create false confidence,
had stuck to fundamentals and covered
borrowings with liquid assets, there
would have been fewer failures.
• “When the janitor buys, sell!” This
piece of Americana became law to future
Australian investors, either Stock Ex-
change, real estate or business.
In 1960, the layman had been at-
tracted into ventures about which he
had no knowledge, and, moreover, about
which he wanted no knowledge, just
profit.
Real and intrinsic values were
neglected in 1960 in the rush for “easy
money.” Professional warnings went un-
heeded. Losses by the lay public are
more important than the personal em-
barrassment that may be involved —they
are confidence shattering.
The Governments of the future would
do well to quell lopsided speculation
before it gets control; Mr. Menzies’ Gov-
ernment failed to do this early in 1960
and the bubble became too big; affected
too many people; and brought about
official reprisals too severe on confid-
ence.
np'HROUGHOUT this series major emphasis
A has been placed on the end result
of failure to recognise fundamentals.
Private enterprise, the public and the
Government must equally share the guilt
for the necessary economic upheaval of
1960-62.
The lessons have been paid for dearly;
some will be forgotten. Already, we
see the seeds of another boom being
planted in several spheres of industrial
activity.
Mr Holt saw fit on November 15,
1960, to upbraid and cut back the enthu-
siastic motor industry. In September that
year 18,299 new motor cars and 4,164
new station wagons went on Australian
r0ad5—22,463 passenger cars in all. Last
month (September) saw 17,732 cars and
5,585 station wagons appear on the roads
—23,317 in all.
Certain important conclusions can be
drawn from this, each in its own way
a lesson learned from 1960-62.
There is an obvious need for a closer
relationship between Government Can-
berra and private enterprise; a need for
more practical businessmen in Canberra,
in the House, and in the Ministries.
The blow of November 15, 1960 was
aimed effectively but was more than
slightly too hard. It shattered the business
community’s confidence. The Govern-
ment found it easy to burst a balloon,
but in the two years since has found
it difficult to blow it up again.
And, there is an urgent need for more
dynamic economic and statistical data.
It is clear that in early 1960, the economy
was headed in the wrong direction if
for no other reason than that no one
knew exactly where it was headed.


as
WE’RE NOT TALKING ABOUT IT ANY MORE!
Great developments are, in fact, taking
place, here in Queensland. And power
■ — electric power! prepares the
ground for each new developmental
project in this exciting State. Much
has been done to equip Queensland
electrically for the greatness which
these projects promise. Much re-
mains. But the rewards for all for
Australians throughout' the country
—are correspondingly great. A
dynamic, wealthy Queensland means
a powerful North, a more powerful
nation and this will spring very
largely from continued electrical
expansion. You can help!. Every
Investor who supports the Queens-
land State Electricity Loan will help
this important national task. Invest
today at the highest interest rate
Australia offers for this class of
Government-guaranteed security!
TERMS: 7, 10, OR 20 YEARS □ INTEREST:
PAID HALF-YEARLY □ DEPOSIT: 10%,
BALANCE PAYABLE BY 28/2/1963 □ NEGOTI-
ABILITY: SECURITIES WILL BE LISTED ON
THE STOCK EXCHANGE
A PPL Y NOW THROUGH: your Bank; your
Stockbroker; or direct to the Skate Electricity
Commission of Queensland, 447 Gregory
Terrace, Brisbane.
CONVERSION
Loan No. 18 (£5.7.6%) matures Ist March, 1963.
Investors in this Loan are invited to convert their
securities to Loan No. 30.
THE STATE
ELECTRICITY
COMMISSION OF QUEENSLAND
LOAN
AUSTRALIA’S HIGHEST GOVERNMENT
GUARANTEED INTEREST RATE
UNDER written BY ORD. WNNETT i. partners
' *EC 30 12


HjSES3-SSS3E&S32I
ii
W ''■v.
m
wm
n
\
i \
C;> i
r
V
With luxury accommodation
at Perth's most modern hotel.
Riverside Lodge is Perth's finest
and friendliest hotel bringing you
delightful surroundings, luxury
facilities and impeccable service
to make your stay in Perth a happy
experience. Your suite commands
.magnificent city and river views and
gives you the added luxuries of
private bathroom, private balcony,
TV, phone, all season heating
and air conditioning. If you are in
Perth on business you'll appreciate
the nearness of Riverside Lodge
to the business centre of Perth.
Enquiries and Bookings to
* *
' lyr.
x
7-“
’***<+
'r-V-
--w\.‘
-->
RIVERSIDE LODGE
MOUNTS BAY ROAD, PERTH, W.A. PHONE 21 4721, 6 LINES
SENSITIVE METALS IN THE CRISIS
to its usual form in periods of
international tension, the price of
gold rose strongly in world markets last
week and only official feeding of supplies
prevented a runaway in London where
the price reached its highest for more
than a year.
While this reaction does not predicate
any change either in the US official gold
price or in the attitude of the Interna-
tional Monetary Fund, it points to the
underlying strength of gold shares.
A Melbourne broker has selected four
of the large Australian gold mining com-
panies whose earnings would benefit sub-
stantially in the event of a rise in the
price of gold, and points out that as the
dividends received from gold mining
companies are tax free, the current high
yields on the shares of the four selected
companies are very attractive to investors
in high tax brackets.
Estimated increase Divid-
in Earning per Share Current end
if Gold Price raised by Price Yield
lOp.c. 25 p.c. lOOp.c.
North Kalgurlt .... 78% 195% 787% 14/6 7.4
Great Boulder .... 72% 183% 738% 18/3 6.8
Lake View and
Star 61% 148% 587% 38/- 8.2
Central Norseman 29% 75% 304% 44/- 7.7
Tin is another metal usually very sen-
sitive to international crises. In its case
the world statistical position is also favor-
able for an increase in price. Recently tin
has been hovering slightly above the
price (£B5O stg) set by the International
Tin Council as the floor level for purch-
ases by the buffer stock, but in the first
few days of the Cuban crisis it rose
sharply to £867 stg and looked like
going considerably higher.
The impetus from the crisis comes at
a time when supplies available to the
London market are very scarce. It is
believed that the bulk of free warehouse
stocks in London are in the hands of the
buffer stock, which has recently been
holding up the price at the £B5O stg
level. With the price rising as a result
of crisis buying, it is unlikely that the
buffer stock would go out of its way
to feed the market.
Nor is it likely that with the present
crisis on its hands the US Government
would continue its recently started sales
of tin from its strategic stockpile, not
that selling of these has been on a large
scale since the selling programme of sur-
plus stocks was initiated.
Reports from London suggest that in
Britain and Europe consumers have
allowed their trade stocks to drop to low
levels in recent months, having in mind
the possibility of persistent market weak-
ness. This also appears to be the case
with American industry, which, like its
counterparts in Britain and Europe,
could well be revising its view in the light
of the Cuban blockade.
Shares of the three principal Austra-
lian tin mining companies, Aberfoyle
Holdings, Tableland and Renison, have
shown no positive reaction to the chang-
ing situation for the metal, the market
having recently been mainly sellers reflec-
ting the recent weakness of the London
market which is now rapidly becoming
history.
Relatively most depressed of these is
Tableland, which last year sold as high
as 21s. 3d., has been up to 20s. 6d.
this year and is now less than half these
prices at 10s. In 1960-61 Tableland in-
creased its profit from £59,312 to
£129,156 and dividend to 2s. 7.2 d. per
£ 1 share, but the result for last year,
which is expected any day now, is un-
likely to be nearly as good, as a smaller


(OJ
FINANCE
CORPORATION
nr /uioTDftim ihhimii
nvoiltnicm CimrrCil
(Incorporated in South Australia)
FULLY SECURED REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
PER ANNUM 15 YEARS
PSR ANNUM
IOVfARS
*IOf
Wo
P£R ANfWM
SHEARS
MUM
4 m
pm Amum
mmm
Prospectuses and forms of application
should be obtained from:—
The Bank of Adelaide,
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited,
Members of the Stock Exchanges,
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth.
Applications for Debenture Stock can be accepted
only on the printed form attached to the prospectus.
WE 79
yardage appears to have been treated
during the year without a consistently
higher rate of recovery. Recovery in
1960-61 was 640.75 tons of tin, despite
a partial capsize of the dredge which put
it out of operation for some months.
At 11s. Renison’s ss. shares are also
well below the top price of 13s. 9d.
earlier this year. This is a direct reflec-
tion of the depressed price of tin in
recent months rather than any setback in
dredging operations.
Last year (to June 1962) dredging
operations were substantially improved
on the previous year. Ore treated in-
creased from 17,848 to 24,700 tons,
average grade (per cent tin) from 1.17 to
1.32, tin content of concentrates from
127.89 tons to 214.41 tons and indicated
recovery from 61.3 to 65.8 p.c.
Net profit for 1961-62 was £58,446
compared with only £2237 the previous
year. A dividend of 6d. a share was
paid last year, but clearly any dividend
this year will depend on a substantial rise
in the price of tin.
' reported last week
that its profit for 1961-62 had risen
slightly from £92,664 to £100,365, but
the result was adversely affected by a
sharp setback in wolfram returns follow-
ing the drop from £846 to £686 a ton
in the price averaged for wolfram over
the year. (The price of wolfram is now
much lower, about £4BO a ton).
Aberfoyle averaged £lll2 a ton for
its tin concentrates last year compared
with £978 in 1960-61. The current
Australian price of tin is £llO6 a ton
(5 ton lots delivery buyer premium
Sydney).
Aberfoyle’s shares have been fairly
steady this year, the price ranging from
10s. Id. to Bs. (at present 9s. 6d.-10s.).
With current dividend only 3d. a share
Aberfoyle is unexciting on that score,
and clearly one must look for a higher
tin price before being enthused about
the shares. On the other hand, the group
has several striking developments afoot
as outlined in The Bulletin last week.
Picked a bad day
QJtokes (Australasia) Ltd could hardly
have picked a worse day for the
initial dealings in its 10s. shares on Mel-
bourne ’Change last week. But Cuba
or not, there were enough knowledge-
able buyers about to recognise a bargain
at the opening price of 12s. 3d. and the
price moved steadily higher as the week
progressed.
The Caltex-Boral Tie-up
Vobody should run away with the idea
that the provision of naphtha feed
stocks by Caltex-Boral for the New ICI-
ANZ ammonia and methanol complex at
Botany is the first dip to be made by
the former group into the lucrative petro-
chemicals’ pool.
On the contrary, through its 55 p.c.
share interest Boral already controls
Petrochemical Holdings Ltd, which, be-
sides providing high octane fractions for
petrol making from its Silverwater plant,
also has a 50-50 interest with Monsanto
in the refining of styrene monomer there.
In its turn, Caltex virtually controls
Boral. Under a long-term contract it
supplies Borahs crude oil requirements
and with now a 26 p.c. interest has the
right to subscribe 40 p.c. of any new
capital.
What is more, Petrochemicals Hold-
ings is doing quite nicely, having stepped
out of the red into very good trading,
with a profit of £146,874 last year and
even better results to come.


(JHeikmtl 3[imb
of JVustrafci IGuutteb
A mutual non-profit organisation limited by guarantee.
Registered u-nder the National Health Act.
REPORT OF THE HONORARY COUNCIL, FOR THE
FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1962
Adopted by the Annual Meeting of the Association held on the Twelfth Floor, 258-262
George Street, Sydney, on Thursday, 25th October, 1962,
The Council has pleasure in presenting the Sixteenth Annual Report and Financial
Statements for the year ended 30th June, 1902.
DEVELOPMENT
Membership increased steadily during the year, and now exceeds 2,570,000. In
Queensland and Tasmania more than 687,000 are also eligible for hospital benefits. By
June 30, some 133,000 persons had transferred to or joined the new hospital Table 5B
which was introduced towards the end of 1961.
Decentralisation of its enrolment and contribution activities through more than
10,000 employee-groups and chemist-agencies is a most important feature of the Fund.
Thus the general public can readily qualify for National Health Benefits. Employers
generally recognise the importance of voluntary health insurance and encourage this
form of self-help by enabling their employees to have contributions deducted from pay.
A number of employers subsidise contributions.
BLUE CROSS ASSOCIATION
The Fund is a member of the Blue Cross Association of Australia, which is the
consultative body of the major non-profit health insurance funds in the Commonwealth.
Through its affiliation with Blue Cross, the Fund participates in a membership transfer
reciprocity agreement with the American Blue Cross Association operating in the U.S.A.
and Canada.
Blue Cross also provides an interstate transfer reciprocity agreement whereby Fund
members '<-bo take up residence in another State and join an affiliated fund may preserve
j 'rnnrtsT
BENEFITS
The benefits history of the Fund is the most compelling evidence of its value to the
community. Contributors and their families have received benefits totalling more than
£72,750,000 since the Fund’s inception. The following figures reflect the rate of increase
in benefits paid over the last five years:
Year Ended
30/6/58
30/6/59
30/6/60
30/6/61
30/6/62
Total Benefits
£7,916,000
£9,525,500
£11,103,900
£12,571,800
£13,932,600
Increase on
Previous Year
£1,272,200
£1,609,500
£1,578,400
£ 1,467,900
£1,360,800
The total benefits payout of £13,932,600 last year represents an increase of 11% over
the previous year. This substantial increase was caused by membership expansion, higher
benefits and greater utilisation of hospital and medical services.
Payment of small straightforward medical claims in cash over the counter, a feature
of Fund service almost unique in insurance of any kind, enabled the immediate settle-
ment of 45% of all medical claims. Other medical and hospital claims were settled
promptly by cheque. During the year 13 additional cash claims offices were opened in
country and outer suburban areas. There are now 60 district offices and more are pro-
jected when suitable staff are trained and premises become available.
CHRONIC AILMENTS
During the year the Fund continued to operate “Special” Accounts for medical and
hospital benefits in accordance with the provisions of the National Health Act. Briefly,
the arrangement provides that a fund may transfer to the Special Account persons
claiming benefit for a pre-existing or chronic ailment or upon attaining annual benefit
limits.
The Commonwealth Government underwrites losses in the Special Account and In
return requires funds to liberalise membership conditions for the remaining contributors.
The Special Account has been the means of considerably increasing the assistance given
to the chronically ill.
ADMINISTRATION
The Fund provides employment for over 1,000 persons in three States.
Administrative expenses for the year absorbed only 12.5% of income despite general
increases in the costs of goods and services.
The establishment in New South Wales of a non-profit management company to act
as managing agent for the associated Funds, The Hospitals Contribution E'und of N.S.W.
and the N.S.W. Branch of Medical Benefits Fund of Australia, has permitted a closer
integration of administrative procedures. This together with the consolidation of all staff
in the one building in October 1961 has had the effect of eliminating some duplications
and streamlining systems to the overall advantage of contributors.
This is the first Annual Report in which it has been possible to report that the
entire administrative staff of the Fund in the three States have been adequately
accommodated in a single building in each of the capital cities. This was achieved with
the completion of the Fund’s new building in George Street, Sydney, which was officially
opened by the Prime Minister, The Rt. Hon. R. G. Menzies, C.H., Q.C., on 7th October,
1961.
The FTind’s policy of providing its own accommodation is economically sound, and has
also been a means of improving efficiency and service to contributors.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Assets exceed £4,400,000, of which £2,860,000 are liquid. A contingent asset exists in
respect of Special Account expenditure still to be reimbursed by the Commonwealth
Government.
The rising claims expenditure clearly indicates the wisdom of the Council’s action
over the years of establishing strong reserves in the interest of contributors. Council
recommends the transfer of the sum of £302,000 to Claims Reserve, bringing the total
Reserve to £3,327,300, which represents 20/5 per person covered.
APPRECIATION OF SERVICES
The Council expresses its thanks to:
Employers and group secretaries, receiving agents, chemists, hospital officers and to
members of the medical profession who have co-operated so wholeheartedly in
assisting their employees and the public generally in securing the advantages of
membership with the F*und.
The Hospital and Medical Benefits (Management) Pty. Limited and The Hospitals
Contribution Fund of N.S.W. for their assistance during the year.
The Management and Staff, whose untiring efforts and helpfulness to the public
have assisted in building an unparalleled utility which is now a vital part of
the Australian way of life.
RONALD GRIEVE, President.
1 ■
K207
OH interest at low ebb
Government's cheeseparing attitude
to oil search came under heavy fire
from Mr J. G. Donaldson, chairman of
Woodside (Lakes Entrance), when he
sharply criticised its recent decision to
reduce subsidies payable on individual
wells. Mr Donaldson pointed to the high
rate of some 44,000 wells a year being
drilled in the USA compared with a mere
handful here.
It is going to be difficult to sustain the
interest of public investors in oil search
if no better lead is forthcoming from the
Government.
Public investment in oil search shares
has been reduced to a very low ebb since
the burst of activity earlier in the year
on the original strike at Moonie.
Investors are fast becoming dis-
illusioned as evidenced when, on the
failure of Frome-Broken Hill to find
anything in its Pretty Hill well in
western Victoria, the share price of Inter-
state Oil (which has a third interest)
slumped precipitously.
ihe present sec-saw movements, which
bear all the marks of speculation, in
individual oil shares—up when the com-
pany is drilling or planning, down when
drilling is finished was further
emphasised with the switch of interest to
Clarence Oil, whose shares moved up
smartly in advance of new drilling by
the company and its associates, Burmah
Murphy.
If this proves to be another case of
unfulfilled expectations, the floor of oil
search share prices in general could sink
even lower in the absence of a strike
outside the Moonie area.
It is all very well for Mr Donaldson
to be optimistic about the possibilities
of such a strike and to say that the
chances are many times better than a
year ago. But for all this and Wood-
side’s step to hold its annual meeting in
the Melbourne Town Hall this week
films, supper and all—investors’ interest
is unlikely to be sustained unless they
see some result for their investment.
On the assumption that companies
drill the most promising sites as defined
by thorough seismic surveys first, the
only companies outside AOG with a
rightful hold on investors’ interest at the
moment are Oil Development, which is
drilling in the Surat Basin, Planet, which
is planning to drill there, Oil Search,
whose lamara well in New Guinea has
been delayed, Clarence, which is to
resume drilling, and Exoil, which is
drilling a first well at Kurrajong Heights
(with AOG) and another at Brookwood.
A possible exception to this is Santos,
whose well at Orientos, across the border
of Queensland from its recently com-
pleted Dullingari well, was last reported
to be down to 2,167 ft.
Wapet, which continues to range
widely over its huge permit areas in


E
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
PAID UP CAPITAL £775.000
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
3 months . . . . 5V270 p. a .
6 months . . 6°/° p.a.
9 months . . . . p.a.
1 2 months . . . . 7°/° p.a.
1 8 months . . . . p.a.
• FIXED DEPOSITS
2 years B°/° p.a.
3 years BV27° p.a.
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
• Members of the Stock Exchange
• ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z.
BANK
• The Registered Office of the
Company, William & Crown
Sts., Sydney. Telephone 31-0322
Financing the
distribution by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies of
world-famous
products
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORBSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
KYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERTNG FINANCE & b.3 n
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 10/9/62, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
«
HD62
Western Australia, has abandoned its
drilling efforts at Langoora and will
shortly move the rig to Hawkstone Peak
in the Kimberleys, where it will drill its
thirteenth well for the year.
Farmout Drillers has stopped drilling
at its Stockyard Mountain well, near Port
Kembla, at the shallow depth of 3,516
ft., with the verdict from the directors
that the locality is not considered a
prospect for petroleum (this well was
drilled in partnership with Woodside
under a Farmout arrangement with Con-
solidated Oil).
The associated group is still drilling
ahead in its third well at Westgrove
(Queensland), having at the latest report
reached 6,530 ft. Basement was not
reached in the first two wells of the
group in the Westgrove area. The rig
being used on No. 3 is capable of going
down to more than 12,000 ft.
★ ★ ★
Healthy indicators
HThe stags should be happy with the
“heavy over-subscription"’ to the issue
of 200,000 10s. shares by Stokes (A’sia)
Ltd for flotation purposes. Employees
of the group, which is a general metal-
ware manufacturer, applied for 31 p.c.
of the public issue, but had to be cut
back to 15 p.c.
Employee anthusiasm is one of the
healthiest indicators of a company’s
worth.
★ ★ ★
Saturation in hotei industry
The chairman of The Hotel Metropole
Ltd (Mr W. M. B. Small) sounded
a stern note of warning to companies
considering construction of first-class
accommodat'on in Sydney.
(Motels of Australia Ltd has just an-
nounced that it is looking at a site on
the corner of Park and Castlereagh
Streets on which to build an accommoda-
tion house.)
All major hotels in the city had lower
occupancy rates this year, which Mr
Small said, belied the statement that
Sydney was chronically short of first-
class accommodation. When all projects
now under construction and current
renovations were completed, Sydney
would have all the first-class accommoda-
tion required.
Mr Small added that no Australian
hotel could depend entirely on overseas
visitors. They must have an Australian
clientele. The Metropole, with its low
capitalisation, could afford to keep its
rates below others with comparable
facilities.
★ ★ ★
Why the gap?
sharemarket has been in two minds
about Hills Industries Ltd with a
shilling margin between buying and sell-
ing quotes. The buyer wanted to do
business at 10s. 6d., the seller at 11s. 6d.
Top price so far this year for the ss.
shares was 125., so it is not a stock to
fluctuate much.
The company reports that turnover was
15.7 p.c. higher in 1961-62, but pre-
tax profit was down 10 p.c.
Large sums were spent on promoting
export sales, and the drive was particu-
larly successful in New Zealand and the
UK. Government tax concessions re-
duced the incidence of taxation, so that
the tax provision at £83,271 was
£35,779 below that for 1960-61.
The profit after tax was marginally
higher at £.204,648, and earning rate
on average paid-up capital was again a
solid 26.9 p.c.
The commencement of TV transmis-
sion in country areas strengthened
demand for Hills TV antennae, and new
playtime and laundry products were in-
troduced.
Anyone buying at about 11s. gets an
immediate yield of 4.7 p.c. and an at-
tractive earnings yield of 12.2 p.c.


(AUST.) LIMITED
issue of 4,000,000
ordinary shares of
each at par
The general nature of the
proposed main business is
1. To produce in Australia films
of accepted international
standard for world wide cinema
and television distribution.
DIRECTORS
COUNCILLOR KENNETH ALFRED EVANS, LL.B., F.T.I.A.
157 Bluff Road, Black Rock, Victoria,
Solicitor, Chairman.
HORACE ANDREW DARGIE,
66 Clarendon Street, East Melbourne, Victoria,
International Entertainer.
GERALD GEORGE PATRICK, A.C.1.5., A.A.S.A., A.R.M.T.C.,
11 Grosvenor Street, Brighton, Victoria,
Chartered Secretary and Accountant.
ALBERT LYAL RICHARDSON,
3 Kellett Street, King's Cross, New South Wale 3,
Independent Producer.
JOHN LEPINE TILBROOK,
7 Maureen Court, Oakwood Park, North Dandenong, Victoria.
Independent Television Director.
ROBERT A. GIBSON,
10 Wilde Street, Potts Point, New South Wales,
Musical Director.
Applications can only be accepted on the printed
form attached to the,Prospectus/For copy of the
Prospectus write to Allied International (Aust.)
Limited, 5 Palmer Street, Jolimont, Victoria or
297 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ALLIED INTERNATIONAL (AIJST.) LIMITED
297 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY. Phone 61-2324
Please send me without obligation copy of your prospectus.
Name
Address State.
A 12154-30
ONE TO BUY
CUBAN CRISIS COULD AID
PIONEER SUGAR
A s the United States of America is not
likely to be on trading terms with
Cuba for many a moon, the outlook for
Australian sugar producers can be viewed
with considerably more optimism. It's an
ill wind that blows no one any good. . . .
Pioneer Sugar Mills Ltd is therefore
our selection for this week.
Situated just south of Townsville, the
company’s two mills at Pioneer and
Inkerman crush cane from the Burdekin
District which is drier than most north-
ern cane fields but has an abundant
supply of underground water for irriga-
tion. The crops are therefore not unduly
affected by adverse weather conditions.
Pioneer is the second largest sugar pro-
ducer, accounting in the 1961 calendar
and financial year for 10 p.c. of total
Australian production.
In 1961 -62 Australia produced
1,382,000 tons of raw sugar, of which
840,000 tons were sold on world markets.
Sugar producers’ income from local
sources is relatively stable. It is the export
market which can provide the booster.
The US requires 9.7 million tons of
sugar each year, of which overseas pro-
ducers supply 3.8 million tons.
In June of this year the US granted
Australia a permanent annual sugar quota
of 50,000 tons, and advised that Aust-
ralia could supply another 150,000 tons
a year if the proceeds were used to buy
US surplus farm produce. A representa-
tive of the Australian sugar industry said
at the time that Australia could sell the
US 300,000 short tons of raw sugar a
year.
Pioneer joined Stock Exchange lists in
1960, and the following year exceeded
prospectus estimates in paying a 16 p.c.
dividend. Earning rate was 24.2 p.c. on
ordinary capital of £1,250,000.
Minor interests are in tobacco share-
farming and the breeding of cattle. In
April 1961, Pioneer took over United
Chemicals Pty Ltd which manufactures
veterinary, agricultural and industrial
chemicals. Consolidated accounts will be
required for 1962.
The 10s. shares at 335. return 4.8
p.c. in income and 7.3 p.c. on earnings.
Their potential is enhanced by the current
Cuban crisis.
Our apologies for misleading note-
holders of David Jones Ltd in the “One
to Buy” last week.
Each 10s. note converts to one ss.
share, so holders of the notes are en-
titled to the new premium issue in the
ratio of one-for-six, the same as the
shareholders.


SPECULATOR’S DIARY
rpHE events of last week left this Specu-
lator nonplussed. Not being clair-
voyant, I had not sold out my entire
portfolio the day before the Cuban crisis.
Instead I spent most of the week neither
inclined to buy nor to sell. So I just
sat on the sidelines.
While watching Wall Street again
demonstrating its outstanding character-
istic, emotional instability, my thoughts
went back to 1956 when I happened to
be living in America. That was the
year of President Eisenhower’s heart at-
tack. I remember it well because news
of the President’s illness sent the Dow
Jones index crashing down some 30
points. But next day on television Mr
Eisenhower's doctors solemnly informed
the nation that, following a breakfast
which had included prunes, their patient
had had a good bowel movement.
This apparently was the sort of news
American investors were waiting for be-
cause it put the stock market back up
strongly in what was a striking testi-
monial to prunes.
It's hardly surprising, then, that I do
not class myself as a disciple of Wall
Street. Consequently, when news came
through last week that Soviet missiles
were now trained on New York and
Washington, I fully expected most
Americans to flee Wall Street before the
New York Stock Exchange even opened.
But I obviously underestimated the
sturdy American investor. His nerves
must have acquired a steelier quality
since 1956, because he was able to shrug
off the threat of nuclear annihilation
with a mere 10-point drop in the index.
Next day, unaided by prunes, the Dow
Jones index was up 18 points again.
In Australia, local share markets suc-
ceeded in rivalling Wall Street’s perform-
ance. In fact, the Cuban crisis sent our
markets down proportionately more
than Wall Street.
The irrationality of the market was
carried to absurd extremes. Down went
the leaders of vital industries such as
BHP and ICI. And what stocks went
up? Australia Hotel, Merica Founda-
tions, Penfolds Wines and other suppliers
of equally essential raw materials.
In the face of all this the Bank of New
South Wales declared a bonus dividend,
a timely reminder that you can always
bank on the Wales.
For my part, I just reached for a
packet of Minties and wondered who it
is who causes these volatile movements
on local stock exchanges. If it is the
professional investors, they are pretty
poor judges of public opinion. Time and
time again the investing public has
demonstrated that it is much more level-
headed than some if its leaders. All too
often it is left to the more humble in-
vestors to reverse the panic trends set
by the professionals.
My only purchase for the week was,
of all things, 1000 Rosslyn Hosiery. Now
just because Rosslyn hasn’t paid a divid-
end since 1957, we shouldn’t be too hard
on it. After all, it did manage to make
a profit of £16,000 for the past year.
Now Rosslyn is reportedly having such
success with its ‘fiadderless” stocking
that it is about to adopt its brand name,
Kolotex, as its company name.
Capital was halved earlier this year
and is now less than £.100,000, so that
profits don’t have to be very great to
show a quite respectable earning rate on
capital.
Unfortunately the same does not look
as though it will be true for United
Motels. I came away from this com-
pany’s annual meeting last Monday
wondering just how it was ever going
to establish any sort of earning rate
on its capital of £328,000 after meet-
ing high interest charges and paying
income tax. So I sold out my 2000
shares. United Motels proved to be a
£2B mistake for me.
BOUGHT
1000 Rosslyn at 3/6 £lB4
SOLD
2000 United Motels at 3/9 £358
This week of relative inaction left me
with £197 in cash but I finished the
w'eek with about £lOO clipped from
the value of my portfolio. At one stage
it was quite a lot more, and, in view of
the gravity of the circumstances, I
escaped rather lightly. The portfolio
now consists of:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date- Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 26/6
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5-9 6/3
400 Malleys 3/5/62 20/9 22/3
2000 Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11 8/-
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 26/-
300 Marcus Clark notes 22/6/62 27/6 37/-
100 James Hardie 29/6/62 98/- 96/6
100 CSR 1/8/61 49/- 52/9
400 AWA 10/8/62 20/- 19/9
500 R. W. Miller 21/8/62 17/3 18/3
1000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9 5/10
100 AOG 27/8/62 55/6 56/3
1000 ANI 14/9/62 4/- 4/5
400 Western Mining 19/9/62 15/9 17/6
200 Shipping News 20/9/62 24/- 23/6
1000 Vesta 27/9/62 3/9 3/6
500 Kauri 11/10/62 6/6 6/9
400 Wancol 11/10/62 12/8 12/8
500 Ferris 15/10/62 3/3 4/-
400 Nightingale 17/10/62 14/11 16/3
1000 Sonnerdale opt. 19/10/62 8/3 8/6
1000 Rosslyn 26/10/62 3/6 3/6
Electrical appliances liven up
bounce back to profitable trading
A by, firstly, Electronic Industries Ltd
and then Pope Industries Ltd, both of
which made thumping losses the year be-
fore, draws investment attention to other
electrical appliance makers.
Kelvinator Australia Ltd balances its'
books in March, and last reported im-
proved half-yearly results in the period
to September. The market has taken
cognisance of this trend and chased the
shares up to over 195., where they look
pretty expensive to any short-term dealer.
A. G. Healing Ltd, which is weighted
by the heavy engineering business of A.
E. Goodwin, balances on June 30, and
indications are that last year’s combined
earning rate of 18.8 p.c. could be im-
proved. A purchase at 10s. 6d. might
be a springboard to greater heights.
the world of business
"I don't pretend to appreciate modern art but by God , I like that!"


INTERNATIONAL RESISTANCE'S NEW
SHARE ISSUE APPRAISED
By “SECURITY”
An opportune time to undertake an ap-
praisal or re-appraisal of a stock
is after it has raised new capital. The
addition of equity capital alters the basic
concepts of analysis equally with a new
set of accounts.
From 1957 until 1960 International
Resistance Holdings Ltd rode to market
popularity on the crest of the television
boom. During this period, sales and
earnings increased markedly. In fact,
based on 1956/7 the trends were: —
Year to 30th June 1957 1958 1959 1960
Sales 100 136 147 177
Earnings 100 170 214 266
Since the end of the boom in 1960,
the index for earnings has declined to
171, but unfortunately the company has
not given its index of sales figures for
the past two years.
It is fairly safe to assume that the last
two years have been difficult for the
group, as it was stated in 1960 that
49 p.c. of turnover was directly applic-
able to television receivers and other sec-
tions of the entertainment industry. The
prospects of future growth in this par-
ticular field at anything like the levels of
the four years from 1957 seems quite out
of the question. In fact, at best it seems
that future growth will follow the pat-
terns which have applied to other elec-
trical appliances during that same period.
The following figures (using 1956/7
as a base) indicate the trends of produc-
tion:—
1956/7 1957/8 1958/9 1959/60
Television sets .... 100 225 252 349
Radio sets .... 100 104 103 111
Washing machines 100 114 125 139
Refrigerators .... 100 101 113 125
A recent acquisition two small
businesses since amalgamated into K.L.F.
Control Equipment Pty. Ltd. and the
announcement that an agency and manu-
facturing agreement has been entered into
with F. R. Sauter S.A. of Switzerland,
suggests that International Resistance is
seeking diversification into the field of
mechanical and pneumatic control equip-
ment. Although the development may
not be anywhere near as rapid as that
of television sets, there is little doubt
that the trend towards mechanisation of
industrial processes will continue, even
if Australia does not for many years
reach complete automation in the
majority of its industries.
A recent new issue subscribed on
October 26 raises £824,000, 50 p.c. of
which is share premium. Paid ordinary
capital now stands at £1,445,000, an
increase of 175 p.c. over five years. Main-
tenance of the 121 p.c. dividend rate on
this increased capital will take £180,625
or over 96 p.c. of the available earnings
in the 1961/2 year.
Although this calculation does not take
into account any earnings from the new
capital, it must also be pointed out that
earnings have declined in the last two
years despite fairly substantial increases
in total capital (shareholders’ funds plus
long term debt) during this period. In
other words, unless there is a marked
improvement in the company’s fortunes
it may take a little while before earnings
improve sufficiently to give shareholders
any more benefits.
It has been pointed out that ordinary
capital has increased by 175 p.c. over
the last five years, but only a proportion
of this increase (30 p.c. approximately)
represented benefits to shareholders. Divi-
dend income will have increased at the
annual average compound rate of 9i p.c.
if the current dividend rate of 12i p.c.
is maintained on the increased capital.
This rate of increase has been fairly con-
sistent over the last ten years if we ignore
the 1952/3 year when the company re-
duced its dividend rate to 6 p.c. (although
it returned to the normal 10 p.c. rate in
the following year).
To determine a reasonable price for the
Significant Ratios
Year to 30th June 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Profitability Ratio % 27.0 32.9 35.8 34.7 17.4 14.2
Earnings per share-shillings (b) 1.08 1.84 1.66 1.51 1.01 0.91
Price/Earnings ratio (a) (b) 8.8 8.7 12.2 12.9 17.3 21.9
Retention Rate % 28.8 40.8 45.5 39.2 33.2 36.3
Dividend % 12.5 12.5 12.5 12.5 12.5 12.5
Dividend Yield % 6.6 3.9 3.1 3.2 3.6 4.4
(a) based on last sale in month accounts presented.
(b) no adjustment has been made in respect of rights issues.
Profitability Ratio = Estimated operating income as percentage of net working
capital plus fixed assets and intangibles.
Retention Rate = Depreciation plus retained profits as percentage of estimated
operating income.
ordinary shares poses a number of prob-
lems relating to the future rate of growth
which can be expected in dividend in-
come. The dividend rate has been raised
once only in 1957, when it was increased
from 10 p.c. to 12i p.c. Some account
must also be taken of the fact that the
group was apparently heavily dependent
on television, and that, following the
collapse of that boom, earnings have re-
verted to the 1958 level despite the in-
crease in capital. Furthermore, despite
the generally depressed state of the share
market, the company made this current
issue at a 100 p.c. premium rather than
revert to the practice of issues at par.
It is difficult to suggest a reasonable
price for this stock. The present ex-rights
price of around 14s. 6d. gives an indicated
dividend yield of 4.3 p.c., which is a
little on the high side for this stock (i.e.,
on this basis the current price seems low).
On the basis of earnings, even in the
peak period of 1960, the shares were
selling at 14-]- times earnings and a price
earnings ratio of 13 would seem an ap-
propriate one for this stock.
To achieve this without any change in
the price, earnings for 1962/3 would
need to increase by over 70 p.c. How-
ever, provided the company can lift its
overall profitability rate back to the
1960/1 level, such an increase is not
completely impossible.
However, bearing in mind all factors,
the shares seem fully priced at 14s. 6d.
Prosperity and politics
A lways reliable for a down to earth
view, Mr J. H. Broinowski, chair-
man of Consolidated Metal Products,
addressing the annual meeting last week
divided people with opinions on eco-
nomic conditions into two classes—those
who say conditions are improving and
those who say they are not.
“I sometimes wonder,” he said, “which
group is better informed—perhaps dis-
cussion on the subject has degenerated
into a show of political prejudice.”
Mr Broinowski didn't claim the dis-
tinction of being above political pre-
judices himself, but thought that had
much to do with the company’s busi-
ness anyway.
As far as Consolidated Metal is con-
cerned, he said, there had been very
little change in demand for its products
but it was sufficient to keep the firm
busy.


CORPORATION LIMITED
m
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Blb March, 1950.
1 0/
2/o
PER ANNUM
3 YEARS
The main business of
Cambridge Credit
Corporation Limited
is to make loans on
the security of first
mortgages on prop-
erty and the ac-
ceptance of selected
hire purchase agree-
ments.
FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN IN A PERSONAL EMERGENCY
APPLICATIONS MUST BE MADE ON THE FORM ATTACHED
TO THE PROSPECTUS. WHICH IS NOW AVAILABLE FROM:
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House, Corner Wharf and Que in Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Streep,
PERTH: 81 St. George's Terrace.
CANBERRA: Ist Floor, Northbourne Chambers, Northbourne Ave., City.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Straet.
WAGGA: 147 Bayliss Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any of the following Brokers to The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
TRUSTEES FOR THE NOTEHOLDERS:
Bankers & Traders Insurance Company Limited CCI46/AB
Clip and Post Coupon
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the prospectus with application forms.
NAME
ADDRESS
TB 3/11
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
SOUND STOCK FOR GROWTH
A lthough roughly on a par with other
stocks in the same industry, shares
of Reids Quarries Ltd could be worth
picking up at present price of around
16s. The return is 3.2 p.c., and the earn-
ings yield 6.2 p.c.
The quarrying business is considered
a growth industry. As it supplies mat-
erial for road construction as well as
industrial building, Reids does not de-
pend entirely on a consistently high
tempo of industrial activity.
Reids went public in 1952 alter place-
ment of 132,000 10s. shares at par. At
that time the business embraced three
quarries within a radius of miles from
the heart of Melbourne at Sunshine,
North Essendon and Fairfield. The fol-
lowing year 90 acres of quarrying land
adjacent to the Sunshine quarry were
purchased.
In 1961-62 another quarrying com-
pany, Pasa and Black of Epping, was
acquired to supply the eastern suburbs
of Melbourne more effectively. The two
sand companies were also bought out to
increase the group’s ability to supply
quarry materials and sand.
Reids pioneered the field in supply-
ing lightweight stone to Victorian in-
dustry. At first builders and architects
were somewhat sceptical, but it is now
widely accepted. The raw material is
sedimentary shale, and Reids’ plant is at
Greensborough. The lighter-weight ag-
gregate means no loss of strength in
concrete making, and simplifies many
construction jobs.
Reids is a partner with Bitumen and
Oil Refineries (Aust.) Ltd in a hot mix
asphalt business. A plant at Sunshine
began production in July 1961, and
operated profitably in its first year. A
second plant is being installed on the
other side of the city at Springvale,
which is scheduled for first production
in November 1962. Reids supplies the
stone and Boral the tar.
Reids has supplied Ready Mixed Con-
crete Ltd with stone for its Melbourne
jobs for some 11 years. In July it was
decided to form a joint company, Ready
Mixed (Melbourne) Pty Ltd, by which
REIDS QUARRIES LTD
Incorporated: December, 1951, in
Melbourne.
Directors: C. M. Reid (Chairman);
R. C. Reid (Director, Hotel Inter-
national Ltd); C. N. Fryer, W. V.
Reid, V. Nicholls and A. J. Kennedy
[Directors, Australian Bacon Ltd, A.
V. Jennings Industries (Aust.) Ltd,
Barlow Ceramics Ltd, Federal Chemi-
cal Holdings Ltd, Joe White Maltings
Ltd].
Nature of Business: Quarrymasters
and general contractors.
Capital: Authorised — £.2,000,000
in ss. shares.
Subsidiaries: Reid Bros and Reid
Pty Ltd, Fowler Quarries Pty Ltd,
Regal Quarries Pty Ltd, Rock Quar-
ries Pty Ltd, Reids Lightweight Ag-
gregate Pty Ltd, Pasa and Black
Quarries Pty Ltd, Plowright Koo-Wee-
Rup Land Co. Pty Ltd, and Mollison
Land Co. Pty Ltd.


WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. W. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road
Melbourne
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Telephones: 51-6243, 51-6245
Est. 1939
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of Sydney Stock Exchange
W. KEITH YUILL—KEITH C. PHILLIPS
lAN C. WALTON—GORDON G. KING
WALTER I. SUMMONS
WILLIAM S. SHUGG
33 BLIGH STREET. 2-0137
84 William Street, Melbourne. 67-5089
340 Queen Street, Brisbane. 31-2191
Telegrams and Cables: "Ralphking”
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Grafton
and Tamworth
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721
Telegrams and Cables:
"LAGRAM,” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5937 (7 lines)
43 Northbourne Ave.
City, Canberra, A.C.T.
4 0365-66
Flinders House, Crown St., Wollongong
B 5900
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
Reids ensures supplies of quarry pro-
ducts and light-weight aggregate to RMC.
Financially the company has an im-
peccable record with a healthy earnings
rate averaging 19.8 p.c. over the last
six years, and a steady 10 p.c. dividend.
The year 1960-61 was the best so far,
and directors were encouraged to make a
one-for-two bonus. The 10 p.c. dividend
was held on the enlarged capital. The
company made a one-for-five issue of
ss. shares at 7s. 6d. premium in August
this year, bringing paid capital to £923,-
722. These funds were used to finance the
joint venture with RMC.
Pre-tax profit in the latest term was
£38,000 below that of the preceding
year. Directors explained that the tax
loss incurred by the light-weight aggre-
gate subsidiary has now been overtaken,
resulting in a reduction in tax in 1961-
62.
After rather staid beginnings, Reids
is stepping out now, looking more and
more attractive. An investor should not
come to much harm by buying these for
a two or three year holding.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY £'ooo
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 378 242 364 446 553
Less current
liabilities 212 347 365 371 415
Working capital 166 -105 -1 75 138
Investments 5 25
Fixed assets 674 1022 1280 1298 1366
Intangibles 120 120 120 120 273
Total assets 960 1037 1399 1498 1802
Represented by:
Less capital 167 213 209 223 230
Ord. capital 450 450 450 675 736
Reserves 343 374 740 600 836
960 1037 1399 1498 1802
Depreciation 54 57 85 94 106
Taxation 54 54 59 99 60
Net profit 93 82 88 142 144
Dividend 45 45 45 58 73
Surplus 48 37 43 84 71
Dividend rate 10 10 10 10 10
Earning rate 20.8 18.3 19.5 24.5 19.6
Dividend yield (a) 3.0 2.5 2.6 3.0
High price (b) 19/9 22/6 16/7J. 25/3 24/-
Low price (b) 15/- 18/1 11/3 16/- 14/9
(a) End of September, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
SPEEDO HOLDINGS LTD
NO SPEEDY REWARDS
HThe risk element in the fashion trade
generally throws an aura of uncer-
tainty about any manufacturer.
But Speedo Holdings Ltd has always
commanded respect from the stock mar-
ket, as well as the trade.
It specialises in swimsuits, sportswear
and knitwear for men and women, and
underwear for men.
General economic conditions plus mild
seasons have not particularly favored
Speedo, and the results for the years
ended June 30, 1961 and 1962 were a
long way short of 1960’s profit of
£85,948. This particularly good year en-
couraged the company to pay 15 p.c.
to ordinary shareholders and make a
one-for-five bonus in March 1961.
Shareholders’ income has remained un-
changed, however, for the dividend rate
reverted to 124 p.c. for 1961 and 1962.
The company’s results are well pre-
sented with figures not often disclosed by
other companies. The net profit (after
tax) ratio to sales was 5.84 p.c. in 1960,
but has since declined to 4.12 p.c.
Total sales for 1961-62 were
£1,415,016. Of this, £69,639 were ex-
ports. Export efforts, however, appear
to have more than halved the liability
for taxation. The company is anxious
to build up an export trade to the north-
ern hemisphere to keep up production
all the year round.
All production is carried out at the
Artarmon (Sydney) factory which was
completed in 1957.
Stocks were reduced some 11 p.c. to
£507,051 at last balance date. Liquidity
improved over the year.
The order position for the coming
summer is better than last year, but
management makes no forecast about
results for the current year.
Current dividend yield of 5.7 p.c. is
roughly the same as that offering last
year after 1960-61 results had been pre-
sented.
Shareholders have been offered four
par issues since 1954 plus the 1961
bonus providing supplementary
benefits.
Although the ss. shares have been as
high as 15s. 6d. this calendar year, the
present price of about 11s. seems barely
warranted by the facts supplied last week
from the company.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY £’ooo
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets . . 718 629 673 774 765
Less Current Lia-
bilities 463 382 450 581 560
Working capital .. 255 247 223 193 205
Fixed assets .. .. 487 489 568 597 601
Investments .... 15 5
Intangibles .... 38 38 38 38 38
780 774 829 843 849
Loan capital .. .. 244 206 217 115 111
Pref. capital .... 80 80 80 100 100
Ord. capital .. .. 250 250 250 360 360
Reserves 206 238 282 268 278
780 774 829 843 849
Sales 1299 1401 1471 1340 1415
Net profit % to
sales .. .. .. 3.49 4.88 5.84 4.10 4.12
Depreciation .... 17 28 30 28 30
Taxation 20 41 50 37 16
Net profit 45 68 86 92 74
Profit for ord. .. 40 63 81 86 68
Dividend 31 31 38 41 45
Surplus 9 32 43 45 23
Earning rate . . . . 16.2 25.4 32.5 13.6 14.5
Dividend rate .. .. 12>/2 12V2 15 12V2 12V2
Dividend yield (a) 7.4 5.5 4.9 5.8
High price (b) .. .. 15/6 11/1 12/3 19/6 19/0
Low price (b) .. 10/- 7/3 8/3 12/- 10/2
(b) Previous calendar year.
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.


INVESTMENT ADVISORY SERVICE
JDeaders of The Bulletin can use
a personal investment advisory
service.
If you have an investment prob-
lem, write to the Financial Editor,
attaching the coupon at right.
The Bulletin financial staff will
seek out the information you require.
Selected letters of enquiry will be
published (without the names of
writers) together with the Editor's
answers.
All communications will be treated
as confidential.
COUPON
ATTACH REQUEST, AND POST
TO:
FINANCIAL EDITOR,
The Bulletin, BOX 2521 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
NAME MR
IMMfvIC MRS
MISS
ADDRESS:
STATE
THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
From a large number of readers' letters seeking “The
Bulletin's" advice on investment matters, these have been selected
for publication. The balance have been answered personally.
I ant seeking a comprehensive list of
dividends paid by companies in the last
10 years. Is this available? —PIS (Or-
mond).
All the major Australian Stock Ex-
changes publish a monthly gazette or
record which in most cases will give you
the information you require.
The secretary of the Stock Exchange
in each capital city will give you details
of cost, etc.
★ ★ ★
Morts Dock and Engineering has been
quiet for many months. What is the
present state of the liquidation? — GY.
(Wagga).
The liquidators of Morts Dock cannot
make any addition to their February
statement concerning the land for sale
at Balmain and Woolwich Dock.
Negotiations for sale by tender have
proceeded, but no contracts have yet
been signed. The company must sell, so
the liquidators will accept the best price
offering.
The liquidators cannot give any infor-
mation to private individuals. All an-
nouncements will be published in the
financial Press.
*
My stockbroker sold 750 shares in
Woolworths in March 1961. Some time
later I received a dividend cheque for a
£l3/2/6 dividend. My broker informed
me in June 1962 of a debit of this
amount in my account. As (a) / received
the cheque and was unaware of the date
of my sale and ( b ) I was not informed
of my responsibility for 15 months after
the sale, am I required to repay this
money? Does the broker accept some of
the responsibility for a system which
could well embarrass an impecunious
client? — FJA. (Indooroopilly).
The stock exchange procedure with
regard to dividends is that shares sold
prior to the closing of the books to deter-
mine dividend entitlements are sold cum
dividend. In other words the buyer is
entitled to the dividend. Immediately the
books close the shares are quoted ex
dividend. Sometimes share transfers are
delayed so that the company does not
have the opportunity to register the
buyer's name in time, and instead pays
the dividend to the original shareholder.
The buying broker makes a claim against
the selling broker who in turn debits his
client with the dividend.
Entitlements to bonus issues, rights
issues and liability for calls are handled
by sharebrokers in a similar manner.
There appears to have been an extra-
ordinary delay in notifying you of your
debt, and we agree this could be an
embarrassment to some clients. We
understand that the accounts of some
brokers in such matters got completely
out of hand during the boom days, and
staffs were required to work back for
months sorting out such problems.
Incidentally the client is always ad-
vised of the date of his sale or purchase
on his contract note, so that he always
can determine whether the transaction is
cum or ex dividends etc. by examina-
tion of the closing date of the books.
You are required to return the money,
and we would point out to you that our
Stock Exchange investment system is
based very largely on trust and good
faith, and also that you have had the
use of the dividend money all this time
while the broker, because of his ineffi-
ciency, has been out of pocket. We sug-
gest you meet the commitment but
protest about the delay.
★ ★ ★
Should the current offer by Reid
Murray Acceptance Ltd to convert 8 p.c.
debenture stock maturing in February
1965 into 9 p.c. stock repayable on 2
years’ notice after February 1963 be
taken up? — WF. (Hastings, NZ).
The Reid Murray offer, as we see it, is
to arrange with holders of 8 p.c. List
Mortgage Stock maturing in February
1965 (3 years hence) to delay repayment
for 2 years, at least, in return for an
extra 1 p.c. interest. The question that
exercises our mind is why is this offer
being made now —why the extra 1 p.c.
for the 3 years to 1965 when it could
well be made in 1964?
Personally we would wait a little and
see the 1962 accounts, which most likely
will disclose plenty of assets but little
liquidity.
* ★ ★
How have Project Development and
Herbert Yates fared and what prospects
do the two stocks hold — Vß. (Stanmore).
Project Development Corporation has
done particularly well in a difficult year.
Profit for 1961-62 showed a 60 p.c. in-
crease and did not contain any result
from Wynyard Holdings. Earning rate
was 18 p.c. Current outlook appears
good.
However, Herbert Yates did not do so
well. Although dividend was held at 8
p.c., profit fell sharply and gave only
small cover to the year's distribution.
The shares are currently below par but
could improve in the general market
recovery.
★ ★ ★
I hold 300 8 p.c. £. 1 preferred ordin-
ary shares in California Productions Ltd.
What is the company’s present position?
— EMB. (Indooroopilly).
California Productions Ltd has ceased
trading. The receiver over the company’s
assets (Mr B. O. Smith) has told The
Bulletin that he is currently negotiating
to sell the company structure for its ac-
cumulated losses for taxation purposes.
Negotiations will still take some time
and, until they are completed, your shares
are practically worthless. Any return you
receive will depend on the results of
these negotiations.
You will probably receive a detailed
report from Mr Smith before the end
of the year.


MARKETING
DAWN OF A NEW ERA IN
OUR ADVERTISING ART?
By ALFRED HEINTZ
opening of a national exhibition of
advertising art by the Governor of
New South Wales recently could be
the dawn of a new, bright, sunny day
in the history of our graphic art.
To say that Australia is on a par with
darkest Africa in the matter of advertis-
ing art may sound at first unflattering to
the Africans. But the comparison may
be verified easily enough by picking up
any of the newspapers and magazines
from that troubled continent and putting
them beside current issues of many Aus-
tralion national magazines.
In the general standard of graphic art
and design we are unquestionably far
behind the United States, Germany,
Japan and the United Kingdom. Now
there is evidence that the revolution in
design which has swept through the older
and more sophisticated countries in the
last two generations will soon have far-
reaching effects in Australia.
For the benefit of the uninitiated, let
me hasten to explain that “advertising
art” is the expression for what we used
to know as “commercial art” not so long
ago. In fact, there is a rumor that the
25-years-old Australian Commercial and
Industrial Artists’ Association will soon
be changing its name, presumably to
avoid the stigma of commercialism. For
the life of me, I have not seen the
necessity for a distinction between com-
mercial artists whose ranks include such
competent practitioners as Toulouse-
Lautrec, and the so-called fine artists
some of whom are not very competent
at all.
But, for the sake of tidying up this
very confusing subject let us agree that
advertising art is design, layout, and illus-
tration of newspaper and magazine ad-
vertising, posters, record covers, books,
brochures and packaging. It includes
editorial design and illustration, televi-
sion art, letterheads, company symbols,
the way our best shop windows look at
Christmas, and presumably, graphic art
harnessed to the noble, if ulterior motives
of public relations. So advertising art
can have a decisive effect of what experts
like to call “the corporate image.”
It would not be playing the game to
include those revolting pieces of colored
cardboard that scream at millions of
public-transport commuters in our capital
cities, because most of these monstrosities
are innocent of the hallowing touch of
an advertising agency and, therefore,
scarcely qualify as advertising art at all.
To define what is good and what is bad
in advertising art is not easy. Artists
themselves cannot agree about it. But a
brave wordsmith has no difficulty in
framing definitions. The old commercial
art is stereotyped (or more crudely,
“pinched”), old-fashioned, disorderly,
tasteless, and, above all, dull. It is often
poorly done technically, whether the
artist uses camera, brush, pencil or pen.
The advertising art of the future must
be original in conception, contemporary
or even ahead of its time in typography
and style, imaginative, charming, whimsi-
cal, and well done technically. And it
must show genuine original thought and
creative ability.
Of course, not all crude, blatant ad-
vertising comes from Australia. US has
more than its fair share. It is just that
the movement which began with the
Bauhaus school in Germany in the 1920's
has taken so long to traverse the
kangaroo route. No appraisal of Aus-
tralian standards of taste has been so
studiously adopted in all spheres as
Dame Nellie Melba’s advice to Clara
Butt concerning her Antipodian rep-
ertoire. As Sam Goldwyn said, “No-
body's ever gone broke through under-
estimating the intelligence of the public.”
And the local agencies have certainly
been playing it safe.
Mr R. Haughton (“Jimmy”) James,
joint managing director of Briggs, Canny,
James and Paramour, summed up the
situation recently in an article for
“Graphis,” the Swiss magazine of graphic
and applied art. “When the war ended,”
he wrote, “Australian commercial art was
in much the same position as English
commercial art before the war. There
existed one or two artists’ societies in
which a very few enthusiasts preached
the gospel of better design and organised
exhibitions and publicity. The schools
were archaic in their teaching concepts.
A fully designed modern commercial
exhibition had never been seen. Maga-
zines were uniformly badly printed on
poor paper, and without any conscious-
ness of typographical restraint or order.
Newspapers were old fashioned, and
strident in style of make-up. Posters
chiefly featured lithographic illustrations
of a literal kind; packaging had received
very little attention. The only art maga-
zine had foundered early in the war.
Modern-minded artists emerging from
uniform found their task of establishing
respect for design canons still before
them.”
Mr James went on to say that im-
mense strides had been made since then,
but many of the difficulties facing artists
in Australia remain.
James, who probably has done more
than any other man to help Australian
advertising art, illustrated his six pages
with the work of 20 artists, and though
he may have been scraping the bottom
of the barrel at times, the presentation
stacked up quite well with the rest of the
illustrations in the most prestigious of
magazines.
More international recognition came
in July last when the German magazine
“Gebrauchsgraphik,” devoted six pages
to the work of Melbourne designer Frank
Eidlitz. The text, written in three langu-
ages, had some nice things to say about
Eidlitz, but some pretty uncomplimentary
remarks about Australian commercial art.
“Australian publicity standards,” it
editorialised, “must not be compared with
those of the older and more highly de-
veloped publicity methods of other
countries because the economic and
sociological development of Australia
had a far later start and, therefore, has
run an entirely different course.
“Thus, to mention only one example,
the Australian consumers on the whole
have as yet no criteria to distinguish be-
tween good and bad industrial design,
nor do they have sufficient understand-
ing of the economic and publicity effects
of good graphic art.”
A few years ago, nobody gave much
thought to Australian advertising art.
Now books are being printed about it,
articles are being published abroad,
awards are being made for outstanding
work, and the final accolade the
Queen’s representative consented to
open an exhibition of artwork produced
in the course of trade.
If renaissance means the rebirth of an
older culture in a new environment, it’s
not too big a word to describe what is
happening in the field of Australian ad-
vertising art.
BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES
WITH AMERICA
American manufacturers of the fol-
lowing goods are seeking distribu-
tors in Australia:
Under-water cutting torches, rotary
and indexing tables, milling tables and
welding cable connectors.
Medical, hospital and dental equip-
ment.
Decorated plastic bathroom accessor-
ies.
A battery-powered fishing accessory
that wiggles bait.
Power tool accessories and attach-
ments.
Mr Brian Page, of Pan-American Air-
ways has further particulars.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
TARIFF BOARD'S PROBLEM ON
VEGETABLE OILS
FROM A SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
T>oth the growers and crushers of veget-
** able seeds linseed, safflower, soy-
bean are confident of future export
markets for oils and meals provided they
get encouragement from the Federal Gov-
ernment. The encouragement they sought
at a recent hearing of the Tariff Board
was protection froi cheaper, overseas
oils, so as to give the local industry
stability, incentive and time to get on
its feet.
Today, Australian growers are provid-
ing only about half of the nation’s re-
quirements in linseed oil, and less of the
two other . ils.
At the recent inquiry, the Linseed
Crushers’ Association pointed out that,
with encouragement, Australian growers
could reach 100 p.c. production of lin-
seed (requiring approximately 250,000
acres) in 1965-66, 100 p.c. in safflower
in 1967-68, and 100 p.c. in soybean in
the same year. From then on, Australia
could export its surplus, and there was
certainly a demand ir. Asia, particularly
lapan, for safflower. The growers
agreed with this view.
Linseed oil is used here in the manu-
facture of paints, varnishes, linoleum,
oil cloth and printers’ inks; safflower for
paints and varnishes; and soybean has
the same uses.
Americans, however, have found many
uses for the soybean. They used
4,137,400 tons of the meal, which con-
tains 41 p.c. protein, in 1948-49, and
soybean products are going into soap
and candle making, celluloid and cos-
metics.
A report by the NSW Department of
Agriculture, says that in Australia, with
its comparatively small population and
mild winters, dairy products largely take
care of the country’s edible oil require-
ments; but world changes could affect the
nation's reasonably sound position in the
supply of both edible and industrial oils.
Australia has spent £8 million on
imports of linseed oil over the last six
years, £2,161,000 on safflower oil, and
about £ 1 million ol soybean. It has
also imported meals.
In his evidence before the Board, Mr
A. W. Barr, general manager of Meggitt
Ltd, said: “The vegetable oil seeds indus-
try aims to use the natural resources of
Australia for the production of oil seeds
and their derivatives in quantities which
will meet, firstly, the needs of Australian
industry and, secondly, the export
market.”
Mr J. G. Tod, general president of the
Queensland Grain Growers’ Association,
said: “The protection sought would defin-
itely foster the development locally of the
industries concerned and this could even-
tually lead to Australia becoming self-
supporting in these essential products. In
fact, with the increasing world demand
for oils, Australia, and particularly
Queensland, could become an exporter
of these products.”
Mr T. F. Spinks, chairman of the
Australian Oil Seed Growers’ Confer-
ence, which was formed at a meeting of
NSW and Victorian growers for the pur-
pose of presenting a united case to the
board, said: “Growers of oi seeds
throughout Australia desire, under
guaranteed price and crop purchase con-
ditions, to expand their crop growing pro-
grammes to meet the requirements, first,
of Australian industry and then to permit
their participation in export operations
as developed.”
The question arising from this is—Why
haven’t the growers already met Austra-
lia’s requirements in these oils?
The answer lies in the desire of the
users, principally the paint manufacturers,
to import the cheaper oils, and the re-
commendation from the 1960 hearing of
the Tariff Board that growers should
supply only 50 p.c. of the nation’s needs.
This recommendation was made to suit
the users.
The crushers were given the sole right
to import the oils, and the ultimate price
to the users was to be on “averaging
down” between the cost of the local and
imported products.
The big manufacturers have never
been happy about the crushers having
the sole rights to import, but many of
the smaller ones have been content to
leave it in their hands. They claim that
direct importing would give the big firms,
with facilities and funds, a distinct ad-
vantage over them in the paint war.
As early as 1960, the crushers tabled
evidence showing that the crushing plants
were capable of producing about 60 p.c.
more oil than the total Australian re-
quirement at that time. The utilisation
of plant has become a headache since
the exporting countries —India, in par-
ticular—have banned the shipping of
linseed and will sell only the oil, which
they regard as the by-product, not the
meal.
At the hearing recently concluded, the
crushers set out to show that with full
local production, the cost of oils to the
users would not be unreasonable.
So now, the three parties await the re-
commendations of the board. Many
growers, doubtful about the future
markets for wheat, and believing that
the Wheat Board will impose quotas, are
hoping for favorable recommendations.
NEW PROCESS
KEEPS MILK
INDEFINITELY
clink of milk bottles in the chill
A of the dawn may vanish from Aus-
tralia's soundscape if a promising new
Swiss milk treatment process finds favor
here.
That hardy race of nocturnal foot-
sloggers, our milkmen, are already eye-
ing with barely-concealed concern re-
ports that the process may be demon-
strated in Australia shortly by Tongala
Milk Products Pty Ltd.
The process, developed by Tongala’s
giant Swiss parent, Alpura Ltd, is trade-
named Uperisation. More correctly it is
ultra-pasteurisation, and, according to re-
ports from Europe, it prodi. .es about the
world's best sterile milk.
Sterile milk is milk in which ALL bac-
teria have been killed. Packed in sterile
containers usually polythene-lined
paper containers of the Tetra-Pak type
it lasts almost indefinitely without re-
frigeration. When opened, of course, it
must be treated as ordinary milk.
According to independent opinions
ultra-pasteurisation does not affect the
fresh, natural taste or health-giving quali-
ties of the milk.
A housewife could buy her week’s
milk supply at the supermarket with her
groceries, or have it delivered in quantity
like beer or soft drinks. Space in the
’fridge would not limit storage, because
the milk would not have to be kept
refrigerated.
In an attempt to forestall objections by
milk distributors, Tongala is already
pointing out that it does not intend to
market uperised milk in Australia. It is
merely considering setting up a pilot
uperisation plant in Victoria to help milk
marketing, and health authorities evaluate
the process and assess its possible applica-
tion under Australian conditions.


SYDNEY GRAMMAR
PREPARATORY SCHOOL,
ST. IVES HEADMASTERSHIP
Applications for the post of Headmaster of
Sydney Grammar Preparatory School, St. Ives,
are invited. Candidates must have strong
qualifications in the primary field, preferably
also a degree, but not necessarily, and should
have experience of boarding schools. The post
will be vacant in January, 1963, but not
necessarily filled until May. Details of con-
ditions, salary etc. will be sent on application
which must be made in writing to the
Headmaster Sydney Grammar School, College
Street, Sydney. No telephoned enquiries will
be accepted.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the
rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
A. H. CASH, M.A. (Oxon),
Headmaster.
Missing Friend
TO: RICHARD HARRY LLOYD formerly of
Wattle Drive, Watsonia in the State of Victoria
but now of parts unknown, TAKE NOTICE
that your wife DOROTHY MARILYN LLOYD
has instituted proceedings against you for
Divorce on the ground of desertion. Unless
you file an answer in the office of the Regis-
trar, Supreme Court, Melbourne, on or before
the 17th day of December, 1962, the case may
proceed in your absence. MAHONY O’BRIEN
& DUGGAN, 20 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
LAUNCESTON DISTRICT REGISTRY
No. M.C. of 52 of 1962
Between
REGINALD VICTOR LOCKET, Petitioner
and
EDNA JUNE LOCKET, Respondent
FREDERICK LINDSAY BROOKS,
Co-Respondent
TO: EDNA JUNE LOCKET, formerly of No.
84 Forster Street in Tasmania.
And to FREDERICK LINDSAY BROOKS, for-
merly of No. 14 Taylor Street, Launceston,
aforesaid.
TAKE NOTICE that REGINALD VICTOR
LOCKET of No. 84 Forster Street, Launceston
aforesaid, Mechanic, has filed a Divorce
Petition against you on the ground of
adultery. AND TAKE NOTICE that if you
intend to defend the Petition you must file
an answer within 28 days of the publication
of this Notice at the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania, Macquarie Street, Hobart
or at the Launceston District Registry,
Cameron Street, Launceston, from which
address further information can be obtained,
otherwise the Court may hear and determine
the matter in your absence.
DATED this 24th day of October, 1962.
J. V. Tanner,
DISTRICT REGISTRAR
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: JOSEPH BERNARD DOHERTY late of
Imperial Hotel, Grey Street. Glen Innes.
TAKE NOTICE that ELIZABETH GERTRUDE
DOHERTY (formerly called Crampton) has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2858 of 1962
on the grounds of desertion, cruelty and
drunkenness. If you wish to defend you may
enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney on or before the 4th day of
December 1962, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from Henry Liston,
Solicitor, 172 Bourke Street, Glen Innes. If
you do not wish to file an answer but wish
to receive a copy of each document filed in
the proceedings you should file a notice of
address for service on or before such date —
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
SYDNEY GRAMMAR SCHOOL
College Street
SYDNEY
Applications are invited for the following two
posts for 1963:
1. A suitably qualified expert in Physical
Education or Physical Training and
Gymnastics.
2. A Master to develop the teaching of
Craft.
Salaries will be commensurate with qualifica-
tions and experience on a scale adjusted to
that of teachers in Public High Schools.
Masters are required to participate in the State
Superannuation Scheme. Applications, with
references, should be addressed in writing to
the Headmaster, Sydney Grammar School,
College Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO ARTHUR RODNEY YORK late of Annan-
dale. TAKE NOTICE that KATHLEEN MARY
LOUISE YORK has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2227 of 1962 on the ground of separation.
If you wish to defend you may enter an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney by the 15th
day of December 1962 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from GEOFFREY
SEE, GILLIS & CO, Solicitors, 28 Martin
Place, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: SIDNEY JAMES THOMAS SATTERLY,
late of 37 Nelson Street, Rozelle, New South
Wales. TAKE NOTICE that EDITH ROSINA
MARY SATTERLY has filed Petition for
Divorce No. 2891 of 1962 on the ground of
desertion. If you wish to defend you may
enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry. Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney by 21st
day of December, 1962 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from Messrs.
David S. Dind and Co., Solicitors, 67 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Regis-
trar.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 717
ACROSS
I—A wrestler may achieve these gestures of affection.
(4, 7)
7—lntimidate the moon-jumper. (3)
9—Tugs Americans. (5)
10 — He works in a chair. (9)
11— Say Lulu is spoilt ordinarily. (7)
12— Spinners sicken one of the nautical sheets. (7)
13— Stone Margaret put back. (3)
14— Jokers of the Milan opera? (9)
17—Cloth border and admonish. (9)
19—Yours Truly is the little piano
spirit. (3)
23 Father’s wise alleyway. (7)
24 Torch suppressing secrets.
(7)
25 Most indiscreet and rash at
any rate? (9)
26 Alternative to lift melody by
the way. (5)
27 Turf information to be print-
ed by a health centre. (3)
28 — A large chest containing a
NSW river. (11)
DOWN
1— A hair-dressing horse is at
first odd. (3, 3)
2 Amended rent due for a
camouflage of the gap-
toothed. (7)
3 What’s acquired for pounds
and pounds? (6)
4 The unkempt yokels look
vacant after much trimming.
(5)
5 Pitman out first ball? (9)
6 Non-cowboy men shape dif-
ferently. (8)
7 Purge 900 out of 20-down.
(7)
8— Don’t send so many telegrams.
(8)
14 — Investment advice let others
use your dumps. (5, 4)
15— Annie is not included in the
grannie apples but gets to
grips. (8)
16— Huge vehicle caper. (8)
18—A scrape in an Italian city.
(7)
20 — Parent’s vehicle running over
a cosmetic. (7)
21 — Fumes from this screen ar-
rangement not quite right for
a banner. (6)
22 Archibald the Good gets car-
bohydrate. (6)
24 —Give a little credit to a fish
and the basket which may con-
tain it. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 716


£fMng Id he/tA cmd
Cd a 6o€ e&odetu tkcuv gow 1/Amk
SPRING IS HERE AND XMAS IS A LOT CLOSER
THAN YOU THINK. SOON YOU'LL HAVE TO THINK
ABOUT PRESENTS FOR THE FAMILY, FOR
RELATIVES, FOR FRIENDS BOTH HERE AND
MAYBE, OVERSEAS. WHY NOT A
subscription to The Bulletin"
AUSTRALIA'S OLDEST (ESTABLISHED 1880 y
AND BIGGEST MAGAZINE OF NEWS AND
COMMENT? YOU CAN ORDER IT FROM YOUR
NEWSAGENT OR BY FILLING IN
THE FORM AT RIGHT
a
-
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
name
address
Please arrange for my BULLETiN to
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT
by direct SUBSCRIPTION •
Please tick W> whichever method of
delivery you prefer.. .
For those desiring direct sub
SC Please* I find enclosed my cheque/money
order for months subscr.ption to
RATES (Australia and s G tree British
Dominions ?£3 6d. Other countries -
N.Z. I SXJBSCBIFTIONS Remlt £ tO 80X n 965
Wellington. N-Z. 1 (N . Z . currency).
“"Kg, WSsSiA.
PzcrfoJk aAn talking and mate almCt tfus. Buli&tLft'
Feiffer
I'M 6TAUPIU6
EI6KT Ik) fromt
OF 10U- PO
Mot; SEE ME f N
I PAJJT
TALK TP
MOO. I
" i7O6T
(TAk)T
66T
mom
a mms l
MOO UVE Ik) MOOR
OWk) PRIVATE"
UTTIE WORU7.
OFFk) IT ypf Aie
IT Ot/Tf LPPfC
AT MB! WOK
AT ME/
AMVAYS ITS
W ■ NEVER
its He. i
HAVE RIGHTS I
I'M A
I
I caot talk
To tiou. i Mr
cm Gtr
TUeom N ,
akwm oeei (
I'M 5TAU171106
right in front
- Of WU' 00 wo
s£g M 5?
always tfs
WU. NEVER
ITS ME. I
have - ta&mr
I'M A Ptf>s6 Mf
HOU Live IU
tyUR OM J
private ume
IMRLP-OPei)
IT UP! All?
IT OUT 7
MOK AT
Me f uw
AT MEf
what'6 the use t qov haveut
HEARP A SIN&LE WORP 1% SAIGS
ft
WHAT?
MAT
a)HA r?


i ?- ■
:'y .
:
-
■i
S• * -
Is®#®
■
m
■
fgSgg:
itr*‘
mmmm
A
"',A-
a a
V«* Y
/ SEtKCTSO
BOTTUNOI
CAWARRA
CLARET
«
MNDBMAN tS? /
SYDNEY, /
WP n
ipt. «i*i »<*- ,
-
*r>4
JC
SELECTS D V t N TA
ViWW
HOCK
V 1.., f' -to * " *'* ’
ltd
CONTENTS TFt,6HC«
CAWAKRJ
A noble wine for a noble roast! Cawarra Claret, the most
popular red table wine in Australia, was selected exclusively
by the French Olympic Team on their visit to Melbourne.
When you choose white wine order Cawarra Riesling,
dry, delicate and delightful in every way.
/trifle
marts
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
