

The Bulletin
\egistercd in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
Jamaary 6, 1§32
t<
NEW ZEALAND
the end of Utopia?


FOR SPEED
(First issues off the press)
CONVENIENCE
(Right to your mail-box)
CONTINUITY
(No chance of missing out)
HAVE
‘BuHeltn
DELIVERED BY POST
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SUB./RENEWAL
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept..
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521. G.P.0.. Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque! money-order for
.......... months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
NAME: ... ... .
ADDRESS: .....
RATES (A/asia): 1 year —£2 125.; \ year—£l 6s.
Post free British C’wealth : £3 3s. 6d Foreign:
£3 16s
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d. ; \ year—
19s 6d. British C’wealth: £2 3s Foreign £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether
the subscription is paid direct to The Bulletin
or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
TH E BU L LETI N
IS AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
NEWS MAGAZINE-
-52 pages of top-flight information. The press,
the radio, TV will dish you up the headline
news . . . but The Bulletin has time to bring
you the news inside the news.
AND IT’S PACKED WITH
ENTERTAINMENT
Nearly every facet of modern life is reflected
in The Bulletin’s pages, so no wonder
anyone can find a little of himself —or herself
—in The Bulletin.


Tanner
OIL STRIKE.


This Australia
CRIME
The Melbourne Record
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
COMMISSONER PORTER
Extra men
Victorians set a new record for mur-
dering each other in 1961 and, on
a population basis, are well ahead of
Britain and many other countries. After
a slack time in 1960 in which only 18
citizens were done in, the murder score
for last year soared to 61. This was
almost double the previous record of 33
set in 1951 and equalled in 1959. By
comparison, London, with a population
over three times that of Victoria, only
manages an average of 50 a year. Police
are not sure, but some think Victoria
may hold a world homicide record for
1961.
After a bumper weekend in early
December, when five citizens were slain,
the Police Commissioner, Mr Porter,
transferred two extra men to the Homi-
cide Squad to help cope with the extra
business. He admits that although his
Force is up to its established strength
of about 4000, he would welcome
extra men if the money could be found
to pay them. At the time, he specu-
lated that “world unrest” might have
been a factor in the rising tally, but the
chief of the Homicide Squad, Detective
Jack Matthews, said the figures were un-
predictable. “There is little rhyme or
reason in taking another man’s life,” he
said.
Another Homicide detective com-
mented at the time that there had been
no deaths due to gang battles and that
this was a welcome trend. Soon after-
wards, Ormonde (“Hoppy”) Kelly, 47, a
well-known criminal, was fatally shot
while dozing at his Fitzroy home. Police
said they believed the crime was com-
mitted by somebody with a grudge
against Kelly.
The credit squeeze is blamed for Vic-
toria’s increase in . embezzlement, theft
and dud-cheque passing, but not for the
upsurge in homicide. For one thing,
there has been no increase in murder
with robbery motives.
J
Dr C. R. Brothers, of the mental
hygiene authority, blames a variety of
factors for the rise in murder—lack of
parental discipline, the decline of religion,
and international instability. “In many
ways these murders are symptoms of our
affluent society,” he told an interviewer.
“The greater availability of money for
young people who discover they don't
have to have talents or learn a trade, who
find it comparatively easy to get behind
the wheel of a powerful car, who dis-
cover too early the habits of alcohol
and who, in times like these, are able
to have a great deal of latitude in deal-
ings with the opposite sex —all these
things contribute to the general instabil-
ity, which results in a higher violence and
murder rate.”
Rifles and shotguns were the most
popular murder weapons, but knives were
also prominent. There were murders
with a paper-knife and a stool and one
case in which eight children were
drowned by a parent.
Late in the year, Crown Law officials
announced a “first” —the first time in
Victorian history that two murder trials
were going on simultaneously. The
victims were an elderly woman who lived
in a Hawthorn vicarage and a cafe pro-
prietor at Seymour.
Mr Porter denies that the public is
reluctant to co-operate with the police.
“In the past few years calls to the police
communications centre, D 24, have trebled
and in one single night help from
citizens enabled us to arrest 17 offenders.
The public has extended the ears and
eyes of the police many times.”
Victoria may be a murdering State,
but it is not a hanging one. Despite the
murder boom, there has not been a hang-
ing since the Bolte Government came to
office in 1955.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTYLTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol. 83
No. 4273
ART
Forged Namatjiras
F ROM A NORTHERN TERRITORY CORRESPONDENT
ALBERT NAMATHRA
Easy to copy?
T 3 ex Battarbee broke a long silence
recently when he came out in
defence of the late Albert Namatjira.
Albert was an illiterate camel boy around
Alice Springs many years ago when
Battarbeee noticed his interest in art
and taught him the rudiments. His
respect for Albert as a great natural
painter remains undimmed today and
Battarbee took exception to the remarks
of some southern art experts following
reports that forged Namatjiras were
flooding on to the market, selling at
from 150 to as high as 500 guineas.
The Director of the Queensland Art
Gallery, Mr Laurie Thomas, was quoted
as saying Namatjira “did not have a dis-
tinctive style. Albert was so very easy
to copy. All you need is a bit of red and
blue and a few white gums.” The
Director of Brisbane's Johnstone Gallery,
Mr Brian Johnstone, said it was “unfor-
tunate that Aranda paintings carried only
a rubber stamp on the back to prove
authenticity.” “Anyone could forge this
quite easily." he said.
Battarbee. who concentrates quietly
on his own paintings these days, in his
lovely house beside the Todd River at
Alice Springs, disagreed emphatically in
a telephone interview with a Darwin
newsman. “At his best Namatjira would
be no easier to forge than a Rembrandt.”
Clever artists could make a reasonable
copy of almost any work, he said. Experts
could detect them, but ordinary people
would have no chance. “Some people
would buy anything if it had Namatjira’s


name on it. This is simply a sign of
Albert's enduring ability and fame.”
Namatjira was a lonely and tragic
figure. In his life he earned tens of
thousands of pounds, yet he died penni-
less. Rejected by the white man, set
apart from his own people by his mind
and his experience, even his art suffered
at times. He went through a black
period just before the authorities jailed
him for supplying liquor to fellow tribes-
men. He was said, at this time, to be
adding his signature to the paintings of
other Arandas so they could peddle
them quickly for “grog money.”
But the faith Battarbee and others have
shown in Namatjira’s unique genius for
portraying his arid but lovely country
has never wavered. Perhaps the artist’s
greatest legacy is the colony of painters
which still thrives among the Aranda
tribesmen of Central Australia. Battar-
bee for years fostered the Aranda art
group and protected their interests. But
today, he says, they are capable of look-
ing after tbemseives and should be
allowed complete freedom to paint and
sell at will. They would find their own
eve - ke ays - (This conti asts wath an
outburst several years ago when Battar-
ee sai< ? tke A'andas . were denying t .^ eir
° wn a ents jW churning out pot-boilers
for tourists The policy of protection, he
said isolated them from the struggle
Mhich was pait of the making oi every
great artist. The natives weie getting it
oo easy.)
Battarbee himself now concentrates on
hIS own . work ‘ B u ut ke st ' n takes B reat
interest m what the Arandas are doing,
particularly Ewald Namatjira, Albert’s
one-eyed son. Many years ago Ewald
was shot in the head. The bullet blinded
one eye and is still lodged there. He is
best known for his violent red paintings,
done in moods of anger, and dripping
greens when remorse sets in. A few
years ago Battarbee described Ewald
simply as “a genius.”
PRESS
If the Cap Fits
FROM A TASMANIAN CORRESPONDENT
G. W. A. DUTHIE
“Spite and malice”
HPhe first week after the elections was
a tough time for editorial writers.
Flo matter what you said it would prob-
ably be out of date by the time the
paper was on sale. Presumably in an
attempt to get around this, the Launceston
“Examiner” on December 15 decided to
run an editorial of generalities about the
poor quality of some Members of Parlia-
ment. It made some good points: there
were too many so called “good local
members”, parish-pump politicians who
are returned with thumping majorities
while superior candidates are wiped. In
this day and age “the good local mem-
ber” can be dangerous: “He does not
aspire to the Ministry or any position of
responsibility ; he merely wishes to
retain his well-paid and pleasant job.
and the perks and petty dignity that go
with it.” Meanwhile “we have enemies
at the gate” and there are great questions
of national survival requiring debate.
“While we are content,” the editorial con-
cluded, “while we seem even eager to
return to Parliament those whose one
claim is that they gratify their electors,
and whose one aim is to hold their
seats, Australia could find herself with
foreign masters.”
All this seemed fair enough, if rather
vague and general. But immediately a
storm broke over the “Examiner’s” roof
as two re-elected politicians issued angry
statements on the Why-Are-They-
Smearing-Me theme. Mr L. H. Barnard,
Labor (Bass), denied that he was a seat-
warmer: "If we had become the Govern-
ment I would have been a member of
Cabinet.” Mr G. W. A. Duthie, Labor
(Wilmot), said the “Examiner” had beaten
all records for spite and malice. “I’ve
taken a lot of insults from this paper
in the past 15 years and now I’m being
told that all my parliamentary efforts are
of no consequence.”
A defeated candidate. Mr J. Orchard,
who had resigned his seat in the Legisla-
tive Council to contest the Senate, com-
mended the editorial. “In the last ten
years.” he said, “political door-knocking
has been developed to a fine art. Once
elected on this very doubtful qualifica-
tion, the ‘good local member’ entrenches
himself by spending half his salary to
retain the other half by travelling as a
political salesman.” The “good local
member” was a “glorified messenger
boy.”
As the uproar continued, the “Exam-
iner” felt obliged to write another edit-
orial, “What We Said”. The paper, it
explained, had not named any names or
intended to place Mr Duthie or Mr
Barnard in the category of “good local
member and nothing else”—but they
themselves seem to have done so by
their reaction. “Jf the cap fits ...”
EDUCATION
Blacklisted School
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
“Ts it fair to classify a school as in-
A efficient because its atmosphere
appears to be foreign to departmental
inspectors?” asked Mr J. Essex in Perth
recently, after the W.A. Education
Department had taken the unusual step
of declaring his tutorial college inefficient
under the Education Act.
In the first known case of its kind
in Australia for many years a panel of
Department of Education experts, includ-
ing two primary- and two secondary-
school superintendents, refused to include
the Kingsley Tutorial School in its
register of efficient schools. From now
on, parents of children between the ages
of six and 14 who send them to the school
will be liable to fines under the Educa-
tion Act.
Mr Essex has protested vigorously on
behalf of his school which houses 53
pupils in an old stone building not far
from the heart of the city. He has
labelled the departmental action as high-
handed and undemocratic and has said
that the panel of inspectors had gone
to Kingsley without notice and with the
intention of finding flaws in the system
and condemning it. if possible, on the
basis of one inspection. He said his
school was conducted on the same lines
as Eton and Manchester Grammar.
The children who attended the school
had emotional problems which could not
be overcome in big schools. A 60 per
cent, pass rate in the Junior examination
was proof that it was efficient, particu-
larly as all the boys who sat for the
Junior in 1960 had gone to the school
with reports from other schools indicat-
ing that they had little chance of pass-
ing. Many children had been recom-
mended to go there by the department's
own guidance branch.
Education Minister Watts, who waited
four days before replying to Mr Essex's
allegations, said he had given full con-
sideration to the department's recom-
mendations and had approved its actions.
He said the department had more written
and oral complaints about Kingsley than
of any other school in the last 50 years.
The department's ruling means the
virtual closure of the school because only
children beyond the legal age limit of
14 could go to it without subjecting their
parents to fines under the Education Act.
The power to declare a school inefficient
was vested in the Education Department
under the original Education Act of 1875
and has been retained ever since.
Though no other private school has
spoken up in support of the Kingsley
headmaster’s stand against the unusual
ruling, some are known to be concerned
at the position which vests all such
powers in the Education Department.
Some have said privately that other non-
Government schools should be repre-
sented on any panel which recommends
declaration of a school as inefficient.


TIMOR
Political Refugees
FROM A CORRESPONDENT
JOSE COSTA
Asylum?
The recent request of three Portuquese
sailors for political asylum in Aus-
tralia again points up an ugly little prob-
lem awaiting us in Timor, whose air-
field at Baucau is barely 320 miles north
of Darwin.
A couple of weeks back Joaquin
Teixeira, 21, an assistant mechanic, of
Lisbon, Jose Manuel Costa, 22, fitter, of
Queen-borough, and Norberto Augusta
Andrade. 23, assistant mechanic, of
Guidia. deserted from the Portuguese
Navy frigate Gonclaves Zarco. (Andrade
had been in the Navy for three years
and his two friends two years.) They
spent four days in mosquito and sandfly-
infested bush just out of Darwin, then
gave themselves up, pleading for “politi-
cal asylum” and a “chance to become
Australian citizens.’ The Administrator,
Mr Roger Nott, forwarded their request
to the Australian Government in
Canberra.
Through a local interpreter the men
described the Salazar regime in Lisbon
as one of “poverty, repression and
terror.” They said their families at
home lived miserably in huts. Teixeira
claimed he knew of men in Lisbon
who had been shot for criticising the
Government during “phony elections”.
If returned to the Portuguese authorities
now as deserters, he said, he and his
friends would be executed, or else sent
for many years to underground prisons
in Angola or Mozambique.
The men had plotted their escape for
six months, ever since Gonclaves Zarco
—which patrolled regularly between Goa,
Macao and Timor —made an earlier visit
to Darwin to refuel. They told newsmen
here that they had recognised Australia
at once as a “land of freedom.” At
Macao Teixeira had the word “Austra-
lia” tattooed on his chest. The men
believe that, as skilled and semi-skilled
tradesmen, they would have no trouble
getting work in Australia, if allowed to
stay. They hope to send as much money
as possible home to their families.
No decision has yet reached the men
on whether or not they will be granted
political asylum. Difficulties may arise,
as Australia and Portugal are on friendly
terms and have certain interests in
common. But these are not the first
Portuguese refugees to arrive in Darwift
complaining of “police state” repression.
Other seamen have voiced complaints,
including one from the Gonclaves Zarco
who claimed police had broken his
leg during interrogation after a dispute
at a Dili soccer match.
Former Timor residents now in Dar-
win have shown great sympathy for the
three deserters. One Portuguese who
comes from Lisbon and is a permanent
resident in Australia now is paying most
of their expenses until they are given per-
mission to seek jobs.
What will Australia's attitude be on
future incidents affecting Portuguese
Timor? That such incidents will occur
seems certain in the light of recent
history. The decision the Australian
Government will have to make on the
three Portuguese deserters could have
effects a great deal more far-reaching
than the fate of the men themselves.
ABORIGINES
"A Lazy Lot"
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
A visiting negro newspaperman. Arnold
Gordon from Freetown, Sierra
Leone, West Africa, thinks that Austra-
lia's aborigines are “a lazy lot”. To
prove him wrong, many of Melbourne’s
aborigines went to a hurriedly convened
meeting in Fitzroy late last week to pro-
test against his charges. Mr Gordon,
28, who represents a group of African
papers, said he had seen aborigines in
cities and settlements since he came to
Australia, late in 1960, and was not
impressed by them. “They don't seem
to have any interest in anything,” he said.
“They didn't have any in the first place
and they never will.”
Mr Gordon claimed that racial dis-
crimination could be a blessing in dis-
guise. In the Southern States of U.S.A.,
he argued, it had spurred the negro
to try to better himself and to excel in
anything he attempted. He also offered
some constructive advice to the aborig-
ines. They should copy West Africa’s
“each one teach one” scheme which he
said had proved a great success. This
meant that educated aborigines should
return to the reserves, missions and
camps to pass on the knowledge they
had acquired to the children of their
people.
On the “White Australia Policy”, Mr
Gordon thought it was “fair enough"
since Australia needed to safeguard itself.
He suggested that it could be interpreted
a little more liberally on occasions and
relaxed in some individual cases. He
himself had been impressed with his
reception in Australia and while he had
never been refused a drink in a hotel


“But will the average person understand it?"
bar, he had twice been asked if he had
a permit. One occasion was in Western
Australia, the other in Port Augusta.
His remarks aroused Mr Jack Murray,
an aboriginal diesel mechanic living at
Glenroy. “This man’s comment is an
insult to the aboriginal people,'’ Mr
Murray said. He pointed out that seven
of his eight children, aged between 4
and 14, were attending school and the
two elder boys were already thinking of
going to the university. His son Steven,
12, was captain of the Glenroy High
cricket team, Mr Murray added, while
he himself taught physical education at
the Glenroy Police Boys Club.
The protest meeting w ? as called by
Pastor Doug. Nicholls, a former Fitzroy
Australian Rules footballer, and the
best knowm aboriginal spokesman in
Melbourne. Pastor Nicholls, with some
restraint, pointed out that only a virile
people could have survived in a land as
inhospitable as Australia. “The aborig-
ines are the equal of any other people—
black or w'hite—given the opportuni-
ties,” he said.
Pastor Nicholls also suggested that Mr
Gordon had not seen enough of the
aborigines to pass judgment, but Mr
Gordon stuck to his guns, suggesting
that Melbourne aborigines do
better to spend some time helping their
less educated brothers in the outback
instead of holding protest meetings in the
cities. He insisted that, in both W.A. and
S.A. country centres, he had seen aborig-
ines “just lounging around, idling away
their time with apparently not a care in
the world.” Mr Murray retorted that
he had met a lot of West Africans during
the Second World War “and they were
the laziest individuals I’ve ever seen!”
ON THE LAND
Death on the Farm
E. REECE
Needs a design
FROM GOODWIN EWENCE IN LAUNCESTON
HThe Government will have to protect
T tractor-drivers from themselves.
Four deaths in Tasmanian tractor acci-
dents in the last few weeks have lifted
the slow-moving farm machine to
equality with the motor-car as a killer.
According to Chief Secretary Connolly,
Tasmania's tractor death rate for 1961 is
7.3 for every 10.000 units in use (com-
pared with 7.5 fatalities for every 10,000
motor vehicles).
Motor vehicles injure about 15 Tas-
manians for every one they kill, but,
though the tractor is more unrelenting
in accidents, it nevertheless leaves its
trail of seriously maimed as well as of
dead. It carries no passengers, so every
death or injury represents an accident,
whereas the number of victims consider-
ably exceeds the total number of road
accidents.
Mr Connolly said that Tasmania’s
tractor fatality rate compared with New
Zealand's five deaths per 10,000 tractors,
the two of the U.S., and the British rate
of only 0.9. It was, he said without
pride, the highest rate in the world.
Use of guards over the driver have
greatly reduced the loss of life in Tas-
manian forests, where bulldozer operators
engage in logging work in hourly risk
from falling limbs and trees. The toll
in agricultural and other tractor opera-
tions in open country had already become
so alarming several years ago that efforts
were made to design safety equipment.
One invention, consisting of stout steel
pipes projecting rearward, was found to
be effective in preventing probably the
greatest single cause of fatalities—the
winding-up and backward somersaulting
°f the tractor when too much power was
carelessly put into bogged rear wheels,
It was > however, of no use when the
tractor tilted and rolled sideways on a
steep hillside.
Perhaps because they were not con-
vinced that any one design was the corn-
plete answer, Mr Reece's Govern-
ment did not proceed with plans
to make some form of safety device
compulsory. Meanwhile, carelessness and
the unwillingness of operators to fit any
device which would make their tractors
less handy in use will perpetuate the
heavy toll of young and active men.


DEATH RAILWAY
The Perfect Murders ?
FROM DEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
CORONER DODDS
“ Suspicious ”
The Territory's “death railway”
recently claimed another victim. A
bloodstained, shapeless bundle found on
the tracks 54- miles south of Darwin
proved to be the remains of Albert
George Hunter, 39, laborer, of no fixed
abode. He was so badly mutilated
doctors could not tell at first whether he
was an aboroginal or a European. Alter
the body was taken to Darwin Hospital
in three sugarbags it was identified by
fingerprints.
Trains between Darwin and Larrimah
railhead, 300 miles south, run only two
or three times a week. Yet they have
claimed no less than four victims in under
three years—all around the same area.
The three previous deaths —all natives —
were in highly suspicious circumstances.
To police, who at one time investigated
the theory that Bagot aborigines might
have hit on “the perfect murder,” their
cases are still “open” today.
First to die was aboriginal Nym Berry,
run over by a train in April, 1959. Folice
reconstruction of the case showed his
body had been laid out on the line in an
unnatural pose, with legs and arms stiffly
outstretched. Despite this and other
strange features of the case, police reached
a dead-end and Nym’s death was written
off as an accident.
Suspicions mounted again late in 1959
when Charlie Liaginyin’s footless corpse
was found beside the tracks in the same
area, about five miles from town. Tne
Coroner, Mr Dodds, SM, made it clear he
did not believe the train had killed
Charlie. The affair was “most suspici-
ous,” he said, adding: “It could be that a
dead body was brought to the line and
laid on it.” A big area of Charlie's chest
was crushed six inches deep to the back-
bone. The court viewed the train and
decided it could not have caused the
wound. Doctor John Crottv of Darwin
Hospital told Mr Dodds it was difficult
to imagine what could have inflicted such
injuries but that it might have been “a
number of blows” with the back of an
axe. The mystery was deepened by total
absence of bloodstains on the train. And
by the disappearance of Charlie's severed
feet, which have not been found to this
day. From time to time this case is re-
vived in the Darwin newspaper, which
once ran the strident headline: “Where
Are Charlie's Feet?” Police have never
closed their investigation of Liaginyin's
death.
Billy Dunbah’s turn came on January
23 last year when his mangled body was
found on the railway tracks. Police,
after studying the way in which the train
had hit him, concluded that his body, too,
had been laid out as if by an under-
taker with arms and legs stretched
stiffly. Dunbah’s shoes, with the socks
tucked neatly into them, were placed side
by side parallel with where the body had
been lying. At the inquest Doctor E. D.
Lyons agreed that Dunbah probably was
dead when the train hit him.
In all three cases native witnesses were
evasive and unco-operative. The affair
had a strong alcholic flavor. Nym had
been on the “White Lady” (methylated
spirits and powdered milk) some hours
before he died. Dunbah had been drink-
ing wine with frie -is Jacky and Cock-
roach Harry. Charlie, too, was said to
have been drinking wine. The railway
is used continually by natives after dark
as a “secret road” in to Bagot Compound
and the shanty town at the 10-Mile. Along
it they smuggle their liquor, coming out
onto the highway at known points to
make transactions with white men,
involving native women. Few whites
venture on the railway line after dark.
It could be that Nym, Dunbah and
Liaginyin became drunk, fell asleep on
the tracks, and died accidentally. But
some high police officials incline to the
theory that they were ingenious, virtually
foolproof murders. Possibly the settling
of tribal quarrels by getting the victims
drunk, battering them to death or un-
consciousness, then laying the bodies on
the line.
The railway's latest victim, Hunter, is
the first white man on the list. Police are
preparing evidence for an inquest into the
circumstances surrounding his death.
POLITICS
The Dave Brandi Image
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
DAVID BRAND
Double harness
nTHE return of the Liberal-Country
Party Government in the Western
Australian State elections early this year
is by no means a certainty, but if any-
thing will tip the scale it will be the same
reason that lost Mr Menzies so many
Queensland seats —the £80,000,000 he
injected into the W.A. economy when
he signed the W.A. rail-standardisation
agreement late last year.
When State Premier Dave Brand came
to power three years ago he campaigned
on the theme that under a State Liberal
Government, Perth and Canberra would
run in a no-chafe double harness. His
first term confirmed his prophecy.
On the piston-like insistence of north-
west Minister Court, the Federal Govern-
ment released £2,500,000 for the
diversion-dam project on the Ord River
against the advice of its own planners.
It also raised the iron-ore ban and set
the stage for the State’s biggest leap for-
ward since the Kalgoorlie gold-rush.
Two weeks before the Federal elections,
National Development Minister Spooner
announced that iron-ore reserves recently
discovered in the Pilbara could total four
or five times Australia's present known
reserves.
This optimistic picture helped to keep
the Liberal vote more stable in W.A. than
in any other small State. The Govern-
ment lost only two seats it had not
expected to win in 1958.
Mr Brand will need all the goodwill
Mr Menzies has given him to stay on the
Government benches in 1962. He came
to power with a one-seat majority and,
despite an active programme of indus-
trial development, even this slim margin
is threatened by the recent redistribution
of State electoral boundaries. The re-
distribution has added one seat to the
metropolitan area and taken one away
from the country, thus theoretically
enhancing Labor’s prospects of picking
up a seat. But the issue is not as clear
as that. The population shifts in some
of the city electorates have been such
that a major survey would be needed
to determine their new natures.
The only certainty seems to be at the
moment the loss of the Murchison seat
by the Government. Sitting Liberal mem-
ber R. P. Burt won by only 68 votes in


1959 after the allocation of D.L.P.
preferences, and he will now have to
contend with an increased Labor vote
from the old Kalgoorlie seat.
The three most vital seats will probably
be Karrinyup, Canning and Perth, all
metropolitan electorates. Karrinyup is a
new seat, taking in some recent housing
development along the west coast, and
on current indications should go to the
Government. Canning now covers a
much wider area than the old seat held
by Liberal Des O’Neill, and much of the
new electorate is traditionally Labor,
Perth is an amalgam of two Labor
seats and should favor Labor again, but
the increased majority of Liberal Fred
Chaney in the same areas in the Federal
elections must raise doubts as to whether
it is still a Labor stronghold,
Only one thing is sure at this stage,
The election will be hard fought, with
State Labor invigorated by the successes
of its Federal party.
DEVELOPMENT
Be-nice-to-Queensland Year
FROM FRANK SANDERSON IN MARYBOROUGH
F. NICKLIN
Support ?
Tf in a new wave of zeal engendered by
-*■ a near-miss at the polls the Federal
Government embarks upon a be-nice-to-
Nicklin's-Queensland programme, a sur-
vey of the State’s “industrial potential”
to be undertaken early in 1962 could
attract some Federal support.
Regarded as a self-help project by its
sponsors (the secondary industries divi-
sion of the Queensland Department of
Labor and Industry) the survey will be
done by the development officer of the
Murray Valley Regional Development
Association. Mr E. Hennessey, after
initial broad details are gathered by
voluntary committees.
The department will pay a small (£250)
total subsidy towards the weekly salary
of £45 plus travelling and living expenses
payable to Mr Hennessey for the esti-
mated six months of the survey.
(“Indeed”, said a letter from the depart-
ment which set out the conditions of
the survey, “Mr Hennessey will not
accept less”). The survey will probably
start in North Queensland although there
is some doubt about the advisability of
starting in March because of possible
tropical cyclones.
Queensland coastal cities from Mary-
borough to Cairns are looking to Mr
Hennessey to show how the problems of
seasonal unemployment can be solved
and, what is more important, to show
how employment can be provided for the
cities' young women and girls who can-
not be placed in shops and offices or on
the land —the only vacancies open to
them excepting marriage or domestic
work. Many girls in Queensland coastal
cities do not work from the time they
leave school until they marry. Perhaps
this is one of the reasons for the low
average age of brides in Queensland.
Whether Mr Hennessey, or anyone else,
can supply the answers in three months —-
or three years—remains to be seen, but
there is no lack of financial support for
the survey and no lack of faith in what
it could accomplish.
So overwhelming was the response in
Rockhampton to an appeal for funds to
finance the survey that within three weeks
more than £3OOO had been subscribed
or promised. With that kind of money
available, the committee responsible went
ahead with the formation of the Rock-
hampton and District Regional Research
and Promotion Bureau under the pro-
visional chairmanship of Mr M. A.
South. Now a full-time research officer
is to be appointed and the city is ready
for Mr Hennessey when he arrives.
The development committees in each
city or district to be surveyed will gather
information on availability of power,
land, water, transport, man (and woman)
power, details of primary production
and other factors which may be con-
sidered attractive to a potential indus-
trialist or investor. Broad details will be
placed before Mr Hennessey for “colla-
tion” and analysis. His recommenda-
tions will then be sent to the Labor and
Industry Department for dissemination.
How the information is to be distri-
buted is not yet clear, but during a quick
tour through the State during September
last, an officer of the department, Mr E.
Bedwell, discussed with members of the
Maryborough Development League the
possibility of publishing brochures of
Mr Hennessey’s findings.




PLAIN ENGLISH
A Needor Patriots
A USTRALIANS’ illusions that—
* apart from the possibility of being
destroyed in a nuclear war —we are
not yet really part of the world are
suddenly less easy to maintain.
Britain’s proposed entry into the Com-
mon Market was a nasty shock,
although we should have seen it com-
ing. The emergence of Japan as a
strong trading partner is an already
established fact from which we have
not drawn any conclusions. We are
not yet acting as if we really have to
put up a fight for wool, or as if in the
future trend of exports our mineral
wealth (the extent of which we are
only just beginning to realise) may be-
come more important than our tradi-
tional emphasis on the export of food-
stuffs. The possible economic collapse
of New Zealand sets problems that only
Australia may be able to solve —or
even be interested in. And the explo-
sion of Africa and what may be the
coming explosion of South America
may make the Americans so busy with
what they consider to be priority tasks
that their interest in South-East Asia
may temporarily decline.
On present trends our future going
will be good only if many traditional
approaches are revolutionised at once.
The fact that we haven’t got much time
will probably be most quickly drama-
tised in the field of foreign affairs—
in New Guinea and in the South-East
Asian area. In either area there may
be no time left for us to do anything
about immediate crises, exceed that
after the disasters have come we can
learn lessons from them and try to do
better next time.
Our central weakness on New
Guinea —and this goes back to the late
nineteen forties —is that we have
insisted on maintaining things as they
are without having either the strength
to back our policies or the awareness
that without strength the policies were
impossible. We have tried a bluff in
which we may end up bluffing our-
selves. The Dutch have probably lost
American support, and they may be
losing British support as well. (We
may be surprised to find that if the
crisis breaks Britain does not support
our policy.) They still have the sup-
port of their Common Market friends
and other odds and ends amongst
United Nations members. And they
have us. But if Soekarno invades West
New Guinea, what exactly, if we de-
cided to help the Dutch, would we help
them with?
We must now recognise that,
although we are a big land mass, and
a great trading nation, and a country
whose standard of living is better than
that of most of the world, and although
we have in several wars displayed our
courage, discipline and skill in battle,
we are, nevertheless, in military
strength, a pipsqueak among the
nations. We have supported a policy
in New Guinea which only made sense
if we were ready to fight for it. But
we may not have enough to fight with.
npHIS is the first lesson to draw from
the New Guinea crisis: that we
cannot initiate inflexible policies if in
the long run we cannot find the strength
in ourselves, or in our allies to support
them. We have gained no firm allies
on New Guinea, and in our own e orts
we have coasted along spending only
3.5 per cent, of our gross national
product on defence, while Britain
spends 7 per cent, and America 11
per cent. If we are to have any con-
trol at all over our future policies we
must bring up our expenditure on de-
fence. In the long run we could do
this by increasing our gross national
product. In the short run we can do
it only by taking money from other
Government expenditure, or by increas-
ing taxation or loans. Whatever way
you look at it, it means that to get
more money for defence means that
something else will have to do with-
out. That is exactly what we should
do. Yet no one has the courage to
say it. It may or may not be true that
the present £2OO million a year could
be spent better. But we cannot have
a defence force that can be taken
seriously until we spend more.
TTEIE second lesson to be drawn Lom
A the New Guinea crisis is that
whether or not we had enough military
strength to back our present policies
we should have years ago displayed
sufficient foresight, imagination and
flexibility to have put up policies that
would have been less vulnerable to
attack. In the late nineteen forties,
if Australia had pushed hard enough
it would have got American and
British support for an independently
controlled West New Guinea, bound
for eventual self-determination, and
the United Nations as it then existed
would have supported such a pro-
posal. Other proposals would once
have been practical that can now no
longer be considered. Our central
nervelessness on West New Guinea has
been inevitable because of our failure
to shape a future for our own terri-
tories in New Guinea. Even at this
late hour this is still so.
If we do not take the initiative now,
no one else will. We must remain firm
in our policy that the West New
Guinea crisis must not be solved by
force. And firmness in this context
means that we must be prepared to
offer what military support we can
against an invasion, if this offer be-
comes necessary. The gravity of such
an offer must not be understated, it
might get no support at all from the
South-East Asian area (the Malays,
for example, are not going to risk
losing Indonesian support for the pro-
posed Malaysian Federation); with bad
luck it could lead to the expulsion of
our token force from Malaya and a
crisis that might break SEATO. Even
with good luck it might lead to various
retaliatory actions from Indonesia that
would do us some immediate harm
and leave a great deal of ill-will.
Unless these unpleasant possibilities
are recognised, it is folly to support
a firm policy.
YET a policy of negotiation will find
A much support throughout the
world. Many nations have not be-
come so “realistic” that they do not
see the dangers not only to world
peace but to themselves if the settle-
ment of problems by military invasion
is again to be freely used as a method
of diplomacy. These nations include
African states who fear that some of
their own disputes might be settled
in this way.
Whatever finally happens to West
New Guinea is not going to see the
end of the New Guinea crisis. The
future of our own territories will irre-
vocably become a matter of inter-
national concern, and if we do not
provide our own bold, if risky, solu-
tions quickly, other solutions will be
forced on us. Here, again, as with
defence, a great deal of Government
expenditure must be involved. Con-
cern for the people of New Guinea
and concern for maintaining some kind
of stability in our own interests are
going to cost us a fortune. If we wish
to shape the future of New Guinea we
can no longer do it on the cheap.
Unless we are prepared to underwrite
New Guinea’s development we may
as well give it away now.
At least on New Guinea there is
something of a bi-partisan approach
between Mr Menzies and Mr Calwell
that would make the spending of
money politically feasible. This
not be said for defence, on which Mr
Calwell speaks in the most sketchy and
old-fashoned way, partly perhaps from
his own lack of interest and partly no
doubt because of pressure from his own
party. Nor can it be said that there
is a bi-partisan policy on the mainten-
ance of an anti-communist front in
South-East Asia. Here the Labor party
is specifically committed to disengage-
ment.
Yet the problems of communist
strength in the territories of former
French Indo-China will be, with New
Guinea, the second great problem in
foreign affairs for Australia. There is
every possibility of a collapse in the
anti-communist postion in South-East
Asia this year. Laos has been para-
lysed. If South Vietnam collapses an
already paralysed Cambodia will offer
no resistance and Thailand will then
be subjected to the kind of infiltration
that has had such success in this area.
OF these problems Australians are
as yet only dimly aware. It is
untrue to say that the neutralising of
Laos is another Munich; in seriousness
it is, but there has been one of the
last-minute awareness of a problem
that followed Munich. No active steps
have been taken to prevent a similar
disaster in South Vietnam. Only the
Americans have shown interest, but
they have not backed up their interest
with action.
To make things worse, the New
Guinea dispute acts as a diversion
from the problems of South-East Asia.
There is a growing note of impatience
in unofficial American comment that
probably reflects an official attitude
that almost any solution will do for
West New Guinea that will get the
problem out of the way so that we can
concentrate on more serious things. The
prospect that the West New Guinea
dispute might split whatever anti-
communist alliance there is in South-
East Asia is a serious one, and there
have been those Australians who have
urged a concessionary policy over New
Guinea for this reason. Such an
approach cannot be dismissed lightly,
but dismissed it must be. Pressures in
South-East Asia will themselves prob-
ably keep an anti-communist alliance
going.
\yiTH all these great and dangerous
events moving in our north we
have just seen the disgusting spectacle
of an election campaign in which they
were hardly mentioned. In Mr Cal-
well’s campaign—and his campaign
set the pace—the emphases were on
the five bob on the pension kind of
issue rather than on Laos, South Viet-
nam, New Guinea and defence. The
result is a dangerous political insta-
bility in which Government policy is
inhibited by the risk of having only a
majority of one—a situation which
could yet end in another election and
the return to power of a Labor party
in which strong influences dictate a
policy of appeasement abroad that, if
carried out, would threaten the con-
tinued independence of Australia.
In the ghastly turmoil that lies ahead
one can only trust that the patriots of
both parties—including the still de-
moralised Right-wingers of the Labor
P ar jy—will realise that the only true
political advantage for them lies in
supporting policies that will help Aus-
tralia survive its isolated position in a
dangerous world.
Making Oil Pay
'T'HE very promising results of the
production tests at Moonie No. 1
well in Queensland —which have
already tempted the Union Oil-Kern-
Australian Oil and Gas syndicate to
announce plans for other test
wells in the Cabawin area-raise the
question of how State Governments
propose to make money out of oil if
we strike it. So far both the Federal
Government and the State Govern-
ments concerned have naturally been
concerned only with attracting pros-
pecting teams, mainly financed by
foreign capital, by offering very favor-
able terms for commercial exploitation.
This has been fair enough; we need
to attract sufficient overseas capital to
carry on the search for oil.
But it is worth remembering that as
things stand now, Australia has a
relatively minor interest in current oil-
search ventures. Thus Australian Oil
and Gas has a 20 p.c. share in the
Moonie well quest. This means that
the greater part of immediate benefits
from discovering a commercial oil well
in Australia will accrue to overseas
capital. Perhaps this is also fair
enough, but some thought must now
be given to borrowing a leaf from
the Arab oil sheiks’ book by ensuring
that sufficient royalties will be paid on
oil wells in commercial exploitation.
The actual search for oil should be
made as attractive as possible, and
generous allowance should be given
to the heavy initial exploitation ex-
penses. This would encourage further
oil searches. But once an oil company
is firmly established the State Govern-
ment concerned must ensure that
adequate benefits accrue to Australia
from the exploitation of its natural
wealth.
Of course this should not be over-
done. Companies which have spent
huge sums on looking for oil—
whether owned by Australian or over-
seas capital—are entitled to a fair
share of the proceeds. But our own
interests should not be neglected
either.
Finding oil in commercial quanti-
ties would go a long way towards
solving our balance-of-payments prob-
lems by reducing the present terrific
drain on foreign exchange reserves.
And if the State Governments succeed
in striking a happy medium in the
matter of oil royalties a paradoxical
situation in the Commonwealth-State
financial relations may well arise. One
can imagine Queensland or Western
Australia waxing so fat on oil revenues
as to be able to call the tune at Loan
Council meetings instead of pleading
cap-in-hand for a slightly larger share
of the uniform taxation proceeds.


NEW ZEALAND
The End of Utopia?
By ANTON VOGT
A New Zealand writer living in Sydney
SOME years ago the American poet Merrill Moore told
me a story about his stay in Auckland, New Zealand,
during the war. Moore was a distinguished
psychiatrist, and as colonel in the U.S. Marine Corps
was in charge of the Auckland psychiatric hospital for
young Americans invalided back from the South Pacific
battle zones. One day he had a phone call from the
curator of the Auckland Zoo. It appeared that his patients
were turning up in great numbers to have themselves
photographed with the zoo’s rare kiwi. Moore was delighted
to hear it: he understood at once that his “boys” were well
on the road to recovery when they had thought up such
an ingenious scheme for informing their families exactly
where they were. What he could not understand at first
was why the curator of the zoo should have any objections.
The explanation was quite simple: the kiwi happens to be
a nocturnal bird, and this particular one was becoming
neurotic. Characteristically. Moore was unruffled. He
simply asked for the kiwi’s weight and prescribed a sedative.
The kiwi not only likes the dark, but is quiet, shy
and unable to fly. That is why cynics regard him as a
fitting symbol for New Zealand. Nowadays they feel he
needs not so much a sedative as a jolt. And perhaps this
is what the European Common Market will give him.
If Britain joins the Common Market New Zealand’s
traditional way of life will be endangered. She is essentially
a primary producer, and without the protected British
market which now absorbs half of her exports her meat
producers and dairy farmers may face ruin. Economic
growth will be retarded, and since the secondary industries
are too underdeveloped to absorb surplus farm labor, there
is likely to be considerable unemployment. Yet, in the
long run. the only solution will be for the farming nation
to become an industrial nation —a complete reorientation.
For generations New Zealand has been regarded as
a Utopia of prosperity and social justice. New Zealand
has been regarded as an experimental social laboratory
since 1891. when the first Liberal Government took office
under John Ballance. He and his successor. Richard
Seddon (William Pember Reeves as Minister of Labor)
were responsible for introducing legislation which has been
assiduously studied by all social reformers ever since. New
Zealand was the first country in the world to have votes
for women; the first to have a comprehensive code govern-
ing factory conditions, hours and wages; the first to estab-
lish industrial conciliation and arbitration through official
agencies; the first to adopt the 40-hour week; the first to
provide adequate old-age pensions and to provide child
allowances without a means test. If the early stirrings
came in the ’9os. the Welfare State came to full birth in
a spate of legislation passed in the middle ’3os. In the
years between, God’s Own Country passed into fitful
slumber, broken by two nightmares: one distant and bloody,
the other near and grey. The First World War hit the
country hard, but not as hard as the depression, with an
army of 100.000 ragged unemployed starving among unsold
surpluses of wool and mutton, butter and cheese. More
than half of New Zealand's present population was unborn
then, or too young to remember. Since World War II there
has been an almost continuous boom: in births, production,
exports and official optimism. The crowning achievements
were nevertheless Hillary's climbing of Mt Everest, and
gold medals won by Peter Snell and Murray Halberg at
the Rome Olympics. The rest is largely fortuitous: the
world has needed wool, and been prepared to pay high
prices for it.
I know of no country in the world with greater
educational opportunities for all its citizens. Education
in New Zealand is “free, compulsory and secular . . .”
After Social Security, the Education vote is the second-
largest item of expenditure in the Budget; and it now
amounts to about £SO million annually. Per capita, this is
almost double the amount spent in some Australian States.
Schooling is obligatory from seven to 15. but nearly all
children start at five and stay to 16. Just over 10 per cent,
reach university entrance level, which normally means
eight years’ primary schooling, followed by at least four
years’ post-primary schooling. Maori children share these
opportunities equally. Most children attend multi-purpose,
co-ed schools; but there are a few English-style, single-sex:
private preparatory schools, and a larger number of single-
sex public and private post-primary schools. The great
bulk of denominational schools are Catholic, catering for
about 15 per cent, of the children, which roughly reflects
the number of Catholics in a predominantly Protestant
community (about 30 per cent. Anglican. 20 per cent. Pres-
byterian, 8 per cent. Methodist). Denominational schools
do not get official State aid. but they are inspected and
entitled to certain minor services. Controversy about State
aid follows exactly the Australian pattern.
With due allowance for individual differences. New
Zealanders profit from their advantages. It is difficult to
find a university campus in the English-speaking * world
without its New Zealand scholar, or a UNESCO project
without its New Zealand teacher-administrator. On the
other hand, it is a moot question whether we
can afford to export our best brains; and whether one
of the explanations is not that the country is basically
philistine. Not so long ago two or three hundred New
Zealand graduates assembled at a dinner in London. When
asked by the then Vice-Chancellor of the university. Sir


George Currie, how many would be returning home, only
a few raised their hands. Perhaps they felt there was little
to return to, except the lovely scenery.
World travellers find the country beautiful, the people
friendly, the fishing excellent —and the towns extremely
dull. On the whole, hotels and restaurant services are poor;
and the liquor laws, with six-o’clock closing, restrictive.
There are scarcely any night-clubs, and it is illegal to drink
in most of them, or at public dances. Shops other than
dairies shut at 5.30 p.m., except on Fridays, and are shut
on Saturdays and Sundays. At best, one cinema may be
open on Sundays in a main centre. As Tom Heeney said
to me last year in Miami: “New Zealand is where I come
from, and I like it, but you must admit that it’s a bit like a
cemetery . . .” For the New Zealander at home there are
compensations which sophisticated, foreign tourists are
unlikely to dicover if (to quote Allan Curnow) “they
arrive in the morning and leave at night . . .” as Charles
Lindberg did some years ago, for a few hours’ fishing at
Taupo. New Zealanders live well in their homes. Nearly
every family has its car for regular visits to friends and
relations and for driving to any of the innumerable and
magnificent beaches. The climate is equable, and the
social climate corresponds. New Zealanders are easy-
going, middle-class, middle-of-the-road, mild, muddle-
along-from-day-to-day people, with reasonable expectations
easily fulfilled. This is Utopia, and those who don’t like
it can lump it.
In New Zealand everyone can be as happy as he has
the capacity for, at least in private. In public any sign of
joy makes the police suspicious. What is not permitted is
to be too obviously unhappy. If you are, a well-meaning
Social Welfare Officer, or Truant Officer, or Marriage
Counsellor will get hold of you sooner or later and
straighten you out at public expense. In this we are not
remarkably different from the United States and Australia;
but the real trouble with New Zealand is that the country
is so small that it is difficult to get lost, or to go unnoticed.
In all three countries the ultimate neurosis may be to per-
mit no neuroses. In Europe they manage these things
better, allowing all kinds of cranks to roam about the
streets with the aplomb and swagger we only permit to
the traffic police.
Superficially, those who like it least are the artists,
whose few pearls grow on the grit of their discontent. Nearly
every painter, poet, short-story writer and novelist of any
consequence has escaped at some time from an atmosphere
which most of them regard as stifling; but it is equally
significant that almost all of them return. After the first
century’s subservience to England, which only a few people
in New Zealand now refer to as “Home.” authentic native
accents were first heard in the poetry of R. A. K. Mason,
A. R. D. Fairburn, Denis Glover and Allan Curnow in
the middle 19305. The short-story writers followed, no
longer alien in their own country, as Katherine Mansfield
was: Frank Sargeson. Roderick Finlayson. Maurice
Duggan. Janet Frame and Maurice Shadbolt, to name some
of the best of a bright bunch. Meanwhile, a distinguished
group of new poets emerged in the 19505, reinforcing the
Big Four: notably James K. Baxter, Alistair Campbell,
Louis Johnson and M. K. Joseph. (The work of these
writers is most readily accessible to Australian readers
through selections: “The Penguin Book of New Zealand
Verse.” edited by Curnow; “An Anthology of New
Zealand Verse,” edited by Chapman and Bennett. Oxford
University Press; and “New Zealand Short Stories.” edited
by Davin, also 0.U.P.) The more complex art of the novel
has been slower to mature, but a few books are worth
recommending: “Man Alone,” by John Mulgan; “No
Remittance,” by Dan Davin; “Owls Do Cry,” by Janet
Frame; “Spinster,” by Sylvia Ashton-Warner; and “After
Anzac Day,” by lan Cross. No New Zealand play has
had the success of “Summer of the Seventeeth Doll,”
but Bruce Mason and James K. Baxter are two writers
whose work for the theatre is full of vigor and promise.
Oddly enough, few Maoris put pen to paper.
Criticism is limited to a few journals, and to broadcast
talks and public lectures, given mainly by staffs of the
Departments of English, History and the Social Sciences
in the universities at Christchurch, Wellington and Auck-
land. New Zealanders’ flair for making history is only
exceeded by their passion for writing it, and the teaching
of English in at least three of the universities is both
exciting and exacting. The literary quarterly “Landfall”
is a monument to the scholarship, good taste and lack of
warmth or wit of its editor, Charles Brasch. “The New
Zealand Listener” is a weekly magazine with a wide circu-
lation, which nevertheless reflects the best elements in the
New Zealand Broadcasting Service. Both model them-
selves on the 8.8.C.’s wide coverage of the arts and attempt
to maintain reasonable critical standards. Certainly no
A.B.C. publication is comparable, either in intention or
achievement.
Over the protests of a handful of serious artists, archi-
tects and town-planners, supported by slightly larger hand-
fuls of enthusiastic connoisseurs in all the main centres, the
visual arts are in as sorry a plight as the architecture of our
sprawling, shapeless towns. As for music, we have excellent
audiences for a symphony orchestra that has been praised
by Menuhin and Stravinsky; two or three good chamber
music ensembles; a surprisingly good professional opera
company; and one distinguished composer, Douglas
Lilburn.
r HAVE heard it argued that New Zealand should join
Australia as a new State in the Federation. I can see
little advantage accruing to anyone except the members of
the New Zealand Cricket Team, who would gain from
participation in the Sheffield Shield series. In international
politics we would simply lose a vote. As for Federal and
State politics conducted concurrently in a country with
only 10,000,000 people, there is already enough waste and
confusion. New Zealanders have at least some idea of
whom they are voting for. Moreover, if they know both
candidates so well that they do not want to vote for either,
they are not compelled to vote informally; they simply
stay away. In contrast, as a friend of mine wrote about
Australia a few years ago: “In most countries people vote
from a sense of conviction, but in Australia they vote to
avoid conviction.” It is true that we must stand together
on defence, but this does not necessarily mean any altera-
tion in policies cemented by two wars and symbolised by
the word ANZAC. There are, nevertheless, natural
resources, scientific and technical skills and methods of
operating on similar problems, which we could share much
more than we do. I have the feeling that most intelligent
Australians and New Zealanders by-pass each others’
countries, to hurry off to England or America, if they want
to learn anything new or see anything different. The
assumption is presumably that we are so similar that we
have nothing to learn from each other. A more valid
assumption might be that we are so nearly similar that we
can profit more from each other than from anyone else.
That the two countries are geographically similar is
nevertheless blatantly false. Australia is wide, spacious,
flat and dry. (The last words are intentional, despite a
visit to the magnificent Blue Mountains and the shattering
experience of Sydney’s current, improbable spring and


! '
COMPLETE
PROTECTION
PROTECT YOUR FAMlLY—
enquire about the
FAMILY
INCOME
BENEFIT
provided by the
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
Metropolitan Building,
Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney.
summer.) New Zealand is narrow, green and petitely
curvacious. except for the even more magnificent Southern
Alps. From a purely scenic point of view, the two coun-
tries differ as much as the Union of South Africa and
Norway. This alone justifies the short hop across the
Tasman, even if there is no point in linking up the Auck-
land and Sydney Harbor Bridges for weekend traffic.
'UUHAT New Zealand can learn from Australia may be of
" * little interest to Australian readers. I would summarise
some of the main points, as follows:
1. Large-scale immigration, from as many different
countries as possible is a Good Thing per se.
2. Government can’t do everything, and shouldn’t be
expected to; or
3. It pays to make initiative pay.
4. Good food and good service are worth paying for,
and decent service is not necessarily a mark of
servility.
5. By abolishing official wowserism one can improve
the drinking habits even of Australians.
After travelling around the world for 18 months, I am
convinced that New Zealanders accept far too many restric-
tions with good grace. Australians, with fewer restrictions,
have the grace to be ungracious about them. Except in
war, when they are magnificent, both peoples are more
docile and sheeplike than they know.
Frankly. I still feel that Australia has more to learn
from New Zealand. The most obvious discrepancy be-
tween our two “cultures” lies in what happens with the
Maoris there and does not happen with aborigines here.
But it is not so much governmental inertia and public
indifference that surprise me. It is, rather, a widespread
ignorance among otherwise educated and well-intentioned
people. As soon as this becomes articulate under question-
ing. the average Australian begins to sound as if he had
learnt his biology and race psychology from Nazi or
Afrikaner textbooks. Of course, the truth is a good deal
simpler. He has, in fact, never bothered to study, the
problems at all.
Another obvious discrepancy is between our school
systems, and not least at the primary level —that is, in the
first grades. I would say that you are stuck in a historical
rut, and that everything I see and hear leads me to suppose
that your education system is nearly as barbaric as Eng-
land’s, which is the laughing stock of the rest of the
civilised world. Meanwhile, like the English, you jeer at
programmes of work designed to make children think and
act for themselves. Fortunately, the recommendations of
the Wyndham Report will bring about major changes in at
least one sector. In spirit and intention these changes will
bring your education system in line with the one we have
been operating for 20 years. In practice it will depend not
only on Government funds but on a fund of goodwill from
an understanding public. Australia should be as generous
to its 3.000,000 children as it has been to its 2,000.000
new migrants.
Negatively, you have something to learn from our
newspapers. There is one morning paper and one evening
paper in each of the four main centres, and no competition.
Not one single city or provincial paper in New Zealand is
anything like as good as “The Manchester Guardian” or
“The Observer,” or as bad as nearly all the newspapers in
Australia. Modest, self-righteous, prim and dull, thev are
at least clean enough to wrap around one’s fish and chips
without leaving black stains on one’s marrow and
conscience.
Your poets? I salute them, noting in passing that
Henry Lawson was born a Norwegian and Douglas Stewart
a New Zealander. Your novelists? We have no one to
rank with Patrick White or Xavier Herbert. Your painters?
Clearly we have no William Dobell. We are your small
cousins, naive and provincial. The things we compete in
most readily are not things of the spirit, but the production
of fat lambs and fast horses, bullocky forwards and beefy
politicians, high-climbers and long-kickers. As we strive
to do a little better we tend to get caught up in the endless
rigmarole and form-filling of a too well-regulated State,
which works so well that it is inevitably allergic to change.
In the ironic words of Denis Glover, New Zealand has
become:
A land of Civil Servants, Chief Inspectors,
Direct Controllers, indirect Directors,
Admonishers, Exhorters and Correctors ■ ■ .
Nevertheless, his own gleaming grin denies the implications
of the final rhetorical couplet:
Is this my country, this the happy place
That filched the honest candour from my face?
How will New Zealand industrialise to meet the impact
of the Common Market? Secondary industry is still in its
infancy in New Zealand, and mainly concerned with pro-
cessing farm produce for home consumption or export. For
the rest, it is largely concerned with the assembling of parts
made elsewhere. But there have been marked changes
in job distribution over the past generation. Farm
workers of all kinds, including those working their own
land, have remained almost static in number, at about
125,000. But in the meantime secondary industries have
passed, and are rapidly out-distancing, these figures: and
tertiary industries, including the Public Service, are absorb-
ing a larger proportion of a population which has doubled
since the turn of the century. Of every 100 employed males,
about 20 are engaged in farming and forestry. 25 in manu-
facture, 15 in commerce, 13 in services and 12 in transport
and communications.
We are. per capita, the world’s largest traders and will
not be starting from nothing.


THE MAN
IN THE
STREET
E N D£ A,
But for heavens' sake, man, stripes
are out this season"
“Deuce take it! —one Way!"


MY LIFE WITH NASSER
Behind the News in Cairo
By PHILIP DELL-CREED
FOR several years I worked as a journalist on the
“Egyptian Gazette,” the English language daily, in
Cairo. The paper was owned and controlled by the
Government, so I was, in effect, working for Nasser.
Nasser used it as a propaganda organ. He read it every
morning over breakfast, before any of the Arabic Press.
He knew the paper went to all the foreign embassies in
Egypt, and he wanted them to know his side of the story
first.
The editor-in-chief was an Egyptian. He had no
journalistic training or experience. He was an ex-professor
of English at a local university. The editor was English,
an experienced newspaper man and a Jew. He was prob-
ably the only Jew who was allowed to remain in Egypt.
All the sub-editors were also English and only the local
newsroom had Egyptians on the staff. Their reports were
translated into English and we rewrote them.
Unlike his predecessor. General Naguib. Nasser never
paid the “Gazette” office a visit, but his presence was
strongly felt. Censors sent from the Ministry of Informa-
tion were on duty every night. No line, caption or photo-
graph went to press without their red pencil tick or blue
pencil crossing-out of lines or paragraphs which they did
not approve. According to the policy of Nasser at the
time, items were inserted or deleted. For instance, during
my stay, the hate-love-hate campaign against Iraq changed
three times. First, against Feisal’s Iraq they printed only
the worst news, vilification and abuse. From the moment
of Feisal’s death, Nasser turned his charm on the “revo-
lutionary hero” Kassim. News of “our brothers in Iraq”
filled the paper daily. But on<"e it became plain that
Kassim of Iraq was no lover of Nasser and other “brother
Arabs” the old hate-Iraq record went back on again. It
was difficult to keep pace with the changes in policy. When
seeking aid or a loan his tone would be conciliatory—-
“we must bury the past”—but if he didn’t get his own way
he would rant against the “imperialists who tried to bury
us . . .”
According to the Constitution, drawn up while I was
in Cairo, there was to be complete “freedom of the Press.”
The Ministry of Information did, in fact, withdraw the
censors and we all breathed a sigh of relief. But it was
short-lived, since Nasser put the responsibility on the editor-
in-chief. He had to see nothing went in the paper contrary
to Government policy, nor was any form of political criti-
cism permitted. When in doubt, which was all too fre-
quent. the editor-in-chief would phone the Ministry and
get permission from the very men whom he had known as
censors. This continued until the Suez war broke out.
Then censorship was open again and was resumed as
before. The censors’ knowledge of English was excellent,
but we used to get a kick out of wording news and reports
in such a way that their significance escaped the censor.
One of my most startling assignments, in fact my
last, was during the vote for Nasser as first President of
the Republic. When he took over by force and placed
General Naguib under house arrest, Nasser assumed full
command. But he wanted the appearance of a free demo-
cratic election. His method was simple. Since there were
no other candidates, the vote card asked Egyptians to vote
for Nasser as President —“Yes” or “No.” The voting
booths were set up in police stations throughout the country
as a “safety precaution,” and the folded cards were
supposed to be dropped in sealed boxes.
I was sent out to report on how the “democratic”
voting proceeded, and made my way to the Musky police
station in Old Cairo, where I knew most of the officers.
I had reported a robbery some months before, and
while they were arresting the criminal I was enter-
tained with Turkish coffee, cakes, cigarettes, a tour of the
jails, armory and criminal records, and even offered
hashish which had been seized from a dope peddlar, who
no doubt got 25 years.
I found my friends busy “taking” the votes from the
Egyptians, opening and reading them. If it was “Yes” the
vote card went into the sealed box, but if “No” the officer
would talk to the voter, reminding him how much Nasser
had done and would do for them, until the voter decided
to change his vote. Occasionally a voter would refuse to
let the police read his card, and so only 99 1/3 per cent,
of the votes were in favor of Nasser as President.
I deliberately reported all this in my article, but it
never appeared in the “Gazette,” and I was never sent out
on a job again.
fYNCE I met an assassin in a cafe tucked away in the
dusty, winding, back streets of Old Cairo. Mohammed
Ali Issa had been a clerk in the Embassy in Iraq and had
been arrested by that Government after a bomb outrage
there. He became something of a national Egyptian hero
—a poor, innocent man being cruelly tortured by the
Iraqis. Finally, under strong pressure, Mohammed Issa
was released and sent back to Egypt. He received a hero’s
welcome and loudly protested his innocence.
A short while later I was drinking tea in El Fishawi’s
in the Khan Kalili bazaar when I recognised Mohammed
Issa sitting at my table. He sat staring into space with
wild, dark eyes. From the cigarette hanging between his
fingers came the sickly-sweet smell of hashish. He was
vain, and, knowing 1 was a journalist, he could not resist


talking about himself. Would I write an article about
him? With pictures? I assured him I would. The follow-
ing night, under the influence of the hashish, he told me he
was not an embassy or any kind of clerk at all and that
he had planted the bomb in Baghdad on Egyptian orders.
The “Gazette” did not publish his story, but we ran
another one about him—about a much-wronged young
Egyptian.
One day the police came to our office and arrested
one of the sub-editors—a Scotsman. At the time he was
talking with an Egyptian, and they arrested him. too, as
an accomplice on a spy charge. The “arrest” was short-
lived and they were released next day. Apparently the
police had discovered a “leak” somewhere via the
Marconi cable office in Cairo. Our Scots sub-editor used
to send daily cables to a London newspaper for whom he
worked as a correspondent, and they suspected him. But
a few days later the police made a sensational series of
arrests which resulted in the famous spy trial of Swinburn
and Zarb. The only man who escaped arrest by fleeing
the country was the manager of the Cairo Marconi cable
office.
Nasser probably holds the world record for the longest
speeches, so he was not very popular on the subs’ desks.
He never spoke for less than three hours, although he often
went on as long as four. The speeches had to be published
in the “Gazette” in full. Since he spoke in Arabic, the
local newsmen had to translate it into English, but the
English so bad the entire speech had to be rewritten
with Nasser’s style retained. It was a long and arduous
task and meant working sometimes until 4 a.m., after
reporting at 5 p.m. the previous evening.
There was no overtime or bonus for this extra work,
and no trade unions are permitted in Egypt. For some
unknown reason, however, we received a strange reward.
Generally on the nights when Nasser made a big speech
in the Republic Square, Cairo, the editor-in-chief would
send us out a bunch of bananas . . .
THE BATTLE FOR THE BLIND
Throwing the Deaf and the Blind Together
By KYLIE TENNANT
THE desperate battle over the sale of the Wahroonga
Blind School began in March, 1960. Then the Royal
New South Wales Institution for Deaf and Blind
Children, which owns the property, announced that
it had arranged sale of the Blind School and intended to
erect a school for both blind and deaf children at North
Rocks, in the Parramatta district.
From the institution’s point of view the plan had a
specious convenience. The institution’s School for Deaf
Children, a valuable city property, had already been sold
to Sydney University. There was an attractive offer for
the land at Wahroonga. What could be more convenient
than to close the School for Blind Children and throw deaf
and blind together on the new site at North Rocks?
The institution had a perfect right to sell the land of
the Blind School. It was theirs, bought originally with
money contributed by the public. True, the N.S.W. Educa-
tion Department supplied teachers, paid them and met
ordinary expenses, but the small residence section and the
school itself were under the institution’s control.
From the people most concerned —the parents —there
was an immediate protest against the plan to run schools
for deaf and blind children in conjunction. The Wahroonga
Blind School Parents and Citizens’ Association bitterly
pointed out that world-famous authorities considered it
psychologically harmful and educationally barbarous to
associate the two kinds of handicapped children together,
that it was a practice abandoned in every enlightened
country.
The institution’s reply was that an Bft wall would be
erected between the area for the deaf children and that
for the blind children.
“But that’s what we’re trying to get away from,” the
parents protested, “Bft walls and charity institutions. A
hundred years ago children with any kind of handicap were
crowded together in institutions supported by charity. We
pay taxes to support the State’s educational system. In
addition, we’ve raised thousands of pounds to provide
special equipment for the Blind School, and we’re happy
to do it. But we’ve asked over and over again that
Wahroonga Blind School be made a public school. If the
school at North Rocks is set up for deaf and blind
children it will perpetuate an outmoded system that is
being abandoned everywhere else.”
Mr R. J. Heffron, then Minister for Education, is
reported to have said with his customary frankness, “The
department would have liked to take over the whole thing,
lock, stock and barrel. I felt the department was not doing
the job as effectively as we might.”
There is. however, a good deal of delicacy required to
approach an institution with a royal charter and announce
that you are removing from its control its best fund-raising
asset. The Royal Institution for Deaf and Blind Children
has found that public interest in the deaf is not as great
as that grave disability merits. But the poor blind children
—ah, there you have something. The hand dives to the
pocket. The institution went ahead raising funds for the
school at North Rocks.
In Australia total blindness is not an acute problem.
In India, for instance, there are 3.000,000 registered blind.
Experts do not agree as to what is blindness, but 6/60 on
the Snellen Chart is usually accepted as the deciding factor.
If you cannot read the big letters at the top of the chart
at six metres you are legally blind. No survey, however,
has been made in Australia to estimate the number of
children hampered by deficient sight. At the Wahroonga
Blind School about 30 of the 127 children require teaching
by Braille methods. The majority are partially blind, a
few with other handicaps besides partial sight.
The public idea of a blind child as a little fellow
groping about in total darkness is not entirely correct. He


is more likely to be the imp on a train bringing the
passengers’ hearts into their mouths because, to compensate
for his restricted vision, he will try to hang out farther or
bounce up and down more noisily than the children with
normal sight.
The parents of handicapped children are very conscious
of a widespread public failure to discriminate between
their different disabilities. Crippled children, spastic
children and those injured by poliomyelitis are too often
bracketed together, as are the deaf, dumb and blind. “I
wish they wouldn’t shout at me,” one little blind boy said
wistfully. An inspector about to leave the Blind School
said, “No. hold on. I haven’t seen the deaf kids yet.”
Of course, he apologised at once for the slip, but the
association was firmly established in his mind.
In their long struggle, the parents of children at the
Wahroonga Blind School have stood by the resolution
carried unanimously by a meeting of 105 members that:
“The Minister for Education not require deaf and blind
children or any other type of handicapped children to be
associated together, either in name or location, for the
purposes of their complete education.” Their request that
the N.S.W. Education Department should “establish and
fully control at least one school for the education of blind
children” received the support of the conference of Parents
and Citizens’ Associations. The attitude of the N.S.W.
Public School Teachers’ Federation was defined, after full
debate in council, that “All schools staffed by Education
Department teachers should be owned and fully controlled
by the department.”
The solution finally offered by the Education Depart-
ment has increased the problems of parents. The Minister
for Education, Mr Wetherell, told a meeting of the Parents
and Citizens’ Association that only the children taught by
Braille would go to the institution’s school at North Rocks.
Some time in 1962 the other children would be placed in
special classes at various public schools.
The parents, who know what it is like to have their
children in ordinary schools, are desperate. “My boy is
partially blind.” one mother explained. “When he went
to the local school other children teased him because he
was slow. Some would steal his lunch from his lap and
laugh because he could not tell who took it. At Wahroonga
Blind School he is happy among children who accept him.
They are a little community where everyone knows what
it is like not to be able to see.”
'T'HE department’s plan is understood to mean that
there will be classes for partially blind high-school
pupils at Kingsgrove and Northmead, primary classes at
Asquith, Tempe and Lidcombe. The size and number of
grades in each class are unknown. The expensive equip-
ment supplied by the parents to the Wahroonga school,
the large lettered aids made by prisoners in jails specially
for the school, the complicated reading and writing devices,
will probably be used somewhere, but with what degree
of efficiency?
Transport of partially blind children is a great prob-
lem to parents. The Wahroonga Blind School’s Parents
and Citizens’ raised money to help buy six buses to bring
the children to school. The buses will become the Educa-
tion Department’s property. So far parents do not know
to what school their children will be assigned or how they
are to travel there.
The idea that partially blind children should be
forced to schools with normally sighted children has a
surface reasonableness. They will have to mingle with
normally sighted people when they grow up —why not
now? Because they will not learn confidence. A little
group of half-blind children in a playground of healthy,
racing young develops only an accentuated isolation. To
visit the Wahroonga Blind School and see the children on
Sports Day holding a combined meeting with the Catholic
Schools for the Blind and to realise that the carefree,
confident and adaptable little people are hardly able to
see at all is to recognise the good work done by the
schools.
Not the least feature of the Wahroonga Blind School
was the atmosphere of freedom and happiness. The head-
master, Mr A. Percy, has been there for 14 years and has
built up, with enthusiasm and efficiency, the kind of school
which any educator should value for its intangible
qualities.
All the parents asked was that a special school for
blind children and those with severe visual defects be kept
in existence by the Education Department. There was a
delay in the sale of the Wahroonga property when the
local council refused a permit for a motel to be built on
the site. The parents offered to buy land, equip and
furnish a school and present it to the department. Would
the Education Department accept such a gift? No. they
were told, not unless the department’s policy was carried
out —complete separation of the blind taught by braille
and those taught by sighted methods. There was no
recognition of the fact that the sight development methods
builf up at Wahroonga permitted children to be taught by
visual methods who, in scattered and smaller, less efficient
units, would be pronounced as legally blind.
The parents asked for a meeting with the Minister
so that experts and the principals of the Wahroonga and
Catholic Blind Schools might give evidence. They offered
to bring an international expert to Australia and to pay his
expenses. When the meeting was finally held at the Eauca-
tion Department, the Minister was not present.
The N.S.W. position could not arise in Great Britain.
Under the Education Act of 1944, special schools for blind
and visually handicapped children are provided. There
are residential schools, schools where children go home,
schools where up to the age of 18 to 20 they may learn
skilled trades or study for a profession, all kinds of schools.
The machinery was set up following a joint report based
on the work of J. M. Ritchie, who wrote the authoritative
study, “Concerning the Blind.” There is no public charity.
Under the National Assistance Act (1948) the State takes
full responsibility for the education of blind and handi-
capped children, and the education authorities are paid a
per capita sum for each child.
In America, at the famous Perkins School for the Blind
where Helen Keller was taught, the school enrolment is
drawn from four States, and the State authorities pay about
£9OO per year per child, but nobody quibbles about it. The
parents do not pay.
What will happen when the Blind School at Wahroonga
closes is that many parents, to avoid the “special classes”
and give their children the warmth and understanding they
had before, will try to gain admittance for them at the two
excellent schools for the blind maintained by the
Catholic Church. The Royal Institution will be left with
a token group of about 30 children taught by Braille at
North Rocks and will continue to hold balls and raise
money by expensive appeals. The Education Department,
by setting up “special classes,” has taken away responsi-
bility for the partially blind from the institution without
open affront being given. But the parents of the children,
not knowing where to go or what is happening, are left
to stew in their anxieties and to feel that they are being
batted about to suit the institution and the department.


THE KEY TO KATANGA
The End of an African Dream
By EUGENE BAJKOWSKI
Last week, except for sporadic sniping, Elizabethville, the
capital of Congo's breakaway Republic of Katanga, was
quiet after “pacification” by the blue-helmeted U.N. forces.
The United Nations spokesmen in Elisabethville, Leopold-
ville and New York announced that the U.N. forces’ “limited
objective” in Katanga was accomplished. Katanga's wily, able
President Moise Tshombe was forced to plead for a ceasefire,
then agreed to go to the sweltering Kitona township on the
Congo River and sign a virtual surrender to the Central Congo
Government. Under constant pressure by the U.S. Ambassador,
Mr Edmund Gullion, U.N. Under-Secretary Mr Ralph Bunche,
also of the U.S., and two other U.N. officials, President
Tshombe finally signed an agreement under which Katanga
would lose its independence and control of its armed forces
(the “gendarmerie”) in return for the rather dubious privilege
of sending its deputies and senators to the ineffective and
squabbling Congo Central Parliament in Leopoldville.
No sooner did Tshombe make his get-away from Kitona than
he repudiated the agreement, claiming it was invalid unless
ratified by the Katanga Cabinet and its National Assembly.
The U.N. immediately threatened to resume bombing, strafing
and shelling if the Katanganese went back on the “agreement.”
To many it seemed paradoxical that the United Nations
have so persistently tried to destroy the only native govern-
ment in the Congo which has been able to ensure an efficient
administration, is responsible to an elected parliament and
can pay its bills. In Leopoldville, Stanleyville and other
centres in the former Belgian Congo the coming of independ-
ence was marked by an almost complete breakdown, resulting
in widespread murder, looting, mutinies, arson, racial violence,
rape, epidemics, famine and cannibalism. But in Katanga racial
relations remained calm, white technicians stayed on and were
even specially brought in from Europe, law and order were
maintained and the province prospered economically on fat
mining revenues. Why then did the United Nations, against
British and French opposition and with the U.S.S.R.’s quiet
approval, launch two full-scale military assaults on Katanga
on the excuse of flimsy formal pretexts?
A definite answer is hard to find. But there are indications
that the international brawl in Katanga has all the mak-
ings of a major conflict between the great Powers —in the
best tradition of power politics. The United States is solidly
behind the economically bankrupt and politically irresponsible
Adoula central regime in Leopoldville. The U.S.S.R., which
for many months had bitterly attacked Congo’s Central
Government as “imperialist puppets,” is now quietly backing
the U.N.’s armed action in Katanga. The Swiss are trying to
appear quiet and neutral, although their real sympathies are
well known —they respect a government which can pay its
bills. The Swedish Press demands further “firm action” in
Katanga and is bitterly hostile to the British and to Northern
Rhodesians. The Belgian Press is violently opposed to the
U.N., while the French and the West Germans are deeply
disturbed by the “pacification” of Katanga. The United
Kingdom is in a difficult position, but its real sympathies seem
to be with Elisabethville rather than with Leopoldville.
Extremely rich in such vital minerals as copper, cobalt,
cadmium, zinc, silver, manganese, uranium, germanium, lead,
coal and industrial diamonds and endowed with vast hydro-
electric resources thanks to the Lualaba and Lubilash Rivers,
linked by railways to Northern Rhodesia and Angola, Katanga
is the home of the giant, mainly Belgian-controlled Union
Miniere du Haut-Katanga, S.A. This giant mining concern has
invested large sums in Katanga’s development, built huge hydro-
electric power stations, trained an efficient and, by African
standards, well-paid labor force, constructed roads, set up its
own modern telecommunications system and contributed
generously to various welfare projects.
The Union Miniere’s administration has been carefully
building up native goodwill, following a liberal and realistic
racial policy. The Belgians were hoping to stay behind in the
wealthy, profit-spinning Katanga—if in a working partnership
with an independent native administration with which they
would continue to have considerable influence—after losing
the iest of the Congo. This is what the Belgian-supported,
bieakaway Republic of Katanga, led by the college-trained,
shrewd and wealthy Moise Tshombe, has tried to achieve.
The idea has appealed to many outside the immediate
Tshombe-Union Miniere alliance. Northern Rhodesia could
only benefit from a friendly and stable Katanga Government.
British mining interests in Tanganyika, centered in the London-
controlled Tanganyika Concessions Ltd, are even more friendly
disposed—Tanganyika Concessions Ltd holds I4j p.c. of the
shares in Union Miniere. The Common Market countries,
particularly West Germany and France, also like it—in the
coming competitive struggle with the United States and Soviet
Russia the Common Market countries would have an assured
cheap supply of essential commercial and strategic minerals,
including industrial diamonds and 8 p.c. of the world's entire
output of copper. Some British M.P.’s have direct or indirect
interests in Union Miniere and Tanganyika Concessions, while
the U.K. Cabinet, ready to negotiate to join the European
Economic Community, has a longe-range economic interest in
preserving some of the status quo in Katanga.
"Our to many others the idea of an independent Katanga,
** largely under the European Common Market influence,
could seem dangerous. Some others again could profit by a
breakdown in Katanga’s mineral output.
Yugoslavia and other important copper producers, par-
ticularly in Europe, would stand to gain from higher world
copper prices if Katanga’s sales on the world market broke
down or dwindled. It may be recalled that Marshal Tito’s
Government was particularly vociferous in demanding that
the United Nations end the Katanga secession.
Industrial diamonds play a very important role in modern
industry, particularly in machine tools, special lathes, arma-
ments, motor vehicles and aircraft and space-rocketry. The
United States itself produces a negligible quantity of industrial
diamonds. The rest must be imported, and Africa is the main
supplier of industrial diamonds for the American market. In
1959-60 well over 60 p.c. of all industrial diamonds exports
from the former Belgian Congo went to the United States.
On the other hand the rapid expansion of industrial output
in the European Common Market countries requires ever-
increasing quantities of industrial diamonds. Here there are
grounds for a conflict of economic interests.
There is also a conflict of interests within the Union Miniere
itself. Its board and administration are mainly Belgian, with
direct and indirect British and French particination. Although
officially there are three main shareholders- Tanganyika
Concessions, Katanga Special Committee and Societe
Generate de Belgique—the real distribution of shares in the con-
cern is rather complicated.
Union Miniere du Haut-Katanga, S.A., was originally
incorporated in the then Belgian Congo in October, 1906,
to acquire the interests of the Katanga (Belgian) Special
Committee and the Tanganyika Concessions Ltd in the mineral


I
a
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—•
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company o!
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors:
ALFRED S. WHITE, Esq., Chairman; E. G. CONEN, Esq., T. K. MAGNEY,
Esq., A. G. PARKER, Esq., DOUGLAS WADLEY, Esq.
H. H. MOULTON, Esq., Managing Director. B J. LANE, Esq., Manager.
Phone: BU 7401. (Branches in all States ) 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
discoveries made by Tanganyika Concessions under a con-
cession granted to it by the Katanga Special Committee. 1 his
concession—extending to March, 1990 —comprises a copper
area of about 7700 square miles, and also contains a tin area
of some 5500 square miles in addition to valuable deposits
of cobalt, zinc, uranium, radium, cadmium, germanium, silver,
gold, lead, industrial diamonds, coal, iron ores and limestone.
According to British sources the annual output of the
Union Miniere group in 1960 included 300,704 metric
tons of copper, 8240 metric tons of cobalt, and 192,000 metric
tons of crude zinc concentrates.
There are important holdings in 31 leading Belgian,
French, British and American companies with widely spread
interests. As some of these holdings were acquired by an
exchange of shares, the actual spread of shareholding in Union
Miniere is difficult to estimate.
One well informed European source estimates real American
interests in Union Miniere at 35 p.c. of the capital and
reserves, against 42 p.c. held by the Belgians. American
interests are not represented on the Union Miniere s board,
despite several persistent attempts. A section of the European
Press claims that the U.N. attempts to end Katanga s secession
would make it easier to dislodge the Belgian and other
Common Market interests entrenched on the board.
On the other hand, American sources point out that
Union Miniere and its present board and management have a
vested interest in forcing the United Nations to acquiesce in
Katanga’s independence or, at least, practical autonomy.
They also point out that, immediately after Congo’s
independence, Union Miniere handed an 18 p.c. shareholding
to the Tshombe regime in Elisabethville. This scrip was
originally held in trust “for the people of the Congo , and
Union Miniere directors have explained that the Katanga
Government was given the shares under a threat of torce .
Union Miniere is Katanga's largest employer and its opera-
tions keep the Elisabethville Government solvent. Revenues
from royalties, mineral export taxes and dividends, faithfully
paid in to the National Bank of Katanga, covei over 80 pc.
of Katanga’s Budget. The Katanga Government is now due to
collect an estimated U.S. $52 million as its share of Union
Miniere’s 1961 profits.
Katanga's President, Moise Tshombe. is often accused of
being merely a Belgian puppet. It is more likely that his
tough position stems from the realisation that all the plans for a
unified Congo are based on the premise of using Katanga’s
great wealth to pay for the whole of the bankrupt and dis-
organised Congo. At this stage, there is little feeling in the
Congo for “national unity”. First loyalities are to the tribe,
the geographic area, old-established traditions and connections.
In addition, Katanga’s independence seems to be the last chance
for many white settlers to stay behind in reasonable security,
working for a friendly African Government.
President Tshombe fully realises that he cannot run his
country without the aid of white experts. Fie is well looked
after by Union Miniere and does not want to kill the goose
that lays the golden eggs. Rumor has it that he has been ably
jockeying for a privileged position as a major supplier of
essential minerals to the Common Market pool, which would
in turn help to transform Katanga into the model workshop of
Africa. In this he has the firm support of his staunchest
African ally, Abbe Youlou. the President of the newly
independent French Congo, who has already succeeded in
extracting vast sums from the French for his ambitious develop-
ment plans.
If Katanga retains its independence or secures for itself
broad autonomy, these ambitious plans may come to fruition.
If it is forced into “unification” with the hostile and impov-
erished Leopoldville regime, its great wealth may eventually
get into other hands.
The recent events have already left their mark. Important
mines and smelting and refining works have been destroyed by
U.N. bombing. The railway to Northern Rhodesia has been
extensively damaged and the rolling stock wiped out. The
future is uncertain and refugees are streaming away from
Elisabethville, possibly marking the end of an African dream


FORUM
REPUTATION'S
BLOWFLIES
Or, Read Any Good Books Lately?
By HAL PORTER
F is of course wise and indubitably safer for a writer to keep out of the
way of other writers, that is, out of the way of those willing
{and anxious?) to sell for money {blood-?) their reactions
to a piece of writing. To \eep out of the way means to keep one’s
mouth shut because to criticise criticism is not only perilous but would take
much time\ criticasters are legion as lice. Criticism, as performed in Australia,
is, generally, a slapdash and non-creative act, most often —either obliquely or
outright brutally—a destructive one. It engages the attention, therefore, of
the non-creative intelligentsia, those spear holders on the literary stage', the
author manque, the academic saboteur, the “cultured” journalist, the Tittle
Magazine denizen, the one-slender-vol. poet, supernumeraries with an
ideological, religious, moral or personal axe to grind. Criticism of these
criticasters by the criticised is not a custom. Some inbuilt noblesse oblige
makes it a not-done thing. The author rarely deserts his attitude of purest
Christianity', he writes another book and offers thus the other cheek- No
eye for an eye. No spitting back- No crying out against faulty analysis, lop-
sided flattery, sly malice, reading-between-the-lines, assumptions of intention,
guesswork of influences. No redress against the “frank opinion” that is a
lie ruinous to name, morale, book sales and the publisher’s enthusiasm for
a next book-
From most critiques the author dredges
no clear picture of literary judg-
ment per se but a very clear one of the
obsessions, gentilities, political quirks and
lack of critical savoir-faire of someone
he had, once, long ago, when young and
starry-eyed, hoped to hear speak in a
trained, dispassionate voice worth
listening to and trusting either as author
or reader. Alas for that hope!
The author learns to be less bewildered
than fascinated by what the criticaster's
X-ray eye imagines it sees. To take one
only example, I can no longer read with-
out a sense of reading twaddle a state-
ment that so-and-so’s style was influenced
by somebody-or-other’s: my own press-
clippings of the last three months tell
the public—and me —that these influ-
ences, sometimes more, sometimes less,
include Dickens, Ronald Firbank, Dylan
Thomas, Faulkner, Virginia Woolf,
Compton-Burnett, E. M. Forster, Eliza-
beth Bowen, James Joyce, Walter de la
Mare, Patrick White, Rochefoucauld,
Sir Thomas Browne, Peacock, William
Saroyan, Gerald Kersch, William Hay,
Jeffry Farnol, John Gay and Dostoievski.
Not having read a syllable of the last-
named nine writers, and very little of
some of the others, bewilderment would
be justifiable were I less degage. To
whom is the critic being fair? To Jeffry
Farnol? To the Jeffry Farnol fan egged
into buying a work that must disappoint?
To me, foisted with the sort of reader
I know doesn’t want to read me, and to
whom, and Jeffry Farnol, I must feel need-
lessly apologetic? Since Farnol, Farnol-
fan and I now no longer believe the critic,
who does? As I already possess inside in-
formation on any influences affecting me,
there’s little to do but wonder where
other critics’ ouija-boards will turn, smile
wryly, and keep my dirty big mouth
shut. At least I would have been keep-
ing it shut had I not, for the first time
in 20-odd years of being published, been
inflamed to public statement, not so
much on the art and craft of criticism
as on the artfulness and craftiness of
those who affect it.
To make clear why I have been aroused
from decades of discreet silence I must
reluctantly mention Mr Mathew and his
arrangement of words on The Red Page
(The Bulletin, December 9, 1961) which
deals with my novel “The Tilted Cross”.
It did this in the formal manner many
criticaster’s use: four-fifths of it was an
inaccurate precis of the novel. Bleakly.
that means that Mr Mathew gave away
my plot, thus depriving me of a large part
of my stock-in-trade. Had the precis
been more accurate I’d have been no less
aroused. The reason? Whatever stylistic
failings or distinctions the plot has, it
was constructed so that what-happens-
next is a vital element. A story-teller
plays his cards incident by incident,
chapter by chapter. Mr Mathew threw my
whole hand, face upwards, on
the table. As an author him-
self he must know what use a story-
teller needs to make of the reader’s
curiosity. Why did he hamstring my
plot? Literary criticism? To show he
had read to finis? Was he giving a hand-
out to those not wanting to pay 225. 6d.?
Was it a gracious gesture of translation
for those who can’t read Hal Porter neat?
Or does he believe, as so many criti-
casters do, that plot-exposure is part of
the system of skilled criticism? I am
prepared to be surprised if he do believe
so
However, the suggestion, “I’ve read the
book for you, mug. Don't waste time
and money. The butler done it,” is
unfairly common. It must arouse strong
feelings in writers, if not in those intelli-
gent readers who like to get all the stimu-
lation the writer has prepared for them.
The trick of giving-the-butler-away, the
underhand gambit of castrating a climax
and forestalling a planned development is
that of a mean person, an inadequate
reviewer or a literary cad. Obviously,
to hang his analyses on, it is necessary for
THE critics’ reactions to his
recent novel, “The Tilted
Cross,” have finally worn out Mr
Hal Porter’s patience. By way of
a preface to this critique of
Australian literary critics or
criticasters —he says: “Let it be
immediately understood that it is
a majority of criticasters only who
are receiving attention. The too
few critics proper need not be re-
marked on except to note that, as
things are, the fact of their ex-
istence is remarkable. It would be
seemly but foolhardy to praise
them by name for their civilised,
long-headed, scrupulous, unwarped
and objective assistance, just as it
would be unseemly but foolhardy
to revile by name those who have
done all to make criticism value-
less to writer and reader.”


THE UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Established /562.
Head Offiee: GEORGE AMI HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman), R. J. VICARS,
A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXON, I). A. T. DTCKINS, K. B. MYERS, A. E. STEPHEN
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of Every Description
J. O. LEWIS, General Manager.
the critic to use a scaffolding subtracted
from the plot. This necessity is the
critic’s right. The accomplished and
conscientious critic knows the line at
which he is not entitled to reveal any
more of the framework. If he doesn't
know, he wears his bloody mantle falsely.
As a librarian who had bought and
classified over 40,000 books in 5 years I
had long been a disenchanted non-reader
of criticasters. It served no purpose to
be misguided more than even a
publisher's blurb misguides. But, for
the purpose of checking my conviction
and encouraging my foolhardiness, I
have just finished reading several hundred
“criticisms” spawned in the last couple of
years. It was shattering to discover how
frequently the gaff had been blown on
defenceless story-tellers. To tell how
and, more importantly, why a plot
collapses beneath or too rawly protrudes
through its coating of words is some-
thing all sincere writers and many
sincere readers wish to learn from a
judge with authority. To present, in lieu
of sagacious criticism, a dehydrated and
chewed-over version of an entire plot is
ungenerous gossip and a dirty ploy.
As crippling to the effect worked for
and, more often than not, attained
by the writer is the expression of the
criticaster’s personal whims and whams
in discussing a work. This is more com-
mon than \Aoi-expose, and indefensible.
Indefensible because it is the dispassion-
ate conclusions of a critic which have
value, his analyses informed by know-
ledge, not his analyses based on belief.
The critic must censor his own opinions,
admirable though they may be in the
world outside criticism and crying out
for public airing. The public and the
author are entitled to opinions. The
critic is not. An author of pornography
and a reader of it are both opinionated—
one writes it, one buys it: two opinions
of its worth. A critic must assess and
define it with impartiality even if, in
his off-critic life, he both writes and
reads it. To acquire this impartiality
requires intelligence, years of observa-
tion, an unclouded mental eye. and intell-
ectual muscle enough to shepherd this
flock of abilities on to paper in a fault-
less literary style. Intellectual drought
having so long parched the landscape of
Australian criticism, it is infested with
what can alone live there—criticasters,
reputation's blowflies. These do not
possess the detachment necessary to
examine an author’s work as critics. The
true critic discovers first what an author's
statement is. Next, he finds out if the
work, at its own level of statement, is a
synthesis. Only now can he assess the
value of the accomplishment. This,
without reference to anything outside
the work itself. To have a level-headed,
experienced (and therefore unbiassed)
critic reveal faults and virtues is a
matter for the wise author’s gratitude.
To put down a “criticism” in which the
“critic” has done a strip-tease to show
himself as prejudiced against Roman
Catholicism, sexual hey-nonny, suburbia,
polysyllables and the fact that one is
not so subtle as Henry James (one didn’t
want to be) nudges one no further than
from frustration to indifference.
My immediately recent tour of
Criticaster Land revealed it more ploy-
ridden than I’d remembered. More
frightening than the ploys, which I’ll
mention later, is that the author’s style
can be patronised, denigrated, over-
praised, generally curry-combed by
people who are not only masters of
cliche and jargon but insensitive to word-
values to the point of illiteracy. I quote
the following: “very typical prose style”,
“very unique and quite individual prose”,
“quite pleasantly and humanly readable”,
“primarily quite nice and credible enter-
tainment”, “informative and delicately
etched style”, “quite nicely written and
readable” and (my favourite) “what
emerges are false sneers”. The point is
that these samples of English at its
grotesque worst are from the pens of
people set up as judges of the written
word. One can only say, “Hell! What is
going on?” and recall that one once
imagined a critic as a god, not as some
mortal with such shoddy equipment that
a quick grab at an opaque phrase served
for weighty comment.
TV'ow, to ploys. More agile criticasters
' have many in their seedy repertoires.
That dirty hand in the genteel glove, the
“perhaps .. . but” ploy appears frequ-
ently. After “but” come the smears.
This selection is from many used in the
last two years: “Perhaps one ought not
to quibble but . ..”, “Perhaps this is
hardly the place for the reviewer to
point this out but. . .”, “Perhaps it is too
small a matter to mention but...”,
“Perhaps it is not what the author inten-
ded but... ”, “Perhaps the writer’s
intention was honest enough but.. .”
The last two examples contain, ploy
within ploy, the sorts of words hardest
to swallow with authorly resignation:
“intends”, “intention”. Nothing shows
more the criticaster’s impercipience than
the ploy using words such as “seems”,
“purports”, “intends”, “attempts.” One
can only imagine how the authors felt
who were accused thus: “.. . seems to be
trying to follow in the footsteps of . . .”,
“purports to be a novel dealing with”,
“purports to be a portrayal of”, “these
stories seem to be intending to illustrate
that”. I know 1 found Mr Mathew’s
statement that “The Tilted Cross” “fails
by the Dostoievski standard it seems to
be setting itself” a mysterious one.
Seems? I’ve not read Dostoievski.
Dostoievski’s standard of what? Of
writing “The Tilted Cross”?
Which handbook criticasters learn
their tricks from no writer seems to
know. An author should be judged on
his own standards, lofty or low. That
standard, which it is the critic’s job to
discover, should be set as the only yard-
stick. That most authors are running
some sort of never-defined race against
each other, dead or living, is a fiction of
the bad critic. It is one of the more
deadly ways he can, after having
scrounged a seat at the table of litera-
ture, below the salt, hit below the belt.
This brings us to the favorite ploy,
the last I’ve space to mention, of odious
comparisons. Once more I quote: “I
do not think Treece is as good as Mary
Renault i 5...”, “He is no Robert
Graves...”, “Evelyn Waugh manages
this sort of thing more skillfully.. .”,
“falls far short of Maugham in the
same field.” Some users of this device,
which reveals no more than that they
know another author, use it for economi-
cal vengeance. One reviewer, having
flayed a novel, allowed that it would
appeal “especially to those who think
The Catcher in the Rye’ is a serious
book.” This throws Salinger and
Salinger-addicts into the same acid bath
as the novelist being reviewed, and is a
pretty revelation of the malice to spare
possessed by too many Australian critics.
What I should most like, on behalf of
dedicated critics, and writers and readers,
are answers, especially from those
travelling Criticaster's Land without the
passport of a creative background of
their own, to these questions:
Why are you a critic?
Are you sure you know why you are a
critic?
What are your qualifications?
How did you get your job?
Do you subject your own criticisms to
the tests you apply to another’s writing?
Are you there to encourage the reader
to like or dislike what you dislike or
like? Or have you some less immodest
purpose?
Do you think criticism a science to
be studied? Or do you just possess
a flair?
Are you there to give writers the bene-
fit of the knowledge you should be pre-
sumed to possess rather than the benefit
of the doubt you should not have? To
give impersonal advice rather than the
works?
Have you read any good books
lately?


LETTERS
WILCANNIA OR BUST
Sir,
It is good to hear from Madeleine
Armstrong (Bulletin, December 16) that
she is not, in fact, opposed to Australian
plays, but I am afraid that she has missed
the main point at which I was driving.
Her attitude towards the Australian play
is an admirable one and has my utmost
support, but I contend that by putting
the local work into a special category she
is, quite unconsciously and with the best
of intentions, doing the Australian
theatre more harm than good.
Now I am fully aware that Australian
plays are in a special category, but it
seems to me unwise to emphasise this in
public print. Quite bluntly, what 1 am
asking, in effect, is for Australian critics
to engage in a conspiracy to pretend that
Australian plays are part of the natural
order of things so that in the fullness of
time the public will think so too. Then
we may witness that happy day when the
Trust, the Firm and even the A.B.C. will
produce a local piece as naturally as
managements in other countries produce
their own native plays. After all, when
a new play goes on in Britain, for
example, nobody talks about its essential
“Englishness” as if that were a prime
factor in its acceptance or otherwise. Its
indigenous content is, quite rightly, taken
for granted. This attitude, in my opinion,
could be adopted here, artificially if you
like, but nevertheless inculcated. Once
injected into the national bloodstream by
the power of the Press it could effect an
almost miraculous recovery on the part
of that poor, battered, tottering old
anaemic, the Australian drama.
There is no question of the fact that
the imported play is the staple of what
theatre we have in this country. I main-
tain that the duty of Australian critics
is to break this stranglehold by every
means possible. By this I do not mean
they should relax their standards when
dealing with the native play, but rather
by a re-orientation of their outlook
towards its "Australianness.” Ideally,
the Australian play should be regarded
as the norm and the imported piece as
the curiosity. But, by insisting on “Aus-
tralianism,” you paradoxically defeat
your own purpose, perpetuate a bad old
tradition of colonial inferiority and
emphasise self-consciousness.
This reasoning may possibly appear to
be tortuous, Jesuitical and over-subtle,
but I consider the oblique approach is
the correct and most effective one.
Patriotism, by itself, is not enough.
DESMOND WARWICK HOWARD
West Swan (W.A.)
PROFILE OF A CAMPAIGN
Sir,
All that is obvious about Student
Action’s views (Bulletin, December 9)
on the White Australia Policy is that
young Australians have lived off the
cream. It seems that Student Action
members in Melbourne have no real
troubles to plague them and take the edge
off a fervency that is due, ironically, to
the White Australia Policy itself. Had
they experienced the racialism that exists
only when there are mixtures of entities,
had they experienced the misery of
Europe with its Oriental Jews, had they
felt the knife of segregation in America,
the brutality reserved for the black skin
in Africa, or even understood the great
irony of Britain’s idealistic approach to
colored immigration and then its volun-
tary termination, they might find another
cause or consider some Student Action
during the vacations up north with a pick
and shovel to develop what otherwise
will be Indonesian or Chinese Australia.
If their regard for Asians is so high, they
should go to their favorite Asians’ home-
lands and give them the benefits of their
talents, that is if they can get visas.
We owe our untrammelled past to our
European entity and in particular to the
fact that until 1945 this country was 98
per cent. British, and, indeed, during the
last war when the U.K. took so many
refugees from Europe, it had a higher
percentage of British stock than that
island itself. Would we have had the
same unity and fervor for our future if
there had been Dutch settlements in the
west of this continent, British in the
south, French in the east and Asians in
the north, with all the language problems
confronting any European unity, leading
to secessions, offset by the fear of Asian
infiltration south? Isn’t this the only
country in the world where there has
never been a war, a revolution, a civil
war or racial riots? And why is this?
Even Canada had the French and English
fighting through the forests, and New
Zealand its Maori wars. What a dream-
time we have all had down under!
There is nothing to be ashamed of in
a European Australian policy which is a
moral racial policy vindicated every day
by events in Africa, America, Britain,
Ceylon, Malaya and wherever the strains
meet and mix, and indeed to break
it down in the light of the extraordinary
failure in Britain could be immoral in
the extreme. Or are these Melbourne
students so naive as to think Australians
incapable of racialism as it exists in Little
Rock and elsewhere?
JUDITH McPHERSON
Turramurra ( N.S.W .)
THE LABIN CONFERENCE
Sir,
In my article, “The Labin Conference”
(Bulletin, December 23), there is an
error concerning the functions of Dr
Jaeger, Vice-President of the Bundestag.
“Vice-President of NATO” should read
“Vice-President of the Atlantic Treaty
Association.”
FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
Melbourne.
FREEDOM FIGHTERS IN THE
BATTLE FOR BENNELONG
Sir,
Since I have been in this country I
have been a constant reader of The
Bulletin and 1 am very impressed with
your paper. It was often my intention
to write an article to your Letters to the
Editor page, but my knowledge of most
of your articles was very small. There-
fore I was in no position to offer any
criticism or compliments. But in the case
of the article concerning the Yugoslav
freedom fighters (Bulletin, December 9)
the impression given by “A Sydney
Correspondent” is, to me, very mis-
leading.
As a native of Yugoslavia, I consider
the article an insult to the 1,800,000
people who lost their lives as a result of
and in reprisal against guerilla warfare
in Yugoslavia from 1941 to 1945. These
people were the real freedom fighters of
Yugoslavia and should not be connected
with the so-called “Freedom Fighters”
(as per your December 9 article) who in


reality were no different to the “Quis-
lings” of France.
These so-called “Freedom Fighters”
contend they have always believed in a
free, democratic, united and federated
Yugoslavia. However, it did not take
them long, in 1941, before they
donned uniforms of “USTASA” and
“CETNIKA” and, side by side with the
German Nazi, they plundered, murdered
and raped their way across their own
country.
Would they remember Kordun, where
they murdered the flower of Yugoslavian
youth? These youths, with their hands
tied behind their backs, kneeled and were
executed beside the graves which the so-
called “Freedom Fighters” forced them
to dig.
Would they remember the old woman
whose son was a partisan? It took
courage to burn her alive in a sack. And
the woman whose baby they pinned to
her breast with a German bayonet—these
are only a sample of atrocities committed
by these so-called “Freedom Fighters.”
In conclusion, I contend that “A
Sydney Correspondent” owes an apology
to those 1,800,000 people, those real
Yugoslav freedom fighters, who gave
their lives in the hope of a better and
free world.
ALEXEI C. SKOCIR
Jundah ( Queensland )
Sir,
Your article (Bulletin, December 9)
stated that Mr losilo, Yugoslav Consul,
arranged a celebration at Paddington
Town Hall, claiming November 26 as
being the Yugoslav national day.
Yugoslav “freedom fighters,” that is,
the followers of ex-King Peter, organised
a similar programme at Paddington Town
Hall, claiming December 1 as being the
Yugoslav national day.
Thus two conflicting dates, claimed as
being the Yugoslav national day, appear to
be of interest for a historian. The his-
tory reveals that on December 1, 1918,
the late King Alexander, then Crown
Prince of Serbia, issued his decree of
unification of Croats, Serbs and Slovenes
in a new State, and on the eve of the
Peace Conference in Paris after the
first war. By the virtue of this uni-
lateral decree the Parliaments of Serbia,
Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Dalmatia,
I stria and Montenegro, having no con-
nection whatsoever in this moment or in
the past, suddenly were dissolved to avoid
any discussion of the Petrovic dynasty
of Montenegro as well as the question of
Macedonians being now included in this
new-formed State. Sixteen years later,
King Alexander was a victim of such
unwise decree of unification of the people
who are not happy to live together and
to celebrate this proclaimed date as
national day.
After the second war, Tito accepted
the Western idea of an election, but the
election was “Eastern style” with com-
munist candidates only. Having won
100 per cent, of the votes by this well-
known “Soviet pattern” (one-horse race),
he issued, on November 26, his decree
of a new unification of Yugoslavia by
“the will of the people”—consisting of
six republics, two autonomous provinces,
four religions, two orthographies and a
dozen nationalities and national minori-
ties —and this date as the new Yugoslav
national day.
ILMA MUSIC
Neutral Bay ( N.S.W .)
A NEW CASE FOR STATE AID
Sir,
The criticisms of Ross Parish’s “A
New Case for State Aid” (Bulletin,
November 25) have avoided the central
issue at point which prompted his series
of suggestions for reform. We must ask
critically: What is the role of the State
in providing education, where education
is compulsory, and, in principle, free?
Who can deny that provision of universal
education “merely requires that the cost
of educating children in the appropriate
age groups be borne by the Government,
not by the parents”? Apart from its
financial commitment to education, the
State will probably be called upon to
manage schools for some children whose
parents see no other suitable institution
to instruct them. The State as the pro-
moter of education would then pay
itself as an educational agency for the
instruction of these children, on the
same basis on which it would pay other
educational agencies.
Critics Davis (Bulletin, December 9)
and Nelson (Bulletin, December 16)
conceive no other form of State aid than
that which propped up the deplorable
school systems of the pre-1880 period.
To attack the inadequacies of that period
when the new phenomenon of universal
education was setting colossal problems,
as a rebuttal to present claims for aid,
is to attack straw men. Critic Davis,
obviously a student of educational
history, would do well to widen his
horizons to include the northern hemis-
phere and the 20th century. The results
of Government support of non-State
schools in the Netherlands, Scotland,
England, Ireland, West Germany, etc. do
not seem to justify the predictions of dis-
aster happily advanced by those who
oppose reform in Australia. Nor have
those countries had to look to a 19th
century Australian precedent to devise an
equitable and efficient policy of support
for all approved schools. The Nether-
lands, in particular, avoids State encour-
agement of too many schools by simple
regulation of minimum numbers on the
basis of the district’s population ; this
minimum number must be maintained
and instructed according to supervised
standards for a period of 20 years before
complete (and retrospective) aid is
granted.
Criticism of the lack of initiative
shown by non-State schools is scarcely
valid under present circumstances. It is
not true that the majority of these
schools have had ample opportunity to
experiment. The defeating circumstance
is nearly always a lack of money. After
their battle to maintain State-imposed
standards in order to present an accept-
able alternative to the “free” State-sup-
ported schools, whence are they to obtain
the funds necessary to conduct research
and experimentation? It may be true
that experimentation is not discouraged
in the State system ; there is, however, a
peculiar rigidity to the changes intro-
duced in educational methods. When
a change is adopted, the established
practices are swept aside in toto and too
hastily by the one authority—e.g. the
imposition of co-education, the abandon-
ment of selective schools.
If, as critic Nelson asserts, direct
parent influence on the education of
their children is bad and shielding of
teachers from parental wrath is good,
would not the State serve its citizens the
better by “Brave New World Manship”?
Since education begins from the day of
birth surely the State should begin its
educational influences at that time and
preserve its children from parental mis-
management. Would Messrs Davis and
Nelson surrender their children to the
State for the sake of administrative
efficiency?
L. A. WOOLF
Cron nil a (N.S.W.)
THE PARSON BOWS OUT OF
POLITICS
Sir,
On reading the December 2 issue of
The Bulletin, I notice that a number
of interstate correspondents are men-
tioned by name, but not so the Perth
correspondent. Why? Whoever he may
be, his article, “The Parson Bows Out of
Politics,” is simply not true. The Rev.
Mr K. Dowding has not bowed out of
politics —on the contrary, he is more
politically active than ever in numerous
spheres.
The statement that “Mr Dowding is
no Peking-trekking peace parson,”
ignores the fact that Mr Dowding visited
Communist Czechoslovakia some years
ago where he made contact with the chief
communist spokesman in religious circles,
Dr Hromadka, who is a member of the
World Peace Council. Indeed, when that
Red theologian visited Australia, he spoke
from the pulpit of Mr Dowding’s
church in Woollahra.
Mr Dowding is on record as having
spoken at a number of Red-sponsored
peace gatherings.
Speaking over 2BL, Sydney (1/2/56),
in a radio forum, Mr Dowding pro-
claimed the “Better - Red - than - dead”
attitude when he said: “I would prefer
to be overrun by atheistic communism
than participate in an atomic war,
because less misery would follow under
their way of life than would follow a
war.”
Because the men in control of the
A.L.P. in East Sydney were satisfied with
Mr E. J. Ward, Mr Dowding, who was
politically active in that electorate,
accepted a “call” to the West, in search
of a seat in the Federal Parliament.
TONY McGILLICK
Scarborough ( W. A.)


OUT and ABOUT
found pencilled by a student of
foreign affairs on a United Nations
bulletin: U. Thant —Yes, I Than.
Social Significance
HThere have been some dissatisfied
murmurings in some Sydney suburbs
lately, following the publication of a
social-studies survey by University of
N.S.W. students, which listed all suburbs
in order of exclusiveness. The survey was
based on types of residences, occupations
of residents, absence of factories, and so
on. Vaucluse was top of the list, but
residents of Point Piper (which was in
the first five) wonder if the students took
into account that the local butcher does
his deliveries in a Jaguar.
The Australian Flaubert
/Commenting on Laurence Collinson
in the current “Overland,” an ad-
mirer calls him "a latter-day Flaubert”
and says his play “The Zelda Trio” is “his
‘Madame Bovary' and ‘Education Sen-
timentaleV' On the preceding page
there is a poem by Collinson, modestly
titled “Being and Non-Being.” which
begins:
Old Mr Tatt —you’ve heard his name
a thousand cliches earlier,
but still the animal’s fair game:
he’s only grown the burlier—
Jt may sound better in French.
No. 1 Tucker
iDeports from Keith Willey in Darwin
say that this season’s “big feller”
Christmas corroboree in the Territory
was a great success. From Groote
Eylandt to Port Keats, inside Darwin's
sleazy Bagot compound and in the south-
east area around Nourlangie lagoon,
the aborigines, whose idea of the ulti-
mate happiness is a well-filled belly, had
lots of No. 1 tucker —pig beef, wild
goose, duck, sweets and lollywater.
Thousands of bare feet stamped out
rhythm on the corroboree grounds, giant
20-foot canoes raced down Apsley Strait
in the annual contest between Melville
and Bathurst islands, and along the
Arnhem Land coast the great spear and
boomerang throwers vied for supremacy.
On Goulburn Island Santa rode a
tractor, at Port Keats a pony. Mel-
ville Island's 18-stone Brother Barrett,
who has, according to another missionary,
“the figure of Father Christmas,”
sweatily resplendent in his red uniform,
clattered around the settlement on a
donkey, distributing presents and good-
will.
Bathurst Island had its famous Black
Santa, Matthias. Matthias is a big
Mandiupi tribesman, with a white five-
o’clock shadow. He achieved lasting
honor among the islanders when on
February 21, 1942, he captured the first
Japanese airman taken on Australian
soil. While his friends Paddy the Lair,
Three Feller and Big Barney stood with
levelled spears, Matthias held the Jap
with the immortal command: “Stick ’em
up, allasame Opperlong Casserty.”
Cut-price Pickets
A N Australian, visiting Canada for the
first time, reports being intrigued by
the unbiquitous picket-line. He says that
in Vancouver warehousemen at a chain-
store were picketing their employers.
However, when questions were asked as
to the “working” conditions of the
picket-men, it turned out that the union
had hired some of the local mass of
unemployed, who were not member
of the union and who were being paid
about half of the minimum wage fixed
by the striking union’s present award.
In Ottawa, the worker’s “best friend,”
the Soviet Union, is under fire from rep-
resentatives of the International Typo-
graphical Union. The Russian embassy
had a propaganda publication printed
by a non-union shop. A Soviet official
claimed that they could not find a
“clean” shop which could accommodate
the big printing job they had in mind. The
union’s answer to that was “Rubbish!”
A .
American CGfTfOfS
a n American edition of “The Run-
/V away? ” a story G f outback Queens-
land by Melbourne writer Ruth Morris,
is to be brought out by Random House.
The Australian publishers, Rigby Ltd, of
Adelaide, also report that negotiations
are band for the sale of the film rights
t b e book,
Australian Art in Los Angeles
TZ'ym Bonython reports that the large
group show of Australian paintings
recently opened at Raymond Burr's gal-
lery in Los Angeles received much better
notices than anyone dared to expect,
One painter who impressed both critics
and public alike was Melbourne’s Ken
Hood. Mr Hood had modestly priced
his piece at 150 dollars. Early in the
first week of the show an agitated art-
lover pointed this out to Mr Burr and
“Go ahead, they said, this novel HAS to be published ”


added, "Surely you’ve left off two
noughts?”
The popularity of Mr Hood's work
assures him a one-man show early in the
New Year, along with, so far indicated,
Donald Friend, Paul Jones and one of
our most distinguished landscape artists,
Lloyd Rees.
Taste in Tailoring
"C nglishman Philip Dell-Creed, who
writes in this issue about his working
days in Egypt, says that although Nasser
was his boss, he never met him. How-
ever, he did meet Nasser’s tailor. The
tailor said that the wardrobes in Nasser’s
bedroom contained some 200 suits. Many
had only been worn once, having been
made for a State function or for a visit
to a friendly power overseas.
However, the tailor complained that
despite the good cloth and workman-
ship Nasser insists on wearing his
trousers too long and refuses to wear
braces. Consequently his trousers
always appeared baggy.
The Dags Get Together
the last days of the dying year
more than 300 jazz lovers—popu-
larly knows as “dags”—attended the 16th
Australian Jazz Convention at Norwood
Town Hall, Adelaide. Twenty bands
from Perth, Melbourne, Sydney, Can-
berra and Brisbane registered, and
itinerant musicians from those cities plus
the country towns of Cootamundra,
Bendigo, and Shepparton, were present.
The convention is conducted each year
by a committee of musicians and “dags”
elected the year before when the site of
the next year’s festival is decided by
general vote. The convention is also
the oldest-established jazz festival in the
world, predating by two years the festi-
val held in Cannes in 1948, which Ameri-
can experts consider to be the first in
the world. The reason for ignoring the
Australian festival is possibly that it is
limited to bands which play in a tradit-
ional idiom. The French festival inclu-
ded the then embrionic bop movement
which has flourished into several pro-
gressive schools. Modern musicians in
this country sometimes resent the exclu-
sion of their music from our festival,
particularly players like Keith Hounslow
or Johnny Sangster who have developed
from keen traditional players—Hous-
low even being a veteran of the first con-
vention held in Melbourne in 1946.
There are several traditional functions
included each year for delegates only,
such as the riverboat trip and the New
Year’s Eve “rorty ole do”, but one
feature which the public always enjoys
is the street parade.
That Was Australia
“Vigilans” writes: —
The Union Cold Storage Co., which
says it’s English, but probably mentions
it through its nose, has bought out
COPLEY and PATTERSON in East
Kimberley and the Buchanan estate on
the Victoria River, Northern Territory.
The country comprises the Old, Margaret
and Sturt Rivers (something like 9,000,000
acres) and Wave Hill station (6,000,640
acres) . A representative is about to visit
Melbourne with the object of getting con-
cessions from the Government for the
purpose of erecting freezing works on
the Victoria River. The Victoria Riser
is not only the best waterway in the
North, but the adjacent lands are the
finest in the Territory for either pastoral
or agricultural purposes. The fodders
are not rank as they are in the neighbor-
hood of Port Darwin, Port Essington,
Blue Mud Bay or the McArthur, be-
cause the rainfall is much lighter. This
is the country where settlement should
first take place—this and the McArthur
which is the natural outlet for over
40,000 square miles of the finest downs in
Australia, where millions of sheep could
be depastured and very fine wool grown.
The Victoria penetrates farther into the
interior than any other river on the
North Coast. Its mouth is 26 miles wide
between Turtle and Pierce Points, while
it is navigable for large steamers for a
distance of 50 miles from the sea, and for
60 miles farther by light-draft craft.
All the best country is, unfortunately,
held in vast lumps by corporations or
private individuals on long leases at Is.
a square mile. There are, in most cases,
33 years still to run. The areas comprise
small principalities of six, seven and ten
thousand square miles. It is said the
Union Co. is also after Victoria Downs—
KIDMAN’S station —and it would pro-
bably not be a difficult thing to buy out
JOE BRADSHAW. Then the co. would
have a monopoly of the river. That
would not benefit the Territory much,
nor would it cause much settlement.
—“The Bulletin March 12, 1914.
Feiffer
THI6 IS
o£WA£fl
rm <4
ww A
IQhUittOZR.
Horn f I'M
WM ABOUT
tom l •SAl£7.
fieuevc h.£
l COUiO CUT
MM TO0&OC
our.
f AM
M or Af
HOM£ AT
M HQ-
M6M T-
1 OMW [ 'JAIP
IP M£i/£R
WOIMU 'OP£
I CAfJ'T iIVE
WITHOUT WO!
00 <4OO uuMe-
' STAMP?
m i
I/JIU
item
SHoerw-
I 10 AS la)RM(> ■
60 u;eoM6-
i tow?
MLI/tA I 10JC
WO, LOME wo.
LOVE ,
y hou 1
IF you ikIOUUP LIKE To
LCME A MK4A6F
PiCAEE WAIT TIU VOU
HEAR THE SI6AJAL OtO
THI6 PECORDIIO6 ■ HOO
UMC THIRTY EECOODE.
A6ol)r»HATl6AlPoft(fi/ifMfl COW -
curmromcon muimiMffi-
mooizemicMwemcom ■
omjimimmm&Qifim ■
WMowemm -
ir mir sttfA
Lite THICH
KCOVOi.


TRAVEL
Before the Indians
fMJR wandering correspondent, Mr
Don White, wrote this piece about
Goa a few weeks ago, when there was
a Goa. Mr White might have won a
place in history as the last man into Goa
before the Indians. However, he just
didn’t try hard enough.
TVd I ever tell you about the day I
didn’t go to Goa? Hmmm? There
are two ways of not going to Goa. (1)
The positive way. This is summed up
in the old saw “When in India do as the
Indians do,” i.e. —simply pretend that
Goa does not exist. (2) The negative
way.
Believe me, the negative way of not
going to Goa isn’t as easy as it sounds.
In the first place, you’re trying your
damnedest to go to a place that every-
body else insists does not exist.
I began my campaign in Madras at the
office not-so-jokingly known as the
Tourist Misinformation Bureau
“I want to go to Goa,” 1 said bluntly
to a young lady in a green sari and a
“My name is Miss Kumari” badge.
“What for?”
What can you say to a question like
that, I ask you?
“There is nothing to see in Goa,” she
said coldly, handing me a brochure
about big-game hunting with the
Maharaja, of Cooch Behar.
“That I shall decide for myself,” I
replied, with an in-your-place smile.
“Now, what train do I catch? Do 1 need
a visa, a permit?”
“There is a train daily to Murmagao,”
she said to me (or it would have been
said to me if I had been standing behind
my left shoulder). “If you hold an inter-
national passport, a permit is not
necessary. Thank you.”
It’s not that I mistrusted Miss Kumari,
but 1 called at the Tourist Bureau in
Bangalore. Indians have this charming,
but inconvenient habit of answering
questions by telling you the answer they
think you'd most like to hear. ~lius,
when a dhoti-clad porter tells you there’s
“plenty of time” to catch the Bombay
mail, it means it has left already. And
“yes, this film is in English. No, it has
not been dubbed” is sure to mean that
Lana Turner and Fabian will be making
love in dissynchronised, but fluent,
Hindustani.
The Bangalore bureau looked blank
vhen I mentioned Goa. I showed where
it was on the map. (My own map. I
would have used the wall-to-wall map of
India in his office except that the Portu-
guese enclaves of Goa, Damao and Din
—as well as East and West Pakistan--
just do not exist, according to Indian
cartographers.
Having jogged his memory, he became
almost verbose in his desire to protect
me. From myself. “You mustn’t go to
Goa,” he pleaded. “They will kill you!
The Goans are terrible people, if they
are not put down they intend to over-
throw the Indian government. ..”
“What! little Goa?” I cried. “But
your Mr Nehru has said that these
‘terrible’ Goans are only loyal Indian
subjects who wish to throw off the
cloak of colonialism and return to ti e
motherland .. .”
“Yes, that too,” said the little brown
man, excitedly.
He, too —later—informed me that a
visa, a permit, was unnecessary, but
opined that the daily train went to
Panjim, the capital.
At Hubli (of all places) I had an Eng-
lish-Hind ustani-sign-language conversa-
tion with the station master that made me
think of those Christmas riddles.
Q: What is the difference between
the daily train to Murmagao and the
daily train to Panjim?
A: None! All India-Goa train
services have been permanently can-
celled !
But there was a bus ; 104 miles across
jungle and mountain to Karwar. Spent
the night in Karwar. Nine a.m. ferry
across the Kali river; 11 a.m. bus, 6
miles to Majali, the Indian frontier post.
It was here that I learned that holders
of international passports do so need a
permit.
The guard revived me with a cup of
tea. “Don’t worry,” he said, jocularly,
“even if you had had a permit you
couldn’t have gone to Goa. You need
a Portuguese visa, too!”
The bus back to the Kali river to
connect with the ferry back to Karwar to
connect with the bus back to Hubli left
at one p.m. Waiting in the customs shed,
I discovered a 20-year-old Goan boy
named Gilbert. He was in tears ... he
was heartbroken.
“What’s the matter?” I asked in a
Florence Nightingale voice. “Have you
been beaten? Have they arrested your
mother?”
“No,” he sobbed .. . and it was pitiful
to hear. “No. I bought 20 Lata
Mangeshkar (India’s Doris Day)
records in Bombay and the Customs
officer will only let me take six of them
into Goa ...”
I’m not soft-hearted. I really
WANTED 14 Lata Mangeshkar
records.
P.S. Undaunted. The scene shifts to
“Look, if it's any help, think of women as 92% Water."


Bombay. The time is eight days later
(having been marooned in a Poona
flood for three).
At the Bombay Sachia Waliya (or
secretariat) i applied for a permit to
leave India for travel into Goa.
Simple! Only took nine days of form-
filling, passport-showing, corridor-stalk-
ing, inquiry-making.
I asked the permit-issuer about the
Goan visa. “Oh, you'll get that in
Delhi,” he said with a gay smile.
“DELHI!” (Delhi is more than a
thousand miles away. In the opposite
direction to Goa).
P.P.S. Still undaunted and clutching
my Goan permit. The scene shifts to
Delhi. The time is one month later
(having vi-ited assorted erotic-sculpture-
type temples).
I W'ent into a tail-spin when they told
me the Portuguese Embassy was closed,
“diplomatic relations broken off.” But
cheered up when they said, “You’ll get
your Goan visa at the Brazilian
Embassy.”
They were nice to me at the Brazilian
Embassy. “Goan visa? But of course!
How many months will you be in
Delhi ...?” Five photos, £3 10s., and
two months while they write to Lisbon
and Panjim (airmail).
P.P.P.S. Daunted. The scene shifts
back to Bombay. The time is coupla
months later.
I was talking about how I didn’t go
to Goa with a Goan reporter on the
“Times of India”.
“I’ve found a solution to the Goan
problem that will suit Portugal, will
suit the Goans and,” he lowered his
voice, confidentially, “and will make
Mr Nehru simplv furious!”
“To placate' the world’s anti-
colonialism factions,” he went on (quite
seriously), “Portugal will declare their
intention of quitting Goa. Then,” and
at this point he became dangerously
hysterical, “...and then,” with tears
streaming down his face, “...and then
... they give Goa to PAKISTAN! ”
Anybody want to buy a genuine Goan
permit, issued (legally, of course) in
Bombay, valid until end ’62, personally
autographed .. .?
DON WHITE
FOR THE OBSERVER
Exiles from Erin
Full often l think of and talk of thee,
Erin
Thy heath-covered mountains are fresh
in my view
Thy glens, lakes and rivers, Loch-Con and
Kilkerran,
While chained to the soil on the Plains
of Emu.
The Exile of Erin. “M,” 1829
Edward MacLysaght, whose own
migrating relatives, docked of the
prefix, have stamped their name so
indelibly on the iron face of Australia,
might be suspected of prejudice in re-
marking the vital contribution of his
countrymen to development both here
and in America in his recently published
“More Irish Families.” He is in good
mixed company, however, for the subject
is one that gains increasing attention
from social historians and other writers.
J. D. Pringle in his “Australian Accent”
asserts that “Australian nationalism,
especially when it took a specifically
anti-British form, was very largely their
[the Irishmen's] creation.” Russel Ward
gees further in his “Australian Legend”
because he shows how' nationalism in this
country almost always did take this form
and that the “concentration of Irish
convicts in the mother colony was one
more factor tending to make New South
Wales the major seed bed of the emerg-
ing Australian ethos.”
It is hardly to be wondered that the
influence of these people “of altogether
capricious disposition” was viewed by
many English and Scottish nation build-
ers with such righteous apprehension.
Even Irish Protestantism, as proved by
numbers of political prisoners and exiles,
was no criterion for proper love of
England or decent regard for law and
order. In fact, some of this category,
being better educated than their more
directly oppressed Catholic countrymen,
were still more dangerous.
It is not, of course, inevitable that the
founding fathers, if granted the power to
return, would altogether approve of the
way things have turned out or the sort
of people we have become, but they
would surely, in fairness, admit that Aus-
tralian conditions played strange tricks
with the characteristics they deplored.
The “shiftless and unprincipled Irish’’
were after all a broken people on arrival
and their traits, like those of the “hope-
less aborigines,” inevitably came home
to roost.
Improved prospects and conditions,
however, soon proved the average Irish-
man much the energetic, hard worker
that MacLysaght himself potrays in
“The Small Fields of Carrig,” a delight-
ful novel of Irish farming life. Even the
Irishman’s Anglophobia and general re-
sentment of authority would have been
seen, by the turn of the century, to have
bedded down into the sort of tough
initiative that, ironically enough, would
render the Australian soldier so formid-
able a tool of Empire.
Australian archivists, unlike their
American counterparts, have not as yet
been overburdened with the demand for
genealogical research, but the growing
interest in the emergence of national
character has awakened much curiosity
in family names and places of origin.
Backgrounds tend to become more
important as untapped sources of infor-
mation fade beyond recall and many a
third and fourth generation Australian,
returning to the United Kingdom, regrets
the disappearance of reliable dues to
his family past
Those of Irish and part-Irish origin
“My wife is frigid!”


will find many fascinating leads in the
works of MacLysaght who, having been
among other things farmer, poet, novelist,
university governor and genealogist, is
today “Director of the Irish Manuscripts
Commission’’ and probably the greatest
living authority on the history of Irish
names. A keen supporter of the
national language revival, he mourns the
desecration of many beautiful old Irish
names, either through their anglicisa-
tion, the careless disdain of British clerks
or merely “Australian philistinism.”
. Alas for MacGiolla losa degraded to
Mac Lice, O’Greachain to Grimes, for
the “Irish indifference and hopelessness
that had acquiesced in the lopping of
Mac and O' in the 17th and 18th cen-
turies” and in the wholesale gobbling up
of smaller names by such as the vorac-
ious Murphys, Kellys and Sullivans.
Many a MacGowan and O’Gowan of
penal times took refuge under the Eng-
lish version—Smith.
It is not to be taken for granted, there-
fore, that all English-seeming names in
Ireland, or from Ireland, are of English
origin. Nor have people of Jewish sound-
ing names from that region necessarily a
Jewish ancestor, for Coen is a variant
of Coyne, Levy of Dunlevy and even
Abraham is likely derived from Mac-
Abrahoonde of ancient Gaelic times.
The invasion of Ireland by French
refugees after the Revocation of the
Edict of Nantes makes many other names
suspect of importation, but frequently
the most French-seeming of these —-
such as Lavelle, Delargy, Lomasney,
Delahunty—have their roots without
doubt iu Irish soil. On the other side,
of course, there are numbers claiming
Irish origin that are summarily dismissed
to homelands in Europe, England or
Scotland.
Apparently no foundation exists for
the widely held belief that Mac is essen-
tially a Scottish prefix, for MacLysaght
insists it is as Irish as O’. The clan
system, however, would seem to be
more specifically a Scottish development.
If a Scot is a McLeod or a MacDonald,
one knows pretty well where one stands
about his tartan and his dan, whereas
in Ireland, although a man may fluke
a surname corresponding with that of
some ancient clan, he will more likely
be an O’Flanigan of Clann Cahill, an
O'Donnell of Clann Daly. Members of
Irish “septs” do share common names
and places of origin, but a “sept” must
not be confused with a “clan”.
A perusal of these scholarly works
will set many Australians at rights about
their names and the “sept arms” they
may or may not be entitled to bear. It
will also give much reason for pride in
claiming origin from this ancient, creative
and curiously adaptable race that in half
a century of Federation has provided
us with no less than six Prime Ministers,
Scullin, Lyons, Fadden, Curtin, Forde,
Chifley, and otherwise contributed so
much to the bulk of the Australian
Encyclopaedia.
MARY DURACK
ABORIGINALITIES
The Poet of
Lightning Ridge
TS/hen Eric Catterall reads the title of
this short “profile” he will almost
certainly say : “Poetry! Like hell —what
1 write is doggerel—Catterall Doggerel.”
But you can judge that for yourself by
reading his poem,
Eric Catterall is a cripple. He’s been
a cripple since he got polio as an infant.
He gets around all right, usually with the
help of a long branch that he can hook
a finger into. But you can see it’s a
relief for him to drop to his haunches
and get the weight off his twisted feet.
And then he’ll start to talk. He'll tell
you how he battled along from child-
hood, how he trained a small pack of
red setters and built a reputation as
the best rabbiter around the southern
Riverina. He lived well and won a lot
of bets with that team of setters —until
the myxo put him out of business.
At the moment Eric Is living up at
Lightning Ridge, reading everything he
can get his hands on. A mate comes
chugging along the track on an old
Fordson about seven every morning and
Eric climbs up on the back. Then they
disappear between the miniature white
pyramids of the opal-mines and spend
the day working over the old diggings.
Weeks will go by and they'll find nothing
but worthless potch. If they are very
lucky they may find a good piece worth
anything from £5O to £5OO, but they’d
be very lucky.
The regulars up at the Ridge get a
lot of amusement when they read stories
in the Sydney papers of tourists who
pick up a big opal. Chances are that
the description of the “big find” is multi-
plied 100 per cent.
The appeal of the Ridge is not in the
possibility of getting rich quick. It's in
the people—people like Eric Catterall
who are generous, intelligent, honest and
direct. Maybe they don’t have much time
for the day-tourist, but they have a lot
of time for their fellow-men and, if you
stick around there for a while, swapping
experiences, you'll come away with the
city taste of suspicion washed out of
your mouth, at least for a few days.
BILL COURCIER
THE DARK FOLK OF THE
RIVER BANK
I’m not a man to pass the buck
And dodge my share of blame,
And watching ill-fed native kids
My head is bowed with shame.
A hundred years of white man’s rule
A century to train—
The dark folk of the river banks
Are what we must explain.
The U.N.O. will want to know
The world will judge our pleas
That we cannot assimilate
The aborigines.
They lie who say there’s jobs for all
For I am much afraid
There's little opportunity
For those without a trade.
We brag of our equality—
Another big mistake ;
The dark chap only gets the jobs
The local whites won't take.
And as this fact comes home to me
How bitter is the blow,
I always though my countrymen
Would give a bloke a go.
I never though we'd judge a man
On just his pigment stains
And once I thought we valued things
Like honesty and brains.
’Tis true that some are bad in drink
And some can’t save a bob
But, strike me blue! the same is true
Of every human mob.
The dark folk in their river shades
Are seldom left in peace
They’re patronised by stupid whites
And bullied by police.
And some there are so out of place
In river shade or tent.
The saddest picture of them all—
The whites of mixed decent.
We glibly blame their native blood
But would the same be true
Suppose your child was reared by them
And theirs was reared by you?
The displaced persons caused by wars
Can count on half the West
But not a word for our displaced
The dark and dispossessed.
With hundreds for each refugee
We train and teach and plan
While the dinkum old Australian
Is the long-forgotten man.
We waste a mighty labor force
But worse than that I fear
Goodwill from the Colombo Plan
We sabotage it here.
But--how to face the great U.N.
And try to justify?
I suppose we'll just send Menzies back
To lie and lie and lie.
ERIC CATTERALL


REVIEWS
THEATRE
Breaking Through
WAL CHERRY
HThere is a new spirit in Melbourne.
lt came through the work of the
Antipodean painters, “The Prize'’ and
the Eltham Art Films, Robin Boyd's
“The Australian Ugliness." There are
three main characteristics dissatis-
faction with the pose of the Artist
as Garret Dweller, impractical and
effete ; a desire to break through the
elite circle which surrounds the arts
into a more popular culture ; a definite
need to bring the arts closer together in
order to put pressure on the community,
The Emerald Hill Theatre, which is
to open shortly, is a part of this
movement. Our desire is to throw out
much of the maudlin sentiment and
meaningless rococo rubbish which in-
undates Australian theatre and to provide
an uncluttered theatre with direct
relevance to the city in which it functions.
After showing some amazement at the
idea o: starting a new and independent
theatre people normally ask where the
money came from. It is a strange
question when you think about it and a
bit terrifying because it presumes that the
main difficulty in starting a theatre is
raising the finance. We don't answer
this question.
Enormous sums aren't needed when
people are prepared to give professional
skills, time and enthusiasm to a project
with which they feel a sense of identi-
fication. This theatre must not cost vast
sums to build or run. It must be functional,
well designed and economic. The Aust-
ralian theatre is geared to success econom-
ically so that no one will take a risk which
is more than marginal. The economics
of the Emerald Hill Theatre give it
a flexibility of policy not open to any
other professional theatre.
Building costs have been kept relatively
low and without a great burden of initial
investment money can be put where it is
often needed most into the pockets of
the artists. We have no desire to possess
a large and costly piece of real estate
which must be managed with a “go-safe”
policy in order to return a dividend. The
empire-building economics of Australian
theatre have to be broken through,
emphasis must return to the actor and
the play.
An economic basis of this kind can be
achieved only through the efforts of a
large and vital group. Group feeling
lies behind the formation of this theatre,
and when the theatre opens we want that
feeling to include our audiences.
You can hear the cynic say something
nasty about group feeling. I've seen it
at work. It can exist in the theatre. It
has built this one. A group theatre is one
in which personal satisfaction comes
from participating in creating something
outside yourself, in which you believe,
and through which you can express
yourself.
For the company which plays in the
new theatre there will be no artificial
highbrow and lowbrow distinctions. We
are aiming at popular theatre in the best
sense theatre which acknowledges that
people are not stupid and that the great-
est theatrical sin is to be dull. Because
no one has a fortune invested in this
theatre, the admission prices will be low.
A theatre is not only a building. Good
theatre is an immediate as well as a
lasting thing and it boils down to being
relevant to the town in which you play.
If there is a prevailing philosophy in Aus-
tralia, it is the philosophy of common-
sense. its line is not altogether clear and
its vocal disciples are not many but it's
high time commonsense broke into our
ephemeral, irrelevant and, for the most
part, prissy theatre.
The Emerald Hill Theatre will not be
“featurist" in architecture, production,
acting or set design. It will try to move
at a smart pace. It will be concerned with
telling a story which has a social mean-
ing, rather than with exploring and re-
exploring personal neuroses in a romantic
vacuum. It will try to encourage skilful
and truthful, unmannered acting. It will
base its repertory Australian play-
wrights who will be brought into the
theatre to work but it will not ignore the
classics or important contemporary
works from overseas. Above all, this
theatre must be a focal point, a meeting
place where something positive is always
happening.
It will have a small permanent company
augumented with actors from the theatre
workshop which is run in conjunction
with the theatre. The theatre will not
work on the English repertory system
but will produce a series of plays in reper-
toire, with its successes forming the back-
bone of the season. There will be two
series of five plays presented anm 'ly.
The theatre will also provide music, arc
exhibitions, topical revues and experi-
ments in dance and opera.
Jn design, it can be used for open
“end” staging, arena staging and orthodox
work because it has a large fore-stage
and a revolving stage. The auditorium
is built as an amphitheatre with each row
of seats raised. The visual emphasis w ill
be upon the actor and the play, and not
on lights, scenery, “production".
What are the problems ?
There are many difficulties, substantial
and trivial, in setting up a theatre
in Melbourne but the greatest is to get
the idea of a theatre taken seriously by a
community fed on the glamorised, public-
relations, newspaper idea of the theatre
as being full of people who are concerned
with feathery values. It makes interest-
ing reading but it does not have any real
relation to the community. When they
finally go to a theatre they are not
disillusioned. 1 have felt this often in
my own productions in the past. They
seldom see anything which they recognise
as human behavior. They see a
mannered imitation of styles of acting
from other countries. They see little
direct observation of life. So they are
amused, entertained or bored and. un-
conscious of causes, they judge only by
the effect on themselves. The cliche
which makes the audience laugh or cry
has begun to be accepted as "Theatre,”
as entertainment.
npHE great difficulty in trying to break
through this barrier and to establish a
theatre in an Australian community is
that it seems “commonsense” or “tough-
minded" not to care deeply about any-
thing so trivial as “a lot of blokes play-
acting.” The need for good theatre is
aroused by good theatre it cannot be
a need which is manufactured first and
satisfied later.
To ignore this problem, and to assume
that Australians want theatre automati-
cally, will be suicidal. The Emerald Hill
Theatre has two courses open to it. The
first is to follow Joan Littlewood's
example of finding a level of sensitivity
and interest in her audiences and to
build from there. The second is to pro-
vide an unrelieved pastiche of European
and American theatre for the benefit of


listab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS.ON &
O SULLIVAN
PTY LTD
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANU ‘"ACTURERS
CARTON MANUF\CTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS A- OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
‘JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
an assorted elite and nauseam and
boredom.
I believe that when we have Australian
plays to play we will do plays from other
countries much better, because we will
know ourselves theatrically and we will
bring another attitude of mind to bear on
the texts. We will also be able to see and
hear the differences more clearly.
Where will Australian plays come
from ? We think from direct encourage-
ment; from numerous writers, actors,
producers; from improvisations, resource-
fulness and hard work. Nettie Palmer
maintains that a lack of professional
stimulus robbed the Pioneer Piayers of
advancement in the ’twenties when
Essen and Vance Palmer could perhaps
have risen as playwrights of stature,
Writers have got to be stimulated into
free use of this difficult medium,
The theatre will open shortly
and the proof of the pudding is in the
eating. One thing only I know for sure
about all this. In the theatre you must
either have no faith and exploit the audi-
ence or great faith and depend upon them,
I sleep easier the second way.
Bite Needed
A Little Less Drama. Little Theatre.
Melbourne.
Opinions probably differ on what
makes a good revue. The notion
that you should leave your mind behind
with the problems of the world when you
go out to be entertained still enjoys some
vogue, and makes a satirist’s job very
hard. Revues try to be satirical and yet
avoid being cutting. The froth that is
left depends for success largely on the
clowning of the cast and the smoothness
of the producer.
This year's Little Revue sets out to be
mild and amusing and, thanks to some
polished work by Diana Bell, Marie
Cumisky, David Sale, Paul Eddey and
Barbara Angell as scripters, composers
and actors, and to a clever set and
beautifully fast, smooth production by
Irene Mitchell, it manages to tilt at the
locals without upsetting them. The chief
sources of jest are the City Fathers and
suburbia, which, after Barry Humphreys,
look like becoming perennially fruitful.
None of the sketches is especially bril-
liant and, in fact, the majority slip by
almost before you become aware of
them. The only ones that drag are those
which by revue convention must be
straight, sentimental and pointless. The
whole would have been greatly improved
by the cutting of several of the short and
feeble sketches to allow the better ones
expand and give a more consistent
theme to the show. Still, that would
assume that the scripters could make
more oi their material, and, although
they had many a bright idea, they showed
only ordinary talents in exploiting them.
Diana Bell, in various roles, as waitress
bi the new Cultural Centre Cafe, as a
glamorous Mary Christmas, and as a
V.E.B. hen, was the outstanding clown
of the cast, and the only one who injected
some character into her parts, whilst
Mane Cumisky did some very clever
comic dancing, but the others, though
competent, lacked a sense of farce which
might have allowed them to be much less
respectable and more biting, and perhaps
have given the audience something
unexpected in their entertainment,
BILL HANNAN
MUSIC
A Word of Apology
T know of one American poet who has
written a love song to a coyote. Prob-
ably there are others who have ranged
even more widely in their affairs. But
no one, to my knowledge, has ever been
so moved with affection for a music
critic that he has given his expression a
lyrical form.
And it is not only in song that the
corpus of praise for music critics is
thin. Even the writers of the humble
editorial letter do not —at any rate in
Australia —make up a very formidable
body. If the published statistics are a
reasonable guide, one might be forgiven
the suspicion that there is hardly a group
of men in the country more universally
detested than the reviewers of concerts
and performances. Those who are, like
myself, absurdly sensitive to public
opinion, are reduced to consoling them-
selves with the reflection that the silent
reader, the writer-to-the-editor whose
letter never gets written, is the contented
customer,
Of all the reasons which underlie this
apparent unpopularity, probably the
strongest is the feeling among the fre-
quenters of concerts that the critic needs
no particular skill, experience or powers
of articulation. Many members of an
audience feel that they themselves have
a ckarer understandi ' of the whole
game than . Joe Blow of the “Chronicle,”
though they are often euriously unwil .
[jng to extend this privilege to any other
member of the same audience,
a good number of critics, Ernest New-
man, j think, among them, feels much
the same way, and they keep on regard-
jng themselves merely as happy indi-
viduals who have been given the chance
to speak on behalf of the audience they
were in the night before,
But if you scratch a man who objects
to criticism on these grounds you will
often uncover in him a belief that the
whole affair is a matter of opinion. This
is a rather more serious objection to
criticism as a whole, but it is one which
needs to be examined a little more
rigorously than people sometimes
imagine.
It is true that there is a strong wash
of opinion covering the whole field of
art and reaction to art. This hardly needs
laboring: it has been evident, not only
for centuries, but for civilisations. But
when this is taken as showing that there
are no truths about art to be discovered
and proclaimed, that there are no objec-
tive values at all, it has, I feel, overshot
the mark.
The existence of scores of different
Christian theologies, of hundreds of
religions outside Christianity, has never
seemed to me a strong reason for believ-
ing that there is no God. The conflicts
between schools of theoretical physics
do not in themselves prove that atoms
do not exist, that there are no neutrons
and protons, that there is no such thing
as energy, which occasionally shows itself
operating in fairly understandable and
predictable ways.
No more does conflict of musical
opinion undermine my feeling that there


are certain values in music which, as
far as we can tell, may be regarded as
unchanging values. I have never been
convinced, for instance, that you could
weigh the importance of creative
musicians by adding up the number of
their admirers, though this rather naive
preoccupation seems to exercise the
minds of some innocent bystanders.
Nor does any phalanx of democratic
opinion disturb my confidence in the
precedence of art over performance.
Performers themselves have an atti-
tude to criticism, to speak again in
general terms, which merits a. very
sympathetic attention. They are, after
all, often the target of hurtful and some-
times ill-considered epigrams ; and they
have a professional interest in the matter
which greatly exceeds that of most
reviewers. It is unfortunate that, when
they complain of injustice, the complaint
so often takes the unreasonable form of
asking for creative or constructive criti-
cism, because both these things are
highly unstable or improbable entities.
Creative criticism has a certain mean-
ing in literature, it is true ; but even here
it is generally nothing more than a
bastardisation of someone else's ideas.
In music, by virtue of the difference of
medium, it seems to mean nothing, unless
perhaps the jottings of one composer on
the works of others—and these are not
criticism, though they frequently have a
great (and rather despised) interest for
the critic.
Constructive criticism means, as far as
I can see, nothing, i know what it is
intended to mean —the handing-down of
some judgment which might be appropri-
ate from a teacher or an eisteddfod
judge, some judgment which might help
a singer improve her tone or a pianist
his chording. Jt is because people expect
this sort of thing from a concert
reviewer that they are continually
reiterating the foolish charge that he
cannot play as well as Mandragora, and
so has no right to air his opinions about
her.
Now the point is that all concert
reviewing is done post factum. The
music has been written ; the composer
wants no helpful and cosy suggestions.
The work of preparation for perform-
ance has been done ; the performer has
chosen a teacher, paid him, listened to
him and brought himself to a pitch at
which he feels, with reason, ready for
the public. The concert manager has
managed, the tuner has groomed his
piano, the printer has printed the tickets,
the girl in the box-office has sold them
■—what on earth is there that the critic
is supposed to “construct”?
Those who ask for this are actually in
the position of demanding that the critic
assume the job for which he is not
fitted—that he should compose, teach,
concert-manage, piano-tune, ticket-print.
Whereas, in fact, the critic is there, in
accordance with the cultural beliefs of
our modern, open society, merely to
comment on the final result of all this
activity. If he is a good critic he will
know a bad job when he hears one —
the true musician, Schumann says,
understands the music with his ears.
Cardus pertinently remarks that you
need not be a hen to know a bad egg
from a good one.
Of course, this leaves many things in
the air. including the question of the
use of music criticism, and the duties of
the responsible critic. These were actually
the things I had in mind when I started
to cast this New Year accounting, but
they were ousted by the need for some
kind of defensive apology. Let the
“constructive” credo first be sung by
the poet who responds to my cordial
invitation and writes us an ode.
TV
Saved from Stereotypes
T)antos on the Australian stage have
become sleazier year by year. The
last one I saw interspersed the boggling
obscenities of female contortionism and
the leg-kicks of a mob of little Lolitas
with incongruous commercials for an air-
line, a brand of gin and a forthcoming
film. And Widow Twanky geared her
material more towards the Vice Squad
than the child mind.
Pantomime on television in 1961 had
to be an improvement. It was. Two
States competed on the national tele-
vision circuit with contrasting styles of
pantomime. Melbourne’s Channel Nine
produced “The Magic Mirror” as a kind
of musical comedy for youngsters, while
Adelaide’s Channel Seven essayed an
original work, “Father Christmas and the
Magic Opal.”
Australia’s television pantomimes
displayed taste, charm, a heart-
warming absence of vulgarism and
juvenile precociousness, and flashes of
real, imaginative quality. Most import-
antly of all, both Victorian and South
Australian producers remained faithful
to the needs of their young viewers by
maintaining clear, simple projection and
a strong continuous story.
“The Magic Mirror” set an Andersen-
like story of the magic-wish-coming-true
in a London period setting with Petti-
coat Lane vagabonds, hot-chestnut sellers,
a most delightful servant-girl heroine, and
a ventriloqual-doll hero. Adult viewers
were no doubt perturbed by the physio-
logical implications of the final marriage
scene between a wooden dummy and
living femininity, but for children it was
all sparkle and jollity. As we have come
to expect from Melbourne, which is the
choreographic headquarters of Australian
TV, the panto was strong on dancing,
elegantly mounted and costumed and
produced with subtlety and expertise . . .
masses of group action and plenty of
dynamic camera work.
“How did you get that lipstick on
your rim?”
One would only query the unimagina-
tive choice of story and setting. Songs
about London costers and hot chestnuts
and life in Petticoat Lane mean little to
Australian children.
South Australia’s “Father Christmas
and the Magic Opal” was a notable little
venture which quite rightfully enjoyed
an all-Australian success. An original
work written by Patrick Taggart and
Murray George, it was in one sense a
symbolical shambles. Father Christmas
had been abducted by a group of bush-
rangers and concealed atop Ayer’s Rock
(which shows what a lousy ranger Bill
Harney must have been). Two children
set out into the bush to liberate Santa
in time for Christmas ; they encounter a
race of little people known as Anda-
mookans (the which will not please the
hard-bitten citizenry of that opal town)
and also the guardian fairy of Anda-
mooka, a Christmas-tree confection
known as Princess Selina. This mess of
myth is equalled by the fact that the
toughest bushranger, Captain Fireball,
wears an opera-cloak over his bush-
whacker outfit. However, despite the
confusion of motifs, the brave children
are led to the top of Ayer's Rock by
the agency of a magic opal, and Father
Christmas is delivered from desert
bondage.
In the absence of spectacle, dance and
much in the way of singing, the “Magic
Opal” opus might better be described as
a Christmas fantasy play rather than a
pantomime, and as such it had just the
right degree of spirited ingenuousness
for children. It was marvellously refresh-
ing after the laborious and unfunny
scripts of so many stage pantomimes.
Television, in this kind of entertainment,
shows how creative and revitalising a
medium it can be when it is freed from
its normal admass degradations. The
Adelaide show suffered from under-
production and hick-belt settings, but
with its fresh imagery and the radiant
charm of Anthea Stone it somehow saved
Christmas from the squalid department-
store stereotype which is all the child
seems to be offered these days.
MAX HARRIS


The Red Page
The Reformation Popularised
By JOHN T. GILCHRIST
npHE Reformation is one of the most
intensely studied events of European
history, but remains among the least
understood. One reason for this is that
original research has exceeded the power
of the general historian to absorb its
conclusions. The question therefore to
be asked of a work of synthesis is how
far does it bring the reader up to date
with the new ideas. “The Protestant
Reformation”* is a popularisation. But
its author, H. Daniel - Rops of tne
Academie Franqaise, attempts to cover a
much longer period than the title indi-
cates ; in fact, from 1350-1550. At first
sight, such ambition would make it
unlikely that he would do more than
repeat popular ideas—Catholic —and
myths.
There is nothing original in this
volume, the fourth in the series of the
author’s grand design to write a history
of the Church down to modern times.
And as the work, in French, has been
available for several years, there seems
little point in re-examining it as a piece
of scholarship. But the publication of
the English translation does, in fact,
raise some important questions, for it
assumes that the book has such merit
that it deserves a wide public.
Is this an accurate supposition? There
is a much better French history of the
Church, and Catholic (to satisfy the re-
quirements of the comparison), than that
of Daniel - Rops. But it is longer, and
less attractive in its style and presenta-
tion, so 1 doubt whether a translation
would have paid its way. This, of
course, is very much in favor of Daniel-
Rops. His publishers will not lose
money. There are few writers, in France
or out, who are as capable as he of
drawing on such vast resources in their
writing. A phrase from William James,
“a theopathic state,” to describe Western
society in the early 15th century, a text
from St Paul (1 Cor. xi. 19) to conclude
what is probably the best part of the
book, the chapters on Martin Luther, a
quotation from St Augustine on the
nature of martyrdom remain in mind
As a master of the apt phrase, or quota-
tion, of the lightning sketch of character
or physiognomy, the author is supreme.
And the reader will learn a lot, although
there is no guarantee—-because of the
lack of references that he will be able
to check its accuracy.
But, to those who may have read M.
Daniel-Rops, this is expected: for he is
an experienced writer. Members of the
Academie Francaise must achieve an
average somewhat higher than the
currently reported one in Australian Uni-
versities of .55 articles per annum, per
academic, if they hope to get even within
pleading distance of membership. Daniel-
Rops has, in his 35 years of writing,
virtually bought his way in several times,
for he has published over 40 major works
and a large number of monographs,
articles, and so on.
TTE came to history through literary
studies, and since 1948 has been prim-
arily occupied in the "History of the
Church,” now complete in eight volumes.
An average of just under one volume per
year, plus other studies in collaboration
with such established historians as L.
Cristiani, means that in the final version
something or someone must suffer.
Rather than make the reader's interest
suffer - the book is most readable
the author risks blunting the critical
faculty, for the book may deter people,
especially Catholics, from going else-
where for information I've got the
history of the Church, what can 1 buy
now?
That would be a very dangerous atti-
tude, indeed, for this book to engender,
for although the author has deliberately
in all his studies chosen the path of
synthesis rather than that of original re-
search, there are many inequalities in his
final product. An examination of some
of those inequalities may give an answer
to the question, how far are the ideas of
the specialist reaching textbook level
these days? On the Reformation there
are at least half a dozen recently pub-
lished works that have had a good sale,
yet whose accuracy and up-to-dateness
put them somewhere in the middle 30’s.
Does “The Protestant Reformation” be-
long to this class?
On the part that really matters. Martin
Luther, M. Daniel-Rops is of the eirenic
school, of which L. Bouyer is the great-
est exponent: historians who seek a
deeper understanding of a man who, had
it not been for an accident of history, or
design, might have been one of the Catho-
lic Church’s greatest saints. This atti-
tude is usually allied with a very frank,
condemnation of such popes as Alex-
ander VI, Borgia, in which the author
joins (“with him ... the Church sank to
hei lowest depths of degradation”) and
a tendency to put the blame on Erasmus
and the humanists. In this M. Daniel-
Rops does not join but, I suspect, because
he has little knowledge of the problem of
the part played by the humanists in the
Reformation.
But concessions of the obvious by
either Catholic or Protestant historians
do not enhance their claims to anything
but a false sort of historical objectivity—
it is the Catholic historian who is capable
of seeing less of the saint and more of the
man in people like Ignatius of Loyola
and Thomas More, of seeing them on tne
way to sanctity, rather than at the goal,
and the Lutheran who can accept the
very human failings of Luther, who de-
serve to be read. Unfortunately, so
great is the author's reliance on his
secondary authorities that one can notice
his sympathies changing, echoing the atti-
tude of his source, from the masterly
understanding of H. Jedin to the bias of
Gasquet.
This accounts for the uneven parts of
the synthesis. M. Daniel-Rops fails
miserably on England and Scandinavia,
on the theological and philosophical
trends between 1350 and 1500,, but he
does extremely well on Luther, Calvin,
Trance. Lirst, for a failure England.
Trench historians persist in drawing their
information from outdated reference
works, or, if not, they still believe that, be-
cause the English Reformation was poli-
tically determined, everything was domi-
nated by Henry VIII, and all his servants
were scoundrels. Certainly, Cranmer
was more than “a faithless priest” and
it is ludicrous to apply even by way
of quotation from another author the
suggestion of a reign of terror to Henry
VIITs actions after 1534. The account
of the dissolution of the monasteries
repeats the old cliches about heroic
sacrifices, creation of a new vested inter-
est property-class, and the increase in
pauperism. David Knowles’s third
volume dealing with Tudor monasticism
has, I hope, put an end to all that.
Happily, the pages on Luther make up
for the lapses elsewhere. Luther’s
early years have been intensively studied
in recent times, and M. Daniel-Rops
obviously knows the important books:
especially is this seen in his explanation
of the nature of Luther’s problem that
he calls “an inner conflict, something like
those experienced by St Paul, St Augu-
stine and Pascal.” Similarly, in his
judgment of the relationship between
Luther and Catholic reform, the author
shows sensibly his reliance upon
the leading historian of Trent, Hubert
Jedin. Finally, on the history of
Lutheranism, without adding anything
* The Protestant Reformation. H.
Daniel-Rops. Tr. by Audrey Butler.
Dent. 645. 9d.


to our knowledge, he gives a good ex-
ample of his power to synthesise and im-
print on the reader’s mind:
“The history of Lutheranism is one
continuous effort to reconcile the
sensitive spiritual anarchism of its
founder with the need for order and
organisation which its development
made essential.”
If the author has at times failed in the
effort to tell the history of the Church
in the period 1350-1550, as inevitably he
had to, does that mean that the attempt
should not be made? Certainly not, for
it is such efforts as these that prove the
existence of other things upon which
historical studies can be soundly based.
To synthesise on such a grand scale many
qualities and resources are needed—the
ability to be able to handle the vast
number of sources, the sources them-
selves and finally some assurance that
the work will be profitable (at least to
the publisher). What then is to be learnt
by recognising that such a book as the
present could not have been written in
this country, not even by Daniel-Rops
himself? One thing is obvious. There is
no library in Australia that carries the
material, or even is capable of buying
all current publications. And that is a
problem that must face not just the
Reformation historian but almost all
historians, and other disciplines as well.
And there may be a relationship here
with the low average of publications by
academics in this country.
I cannot say of H. Daniel-Rops, as I
would of H. Jedin or David Knowles,
that his work attracts and excites. But
the general reader will retain a more
lasting impression of that crisis in the
Church's history from this book than
from most others at present available.
He should, however, seek a corrective or
palliative elsewhere, and not by consult-
ing the badly condensed bibliography at
the end of the volume.
Corncob Shangri-la
Aliens for Neighbours. Clifford Simak.
Faber and Faber. 15s.
CTience fiction is the literature of
hypothesis, of “what would things be
like if ?” At the most fundamental
level its fascination lies in the vision it
gives us of a possible but non-existent
state of affairs. In what some would
regard as the purest form of science
fiction, the hypothesis and the facts on
which it rests are very scientific indeed.
With this form, the fun for the reader lies
partly in trying to catch the writer out
in the game he is playing ; that is, in
critically appreciating the plausibility and
cleverness with which he extrapolates
from what is known. The romances of
Jules Verne fall into this category. A
famous recent example is the story, pub-
lished in “Astounding,” which gave a
hypothetical and basically correct
account of how to trigger-off an atomic
bomb. Since it appeared some months
before Hiroshima, the most interested
critics of the author’s extrapolation of
known facts and theories were the F. 8.1.
There is a second form of science
fiction which includes and goes beyond
the first. In this the science, though
usually (though not always) plausible,
serves mainly to provide the framework
within which the author can present his
views, the field within which his hypo-
thetical model of human life can operate.
In these days the shape of the model
is conditioned by the fact that we live
in a technological society ; but all
Utopias—from “The Republic” to
“Looking Backward, 1984,” and “Canticle
for Leibowitz”—are science fiction of this
type. In fact, such stories belong to a
much older form of literature—to the
literature of fantasy and myth, to the
literature in which possible states of
human existence, man’s dreams about
himself and his society, are set forth and
examined. Science fiction, despite its
elaborate (and often justified) parade of
authenticity, is the fairy-tale of our age.
And its ogres and monsters, its wicked
sorcerers, beautiful princesses, enchanted
castles and invincible (or disastrous)
heroes are, like all such, symbolic
shadowings of man’s hopes, desires and
terrors.
The stories of Clifford Simak, one of
the oldest practitioners of the craft,
belong very clearly to this second group.
The dream by which he is haunted —and
in this he resembles Bradbury and many
lesser American science-fiction writers—-
is the dream of man’s natural goodness
and innocence ; a goodness and innocence
that are corrupted by society, especially
urban, technical society. By implication
his work is anti-scientific and escapist:
the aliei s in “Aliens for Neighbours”
(a very representative collection of his
work) are not the traditionally horrifying
BEMs of the space-opera—underneath
their occasionally ghoulish exteriors they
are just plain folks (much wiser than we
benighted earthlings, of course) who long
for nothing so much as a little kindness
and understanding, a neighborly chat
over the Kaffee-Klatch or cracker-barrel.
“Aliens for Neighbours” reads in places
like a pepped-up version of Dale Car-
negie—“How to Win Friends and
Influence Extra-Terrestrials.”
“Neighbour,” the final story in the selec-
tion, is typical: it is set in Coon Valley, a
pre-lapsarian rural paradise. “We are just
plain dirt farmers, with emphasis on the
dirt,” the narrator tells us, “but there’s
nothing wrong with us ; we’re just every-
day, the kind of people you meet all over
these United States ... I suppose you
could say we have gotten clannish . . .
we’ve lived so long together that we’ve
got to know and like one another and
are satisfied with things just as they are.”
They vote Republican, disapprove of
Government interference, and don’t pay
much attention to foreign affairs. A
neighborly alien (disguised as a European
refugee) drops in and likes the place so
much that, with scientific magic, he gives
the inhabitants perfect weather, perfect
health, and thoughtfully seals them off
from the outside world to enjoy their
corncob Shrangri-la in perfect peace.
Simak is an unabashed sentimentalist,
but he is saved from complete disaster
by his sense of humor, and also by his
knowledge that dreams can go sour, can
turn into nightmares. Also, he has a
natural gift for telling a story —-“Aliens
for Neighbours,” whatever else one may
think of it, is undeniably readable.
R. F. BRISSENDEN
Greek Needed
What’s Wrong With the Church? Nick
Earle. Penguin. 4s. 6d.
T”his is a lively, forthright, and pro-
vocative Penguin Special. Its author
is an Anglican priest who gained Firsts
in both mathematics and theology at
Cambridge and who continues to lecture
in those subjects after five years’ experi-
ence in parish work. His book is a
“must” for all Anglican churchmen, and
particularly for those bishops who, he
tells us, in their preoccupation with
financial and administrative matters, are
more often thought of as businessmen
in gaiters than as Fathers-in-God. His
immediate concern is with the State
Church of England; but members of the
wider Anglican Communion and of other
Churches will profit by his salty com-
ments and penetrating yet constructive
criticism.
Mr Earle believes that the malaise from
which the Church of England, and other
Churches in their degree, is suffering is
a completely mistaken attitude to the
Church itself. The Church is not an
“ethical society” or a body with a “policy”
laid down once for all. The Church is
the worshipping community, bound to-
gether by the conviction that Christ is
risen from the dead and will judge the
world at the Last Day. Because of this
conviction, “it has no need of any autho-
rity beyond itself”: certainly no need of
State protection, which robs it of freedom.
What is right with the Church, Mr Earle
argues in the last chapter, springs from
this conviction. When it is obscured,
Christians themselves misunderstand and
misrepresent the Church: as when the
impression grows that the Church is “a
society for the sexless.” Ecclesiastical
pronouncements on sex “are so frequent
as to be almost nauseating”; and the
Bishop of Exeter, realising this, com-
plains that “the Church is guilty of an
exaggerated stress on the shameful
wickedness of fornication.” Mr Earle
does not hesitate to declare that “Sex is
more like worship than anything else.”
He is rightly indignant at the attempt of
so many Church leaders to turn the
Church into a “Citizens’ Moral Advice
Bureau,” “dispensing not good news but
good advice.” They have “pat answers”
to difficult questions, like artificial insemi-
nation, on which expert scientific
guidance is essential; and one dignitary


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. '‘D,” Box 2611, (i.F.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume let us Hnd it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service tor your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. Sydney
ARE YOU A
SUCCESSFUL
WRITER?
I f YOU have' the urge to write, you can
learn to write, successful Stories, Articles,
written Sketches, Radio Talks, Pars, Verse,
etc. There is a large, and constant demand
for well-written work.
STOTT’S training will provide you with the
expert guidance of highly-qualified and
experienced Instructors.
If you would like information about our
Courses in Story Writing, Freelance Journalism,
etc., post the Coupon today.
150 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagh St.. Sydney; 290 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide;
22 Howard St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send ine. without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (B 102)
even wanted to have adultery made a
criminal offence. What men want, Mr
Earle points out, is not pre-fabricated
moralisms, but some “convincing evidence
that their Maker has a controlling inter-
est in their destiny”; though he admits
that the world provides little enough of
such evidence.
This leads me to my main criticism of
Mr Earle’s book. No mention is made of
philosophy ; yet, surely, the thing which
is most wrong with the Church is its
neglect of philosophical criticism. The
traditional proofs of theism are in ruins ;
indeed, our author finds in “the existence
of genuine church life . . . the only
evidence left to most people of the exist-
ence of an available God.” By all
means let us have the practical reforms
which he advocates ; but they will be of
little use unless accompanied by an
intellectual effort at least as strong as
that of the thinkers of the past. And,
for this, we shall need more Greek ; not
less, as Mr Earle proposes.
G. STUART WATTS
The Baghdad Bell
Gertrude Bell 1914-1926. Elizabeth
Burgoyne. Ernest Benn. 60s. 6d.
r T'HE Near East has always fascinated
the European. Different baits have
lured him away from familiar ground:
espionage, adventure, Bible - peddling,
textual research, a longing for different
mores and morals. One who succumbed
to the Orient was Gertrude Bell, at a
time when the basis of political power
was undergoing rapid change. Educated
at Oxford, of wealthy parents, she
travelled extensively and at the outbreak
of World War I, at the age of 47, placed
her remarkable knowledge of Eastern
languages and of Arab leaders at the
disposal of the British Government and
from 1915 to 1923 was its political
adviser in Mesopotamia. She was
directly responsible for securing Faisal,
recently ejected by the French from his
Syrian throne, as the first King of Iraq.
Until her death in Baghdad she con-
tinued to exercise a strong influence over
government policy and local political life.
Modest in manner, unprepossessing in
dress, Gertrude Bell possessed an acute
mind, a tireless vigor, an unrivalled
knowledge of person and place. More
to the point, she wrote thousands of
letters and kept a diary which ran into
14 volumes. These letters were edited in
two volumes in 1927 by Lady Bell, her
stepmother. Now Elizabeth Burgoyne,
covering similar ground but in greater
depth, has produced from the personal
documents two volumes of biography.
The second, the volume under review,
deals with Iraq. The whole enterprise is
a painstaking task, a labor of love.
Her unique position gave her
access to the court and she
reported what she saw and heard
with accuracy and understanding. Of
Faisal she noted: “He veers with every
breath;” of the King of Jordan: “Abdul-
lah is hopeless;” of Leonard Woolley:
“A tiresome little man but a first-class
digger and an archaeologist after my own
heart.” For those v. ho know this part
of the world today the book makes
melancholy reading. Many of the people
she mentions have since disappeared or
died violently. The Hashemite family
survives only in Hussein of Jordan.
Abdullah was murdered in Damascus.
Nuri Said was murdered in Baghdad,
Ghazi, “a dear little boy with charming
manners,” was killed in a car accident.
The letters speak of the high hopes, the
bitter disappointments, the bunglings at
Whitehall, the treachery of the Arabs
that all played such a part in the restless
search for a workable government.
There is an index but no map and
place names are nM readily located.
There is a vast amount of detail and
to follow it up is to lose the broad
outline. There is, after all, a limit to
what letters and diary can reveal and
one is never sure, except perhaps in-
directly, of Gertrude Bell’s impact on
others. In her relations with men, too,
there is an understandable reticence.
The annotations tell us that she had a
tragic love affair (the fellow died at
Gallipoli) but are oddly silent on state-
ments like this: “Of all the people here,
from the King downwards, there is no
one I really love as I love Nuri.” One
is left to wonder.
Present opinion runs against Gertrude
Bell and her generation. They are all
grouped together as ruthless agents of
British imperialism. Yet when the his-
tory books are rewritten she for one will
be seen to occupy an honorable position.
DOUGLAS TERRY
Wizard of Pen
The Book of Bellerive. Edited by
Douglas Stewart. The Jacaranda
Press. 12s. 6d.
Oellerive is completely a delight.
There is always, of course, a great
deal of bad poetry about —1 suspect that
even the bards and ollaves so glorified
by Robert Graves included in their num-
ber some bores and jinglers and poe-
tasters. Nor is there any reason to be-
lieve that there are relatively more bad
poets today than when Pope pilloried
his contemporary samples in “The Dun-
ciad.”
Certainly, too, most bad poets deserve
to be put in “The Dunciad”:
Maggots half-formed in rhyme exactly
meet,
And learn to crawl upon poetic feet.
Bellerive does not belong to this cate-
gory, but to the small, select band of
whom William MacGonagall is probably
the best-known exemplar, the
whose verse is so bad that it is para-
doxically and inexplicably good.
In his excellent, non-patronising intro-
duction, Douglas Stewart suggests that
Belle rive just misses being “a minor
lyrist of genuine quality.” I agree.
Occasionally he does, as Stewart notes,
write a lyric of genuine, if slight, charm,
such as “The Yachts of Hobart”:
Tossing o’er the bosom
Of the Derwent wide and free,
Followed by the prancing gulls,
Bird rovers of the sea.
Occasionally, as in the line “A once man
of position,” his way with words and
syntax may remind us of so unlikely a
poet as Dylan Thomas.
But it is above all for his astonishing
and refreshing naivete that we should
prize him. In a world of pretentions and
megalomania and the rat-race, there is
much to be said for a man who can
write
I dippeth my pen in silence,
My verses no longer are seen
Weekly as they were in the answers
For years in The Bulletin.
I jotteth down verse in silence,
I’m snug in my little den,
Master of my gift from the cradle,
Wizard of ink, paper and pen.
Most of the other things one could
say about Bellerive are admirably said in
Stewart’s introduction: Bellerive is very
human, he has a real sense of humor,
he provides a modest record of the life
of his times, he is a primitive, a “natural.”
T. H. JONES


Pick up a better return
with complete security
Eggs
P.A. for 8 and 10 years
with
REID MURRAY
Acceptance Limited
Reg. First Mortgage Debenture Stock
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
7 Vz<Yo
P.A. on 12
mths. notice
P.A. on 6
mths. notice
P.A. on 3
tilths, notice
P.A. at call
Applications accepted only on forms at-
tached to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of
Adelaide Ltd.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
RMA.2OV
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
Three Poems
Nightmares and Sunhorses. J. S. Mani-
fold. Overland. 15s.
Tt is rather sad to see, at last, Manifold’s
A second collection of poems, “Night-
mares and Sunhorses.” “Selected Poems”
was not just a promise of good things
to come, but was an important achieve-
ment in itself. Now we can see the sum-
total of what Manifold has been doing
over the last 13 years. Apart from three
poems, I find the result depressing, dull
and generally crude and clumsy in terms
of personal attitdues.
It seems that Manifold feels that he
must be a “popular” poet, and a
“popular” poet developing the ballad
tradition in this country. As such, he
appeals to an obvious coterie. He is
involved with political and social issues
blatantly “Left” and, these days, rather
naive:
The cause goes down ;
The snake’s last inches die ;
But over the miners’ town
The Flag breaks out on high
In points of fire to crown
The dark Australian sky.
(December, 1854.)
This poem is from the section called
“Red Rosary,” and if a comparison is
made with another and much finer poem,
“Nightmares,” then the naive lapses
become even more painful:
Hold, screaming wire and splinter-
ing rail!
Panic, not malice, drives the beast ;
She dares not linger to break in,
For racing closer, at her tail,
She scents the horsemen of the East
Who patch their tents with night-
mare-skin.
One of the rare moments of delight
in this new collection is “Elegy I” which
ends: —
I tucked her shirt into her belt once
more,
And mother sat with unsuspecting
smile
(Or was it unsuspecting?) all the
while.
In such a poem we find Manifold at
his poetical and technical best. Here
the heroic couplet is used with mastery.
But in “Elegy II” he becomes careless:
I see how this and that and t’other
whim
With which you pleasure me derive
from him.
Carelessness, in this recent book, seems
to be wedded to lack of self-criticism.
For me, the poet has failed to make an
advance on the work in “Selected Poems.”
Three poems do not make a book ; and
Manifold has failed to achieve the
balance, variety and breadth which made
his first collection such a success.
R. A. SIMPSON


POEMS
The Horses
from AROUND COSTESSEY
The vegetative soul is the dedicated rhetorician:
Yellow knuckles of gorse are eloquent; motion
Is the psyche entire whose fullness is a naked
growing
Ungirt with passion or reflection.
Grass meanders intoxicate in green simple action.
Little hills troll the pastoral catches, allowing
Hosannas of Saints in sober gesture alive
As flowering cherry along a drive.
With the Wensum comes consecrated ordered
Wish.
From weedy tenements the spying suburban fish.
Dace, roach, carp, dart or loiter with tingling gills
In subaqueous blackout, neon,
Discuss certain shadows, suns as wool or rayon.
Choose certain baits as tranquillisers, pills.
Plucked from his element, each convulsed dreamer
beats
Agony for his city streets.
A phylum apart these two old horses stand.
(Flies conspire to transfix the sweating land.)
The pair of them will stand an hour together
Licking each other’s sides with great slow tongues.
Minds, as bodies, are ancient galls and wrongs.
Flies would erode this hackneyed summer
weather.
Memory, rumour, and an hour spin in the guise
Of the buzzing swarming flies.
He will give his body to the gesticulating
Green grass without forethought. He will lie
beating, awaiting
The perfect town of water, going, gone.
He is the listing hulk or bale of straw
In silt of the inorganic; pang of law
Tides him into the rivers and the sun.
Light plays throughout his muddied floating things.
His action, desire, his gift of tongues.
FRANCIS WEBB
Memory
Remembering is rain among the hills
in ways that shade and shape to otherwise
the living country’s charted areas
and turn and handle land until it spills
out wells and folds of hillocks that the spoils
of daylight had turned shapeless in our eyes.
Though sudden and unsure, they are not lies,
those parts and slats of scene this rain reveals.
Memory in the landscape of ourselves
offers precision to assess and look
at routes and gradents sheltered in the peak
of presently; it is such rain that gives
the shape and pity and the old surprise,
and fills, or floods, the catchments of these days.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT
The Mirror Of Herself
(For Jill)
And Eve made air a mirror of herself
—Wallace Stevens
We are descended in more senses than one
From that bright mirror-making myth,
Comic inheritors of a tragic fault,
And the air is blue about us everywhere.
How fair she was whose daughters are so fair.
This you might think is the merest allegory
For some casual encounter of the flesh,
A sharpening of my wits on some bright bone
To disentangle images from hair
And praise her darkly whom I find most fair.
And yet —the blue mirror is a very fact,
And I am conscious of her dear descent
Reflected in my serio-comic eyes
As well as in the circumambient air
Informing us and her that she is fair.
And so give thanks for her original
Making the air a mirror of herself
And carelessly preparing our descent.
Praise be for fallen beauty everywhere.
Daughters and rivals of that original fair.
T. H. JONES
Portrait
He tossed perpetual questions, like a seal
Trained to one trick: nose pointed high;
Ears set well back, to let the answers pass him by.
Cold water pleased him; also hot.
Height held no terror. Snug inside his hide.
He was always nonchalant and sometimes rude.
He did not care for applause; was kind
By instinct; read carelessly; drank a bit.
And was seldom seen without a cigarette.
His favorite statement was; “Perhaps I am;
But to what purpose?” His favorite act
Was to go through hoops and to return intact.
What his wife thought must remain a puzzle.
Since she was not very communicative;
But she must have said “Yes” at least once.
ANTON VOGT
Deserter From The Tank Corps
I will be harder than present-day knights
in their steel-plated turrets,
who spur spinning hooves to a thunder
and yell while mechanical breezes
are tugging their smoky fine plumes back.
I will be fiercer than they,
though they swivel their saddles,
charge over warfields
with levelling lances and tread
geometric designs into enemy bodies.
Triumphantly wearing my lover's favor,
outriding the darkness.
I’ll cruise where my teeth
print their violent trail of serrations
across her and plunge-in my lance
and moan with a conqueror's loss.
RODNEY HALL


"That's the first funny thing he's done all night."


9 %oou Cr
jr
F S OF
;
*L •'■/
-
: i, ,
smoothly
satisfying
Tingootfs
OLOROSO
CREAM
SHERRY
ASK ALSO FOR ST. AGNES BRANDY
Business, Robbery, Etc.
EXPORTS
Changing Trade Patterns
X'\espite considerable improvement in the balance of trade
over the past six months, largely brought about by the
effects of the Government's deflationary policies initiated in
November, 1960, the overall overseas trade picture gives little
ground for unbridled enthusiasm.
The terms of trade are still steadily worsening. There
are no grounds for expecting any dramatic reversal in the terms
of trade position in favor of the world’s primary producers,
and Australia may continue to be faced with increasing down-
ward pressure on the world prices for her principal export
commodities.
A comparison of Australia's trade in 1959-60 and 1960-61
shows an increase of 3,4 per cent, in total exports against a
rise of 17.3 per cent, in total imports. Of course, these
statistics do not reflect fully the surpluses achieved since
May, 1961, and the 1961-62 figures may, on present indica-
tions, show some improvement. On the other hand, more
buoyant economic conditions in Australia —and even mere
attempts to induce short-run buoyancy for political reasons—
may sharply increase the inflow of imports or bring about
the introduction of import restrictions. The Labor Opposi-
tion has already made it quite clear that it will press for
extensive import curbs. However, import restrictions will not
solve the basic, long-term problems—the solution lies not so
much in restricting imports as in trying to increase exports.
According to “Overseas Trading,” published by the
Department of Trade, the 17.3 per cent, increase in 1960-61
imports was accounted for mainly by increased merchandise
trade. On the other hand, the increase in exports of merchan-
dise was only 0.3 per cent. Exports of gold rose from
£lom. to £4om.
Preliminary figures show an adverse trade balance of
£llBm. for 1960-61, compared with a favorable balance of
£llm. in 1959-60. Except for record sales of wheat —mainly
the result of large windfall purchases by Communist China—
there was an alarming fall in prices for some leading Aus-
tralian export commodities. Wool prices declined by an average
of 10.8 per cent., resulting in a £slm. drop in export earnings.
Butter fell by 15 per cent, (down £9m.) and sheep- and lamb-
skins (with wool on) by 9.1 per cent. (£2m.). Smaller quantities
of some basic products were available for export in 1960-61.
Export tonnage of beef and veal was 28.6 per cent, lower,
resulting in a fall of £lsm. in overseas earnings. Canned meats
fell by 36.9 per cent., and iron and steel plate and sheet by
29.2 per cent
Overall export gains were recorded for 14 basic com-
modities, including wheat, sugar, cold-preserved mutton and
lamb, coal, copper and zinc ores and concentrates and petro-
leum products. But, with the exception of wheat (an increase
of £4om. over 1959-60), the gains were small in value —ranging
from £2m. to £4m. for the year.
Trade with Japan was most satisfactory. Japan’s imports
of Australian products in 1960-61 totalled £l62m. (up £27m.).
The main commodities which accounted for the gain were
greasy wool (a gain of £llm.), coal (£4m.), pig-iron (£3m.),
copper ore and copper (£4m.) and sugar (£lm.). Unfortunately,
Japan has recently experienced a balance-of-payments crisis,
and may have to slow down the growth in its imports-intake
in 1962.
Total sales to Communist China amounted to £4om.
largely accounted for by wheat, barley, flour, oats and wool
(which fell by £6.7m.). It must be noted that the sales of
food grains to Peking were of a “non-repetitive” nature. Main-
land China cannot, at this stage, be regarded as a steady market
for Australian wheat.
Trade with Hong Kong was encouraging, exports doubling
to £lBm. Unfortunately, gold accounted for £6.9m. of the
£9m. rise in our sales to the Colony. Trade with Hong Kong
may be expanded further, but more direct and sophisticated
selling methods must be used on this highly competitive market.
In addition, quality control must be improved.
The new direct shipping line to South America should
considerably improve Australia’s export opportunities in such
countries as Brazil, Argentina, Peru, Colombia, Venezuela,
Chile and Uruguay. However, it is much too early to anticipate
results.
Countries with a lower money volume of imports from
Australia in 1960-61 included the United Kingdom, West
Germany, France, the United States, the U.S.S.R., Czecho-
slovakia, Poland and India. Lower wool prices accounted for
most of the falls, but the U.K. and West Germany also imported
smaller quantities of Australian beef, veal, canned meats, butter,
canned fruit and milk.
Agriculture remains a vexed problem within the Common
Market, and it is unlikely that sales of Australian foodstuffs
to Europe will increase. Britain's entry into the European
Economic Community will, of course, further reduce the
European market for most Australian primary products —at
least in the short run.
There may be chances of improving wool sales to some
East European countries—mainly Poland, Czechoslovakia and
perhaps Hungary. Australian participation in the 1962 Vienna
and Poznan International Trade Fairs may serve a useful
purpose. But the exhibits must be carefully selected with a
view to penetrating the East European markets, which are
characterised by several specific difficulties. The Vienna Fair
also provides an excellent starting-point for an export drive
to non-communist countries in South and South-west Europe.
Australia’s pattern of international trade is changing ever
more rapidly, although wool remains our basic export
commodity and exporters must adapt themselves to the “winds
of change.”


WORLD-WIDE
REGD.
TLI2O
100 % British Made
light
in every
corner...
Abundant light throughout the
house with the Tilley Table
Lamp. Practical and elegant, en-
tirely safe and self-contained, it
burns for 12 hours on only
pints of ordinary kerosene.
For economical lighting wherever
and whenever it’s needed, you can
put your trust in TILLEY.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores. In case of
difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to:—
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD.
1092 Mt. Alexander Road,
Esr.endor., W 5. Australia.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Union Australia Group)
ESTABLISHED /ST?
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, l ire anti Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch; Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON. Manager
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
Represented in nli States. Telegrams: Hyclelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
Speculator’s Diary
Friday, December 29.
T>Y the time you read this the
holidays will be over, so
I suppose 1 had better put aside
the frivolous spirit of annual
reports and Christmas and take
a sober look at the New Year.
As far as the Stock Exchange
is concerned, 1 think the
market is going to rise and
to rise strongly, initially at
least. That's why I had no
qualms at being over-invested
when the market closed for
Christmas. For some months
I'd felt that the time to invest
was before the elections and
certainly before Christmas.
Now, with both the uncer-
tainty of the elections and
the distractions of Christmas
behind us, the market should
be ready to push ahead in
1962 after a very listless 1961.
First of all, many of the
accepted economic indicators
seem to be looking healthier
again—despite the views of
one financial weekly whose
politics are now so “‘seasonally
adjusted" that it can no longer
look at economics objectively.
Then we have the possibility
of further Government stimu-
lation of the economy, now
that Mr Menzies has the
unlikely combination of Com-
munist and D.L.P. preferences
to thank for his Lower House
majority. I, for one, feel that
the economy is already
recovering steadily enough and
that any additional Govern-
ment assistance will only lead
us back into the very sort of
internal boom and trade-
balance problems from which
we had to recoil so violently
in 1961.
Thirdly, we have the human
or psychological factor which
looks at economics in terms of
calendar year. The past year
will go down as the year of
recession, while 1962 looks like
being the year of recovery.
Add to this the traditional
tendency to sell before Christ-
mas and buy after and you
have all the ingredients for a
prospeorus New Year —PLUS
OIL!
Oil has long been considered
the answer to the maiden’s (or
the nation's) prayers, as it
represents the biggest indi-
vidual item in our import bill.
And now, at last, we seem to
have at least one oil well in
the land. The hopes that this
discovery raises will, doubt-
less, be of more consequence
than the actual amount of oil
produced, but it is certainly a
very big step towards the pro-
mised land of oil. And this
will have a salutary impact on
the rest of the market, as well
as provide happy A.O.G.
shareholders with profits to re-
invest elsewhere in the market.
The only gloomy note is
likely to come from the interim
reports, which will probably be
a miserable lot. Still, this is
generally realised and, besides,
the market is much more con-
cerned with the future than the
past or even the present.
Now to business, or what
little there was of it before the
Exchange closed for Christ-
mas. All 1 did was to run for
my life out of my Chevron
shares as soon as 1 heard about
the gargantuan loss. I sold at
Is. 9d. for my own more
modest loss of £34.
Then I had to send £5O off
to Olympic Bowling as the
final call on my 400 shares
which, to date, have been a
bit of a flop. Let's hope every-
one went bowling during all
that wet weather.
Finally, there was the Fibre
Containers drama. 1 was not
at all dismayed by the rejec-
tion of both takeover bids
because they were not exactly
extravagant offers. Besides, a
one - for - one bonus should
prove much more worthwhile
before long. If the shares are
not 20s. ex-bonus by March,
I'll be very surprised. And
there's still a chance of some
of those English gentlemen
making a more reasonable bid.
This means 1 start the New
Year still owing my brokers
£370 —bless their overdrafts— j
and with these shares:
Cost Cur-
No. of Maine of Total Per rent
Shares Company Cost Share Price
.‘!00 Hornibrook 354 33/- 26/0 '
300 Marviekville 317 21/3 24 9 (
300 McDonald 207 13/0 15 3
200 Southern TV 205 20 - 20/- '
300 J'yrox 87 5/0 7/1
200 Dodge 136 13/4 14/S
400 Derrin 206 10/- 31/
400 O’Donnell 230 11/8 13/-
200 P. G. O’Brien 100 9/9 0/S 1
300 Bitumen & 0i1263 22/6 24/-
50 Rothmans 100 78/9 87/6
200 Shipping-
News 175 17/3 23/6
400 Olympic Bowl 100 5/1 4/0
500 West. Mining- 210 8/3
800 Southgate 346 8/6 8/9;
1,000 United Motels 184 3/6 4/- t
1,000 Harris 362 7/- 7/9 *
200 Mello-Lite 265 26/- 31/-
200 Beau Monde 255 25/- 26/0
000 Fibre Cent. 886 34/9 35/9
800 Deo Buring 262 6/4 6/llj


PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
K H. ALI.KN M. 1 1. L. DOWUXfi
P K. LEVY. A. P. REYNOLDS, X. |{.
COl KiSli (Melbourne Resident Partner)
Del fin House, 16 O'Connell St.. Sydney
25-591] (20 lines).
Prudential Building. 150 Queen St..
Melbourne 67-5957 (t lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney
Melbourne or Woolongong,
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Fife Building,
207 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEYITTCO”
Phone: 312761
(4 lines)
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stoek Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
The
WILDCAT
COUMN
Mercantile Credits Ltd
'T'he company handles hire-purchase
A finance for motor vehicles, mach-
inery and industrial equipment, house-
hold furniture and appliances of all
descriptions. A new branch has been
established in Canberra. The company
now' operates in six States, with head-
quarters in Sydney. About 25 p.c. of
paid capital, now at £2,496,919 (after
conversion of the balance of the options
—£129,843 —in July and August 1961),
is held by the Hardie group.
There has been a major upheaval
in the hire-purchase and finance industry
in the past eight months of 1960-61.
However, this cannot be attributed
wholly to the economic measures
imposed by the Federal Government in
November. The growth during the
early part of 1960 had sometimes been
too rapid.
“The year under review' has been a
most difficult and trying period.” the
company's chairman. Mr D. C. Cameron,
stated. “The results were due to careful
management and further diversification
into other profitable avenues of invest-
ment.” In the first half of the year the
co. did not participate in the rush to
write new business, particularly in the
second-hand car field, and had few
repossessions and bad debts in this
category.
Most major retailers are now financ-
ing their own hire-purchase sales, result-
ing in a reduction in hire-purchase
finance of domestic goods. Mercantile
Credits extended its activity into leasing
and. to a smaller degree, home purchase
and personal loans. As from July, 1961,
all new leasing contracts are being trans-
acted by Mercredits Ltd, the co.’s wholly
owned subsidiary, which was acquired in
May, 1961. At balance date, leasehold
properties were shown at £52,660.
Consolidated gross income for the year
ended June 30, 1961, almost doubled at
£2,735,166 —an increase of £1,344.953.
Expenses rose sharply by £1,263,424 to
£2,402,405.
After deducting £24,599. for deprecia-
tion (up £9623) and setting aside £241,825
for taxation (up £73,544), consolidated
net profit for the year was £81,529
higher at £332,761 —after taking into
account a loss incurred by one of the
subsidiaries acquired at the beginning
of the year:—
Re-
June, Profit. Dividends N serves.*
£ p.c. £ £
1958 .. 173,194 1.3 108,278 232,747
Added intangibles, £57,493 . . . . 175,254
1959 .. 193,839 1.7 1.70,5.33 218,540
Add decrease intangibles. £27,641 .. 246,181
1960 . . 251,232 1.3 189,912 307,501
Added intangibles, £8.330 . . . . 298,971
Assets revaluation, £129,026 .. 427,997
Premium on consolidation, £50,576 478,573
7 p.c.
Pref.
1961 .. 332,761 26,250 1.5 277,038 508,040
* After deducting intangibles, £93,000 at 30/6/01.
This was equivalent to an earning
rate of 16.6 p.c. on higher average
ord. capital after deducting 7 p.c. pre-
ference dividend charges (£26,250), com-
pared with 19.8 p.c. in 1960, 19.3 p.c. in
1959 and 24 p.c. in 1958.
Ord. div. was steady at 15 p.c.
(£277,038). Maiden pref. div. of 7 p.c.
took £26,250. Reserves increased by
£192,015, after revaluation of assets
£129,026, premium on consolidation,
£50,576, and increase in general reserve
of £29,473, less added intangibles £8530
to £508,046 (after deducting £93,000
intangibles).
Ordinary paid capital was increased by
£420,065 —by the balance of the June,
1960, issue (£98,097), shares alloted on
June 30, 1961 (£120,157), “being part of
the issue of 250,000 shares of 20s. each
in satisfaction of 1961 options” and
63,500 20s. ords. issued in past considera-
tion for acquisition of Mallock Bros.
Ltd in Western Australia. The balance
of the options (£129,843) was converted
after balance date. The 20s. ordinary
stock units were sub-divided into ss.
units on October 5, 1960.
During the year a further issue of
£lOO,OOO of preference capital was made
to “the Institution holding the £300,000
of preference capital previously issued.”
This raised total paid capital to
£2,496,919.
Subscription to the co.'s issue of
£1,000,000 registered first mortgage
debenture stock which opened on July
12, 1961, exceeded £2,000,000. Appli-
cations will no longer be accepted foe
debenture stock with currencies of 3, 6
and 9 months. Long term stock is still
being accepted
The volume of business for the full
year was a decrease on the previous
year’s figures, due in part to the Gov-
ernment s November economic measures
and also to the necessity to conserve
funds for the redemption of maturing
deposits and debenture stock. Borrow-
ing on debentures, notes and registered
deposits rose by £1,528,060 to
£11,799,320. While current liabilities fell
by £100,843 to £976,782, unearned
income increased by £653,461 to
£3,079,061, representing 17.69 p.c. of
the outstandings (15.4 p.c. in the pre-
vious term):
CON SO LID AT K D BALANCE-SHEET.
T> . , 19.39. 1960. 1901.
raid capital . . £1,266.080 £1,817.011 £2,367 070
Reserves .. 330,6.31 391,971 601,016
Share applica-
ti,,ns • . 61,898 40,508
iNotes .. .. 7,171,829 10,271,260 11,799,320
Unearned income 1,510,175 2,435,601 3,079 061
Current liabili-
ties.* .. 489,125 1,077,62.3 976,782
Final div. . . 85,481 91,956 138,519
£10,853,617 £16,173,322 £19,002,312
Fixed assets . . 322,085 316,309 734,398
1 nvestments . . 76,586
H.-p. debts etc. 10,419,451 1,3,772,.343 18,095’,328
Intangibles .. 112,111 84,470 93,000
£10,853,647 £16,173,322 £19,002,312
f Includes deposits, sundry creditors, tax-provision,
etc.
Fixed assets increased by £418,089 to
£734,398. The co. has a portfolio of
shares and debentures valued at £76,586.
H.-p. outstandings increased by
£2,325,785 to £18,098,328 (including
£760,975, sundry debtors, cash on hand,
stocks and prepayments). The ratio of
borrowings to paid capital at June 30,
1961, was 4.9 to 1, and to shareholders
funds (less intangibles) 4.0 to 1.
In spite of the difficult trading con-
ditions, the co. has earned satisfactory
profits.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss.
ords. fetched Bs. Bd. per unit. The


CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
Thfr “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
{England)
E.S. IV. Branch :
Kindersley House,
Bligli - O’Connell Sts., Sydney
s
immediate return is 8.6 p.c. on the basis
of the present 15 p.c. div.-rate.
Net tangible assets backing of the
ss. ordinary shares was 6s. 3d. on con-
solidated accounts.
National Consolidated Ltd
HThe wisdom of diversification by com-
panies in the motor industry was
ably demonstrated by National Consoli-
dated Ltd.
Once recognised as closely tied to the
fortunes of the motor industry, the com-
pany, by judicious use of the large pre-
mium its shares have commanded,
branched into fields only vaguely con-
nected with motor vehicles. During the
credit squeeze, when other companies
were experiencing heavy setbacks.
National Consolidated was able to fully
maintain its earnings. Certainly the rate
of growth was not as spectacular as in
other years, but the ordinary dividend
at no time appeared to be in danger.
The company was founded in 1922 and
converted to public status in 1948,
under the name National Radiators Ltd.
This was changed to the present form in
1959, on acquisition of the Muller group
in Sydney. In that time ordinary capital
has increased nearly 28 times and total
assets showed similar growth.
The company operates through 28 sub-
sidiaries, organised in five divisions, in
all States of Australia and in New Zea-
land. Factories are located in most of
the capital cities, while branches are
placed in strategic country areas. The
National and Muller divisions are the
largest manufacturers of motor radiators
—both original units and replacements —-
in Australia. They supply, as original
equipment assemblies, to G.M.-H., Ford,
8.M.C., Chrysler, Rover, Standard, the
Rootes group. International Harvester
and others. In addition, they are major
suppliers of components for air-con-
ditioning and refrigerator units.
Sales and profit of the National-Muller
group were again higher last year —due
entirely to results in the first six months.
Production and sales of original units
fell sharply in the second half-year.
However. New Zealand output was a
good backstop and took up some of the
slack. In common with all sections of
industry connected with building, the
sections making the air-conditioning and
refrigerator components suffered.
The Muller division was strengthened
early in the term by the acquisition of
H.J.C. Pty. N.S.W.-based manufacturer
of components for air-conditioning,
commercial refrigeration and heating and
ventilation industries. Consideration was
the issue of 99.137 ss. ordinary shares.
National's builders’ hardware section,
the Perry group, had a slightly less
successful year, but a healthier trend was
once more appearing as the year drew
to a close.
The Bearing Service group had a record
year, despite a setback in the second six
months. However, selling expenses rose
and competition caused some cuts in
gross margins. New branches were estab-
lished in Queensland, Victoria and W.A.
Perhaps the company's biggest move
out of its traditional motor-components
field was the takeover of Eyelets Pty in
a deal involving the issue of 634,746 ss.
shares. This group puts out products
ranging from eyelets for boots and shoes,
lipstick containers, hot-water bottle
stoppers and parts for aerosol packs. It
also produces many small components
for radio and television sets.
Since balance date expansion included
the acquisition of a listed company, A.
Flavell Ltd. manufacturer of oil-seals, for
approximately 320,000 ss. shares.
Despite the generally difficult period,
group sales showed another increase—
£l,oBs,Bl7 (13 p.c.) to £9,264,895. How-
ever, profit edged back by £6641 to
£844,883, after providing £ 19,419 more
for tax at £565.336 and £27,072 more for
depreciation at £135,136.
After paying the pref. dividend (£2500),
the profit was equal to an earning rate
of 35.3 p.c. on average capital. This
compares with 38.6 p.c. in the previous
year and 41.4 p.c., 47.2 p.c., 22.5 p.c.
and 23.4 p.c. in the preceding four years;
The ordinary dividend rate was steady;
at 20 p.c., paid every year since 1958, and
On the higher capital employed absorbeq
£476,666 (up £36,695). Reserves received
£365,717 and benefited by £213,774 pre,
mium on consolidation. Against this wai
set £34,200 for tax underprovided in thi
previous year and a loss of £754 on thl
sale of assets. Total reserves and undistrij
buted profits stood at £3,207,780, fret
of intangibles:
Parent and Subsidiary.
—Dividends N To Ke- Re-
Jne. Profit. Pref. f Ord. serves. serve!
00, £ £ £ £ £ 1
’59..374,919 2-100 20 p.c.=180,053 192,366 960,061
Profit sale assets, £14,845 . . ... 974,91;
Tax underprovided, £903 .. .. 974,011
Reserves on consolidation, £1,280,180 2.254,191
’60..851,524 2500 20 p.c.=439,971 409,053 2,663,24 f
Loss on sale of assets, £7 54 .. .. 2,662,48 f
Tax underprovided, £34,200 . . . . 2,628,281
Reserves on consolidation, £213,774 2,842,0(1
’61..844,883 2500 20 365,717 3,207,78 s
The group balance-sheet reflects corf
tinued growth. Total assets increase!
by £886,813 to £7,366,022. Theoretica
working capita] rose by £215,099 t(
£2,883,203:
Paid capital— 1959. 1960. 1961. [
Pref £ 50,000 £50,000 £50,001
Ord. .. .. 1,050,287 2,199,858 2,383,321
Reserves . . . . 960.068 2,663,243 3,207,78|
Overdraft .. .. 34,977 53,356 71,98;
Creditors .. .. 198,449 592,452 623,83;'.
Staff fund.. .. 45,163 74,184 139,81i[
Tax provision .. 234,983 551.552 570,215
Final div. .. 158,793 294,564 319,021
(|
£2,732,720 £6,479,209 £ 7,3 6 0,02}
Freeholds, leaseholds
and plant . . 903,794 1,946,848 2,450,311
Shares .. .. 186.186 253,961 262,531
Stocks .. .. 875,901 2.922,065 3,343,11*.
Debtors .. .. 453.637 1,318,542 1,265,Mf
Cash ... .. 206,008 37,793 4 1,18;
Intangibles . , 107,194
£2,732,720 £6,479.209 £7,360,02'
Consolidation still remains the principa
task of directors. Despite the increast
in turnover, profit after tax as a percen
tage of sales was 9.1 p.c., compared wit!
10 p.c. in 1960. This can, of course, bt
ascribed to the difficulties of maintaining
volume turnover during the credif
squeeze. With the easing of economii
conditions, a pick-up in the motoi
industry and the increasing rate of office-
block building results for the current term
may show a marked improvement.
At the current market price of 27s*
dividend yield is 3.8 p.c. and earning
yield is 6.7 p.c.
Net tangible assets backing for the
ss. ord. shares is 11s. 9d., and for the
20s. 5 p.c. cum. prefs. £ll2 16s. 5d., both
based on consolidated figures.
OIL AND MINING
Sungei Bidor Tin
The Acting Chairman of Sungei Bide;
fin Dredging Ltd, Mr D. A. Pratten,
stated at the annual general meeting if
Canberra that “the directors considei
that the co. has liquid assets in exces:
of requirements to carry on dredgini
operations in Malaya.” The board!
therefore, intends to recommend a cast
capital refund “at an early date.” Th
refund is expected to be about Is. 3d. ot
each of the 1,440,000 3s. 6d. stock units


Missing Friend
To: GEORGE ERNEST ROBERT JOHNSON of
address unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that, your wife
WILMA JOY JOHNSON has instituted proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of Victoria for
a dissolution ot her marriage to you on the
grounds of desertion and separation.—A NO
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that unless you file an
answer in the office of the Registrar of the Supreme
Court Melbourne on or before the 6tli day of
February 1962 the ease may proceed in your
absence. ALLAN DOUGLAS Public Solicitor 601
Little Collins Street Melbourne.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREMSvCOURT OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Matrimonial Causes Act 1959
No. 271 of 1961.
To: .JOHN WILLIAM MeKENZIE.—TAKE NOTICE
that your wife MARGARET McKENZIE has com-
menced proceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for divorce on the
ground of desertion. if you desire to defend the
proceedings you must file an answer in the Central
Office of the Said Court at Perth within 40 days
after the date of this publication. In default of
you so doing the cause may proceed and the Court
will pronounce judgment and make orders against
you in your absence. Dated this 6th day of January
1962. G. T. STAPLES Acting Registrar. Mr.
I. J. Hughes, 12 Howard Street, Perth Solicitor for
the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES—Ix Divorce.
To ISABEL JOAN DOHERTY late of Berowru in the
State of New South Wales—TAKE NOTRE that
WILLIAM DOHERTY has filed a petition for
Divorce No. 2313 of 1961 in the Supreme Court
of New South Wales on the ground of 5 years
separation. If you wish to defend you may file
an answer in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Mint Building Macquarie Street, by the 16th
February, 1962, and obtain a copy of flic Petition
without charge from Messrs S. T. HODGE & CO.,
Solicitors, of 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.- C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the
rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on application
to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
Santos Ltd
Limited and Oil Development
N.L. jointly report that the South-
East Oil Syndicate Ltd has “successfully
deviated’’ the Beachport No. 1 well at
1640 ft. This was necessary to “overcome
difficulties’’ at the hole. Electric logs
were run at 2816 feet. “The hole
calipered, which showed it to be in good
condition.” The well is now drilling
ahead. The last reported depth was
2910 ft
Australian Oil and Gas
A further production test at the
Moonie No. 1 well in Queensland
again produced an encouraging oil flow.
There was considerable interest in
A.O.G. scrip on the New York share-
market and the peak price reached U.S.
$8.25 (£6 13s. 4d.) a unit. Since then
the shares eased to U.S. $7.50 (£3 6s. Bd.)
a unit.
A 30-day production test commenced
at the well last Friday. The test is
expected to determine how much oil is
under the rig and help select further
test wells.
Metal Exploration N.L.
i rectors report that during the year
to June 30, 1961, the company
carried out investigation of the Northern
Star lease —a copper property in the
Tennant Creek area (N.T.) and
acquired the title.
Options were obtained from Mining
Corporation (Aust.) N.L. over Mt Isa
South and Mt Novit leases in the Mt Isa
area. Technical advisers feel that
further drilling is justified.
Expenditure for the year ended June
30, 1961, amounted to £4179. Divi-
dend received from South Alligator
Uranium N.L. was £lOOO. A further
£lOOO dividend was received after the
books were ruled off. The balance
sheet shows paid capital at £24,500 in
700 fully paid £5 employees' shares and
6000 £3 10s. paid contributing shares.
Liabilities were disclosed at £3947 and
total assets at £33,777, including £27,424
intangibles. Book value of investments
was £4OOO, after taking off £lOOO invest-
ment reserve.
North Australian Uranium
TVorth Australian Uranium Cor-
poration N.L. and Storeys Creek
Tin Mining Co. N.L. have been forced
to temporarily reduce wolfram through-
put at the Storeys Creek mine to about
500 tons of ore a week because of the
decline in wolfram prices. It is expected
that development and exploration will be
stepped during the period of lower pro-
duction. “The mine will thus be placed
in a position where maximum advantage
can be taken of market improvement."’
Return to normal capacity depends on
the trends in the wolfram market. Be-
tween 50 and 60 employees are expected
to be retrenched, commencing January
15, 1962.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 674
Across
I—Backer1 —Backer has a nightcap on a railway-station worker. (9)
6 —Pawns table wines. (5)
8— Kiss behind the clock to start a rubber. (5)
9 Shoes have such femmes fatales. (5)
11— Father is approaching fifty, according to this
colleague. (3)
12 — Garment makes Kipling work on nothing. (6)
13 — Funny coppers having a little loaf. (5)
16—Sexy stories are too much for an old Athenian
portico. (4)
17 —Father's to try business approval
for a tradesman. (10)
19— Is a shirt on disorderly
annalists? (10)
20 — Backing some correspondence
college. (4)
22 — A Boldrewood backing flowers. (5)
23 Admiral whose name is on the
inn in “Treasure Island” shows
deference to Chifley. (6)
24 — Georgia’s fuel. (3)
27 — French Morocco is parent to
Sinbad's transporter. (5)
28 — Sounds like nothing but a Vic-
torian country town. (5)
29 — Finished off a game boy with
mother and got married. (5)
30 — Romeo hops into a second-year
student. (9)
Down
1— —Twenty sheep traded for two
cows and a pig? (5, 8)
2 Father proceeds like a cripple
and has no time for Adelaide or
Perth in an addition to a
manuscript. (10)
3 Bone to look after a Channel
port. (6)
4 Vehicle which shows gratification
to a cricket team. (4)
5 M.S.WV meat centre needs the
little Rhode Island mile, for a
Russian one. (10)
6 Famous passenger liner giving
greeting to some of Asia. (8)
7 The upper point of a tooth
crescent illustrated us on the
small piano. (4)
10—This diagram consists of the two
parties affected by apar-
theid (5, 3,5)
14— Vehicle’s source of revenue needs
it with the followers of Aussie
Rules. (4-6)
15 — One-ell tomb found on an island
off W.A. (10)
18 —Apprehended business by fifties
with a communist. (8)
21 —Woolgrower makes me iron
badly. (6)
25 — Stomach's upset by such dirty
humor. (4)
26 — Kitchenware put up to bite. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 673


r
SN
53
o
5
a
Businessmen want facts and
want them fast. An accurate
report of things that matter
financially is essential to every
executive. But the facts must be
brief! Read all the essential financial and
business news in THE AUSTRALIAN
FINANCIAL TlMES—clear, concise infor
mation —fast! Out every Monday.
THE AUSTRALIAN
FINANCIAL TIMES
l-
ESC
ALIA:
'
coupon to
RATES:
A : r
80.
Meh
NEW ZEALAND: . ul
Rate 171-1- L. year.
Mail coupon to: Box 965, G.P.0.,
Wellington, New Zealand.
ear.
lanager,”
ncial Times,
°A
Victoria.
Subscription
