

The Bulletin
SEPTEMBER 1 1962
ONE SHILLING
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES.
h west passage
1962


SHOWA DENKO K.K.
Main Products
Ferrochrome, other ferroalloys, electrolytic iron;
Aluminium ingots, alloys, wire bars;
Artificial graphite electrodes, other carbonaceous
products;
Fused alumina, silicon carbide, other abrasive grains;
Petrochemicals, other organic and inorganic chemicals;
Ammonium sulphate, urea and other chemical
fertilizers;
Reactor materials, including graphite and heavy water.
Products for progress
Serving industry and agriculture
around the world
*■ V.
'• ■'• ■*«&»*
s'
'■=’Wsm
(
>r.v,;.c
k:,
m
I- a 1 rvofc
,<■■>
>..•/
&
r/-W
y " y
V V*
Write for further information; general catalogue will be sent upon request.
SHOWA DENKO K.K.
34, Shiba Miyamoto-cho, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
Cable Address: SECIC TOKYO


COACHING COLLEGES page 19
Facts on the Teaching Business
®
The King and Sirikit in Canberra 6
Kimberleys 1962 12
Beyond the Fringe and Over the
Edge 16
Men from the “Little’’ Magazines 18
A Page of Rataj 21
Sobukwe Portrait of a Revolu-
tionary 22
Bowling Alleys and Bidets 25
'Dog Days By Brendan Behan 26
A Shortage of Migrants 29
Girl with a Suitcase By Martin
i ' Long .... .... 34
The Incomparable Max Book
Review 37
The Intriguing Finances of Mel-
boitrne Hotels 42
Wool and Closer Settlement 60
®
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
TANNER 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 8
OUT AND ABOUT 16
BLACK AND WHITE 21
OVERSEAS 22
AROUND MELBOURNE 25
SHORT STORY 26
FORUM ‘ 29
LETTERS 32
REVIEWS .. ...... 34
RED PAGE 37
WILD CAT INDEX 41
MAN ON THE LAND 61
FEIFFER 63
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone 27-5971
Melbourne: Phone MF 3341. Brisbane: Phone
82691. Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3
Vol. 84
No. 4307
"OVERLAND" AND THE CLF
FOR an organisation that has done such good service for Australian
literature it is a pity that an air of scandal has so often seemed to
hang around the decisions of the Commonwealth Literary Fund. Its
good works are obvious enough: scholarships for writers, subsidies for
books, pensions for old and needy writers; but so are the scandals. This
does not necessarily refer to any alleged “hand-outs-for-the-boys” policy
that the Fund is often charged with. Eighteen months ago, for example,
Mi Max Harris, who had been refused a CLF scholarship, wrote that
the nation would be better off if the Fund were abolished. “It would
be better for our writers”, he wrote, “to continue their traditional ‘bat-
tling’ for readership and publication than to engage in sucking-up,
sycophancy, lobbying and dishonesty in order to be recipients of a CLF
hand-out.” However, since then both Mr Harris personally, and the
magazine he edits, have accepted “hand-outs” from the CLF, and in fact
it seems likely that an objective examination of the Fund’s “hand-out”
policy to individual writers would not show very much unfairness.
But other complaints remain. Once, for example, the Fund voted to
double its subsidy to one magazine—the editor of which was a member
of the Fund Board. There is no doubt that the magazine deserved the
subsidy and that the editor was a perfectly disinterested member of
the Board. But it is a good working rule (which in its own interests
the Board should observe) that no receiver of a subsidy should be
on the Board that votes the subsidy. Again one member of the Board
also works in a publishing house that receives the greatest number
of subsidies from the Board. In this case, too, the member’s disinterested-
ness cannot possibly be put in question, nor the importance of the
publishing house that is being subsidised. But the whole situation is
not in the Fund’s best interests.
The most recent case concerns the repeated refusal of the Fund to
grant a subsidy to the magazine “Overland”, despite the fact that it
subsidises “Meanjin”, “Southerly”, “Quadrant” and “Australian Letters”.
Last year the Advisory Board unanimously recommended a subsidy to
“Overland” but the Prime Minister vetoed it (presumably on political
grounds: “Overland” though anti-Communist is leftist) and the Board
toed the line without a whimper. This year it again recommended a sub-
sidy, again the Prime Minister vetoed it, and again the Board toed the
line without a whimper. The result is that both the Fund and its members
appear ridiculous, particularly when taken along with the fact that the
Board continued to vote “Southerly” a subsidy despite the fact that it
was coming out so irregularly (under the new editorship of Mr Walter
Stone we look forward to a renewed vitality in the magazine) while
“Overland” comes out regularly.
In view of this The Bulletin has no hesitation in supporting the
resolution passed last weekend by a gathering of editors of literary
magazines and journals of opinion:
We, the undersigned editors, while meeting in Sydney, have dis-
cussed Overlands request to the Commonwealth Literary Fund, and
feel uneasy about the decision to exclude it from assistance. We
suggest that the Commonwealth Literary Fund should reconsider
the case. We also note with concern the effort of Westerly to
develop and maintain under difficulties a literary magazine of
quality in Western Australia and hope that the Commonwealth
Literary Fund may find it possible to help this activity, having
particular regard to the regional needs of that State. ■>


National
Notebook
Time To Think
"VTo one could possibly say whatever
™ else he might say that Time-Life
Inc. were ever slow off the mark. Hav-
ing got their Sports Illustrated well and
truly established they have been giving
a lot of thought to putting out a high
powdered magazine for intellectuals deal-
ing with art, politics, literature and gen-
erally burning issues. William Phillips,
editor of “Partisan Review”, who was in
Sydney last week for the Seminar on
Little Magazines told us that Time-Life
Inc. actually got as far as working up
a dummy and appointing a German
editor. The magazine which was
modelled on “Partisan Review” (13,000
circulation) was to be called THINK
and Mr Luce apparently expected it to
get an immediate circulation of half a
million weekly. On lengthy reflection
the idea was abandoned.
The Orr Case
a recent conference of philosophers
in Canberra the six-and-a-half-year
old Orr case was discussed again in the
light of recent developments, particularly
the refusal by the Governor of Tasmania
to reopen the case despite either the
motion of censure passed on the Univer-
sity of Tasmania by the Federal Council
of the University Staff Associations or
the boycott imposed on the Tas-
manian Chair of Philosophy by Aus-
tralian philosophers. The philosophers
made a number of basic decisions in Can-
berra, but since they swore solemnly not
to reveal them to the Press it has taken
the Press a few days longer than usual to
find out what they decided. It is under-
stood, however, that they decided to lift
the boycott on the Tasmanian Chair of
Philosophy provided certain conditions
were met. These are understood to
involve the University of Tasmania intro-
ducing regulations guaranteeing reason-
able security of tenure by academics, and
waiving certain debts Mr Orr owes the
University. Since the University has re-
peatedly let it be known it was prepared
to fulfil such conditions, it is assumed
that this development represents the
virtual end of the Orr case. Mr Orr will
haye to forget his demand to be re-in-
stalled in his old Chair, and the Univer-
sity is taking steps to ensure that this
sort of case can never happen again in
Tasmania.
Our Lady Of The Harpies
VText Sunday in Sydney, Cardinal
Gilroy will bless renovations to
the Church of the Sacred Heart in
Darlinghurst. Among objects to be
blessed is a new statue Jerived from a
painting by the 16th century painter,
Andrea del Sarto. The original painting
was called “Madonna delle Arpie” or
“Madonna of the Harpies”. Apparently
somebody, fearing the repercussions of
such a title on less reverent parishioners,
has renamed the statue “Our Lady of
Darlinghurst”.
The Sensitive Commissioner
Bischof
Australian nudists still regard
Queensland as a “police” state due
mainly to what they feel is the undue
and somewhat harassing attention paid
to them by Queensland’s Chief Commis-
sioner of Police, Commissioner Bischof.
Sydney nudists tell us that among maga-
zines recently seized by Mr Bischof’s
sensitive men were seven copies of
“Solar” the official journal of the
Australian Sun Clubs. Oddly enough,
sunny Queensland is the only State in
Australia which frowns on nudists’
clubs.
The Queensland Government seems to
take nudists and nudism more seriously
than a perusal of their magazine “Solar”
warrants. On their front page they print
one of their slogans “BEWARE! WE
BARE” and in the following pages one
stumbles on this sort of thing: “All men
are born bare, yet nearly everywhere
they are in clothes!” Underneath this
profound statement appears:
The Sydney Push
agitated Brisbane correspondent
writes: “Brisbane University authori-
ties are not noted for their tolerance to-
wards unorthodox behaviour, and recent
events have tried their patienc even
more than usual. The Inter-' arsity de-
bating, held recently at Queensland Uni-
versity attracted a number of people
from Sydney of a type never before seen
at such a staid collection of well-dressed
students.
“This in itself would have had little
significance had not the v; cation school
for external students been in progress at
the same time. A number of scruffily
dressed undesirables from Sydney gate-
crashed the official external studies
dinner, held at a leading city department
store, and proceeded to spread havoc
amongst the official party (which in-
cluded the Queensland Director-General
of Education) and the external students.
“The uninvited guests began by up-
setting the waitresses with their loud and
repeated demands for more and more
beer, and just before the speeches began
arranged a special prc entation for the
Director-General. This consisted of a
Fathers’ Day card inscribed on a large
printed card advertising a deaf, crippled,
and spastic childrens' art exhibition.
“Not satisfied with this effort, the
visitors further disgraced themselves by
loudly interjecting during the after-
dinner speeches. One woman went and
stood directly in front of the Dean of
the Arts Faculty, Professor Cawley, and
sweetly complimented him as he spoke;
" Tis one of nudists’ strictest rules
That cossies are not worn in pools,
And naked Romeo hath no leave
To wear his heart upon his ,leeve.
When to his loved one he doth speak,
Her happy blushes spread from cheek to
cheek
And cover all her beauteous form,
Already kissed by sunlight warm.”
This Remonstrance is to get political
advancement for the natives of the
llorthern Territory.


another stood on a chair and called on
him to speak up, while others made loud
and derogatory remarks on his hoary
academic jokes. The dinner degenerat-
ed into chaos, and finally the trouble-
makers were seized and forcibly ejected,
the immediate excuse being that one of
them had been writing slogans on the
tablecloth (an example: “Disarm with
Distaval”).
“The affair would have ended there,
but acquainted with the demonstrators
were several staff-members who enjoyed
this departure from tedious academic re-
spectability. Three of these were sum-
moned to interviews with the head of
the External Studies department, Dr
Goodman, the very next morning. They
were accused unjustly of participation in
the disturbances, and threatened with
unspecified reprisals. The Minister for
Education is also reported to have pro-
tested about the treatment given to his
Director-General. And there, so far, the
matter rests. Its outcome will be deter-
mined largely by the sense of humor
(if any) of the authorities. However, it
is hoped that they will not resort to
the extreme legal disciplinary action of
dismissal.”
Lasseter Rides Again
Alight outbreak of gold fever has
hit Adelaide in the past couple of
weeks.
The first sign of infection came in
an advertisement in the “Advertiser”
miscellaneous column.
“Experienced prospector, 20 years NT,
has information on new ranges not yet
prospected . . . Gold brought in by
natives.”
The prospector had all the informa-
tion, but he needed transport to get to
the natives’ hoard.
Other than the fact that the “new
ranges” were about 600 miles from
Adelaide, he refused to say any more
about the gold.
The next move opened another chap-
ter in the legend of Lasseter’s Reef.
A Barossa Valley man returned home
after a six-week search for the fabulous
reef which a thirst-crazed Lasseter
babbled about to the Afghan camel driver
who found him wandering in the desert in
1893.
Lasseter claimed to have found the
greatest of all gold reefs, somewhere
600 miles west of Alice Springs near the
Petermann Ranges.
In 1930, he accompanied an expedi-
tion into the area, but impatient with
delays, he pushed on alone and was
never again seen alive.
Lasseter’s claims have always been
subject to much controversy, and several
attempts to locate his reef have been
made. The latest was no more successful
or decisive than the rest.
The prospector, Mr R. F. Kies,
searched a wide area in WA and the NT,
but found none of the landmarks he
wanted. But, like all true prospectors, he
is not discouraged.
After the summer he will return to
his search for the legendary gold reef
—a reef which, if it exists, has eluded
prospectors for nearly 70 years.
New Rights, Old Wrongs
VTew rights for most of South Aus-
tralia’s 6,000 aborigines will be
granted when a Bill introduced in the
SA Parliament recently is passed.
The Bill abolishes all restrictions and
restraints on SA aborigines except
for some of the primitive nomads who
live in some north and north-west areas
of the State.
One of the most criticised restrictions
—the drinking laws will be a major
adjustment in the Bill. All part aborig-
ines and most full-bloods will be able
to drink liquor freely. Another inter-
esting provision concerns the supply of
liquor to natives in restricted areas. The
ingrained tribal habit of sharing has
been recognised, and a “more lenient
view” will be taken of aborigines supply-
ing other aborigines.
The Minister in Charge of Aboriginal
Welfare (Mr Pearson) said when intro-
ducing the Bill that it should be re-
membered the aborigines had been
called on to make the changes.
“The problem of assimilation is one
that we have inflicted on them,” Mr
Pearson said.
The problem so sadly ignored for
years has received much attention
in South Australia since the Common-
wealth conference decision in 1952 to
make assimilation a national project.
It is significant that education and
housing aid will be extended under the
new Act. The Aborigine Welfare De-
partment’s secondary education schema
was proved successful after a bad start.
There are now about 60 fully maintained
secondary students compared with about
30 two years ago.
Tanner
. ... the white ones.


Th is Australia
THE ROYAL TOUR
"THE NOT-ALLOWED TOUR"
No smiles from the King
QUEEN SIRIKIT
Rules for
photographers
tTuE Royal tour for King Phumiphon
A and Queen Sirikit already is running
to the pattern of the four previous post-
war royal tours. The old familiar organis-
ers are on the job, even the same Rolls
Royces are there. They are also using
this tour as a training run to get every-
one in fine nick for the big tour next
February.
The Canberra decorations, to be
honest, were a little disappointing. The
red and white and blue bunting across
Parliament House looked like the Mon-
day washing and apart from a few Hags
there was little else. The best show was
put on by the Royal Thai Embassy in
Mugga Way. Here there was bunting
and elephants all over.
Furthermore, the ambassador had
made some additions to his garden. There
were concrete painted figures placed at
tasteful points. There were no frogs or
storks but there were kangaroos, koala
bears, magpies, seagulls, brolga birds,
dogs and little men.
Mugga Way was spotless and beauti-
fully swept for the occasion. Regrettably,
though, one of the neighbors had left out
a box of bottles for the dustmen. We
checked on the labels. There were gin
bottles, gold label Haigs Scotch bottles,
and one excellent bottle labelled Chateau
Petit Faurie de Soutard 1955. Life is
still bearable in diplomacy row.
Newspapermen have called it “The
Not-allowed Tour”. The rules are strict.
Flashlights are to be avoided; pictures
must not be taken during a meal; con-
tinuous photography of their Majesties
is not permitted (long lenses included);
their Maiesties must never be asked
directly to pose or perform some act; no
photograph shall be taken within 15 feet
at Canberra.
Newspaper representation at most
functions was restricted. The first order
for the dance at Government House was
that only two would be allowed from
“Women's Weekly” and “Woman’s Day”.
The cry from social editresses almost
shook the continent and this was raised
one by one until finally it re ched seven.
The original plans for the visit to the
National University were that the Press
would be able to peek in mlays through
a screen at the Royal party having lunch.
Finally this was relaxed and three rep-
resentatives were actually invited to the
meal. The National University public re-
lation have been a little awry lately.
Naturally the tour has been covered
with great gusto; so much so there have
been fears in the Department of External
Affairs: unashamedly the red-blooded
Australian photographers have trained
their lenses on Queen Sirikit, which
could mean that the King is not getting
the attention he should, and it is he who
is the Head of State and some kind of
a God in Thailand. But it is doubtful
if the department will ever overcome
this problem. The King has followed the
pattern of his tours to other countries.
He doesn’t smile. The Queen smiles
superbly, yet much has been done to
take in his interests. His song “Falling
Rain” was played at the Royal arrival
a very dangerous number to play,
many thought, considering Canberra
weather. Then six of his numbers were
played at the Government House dance.
They were “Lullaby”, “When I Think Of
You”, “Hungry Men’s Blues”, “Love
At Sunset”, and again “Falling Rain”.
They varied from waltzes to slow fox
trots, pleasant amiable off-beat, but not
what the far-out boys ould approve.
But there is one thing you will notice
before the tour is over and that is the
Thai National Anthem. The band, of
course, invariably plays “God Save The
Queen”, which runs for 18 seconds, but
again and again it has to play the Thai
National Anthem, and that goes for 75
seconds. When you are standing there
stiffly, sworn bare, that is quite a time.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
SIR THOMAS DEMANDS ACTION
What are Senators for?
Tn a move unprecedented in living
A memory the SA Assembly last
week asked SA Senators to seek Federal
aid for the standardisation of the Port
Pirie-Broken Hill railway. With a rare
display of unity which amazed observ-
ers, not one dissenting :oice was raised
in SA’s 39-seat Assembly.
The Premier (Sir Thomas Playford)
agreed with Mr Frank Walsh, the op-
position leader who initiated the move
that it was a matter of great urgency and
importance to the State. Constitutionally,
he said, the motion did not appear to be
out of line with the purpose for which
the Senate was established. He pointed
out that in the past four years about
£l3l million had been allocated by the
Commonwealth for projects benefiting
individual States. Of this, he said, SA
had got less than £1.4 million.
Sir Thomas said that while providing
10 per cent, of the revenue, SA had got
only 1 per cent, of the expenditure. He
went on to say that while NSW had
got Commonwealth aid for harbor work
in loading coal, SA had spent £2i mil-
lion on lead exporting facilities at Port
Pirie. Queensland’s “significant advant-
ages and protection for its industries”
had come from Senate unity, Sir Thomas
said.
SA’s battle for rail standardisation on
this line began with the Chifley Gov-
ernment, but all requests for aid have
been steadfastly turned down. About
seven years ago the Commonwealth
Government granted £50,000 for sur-
vey work on the line, but after the
survey was completed nothing happened.
Recently the Commonwealth Govern-
ment again decided to postpone indefi-
nitely the standardisation of the narrow-
gauge railway.
The Premier’s hand has been forced
by pressure from Broken Hill to reduce
freight rates. One Broken Hill company
has claimed that a reduction of at least
£BOO,OOO is necessary. It proposes to
experiment with road transport as an
alternative. If it goes ahead, and is
successful, the State will be deprived of
a major source of revenue.
Returning from Canberra at the end


of the week, Liberal Senators Hanna-
ford and Buttfield indicated that they
would not support the Budget amend-
ment. Senator Buttfield said the move
was a “gangster” tactic, aimed at bring-
ing down the Government, and Senator
Hannaford said he would continue to
support Mr Menzies!
Whether the move will have any
measure of success cannot be judged at
this stage, although it is most unlikely
that the Budget amendment will be
made. Meanwhile, the SA Government
with full Opposition support is moving
ahead with its own standardisation plans
—which it cannot hope to complete it-
self.
C. A. MILNE
CANBERRA
THE DLP OLIVE BRANCH
"Stop sneezing when Communists cough"
As I see it
SENATOR COLE
Half hearted
Trailing some
major move-
ment within the
Labor Party, the Menzies Government is
almost as firmly in control of the Senate
as it was between the years 1958 and
1961 when its majority in that chamber
was 32/28. This emerged clearly from
last week’s sham fight, staged by Labor,
in the Senate on the Leadership privileges
accorded Senator George Cole (Tas.), the
Democratic Labor Party’s one-man re-
presentative in the Federal Parliament.
Cole gave the key to what is going
to happen in the Senate during the next
three years with the words “At present
the Government is receiving our (DLP)
support. We could not trust the Aus-
tralian Labor Party under its present
setup.”
If Cole continues to take this attitude
—and everything he said suggests he will
—the Government will continue to com-
mand on anything that really matters a
31 vote in the 60-strong chamber, ir-
respective of the attitude taken by the
Tasmanian Independent, Senator Reg
(“Spot”) Turnbull, who last week blasted
his old schoolmate Treasurer Harold Holt
for allegedly following blindly what in
Turnbull’s view was the calamitous
advice of another prominent Tasmanian,
Sir Roland Wilson, permanent Head of
the Commonwealth Treasury.
Yet, though satisfactory to the Govern-
ment as revealing the present state of
affairs, the debate must also produce
some government uneasiness about what
could conceivably happen in the future.
For the debate seemed to suggest that
if there were any major movement within
the Labor Party and it took any strong
anti-Communist line, (stopped sneezing
whenever Communists coughed, as
Senator Cole put it) reconciliation be-
tween Labor and the DLP’s main elec-
toral forces as distinct from the extre-
mists represented by Mr B. A. Santa-
maria and his personal followers—could
come about swiftly.
There was a strange halfheartedness to
the debate. McKenna went out of his
way to acknowledge the DLP as a signi-
ficant electoral factor. Senator Cant
(Lab., WA) who would probably be
second to nobody in the Labor Party
in his dislike of the DLP prefaced his
speech with these words: “Although in
the course of this debate it will be neces-
sary to mention the DLP, no one should
draw the inference that we are making
any attack on any personality.” McKenna
and Cant were the only two Labor
speakers.
In his reply, Cole seemed similarly
halfhearted. He washed some dirty Labor
linen but appeared to do so without great
enthusiasm. While he never used Com-
monwealth transport within his home
State of Tasmania, though entitled to do
so, Calwell had three Commonwealth cars
and two Commonwealth chauffeurs re-
served for his own convenience in Mel-
bourne, Cole alleged. Labor’s 90 mem-
bers of the Federal Parliament enjoyed
the services of a total of 114 secretaries.
The attitudes discernible in this debate
suggest that there is something in the per-
sistent rumors that though Mr Santa-
maria wants the maintenance of the DLP
as a permanent third force in Australian
politics there are those within both the
DLP and the ALP who would like to see
a reconciliation between the two groups
from which Mr Santamaria and his
extremist wing would be excluded.
But what represents in DLP eyes, a
“little” clean up in ALP policies un-
doubtedly represents in ALP eyes a major
clean up which would be amost impos-
sible to achieve without a shakeup in the
Labor Party’s internal management.
For this reason, despite the seeming
olive branch extended by Cole every-
thing points to the Menzies Government
retaining with Cole’s backing a control
of the Senate nearly as tight as that
which it had between 1958 and 1961, and
the ALP and DLP continuing at daggers’
drawn.
ALAN REID
UNIONS
GANG SIZES
"Hurry On"
Thus Thursday, the Minister for Labor,
Mr W. McMahon, is expected to
table in Parliament the long-awaited
amendments to the Stevedoring Act de-
signed to remove anomalies in the water-
side workers’ long service leave provi-
sions, particularly the provisions which
automatically cancel part of a waterside
worker’s long-service leave entitlements
if he goes on strike. The ACTU, the
Minister, and Mr Fitzgibbon of the
Waterside Workers’ Federation are
already agreed on the substance of the
amendments and Mr McMahon’s action
is seen as a “hurry-on” move in the
current dispute between the shipowners
and the Federation over the question of
gang sizes in Melbourne and Sydney.
The exact legal status of Mr Justice
Ashburner’s investigations into his gang
sizes dispute is a matter of some argu-
ment among lawyers. Whether he has
the power to give a judgment leading to
a settlement seems to be in some doubt.
Subject to appeals from the WWF on
questions of safety and unreasonable
loads Mr Justice Ashburner wrote into
the Watersiders’ 1960 award th t: “The
numbe • of men to be employed, whether
on ship or on shore shall be in each
case in the discretion of and as re-
quired by the employer or his represen-
tative.”
In Sydney the WWF is arguing that
three men instead of two should be
used in handling wool bales in the shed.
(Two have been used for about five
years). Melbourne wharfies claim that at
least 10 men should be used in handling
certain cargo in the ships.
How Mr Justice Ashburner will
manoeuvre himself out of his complex
legal position will be watched with great
keenness by most industrial lawyers.
MUGGA


QUEENSLAND
END OF THE MORRIS DANCE
Oiling the Liberal Machine
MR K. MORRIS
Surrendered police
State Liberal Party’s electoral
•*- machine ticked over last week with
some more than usually noisy backfires.
The first was the resignation of the
Party’s Parliamentary leadership by Mr
Ken Morris; and the second was the
surprise endorsement for Clayfield of
former Liberal member for Hobart
(N.Q.) Mr John Murray.
The resignation of Mr Morris, carry-
ing with it Deputy Premiership in the
coalition Government, was not unexpect-
ed. He has been in bad health for several
months, and in addition is reported to
have been odd man out in Cabinet and
with his own Party executive on several
major issues.
Mr Morris has probably had one of
the worst public images of any of the
coalition Cabinet inevitably since he
has held the controversial posts of Min-
ister in charge of police, traffic, tourism
and Labor and Industry. In all of them
he has managed at some time or another
to incur electorate ire. Earlier this year
he surrendered police but retained charge
of the Traffic Commission.
He assumed Parliamentary leadership
of the Liberal Party in 1954 at a time
when its Parliamentary representation
was eight. But the 1957 A.L.P. split
transformed the position and his despised
position then became a plum.
To Mr Morris’ credit is his capacity
for long hours at his office desk, a
boundless enthusiasm about Queensland
and complete loyalty to his subordinates.
Probably his most important single piece
of legislation while in office was his
amended industrial and arbitration Act,
which, in rather typical Morris fashion,
was rushed into the House with a fanfare
of trumpets but then subjected to
something like 27 amendments before
it was finally passed.
In his successor, Mr Alan Munro,
Minister for Justice, the wheel has swung
the full circle. Mr Munio is openly des-
cribed in the Queensland Press as the
most cautious man in Parliament.
It is said that he checks the carbons
of his Press statements with the originals.
A 64-year-old chartered accountant, Mr
Munro entered Parliament in 1950.
Practically teetotal, a lay-preacher, he
has gone along quietly, although he
steered the controversial liquor reform
measure through Parliament, which
among other things allows for Sunday
sessions in various parts c the State.
His recent refusal to conduct an open
inquiry into the Plomp Rape Case alle-
gations has brought him under heavy
fire in the Queensland Press.
Selection of Townsville grazier-
businessman John Murra v as Liberal
candidate for the blue ribbon seat of
Clayfield has caused some heart-burning
in Party circles. Defeated locals included
prominent feminist Mrs Margaret Gor-
don, former State MLA Tom Ahearn,
executive member Mr J. Tuckfield, and
Brisbane TV personality Brian Cahill.
Murray’s nomination was a well-kept
secret apparently to avoid active
branch canvassing by the Brisbane
brigade. A joint C.P.-Liberal Party Com-
mittee at the moment is investigating
the possibility of restoring preferential
voting in Queensland, promised by the
coalition in 1957 but pigeon-holed ever
since. A blow-up in Clayfield, caused by
an independent Liberal standing against
Mr Murray, would certainly influence
thinking on this matter, although general
feeling at the moment is that first-past-
the-post will remain.
WESLEYANS AS WELSHERS?
September 2, 1882
T Tp country, the other day, two estim-
able citizens had a quarrel during
the course of which one called the
other, among a variety of other things,
A Wesleyan. Several days after-
wards the individual who had been so
enominated sent his friend a writ
or saner, one of the accusations
\v IC I W3S P uhUc }y te ™ed “ a
ese>an, t e innuendo being that
e was a is onest and hypocritical
person \\ o was disinclined to pay his
US e s '
T ea^iit .„ 0 . ~ , , „ ,
. s exammed before the Educ-
ation Commission in Victoria
conc cmn the system of payment by
results as tending to bald cramming.
ny assistant going for illustration of
his subject to any matters not set
down in the school books is straight-
way stopped by the headmaster, and
compelled to grind away the dreary
repetitions which sicken children of
school life. Our own system is no
better, and never will be while
Ministers are selected for the Educa-
tion Department according to the ne-
cessities of Jack or ’Enry, and school
inspectors’ qualifications are only a
smattering of learning. The one use
Universities should be put to is to
direct education, and it is because they
are applied to every purpose but that,
that academic distinctions are lightly
held. A Chair of Education is surely
as great a want as an elaborate system
for turning out annually a handful
of Doctors and Lawyers to bleed and
drench us.
EDUCATION
GOULBURN
REVISITED
Catholic pressure group?
T'he 130 people who gathered from
A three States for a two-day conference
in Goulburn’s Lilac Hall last weekend,
gave a good demonstration of how not
to organise a public campaign. The pur-
pose of their meeting was the setting
up of a Federal organisation to work
for aid or equality of treatment for all
children attending independent schools.
From 2 p.m. to 11 p.m. on the Saturday
they argued about everything except the
need for some broadly based citizens’
association to co-ordinate all their activi-
ties.
By Sunday they had elected an un-
workable committee of 23 and decided
on a name (the “Australia i Association
for Educational Freedom”). Then the
meeting more or less broke down.
Worst of all there were inly Catholics
present at the conference which meant


COONAWARRA ESTATE*
CLARET
(0 |'| \*u4 R It A IS I All
I'M It ET
viNT*C ( I♦s•
I , It X.1«4I«« »•'*>* 01
At Coonawarra Estate all
our skills are devoted
exclusively to vintaging
table wine. To achieve
distinctive quality we
have retained many of
the old hand methods
and each vintage is indi-
vidually made to give of
its best.
* “Estate” (as the word “Chateau" in France )
is used to distinguish this claret as being the
genuine product of the winegrower’s own
vineyard.
CI3NR
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD.
their intention of not being tied to any
one religion was (temporarily) frustrated.
It emerged from the conference that
there have been groups of Catholics in
Victoria, Tasmania and Wagga working
for some time on the crisis in education
among Catholic schools. They had been
lobbying politicians of all parties, writing
letters to the Press, giving radio talks,
assigning speakers to meetings. One task
they had set themselves was that of edu-
cating other Catholics on the general
question of aid to independent schools —
which will be quite a job since because
of the inhibitions of the Sydney hierarchy
Igainst disturbing the cosy relationship
jgljween Church authorities and the
NSW Labor Government, nothing had
been done by Sydney Catholics com-
parable with the actions of the Parents
an’3 friends’ Association in Victoria and
Tasmania.
The Goulburn conference did appoint
a sub-committee of four to draft a pro-
visional constitution for the Australian
Association for Educational Freedom.
This draft will be presented to the com-
mittee of the AAEF in Wagga on
September 15. Although the AAEF
may in fact eventually bog down there
are already plans for a national conven-
tion in Melbourne in two months’ time.
But until a wide range of Protestants,
Jews and atheists who believe in the
principle of aiding minority as well as
Government schools are recruited the
Association will be dismissed as merely
another Catholic pressure group.
WOLLONGONG-KEMBLA
THE REIDTOWN AFFAIR
Steel Town Politics
/\ne successful (if unconstitutional) way
” to run an ALP branch may be
learned from the current Reidtown issue
which is raging in the NSW State elec-
torate of Wollongong-Kembla, the heavy
industry and strong trade union centre.
This, apparently, can be done quite
simply if there is truth in the allegations
made by the former returning officer of
the powerful branch in the Wollongong
suburb of Reidtown.
Firstly, the branch’s executives officers
borrow the car of the local State mem-
ber. Then, taking along the branch’s at-
tendance book, the officers drive to the
homes of branch members and get them
to sign the book as they would if they
were present at meetings. Using the same
methods, the branch officials sign up new
members.
The former returning officer of Reid-
town Branch (Mr William Pollock) has
made precisely these allegations, and
others, against branch president (Aider-
man Bill Farrell), secretary (Mrs Farrell)
and other branch officials. Charges he
laid with the ALP State Executive state
that the officials, himself included, used
the car of Labor member for Wollon-
gong-Kembla (Mr R. F. X. Connor). He
claims that some of the “members”
whose signatures appear on the attend-
ance book have not attended branch
meetings for up to nine years.
These practices obviously increase a
branch’s voting power in important
ALP matters. In this case, the branch—
the largest in the electorate—is a left-
wing stronghold and members, almost to
a man, are fully behind Mr Connor.
The surprising thing about the “Reid-
town Affair” is not so much the charges
themselves, but that they come from
Mr Pollock, a Connor-supporter for many
years. Mr Pollock admits taking part
himself in the alleged malpractice and it
prompts one to wonder whether he hoped
to escape the wrath of the State Execu-
tive by spilling the beans. Needless to
say, Mr Pollock did not, for the State
Executive dismissed the charges, but
reached a compromise on the counter-
claims of Alderman Farrell and other
branch officials that Mr Pollock had
resigned from the party. Mr Pollock
claimed that he had merely walked out of
the branch’s annual meeting because it
had not been conducted properly. The
State Executive deposed Mr Pollock from
his position as returning officer but did
not throw him out of the party.
But the matter is not yet dead. Not
to allow such a golden opportunity to
slip by, right-wingers in Wollongong
flocked to Mr Pollock’s support with
cries of “Railroaded out of office” and
“What Price Reidtown?” A petition
organised at a “secret” meeting in the
Ironworker Building and signed by more
than 50 ALP members protested against
the State Executive’s dismissal of the
charges and a similar protest came from
Figtree branch of the party.
Under the pressure, the State Executive
re-opened the hearing of the charges and
fresh ones made by Reidtown member
Mr Walter Bennett. It has also ordered
the Credential Committee and Party of-
ficers to investigate claims by Mr Connor
of press leakages and the setting up of
a “de-facto executive to deal with Reid-
town’s fate”. Mr Connor has also an-
nounced his intention of charging ALP
Youth Assembly president and local
Shop Assistants’ Union secretary (Mr
Barry Egan) with “using disruptive
tactics”.
With such a confusing furore the
ALP had to postpone the local govern-
ment pre-selections in the two City of
Greater Wollongong wards in which
Reidtown members reside, whiie the in-
vestigation into the series of charges and
counter-charges continues.
So Reidtown is back in the spotlight
on the Wollongong political stage. And
the rift between the rival factions in this
trade union centre grows wider. So bitter
and frequent is the sniping and back-
stabbing in the party that there is a
strong threat that all branches may lose
their charters and a complete re-organisa-
tion of the ALP in Wollongong take
place.
TREVOR MURRELL


S.P.
SIR ALAN COMES
TO THE COMMISSION
A matter of Principle
JUDGE KINSELLA
Sceptical
Qir Alan Potter came at last to the
NSW Royal Commission on off-
course betting last week, but not as
Chairman of the Australian Jockey Club.
On the previous Friday he had resigned
after 17 years service as chairman, al-
though he remained a committee mem-
ber. Introducing Sir Alan to the Royal
Commissioner and the biggest gallery
since the opening week, assisting counsel,
Mr. Meares, QC, said that Sir Alan had
made it clear that he was reluctant to
give evidence against the majority of his
committee.
Whatever his prior reluctance. Sir
Alan did not ailow it to stop him from
giving the truth as he saw 7 it to the Com-
mission. After a faint opening tinge of
diffidence Sir Alan in a firm clipped
accent went a long way towards cutting
his committee's case down. To him the
Victorian TAB system advocated by the
AJC and STC, was simply “not practic-
able”. The Victorian TAB had a turn-
over of £2O million a year, while the
lowest estimate to their Royal Commis-
sion had put illegal turnover at £162 mil-
lion, therefore there must be still sub-
stantial illegal betting going on. Because
of this, according to Sir Alan, the re-
turns to the racing clubs from the Vic-
torian TAB had been far from satis-
factory.
The ex-chairman proposed licensed off-
course telephone bookmaker betting and
in addition cash betting at premises up
till half an hour before the first race.
In cross-examination the normally ebul-
lient Mr. Cassidy, QC, for the AJC and
STC was most subdued and brief.
The main challenge to Sir Alan came
from Mr N. Jenkyn, QC, for the Council
of Churches, who has been present at
the Commission on relatively few days.
His absence is explained by the fact that
the Council of Churches is conducting an
appeal, evidently not very successful,
for £3,000 for legal costs.
In a doaged and sometimes circuitous
cross-examination Mr Jenkyn attacked
the morality of gambling, comparing it to
prostitution. When Mr. Justice Kinsella
expressed some polite scepticism at the
validity of the analogy Mr. Jenkyn stuck
to his point.
Probably the most significant exchange
in the cross-examination of Sir Alan,
however, came between Mr. Meares and
Sir Alan. In reply to a question Sir Alan
said that if a practicable tote system of
off-course betting could be formulated he
would prefer it to a licensed bookmaker
scheme.
Behind Mr. Meares question is a
threat to the long-established virtual
monopoly of Automatic Totalisators Ltd
in Australia. Behind the scenes an
American based company with extensive
computer experience has put forward an
offer that it can record bets from any
agency in the State, almost immediately.
This would eliminate the existing 40-
minute pre-race deadline in the Victorian
TAB system, necessary because country
bets must be phoned through relay cen-
tres and be collated before the race.
This could tie in with the NSW Trot-
ting Club's proposal before the Commis-
sion for a modification of the TAB
scheme to provide for progress betting
and payment, thus eliminating three of
the punters’ main grudges against the
TAB.
The other highlight of last week was
a clash over a matter of principle involv-
ing relations of clients and counsel, be-
tween assisting counsel, Mr. Meares and
Mr. Miller, QC, for the existing SP book-
makers. The dispute arose rut of the
cross-examination of Mr Meagher. Chair-
man of the AJC Paddock Book-
makers’ Association, a cool and intelli-
gent witness who had stood up to
intensive and sometimes savage cross-
examination.
Mr. Meagher’s association had modi-
fied its original plan for telephone credit
betting to allow for cash betting before
noon on a race day. Mr Meares’ ques-
tioning was directed towards the sugges-
tion that expediency had prompted the
change and he sought to probe how far
Mr. Cantor, counsel for the Association
and the bodies associated with it, had
been responsible for the change This
brought a massive protest from Mr. Mil-
ler who claimed that the relationship of
client and counsel was being threatened.
In reply Mr. Meares claimed that a meet-
ing of clients, where the change was
made could not have the mantle of
privilege merely because counsel was
present.
Mr Miller won, in the sense that
the cross-examination was ot pursued,
but there were indications of clashes to
come when Mr. Meares spoke of “some
ulterior motive” to be “obvious at a later
stage”. Just when the peculiar rights
and status of a Royal Commission allow
investigation of client-counsel relations
is not clear at any time. But the ques-
tion of privilege could become a major
issue when illegal off-course operators
enter the box to give evidence.
REHARD HALL
WEST AUSTRALIA
THE BATTLE OF BUNBURY
The Ore Case
HThe search for minerals in Western Aus-
A tralia’s north-west was bound to be-
come a political issue at some time. The
Bunbury by-election has just brought it
that much closer.
Labor has selected a most promising
issue on which to embarrass the Govern-
ment before this week’s by-election,
which could pull down the Liberal-
Country Party ministry if Labor wins the
seat.
It is Mineral Claim 90, a 10-acre cop-
per mine in the desolate Whim Creek
area north of Port Hedland. This claim
was the subject of a dispute between
Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd., in which
prominent north-west prospector Lang
Hancock has a substantial interest, and
the Depuch Shipping and Mining Co., a
Japanese-controlled company developing
copper mining in the area The dispute
came before Marble Bar warden N. J.
Malley, who decided that Hancock had
failed to prove the location of the area
and recommended to Mines Minister
Griffith that it should pass to the Depuch
Co., which was previously leasing it
from Hancock.
The warden made his judgment mainly
on the grounds that the boundaries of the
claim could not be defined. He criticised
the Mines Department for its failure to
survey mining claims i.i the district and
said the long delays reflected on the de-
partment's efficiency.
Mines Minister Griffith immediately
ordered a survey of the area. He said
the Department had previously tried to


survey the area, but :ould not find the
pegs.
Opposition deputy leader Jack Tonkin
saw in this issue a golden opportunity
to embarrass the Government, firstly on
the grounds that it had acted to gain a
decision that could not be gained in the
warden’s court but more importantly be-
cause the Liberal member for Subiaco,
Mr. Hugh Guthrie, was a member of the
legal firm acting for Mr. Hancock. If he
could prove that Mr. Guthrie was an in-
terested party in the dispute he could
have him excluded from voting on the
notice of motion he introduced to the
Legislative Assembly calling for a Royal
Commission to inquire into the matter.
Mr. Guthrie’s exclusion would assure the
passing of his motion, as the Govern-
ment would have only 23 votes to
Labor’s 24.
Mr. Tonkin’s motion became the sub-
ject of a battle of tactics between the
parties. Labor wanted it debated and
put to the vote before the Bunbury
by-election, the Government wanted to
avoid bringing it to a vote.
Though the Government has so far
been able to stave off a vote on the issue
by its slender control of the House, Mr.
Tonkin has been the tactical winner all
along the line.
The Bunbury by-election will settle the
matter of who controls the House. A
Labor win will mean Labor control and
probably another general election. A
Liberal win will restore the Govern-
ment’s one vote majority in the
Assembly.
The skirmishes of the last two weeks
have proved that even if the Govern-
ment holds the Bunbury seat and com-
pletes its term of office State Labor is
far from reconciled to a long term on the
opposition benches.
TASMANIA
INSIDE THE POLICE FORCE
"Police efficiency does more than
the busiest hangman"
E. REECE
Select Committee
Qpurred by evidence from “witnesses
of vast experience and practical
knowledge that certainty of detection
rather than severity of punishment is
the greatest deterrent to crime”, a Select
Committee has delved into Premier
Reece’s police organisation to produce
one of the most effective reports ever
presented to Tasmania's Parliament.
Mr W G. Wedd (Ind.) secured the
appointment of the committee of five
in the House of Assembly last Novem-
ber “to enquire into police matters in
Tasmania”. Forty meetings and 61
witnesses later, Mr. Wedd tabled the
report last week (August 21). Much of
its most valuable evidence was secured
from NSW and Victorian witnesses, and
important first-hand knowledge was
gathered by the members as they
travelled as observers on operational
duties with Victorian mobile units.
“Ferocious penalties are ineffective if
criminals think that they have a chance
of getting away with their criminal
activity”, the committee reported.
“Police efficiency does more to prevent
murder than the busiest hangman”, and
could save its cost many times over in a
community which paid £2/7/7 a day
for the privilege of keeping its prisoners
and lost heavily through thefts and
damage.
In fact, Tasmania’s attenuated police
force hasn't done badly. In the period
1957-61, Police Commissioner W. J.
Delderfield told the committee there
had been 216 reported crimes against
the person and 198 cases had been
brought to court. Nevertheless, the
“spectacular criminals” do not create
such a grave problem as the 17 to 25
year-old offenders who have been found
by prison officials to be “more arrogant
and much more difficult to handle than
formerly”. It was clear from the
evidence that most of these criminals
progressed gradually (but now at an
accelerated rate) from child delinquency
to petty crime, then to violence and
robbery. Their crimes decrease in
seriousness from the age of 30, but “by
the time they are in their forties they
are just limping along without knowing
what it is to be a decent citizen”.
The pattern of the criminal’s progress
was disclosed by statistics given to the
committee. Last year, it was told, 266
prisoners received in H.M. gaols in Tas-
mania had no previous convictions, 101
had once before been convicted, 81 had
two convictions, and 473 had been con-
victed three or more times. Of all
prisoners received, more than half were
under 25. Their uselessness perturbed
the committee. “There is little productive
activity within the prisons. . . . Outside
industry need not fear gaol competition.
It would be quite negligible”.
The committee recommended an in-
crease of more than 70 in the strength
of the police force to bring it to a total
of 636. The additional men, it reported,
were needed mainly for beat duty in the
cities. Moreover, the committee found
that far too many polic; were engaged
in duties which were not necessarily the
responsibility of their department and
did not call for trained policemen for
their performance. This further reduced
the effective number of policemen avail-
able to carry out duties which only
police could do. Within the city of
Hobart alone, 17,000 summonses had
to be served last year (“mainly for
doctors, dentists and hospitals, with hire
purchase following closely”). Ihe com-
mittee found that policemen at Bellerive
spent 60 per cent, of their time serving
processes, and the work was rising at the
rate of 20-25 per cent, a year. Of deeper
concern in the light of their subsequent
findings, the committee members agreed
that bailiff duty was seriously damaging
the relations of the police and the public.
“Probably the most important recom-
mendation”, the committee reported,
concerned public relations. “In parts of
Tasmania there tends to be a cloak of
secrecy surrounding all aspects of police
activity, but in Victoria and NSW public
relations are considered of the utmost
importance to the police in their work”.
The “veil of secrecy” was again dis-
covered in the surroundings of children’s
courts. It should be removed, the com-
mittee reported, and the Press should
have access to juvenile courts, though
the names of offenders should certainly
not be disclosed. The committee
believed that “if the public is kept in
ignorance of the offences committed by
juveniles there is little hope for reform.
This was clearly shown recently with
regard to reforms made in the Laun-
ceston Children’s Court. It was not until
a headmaster publicly directed attention
to conditions then existing that the At-
torney-General took the necessary steps
to have investigations made. It was then
shown that changes were needed, and
that the inadequacy of the court had been
concealed by the secrecy under which it
operated.”
It recommended heavier penalties for
assaults, the setting up of a parole board,
extension of on-the-spot summonses and
new emphasis on the re-education of
prisoners. It considered capital punish-
ment, but felt that this should be fully
investigated by an appropriate com-
mittee, and that in the meantime the
death sentence should remain on the
statutes.


NORTH-WEST PASSAGE, 1962
"The sad fact is the day of the battler is over"
By KEITH WILLEY
I have just completed a tour of the
north-west: 5500 miles in five
weeks, travelling from Wyndham
over as far as Broome, then east through
Hall’s Creek, the Vestey cattle country,
down into the desert skirting Nongra
Lake, and finally back along the Murranji
droving track to the Stuart Highway.
The first fact about the Kimberleys is its
loneliness. After nearly a century of
settlement the white population still num-
ber less than 5000. To the north, back
of the King Leopold Ranges where
Pigeon, Ellemara and Long Frankie once
fought off the white man with stolen
rifles, there is “The Underworld Country.”
Apart from three or four missions and an
occasional crocodile hunter the coast is
empty all the way from Wyndham to
Yampi Sound.
Inland are the remote fastnesses of the
Couchman, Sandstone and Ashton
Ranges. The only human feet which
tread this place are the bare ones of a
few aboriginal nomads who have found
here a last refuge; a Stone Age hideaway
where the ancient rites are still practised,
and the old men’s words still listened to.
You can feel the loneliness soaking
into you through the pores of your skin.
The nights you spend in your swag, out
on the cold, flat ground, your lullaby the
gasping bay of a wild donkey, or the
howl of a dingo reaching down from some
high rocky cleft.
The next thing is its vastness More
than 100,000 square miles; some of it a
tangle of red rock hills slashed by ravines
and twisted into fantastic shapes by the
mightiest rivers in the whole of North
Australia. Other parts are rolling prairie
where you can drive for 50 miles through
rich, knee-high pastures and not see a
tree, a rock, a hill.
Early each January the monsoons
come, turning the Margaret, Ord. Fitzrov
and other rivers into inland seas—often
50 miles wide—racing down from their
mountain catchments to pour millions
and millions of gallons of fresh water
into the Indian Ocean. Arid-looking
stations, far inland, show you marks ten
and fifteen feet above ground level
“where the water reached last year.”
Regularly, around January, February or
March, the licensee of the Fitzroy Cros-
sing Hotel can sit on his verandah and
watch the frightened bullocks sweep by.
By April the surface water is all gone.
By October the country is dry again; the
great rivers are ribbons of sand; the
cattle starve.
All this is Australia as it used to be.
But change is coming. The WA Govern-
ment, backed by Commonwealth money,
has launched a development scheme
which dwarfs anything previously attemp-
ted in the North. Farms are spreading
over the Ord and Fitzroy basins. A new
abattoir has been built at Derby, making
four for the Kimberleys. Everywhere
roads are going through. To those who
love the quiet places progress is not an
unmixed blessing. For to gain rice
paddies you must sacrifice your buffalo
plains and your wild goose lagoons. Some
of the men building the new North may
not much enjoy nor understand the thing
they are creating.
The great Ord River irrigation project
probably has more pressmen, politicians
and other assorted visitors in a week than
similar schemes elsewhere would expect
to see in a year. It is the shop-window
for what proud West Australians hope to
see repeated all along the coast. Already
they call it “The Break-through in the
Kimberleys.”
At the Ord everything is modern,
aggressive, thrusting. It is Pioneering in
Reverse. In the old days a man went out-
back, occupied a piece of land, and either
made good or pulled up stakes and tried
again elsewhere. The pioneers on the
Ord will have farms and homes ready-
made. Their crops—lindseed, safflower,
cotton, rice—have been proved scienti-
fically, agriculturally and commercially.
Waiting for them will be Kununurra, a
“model” town, planned ultimately to be-
come the centre of a district with maybe
2000 inhabitants—half the present popu-
lation of the Kimberleys. Houses are
going up. There is an open-air picture
theatre and a power station. You get
thirsty in this country, so there are wet
canteens for “the men.” The “staff” have
the Ord River Club, a beautifully
designed tropical building with accom-
modation for the many visitors who come
to inspect the dam site.
More than 400 men are working (9
hours a day; 6 days a week) on the diver-
sion weir at Bandicoot Bar, which so far


has cost £5 million in Commonwealth
and State money. This will store 80,000
acre-feet of water; enough to subdivide
30,000 acres of land. The first five 600-
acre farms are open for selection now.
Bandicoot Bar is only Stage One of a pro-
ject that will cost £2O million. Mr R. A.
Hamilton, resident engineer of the WA
Public Works Department, and boss of
the job, hopes to see a start made by
1965 on the main dam 30 miles up-
stream. This will tap the 17,800 square
miles catchment area of the Ord, Fitz-
roy and Margaret Rivers, draining the
Kimberleys to provide water for 80,000
acres of potential farm land in West
Australia and another 120,000 acres of
the Keep River country, across the
Northern Territory border. Engineers on
the site estimate the flow of the mighty
Ord, at its peak, would be enough to fill
the whole of Sydney Harbor in 15 hours.
The main dam will hold ten million acre
feet of water —three times the storage at
Adaminaby, which is Australia’s biggest
so far.
It is a sad fact of life in the North—
and perhaps elsewhere—that the day of
the “battler” is over. The farmers on the
Ord will be no “cocky” growers. Mr
Hamilton estimates that each will need
at least £17,000 capital to set himself up.
Yet applications are pouring in. Some
are from younger sons of farmers in the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area. Others
come from far and wide. Among men on
the job, confidence is 100 per cent. high.
“She’ll go,” they tell you. “This is going
to be the greatest thing that ever happened
in the Kimberleys.”
The Storybook country
Tt was a long time coming, this massive
venture. The main Ord dam, with
its towering 150-feet-high concrete ram-
parts, will be a monument to the vision
of men like that great West Australian
John Forrest. In 1883, when he was
Surveyor-General, Forrest wrote of the
Kimberleys: “It is merely a district with
fertile plains which will, I believe and
hope, be suitable for pastoral purposes
and, in its more northern portion, for
tropical agriculture; but those who ven-
ture in its development will have to incur
a large expenditure in getting their stock
to the country, and much trouble and
difficulty, and years of toil under a tropi-
cal sun, before they make their fortunes,
and they require the easiest terms and
conditions.”
This is storybook country. The heart-
land of the Kimberleys ... The Ord,
where once the musterers were paid a
bonus to drive off native cattle killers . . .
Where drover Matt Savage, long ago,
watched the lubras “mustering Ord River
salt off the banks with spoons”... In
twenty years time its plains and valleys,
from end to end, will echo to the hum
of machines, drowning out forever the
corroboree chant and the wail of the
dingo.
Wyndham, a dingy meatworks town 60
miles from Kununurra, and often labelled
as “the back-end of Australia”, will be
the port for the entire production of
the Ord. Those whose faith has encour-
aged them to stick it out in that steaming
collection of tin buildings, perched under
a mountain on the muddy shores of Cam-
bridge Gulf, may get their reward in the
next few years.
Wyndham Report
Trances, films, unmarried girls and other
amenities are rare in Wyndham and
hard to come by. The pleasures of its
couple of hundred permanent residents
are simple. Mainly they come in various
bottles. Mirages flicker over the salt-
pans. The sun beats down, generating
ten degrees more heat than anywhere else
on the coast. People move listlessly about
their business. Yet this nightmare of a
place boasts more “Nor-Westers” per
head even than Broome. (They reckon
no-one will notice you on this coast till
you’ve lived there ten years. After fifteen
years some old-timer might say good-day,
or even invite you to have a beer. Twenty
years residence qualify you as a Nor-
Wester). There are men who’ve lived their
lives in Wyndham and never want to
leave. Round the bend? Maybe they are.
Places like this have an effect on you
in time.
But Wyndham does have its own rat-
bag charm. For instance everyone has a
nickname. There’s Frank Thomas, The
Scrub Turkey, so-called because that’s
exactly what he looks like. Behind the
bar of the Wyndham Hotel, dealing out
canny tots of rum, is Des Gee, The
Silver Fox. There’s the Fighting Kanga-
roo, the Green-arsed Fly and the Red-
arsed Fly . . . The list goes on and on.
Just after each monsoon season the
population swells by two or three hun-
dred as nomadic meatworkers come up
from Fremantle to the Government
abattoir, where they handle 30,000 to
40,000 cattle a year in an 18-week kill.
Every day while they are in town the
hotel sends a truckload of grog (known as
The Bumboat), up to the works at knock-
off time. Things tend to hum. When
they leave life returns to the normal
Wyndham tempo —Dead Slow.
At least that’s the way it used to be.
Now prosperity is staring Wyndham in
the face. If the Ord River scheme suc-
ceeds this will become a major export
centre. And some of the locals aren’t too
happy at the prospect. Dourly eyeing the
activity on the waterfront as cement and
other materials were unloaded for Kun-
unurra and the Ord, a Nor-Wester told
me: “This place is getting like a bloody
ants’ nest. I think I’ll go down to Broome
where you can get a bit of peace and
quiet.” Yet life in Wyndham is still free
and easy. You drink your beer from the
bottle, and if you want a fight there’ll be
someone to accommodate you.
Contrast is a feature of the Kimber-
leys and the rare towns along or near
the coast reflect it. Kununurra is anti-
septic, modern, pretentious. Wyndham is
a ratbag survival. Derby’s 1200 people
are Respectability Incarnate sober,
cautious, well-to-do; the only men among
them who don’t seem to be making a
quid are the (legalised) SP bookies,
who follow one another into bankruptcy
with depressing regularity. Broome is
simply Broome, the decaying husk of the
old Port of Adventure, important less for
what it is than for what it has been.
Inland from the seaports is cattle
country. And despite the Ord and
Fitzroy and all the hopes of agricultural
communities and closer settlement, the
future of the Kimberleys still must ultima-
tely depend on beef. Distances are tre-
mendous: 220 road miles from Wyndham
to Hall’s Creek, the same again from
Hall’s to Fitzroy Crossing, another 160 to
Derby and 140 further on to Broome. The
first flowing water after leaving the Ord
is Fitzroy Crossing, nearly 450 miles
away. You camp by bores, or in dry
creekbeds. Even the £2O million Ord
River scheme looks pint-size when com-
pared with this enormity of country.
Back in the eighties, when the Duracks
and others began pushing herds through
from Queensland, the Kimberleys was the
last big stretch of prime cattle land
not taken up. The stockwhip and rifle
were their weapons of conquest and with
these they hacked out Empires of Grass
some larger than European countries.
Battle of the Munjongs
The pioneers found another race in
occupation not scarecrows of the
desert this time, but big wild mountain
munjongs who put up the stiftest resis-
tance of any natives in the history of Aus-
tralian settlement. “The blacks were bad
in the Kimberleys” is a phrase you hear
often. Every station has its grave or
graves, each with a Cross and inscription
felling of death by spear or waddy, long
ago. For every white man probably 20
natives died. Only the wind and rain,
reaching into the remote clefts and gullies
of what was once their hunting ground,
know where they lie.
There could be only one end to this
undeclared war.
Cattle spearers were shot on sight.
The “murder” of a white man was the
signal for massacre. For a time a re-
markable warrior named Pigeon almost
held the balance. An ex-police tracker,
he was the most formidable of all the
native rebels late last century. Soured by
some grievance, now forgotten, he mus-


tered his lieutenants Ellemara, Long
Frankie and the rest, and armed a band
with spears and stolen rifles. Then he
led them down from the King Leopold
Ranges to wage a doomed campaign
against the white man.
In the pindan country and foothills
east of Derby scores of native stockmen
were plucked from their saddles to die
with barbed spears in back or belly. The
victims included white men, forcing
abandonment of several stations. Finally
the police cornered and killed Pigeon in
his hideout high up in lovely, sinister
Winjana Gorge, on the fringes of the
King Leopolds.
Gin burglary
11/here are Piegon’s children today, and
"" his children's children? Like those of
all the wild men of long ago, they are a
subject people. Nowhere in the North
does this stand out so starkly as in the
Kimberleys. It is there in the kindly voice
of a station wife, inviting you to dinner,
who notes you admiring her dog and
says: “Yes, he’s a good old watchdog. He
won’t let a blackfellow near the home-
stead. Goes for them as soon as they set
foot in the yard.” It is there, always, in
the black’s camp, that huddle of tin and
bag humpies, bedraggled men and
women, runny-nosed children, which is
the inevitable adjunct to a hundred
stations and towns wherever you go
through this Last Frontier of Australia.
In the wave of prosperity that is sweep-
ing the cattle country today, the aborigines
are the ghosts at the feast. Disintegration
of the tribes has destroyed their past. The
future is a dark cloud. Their tragedy is
reflected in Ruth Daylight, an advanced
aboriginal girl who four years ago, at the
age of 16, was taken to Canberra to meet
the Queen Mother. Ruth was a product
of the A.I.M. Hostel at Hall's Creek,
which educated her and instilled in her
the deep religious feelings she retains
today. Possibly they should have finished
the job by training her as a nurse or in
some other occupation which could have
taken her away from the Kimberleys. I
found her in a back street of Hall’s
Creek, dressed in a thin cotton frock,
scuffing the dust nervously with the toe
of her faded black shoes.
“I’ve been up,” she told me. “I’ve seen
the Queen Mother. I don't want to go
down again.” The bright days are over
for her. She is back in the black's camp,
living in a tin hut with her mother, down
by the dry bed of Hall's Creek
What chance could Ruth Daylight have,
however advanced, in an area where the
station “ringers” divide girls into three
classes—“albinos” (white), “creamies”
(half-caste) and “studs” (black), and
treat them accordingly. “Gin burglary”
is the stockman's hobby and pastime. His
pleasures are few. Stations in the area
pay their riders £lO to £l2 a week, plus
two feeds daily of beef and damper.
That sort of money doesn’t go far at J.
Shaw Moody’s pub, where tiny glasses of
beer, known as “Moody’s Midgets”, sell
at two shillings each. Drinking bouts,
often as not, wind up by everyone
adjourning to the black’s camp to “bowl
over a couple of queeais.”
During the past few years the WA
Native Welfare Department has made
great attempts to break down the feudal
setup which persists still on most stations;
and to give the aboriginal back his dignity
and a measure of independence. To
some extent they have succeeded. Citizen-
ship is open to any native who can run
his life reasonably well. Many work on
the roads, at award wages. But lack ot
funds is crippling.
Patrol Officers in the Kimberleys are
dedicated men. They have to be. There
are less than half a dozen to cover
100,000 square miles. Pay rarely tops £2O
a week. Bill Courtney, ex-Army officer,
ex-journalist, runs the camp at Hall’s
Creek single-handed. His area is 38,000
square miles, reaching down towards
Balgo Hills and the Bindaboo desert.
Often he is out bush, and the town office
is left in charge of a girl typist. Courtney
has waged a three-year campaign against
“gin burglary”. This has made him the
most hated, if respected, man in Hall's
Creek. Yet the annual crop of half-caste
babies is as large as ever. And “gin
burglary” is still the local pastime.
“On the hoof”
Tust now the Kimberley cattleman is en-
** joying a mild boom. Until the last war
lack of markets—and money—kept pro-
perties throughout the north-west at a
hillbilly stage of development. The Far-
quharson brothers, that tough old brood
of batchelors who founded Inverway just
over the Territory border, once sent “the
best mob of bullocks ever” to Perth: only
to find prices so low they had to send a
cheque after the boat to make up the
charter fee. Today there are markets, and
good ones. The State Government abat-
toir at Wyndham takes cattle from as far
south as Hall’s Creek, west to the “under-
world country”, and east into the Terri-
tory, killing up to 40,000 a year. It is an
example of State socialism allied with pri-
vate enterprise to benefit both. Meat-
works manager W. H. Ferguson goes for
a profit, which is returned to the cattle-
men in the form of higher prices. There
are delays in payment—often up to 12
months —but without the Wyndham set-
up many of today's stations would still be
virgin scrub.
Broome meatworks handles 12,000
head. The Glenroy Air Beef scheme and
another new abattoir just opened at
Derby process the best part of 10,000
annually between them; and another
20,000 go by boat to Perth “on the hoof.”
Traditionally the export market is
Britain. But new outlets have opened lip
in the United States and Asia. During
the nine rainless months which follow the
monsoon, cattle lose condition rapidly;
due largely to deficiencies of copper, co-
balt and phosphorus in the soil, and con-
sequent lack of nutriment on dry past-
ures. This limits the Kimberley abattoirs
to a four-month kill. If that cycle can be
brogen turnover would double and the
mild boom become a bonanza.
At Broome and Derby, State Govern-
ment Cattle Adviser “Dusty” Smith, a
veteran of the Kidman organisation, is
adding minerial soil deficiencies to the
drinking water of selected herds. Weight
gains have been spectacular. The cost
is negligible. Within a few years, he
hopes, his experiments will show how to
turn the well-watered but scrubby pindan
country into cattle-fattening areas, en-
abling a year-round kill.
Change is everywhere. Pastoralists,
with money in the bank after decades
of hand-to-mouth battling, are putting up
fences, planting pastures. Stud bulls from
the eastern states are beefing up the
Shorthorns, which comprise 99 per cent,
of the present cattle population. The
Government is pushing access roads
through.
The Ord and Fitzroy river irrigation
projects are aimed primarily at agricul-
ture and closer settlement. But they also
have obvious potential for fodder produc-
tion, holding and fattening paddocks and
mixed rice-cattle farming. If the growers
have bad luck with cotton and rice the
final destiny of “The Break-through in
the Kimberleys” could be as a vital and
prosperous adjunct to the pastoral indus-
try. No-one knows how many cattle graze
on the broken and largely unfenced Kim-
berley ranges. Maybe one million, maybe
three million. Tom Ingate of Derby,
Stock Inspector for the entire West Kim-
berley region, won't hazard a guess.
The Last Frontier
VTet Twentieth Century Australia is fast
catching up with its Last Frontier.
Flerd control has advanced farther than
would have been dreamed possible a
decade ago. Within a few years a rough
count will be feasible. Beef roads are
taking motor transport into all but the
most remote areas. The wide-hatted over-
lander, shorn of his glory, is reduced to
a herdboy, guiding a few close-in mobs
the 20 or 30 miles to Wyrdham, Derby
or Broome. The long drives are over.
Some things have not changed, and
station hospitality is one of them. It
keeps to the old baronial formular. Every-
thing is ordered punctual. You are left in
no doubt that these are busy people, with
a routine that must be adhered to. Bells,


or gongs tell you when to get up and go to
bed. They summon lubras to cook, wait
at table, and clear away the dishes. If
you arrive at mealtime you are welcome
to a chair at the Big Table. At one end
sits the Boss; at the other, the Missus. In
decending order of importance will be
the head stockman, bookkeeper, relatives,
and the various grades of visitors. Huge
platters of meat and mugs of tea do the
rounds. Usually you are offered a bed
for the night (and once upon a time,
years ago, the welcome was quite likely
to include a plump and eager queeai wait-
ing between the sheets).
For as the role of the horseman de-
clines, machines—jeeps, trucks, graders
—are taking over. The open-range cattle-
man, like the Texas Longhorn before
him, is facing extinction, even in the
Kimberleys, which for so long was almost
his last refuge. The wave of station pros-
perity has rubbed some of its sheen off on
Derby, would-be “capital” of the Kimber-
leys. Here R. M. Rowell has his finger in
many pies, including a supply agency for
the BHP iron mining enterprise on Yampi
Sound. A practical visionary, he took
time off from making money to help
launch rice farming on the Fitzroy; even
fills in as correspondent for “The West
Australian” to push the Kimberleys cause
in Perth. As Derby’s “Mr Big” he has
helped turn a boozy woozy cattle town,
which once was a byword along the coast,
into a prosperous exporter of wool and
meat.
The Public Service Industry
lAerby’s population is increasing; in-
** come soaring. Up at Camballin on the
Fitzroy private enterprise (Peter Farley's
Northern Developments Pty Ltd), with
State aid, is beginning to grow commer-
cial rice, cotton and fodder on 20,000
acres of irrigated river flats. Everything
produced there will be shipped through
Derby. In addition it is head office in the
Kimberleys for most Government depart-
ments. The Public Service “industry”
thrives, employing more than half the
work force. (“Good God!” Senator Scott
is said to have exploded on a recent
visit. “You’re getting like Darwin”). Even
Tourism gets a boost every August, with
the Boab Festival (corroborees, rodeo
etc.). Home bottle parties are a popular
amusement. Every couple of months
someone gets enough girls together to
run a dance. By Kimberley standards,
social life is jumping.
Derby, with its wide streets and king-
size housing allotments, is a green penin-
sula poking out over 30 miles of mud
flats to King Sound.
It has the usual skeleton in its closet.
Tucked away behind a fringe of scrub
—“Down on the Marsh,” as the locals
say—is the blacks’ camp. It could be any-
where in the Kimberleys—depressing tin
shanties; the same air of degeneracy and
hopelessness. The Marsh is a popular
amusement centre for local and visiting
no-hopers. Girls retail cheaper there (a
bottle of beer will do if you’ve got no
“plonk”) even than in Darwin’s notorious
Bagot Compound. The police leave it
alone, provided the fun doesn’t get too
noisy, and no real trouble starts.
A world away from Derby's hustle and
bustle is Broome. Here 400 whites and
1000 Asians of every breed and descrip-
tion sit in the sun, waiting for “some-
thing to turn up” and save their dying
town. From the pub windows you look
out on Roebuck Bay, where William
Dampier landed, so long ago. Once this
was the Port of Adventure, with 450
luggers out, 4000 men in the town and
4000 in the boats, Japanese and Koe-
pangers fought pitched battles in the
streets. Among the galvanised iron
warrens of Chinatown, Madams from
Tokio and Osaka, enormously fat, plied
the ancient trade alongside girls of a
dozen nationalities. Those were the roar-
ing days.
It is different now. Pearling has col-
lapsed. This year only 14 boats went
out. Every season the numbers grow
less.
Even the cockatoos, so loud in the
bush, are quiet in Broome. They sit in
the tree, listless, feathers drooping. Shell
prices are rock-bottom. Pearl buyers sel-
dom come here any more. Even tight-
lipped Jimmy Gonzales from Darwin
plans to cut his mysterious “business
trips” from two to one a year.
Once Broome supported seven hotels.
Now it has two. Even the famous Gov-
ernor Broome has shut its doors. For
four months of the year the meatworks
injects some life into the place. And
when the fleet is in, shrunken remnant
though it is, things are a little like they
used to be. The great gambling games
(coloreds only; whites not allowed) start
up behind the tin shop frontages of
Chinatown. But the players are fewer
each year; the money tighter.
Wanted: A New Broome
npHE State Government has promised to
build a deepwater port on the north-
west coast. But it hasn’t said where. Derby
wants it for the added prosperity it would
bring. Broome needs it for sheer sur-
vival. U is just about the last shot in the
locker For the old pearling capital. This is
a town you can grow to love very easily.
To leave it would break the hearts of
people like Sue the Laundress, who
arrived here for a holiday years ago and
never left; Terry McDaniell, one of the
last pearlers, who has been here all his
life; Sam Male and “Old Man” Kennedy,
who made a sort of history on this coast;
Kevin Buckridge and Henry D’Antoine,
who can look down on the foreshore now
and see the boats they used to build rot-
ting away, idle, among the mangroves . . .
There is the smell of death about
Broome. Last year taxi driver Lofty
Cavanagh roused the local ire by telling
ABC television interviewer Michael
Charlton: “The arse has dropped out of
the place.” It came over TV in so many
words (with Charlton’s comment: “Sorry
about the language, but that’s the way
they talk up here.”) Everyone was furious
with Lofty at the time. Yet they’ll tell you
the same thing, in a milder way.
Maybe Tourism will bring in a
little money, if the roads improve. Or
fishing? For these are seafaring people.
Meanwhile the shops are empty, the
hotels quiet. Deserted houses crumble.
Just out of town are the graveyards.
They cover many acres, for Broome has
seen a lot of dying. Chinese, Europeans,
Malays, each have their separate plot.
Dominating them all by sheer size is
the Japanese cemetery. There the divers
lie, row by row. What tales are buried
there of the days when Broome was still
the “Port of Adventure,” before the rot
set in? What men they must have been?
Now it is all over.
Broome is the odd man out. Else-
where in the Kimberleys, West Austra-
lia is setting an example to the nation.
There aren’t many people involved; 5000
at the most. They are modernising a run-
down cattle industry—maybe, if luck
goes their way, building a new Texas.
Farms and pastures are being carved out
of the scrub and the pindan at a rate not
seen in this country since the great expan-
sionist days of the 1880 s. The risks are
heavy, the task enormous. Costs in
money and manpower may swamp every-
thing, unless Australians are prepared to
tackle it as a concerted national effort.
The prize at stake is incalculable. A
hundred years hence, History’s verdict
could be that Australians today faced no
greater challenge than that of developing
and occupying the empty lands, which
dangle so tantalisingly close to the huge,
hungry belly of Asia. The responsibility
for filling those empty lands —of complet-
ing the job started so well by our fore-
fathers and so neglected by the bulk of
their decendants today—rests on us all
with the weight of history.


OUT AND ABOUT
A CHANGE FROM MR
MENZIES' EYEBROWS
Will "Beyond the Fringe" be beyond us?
By PATRICIA ROLFE
In one sketch in the revue, “Beyond
the Fringe,” the predicament of a
man about to be hanged is investi-
gated. The man’s reaction to the
state in which he finds himself is to ask:
“Will it hurt?” This seems to be the
logical question a man about to be hanged
might ask; it is also the logical question
to ask about a revue.
When “Beyond the Fringe” opened in
London more than a year ago, the satire
stung and the audience squirmed in
delight. Critics marvelled that there were
things besides “Hiawatha” at the Albert
Hall which could be the subject of satire,
and they hailed the revue as the dawn of
yet another new day.
Mr Kenneth Tynan in the London
“Observer” said that it was the funniest
revue that London has seen since the
Allies dropped the bomb on Hiroshima
(presumably just Mr Tynan’s handy
method of remembering dates). He
summed up by saying: “It can be justly
urged against the show that it is too
parochial, too much obsessed with BBC
voices and BBC attitudes, too exclusively
concerned with taunting the accents and
values of John Betjeman’s suburbia.
‘Beyond the Fringe’ is anti-reactionary
without being progressive. It goes less far
than one could have hoped, but measur-
ably farther than one had any right to
expect.”
The four young men who wrote and
appeared in the revue —Dudley Moore,
Alan Bennett, Peter Cook and Jonathan
Miller—were swept along by their success
at the Fortune Theatre to founding the
Establishment Club, where they appear
after the show. The Establishment went
to the Establishment Club. The Establish-
ment Club became part of the Establish-
ment. The four young men were no
longer beyond the fringe.
All this is history, at least, London
theatrical history. However, this month
this bit of Merrie England will be trans-
ported 12,000 miles to open at the Phillip
Theatre, Sydney, where the wigmaker is
busy reshaping Mr Menzies’ false eye-
brows into a moustache for Mr Mac-
millan. Four local actors, none of whom,
of course, has the intimate concern which
the London players have in the revue,
will appear. They are Barry Brown,
Alistair Duncan, John Ewart and Brian
Tapley.
How much of “Beyond the Fringe,”
will be beyond Australian audiences? A
sketch on hanging would come very ap-
positely here just at the moment, but that
is hardly enough.
New Yorkers, who will see the revue
in October, are justly apprehensive. The
“New York Times” commented “There
is nothing so relentlessly British as a
British revue. It is never adapted for the
American market like marmalade (we
get it with more orange peel) or Jaguars
(they move the steering wheel over to the
left for us although they don’t bother to
change the position of the ashtrays)
“Before ‘Beyond the Fringe’ opens,”
the “New York Times” cautions, “the
producers should advertise ‘Only two
more months to brush up on stately
homes’ ‘Only 26 more days to re-read
“The Way of the World”.’ Last-minute
cramming for the opening night exam,
does more harm than good. That only
makes you forget things you really knew
all along—like who wrote ‘Greensleeves’
and why English surgeons are called
Mister.
“Fortunately, there are a few questions
that if you can count upon being asked.
One sine qua non for all of these en-
tertainments is a solid background in
Macmillan—his wife’s maiden name
(Lady Dorothy what), his breakfast
menu, the address of his tailor, his home
county—facts with which most Americans
are pitifully non-conversant but which
every Englishman knows as soon as he
can spell ‘establishment.’ They are part
of his heritage, like shepherd’s pie, the
Old Vic and how to tie an ascot so that
it stays in.”
Fortunately for the Phillip Theatre,
Australian theatre audiences can be relied
on to behave like well-trained Pavlov
dogs. Years, generations of being fed
mostly overseas stuff and they can laugh,
on signals, even if the expected joke
doesn’t come. Currently, they know Mac-
millan is funny because he has got a
funny moustache and a funny voice,
even though they may think that what
he is doing about the Common Market
is no laughing matter.
Phillip Theatre, after some thought,
have decided to leave “Beyond the
Fringe” relentlessly British. They will
ring up the curtain to the sound of Big
Ben and use a backdrop of the Houses
of Parliament.
The writers of the revue have brought
the sketches up to date, not, they say,
by looking at last night’s paper and
sticking a topical reference in some-
where, but by substantial revision in the
light of changed circumstances.
At first, the Phillip Theatre people
had a quick run through the script with
a vague idea of substituting “Menzies”
for “Macmillan” and so on. But it simply
wouldn’t go. The script will be tidied up
a bit, to make it comprehensible (“Who
is someone called Cousins?” the theatre’s
manager, Mr Eric Duckworth, was asking
plaintively on the phone). “After all,”
Mr Duckworth said, “We feel Phillip
Theatre audiences generally are a special
segment of the population. Let us not
call them the intelligentsia. Perhaps the
more sophisticated types. And only a
small part of it is political. The rest
anyone can follow.”
In any case, the Phillip Theatre people
have an idea there are enough people in
Sydney who saw the revue in London to
fill their theatre’s 470 seats for a few
weeks at least, and to fill the foyer with
their cries of “Of course, when I saw it
in London, my dear . . .”. Then there
will also be the people who couldn’t get
into it in London.
“Beyond the Fringe” is not accounted
by the Phillip Theatre people as a signifi-
cant breakthrough in satire. They are
mercifully not given to passionate ana-
lyses of humor. To them it is (a)The most
expensive show they have ever put on;
(b) This month’s solution to the problem
of what to do next; and (c) Very funny.
Although it does not involve bringing
anyone from overseas, the Phillip Theatre
people say the revue will cost more
than Joyce Grenfell’s visit, simply because
the four authors are able to ask rather a
lot for their material.


There is only one simple and ingenious
set (although Peter Cook said once he
would like to vary this “for just one
minute by ringing up the curtain on a
scene of Babylonian splendor with white
peacocks, horses, fountains and nude
women sucking grapes”). The four local
actors are all with the ABC, but, as most
of the sketches are one-man affairs, they
rehearse in their own free time, getting
together mostly at the weekends for
items in which more than one appears.
“Beyond the Fringe” only provides a
temporary solution to the problem of
what to do next. Since it opened in its
original theatre in Phillip Street, the
Phillip Theatre has done 17 revues, punc-
tuated with only three other productions,
—Joyce Grenfell, “The Duenna” and
“Mistress Money.”
Artistic Equilibrium
rpHis year, while trying to reach financial
and artistic equilibrium at its new
and larger theatre, it has had two success-
ful revues, both starring Gordon Chater,
and the current show, “What’s New?”
which introduced 11 almost entirely un-
known players, and which has been a
sad flop.
“We knew it was a risk,” Mr Duck-
worth said, “But, after all, you have to
find new people. Since the show opened
the 1 1 have improved enormously, but
they don’t have the drawing power.”
However, there are problems even
with those who do have drawing power.
“People won’t even go to two Gordon
Chater revues consecutively,” Mr Duck-
worth said.
The Phillip Theatre could never switch
to the European cabaret-type of running
revue. Apart from the fact that they are
now committed to a largish theatre, in a
city like Sydney people do not drop in
at the theatre as they might in Berlin
or Vienna. It is a night out. They come
in from the suburbs, so that they may sit
and laugh at how quaintly people behave
in the suburbs. They would consider it
eccentric to see the same show twice,
even with new, topical items.
Phillip Theatre is constantly searching
for new material and for new shows.
They would like to do a play—N. F.
Simpson’s “One Way Pendulum” gives
them an idea of the sort of thing they
might do.
The search for writers is more constant
and desperate than the search for players.
Mr Duckworth said that they do get
some good material from local University
students as well as from professional
writers. However, they still have to buy
a percentage from overseas.
Mr Ray Taylor has supplied some of
the best material Phillip Theatre has had
this year, as well as proving an attractive
and competent actor. However, at the
end of “What’s New?” Mr Taylor was
exhausted with the effort of doing so
much, and perhaps a little depressed
after writing for young actors. “They
simply don’t have the point of view for
satire,” he said. “They can manage sort
of musical-comedy fun, but that’s about
all.”
Phillip Theatre has Joyce Grenfell
coming back next year. From time to
time they think of getting one of the
Americans, but it is surprisingly difficult.
“They are not in the position of many
artists who regard a new country as a
new audience, or who might think that
coming to Australia was a bit of a holi-
day and a rest from their normal circuit,”
Mr Duckworth said. “In America the
satirists seem to last such a short time
and they want to get in and make as
much money—mainly with TV —as they
can. We were keen on the idea of Elaine
May and Mike Nicholls but they have
already split up and neither seems to be
doing much alone. The danger with some
of the Americans might be that by the
time they got here nobody in this country
would any longer be interested in them,
or be buying their records. And when
they are on top, we can’t possibly afford
them.”
But any talk of overseas shows and
artists is only with the idea of providing
a change when local actors, writers and
situations are getting rather curled at the
edges. The basis of the Phillip Theatre
will continue to be local productions,
and after “Beyond the Fringe” it will
probably be back to Mr Menzies’ eye-
brows.
THE MEN FROM THE
"LITTLE" MAGAZINES
In Nigeria, Mr Soyinka battles against negritude
By KATHERINE RANDERSON
When you have influenza it is hard
to say whether you feel better or
worse to know that it is going
about and everyone has got it. Those in
Australia who are in revolt against Aus-
tralianism —the narrow, romanticised
concept of what Australia and Australians
are —in literature and the arts, may, or
may not, feel better to know that half a
world away Mr Wole Soyinka, of Ibadan,
Nigeria, fights negritude—a narrow,
romanticised concept of Africa and
Africans.
Mr Wole Soyinka is a slim, lively negro
with a tuft of beard. He was one of
the delegates to the seminar on “little”
magazines, held in Sydney last weekend
and organised by the Australian Associa-
tion for Cultural Freedom. Most of the
delegates were from Australian “little”
magazines, but the Philippines, the United
States, Korea, and New Zealand, as well
as Nigeria, were represented.
Mr Soyinka is one of the editors of
“Black Orpheus” which looks very much
like the British “Encounter.” Although
the magazine has a circulation of only
about 8000, it must be as widely dispersed
as any “little” magazine printed. It has
subscribers through Africa, North
America, the West Indies and British
Guiana, as well as Europe. In some
places, including England, it has book-
stall sales. The magazine’s contributors
are also widely scattered. Some of the
South African contributors have to
smuggle their maunscripts out of their
country.
Negritude, Mr Soyinka said, was orig-
inally largely a concept of French West
Africans.
“It was simply refined primitivism,” he
said. “You know, the sound of the tom
tom in the jungle. It was based on the
idea that a few things are typical of
negroes—rhythm, a sense of dance and
closeness to nature —and that these
should be stressed to the exclusion of
practically everything else. It is also a
facile way of writing.”
Mr Soyinka said that he and the other
people on “Black Orpheus” felt it was
better to “let things speak for themselves”
by reaching a certain literary standard
in their magazine and by making avail-
able the best of Afro-American writing.
Mr Soyinka said that at times certain
pressures had been brought on him to
stress Africanness more strongly in
“Black Orpheus.”
“I have been attacked —” he said.
“Physically?” demanded a reporter
from a Sunday newspaper.
“Christ, no,” Mr Soyinka said (“Christ,
no,” echoed one of the Australian dele-
gates to the seminar. “You know, he’s
just like one of us.”)
Mr Soyinka said that the attacks had
simply been slanging matches with poli-
ticians who were more nationalistic in
their viewpoint than he was. However,
he added, in Ghana the pressures were
stronger. “A lot of Ghanian poetry is
being ruined by their attempts to follow
certain themes in a set fashion,” he
said.


EARN THE RESPECT OF OTHERS!!
AND RECEIVE
More Recognition More
Happiness More Money
Astound youi friends with your improved
Memory.
Impress your club with your Effective and
Public Speaking.
Handle people easily with the use of Human
Relations.
Make more friends.and influence others with your
increased Confidence.
Please mark items of special interest.
Please send me Free literature explaining
how T can do these things
MR
ADDRESS
STATE TEL.
Manhattan Australia Pty. Ltd.,
583 George Street, Sydney.
Tel. 61-7463.
“Black Orpheus' which is now sis
years old, has until now been sponsored
by the Nigerian Ministry of Education
“We did not get a subsidy,” Mr Soyinka
said, “but the Ministry paid the bills
However, they never at any time inter
fered with us nor tried to dictate whaf
should go in the magazine.”
The magazine is about to pass out ot
the hands of the Ministry. In future, it
will be sponsored by a Nigerian cultural
centre, which in turn is . ponsored by the
Congress for Cultural Freedom.
Mr Soyinka, after school in Ibadan
went to England where he took his B.A
at Leeds. From there he went to the
Royal Court Theatre, London, to learn
something of state production. Mr
Soyinka was at the theatre when Mr
John Osborne's “Look Back in Anger”
had its first success, His own play, “The
Invention,” was put on at the Royal Court
in the theatre’s Sunday night series ol
experimental plays. Mr Soyinka said that
the play was set in South Africa
“although.” he added, “I have never been
there.”
He now' lectures in English literature,
mainly drama, at the University of
Ibadan, and in his spare time produces
plays “on a semi-professional basis” for
a group outside the university. This
group does only African plays, although,
Mr Soyinka said, other groups were pre-
pared to try anything. “One of them has
just done a play by Emlyn Williams,” he
said.
Mr Soyinka's group has done one of
his plays (not “The Invention”), one by a
Sierra Leonean, and will soon do “You
in Your Small Corner,” by West Indian
Barry Reckord, which has been played in
London. Mr Soyinka said there was a
great deal of interest in theatre in Nigeria,
but virtually no theatre-buildings and no
professional theatre.
Mr Soyinka, apart from his time in
! ondon, has visited Europe several times,
mainly for conferences, and went to
America for a UNESCO conference. He
had known one or two Australians in
London. He had read a book by an Aus-
tralian which came out about three years
ago, but he couldn't remember the name
of the author. Not Patrick White. Not
Morris West. He would know the name
if he heard it. He had read “The Harp
in the South” and thought part of it “very
violent.” He had known an Australian
artist, Colin Garland, who had had an
exhibition in London about three years
ago. He had one of his paintings. He
had been to an exhibition of paintings
by Sidney Nolan
The Quiet American
’TTie two Americans at the seminar on
* “little” magazines were Mr William
Phillips, editor of “Partisan Review',” and
Mr Robie Macauley. editor of “Kenyon
Review.”
If some Australian authors and editors
leel they live and work in isolation, let
them consider the case of Mr Macauley
Kenyon, Ohio, is a village of 700 people
Kenyon College with faculties o! Arts
and science, has 500 students, all men.
and a faculty of 60. The nearest town ot
any size is Columbus, and the only
author ol any note that Mr Macauley
could think ot living there was Peter
Taylor. “We do feel rather cut off.” Mr
Macauley said, “particularly in winter
when we are snowed in. 1 mostly have
to rely on letters to keep in touch w'ith
my authors, whereas Phillips, whose head-
quarters are in New' York, can meet
people at cocktail parties.”
The circulation of “Kenyon Review” is
between 5000 and 6000, that of “Partisan
Review',” 13,000. Both editors said that
their subscribers were spread thinly
across the United States (with, of course
some sales overseas) with the heavies!
concentration in the New York area.
“Kenyon Review” is supported by
Kenyon College and Mr Macauley, who
is a graduate of Kenyon, is a member of
the faculty. He is only the second editor
since the magazine was founded in 1939
by John Crowe Ransom,, who was editor
until he retired three years ago.
Mr Phillips, who taught at New York
University, has been with “Partisan Re-
view” since it was founded 25 years ago.
He said his magazine was supported by
foundations. “Not the big, w'ell-known
ones like Ford or Rockefeller,” he said,
“just the little ones.” He admitted that
this gave the magazine a fairly uncertain
financial basis and that a slump in the
New York Stock Exchange might put it
on short rations.
Mr Macauley said that the average
life of a “little” magazine in the United
States was four years, which, taking into
consideration the quarter-century of both
“Partisan” and “Kenyon,” must mean
that the ink can barely dry on some be-
fore they fold.
Neither Mr Macauley nor Mr Phillips
can see much prospect of Government
support for “little” magazines in the
United States, along the lines of the Com-
monwealth Literary Fund. “We have no
history of Government support for the
arts in America,” Mr Macauley said. “If
money is spent sending an American art
exhibition overseas some politician is sure
to protest. He will say it is abstract art
and he can't understand abstract art.”
“They take more notice of public opinion
in America than they do in European
countries where governments support the
rrts,” Mr Phillips said.
But why would politicians be likely to
protest about such a small sum when so
much was being spent elsewhere? “A
politician is much more likely to worry
about 25,000 dollars spent on ‘little’
magazines than 100,000,000 dollars
spent on a rocket that doesn’t go off,”
Mr Macauley said. “That is one of
p arkinson's laws.”
Both editors seem to regard the possi-
bility of their magazines paying as inter-
esting, but remote “Of course, publish-
ing is a very complicated business,” Mr
Phillips said. “We have sometimes
worked it out that if we got up to 30,000
we would be able to attract advertisers
who could pay high enough rates to make
the magazine pay. But we don’t know,
and nobody can ted us. At present, it is
well known that many of the big-circula-
tion magazines are in trouble. Their costs
are so high that it there is the slighest
falling off in advertising, they are running
at a loss Their advertisers seem
now to be demanding a more selec-
tive audience, that is, lewer readers, but
ones who are more likely buyers of the
product advertised. But the advertisers
don't as yet, went anything as selective
as our magazines.”
Mr Macauley said it had been sugges-
ted that since 1912, when “little” maga-
zines first got under way, 80 per cent, of
the American writers of any stature had
first appeared in these magazines. He
believed this proportion may be being
maintained. What about “The New
Yorker?” “Well, that is a literary maga-
zine and they do seek new writers,” Mr
Macauley said, “although there is a ‘New
Yorker’ type of story. John Updike was
first published by them.” And J. D.
Salinger? “I think he was first in the
‘Saturday Evening Post’.”
“It has been estimated that there are
100,000 people trying to write fiction in
the United States,” Mr Phillips said, “and
they have a list of magazines they send
it to. They begin at the ‘Saturday Even-
ing Post’, work down through the ‘Atlan-
tic Monthly’ and ‘Harper’s’ to us.”


THE COACHING
COLLEGE BUSINESS
What Every Parent Should Know
By ROBERT MURRAY
Between now and the beginning ol
December is the boom season foi
the coaching college industry.
Probably every parent at some stage
asks himself or herself the question:
“Could my child be doing better at school
than at present?” The answer often is
that he is being held back by poor teach-
ing methods, over-crowded classrooms,
or by being kept back to the level of the
other pupils in the class—rarely that he
is being held back by his own inability.
It is at this point that the coaching
colleges make their appeal.
Their claim is that they can push the
child ahead faster than the ordinary
school. To some extent this is so, but a
parent would be wise to make a very
careful check of the college before the
child is given into the college’s care. Some
of the colleges, very few, are honest
educational institutions of high standard.
The majority are not.
The coaching college normally operates
on two levels. The first is the level of
private tuition, and the second is the
level of “group” tuition. For private
tuition the tutor usually goes to the home
of the student. The groups are usually
held on the college’s premises.
The notion of group tuition is often
confused by parents. Normally it means
small night classes of about six pupils,
but it can mean full-time day classes
with up to 50 pupils. In the language of
the college this is still “tuition carried on
in small groups with individual tuition”
—though it is quite impossible to give any
sort of individual tuition in such a large
class.
The colleges often make much of the
fact that they have “qualified” teachers on
their staff. This is usually, though not
always, a misrepresentation. Mostly their
staff is untrained and poorly paid. The
colleges, generally, pay lower salaries to
their teachers than in any kind of school.
Whereas a graduate teacher in a State
school will receive about £2B a week to
start, for full-time work, the college will
ask their teacher to do the same work for
£l9-£2O. On the whole the teacher
in a coaching college will be asked to
work longer hours and teach more classes
and subjects. He also receives about half
the holidays of the State school teacher.
It is obvious that no properly qualified
teacher would work under such condi-
tions when he could get a position in a
State school. It is all a question of
finance. Finance again comes up in the
coaching college’s dealings with its casual
staff—the hundreds of would-be tutors
that list themselves as available for work.
The story (which, incidentally, is true)
about the boy who failed the Leaving at
one of the colleges one year and came
back next year to teach full-time to
Leaving Certificate classes, could be
equally applied to the casual teachers.
How is it that parents are persuaded
into sending their children to such
schools? The answer lies in the colleges’
methods of recruiting pupils. Basically
the methods are the same for the full-
time classes and the private lessons.
Firstly there is the direct advertisement.
The larger colleges spend a fortune each
year on advertisements in the Press,
radio and TV. The advertisements are
usually misleading and proi ise what the
college is in no position to supply.
Secondly is the less-known, but more
effective, method of dir. t approach.
/\nce the parent becomes aware that the
child needs to be pushed ahead in
school work, the parent becomes a target
for the colleges’ advertising campaign.
The parent contacts the college to inquire
about its courses. At this point the per-
sonal approach makes an appearance.
An “adviser” is sent out to interview the
parent. This man is a high-pressure sales-
man. He is usually a man who has proved
his selling ability in some other field
before he is hired by the college. The
salesman’s job is to get the student en-
rolled for a course of lessons; usually he
works on a commission and retainer
basis. He is usually quite charming and
quite unscrupulous about what he
promises for the child, even before he has
met the child.
The parent then signs up either for a
course of a certain number of lessons or
for group tuition of some form. The
private lessons, in the big colleges, cost
about 35/- an hour, of which 15/- to
20/- is given to the coach. A term in the
full-time school can cost up to £l5O in
the bigger institutions. In any case the
parent usually pays through the nose for
something which is not really available.
The other kind of recruiting procedure
is entirely personal. Often when a child
is being taught he will mention that one
of his friends finds difficulty with his
work. The coach will then get the name,
and possibly the address of the child’s
friend. He then reports the name to the
college and an adviser is despatched to
try and make a sale. If it comes off the
tutor who got the name is entitled to a
percentage of the fees. This procedure
is followed in all States with a few varia-
tions.
larger colleges also earn income
from various sidelines. The most
obvious of these is the correspondence
school. Most major coaching colleges
operate a correspondence school. This
branch of the operation takes the
fewest staff to run and gives, compara-
tively speaking, the highest return. One
major college has a total staff of two in
its correspondence school. One is a secre-
tary and the other is the “teacher”. The
teacher’s task is simple, to select sources
—usually the sources are exact copies of
Education Department or Technical
Education Department notes for their
regular and correspondence schools —and
to set exercises. They are roneoed out on
the college’s own printing machine and
then sent out to the students as something
produced by the school itself.
The average college is run,, as befits a
business, by the business director or
Managing Director. He is usually, but
not always, the principal as well. In


sonje cases the most highly paid member,
unijler him, is the Accountant.
the college is a really big one the
Managing Director will control branches
of the college in more than one State.
However, these other branches need not
always bear the same name. Even within
the one capital city there will often be
a plurality of colleges controlled by the
same person. This gives the idea of com-
petition. Up till a few years ago, in
Sydney, three of the major coaching col-
leges were run by the same person. (Two
of these have subsequently been folded
up.) In the colleges there is no board of
directors, no shareholders, the one man
runs the show. None of the companies
which run the colleges are listed on the
stock exchanges.
Jn the full-time schools run by the col-
leges the demand for economy comes
out strongest. In one of the colleges
there are 150 full-time students There
are six teachers, including the Head-
master. Of these teachers not one has a
degree, only one has ever been to univer-
sity and been through Teachers’ College.
One teacher, who teaches up to the Inter-
mediate level, has not even his Leaving
Certificate. There are six class-rooms, and
no place for recreation (and no time
devoted to it). The rooms are small, and
only two have windows or fresh air—
the biggest has no windows at all. There
are three grades, Primary, Intermediate
and Leaving, with about 50 in each
less in the Primary, more in the Leaving.
There is only one toilet for both pupils
and teachers. This is unfortunately not
an isolated case, the colleges have all the
disadvantages of a grammar-school, with
none of its advantages.
But what about the coaching colleges’
claims about their pass-rate in examina-
tions? Is it not true that one college
could claim that 35 out of 200 students
who passed last year’s Matriculation
Examination has been students of that
college? To answer these questions one
must break down the classes and see the
kind of students that are taught in the
full-time school of a coaching college.
Lirstly we must bear in mind that those
students who sit for the Matriculation
Examination and those who sit for the
Leaving in a coaching college are
different types of students.
The full-time Leaving Certificate
students fall into three broad categories.
Firstly there are those who are plainly
backward. They have generally never
passed the Intermediate Certificate or its
equivalent in other States. Other pupils
are very bright. These are sent there so
that they can do the school leaving exam-
inations in a year instead of two or three
years. In this way there may be children
of only 13 or 14 sitting for their final
school examinations. The aim of the
parents in these cases is to save the money
and expense of an extra year at school.
Some really bright ones can pass the
examinations in one year, but the
majority, even of the really bright ones
take two years to pass. The third class
of students are New Australians, or
occasionally, Asians. Because the New
Australians are usually prepared to work
harder, they generally do quite well.
No claim of really high pass-rates can
be made to cover all these groups. The
genuine coaching colleges, the ones
maintaining real academic standards,
achieve a pass-rate which is about equal
to the average school. The majority of
colleges count themselves lucky if 12 out
of 50 get through. They rarely sit a can-
didate for honors in a subject, and it is
even rarer that one will get through. Most
colleges discourage honors pupils because
of the extra expense involved in paying
the teacher for the extra hour or so a
week.
The Matriculation Examination, in
those States where it offers an alternative
to the Leaving, principally in New South
Wales, is another matter. Here the pupils
who are coached are those who have
passed the Leaving but have not matri-
culated. Being bright enough to pass the
earlier examination they have a fair
chance with the Matriculation. Here the
colleges can and do claim a high pass-
rate.
pupils’ chances of a pass in exam-
inations, at least in the full-time or
night group classes, is further hindered
by the continual change of teachers
which occurs in most colleges. It is a
rule of thumb in most colleges through-
out Australia that the cheaper teachgr Js
to be preferred to the more
teacher, without regard to the relative
merits of the teachers. Thus the Manag-
ing Director (not the Headmaster) will
hire a teacher —even a few weeks before
the examinations, or at the beginning of
third term at a cheap rate and fire a
more expensive one. There is no award
covering private school teachers, no
strong union to help them, no law against
this practice in any State. The only
legal restriction on the colleges exists in
Victoria where they must, aj must all
schools, employ a certain number of
fully trained teachers.
As there are few, it any, legal res-
traints on the coaching college it is im-
portant that the parent make him or
herself fully informed about the college
before a child is enrolled for private or
group tuition. There are four “dos” and
“don'ts” that ought to be followed by
each parent. These will ensure, or at
least help to ensure that the parent is
not cheated.
(1) Do ask for verification ot the
tutor's qualifications before a con-
tract is signed. He ought to be a
fully-trained teacher.
(2) Don’t accept any tutor simply
because he has been sent by a
college—this is no protection.
(3) Do insist on a free lesson, and be
present at it yourself, to make sure
the tutor knows what he is doing.
(4) Don’t be talked into sending your
child to a full-time college before
you have visited the college your-
self to see if the facilities are
adequate.
"At the first sign of the ship going down, in strict order
of precedence we are first, women and children second."


QUIET MUSIC
By RATAJ


OVERSEAS
THE MAN
WHO SCARED
VERWOERD
Portrait Ct
A
Revolutionary
Among the ill-assorted specimens
of humanity that will be disgorged
by South African gaols this year
will be a tall, distinguished-looking
African prisoner, a university instructor
and a political leader who, at the age of
36, has a rare distinction of having
scared Dr Verwoerd’s government out of
its wits. As anybody knows by now, the
South African Government does not
scare easy.
In March 1960 Robert Sobukwe, presi-
dent of the banned Pan-Africanist Con-
gress helped to orchestrate a crisis that
panicked the South African Government
and nearly brought about the kind of
political anarchy which all too often
makes possible the transference of power
overnight
Hundreds of Africans, heeding
Sobukwe’s call to refuse to carry passes
and to submit themselves for arrest
instead, marched to the Sharpeville police
station in the south-west of Johannesburg.
As they approached the station, terror-
stricken white police opened fire, killing
67 and maiming over 100 people, in-
cluding women and children. A national
state of emergency was proclaimed for
the first time in the history of South
Africa, and over a thousand black and
white leaders were rounded up and sent
to prisons and police camps around the
country.
When the man most responsible for
this political upsurge was brought to
court with his lieutenants, he refused to
defend himself. Even after a two-year
gaol sentence has been passed on him, he
showed no sign of contrition. Addressing
the judge, he made a speech which is
now famous in South Africa: “Your
Worship, it will be remembered that when
this case began we refused to plead,
because we felt no moral obligation
whatsoever to obey laws which are made
exclusively by a white minority . . . But
I would like to quote what was said by
somebody before that an unjust law
cannot be justly applied We believe in
one race onlv the human race to
which we all belong The history of
that race is a lone hbtorv of struggle
against all restrictions, phvsical, mental,
and spiritual. We would have betrayed
the human race if we had not done our
share. We are glad to have made our
contribution.”
Who is this man who so nearly para-
lyzed the country? What is his claim to
political power and leadership, and what
is his future in this perplexing country
where power and influence in the black
community have never been constant?
Sobukwe was born the last of six
children in the small Cape town of
Graaff-Reinet. His parents were poor
but hard-working Methodists and his
father in particular is known to have
been a strict disciplinarian Even today,
Sobukwe betrays his austere Christian
upbringing by shunning drinking and
smoking. Sometimes he will rebuke his
political opponents in an exhortative
language which smacks more of the
Prophet Isaiah than of a worldly politi-
cian merely engaged in polemics with
ideological foes.
His moral ire has been provoked, for
example, by “wasteful living” among
upper echelon politicians, who spend
their valuable time “dancing with white
women in the Johannesburg interracial
parties instead of getting down to the job
of freeing Africa from white domin-
ation.”
When Sobukwe laments the fact that
Africans have been reduced to the status
of “hewers of wood and drawers of
water”, he is not using the phrase figura-
tively. Although his father had a regular
job, he operated as a “woodcutter” at the
end of his usual working day in order
to augment his small wage. Sobukwe,
along with his other brothers, had to
help chop the wood before and after
school. On Saturdays, they would scout
around for odd jobs, accumulating an
enviable income of about one shilling
each for the day. This bleak childhood
left young Sobukwe with no illusions
about the African’s role in the white
power-structure of South Africa.
By the time he was in the fifth grade,
however, Sobukwe had read such classics
as Milton’s “Paradise Lost” and was
by all accounts a brilliant student. He
graduated from high school with a first
class pass. At this crucial point, when
he could have drifted into the grey world
of the crowded semi-skilled job market,
the white principal of the Healdtown
Institute lent him some money, aug-
mented by loans from the Bantu Welfare
Trust and the Cape Education Depart-
ment, which enabled him to proceed to
Fort Hare University College.
At Fori Hare, young Sobukwe found
himself in the country’s stormiest centre
of African nationalism. As a pioneer
university college for southern Africa,
Fort Hare has always attracted some of
the most militant young Africans. Their
explosive sessions of collective grumbling
occasionally culminated into fierce de-
monstrations and student rioting against
imagined or real slights
It was usual, for example, for the
students to boycott the meeting when a
government dignitary visited the college.
Sometimes the embarrassed faculty mem-
bers would make desperate last minute
attempts not always successful to
hustle out the unwilling audience from
nearby dormitories.
Sobukwe soon became a tough, rugged
member of the inner core of the student
nationalist movement He was even then
stubbornly committed to his principle
and refused to let private emotions and
sentiment obscure what he considered to
be the real issues, even when those in-
volved were persons who had befriended
him. Nobody learned this bitter truth
sooner than the Healdtown school prin-
cipal who had made it possible for him
to get to Fort Hare.
When the missionary gave a talk at the
college advocating racial contacts at
home and in informal meetings to foster
a spirit of brotherhood between black
and white in South Africa, it was
Sobukwe himself who sprang up to
repudiate the speaker’s remarks: “The
moment 1 step out of your house, sir,”
objected young Sobukwe, “the police
will pick me up for a pass offence.” “But
that won’t be my fault,” protested the
missionary. “It will be, sir. You’re part
and parcel of the set-up in this country.
The church cannot absolve itself from
all this. The Methodist Church itself is
pursuing a segregationist policy: it has
different stipends for black and white
ministers.”
When he left Fort Hare Sobukwe
taught for a while in the bleak dusty


4 Vs
Always ask for
AINSLIE’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd., Sydney
Haliotan Manton Pty. Ltd. , f*. *>>
town of Standerton, Eastern Transvaal.
He was now a fully-fledged member of
the African National Congress, the party
which had been the spearhead of the
liberatory struggle in South Africa for
half a century. Meanwhile, Sobukwe’s
compatriots in the ANC Youth League
were slowly engineering an overthrow of
the old guard, whose conservative pol-
icies of gradualism and supplication they
had long found wanting.
A brilliant young Zulu lawyer, Anton
Lembede, had rendered the young
people’s impatience explicit by formulat-
ing the now historic “Programme of
Action,” finally adopted in 1949. Seizing
upon this document as a manifesto, the
young leadership in the ANC proclaimed
itself ready to take “positive action”
against all segregated institutions in South
Africa. This was done by drafting
“volunteers” to defy all color bar laws
with the intention of crowding the gaols
and forcing a change in South Africa
through massive action by the popula-
tion. When the Defiance Campaign was
launched in 1952, one of the volunteers
was the young teacher Sobukwe, who
abandoned his classroom to participate in
the campaign.
Although the Defiance Campaign made
a tremendous impact on the white
population and indirectly caused the
formation of Alan Paton’s Liberal Party,
the campaign was crushed by the govern-
ment and therefore failed in its main
objective. After the collapse of the
Defiance Campaign, a number of white
dissidents formed the Liberal Party and
others farther to the left founded the
Congress of Democrats. Some members
of the COD were refugees from the
Communist Party, which had recently
been suppressed by government legisla-
tion. The ANC and the Indian National
Congress thereafter joined hands with
the Congress of Democrats and the South
African Colored People’s Organization
(mixed-bloods) in what is now popularly
known as the Congress Alliance.
Soft spoken, massive, quiet
Tt was at this time, too, that the extreme
nationalistic wing of the ANC began to
chafe against the party leadership. Stories
began to filter to the Press that Sobukwe
was waging a minor war within the
Congress movement. It was not clear in
the beginning what the issues were, but
by the latter 19505, just before Sobukwe’s
ultimate break with the movement, some
of these main issues had emerged clearly
enough to become a matter of public
debate. By this time, Robert Sobukwe
was no longer teaching in the sleepy
village of Standerton. He had joined the
faculty of the University of Witwaters-
rand in Johannesburg, and was therefore
near the centre of the storm.
One day in 1958, after the newspapers
had for weeks been printing stories of
Sobukwe’s manoeuvres inside the ANC,
I was entrusted, as a chief political
reporter of my newspaper with the task
of tackling him for a series of interviews
on his political activities. Specifically, I
was to find out the nature of his conflict
with the official leadership of the ANC
and his intentions if these differences
persisted.
Although I had seen and heard So-
bukwe speak before, I had never had
the chance to talk at length with him.
He is somewhat taller than the average,
is lean, and possessed of a handsome
face with an engaging smile which
seems to escape him and not to be
directed by him. He is soft-spoken and
gives the impression of a massive, yet
quiet, conviction as to his destiny. Rarely
does he raise his voice, but when he is
forced to argue his motives and political
objectives, he assumes the fervent ponti-
fical tone of an intense young professor.
I remember the day I first went to see
him. It was a very bright sunny day,
as bright as only South African days
can be. The air seemed to crackle with
• Robert Sobukwe, president
of the banned Pan-Africanist Con-
gress in South Africa, who has been
in gaol since Sharpeville, should soon
be released. LEWIS NKOSI sketches
an incivise portrait of his personality
and discusses his ideas in the context
of the South African political situa-
tion, where Robert Sobukwe may
well play an important role. Mr Nkosi
is a young South African journalist
now living in London.
a dry kind of heat which is more in-
vigorating than enervating.
When he referred to his conflict with
the ANC, he talked without rancor. I
could see that he felt strongly about it,
though he had his emotions well under
control. Sobukwe’s criticisms were
mainly that the white leftists had
manoeuvred the ANC leadership, through
the grand Congress Alliance, into a
position where it could no longer speak
effectively for the African masses. This
had been done, he argued, by convincing
the leadership that the struggle was not
between the oppressed African population
and white settler minority, but “a class
struggle”. Sobukwe argued that such a
Marxian interpretation could be valid
only if it were also recognized that it
was the Africans who belonged to the
“have-not” class and that the whites
belonged to the “haves” or enjoyed the
benefits thereof. He drew the conclusion
that admitting the whites into the Con-
gress Alliance had tended to weaken the
militancy of the movement since the
whites had, by definition, a vested in-
terest in the status quo.
Why does Sobukwe object so uncom-
promisingly to the Marxian analysis of
the South African situation? First, he is
wary of any organization that seems to
be speaking in a foreign voice. He is
seeking to activate the African masses as
a “corporate group”, sharing an identity
of a certain history of disenfranchise-
ment, against the privileged white mino-
rity. He sees the struggle, therefore, as
inevitably between black and white in
South Africa. He is not dissuaded from
his analysis by the fact that a group of
white liberals have joined the African
side. When he is accused of racialism,
he retorts angrily that these liberals ought
to expend their energies on converting
their own white people who are oppres-
sing the indigenous African population.
African social democracy
TTow does Sobukwe visualise the South
Africa of the future? “We stand”, he
says, “for political democracy as under-
stood in the West. Economically, we
stand for a planned economy and the
most equitable distribution of wealth,
leading to equality of income. We have
always described the future state as an
Africanist socialist democracy.”
Although the Pan-Africanist Congress
—which Sobukwe formed in 1958 after
he finally left the ANC altogether—
would not admit whites to its member-
ship, he contends that the organization
is not racialistic. “We stand for equal
rights for all individuals. But the whites
have to accept allegiance to Africa first;
once a truly non-racial democracy exists
in South Africa, all individuals, whatever
their color or race, will be accepted as
Africans. Naturally, we cannot put the
cart before the horse. We have to realize
that at the moment the struggle is be-
tween a white minority and the oppressed
black majority.”
Cont’d Page 24


It is difficult to make an impartial
evaluation of Sobukwe. He is not the
racialist some ANC leaders have charged
that he is. However, the tactics he is
using for strategic reasons encourage
chauvinism and, ultimately perhaps,
genuine racialism. It seems to me that
this strategy is a very dangerous one.
It can work in those parts of the con-
tinent where the population is by and
large homogeneously black, but a con-
sciously racial African nationalist party
cannot muster all the help that will be
required for liberation in a part of Africa
which is compellingly multiracial in
character Black and white in South
Africa are Siamese twins and neither
can explain itself coherently without
taking into consideration this existential
nature of the black-and-white encounter.
The paradox of the South African
situation is that a man like Albert Luthuli
of the AN r would make the best Prime
Minister—-but he is not revolutionary
enough to UaH the oppressed to freedom.
On the other hand, Sobukwe has the
militancy to lead a revolution—but he
and w'omen w hom Sobukwe so deeply
distrusts are some of those who have
fought most bravelv and often at great
personal risks against the Verwoerd
regime.
THE JEWS IN RUSSIA
Antisemitism, endemic in Russia, is a handy weapon for Mr Khrushchey,
By EDWARD CRANKSHAW
"Dather more than half those executed
in the Soviet Union for embezzle-
ment and currency offences between
May 1961 and July of this year were
Jews.
At the mass trial in Frunze, the capital
of Khirgizia, which ended a few' w'eeks
ago, something like 60 per cent, of the
accused were Jews. So far there has
been no detailed report of the sentences.
At least nine were shot, but the central
Press gave only four of their names, two
of them being Jewish.
At many other trials which have taken
place throughout the Soviet Union dur-
ing the past year, the evidence has been
so arranged as to emphasise the Jewish
blood of the chief accused when this
was not evident from their names.
Because of this some Western observ-
ers have come to the conclusion that
the decree of May 6, 1961, which ex-
tended the death penalty to those con-
victed of large-scale embezzlement and
persistent speculation in foreign cur-
rency, was conceived as part of an anti-
Jewish campaign. The Soviet man-in-the-
street, above all in White Russia and the
Ukraine where anti-semitism is bittei
and endemic, is inclined to believe this
too. The word has gone round that “they
are shooting the Jews”, regardless o-
the fact that nearly half of those she
have in fact been Gentiles, some of thei .
in fairly high places
The Soviet Government has don,
nothing to discourage this sort of talk
it may even be said to have fostered it
But it is almost certainly an over-sim-
plification and an exaggeration to thin!
of the new attitude towards gross racket
eering as a manifestation of a ealeu
lated drive against the Jews.
The continued shortages of goods ot
all kinds in the Soviet Union, the ab
sence of an effective distribution system
outside a handful of great cities, the
centralised control of all production with
its proliferation of red-tape, all inevitably
lead to widespread corruption and to ir-
regularities of every kind. The Soviet
Government knows perfectly well that
if everyone in trade and industry obeyed
the letter of the law the economy would
soon break dow'n: it has to turn a blind
eye on all sorts of infringements, and it
will continue to do so.
But organised swindling in the grand
manner is another story. In past years
the State has been robbed of huge sums
by determined and ingenious racketeers
exploiting to their own advantage, and
with extreme boldness, the tolerated
weaknesses of the system.
Mr Khrushchev showed his outraged
awareness of this, somewhat belatedly,
early in 1961. The decree of May 1961
was, on the face of it, the first serious
attempt by any Russian Government
in any age to differentiate between per-
mitted graft and corruption and whole-
sale racketeering. It also sought to check
a number of other time-honored Russian
customs.
For example, it extended the death
penalty to the notorious “bandits” of
;he prisons and the labor-camps
common criminals of the lowest kind,
under Stalin and Khrushchev, as under
the Tsars, banded together to terrorise
their fellow-prisoners (usually “politicals”)
and to kill all those who presumed to
resist them, including prison guards. For
ime immemorial murder, arson, rape,
and robbery with violence have been
punished less severely in Russia than
rumpery political “crimes”.
Thus the savage extension of capital
mnishment should be seen not as a
reversion to terror but, rather, as a char-
acteristically melodramatic attempt to
bring stern measures to bear against
violent crime and excessive corruption.
The fact that the Soviet Government
found it necessary to fall back on this
sort of primitivism 44 years after a
revolution which w'as to do away with
the causes of crime is its own commen-
tary on the reality behind the tourist’s
loviet Union.
So far there is no sign of any concert-
ed violence against the Jews. Certainly,
for familiar historical reasons, one would
expect to find a disproportionately large
number of Jews among those engaged in
financial and commercial pursuits. No
less certainly the proportion reflected in
the Soviet death sentences is too high;
there are at most three million Jews in
the Soviet Union today. They are clearly
being picked on as, earlier (and before
the introduction of the death penalty for
currency offences) Orthodox and Uniate
triests were being picked on.
The Jews are, in fact, under heavier
oressure than usual these days. Mr
Khrushchev himself, with his emotional
anti-semitism, is clearly determined to
make them keep their heads down; and
the whole muddled policy which treats
Russian Jewry with the utmost suspicion
because of its affiliations with world
Jewry, while, at the same time, refusing
to give them the chance to become com-
pletely absorbed finds expression in inter-
mittent persecution.
In a drive against financial racket-
eering it is the easiest thing in the world
to make Jewry a scapegoat and to make
examples of individual Jews. All the
more so, when local police chiefs and
Party secretaries, who are sometimes
bitter anti-semites, are given the chance
to let off steam under the general head
of a drive against corruption.
This, though unpleasant in the ex-
treme, is nothing new in Russia; and it
is still a very long way from a calculated
attempt to eliminate Soviet Jewry.


Around Melbourne
A BOWLING ALLEY AND A BIDET
At last it has happened. Admittedly
the Menzies moved to its present
site in 1867, the Windsor opened in
1883 and the Australia was rebuilt in
1939, but to be honest not many of
us could recall another occasion when
a brand new hotel actually opened in
Melbourne. Well, last Friday The
Southern Cross, Australia’s biggest
hotel, opened on the site of the old
Eastern Market in Exhibition Street.
Some feared that the opening might
be a pallid affair, not the equal to the
opening of the Market back in 1879
when there was a sit-down sumptuous
lunch foi 1000 people, a band, a
choir and an anthem specially com-
posed for the occasion. The directors
of Intercontinental Hotels, you will be
pleased to hear, did us proud. Not
only were all sorts of hep little
anthems composed for the occasion
but there was an hour-long TV spec-
tacular. There had been much talk
about bringing out everyone from
Frank Sinatra to the late Marilyn
Monroe, but so far as Melbourne
was concerned they went one better.
They put Bobby Limb and Dawn
Lake, Graham Kennedy and Bert
Newton, all on the one dr licious pro-
gramme. For years they had provided
us with the most dreadful viewing
sessions of the week. On Thursday
nights Graham Kennedy was on Nine,
Bobby Limb was on Seven and unless
one had two TV sets it was impossible
to view both. Ah, but the Southern
Cross last week brought them together,
and they even threw in a taped “tele-
phone” call from Elaine McKenna in
the USA plus Tommy Hanlon Jnr.
Bliss. Ii was a very smooth show,
with perhaps just a little too much
noise and singing. The best cracks
came from Bobby Limb: “It’s very
much like the Chevron in Sydney
except . . . ah . . . it’s finished.” And
from Tommy Hanlon Jnr. “I tell you,
this hotel’s so fancy they’ve even got
a nine-piece orchestra in the men’s
room.”
Actually the Southern Cross can go
better than that and I wonder if a man
should dare tell you. Up on the 15th
floor there is the potentate’s suite or
oil sheik’s quarters. When Mr.
Khrushchev or Mr Kennedy visit
Melbourne they will stay there, for
sure. It has four bedrooms, three
bathrooms, an open air balcony that
goes right across the building and a
view as far as Portsea. But here’s the
point. In one of the bathrooms there
is an honest-to-goodness, fair dinkum
French bidet. Although there is a bidet
or two in the more avant garde houses
of Toorak, this is considered to be a
first for a hotel in Australia.
As one official said: “We feel that
with the continental type of clientele
we will be attracting this will be an
advantage.”
Although the decor tricks you into
wondering one moment whether you
are in an old English pub, on a
Carlton verandah, or in a top-rated
Parisienne bordello, the Southern Cross
is as American as pumpkin pie. For
example, they call their commis-
sionaire the bell captain, the recep-
tionist is a desk clerk and the head
waiter is a room captain. Then they
have another first—deep frozen
garbage. All the rubbish, the scraps,
the uneaten food, is immediately deep
frozen before it is carted away Every-
thing is hygienic and sweet smelling
under the Southern Cross.
VFhat’s more there is a 14-lane
™ bowling alley. This came only as a
late decision and there was a fearful
problem of finding the right place to
put it. Ultimately the directors decided
to build it over the ANA Banking
Chambers —“The world’s first bowling
centre over a bank”. It took months
of research to find methods for elimi-
nating the noise. It wasn’t so much
the crashing of the pins as the thud
and the long trundle as the balls came
down the lanes. So they set all the
lanes in rubber and installed so much
sound-proofing equipment it was im-
possible to hear a strike.
Now they are putting in a micro-
phone so that the crashing pin noises
will be relayed to the bowlers. If a
bowler had a strike and did not hear
the joyful music of all the pins going
over he could be psychologically in-
jured for ever.
What else is different? They have
a marvellous system of locks. The
guest has a key to his room which
only opens his door. The maid has a
key which may open only the doors
in one section; there’s another key
which opens all the doors on the floor,
another which opens every bedroom
and the grand master key that opens
every door in the hotel. Then there’s
another special little key—the bad
guest key.
This is for the guest who has passed
out, taken an overdose of tablets or
locked himself inside. The bad guest
key saves kicking down the door.
Another interesting feature is the
garage down below for 300 cars and
the system is just like the smart
hotels in Hawaii. Say you’re a grazier
just down from Deniliquin and you’ve
come in your shearing pants. You
don’t have to check upstairs at all.
There’s another “desk clerk” in the
basement, and from there you can
take the lift straight to your room.
VTour pioneer has made a quick sur-
vey of public opinion. Most can’t
stand the outside appearance with its
lashings of baby blue mosaic tile.
After all, Exhibition Street has always
been a friendly shade of brown and
even now right opposite this fancy
hotel there is a produce merchant
with his bags of onions and wheat.
On the other hand most think that
the internal decor is wonderful with
high marks going to the old English
tavern. They also like the Mayfair
dining room with its decorations of
cast-iron, the candy-striped soda
fountain with its 40 varieties of ice
cream, but they are a little disturbed
by the Club Grill.
This is sinful Edwardian stuff. One
end is like a cellar with arched brick-
work and bottle racks, the rest is all
crimson from floor to ceiling. Every-
where you look there’s blood red.
The boys call it the passion pit of
the South Pacific.
The star attraction of course is the
courtyard. This is supposed to be a
restful haven. There are stone benches,
flowers and a free-form fountain shap-
ed like two pieces of banana —pleas-
ing but innocuous.
The prices could be described as
par for the course. For a single room
£4 to £5/18/-. Double room £7/4/-
to £9/18/-. Suites £lO/7/- to
£lB/6/-. For the big stuff like the
oil Sheik’s suite you negotiate priva-
tely through your aide-de-camp or
lawyer.
BATMAN


DOG DAYS
A Story By BRENDAN BEHAN
Y-ou’ll meet all our native writers
at the races—both horse and
dog. There, at least, 1 must
allow them a purer passion than the
interest English Tory writers, bred in the
hunting country of St John’s Wood,
pretend in horse and hound. The Irish
writer goes to the racing for the drink;
and for outdoor drinking and intellec-
tual conversation, it's hard to beat the
dogs. Coursing is the best because you
can stand in the tent and see the whole
course without moving out at all.
I believe with Lenin that the main
object of all political activity should be
Extract from "Brendan Behan’s Island" by
Brendan Behan to be published by Hutchin-
son of London in September.
The sketch is by Paul Hogarth.
the abolition of the village idiot; and the
inefficient attempts of two greyhounds
to “turn” a hare, which nearly always
finishes in the hare being torn to bits,
is sufficient excuse for me to retire to
the whiskey tent and give myself an
anaesthetic against the horrors and the
screams outside.
I spent a day at a coursing meeting
on the Boyne, with a priest of the Irish
College in Paris who translated the verse
of Paul Eluard, and saw him nod his
head with a sad smile when someone
remarked that a hare seldom lived more
than a day or so after a course, even
when he got through the escape and into
his enclosure with the other refugees,
from the shock to his nervous system.
One of the honorary writers said they
should have a psychiatrist for the hares
on the other side and there was a general
guffaw in which I joined. Not because I
thought it was funny or because I ap-
proved of torturing clean fine beasts that
did no more than nibble a piece of grass
and sit peacefully on their forms in a
field. I do not enjoy the track racing
so much, not indeed that I miss the
screams of the live hare, but there is
less time for drinking and conversation
and watching and listening to the honor-
ary writers and overhearing their lying
stories of high life in Paddington and
the time they got drunk with the literary
lady: ‘Hey, skewer, as skewer as yewer
settin there, May Deeditt turns rowend,
key, bedad, and she says, says she, “What
matter about iz hevin the melodic line,
if we hex the drink?" Hey, bedad, iz what
she said’.
At the track, one misses all this, and
the only time an opportunity for con-
versation presented itself on the occasion
of a track meeting, there were so many
deathly pale countenances in the bar,
among the real dog men. that we all,
myself and the honorary writers, had to
join in the long and bitter silence, broken
only by the music and song coming
from the track across the road:
Sweet Heart of Jesus, we Thee implore,
Oh, make us love Thee more and
more. . . .
“Sweet Heart of Jesus,” muttered an
elderly bookmaker, “are they going to
be there all night?” And added to the
barman, with resignation, “Bring us an-
other, Mick”.
I did not look even at May Deeditt's
melodic china for the gloom and Angst
at my own table would have done credit
to Kafka, and any little quip on my
part, about the time I dropped the jeton
into Jean-Paul's soupe de I’oignon (being
an urban and more travelled liar), would
not have been well received.
This was an occasion when, in that
bar, opposite Grangegorman Race Track,
all and sundry sat in a deep and despair-
ing gloom. At my own table, where I sat
with the Platinum-headed Trainer and
the Owner, my hand shook as 1 raised
my tumbler to my mouth. For this
reason: our dog, which I shall call
Molloy, was not thought much of against
the favorite (called The Hero of Seven-
teen Ninety-Eight) and the Platinum-
headed Trainer and the Owner had
decided to have a coop about him, by
causing him to run very quick indeed
in this race, beat the opposition and
make him win an awful lot of money
for anyone with the foresight to bet on
him with the bookmakers some time
before.
Now, I have experience about stopping
dogs. I know nothing about horses,


rCstab'isheH 18t>8
Contactors to Government Municipal*
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Austialia
25s
JACKSON&
• osuluvan
t x> 9 pTY LTD '
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & C«.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK 61N DE RS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS •: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•‘JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
dogs, or cabbages, except to look at or
eat, but I had the privilege of working
for, and still have the privilege of
knowing, a London burglar and smuggler
who did a very successful job of dog
manipulation. A slum and under-privi-
leged child like myself, he knew nothing
of agriculture either, but with the sim-
plicity of a corner-boy, he got over a
fence at a London track and removed a
board from the back of two kennels, fed
sausage-rolls and saveloys to the occu-
pants, and then went out and backed
the third and made a whole lot of money.
He did this many times till they started
building kennels back to back, sur-
rounded by electric wire and lit up all
night like a German concentration
camp.
T>ut here in Ireland there was a differ-
ence betweer man stopping some-
one else’s dog and giving something to his
own to stimulate its running. It was often
done, and once the beast was removed
from the track without being taken over
by the stewards and having his spit
analysed, there was no danger But in
the case of the stewards having their
suspicions aroused, not only was there
a danger, but a positive certainty of a
criminal charge against the trainer and
owner and a sentence of at least twelve
Irish calendar months from the judge—
and a longer sentence if it so happened
that the judge had been at the track
that night and had backed something
else in the same race.
The Platinum-headed Trainer had a
doctor friend who frequently advised on
matters of stimulation, and he had come
from Liverpool (another citv of doggerv
and boggery poverty stricken kips,
every one of them) with a preparation
used in heart cases that worked scientific-
ally and accuratelv in stimulating the
running of a arevhound if timed and
measured in the proper quantity.
This mixture was tried and found to
be indeed the thing for making quick
greyhounds quicker and it worked like
magic. In the words of the poet, this
dog Molloy would meet himself coming
back, after judicious injection But one
of its magic properties was that after it
worked to its peak capacity, it was static
for a moment or two and then began to
work in the opposite direction, making
the poor dog very tired.
That evening I called down to the
kennels and, by appointment, met the
Platinum-headed Trainer and the Owner.
They sat by Molloy with a wrist-watch
and, as the bells chimed the Angelus
from the city churches in the distance,
the Platinum-headed Trainer raised his
hypodermic needle, lifted the dog’s right
rear leg and intoned: “Stand aisy, you
er”, pressed his needle into the
great vein, lowered the dog’s leg and
said; “That’s that”. It was twenty miles
to the track and we were to leave in
our entries with the kennelmen at the
track one hour before the first race,
which was at eight o’clock.
Molloy was in the second race at
eight-fifteen and his dose was scientific-
ally measured to put him in peak speed
at that time. He would continue to be
very lively for a while after that till he
could be collected with the winnings and
brought home. Fifteen minutes it would
take until he got drowsy and sleep,
falling finally into a deep coma from
which the noise of a hydrogen bomb or
a Redemptorist preacher would not wake
him. By that time, we figured he would
be safely tucked up in the back of the
car, bowling home on the rocky road
to Dublin.
We started oft in great form and went
out through the Phoenix Park, which is
especially lovely on an April evening
where you can see the deer in the dis-
tance and maybe the first of the squirrels,
and fellows and girls locked together in
the long grass and giggling and squir-
ming, and taking no notice whatever of
the Lenten Regulations, which in our
diocese, ordain that there shall be no
mixed laughing during the seven weeks.
As we came out on the Chapelizod
Road, past that place on the Liffey’s
banks where Tristan and Iseult rested
awhile, it you can call it resting, and
not far from that other spot notorious
to all culture vultures, under the Maga-
zine Wall, where Humpty Dumpty had
a great fall in “Finnegans Wake” by the
Rev. Seamus O Seoighe,* S.J. (ret.).
A nd all passed oft very civil in our
motor-car, with Molloy there sitting
up at the back with his little cover on his
middle and panting away there like a
whore on duty—which is a known thing
that if the slowest greyhound in the
known world saved his breath and be-
came a total abstainer from panting
and licking, he would save that much
energy that he could look back and
shout “come on” to a cheetah instead
of, as happened when the matter was
put to the test, the cheetah jumping im-
patiently over the greyhound to get
home. The next thing I’m looking up at
a banner spread across the road which
reads: “God Bless Our Lord.”
I chuckled, a thing 1 don’t remember
having done before, and went to say
something, but the Platinum-headed
Trainer looks round from the front seat
and putting up a warning finger says:
“Nark it, Brendan, nark it.”
“Yes, you better,” says the Owner,
‘lt’s not a lucky thing to mock religion
and we going out to do a stroke”.
I subsided and we came to another
one which read: “Grangegorman Stands
By The Rosary”.
Ah, ’twas then 1 fell in. There was
this priest was over from Hollywood,
America (I do not say that America from
affectation as if none of us had heard
of Hollywood before—some of my best
friends are Hollywoodians—but there is
also Hollywood, County Wicklow and
Hollywood, County Down and I’ve a
reason for making this clear) and he
was preaching what they called a Rosary
Crusade and had been received with
great rallies like Biily Graham all over
the big cities of the States —Boston, New
York, Philly, Chi., L.A., etc. —and in
London where, now I come to think of
it, he held a huge rally at Olympia; but
for some reason he had never held a
meeting in Dublin. Many of the faithful
wondered why this was, and some made
out it was because the ecclesiastical
authorities here did not like his tech-
nique; and now there was this little town
of Grangegorman giving us in Dublin
*James Joyce.


the rub —that they, the people of
Grangegorman, stood by the Rosary
whatever the big city free-thinkers and/or
the narrow-minded municipal Jansenists
might do.
As we came nearer the town, it was
obvious that they were having a big
rally that very night and, as we ap-
proached the dog-track, I laughed—but
fearsomely and with covert glances at
my unsuspecting companions in the
front seat and with sympathy at poor old
Molloy beside me. There was bunting
and flags and little altars, and all that
lively grandeur of an Irish religious
festival that gives bad Catholics like
myself the totally unearned satisfaction
that ours is the church of Raphael and
Leonardo and, indeed, as I remarked to
the late Hannen Swaffer when he told
me he was a spiritualist, we keep a better
type of a ghost.
“Listen,” I said, “I think they’re
holding a Rosary rally ”.
“Look here,” said the Platinum-headed
Trainer, “it’s no skin off your nose what
they’re holding”.
YY/'e came nearer the track and the
bunting was intensified and a big
banner left over from the Eucharistic
Congress of 1932 was stretched across
the avenue leading to the gate. It show'ed
St Patrick with green whiskers and a big
fat snake the width of a porter-barrel
trailing after him and under it was
written “ Failte, a Tighearna, um
Chaise” which means “Welcome, O
Lord, at Easter”—only the fellow had
made a mistake in his Irish and had
wr:tten: ‘‘Failte, a Thighearna, un Chaise”
which made it read: “Welcome, O Lord,
at cheese”; but I said nothing about that
but only tried to warn the Owner: “But
they're holding the rally at ”.
“Listen now, and for Jesus’ sake and
for the last time, it’s all bloody equal to
you where they bloody well hold their
bloody rally. They’re not interfering
with you, and they’re not asking you to
go to it, and you know what these
country people are. I suppose you w ? ant
to get us run out of this kip the way
you got us run out of Belcuddy the time
you started arguing the toss about Ireland
being sold to the English by Nicholas
stick that you said w'as a Pope”.
“Nicholas Breakspear.”
“Nicholas any ing thing you like.
Didn’t the man prove to you there was
no Pope called Nicholas any ing
thing, and now you’re trying to get us
pitched out of this place”.
“I’m only trying to tell you that this
Rosary Rally is being held in ”.
The Owner turned and roared at me:
“I don’t care a fiddler’s k where it’s
being held”. Then he softened and said:
“Now keep easy, for Jesus’ good sake,
till 1 hand this dog over at the track
here”.
I sighed and held my peace and we
went over and through the Owners’ gate
and into the kennels.
Molloy was jumping up and down
and he was a pleasure to see, making
the other old bowlers look like an ad-
vertisement for Bile Beans if I didn’t
know what I knew.
The chap at the kennels took the dog,
wrote in his book and looked up: “Yous
know, of course, about the Rosary Rally,
men?”
The Platinum-headed Trainer and the
Owner smiled ingratiatingly and said:
“Ah, yes, a great thing, too. I mean, I’m
not over-religious myself, God forgive
me ”.
The kennelman nodded soothingly:
“Er - era - yes - er - em-we-all-shure-er-em
-err . . .”.
“But it’s a great thing all the same.
A man all the way from America”.
“Ah, yes,” says the kennelman, “shure
we told the priest when he asked for
the loan of the track; ‘The dog men’,
says we, ‘the dog men, they may take
an ould jar and that’.”
“True,” said the Platinum-headed
Trainer, owning up to it, “It’s true for
you”.
“ ‘And sure’,” we told him, “ ‘they
may have their faults but there’s not one
of them will begrudge you the track
for such a good purpose’.” “And after
all,” he turned to us, “it only means
putting racing back for an hour and a
half”. ~
“What?” asked the Platinum-headed
Trainer.
“What?” asked the Owner.
“They’ll only have the track for an
hour, and all races are put back until
it’s cleared”.
They nodded and went towards the
gate without saying anything with me
following. As he let us out, the kennel-
man said, “I suppose you can kill an
hour in the hotel opposite” and he smiled
and added, “some of the dog men are
going to pass the time even better —by
coming to the rally”.
YYTe went into the hotel and the Owner,
’* always a fair man, said: “Two
glasses of whiskey and a glass of gin
and tonic”. The gin was for the Platinum-
headed Trainer who had spent some of
his time among the Anglo-Irish of
Scotland Road, Liverpool.
“I can see us eating an awful lot of
porridge,” said the Owner, “when they
find that dog asleep in the kennels at
racing time. Twelve ing months. . .”.
I went out during the Rally when they
had really got down to the business
praying hard, fervent whispers coming
from thousands of voices in the dark.
The Platinum headed-Trainer and the
Owner looked crazily at their malt and
gin when I came back a short while
later half-dragging the dog and beckoning
them out urgently.
“Into the car, for Christ’s sake,” I
roared and off we got.
“I went to the kennels and told the
kennelman that the dog would start
barking at a quarter past eight and start
all the other bloody dogs barking too.
The bastard gave out that it would be
against the rules of the Greyhound As-
sociation to hand out the dog till after
the race, but I told him he thought more
of his Greyhound Association than he
did of the Catholic Church, and that I
wasn't going to stand for an unseemly
disturbance during a solemn part of the
Benediction, and that I’d complain to
the American priest about him. So he
gave me the dog and I’m to bring him
back when the Rally is over”.
“Thanks be to the good Lord Jesus,”
said the Owner fervently and the Plati-
num-headed Trainer crossed himself and
said: “Amen”.
YYTe stopped at numerous pubs on the
way home and I was permitted and,
indeed, if I may say so, encouraged to
sing several blasphemous songs.
But our poor oul’ slob of a hound,
fast and all as he might be with the
help of the few jabs or a couple of
pellets, was nothing compared to the
fastest greyhound that ever lived —-
Master Magrath, stuffed now in Kensing-
ton Museum (and would to God that we
were too):
The hare she led on with a wonderful
view,
And swift as the wind o’er the green
field she flew.
But he jumped on her back and he
held up his paw—
“ Three cheers for old Ireland,” says
Master Magrath.
“I could have been one of those years
ago, but I hate flying.”


FORUM
WHY MIGRANTS WONT
COME TO AUSTRALIA
They've never had it so good—in Europe
By REX BRICO
A YEAR ago on my Press rounds among Sydney consulates and migrant
representatives, I often had to cool my heels in crowded waiting
rooms before I coidd see the officials I wanted to interview. The
crowds comprised two kinds of people : new arrivals who wanted advice
and translations of application forms, trade references and other
documents, and both old and new arrivals who wanted help in their battle
with unemployment.
Today I hardly ever wait most of the unemployed seem to have
found work and new arrivals are rapidly dropping in number.
One result is that migrant spokes7nen, who feel they should remain
anonymous because they are “guests” in this country, have become a
little more talkative. Their main subjects is why migration is drying up.
Immigration figures, recently released
by the Government Statistician, Mr K.
M. Archer, more than justify this. Aus-
tralia’s net gain in new settlers dropped
from 102,360 in the financial year 1960-
61 to 76,566 in 1961-62.
The largest falls occurred in our
migrant intake from Great Britain which
dropped from 7000 to 5000, Holland
which dropped from 7000 to 4000, and
Germany which dropped most spec-
tacularly from 10,000 to about 3000.
Our intake from Italy and Greece re-
mained fairly steady, but the writing is
on the wall in the case of Italy. This is
not because of the Migration Agreement
(which may or may not be signed), as
our largest intake of Italians is non-
assisted, but because labor in Northern
Italy is becoming scarcer every day and
some other European countries are now
showing a suspiciously keen interest in
the South.
A large drop in migration is not enti-
rely new to Australia. In 1953 the net
gain in the long term and permanent
movement dropped from 97,454 to
42,883, which was nearly one fourth of
the net gain from the same sources in
1950. Yet, the year 1953 did not fore-
shadow the end or decline of migration,
for by 1955 the net gain was restored to
95,317.
(On the other hand, in the five year
period from 1951 to, and including, 1955
the average net population increase
resulting from long and permanent move-
ments was 0.95 per cent., while for the
five year period 1956-60 this figure
dropped to 0.82 per cent.)
It is impossible to predict whether the
next few years will see a recovery from
our present immigration slowdown, simi-
lar to that which occurred after the 1953
slowdown. But one can study some of
the trends governing migration here and
abroad in 1953 and in 1962.
The following pointers may be a guide.
1. Morale. In 1953 the morale of the
West-European peoples was still fairly
low. Europe seemed to be faced with
gradual decline. The blockade of West
Berlin in 1953 and the revolt of East
Berlin workers in that year carried bitter
overtones of the years 1914 and 1939.
And so, to a lesser extent, did the crises
created by the Hungarian revolution and
the Suez debacle.
All that Europeans could do was to
wait and pray, or flee to more remote
areas such as Australia and New Zealand.
But 1962 shows a different picture,
Visitors to Europe now find a self-con-
fidence which even blind optimists would
not have dreamt of five years ago. This
view was confirmed by a high-ranking
West-European diplomat who has visited
Europe every second year since 1950 and
returned recently to Canberra from his
latest trip.
“Two years ago only a few intellectuals
and businessmen realised the impact the
Common Market would have on Europe,”
he told me. “Today everyone seems
aware of it, from the Italian fisherman
to the Dutch housewife. There is a
massive striving to create a third world
tree that will surpass Russia as well as
United States economically, strategi-
cally and culturally.
2. Standards of living. In 1953 a Euro-
pean arriving in Austfalia could imme-
diately notice the gap in prosperity be-
tween the old and new continents. This
has changed, too.
In Great Britain, our biggest migrant
supplier, the total number of unemployed
in 1953 was larger than the number of
jobs offering. In 1961 the number of
vacancies exceeded the number of un-
employed by not less than 45 per cent.
In the seven years between 1953 and
1960, total output in the United King-
dom rose by about 20 per cent. Total
incomes rose by more than 50 per cent.
The rise in national living standards is
normally limited, over a period, by the
increase in national output. So while in-
comes in the United Kingdom rose by
more than 50 per cent., the real living
standards rose by about 20 per cent. —
the same as output.
In Italy unemployment dropped from
10 per cent, of the total labor force in
1954 to 5 per cent, in 1961. Most of
this remaining unemployment occurs in
the south, as in the north of Italy the
demand for labor is now exceeding the
supply. But economic difference between
north and south are being rapidly bridged.
In Germany the drop in unemploy-
ment over the past seven years is the
most dramatic and spectacular. It fell
from 5.5 per cent, of the total labor
force in 1953 to 0.1 per cent, this year.
German employers today are battling to
fill more than 500,000 job vacancies and
entire factories are being closed because
of labor shortages. That the rise in living
standard in Germany is equally effective
may be concluded from the fact that
prices over the past ten years have risen
by an average of only 23 per cent.,
while spending has more than doubled
over the same period.
3. Housing. In 1953 most Europeans
settling here were quite familiar with
housing problems and in comparisons
between Australia and their own
countries this factor played therefore a
relatively unimportant role. This is, to a
smaller degree, still true, but it will be
untrue in a few years’ time.
New Era
Tn Italy today it is already hard to dis-
cover any housing shortage and experts
believe it will be completely gone after
completion of the second INA-plan in
February in 1963. The INA or National
Insurance Institute —the equivalent of
South Australia’s Housing Trust is
responsible for most of the home building
in Italy since the War. The Institute is
financed by contributions from workers,
employers and the State.
Great Britain inherited a severe
housing problem from the Nineteenth
Century: a problem of slums, overcrowd-


ing and shortage of accommodation. The
supply of houses had not caught up with
the demand when the Second World War
stopped almost all home-building. The
war years destroyed or damaged some-
thing like one out of every three houses
and added nearly li million to the
population. However, since the War,
more than four million new houses and
flats have been built and many old houses
have been repaired or converted.
Germany, which has been building
houses and flats at a rate of 500,000 to
600,000 a year since 1955, has reduced
its backlog of more than six million
shortly after the War to less than one
million now. This means that it has built
far more than five million houses as it
had to cope with marriages and a large
inflow of refugees from East Germany,
who enjoy priority in obtaining a house
or flat. The German Government expects
to have filled the gap completely by 1965.
Holland, which began the post-war period
with 100,000 dwellings destroyed and
550,000 badly damaged, has build more
than one million new flats and houses
since the War. The backlog, which was
hard to reduce because of the exception-
ally high rate of births and marriages,
amounted to somewhat around 75,000
last year and is expected to be eliminated
within two years’ time.
When we wake up
A ll these factors show that the poten-
tial European migrants in 1963 and
following years will be less likely to
ignore our recent economic recession
than those of 1954 and following years
did with respect to the slump of 1952.
Once we have woken up to this reality,
we may ask what we can do to overcome
this. Here are some suggestions:
1. Economy. The economic factor has
always been, and still is, one of the
strongest inducements for a person to
migrate. People always move to countries
with higher standards of living.
Two previous recessions have shown
that the confidence of the potential mig-
rant is more quickly destroyed than re-
stored. Similarly, last year's recessions
have created an adverse publicity over-
seas which is completely out of propor-
tion to the actual facts.
It is, therefore, imperative that full
employment be maintained and the living
standard kept as high as those of the
emigration countries.
2. Housing. Figures released by the
Department of Immigration show that
migrants over the past 15 years have
contributed more to the increase in home
building in Australia than any other
single factor. Today an estimated one
third of all building employees are
migrants, while the newcomers also
provide a high proportion of the work
force producing building materials.
Obviously migration has not, as many
people believe, aggravated the housing
shortage but eased it in spite of the fact
that 1 £ million migrants have come to
live here. But unfortunately migrants
were made to contribute more to this
increase than they were able to profit
from it.
We only have to look at the way State
Housing authorities have dealt with
migrant housing over the past 15 years.
First, the Landlord and Tenant Act pro-
tects in practice those who have rented
dwellings before migration started while
it fails to safeguard newcomers and young
married couples who are forced to con-
clude agreements under section 5A of the
Act.
One only has to look around areas like
Pott’s Point, Darlinghurst and Padding-
ton to find in almost every second flat
building units let to Australians who
rented them more than 10 years ago at
one third of the rent paid for the same
size units by migrants in the same
building.
Migrants are here in fact paying for
Australians.
Second, until July, 1961, migrants of
non-British origin were not eligible for
Housing Commission homes until they
had been naturalised. With the bulk of
migration starting around 1950 and with
a waiting period of four years added to
the qualifying period for naturalisation,
practically no non-British migrants were
able to get Commission homes before
1959.
It is impossible to estimate the con-
tribution migrant labor made to the
building of Commission homes until
1959, but in view of above figures for the
total industry this must have been
enormous. Since July 1961 migrants have
been eligible to apply for Commission
homes on arrival in Australia, but then
only for cottages built after 1956. Those
built between 1945 and 1956 are reserved
for Australian citizens and British
migrants who have been here at least one
year.
To relieve the housing needs of Dutch
and Italian migrants the Dutch and Italian
Governments over the past years have
made several loans which were channelled
into co-operative building societies. The
Dutch Government made two loans of a
total £1,410,000 and the Italian Govern-
ment loaned £725,000 for New South
Wales only. These loans were matched by
equal amounts of credit by Australian
banks, while the State Housing Fund has
added a total of £600,000. This money
enabled the Netherlands Co-operative
Building Societies to finance 1284 old and
new houses, and the Italian Societies to
build 486 new houses. Early this year the
Dutch Government was reported to be
prepared to grant another loan of £2i
million on the condition that the Aus-
tralian Government would share the
risks of exchange losses.
But Mr Holt twice indicated that he
was not prepared to do so, and con-
sequently the negotiations got stuck.
Among all aspects of the housing that
have militated against migration, migrant
hostels probably head the list. Immigra-
tion authorities confirm that migrants
who return home and migrants who write
critical letters home are about the biggest
dangers to our reputation abroad. Both
dangers are largely created by hostel life.
Mr R. T. Appleyard MA, of the
National University Canberra, in an
address to the State Good Neighbor
Council last year, reported on an investig-
ation he had conducted into the motives
of a number of British migrants returning
home. He said the majority of returning
migrants admitted that their decision to
return had been made within two weeks
after their arrival. Of one entire hotel
group an overwhelming majority had
said that they paid less for their Council
homes in England than they had paid
for their hostel accommodation here.
This, they said, was a big factor in their
initial decision to return home.
On credit
Ane urgently needed measure is a
” more positive attitude by the Federal
Government toward those emigration
countries that are willing to extend credit
facilities or credit guarantees to house
their citizens abroad. Such an attitude
would not only assist in easing the housing
shortage, but would largely contribute
to the economic and social integration of
the migrant into the Australian com-
munity.
In the present circumstances the costs
of these credit facilities would have to
be borne entirely by the emigration
countries. But if Australia would be
prepared to share in the costs and risks
involved, this would provide the necessary
conditions for an extended and soundly
based credit scheme.
To stimulate newcomers to save for a
house, taxation incentives could be given
to migrants during their first two or three
years in Australia. This may seem revo-
lutionary, but it should be realised that


the average migrant arriving here is much
worse off than the Australian born resi-
dent. He usually does not know the
language, has no house, most often no
relatives to resort to, limited capital, and
faces often great difficulties in obtaining
a suitable job. As in golf he should be
given some strokes and should not be
expected to carry the full burden of
taxation the moment he starts to earn an
income. The psychological effect of such
assistance would be tremendous.
As the meals in migrant hostels have
always been the main reason for com-
plaints, one wonders if it would not be
better if kitchens were abolished alto-
gether and kitchenettes installed in each
flat. Moreover, wastage in such institu-
tions as hostels is bound to be colossal,
and housewives are by nature most in-
genious in making delicious meals for
their own national taste at relatively
little cost.
At Jepp’s Cross
ponents to such a measure often
” quote the case of the Commonwealth
Hostel in Jepp's Cross, which by agree-
ment between Mr Menzies and Premier
Playford came under State supervision
some seven years ago. The SA State
Government abolished the community
kitchen and installed kitchenettes, and it
is now reported to be one of the worst
slum settlements in Australia. The ques-
tion here is, of course, whether this
deterioration could not have been avoided
by more risid health control.
Hostel flats of such nature should be
made available to new arrivals at a
nominal rate of, let’s say 10/- a week,
to enable families to save for a house or
flat of their own. At the same time
residence should be limited to a period
of two years to make way for other
newcomers.
3. Tradesmanship. The Italian Govern-
ment recently was reported to be holding
up the signing of an immigration agree-
ment, because too few Italian tradesmen
were recognised as such in Australia.
Under the present regulations governing
the engineering trades, the local trades
committees, which comprise two union
representatives, two employers and one
Government representative, may give
trade certificate to:
a. persons who were 21 years of age
on May 8, 1940, and worked as trades-
men earning the wage of a tradesman on
that date.
b. persons who can prove that between
their 16th and 23rd year of age they
worked five years continuously in one
trade, of which three years was as an ap-
prentice.
c. persons, older than 21 years, who
have learned the trade by working uti-
interuptedly in it over a period of six
years and were paid as such over a period
of at least two years. These persons are
eligible for a trade test.
d. persons who arrived in Australia
before March 1, 1954 and who worked
here for a period of seven years as a
tradesman.
Technical schools in most emigration
countries organise courses to teach and
train adults in technicals skills. But if
these tradesmen do not come under one
of the four above categories, or similar
regulations for other trades, then they
are not recognized as such in Australia
and have to work as unskilled laborers.
Also, in Australia, the standard term
of apprenticeship in, for example, the
metal trade is five years, whereas in most
European countries it is three years. Trade
unionists in Australia will not accept a
migrant as a skilled worker until he has
served five years, just because the Aus-
tralian system prescribes five years.
How the rigid application of this rule
deters migrants was recently demonstrated
to me by a German coppersmith who
arrived here about H years ago. In Ger-
many he had done three years’ appren-
ticeship training and after that worked as
a tradesman for one year and nine
months. He then came to Australia, where
he worked one year in his own trade in
a Sydney factory. On completion of this
year he applied for recog li ion which was
rejected on the ground that he had not
been registered as an apprentice during
his work at the Sydney factory. The in-
flexibility angered the young man to such
extent, that he gave up his job and he is
now working as a snowlift assistant in
the Snowy Mountains. When he has saved
enough money he intends to return to
Germany, where, as a tradesman, he will
earn a high wage. Most probably he will
also tell his mates about his experience in
Australia and no form of publicity will
be able to amend this harmful informa-
tion.
“Pioneers”
migrants understand that it is in
the interest of the Australian industry
that the standards of skill and the teach-
ing of skills be of the highest order. But
they fail to see why unionists should think
that the Australian apprenticeship system
is the only one in the world and anyone
trained under an apprenticeship system
in another country is not as good as the
Australian tradesman. The factor of
actual skill and training should be deci-
sive and not the age at which and the
way in which this training or skill was
obtained.
4. Security. A recent investigation by
the Netherlands Institute for Motivation
and Research into reactions of newspaper
advertisements publicising Australia as an
emigration country revealed that the
majority of interviewed persons showed
none of the characteristics usually attri-
buted to what we call “pioneers”. The
vast majority of those interested in Aus-
tralia said they would never migrate un-
less they were satisfied that our social
services guaranteed the same amount of
security as they had now.
In the dark
THhis security in Holland is vauly pro-
-*■ tected by the State. All Dutchmen who
are within certain income brackets, are
compulsorily insured against loss of pay
through sickness, doctor and dentist fees,
all prescribed medicines, and unemploy-
ment. A certain percentage is deducted
from the employee’s wages and this con-
tribution is matched by an equal contribu-
tion by the employer and subsidies by the
State. The employee pays one per cent, of
his pay for sickness benefit, 2.2 per cent,
for medical expenses, and 0.4 per cent,
for unemployment. For this he is entitled
to a sick pay of 80 per cent, of his latest
wage for a period of 52 weeks, unem-
ployment benefit of 70-80 per cent, of
his latest wage for 126 days, and com-
pletely free health services and medicines.
Although details vary, social services
in Great Britain, Germany and Italy are
based on the same pinciples as in Hol-
land. No wonder European migrants
arriving here are stuck by the change in
social climate. Already migration is a step
into the dark and a man who takes his
family to a completely unknown land
needs more than average courage. Bv
requiring him to show too much courage
Australia takes the risk of reducing the
number of its potential migrants to the
relatively small group of adventurers and
relatives of migrants who have settled
here.
But if Australia wants the average,
hard-working and responsible European
family-man, it will have to provide him a
climate of security which is up to the
standards he is used to.
5. Other Measures. Many other
changes are needed. There is for instance,
the controversial naturalisation oath,
which requires the migrant to renounce
all previous allegiance to any Sovereign
or State. To the majority of migrants
this requirement seems needlessly harsh.
Every day bridal couples take on new
allegiances in marriage without renoun-
cing their parents. By the same principle,
loyalty to a new country is quite compa-
tible with loyalty to the old land.
In summing up these points we should
not forget that the task of integrating
migrants with efficiency and foresight is
not the sole responsibility of one or more
cabinet ministers. A recovery from the
present drop in immigration can only be
achieved by drastic community efforts
and numerous sacrifices.


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
AFTER THE BREAK-DOWN, WHAT?
Sir,
If the Psychiatric Rehabilitation As-
sociation intends to co-operate with other
organisations in mental rehabilitation, it
will need clearer thinking than that pro-
duced by its administrator, Mr Leishman
(Bulletin Letters, August 18). We ex-
patients are not at all sure that his
ambiguous words of co-operation are
any more promising than Mr Kingsmill’s
overt opposition.
Mr Leishman did not reply to “Former
Mental Patient’s” principal thesis: that
custodial groups must co-operate in a
subsidiary way with self-help groups.
So far from re-assuring ex-patients on the
score of PRA's paternalist attitudes, he
seems bent on reducing rehabilitation to
an aspect of treatment, thereby reject-
ing the vital distinction between therapy
groups and rehabilitation groups. In fact,
he distinctly re-affirms, without any
qualifying limits, the need for control by
psychiatrists or social workers.
Assuming that by rehabilitation we
mean the resumption of healthy personal
activity and social life, it is clear that
in many cases some rehabilitation can
accompany even very early stages of
treatment; the condition being element-
ary insight and even a feeble will to co-
operate. Incidentally, too, some psychiat-
ric guidance can extend into fairly ad-
vanced stages of rehabilitation or be
useful in the early stages of prevention.
But it is outrageous to suggest that there-
fore prevention and rehabilitation are
part of treatment and that all people in
the community are subject to the auth-
ority of psychiatrists.
Former Mental Patient’s vital point
was that, though they often dovetail,
treatment and rehabilitation are essen-
tially distinct phases of the patient's
return to health. The key to their differ-
entiation is that under treatment the
person’s main support is the doctor,
whereas the person rehabilitating him-
self is supported mainly by his friends.
It is as silly to insist on the presence of
a psychiatrist at a rehabilitation group
as to require patients to bring their
friends with them on their visits to the
psychiatrist.
PRA's social assistance is valuable,
and Recovery desires its co-operation!
But we believe that “clear agreements
make long friendships.” PRA has so
far given two statements on rehabilita-
tion, one grossly unacceptable and the
other dangerously ambiguous. Ex-patients
want better than that. It is hard enough
to adjust ourselves again to an often
unsympathetic society without having
to cope with the well-meaning possessive-
ness and “smother-love” of an ill-de-
fined rehabilitation body.
T. S.
General Secretary, Recovery Groups
Sydney.
THE EATING OUT BUSINESS
Sir,
In your issue of Ihe Bulletin dated
August 4, a statement appears on page
13, which readers might erroneously
attribute to the undersigned. It reads as
follows:
“What makes a well run restaurant?
The first requirement is £lOO,OOO in
cash or credit.’ This statement is then
followed by some comments on operat-
ing costs made by myself and correctly
reported. The proximity of this state-
ment to my comments on operating costs
would, I feel, leave readers with the
impression that I had made the state-
ment, which, of course, is not correct.
One does not need £lOO,OOO cash or
credit to open and operate a restaurant.
One could need up to £lOO.OOO if he
proposes to purchase freehold and equip
and operate a restaurant, and that is
precisely what I said in regard to this
aspect.
Apart from this aspect, the article
by Mr Scriber is interesting and informa-
tive although some of the details set out
therein would not be of general applica-
tion in the industry, nor would the views
expressed be shared by all restauranteurs.
C. G. MEWS
Secretary, Catering
Trades Organisation of NSW.
Sydney.
A SAUCEY SURVEY
Sir,
Not having as yet had an opportunity
of perusing “Larousse Gastronomique”,
one cannot comment on Mr Bill Han-
non’s review (Bulletin, August 11), of
the compendium. However, he does less
than justice to Australian food. Fresh
oysters from the North Coast of New
South Wales are equal, if not superior,
to their lauded relatives from Colchester
or Whitstable; our prawns, if fresh and
not too large, are always good, and if
served suitably garnished with a well-
ripened avocado pear are superb. Lob-
ster, which has not been frozen, properly
boiled is excellent. And what of Tas-
manian scallops?
Let it be recommended that Mr. Han-
non take some fresh fillets of whiting,
dip them in lightly beaten egg, roll them
in very fine breadcrumbs and deep fry
in peanut oil. He should enjoy the fish.
Our beef, if bought from a competent
and conscientious butcher, is usually be-
yond criticism. There are few typically
Australian methods of cooking beef, but
perhaps spiced beef, a variety of boiled
corned beef, may be suggested as worth-
while.
H. M. SAXBY
North Sydney (NSW).
BUYING A SMALL CAR?
Sir,
May 1 point out to your motoring
correspondent “Buying an under
£lOOO Car” (Bulletin, July 28), that
fact-finding is a most important part of
reporting.
I refer to his statement re Datsun
concessionaires dealer system through-
out the country and the mention of
spare parts.
Since launching Datsun in Australia
two years ago the concessionaires —•
Nissan Motor Distributors (Australia)
have appointed 120 dealers and spare
parts outlets in the Commonwealth—
and this including 12 months of “credit
squeeze”.
Australia’s largest car manutacturer
claims 600 dealers in the same area, yet
1 can assure you, at the moment, sells
and services many more than six times
as many of its vehicles as Datsun.
May 1 add that Datsun marketing
in this country is primarily based on an
efficient service and spare parts set-up.
RON THONEMANN
Director.
Automotive Public Relations.
Victoria.
AN APPROACH TO A CRISIS
Sir,
Mr Thompson’s letter in defence of
Victorian Government policy on educa-
tion (Bulletin, August 11) is an admir-
able exposition of incontrovertible facts.
But paradoxically both the Bulletin
editorial to which Mr Thompson refers
(July 21) and the Forum article by Chris-
topher Kierce (August 1 1) contain more
than a grain of truth. Despite the impres-
sive figures quoted to prove ihe con-
trary, Victorian education in particular
and Australian education in general face
a serious crisis.
Mr Thompson’s figures do not show,
for instance, that 34% of all Victorian
secondary teachers are temporary teach-
ers, a large proportion of whom are un-
trained. (Tribunal Report, August 1962).
His figures do not show that the class
of 40 plus is common still, or that even
with the present rate of building, the
average size of classes will not diminish
within any significant space of time. His
statistics do not show how many teachers
are forced, by the exigencies of staff-
ing, to teach subjects for which they are
completely untrained and in which their
background knowledge is meagre, to
say the least. He does not mention the
increasing numbers of secondary teach-
ers who, lacking degrees, are being


forced to teach subjects to a level for
which their training is inadequate.
No Australian government has ack-
nowledged yet that its expenditure on
education, impressive though it might
be on paper, is totally inadequate for
its purposes. Mr Bolte might allot one
third of his annual budget to education
this year. He should allot at least one
half, if not more.
I would suggest that the most positive
approach to this course of action would
be an honest declaration by the State
Governments that in fact the crisis fac-
ing them in education is beyond their
capacity to overcome followed by a con-
ference of State Premiers to discuss a
united approach to the Federal Govern-
ment for immediate financial aid for
education.
R. L. DAVIES. B.A., B.ED.
Echuca.
NO CATHOLICS!
Sir,
I notice some unsavory reference to
myself in an article headed “No Catho-
lics!” from Bob Bottom at Casino (Bul-
letin, August 11). The facts stated are
not quite correct. My remarks at the
meeting were that “we cannot mix oil
with water and we cannot mix Roman
Catholics with Protestants under the
same roof in a community home.”
Roman Catholics are not permitted
to attend the Protestant services held in
such Homes by the Protestant Ministers
and they automatically cause trouble and
make the lives of the Protestant people
unhappy. When the Roman Catholic
priests allow Roman Catholic children to
attend our Public Schools, join the public
Girl Guides and Boy Scouts, do away
with their sectarian hospitals and come
in behind our public hospitals, AND
WHEN R. C. PRIESTS join the local
Ministers Fraternal and work with the
Protestant Ministers for the general good
and welfare of the community, then it
will be practible to take R.C. people
into Protestant Homes.
THOS. AGST
General Manager Unity Protestant As-
sociation.
G.B.’s OTHER IRELAND
Sir,
Your correspondent. Mr Paul Smith,
in his review (Bulletin, August 4) of
G. B. Shaw’s republished essay, “The
Matter With Ireland”, unmistakably re-
veals what Shaw himself called, "a cer-
tain flippant, futile derision and be-
littlement . . . peculiar to Dublin” (he
might have said Irishmen). Dr Johnson,
an Englishman, said that the Irish were
a fair-minded people, “they never speak
well of each other.” It will be seen that
I have assumed that Mr Smith is an
Irishman; it seems as plain as the nose
on his face.
The Irish sense of humor is defec-
tive, that is why Irishmen in general
and Mr Smith in particular, utterly
fail to see that Shaw’s swanking is not
conceit but part of the amusing creation
of the legend of GBS, which served
Shaw’s turn when he was fighting his
way into London, but which has de-
tracted from his role of teacher. There
can be no doubting Shaw’s sincerity
when he admits this. Having once got
into the habit, the world insisted that
he go on amusing it.
To claim that since Ireland “cut her-
self loose she has never looked back”
is a touch of wild perversity. The fact
is, she has never since looked forward
and is still as mediaeval as the national
(and international) Church which holds
her people in thralldom.
St John Ervine, a “northern” Irishman,
and one of the few Irish intimates of
GBS, wrote; “Celtic Twilight, empty
dreams and stale romance did not appeal
to Shaw, who thought it high time that
Irishmen acquired a sense of fact and
ceased to deceive themselves that they
were somehow superior to all other
people”.
CURTIS ATKINSON
President, Bernard Shaw Society of
Queensland.
Toowong (Queensland).
THE STUDENT GENERATION
Sir,
“The Student Generation”, gives a
good coverage of student attitudes (Bul-
letin, August 11). I feel that at least
one further student activity should be
mentioned.
The list was the spontaneous demon-
stration by students on last Commemora-
tion Day on the corner of Queen and
Albert Streets. This was initially a dem-
onstration against police interference and
direct suppression of student activities.
The Brisbane Press, in grossly misleading
articles, claimed that this was a mere
prank. Obviously the Press did not realise
that this was a real demonstration against
the Queensland Police Force, which is
at present, in this State, showing all the
features of police forces in totalitarian
states. Their subsequent record of mis-
behaviour in north Queensland, and con-
cealment and misrepresentation of evi-
dence in the important Plomp case in-
dicate that these people do not hold
British ideals of j> ice very highly.
DONALD R. MARTIN
St Lucia (Queensland).
Sir,
Bill Thomas was probably the most
powerful influence on the thinking and
tactics of the students who initiated and
organised Student Action, and as Presi-
dent of the ALP Club 1960/61 and
1961/62 until his death he was probably
the first to recognise the way in which
the student body could be appealed to
on matters which could be related to
their unformed “well meaning instincts”.
Participation in a campaign tends to
make some students begin to see them-
selves as politically potent and this
stimulates their interests in political
issues.
The Melbourne SRC has a programme
in train to prepare a pamphlet and
organise a good deal of publicity for the
crisis in Australian education, which we
hope to get going early in third term.
The inference, in Peter Coleman’s article
on The Student Generation (Bulletin,
August 11) that the scheme was to be
run by “Student Action” is wrong. In
fact “Student Action”, at least in Mel-
bourne, was formed for a specific pur-
pose, and for the duration of the Fed-
eral Election campaign. Various groups
are actively working for immigration re-
forms and most of the people active
in “Student Action” are active now in
widely scattered areas. A film rentered
about the campaign is being produced
by an independent group and “Student
Action” was the first experiment in large
scale organisation.
The emphasis in the article on the
anti-Communist nature of student poli-
tics could lead to a mis-interpretation
of motives. There is generally not an
anti-Communist crusading zeal in
evidence; the fact that we respond to
atrocities by Communists in the same
way as we respond to those of lightest
groups only means that our line is an
independent one.
One final comment worth making is
that the schism between staff and
students described by Mr Coleman is
far from complete. While the old “left-
ies” of the thirties don’t have close con-
tact with the feeling of the present gen-
eration, there is very close contact and
co-operation with many staff members.
JOHN PATERSON.
Melbourne.
HUMANS AS GUINEA PIGS
Sir,
The alarming disclosures on the fatal
results from certain drugs such as
Thalidomide and Phenacetin certainly
calls for prompt and drastic action on
the part of Public Health authorities.
To appoint a few “experts” to test
out each of these new potions will be
a long and tedius process and many
are sure to slip through the net and
wreak much damage in the meantime
but, perhaps, in the end it may direct
the minds of the medical profession
along the lines of preventive measures
rather than curative methods of heal-
ing; in particular attention to diet.
Obtaining a Doctor’s prescription does
not carry us much further as the average
Medico is far too busy treating the effects
of wrong habits of living to be able tc
test the efficacy of each drug and must,
perforce, rely on the say so of the drug
salesman or literature put out by the
manufacturers.
According to a UN report some ten
years ago out of 300 anti-biotics tested
all but five were too poisonous to be
taken into the human body and even
the remaining five and several others
since turned out have also become sus-
pect: even the rabbits now again
plentiful and immune to myxamotosis
were overlooked in the case of Thalido-
mide.
It seems that we humans are now the
“guinea pigs” en masse and it is time
to bestir ourselves to the dangers in-
volved if we wish to survive.
CHARLES MORGAN
Sydney.


REVIEWS
FILMS
SHORT OF PASSION
The Gsrl with a Suitcase. Savoy
Theatre. Sydney.
Publicity tells us that Valerio Zurlini’s
“The Girl with a Suitcase” took
more than three years to make. It may
well be that if it had not taken so long
it would have been terser and more
effective. One suspects that director
Zurlini grew so fond of his carefully
designed scenes and shots that he was
too disinclined to cut them; as a result
the film, like so many these days, is
much too long for its own good. Its
merits gain nothing by elaboration, while
its faults become heavily over-exposed.
Essentially it is, or should be, a
poignantly ironic little tale of young
love, laced with a bit of social satire.
It begins when a wealthy young cad
abandons the heroine in the middle of
an Italian city, only to find her ringing
his doorbell a day or so later. The cad
sends his schoolboy brother to get rid
of her, and the boy is so struck by her
beauty and touched by her distress that
he tries to help her. He is soon shyly in
love. He books her into a luxury hotel
(at his father’s expense) and steals money
to buy her clothes. All is discovered;
the girl is induced to go back to the
Riviera night club she came from; the
boy pursues her, and the story has a
wry ending.
The film goes wrong, artistically if not
commercially, by concentrating on the
figure of the girl and her steps along the
primrose path rather than on the boy and
his encounter with adolescence. Not only
is the boy’s side of the story more in-
teresting, the role is played by Jacques
Perrin with a sensitive skill that eclipses
anything else in the picture. Perrin’s
teenager is a refreshing change from the
sullen, graceless rebels without a cause
currently fashionable. He is shy, intelli-
gent, humorous, civilised and entirely con-
vincing. Beside him Claudia Cardinale, as
the girl, is just a lay figure, though cer-
tainly a most comely and well-developed
one. She lacks skill to make the charac-
ter, with its mixture of toughness and
helplessness, self-pity and kindliness, add
up to a lifelike and sympathetic (or even
effectively unsympathetic) whole.
Had the film been shorter this mis-
placed emphasis might have been less ap-
parent, the girl’s sorrows less tedious,
and the film as a whole would have
seemed less deliberate and studied. Zur-
lini’s direction is competent in the highest
degree, but there is a cold meticulousness
about it, it falls far short of passion.
(A disturbing detail. The film has a chic
musical background of guitar and harpsi-
chord, but the theme that recurs most
frequently is none other than the old
English folk “The Miller of Dee”, played
andante con amore and sounding about
as English as a “Santa Lucia”. I have
given up trying to plumb the significance
of this.)
MARTIN LONG
ART
A COMPLEX PATTERN
Peter Kaiser. South Yarra Gallery.
Melbourne.
"Deter Kaiser, a naturalised Australian,
has been working successfully in Paris
for thirteen years. He has, nonethc'~-s,
retained an attachment to this country
and fortunately continues to exhibit in
spite of the rather slow response to his
pure, austere abstractions. The present
exhibition is his second in two years, and
should help considerably to build his
reputation against the time of his even-
tual return
Much more than local non-figurative
painters, Kaiser works towards the com-
pletely non-objective. The materials,
forms and color harmonies are the sub-
ject of the painting and the appeal as
nearly as possible is purely aesthetic.
Unaided by subject and almost deprived
of allusion, painting of this kind must
meet unusually exacting formal standards.
Where a subject will dictate to some ex-
tent its own form, these works must gain
coherence from their materials. Most of
the paintings here are large scale organiz-
ations of small, simple shapes and tex-
tures. Unity is achieved by complex, re-
petitive patterning and diffuse, subdued
toning. They invite close viewing, and
have something of the fascination of
worn, battered things, of rocks and metal.
Successive layers of stained brown paper
are scratch'd and rubbed to expose layers
beneath down to the ca’ vas, and the
whole is so carefully and subtly graded
that without any attempt to disguise the
material the various layers fuse into a
single solid object. It is a withdrawn,
self-conscious art, but very honest and
rewarding.
BILL HANNAN
THEATRE
PRODUCERS NEEDED
Seventeenth Intervarsity Drama Festi-
val. The Dolphin, Perth.
programme for this year’s Inter-
varsity Festival was diverse enough
to offer something to suit most
cal tastes; there were plays old and new,
experimental and classical, dramatic and
comic. Perth presented Brecht’s “The
Good Woman of Setzuan”, Canberra
offered Shaw’s “Arms and the Man”,
Melbourne played Sophocles’ “Oedipus
Rex” and from Sydney came Pinter’s
“The Dumb Waiter” and “A Slight
Ache”. All these have been individually
reviewed for the Bulletin when they
were performed in their home cities.
The other plays presented were William
Inge’s “Picnic” from Tasmania, Sartre’s
“In Camera” and lonesco’s “The Bald
Prima Donna” from Adelaide, and J.
P. Donleavy’s “Fairytales of New York”
from Queensland.
This is Australia’s only national drama
festival and the opportunity is here for
almost endless comparisons between act-
ing styles, production techniques, the
relative effectiveness of satire against
farce etc., as well as the obvious attrac-
tions of a theatrical feast. Unfortunately,
when presentation standards vary as
widely as they did here it is the audience


and the playwright who suffer most.
The performances ranged from very
good to abominable and even the best
plays cannot survive undamaged from
poor performance and mangled inter-
pretation. Furthermore, only the most
dedicated thespian can be expected to
go to the theatre almost every evening
for nearly a fortnight when only two or
three of the presentations are worth his
serious attention.
It is easy to blame deficiencies in
performance on the inexperience and
immaturity of the casts, but all the casts
were young and nearly all were inex-
perienced. In some universities the pro-
cedure is to choose the play and then
cast it, but where there is a very limited
number of players available the reverse
seems more practical. Bad choice of play
and weak casting were mainly respon-
sible for Tasmania’s debacle. The players
did themselves (and us) far less than
justice in roles to which they were, for
the most part, completely unsuited in
the kind of play which was obviously not
their forte.
Shaw’s satire v as marred by the use
of a style more appropriate to melodrama
though most of his lines survived utter-
ance by extreme, flat characters. This,
and the weaknesses in some of the other
plays presented were faults of produc-
tion rather than performance. It is a
pity to see hard-working casts let down
by faulty production. The Festival is
well-established but gets little public
recognition. It will never achieve status
as a significant contribution to our cul-
tural life until it raises its standards
of performance. Better producers are
the answer.
MARY LORD
MUSIC
JUST JAZZ
The Co! Joye Theatre Restaurant Jazz
Club. Kings Cross. Sydney.
TAespite its name, the Johnny Sangster
Traditionalists group led by Sangster
on trumpet again for the first time in a
number of years, cannot be labelled; the
group’s style is distinguished by Sangster’s
highly original arrangement and by the
fact that all players bring a developed
musicianly restraint to an idiom that is
usually remarkable only for its lack of
inhibitions. It plays, quite literally, just
jazz.
The rhythm section: Col Nolan, piano;
Barry Dillon, bass; and Stuart Speer,
drums is the most powerfully integrated
in the country, and their almost frighten-
ing rigidity is beautifully offset by the
free counterpoint sustained by Sangster
and Graeme Spedding’s clarinet. The best
work I heard was on spirituals: “I Stood
on the River of Jordan” and the superb
“Wade in the Water”. When the group’s
dynamics are as regulated as its rhythm,
it will be a group everyone should hear.
Curby’s Sextet, on the other hand, is a
group composed of outstanding soloists
who work as a group through a concep-
tual integration rather than the mainly
rhythmic integration of the other band.
The front line consists of Bernie Mc-
Gann, alto; Keith Stirling, trumpet; and
Graham Lyall, tenor. It is no discredit
to Mr Stirling that he is slightly over-
shadowed by the others as they are two
of, if not the, best soloists at present
working the purist scene. And Curby is
easily the most resourceful piano (his
solo on the Golson tune “Whisper Not”
worked through at least a half dozen
major themetic variations).
Their style is restrained and thought-
ful, developing rich jazz content and
musical substance through complex
melodic invention instead of relying on
more straightforward and easier to
achieve swinging. Yet they leaven
their serious music-making with delicious
touches of musical humor (as in their
treatment of “I Hear Music”) and they
are easily the most impressive and pro-
mising group in the country, eclipsing
any Melbourne group by a long mark.
EDGAR POOLE
SOUND AND SENSE
Orchestral Subscription Concert. Syd-
ney Town Hall.
Rigoletto. NSW Conservatorium
Student Opera School.
VTot withstanding the high reputation
that the Dutch conductor Willem
van Otterloo enjoys, his recordings are
often of merely mediocre quality.
Sydney audiences had an opportunity
to hear Van Otterloo in the flesh at last
week’s subscription concerts. He proved
much more impressive in the concert
hall than on record. Most impressive
was his command of the orchestra. The
Sydney Symphony Orchestra is capable
of playing very well, but not all con-
ductors can get it to do so. Under Van
Otterloo, however, it played for the most
part with admirable precision and energy.
Predictably, the playing at the concert
I attended was best in an unfamiliar
work, a suite arranged from Diepen-
brock’s incidental music to “Electra”.
Despite his ability as a leader, Van
Otterloo seems to me to have some
defects as a conductor. He gives the
impression of being very concerned with
getting his orchestra to play together at
the right volume and tempo, but rather
less with interpreting the music. This
manifests itself firstly in the matter-of-
fact sound that he gives to whatever he
conducts, even Debussy Nocturnes; and
secondly in the rather muddy sound pro-
duced when a large number of instru-
ments, or a large number from one sec-
tion of the orchestra, play together. The
second effects seems to be the result of
concentrating on vigour and accuracy of
attack at the expense of careful balance
and phrasing. Both effects are accen-
tuated by the brisk tempos that Van
Otterloo adopts.
Horenstein also got the orchestra play-
ing with great technical proficiency, but
his concerts were marked by elaborate
attention to points of interpretative
detail.
fjpHis year the Conservatorium’s opera
■*" is “Rigoletto”. As usual, it was pre-
sented with a high degree of skill. Sets,
staging and production were generally
good, and the orchestra and chorus were
well-drilled. Among the cast of the first
performance, Patricia Wooldridge and
Waverney Ford were outstanding, both
in acting and singing, as Gilda and Rigo-
letto. The Duke of Mantua was played
by Serge Baigildin, who has a splendid
voice, but whose performance was
marred by some uncertain acting and an
occasional tendency to get out of step
with the conductor. Donald McGregor
was impressive as Sparafucile.
JOHN SMALL
RADIO
A SHEEP IN
WOLFE'S CLOTHING
Wolfe At The Door
MJhen Digby Wolfe, or someone, con-
" ceived the idea that he should try
radio, there were two flaws to the
notion. One was lack of foresight in
regard to Wolfe's movements, the other
his own conception of the medium vis-
a-vis his “image”. The results are that
Wolfe is appearing nights in a Mel-
bourne show and also mornings, on
radio, supposedly from his home at
Whale Beach in Sydney; and that on
radio he is repeating most of the cliches


and adding some new ones of bis own,
Such as Banjo Paterson s verse in a
dockney-tinted vernacular.
His radio show is called ‘Wolfe At
The Door” and it is pitched for house-
wives who like cosy chats at 9 or 10
in the morning, according to
Which of several States they live in. The
quarter-hour show is not openly spon-
sored by the Tea Bureau, but might as
well be, since it is peppered with ex-
hortations to relax, put the feet up, and
have a cuppa tea. Digby has several.
Elsie May brings them, though who she
is and what she is doing in Wolfe’s
bachelor existence is never explained.
In his ingratiating way, Digby begins
the show with a studio knock, and a
warbling off-key whistle. He asks to
come in, and if the poor listener lets
him, yabbers on like one of her less
welcome elderly neighbors. Should a
woman devote all of her time to the
home? Not unless she’s married. Women
are the best labor saving device on the
market, and not always appreciated by
us fellers. I ’ve gone on the wagon, the
wages of breath is gin. Look around for
happy things, count our blessings, be
good. Ugh!
Wolfe or his advisers seem to have
completely overlooked the simple fact
that all 2i million radio licence holders
are potential listeners in the mornings.
Of Australia’s 5 million females, there
are 300,000 more in the 20-40 age group
than in the 40-60 group to whom Wolfe’s
odd material is pitched. In 1962, women
in the younger group are not likely to
be entranced by Digby’s chatter to the
effect that his friend Doris Day doesn't
drink or smoke, or that he doesn’t know
what he’d do without his Mum and
wishes she’d “come over”. If anything,
they’d prefer a red-blooded cad, a Wolfe
who howls a little, tells them what it’s
like to travel the world in show business,
and makes them feel like women.
I presume from listening to the show
so far that Wolfe made the requisite
13 or 26 recordings in a studio some-
where. If the show does not die of
anaemia before he makes the next batch,
an injection of yum-yum might give it
new life.
DALLE MILLER
TELEVISION
YOU DON'T NEED TO DRESS IT UP
Tonight at the Southern Cross.
Channel 9.
fFo paraphrase one of the circa 1890
A “jokes” in this show, the Limbs,
Graham Kennedy, Bert Newton, Tommy
Hanlon, Toni Lamond and Vicki Benet
played the new Southern Cross Hotel the
other night, and the hotel lost. Perhaps
this was not as noticeable in Melbourne,
where the show was seen as an In Mel-
bourne Tonight on Thursday last, but it
was very much so in Sydney where it
followed the Judy Garland Show on
Channel 9, Saturday night, and preceded
Graeme Bell’s “Trad Pad” time on an-
other channel. Their strengths highlighted
its feebleness. It emerged, not as a grand
advertisement, but as an insult to
viewers.
“Tonight at the Southern Cross” was
presented as “entirely scripted”, so the
scripters must accept blame for most of
the trouble. And anyone who gives a
comic such a line as, “The Lexington
Symphony played Beethoven last night,
and Beethoven lost,” obviously has too
low an opinion of his audience. I don’t
think it was from the legendary Joe
Miller’s Joke Book, but from some
earlier source. We were also treated to
such gems of wit as, “He gave you
artificial recreation, didn’t he, love?” and
“I’ve called it (dinner) a Tommy Hanlon
Surprise—lt Could Be Stew.”
Nor did the hotel management help
its cause very much by jamming in com-
mercials at the usual In Melbourne To-
night pace, sixty to the dozen, as though
afraid that, despite a free plug a minute
from the paid help, viewers might not
get the whole magnificent picture of this
£4 (Aust.) a day paradise.
In the hour of song, dance and scintil-
lating humor, only one passage struck me
as worthy, and in this the camera was
taken to a party, addressed man-to-lens
as “Fred”, and ear bashed, flirted with,
and handed grog until “Fred” slid to the
floor and looked blearily up at Tommy
Hanlon as he delivered the punch line
of another old joke. Whether this inso-
briety would attract the £4 a day set to
the Southern Cross is another matter.
If I were the management I’d ask a
certain cigarette company to hustle their
cameras in to repair the image.
The show featured our supposedly top
television variety performers, “against the
glittering background of Australia’s
newest luxury hotel”. It was a thorough
drag. Fortunately, Sydney viewers were
able to regain some self-respect by look-
ing in at Graeme Bell’s “Trade Pad”,
which was set in what appeared to be a
condemned cellar. “Trad” is supposed to
be modified Dixieland, but it sounded
fine, traditional, low-down New Orleans
style to me.
A dark girl from way up yonder in
the north of Queensland, name of Candy
Devine, sang the jazz classic “Honey-
suckle Rose” with almost perfect phras-
ing, and a thin girl dressed in a skirt,
floppy sweater and black Boy Scout scarf
—Judy Bailey from NZ —played piano
with more style and visible humor than
the entire cast of “Tonight at the South-
ern Cross” had been able to achieve. In
other words, for television, if you have
it, you don’t need to dress it up.
“Trad Pad”, despite its name, has it
in every department, including the work
of the floor manager and the men behind
the cameras. I’ve remarked before on the
excellent and imaginative photography
visible in some of the pop music shows,
such as O’Keefe’s. It goes even further
in the Graeme Bell Show, where they
have managed to make the act of playing
music a delight to the eye, whatever Trad
may do to your ear.
Even if you detest jazz, watch this show
once, and wonder why the same cannot
be done, here, with other kinds of music,
and with actors. Apparently we are
unable to find capable television drama-
tists, scripters or lyric writers. (“ . . and
candy sweets, all the things a gourmet
eats,” is about par for the local crop of
Lorenz Harts.) But television can get
along with few words, if it has talent
behind the cameras, and reasonable
players in front of them. “Trad Pad”
offers both.
Returning to shows such as “Tonight
at the Southern Cross”, and its blood
brother “The Best of Kennedy”, the
scripting weaknesses are visible when a
local is in there with a Johnny Silver, a
visiting patter man who digs one vein of
humor, such as, “I think the world of
my mother-in-law. Bought her a Jaguar
recently. Damn near bit her leg off the
first day, too. God bless her—and keep
her!”
Kennedy’s problem is shared by George
Wallace in Brisbane, where a total lack
of scripters forces Wallace to write most
of the material for his one or two shows
a week. Generally the results are a cut
above the average IMT sketch, have an
Australian bite, and occasionally rise to
high comedy.
The only other home-grown television
comedians worth mentioning, the Limbs,
have recognised the basic problem and
are trying to unearth or create new
comedy writers. On their showing at the
Southern Cross affair, they need some
badly. But whether they succeed or not
will depend on that old factor, money.
Until the writers “rewards approach the
stars”, there will be few good ones. The
work requires wit, and wits, of a quality
suitable to the higher professions, and
will depend on that old factor, money.
FRANK ROBERTS


The Incomparable Max. A Selection
by S. C. Roberts. Heinemann’s.
445. 9d.
THE RED PAGE
THE INDESTRUCTIBLE MAX
By PETER HASTINGS
New York’s second-hand bookshops
are found mostly along Fourth
Avenue: small, grimy, treasure
houses which, it always seemed
to me, were too pricey. However, they
were pleasant havens on cold winter days
and there was always the ultimately ex-
pensive thought that there was no charge
for looking. It was in one of them that I
bought three copies of a small Oxford
magazine, of the early nineties The
Spirit Lamp edited by Lord Alfred Doug-
las. It breathed the distilled fumes of
fin de seicle far more headily than ever
did The Yellow Book or The Savoy.
Thus, answers to correspondents:
J. B. H. B. Your poems are
tainted with ethics. I suspect you of
being a don.
Caliban.—You should certainly give
up poetry. Why not emigrate? Poetry
is unknown in the colonies.
Narcissus.—Thanks for your photo-
graph, it is perfectly charming. But
why try and write? Why not be con-
tent to exist beautifully?
One is now struck by the number of
times the word sin appeared in those
pages. Sin also had some very distin-
guished disciples: Lord Alfred Douglas
himself who was editor and major con-
tributor, John Addington Symonds,
Oscar Wilde (who contributed parables
and short stories from the heady ram-
parts of London and Paris), incense-
laden translations of Beaudeiaire by
P.L.0., essays by talented unknowns on
the beauty of youth, the charms of im-
morality and the folly of elders.
One other contributor was, of course,
Max. He was then in his very early
twenties and within a year or two was
to publish with calculated precocity his
collected "Works' (“. . . younger men,
with months of activity before them, with
fresher schemes and notions, with newer
enthusiasm, have pressed forward
cedo junioribus”). One is impressed in
The Spirit Lamp by his qualities of fresh-
ness, humor and originality just as one
is a year or two later in The Yellow Book
contributions. He adopted attitudes and
poses but his point of view, as in his
Defence of Cosmetics and Notes on
George IV was marked by originality
and firmness. He was in the nineties’
movement but not of it, sunnily and
strangely untouched by the sickness of a
decade that brought scandal, ruin and
exposure to so many talented contem-
poraries.
It is fashionable nowadays to say that
he is a cult. He always was. From the
time he burst upon the Cafe Royale he
was taken up, encouraged and spoilt. He
was 23 when Wilde said that he had dis-
covered the secret of perpetual old age
and not much older when Wilde asked
Ada Leverson if Max, in her presence,
had ever taken off his face to reveal his
mask. He was 26 when Shaw handed
over his drama critic duties to him on
The Saturday Review “The younger
generation knocks upon the door and as
I open it, there steps spritely in, the in-
comparable Max”. There has probably
been more written about Max over the
years than about Oscar Wilde. There is
a Maximilian Society and Max has had
any number of biographers and memoir-
ists ranging from Bohun Lynch to S. N.
Behrman, whose painstakingly compiled
. “Conversations” were published not so
long ago. He had the sort of talent that
called out to be encouraged and ad-
mired. He used it carefully but a great
deal less sparingly than his famous state-
ment would imply and he had the emin-
ent good sense —like E. M. Forster—to
give up when he no longer had anything
to say.
He has been called, among other
things, the perfect trifler and this notion
has stuck, partly because he en-
couraged it and rather enjoyed depreca-
tion, either of his own making or that
of others. It amused him and helped
him create a legend and an aura. It was
an attitude akin to his claims that he
never transgressed the feelings of others.
“Before all things”, he wrote as a young
man, “from first to last, I am utterly
purposed not to offend”. Many years
later when delivering his famous Rede
Lecture on Lytton Strachey he chose as
motto “On se moque de ce qu'on aime”.
In fact he often offended and in mock-
ing what he loved he drew blood and
left scars.
Royalty was fair game and remained
a life-long satirical pre-occupation. Lie
complained that the Royal Family lacked
glamor and proved it with biting carica-
tures of fat, prim Queen Victorias, gross,
self-indulgent King Edwards and bleary-
eyed George Fifths. Utterly purposed
not to offend he may have been, but he
was forced to withdraw some caricatures
from a Lancaster House Exhibition, one
of which showed a red, beefy Edward
VII marrying his future landlady after
the revolution. His idee fixe with Roy-
alty-baiting he explained away rather
gracefully, in a preface to a book of col-
lected caricatures, as being the result of
the importance of the court in the society
in which Max grew up. Max thought the
Court absurd and even in old age was
still overwhelmingly compelled to fix
moustaches to magazine pictures of The
Princess Royal and to parody—even to
the handwriting—entries in Victoria’s
Leaves From A Highland Journal.
Max’s preoccupation with literature
and literary figures, his delight in litera-
riness itself (“No. 2 The Pines”), his
pleasure in amiable frauds and charla-
tans ("Seven Men”), his long, journal-
istic stint as drama critic on The Sat-
urday Review (“Around Theatres”), his
unfailing delight with the immediate past
(“Rossetti and His Circle”), his loving
devastating observation of style and sub-
stance (the parodies of “A Christmas
Garland”) have combined to divert
attention from the enormous number of
excellent political cartoons and carica-
tures he put out between 1900 and 1925.
His father was a Balt and all of Max’s
brothers and sisters were talented and
individualistic. One brother, Herbert the
actor-manager, was as famous as Max.
Another was an explorer in Peru. De-
TIME: 1881. LECTURER: MR
OSCAR WILDE.
ALGERNON SWINBURNE TAKES
GOSSE TO SEE GABRIEL ROSSETTI.


spite Charterhouse and Oxford, Wilde
and Beardsley, despite his dandiacal pan-
ache, his love of form and style, Max’s
instincts were those of the educated,
liberal middle classes. He was a devas-
tating observer of English political life,
of which much offended him. The Em-
pire bored him (he claimed that all
Times’ correspondence really ended with
a late letter signed A Melbourne Man),
the Boer War disgusted him, the failure
of individual social reform legislation
angered him. Thus when the Education
Bill failed to get through Commons Max
accompanied a brilliant cartoon with a
memorable caption: “Mr. Charles Whib-
ley consoling Mr. Augustine Birrell for
the loss of the Education Bill by a dis-
course on the uselessness of teaching
anything whatsoever, sacred or profane,
to the children of the not aristocratic
class.”
Even after the w'ar when he was
genuinely scared by the spectre of Com-
MR FREDERIC LEIGHTON
munism and sceptical of Labour’s capa-
city to govern, he could still draw a
gross, cigar-smoking “ . . . Captain of
Industry declaring (to a timid cleric)
that the desire of manual workers to be
paid exorbitant w'ages for doing the least
possible amount of work is a sure sign
that they have lost their faith in a future
life”. His capacity to draw blood was
enormous. One cannot imagine that any
of his subjects for parody in ‘‘A Christ-
mas Garland” could possibly have re-
joiced in being the subjects of his pen.
As a parodist he was superb. He had in
greater degree than any parodist before
or since the capacity to capture the essen-
tial style of his subject in every detail.
To this he added unflagging, subtle in-
vention. At times, as in “The Guerdon”,
a parody of Henry James excluded from
A Christmas Garland” and unfortu-
nately from this collection, he went about
as far as parody could go without be-
coming forgery.
It is said that the parodies made him
unpopular and they may well have, for
they represent brilliant and sustained
attacks on the weaknesses of gods (gods
like Kipling, Conrad, Gosse, Shaw and
James —a galaxy of glittering contem-
pon y Patrick Whites) and they
represented the sort of fearlessness
he showed in expressing unpopular
opinions about royalty, actors, writers,
artists and politicians. Much of his dra-
matic criticism was unpopular but it was
always readable and read. He didn’t
particularly like the theatre except for
its literary content, but like Shaw he al-
ways took a fresh, provocative and ori-
ginal approach. In much of it he
indulged in amusing eccentricities such
as his insistence that Kipling was really
a woman masquerading as a man. He
disliked Kipling (as he later disliked
Lloyd George) and all that Kipling stood
for at a time w'hen Kipling w'as an Im-
perial darling.
The quality ot Max’s output was high
(so was the quantity despite his care-
fully contrived propaganda that he was
a minor producer) and in a long life he
published only a very few bad things.
Among them must be numbered The
Happy Hyprocrite, The Dreadful Dragon
of Hay Hill and Zuleika Dobson, which
despite its funny patches of satirical writ-
ing is neither fish nor fowl. As a stylist
he became immaculate once the long and
arduous years on The Saturday Review
had caused him to drop some of the
more ornate encrustations of his earlier
prose. A great deal of Max will be for-
gotten in the years to come; many of the
essays are trifles no matter how per-
fectly written or enlivened by wit. But
the best of Max (there are some excel-
lent samples in Sir Sydney Roberts’
book) is very good indeed the paro-
dies, the caricatures and their magnifi-
cent captions, the dramatic criticisms, the
engaging, deceptively innocent hoaxes
about non-existent literary figures, the
stories of mythical incidents about
figures like Johnson, Swinburne and
Browning and, not least perhaps, the oc-
casional evocations of a city which he
loved devotedly and exiled himself from
early.
A RIOT OF LOCAL COLOR
The Land Thai Sleeps. G. M Glaskin.
Barrie and Rockliff. 255.
T'toing North in the wintertime is be-
coming a fashionable pursuit for
middle-aged school teachers and retired
public servants. It was only a matter of
time before a commercial novelist realised
the sales that lay in such a market, and
sallied forth with his typewriter and
camera. Perth author G. M. Glaskin is
lucky enough to be one of the first into
the field of Northern travel books, not
excepting Bill Harney who doesn't count
because he lives there and might be ac-
cused of knowing something about it.
Mr Glaskin set out with a Chinese
friend, 281 b. of rice, a packet of pre-
served prunes, bamboo shoots, assorted
tins of meat and presumably a notebook
to chronicle the North from Perth to
Darwin and back again to Alice Springs
in six hasty weeks.
He has left not a town unturned in
his determination to tell us all about the
North. His book even takes in Onslow,
a settlement so small that when the jetty
was blown away in the 1961 cyclone they
just left it where it lay. Nor has he
spared us any details of the terrible roads
and the hazards that lie upon them On
his northward journey from Perth he
persuaded his friend from shooting a
kangaroo while the animal obligingly
sat on its haunches and listened to their
conversation, endured corrugations, pot-
holes and blinding dust with iron deter-
mination, skilfully avoided collision with
donkeys, bulls and cattle trucks, and
narrowly escaped incineration in a bush-
fire.
If Mr Glaskin had been content to
confine himself to his own experiences
this would be a readable and harmless
book, but he has fallen into the lure of
Northern development. He did not have
time to inspect the West Australian
projects on the Ord and Fit/.roy rivers
personally, which is probably just as well
if his remarks on the Humpty Doo rice
project are any example of his powers of
observation.
JOHN GRAHAM
THOSE TEASING QUESTIONS
Dreamtime Justice. V. C. Hall. Rigby.
225. 6d.
Tn September 1932 six Japanese trepang
A fishermen were killed at Caledon Bay,
Arnhem Land, by men of the Balamumu
tribe. About that time the same tribe
was responsible for the deaths of two
white men on the offshore island of
Woodah. A party ot four policemen and
six blacktrackers took off to scour 32,000
square miles for the culprits.
V. C. Hall was one of the patrol
officers and now thirty years later he
relates his version of the events of that
exciting period. It is a simple, unadorned
tale dedicated to those who have devoted
their lives to sacrifice and service—the


LEARN
STOR Y
WRITING
STOTT'S CAN TRAIN YOU
SUCCESSFULLY
If you have a flair for writing, then STOTT'S
Literary Courses will develop your talent.
Practical Home-Study instruction, under the
guidance of expert instructors will teach you
to write successfully for Australian and
overseas markets. There is a constant
demand for well-written work in the lucra-
tive field of Authorship.
Write today for free details of Stott's Cor-
respondence Courses in Literary subjects.
159 Flinders Lane. Melbourne; 14!) Castlereagh
Street, Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane;
21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; 254 Murray Street,
Perth
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON ”
TO STOTT’S: Please s?nd me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (B: 1762)
Blacktrackers of the Northern Territory.
The expedition moved across rough
country to the Roper River, then over to
the mission station on Groote Eyland.
En route, one of the party, Constable
McColl was waylaid by the tribe and
killed. The main culprit, one Tuckiar was
finally apprehended and sentenced in the
Darwin Supreme Court but the convic-
tion was quashed on appeal and Tuckiar
was released. On his way home overland
he was hunted down by a blacktracker-
relative and killed. Years later the tracker
himself was ambushed and killed.
It is a curious account. It has dialogue
and description and is set out in the
form of a novel yet it is not a work of
imagination in which the faculties are
fully extended. Nor is it a piece of histor-
ical reconstruction for too many of the
pieces are missing. Were the relatives of
the Japanese, for example, ever compen-
sated? Why was a blacktracker permitted
to carry out tribal orders and kill with
impunity a man released by the Court?
How was it possible for two missionaries
to catch the murderer, when the police
themselves had failed? The author does
not give the answers.
On thorny issues he tends to be impar
tial but for all that the missionaries do
not come out too well. He writes: “The
missionaries tried to put an end to the
blood-feuds; so much to their credit. On
the debit side there were the curtailment
of freedom, the herding into dormitories,
the hideous Mother Hubbard dresses, and
the various interferences with tribal
family life.” Nor do the police emerge
favorably for that matter. Mr Justice
Wells of the Supreme Court was critical
of their conduct of the case in Darwin
but the author does not go into details.
Such discretion at this stage seems to me
to be a little misplaced. The transcript
has been available for years and in any
event the broad outline of the episode
can be found in other books.
With all his rich experience, V. C. Hall
has managed to turn in a strangely
bloodless account that is hardly improved,
by the indifferent photographs which ac-
company the text.
DOUGLAS TERRY
HOUSE JOURNAL OF CRITICS
Melbourne Critical Review. 1962
7s. 6d.
Tn its five years of life the “M.C.R.”
clearly takes a worthy place among
journals of English studies indeed
among the best of those few devoted to
criticism as distinct from (let us hope
one needed no longer say “opposed to”)
literary history or textual discussion. The
marks of its origin in the Melbourne
English school are evident in the solid
critical regard and the rigorous pro-
cedures generally displayed. Although
this firm critical stance may have Leavi-
sian origins, it shows, happily, little trace
of doctrinaire fixation. The only excep-
tions are the reprinting of Leavis’s own
sad onslaught on C. P. Snow (already
easily accessible), and S. L. Goldberg's
attack on C. S. Lewis's recent book “An
Experiment in Criticism”; he ignores its
many suggestions of great interest in
favour of an attack on the inevitable in-
stances of Lewisian prissiness, in a man-
ner happily untypical of the work of this
formidable critic.
The range of subjects is impressively
wide, so as to make it impossible to
allow more than the brief particular refer-
ences following this paragraph. But the
“M.C.R.’s” general position is worth dis-
cussion: its very success poses the problem
of its future development. It has begun
to attract articles from critics overseas—
two out of this year's twelve. An editorial
note states a wish “to continue and
extend” this policy. I suggest that it
should not be extended too far. This
substantial issue (136 pp.) shows clearly
that there is no lack in Australia of criti-
cism of the requisite calibre—the
“M.C.R.” indeed will increasingly stimu-
late this as time goes on. It is excellent
that we should have a local organ (and
this is the only one in Australia) to pub-
lish this material, and there is nothing
wrong in its becoming the house-journal
in Australia for the academic criticism
of English literature: this function in-
deed gives it a valuable identity, and (as
the present number amply demonstrates)
it implies no inferiority of content. A
certain overseas content will act as a use-
ful control, perhaps: especially in the
form of contributiins to discussions pro-
ceeding from number to number. But it
would be a pity if it ever displaced work
from within Australia.
Philippa Moody asks the eminently
necessary - questions about “Wuthering-
Heights” that most critics have been
glad to neglect, studying the status of
the experience this extraordinary work
proffers and the kind of its central
relationship; she starts genuinely from
the basic difficulties and comes to very
valuable results. Maggie Tomlinson
likewise faces the problems raised by
Lawrence’s acute charge against Conrad
of “giving in before he starts”, basing
her rebuttal, shrewdly, on two of the
great shorter tales, “Typhoon” and
'‘The Shadow-Line”. Harry Heseltine's
advocacy of Robert Penn Warren is
perhaps less persuasive, as somewhat
more parti pris; but these three discus-
sions are rich in sound and insightful
comment, facing firmly the basic ques-
ions all critical readers must ask.
In comparison with this, Wilbur
Sanders’ attack on George Herbert
(renewed from last year) seems some-
what captious; admittedly he is rebut-
ting claims (by L. C. Knights and Rose-
mond Tuve) he considers exaggerated,
and makes objections which must be
faced; but his terms are not always ap-
propriate to the special nature of
Herbert’s poetry he seems to dispute
the premises of Herbert’s experience as
much as the poetic ordering of it. Father
J. P. Castley’s article on Sydney’s
“Astrophel and Stella” on the other hand
deals well with the perennial and refrac-
tory difficulties of the role of the “con-
ventions” Sydney is appealing to. An-
drew Taylor's treatment of “Sir Gawayn
and the Green Knight” is both responsive
and responsible, but suffers from lack of
the necessary reference to historical and
cultural context, of the kind established
by other recent critics.
In briefer discussions, T. B. Tomlinson
surveys trends in recent Shakespearean


criticism, and salutarily suggests that
what we value in the great plays is the
enactment of “complex and particular
insights”, not systematic philosophical
debate. Chris Wallace-Crabbe takes up
the twentieth-century debate (to which
Australia has made more searching con-
tributions than most places) whether good
longer poems are any longer possible,
applying it interestingly to the work of
Auden. And Vincent Buckley, notably
refraining from the infighting that marks
Lea vis’s part in the recent fracas, makes
some accurate ranging shots for the fight
that remains necessary against the illi-
beral implications of Snow’s garbled ac-
count of the “two cultures”.
ALEXANDER PORTEOUS
THE MANSION NEXT DOOR
Modern Japanese Stories. Ed. Ivan
Morris. Eyre and Spottiswood. 375.
3d.
A “New Statesman” writer attempt-
ing to compare this collection with
the Taber “Australian Stories of Today”
devoted several paragraphs to the latter,
and concluded with the regret that he
had concentrated on a ramshackle
humpy when a vast resplendent mansion
towered next door. Possibly he lacked a
background to the stories as a portrayal
of modern Japanese life, and therefore
had no standpoint from which to work
out a comment. As for the humpy and
the mansion, while there are perhaps
thirty Japanese writers, half of whom
are included in this collection of twenty-
five, who are at levels at which we can
place only Richardson and White, this
is mainly a commentary on the vast gap
between these two and the rest of our
writers. The two national collections do
not reflect quite so great a disparity of
standards.
In translation from Japanese, the short
story loses less than the poem but more
than the novel. In East Asian script, the
ideograph itself is a symbol, the word a
compact entity, a grouping of words a
visible essence which disappears when put
into Western script. The story, a long
enough form to throw up a complex sequ-
ence of strong and shapely mouldings, is
yet short enough for them to be looked
back upon with a single grasp of the
memory as a tapestry of time, space, and
interrelated characters of which the
parts are nevertheless still in motion.
Most of this is of course not retained in
translation. Nevertheless, with major
novelists who work in the short story
genre such as Junichiro Tanizaki and
Yasunari Kawabata, the hallmark of
superb artistry translates itself into any
script, any tongue.
It is as well to first mention the
writers whose books are represented in
current British translations. Of the five
novelists who have been translated, Ooka
and Osaragi are not represented. The
others, Tanizaki, Kawabata, Yukio
Mishima, and Osuma Dazai do repre-
sent the favoured image of literary
Japanophiles. Literati who are smitten
with “Japan Head”, that most common
of diseases induced by the courtesy of
the people, their extreme sensitivity to
beauty (and also, in exact converse to
us, their ability to ignore ugliness), and
their sense of design, tend to despise
our local-type extrovert. They revel in
the inhibitedness of the self-isolated
sensitive heart, whose loves are like
arrows never released, or shot at mis-
taken targets. People who think from
examining Productivity Graphs that the
Japanese are some species of human
dynamo, should take a look at their prose
fiction.
Japanese vitality is often that of one
who has to steel himself, and work him-
self up inside to reach that frenzy of
activity. The Japanese envy failures,
people who can’t get out of bed to go
to work, who refuse to face life, who
make the non-positive or indefinite ges-
ture.
The stories of Tanizaki and Mishima
included are both of medieval theme,
consummate works of art, richly tex-
tured, vitalistic, even slightly satanic,
revving upwards towards the aesthetic
vacuum. Mishima, only thirty-seven, the
idol of the younger generation, a pro-
fessional creative writer from his uni-
versity days, with four of his books trans-
lated into English, plays the virtuoso
continually, pulling it off with assur-
ance. Kawabata, as in his great novel
“Snow Country”, comes through superb-
ly in translation. His story, “The Moon
on the Water”, has the same half-visible
traces and touches of beauty, the faint
chill of love’s dearths and love’s deaths,
but being simpler and shorter, it need
not be read so closely and lingeringly.
Dazai’s story is unexciting and not rep-
resentative of him. He was the literary
hero of the late 19405; he is far from
the top of my Top Thirty. Dazai typifies
the Japanese penchant for the type of
existential despair which reverberates on
and on at the same level of self-revela-
tion, and owing to a debility of analytical
power cannot make even the switchings
necessary to operate briefly from the
bystander’s viewpoint and allow the
reader to pinpoint his map references of
the writer’s psyche
Even to the most ardent Japanophile
there must be worlds other than the
world of the ever-floating aesthetico-
emotional sensibility. Proletarian writing
has its firm forefather in the 1900 s,
the first full period of “modern” Jap-
anese literature, in Ogawa, whose story
“Wager in mid-air” has some of the
range and power as well as the admir-
ing compassion for ordinary working
folk in their daily tribulations, as such
post-1945 writers as Miss Hayashi (see
“Tokyo”), Mrs Hirabashi (“A Man’s
Life”), and Sakaguchi Ango ("The
Idiot”). “Songbird”, Einosuke Ito's
superb canvas ot picaresque rural life
written somewhat earlier, may be rated
with these stories. By the standards ot
Tanizaki and Mishima, the “big-names”,
Hayashi, Hirabashi, and Ango have an
apparently un-Japanese cogency and
cohesiveness. 11 Katherine Susannah
Pritchard is taken as the Australian
counterpart ot Miss Hayashi then the
poverty of human feeling among "pro-
gressive” writers here is seen as both
evident and chastening. 1 wish quite as
fervently as any local Realist Writer,
and for their sakes, that more ot this
work was available in English It the
private sensitivity ot the Japanese writer
can reap such a rich harvest ot public
compassion, we can only mourn that our
own outwards semi-way-of-life seems to
cloak a complete inner emptiness.
Since Japans meeting with the In-
dustrial Revolution, no colossus of lit-
erature has appeared: their modern
epoch is something ot an Elizabethan
age without its Shakespeare. Japan is
in the rare position for a modern country
of having no gap between popular and
quality standards. Tanizaki. probably
their best living novelist, is in the million-
aire bracket. He had in fact the highest
income in Japan for five successive
years, though this was from royalties
for his translation from ninth-century
Japanese of “The Tale of Genji”, by
Lady Murasaki, the greatest of Japanese
novelists. It is apparently nothing in
Japan for an established writer to have
a limousine, Tokyo house, mountain and
seaside houses, and the finest cuisine.
Lesser fry must jog along on their £4
for 250 words for serialised novels and
short stories (and Japanese-style living
is about half Australian costs, but with
houses immeasurably cheaper). At least
they can avoid being journalists or W'rit-
ing book reviews! Material success will
not spoil the Japanese people; but among
those of us who look to this race of
such introversion and direct passionate
vision as the potential cultural inheri-
tors of a played-out West, there some-
times lingers the post-nineteenth century
assumption that it must spoil writers.
JOHN QUINLEM


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
THE GREAT LEAP INTO THE DARK
FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT IN EUROPE
The concept of a Common Market in Europe is based on
a daring and revolutionary idea. The implementation of
this idea was made possible only through the menacing
pressure of the growing strength in the Eastern Bloc coun-
tries. Although the name —European Economic Community
—and the original promotion tried to push the economic
content to the front, the Treaty of Rome, clearly indicating
a considerably closer integration, when much further. Equipped
with hindsight, it is becoming now clearer from day to day
that the EEC was never meant to be anything else than a
political development in which the approach over the trade
route happened to be the easiest. To attempt any survey
of this route to unity would be unwise as it would be in-
accurate. There is no clear-cut impact available to be
assessed on the negotiating members, let alone on Australia
and the rest of the Commonwealth.
Australia did not hear much about the spirited discussions
in 1957 and 1958 which tore European opinions wide apart,
but then, as now, it w'as impossible to assess this new venture
on the basis of facts and figures. Going through the news-
papers of those years, it is interesting to read the forecasts
of experts and non-experts Many a reputation since then
has suffered badly by the way things have developed, but
even today nobody has been able to prove conclusively that
that economic resurrection of the Central European countries
has been wholly, or substantially, caused by the integration.
As a matter of fact, a good case could be made for the
assumption that the EEC has hindered rather than facilitated
expansion and growth in many fields, and saddled instead
the contracting countries with more problems than they had
before. In spite of the increased handicap through lowered,
internal tariffs, some of the outside countries, like Switzer-
land and Sweden, have been able to increase their trade with
the EEC countries to a greater extent than “The Six” among
themselves
Mow, once more, the sad spectacle is repeated. Today it is the
question of Britain’s entry and what it will, may, could
or must mean not only to the United Kingdom but also to
the Commonwealth. As the solution this time will affect also
Denmark and Norway, the three “Neutrals” (Switzerland,
Sweden and Austria) and apparently even the United States
and Canada, the problem is infinitely greater and more far
reaching than the decision of signing the Treaty of Rome.
The frightening aspect of the whole complex, however, is
not so much the way things might or will take shape, but
that the decision for or against cannot be made on a basis
anyone would like to call economic or firm. The British
Ministers are hard pressed to state clearly or in figures what
advantages an entry would confer to their own country (let
alone the Commonwealth), although they are in a position
to say that it will mean the loss of certain branches of the
economy (i.e., horticulture), and higher prices of others (i.e.,
foodstuffs).
But while it is impossible to say what economic gains, if
any, will flow for Britain from a membership in the Common
Market, the position is much clearer when it comes to ques-
tions concerning NATO, political integration and —last but
not least—currency. The advantages of a stable, unified
economy for America’s European military allies is too obvious
to warrant further remarks.
THhere remains the question of currency which—alone with
NATO consideration provides a good reason why the
British Government should entertain an economic gamble.
The two reserve currencies (dollar and sterling), although
taking largely the place of gold in the coffers of all other
nations, are still heavily leaning on just this yellow metal. It
is true that IMF could be a far better prop for both than
it is now, if other countries—and this means mainly the
members of the EEC—would be more “co-operative”. Generous
long-term co-operation, however, cannot be expected as long
as European Central Bankers consider the IMF an American
instrument which they are allowed to finance but in which
they have little real say.
So the dollar remains a shaky currency, caught between
distrust in the price of gold outside the States and the internal
pincer of high interest as capital attraction and low interest
as growth lever. It is true that sterling is doing just now a
little better than the dollar but this is by many regarded only
a “design of pressure”.
Pretty drastic threats have been necessary during the last few
months to stop the free conversion of dollars from Europe,
and even haughty France did not think it wise to acquire
extra gold without the sugarcoating of a big slice of premature
loan repayment. But this situation, which practically makes
the dollar a non-convertible currency, cannot be maintained
for long. America obviously feels that with Britain as full
member of the Common Market, the idea of an “Atlantic
Union”—whatever it may mean—would grow strong enough
to provide the spirit of partnership between the Central Banks
of Europe and the Federal Reserve Bank in America, which
would allow the dollar to become again a hard currency.
It is a gamble for the United States which only a supreme
pre-occupation with the balance of payment problems can
justify. It would seem to be a lesser gamble for Great
Britain, as there is a chance that with reasonable conditions
not all of the Commonwealth ties will have to be lost, and the
elusive growth of the British economy might, after all, eventu-
ate. If this can be achieved, then temporary losses for
Australia might eventually turn into an overall advantage.
The only snag in the whole story is that there are a lot
of “ifs” attached to it and that —for the time being—Australia
will have to be strong in Hope and Faith.


City Diary
Qir Rupert Clarke, Australia’s only
baronet, took time off recently from
his whirlwind journeys between South
Yarra and his estates in the N.T., Bow-
ral and Bolinda Vale to show The
Bulletin the Santa Getrudis and beef
shorthorn cattle he is getting ready for
the Melbourne “Royal” this month. Sir
Rupert introduced the breed to Aus-
tralia ten years ago and reports they’re
thriving in the N.T. He breeds the calves
in Victoria and transports them by rail
to the N.T. with the aid of a £3O per
head government subsidy.
Bolinda Vale, now a property of
5,000 acres, once stretched over an area
six times as big from Werribee to Rom-
sey, north of Melbourne. It shears
100,000 sheep, and in the shades of its
original homestead (still standing) Burke
and Wills took a night’s rest.
HThe Japan sugar industry mission de-
parted from Australia with almost
fulsome expressions of bonhomie.
“Australia and Japan can be helped
by visits like this mission. Friendship and
understanding help good trading. Aus-
tralia sells us high quality sugar. Japan
can sell Australia many high quality
goods,” the leader (Mr K. Shinohara)
said in a farewell message.
One local development genuinely
struck mission members C.S.R.’s bulk
methods. “Mechanical handling of sugar
in bulk is a major advance in the sugar
world,” Mr Shinohara considered. He
expected his own country quickly to
adopt these methods as a result of visits
by C.S.R. technicians.
T iveliest wire among the agricultural
and pastoral societies in Victoria, is
at prosperous Rochester, on the edge of
the Goulburn Irrigation Area. The coun-
try was seen by Major Mitchell in 1835
and first settled nine years later. It’s 77th
annual show in October becomes “The
Great Northern Show,” under energetic
new secretary, Jack Green, in a fine re-
habilitated setting on the banks of the
Campaspe. Far from being dispirited at
the possible fate of its fruit and dairying
industries at the hands of the men at
Brussels, Rochester’s company is for
more water to extend irrigation. The
Mayor has a big beef with Victoria’s
Minister for Water Conservation for de-
laying the duplication of the life-giving
Waranga Channel.
Colin Street
INTRIGUING FINANCES OF
MELBOURNE’S HOTELS
MUhen Southern Cross Properties Ltd’s
” Melbourne Hotel started life on
August 24 the company shares were
being actively traded at a shade on the
right side of par. Less active were
Chevron Sydney’s at around two-fifths of
par. One couldn’t help wondering
whether time would also strip-tease the
shares of the new belle of the Western
Market where the Sentimental Bloke
met his Doreen.
“I see ’er in the markit uv all,
Inspectin’ brums at Steeney Isaac’s
stall,
I back me barrer in—the same ole
way—
An’ sez ‘Wot O, its been a bonza day’ ”
August 24 couldn’t have been such a
bonza day for Stanley Korman. He, so
obligingly, razed Scott’s to the ground to
pave the business way for Southern
Cross. Also he depends highly for ready
cash on the takings at Stanhill’s Chevron
in St Kilda Road which he captured very
cheaply a few years ago compared with
the capital cost of £lO,OOO for each
of the 435 guest rooms in the £si million
constellation in Exhibition Street. And if,
as the handout says, “chances are that
the Southern Cross will become the site
for most major Australian conventions,”
it could be that the repercussions will be
far and wide for the battered Korman
empire, not to speak of Oliver Shaul’s
dilapilated remnants of bygone hotel
splendor at the other end of town.
Having let Hilton, his own big Ameri-
can fish, off the hook a couple of years
ago, Mr Korman can hardly be relishing
the consummation of a rival venture
brought to fruition not so much with the
help of Australian investors —for the
original Southern Cross float in 1962 was
one of lan Potter’s few flops—as by
means of American capital.
The US Export-Import Bank weighed
in with a hefty long-term dollar loan
(£826,000 at 51 p.c. guaranteed by the
ANZ Bank) and International Hotels
Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary
of Pan American Airways Corporation,
operating 15 such hotels around the
globe, put up £600,000 in share capital
(one third of the Southern Cross’ equity.)
However, America’s big helping hand
in the Southern Cross enterprise doesn’t
intend to go unrewarded because Inter-
continental will receive 25 p.c. of the
gross operating profits. Its sub-lease
provides for this in return for “architec-
tural and engineering design, decoration,
design and specification of plant and
equipment and the provision of working
funds and initial inventory, plus continu-
ing management”.
Australian shareholders (who own two-
thirds of the equity) may well wonder
what will be in it for them after this
slice of gross profits has been siphoned
away to the States, in fact to the US
Government which owns and instigated
Intercontinental (through Pan American)
to provide American visitors to various
parts of the world with the comforts they
are accustomed to at home.
The economics of a hotel carrying 700
staff on its payroll and continuing high
overheads, not to speak of the annual
interest bill (the sharpest thorn in Mr
Korman’s side) will depend on its rate
of occupancy. Without a jet port in
Melbourne, it is problematical whether
Americans will flock to it for long stays,
however popular it may prove for
country and interstate visitors to Mel-
bourne.
Some reliance is being placed, of
course, on rents from shops. But is there
enough business in that sector of Mel-
bourne for the 80 new shops built into
the Southern Cross premises? One would
hardly think so. This seems to put the
onus on revenue from functions, conven-
tions and other facilities, but perhaps
the present tightness of the public’s purse
is a poor guide to the possibilities in these
directions.
So, maybe, cynicism is not called for.
Certainly in the light of the new hotel
filling a crying need for first-class hotel
accommodation in Melbourne (not as
big a need as Sydney’s of course) the
Southern Cross is a highly valuable ad-
junct to the city. Also, many local in-
vestors and financial institutions, who
between them hold £1,884,000 in 8 p.c.
debentures, look to have a sound invest-
ment (though after the experience of
Chevron Sydney and Stanhill debenture
holders one can never be too sure of
this).
In addition to these debentures there
are £450,000 long-term secured deben-
tures with interest rates up to 7i p.c. and
£lOO,OOO unsecured 7f p.c. debentures.
Naturally the promotors see clear skies
for the Southern Cross and discount
doubts about future returns to share-
holders—“the prognosis is favourable;
vigorous control of building costs, a low
cost per room, balanced financing, ex-
perienced international management and
a seemingly golden business opportunity,
promise equity holders a good start on
the path to profits.”
But International’s big cut out of gross
profits coupled with a more than three
to two ratio between prior charges and
the equity, seem to leave shareholders a
rather thin edge of the wedge.


y-//
mt
<32^
? «
n%:
-^IS
1
[>:
teiiiniAiiiri; frnrw a
*UU
Wherever you trade
C.B.C. services are
designed to help you
The C.B.C. has an excellent picture of business
activities and trends through its daily contacts
with commercial undertakings in this country and
overseas.
The comprehensive banking service it provides
is up-to-date, constructive and, of course, world-
wide.
The C.B.C. provides special services for those
who desire to expand their overseas trade. It has
accredited banks acting as its Agents and Corres-
pondents throughout the world.
The manager of your nearest C.B.C. branch will
explain how C.B.C. services can help you. Call and
see him—you will be most welcome.
CIBIC
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES
CHANGES IN
MEAT EXPORT
MARKETS
Not many years ago it was the British
market almost solely which
decided whether Australia’s big exporting
primary industries had a good or a bad
year.
Recent export figures show the remark-
able decline in Britain’s importance—
and conversely, the increasing reliance
we are placing on a handful of relatively
new markets. These markets are, of
course, chiefly Japan, Communist China
and the United States.
A few years ago our best wool
customer was Britain, our best wheat
customer was Britain and our best meat
customer was Britain. But today our best
wool customer is Japan, our best wheat
customer Communist China, and our best
meat customer the United States.
The roles of Japan and China in our
export trade have been fairly well-publi-
cised, but few people outside the meat
export trade realise the amazing growth
in our meat sales to America.
In 1961-62, for example, the US is
estimated to have taken 72 p.c. of our
export beef and veal and 50 p.c. of our
mutton. And this happened in a year of
high production.
During 1961-62 beef and veal produc-
tion is estimated to have totalled 770,000
tons —an increase of 128,000 tons on
1960-61. (Main production rises were in
Victoria, NSW and Queensland and they
were accompanied by a decline in sale-
yard prices of about 20 p.c.).
Beef and veal exports in 1961-62 were
the second highest on record at an estim-
ated 207,000 tons. The record was
228,000 tons in 1958-59.
United States took an estimated
150,000 tons.
It is these American sales which lifted
beef and veal export earnings to a new
record of £6O million (compared with the
old record of £55.6 million in 1958-59).
Shipments to Britain in 1961-62 are
estimated at 35,000 tons—almost 6000
tons below the previous year, and the
lowest since the drought year of 1951-52.
Mutton and lamb production in 1961-62
was also a near record —close to the
1959-60 record figure of 370,000 tons.
Exports are estimated at a record 48,000
tons, of which the US took 24,000 tons.
Canada also moved into our mutton
trade in a substantial way, buying 7500
tons. Britain was edged into third place
with 6200 tons. Export earnings from
mutton are estimated at a record £B.l
million for 1961-62.
Overall, meat exports were £l7 mil-
lio| higher on the year.
This situation would be even more
satisfactory, however, if there was some
guarantee that sales to these new-
customer countries (not only in meat,
but in wool and wheat as well) are going
to continue.
Unfortunately some of our primary
industries appear to be becoming almost
as dependent on their new customers as
they formerly were on Britain. At least
with Britain there was usually some
guarantee that she would take a certain
quantity at a certain price.
It would be grim for Australia if
shortly after Britain’s entry into the Com-
mon Market, when our export industries
are feeling their heaviest blows for years,
Japan, China and the United States were
forced to curtail their purchases from
Australia.
With China i and America, in parti-
cular, this is possible. It remains the
strongest argument for greater diversific-
ation of our export markets.


1960-61
Increase in
value £ million
s
1961-62
1st
Qtr.
2nd
Qtr.
3rd
Qtr.
4th
Qtr.
Year
1st
Qtr.
2nd
Qtr.
3rd
Qtr.
4th
Qtr.
Year
Engineering and metals
16
14
6
10
46
— 8
— 7
9
3
— 3
Vehicles
Chemicals and oil
2
1
18 -
- 2
19
—14
—16
— 2
8
—24
refining
3
6
— 2
1
8
1
— 5
— 2
— 4
— 10
Other manufacturing
7
7
23
1
38
— 8
— 3
7
— 4
— 8
Total manufacturing
Wholesale and retail
28
28
45
10
111
—29
—31
12
3
—45
trade
Wool sold and await-
56
21
26 -
- 6
97
5
—17
10
—10
—12
ing shipment
Total manufacturing
—1
7
— 1 -
- 4
1
—
1
6
—10
— 3
and trade
83
56
70
—
209
—24
—47
28
—17
—60
Total all industries ....
87
59
74
—
220
—27
—52
28
—19
—70
Economics Anonymous
PUZZLE OF STOCKS MOVEMENTS
in stocks are not in-
A variably a sure guide to the stage
reached in recovery, but after the dis-
investment in stocks which followed the
emergence of recovery early in 1961-62
it would be reasonable to expect that
both industry and trade would now be
tending to rebuild stocks in preparation
for an expected build-up of demand.
That is, of course, providing such a
build-up was confidently expected in
the coming months.
Of course, official figures for non-
(that is largely manufacturing
industry and retail trade) stocks fluctu-
ations get out of date very quickly, but
with the recent publication of the figures
for the full year 1961-62, supplemented
by estimates for the June and previous
quarters, a reasonably up-to-date picture
is available.
Thanks to the Commonwealth Statis-
tician implementing a quarterly survey
in place of the old bi-annual ones as
from the March quarter last year, the
latest figures are the most valuable we
have yet had. However, they are still
very rough estimates and subject to re-
vision when the final results of the June
quarter survey are known L. about two
months, and again when more complete
information is available on an annual
basis from other sources. The figures,
of course, include work in progress as
well as materials and finished goods,
and are on a basis comparable with that
used in annual company balance sheets.
On the face of it, the £7O million
fall in non-farm stocks in 1961-62, fol-
lowing the rise of £220 million in the
previous year, could be taken as a
healthy sign of economic recovery, or at
any rate that demand was increasing
sufficiently to unclog the pipelmes of
industry and lighten shelves in the shops.
However, a correct interpretation has
to have regard for the quarterly move-
ments in stocks. For in-
stance, if a big build-up
in demand was being ex-
pected by industry and
retail trade in the coming
months, it could reason-
ably have been expected
that stocks in the June
quarter would rise. In
fact, they fell by £l9
million.
So that those who read
the £2B million rise in
stocks in the March
quarter as a sign that
stocks were being rebuilt
in anticipation of a more
rapid rate in recovery
were being rather too hasty. The mis-
take was pardonable in the light of the
quarterly pattern in the last two years.
Stocks increased sharply in the first three
quarters of 1960-61, then were un-
changed in the June quarter of that year,
when it looked as if the recession accumu-
lation of surplus stocks was over.
This view seemed to be eonfii..ied
when in the first two quarters of 1961-
62 non-farm stocks fell £27 million and
£52 million respectively. It certainly
looked then that the decks were being
cleared for a high rate o f industrial and
commercial activity, the more so since
industry was taking more raw materials
and components into production. In-
deed, when stocks rose in the March
quarter it was taken as reflecting a
higher rate of recovery.
It was encouraging to see that in the
March quarter there was an increase
of £9 million in engineering and metals
industries’ stocks after the disinvestment
of £7 million and £8 million in the
two previous quarters, but somewhat dis-
appointing that these industries increased
their stocks by only £3 million in the
June quarter. Flowever, the movement
in the June quarter was on the right
side and as the bigger rise in stocks in
the vehicles industry in the June quartei
(£8 million) could be expected to be
translated into bigger demand for engin-
eering and metals products in due course,
the trend was fairly satisfactory
Perhaps the most significant move-
ment was the £8 million rise in vehicle
industry stocks in the June quarter fol-
lowing declines in the four previous
quarters, most of which covered a period
of heavily restricted production. This
trend was first evident m the March
quarter v hen vehicles stocks declined
only £2 million after rising by £l6
million and £la million in the two
previous quarters.
No such comfort can be drawn from
the March and June quarterly figures for
the chemicals and oil refining industries
which showed a continuing decline in
stocks which was prol bly related more
to chemicals than oil.
While the rest of manufacturing in-
dustry built i; its stocks b> £7 million
in the March quarter, it ran them down
by £.4 million in the June quarter, a
period when almost without exception
manufacturing industries registered sub-
stantial increases in output.
Unfortunately the official figures give
no clue to variations in the various cate-
gories of stocks, and this makes the
task of interpretation conjectural. For
instance, it would be reasonable to
assume that in line with the increased
level of industrial activity in recent
months (a trend happily continued in
July according to the figures of indus-
trial production released last week) work
in progress would have risen substanti-
ally over the whole area of industry. It
might also be expected that industry
would have increased its stocks of raw
materials and components to cater for
the higher levels of production.
Against this many manufacturers ap-
pear to have catered for the increase in
demand since the Government’s stimulus
was supplied in February by drawing
heavily on stocks of finished goods
rather than meeting oemand to the same
extent from new output.
Further, the retail and wholesale
trades have generally preferred to eat
into their stocks rather than take the
risk of buying heavily from rm.nufac-
turei.o. Indeed this is one of the unique
features of the present r:covery. It
reflects, more than anything else, the
general reluctance of business to take a
forward view and is one of the big
obstacles to a more spirited recovery in
industry.
INVESTMENT IN NON-FARM STOCKS


IXL
This World Famous Brand is Manufactured
and Distributed by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES AND
ASSOCIATED COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
HIGH OVERSEAS RESERVES, BUT
NO ROOM FOR COMPLACENCY
By CROESUS
rpo have paid back £7B million to the
International Monetary Fund and
still managed to increase overseas
reserves by £lO m. last year was a
good performance. There is universal
satisfaction about the high level of over-
seas reserves and their continued build
up since the beginning of the current
financial year. Yet there are no grounds
for complacency about he position.
For it is plainly evident from the slow
and fitful improvement in reserves in
face of a long succession of big, favor-
able monthly trade balances last year
that the inflow of private capital is being
severely reduced. This was particularly
plain in the first half of the year and it
is now revealed officially that there was
an actual NET OUTFLOW in the
second quarter of the year.
Fortunately, this outflow was not pro-
longed and a net inflow was resumed in
the second half of the year and appears
(from the increase in reserves and the
July deficit on trade ac i' it) to have
continued since June 30.
Turning from these generalisations to
the recently published figures for the
balance of payments in 1961-62, one
finds a very incomplete picture of the
trend in capital inflow last year. Only
the broad result is given and in the
absence of details for the main items of
capital inflow the overall result defies
accurate interpretation.
Of the £."7 m. total for 1959-60,
only £225,000 apparent private capital
inflow was identifiable as private invest-
ment. The remainder was unaccounted
for capital inflow. Of last year’s total of
£92 m., it is not yet clear what pro-
portion is attributable to private invest-
ment, nor does the Commonwealth
Statistician know precisely how the
figure was influenced by the repayment
of short-term trade credits which boosted
apparent capital inflow possibly by as
much as £75 m. in 1960-61.
He does indicate, though, that the
smaller net total of private capital inflow
last year was influenced by an outflow of
£33 m. on account of marketing
authorities’ transactions (mainly in
respect of credit sales of wheat). He also
indicates that the net outflow attributed
to undistributed income of overseas-
owned branches and subsidiaries oper-
ating in Australia was £l3 m. lower
than in the previous year, at £47 m.
against £6O m.
While only a “book entry”, this re-
investment appears to have accounted
for about half of the £92 m. regarded
by the Commonwealth Statistician as
apparent net inflow of private capital
last year.
This does not leave much of the £92m.
apparent net private capita' inflow last
year as having come from direct private
investment or portfolio investment. Yet
in 1960-61 these two categories con-
tributed £.162 m. between them (af(er
deduction of £7 m. for a flow in ttie
opposite direction).
It would appear, however, that direct
investment was heavily influenced tw
the repayment of trade credits granted
local branches and subsidiaries of over-
seas companies in the previous year.
Equally, portfolio investment from
overseas mirrored the malaise in the
share markets in Australia last year.


HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM2OOI.
RESERVE BANK ON THE ECONOMY
Reserve Bank’s annual report has
A justly come to be awaited for a
comprehensive and reasonably detached
examination of the Australian economy
in all its ramifications. While the
governor (Dr. H. C. Coombs) seldom
lets his acutely critical head go too far,
he may generally be relied upon for
some shrewd assessments and analyses
of official policy, with which, of course,
he remains closely implicated.
Though the report for 1961-62 does
not quite hit the outspokenness that was
so marked a feature two years ago, it
certainly catches the atmosphere of this
last corrective year, and the various
disciplines for better or for worse thrust
upon national and business activities.
The mood stands clear right at the
beginning. In contrast with 1960-61, “a
boom had come, and gone”.
So we dive immediately into a situa-
tion beset by “uncertainty and doubt
with demand weakening, growing ac-
cumulations of stocks and unemploy-
ment”. We leave the year at June 30
with “the task of bringing back into
effective production our remaining un-
used resources and of ensuring a rate
of growth sufficient to employ the grow-
ing work force”.
A change in the pattern of develop-
ment evidently imposes different oppor-
tunities and different needs. There
emerges the possibility to embark upon
fresh roads to expansion and “to carry
out some of those tasks—both national
and private—which have had to be post-
poned in past years”.
Export opportunities
VTo especially clear guidance is provid-
ed on what those tasks precisely are.
Yet it seems plain that, for example,
manufactured exports opportunities
should be more eagerly seized. As of
ore, 1961-62 saw higher export income
deriving from our usual export in-
dustries, together with decided increases
in coal, iron and steel. On the other
hand, other manufactured exports added
little and exports of some manufactures
dropped back.
In his preliminary, more general sur-
vey, Dr Coombs points out that our
turning towards recovery did not arrive
until early in the second quarter of the
year—previous signs having been short-
lived. Surrounding uncertainties made
it plain that “official policies of the first
half of 1961-62 would have been
adequate, perhaps more than adequate,
for conditions of buoyant expectations”.
Circumstances, obviously a lack of
“buoyant expectations”, had to be goaded
by the Government’s February measures.
It is suggested that our financial diversi-
fication makes for more complex
economic fluctuations. Individuals and
business now look more sensitively to
the fabric of assets and liabilities. In
particular, the most recent doubts have
introduced a desire to hold more liquid
assets and to lessen debts.
Under such conditions, available
funds are used to reduce debts and raise
liquidity, “tending to delay the recovery
of production and employment”. The
conservatism of that approach may be
debatable, we say, for the admissior
must follow that “it remained doubtfu
whether expansion plans in process
would prove adequate to restore earl hr
rates of growth”.
Desire for liquidity
A great deal of emphasis stems laid
upon this desire for liquidity anc
its domination of private monetary
decisions. Liquids assumed their
traditional value after price inflation had
been arrested and doubts on the future
even reversed any trend away from
liquids. “Official policies met . . . needs
for greater liquidity.” But pat comes a
realistic qualification: “Easier monetary
conditions do not, of themselves, ensure
a recovery from recession. Recovery
depends upon the growth of demand for
goods and services, to which Govern-
ment action contributed directly in 1961
62”.
The circle of liquidity turns upon its
own tail. “Private savings rose slightly
in 1961-62; but gross capital formation
in the private sector fell —partly as a
result of the running down of stocks—
so that surplus funds were available for
the redemption of debt and to increase
liquid claims.” The Reserve Bank pro-
gressively lowered or removed monetary
restraint.
Australia has lately achieved more
flexible interest rates and the report
claims that 1961-62 saw rates moving
“with the needs of the situation rather
than against them”. A situation is dis-
cussed where a bigger reduction might
have permitted “a lower base from which
later rises could take place and might
have helped increase expenditure”.
T\r Coombs treats the newer banking
arrangements as an element to allow
the trading banks to “contribute more
effectively to recovery and development
by allowing them greater flexibility and
range in the conduct of their business,
while maintaining adequate control in the
hands of the monetary authorities over
bank credit and banking operations
generally.” He reveals that a small
amount of the new fixed term loans had
been approved by the close of the 1961-
62 year. “The broad pattern of interest
rates on these loans is to be consistent
with overall interest rate policy as deter-
mined from time to time.”
This lending method, a divergence
from the traditional practice of over-
draft, has been devised to let the banks
carry longer term domestic or export
finance. To guarantee effective liquidity,
the Reserve Bank operates a revolving
fund by transfer from each bank’s
statutory reserve deposits. The facilities
ire expected to develop steadily over the
next few years.
In a brief mention of the short-term
money-market, the report indicates that
a greater proportion of its funds, generally
some 90 p.c., is placed on a call basis,
illustrating the recognition of a medium
for very short-term investment. The
purely monetary survey also covers the
general pattern of bank lending, liquidity
and the charging of interest rates. An
account of the Government securities
market will bear later analysis.
But it is perhaps chiefly in its probing
of Australia’s overall economic conditions
that this year's report will draw most
comment. Here it is only possible to
present a few general conclusions. Shot
through them all is acceptance of the
desirability of price stability, which, as
attained in 1961-62, “should, if main-
tained, help Australian industry to meet
competition from overseas producers both
in home markets and abroad.”
Capital Inflow
ON the vexed question jf capital inflow,
Dr Coomb, believes that short-term
influences leading to the past year's re-
duction are unlikely to retain their impor-
tance and an immediate rise seems likely.
The bank announces a net trading pro-
fit of £22,893,199 for the year to June
30, against the previous year’s
£20,069,308. Sectional earnings were:
Central banking £6,672,926 (previously
£6,704,788); note issue department
£15,750,824 (£12,930,386); rural cerdits
department £469,449 (£434,134).
The reduced central banking profit is
ascribed to “a lower average of assets held
in Australia and the counter effect of a
higher average level of investments and
interest rates in London.”


Si*®
:
Mm
pWai
: |';(
ws>,
'■ ■ *xi
•.. csncf the
service
inside
is as
modern
too ...
The attractive modern premises
occupied today by so many
branches of A.N.Z. Bank typify
the progressive spirit of the
Bank itself. You can easily
identify them by the blue and
gold A.N.Z. shield.
Built on a fine tradition, A.N.Z.
Bank keeps pace with the
requirements of this growing
country, and through its wide
network of branches and
agencies offers customers effici-
ent service in every aspect of
Trading and Savings banking.
A*N*Z BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
CHEQUE ACCOUNTS * SAVINGS ACCOUNTS
ANZ.254.8547 A
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Union Australia Group)
ESTABLISHED 1872
Head Office: Anchor House, 234-242 George Street, Sydney
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rales.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS' BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Coffins Street, Melbourne
Queensland Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek Street, Brisbane
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
Secretary, K. N. FINLAV
SUBSIDY CUT
WILL SLOW UP
OIL SEARCH
Vhe chairman ot Associated Freney
X Oil Fields NL (Mr E. N. Avery)
last week made it clear that the reduction
of the subsidy on o ; l exploration from
50 to 30 p.c. of the drilling cost would
mean that some companies would take
longer to do the same exploration work
and that calls would have to be made
20 p.c. earlier and more frequently than
otherwise.
The battle between the B.M.R. and the
private oil search companies has thus
fizzled out, despite strong representa-
tions by the Australian Petroleum Ex-
ploration Association through its chair-
man (Mr R C Sprigg). a noted geolo-
gist.
The anly point Senator Spooner a >
ceded was at least to retain the 50
p.c. subsidy in cases where application
had been made to the BMR before
the Budget. This at least should guaran-
tee the drilling programmes of those
companies will proceed as planned for
the remainder of 1962, but as the APEA
says, it puts future plans in the melting
pot and could well prejudice some joint
ventures with overseas concerns
Senator Spooner and the oilmen are
pulling in different directions The Minis-
ter, in a surprising statement, maintained
that the Government could well have
taken the view that the search for oil
in Australia was well launched and did
not require massive support
This shows up for what it is worth
the officials of his department’s myopic
attitude towards both the urgency ot
finding oil in commercial quantities be-
yond the confines of Moonie, and the
tenuous basis on which the provision
of private funds available for the task
exists.
Indeed it seems that the Department
of National Development has not the
slightest conception of the task of pro-
viding a sufficiency of capital for oil
search within Australia unless, of
course, it prefers the job of finding more
oil to be passed to overseas companies.
Having succeeded in getting the
Treasury to double the total amount
available for oil search subsidies this
year, the Department of National De-
velopment should at the very least have
invited the beneficiaries to consultations
on the best way of using it to expedite
the search for oil. After all, the Minister
had promised the companies it would
call them in for talks if any major
change in the subsidies policy was under
consideration.


INVEST NOW
HJS:SL
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
10/
2/«
I .’ A
10 YEARS
8% 5 YEARS
7Vz% 4 YEARS
7 % 3 YEARS
6 x /2% 2 YEARS
Applications must be lodged on the
form attached to the prospectus.
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE NOTES
RA.
12 MONTHS
5% 6 MONTHS
4% 3 MONTHS
3Va % AT CALL
Applications must be made on the
form attached to the prospectus and
acknowledgement will he a Regis-
tered Redeemable Unsecured Note.
Trustee for the Debenture and Note
Holders: Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd.
Bankers:
National Bank of Australasia Limited
5
eS£3iT £©fifCßfiTiO» LIMITE9
HOW TO INVEST
Obtain your prospectus from
and lodge applications with:
• Any Stockbroker.
• Any branch of the National Bank
ol Australasia Limited.
• Any office of Burns Philp Trust
Co. Ltd.
• Any store or office of Waltons
Limited and Treadways Ltd.
• Waltons Credit Corporation Ltd.,
Box 3875, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Investment Section
MAURI BROS PROFIT LEAP
SNIFFED AT BY MARKET
THhe refractory veterans are gradually
being corralled within the boundaries
of our reformed Companies Act ■nd
fairly adequately consolidated results
become the order of the day.
Latest to be pressed against its early
bent, I lauri Bros and Thomson comes
along with a spanking good advance on
prior parent results.
Sharemarkets felt inclined to sniff at
the earning rate, 16.5 p.c. on higher
ordinary capital, and promptly haled
prices back. Well in accord with the
current cussed mood, they proceeded to
keep them down.
But, of course, what everybody is
really ' aiting for is a glimpse of those
extensive and thoroughly various assets.
Complete accounts do not become
available until September 11. In the
meantime, we must rest content with
the actual £559,702 declared profit,
some £259,442 above the 1960-61
parent earnings.
Parent profit this year is shown at
£363,641 the highest ever reported,
but still £90,041 below the full group
tax provision.
Grains of salt, the tang of continuing
concealment, still remain to be swallowed
despite obedience to legal openness. Tax
is declared at £453,682, which at nor-
mal Australian rates indicates a true net
of about £680,000. A further complica-
tion ensues, for Mauri brings a goodish
income from New Zealand, where tax
stands at 10s. in the £.
Yet at one dive we’ve reached a far
step from the old devices. This may be
seen by placing the last five successive
earning rates against dividends.
1957, 9.4 p.c., div. 8 p.c.
1958, 10.8 p.c., div. 9 p.c.
1959, 10.1 p.c., div. 10 p.c.
1960, 1 1.7 p.c., div. 11 p.c.
1961, 10.1 p.c., div. 9.5 p.c.
The parent has been a long time in
hiding.
Current dividend is at 10 p.c. and,
we repeat, earning rate looks at least
like 16.5 p.c. Previous years’ earnings
only represented dividends actually re-
ceived from subsidiaries, undistributed
profits being left in impenetrable mist.
Perhaps the near future will finally
show us the rich subsidiary structure of
this amazingly diverse group, with obvi-
ously deep roots in food and food mach-
inery activities. A bare list of subsidiaries
can scarcely be considered sufficient, nor
should it placate the tight and faithful
shareholders.
A little history is now in order, to
indicate how long it has taken to bring
the group’s accounting reasonably up to
scratch. Mauri Bros, was founded in
1872 and became public in 1920. One
count gives 41 factories and 31 ware-
houses and depots at Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adeaide, Perth, Hobart, Auck-
land, Wellington and Christchurch. There
are offices in London, New York —and
San Feliu de Guixols, which is in Spain!
I ittle remains to be said in super-
latives about Moonie No. 6, except
perhaps to remark on the extreme
aplomb with which AOG shareholders
greet such news nowadays The market
certainly didn’t budge much on Monday.
Speculation for its own sake has vanished
with relative certainty and there’s a long
hard slog ahead.
That is, of course, after the field is
finally declared commercial, as may
presumably happen fairly soon. Delimita-
tion goes on apace and Moonie No. 7
is almost ready to take up the test
pattern Its spudding-in was announced
at the same time as the No. 6 flow.
Each strike has seen us warning about
the “inevitable" dry hole. The fate is
postponed once more, though there’s a
fair amount of the planned test pattern
to finish —say five or six more holes.
One request may be made—that the
kind of development procedure after the
field is declared soon be made known to
the investing public and Governments
concerned. Fairly quick and remarkably
efficient drilling success still leaves an
enormous amount of work ahead.
Ir particular, the time would seem to
be ripe to release any available details of
pipeline discussions, which are now
taking place. We are moving a little
ahead of the uncertainties of No. 1,
glamorous though they gave promise of
being. It is interesting to recall that this
first strike was made only on December
17 last year.
Moonie No. 6, the second flank well,
produced a clean 46 gravity oil at the
rate of 1660 barrels a day in a one-hour
drill stem test. A five-eighth inch bottom
hole choke was used and once more the
test was close to the regularly crucial
depth this time between 5814 and
5837 feet.


ftiin 1
a
WSWilHitl
llSSllill
S ‘AGE€
SHANO*
A\p* ,,T, U*D CA\ATU** D •
G °yE' s LTD st yM^
s^AGßgs
c-QUJk^'
k^RANP^
S LTP "
YOUR '
FAVOURITE
BRANDY ,
fine Australian
pot-still
THREE STAR
Distinctive in flavour and bouquet
OLD LIQUEUR
superb quality Liqueur Brandy
£
Throughout 1960-61 transporter and
engineer Brambles Industries pre-
sented some evidence of the need for
rationalisation and also of the ability to
achieve this. Indeed its chairman (Mr
R. A. Dickson) drew particular attention
to lessons the group might well learn
from the credit squeeze and did not
merely bemoan that time of troubles.
In the event, the company, for 1961-
62, has to report a heavy profit droop—
from £618,274 to £471,128. This
comes after the previous year’s £107,461
advance and brings earning rate back to
22.3 p.c., its lowest since 1957, when
expansion began to explode with a
vengeance. The usual 20 p.c. divided is
covered by £43,356. Continuance of
the rate seems guaranteed by reportedly
improved current trading.
Directors must feel fairly certain
things are looking up, for they have to
protect a £387,000 addition to capital
w'hen an 8 p.c. note issue is converted to
ordinaries on January 1 next. They
expect further benefits from major
management changes and the closure of
“several unprofitable activities”.
Principal victim of the desirable
rationalisation appears to be a fairly
wide range of general engineering in-
vestment—perhaps a case of biting off
NEW £50m. LOAN RATES
ARE ATTRACTIVE
new Commonwealth Loan terms
•*- give slightly lower returns than avail-
able in the barely successful loan of
last May.
The long-term rate remains at the
coupon figure of £5 per cent., matur-
ing in 1985. This bond can be expected
to go on the market at a slight premium.
Currently, the 5 p.c. 1982 loan brings
£.lOl/16/3 on the floor of the Ex-
change.
The medium term rate comes back
marginally from £4/16/- p.c. to a
coupon rate of £4/15/- p.c. by issuing
these 94 year bonds at par instead of
the slight discount (7/6 per cent.)
offered in May.
This offering appears closely geared
to the present market, which attaches a
redemption yield of £4/13/- to
£4/14/- p.c. to a similar bond, 4f p.c.
coupon maturing in September, 1971.
The issue price of the short-term
offering also has been altered to bring
the redemption yield down from £4/8/8
p.c. offered last May to £4/7/9 p.c.
in the September loan.
Coupon on this term (3 years) re-
mains at £4/5/- p.c. but issue price
moves from £99/5/- to £99/12/6.
As with the medium term offering,
the price of this stock is in line with
the market, giving at best a slight dis-
count.
With a heavy works programme to be
financed from loans this year, the Trea-
sury will be watching closely the trend
of applications.
The May loan failed by £1.5 million
to attain the target £4O million. The
loan in February produced a record re-
sult of £90.4 million against a target
of £55 million.
The coming loan seeks £5O million,
as well as conversion of existing securi-
ties, 44 p.c. and 34 p.c. both maturing
on September 15.
The rates must be considered attractive
in the light of “cheaper” money now
available.
The success or otherwise may well
prove a pointer to ordinary shares in
the coming months on the Stock Ex-
change.
Overwhelming applications from in-
vestors would point directly to a lack
of confidence in the growth factor of
equity.
On the other hand moderate support
by investors generally would indicate
that “wait and see” psychology was still
the vogue.
more than Brambles in these days can
profitably chew. The process has been
going on for some time and will lead
to emphasis on the transport side. A
really big lift in earning rate may prove
a trifle elusive.
T>y the time this is read, Latec Invest-
** ments’ repeat performance of its
huge 1960-61 loss may be blazoned in
the daily Press. Whatever nauseating
crisis has to be faced, perhaps even made
worse by projects for radical reorganisa-
tion, becomes accentuated in the light of
hopes only recently held out to share-
holders.
A particularly exact explanation must
be called for as to why such a promising
interim report was promulgated. The
chairman (Mr Malouf) has always been
so open in his discussion of prospects—
and certainly so in his denial of undue
share dealings—that a full analysis of
a continuously bad situation can be ex-
pected.
Any avoidance of this necessity would
smack too much of the old board, of
unpleasant memory, who were whistling
prosperity in the dark just before having
to announce utter ruin. And in the light
of loftier company standards, any failings
could attract attention from outside the
narrow investment world. Who, finally,
is to accept responsibility to police the
shining new Companies Act?


THE FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances
effected at lowest current rates.
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims.
DIRECTORS:
Alfred S White (Chairman), E. Q.
Conen, T K. Magney. A. G. Parker,
Douglas Wadley.
H. H Moulton, Managing Director.
B. J. Lane, Manager.
Phone: 27-7401 (Branches In all States)
20 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
NEW ADVISORY SERVICE
TO INVESTORS
Oeaders of The Bulletin can use
a new personal investment
advisory service, free of cost to them.
If you have an investment pro-
blem, of whatever nature at all, write
to the Financial Editor, attaching the
coupon at right.
The Bulletin financial staff, expert
in this field, will seek out the informa-
tion you require and reply by letter.
Selected letters of enquiry will be
published (without the names of
writers) together with the Editor’s
answers.
All communications will be treated
as confidential.
COUPON
CUT OUT THIS COUPON,
ATTACH REQUEST, AND POST
TO:
FINANCIAL EDITOR,
The Bulletin, BOX 2521 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
MR
NAME MRS
MISS
ADDRESS:
STATE
TALK AROUND 'CHANGE
■J>iPEMAKERs have always done very well
A in Australia, a “dry” continent, and
their techniques are at least equal to the
world’s best .
Rocla Industries Ltd, one of the
leaders, lifted profit once again in the
year to June. Result was £56,569 higher
at £266,058, after providing an additional
£2864 for tax at £167,487, and £26,642
more for depreciation at £101,224.
The profit advance was more than one
would expect from inclusion of the
Adelaide company, Earthenware Indus-
tries Ltd (taken over in November last),
which earned about £20,000 in each of
the two previous years.
A clue to the year’s trading success was
given by the chairman last September,
when he told shareholders that most
orders for Rocla concrete pipes came
from public works, which continued to be
busy.
From concrete pipes, both reinforced
and pre-stressed, the company has ven-
tured into earthenware pipes and other
concrete products. It attempts to special-
ise in the more difficult types of concrete
work because these tend to be the most
profitable.
Tn common with many other companies
now notifying shareholders of their re-
sults, Berlei United Ltd, foundation gar-
ment maker, reports a good recovery on
last year but still a deficit on the previous
best recorded in 1959-60.
Australian sales were greater, but pro-
fits were less—a fairly common experi-
ence this last year.
The UK subsidiary accounted for the
improvement. Last October directors
were enthusiastic about the English com-
pany’s own design of foundation gar-
ments —“If you put a girdle round the
earth ... .”
At about 50s. the 20s. Berlei shares
are the highest they’ve been for a couple
of years.
TTaving scotched suggestions last year
that Commercial Union might take
it t over, Victoria Insurance has lost little
time in bolstering its defences by increas-
ing its dividend for the first time in ten
years, after posting a 16 p.c. increase in
profit to a record £.185,209, equivalent
to 18.7 p.c. increase on capital as in-
creased by the previous year’s one-for-five
premium issue.
The new dividend rate is covered about
one and a half times by latest earnings.
It is understood that in eliminating
certain unprofitable sections of overseas
business the underwriting result was im-
proved last year.
after another the small manufac-
turing jewellers are coming up with
outstanding profit figures, belying the
thought that sparklers are luxuries and
as such would be vulnerable to reces-
sion.
Latest to shine is the Northcote
(Melbourne) concern, Hawke (Aus-
tralia) Ltd, which, trading as “the House
of Hawke”, almost doubled its profits
last year and lifted its dividend on the
ss. ordinary shares from 5 to 7! p.c.
The market has taken note by putting
the shares up to par, which gives them
a 15.6 per cent earnings yield.
11/Tra some of Melbourne’s brokers
" saying that investors were paying
too much in the rush for the new R. W.
Miller shares in face of heavy selling,
it was to be expected that the shares of
Western Australia engineer, Bowra
Holdings, would be left rather out in the
cold making their debut there (and on
the Perth exchange) recently.
Only 4000 Bowra shares were bought
on the first day, but the price steadily
improved after opening at a mere Is. 4d.
premium on the ss. par value.
In the prevailing chilly market weather,
this was probably inevitable, but once
the snow departs from Melbourne’s door-
step, good investment support for this
sound, expanding company seems
assured.
Deko-Wallsend Investments Ltd
A shares at about 9s. 9d. have the air
of being one of the most promising stocks
in the 6 p.c. yield bracket listed on any
Australian Exchange.
From the queer marriage of the first
Australian company to mine and sell coal,
Newcastle Wallsend Coal Co., and Peko
Mines N.L., the copper and gold miner of
Tennant Creek, Peko-Wallsend has been
setting up a mining house.
National Minerals Holdings Ltd, a
beach sands miner, was acquired in Dec-
ember, and including its pre-acquisition
profit of £32,621, Peko-Wallsend’s group
profit stepped up from £288,113 to
£409,637 in the year to July 10. This
gives an earning rate of just under 20
p.c. Dividend was increased from 9i to
11! p.c.
As well as the colliery at Pelton, the
group owns coal areas and real estate at
Wallsend, and a coal loading station and
selling agency at Hexham.
The £5 million contract which National
Minerals has won jointly with Coffs Har-
bor Rutile from Du Pont will boost earn-
ings for at least the next five years.


On time
every time
it
£
Q
%r' xjnm
'is:'' v r
With a highly trained staff, pantechnicions and equipment
especially designed for fast safe transportation, Mayne Nickless
operate Australia's most reliable interstate freightways. To
facilitate the fast handling of all goods, Mayne Nickless main-
tain a large fleet of Radio Pick up trucks.
MAYNE NICKLESS LTD.
INCORPORATING ANTILL RANGER
Australia's most reliable Interstate Freightways
SYDNEY* MELBOURNE*BRISBANE*PERTH
ADELAIDE • CANBERRA • NEWCASTLE
PORT KENIBLA • LAUNCESTON • HOBART
Fast daily schedules
to all main centres.
SMEW
FOR EVERY TRANSPORT NEED
Maybe it was only a whisper among
more stentorian voices but Mr V. Y.
Kimpton seemed to be pretty pleased
with the recent performance of General
Credits last week when addressing the
shareholders. The Commercial Bank of
Australia has a 49 p.c. interest in that
hire purchase and general finance con-
cern now so unloved by investors because
of its involvement with Gippsland Ac-
ceptance among other unhappy affairs
in recent years.
The Market has a long memory, especi-
ally for the errors of finance companies
who backed some of the ill-starred deve-
lopers and stuck their necks too far into
motor vehicles financing before the
recession.
Not that in the case of General Credits
it has yet had any very tangible encoura-
gement to make it forget, except that for
all the absence of a dividend last year
(to the end of April) the company man-
aged to cover a loss in the first half into
a profit of £165,247 for the full year.
This gave it earnings of 4.9 p.c. com-
pared with 6.7 p.c. for the previous
year when 5-5/6 p.c. was paid on greatly
enlarged capital.
T\irectors of well-regarded timber mer-
chant and box-maker Vanderfield
and Reid Ltd had held hopes of a brighter
look on the building front in the second
half of the financial year ended June 30.
But the optimism proved unwarranted.
The year’s sales are considerably low'er
than in the previous difficult year.
Quantitative import controls have pro-
vided no difficutly as yet, the directors
say.
In the half-yearly report directors had
advised that profit margins and sales were
seriously affected in the metropolitan
area, but rather curiously, that the
country subsidiary and branches had
shown an increase in sales.
The company's investments in shares
listed on the stock exchange, valued in
the books at £205,000-odd and worth
50 p.c. more on the market, continued to
increase in value, the directors said in
February.
]V|elbourne has sometimes claimed to
be the cleanest city in Australia, and
presented as proof the number of highly
profitable drycleaning and laundry com-
panies on its official list.
Sydney recently saw its first listed dry-
cleaning company when the Tasman
group obtained “backdoor - ’ listing by
taking over Frederick Rose Ltd.
However, it should not be long before
another laundry group makes its appear-
ance on the Sydney list. This company
plans to use a recently developed Ameri-
can machine few of which are yet found
outside the US.
The first batch of machines will be set
up in one of the larger southern suburbs,
but activities will gradually cover the
whole of the metropolitan area.
Shareholders in one of the “leisure
activity” companies may have shares
reserved for the prior application.
Tust when the market was feeling that
" the worst might be over for the
Stanhill complex following the Supreme
Court of Victoria’s go-ahead signal for
the Chevron Sydney scheme, along comes
Mr Korman with a new bitter pill for
it to swallow in the guise of another bid
to defer a further batch of debenture
redemptions, this time of Stanhill Con-
solidated itself. Nor is the period of
deferment sought only a matter of
months, but just over five years.
Brokers w'ere always a little dubious
of the ability of a very sick but still bold
Stanhill to find its share of the new
money required for the Sydney Chevron
scheme, not thinking of the time-honored
process of robbing Peter to pay Paul
(modern version, of course).
Not for the first time Mr Korman has
reminded his legions that they all hang
together, saying bluntly in his latest cir-
cular to Stanhill debenture holders that
unless they agree the company “may not
be able to assist Chevron Sydney Ltd to
the extent which is necessary.”
From Stanhill’s empty barrel they are
offered an increase from 6£ to 8j p.c.
in debenture interest to help them make
up their minds.
PpHE second half of the year to June
brought all the recovery in profit of
Ducon Industries Ltd, maker of electrical
condensers. Final profit of £257,777
meant an earning rate of 16.7 p.c., com-
pared with the previous £164,063 and
10.8 p.c., but was a long way short of
1960’s £410,187.
Credit restrictions and import compe-
tition still plagued the company. More
economies from reorganisation produced
the better result, directors said.
With prolonged laments from Latec,
” Hooker and Stanhill to suffer, in-
vestors are loathe to sniff at anything
with even a slight odor of development
finance about it, but some brokers have
been taking a second look at General
Credits following last week’s record
profit announcement of Motor Credits,
the only other big Victorian general
finance concern which admitted that a
substantial part of its profit came from
its industrial development finance section,
not that its experience in motor vehicle
finance was a happy one.
True, Motor Credits is generally
recognised as the more solid concern and
has made some astute diversification
moves, notably into industrial mortgage
and factoring business. But stiffening of
management and general tightening up
prompted by the CBA promise much
better for General Credits whose ss.
shares are around 6s. Id.
TpHE £1 shares of North Melbourne
brush merchants and manufacturers,
Zevenboom Holdings, look more than a
middle-of-the-road investment following
the sterling recession-proof performance
of the company during the last two years,
when the steady 8 p.c. payment has been
more than twice covered in both terms.
Added to this attraction is the re-
serves nest egg, now the equivalent of
more than the ordinary capital.
Capital benefits could follow from
this company when markets are a bit
more propitious. At the current price
of 295. the £1 shares yield 51 p.c.


THE
ARMBDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the
rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
A. H. CASH, M.A. (Oxon),
Headmaster.
A splendid last quarter gave building
materials’ group PGH Industries
Ltd a higher earning rate for 1961-62,
and made the stock well worth considera-
tion as an investment. Earnings for the
full year came out at 14.39 d. for each
ss. share—compared with 14.33 d. the
previous year.
Until the last quarter, earnings per
share had lagged behind 1960-61 with
9.98 d. a share earned in the nine months
to March 31 this year and 10.86 d. a
share in the same period last year.
In all, the result is an extremely good
one, reflecting efficient and sound man-
agement. After all, the buildings materials
industry became exceedingly competitive
in the economic dampening down. The
result, equal to a percentage earning of
just on 24 p.c. on increased capital,
justifies the sharemarkets’ enthusiasm for
this stock.
Currently the ss. shares are on the
market around 18s. 3d. This gives an
earnings yield of 6.6 p.c. and a dividend
yield of 4.5 p.c. from the 16! p.c.
dividend.
While a price-earnings ratio of 15:1 is
relatively high for the building materials
industry, the probability of PGH sharing
in the recovery is high when the directors’
intimation that sales volume continues to
improve is taken into account.
PGH, too, offers growth potential. A
stock, then, well worth consideration.
Y^Hoolworths, suggested as a likely pur-
” chase in last week’s Bulletin, con-
tinues to trade well.
Sales in the first half of the current
year rose substantially with a conse-
quent “satisfactory” rise in profit.
The rights to take up new shares at
par (55.) held just over Bs. all week. They
appear “cheap”, giving, as they do entry
into Woolworths at 13s. 2d.-13s. 3d.
including brokerage.
The stock has seldom been available
for less.
ODD FEATURES
IN MELB.
MOTOR SHARES
Oolden and Ford dealers are naturally
commanding more attention than
sellers of other motor makes in present
share markets, but within these leading
brackets there are disparities. For in-
stance, in Melbourne two of the big
Holden dealers, Southern Motors and
Preston Motors, are currently command-
ing yields of 6.2 and 4.7 p.c. respectively.
This difference seems to pay undue
homage to Preston’s 50th anniversary
this year and to the higher earnings rate
of Preston last year (30.7 compared with
20.4), because each pay 17! p.c.
In the light of the motor malaise in
1961, company performances in that
year are an unreliable guide. Before
1961 both companies had similar earn-
ings performances for several years,
Preston having a slight edge. One might
expect this state of affairs to be resumed
now Holden sales have recovered and
look like staying that way.
In that case a switch from the ss.
shares of Preston at 18s. 6d. into
Southern’s ss. shares at 14s. 6d. could
pay off.
A similar switch might be made with
profit from Lanes Motors’ (Holdings) ss.
shares now at 12s. 9d., yielding 5 p.c.
on the 12! p.c. dividend, into Regent
Motors’ (Holdings) ss. shares which
yield 6.8 p.c. on the 10 p.c. dividend at
the current price of 7s. 6d.
Here we get into the second rung of
sellers on a national basis, Lanes being
agents for Morris and Regent for Volks-
wagen, both makes being far behind
Ford and much further behind Holden.
One shouldn’t take too much notice
of the huge dip in Regent’s profits last
year even though it was shattering com-
pared with Lanes. The point is that
Regent stands an equal chance of hoist-
ing its profits back to former high levels
in step with the resurgence of the market
for motor vehicles. In that case the
relevant comparison is between the two
companies’ earnings, say, in 1959 and
1960.
On the same capital as at present in
both cases, Lanes earned 17.5 and 15.1
p.c. and paid 20 p.c. (more than earn-
ings) and 15 p.c. (right up to the hilt) in
these two years. On the other hand
Regent earned 34 and 28.3 p.c. in the
same years, and paid 20 and 15 p.c.,
leaving a very good margin to tuck
away.
The fact that Lanes’ 12! p.c. was
more than covered by earnings (14.4
p.c.) in 1961, whereas Regent’s 10 p.c.
was an over-distribution of earnings,
which were only 8.3 p.c., can be
neglected because of the poor year for
the motor sellers in every direction.
textile production in 1961-62
was much the same as in the equally
depressing 1960-61.
Yarn production in Australia totalled
about 42.7 million lbs compared with
42.9 million lbs a year earlier.
Not brilliant is the first impression.
But going further into the figures a
strong recovery is evident.
In July, for instance, spinners pro-
duced 4.7 million lbs of yarn—against a
wretched 2.6 million in July 1961, the
“trough” of the recession.
If the current output continues, 1962-
63 will result in a healthy increase in
production.
Dissimilar to durable consumer goods,
production in textiles is geared close to
sales demand. Thus, a revival in produc-
tion is more indicative of a sales’ revival
than would be the case in, say,
refrigerators.
Another factor to be considered is that
because of. efficiency enforced by the
1960-61 cut-back, production in 1961-
62 no doubt would be more rewarding to
the alert managers.
Bradford Cotton comes to mind as a
stock to purchase for a revival. The ss.
shares in this, the industry leader, are
still depressed—at 6s. Bd.
The balance sheet coming up may not
be inspiring but next year investors should
see a solid improvement. A quick capital
appreciation would not surprise.
As forecast in The Bulletin of July
l4 profits of Turner Industries, Mel-
bourne engineer, made a particularly
good showing in the year to June last
when a 39.8 p.c. rise to £118,999 was
recorded after substantial increases in tax
and depreciation and before taking in a
surplus of £24,005 on sales of fixed assets.
This year should be even better, be-
cause the company will have the benefit
for a full year from operations at its
recently expanded plants at Nunawading
and Lilydale.


BURNS, PHILP NOT ALL GLITTER
Investors have, as yet, given little sign
* of being swept away by the apparent
glamor exuding from Burns, Philp’s latest
and first consolidated accounts, one of the
major revelatory triumphs of the new
Companies Act. The ruling market mood
does not, of course, encourage much
wanton enthusiasm. And, holding their
faith intact, existing shareholders see the
October one-for-five bonus issue already
on their plates.
So it would seem that present share
prices, which kept their ground after a
mild, post-result upward flutter, genuinely
indicate a calm recognition of the huge
group’s past and its immediate potential.
After all, it must still look like leader
status to show a bare 2 p.c. yield on a
10 p.c. dividend paid since 1953 and on
capital augmented by tw'o earlier bonuses
since 1958.
The outstanding mark of the most
recent accounts was, naturally, the great
outpouring of previously concealed
assets and the tantalising sight of further
prodigal and hidden sources. Of these,
more later. Yet in spite of this richness
and solidity, questions and doubts im-
mediately arose on the sheer trading
capacity of the group, apart from its
glittering investment income. Murmurs
were also not lacking that the old vulner-
ability to takeover had not been com-
pletely dispelled. This situation has its
lighter side, for defence could plainly
yield more shareholder benefits from
those capacious reserves.
It is quite awe-inspiring, as the attached
table demonstrates, to see that sudden
and long-awaited accession to reserves on
consolidation, as well as the brilliant
array of assets, especially the value of
investments. But even directors’ tradi-
tional conservatism of profit statement
may not wholly hide some qualms con-
cerning the company's historical activities
and their coming trends.
Directors have, in most of their re-
ports, never attempted to brush over the
frequently sad fate of many of these
activities. Indeed their pessimism has
been notorious. Unjustified, too, many
would add, seeing the present profit of
£1,115,955 producing an earning rate on
capital of some 18.6 p.c. Though, once
more, as with an equal leader like CSR,
it is not difficult to discern a clear
whittling down of earnings on total
shareholders’ funds.
An immediate reply could easily draw
attention to a real understatement of
profit, for certain provisions (tonnage re-
placement £250,000 and property re-
placement £125,000) can well be added
back, to show an earning rate Qf pearly
25 p.c. The taxation figure, £5 73)5H,
when consideration is given to the
copious and mostly tax-free investment
income, confirms this kind of procedure.
In point of fact investments furnished
£887,930 to the current profit—from
listed companies £630,813 and other in-
vestments £257,117. Net balance of pro-
fit on trading, in the consolidated P and
L, is shown at £1,853,150.
Such trading earnings represent a
fairly heroic struggle when one realises
that shipping has yielded only “an in-
crease in losses which proved a great
burden on other earnings of the com-
pany.” Directors have been forced to the
decision “to discontinue running passenger
vessels as soon as the present ones in the
service are beyond reasonable overhaul.”
Nevertheless they also plan to keep a
“minimum tonnage” by replacing, about
the end of 1963. the mv “Malaita” with
a new cargo vessel.
What incredible prudence is repre-
sented by the ability to place shipping
property in the parent books at a mere
£50,000 —at cost £3,676,461 less depreci-
ation £3,626,461!
The board sounds not unmindful of
other trading difficulties when it reports
maintenance of turnover in both whole-
sale and retail sales, but has to add that
“reasonable profit margins are difficult of
attainment as many aspects of merchan-
dising have become extremelv competitive
and costs associated with selling continue
to increase.” The old island empire is not
so easy as of yore to cultivate and the
coming Pacific atmosphere certainly
won't lighten problems here.
Perhaps it appears odd to cast such
gloom around a veteran of distinguished
and mighty performance, with so many
benefits remaining in the locker. It is
right, though, to cast a rather cool eye
over the distant future and to realise the
massive trading and managerial resolution
needed. A trading company, we might
say, justifies itself by successful trading.
In further defence it can be asserted
that equal prudence has assembled the
investments which, on any count, remain
a sure hostage to the future. In this parti-
cular place it can only be set out that, for
instance, holdings in listed companies at
book value £8,673,078 possessed a market
value of £18,814,456 at March 31.
Similar residual power doubtless remains
in the fixed assets and equal health is
displayed by a very favorable liquid
position.
The company has assuredly shown
striking growth prospects to shareholders,
and particularly since its one-for-three
par issue in 1955. Net earnings even
hint at a dividend lift subsequent to the
coming bonus issue. All in all though,
some of the many problems confronting
directors should be held firmly in the
foreground too.
Balance Sheet — Profit Statement
Summaries
(£ 000)
(Consolidated in 1962)
Year to March 31 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current Assets 4177 4487 5172 6003 14078
less Current liabilities .... 3490 3907 4494 4615 5817
Working Capital 687 580 678 1388 8261
Fixed Assets 2167 2110 1472 1507 7695
Investments 9626 11818 14610 14693 13194
Total Capital 12480 14508 16760 17588 29150
represented by:
Loan Capital n. s. n. s. n. s. n. s. 40
Ordinary Capital .... 4000 5000 6000 6000 6000
Reserves - 8480 9508 10760 11588 23110
Earnings 580 833 907 743 1115
Ord. Dividends 400 500 550 600 600
Surplus 180 333 357 143 515
Earnings to Ord. Capital .... 14.5 16.7 16.5 12.4 18.6
Dividend Rate 10 10 10 10 10
Dividend Yield (a) 3.7 2.4 2.1 2.2 2.0
Price/Earnings ratio (a) .... 18.5 25 29.4 35.7 27
n. s. Not supplied.
(a) Based on last sale in month accounts presented, but for 1962 closing
sale on August 23.


STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
11th Floor Pearl Assurance Building
151 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Phone: 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
Sydney: 383 George Street, 29-7885
Adelaide: 61 Gawler Place, 8-7407
Brisbane: 334 Queen Street. 31-1621.
Canberra: Maitland House. Hobart
Place. 4-3334
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
All Offices: “Options”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
UNIVERSITY OF MELBOURNE
University Extension Committee and
Centre of East Asian Studies
JAPAN TO3AY
A Course of 14 Lectures
on the
History, F'olitics and Government of
Japan
by
D. H. Mendel, Jnr., A. 8., M.A., Ph D.
and Sen Matsuda. M.A.
Sept. 3rd Oct. 19th, 1962
Mondays and Fridays at 4.15.
Course Fee: £lO-0-0
Applications should be addressed to:
The Secretary,
Department of Oriental Studies,
University of Melbourne.
PRESS CLIPPINGS
WILL TELL YOU
Keep fully informed by letting us
supply you with press clippings on
any subject. Complete coverage of
newspapers and magazine, all states,
city and country.
A.N.Z.
PRESS CLIPPING SERVICE,
199 Liverpool St., Sydney.
61-4230.
Speculator's Diary
llfHO says the market is dull'. The
" index may not have moved much
over the last few months but there have
been some very interesting price move-
ments within that index, what with some
companies doubling their profits and
others halving them. One that was able
to double its profit, I’m glad to say, was
Goodwins, the Sydney appliance retailer.
As a result the shares moved up to
7s. 3d. at which they still seem to be a
bargain. If you’re one of those investors
who slavishly follows earnings yields,
you’ll fin 1 that at 7s. 3d. Goodwins
offers an earnings yield of 17.7 p.c., or
more than double the average (according
to the Melbourne Stock Exchange’s index
of earnings yields). So I'm not selling
my 800 shares yet.
A not so pleasing result came from
Mauri Bros which, in a cryptic state-
ment, divulged consolidated figures for
the first time. The profit of £560,000
was quite good but not enough to
warrant a share price of 235. At that
price the earnings yield would be a mere
4 p.c. and on the market it’s earnings,
not assets, that count. So 1 sold my 500
but was a bit slow in doing so and got
only 21s. Id. This meant a loss of £63
and the reminder that blind investment,
founded on wishful thinking, is not a
very good way to make money—as we
also learnt with CSR and Burns. Philp.
This rather unpleasant loss was partly
offset by a profit of £45 on my Mericas
which I decided to sell when the price
reached 9s. 3d. The price will probably
go even higher as at 9s. 3d. that old
earnings yield is still over 12 p.c. That
is good, particularly for a company that
is now well and truly backed and con-
trolled by a large American corporation
(Lormfit). But I decided to sell just the
same because any further price rise is
likely to he only fairly gradual and
besides there was the psychological
desire to take a profit after the Mauri
Bros mistake.
These two sales brought in £742
which was very convenient as I’d
already spent £441 earlier in the week
on 500 R. W. Miller. R. W. Miller’s
opening price was, as I’d hoped, a good
deal lower that, it migh! have been if
the market as a whole had not been so
quiet. Furthermore, the shares came on
without being “boomed” too much in
advance by the various financial writers.
Consequently the shares came on in the
vicinity ot 17s 3d. at which they offered
an unusually good earnings yield—there
1 go again—of nearly 10 p.c. and a very
respectable dividend yield of 4.5 p.c.
These yields may not compare with
Goodwins’ but they are high for a stock
of this calibre. Compare R. W. Miller
with Fooheys or Penfolds, for example.
Their dividend yields might be better
but, as I said a moment " ,o, it’s earn-
ings, and growth of earnings, that count.
At Bs. 9d. Toohcvs gives an earnings
yield ot about 6 p.c. and Penfolds (at
10s 9d.) one of about 7.5 p.c. And
neither has been able to demonstrate
any worthwhile growth in the last few
years while R W Miller has trebled its
profit since 1957, although the pros-
pectus suggested that the figure for the
past year would be lower. Now why 1
am saying all this is to show that 1 think
R. W. Miller’s shares are underpriced
at 17s. or 18s. Even at 20s. the earn-
ings yield would still be 8 p.c. oi more
which would still make Millers a better
buy than either Tooheys or Penfolds.
Anyway at 17s. 3d. 1 was more than
ready to make friends with Millers —and
beware the man who tries to bring any
other brew into my house.
Last week 1 also decided it was time
1 enlarged my holding of motor shares.
Government statistics continue to point
to the speed at which the appliance and
motor industries are leading the general
economic recovery. Malleys, Goodwins
and AWA should give me a sufficient
stake in the appliance industry’s recovery
but my only interest in motors has been
through National Consolidated. While
scanning the lists of motor distributors
I noticed that Peter Lloyd’s price had
slipped back to ss. 6d. from the peak
of Bs. reached last month during the
fuss over the “deal” with Stack and Co.
Now I realise that Peter Lloyd won’t
have much, if any, profit to show for
itself for the past year but it should do
really well in the year just begun. Not
only has it a Holden franchise now but
also the new model Holden, the
association with Stack and near boom
conditions in the motor industry as a
whole. I put in an order for 1000 Peter
Lloyd last Thursday but by week’s end
I had been able to get only 400.
SOLD
500 Merica at 9/3 £226
500 Mauri Bros, at 21/1 .... £516
BOUGH!
500 R. W. Miller at 17/3 £441
400 Peter Lloyd at 5/7 £ll6
These transactions left me with £ 185
on hand and this portfolio, currently
worth about £7,200: —
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
600 O'Donnell 'Griffin 28/8/61 13/6 18/-
2,000 United Motels 20 11 61 3/9 4/-
400 Auto and Genera)
Finance 8/2 62 19/9 26/6
80 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 7 3
500 Ready Mixed 6/4/62 17/9 15/9
100 MLC 27/4/62 130/- 125/-
400 Malleys 3/a 62 20 9 23 '-
1,000 Hanimex 23/5/62 4'll 6 1
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 28/-
300 Marcus Clark notes 2? 6 12 27-6 39/-
100 James Hardie 29 5 62 98 - 'oo'-
100 John Lysaght 18/7/62 64/- 64/6
40 Courtaulds 24/7/62 11/9 11.-
100 CSR 1/8 61 49 - 48/3
400 AWA 10/8 62 20'- 20/-
500 Steggles 16/8 62 8/2 8 6
500 R W Miller 21 8 62 17 3 13 -
400 Peter Lloyd 24-8 62 5/7 5, 7


Applications are invited for the position of
GENERAL MANAGER
of
BRUCE PIE INDUSTRIES LTD.
This substantial textile and inner-spring mattress manufacturing
Public Company (employees in excess of 500) has its Head Office
and plant in Brisbane and distributes its products in all States of
Australia.
The position of General Manager entails responsibility to the Board
of Directors of the Company to control and continue development
and diversification of all activities of the Company including
production, design, sales and finance.
Applicants must have top level managerial and marketing ability.
Experience in textiles may be of some advantage but is not essential.
The net assets of the Company are in the vicinity of one million
pounds and the Board is prepared to pay an adequate remuneration
for particular qualifications for this top position. Appropriate fringe
benefits will be available.
Applicants are asked to advise their previous experience, age, marital
status and to include references. Applications which close 10th
September, will be treated in strictest confidence cr.d are to be
addressed to:
Chairman of the Board
BRUCE PIE INDUSTRIES LTD.
Araiuen Street, Kedron, Brisbane
And marked Confidential
ONE TO BUY
GIPPSLAND CEMENT SHOULD HAVE
HIGHER MARKET STATUS
|ly posting a price of 9s. 3d. for the
ss. shares of Gippsland Cement
early this year, the market gave a
tentative assessment of their worth as a
takeover prospect. Since then the shares
of this modest-sized Latrobe Valley
cement producer have been divested of
takeover glamor and under the cold
dispirited eye of recession markets
they’ve fallen to ss. 6d. The question
is whether on a strict investment analysis
this is a knockdown price for the com-
pany as an independent operation.
Under the guise of Gippsland In-
dustries, the company started life in
1952, but with a prolonged period of
growing pains it didn't make a profit
until 1957-58 when it made £60,000.
Profit slipped back the following year
to £35,000, but in the next two years
it rose to £59,000 and £102,000
respectively. The initial dividend was
6 p.c. doubly covered by earnings in
1959-60. The rate was increased to 7
p.c. in 1960-61 and this was covered
three times by earnings
Assuming this rate, at the current
price of ss. 6d. the ss. shares provide
a dividend yield of 6.3 p.c. and an earn-
ings yield of about 19 p.c. which are
unrivalled heights among listed cement
producers, Australian Cement yielding
only 3.2 p c. on dividend.
So for all its quarrel with the Vic-
torian Government on the score of
freight charges and the blind eye of the
Federal Treasurer towards its claims for
tax allowables (expenditure on the
Merriman's Creek road and the settle-
ment payments to Mainguard), Gipps-
land Cement has put up impressive
figures.
It must be remembered, however, that
in its latest accounts (1960-61) it was
still enjoying the benefit of tax losses
accumulated by its Port Fairy subsidiary
and that these have now been exhausted.
Only a small benefit will have been avail-
able in 1961-62. Thus, apart from any-
thing else, a substantially higher tax
provision could make the net result for
that year less favorable than for the
previous year
Again, Gippsland Cement still has to
set aside a substantial sum from current
earnings to repay deferred creditors of
the Port Fairy operation. It paid
£33,577 on this account from 1960-61
earnings, leaving £97,000 still owing.
On the other hand, sales were ex-
panded and efficiency increased in 1961-
62 so, in the light of this and the pay-
ment of a 3i p.c. interim, the 7 p.c.
annual rate paid for 1960-61 doesn't
look to be in jeopardy.
No recent figures are available for
cement consumption in Victoria, but
going on the rise in overall Australian
production recorded in July, when out-
put was 262,000 tons compared with
242,000 tons in July, 1961, and the in-
crease in building and construction
activity in Victoria itself, demand is now
improving month by month.
Moreover, the whole industry con-
tinues to be in an expansionist long-term
mood in expectation of a higher rate of
growth in the economy in which cement
would naturally have a key role.
Apart from the improvement in
demand for cement in the Melbourne
metropolitan area, which is the com-
pany’s main outlet, its big supply con-
tracts for the Yallourn and Moondarra
dams, with the Snowy Mountains
Authority and for the SEC’s new
Hazelwood power station have widened
its markets.
But though the forthcoming results
will not reflect it, Gippsland Cement
will shortly be faced with much greater
competition with the completion of ex-
pansion at Australian Cement’s Geelong
plant and also the new plant of Associ-
ated Portland at Waurn Ponds. To-
gether, these two projects will raise Vic-
toria’s annual cement-making capacity
by 700,000 tons (compared with current
consumption of around 3 million tons).
By the same token, Gippsland is
currently in the process of raising its
capacity from 120,000 to 320,000 tons
a year with the addition of a new cement
grinding mill of 200,000 tons a year
capacity.
Moreover, the managing director is
incorporating many new features to the
vertical kiln process following his visit
to Europe last year. The process is
unique to Gippsland Cement among
Australian cement producers.
Higher efficiency and lower unit costs
of production are expected to put Gipps-
land Cement in a good position at least
to hold, if not expand, its share of the
Victorian market, though it must be said
that failing a change of heart by the
Victorian Government on the question
of transport the company will remain at
a disadvantage vis-a-vis its competitors
on marketing costs.
It is therefore an open question
whether Gippsland Cement will achieve
any startling heights as a growth stock.
But as a solid investment it is worth a
higher market status than at present,
while in the background there is the
possibility of a bid being made, even
if this can be discounted as unlikely
for the time being.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
SWAN’S LTD
NOT SO GLOOMY PICTURE
Qwans Ltd, Sydney based hardware
merchant and builders’ supplier,
balances on May 31 and thus its figures
give a good lead on the results to be
expected from others in the same field.
And its results for the 1961-62 year
indicate that overall returns should not
be as bad as some prophets of gloom
have forecast.
The company has always shown itself
to be conservatively run, but yet a
prolific source of benefits to share-
holders.
It began as a family concern last
century and converted to a company
styled Robert C. Swan and Co. Ltd in
1900. Its name was changed to the
present one in 1919.
Public listing was granted in 1935
when capital was £150,000, including
£25,000 in prefs. Before the war three
par issues were made. Between 1949
and 1961 there were seven share issues
-—one bonus (one-for-two in 1951), and
six cash including three at a premium.
The last one, made soon after the
credit squeeze, was relatively modest
(one-for-seven at a ss. premium) and
lifted paid up capital to £830,055 in-
cluding the £25,000 in preference
shares.
The company did not have the full
use of these funds until the end of the
1960-61 year. Most of the new funds
were channelled into the construction of
extensions to the Wollongong warehouse,
giving it an additional 7000 square feet
of floor space. In addition, loading
facilities were improved and parking
space was provided for at least 50 cars.
The additional floor space has enabled
an extra department to be established.
Head office of the company is in
Sydney, but it also operates in the
suburbs of Hurstville, Parramatta and
Chatswood as well as Wollongong.
Freehold appears in the books at
£431,297 but on a 1951 valuation
with additions at cost. Market value is
considerably in excess of this figure.
Requirements of the new Companies
Act have brought to light very little
additional information. The only
apparent change is in investments a
comparatively minor section where
shares held in listed companies, although
in the books at £lOOO, have a market
value of only £3OO. Shares in unlisted
companies valued at £6350, returned
£265 during 1961-62.
Reflecting the slowness in business
during the 12 months, stocks (at lower
of cost or market value) moved up from
£717,259 to £742,890. Trade debtors
fell from £499,077 to £480,987.
Despite this, liquidity was maintained
with £lOO,OOO in short-term bank
deposits and a small amount in ready
cash.
Parallelling the rise in stocks, creditors
rose from £250,464 to £306,390,
while £17,178 was obtained from the
bank.
Despite a continued setback to the
building industry generally—home build-
ing, the company’s main source of
revenue fell 20 p.c. during the year
profit showed only an 8 p.c. decline and
still gave a reasonable cover on the
higher capital employed.
The result was £100,747, compared
with £109,124 in 1960-61 and a record
£136,850 in 1959-60.
The latest result was after what seems
an understated £58,600 for taxation
compared with a similarly conservative
£68,000 in 1960-61. Depreciation at
£9699 (£10,418 in 1960-61) also
seems low considering the extensions
made during the year and suggsts that
some “bolstering” of the profit may have
occurred.
Nevertheless a 12.3 p.c. earning rate
on the higher capital employed is a
satisfactory result considering the year’s
difficulties, and compares with 15.1 p.c.
the previous year and 19.2 p.c. in 1959-
60.
Apparently the result was better than
directors expected, for after cutting the
interim payment to 4 p.c., they lifted
the final to 5 p.c. making a 9 p.c. for
the year. In the six previous years
dividend was 10 p.c. except for 12J p.c.
paid in 1959-60.
The latest payment, with the 6 p.c.
preference charge absorbing £ 1500,
takes <£73,955 leaving £26,791 to be
carried forward in reserves.
At balance date these stood at
£538,897, including £250,000 in
general, £77,371 in capital and the
remainder in surplus profits. This gives
the preference shares an assets backing
of £54 15s. 2d. for each 20s. unit and
the 20s. ordinaries a backing of 335. sd.
Directors are confident of a pick-lip
in the building industry from which the
company would be one of the first to
benefit. Although they make no fore-
cast of when this is likely to occur
except in the “near future”, official
figures already bear them out.
During July the number of new houses
and flats approved in New South Wales
showed a substantial increase to set the
best figures, numerically, since Novem-
ber, 1960. The value of the new
approvals was also the best since
October, 1960.
The shares have lately been selling
around 28s. 3d. to show a dividend yield
of 6.4 p.c. and an earnings yield
of 8.7 p.c. and at this price look attrac-
tive. The prefs. last sold about 17s. 6d.
The pick-up in home building can
mean only one thing for Swans a
higher profit, earning rate and the
probability of an increased dividend.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £’ooo
May 31 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 1126 1201 1292 1300 1339
Less current
liabilities 467 480 514 405 477
Working capital .. 659 721 778 895 862
Fixed assets 409 441 449 452 498
Investments 6 7 7 7 9
1077 1169 1234 1354 1369
Represented by:
Pref. capital ... 25 25 25 25 28
Ord. capital 628 705 705 780 805
Reserves 424 439 504 549 539
1077 1169 1234 1354 1369
Depreciation 12 11 11 10 10
Taxation not known 64 85 68 59
Net earnings 91 105 137 109 101
Earnings for ords. . 89 103 135 107 99
Ord. dividends .... 56 70 88 71 72
Surplus 33 33 47 36 27
Earning rate p.c. . 15.8 15.0 19.2 15.1 12.3
Ord. div. rate p.c. . 10 10 12V 2 10 9
Div. yield (a) 5.9 5.2 5.1 5.2 6.4
High price (b) .... 35/4>/ 2 40/- 53/- 41/6 36/-
Low price lb) 29/- 32/6 41/- 31/- 27/6
(a) End of August, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
SPECIALTY PRESS LTD
OVERPRICED PRINTER
old American custom of sending
greeting cards with printed messages
in lieu of handwritten notes has be-
come very much accepted here since
quality cards became available. One
might deplore the departure of old-
fashioned courtesy and the sincerity of
a personal message, but not the share-
holders of Specialty Press Ltd, of Mel-
bourne.
That company entered the field of
special stationery and greeting cards in
1956. The original business was con-
cerned with a wide range of printing,
including cartons and packages. Photo-
plates P'ty Ltd (which is half-owned by


WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed cr unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. W. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road,
Melbourne.
Telephone: 51-6243
Est. 1939
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street. Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone. BW 5721
Telegrams and Cables:
‘LAG RAM.” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members <>l the Sydney Stork Exchange
Delfirt House
16 O’Connell St.. Sydney
25-5911 (2(1 lines)
Prudential Building
150 Queer St Melbourne
67-5957 (7 lines)
43 Northbourne Ave.,
City, Canberra, A.C.T.
4 0365-66
Telegram.- ana Cables.
‘Rosdale’ Svrlnev Melbourne
or Wollnni'one
A. L. NEVITI. DRAPER & CO.
4 L NKVITT. 4 C DRAPER.
N W C DRAPER
(Members 01 Hnsbant Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor.
The National Mutual Life Building.
297 Queen Street Brisbane.
Telegraphir Address - “NEVITTCO”
Phone. 31-2761 P.O BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH.
i Denham Street. Phone 6089
THE UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Established 1862
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
J. W. Dunlop (Chairman), Sir Edward R.
Knox (Deputy-Chairman), R. J. V ears.
A. Murray Jones, Hugh Dixson D A. T.
Dickins, k. B. Myers, A. E. Stephen.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances
of every description.
J. O. LEWIS, General Manager.
Specialty) operate as photographic and
photo litho printing plate-makers. A
wholly-owned subsidiary, Australian
Digest Pty Ltd publishes “The Digest of
World Reading.” The group handles the
advertising for J. C. Williamson publi-
cations and Theatre screens.
The company achieved stock ex-
change listing in 1951. In 1959 it issued
100,000 7 p.c. convertible unsecured 10s.
notes to shareholders, and raised £lOO,-
000 in 8 p.c. registered unsecured notes.
A further £50,000 in 8 p.c. notes was
obtained last October to fortify the
working capital position.
Notwithstanding the adverse econ-
omic conditions and keen competition,
turnover and profits made further
gains in the latest year to June 30. The
operating profit rose from £70,329 to
£84,450, after higher tax bu 4 - lower de-
preciation.
Sales in 1960-61 had been reported
as considerably higher than in the pre-
ceding year, but keener competition and
higher costs were reflected in a reduced
profit percentage on turnover.
The usual I2i p.c. dividend, includ-
ing 2i p.c. bonus, was distributed to
ordinary shareholders.
The company has the stamp of good
management, but its financial structure
looks rather inflexible. The latest interest
commitment of almost £30,000 could
be burdensome if trading conditions were
only temporarily adverse. The 7 p.c.
notes convert to ordinary shares on June
30, 1964, but even so the other notes
and a £186,500 mortgage on freehold
property seriously affect the sharehold-
ers’ equity in the business.
The 10s. ordinary shares, supported
by 275. 9d. of net tangible assets, re-
cently found a market at 355. 3d. to
yield 3.6 p.c., which seems excessively
optimistic. A seller of the convertible
notes at 335. 3d last week found no
takers.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £’ooo
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 301 488 452 635 684
less current liabilities 190 224 333 344 264
Working capital 111 264 119 291 420
Investments 13 4 4 1 1
Fixed assets 608 632 951 733 705
Deferred assets 12 12 11
Total capital 732 900 1086 1037 1137
Represented by:
Loan capital 100 222 400 338 386
Pref. capital 50 50 50 50 50
Ord. capital 243 250 252 252 252
Reserves 339 378 384 397 449
732 900 1086 1037 1137
Depreciation 29 33 38 61 52
Taxation 37 45 45 46 53
Net Earnings 64 73 66 70 84
Earn, for ordinaries 61 70 63 67 81
Ord. dividends 30 31 32 32 32
Surplus 31 39 31 35 49
Earnings p.c. 25.2 29.4 25.3 26.9 32.5
Dividend p.c. 12V4 1214 1214 1214 1214
Dividend yield (a) 5.0 3.6 4.0
High price (b) 16/1 16/3 17/4 17/4 32/7
Low price ibi 14/9 15/9 16/3 16/9 28/5
fa) End of September, month accounts presented,
(b) Previous calendar year.
HARDIE HOLDINGS LTD
KEY TO THE HARDIE GROUP
As an investment company, Hardie
** Holdings Ltd is of only derivative
interest to the market. It was formed
in May 1954 to acquire the holdings of
a private company in James Hardie
Asbestos Ltd and Hardie Rubber Co
Ltd.
The investment portfolio at last
balance date, June 30, was 1,553,734
£1 stock units in James Hardie Asbestos
Ltd (47 p.c. of its issued capital) 894,-
370 ss. shares in Hardie Trading Ltd
(25 p.c.), 572,669 ss. ordinary shares
and 130,620 ss. 6i p.c. preference shares
and 44,623 10s. convertible 6} p.c. notes
in H. C. Sleigh Ltd, 667,200 ss. stock
units in Mercantile Credits Ltd (32 p.c.)
and 44,000 ss. shares in Kangaroo Pet-
roleum Holdings Ltd.
These investments appeared in the
books at £3,254,141, at revaluation
June 28, 1960 with subsequent additions
at cost. They had a market value at bal-
ance date of £9,490,218. This repre-
sents 90s. per 20s. issued share of Hardie
Holdings, and two months later, the
position is very much the same.
The shareholdings in Kangaroo Pet-
roleum has since been handed over to
H. C. Sleigh in return for 26,400 Sleigh
shares.
If the market value of Hardie Hold-
ings’ investments related to its issued
capital slips too far out of line with
the price of Hardie Holdings shares, it
could afford a wonderful takeover oppor-
tunity to anyone interested in James
Hardie Asbestos. Turner and Newall,
the world’s largest asbestos group, was
reputed to be thinking along these lines
some time ago. Hardie Holdings is the
key to the whole Hardie group.
ACCOUNT SUMMARIES £’ooo
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1952
Current assets 136 85 101 62 125
less current liabilities 68 73 81 112 110
Working capital 68 12 20 —5O 15
Investments 2465 2549 2611 3297 3254
Fixed assets 65 65 65 65 65
Total capital 2598 2626 2696 3312 3334
Represented by:
Capital 1506 1506 1506 2108 2108
Reserves 1092 1120 1190 1204 1226
2598 2626 2696 3312 3334
Net Revenue 158 160 223 228 226
Taxation 3 2 3 1
Net Profit 155 160 221 225 225
Dividend 120 135 151 211 211
Surplus 35 25 70 14 14
Earning p.c. 10.3 10.7 14.7 10.7 10.7
Dividend p.c. 8 9 10 10 10
Dividend yield p.c. (a) 3.9 3.2 2.9 2.7
High price (b) 40/ 42/6 70/ 5/5/ 78/
Low price (bj 34/10V2 38/ 41/6 57/ 58/6
(a) End of September, month accounts present-
ed.
(b) Previous calendar year.


Prices —
Par
Last
Div.
Div.
Earn.
Earn.
Company
Value
Sale
17/8/62
24/8/62
Rate
YiSld
Rate
Yield
1961
P.c.
PJ>-
p.C.
P/c.
Amalgamated Chemicals
5/
14/3
18/2
18/1
12 Mr
i
21.4
f.9
A.W.A
5/
20/41/2
20/
20/
14
3/5
22
5.1
Ampol
5/
11/4
11/10
12/
14
3.8
19
7.9
A.R.C
..
10/
46/3
47/
47/
15
3.2
29.7
6.4
Associated Pulp
• •
20/
29/3
30/
29/6
—
—
13.6
9.2
Aust. Chemicals ..
• •
10/
30/4 Mr
23/9
23/6
12Va
5.3
21.5
9.1
AC.I.
20/
72/6
63/6
64/
8-1/3
2.6
14.5
4.6
Aust. Guarantee ..
i
5/
14/
13/8
13/6 Mr
15
5.6
19
6.7
Aust. Gypsum
5/
14/3
14/4
14/4
10
3.5
15.9
5.1
A.P.M.
20/
25/3
23/3
23/2
8-1/3
7
11.9
10.2
Bank N.S.W. .
£20
£34
£401/4
£40M 4
9
4.5
12.2
6.1
Bitumen and Oil ..
5/
24/
23/3
23/6
17 VSs
3.7
32
5.5
Blue Metal Ind. ,
M
5/
22/7 Mr
21/9
21/6
15
3.5
27.6
6.5
Bradford Cotton ..
5/
7/6
6/6
6/9
10
7.4
11.2
8.2
British Tobacco ..
20/
25/
25/3
25/6
9
7.1
9.7
7.6
B.H.P.
20/
69/
55/3
54/6
6 y 4
2.3
13.7
7.1
Burns Philp
20/
91/
99/6
99/
10
2
18.6
3.7
C.S.R
20/
£5914 a
48/5
48/3
9Va
4
14.8
6.2
C.A.G.A.
..
5/
11/3
10/9
10/5
10
4.8
12.4
6
C.I.G.
20/
£5
95/
93/
11
2.4
25.3
5.4
Commercial Union
• • • •
5/
19/3
20/3
20/1
6 Ms
1.6
18.4
4.6
Concrete Ind.
.. • •
5/
15/1 V a
13/10
13/9
10
3.7
16.6
6.1
Cox Bros
• • ••
5/
7/6
7/3
7/3
10
6.9
11.8
8.5
C.R.A. ..
5/
—
17/3
16/3
12
3.7
—
—
Custom Credit
. . M
5/
13/
11/4
10/1
15
6.9
18.2
8.3
Cyclone
- T ,
10/
26/
20/9
20/
10
5
17.7
8.8
Dalgety-N.Z. Loan
25/
36/
36/
8
5.4
13.9
9
David Jones ..
5/
18/9
17/3
17/9
12 Va
3.5
28.7
6.8
Drug Houses
20/
69/
69/6
70/
XIV*
3.2
17.7
5.3
Dunlop Rubber
20/
35/
41/6
41/9
10
4.8
16
7.7
Elder Smith
• • • .
12/
23/9
24/11
24/11
10
4.8
12.6
6
Electronic “B”
10/
13/3
17/7
16/11
121/ 2
7.4
—
—
Email . .
5/
7/6
7/10
7/7
10
6.6
11
6.2
E.Z. Ind
10/
12/11
12 8
12/6
10
8
12.4
10
Felt and Textiles ..
5/
6/11
7/8
7/8
10
6.5
13.9
9.2
G. J. Coles
5/
13/6
13/3
13/4
11
3.9
15.1
5.5
Goldsbrough
20/
28/6
32/
32/
8
5
12.6
7.8
H. C. Sleigh ..
5/
11/
11/2
11/
12 Va
5.6
13.4
6.1
Henry Jones .. ..
..
20/
80/
78/6
76/9
10
2.6
28.6
7.4
H. G. Palmer .. ,,
5/
15/6
17/
1611
12 Va
3.7
33.4
9.8
Howard Smith
20/
54/
47/
46/6
10
4.3
13.6
4.3
Humes
M
20/
70/6
75/6
76/6
14
3.6
24.6
6.4
I.AC
• t
5/
13/4
13/10
14/1
11-2/3
6
20.6
7
I.C.I.A.N.Z
20/
38/
40/
38/6
7
3.6
9.7
4.4
J. Gadsden
10/
15/3
17/9
18/
8
4.4
10.4
5.7
Kandos Cement
5/
—
19/9
19/
12 M2
3.2
13.5
3.5
Kelvinator ..
• • • •
5/
18/3
17/9
18/
15
4.1
28.6
7.9
Lend Lease ..
• •
5/
20/
14/9xR
14/11
10
3.3
21.5
7.1
L. J. Hooker ..
5/
7/
4/
3/7 Mr
1.1*
1.5
Mercantile Credits
5/
8/8
9/6
9/6
12 M2
5.3
14.9
8.8
McPhersons
20/
47/
38/6
38/6
8-1/3
4.3
12.4
5.8
Minster
10/
62/
74/6
74/
20
2.7
40.4
5.4
Moulded Products ..
5/
13/2
14/9
14/8
14
4.8
17.8
6
Mt. Isa Mines
5/
71/6
68/3
67/6
25
1.8
62.8
4.7
Mutual Acceptance
• •
5/
8/10
10/7
10/10
15
7
22.5
10
Myer ...
• • • •
5/
29/
31/
30/9
16-2/3
2.7
28.3
4.7
National Consolidated
, ,
5/
27/
26/3
26/
20
4
35.3
7
Olympic Industries
. .
5/
7/7
10/1
10/7
10
4.7
16.2
7.6
Peters (Vic.) .. ..
Petrochemical
2/
20/
8/6
26/
8/
27/6
8/1
21 /3
15
6
3.7
4.4
18.9
5.9
4.7
4.3
R.M. Concrete
Reid Murray .. ..
5/
5/
17/41/2
8/3
- 16/5
3/5
15/10
3/1
12 Mr
3.9
22.9
9.4
7.2
15.1
Repco ..
Rothmans
Thiess .. ,,
Tooth .. ..
5/
20/
12/5
87/6
14/
73/
14/4
72/6
11-2/3
17 M2
3.4
4.8
18.8
33.1
6.2
9.1
5/
20/
13/
69/
11/2
69/
11/
69/3
12 V 2
13 Mr
5.6
3.9
14.4
15.9
4.8
4.3
Union Carbide
20/
80/
53/6
56/3
10
3.5
15,9
5.6
Waltons
5/
13/8
14/3
14/3
12 M2
4.3
19.7
6.9
Woolworths
• •
5/
15/4
13/8xR
13/8
12
4.4
15.4
5.6
Wormald
W R. Carpenter
5/
5/
11/10
30/
11/9
34/
11/11
33/9
10
15
4.2
2.2
14.2
35.1
6.6
5.4
• Estimated on last half-year’s profit
xR Ex rights
xD Ex dividend
s Seller
T Mia price,
a Before share split
b Buyer
Banks
etc
Other
finance
Pastoral
Retailers
Base
Metals
All
Ords.*
Industrials
December 22. 1961
.. 137.37
541.02
182.31
389.15
604.15
299.07
318 74
17,
iyt)2 .
.. 157.95
561.17
177.70
367.60
543.33
290.23
303 56
20,
1962 .
.. 158.39
563.75
177.84
367.12
534.42
290.82
304 39
August
21,
1962 .
.. 157.80
561.95
177.84
365.90
528.38
290.62
303 57
August
22,
1962 .
.. 157.59
563.41
178.04
364.33
527.75
288.98
302.26
23,
1962
.. 157.51
563.13
177.92
364.11
533.82
290.02
303 83
August
24,
1962 .
.. 157.79
563.75
♦Peak
177.90 365.89
348.46 September 16, 1960
541.77
290.42
304.13
AVERAGE
YIELD
ON 100 ORDINARY SHARES
—50 Leading
50 Othei
Stocks—
Random-^
rftOCKS
Sample
uiv Yield Earn Yield
Div yield Earn
Yield
December 22, 1961
August 17, 1962
August 20, 1962
August 21, 1962
August 22, 1962
August 23, 1962
August 24, 1962
* *
4.26
4.42
4.40
4.41
4.43
4.44
4.44
6.13
6.42
6.39
6.33
6.36
6.36
6.36
5.30
5.19
5.16
5.16
5.18
5.17
5.17
7.46
2.20
2.10
2.14
2.40
2.38
2.40
LEADING SHARE PRICES
SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE INDICES
MELBOURNE STOCK EXCHANGE
MARKETS BARELY
FIRMER
all accounts a bevy of London
A stockbrokers has decided that the
times warrant more cheer and optimism,
and their circulars are attesting to this
refreshing mood. Wall Street, too, has
taken the President’s delay of crash
tactics with unexpected aplomb. Not
so many deleterious influences are
evident to seep into our local markets.
Yet a dubious and hesitant note still
continues to be plucked from the
desultory Australian air. Most of our
brokers and advisers reflect it. So the
buying advice conveyed to clients
appears anything but vigorous.
A rather repetitious tone has emerged
from this particular commentary over
recent weeks when will the buying
start? It received an almost perfect
expression from one Sydney broker’s
circular last week: “In theory a recovery
in the sharemarket is imminent. In
practise there has not been the slightest
indication”.
That same source goes on to lament
the difficulty of selecting growth stocks
which may also be likely to resist the
market’s general downward trend. Most
investors as well are seized of this
puzzle and in the meantime resist any
generous buying impulse.
For not even the old leaders can com-
mand steady respect and the past few
days have seen what incipient firmness
does exist develop mostly away from
the leader complex. Even Mauri Bros’
fairly commendable and first consoli-
dated result had to be swallowed after
deep-level analysis. The shares slipped
back.
A very distinguished roll-call answered
the tune of decline last week: BHP,
Commonwealth Industrial Gases, Henry
Jones, ICI and the old reliable Minster.
Further to deck this array, it has to be
reported that turnovers and ranges re-
main rather narrow, to put it at best.
And the few prominences that rank for
rises seem to be selected almost at
random: ACI, Bitumen and Oil (a mere
creep after a good profit), Humes and
Olympic Industries.
Not much encouragement there, you
may well retort. But the market did
manage a spasm of genuine interest by
a spot of active stagging of R. W. Miller.
It will be interesting to see how long
the market pays attention to a promising
stock put so weli in front of its nose.
Miller’s ss. shares, placed at 12s. 6d.,
came on at 18s. Prices were actually
forced down to 16s 6d., yet were able to
make a recovery close to first levels.


p
Incorporated in N.S.W. 1951
£750,000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
SUV3ASUOJ
wnNNVtiad
OR BJ% PER ANNUM FOR 10 A EARS
Trustees for Debenture Stock Holders: The M.L.C. Nominees Limited
Prospectus containing application forms can be obtained from:
• Any branch of the National Bank of Australasia in N.S.W. and
Canberra.
• Stocks & Holdings Limited, 329 George Street, Sydney. 8X3041.
• Any member of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
Underwritten by:
J. and J. NORTH
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Kindersley House,
20 O’Connell Street and
Sydney. 25-6511.
57 Hunter Street,
Newcastle. 84645.
Applications must be made on the application form attached to the Prospectus.
"OUTSTANDING WORK" WINS HIGH AWARD
FOR AGENCY
The 1962 award for “a consistently
high standard of advertising” given
last week to Goldberg Advertising (Aust.)
Pty Ltd by the Australian Commercial
and Industrial Artists’ Association was
a fitting climax to the agency’s service on
behalf of Italian airline, Alitalia, and re-
calls the extraordinary hustle and bustle
that marked the launching of Alitalia’s
service at Sydney’s Mascot airport on
June 16 last year.
For that event Alitalia hired the
Goldberg Agency on a Friday, asked for
artist's “roughs” by the Monday, and
launched its advertising campaign that
same week. There were only ten days
to the inaugural flight, but the campaign,
mainly full-page ads. in Sydney and
Melbourne dailies, ate up £14,000.
Goldberg’s have done some pretty
smart advertising campaigns in the past—
notably for the Federal Government
during the hectic days of World War II
—and quite obviously have not lost their
“know-how” and efficiency over the in-
tervening years.
Alitalia didn’t spare other expense in
launching the air service. It brought 120
guests from Rome and from stops en
route for a week in Australia; organised
a banquet for 200 at £3 10s. a head:
two other dinners which cost <£1500; a
trip to Surfers’ Paradise and made pre-
sentations of Kangaroo-leather folders
to all guests. At the same time 46 Aus-
tralians were guests of Alitalia in Italy.
Total cost was about £70,000 —and it
paid off, for the service was booked out
for a long time.
The ACIAA award citation applauded
Goldberg’s work on behalf of Alitalia
this year for “the inspiration and en-
couragement given by it which resulted
in an outstanding contribution to Aus-
tralian advertising and graphic arts”.
Alitalia’s success in this award, through
Goldberg’s, will be welcomed by most
advertising experts.
Last year the award was shared by the
Australian Wool Bureau and the Shell
Co. of Australia.
The Department of Trade won the
ACIAA 1962 special award, which was
made not for any one piece of artwork,
but for outstanding promotion in the
form of advertising, publications, pack-
aging and exhibitions to support Aus-
tralia’s exports programme.
The awards were presented at a lunch-
eon at the Melbourne Chevron Hotel on
August 23.
MARKETING SYMPOSIUM
DRAWS BIG AUDIENCE
npHE one-day marketing symposium,
A organised by the Australian Associa-
tion of National Advertisers and the In-
stitute of Sales Management at Monash
University, Melbourne, on August 23,
proved that top-line speakers will always
draw good audiences — the organisers
had to turn away dozens of applicants
because accommodation at the University
was insufficient.
This was the first occasion that the
new Monash University had opened its
doors for a commercial study group.
“Marketing and all its implications must
have arrived in the eyes of the acade-
micians,” said Mr John Bowden, Fed-
eral director of the A.A.N.A.
The symposium was planned for the
“discussion of problem areas between
management and marketing executives”,
and the addresses by experts were of a
high order.
The address by Mr Ron Irish, chair-
man of Rothmans of Pall Mall (Aust.)
Ltd, on “Establishing a new market —
What management expects of market-
ing” was a highlight, as well it might
have been in view of his company’s re-
markable debut in Australia a few short
years ago.
And one couldn’t but applaud the
candid exposition by Mr Harper Wilson,
managing director of U.S.P.-Benson, of
the role of the agency in the marketing
function.
It’s a pity that some of the addresses
and the resultant discussions could not
be made available for study by adver-
tising and marketing executives through-
out Australia.


THE MAN
ON THE
LAND
WOOL AND CLOSER
SETTLEMENT
By M. H. ELLIS
Ane of the factors in Australian deve-
lopment which is most needed at
present is a review of land tenures and
land policy to unify the systems of the
States and turn them into an Australian
whole.
Wool is a vital national product. It is
produced all over Australia. It is taxed
nationally. It is sold under a national
system. It is to be controlled now by a
national authority. Yet in each State it
is subjected to a different set of circum-
stances, with different system of land
tenure, different economic set-ups accord-
ing to the nature of water supply, trans-
port, land taxation, proportion of land
susceptible to pasture improvement.
Land policy is the old man of the
sea in wool and especially the leasehold
system, for this renders the holder of a
lease in a very large proportion of cases,
reluctant to improve or renew improve-
ments in direct ratio to the period his
lease still has to run. Investments are
built on sand without security as to rental
and renewals. Values are influenced by
doubt and can be depreciated by rumor
or Government attitude as a lease runs
out.
Sir William Payne in his report (1959)
as the Land Settlement Advisory Com-
missioner in Queensland, in which virtu-
ally all sheep land is leased Crown Land,
raised the question, holding as vital “to
holders of leasehold land, security of
tenure, continuity of tenure, or a lease of
such length as will permit work to be
prudently done and capital to be in-
vested in adequately improving the land
and allow them to reap a fitting reward
for their efforts. They want an asset
that they can develop and sell, or hand
on to their children”.
He added that “that degree of security
of tenure should always be granted by
the State to its tenants. Anything less is
neither business nor sense.”
But in Queensland and the Northern
Territory to a major degree that kind of
tenure is not available. In its best form
it is represented by private ownership.
The Commonwealth Rural Reconstruc-
tion Commission recommended private
ownership adding that ownership, how-
ever, should be subject to such condi-
tions, reservations and obligations as
were in the interests of the efficient use
of land both for productive and social
purposes.
It recommended that Crown leasehold
in future be restricted to areas set aside
for public purposes under public control,
and that existing Crown leasehold tenures
be reviewed to provide for conversion to
private ownership by compounding the
annual rent payable.
The leasehold system especially the
pastoral leasehold system was fully justi-
fiable while plentiful land was dealt out
—virtually pro tempore —to owners who
needed little capital, who took great risks
through the absence of public transport
and artificial water supply, and who had
nothing to provide but their flocks, a
shearing shed and mustering outfit and a
few cheaply paid hands.
T inked, however, with closer settlement,
which calls for large investment
of capital on plant, machinery, sheep,
award labor and amenities, water supply
and artificial pastures, not to mention
close subdivisional fencing and a farm
economy as intensive as that of a dairy
farm or more so, the leasehold system
can be too much a risk in capital invest-
ment.
The investment of £lO per acre in
improvements on a sub-division block
in south western Queensland needs a lot
of courage in a freeholder, the courage
of a lion when it comes to putting it
into leasehold especially in a drought
area or one which calls for the clearing
off of timber.
Of course, the main consideration in
public land policy is, as the Common-
wealth Rural Reconstruction Commission
declared “national efficiency of produc-
tion from the land”, which involves con-
servation of the land, prevention of
erosion, improvement and maintenance
of soil fertility. But it also should provide
for “a satisfactory basis of home life for
the producer.”
Low and stable cost of production in
wool over long terms is much more im-
portant than it is to most major Aus-
tralian industries, because wool is the
one industry which depends almost enti-
rely on export. It is therefore, entirely
dependent for sale and price on overseas
economic considerations while depending
for its cost structure on Australian con-
ditions based on an entirely different
set of industrial values from the countries
in which it finds its markets.
Not even 10 p.c. of Australian wool
is sold for Australian use, so that of the
two factors which determine the fate of
wool only one, costs, is under Australian
control and subject to Australian con-
ditions; but the other, international
prices, is out of Australian control. Yet
the two must be correlated and neither
the leasehold nor the closer settlement
system helps in this operation.
Tf there were anything in the old delu-
sion that subdivision of large sheep
properties in time would lead to the
settlement of considerable populations on
the land there still might be a good
deal to be said for retention of the
land on leasehold against future subdivi-
sion to meet the needs of a nation of
small farmers.
But the hope of population through
development of pastoral and agricultural
land has faded out of existence. Rural
populations tend to decrease, despite
closer settlement. The shearer does not
settle. He moves from shed to shed and
gets back to his seaside house or city
home as quickly as he can, if he does
not work in some other seasonal occupa-
tion as well as wool. Motor roads are
actually wiping out pastoral towns in
conjunction with railways. The trade
that used to tend to make local wealth
goes to the cities.
Moreover, closer settlement and lease-
hold have produced another effect. The
vast area under leasehold restricts the
quantity of available freehold land
especially in areas immanageable by
relatively small investors.
This restriction, since new men prefer
leasehold to freehold where heavy in-
vestment is to be involved, has the
effect of building up the value of freehold
land. And high land values dictate high
stocking and are a temptation to over-
stocking. They also tempt to over-invest-
ment on water supply, on pasture im-
provement with a view to “increasing
carrying capacity”.
All round, they put a high burden on
the land, the sheep and the owner. They
create uneven conditions and they tend
towards mixed farming, which is not
always good farming and not always
good for the improvement of stock.
Mr G. D’A. Chislett is a detailed
pamphlet on the Australian Grazing
Industry issued in 1960 stated the start-


ling fact that on the latest figures then
available over 40 per cent, of Australia’s
sheep were run on mixed farms. This
shows how devastating the drift has been
from the merino ideal towards the cross-
bred and dual-purpose animal. Only 30
per cent (and a falling proportion) of the
Commonwealth’s sheep when he exam-
ined the position were grazed under the
conditions ideal for production of merino
types —grazing on extensive natural pas-
tures. Four-fifths of the 50,000 holdings
growing wheat carried sheep in 1955-6
and 58,000 holdings carried both sheep
and beef cattle.
Improvements for fat cattle raising are
not suitable for sheep raising. Fat lamb
raising isn’t a very hopeful industry on
existing potential scale. The pastures and
subdivision etc. suitable for it are not
suitable for fine wool breeding. So that
all round we see farmers desperately com-
promising on holdings too dear in capital
cost, or too small, or too uncertain in
tenure to be payable w'hen used for a
specific single purpose.
On farms on which land prices are
inflated, especially, carrying capacity is
pushed to the limit, the grazing area per
sheep in constricted so as to set apart
land for a few' doddies. Costs per animal
go up without proper costing to deter-
mine whether the increase is economic
and profit earning.
It is symptomatic of the position that
the greatest increases of sheep numbers
have been taking place in the non-
pastoral areas. In Queensland numbers
have scarcely increased at all. The nor
them State is the only one in which the
industry is almost wholly pastoral and
wholly on Crown leasehold.
When the Ryan-Theodore Government
initiated the policy of cutting up large
western sheep stations, picking the very
best of them and presenting them to
farmers under a lottery system, it was
held that this socialistic measure would
make the West and Central West blossom
like the rose and become a series of rich
communities of small wool farmers. All
that has resulted is debility.
The method of life in the great
Queensland sheep belt, overloaded with
improvements, uncertain about the future
and cursed by long droughts, might be
described as scratch-as-scratch-can. And
W'heat and cattle and sorghum-type
fodder crops are being pushed into
country which ought to be developing
the merino industry.
tytHE whole matter needs dealing with on
-*• a nationwide scale especially in view
of the rapid growth of flocks. Sheep
numbers in the next 15 years might quite
easily reach 250 millions. That is a possi-
bility which seems to call for long term
thinking, using some of the prinicples
adopted by the Commonwealth Wool
Commission, by the new Wool Authority
when it comes into existence.
And it is vital that this thinking should
be aimed to stabilise the industry, to
isolate it from the mixed farming and to
attract long term investment to produce
the most marketable wools.
MELBOURNE'S ROYAL SHOW
SETS MORE RECORDS
TI/lelbourne’s Royal Show, while still
trailing the Sydney Royal in atten-
dances, continues to set records year after
year. This year’s Show, September 20 to
29, will have record entries in more than
a score of sections. And there appears
every likelihood —given good weather —
that the Show will shatter last year’s
nine-day attendance record of 714,715.
The Melbourne Royal is increasingly
becoming a “horse, dog and sheep show.”
There are two reasons for this. One is
the firm policy of the Royal Agricultural
Society of Victoria to eschew the “fun
fair” type of show—at least to the extent
to which entertainment begins to edge
out animals.
Melbourne has its shooting galleries,
big wheels and Chief Little Wolf, but it is
low-key gaiety—strip-tease shows, horror
shows and doubtful “games of skill”—
that are officially barred.
In fact there is little at the Melbourne
Show that any could take exception to.
Perhaps the RAS councillors have gone
too far in their anxiety not to offend . . .
perhaps they have drained their “annual
exhibition” of some of the virility of the
traditional Australian A. and P. Show.
But if this be so, there remain many
people who don’t mind a Show without
fire ... a lot of people who may com-
plain “It’s just the same old Show” but
go along just the same. The RAS sets
the pattern . . . one of its councillors
hasn’t missed a show for the last 79
years!
Melbourne’s Showtown is suffering
from one of the problems which afflicts
most towns these days, however ... a
housing shortage. Each year more and
more sections have to be pruned of
hundreds of entries because there just
isn’t the accommodation. Too many
horses . . . too many cows . . . too many
pony clubs . . . too many of this and too
many of that. And even so the records
are piling up.
To name just a few. This year there
are 1350 sheep—Melbourne boasts the
world’s biggest display of British breed
sheep. There are new records in beef
cattle, wine, young farmers’ classes,
homecrafts, pigeons, ponies and horse
events, fruit-packing . . .
And it seems that Melbourne is be-
coming more doggy than ever. Last year
the Melbourne Royal’s dog show set a
new record with 2981 individual barking,
yapping and snapping pooches. This year
there will be an additional 100 of them!
There will be high-jumping horses on
the main arena. Tug o’ wars are to be re-
introduced in the woodchop arena (be-
tween the woodchops, of course) and
there will be chariot racing as well as
other diversions.
And- —if past shows are any guide—-
very nearly three-quarters of a million
Victorians will love every minute of it!
ALARM OVER
"DEATH WEED"
4 merica’s “death weed” . . . better
known as the poverty weed . . .
has appeared in a second Australian
State.
Until recently the only known infesta-
tion of poverty weed in Australia was a
half-acre patch in South Australia. This
patch was being kept under close con-
trol. But a 1-acre area of the tenacious,
costly weed has now been discovered
near Kcrang, in northern Victoria.
The Victorian Lands Department,
aware of the problem that poverty weed
has become in parts of the western
United States, is making a determined
effort to wipe out the infestation. The
department has appealed to all Victorian
farmers to report any weed which could
be poverty weed.
Poverty weed is a deep-rooted peren-
nial, readily spread by cultivation. It
seeds freely and occurs principally on
saline and alkaline soils, but is not
limited to them.
Jn America it has been found to com-
pete strongly with cereal crops with
disastrous effects on yield. Grazing
animals avoid the weed because of its
unpleasant smell.
Like many weeds, poverty weed is ex-
tremely difficult to kill. Mature plants
grow to a height of 6 inches to 24
inches. The leaves are i inch to fl-
inches long. The lower leaves occur
opposite each other on the stem, but
the upper leaves alternate along the
stem. The flower heads are small, green-
ish and drooping on short stalks.
The weed is also known as “death
weed” in California' —perhaps a better
name for Australian conditions, too, as
Victoria already has a poverty weed.


Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES —IN DIVORCE
TO GEORGE THEODORE PRATT late of
Auburn TAKE NOTICE that SISCA
DOROTHY > PRATT. has filed; a Petition for
Divorce No. 481 of 1961 on the ground of
adultery. If you wish to defend .you may
enter an Appearance in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney by the 23rd October, 1962, and
obtain a copv of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS.. S. T.. HODGE & CO., Solicitors
Of 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
Missing Friend
'The Union Trustee Company of Australio
Limited invites Robert Andrew Easton, last
heard of in Cunnamulla, Queensland, about
1908 or any of his relatives to communicate
with them by letter to their Office at 400
Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland, relative
to moneys due to him in a deceased's estate.
'lnformation is also sought as to the place
}f his death if he is not now living."
ifi
ill the year;round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth; Street, Sydney.' BM 2001.
People are talking
about the new
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick whichever method of
delivery you prefer.
For those desiring direct sub-
scription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/money
order for months subscription to
THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea) 1 year
£2 125.; y 2 year— £1 6s. Post free British
Dominions £3 6s. Other countries
£3 16s.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS Remit to Box 965
Wellington, N.Z. 1 year £2 12s. N.Z.
currency, V 2, year— £1 6s. (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? There are
two ways of doing it either through your newsagent
or by direct subscription. The form at left offers you
your choice of method of delivery. You may send us
your name and address and we will arrange for the
newsagent nearest you to deliver your copy of
THE BULLETIN each week and charge it to your account.
Or, if you prefer it, we will mail each week's copy
to your address by direct subscription.
Tine
Bulletin
Incorporating The Australian Financial Times
DANGERS IN FARM
MACHINES
A lthough safety regulations are strictlv
policed in factories, less supervision
is maintained on farms, where risks
among mobile machines are quite as
great. Each year, it is estimated, 50
people throughout Australia die in tractoi
accidents alone, and countless man
hours are lost.
The use of outriggers for hillside work
and better brakes make tractors safer,
but the machines they draw will always
be potentially lethal in the hands of
those who scorn precautions. There are
still those who think safety guards an un-
necessary nuisance.
Mechanised farming will continue to
be dangerous and its dangers aggravated
by farm conditions involving long hours
and unpleasant weather until the law,
manufacturers and experienced farmers
drive home to all the need to be safety-
conscious, to realise all machinery is
potentially dangerous.
Any man who allows young children
to ride with him on a tractor drawing,
say, a disc cultivator, takes the un-
warranted risk of a child slipping among
the churning discs below. In a lesser
degree, a man who discards his power-
take-off guard and, to save a few seconds
leaves the power-take-off running at 500
revolutions per minute, while he clears
a block in the mower, risks losing at leas
a finger.
Power saws are also highly dangerous
even though an old acquaintance boasted
with truth, that he had used a circulai
saw for 36 years and never lost a finger
Too many others, less careful or less
lucky, have lost lingers and even hands
Increasing use of electric power on
farms has brought new dangers. Those
32-volt plants installed by farm handy-
men gave the amateur who fiddled with
the wiring only negligible shocks. Quite
a different proposition is the 240-volt a.c
power supplied by public utilities like
Victoria’s State Electricity Commission
This high voltage is safe only if all
wiring is up to standard, all machines
are properly wired, and any defective
wiring is replaced by a qualified elec
trician. Amateur fiddling can be fatal.
Even more potentially dangerous are
ageing radio and television sets of the
“transformerless” type so advocated by
their salesmen. These become death traps
for any handyman who takes off the
back to remove mice, deals with a missing
knob, or touches an exposed metal shaft,
especially if he should lean on the sink
while coping with the job.
MARIEL LEE


Feiffer
HE?, 5/6 THIS !E> THE
TELEPHONE COMPAUM
BUslk)Ess OFFICE.
MAM I BE OF
HELP ?
m-tt? Utf
TO RERT A
PLACE -TO
LIVE.
I'M OORRHSIR.WE
ART MOT A REAL
BTATE COMPAMM.
we ARE A
TEIEPHOUE
COMPAIUq.
m THAT? WHAT l
WAMT TO REMT- A
TELEPHONE BOOTH-
A SIDEWALK
telephone
BOOTH.
cm w receive wr
CAM INDOORS SIR?
we ha % many
ATTRACTIVE VARI' COLO&P
PRIVATE PWOMG-
noboph ei/ee c*uf> me
woo&t peopte THINK I'M
Al-COF [ I b\% TH£ IPRON6
iMpßfwi obi! if i e>m
coopev up in a ciosep apart-
ment, how torn ther ever knod
I'M OPEtJ To FRIENDSHIP?
m if i novep INTO
a pveiic reupuav.
boom -
ME6, I SET. mil, WUR
TELfPHOME COMPANY
WILL PO ALMOST
ADMTHIN6 TO MADE
modem, sic, but I
tOIO'T KMOU) IT WE
OAM r.
I?0«T w
WANT
Mf 1D
wm
FRIEND^
i DO MUM HOU'PE UJ LOCK,
SIR. WB HAPPEN V WE A
CHoice location w the
EAST SIXTIES. W
HAVE AM PO&S OR CHILP&N,
£0 400?
I four HAv£
ANYTHIN 6 f
THAT'S WHY
I |a)AUT A
reimoue
BOOTH f HOW
MUCH ?
THAT 10IU 0E TEW CEfOTS FOR THE
FIRST THREE MIUOTES AUP FIVE
CEIOTS FOR EACH SUCCEEPI/J6
Three Minutes - pips the usm
moioth's security iw api/auce.
IS THERE AKKTTHIU6 EESE f
wu ixjoomr kmio
Dime i cooio
rewt owe of rw6E
BWB AWPREP
MAIL Mitt
iiJoulp m?
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 708
ACROSS
I—Flora1 —Flora lands by automobile. (10)
s—Nipped behind nothing dead. (4)
9 —Blue mat I'm changing can’t be changed. (9)
11— Divert one of the artistic inspirations. (5)
12— When a possible catch reaches a fieldsman? (6, 8)
14—Penalty for borrowing the chopped tree isn’t to
bury time ahead of Perth and Adelaide. (8)
16—Hands and legs may be a character of Kipling's
box-office. (6)
18—Henry upset by unrefined rock in an Indian city.
(6)
20—Newshawk who suggests Henry is after money.
(8)
23—A tiger’s not iron, (anagram)
(14)
26 About to follow the con-
fused ether, but not here.
(5)
27 Caper linkage of points in
geological formation. (9)
28— After the post office takes
the short way. (4)
29 Shows cloth certainly
doesn’t like gifts given to
the Italian king. (10)
DOWN
1— Fur suitable for cold in
Cathay. (10)
2 A place from which to de-
fend a leg of mutton? (7)
3 Mexican detective shortly
goes to extremes. (5)
4 Scene I re-wrote for rela-
tives. (6)
6 Eucalypt which has depres-
sed a basis for teeth. (4, 3)
7 Muscle shown in the West.
(4)
8 — Father was a thief —did the
block, also. (8)
10—Be enclosing birds and
stupefy. (6)
13 —Put on those who throw
important races in Sydney.
15—Let-out line may need to be.
17—There’s wealth in this
banker named Dr H. C.
Coombs. (6)
19—They’re after catches, but
the runs come dreadfully.
(7)
21— Keynote piano altered a
reference to perfect living
conditions. (7)
22 Pitch marking just about
held in luggage. (6)
24 Credit’s marks from
teachers who don’t wish to
cross stock parasites. (5)
25 — Cork kitchenware is put up.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 707


. ■■ v»
m
W I
V,
4 ,#“■
,
■r
4r
V
' ■■....
mm ms»
H
m
pm*
\
Sr
/
s<i
4
; .
m 11
4
...4
><
LUXURIOUS APPOINTMENTS INCLUDE INDIVIDUAL FRONT SEATS AND LEATHER UPHOLST^qV
Announcing a luxury addition to the Holden range
THE
NEW
HOLDEN PREMIER
If you take pleasure in the possession of fine things, and if
you like driving for its own sake, then the Holden Premier
Sedan is for you. It is a completely new luxury addition to
the Holden range ... an exciting new concept in personal
motoring. This car gives you a special pride of ownership
with its elegant touches of distinction outside, its exception-
ally fine-styled interior, and its extra equipment for greater
driving satisfaction.
Holden Premier incorporates many luxury features as
standard equipment, including: Hydra-Matic* automatic
transmission; heater-demister; centrally mounted front seat
console; individual front seats; genuine top-grained leather up-
holstery, floor carpeting; centre arm rest for rear seat; Magic-
Mirror finish in new exclusive metallic colours; dual horns;
two-speed electric windshield wipers and windshield washer.
Ownership of the Holden* Premier Sedan is an experience
you should not deny yourself. It offers satisfaction and
pleasures far beyond mere transportation. So see your
Holden Dealer soon and accept his invitation to drive the
new Holden Premier Sedan.
*REGD.
PRICE £ 11: 95 PLUS TAX
YOU’RE ALWAYS FURTHER AHEAD WITH HOLDEN
AUSTRALIA'S OWN CAR
