

The Bulletin
20-PAGE FINANCE SECTION
MAY 5 ONE SHILLING
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
'Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper .
• SEX OFFENDERS
Professor Maddison on popular illusions
• THOSE A.B.C. SINNERS
An official reply
• THAT CERTAIN BOOK
Gavin Casey on Hemingway
• SCIENCE AT WORK
The Automation Revolution
ALBERT MONK
end of the road, top of the heap


SHOWA DENKO K.K.
Main Products
Ferrochrome, other ferroalloys, electrolytic iron;
Aluminium ingots, alloys, wire bars;
Artificial graphite electrodes, other carbonaceous
products;
Fused alumina, silicon carbide, other abrasive grains;
Petrochemicals, other organic and inorganic chemicals;
Ammonium sulphate, urea and other chemical
fertilizers;
Reactor materials, including graphite and heavy water.
FA
s®
ns
' iMT
3*
S 3
7*?>.
Products for progress
Serving industry and agriculture
around the world
r-'kr&i
Mil
/
m
Write for further information; general catalogue will be sent upon request
SHOWA DENKO K.K.
34, Shiba Miyamoto-cho, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
Cable Address: SECIC TOKYO


WHY- HERB E LUO IT QUIT page 6
“/ shouldn't have to give reasons
m
Albert Monk .. .. • • *■?
Slow Boat to Red China v, .. 1&
The Centre: She’ll Be Right .s 18
Sydney’s White Elephant .. 20
The Lights of Monaco .. .. 21
The New Djilas Affair .. ... 22
Castroism in Brazil ~ .. 24
Sex Offenders in Australia .. 2<6
A.B.CVs Official Reply .. .. 28
The War, by Miiovan Djilas .. 311
The Automation Revolution .. 33
iveepit Dam in Mothballs .. 53
That Certain Book .. 58
•
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
THIS AUSTRALIA • 6
OVERSEAS 21
MELBOURNE LETTER 25
FORUM •• •• 26
LETTERS • 28
SHORT STORY •• •• 30
SCIENCE AT WORK •• 33
WILDCAT- •• •• 34
MAN ON THE LAND 53
REVIEWS 55
FEIFFER - 56
RED PAGE •• 58
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
80-x 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol. 83
No. 4290
TOUGH DAYS AHEAD...
X HE Minister for Supply, Mr. A. Fairhall, hit the nail right on the head
when he warned last Monday that “our sheltered days are over and if
Australia is going to be pushed out of the nest, we had better learn to fly.”
The Minister for Trade, Mr. J. McEwen, is back from his desperate tour
of the United States, Britain and the European Common Market bloc.
Everywhere he went Mr McEwen fought with skill and vigor for the
future of Australia’s exporters. He could not have argued more forcibly.
He presented Australia’s predicament in clear and forthright terms. He
pointed cut the disastrous effect of Britain’s entry into the Common Market
will have on some worth of our exports, if adequate safeguards are
not provided. He made some constructive proposals and sensibly refrained
from making empty threats, appealing instead to political common sense
and reason. But the news he brought back was not encouraging.
There is no doubt that President Kennedy, the UK Government and
the six Common Market nations are now more directly aware of Austra-
lia’s difficult situation. Dr Westerman, now following up Mr McEwen’s
efforts at the current series of Common Market talks in Brussels, is
asking that Australia be guaranteed equal preference with Britain’s future
Common Market partners in the enlarged UK-West European market.
In simple terms, Dr Westerman asks that Australia be allowed
to continue her preferential position on the UK market up to the existing
volume of trade with some sensible margin for future growth. This could
be worked out under the existing provisions of the Treaty of Rome. There
were even earlier indications in leading West German and French papers
that such a solution would not be unacceptable to the E.E.C.
|—|OWEVER, despite Mr McEwen’s talks with President Kennedy fol-
lowed at that stage by a rather optimistic official communique—the
United States seems to be persuading the Common Market Governments to
take a much tougher line on Commonwealth preferences. The United States,
which has traditionally relied on high tariff walls to protect its own
economy, is opposed to any extension of the Imperial preferences
system or any system like it. The US seems to insist that Common Market
nations, especially the UK if she joins, should abandon direct economic ties
with countries and areas no matter how historic. In Washington Mr Mac-
millan has tried to warn the US against putting too much pressure on the
UK to join the Common Market on unfavorable terms.
One of the most irritating aspects of the whole business is that the
United States, after failing for several years to appreciate either the econ-
omic or political significance of the rapid emergence of the European
Economic Community, has suddenly decided that it must immediately
secure for itself an advantageous position in any future trade relations
with the Common Market group. This can really be done only at the
expense of third parties, such as Australia, which will suffer from any re-
ciprocal tariff reductions made by US and Western Europe. Any such
moves will have the inevitable effect of putting Australian goods at a dis-
advantage on both markets.
In the emergence of the Common Market the US is faced with the
appearance of a vast, new, potentially rich economic bloc. Understandably
it is determined to have a slice of the cake.
But it should think long and hard about the political and economic
effects of its Common Market actions on its smaller allies like Australia,


National
Notebook
"The Bulletin" Cover
T ast week’s cover painting—an abstract
of a steel mill by John Olsen —was a
success in more w'ays than one.
Within three hours of The Bulletin
going on sale last Thursday the original
painting had been bought by the Feder-
ated Ironworkers’ Association.
National Secretary Laurie Short saw
The Bulletin cover on a news stand on
his way to work. When he got to work
he looked at his own copy and within
minutes had contacted John Olsen and
arranged purchase of the original.
All of this was reported in the Press
but there was a sequel to the affair that
wasn’t. On Saturday morning, one of the
directors of a big steel mill in Newcastle
was gazing at his Bulletin and wonder-
ing if the original painting was for sale.
He then read in the Sydney “Daily
Telegraph” that the Ironworkers’ Associ-
ation had already bought it. Believing
that there is no time like the present he
rang Laurie Short in Sydney and offered
him double the amount the union had
paid for the painting.
“I told him nothing doing,” said Mr
Short, “in the first place 1 wanted the
painting for our union. In the second
place, if the painting was going to
appreciate that fast in value, the union
had a valuable piece of property on its
hands.”
Papua and the Dutch Queen
/”Vne of the Australian Government’s
assumptions in the Dutch-lndonesian
dispute over West New Guinea is that
New Guineans on the Australian side of
the border couldn't care less what hap-
pened to their Melanesian brothers on
the others side.
The assumption is wrong.
With considerable political sophistica-
tion the Hanuabada Local Government
Council (just outside Port Moresby)
passed a special resolution on 18th April
and—with scant regard for any em-
barrassment it may have caused either
the Administration or Mr Hasluck — for-
warded it to Mr Kees Pley, the Dutch
Liaison Officer in Port Moresby.
The resolution, which Mr Pley cabled
to The Hague, reads:
“On the occasion of the birthday of
Her Majesty Queen Juliana of the Neth-
erlands, the President of the Hanuabada
Local Government Council requests the
Netherlands Liaison Officer. Mr K. A.
Pley, to convey to Her Majesty the
Council’s respectful greetings and con-
gratulations.”
The Hanuabada Council confidently
expects a reply.
Sydney's ''Bomb'' Rally
Ordeal by Speech
CWdney’s first “ban the bomb” rally,
held on Sunday, was a placid, almost
a picnic, affair. The weather was mild
so that Saturday's walk from outer
suburbs and the overnight stop in parks
and halls left the marchers looking fresh
and spruce enough to face the ordeal by
speeches which lay ahead at the Troc-
adero. The marchers were joined by
sympathisers en route so that there were
nearly 2000 people at the Trocadero.
However, many of the sympathisers re-
garded the short walk from their car or
down George Street from Town Hall
station as demonstration enough of their
feelings in the matter.
The rally was also a punning affair.
The NSW Peace Committee, which
organised it, had issued marchers with
simple garments, known in history as
tabards. These, which served instead of
banners, were like flour-bags with holes
cut for head and arms, and blazoned with
such slogans as “Fall in not Fall out,”
“Arms Race or Human Race,” "A World
of Peace, not a World in Pieces.” For
the literary-minded, there w'as “To Be or
Not To Be.” One baby was wrapped
about in calico printed with “Mummy’s
Arms or Arms Race.” -
Police said that the rally was incident-
free. Before the meeting began a police
car, with several top brass, was drawn
up outside the Trocadero, behind a car
with a slogan “Parents of the North
Shore, Whatever your Politics, Peace is
your Business.” How'ever, the police car
drove off and was replaced by two con-
stables, amiably chatting.
The crowd which settled down com-
fortably, refreshed with ice-cream and
orange squash; was by any standards
mixed. There was a small of
the professional “antis.” There were
plenty of black jeans, black sunglasses,
black beards and black ponytails. There
were lifesavers in striped cotton pullovers
and plastic thongs from the northern
beaches. But mostly they were youngish,
serious couples with their children.
When the speeches began you could
hardly hear them above the clink of
glasses and the thump of the cash regis-
ter at the soft-drinks bar, but eventually
the meeting settled down. There was
loud clapping for messages from Sir
Mark Oliphant, Dame Sybil Thorn-
dike and the Australian contingent of
the Aldermaston marchers.
If the rally seemed to lack the dedica-
tion and seriousness of the London
demonstrations, or even of Melbourne's
chilly, all-night stands, Sydney has its
own way of suffering fee a cause. The
Bulletin left after five speeches. Six
other people on the platform were still
clearing their throats in anticipation.
.. . And ,
f n Melbourne—the old cabal
A/Celbourne's peace march held on the
same day as Sydney’s, was led by
the old Peace Council cabal, Rev. Mr
Frank Hartley, Rev. Mr Alfred Dickie,
and Mr Sam Goldbloom. All have aged
somewhat since 1949 when Moscow
announced that the world was divided
into two camps (“the camp of war and
the camp of peace, comrade”). The
three have seen many more slogans and
organisations come and go since the days
of “The Partisans of Peace” and between
them they must have chalked up almost
as many overseas trips as Mr Albert
Monk. Today they operate through the
Australian and New Zealand Congress
for International Co-operation and Dis-
armament, though by now this must
almost be due for a change of title.
Some 1500 gathered at four assembly
points in the suburbs, marched to the
Trades Hall and merged there in one
procession to the Yarra bank. Here one
of the speakers was Dr J. F. Cairns who
engaged in some ingenious shadow-
sparring against US nuclear bases in Aus-
tralia. There are no such bases here,
so he had to content himself with com-
plaints that the Federal Government was
“moving nearer” to the point where there
would be.
A fresher face on the platform was
that of Mrs Janet Hase, wife of a young
barrister, and if there was any signillcance
in the demonstration it was because of
her presence. Mrs Hase was billed as a
former activist of the Campaign for
Nuclear Disarmament in London. This
gave strength to the claim that the
march was in solidarity with the Alder-
maston demonstrators and was not, in
fact,, merely a wearied stirring by the
old parrots of Soviet propaganda. No-
body in Britain should be confused
between pro-communist stuntery under


peace slogans and the campaign for
nuclear disarmament, even those who
detest both. In Melbourne, however, the
lines are becoming a little blurred.
There is in Melbourne a small group
calling itself the Committee for Nuclear
Disarmament. Whether it operates with
the approval of the British movement is
not clear, but its original personnel did
not suggest it was in any way linked with
the Peace Council’s empire of trickery.
Recently however, it circularised its
supporters asking them to fall in behind
the Hartley-Dickie-Goldbloom march
on Sunday. Some who received the
circular are aghast and are wondering
if there is no place to hide from Mr
Goldbloom.
Don't Cry for Him
VX/'hen American singer Johnnie Ray
" T came back to Sydney for his engage-
ment at the Chevron Hilton Hotel, he
was alone, except for his manager, Glynn
Jones, who, according to Ray, “never
leaves my side.” He was met by only one
person at the airport and only three
reporters went to his Press conference.
Ray, who in his heyday could pack the
Sydney Stadium with 9000 ecstatically
howling teenagers in a flood of purple
lights and tears, explained away the
quiet reception. “I did not want a boister-
ous reception from fans,” he told us. “1
don’t mind being the centre of a mob,
but a lot of people get hurt and crushed.
It worries me.” Ray did not believe that
the lack of interest was an indication
that his star was falling. “I was constantly
told that I was a flash in the pan,” he
said, “and I believed it. It just shows
how wrong I was. I’m still drawing
crowds and selling records. My style is
still blood and guts and thunder and
more emotionally intense than ever
before.”
This time there are no Stadium-sized
crowds for Ray —the Chevron Hilton
night-club takes only 500 people. Ray is
getting only about £2OOO a week, a lot less
than he used to command.
Ray travels constantly “Last year I
was in my New York apartment for only
three months,” he said. “Ever since I
was a kid I’ve been travelling, always
new towns, new faces, then old towns
and old faces. I am just about the lone-
liest guy in the world.”
Here Comes the Bride
r J~'HE bride was a former Miss South
Australia, Miss Pat Morris: the
bridegroom was Mr Ron Tremain, a
principal of the Princeton Club, an
Adelaide social club for young people.
So wedding guests were not really sur-
prised when the bridal waltz was danced
to the blare of a six-man group playing
Twist music.
The music came from Doug. Toll and
his five Penny Rockets. “There weren’t
any complaints from any of the guests
that the music wasn’t suitable,” Mr Toll
said. “We played Twist music for the
rest of the night.
“I don’t think that Twist music
detracts from the solemnity of such an
occasion. Both marriage partners usually
realise the sincere and solemn bond they
enter into. Once they basically accept this
fact, then the wedding reception or feast
becomes an occasion for joyful celebra-
tion. Probably 30 years ago they used
to play the Charleston at wedding
parties.”


This Australia
SPORT
HERB ELLIOTT QUITS
AN INTERVIEW WITH CHRIS BRASHER IN LONDON
HERB ELLIOTT
“I’ve lost my fire"
“T was driving home a fortnight ago,”
Herb Elliott explained, “on
Sunday evening with the car radio on.
I’d just taken my mother back to her flat
—she’s over here from Australia for a
few months —when that programme you
and I took part in came on the air. I
drove the car into the garage and for a
long time sat listening. Anne, my wife,
got quite worried and thought I’d had a
heart attack or something and came out
to see if I was all right.
“Towards the end of the programme
various sportsmen Bannister, Tyson,
Stirling Moss —said their say, and then
Angela Mortimer wound up. Something
she said made all the thoughts in my
mind hatch out.
“You asked her what she wanted to do
now that she had won the Wimbledon
title after striving for so many years, and
she said: ‘Having achieved it I'm
strangely without ambition. I want to go
on playing well, but I can't give every-
thing any more. I’ve finished, I think,
that way. I’ve proved myself, and I'm
really quite satisfied now.’
“I’d never thought in quite that per-
manent way before. Up to that moment
I’d thought that any of my breaks with
international athletics would be tem-
porary. But for some months now I’ve
NEXT WEEK'S ISSUE
® AUSTRALIA’S SECTS In
the Proselytising Business.
® GEORGE McGANN New
York Newsletter.
® THAT CERTAIN BOOK
James McAuley on Shelley.
® ALAN REID As I See It.
® THOSE ALDER MAST3N
MARCHERS When Zeal
Turns Sour.
known that I would have to make up my
mind soon about whether I should com-
pete this autumn in the Empire Games,
at Perth. I'd gradually amassed all the
facts for and against.
“1 always make a big decision like this.
I accumulate all the facts in the back of
my mind and then the answer comes out.
That was how I made my decision to
refuse that American promoter’s offer to
turn professional for a quarter of a mil-
lion dollars. Well, those words of Angela
Mortimer’s were the catalyst that brought
all the facts together and produced the
answer.
“The main reason for retiring is lack of
time. It's also partly that I’ve lost all my
enthusiasm and fire. When I look back,
the enthusiasm I used to have seems in-
credible. Nothing would take me off the
path. Absolutely nothing. And it's got
to be like that —an intense fire —if you’re
going to get anywhere.
“You shouldn't really have to give
reasons why you are going to retire, but
I suppose people wonder why because
they don't realise the effort needed to
stay at the top. Take my preparations
for the last Olympics, I started to train
on Christmas Day, 1959, for one race in
Rome nine months later. But even then,
because I was forcing the pace and had
trouble with my knee, I wasn’t fully fit
in Rome.
“In 1958 when I broke the 1500-metre
world record and took three seconds off
the mile record, I could run 3 min. 58 sec.
without trying very hard. That was a
working performance. But at Rome in
1960 I would say my working perform-
ance was 3.59. It may sound only marg-
inal but it makes all the difference.
“What helped me to run such a fast
time in Rome, and break the world record
again, was that I was really worked up.
I’ve never felt so bad—absolutely murder
for three hours before the race. I felt
insecure about my fitness. It was the only
time in my life that I’d ever aimed at just
the one race —and aimed at it for nine
months. But this nervousness helped me.
I poured it all out on to the track. But I
wasn't physically tuned up —as 1 dis-
covered from a few performances im-
mediately afterwards. They were really
hard: I felt sick in my tummy all the
time.
‘"The point I'm trying to make is that
my time in the Olympic Games, that new
world record of 3 min. 35.6 sec., would
not be good enough to win at Perth this
year. 1 wouldn’t feel upset if 1 ran against
Peter Snell and he beat me as long as I
knew 1 was fit. But 1 would be very dis-
appointed if I got talked into running
when I wasn't fit. It would all be so
useless. ,
“I can't start training properly until
June, after my Tripos, and that leaves
five months. If 1 train now, and I’ve
been trying, I find that when I get back
to my books after a three-hour training
schedule, my head starts to nod and
that’s the end of work for the day.
“If I were doing a nine-to-five job, as I
was back in Melbourne. I would get sick
of coming home and doing absolutely
nothing and my natural reaction would
be to get fit. But here at Cambridge there
is so much to do. I spend a lot of time
learning to fly.
“So there it is: lack of time and enthu-
siasm. I was asked on television on Tues-
day if this lack of enthusiasm wasn’t a
sign that 1 was now mature. I was rather
shocked. The question seemed to imply
that anybody who shows real fire for
something and gets to the top —in any-
thing you like to name —is narrow-
minded.
“I like immature enthusiastic people—
they are stimulating. I can't stand those
people who are too well-rounded. They
are nice to meet and have a bit of a
natter with but they lack fire. That’s
why I don't like to class my reasons for
retiring as ‘maturity,’ because maturity
seems to me flat and uninteresting.
“I suppose I've got to expect all this
conjecture about whether I really mean
what I said about retiring. But I'm most
emphatic about it.
“People are saying that I'm running
away from Snell, but my decision would
have been the same whether Snell had
been there or not. People might appreci-
ate this when they see how l run in the
University trials in a few weeks —about
fourth place in a mile in 4.20. These
days you can't get properly fit in five
months from that level.
“What will I do if people go on saying
I’m running away? Well, if my mother
or father or my wife’s parents said
‘You're scared of Snell’ —people who


know what's involved and whose judg-
ment I respect—then I might think
"Right, I’ll bloody well show you.’ But
not this year—in the Tokyo Olympics in
1964. I won’t take any notice of this
other gibbering.
“You see, if I went on I'd only be re-
peating myself. I feel a bit like a fellow
who goes for a walk and eventually finds
himself on the top of Everest It’s most
unfortunate, but once he’s got to the very
peak, the only way he can go is down.”
CONTEMPT OF COURT
THE "WOODSIE" LLOYD CASE
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
THhe energies of Mr Percy Biggin, SM,
x have earned him attention well
beyond the boundaries of Victoria, even
as far away as Adelaide. Mr Biggin is
Stipendiary Magistrate for the Wimmera
and frequently at his court sittings in
Stawell, Horsham and Kaniva, South
Australians as well as Victorians appear
to receive justice from him. The South
Australians are mainly motorists who
have roared into the Wimmera at speeds
which the police consider to be excessive.
Mr Biggin strongly disapproves of
speeding and some have said it is even
more distasteful to him when the driver is
a South Australian. In November, 1959,
Sir Thomas Playford told the House of
Assembly that “a Magistrate in another
State gets great pleasure in de-licensing
motorists, particularly those from South
Australia” and “makes a point of saying
South Australians don't know how to
drive.” Sir Thomas said he had written
to the Government of the other State and
had received “some sympathy” from it,
but apparently little else. In the best
traditions of fearless, probing journalism,
the Adelaide “News” identified the
Magistrate as Mr Biggin.
But his most recent famous case began
last February when Mr Biggin gaoled a
young Melbourne barrister, Mr Edward
D. (“Woodsie”) Lloyd for contempt of
court. Mr Lloyd, a former Melbourne
University S.R.C. president (1951), was
appearing as defence council in a carnal
knowledge case in Kaniva. Some ex-
changes between him and Mr Biggin
ended when the Magistrate had him re-
moved from the court and confined for
three hours. Mr Lloyd was also fined one
pound, but unluckily this was entered in
the records of Mr Biggin’s court as five
pounds.
Mr Lloyd subsequently applied to have
the Supreme Court decide whether Mr
Biggin acted lawfully in fining and gaoling
him. He was represented in his applica-
tion by the chairman of the Bar Council,
Mr M. V. Mclnerney, Q.C., and the
Council's honorary secretary, Mr D. G.
Williamson. If this was not sufficient
indication that important issues were at
stake, there was Mr Mclnerney’s state-
ment that “it is a matter of grave impor-
tance to the profession.” Lloyd, he sub-
mitted, had acted in accordance with his
duty to his client in pressing Mr Biggin
for a ruling on the admissibility of certain
evidence; moreover, he had not been
heard in his own defence over the con-
tempt charge. Judge Little ruled that the
case should go to the Supreme Court.
The Supreme Court hearing was before
Mr Justice Smith. Mr Biggin submitted
an affidavit saying he had come to the
view that Lloyd was challenging his
authority and that gaoling him was the
“only alternative to having the control of
the court taken out of my hands.”
Judge Smith, however, found that Mr
Lloyd's version of what had happened
was correct. On the second day of the
Kaniva case, Mr Biggin had ruled that
Lloyd’s line of cross-examination of a
detective was irrelevant. Lloyd then
asked for a ruling as to whether the
detective’s evidence of an interview with
the accused was admissible. This was,
Lloyd explained, because the detective
had put a number of allegations to the
man and while he had denied these, Lloyd
feared that the allegations alone might
influence a jury.
Then, said Judge Smith, this is what
happened:
Lloyd: But your Worship must de-
termine—
Biggin: Carry on with your cross-
examination.
Lloyd: I can’t carry on unless your
Worship informs me whether this —
Biggin: I have had enough of your
impertinence. I have put up with it for
two days.
Lloyd: Would your Worship just hear
me?
Biggin: You are fined five pounds
for contempt of court. If you do any-
thing more I'll commit you.
Lloyd: Your Worship, if you would
just hear—
Biggin: You’re committed. Constable,
remove that man and put him in the
watchhouse for three hours.
judge Smith ruled that Mr Biggin was
wrong and set aside his orders. An order
for costs was made, but afterwards there
was speculation in legal circles as to
whether Mr Lloyd could sue the
Wimmera Magistrate for wrongful
imprisonment.
ANZAC DAY
GLOOMY BRISBANE
FROM JOHN HIGGINS IN PRISBANE
ray of light to pierce the all-
pervading gloom which marks
Queensland’s celebration of Anzac Day
was an intensification of the now peren-
nial battle between opposing forces on the
best method of remembrance. Queens-
land now remains the only Australian
State where Anzac Day is observed as a
full day of mourning. There are no
organised sporting features, and hotel
and theatres remain shut throughout the
day. (Of course it provides Tweed Heads
sporting clubs, hotels etc. with a fantas-
tic influx of Queenslanders, this year
about 30,000, to take advantage of the
“happy half-day” treatment given in
NSW.)
Spearheading the drive to keep Anzac
Day completely solemn for years now
has been the RSSAILA, under the bene-
volent “guided autocracy” of president
Sir Raymond Huish. The State Govern-
ment has repeatedly announced that it
will make no legislative change for Anzac
Day celebrations without support from
the RSL, and this year again its stand
was confirmed by Premier Frank Nicklin,
himself a World War I Military Medal-
list and a life member of the League.
While the Government was not “entirely
guided” by the RSL, Mr Nicklin said,
“it represented directly and indirectly a
big body of responsible public opinion.”
Membership of the RSL in Queens-
land totals about 30,000 estimated,
however, at only about 15 per cent, of
the State’s total quota of ex-servicemen
and women. Repeated moves by sub-
branches of the League to persuade State
Congress to move for a change in the
State’s method of commemoration have
rarely got past District Conference level,
and have never hit the deck at Congress.
Main criticism of the RSL centres
around the fact that members can attend
unofficial celebration functions in their
various clubs during the afternoon,
while the balance of the citizenry, in-
cluding ex-servicemen and women, are
denied similar rights.
Despite its Anzac Day critics, the RSL'
organisation commands well-deserved
respect in Queensland from all political
parties —and solid evidence would be
required before any legislative reform
would be even contemplated. The only
possible way would be for the RSL to
conduct a proper poll of its members, but
the State executive is reluctant to use this
democratic method of obtaining a rank-
and-file opinion.


VICTORIAN PROBATE DUTY
PAY NOW, DIE LATER
(Latest Instalment...)
FROM A MELOBURNE CORRESPONDENT
ARTHUR RYLAH
“Won’t affect most ”
'T'he Victorian Government has partly
J bowed to the storm aroused by its
controversial new Probate Bill but,
despite some after-thought amendments,
there remains considerable disquiet
among legal men and others with the
training to trace out its complex effects.
Introduced in the Legislative Assembly
in mid-March, the Bill proved to be a
time-bomb. At first glance, its most
novel provision seemed to be a “pay-now-
die-later” scheme (Bulletin, March 24)
and it was almost three weeks before
the storm gathered.
The Victorian Employers Federation
issued a circular to its members calling
the Bill “a thinly disguised attempt to
raise revenue from widows and depen-
dent children” and the Victorian Tax-
payers Association charged that it
would produce "‘uncertainty and alarm.”
A spokesman for the Trustee Companies
Association weighed in with a complaint
that it was “far too extreme” and in
violent conflict with traditional British
probate practice. It w'as denounced at
the annual Country party conference,
and by spokesmen for life assurance
companies and the Australian Society of
Accountants. Country party leader Sir
Herbert Hyland called it "avaricious”
and virtually the only group which
greeted it with acquiescent silence was the
parliamentary Labor party.
Critics of the Bill claimed that its
dangers were not immediately apparent
because they were masked behind a mass
of legal technicalities. In attacking it,
they soon found themselves enmeshed
in the same complex phraseology and
faced with great problems in communi-
cating their alarm to the general public.
However, these main lines of criticism
emerged :
The most objectional feature seen was
a dragnet clause giving the Commissioner
of Probate Duties power to overrule any
contract which prevented the operation
of the Act, which defeated any duty
of liability imposed under the
Act, which affected the value of
property in an estate or which relieved
any person of the liability to pay any
duty under the Act. In short, any attempt
by a citizen to arrange his affairs to take
the maximum advantage of the Act
could be frustrated by the Commissioner.
The clause would operate even if the
specific arrangements overruled had not
been made with the aim of avoiding
probate and applied to agreements made
before, as well as after, the Act came into
force. As a result it would be impossible
for citizens to know in advance whether
arrangments for the disposition of their
estates would be construed as attempts
to evade the Act, thereby incurring heavy
penalties. It was claimed that the whole
concept of specific legal results follow-
ing specific actions was thrown into
jeopardy.
Other points singled out for attack
were clauses which struck at the allot-
ment of shares at par in a family invest-
ment company when the shares subse-
quently rose to higher than par (which
shares have a habit of doing).
Other clauses made the scope of pro-
bate sufficiently wide to rope into an
estate payments made under superannua-
tion schemes. At present, such payments
made to widows or dependents of the
deceased do not count as part of the
estate. There was a continual under-
current of criticism that the aim of the
Bill w'as to enrich the Victorian 1 reasury.
For 1961-62, it is estimated that probate
will provide £ll.B million of Victoria’s
£43.7 million taxation revenue.
The Premier, Mr Bolte, at first defended
the Bill, but within a week backed down
on several points. The "Dragnet clause
was dropped and the clauses roping in
superannuation payments were modified
to give exemptions to lump sums of
up to £lO,OOO or pensions of up to
£1250 a year. The English principle of
only bringing into the dutiable estate
a proportion of the proceeds of assigned
life insurance policies, based on the
proportionate premiums paid in the
three years preceding death to the total
premiums paid, was written in.
The concessions have only barely
mollified the critics. The Taxpayers
Association has warned that the new
law could drive capital away from
Victoria, frustrating much of the work
done by Mr Bolte to entice it here from
overseas. The Graziers’ Association has
since bought into the dispute with claims
that it hits hard at farming families.
The ALP seemed mainly concerned
during the Parliamentary debate, not
with attacking the Bill, but with
criticising Mr Bolte’s appeasing amend-
ments. Possibly the ALP believed Mr
Rylah, the Attorney-General, when he
claimed that the Bill w'ould not affect the
average citizen but many think otherwise.
REGISTERED MAIL.
ffifyulLetCci
MAY 6, 1882
Tn the jovial bushranging days, postal
A arrangements in a certain southern
town were unique. If you registered
a money letter, to a certainty the bush-
rangers collared it. To lead these
free-handed gentlemen off the scent,
the postmaster would earnestly advise
you not to register. But, as soon as
your back was turned, he would quietly
open your letter, pocket the coin, and
adjourn to liquor-up success to post-
masters and bushrangers.
Tn a city we know, it is no unusual
A thing for agents for artistes, when a
plan of seats is all taken, to substitute
a new one, with a few seats marked off
as if taken. The vacant ones are sold,
having been previously paid for, and
the late-comers are left to fight it out
with the occupants, W'hose credentials
are equally good.
T'HE Technical College is a wonderful
success. The lectures create such a
thirst for knowledge. On Thursday
evening last, the Rev. Mr Hodgson
lectured on ’"Political Economy” to a
German who went to learn how to
speak the English language, and a bald-
headed deaf man, who went there to
meet a friend.
T*ur friend Henry Kendall, poet and
lnspector of Forests, has gone
through the Western back-blocks, and
ascertained that the denudation of
timber is the Attila scourge of revivify-
ing rain, and the roaring roistering of
rilly rivers. A report to that effect will
be sent in.


As I see it
THE ANZUS LOBBIES
FROM ALAN REID IN CANVERRA
HThe formal meeting of the ANZUS
A Pact countries in Canberra next
week is expected to break little new
ground, but the lobby discussions, in-
separable from such a conference, will
still be very important.
The three countries represented at
the meeting—the United States, Aus-
tralia and New Zealand —are all wor-
ried, but for different reasons. Aus-
tralia and New Zealand are worried
about their economic futures when
Britain enters the European Common
Market. America is worried by the
emergence in Australian official circles
of anti-Americanism brought about by
the ambiguous attitude of the US in
the ECM negotiations.
Present at the meeting will be the
United States Secretary of State, Mr
Dean Rusk. Rusk is the top US figure
to visit this country since his pre-
decessor in the Eisenhower administra-
tion, the late John Foster Dulles, came
here for a SEATO conference in 1957.
Initially the decision for Rusk to come
to Australia may have been based on
the fact that the US is increasingly
using Australia as a base for various
activities (upper air research, tracking
stations, geomagnetic survey work,
etc.), and the feeling that it is good
policy to demonstrate to smaller coun-
tries whose facilities have some value
that their special problems and view-
point are receiving attention at the
highest administrative levels.
But quite a lot of water has flowed
under quite a number of bridges since
it was announced in February that
Rusk would be in Australia for the
ANZUS conference on May 8 and 9.
Trade Minister John McEwen has re-
turned home from his world pilgrim-
age to place before the US, as well as
Britain and the six ECM countries,
Australia’s economic difficulties if
Britain enters the ECM on terms that
endanger the existence of Australian
industries built up over more than half
a century of special trading arrange-
ments between Australia and Britain.
McEwen returned home with a sour
downturn to his mouth and an anti-
US slant.
McEwen’s public statements are not
the only reason for US disquiet. I have
reason to believe that Rusk has been
warned that he will find Australian
official circles generally far from
markedly pro-American and that there
is a widespread Australian belief that
one reason Australia cannot get other
than rather imprecise assurances from
Britain that Australian interests will
be safeguarded before it enters ECM
is the pressure US is exerting upon
Britain to enter ECM “regardless.”
Rusk has agreed to try to prevent the
anti-US feeling crystallising. The
present plan is for him to make this
attempt at his major public appearance
in Australia. This will be at a dinner
tendered to him by the Federal Par-
liament, a function at which he will
be the main speaker. The bulk of his
speech will deal with wider (and safer)
matters, including the value his coun-
try places upon the ANZUS, the
furtherance of which is the official
purpose of his Australian visit. Eut a
section of his speech will deal with
economic matters, express sympathy
and recognition of Australia’s trade
problems, and seek to explain the US
approach to the development of trade
between Australia and the US.
Tf this plan is persisted with, it will be
A interesting to see just what precisely
he says on this subject, how much of
a modification of the US attitude it
represents, and what impact he has.
As I see it, neither the NZ Prime
Minister, Mr Holyoake (who will be
at the ANZUS discussions in his
secondary role as NZ External Affairs
Minister), the Australian Prime Mini-
ster, Mr Menzies, or McEweti are
in a mood to be mollified with nice-
sounding generalities. Australia and
NZ are being hit in a most sensitive
part —their hip pockets—and it is
recompense not sympathy they are
after. The ECM ghost is likely to walk
rather chillingly, even in the formal
section of the ANZUS meeting.
Though not as widely publicised as
SEATO (the South-East Asia Treaty
Organisation), the ANZUS Pact from
Australia’s and NZ’s viewpoint is the
most important defence treaty they
have. The Pact, now 10 years old,
came into force in 1952. It is limited
to the three countries —the US, Aus-
tralia and NZ. Boiled down, the US
guarantees to Australia and NZ pro-
tection against armed attack. In re-
turn, Australia and NZ give US what
assistance they can.
While the main lobbying by Rusk
and of Rusk will take place away from
the actual ANZUS conference cham-
ber, the way in which Britain’s entry
into ECM could affect Australia’s and
NZ’s defence potential and hence
their value to the US as strongly held
democratic bases in the Pacific—will
also be put to him formally, if in-
directly, in the ANZUS discussions.
The arguments are not hard to
visualise. Australia and NZ are the
US’s most stable associates in the
Pacific area. Tensions in this area are
likely to intensify rather than diminish
over the next decade. Paradoxically,
while this area was the first in which
the more repugnant aspects of colon-
ialism were eliminated, it is likely-
due to a variety of circumstances—to
be the world’s last surviving colonial
area. Already tensions have increased.
There is the situation between Holland
and Indonesia over West New Guinea.
(Incidentally, Australia is certain to
reassert and call for US support for
the proposition that whatever the
settlement ultimately reached between
Holland and Indonesia it should be on
the basis of the indigenous inhabitants
of West New Guinea being given the
right of self-determination at some
future date.)
Communist expansion is driving
southward. As Britain and France
continue to withdraw from Asia and
Oceania, the US need for stable associ-
ates in this area must increase. Any-
thing that weakens Australia and NZ
must therefore weaken the US. In its
own self-interest, the US should use its
influence on Australia’s and NZ’s be-
half and not against them as far as
trade is concerned. Their export trade
is all important to them. Reduce it
and their economies must suffer. When
their economies are adversely affected,
the US defence position in the Pacific
must automatically be adversely
affected.


DEATH OF A HERO
BILL THOMAS
BILL THOMAS
Killed at 21
By PETER COLEMAN IN SYDNEY
A round 4 p.m. on Easter Tuesday
300 people gathered in Burwood
cemetery, Victoria, to bury a friend w ; ho
to many of them was a hero and w'ho
was in any case one of the most remark-
able young men in recent Australian
history. He w ; as Bid Thomas, a tall, eager
volatile, quick-spoken, still pimply youth
who at 21 w'as already a powerful force
in the Australian Labor Party. Often in
Sydney to keep the NSW Executive of the
ALP informed of the latest stages of the
degeneration of the fellow travelling Vic-
torian ALP, or to form the Sydney and
Brisbane branches of the Melbourne-
based Student Action, he became a fre-
quent Bulletin contributor. A few hours
after he posted his last article to The
Bulletin he was killed in a car smash
near Mansfield.
The article “Victoria's Artful Dod-
gers,” appeared in last week’s issue. It
showed that although the Federal Labor
Party is afraid to dislodge the Victorian
Executive of the ALP in case the Vic-
torians form a breakaway “Industrial
Labor Party,” this breakaway group
already dominates Victorian Labor and
is already undermining the Victorian
ALP. It is not only Bid Thomas's poli-
tical testament ("The lesson of the Vic-
torian tragedy is that when you play with
communists you must realise that you
are playng with fire, and if the men
who are playing with the fire are men
of straw, then they should realise that
although they think they are making the
‘light grow brighter’, they are merely
destroying themselves”) ; it was also a
characteristic expression of his mind—
his fascination w'ith politics, his enthu-
siasm for facts, his scorn for phoniness.
Bill Thomas w'as a new type in Austra-
lian politics, though his counterpart is
more familiar overseas—the student
political leader who plays a prominent
part in national politics. His first promi-
nent entry into Victorian Labor politics
was at the Labor party conference in
1959 w'hen he defended his friend Bono
Wiener the Jew'ish socialist from expul-
sion from the ALP. No one who heard
his speech will forget it. He attacked
the whole Victorian Executive and came
within an ace of swaying the 300 dele-
gates. Earlier on he had revitalised the
Melbourne University ALP Club turning
it from a loose collection of fairly naive
sentimentalists into a tough, active,
closely knit socialist organisation play-
ing an important role in Victorian public
life. In 1959 he was one of the main
organisers of the movement which
exposed the Melbourne “Peace"’ Con-
gress as a communist stunt.
His big gest achievement, however, was
the organisation of the now famous
Student Action movement. (See Peter
Samuel's article in last week’s Bulletin.)
With his extraordinary political gifts he
welded together a variety of diverse
religious and political bodies from all
parts of Australia into a student mass-
movement dedicated to the abolition of
the White Australia Policy—the first
student political movement ever formed
in Australia.
If he had an Australian hero, it was
probably Senator Pat. Kennedy, a profile
of whom ("Kennedy the Kingmaker”) he
wrote for the March 10 issue of The
Bulletin under the name of Michael
Collins. Yet in other respects, particularly
that of his organisational talent, of the
soft-spoken ease with which he got people
working enthusiastically lor a cause
without ever displaying the bullying per-
sonality of smaller talents, he was most
like one of his main political opponents —-
his fellow Catholic Mr B. A. Santamaria
whose influence in Victoria he hoped
ultimately to undermine.
THE COMMUNIST PARTY
LOOKING TO DJAKARTA
From MUGGA
A group of Australian communists have
sent a remarkable letter to the Cen-
tral committee of the Indonesian
Communist Party. Judging from
the tone and style of the letter, it must
have been written by a group which in-
cludes leading communist personalities.
Jt shows that the troubles caused in the
Australian Communist Party by the
split between the Chinese and Soviet
communist parties is by no means over,
even though Lance Sharkey's pro-Khrush-
chev faction has temporarily defeated
Ted Hill's pro- faction. This latest
move by some anti-Sharkey rebels
in the Australian party is an
attempt to link up with similar
dissidents in the Indonesian Communist
Party, whose National Congress is now
being held in Djakarta. Here are the
main passages from the letter :
“Comrades in Indonesia may have read
of the resignation of comrade Hill. De-
liberate attempts have been made to make
this appear to be the only reaction with-
in our party to comrade Sharkey's blind
allegiance to the Communist Party of the
Soviet Union. In addition, the rank-
and-file of our party have been
deliberately misled by some of the leaders
into thinking that, at the most, three
members of our Central committee
voiced any objection to the report of our
delegates to the 22nd Congress of the
CPSU. This is a deliberate lie. Any
honest member of the Central committee
who attended that meeting will confirm
that while three members voted against
acceptance of the report, there were six
others who expressed grave doubts . .
“In October, 1961, comrade Aidit
wrote an article in the CPSU journal,
‘Kommunist,’ in which he expressed full
approval of the policy as announced by
comrade Khrushchev at the 22nd Con-
gress of the CPSU. and he strongly con-
demned the cult of the individual. But in
his report to the Central committee of the
PKI (Indonesian Communist Party) he
avoided the full implications of the cult
by suggesting that this was a matter of
purely internal significance to the Soviet
people. This is an un-Marxian approach
because it fails to take into account the
international implications of the destruc-
tion of Stalin as the man who put
Marxism-Leninism into practice.
“Comrade Aidit has also reported that
he has had personal talks with comrade
Mao and comrade Sharkey, but the rank-
and-file of neither of our parties has
been told about these discussions.
“Comrades, the 19th National Congress
of our party did not come to grips with
the main problems which were dividing
our party at that time. It was deliberately
organised so that delegates could not
force effective discussion of them."
The letter concludes by demanding a
special congress of the Australian Com-
munist Party later this year.


Around Sydney
"...THE TERROR OF THE NIGHT"
'T'he hideaway is in a silent no-man’s
A land between the white rail and
the remote yellow lights of Brown’s
Wharf in Woolloomooloo. Sixty yards
below Mrs Macquarie’s Road skirting
the Eastern end of Sydney’s Botanic
Gardens, it is formed by a shallow
sandstone slit and a heavy overhang
of kikuyu grass. At night headlights
sweep above the slope and die
abruptly as the cars park along the
white rail.
When two detectives recently walked
down the slope in the darkness they
heard someone whispering below
them :
“God has given his angels charge
over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways.
“In their hands they shall bear thee
up . . .
“He shall say to the Lord, Thou
art my protector and my refuge: my
God, in Him will I trust.”
“He will overshadow thee with His
shoulders, and under His wings thou
shalt trust.
“For He hath delivered me from
the snare of the hunters . . .
“His truth shall compass thee with
a shield: thou shalt not be afraid of
the terror of the night.
“Of the arrow that flieth in the day ;
“Of the business that walketh about
in the dark.”
The two detectives knew as well as
the speaker a deadbeat known as
Happy that the “terror of the
night” against which he prayed was not
the clean cut of the arrow but a
violence that stabbed 46 times in a
frenzy, that cut methodically, tearing
life away in a savage triangle.
Happy, 62, wears an overcoat, an
army pullover, two shirts, and two
singlets. For comfort he has cut the
toes from both his shoes. All he owns,
an ancient empty leather wallet, a
wartime identity card and pension
book, the psalm pages tugged from a
prayer book in some church dormi-
tory, he carries in a paper bag.
The detectives forbade Happy to
sleep in his hideaway. They have
compassion for him but more real
than this an apprehension. For Happy
comes from the same class as Albert
Greenfield, Ernie Cobbin, and Frank
McLean. Greenfield was struck down
and mutilated in the Domain in June
last year, Cobbin in Moore Park last
November, and Frank McLean in
Little Bourke Street, Darlinghurst, in
March this year.
Happy is one of the many deadbeats
the detectives have pushed or helped
off the streets to protect them from
death and mutilation. If they lack the
few shillings for a bed in one of the
city’s night refuges they give it to
them.
It is said there is not a deadbeat
sleeping out in parks and lanes of
Sydney.
The two detectives and 28 others
like them are engaged on the biggest
murder investigation in Australian
history, bigger by far than even the
Thorne kidnapping case. About the
investigation there is an intensity, an
atmosphere of urgency associated with
few other criminal enquiries.
In the 10 months since Albert
Greenfield was killed police have had
other information which at the time
looked almost as promising but which
proved fruitless. Reports from Austra-
lian and overseas psychiatrists have
helped little.
All that detectives know is that their
man is capable of a violence that can
shock even those with many years’
experience of violence. The killer
gives his victim no chance. Green-
field had been drinking heavily
and was at least half asleep. The first
blow in the jugular vein killed him
instantly. Ernie Cobbin was bent for-
ward over a seat as he slept. The killer
drove his knife into Cobbin’s back and
he died immediately.
Frank McLean was so drunk he was
stumbling along in an alcoholic daze.
The killer’s first blow to the jugular
vein ended his life.
It is not even the violence of the
mutilation that has shocked detectives
but the frenzy of the attack that
accompanies it. One detective said:
“If ever I feel like letting up I have
only to look again at the pictures.” The
pictures are police close-ups of each
of the victims. Faces bloodied by
violence would cause the most experi-
enced investigators on the case barely
a twinge. But in some of the pictures,
for scientific tests, the blood has been
cleaned from the face and neck. The
gaping wounds, as though made by a
stiletto plunged to the hilt, and their
number, would impress even the
callous.
Last week police in Mexico City
sent accounts of three murders on their
own files to the Sydney CIB. The
Mexican police believed the crimes
were similar. But Sydney police found
they were not in fact comparable in
any worthwhile respect.
The Mexican reports were added to
hundreds recorded at some time in
Australia or overseas. But there has
been only one previous crime the same
as the New South Wales murders
recorded anywhere in the world.
This took place in Munich just after
the war. The American serviceman
convicted is still serving life in Leven-
worth.
If they have been shocked by
the violence of the murders police
have been almost as shocked by the
extent of depravity and homosexuality
their investigation has uncovered. And
this not among the deadbeat class but
among well-to-do and even profes-
sional members of the community.
Every scrap of information concern-
ing sexual aberrations has been
followed up in the hope that it might
lead to the murderer. The turnover
of arrests of both the reputable and
disreputable of the city has been exten-
sive.
Detectives have found that from
time to time or even regularly the per-
vert or homosexual makes sortie from
his own respectable stratum into the
deadbeat world of the three murdered
men. The triple killer might come
from these shadowy figures who prey
on the vagrant and the alcoholic.
Some detectives have worked now
consistently in Sydney’s deadbeat
jungle for 10 months. Sometimes they
feel that there is nothing more they can
find out about Albert Greenfield,
about Frank McLean, who spent his
last few shillings on a bottle of wine
and died before he could drink it.. .
about Ernie Cobbin, a strange man of
principles which had no place in the
deadbeat jungle, who died because he
wouldn’t accept charity and slept sit-
ting on a park seat instead.
They feel they know everything
except the information they most need,
information to save the fourth victim.
PHILLIP


ALBERTMONK
Mr. Zig Zag of the A.C.T.U.
End of the road and top of the heap
By ALAN REID
Last year at a special Vatican audi-
ence for top flight business execu-
tives Pope John smiled disarm-
ingly, folded hands over ample
paunch, and announced: “Well, here I
am at the end of the road and the top
of the heap.”
Pope John probably got his message
across because the executive rat race is
much the same anywhere in the world.
A comparison of Pope John and ACTU
President Albert Monk wouldn’t get very
far for very long but their situations are
similar in that Mr Monk, like the Pope,
is also at the end of the road and cer-
tainly at the top of the heap.
Albert Ernest Monk “Mr Zig Zag”
of the Australian industrial world
62, London-born, five feet and a few
inches, is permanent President of the
Australian Council of Trade Unions and,
as such, titular head of 1,250,000 Aus-
tralian trade unionists.
He lives in a tough world and has to
deal with some of the toughest men in
Australia. He looks like a respectable,
bespectacled, slightly timid clerk of the
non-till-tickling variety. He has poor
health and an avidity for foreign travel
that would make Marco Polo look like
a stay-at-home. He is grossly underpaid
by an Australian trade union move-
ment that, by and large, lives a niggardly.
poverty stricken, hand to mouth financial
existence and begrudges paying decent
salaries to its officials. He is grotesquely
overworked (the ACTU is pathetically
understaffed with only four full-time
officials to cope with its huge responsi-
bilities).
He is also a professional survivor of
great eminence.
On the occasions when the Right-wing
has been dominant politically and indus-
trially there has been Monk, riding the
wave like a skilled Bondi surf shooter,
saying harsh things about Russia and the
Russian way of doing things. But when
the Left-wing has been on top, there he
is again, hurtling along, head and
shoulders clear of the turbulence, saying
nice things about Red China and the way
it is doing things.
Few prominent Australians have
been praised less than Monk, few have
received more abuse. But Monk has con-
tinued on his way, outwardly a bundle of
nerves but as flexible as Toledo blade,
unimpressive on a platform but a wizard
at a conference table or a committee
meeting, and keeping afloat while others
with bigger followings and seemingly
stronger power bases have gone under.
To understand Monk’s particular niche
in Australian affairs, you have to have
some knowledge of the place of the
ACTU in the Australian industrial setup,
and the manner of its development. For
while Monk has been associated with it
practically since its birth in 1927, it is
only since the Menzies Government came
into power in 1949, when Monk was
already a key figure in its operations, that
it has risen to its present eminence.
Monk is the only union leader 1 know
of in Australia who has never been other
than a trade union bureaucrat. Monk has
never worked with his hands. He iias
been associated with the trade union
bureaucracy throughout his adult life.
His first real job was as a junior clerk
with the Carters’ and Drivers’ Union in
Melbourne in 1919. These were forma-
tive years for the trade union movement.
The Russian Revolution was already an
accomplished fact. Though there was no
communist party in Australia (the Aus-
tralian Communist Party did not really
get under way until the middle 1920 s
(when Mr J. S. (“Jock”) Garden was its
driving force) individual supporters of
communist and Marxist theories had
already emerged. Monk was part of this
restless movement, though it seems to
have been the practical rather than the
theoretical side of trade unionism which
attracted him. Despite his youth, he


helped prepare the union case in the 1920
Royal Commission on the basic wage.
His ability impressed the rulers of the
Melbourne Trades Hall. He was offered
a clerical job on the Melbourne Trade
Hall Council staff and proceeded to move
step by step up the ladder of the union
bureaucracy. In 1929 he became THC
assistant-secretary, and by 1934 he was
secretary.
In the meantime, the ACTU of which
he was to become the permanent head
was growing up. It had bad growing
pains. It had an imposing title, a long
list of affiliated unions, and no real power.
Its first secretary (Charley Crofts) had
defined its functions as “to organise the
presentation of the trade union case in
relation to major issues such as the basic
wage, standard hours, etc., and to provide
a Federal machinery for unified action in
industrial disputes.”
It was relatively easy to establish its
role as far as the first part of its function
was concerned. Though at the outset some
of the big turbulent unions disagreed with
it and lodged their own basic wage
claims, it finally became the authority
that decided the basic wage and hours
standards to be claimed before the courts.
But the question of the ACTU pro-
viding “a Federal machinery for unified
action in industrial disputes” was a horse
of another color. Under the ACTU con-
stitution, affiliated unions retained their
autonomy and independence of action.
The ACTU had no real disciplinary con-
trol over them. The big militant unions,
communist led, did what they liked when
they liked. If ACTU policy suited them,
they followed it. If ACTU policy was not
to their liking, they defied it. They did
what they felt like doing and decided
upon their own terms of settlement in all
disputes in which they were concerned.
This was the position all during the
depression years when the ACTU was the
body through which the unions put their
basic wage applications to the courts, but
not much else.
This position continued into the post-
war period when the late Mr Percy
Clarey was President, with Monk as
secretary, from 1945-49. But the great
coal strike of 1949 and the incoming
Menzies Government at the end of that
year was to mark a turning point in the
ACTU’s history. Appropriately, Monk
became ACTU President in 1949, succeed-
ing Mr Clarey who entered the Federal
House of Representatives in that year as
the Labor member for Bendigo.
The Chifley Government was still in
power during the coal strike. Chifley, then
Prime Minister, branded the strike (called
by the communist-dominated Combined
Mining Unions Council, in which the
Miners’ Federation —an affiliate of the
ACTU —was the leading union) as a
“political” strike. Mr Chifley called upon
the Labor movement to recognise it as
such, and the ACTU (it is very important
to remember that this was a period when
the Right-wing was dominant both indus-
trially and politically) accepted his view
and supported him. Backed by this
support, the Chifley Government sent in
troops to work open cut mines and put
through legislation under which a num-
ber of communist controlled unions were
fined and their leaders imprisoned. When
this punitive action, so completely at
variance with Labor tradition, ended the
strike, the then Attorney-General, Dr
Evatt, acknowledged that “the Govern-
ment ... could not have carried the
matter to a successful conclusion were it
not for the fact that the overwhelming
body of the officials of the trade unions
who had no connection with communism
... gave their overwhelming support to
the Government.”
The ACTU and Monk (and unions
which realised that they might one day be
in the same position as the Miners’
Federation, unable to win a strike because
of ACTU opposition) woke up to the
fact that there was a new power in the
land: The ACTU and its President. The
advent of the Menzies Government con-
solidated and extended that power.
The Personal Touch
Monk is a great believer in personal
contacts. He has a chameleon-like
quality. Talking to an industrialist he can
convince his listener that here is the most
responsible trade union leader who has
ever put his signature to an industrial
agreement. Talking to a militant Left-
winger, he can equally convince him that
here is a man who knows the value of
direct and ruthless action and the neces-
sity for a policy of no compromise with
the hated bosses. Harold Holt, now
Federal Treasurer, was the Menzies Gov-
ernment’s first Minister for Labor. He
had had a long personal contact with
Monk. He found Monk sound, convin-
cing, and Monk became his industrial
adviser.
The Chifley Government had never
really pushed the ACTU. It had inhibi-
tions. The Australian Workers’ Union —
the largest union in Australia —has con-
sistently refused to affiliate with the
ACTU. It has held with some justifica-
tion that the ACTU is too susceptible to
communist influence. It has been deter-
minedly hostile to the ACTU as it is
at present constituted and it has had its
own powerful links with the Australian
Labor Party. The Chifley Government
acknowledged the importance of the
ACTU but, because of the attitude of the
AWU, the ACTU never became, during
Labor’s period in office, the dominant
force it was to become under Holt’s
patronage and the Menzies Government’s
backing.
With Holt in office, the ACTU became
almost the sole avenue of contact between
the Menzies Government and the indus-
trial movement. Monk was reputed to be
able to get anything he wanted from
Holt. This gave Monk a strength that
he did not have before. He became the
all important contact man between the
Government and the trade union move-
ment. He became in turn a dispenser of
patronage. There is a legend that in every
Australian trade union office there is a
ready packed portmanteau. Trade union
officials, like politicians, love nothing
better than a trip abroad as VIPs, with
all expenses paid. Whichever side —Left
or Right—gets in first with the offer of
a trip has a good chance of winning the
recipient to their side of the political and
industrial fence for all time. The com-
munists know this. They throw round
trips like confetti. The Americans —more
frugal or possibly less thoughtful—hand
out only a limited number. That, inci-
dentally, is one of the reasons why, by and
large, the Australian trade union move-
ment is anti-American. There is nothing
in it for them in being pro-American.
Basking in Government favor, Monk
now was in a position to influence the
allocation of trips. If he nodded favor-
ably, a man went abroad. If he pursed
his lips dubiously, the man stayed at
home. Trip seekers ; Ided themselves to
the supporters he had gained through his
own ability as a negotiator and guardian
of trade union interests.
It was not a one-way traffic, however.
Holt got benefits from the association
with Monk. There was the famous
occasion when the Federal Parliamentary
Labor Party called Monk for everything
it could lay its tongue to. Labor with a
Federal general election coming up, had
been campaigning on the basis that a state
of serious unemployment existed in Aus-
tralia. This was in 1958. Monk contra-
dicted this viewpoint. He told a TV
audience that there was no serious un-
employment in Australia. Mr Robert
Holt (then the Federal Labor member
for Darebin in Victoria and now a pow-
erful figure on the Victorian ALP Execu-
tive) told the Federal caucus that Monk
was “so consistently on the side of the
Tory Government that he could be re-
garded as a tool of the Menzies Govern-
ment.” Mr Jim Cope (Labor, NSW) said
Monk was “sabotaging” the Labor party.
Mr Edward Ward (Labor, NSW) des-
cribed Monk as the president of the
ACTU “pro tern” and added that Monk
did not know what he was talking about.
Senator Benn (Labor, Qld) said Monk
had never been an industrial leader in the
real sense of the word.
But Monk at this time was on the left
leg of one of his zig zags. He was not long
back from China. He was offside with the


Right-wing in the ACTU but he was on-
side with the Left-wing. He knew that the
Left-wing could not at that stage afford
to dump him. The communists had
learned the lesson of the 1949 coal strike.
They knew that they needed ACTU sup-
port to win any strike and by this time
they had developed a comfortable tech-
nique. If a strike was going well, they
kept the ACTU out of it, and took all the
credit for bringing it to a successful con-
clusion. If it was going “sour,” they
dumped it into the ACTU’s lap, as soon
as it became obvious that persistence was
hopeless, and then told their angry mem-
bers quietly that non-communist Monk
and the ACTU had “sold out.”
This is what happened in the Water-
side Workers’ Federation strike of 1956
against the rejection by Mr Justice Ash-
burner of the Federation’s claim for in-
creased margins.
There is—and has been for a long time
—a strong communist influence on the
ACTU Interstate Executive. But the
writing was on the wall. The strike was
hopeless. There was no chance of win-
ning. The Executive told the WWF to
cut its losses and to return to work. Monk
got all the odium for this decision, des-
pite the fact that it was the WWF’s com-
munist leadership that had landed the
WWF in this particular mess.
But Monk did not have to worry about
Caucus criticism. He knew whatever in-
sults the Left-wing's followers might hurl
at him he would get the Left-wing’s votes
in the place where it mattered —on the
floor of the ACTU congress. And that is
all he has to do. Get the support of one
of the major groups. His personal fol-
lowers constitute the balance of pcwer.
The Leftward Zig
At that period he was on a strong Left-
wards “zig.” He had gone to Red China
in defiance of a policy decision by the
non-communist International Confedera-
tion of Free Trade Unions with which the
ACTU is affiliated and on the controlling
body of which Monk represents the
ACTU. The communists really hate the
ICFTU. They support the World Federa-
tion of Trade Unions which is under
complete communist control. In com-
munist eyes, Monk had done the right
things. Not only had he in effect told
the ICFTU to “go jump in a lake” there-
by undermining ICFTU authority, but
he had come back from Red China full
of praise for the achievements of that
country.
It is amusing to read some of his com-
ments now in the light of some of the
disclosures that the Red Chinese leaders
have themselves since made. “China’s
Government is not communist at all,”
said Monk. “There is still a substantial
amount of power in the hands of non-
c-mmunists, capitalists and Right-wingers.
There is no sign of _any food shortage.
There is no evidence oi any oppression.
The people in China are supporting the
Government and its programmes. We
believe the Chinese Government is plan-
ning properly for the development of
China. Its economic policy is sound.”
How wrong could he be? China is
more militantly communistic than Russia
which is at least trying to rid itself of
the Stalinst legacy. The food shortage is
now acknowledged by the Red Chinese
leadership. Far from the Chinese Gov-
ernment’s planning being economically
sound, the Chinese Government has pub-
licly confessed to its unsoundness and
has switched back to concentration upon
agricultural production.
Just to top things off. Monk was taken
ill in China with a serious foot infection
and did a stint in a Chinese hospital in
Hankow. Shortly after he had pontifi-
cated that the people in China were sup-
porting the Government and its pro-
grammes news came through from
official Red Chinese sources that within
a few miles of where he had been in
hospital anti-working class elements had
staged an abortive revolt.
The “trip” susceptibility of Australian
trade union leaders shows up even in this
Red China jaunt. When a proposal for
two delegates—one of whom was to be
Monk —to visit Red China was first can-
vassed at the ACTU Interstate Executive
in 1956, it got a cool reception. But when
in 1957 the number of trippers was in-
creased to five with the promise of fur-
ther trips to come the reception was
enthusiastic. Everyone thought they had
a prospect of being in it. And most of
them have. Only three of the 16 members
of the Executive up to the 1961 ACTU
Congress had missed out. The rest had
either been to Russia, China, or both.
Increasingly since the 1949 coal strike
when the ACTU showed that its support
(or opposition) could be decisive in de-
ciding the outcome of a strike, the com-
munists have realised that here was some-
thing that they needed to control and
whose machinery was useful to them. The
late Mr Jim Healy, Federal Secretary of
the WWF, particularly realised its
changed significance in the Australian
industrial setup after 1949. Up to that
stage, the communists used it as a propa-
ganda forum. After that, they set out to
get it to frame policy declarations. They
could hide behind the respectability of
its initials.
It was the Left-wing which organised
the Industry Group Delegates to go on to
the Interstate Executive, the ACTU’s con-
trolling body between congresses This
brought Mr Healy on to the Executive
and enabled him to exert a powerful in-
fluence upon Monk. Healy seemed able
to mesmerise Monk. Monk pulled
Healy’s chestnuts out of the fire on
numerous occasions, and the tendency of
the WWF to avail itself of the “services
of the officers and Executive of the ACTU
to a far greater extent than any other
affiliated organisation” (already noted in
the Report of the Special All Australian
Trade Union Congress of June, 1956)
intensified to a degree where non-com-
munist unions screamed about the limited
resources of the ACTU being used ex-
clusively for the benefit of the communist
led unions.
An analysis of the agenda paper for
the ACTU Congress of 1959 shows the
value to the communists of this com-
munist influence. A total of 222 resolu-
tions were submitted for consideration.
These came from only 30 of the 101
organisations affiliated with the ACTU.
Eight of the 30 organisations were com-
munist controlled, eight were communist
influenced, six were subject to heavy
communist influence. The bulk of the
resolutions dealt with matters which were
the subject of communist party cam-
paigns in the trade union movement.
Instinct for Survival
But this was not the factor that bought
Monk into his heaviest trouble with the
Right-wing unions. They did not like it
when the communists forced him to pull
out of the Federal Department of Labor’s
Advisory Committee. The Right-wingers
felt that they were getting some value
from that committee by ensuring that
their viewpoint on such things as auto-
mation and hence employment were
being put before the Government. The
Right-wingers thought that the Left-wing
was making a bad blunder, similar to the
blunder it made when it pulled the WWF
representative off the Stevedoring
Authority in 1955 (an action later des-
cribed by Mr Healy as “a mistake”). But
the Right-wingers were even prepared to
put up with that. What the Right-wingers
were not prepared to put up with was
being forced through a compulsory levy
to pay for reciprocal visits of trade
union officials from Iron Curtain coun-
tries.
Monk’s own love of trips may have
been a factor in producing this issue.
He has made more than 40 trips overseas
since 1941, as Australian representative
to the International Labor Office, to the
ICFTU, to Malaya, Britain, Indonesia,
and a host of other countries. He is


regarded as a “big wheel” overseas, is
treated as such and understandably likes
the treatment.
For once he miscalculated. He thought
he could ride roughshod over the Right-
wing’s opposition and force them to
“cough up” to finance the reciprocal
visits. But the Right-wing knew that it
had international backing. It knew that
the ICFTU (a body at whose meetings
in Brussels Monk liked to appear as
spokesman for the Australian industrial
movement) was extremely hostile and
that in Australia the wealthy and power-
ful AWU, under the leadership of its
Federal Secretary, Tom Dougherty, was
waiting for the opportunity to set up a
non-communist Federation of Labor in
opposition to the ACTU.
Ironically, it was the communists who
saw the danger first. They did not want
to be left with an exclusively communist
ACTU. They wanted to have control of
the ACTU but to exert that control
from the background. If their control
became obvious, the ACTU would lose
much of its value to them. It would no
longer cloak their operations with its
seeming respectability. They urged Monk
to compromise.
But Monk had been at the receiving
end of a blast at the ICFTU Executive
Board meeting at Brussels in December,
1959. You have only to read his state-
ment which appears in the Executive
Report to the 1961 ACTU Congress in
Sydney to note his hurt tones. And inci-
dentally, in the same report, Monk re-
veals why visits to Red China have latterly
been more popular with Australian trade
unionists than visits to Russia. “Dele-
gations which tour Russia are on the
basis of our paying the fare one way and
they paying it the other,” Monk says.
“In the case of China they pay the com-
plete fare forward and return.” But prob-
ably because of the ICFTU blast Monk
was in no mood to compromise. He has
a streak of petulance and once that streak
comes out he is mulishly stubborn.
It came out over reciprocal visits. He
would not back down. The “rebel”
unions refusing to pay the levy refused
to back down. The 1961 Congress
assembled with 17 unions including
such big ones as the Federated Iron-
workers’ Association, the Federated
Clerks, and the Australasian Society of
Engineers—absent. It looked as though
the AWU and Dougherty had acquired
the nucleus of a new Federation of
Labor.
But the communists decided to play
it shrewdly until Monk’s instinct for sur-
vival reasserted itself. They took things
quietly. Instead of taking over the con-
ference, as they could probably have done
if they exerted themselves, they let Monk
assume the leading role. He kept nominal
control of the congress.
For Monk, it is a problem of delicate
balance. He is like a tightrope walker.
The communists are the “activists” in
the trade union movements. If he
offends them too grievously at a period
when they and their Left-wing associates
within the ALP are more powerful than
the Right-wing (as they have been over
recent years) by moving too close to
the Right-wing, they will set out to
“down” him. They might not “down”
him (personally I do not think they
could), but they could make life extremely
miserable for him and give him a lot of
sleepless nights. On the other hand, he
cannot afford to become solely dependent
upon the communist and Left-wing
groups for his support. If he becomes
their complete captive, both he and the
ACTU lose prestige and standing. Then
goodbye trips, public standing, represen-
tation on the ICFTU and ILO, power
and a lot of other things. So Monk needs
the Right-wing to protect him against the
Left-wing’s extremism.
It is not only his instinct for survival
on this particular issue that is producing
Monk’s reconciliation with the “rebel”
unions. There is an impression abroad
that Monk is about to embark upon a
Rightwards “zag.” He has an almost
infallible sense of atmosphere. There is
a strong possibility that the ALP will
shortly start moving towards the Right.
Once the AWU influence reasserts itself
in Queensland the Leftists must lose their
present dominance within the ALP.
The signs are already beginning
to show: t'he communists have lost
ground in the WWF and other important
unions. If the wheel turns bringing the
Right-wingers to the top, Monk plans
to be there with them.
Overworked, Underpaid
The extraordinary thing is that despite
his recent attitudes he will not be out of
character. He is by nature a moderate—
a Rightist. He prefers to get things done
rather than to fight ideological battles.
He is a realist at a conference table, and
very effective. His compromises with
the communists and Left-wing, though
partly a result of his own nervousness and
his penchant for overseas trips, have also
to some extent been forced upon him by
changing conditions within the ALP and
the trade union movement to which he
has readjusted himself. In 1950, when
the Right-wing was dominant, he was the
communist’s bete noir. In that year, the
Soviet “New Times”, published in Mos-
cow, denounced him for “supporting in
effect American aggression in Korea and
attempting to divert the trade unions from
the struggle against the danger of war.”
In 1954 he was sceptical about the value
of Russia’s admission to ILO. “If she
(Russia) attempts to use ILO as a pro-
paganda medium, it will weaken the
organisation,” he warned.
He is a moderate drinker and was a
chain smoker until he had to give up
smoking for medical reasons. Work, and
the habit of the communist led unions of
handing over to him hopeless disputes
which they have botched terribly, have
seriously undermined his health. He is
constantly receiving medical attention.
In my opinion, the ACTU is a disgrace to
the Australian trade union movement. It
is run on skinflint lines. He earns well
under £3OOO p.a.—ridiculous when you
consider his responsibilities. Admittedly
he picks up a few perquisites as a member
of various committees. Monk, the ACTU
secretary (Harold Souter), a Research
officer (Robert Hawke), and Hawke’s
assistant comprise the ACTU’s full-time
staff. The yearly income of the ACTU
revenue in 1961 was £21,137.
Trade union officials are constantly
sneering at the lack of precision in
memoranda put out by Monk and the
ACTU. These officials claim that you
need an interpreter to get their meaning.
Part of the ambiguity may be deliberate.
But much of the trouble must be due to
overwork: you cannot expect the men
who handle the volume of work the per-
manent staff of the ACTU handle to
spend time seeking for perfect clarity.
But Australians seem to want their
trade unionism on the cheap which means
that they have to take it with all the
weaknesses that inevitably accompanies
cheapness. If you cannot get reasonable
remuneration you take it in a different
shape, such as trips. Either that or
abandon the field of trade union activities
to the communists or people like those
members of the Democratic Labor party
whose dedication is such that monetary
compensation becomes unimportant.
Monk must on occasions be bitter when
he looks round and sees men with not
a fraction of his responsibility or capacity
receiving salaries that dwarf his. But he
has the satisfaction of knowing that
during his regime as President of the
ACTU his own shrewdness, ability and
judgment—coupled with events which he
has exploited—has lifted the ACTU in
importance from the position where the
big, militant unions could defy it with
impunity to the position where it is an
organisation without whose backing
successful major strike action has become
almost impossible.


SLOW BOAT TO RED CHANA
Or, why tourists don't visit Chinese ports twice.
By MICHAEL COUGHLAN
Those faraway places with strange-
sounding names have no allure for
a sailor when the place is in com-
munist China. Sixteen seamen from
Sydney and seven from Vancouver re-
cently deserted from ships bound for
China. The sailors had been there before,
and anyone who has been in a Chinese
port since 1949 will know the reason why
they did not want to go back. After hav-
ing been “confined to barracks” for a
voyage of three or four weeks, and that
is really what a trip on a cargo ship
amounts to, the sailor looks forward to
a few days in port.
In most places port authorities look
after the visiting seamen. The ports on
the India-Japan run Calcutta, Penang,
Swettenham, Bangkok, and Hong Kong
have their seamen’s clubs or other
places of entertainment. There are plenty
of these in the East. Many of the clubs
have swimming pools and the service is
such that the sailor can get a drink, a
cigarette, or a record changed on the
juke-box without even leaving the water.
This way of life for the seaman with
his few days shore-leave has vanished
from the ports on the China mainland.
Once you pass Saigon, and the sailors’
dream port, Hong Kong, conditions be-
come increasingly difficult as the ship
goes north. After Shanghai and Tsingtao
the impossible is reached at Dairen.
Dairen was the unloading port for the
deserters from Sydney and Vancouver.
After 4 weeks at sea, the sailor spends
his shore leave hanging over the rail of
his ship looking at the shore and promis-
ing himself that he will never visit
Dairen again.
As soon as the ship enters the port,
the Red China pilot comes aboard and
takes over navigation. With him come
the police. If they speak English, they
speak it to give orders, but do not speak
it to answer questions. They give the
rules quickly and unequivocally. “No
camera, No photo, No litter in water.”
The sailor who unthinkingly tosses an
empty cigarette-packet over the side,
Mr Michael Coughlan, who teaches
at Katoomba (NSW) High School,
spent six months on private study
leave in South-East Asia and
West Pacific Coast ports. The ship
in which he travelled from Penang
to Yokohama was booked to call
at Shanghai and Tsingtao in com-
munist China. Mr Coughlan’s
Australian passport excluded entry
to communist countries; the ship-
ping line would not accept his
booking unless entry to Red China
was allowed. The Australian High
Commissioner in Malaya endorsed
Mr Coughlan’s passport for entry
into Red China during the voyage.
looks around in fear to see if he is going
to be arrested or sent over after it. The
police do not leave the ship during its
stay in port. Day and night for the full
24 hours there are always a couple of
them on the prowl. The same police
never visit the same ship twice. Red
China frowns on friendships with visitors.
In the largest port, Shanghai, the show-
place of the coast, the sailor may have
his three or four days leave . . . What
can he do? As the ship pulls up to the
wharf, he sees hundreds of girls in
patched blue pyjamas handling the cargo.
At the foot of the gangway, he secs a
galvanised-iron Customs Shed rolled into
place. He must walk through it when
leaving and returning to his ship. Before
a 10-minute stroll up and down, the
wharf he must go through all the cus-
toms formalities associated with entry
into a country. Going aboard again
involves a repetition of these formalities,
but this time it is equivalent to departure
from the country. There is no in between.
The sailor is in his ship or in Red China.
He decides to take his shore leave.
Where can he go? The Mariners’ Club.
That sounds all right.
He goes up the Bund past the shuttered
windows and locked doors of the banks
and commercial institutions to the club.
It was once the Shanghai Club, the most
exclusive in a city of five million people.
Now it is open to every one from a cook
to a captain. There is no class distinc-
tion here. He will meet Norwegians,
Russians, Chinese and Indians but
rarely British sailors. They have been
here before. They come only once. At
11 p.m. the lights dim out and the bar
closes.
What next? A theatre? No theatres.
They all closed at 10.30 p.m. A
night-club, then? Ask the Chinese. No
night-clubs. They interfere with the pro-
ductivity of Red China in its great leap-
forward to prosperity.
The sailor makes his way back to his
ship, shows his papers to the customs
officers in the galvanised iron shed at
the foot of the gangway and answers
all the questions he answered earlier in
the day because there is a different group
of officers present to question him.


WORLD-WIDE
w 5
Radiator R 1
iL :
100% British Made
warmth
where you
want it...
Completely portable and self-
contained, the Tilley Radiator
brings radiant warmth to
every corner of the house.
Entirely safe; burns for 12
hours on only pints of
ordinary kerosene.
For economical warmth whenever
and wherever it's needed, you can
put your trust in TILLEY.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to: —
e
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD.
1092 Mt. Alexander Road,
Essendon, W 5. Australia.
Another dawn comes up out of the
East China Sea. Another day to spend
in Red China. There must be a race-
meeting somewhere in a city of six
million people. The racecourse is there,
but horses no longer use it. The lawn
and track are covered with concrete and
it has become the Peoples’ Park. Where
20 horses once raced, 20,000 people now
do their physical exercises every day to
keep fit and work for China.
Great signs cover the perimeter of the
park exhorting the people to “Keep fit,
produce more and leave the capitalist
countries behind.”
Led on by propaganda handed out by
radio, huge billboards and even postage
stamps, the Chinese has lost his sense of
humor. In its place is the dedication of a
fanatic.
The life in the city is sublimated to
this one aim—“ Produce for China and
our children are safe.” This is the
atmosphere of the entire landscape of this
great country. It is displayed on the
faces of the workers as they go about
their purposeful way, filling the 24 hours
in every day.
Girl in the Cheongsam
There is no exemption. The able-bodied
male, female and child have their place
in the great leap-forward to prosperity.
Even the Buddhist monks hang up their
yellow gowns, leave their chanting, their
incense and their temples to join the
army of workers for two days in every
seven.
No races and another 12 hours of
shore-leave to fill. The sailor approaches
the Intourist agent who has come aboard
to sell conducted tours. The agent is
courteous, but the natural charm of the
Chinese is inhibited and strangled by
the doctrines of communism. He seems
suspicious of every question.
The tour is to be conducted to selected
show places in the city. No one leaves
the tourist bus without the guide. One
sees only what the guides want one to
see The Hall of Industry displaying the
products of China’s industrial revolution ;
The Shanghai Mansions, once the
gathering place for society on the China
coast —now a little older, a little frowsier,
but good enough for the V.I.P.s from
Peking in the north, Canton in the south
and Chungking in the west; The Child-
ren’s Palace, where the academic upper
class are started on their long way
through primary, secondary and univer-
sity education, absorbing only what the
tutors deal out to them; the Chinese
temples—gems of oriental architecture—
but strangely empty of worshippers. Pray-
ing is not productive.
A wall of officialdom separates the
visitor from the people, and prevents any
contact with real China. The sailor is in
a glass cage looking at people, but not
meeting them. He has been here before.
He saw all this last trip and there is noth-
ing new to see. He declines the offer of a
tour.
He may get permission to visit the
Friendship Store up in Nanking Road
and buy a souvenir or two but he has
heard of the sailor who bumped into a
Chinese on the crowded footpath. Bump-
ing into anyone is just as easy there as it
is in Pitt Street. A policeman is called,
and what can the sailor say? He does not
speak Chinese. The Consul could inter-
cede for him, but the case is over almost
as soon as it begins. A month in a Chinese
prison is too much to pay for a day in
the city
The entertainment house has gone, the
“Street of Fallen Flowers” is a wall of
shuttered windows, and the fallen blos-
soms have been swept into the net of
production for China.
A visit to a mandarin opera? Incom-
prehensible to the young sailor, and still
the danger that the wrong action will
provoke a police move and then....
A chat with the sweet-looking girl in
her eheong sam? This is as dangerous
as handling nitro-glycerine. “No Frater-
nisation” means “keep away.” One Nor-
wegian seaman jumped into a trishaw in
the rain. There was a Chinese lass
aboard. He did not say one word to her.
The police stopped the vehicle for the
usual check. The Norwegian collected
six months in prison for fraternisation.
So the seaman stays aboard his ship
knowing that every step ashore is dang-
erous. All this is in Shanghai, the best
port in Red China. The British Consul
is here with his Union Jack flying over
the Consulate at the end of the Bund,
and he can give some protection to the
visiting British sailor. But what would
it be like for the sailor to take his shore
leave in Dairen, the wheat port for
Northern China?
The sailor knows. He stays aboard and
thinks of ports like Kobe, Sydney, Hong
Kong, Vancouver and Singapore, and if
the sailor is in Sydney or Vancouver, he
thinks of Dairen —and deserts.


OUT AND ABOUT
THE CENTRE: SHE'LL BE RIGHT
Throwing the pioneering spirit out of the humpy door
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Australia is planning so that
tourism will go ahead of mining to
become second to cattle in the list of the
Northern Territory’s industries. Of
course, there are still one or two things to
be fixed up. One is the shortage of
boomerangs. The comeback boom-
ei ang, w ic is, o course, the one that all
e tourists want, has to come from the
coast, ecause it was never used by the
n 0 t^,e Cem tre - Sometimes supplies
aie e U P an V ou cant buy a boom-
erang in Alice Springs. Once this sort
o itt e difficulty is ironed out, then, as
t ey say around those parts, shell be
right. She 11 be sweet.
The Centralians are determined to
develop their tourist industry on a con-
sistent pattern. People have been sight-
seeing in the area since 1926 when there
were camel-trains to Palm Valley. The
country has been criss-crossed by geolo-
gists and anthropologists and by authors
in search of something picturesque in the
way of lost tribes, or, at least, a tribe
which was piepared to get lost. But until
a tew years ago tourist activity was
spasmodic and conditions primitive. Now
the industry is being pushed ahead vigor-
ous y. Figuies foi tourists went up 50
per cent, in 1960 on the previous year,
and were up a further 23 per cent, last
ar u * £ar ce Springs
Chamber of Commerce expects between
20,000 and 30,000 tourists, who may stay
an average of 10 days and spend £5 a
day, to visit the Centre.
Because of the prevailing drought in
much of the Centre and the decline in the
prospects of uranium from Rum Jungle,
it is relatively easy at the moment to
present tourism as a worthwhile source
of income for the Territory. However,
Mr Jock Nelson, who represents the
Territory in the House of Representa-
tives, believes that the industry can
eventually be worth £4,500,000 a year.
In 1959 the small operators in the
Centre banded together in the Central
Australian Tours Association. This was
to rationalise tours and prevent over-
lapping, to set standards of comfort and
to open up new resorts. The association
gets advice and co-operation from T.A.A.,
but, because T.A.A. is a Government
agency, no financial aid. The manager
of CATA, Mr Bert Palmer, recently con-
ducted a party of journalists and TV
cameramen through some of the areas
which his association has opened up.
There was enough already there to judge
what the Centre has to offer, and enough
of Mr Palmer's vision splendid to see
what can come in the future.
The first thing the Centralians have
done in their bid to build up a tourist
industry is to throw that old pioneering
spirit out of the humpy door. What the
pioneering spirit too often meant was
putting up with a lot of unnecessary dis-
comfort because you were too mean or
too obstinate to learn other ways. It
sometimes meant wealthy landowners
living in shacks and eating goanna while
their money piled up in the bank.
The people around Alice Springs won’t
have a bar of that these days. In this,
they are in line with the rest of Australia.
Perhaps the most notable change in Aus-
tralians in recent years has been the move
away from makeshift and discomfort,
which gave us square jaws and short
tempers and little else. Now the same
energy is expended in finding ways to
subdue the climate and the country.
This change is remarkable in the Terri-
tory. You travel in air-conditioned buses
or four-wheel-drive vehicles. Resorts
being opened up have electricity, hot and
cold water, power points in the bathroom
for electric shavers, bed-lamps—all the
amenities which coastal motel-owners so
proudly list in their brochures. At
least one resort has cabins with their own
shower and toilet and other operators
plan to follow this lead.
The operators are also planning air-
conditioned cabins, so that the season,
which now is only for the six months of
winter, which bring mild days but cold
nights, may become year round. Air-
conditioned buses and cabins, they think,
would bring people in summer. Notably,
it might bring more Americans who
usually come to Australia in summer
to escape their own winter, but who find
the summer heat of the Centre over-
powering. Actually the heat is not as
fierce as its reputation. Alice Springs is
2000 feet above sea level. Summer tem-
peratures are between 90 and 110, but
there is no humidity.
Of course, all the sentimentalists will
think that this is going to spoil the
Centre, that what people really want out
there is some hardship. There seems to be
still enough hardship implicit in the
climate and the terrain without necess-
arily having it 24 hours a day. However,
the Central Australian Tours Association
has covered itself on this one. For those
who really want to rough it, the Associa-
tion is planning special safari-type tours


with tents, hurricane-lamps and camp-
fire cooking. These tours may take in
part of the Simpson Desert and Gibson’s
Stony Desert. However, even the hardy
ones will have the choice of crawling
back between sheets when they have had
enough.
Is all this soft living making the
Territorians themselves over-civilised?
Will tourists meet the sort of people they
want to meet, as well as seeing the sort
of country they expect? Well, a man
who can drive up the dry, rocky bed of
the Finke River at night, with three young
men perched on the bonnet because the
inside of the four-wheel drive is over-
crowded, with only occasional wheel-
tracks in the sand to guide him, and never
miss a puff of his cigarette and keep an
average of 20 miles an hour, is not
exactly effete. People who keep you up
until 2.30 a.m. dancing and make sure
you are called the next day at 7.15 a.m.
so that you can go rock-climbing, have
not grown soft.
Although today’s problems cannot be
compared with the rigors of the old days,
the people who are opening up the Centre
for tourism still have to be tough. When
Bert Gardener first opened up Glen
Helen, 130 miles from Alice Springs
beyond the Hermannsburg Mission, eight
years ago, he swam the gorge repeatedly
carrying supplies on his back. Now Glen
Helen is a thriving centre with accommo-
dation for 25 people. There are two roads
of sorts into it, but it is still 56 miles
to the nearest homestead.
The Green family, who opened up Ross
River, 40 miles from the Alice, four years
ago, have done practically everything
with their own hands. Brothers Douglas
and Gilbert had come to the North from
Adelaide 11 years before, and had decided
that if it were humanly possible they
would stay. For some years they worked
as timber-getters and did contract fencing,
living with their families —Doug has four
children, Gil two —in caravans.
In 1958 they decided that the best pros-
pect for them in the Territory was
tourism. They set their hearts on the
old Ross River homestead as a suitable
centre. The homestead, dating from 1898,
was the second built in the area. The
block was originally used to raise
remounts for the Indian Army but had
been turned over to cattle. The old
homestead had been abandoned some
years before when the owners of the
property, which is 1600 square miles,
moved to a new house elsewhere on the
place. The owner of the property, with
the permission of the Territory’s lands
authorities, leased 40 acres surrounding
the old home to the Green family for 99
years.
The Greens first restored the homestead
which was almost derelict. They planted
white cedars and Athol pines to provide
shade. Now they have an attractive
garden. They went back to their timber
camp and cut the timber for the nine log
cabins which they have so far built to
their own design. They do not intend
to provide accommodation for more than
25 people (and the CATA does not
encourage it) lest the personal touch be
lost.
The Greens installed a sewage system
and generator, both below ground. The
hot water system is a marvel of ingenuity.
Water is pumped up from the bore into
a petrol drum, under which a fire is lit
each morning and evening. The water is
reticulated to each of the cabins.
This summer the Greens lined the dam,
which supplies water for the vegetable
gardens and poultry yards, so that it
can be used for swimming. There are
horses for riding. Next year the Greens
plan to build a couple of tennis courts,
and after that a nine-hole golf-course
with sand mixed with oil, or scrapes as
they are called, for greens.
Guitar in the Evenings
The Green brothers have now been
joined by their young brother, Graeme,
and their sister, Geraldine, and her hus-
band, Ross Murray. In the evenings
Graeme, who has appeared on TV in
Melbourne, plays the guitar and sings
(American songs rather than bush
ballads). Ross Murray is a jeweller. He
collects and polishes local stones which
he makes into bracelets and other
jewellery. If a tourist finds a pretty stone
Murray will polish and set it for her.
The family all live in the same house
and apparently in perfect amity, possibly
Hot-water system at Ross River home-
stead. Ingenious, but it works.
because they are so busy. The women
share the cooking, most of which is done
over an enormous fuel-range.
The Greens have tried to keep the old
house as it would have been at the turn of
the century. There are portraits of
Scottish ancestors on the white-washed
stone walls. Gil Green has found some
old kerosene-lamps which are used
merely for decoration. However, he said
it was difficult to get much furniture of
that period. It wasn’t old enough to be
valuable, nor new enough to be popular.
The Greens have an aboriginal couple,
Leo and Lucy, living with them. Lucy
takes charge of the house when the family
is away. Leo helps on the place, and
when called on rather proudly gives
demonstrations of his boomerang-throw-
ing skill. He is reputed to be one of the
best throwers in the Territory.
When the film-crew from “Whiplash”
were at Ross River the director wanted
to see Leo throwing to find out if he
were worth putting in the film. The
director told Leo to aim at a movie-
camera held by a cameraman a couple
of hundred yards away. Leo’s eyes
widened in surprise, but he did as he was
told. In a few seconds the camera was
shattered and the cameraman scattered.
The Green family shares its work and
Gil has taken charge of the tourists. He
knows the country well and has ridden
or walked over a good deal of the district.
He has picked up some knowledge of
what makes the region so fascinating to
geologists and anthropologists. He has
enormous respect for the old-timers and
has collected many anecdotes of life at
the turn of the century.
He told us about the ruby deposits near
Undoolya, an abandoned gold-mining
town, which once had a population of
800. The rubies were discovered by two
fossickers who took a small bag of them
to Adelaide. The jeweller they offered
them to was very excited and gave them
a wonderful price. So they went back
north and next time took five camel-
loads away with them. When they went
back to the jeweller with these, he
hastily told them the stones were really
only garnets, and offered them practically
nothing. However, the locals believe the
stones are rubies and say that the river
below the deposits runs pink. But nobody
has been back for more.
As well as Ross River and Glen Helen,
the association now runs tours to Kings
Canyon, which is a favorite place for
bird-watchers. It goes to Ayers Rock and
Palm Valley, which are also visited by
Ansett-Pioneer.
Mr Palmer believes that there are at
least another four interesting areas which
could be opened up in the next few years.
The association has developed package
tours, covering a tourist’s whole visit to
the areas, or visitors may do shorter trips
with Alice Springs as a base. As a place
in which to stay, Alice Springs these days
is, of course, a town much like any other.
It has modern hotels and motels and
shops (Woolworths have recently opened
there) and night-life in the hearty, but


unsophisticated, form of regular, rotat-
ing late nights at the hotels. There are
regular flights, costing £24, by Connellan
Airways to Ayers Rock, which is 400
miles by road from Alice Springs.
Visionaries talk about hovercraft (or
helicopters, if they ever become cheap
enough) being used at some future date,
because in spite of air-conditioned buses,
distances don’t grow less.
Perhaps the chief problem for pros-
pective visitors to the Centre is getting
there. There is no direct flight from
Sydney. Brisbane people, unless they want
to go halfway around a continent, go
to Mount Isa and then station-hop by
Connellan Airways to the Centre. At
present 40 per cent, of the visitors are
from Melbourne and 30 per cent, from
Sydney.
So far, the people of the Centre have
built up their tourist industry without
official help. There is no allocation for
promotion of the area to attract tourists.
However, a Tourist Advisory Bill,
sanctioned by Canberra, and introduced
by the Administrator, Roger Nott, has
just gone through the NT Legislative
Council. The bill will set up an advisory
committee with power to establish tourist
bureaux in the Territory. Tourist people
in Alice Springs saw a draft of the bill,
but have no idea how it looks in its final
form. “We’ve heard it’s been hacked
about in Darwin,”’ said one tourist
operator.
SINKING OUR FEELINGS
Will the Sydney Opera House be only a white elephant?
Australian Bill Beresford came
home for the first time in 13 years
to act as publicity officer to British
ballerina, Margot Fonteyn. Mr
Beresford has for seven years been public
relations officer at the Royal Opera
House, Covent Garden. As his role with
Miss Fonteyn is both precursor and
attendant, he has travelled a good deal
during the British ballet tour here.
Within three weeks he flew from Lon-
don to Perth, then, with at least over-
night stops in each city, he went Perth-
Adelaide-Melbourne - Sydney-Adelaide-
Perth-Adelaide - Melbourne-Sydney-Bris-
bane-Sydney-Adelaide - Melbourne-Syd-
ney-New Zealand-Sydney-Melbourne. A
day or so before the company finished
in Sydney last Saturday he left for Hong
Kong and Manila, where the company
will dance.
Mr Beresford, who got to Covent
Garden via General MacArthur’s staff
and six years on the London “Daily
Express,” thinks that after his 13 years
away Australia looks “the most mar-
vellous country in the world.” On the
subject of Australians and the way they
live, Mr Beresford was benign, but on
the future of the arts here, he was critical
and hard-hitting.
“I am not afraid to come back here
and say what I think,” he said. “I am not
the expert to end all experts, but I have
been seven years at Covent Garden and
know something of both the administra-
tive and artistic sides.
“There are 12 Australian soloists at
Covent Garden now. Australian artists
in England are in a wonderful position.
But what is the position here?
“I saw the four operas presented this
year by the Elizabethan Theatre Trust
at the Adelaide Festival. They should
have been better. They could have been
better.
“Frankly, I feel the Elizabethans
waste money in some extraordinary ways,
and try to save it in the wrong ways.
After the Adelaide presentation it was
freely said that the sets for ‘Ariadne’
would have to be scrapped because they
were unworkable and the production
would have to be mounted again for
Melbourne and Sydney. What a waste
of money.”
“It was made clear to me by people
from the Trust that Charles Hickman
had been chosen to produce ‘Ariadne’
mainly because he was in this country
and it would save his air fare. Hickman
has a great reputation for Lehar and
other musical comedy, but what has
that got to do with Richard Strauss?
“Of course, you can have producers
who have never done opera before
making a good job of it. At Covent
Garden we are getting Peter Ustinov to
do three short operas, including ‘Gianni
Schicchi’ and Sam Wanamaker is pro-
ducing Michael Tippett’s ‘King Priam.’
But we didn’t choose them because it
would save air fares. We chose them
because we thought they would do an
interesting job.”
Mr Beresford feels that the time for
planning a permanent opera company
which would be a going concern by the
time the Sydney opera house is opened is
already running out.
“The rot has got to stop,” he said. “I
can’t see the Sydney opera house really
getting going, the way things are now.
There will be a wonderful official open-
ing, someone like Sutherland, then a
short, possibly brilliant season. Then
what? The lights will go out and the
Lord knows when they will go on again.
“There is only one way to establish an
Australian musical culture and that is for
the Government to be generous. That is
the only way that opera and ballet sur-
vive anywhere. Even the Metropolitan
is getting away from its private patron-
age.
“And there is plenty of money in this
country. Don’t say we can’t afford it.
You know, in Britain the annual grant
for culture, culture, mind you—that takes
in everything, not just the Royal Opera
House —is £1,000,000. That represents
fourpence per head per year. To put it
another way, it is the cost of building
a mile and a half of a new two-way
highway. It’s not much, is it? And it’s
certainly not more than Australia can
afford.
“Of course, when you talk about a
permanent opera company here, people
say there is not the population. They say,
‘Look at the tourists in London. They
are the ones who fill the opera house.’
That simply isn’t true. The percentage
of tourists at Covent Garden is tiny.
The main season is in winter when there
aren’t many tourists in London.
“The thing about running an opera
house successfully is audience-building,
and that is where David Webster, the
administrator at Covent Garden, has
done such a marvellous job. Webster is a
businessman, one who is interested in
the arts, but, nevertheless, a man who
plans and works like a businessman. He
sells Covent Garden like a product.
“Covent Garden is obliged under its
charter to put on the works of British
composers and to go on tour. Both of
these enterprises are expensive, and the
work of a British composer may not
give us the sure-fire success of, say,
‘Aida.’ So we have to plan our pro-
grammes to build up audiences. We put
on ‘Wozzeck’ for five performances five
years ago and got only 50 per cent,
houses. Then we put it on again for five
performances and got 90 per cent,
houses. You see, in the meantime, it
had been talked about, been wri'ten
about and more people were curious
about it.”
Mr Beresford doesn’t believe for one
minute that there is anyone living in
Australia who could take- on the job of
director of the Sydney Opera House.
“In 10 years, perhaps,” he said, “but
not now. I know we want to feel terribly
patriotic about it, but this is one time
when we will have to sink our feelings.
We must get someone from England or
elsewhere in Europe and let our people
learn from them.
“After all, Rudolf Bing is an English-
man and the Metropolitan got him to
run their opera. All the time at Covent
Garden we are getting new, non-British
producers so that we can learn from
them. We have recently had Visconti
and Zeffirelli producing for us there.”
Patricia Rolfe


SEND IT
“!
H
ROAD
FOR SPEED SAFETY SERVICE
+ TJLJLW
A MEMBER OF THE MAYNE NICKLESS GROUP
\~iNT£*rrAT^^~l
I
DAILY SCHEDULED ROAD SERVICES
To ALL Capital Cities
Throughout Australia
PERTH
MELBOURNE
NEWCASTLE
CANBERRA
8-
30-4161
84908
9-
RADIO PICK-UP TRUCKS
OVERSEAS
LIGHTS OF MONACO
De Gaulle pricks the bubble of Rainier’s dreams
From WILLIAM MILLINSHIP in Paris
Some time in October, the lights may
go out in Monaco. The six-month
ultimatum implied in the French de-
cision to renounce the 1957 treaty
with its tiny neighbor, threatens
Monaco with cuts in electricity, gas and
water supplies, customs barriers around
its frontier, an end to rail services, and all
the other privations of a ruthless
blockade.
French newspapers gave the ultimatum
banner headlines. The sober “Le Monde”
devoted its front page foreign affairs
editorial to the crisis. Angry Monegas-
ques talked of appealing to the Inter-
national Court at The Hague or to the
UN. Prince Rainier 111 called an
emergency meeting of the National
Council (Parliament), freshly revived
after an enforced three-year holiday, to
discuss the choice between the blockade
and paying taxes on the French scale.
The Prince said in a recent interview
that his State would never accept taxa-
tion. Its independence depended directly
on tax exemption. But in deciding
whether to fight or capitulate, he knows
the odds are heavily against him.
The sunny Mediterranean principality
covers an area of a little over half a
square mile about the same size as
London’s Hyde Park. It is an enclave
on the French Riviera with a population
of 21,000. Of these, only 2696 are true
Monegasques. Twelve thousand residents
are French and 4000 Italian. The
privileged foreigners provide most of the
State’s income from direct taxation.
Another major source of Treasury funds
is the Societe des Bains de Mer, con-
trolled by Mr Aristotle Onassis, which
runs the Monte Carlo Casino. Takings
from various forms of gambling totalled
about $7 million in 1960. The Monaco
Treasury’s cut is 10 per cent.
Prince Rainier, however, had higher
ambitions. Spurred on perhaps by the
example of General de Gaulle, whom
he admires, he revealed his own dreams
of grandeur. Soon after de Gaulle be-
came President of the Fifth Republic in
1959, Prince Rainier decided he, too,
would fashion a new constitution.
The parliamentary councils which had
been giving trouble over the budget
were given indefinite compulsory leave,
while the Prince set about working a
Monaco economic miracle. His success
was such that a courtier recently re-
marked : “The Prince has presented us
with a golden age on a silver platter.”
He engaged Mr Martin Dale, former
US Consul in Nice, to organise the
Monaco Economic Development Cor-
poration and invite foreign investment in
the tax-free paradise. About 150 new
limited companies were formed in
Monaco in 1960-61, bringing the total
to 542. The total number of registered
industrial and commercial concerns is
about 2500. Monaco’s business turnover
last year was $l2B million, as compared
with $3O million in 1951. This year the
figure was expected to reach $2OO million.
The coffers of Monaco’s 24 national
and foreign banks filled rapidly, the
principality sprouted skyscrapers, and
land prices rocketed. Building land
now costs between $6OO and $lOOO a
square metre. But this did not discourage
investment in new industries: drugs,
plastics, shoes, machine tools, and elec-
trical equipment. With no taxes to pay,
firms made handsome profits from their
exports to France, since they had no
customs barriers to worry about.
Encouraged by the boom, Prince
Rainier thought of raising a Monegasque
flag of convenience and of competing
with Panama. He also dreamed of a seat
at the UN and embassies abroad. France
said “No” to her ambitious protectorate.
In the meantime, French firms had
begun complaining of unfair competition
from the tax-free principality. The
present crisis, however, arose over a
complicated business deal involving shares
in a company called Images et Sons,
which controls the highly successful
French-language commercial radio sta-
tion, Europe No. 1. The French Govern-
ment which owns 35 per cent, of the
Europe No. 1 shares and has plans for
limiting the comparative freedom of the
station’s news broadcasts, was outraged
when Prince Rainier issued a decree in
January cancelling the sale of 70,000
shares by a Monaco bank.
The Minister of State, M. Emile
Pelletier (he acted as Monaco’s Prime
Minister, a post which must always be
held by a Frenchman) had unsuspectingly
approved the decree. A week later he
called on the Prince at night to with-
draw his approval. The ensuing con-
versation was heard all over the palace.
It ended with the unceremonial dismissal
of the Minister of State.
The Prince later cancelled the offending


The re-arrest of Milovan Djilas
by the Yugoslav authorities,
presumably for having written an
historical account of his “Conver-
sations With Stalin,” has aroused
shocked protests all over the world.
“The Yugoslav leaders,” Mr Hal-
perin writes, “simply do not realise
how greatly the international stand-
ing of their regime is being
damaged by the persecution of this
courageous man.”
$ For Mißovan Djilas's
latest short story see
"THE WAR," on page 30.
decree, but the French Government took
a grave view of the treatment of M.
Pelletier, a former French Minister of
the Interior.
Negotiations for the appointment of
a new Minister of State began in Paris
last month. Monaco agreed that, in
future, royal decrees would be submitted
well in advance for French scrutiny.
The other French demand was the intro-
duction of the French fiscal system in
the principality. This request was based
on the terms of the 1918 Franco-
Monegasque treaty under which the
Prince must exercise his rights of
sovereignty “in conformity with France’s
political, economic, military and naval
interests.” With the growth of the
Common Market, France could no longer
tolerate a tax-free enclave which could
spread cheap goods throughout Europe
and compete unfairly with French indus-
tries.
The negotiations broke down. The
ultimatum was issued, and the French
Government is refusing to register French
citizens applying for residence rights in
Monaco. The noose has begun to tighten.
THE NEW
DJILAS AFFAIR
By ERNEST HALPERIN
When the former member of the
Yugoslav Politburo, Milovan
Djilas, was sentenced to several
years imprisonment in 1957
for the publication of his book
“The New Class,” one could not
approve the sentence but it was quite
possible to understand it from the com-
munist point of view. Communist re-
gimes simply do not recognise the
principle of freedom of thought and
cannot tolerate any fundamental criticism
of their institutions. “The New Class”
was a fundamental criticism and there-
fore bound inevitably to anger the
Belgrade Government as much as it
would have done any other communist
regime.
Djilas has now been arrested again and
remanded in custody, this time because of
the imminent publication of a book which
does not contain any attack on the
Yugoslav regime or any criticism of
communism. This new book of remin-
iscences, “Conversations with Stalin,”
deals with a man who died nine years
ago and only describes events which took
place at least fourteen years ago. What
Djilas has written is not in any sense
a hymn in praise of Stalin calculated to
annoy the intensely anti-Stalinist Yugo-
slav leaders. His description of the great
tyrant is entirely negative, though he is
fair-minded enough not to deny his his-
torical importance.
A man has been arrested not in China
or Albania but in anti-Stalinist Yugo-
slavia because he intends to publish a
book critical of Stalin. This makes it
seem not only a brutal but also an un-
considered and plainly ridiculous action.
It obviously arises from the fact that for
the communists world politics is a great
conspiracy. They regard the publication
of reports of meetings of communist
party leaders as the betrayal of con-
spirators’ secrets, even though the meet-
ings took place fifteen years ago and the
world political situation and the position
of their own country have meanwhile
changed completely. The arrest of Milo-
van Djilas proves that even today the
Yugoslav communist leaders still adhere
to this attitude in spite of the fact that
they have long since been excluded from
the great conspiracy.
The Yugoslavs’ desperate attempts to
stop the publication of “Conversations
with Stalin” inevitably suggest that they
have a bad conscience. Their attitude is
bound to give the world the impression
that the book contains secrets damaging
to the prestige of the Tito regime. In
fact, however, the manuscript contains
no such secrets whatsoever. For a long
time now the Western chancelleries have
been in no doubt as to the kind of
radically anti-Western policy the Yugo-
slavs were pursuing right up to the time
of their exclusion from the Cominform.
That Yugoslavia and Bulgaria in 1948
wanted to intervene together on the side
of the partisans in the Greek civil war
and that Stalin stopped them because he
did not want to risk a world war was
already known from the official biog-
raphy of Tito by Vladimir Dedijer, which
appeared in 1953 with the consent of
the Yugoslav Central Committee and of
which hundreds of thousands of copies
have been sold in the non-communist
world. This knowledge did not prevent
the Greek king and queen accepting
President Tito’s hospitality in Belgrade
and on Brioni, nor did it stop the
Americans from giving Yugoslavia
generous economic aid and, in the years
of trouble, military help as well.
CPoday Yugoslavia only has enemies in-
A side the Eastern bloc and not even
the fiercest of her enemies, the Albanian
Enver Hoxha, will be able to use Djilas’s
new book as a weapon against the Yugo-
slavs. The disclosure which the book
contains that he, Hoxha, requested the
Belgrade Government to send troops
to his country only a few months before
Yugoslavia was excluded from the
Cominform, can only be embarrassing to
himself.
There are no rational grounds for the
arrest of Milovan Djilas. But the Yugo-
slav leaders’ attitude towards him is not
dictated by reason but by emotion, and
emotion is notoriously the worst adviser
in politics. For them Djilas is an old
comrade in arms who suddenly aban-
doned them and declared war on their
cause. For them that was treason. Hence
their harshness towards him. Yugoslav
courts have already sentenced Djilas to
more than nine years’ imprisonment. He
served four and a half years partly in
solitary confinement, partly in the com-
pany of criminals, until the Government
was induced to release him in response
to the pleas of Eleanor Roosevelt, the
British Labor Party leaders and other
personalities.
But the amnesty which had been
promised him did not follow. The pen-


sion due to him as a former member of
the Government has not been paid. Djilas
has failed to find a publisher for his non-
political books in his own country, in
spite of the fact that the reminiscences
of his youth in his native Montenegro
are probably the most valuable work to
be produced in the literature of that
country, which does not abound in
masterpieces, since the days of the
national poet, Prince-Bishop Peter Pet-
rovitch Njegosh.
Djilas’s biography of Njegosh, to which
he devoted many years, cannot be pub-
lished in Yugoslavia. Even the issue of
Ignazio Silone’s magazine in which his
moving short story “The War” has
appeared, has been banned in Yugo-
slavia,
The wrath aroused in them by the
“renegade” seems to have completely
blinded the Yugoslav leaders to the fact
that the rest of the world considers it
not treason but courage of a high order
when a man openly expresses deviating
opinions at the risk of imprisonment and
death. They simply do not realise how
greatly the international standing of their
regime is being damaged by the perse-
cution of this courageous man and this
in spite of the fact that the political
influence of their country depends in
large measure on how their regime is
evaluated by the outside world.
CENTRAL AMERICA
Impoverished Guatemala claims largely useless British Hon-
duras because of internal economic and political strife
From J. HALCRO FERGUSON
TJ epresentatives of Britain and Guate-
mala have met for the first time to
discuss officially the status and the
future of British Honduras, a British
colony on the coast of the Caribbean
which has long been claimed by the
neighboring Latin American Republic
of Guatemala and by Spain before her.
Ironically the meeting was held on the
island of Puerto Rico, a former Spanish
colony which for half a century has been
a possession of the United States. The
reason for this somewhat odd venue is
that the Guatemalan Government in-
sisted on the conference taking place on
what it calls “neutral” territory.
On the face of it, it seems strange
that Guatemala, which has troubles of
its own and is not really in a position to
take on anyone else's, should want to take
responsibility for British Honduras, which
has to be supported by grants in aid
from the British Government.
BH, as its inhabitants call it, is
among the poorest and most backward
of Britain’s remaining possessions. About
8900 square miles in Jze, it has a
population of 90,000. Its coastline is
swampy and unproductive and liable to
be hit by hurricanes ; Belize, the ram-
shackle, mostly wooden-built capital,
crossed by odiferous canals, has not yet
recovered from the last hurricane. The
interior is largely forest and scrubby
bush, and produces little but mahogany
and chicle the latter the basis of
chewing gum, and produced by Guate-
mala in larger quantities. So, as far as
economic value is concerned, British
Honduras is of less than no value to
Guatemala.
Geographically, of course, Guatemala
has a better case. British Honduras is
next door, while Britain is on the other
side of the Atlantic. But BH is also
next door to Mexico, with which it has
closer ties, and the only times the
Mexicans have brought up this question
have been when they wanted to keep
Guatemala quiet at Caribbean conferen-
ces convened to deal with other matters.
Racially, Guatemala has practically
no case at all. Its three-and-a-half
million people are composed of the upper
and middle class ladinos (sic), who are
either Spanish or Spanish mixed with
native Indian, and indios, who are either
Indians or mixed-blood people who live
like Indians. The great majority of the
people of BH are of African descent, and
are looked down on by those people
of Guatemala who have heard of them
at all. It is fair to mention that the
Negroes in BH look down equally on the
Guatemaltecos.
Linguistically, Guatemala might appear
to have more of a case. Twenty per
cent, of the population of BH are
Spanish-speaking, and many people who
speak perfect English have surnames
like Perez. But the majority of the
Spanish-speaking people who live near the
Mexican border, listen to the Mexican
radio, and do their shopping in Merida,
the State capital of Yucatan, Mexico;
they are not in the least interested in
Guatemala. On the southern frontier of
the country, also shared with Guatemala,
there are a few people who feel strongly
Guatemalan, but more who feel even
more strongly Honduranean. As for the
Spanish-speaking Belizarians, a lot of
them are of Syrian descent, via Mexico.
All of these together add up to only
20 per cent, of the population. Almost
everyone else, except for the 10 per
cent, of Maya Indians, speaks English.
At one period some of these English-
speaking people felt a certain sympathy
with Guatemala because they were
Catholics (the principal High schools in
BH are Catholic). Their sympathy waned
during the Left-wing regime of Guate-
malan President Jacobo Arbenz Guzman,
overthrown with US help in 1954. Left-
wing Honduraneans, who had sympa-
thised with Arbenz, were simultaneously
alienated by his forcible removal. Why
then should Guatemala, which has noth-
ing to gain from taking over the colony,
want to take on more responsibilities
than she could cope with?
Her official claim is juridical. British


Honduras was technicaUy part of the
Spanish empire which stretched from
north of the present US-Mexican border
to the Antarctic, excluding only Brazil,
the Guianas, and a few Caribbean islands
belonging to France, Britain and the
Netherlands. The original British settlers
mostly pirates and buccaneers and
their Negro slave crews from Jamaica
were allowed to settle in what is now
British Honduras by the Spanish Crown,
on condition that they confined their
activities to cutting down mahogany trees
which, of course, they didn’t. Similar
rights were given to British settlers of
the same racial composition right down
to the Caribbean coast of Central
America through what are now the
Republics of Honduras (still known in
BH as Spanish Honduras), Nicaragua
and Costa Rica.
After these countries had secured their
independence from Spain, Britain came
to terms with Honduras, Nicaragua and
Costa Rica, giving up her claims on con-
dition that the British subjects concerned
be granted the right to dual nationality,
and the free use of the English language
and the exercise of their Protestant
religion, if that was what they professed.
As a result there are numbers of loyal
citizens of these three Republics who
are brown in color, English by language,
and Protestant by religion, and who see
no contradiction in their situation
any more than their fellow citizens do.
Arrangements with Guatemala were
rather different. The Guatemaltecos
agreed in 1859 to allow Britain to hold
on to British Honduras, principally on
condition that the British build a road
joining the port of Belize to the Guate-
malan border. The British didn’t, until
very recently ; and to be fair, the
Guatemaltecos didn't build a road up to
the border on their side either (it would
be rather expensive to drive it through
the Peten jungle).
Today, Guatemala’s real reasons for
claiming British Honduras are threefold:
the Guatemalan Government wants to
distract the attention of its people from
social, economic, and political troubles
at home ; it wants the right to use the
port of Belize at its pleasure (even
though it has a Caribbean port of its
own at Puerto Barrios) ; and, for reasons
of continental and international prestige,
it wants to show itself as anti-colonialist
as the next country.
As for the people of British Honduras,
all they want is to be left alone by every-
body. Unfortunately for them they need
to be subsidised, and on the whole they
would prefer to be subsidised by Britain,
which has more money to spare, than
by Guatemala. Meanwhile most of the
rest of Latin America and the British
Caribbean look on with massive disin-
terest.
FIGHTING CASTROISM
IN BRAZIL
Brazil’s 63,000,000 refuse to break with Castro's Cuba
From GAVIN YOUNG in Rio de Janeiro
President Kennedy’s ambitious Alli-
ance for Progress project in Latin
America is faced with one of its
toughest challenges. The testing
ground will be Brazil —the rapidly de-
veloping giant whose size can be judged
by the fact that the population in less
than 40 years is likely to be about 200
million. The US Government has under-
taken to provide $l3O million for the
salvation of Brazil’s acutely depressed
and potentially revolutionary north-
eastern provinces.
This is the major outcome of the visit
to Washington of Brazil’s President Joao
(“Jango”) Goulart for talks with Mr
Kennedy. The visit is widely considered
here as a personal triumph for Goulart.
Apart from the fact that this grant has
now been made available after months
of hesitation, it is taken here as a wel-
PRESIDENT GOULART
come sign of American confidence in the
Brazilian administration. It follows a
prolonged period of anxious circumspec-
tion on the part of American officials
and businessmen. They had been alarmed
—as had been some conservative and
military elements in Brazil itself by
Goulart’s political flirtations with Labor
and the Left before he became President
after the precipitate resignation of Presi-
dent Janio Quadros last August.
The Alliance agreement demonstrates
Goulart’s desire for a continuation of
close collaboration with the US in
accordance with President Kennedy’s
“new look” economic aid programme for
the area, which has yet to be tested in
practice.
The north-eastern provinces are an ex-
cellent place to start. Poverty-stricken,
pathetically underdeveloped, and drought-
ridden, the region has recently become
the scene of acute peasant unrest. The
influence of Castroism is said to be grow-
ing as a result of the visits of workers’
representatives to Cuba in the past few
months. The peasant leader, Francisco
Juliao, a young lawyer who has been
adopted by the “Peasant League” move-
ment, is said to be an admirer of Castro’s
achievements.
Clashes with the police and Army units
have already taken place, and Catholic
Church leaders in the north-east have
expressed alarm at the prospect of Cas-
troist and communist exploitation of
peasant discontent. In the words of one
American official, the Alliance for Pro-
gress’s aim is to “remove a letter from
the word revolution, leaving evolution.”
Without being ungrateful for the Alli-
ance contribution, many Brazilians will
refrain from undue enthusiasm until they
see the Alliance money —in conjunction
with the Brazilian contribution gain-
fully employed.
The main short-term objectives of the
project include increased water supplies,
public health services, and food distribu-
tion. The Alliance money will be chan-
nelled through SUDENE, a special Gov-
ernment agency directed entirely by
Brazilians. The Brazilian Government
and officials are believed to be insisting
on their responsibility for the administra-
tion of the project, albeit in close con-
sultation with Alliance and International
Development Agency experts.
Proud and individualistic, the Brazil-
ians are gratified that the Washington
agreement has involved no sacrifice of
the sovereignty of their country, by far
the largest in the Latin world —larger
even than the United States. A nation
with a mind of its own, Brazil is one of
only four South American countries that
persistently refuses to break off diplo-
matic relations with Fidel Castro’s Cuba.


Around Melbourne
REMBRANDT AND PHAR LAP
Asa staid Melburnian who favors
club ties and black shoes, I have
never looked upon our beloved city
as a tourist attraction. The “Visitor
Industry” as they now call it was some-
thing more suited to raffish places
like Sydney or the Gold Coast.
But the truth is that poor, un-
wanted Melbourne always has been
desperately keen to be noticed, to be
filled with eager tourists. We have
had a Tourist Bureau in Sydney since
1935. On the other hand the New
South Wales Government, un-
doubtedly working on the assumption
that no Melburnian need ever be en-
couraged to go to Sydney, waited
until last week to open its first
Tourist Bureau in Melbourne. It was
opened by Mr Heffron himself, no
less. You could almost describe this
as the first official recognition of
Melbourne by Sydney and now, 61
years after Federation, we have ex-
changed consular representatives.
We should not under-estimate the
situation. Tourists have been pouring
into Melbourne as never before. The
hotels all scored a record Easter. The
town was photographed all over.
Why, we had tourists clicking in front
of Flinders Street Railway Station.
This is a quaint, but perfectly hideous
building. Not as quaint or as hideous
as the Sydney Town Hall, but its
hideous quaint rating is high.
For the tourists the historic Royal
Arcade put on a special football dis-
play and even dressed their famous
Gog and Magog statues in Colling-
wood and Hawthorn football sweaters.
This was sufficient to frighten away
evil spirits for miles around. Further-
more last week we opened a new
tourist office in King William Street,
Adelaide, and our Minister for State
Development, Mr Fraser, announced
that our visitor industry was now
making £l5 million a year.
These figures were astonishing.
What on earth would people do
here? In London they nicely cater
for one’s sense of sadism. You can
look at that monstrous gun carriage
which took the Duke of Wellington to
his grave. You can see the bullet
that killed Nelson i nd, even better,
you can inspect the exact spot where
the executioner severed Lady Jane
Grey’s head from her shapely neck.
But Melbourne! What can we do?
What can we offer?
In your interests I have been on
several city sights, 10 and 15 bob
tours, to find out. It was a little hearty.
“My name’s Bill Withers and every-
body’s to call me ‘Bill.’ Hands up
those from NSW, hands up those from
South Aussie, hands up the Banana
Benders” and so forth. There was a
good smattering from all over. I felt
a little non-U just putting up a lone
hand as a Victorian.
Our tour was light on good macabre
items, but our driver did point out
the old Melbourne gaol where we
hanged Ned Kelly (sadly, we didn’t
get a look at the gibbet) and we saw
St Francis’s Monastery where Ned
Kelly’s parents were married. We
called in at Captain Cook’s cottage
where we had a look at the Captain’s
boots, a piece of the rock that stove
in the Endeavor at Cooktown, and the
bedwarmer used by Mrs Cook.
'T'hen we drove to the Melbourne
Cricket Ground. We ctebussed. The
driver led us inside and for once he
stopped talking as we looked in re-
spectful awe at the cavernous empty
stands. I was asked was it true that
180,000 empy beer cans were left be-
hind after the Saturday of the sth
Test against the West Indies? True
indeed. The spectators at the MCG
invariably left behind two cans a
head, man, woman, and child.
We continued our round. We saw
the Sidney Myer Music Bowl, the
Shrine, the Botanic Gardens. We drove
round the stately residences of Toorak
and the driver pointed out the finest
in the land. We peered over one fence
hoping to see Mr Ken Myer or Mr
Baillieu at the very least, t t no luck.
We went to the National Gallery
and Museum. Somehow we missed
seeing the Titian, the Rembrandt self
portrait and the Van Dycks, but never
you mind we saw Phar Lap, which
was important.
It was a good tour but if I might
suggest a few refinements could we
not see the football races where the
umpires are protected from kindly
patrons who want to pat them with
bottles? Could we not visit a pub
or two and study the interesting
habits of Melburnians at 5.55 p.m.
And why, oh why, do none of the
tours call at Young and Jacksons to
pay homage to Chloe?
Tt is said that as a Melburnian tourist
JL attraction the painting of nude
Chloe rates as number two. She is
second to the ICI building and just
in front of the Sidney Myer Music
Bowl. This is the time of the year, as
we move into the joys of the football
season, when Moomba should be
safely forgotten. But the rows which
started last March have run on
unabated. Doug Ir.gersole, Moomba’s
organising secretary, wrote a report
to his directors which surprisingly
appeared on the front page of “The
Herald.”
He complained of everything in
sight, that the Moomba International
Cultural Group resented him. That
Miss Moomba International arrived
late for the presentation of prizes.
That the reception committee did not
meet the Governor at the inter-
national evening and the Vice-regai
party was forced to enter the Town
Hall in darkness. His report gave a
tale of muddle and maladministra-
tion.
Cr A. G. Grant, the chairman of
the international group, replied that
this group had been selected for
criticism, smears, misrepresentation
and snide insinuation. He was more
succinct when later he said the report
was “garbled.” Whoever was in the
right it started off what John Foster
Dulles would have called an agonising
reappraisal. Melbourne’s Moomba has
been overshadowed by the Adelaide
Festival of Arts to such a degree
that the feeling is unanimous that
something must be done.
However, your pioneer would like
to make a suggestion. Moomba, of
course, means “let’s get together and
have fun.” But just lately it hasn’t
been much fun. So what could we
have? .... “Ballina” means blood
running from the wounded. “Kan-
imbla” means battlefield. Perhaps the
ideal name would be “Wallerawa”.
yes, the Wallerawa Festival.
That means everybody has quar-
relled and separated.
BATMAN


FORUM
SEXUAL OFFENDERS IN
AUSTRALIAN SOCIETY
Community attitudes hamper the rehabilitation of offenders
J PRESUME that in asking me to spea\ about “The Social Treatment of
the Sex Offender” you would like to hear in what way the convicted and
released sexual offender can he helped within the ordinary social framework.
What part can we play by specific therapy in the management of those
with overt sexual deviations?
This report on misconceptions
about sex deviants, and ways of
rehabilitating sexual offenders, is
a summary of an address given by
the professor of psychiatry at Syd-
ney University, Dr David Maddison,
to the second national conference
of the Australian Prison After-care
Council, held in Sydney this year.
In this area there are many misconcep-
tions about what can be done in the
present state of medical, psychological
and social knowledge. In the strict mean-
ing of the term, it would, be probably
true to say that sexual deviation is not at
the present time a curable condition.
Although we should not, at this stage,
talk of cure we can talk in terms of man-
agement which will, in a significant num-
ber of cases, improve the sexual offender’s
behavior. Some of the best work
is done by psychotherapy (some
may call it counselling of an essen-
tially supportive type) where the sexual
offender is maintained in a long-term
relationship with a tolerant person who
is prepared to accept him as a worthwhile
individual, and who attempts to guide
him to see what he must do to bring his
behavior under control. We can prob-
ably help many through some kind of
environmental manipulation, that is, by
reconstructing their environment.
It is also probably true that the use of
drugs, in certain instances and in com-
bination with counselling, will modify,
perhaps substantially, deviant sexual be-
havior. But to face the problem
fairly and squarely, to avoid illusion,
even this sort of programme is
not going to help all sexual offenders.
We have to face the fact that there are
some sexual offenders, a minority, who
are not going to be necessarily modified
in a substantial way by this type of pro-
gramme. And we must realise that all
efforts to help sexual offenders can be
counteracted by unfavorable social en-
vironment, by his persecution through the
ordinary legal process of the society or
through his ordinary social contacts.
Treatment should begin in the prison.
The rehabilitation of sex offenders in
a society is more often hampered than
favored by the community attitude. I
want to make some general propositions
about the community attitude. Firstly,
that the rehabilitation of sexual offenders
is, in a significant number of cases, ham-
pered by misconceptions about the nature
of sex offences. There are certain com-
monly held assumptions about sexual
deviations and sexual offences in general
which have little or no evidence to sup-
port them, but which are widely held as
folklore in most Western societies. The
second thing is that the rehabilitation of
sexual offenders is often hampered by
emotional prejudices concerning devia-
tions. It will be obvious that in many
instances that A is dependent on B.
Four Misconceptions
I shall identify the four most common
misconceptions about sexual deviation
widely held in the community at large,
and among extremely intelligent people,
and even among some of those whose
work brings them in contact with sexual
offenders. The first one is that all sexual
offenders are likely to offend against
children. Now, all of us would agree,
that sexual offences against children have
a particular unpleasantness which to some
extent, I think, colors our whole attitude
towards sexual deviation. Offenders
against children are a limited class of
sexual offenders and a class which are
often bitterly despised by other sexual
deviants. Perhaps the most important
reason why Western societies do take
such strong views about homosexuality
is that it is believed, and believed wrongly,
that anybody who is homosexual will
sooner or later commit an assault on a
child. Those who offend against child-
ren are a limited group, they are usually
recognisable and they do pose, admit-
tedly, a very special problem. But do not
confuse all sex offenders with them.
The second factual misconception is
that all sexual offenders are potentially
violent.
It is probably true to say that a person
who shows evidence of homosexuality is
slightly more likely to commit violent
crimes than somebody who doesn't. But
it is malicious to confuse all sexual
offenders with those of a sadistic nature.
Sex crimes which involve violence are
the most horrifying, and therefore obtain
the widest publicity, but they are a small
percentage of the total.
The third factual misconception is one
about which some of you are going to
have difficulty in accepting my point of
view.
My point of view, I might say, is
not eccentric, but one which finds a
great deal of support from psychiatric
studies of sexual development and sexual
crime. This particular misconception is
as follows: a sexual assault on a minor
will inevitably seriously damage his or
her personality development. I would
say that very obviously it is undesirable
for children to be exposed to sexual ex-
periences, and all the more so if these
sexual crimes involve violence. But I
am going to be quite dogmatic in saying
that I am doubtful whether those sexual
offences which do not involve violence
are as wildly important as we have al-
ways believed them to be. First of all,
let us say that the seriousness of the
effect on the child decreases with the
age of the victim. Let us say further
that the effect of a sexual offence on
a child is intimately related with the
parental attitude towards sex and the
child’s whole conception of sex which
he has derived from his home environ-
ment.
It seems from clinical evidence
that a lot depends on whether in fact
the parents are told by the child of the
sexual assault or exposure to which she
has been subjected. Those children who
do not tell their parents, one can say
with some certainty, are extremely
guilty about what has taken place
and it is probably this guilt which blots
and distorts their development as
much as, or more than, the sexual offence
itself.
It is probably true to say that the
effect of such an offence against a child
is very much dependent upon the medical
and legal procedures which follow it,
and it may well be that we have not yet
found the ideal way in which an offender


can be prosecuted for a sexual offence
involving a minor which dramatises to
the least possible extent the child’s
suffering. I am not trying to be offensive
but I am going to ask you to look at
the possibility, which perhaps shocks
some of you, that many of the older
victims of sexual offences, about the
age of say eight to nine, are to some
extent, predisposed to being involved
in a sexual experience. I suggest that
some of these children, due to their own
disturbed family background, have
grown up unwittingly harboring conflicts
of ,a type which are liable to make them
bursting with pathological curiosity which
is likely to lead them into sexually
dangerous situations.
We still live under the shadow of
Wordsworth’s belief in the complete
innocence of the childhood. I believe
that many maintain this by com-
pletely shutting their eyes to what
children do, say, and think every day
of the week. A child’s involvement in a
sexual offence may well be the first
manifestation of a sexual problem,
rather than the cause of later sexual
problems. We must keep the importance
of offences against children in perspec-
tive in relation to other aspects of the
child’s development.
Excluded from Society
The fourth stereotype, the fourth mis-
conception about sexual offenders, is
that sexual offenders are essentially
different from other people. This is a
similar stereotype to that which, for
many years, was maintained as a basis
for excluding mentally ill people from
society, for segregating them and for
giving them tenth-rate medical care.
The stereotype says that offenders are
all amoral people without conscience,
that they are all tainted in some way, by
heredity or biologically.
It is true that some sexual offenders are
in fact deficient relatively in conscience,
that they suffer less acutely with pangs
of guilt that the ordinary person does.
But this does not mean that they were
born without a conscience, for nobody
is born with a conscience. Those people
who grow up with less conscience than
the ordinary person do so because of
certain events in their early development.
But many sexual offenders do have
an acutely sensitive conscience, they are
in some ways periodically tortured, if
not constantly tortured, by feelings of
guilt about what they have done.
To understand some of the emotional
prejudices about sexual deviation, one
must approach through an understand-
ing of personality development. My
views about personality development
follow fairly closely the orthodox
psycho - analytical line. Those who
object to it usually do so for various
reasons, one of them being that they
have not really studied the childhood
of normal, mentally ill and sexually
deviant persons.
What Freud showed us about sexual
deviations was that many, if not most, of
the things which we regard as sexual
deviations in adult life, can be observed,
to some extent, in the behavior of
children. What we commonly call the
Peeping Tom, known medically as the
voyeur, takes its origins from sexual
curiosity which is a normal feature of
childhood development, although it is
obviously, by definition, grossly abnormal
in adult life. Homosexual feelings,
wanting closeness, often of a quite
physical kind with a person of the same
sex, are normal in the development of
children and even, to quite an extent, in
adolescents.
When we are talking about homo-
sexuality in adults, one is talking about
something which is abnormal not in
kind but in its persistence, and in its
manifestation in an overt way once adult-
hood has been reached. In normal de-
velopment these tendencies are dealt with
by the so-called mechanism of sublima-
tion which channels these things into
substitute outlets.
I believe sexual deviation is under-
standable if one knows enough about the
person’s childhood.
Very commonly the male homosexual
is as he is, and has the needs that he has
because he had a weak ineffectual father
and a mother who was ill disposed to-
wards his masculinity, who disapproved
of aggressive masculine behavior and,
in gross examples, almost deliberately
and consciously kept him as an effeminate
mother’s boy type. This is a very gross
example and one sees much more subtle
and more difficult ones than this, but
having seen this, one starts to understand
something about homosexual behavior
and one sees it in a framework which
must be guided and illuminated by the
insights of modern psychology, or
psycho-analytic psychology in particular,
can give.
A Community of Fear
What can we say then about the irra-
tional community attitude? We can say
two things. The community is frightened
of sexual deviation and understandably
so, but it is frightened for rational reasons
in only a small number of cases. The
fear which the average person has about
sexual deviation is based on two sorts
of irrationalities, both of them important
in our society. One of the fears arises be-
cause the sexual deviant breaks what is
generally regarded as the pretty thin
veneer of civilisation. He is feared just
as my sort of criminal is feared because
he strikes at the very framework on which
our society is built. In the context I am
particularly fond of a quotation from
Freud who wrote in 1915 “our fellow
citizens have not sunk so low as we
feared, because they have never risen so
high as we believed.”
Secondly, community attitude towards
sexual deviation derives a good deal of
irrationality from the fact that many
individuals in our society do have drives
of a similar kind which, in psychological
language, have been deeply repressed.
For instance, those people who are
themselves troubled vaguely, without
realising it or labelling it, about homo-
sexual instincts, are going to be particu-
larly vindictive about homosexuals so that
this frightful thing, which they feel to
be so frightful within themselves, will not
break out.
An Insane Society
It is essential to say these things
because the social management of sexual
offenders is largely a question of com-
munity attitude. How can we possibly
get individuals in society involved in
rehabilitation programmes and help
sexual deviants when the mistaken atti-
tudes are so prevalent?
Of course, our society from the cul-
tural point of view is quite crazy in an
almost certifiable sense ; one can almost
say it is an insane society in its attitude
towards sex and sexual deviations. Our
society, through mass media, stimulates
sexual activity as much as possible and
it is considered more newsworthy if it is
abnormal. Having done this on page
one, on page four there is a moral attack
on sexual deviation and how it is to be
stamped out. Most of the ways in which
the Press deals with sexual deviation is
distinctly and positively unhealthy.
There is pretty clearly a flagrant misuse
of sex in the mass media. It is said that
the Press always serves the public what it
wants but if this is purely the ethos of
journalism, then God help our society.
There is every reason why our approach
to sexual deviation should be as clinical as
to heart failure or blood disease. There is
in fact no logical reason why the dis-
charged sexual offender should not
receive the same community services as
any released prisoner or any psychiatric
patient.
To sum up: the sexual offender wants
counselling and he wants guidance, he
wants specific medical help where it is
indicated, as it very often is, he wants
economic support, and an occupation
found for him, he wants group activities
found for him in society, and he very
badly wants recognition as an emotionally
disabled person because perhaps his
prime need is to be seen by society as
someone who is sick and in need of
help.


LETTERS
THE A.B.C. AND ITS SINNERS
An official A.B.C. reply
Sir,
Since three ABC Sinners (Bulletin
Letters, March 10, 24 and April 14) have
had their say, may a fourth enter the
arena, picking his way gingerly among the
stones with which the anonymous
throwers of criticism have littered it?
The business of the ABC is first and
foremost to put programmes on the air. I
am, therefore, concerned only with the
reckless charges made against our pro-
gramme policy and its workings. Never-
theless, I think the ABC’s reputation
among thinking citizens, and especially
those aware of its achievements, is sub-
stantial rebuttal to allegations of bureauc-
racy. prejudice, bickering, rivalry, and so
on.
On the matter of programmes:
1. Sinner No. 1 alleges an anti-person-
ality cult. Certainly the ABC’s senior
programme officers do not court publicity
—it is not their function to do so. But at
the production and presentation level—
producers like Ray Menmuir, James
Upshaw, Alan Burke, Christopher Muir in
television ; John Thompson, Alexander
Turner, Eric John in radio, get full credit
for their work and are surely familiar
names to our viewers and listeners. Russ
Tyson, Michael Charlton, Bruce Webster,
Diana Ward, Corinne Kerby, James
Dibble, Kay Withers, and when they were
with us, Tanya Halesworth, Dick Healey
—these and many more —surely they are
household names?
2. Sinner No. 2 —again, on some pro-
gramme points. Training in programme
work? The ABC regularly conducts train-
ing courses, general and sectional. Only
recently it has concluded a four-week
training course in television in Sydney to
which men and women came from every
Australian State and a few from New
Zealand for good measure. Simultan-
eously, we had a training course in Mel-
bourne. At the moment the ABC has in
its employ 34 Programme Trainees and
Cadets, and there is a waiting list of
educationally well-qualified young men
and women who wish to take these
positions.
Training in the writing of scripts?
The ABC supplies brochures compiled
by experts on all aspects of script-writing ;
and we will always offer guidance to a
novice script-writer if his work shows
promise. Additionally, the ABC conducts
seminars for script-writers and our
Directors of Drama, Talks, Children’s
Sessions and myself frequently address
meetings of writers’ groups and similar
bodies.
No national outlook in ABC pro-
grammes?
To give the lie to that I point to:
Our record in music (John Anthill,
Robert Hughes, Clive Douglas) ; our
record in Drama (Leslie Rees and Alex-
ander Turner) ; our drama festivals and
regional drama productions in all States ;
the production of Australian plays on
television ; our record in Features: John
Thompson on Melba and Bill Harney ;
the Italia Prize-winner, “Death of a
Wombat” —all this and much more.
As for the fate of programme ideas: 1
am the ABC’s Head of Programmes and
whatever my sins, the rejection of worth-
while programme ideas is not one of
them. How else “Four Corners”; the
revival of “The Critics” on a national
basis ; “Showcase” ; essaying the produc-
tion of “Lola Montez” in TV and “The
Girl from the Snowy” in radio ; “Uni-
versity of the Air” ; “Stormy Petrel” and
“The Outcasts” ; numerous experiments
in jazz; a two-hour disc jockey radio
programme on Sunday afternoons?
Sinner No. 2’s six-point charge on this
point is as ridiculous as it is baseless.
3. Sinner No. 3 achieves a new low in
disregard for the facts and I am not
concerned about the malevolent and
splenetic undertones in which this
Sinner’s charges are couched. But have
we “lost dozens of production people in
the last few years”?
The facts are that in television we have
more than 40 producers working in all
States. Since 1956, three have resigned
to go to commercial work and one of
these came back immediately—virtually
in a matter of days. On the other hand,
we have recently engaged five producers
from Australian commercial television
who applied to us for jobs.
Of the remainder of those who have
left us two resigned to go into other work
and two recently resigned but only to
go overseas for experience. Another is
overseas with our help and will return to
us this year. And that is the tally in
television. I know of no radio producer
leaving us in recent years.
The Producers’ Assessment Committee,
of which Sinner No. 3 says “ ... none of
the four of them ever controlled a pro-
gramme in their lives”, includes one man
—Paul O’Loughlin—who has produced
several television dramas with distinction
and another who passed, summa cum
laude, the BBC’s Television Production
Course.
Of the five members of the Film Com-
mittee, three have studied film-making in
Europe and America, and one (our Con-
troller of News) closely directs, with a
success revealed in television ratings, all
the complicated processes that go towards
the filming of news and newsreels.
Those of us concerned with ABC pro-
grammes and programme policies expect
criticism. And we get plenty, but usually
at a level that is respected. This includes
your own television columns. However,
contributors to Letters on this subject,
I respectfully suggest, fall far short of
your own standard of criticism.
C. SEMLER
(Assistant General Manager,
Programmes ABC)
Sydney
HOW TO BE EXCLUSIVE
Sir,
I wish to congratulate The Bulletin
for its accurate and outspoken articles
on the Exclusive Order of the Plymouth
Brethren “How to be Exclusive’’ (April
7), “The Exclusive Mr Taylor' and
“Adelaide Exclusives” (April 14).
As a “pommie”, three months out
from England, I have had to leave a good
home which has, I regret, been broken
up by this sect. I have few friends in
Australia, but am glad to be able to
lead a “new life.”
The activities of the “Exclusives,”
described by your correspondents and
newspapers in this State, are typical of
what is happening in Britain and no
doubt in many other countries at this
time. I do hope that you will accept
my sincere thanks for your articles.
JOHN A. LOVELL
Katanning (WA)
FREEDOM AND AUSTRALIAN
YUGOSLAVS
Sir,
In the last few months the Consulate-
General of the Federated People’s
Republic of Yugoslavia in Sydney has
been very active in offering political
amnesty to those Yugoslav migrants who
are—as it says—prepared to “regulate”
their relations with communist Yugo-
slavia. The amnesty, issued by the
infamous chief of political police. Alex-
ander Rankovic, promises pardon for all
Yugoslavs who were not the criminals
of war, or those who are not active in
the organisations which are preparing the
overthrow of Tito's regime, or those who
did not “harm the prestige of communist
Yugoslavia or their leaders. . .”
Mr S. Bjelica, the secretary of the
Yugoslav Consulate in Sydney, has in the
past (Bulletin, January 13) attacked me
as the man who is responsible for some
violent actions against members of his
Consulate. Mr Bjelica was more than
annoyed with the activities of Free Yugo-
slavs in Sydney w'ho advocate a merciless
war against Tito’s dictatorship and his
agents and infiltrators among Yugoslav
communities.
Recently news leaked through that the
ex-Vice-President of communist Yugo-
slavia and their first Secretary, Yugoslav
Communist Party writer Milovan Djilas,
was reimprisoned, this time because of
his new book, “Conversations with
Stalin.”
In his first book, “The New Class”,
Djilas exposed new rulers like Sydney’s
Consul Z. Josilo and his secretary, S.


Estab’ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
osuluvaa
:»» PTYLTD C
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Cd.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
ManufacUiring Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STFREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Bjelica, both sent to this country to
“represent” the interests of Yugoslavs—
the same Yugoslavs who by risking their
own lives managed to escape to freedom.
Djilas is a strong-minded Montenegrin, a
man who could not enjoy the power and
glory when all peoples of Yugoslavia
endure every harshness of a new class.
Free Yugoslavs in Australia wonder if
Mr Bjelica could just for a moment stop
worrying about our activities, and purely
for the benefit of our Australian friends,
avail himself of the Editor’s hospitality
by answering this question:
Flow does he explain a recent political
amnesty for Yugoslav migrants and all
the promises of freedom if they by any
chance wish to return to their homes, at
the very moment when a man like Djilas
has been denied the fundamental rights,
lack of which at first place compelled so
many thousands of them to leave their
country?
LYENKO URBANCHICH
King's Cross (NSW)
GOVERNOR FITZROY: THE GAY
FEDERALIST
Sir,
Is poor Sir John Eardley-Wilmot to
have all his honor stripped from him? I
should have thought that Gladstone had
punished him enough when dismissing
him as Lieutenant-Governor of Van Die-
men’s Land in 1846, but now I see that
M. H. Ellis (Bulletin, April 21) by asser-
ting that Sir Charles EitzRoy “was the
first former .MP to govern in Australia”,
has taken even that distinction from Sir
John.
LitzRoy, who had served one session
as member for Bury St Edmunds, arrived
in New South Wales in August 1846 ;
Eardley-Wilmot, who had represented
North Warwickshire for over ten years,
reached Van Diemen’s Land in August
1843.
A. G. AUSTIN
Melbourne
Sir,
Governor Fitzroy arrived in Sydney
in 1846. How then does M- H. Ellis
(Bulletin, April 21) conclude that any
subsequent recommendation by Fitzroy
could result in an Imperial Bill “which
separated the colonies of New South
Wales, Victoria, South Australia and
Tasmania?”
Tasmania had separated in 1825 ; SA
had its generation in a Foundation Act of
1834, followed by actual settlement in
1836, so that by 1851 the Act for the
Better Government of Her Majesty’s
Colonies was left with only Victoria to
give separate status. This Act also gave
Tasmania a Legislative Council and
broadened franchise in SA—but it
brought neither of them immediately into
existence, as one might infer from Mr
Ellis’s article.
The “battle for separation which split
New South Wales” during Fitzroy’s
period of rule must thus be limited in its
application to Victoria—with perhaps
some future reference to Queensland,
which was founded six years after his
departure. As for the anti-penal senti-
ment evoked by the arrival of the
Hashemy in 1849 settling the hash of the
convict “as an ingredient of Australian
polity forever”, 1849 was the very year
penal settlement was adopted in Western
Australia in response to local demand,
and there it remained for decades.
All this is not to say that I do not
admire Mr Ellis’s historical works—when
he sticks to New South Wales.
H. B. GRAUER
Port Moresby
TANNER ON FEIFFER
Sir,
Les Tanner in his essay on Feiffer
(Bulletin, March 10) considers the
search for a personal form and a personal
identification with the content as being
the first important consideration of the
pictorial humorist. (“Pictorial humorist”
used here to encompass, satirists, etc.)
Surely the pictorial humorist will pro-
duce his own personal form without a
search? It is not a search, at most it is a
natural development, something that
emerges as one’s perceptions mature. The
personal form of Steinberg involves more
than the delicacy of his calligraphy.
Naturally this delicacy is cultivated, but
the individuality that distinguishes Stein-
berg from Sprod comes through the com-
ponents of his character. The man is
writing with his drawings, there is no
search here.
The difficult thing is not form but
content. This can be either corrective
or non-corrective, stated in contemporary
local images or eclectic myth. Only here
is there room for confusion.
Tanner quotes Feiffer’s attitude to his
art—where he compares himself to the
novelist. There is more of the poet than
the novelist in Francois and Searle, whose
pictorial poetry has definite surrealistic
tendencies. The Australian humorist, on
the other hand, speaks not in terms of
the novel but with the tense, terse and
savage satire associated with the news-
paper, not the news magazine.
GARRY SHEAD
Pymble (NSW)
A PLAIN MAN’S GUIDE TO THE
SENATE
Sir,
Mr M. H. Ellis’s contention “that the
very purpose for which the Senate was
constituted seems to have disappeared”
opens up some lines of thought.
So long as Australia exists it is likely
to comprise groups of people of vary-
ing number, located at widely separated
corners of a three million square mile
continent. The fathers of federation,
due largely to the more primitive means
of communication of the day, were well
aware of this and provided a forum in the
Senate in which those smaller groups
could have a voice in the affairs of the
nation. Eliminate the Senate and those
minority groups would be mute except
through their State Legislatures, which,
as Mr Ellis points out, are losing status
as time goes by.
I. M. HARDY
Broken Hill (NSW)
MR McEWEN PUSHES IN
Sir,
It is remarkable that your correspon-
dent, Neil Mclnnes, could not write an
article on the objectives of Mr McEwen’s
visit to Brussels without forcibly drag-
ging in a slighting reference to Irish
Parliaments (Bulletin, April 14).
Mr Mclnnes should have sufficient
experience to realise that a display of
prejudice in relation to one European
country is not the best guarantee of
objectivity in commenting on the affairs
of other European countries. It may be,
of course, that your correspondent was
merely trying to be funny. In that case he
is, perhaps, more to be pitied than
censured.
J. R. POLLOCK
(Secretary, Padraig Pearse Branch
of the Irish National Association
of Australasia)
Sydney


A SHORT STORY
MILOVAN
DJILAS
THE WAR
THE BIG RIVER, which ran from east to west, Bowed info
an even bigger river. So it has always been and always
will be: Big rivers Bow into bigger rivers. And on the banks
of these rivers there have always been wars and battles
and frontiers, since human life is carried on across rivers
which, depending on circumstances, either unite or separate.
' For three months a battle had been going on along the big river. As
the adversaries were of equal strength, neither could pry the other loose,
particularly now that winter was fast coming on (a winter campaign demands
more men and equipment). Both armies had dug in along the banks,
gathering force to destroy each other in the spring, when the ice melts and the
earth becomes green again.
The battle front cut right across the
big river ; but every river—and therefore
this one —is indifferent to whether or not
the front divides it. The front began
here and extended to the south and north-
east, where it then hinged around the
bigger river and from there on followed
its course. Whether battles are fought
on its banks or elsewhere is no less a
matter of indifference to the river. The
front, with its trenches, dugouts and ex-
cavations of various kinds, had spread
devastation over a strip of land about 30
miles wide enclosed by the two rivers.
The land is also indifferent to whether
the front crosses it or not ; so are the
fields and vineyards, the villages and
towns.
But the people who lived on the. rivers’
banks were not indifferent, though they,
too, could not be blamed for the war. In
that region the soil and sun were kind to
human life, and men lived there. War
means plunder and absolute control
over men and the conditions of their
existence ; when it overtakes them, it
must create havoc in their lives. But even
if these men lived elsewhere, the war
would have created havoc in their lives
as soon as it reached their land.
In war there must always be two
opposing armed camps (without them
there would be no war), and each side
does everything in its power to destroy
all that might be useful to the other.
There is no work of man’s hand or brain
which might not prove useful to the ad-
versary. Thus the surest way of harming
the enemy is to destroy everything that
might fall into his hands. War has no
mind ; it cannot foresee what may eventu-
ally be useful to the other side. For this
reason, the wisest course of action to
follow in war is to destroy everything
methodically: houses and roads, seed and
livestock, bridges and museums, and
above all else the human beings them-
selves and the conditions of their exis-
tence.
In retreating to the west, the enemy
troops had destroyed all the bridges over
the rivers and had smashed all the boats,
even those tiny and flimsy ones that can
barely hold a pair of lovers (and lovers,
since they love each other, sit very close
together). By this time, close to the front
and even some distance from it (for the
front is here today, but tomorrow can
move elsewhere), there did not exist a
single bridge or scow or ferry of any
kind. Even the few small dinghies which
the fishermen had hidden from the re-
treating army had been confiscated by
the advancing army, not so much because
it needed them but because they might
one day prove useful to the enemy ; to
transport spies or saboteurs or in case
of a counter-offensive.
Men must continue living in war and
despite war, and behind the front the
local population tried to repair the ferries
which ran between the two banks. But
they lacked the tools and materials to do
the job. Besides, they knew that any new
boat or scow would certainly be requi-
sitioned So their sole means of transport
across the river was a motor-driven mili-
tary scow ; the army of course must have
a way of connecting the river’s banks.
After all, an army exists in order to
possess all that the enemy possesses, or
does not possess, or might possess.
The soldiers on the scow were good
fellows. All soldiers are good fellows
when they are not soldiers, and even
when they are soldiers, provided they are
not fighting. And so they ferried the in-
habitants and their belongings across the
river free of charge. They did this quite
willingly, for they came from the same
region in which the war was being fought,
but they did it only during the hours
when the scow was not being used by the
army for the war. This was quite reason-
able, since the soldiers were there and
did what they were doing precisely be-
cause of the war.
The enemy planes preferred to attack
during the daylight hours, so the scow
worked for the army at night and for the
people by day. But the people, though
not an army, had also become wise and
would crowd around the ferry toward
evening, when the enemy had stopped
attacking and the army had not yet begun
ferrying to the opposite bank ; or at the
first light of dawn, when the enemy had
not begun its air raids and the army had
stopped crossing the river.
'Throughout that afternoon, misty and
A freezing and humid as are many
winter afternoons, especially the after-
noons of war, a funeral dirge was heard
coming from the left bank, where the
front was. On the opposite bank, there
were some soldiers and three officers —
a Major from counter-intelligence ; his
aide, a Captain ; and a Lieutenant who
was directing traffic on the scow. They
knew that a peasant (for only peasants
lament their dead so obstinately, with a
din that is stupefying) was transporting
from the front the corpse of his brother
(or father, or son) who had been killed
in the war. The officers would have liked
to have begun using the scow even before
sunset to bring these poor, grief-stricken
folk to the other bank. But they had to
keep it hidden because enemy recon-


naissance planes kept darting out of the
clouds, almost as if they enjoyed inspect-
ing the river, which was neither blue nor
silvery but yellow and muddy, lined with
bare, blackened willow trees submerged
among dark, rotten reeds that fused with
a sky of the same color.
But finally the scow came snorting
from the canebrake, to cross the river.
The compact, grey clouds had descended
so low they touched the water’s surface,
and darkness had fallen sooner than
usual. The officers decided the enemy
planes were no longer a danger.
The dirge, first low and indistinct, now
suddenly flooded out in a blare, as though
the peasants had waited for the motor to
quiet, and the scow to tie up next to the
bank. A crowd of peasants surrounded
by a herd of livestock burst on to the
boat, and in the crush an elderly peasant
with a shaggy beard tried in a gentle voice
to coax his nervous, shying horses for-
ward. This was his way with animals, yet
now his voice was sadder and more
tender, for a coffin of rough wood rested
on the wagon ; and a peasant woman,
also quite old, her face wrapped to the
eyes in a ’kerchief, gripped the coffin’s
cover with a bony hand, as if unable to
tear herself away.
“Hup, my beauties, hup, take me to
my empty house and my sorrow,” the
peasant whispered softly, tugging lightly
at the reins, while the woman, crying
shrilly and despairingly, embraced and
fondled the coffin with her other hand.
The Captain, who was blond and thick-
set (though it didn’t really matter how
he looked ; the only thing that counted
was that he was a Captain), shouted
almost angrily at the passengers already
jammed on the scow to make room for
the wagon. Suddenly he jumped down
on the bank, grabbed the reins, and
tugged the horses toward the boat: “Give
them to me, little uncle. I was raised
with horses. And you people over there,
make room! ”
The horses immediately sensed a strong,
determined hand. Laying back their ears
they followed the Captain, testing the
solidity of the gangplank and its height
above the water with their hooves. The
peasant thanked the Captain, showering
all sorts of blessings on him and the army.
But the Captain was made ill-at-ease by
this show of gratitude. Rubbing his
hands as if to remove the dirt on them
(the reins had been greasy and muddy),
he replied with quiet modesty: “It’s
nothing, little uncle. It’s our duty to help
the people, that’s why we’re here. But
tell me, who are you carrying in the
coffin?”
“Who?” the peasant echoed sorrow-
fully. “I’m carrying my ruined life, my
only son. I’ve already given two of them,
and now he also has gone. That’s who
I’m carrying in the coffin.”
One could see that the Captain wanted
to saw a few comforting words, which at
the same time would be an admission,
something like: “Yes, freedom has a high
price.” But he could not find the right
words, or perhaps they seemed futile to
him, confronted by the immense sorrow
of the peasant and his wife, who was
quite obviously the dead man’s mother.
So he kept silent and heaved a sigh. In-
stead of the Captain, the Lieutenant, who
was at the tiller, spoke up. He, too, was
blond, but tall and with a sparse, dis-
colored moustache which made his beard-
less chin all the more prominent (his
appearance also didn’t matter, for it was
only important that he was a Lieutenant).
“What can you do?” he said, “War is
war. They die every day, sometimes we
ferry more dead men than live ones.”
An elderly peasant, tall, thin and gaunt-
faced, asked the old man: “Did you go
to the front to bring back your son?”
The old man begun telling his story.
He had gone with his wife to where they
were fighting to bring his son some food
and clean clothes. He had fought in a
war, he knew what a soldier needed. Two
days before, at dawn, the enemy had at-
tacked and, as ill luck would have it, his
son, young and inexperienced—he hadn’t
even reached 20 had been hit by a
grenade. “It tore out all his guts ; the
father and mother didn’t even see him
alive, they weren’t able to hear his last
words from his own lips.”
The old man was all the more pathetic
because he did not seem to be referring
to himself or to his wife. And the mother
concluded with a mournful cry: “What is
there to say? It’s the end for us, our fire
is extinguished forever . . .”
The tall peasant, seemingly deaf to the
words of the grief-stricken parents, his
Adam’s apple bobbing up and down on
his long neck, said: “My son was killed,
too, a month ago, but I didn’t carry him
back. Let him rest together with his
comrades. But how did you manage to
get a coffin at the front? Up there there’s
no wood, no carpenters, nothing.”
The father went on lamenting as if he
hadn’t heard the question: “I don’t know
myself where or why we’re carrying him.
A peasant’s foolishness —simply so that
we can comfort ourselves with a grave.”
The Captain agreed; other parents
carried away their dead, though, to tell
the truth, without a coffin. “The military
command,” he added, “respects the
people’s customs, even if it is more
appropriate that a soldier rest alongside
his fallen comrades.”
At that moment the scow touched the
other bank. The horses shied, and the
Captain again took hold of the reins.
This time the animals followed him
quietly, eager to put their hooves on
solid ground.
CPhe road went parallel with an embank-
ment along the river. To reach it,
the army had cut and sanded a path from
the landing-place through the mud and
stagnant puddles. On this short, narrow
trail, hemmed in on both sides by muddy
slush churned up by cart wheels, the
passengers lined up in single file, ready
to show their papers to the Major, who
had not yet emerged from his little hut
on the road.
The Captain dragged the horses for-
ward, ignoring the people lined up on the
trail. And they stepped aside, treading
in the muck unwillingly yet without pro-
test. For they were giving the right of
way to a dead man who, in addition, was
being led by a man in military uniform.
But the gaunt peasant, the one whose son
had been killed a month before, bending
over and waving his cane in his right
hand as though it might help him in his
haste, rushed toward the hut, paying no
attention to anyone. When the Lieutenant
warned him to keep in line, he merely
turned around and, still running, made
an impatient gesture and pointed at the
hut with his cane: “I’ve got some urgent
business to take care of there! ”
There was a sudden silence, with only
the sounds of the wagon grating on the
sand and boots squelching in the mud.
Everyone immediately understood that
the gaunt peasant had something impor-
tant to tell the Major in the hut. Nor
did the peasant make any secret of this.
When the wagon reached the top of the
bank, the Major was waiting for it. He
signalled for it to pull up. The gaunt
peasant, peeking from behind the Major’s


shoulder with a quizzical yet sly smile on
his face, hopped up and down excitedly.
“Yes, I heard it myself,” he said tri-
umphantly. “There’s something alive in
that coffin. Now, Captain, don’t hold it
against me if I didn’t tell you. I was
afraid that they’d push the coffin in the
water. I waited for us to get across the
river, where the higher authorities are.
You shouldn’t hold it against me either,”
he said, turning to the parents. “It’s our
duty to report anything suspicious. War
is war.”
The father and mother stiffened and
stood speechless. The mother was the
first to recover. She began to curse the
peasant for his lies and his wickedness,
and to beg the Major: “Be a good man.
Let us go with our dead while it’s still
light.”
Encouraged by his wife’s implorings,
the father came to attention before the
Major and, in a more dignified, soldierly
tone, he too began to plead: “Have some
consideration, Sir Comrade Major. We
are parents, this is our son ; our village
is far away.”
The Major was a dark-haired, rather
young-looking man ; his expression was
more curious than cold (of course, it
didn’t matter how he looked, what
counted was that he was a Major). When
he answered the peasant, he seemed to
be speaking not to the man standing be-
fore him, but to some absent person for
whom the regulations prescribe a civil
tone “You have nothing to worry about.
We’ll settle everything according to
orders.”
Then he walked over to the wagon,
tapped the coffin with his index finger
and gave the order to open it.
The soldiers quickly untied the coffin
and lowered it off the wagon. The mother
threw herself on it, wailing softly: “My
house, my empty house . . .”
But the soldiers had nothing with
which to pull out the nails in the lid.
This gave the father new courage and
he again begged: “Don’t put a curse on
your soul. Major, have a little consider-
ation.”
The Major seemed not to be listening;
perhaps he was too busy checking the
travellers’ documents. In any case, he
said to the father, or perhaps to a man
in the line: “In order, in order, every-
thing must be in order.”
A truck passed and, lifting his hand in
which a few identity cards fluttered, the
Major signalled it to stop. The Captain
knew what he had to do without being
told and asked the driver for a pair of
pliers and a hammer. Gently he tried
to move the mother away from the coffin,
but she remained on the ground—still
crouching, almost knotted up in herself
—her clenched fists pressed against her
cheeks, bemoaning even more desperately
her desolate house and her black fate.
Tn a few moments the soldiers pulled out
A the nails in the coffin’s lid and the
Major, who had finished checking docu-
ments, gave the order to lift it. Inside
lay a dark-haired, beardless young man,
dressed in peasant clothes. He rolled his
eyes, made a move as though to get up,
then smiled with embarrassment and
remained lying on his back.
“Is this your son?” the Major asked.
“My son,” the peasant said, “my only
son. The other two are dead.”
“Did he run away from the front?”
“No, he didn’t run away. I wanted to
save him, to preserve someone of my
blood. What good are my land and my
house, and the State for that matter, if
all that I have is wiped out?”
The passengers watched the scene with
curiosity. But the Major ordered the
soldiers to move them away, and they
quickly retreated before the rifle barrels.
The driver of the truck drove off as
soon as he got back his tools ; evidently
what was happening did not interest him,
or else he had more important things to
do and troubles of his own. Only the
gaunt peasant remained in the clearing.
Nobody had told him to go, and he stood
there like one who had a special right to
remain. “I thought it was a spy or some-
thing like that,” he said to himself. “I
didn’t want to hurt anyone, I swear to
God, I swear to God . . .”
Crumpled alongside the coffin, the
mother began to brush the sweat-
drenched hair away from her son’s fore-
head, comforting him: “Don’t be afraid,
my darling boy, he’s a good man, he’s a
good man. He’s from our Government,
the people’s Government.”
Plucking up his courage, the young
man sat up in the coffin. But the Major
gestured for him to lie down. As if at
an order, he fell back and lay rigid.
“Captain/’ the Major said. “Do your
duty! ”
Swiftly, as though he had only been
waiting for the command, the Captain
pulled his revolver out of his holster and
clicked a bullet into the chamber. And
without waiting for any order, the Lieu-
tenant took the mother by the shoulders,
though not roughly, tore her away from
her son, forced her to her feet and pulled
her to one side. In a similar manner, a
soldier, prodding with the barrel of his
rifle, pushed the father alongside his wife.
Then the Captain walked up to the
coffin and shot the young man in the
heart with such dexterity and speed that
the echo of the report seemed to resound
even before the barrel had been brought
close to ths boy’s chest, and before the
petrified parents had time to realise what
was happening.
The young man himself seemed to
understand only when the bullet split his
heart: He cried out, arched up in the
coffin, his limbs and head banged lightly
against the wood, and suddenly his entire
body slumped, as though completely
drained.
In an angry voice, the Major said:
“Now carry him away!” Then he added,
quietly: “We do our duty and will con-
tinue to do it.”
The parents did not hear him. They
had thrown themselves on the corpse of
their son, and were sobbing and scream-
ing in spasms of grief.
The soldiers pulled them away from
the coffin firmly, but not roughly. They
carefully returned the coffin to the wagon,
not forgetting to tie it fast. They placed
the lid beside the coffin, having neither
the tools nor the time to nail it down.
The scow had to leave as soon as possible,
for the military trucks were already wait-
ing in a line on the road.
As soon as the soldiers had set down
the coffin, the horses began moving by
themselves. The parents hurried after
the wagon. And the gaunt peasant said
to himself in astonishment: “But how
could I know? How could I know?”
A knot of wood had dropped out of
the bottom of the coffin ; blood flowed
through it, dark and silent. The mother
kept her hand on the coffin, whining in-
comprehensibly, and the father groaned
aloud as he walked beside the horses,
forgetting this time to coax them on.
The Lieutenant said: “Strange people,
these peasants. Look at them. They’re
weeping and crying just like they did
before.”
But no one heard him. They were all
busy with the trucks on the bank of the
big river.


SCIENCE AT WORK
THE AUTOMATION REVOLUTION
These fantastically complicated electronic brains are basically simple
From our Science Correspondent
nPHE world, and particularly the Western
world, is on the threshold of a
revolution which by comparison seems
bound to make the Industrial Revolution
appear relatively insignificant. In the In-
dustrial Revolution mechanical machines
gradually replaced the craftsman leading
eventually to mass production. In the
present automation revolution electronic
devices are replacing human brain power.
The first step towards the automation
revolution was made in the postwar years
with the advent of the electronic com-
puter. Progress in this field has been so
rapid that for instance SILLIAC, the
well-known computer of Sydney Uni-
versity’s School of Physics, which five
years ago was one of the fastest machines
in the world, has today been superseded
by machines that are scores of times
faster. In fact, SILLIAC has for some
time been unable to cater for the growing
demand on its time from University,
Government and industrial users. For
this reason SILLIAC’s Basser Computing
Department will next year install one of
the world’s fastest operating computers
—the English Electric KDF-9 —some 35
times faster than SILLIAC.
The way in which such machines are
replacing human brain effort is illus-
trated by the fact that the KDF-9 is able
to do the calculations of 100,000 skilled
'human computers. By today everyone
is used to reading of such comparisons,
and the word Electronic Brain has be-
come household. But few people realise
how simple the principle of these fan-
tastically complicated machines really is.
lectronic computing is based on a
different system of counting from that
which we all know. Even primitive man
used his fingers to count and our 10-
number system developed from that.
Thus we have the numbers 0,1, 2,3, 4,5,
6,7, 8 and 9. Having reached 9, the next
number is 0 again except that a 1 is put
on the left to indicate that we have gone
through the string of numbers once ; and
so on.
A system equally as good—though not
as well known—is for instance the
binary system in which there are two
basic numbers only, 0 and 1, instead of
ten. Thus when we count in the binary
system, we start with 0, go to 1, and
already have run through our entire
string of numerals ; therefore, the next
number (2) starts with 0 again but has
a 1 to the left to indicate that we have
run through our string of numerals once.
It is now easy to translate any number
into the binary system, as illustrated in
the following examples:
o=o 4 = 100
I=l 5 = 101
2 = 10 6 = 110
3=ll 7 = 111
8 = 1000
9 = 1001
10 = 1010
Thus, for example 29 = 11101
and 21 = 10101
Multiplying 29 by 21 for instance, looks
as follows:
11101
10101
11101
00000
11101
00000
11101
1001100001 ( = 609)
It must be remembered that when, for
instance, adding 1 + 1 in the binary sys-
tem we get (2) 10, and therefore put
down 0 and “carry” 1 to the left; and
so on.
The important thing about all this is
that it is most elementary to look at the
two digits of the binary system as “yes”
or “no,” “on” or “off,” “present” or
“absent.” Applied to electronics the two
digits can be represented by a current
being on or off, an impulse being present
or absent. A typical way, for instance,
in which a machine has numbers stored
in its “brain” is that it has a whole series
of TV screens on each one of which there
is a close-spaced array of little dots. Each
dot represents the digit 1, and if the dot
is not there, its vacant position represents
0.
The machine can “see” for itself with
photo-electric devices whether a dot is
there or not; and since all operations,
multiplications and divisions can be re-
duced to a series of additions and sub-
tractions, the speed with which they can
be done depends only on the electrical
circuitry of the machine. Multiplications
of numbers involving 24 digits for ex-
ample can be done in a millionth of a
second by a fast machine.
Naturally, the only language such
a computer understands consists of
numerals ; and all instructions, infor-
mation and problems fed into the
machine must be fed into it in the form
of numerals. The numerals, for instance,
can appear as punched holes in tape and
the machine then supplies its answers in
the same form. Such computers, of
course, faithfully follow the instructions
given to them by their operators, and
thereby perform years of human effort
in minutes.
A lready, however, there are machines
in use which may be termed self-
operating—such as the tiny electronic
brains in self-guided missiles. In such a
missile there is a detailed and automatic
navigational system which feeds informa-
tion into the electronic brain. The brain
calculates where the missile is and its
velocity, compares this with where it
should be and feeds out correcting sig-
nals activating correction rockets. The
speed of this performance is almost
instantaneous and could never be
approached by human operators. In this
case, apart from being prepared by
human instructions, the brain in flight is
self-operating and takes its instructions
from non-human observation devices.
If we realise that we are only in the
early stages of electronic brain develop-
ment, our wildest fantasy can scarcely
cope with the future.
Such things as automatically-driven
trains are already in existence (in Japan)
and completely automatic transport sys-
tems across large continents are in the
planning stage. Needless to explain what,
translated to industrial requirements,
such automatic robot devices could do.
And we have not even touched the
thought that one day Man may be able to
build a self-organised device capable of
seeing its surroundings, thinking for itself,
and with a higher intelligence than man
'himself.
Is the evolution of intelligent life on
this earth going to lead from the bio-
logical into the electronic-mechanical?


The Wild
Cat Pages and
THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
OIL
FIELD DAY FOR SPECULATORS AT MOONIE
Jt is most disconcerting that so many
A investors in Australian oil exploration
ventures seem to be interested solely in
speculation. Every time there is a strike,
oil scrip leaps up before any proper
assessment of the situation can be made,
only to come down when the first wild-
cat rush is over. Any search for oil
particularly in a country like Aus-
tralia, which has been on the verge of
finding “black gold” in commercial
quantities for several years is dramatic
business. A measure of sharemarket
speculation in oil scrip is inevitable, and
even desirable to keep up the public
interest.
But there is little that can be said for
the recurring waves of uninformed specu-
lation for speculation’s sake. And this is
what has been happening on an unprece-
dented scale ever since the Union Oil-
Kern County Land Co.-Australian Oil
and Gas Corporation group drilled Aus-
tralia’s first “commercial” well at Moonie
in Queensland. A.O.G. share prices rocket
up as soon as a cautiously worded pre-
liminary statement —or even only a set of
unconfirmed rumors—indicates that some
oil has been located in a test well. But
after a technical report confirms the good
news —as was the case with Moonie No. 1
and Moonie No. 2—the shares often fail
to respond or, in fact continue to settle
down. And all the other listed oil shares
faithfully reflect these mad jumps,
although their intrinsic value often bears
little relation to the results of drilling in
the Moonie area or to the fortunes of
A.O.G. scrip.
Speculative waves, which periodically
hoist oil shares to dizzy peaks, add no
real value to Australia’s investment in
oil exploration. But the rapid down-
swings which follow in their wake in-
duce an atmosphere of gloom and
indecision on the sharemarket and scare
off non-speculative investors. Australian
oil shares now have a history of being
ridiculously overpriced or vegetating well
below par, neither of which is conducive
to steady investment. Few people can
afford to pay £5 or so for a ss. stock,
and not many are attracted to oil scrip
offered well below its nominal value.
This remains the domain of speculators.
The economic effect of this is that
domestic investment in oil search in
Australia is well below even what the
country’s limited capital resources can
afford, and greater reliance must be placed
on overseas funds than would have been
necessary if a more sensible attitude
prevailed.
HThe Moonie No. 3 strike had set off
a real orgy of panic selling, followed
by frantic buying within the next couple
of days.
The first report by Union Oil said
that no oil was found during a drill stem
test ; but production tests went on and
not 36 hours later oil flowed from a
layer of sand just two feet below the
interval which was earlier found to be
unproductive. Headlines screamed “no
oil!” and “oil” and A.O.G. scrip with
all the other “sympathetic” oil stocks —•
plunged and rocketed up again. Those
who panicked and sold lost thousands
of pounds and those who moved in early
on the upswing made up to £2 a share.
TTnion Oil’s announcements may have
been technically correct but the tim-
ing was rather unfortunate. The news was
released when the Stock Exchanges were
closed, and the first statement was
capable of a very pessimistic interpreta-
tion by the less informed investors. Under
the circumstances it could not but have
triggered off a wave of panic selling.
Surely Union Oil’s management has
acquired sufficient knowledge of the
Australian sharemarket to avoid making
such statements while tests are still going
on.
A.O.G. shareholders got another sur-
prise last Monday when, only an
hour before Sydney Stock Exchange
closed for the day, it was announced
that trading in rights would continue for
another fortnight.
True enough, the extension was
prompted by the disorganised state of
the company’s share register and was
made at the request of the Stock
Exchange Committee. But a more ade-
quate warning should have been given.
EUGENE BAJKOWSKI
INDEX
Moonie—Field Day for Specu-
lators .. ~ .. 34
Motor Vehicles .. .. 35
Japan’s Investments Abroad .. 35
The Chairman Says ... .. 36
Croesus on Petrol Taxes .. 37
Japan Planners Urge Free
Trade 38
Advertising .. .. .. 39
Notes On The News .. .. 40
Marketing—Packaging for Ex-
port .. .. .. 41
Retail Trading .. .. .. 41
Company Reviews:
York Motors (Holdings) Ltd 42
A. J. Benjamin Ltd .. .. 42
Lowes Ltd .. .. .. 44
A. G. Webster and Wool-
growers Ltd .. .. 44
Company Notes .. .. 46
00 .. .. ..48
One to Buy .. .. .. 49
Sharemarket Summary and
Statistics .. 50, 51
Speculator’s Diary .. .. 52
Man on the Land:
Keepit Dam, Wool, Rabbits 53
Greasy Wool Futures .. 54


DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
Financier . . Established 1882
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Interest payable quarterly through the Bank of N.S.W Free of Exchange.
THIS ISSUE HAS BEEN FULLY SUBSCRIBED . . .
OVER SUBSCRIPTIONS NOW BEING ACCEPTED
Application Forms (and Prospectuses)
will be Forwarded on Request
Applications will be accepted only on one ot the forms
of application attached to the printed copy of the Pros-
pectus which may be obtained from:
• All branches of the Bank of New South Wales in New
South Wales, Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 4521-2-3.
AND BRANCHES
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members ot the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O’Connell Street, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne. 340 Queen Street, Brisbane
BROKERS IN VICTORIA
Clarke & Co., 450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS IN QUEENSLAND
Charles Elliott & Son, 356 Queen St., Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BROKERS IN CANBERRA
T. J. Thompson 8c Sons, C.B.C. Chambers,
Petrie St., Canberra.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
I
PER ANNUM
FOR 5 YEARS
MOTOR VEHICLES
BRITAIN'S NEW DRIVE IN US.
"Dritlsh motor manufacturers, who are
feeling the pinch of increased com-
petition on the US market from Ameri-
can-made compact cars, are striving to
raise their sales in the United States
during 1962 by 30-40 p.c.
UK motor producers have put more
than 40 models of British cars (represent-
ing some 20 makes) on display stands
at the Sixth International Motor Show,
which opened in New York’s Coliseum
on April 21.
British motor vehicle exports to the
United States in 1961 amounted to only
35,000, although a total of 75,000 was
sold if previously imported cars are in-
cluded in the year’s overall sales. Stocks
of imported cars have now been depleted
and British manufacturers aim at lifting
their sales in 1962 to 100,000. Apart
from American manufacturers, Britain’s
main competitors are France, Germany,
Israel, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, and
Sweden. Together, all the exporting
countries hope to sell 400,000 cars in the
United States during this year.
Ford Motor Company and other
American motor vehicle manufacturers
are taking energetic retaliatory measures".
Ford, which has been doing well at
home with the Falcons and Comets, has
now abandoned its earlier plans to de-
velop a “baby-car” to compete against
Volkswagens apparently because the
company feels that this could focus too
much attention on some imported com-
pact car lines.
On the whole there has been a marked
recovery in US domestic car sales and
Detroit manufacturers are pushing their
sales of American-made small and
medium cars. But imported lines have
been doing rather poorly. The outstand-
ing exception is still the West German
Volkswagen, which alone accounts for
about half of all current US motor
vehicle imports.
Price Increases in W. Germany
TTowever. in West Germany itself al-
most all motor vehicle manufac-
turers have announced substantial
domestic price increases, claiming
inability to absorb the recent series of
wage rises. The West German Govern-
ment appears to be alarmed by the
continuous upward pressure of wages,
costs and prices, and is reported to be
considering an appreciable reduction in
import duties on French and Italian
cars. The West German Federal
Economics Minister, Prof. L. Erhard, is
concerned that domestic price rises may
become reflected in export prices and
damage West German car exports. The
Bundestag will have to ratify any cus-
toms ordinance reducing duties on im-
ports, but the influential “Welt am
Sonntag” points out that Parliamentary
consent “can almost be taken for granted,
as price increases by the German motor-
car industry have aroused misgivings and
criticism among many members of
Parliament.”
At present the West German tariff on
car imports from the European Common
Market countries ranges from 10 p.c. to
124 p.c. If these duties were to be com-
pletely lifted, foreign manufacturers
could gain a price advantage of 600 to
700 deutschmarks on a car. However,
British cars competing on the West
German market would be placed at a
further disadvantage until the UK joins
the European Economic Community.
JAPAN
INVESTMENTS ABROAD
Tapan’s overseas loans and investments
** at the end of 1961 amounted to
£A551.2m., an increase during the year
of £195m., or 55 p.c. In addition, the
amount committed but not used was
£390m., excluding sums provided under
programmes for economic co-operation
with the Philippines, Indonesia, and
Burma.
Of the total investments abroad
£AllB.Bm. comprised subscriptions to
international organisations, £A 162.9 m.
direct private investments, and
£A2:9.5m. deferred payments for ex-
ports. The bulk of investments were in
Central and South America (£A 133.6 m.),
South-east Asia (£A119.5m.), and the
Middle East (£A90.9m.). Other areas
(excluding international organisations)
accounted for £ABB.4m.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you properly
covered? Now is the time to
review your insurances. Serious
financial losses can result on private
and business premises that are
improperly protected.
Consult
Q&aeensScsnd
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
75 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC!
THE CHAIRMAN SAYS:
NEED FOR REALISM
IN FOREIGN INVESTMENT
By WALTER B. PHILLIPS
Managing Director, Esso Standard Oil ( Australia ) Pty Ltd
A ustralia today stands on the thres-
-1 v hold of its future as an “oil nation.”
The recent exploration successes, holding
the promise that Australia may eventually
meet the major part of its own needs for
crude supplies, with all the attendant
financial and production benefits this
implies, has generated tremendous excite-
ment.
In this first flush of anticipated success,
it is perhaps understandable that feelings
of nationalism should appear as a pro-
tective urge. Though doubtless motivated
by an earnest concern for the future
welfare of this country, and as such
commendable, the expression of fears of
foreign domination in most cases reveals
a lack of understanding of what is in-
volved in the location and development
of oil.
The investment to date in the search
for oil in Australia and its territories
totals more than £B2 million, of which by
far the largest portion has been overseas
capital. Now that there is the promise of
oil in commercial quantities, the invest-
ment has not ended, but has only just
begun.
The Minister for National Develop-
ment (Senator Spooner), the Minister for
Air (Mr Bury) and subsequently others,
have spoken recently of the huge invest-
ment necessary to continue exploration
and make the Australian oil industry
self-sufficient. The amount needed was
estimated from £lOOO million to £2OOO
million, the latter figure representing more
than four times the amount already
invested in the development of all aspects
of the oil industry in Australia, including
marketing outlets, construction of
refineries, exploration, ocean terminals
and all other distribution facilities. It
was realistically pointed out that money
of that magnitude would be impossible
for Australia to find unaided.
The aim of investment in Australia
by foreign companies is not quick profits,
but to become a permanent part of the
community, contributing to and benefiting
from its growth. In the case of my own
company, during the past 12 years of our
operation in Australia (as Atlantic Union)
not a penny in dividends has left Aus-
tralia. Profits have been ploughed back,
and in addition our parent company
has poured many millions of pounds
more into the country for further develop-
ment of our facilities and services here.
We foresee a continuation of this policy
of reinvestment.
The present oil climate serves to
emphasise the importance oil has assumed
in the Australian economy. Consumption
of petroleum products in Australia per
head of population is substantially ex-
ceeded only by that of North America.
This reflects the vital role played in the
nation’s economy by the various forms of
modern transport, all of them wholly or
predominantly fuelled by oil.
Consumption of oil products has
increased in Australia since World War
II at a much more rapid rate than the
overall world figure, helping to make
possioie a greatly increased standard. of
living. Consumption is now nearly five
times greater than immediately before
the war ; from 1950 to 1960 it increased
by 138 per cent., and is estimate:! to
double by 1970. During 1960-61, Aus-
tralians used a total of 1,270-million
gallons of motor spirit, the third highest
consumption in the world, and the Aus-
tralian figure is increasing at a faster
rate than that of most other nations.
In the postwar period, five new oil
refineries have been constructed, with
another at present nearing completion,
at a total cost of more than £146 million.
This huge investment, made up almost
entirely of foreign funds, has had a most
important effect on Australia’s internal
economic situation and on its balance of
trade.
Tt is an economic fact that, until oil
supplies are discovered and developed
here, it is necessary to import supplies of
crude oil, plus certain other finished
products such as lubricants and kerosene
which the refineries cannot handle.
In 1961 these imports totalled £l3O
million, but if it were not for the fact
that our refineries are now supplying 95
per cent, of the finished oil products used
in Australia, the import bill would be
very much higher. It is estimated that
savings of £35 million a year are effected
by the existence of refineries on Aus-
tralian soil.
In addition, Australia was able in the
year 1960-61 to export 463 m.
gallons of oil worth £21.7 million, repre-
senting a further contribution to our
balance-of-payments situation.
I am confident that, as the realisation
of the important role played by foreign
investment in the development of the
Australian oil industry to its present
stage becomes more widespread, the
help that it offers will be accepted and
welcomed by the Australian eonomv.


No chair ever leads an “easy”
life. It’s the expert’s job to en-
sure that the chairs you buy now
are fit to face the test of years
to come. How the experts do
this is just one of many fascin-
ating chapters in the new Sebel
“Complete Chair Manual.”
You’ll learn, too. . . how to save
money on seating (and how to
raise seating funds) . . . how to
plan an economical layout, plus
a dozen - and - more practical
“tips.”
If you represent a Club, a
Church or Commercial Organis-
ation, why not send for YOUR
copy right away? Write:—
' CHAIRMAN *
Sebels (Aust.) Limited,
98 Canterbury Road
Bankstown, N.S.W.
New phone No. from
May Ist 70-0771
PETROL TAXES
WHO SHOULD PAY FOR ROADS?
VR/'henever the question of increasing
* * petrol taxes is raised, as it has been
in Victoria recently, a number of slum-
bering interests wake up with a start to
join already aggrieved motorists in the
chorus that the Federal Government
could solve the problem of providing
more money for roads simply by allocat-
ing the full proceeds of the present tax
for the purpose.
Though the latter would be the logical
and seemingly the most rational approach
to the problem, it neglects the crucial
point for the Government that alternative
taxes would have to be imposed to com-
pensate it for the present part of the petrol
tax revenue now going into consolidated
revenue. Being as it were in the box seat,
the Government refuses to budge from
the stand it took in 1959 when the States
agreed to accept the higher allocations for
roads to be found by the Treasurer for
the five-year period up to 1964.
These allocations were in two lots. First
they allowed for payments of £22om. to
the States over the five-year period, the
annual amounts rising in £2m. stages
from £4om. in the first year to £4Bm. in
1963-64. Secondly the States would get
another £3om. over the five-year period
from the Commonwealth Government,
these to be provided on a £ for £ basis
with their own contributions.
The grants introduced a basic formula
for distribution between the States calcu-
lated as to one-third area, one-third
population and one-third the number of
motor vehicles in the respective States.
Incidentally as against the £42m. (from
the direct grant) plus £sm. (from the
£3om. grant) obtained by the State last
year, petrol taxes yielded £64.3m. or
£17.3m. more.
Tn a gesture of freigned generosity the
-*■ Treasurer contrived at that time to dis-
pel the idea that these allocations were in
any way related to the revenue from
petrol tax. He told the Premiers that they
would be better off knowing well in
advance of their road expenditure what
they would get from the Commonwealth
Government, irrespective of the trend of
revenue from petrol taxes. The assump-
tion behind this was that revenue from
petrol taxes would fluctuate to the disad-
vantage of the States, though this was of
dubious validity in view of the established
rising trend of petrol consumption (about
7 to 8 per cent, a year). But as the pro-
gramme gave the States more than they
expected, they understandably agreed to
it.
However, this doesn’t preclude the
States from stepping up their own limited
imposts to supplement the part of road
expenditure financed from their own
direct sources of revenue, such as motor
registration fees.
Perhaps there would be no harm in
squeezing a little more from private
motorists for whom the tax has some way
to go yet before reaching the point of
diminishing returns. After all, petrol is
cheaper here than almost anywhere else
in the world, largely for the reason that
petrol tax here is so low. On the other
hand it would be difficult to implement a
tax on petrol but not on diesel oil,
differentiating between private and indus-
trial users.
nr'nis would seem to be a most inappro-
priate time, then, to be considering
increasing petrol tax. Industry needs
inducements rather than new imposts to
keep it on the track of recovery. More-
over, because transport costs count
heavily in the competitiveness of exports,
any tax increasing these would tend to
offset any benefits being enjoyed by way
of payroll tax rebates to exporters.
So the idea of increasing petrol tax at
the present time has rightly and roundly
been condemned by industrial and com-
mercial leaders in Victoria, as well as
official organisations of road users,
though politicians have generally found
it attractive.
Probably the most useful contribution
to the recent debate came from Mr P. J.
Scales, the national executive director of
the Australian Road Federation, whose
idea is to spread the net for road money
much wider than the taxation arena.
Fie suggested that the Victorian Gov-
ernment should try to get an all-State
approach to the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment for the establishment of a Fed-
eral Bureau of Roads. “Such a plan,” he
said, “would open new sources of road
finance in the national and international
loan fields.”
CROESUS


FINANCE
CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in South Australia under
the Companies Act 1934/52)
The Bank of Adelaide owns 40% of the
Ordinary Capital of the Company
FULLY SECURED REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
PER ANNUM 10 YEARS
PER ANNUM 5 YEARS
Stock Registers are maintained in each
Capital City. Prospectuses should be
obtained from and applications made to: —
JOINT BANKERS TO THE ISSUE
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, Perth
Applications for Debenture Stock can be accepted only
on the printed form attached to the prospectus.
<3523
JAPAN
PLANNERS URGE FREE TRADE
TYEspite a trade deficit running into
almost US3> 1700 m. (about £A773m.)
in the fiscal year 1961 and the recent
budgetary cuts in import expenditure, the
Japanese Economic Planning Agency has
again called for “renewed efforts to at-
tain a 90 p.c. trade liberalisation rate by
next October.”
Presenting the 1962-63 Budget to the
Diet, the Japanese Government had indi-
cated that it would endeavor to continue
its policy of gradually putting restricted
import items on the free list, but pointed
out that, because of the huge trade
deficit, it would have to slow down the
rate of trade liberalisation. It also stated
that restrictions against countries using
the GATT escape clause to limit imports
from Japan would continue for the time
being. New Zealand had recently an-
nounced that it will no longer use the
GATT escape clause (article XXXV),
but there have been no changes in Aus-
tralia’s position.
Fortunately, recent months have seen
some improvement in Japan's overseas
trade, with exports to the United States
—particularly machinery and chemical
fibres rising appreciably. The com-
position of Japanese exports is also
changing at a satisfactory pace, with a
stronger bias to capital goods and dur-
able consumer goods.
This has apparently strengthened the
hand of the influential and independently-
minded Economic Planning Agency,
which is responsible for drawing up
Japan’s economic development plans and
advises the Cabinet on current economic
policies.
The Economic Planning Agency had
opposed any delay in trade liberalisation
before the Budget was brought down
at the end of March. In its latest
interim report the Agency has criticised
the Japanese Government’s reduction of
the trade liberalisation rate from 75 p.c.
to 73 p.c., and has urged placing 90 p.c.
of Japan’s imports on the free list by
October, 1962, stating that “a delay in
the planned import liberalisation would
lead to isolation of Japan from the inter-
national economy.” The Agency ex-
pressed “strong opposition” to the views
held by some Japanese circles that the 90
p.c. free trade plan should be postponed
because “conditions are not yet ripe.”
'T'he European Common Market’s
second stage of integration seems to
have profoundly alarmed most Japanese
economists, who are apprehensive that
many Japanese exports could be effec-
tively excluded from West European
markets by the European Economic Com-
munity’s external tariffs. The Japanese
Government has recently been extremely
energetic in its attempts to secure bi-
lateral trade agreements with individual
members of the European Common Mar-
ket. The latest agreement with Italy
easing import restrictions on 71 Japanese
products is an example.
Tokyo’s Economic Planning Agency
is now warning that a delay in Japan’s
import liberalisation “will be exploited by
European nations as an excuse to main-
tain their discriminatory treatment
against Japanese goods.” Japan is also
worried by the possible effects of UK’s
entry into the European Economic Com-
munity on Japanese-British trade rela-
tions, and is concerned about the long-
run results of mutual tariff concessions
by the United States and the Common
Market bloc. Tariff cuts on both sides
of the Atlantic could eventually place
Japanese exports to the United


CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
(ASSETS EXCEED £10,000.000.)
FUNDS MAT BE
WITHDRAWN
IN A PERSONAL
EMERGENCY
PER ANNUM
4 YEARS
PERIOD
INTEREST
9% P.A 3 years
BVa% P.A 2 years
8% P.A 12 months
7% P.A 6 months
Applications for debenture stock and redeemable unsecured deposit
notes accepted only on form of application attached to prospectus,
obtainable from
Principal Offices of the Bank of N.S.W.
in all capital cities
OR
The Company's Offices:
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Floor, Empire House, Corner Wharf and
Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
NEWCASTLE: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street,
Newcastle West.
OR
Any Member of a Stock Exchange
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL {Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Me!b.)
CC.130/AB
States and Western Europe — and to Brit-
ain if she joins in—at a very grave dis-
advantage. “The Japan Times Weekly”
has recently pointed out that “the suc-
cess of the European Common Market
encourages imitation in other parts of
the world and perhaps the time may come
when some isolated countries may find
it difficult to find close partners.” The
paper notes that Lord Kilmarnock, head
of the UK trade mission which visited
Japan last month, said that “if Britain
joins the Common Market it will be a
lead to a general expansion of world
trade and of benefit to Japan.”
“The Japan Times Weekly” says it
hopes “this will prove a true prophecy.”
We, in Australia, have heard similar
assurances before. No doubt, in the long
run, overall international trade will in-
crease and many countries outside the
Common Market could benefit. But the
United Kingdom should realise that in
the difficult transitional period it must
expect forfeiting some of its trade advan-
tages in countries like Australia, unless
adequate arrangements can be made to
compensate for abandoning Imperial
preferences.
Britain’s entry into the Common
Market will put considerably more em-
phasis on Australia's trade with Japan,
vhich can be expanded only by mutual
concessions, and Japan's Economic
Planning Agency is wise in urging that
Tokyo should continue its trade liberalisa-
tion.
On the other hand, Australia could
take another look at its reliance on the
GATT escape clause which permits trade
discrimination against Japan.
E.B.
ADVERTISING
BUDGETS BUILDING UP AGAIN
TX/E have been hearing it for months
past, but now it's probably true —
advertising activity is picking up, and
forward plans presage a buoyant year.
The “cancer scare” has had no effect upon
cigarette advertising, nor, apparently,
upon sales, for one company has reported
a record monthly turnover for March.
The “credit squeeze” did hit the adver-
tising industry hard, and, because a ser-
vice industry can't build up stocks, staffs
were cut as budgets dropped. Some
agencies took this opportunity to get rid
of superfluous personnel, but plenty of
good men also lost their jobs and the
blissful confidence of others was shaken.
Depleted staffs, however, are now being
built up again.
The cut budgets make George Patter-
son’s published billings of “in excess of
£6 million” for 1960-61 all the more
commendable, as this period included the
first seven months of the recession.
This giant agency, handling the ac-
counts of Colgate-Palmolive, Arnott’s
and Gillette among others, must now
have a high share of the total business in
Australia.
J. A.
TAIWAN
CHINA’S FIRST STOCK EXCHANGE
'T'he first Stock Exchange in Taiwan
(Nationalist China) was opened
recently at Taipei with a capital of
£A112,500. Of this amount 58 p.c. was
underwritten by 27 private industrial
enterprises and 42 p.c. by 15 public en-
terprises.
The Exchange, titled the Taiwan Stock
Exchange Corporation, will handle ten
kinds of Government and corporate bonds
and securities and 24 categories of
company shares and stocks, all domestic.
No foreign bonds or stocks will be dealt
in for the present, and all transactions
will be on a cash basis.
In the first two hours of trading,
about £A112,500 worth of bonds and
shares changed hands.


NOTES ON THE NEWS
AUSTRALIA
• HThe Union Oil - Kern - Australian Oil and Gas group struck oil at
Moonie No. 3 well in southern Queensland. Oil flowed at the rate
of 1500 barrels a day during a 60-minute test at the 5850ft-5877ft level.
• The Minister for Trade, Mr J. McEwen, returned to Canberra after a
series of overseas talks on the European Common Market. In several state-
ments made after his return to Australia, Mr McEwen emphasised that he
had taken a strong line in his talks with UK and Common Market repre-
sentatives. He said that he felt sure that Australian export industries could
be protected during the transition period, but pointed out that this was not
enough. He had demanded guarantees that Australia’s trade preferences on
the UK market will be preserved. Otherwise Australia would be reduced
to a position of an inferior supplier. Mr McEwen said that £l6om. of
Australian exports were in danger. The Minister for Trade added that it
would be unacceptable if any one group of Australian producers would
suffer. He criticised the US attitude, which opposed any continuation of the
Imperial preference system. In two separate television interviews last Sunday,
Mr McEwen made it clear that the US, UK and the European Common
Market bloc felt that Australia’s standard of living was high enough to be
able to afford “a bit of a knock.”
• The Federal Treasurer, Mr H. Holt, announced that the threepenny,
penny and half-penny pieces will be replaced by new bronze coins.
® Mr W. J. Vines, managing director of the International Wool Secre-
tariat, said that the major part of the Secretariat’s 1962-63 budget would be
spent in established markets. However, attention would also be given to
developing new and long-term markets, particularly in Asia. The 1962-63
budget would be “considerably in excess” of the current year’s £3Jm.
• Australian overseas reserves fell by £64m. in the March quarter, mainly
due to repayment of the £7Bm. borrowing from the International Monetary
Fund. Savings banks deposits rose by £5.2m. to £1670.1m. during March.
OVERSEAS
• Tapan’s Fair Trade Commission began investigating suspected violations
of the Japanese Antimonopoly Law by the iron and steel industry.
• A survey by “Stiddeutsche Zeitung” shows that 90 p.c. of West German
housewives prefer evaporated milk to fresh milk.
• Direct private investment by UK companies overseas fell by £stg36m.
to £stg2llm. in 1961. Investment by overseas companies in Britain in the same
period rose by £stg9om. to £stg22sm. However, £stgl3lm. of this total was
attributable to purchase of the remainder of Ford Motor Co. shares by the US
parent.
• Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia signed a trade protocol for 1962, pro-
viding for Czechoslovak exports of engineering products, coke, rolled steel,
sugar, raw materials for porcelain and chemical industries and consumer
goods to Yugoslavia.
• United States and Poland signed an agreement in Warsaw extending
the Informational Media Guaranty programme for 1962. Poland will
continue to buy US books, periodicals, films, records, TV films and authors’
rights and pay for them in Polish currency up to a total value of USsl.2m.
• HThe French franc zone overseas reserves (including convertible cur-
rencies) at March 31, 1962, stood at U553220.7m. (up U55164.2m.).
• Secretary of the Australian Department of Trade, Dr W. A. Wester-
man, asked UK and Common Market negotiators for continued preferential
treatment if UK joined the European Economic Community. Dr Wester-
man said that permanent priorities are essential for Australia and rejected
proposals for temporary concessions during a trial period.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
COUNTER TO MOTELS
CJouth Australian hotel managements
are taking positive steps to counter the
inroads of motels. No fewer than 11
new hotels, to cost nearly £l| million,
are under construction or in the planning
stages, two of them in the country at
Port Pirie and Whyalla. One other is
awaiting a decision of the Licensing
Court on an application for a licence.
This sudden increase in the number of
hotels in SA is remarkable, because in
the last 100 years the total has grown by
only 124—from 461 to 585.
All of the new hotels will provide
bedroom accommodation with attached
conveniences to match those available in
the most modern motels.
FRANCE
SHIPYARDS ARE BUSY
"Crench shipyards remain busy. So far
this year 61 vessels are under con-
struction with a total gross tonnage of
431,439 tons. They include one passenger
liner, four tankers, 14 cargo ships, seven
special banana carriers, 13 fishing craft
and 13 miscellaneous vessels. Foreign
orders are satisfactory—of the 61 ships
being built, 27 (with an overall tonnage
of 217,140 gross tons) are intended for
export.
SHIPPING
P AND O SHOPPING CRUISE
r T~'HE P and O Orient Line is organising
-*• an October-November cruise to the
Orient, providing, incidentally, an oppor-
tunity for tourists to buy for Christmas
gifts something out of the ordinary.
This shopping cruise in the air-con-
ditioned Orcades will extend from
October 17 to November 22. The route
will be via the Great Barrier Reef to
Rabaul and then to Yokohama, Kobe
and Nagasaki. On the return voyage
stops will be made at Hong Kong,
Singapore and Darwin.
TELEVISION LICENCES
STRONG BOARD FORMED
A particularly strong line-up of directors
is the feature of a newly formed
television company, Sydney Television
Broadcasting Corporation Ltd, which
plans to apply for the third Sydney com-
mercial TV licence.
A public shareholding of up to 55 p.c.
of capital is envisaged if the application
succeeds. Sir James Kirby has accepted
the chairmanship. Other members of the
board are: Sir Daniel McVey, Hon. T. G.
Murray, Messrs N. B. Rydge, Ernest
Turnbull, M. John O'Neill. R. J.
Webster, O. D. A. Oberg and Theo Kelly.


Wt
m
Cl
FOR YOUR NEXT CONVENTION
SURFERS PARADISE
.... and of course
SURFERS PARADISE. GOLD COAST,
QUEENSLAND.
“Where Business Is a Pleasure.”
The ideal climate of Surfers Paradise and the complete
facilities of CHEVRON HIETON combine to provide the
perfect location for your Convention.
The Superb Accommodation and specially planned
MEETING ROOMS leave nothing to be desired.
Moderate tariffs, ease of access from all Capital Cities
and the undoubted popularity of Surfers will make
certain of maximum attendance for every type of Group
activity.
Write today for FREE Colour Brochure, giving layout and full
details to help you plan a bigger and better Convention.
CHEVRON HILTON HOTEL, SURFERS PARADISE, GOLD COAST, QUEENSLAND
MARKETING
PACKAGING FOR EXPORT
TVTow that Britain’s proposed entry into
' the European Common Market has
thrown a challenge to Australian manu-
facturers to find markets in other direc-
tions —notably in Asia, the Middle East
and South America —the subject of pack-
aging assumes vital importance.
For far too long this matter has been
utterly neglected by many Australian
exporters. What is good enough for the
domestic market has hitherto been re-
garded as good enough for our export
trade. Little attempt has been made to
find out if a pack that is a good local
seller will prove suitable overseas
whether it is colorful enough to appeal
to Asian tastes, or offends susceptibilities
of a racial, religious or political charac-
ter.
Packaging will in future be the most
important factor, apart from basic quality,
in the successful marketing of Australian
products abroad and may well prove the
difference between success and failure.
Not only must the package be attractively
designed and sensibly labelled, but it
must protect its contents against deterior-
ation from rough handling, varying de-
grees of heat and humidity, insect infesta-
tion, bacteria, mould, dust and corrosion.
The size of the pack must also be con-
sidered. It may be found that the regular
size of a container in Australia is too
large for successful marketing abroad.
Mr Austin Wood, of the Department
of Trade, points out that goods shipped
to all overseas markets, except New Zea-
land and South Africa, must pass through
the tropic zone, and therefore the pack-
aging must be right.
“In Eastern markets,” he says, “var-
nished labels are essential in order to
resist humidity, but more important, even
if more costly, is the lithographed con-
tainer. Paper labels are often damaged
in transit, and in many cases the glue
deteriorates, causing staining or the loss
of the label.”
nPHE National Packaging Association of
Australia and the Department of
Trade are striving to impress upon ex-
porters the need to study their markets
from the standpoint of correct packaging
before determining prospects. “To do this
properly, thorough market research is
essential,” says Mr Wood. “Exporters
must know the answers before under-
taking any campaign to win a share of
foreign markets. It is a waste of money
and effort to export a first-rate quality
product if the container and the label are
not suitable for any particular market.”
Mr Wood stresses also that care must
be exercised in printing labels in foreign
languages. “It may seriously affect
sales,” he says, “if goods are labelled in
one language and offered for sale in a
country where that language does not
apply. If the use of languages is essen-
tial, it is good market practice to choose
a number of languages that will enable
the pack to be sold on several different
markets.”
The importance attached to pack-
aging by overseas manufacturers is illus-
trated by the series of special packaging
conferences and fairs. This year, Italy
will play host at Milan to IPACK and
IMA, two international organisations
which are staging their annual Inter-
national Packaging Fair from June 1 to 8,
1962. Exhibits will include packaging
machinery and equipment, with particu-
lar attention to all ranges of food pro-
cessing and packaging machinery.
RETAIL TRADING
CHANGING TRENDS IN SUBURBAN TRADE
recently there hav; been some inter-
esting developments in Sydney’s re-
tail trading, predominantly associated
with providing more service for the
“carriage trade” in the suburbs.
Sir Edgar Coles, vice-chairman and
controlling managing director of G. J.
Coles and Co. Ltd, feels that car parking
facilities are the key to future retailing
successes. To provide this service a new
large self-service grocery store requires a
parking area about four times as large
as the selling area and eight times the
store area.
There is keen competition for the
housewife’s weekly grocery bill. Mid-
week, in all afternoon metropolitan news-
papers, there are full page advertisements
which budget-minded housewives study
with detailed care before making up their
grocery lists.
Last year the Research Centre at North
Sydney conducted a survey into shopping
in the grocery field. Thursday to Satur-
day proved to be the most popular days,
with about 30 p.c. of the total trading
being done on Saturday morning. Many
housewives must wait for the weekly pay-
packet before their bulk buying. The
family car is also an important factor.
To provide service during this con-
densed buying period, retailers have had
to improve their self-service facilities.
Temporary staff is employed. Mechanical
devices are used to carry the purchases
around the store, to add up the bill,
collect the money and return the change.
The store itself is designed with wide
aisles so that shoppers can easily
manoeuvre their trolleys. There is good
lighting, clear readable price labels. There
is competition among rival lines—through
all kinds of packaging variations for
their share of the display shelf. Because
more and more women share the same
car to do their shopping, there is also
an increasing demand for a store em-
ployee to take purchases to the vehicle.
The chain-store now competes against
the greengrocer and butcher. Green and
frozen vegetables are available as well as
pre-cut, weighed and priced cuts of meat
which are neatly labelled and sealed in
transparent wrappings. At least one Syd-
ney suburban store now gladly places on
the customer’s charge account the price
of meals in its own restaurant.
There are, however, many who feel sad
that, because of accelerated buying, there
is a loss of personal contact with the
tradesmen in this new, mad, mass race
towards complete automation.
B. H. CLAPCOTT


COMPANY REVIEWS AND NOTES
YORK MOTORS (HOLDINGS) LTD
CHANGES BRING RESULTS
r T'HE financial year ended November 30,
A 1961, required several changes in tac-
tics for Sydney motor distributor, York
Motors (Holdings) Ltd. Motivating forces
were the Government’s increase in sales
tax in November, 1960, and its subse-
quent withdrawal, and the decision of
the British Motor Corporation to begin
direct vehicle distribution through its
dealers within the Sydney metropolitan
area.
The more severe effect of credit
restrictions in Queensland, aggravated by
adverse rural conditions, resulted in
Queensland subsidiaries trading at a loss.
(Total vehicle registrations in that State
fell about 30 p.c. in 1961, compared with
20 p.c. in New South Wales.)
Directors have now decided to with-
draw from the distribution of heavy trac-
tors and machinery in Queensland, and
the book value of inventories £1,724,156
is subject to a newly created provision of
£lOO,OOO for stock revaluation.
York’s business originated in 1932, and
achieved listing in 1947. The present sub-
sidiary network comprises York Motors
Pty and York Motors (Sales) Pty, NSW
distributors for Rolls-Royce and Bentley,
Studebaker, Peugeot, Mercedes - Benz,
Willys jeeps and trucks; Castlereagh
Traders Pty, wholesale purchasing ; Rose-
bery (Wholesale) Pty, wholesale pur-
chasing ; Lancaster Motors Pty, Lan-
caster Motors (Sales) Pty, and Lancaster
Motors (W’sale) Pty, Sydney metropoli-
tan distributors of Austin and Morris
vehicles, Wolseleys and Rileys, and
Nuffield tractors ; Rosebery Investments
Pty, hire-purchase; Dominion Motors
(Qld) Pty, Queensland distributors for
Rolls-Royce and Bentley, Oliver tractors,
Goodwin - Barsby, Aveling - Barford,
Holden tractors and Fiat cars ; and U.K.
Motors Pty and U.K. Motors (W’sale)
Pty, Queensland distributors of Austin
and Morris vehicles.
The hire-purchase subsidiary, Glasgow
Investments Pty Ltd, was sold during the
year to Industrial Acceptance Corpora-
tion Ltd, thus accounting for the big drop
in hire-purchase accounts. York began
the financing of hire-purchase trans-
actions arising from the group’s own
retail sales, as distinct from dealer sales,
in Sydney and Brisbane, towards the end
of the financial year.
Purchase during the year of Peter Lloyd
Ltd (with accumulated tax losses), Sydney
metropolitan co-distributor of Morris and
Wolselev vehicles and a State-wide B.M.C.
parts distributor, secured the B.M.C.
business for the group.
Just before the 1960 balance date a
languishing textiles manufacturer, Rose-
bery Mills Pty, with accumulated losses
amounting to more than £lOO,OOO, had
been taken over. Acquisition of its
valuable freehold at Rosebery allowed
relocation and consolidation. Surplus
properties were sold. The properties
owned by Peter Lloyd and Rosebery
Mills were revalued in 1960-61 to bring
book values into line with the prices
paid.
T)rofit for the year ended November 30,
1961, cascaded from £171,505 to
£63,566 (7.1 p.c. on average ord. capital)
because of difficult trading conditions.
The tax provision, because of tax losses,
was only £4216 in 1961, compared with
£101,942 the year before. Depreciation
charge was £3570 higher at £28,566.
Profit did not cover the increased
dividend —up from 13J- to 15 p.c. An
interim dividend was paid on March 7
of 6| p.c. on the ss. shares, and since
that date capital has been halved to
£453,333 by the return of 2s. 6d. per
stock unit, tax free, as superfluous to
the company’s needs:
CONSOLIDATED FIGURES.
Re-
Nov., Profit. , Dividends N serves.*
£ £ £
1958 . . 209,671 20 p.c. = 181,332 3,138,285
Less franchise-termination losses,
£21,302 3,116,983
Capital profit, £64,764 .. .. 3,181,747
1959 .. 147,097 15 p.c. = 136,000 3,192,844
Capital profit, £1,942 .. .. 3,194,786
1960 .. 171,505 13| p.c. = 124.667 3,241,624
Debenture exes. w/oif, £20,335 .. 3,221,289
Less net changes in capital reserves,
£44,037 . . 3,177,252
Less sale of assets, £23,830 . . 3,153,422
1961 .. 63,566 15 p.c. = 136.000 3,080,988
* After deducting intangibles written out of the
accounts in 1955.
The sale of the hire-purchase subsidiary,
Glasgow Investments Pty Ltd, accounts
for the credit balance of profit brought
forward from 1960 being £23,830 lower
than in the 1960 published accounts.
The net reduction of £44,037 in the
capital profits and assets revaluation
reserve arose from the discounting of
hire-purchase debtors after the Glas-
gow sale, writing off £13,366 excess of
purchase price over net tangible asset
value of the shares in Rosebery Mills
Pty Ltd ; the writing up to net sale
price of the Waterloo property, sold
after 1961 balance date ; and the profit
on sale of the McEvoy Street property.
Borrowings at November 30, 1961,
were only half the 1960 levels, and the
amounts outstanding were covered in full
by notes and debentures of Industrial
Acceptance Corporation Ltd. Since then
debentures and notes have been almost
eliminated:
Consolidated Balance- he.-.i.
Paid capital— 1959 1960 1901
Ora . .. £906,666 £906,666 £906,606
Reserves .. .. 3,192,814 3,241,624 3,080,988
Overdraft .. 245,309 421,755
Notes, etc. . . 1,200,000 600,000 425,250
Debentures .. 803,850 363,050
Deposits . . .. 696,299 893,649 367,570
Mortgages .. •- 166,756
Creditors, etc. .. 600,852 641,744 376,165
Unearned income. . 472,751 699,963 34,099
Tax provision . . 59,385 103,065 5,565
Staff fund . . 20,031 19,097 19,097
£7,394,137 £8,331,413 £5,745,506
Freeholds, etc. .. 521,550 501,021 851,881
Plant . . . . 169,939 170,247 170,424
Stocks . . . . 1,828,419 1,905,931 1,724,156
Debtors . . . . 467,822 497,879 428,595
H.-p. accounts .. 4,044,302 5,195,124 205.553
Investments .. 59,272 59,272 49,272
Cash, etc. . . 302,833 1,939 1,156,755
Deposits .. .. - 1,155,870
£7,394,137 £8,331,413 £5,745,506
The chairman (Mr E. C. Webb) made
no predictions about results for 1961-62,
in the annual report, but he did announce
that sales and profits for the first quarter
were better than for the previous corres-
ponding period.
Directors hope that U.K Motors Pty
Ltd will be able to trade profitably under
the new B.M.C. distribution arrange-
ments, through its five Brisbane metro-
politan outlets and Rockhampton branch.
York commenced sole NSW distribu-
tion for Mercedes-Benz cars and trucks
from January, 1962, and this franchise is
expected to be a valuable acquisition.
The 2s. 6d. shares are now changing
hands at around Bs. 3d., which on the
indicated dividend rate of p.c. gives
a yield of 3.8 p.c. Net tangible asset
backing per 2s. 6d. unit is a hefty 19s. 6d.
At least directors should not be con-
fronted with as many problems as beset
them during the last season.
A. J. BENJAMIN LTD
STRUGGLE IN SUBURBIA
of an interim ordinary divi-
dend for the six months to Feb-
ruary 28 indicates t'hat hardware, grocery
and softgoods retailer, A. J. Benjamin
Ltd, is still struggling in Sydney suburbia.
The fall in sales to building contractors
after imposition of credit restrictions
contributed to the lower level of turn-
over, directors said. Trading remained
difficult, though with some signs of
improvement. They expected to increase
sales by a complete reorganisation of
departmental location and layout at the
Chatswood store.
The business was established at
Chatswood in 1906 and went public in
1951. It acquired stores at Broken Hill
and Blakehurst, and has a department
store in the “Top Ryde” shopping centre
established by Regional Centres in 1957.


I X L
This World Famous Brand is Manufactured
and Distributed by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES AND
ASSOCIATED COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—-
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
During 1960-61 (a 14 months trading
period to August 31) the business of Wm
Bursill at Campbelltown was acquired
and this is viewed by directors as an
excellent long-range investment.
In that trading period profit sagged
from £79,348 to £45,065, after providing
£24,647 (1960 £47,438) for tax, £49,398
(£40,117) for depreciation and amortisa-
tion and £1,319 for doubtful debts.
A £36,049 loss on the transfer of an
asset within the group was written off
in profit and loss appropriation account,
and a further capital loss of £5529 on
the sale of shares which had previously
been written up, was changed back to
assets revaluation reserve:
Parent Co.
Dividend , Re-
June Profit Pref. , Ord. N serves
30, 5 p.c.
£ £ £ £
1952 .. 28,652 1,250 10 p.c. = 17,500 60,298
1953 .. 35,473 1,250 10 „ „ 17,500 77,021
< Parent and Subsidiaries.
Share premiums. £21,875 .. .. 98,896
1954 .. 58,526 1,250 12* p.c. = 28,438 127,734
Share premiums, £15,000 .. .. 142,734
1955 .. 60,241 1,250 12* p.c. = 33,906 167,819
Share premiums, £51,250 . . . . 219,009
Pre-acquisition profits, £7,502 . . 226,571
1956 .. 62,853 1,091 12* p.c. = 43,333 245,000
1957 .. 72,422 1,000 12* p.c. = 58,125 258,299
Assets revaluation, £136,973 .. 395,272
1958 .. 26,611 1,000 6* p.c. = 43,594 377,289
1959 .. 70,483 1,000 8 „ „ 55,800 390,972
Assets revaluation, £53,421 .. .. 444,393
Share premiums, £636 .. .. 445,029
1960 . . 79,348 1,000 8* p.c. = 59,513 463,864
Less loss sale fixed assets, £36,049 427,815
Assets revaluation, £50,090 .. .. 477,905
Share premiums, £3,952 .. .. 481,857
Loss sale shares, £5,529 .. .. 476,328
1961 .. 45,065 842 6 p.c. = 45.573 *471,978
* Subject to intangibles, £64,108 at 30/6/61
Earning rate in the last three financial
periods has thus moved from 10 p.c. in
1959 to 11.2 p.c. and now to 5.4 p.c. on
ordinary capital, after allowing for
preference charges:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital—- 1959 1960 1961
Pref £20,000 £20,000 £15,000
Ord 697,500 701,864 918,419
Reserves .. .. 390,972 463,864 471,978
Mortgage .. 350,000 340,000 330,000
Notes .. .. 279,000 279,000 279,000
Deposits .. .. 117,300 397,200 495,600
Bank overdraft .. 464,984 396,455 422,509
Creditors .. 258,235 292,053 320,146
Tax provision .. 35,500 55,983 24,719
Pinal div. .. 27,900 31,584 13,776
£2,041,391 £2,978,003 £3,291,147
Freehold .. 914,015 975,224 1,034,187
Plant, etc. .. 457,000 462,598 484,488
Investments .. 31,439 28,180 3,209
Stocks .. .. 625,128 730,618 900,068
Debtors .. .. 551,875 719,322 801,594
Cash .. .. 2,826 2,953 3,493
Intangibles .. 59,108 59,108 64,108
£2,641,391 £2,978,003 £3,291,147
Capital will be increased on November
30, 1962 by £139,500 when 558,000
options to ss. shares are exercised, and by
a further £139,500 on November 30, 1967.
These are held by two life institutions.
The company has financed recent
trading with the aid of its bankers, 7 p.c.
registered notes and registered fixed de-
posits. The last share issue was in October
1960 (one-for-five at par) and directors
said at the time they expected to pay a
9 p.c. dividend rate on the increased
capital. This they failed to do when 1961
profit showed a sharp fall, and dividend
was only 6 p.c. Benjamin’s recent per-
formance would not encourage share-
holders to contribute more capital, and
the ss. shares at around 4s. seem a
pretty fair assessment of the stock’s
present worth.
The existing 3,673,675 ss. ord. shares
had a net tangible asset backing of
7s. 3d. each at last reckoning (freeholds
were revalued in 1957), so perhaps the
shares look a better buy for takeover
speculation than they do a: recovery
prospect.


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
• BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign o]
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
2V.S.IF. Branch:
Kindersley House,
Bligrh O’Connell Sts., Sydney
LOWES LTD
ON A SOUNDER BASIS
A fter short-lived forays into the
retailing of women’s wear and elec-
trical appliances, in the days when
diversification was a familiar catch-cry,
Lowes Ltd of Sydney has withdrawn to
the tailoring and retailing of men’s and
boys’ wear and produced record turn-
overs in the last two trading periods.
The last 12 months to January 31,
1962, have been difficult for retail trade
generally. But, in the words of the chair-
man, Mr S. Lowe, “the company went
out after business and got it.”
Apart from the main store in George
Street, running through to Pitt Street,
Lowes has branches in Newcastle,
Wollongong, Parramatta, Fairfield, Hurst-
ville and Burwood. The company has
looked at proposals to establish new
branches in regional shopping centres, but
management has in most cases felt these
were being planned ahead of population,
and many areas were becoming over-
shopped.
Directors consider the soundest type of
development is an extension of
established shopping areas, especially
where substantial parking is provided.
Stores within the chain have been
modernised progressively, in each case
producing an improvement in sales.
Pre-tax profit has multiplied from the
1960 low of £10,713 (the women’s wear
department, which incurred losses, was
closed in March, 1959) to £74,628 in 1961
and £110.626 in 1962. Tax provision in
the last two years has increased from
£25,000 to £44,000, leaving net profits of
£49,628 and £66,626 respectively. Latest
depreciation charge was £22,964 (1960
£17,317):
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit, f- —Dividends serves serves
£ £ £ £
1956 .. 55,175 10 p.c. = 49,438 5,737 432,111
Profit sale assets, £2249 .. .. 434,360
1957 .. 55,736 10 p.c. = 49,352 6,384 440,744
Freeholds revalued, £320,395 .. .. 761,139
Loss, sale investments, £72 .. .. 761,067
1958 .. 51,280 10 p.c. = 49,150 2,130 763,197
Tax overprovided, £5OOO .. .. 768,197
Surplus sale shares, £59 . . . . 768,256
1959 .. 37,254 6 p.c. = 29,379 7,875 776,131
Surplus sale shares, £14,548 .. .. 790,679
1960 .. 10,713 10,713 801,392
Surplus sale shares, £142 .. .. 801,534
Staff funds, £lO,OOO .. .. 791,534
1961 .. 49,628 6 p.c. = 29,564 20,064 811,598
1962 .. 66,626 8 „ ~39,608 27,018 838,616
Earning rate has recovered from 2.35
p.c. on ordinary capital in 1960 to 10.9
p.c. and 14.65 p.c. A final 5 p.c. dividend,
making 8 p.c. for the year (compared
with 6 p.c. in 1961) demonstrates the
board’s confidence in the soundness of
the recovery.
The TV and home appliance division
was closed down in March, 1961, and it
appears to be directors’ present intention
to concentrate on their original business
of men’s and boys’ wear.
The last capital change was in 1955
when a one-for-one bonus issue was made
to shareholders from property revalua-
tions. Freehold property cost £473,278,
and has been revalued by £644,409 to
1958 V.G. levels. The assets are virtually
unencumbered and the business seems to
be comfortably financed from small
loans, overdraft and deposits from share-
holders :
1960 1961 1962
Paid capital .. £455,354 £455,354 £455,354
Reserves .. ... 801,392 811,598 838,616
Mortgage .. .. 49,166 43,750 35,333
Loan .. .. 110,399 177,769 130.696
Overdraft .. 128,679 56,728 57,275
Creditors . . 118,900 90,579 110,920
Provision for tax 34,290 26,298 70,298
Staff funds .. 13,753 10,192 14,125
Final dividend .. 14,778 24,753
£1,711,933 £1,093,046 £1,740,370
Freeholds .. 1,091,379 1,108,312 1,117,687
Plant .. .. 107,400 119,057 129,113
Stock .. .. 285,757 261,974 279,142
Debtors .. .. 180,491 157,372 166,363
Cash, shares, etc. 46,906 46,331 48,065
£1,711,933 £1,693,046 £1,740,370
As an illustration of the heights at
which optimism rode in the 1960 boom,
Lowes’ ss. ordinary shares were traded
around 9s. in April after announcement
that dividend would be omitted entirely
for 1960. Today the ss. units trade
around Bs. 6d. to yield 4.7 p.c. on the
8 p.c. dividend basis, and purchase 14s.
worth of assets. They look a much
sounder and more attractive buy now
than they were two years ago.
A. G. WEBSTER AND WOOLGROWERS LTD
TASMANIA'S LARGEST WOOLBROKER
'T'he urge to merge has come to the
pastoral industry. The obvious aims
of the pastoral mergers are savings in-
volved in centralised administration and
in the elimination of duplication of
branches and stores.
Pastoral business had lost its original
impetus decades ago. This type of busi-
ness is now fairly static, with profits
mainly cyclical without a convincing up-
ward trend in recent years.
The company in a unique position is
A. G. Webster, which dominates the in-
dustry in Tasmania. Last year the com-
pany sold 40.326 bales for the season
and again handled more wool than
any individual broker in the State (0.9
p.c. of the total Australian clip).
The business controlled by A G. Web-
ster and Woolgrowers Ltd, formerly
A. G. Webster and Sons Ltd. was estab-
lished in Hobart in 1831. Woolbroking
is only one facet of this many-sided Tas-
manian firm, which also deals in live-
stock, produce, property and machinery
and is a shipping and airline agency. A
subsidiary is Tasmanian Wool Growers
Agency Co. Ltd.
T ast term seasonal conditions were the
worst for many years and the Tas-
manian clip was the lightest produced
since 1955-56.
Operating costs are still rising and the
12s. basic wage increase will add approxi-
mately £14,000 to the salaries and wages
of the company’s payroll in the full year.
This has been accompanied by substantial
increases in other unavoidable costs.
Increased efficiency and expansion of
the volume of business are the only
means to maintain profit in the face of
rising costs. The company has had some
success in raising its operating efficiency,


FINANCE CORPORATION
of AUSTRALIA LIMITED
OFFERS A SPECIALISED FINANCE SERVICE
We have finance available for: —
LENDING
▼
Developmental Projects
▼
Capital Equipment
v
Commercial and Industrial Properties
v
Business Expansion
DISCOUNTING AND PURCHASE
Mortgages
v
Contracts of Sale
▼
Leases
▼
Hire Purchase Contracts
FINANCE CORPORATION of AUSTRALIA LIMITED
ADELAIDE
F.C.A. Building,
IS Franklin Street
Telephone SI 3781
MELBOURNE
Union House,
51 Queen Street,
Telephone 613051
SYDNEY
Anchor House,
Cnr. George and
Bridge Streets,
Telephone 27 7003
BRISBANE
Mercantile House,
262 Adelaide St.,
Telephone 31 2861
PERTH
M.L.C. Building,
171-17 7 St. George’s Tee,
Tele[)hone2l 6892


ALFRED
'Phone.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors
S. WHITE. Esq., Chairman ; E. G. CONEN, Esq., T. K. MAGNEY, Esq., A. G. PARKER,
Esq., DOUGLAS WADLEY, Esq.
H H MOULTON Esq.. Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Esq., Manager
HI 40i (Branches in all States ) 16/20 Bridge Street. Sydney.
and it is still reorganising >ome depart-
ments.
CJeasonal conditions reduced the earn-
ings from primary production and the
recent economic restrictions reduced pro-
fitability of its other activities. Rise in
the value of livestock and property sales
(15 p.c.) enabled A. G. Webster to show
a one per cent, overall increase in turn-
over despite a fall of £613,000 (22 p.c.)
in the value of wool sold. The total
trading increased 8 p.c. and commission
sales for the year amounted to £11,383,000
(up £106,175). Net profit for the year
ended June 30, 1961, fell by £1421 to
£95,546, after eliminating £9831 from pre-
vious year’s capital profit and writing off
£42,752 for depreciation (up £3298) and
providing £63,700 for taxation (down
£6660):
Parent Co.
f Dividends—,, To Re- Re-
June Profit Pref. Ord. serves serves.
6 p.c. 15 p.c.
30, £ £ £ £ £
1958 .. 131,806 11,820 68,325 51,661 802,720
1959 .. 133,630 11,820 68,325 53,485 856,205
Consolidated Figures.
Profit assets, £9,831 .. .. .. 866,036
Subsidiary’s reserve, £48,285 .. 914,321
1960 .. 96,967 11,820 68,325 16,822 931,143
1961 .. 95,546 11,820 68,325 15,401 946,544
After paying the unchanged preference
dividends (£11,820) the earning rate was
18.4 p.c. on unchanged ordinary capital,
compared with 18.7 p.c. in 1960, 26.7 p.c.
in 1959 and 26.3 p.c. in 1958. The ordin-
ary dividend was steady at 15 p.c.,
absorbing £68,325. Reserves benefited by
£15,401 to £946,544 (free of intangibles).
Below are comparative figures for
sales, net profit as a percentage of turn-
over, and taxation provision since 1958:
Profit Tax
Sales to Sales Provision
£ p.c. £
1958 .. 9,850,274 1.3 67,900
1959 .. 9,354.630 1.4 76,000
1960 .. 11,276,535 .95 70,360
1961 .. 11,382,710 .84 63,700
On February 28, 1961, £150,000 of the
7 p.c. loan stock fell due for repayment
and was re-issued at the same interest
rate for another three years with £50,000
being oversubscribed, increasing the loan
stock to £450,000. Bank overdraft rose
by £211,097 to £1,456,364. Creditors
were higher at £546,506 (up £94,495):
Paid capital— 1959 1960 1961
Pref £197,000 £197,000 £197,000
Ord 455,500 455,500 455,500
Reserves .. .. 856,205 931,143 946,544
Loan stock .. 400,000 400,000 450,000
Overdraft .. 1,061,523 1,245,267 1,456,364
Sundry creditors .. 466,073 452,011 546,506
Mortgage .. 53,500 131,500 129,500
Sundry deposits .. 148,571 286,466 179,496
Superannuation
funds .. .. 145,619 179,180 148,344
Final div.. .. 43,868 43,868 43,868
£3,827,859 £4,321,935 £4,553.122
Freeholds .. 914,979 985,950 1,018,780
Plant .. .. 171,637 205,968 215,397
Debtors .. .. 1,970,432 2,065,533 2,154,337
Stock .. .. 740,935 1,034,568 1,129,192
Investments .. 29,876 29,916 35,416
£3,827,859 £4,321,935 £4,553,122
There has been an £88,804 increase in
book-debts to £2,154,337. This has placed
a stress on the company’s liquidity and it
cannot continue to expand its advances
without increasing borrowings. Stocks
on hand and investments both were
higher.
The Australian clip for the 1961-62
season is expected to show an increase.
Overseas wool stocks appear to be low.
The outlook is brighter but wool is fight-
ing a hard battle against synthetic fibres.
A. G. Webster has an excellent earn-
ings and dividend record, with steady
payments of 15 p.c. since the one-for-
two bonus issue in 1955. Net tangible
assets backing for the 20s. prefs is
£8 2s. 4d., and for the ss. ords 15s. sd.
each at balance date.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords
changed hands at about 10s. making the
immediate return 3.3 p.c. on the 15 p.c.
dividend rate.
GENERAL INDUSTRIES
LOSS OF £489,220
C'upporters of General Industries Ltd
must have slipped into a trough of
despondency on hearing the latest trading
result —a thumping loss of £489,220 for
the year to December 31, 1961. In 1960
the company was able to report a group
profit of £415,002, anti lift dividend from
4 to 5 p.c.
The loss was after providing £27,701
for tax (down £98,783), and £318,024 for
depreciation (up £5734). The only pre-
vious loss was one of £35,491 in 1957,
and the company has had a long struggle
from that point to recover lost status.
No ordinary dividend will be paid for
the year, but the usual 7 p.c. preference
dividends require £46,620.
In addition to the year’s loss on trad-
ing, stocks have been written down by
£301,116, and this was provided for by
the writing back of £535,000 from stock
reserves. A sum of £lOO,OOO from
replacement of plant reserve was also
written back, so that the net addition to
accumulated profits from capital reserves
was £333,884.
The balance carried forward in profit
and loss appropriation account was
£486,140, compared with the opening
balance for the year of £689,514.
The major phase of the company’s
reorganisation programme was completed
during 1961. Land has been freed at
Alexandria (NSW) and in other States for
sale at an opportune time.
The associate company, Metters-Clow
Pty Ltd, making cast iron pressure pipe
at Broadmeadows, (Vic.), and the new
subsidiary, General Tubing Pty, making
stainless steel tubing for a number of
industries, were launched successfully
during the year.
TULLOCH’S
A SMALL LOSS
C'ydney manufacturer of rolling stock,
Tulloch Ltd (receivers appointed), in-
curred a small loss for the six months to
December 31, 1961.
In the previous corresponding peri-d
a loss of £519,389 was made, which
increased to £727,028 for the year.
Bank overdraft w s reduced. A plan
will be submited to creditors at an early
date. Earlier, the receiver had r~tirnited
that the overdraft could be liquidated
by June, 1962.
AMPOL PETROLEUM LTD
HALF-YEARLY EARNINGS RISE
T>rofit of Ampol Petroleum Ltd rose
A 6i p.c. in the half-year to March 31.
Motor spirit sales in gallons were 6 p.c.
higher and total sales rose by 3 p.c.
Interim dividend is a steady 7 p.c.,
maintaining the 14 p.c. annual rate of the
last two years.
W. WATSON AND SONS LTD
THE LINK WITH SENCO
A happy coincidence was the recent
- r *' announcement by W. Watson and
Sons Ltd (The Bulletin’s “One to Buy”
on April 7) of a joint venture
company in association with Senco
Instrument Corporation of Chicago.
Senco, as a mere 30-or 40-year-old,
looks on the 73-year-old Australian com-
pany with respect. After all, Watson was
making X-ray equipment within two
years of its discovery by Professor
Wilhelm Rontgen in Bavaria in 1895.
The Senco group, in addition to
making medical and surgical supplies
and scientific instruments, also produces
soil-testing equipment. This makes chemi-
cal analyses of soils for irrigation and
agricultural purposes, and of concrete
for the construction of buildings, roads,
dams and airfields.


WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds etc.
J. W. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road,
Melbourne
Telephone: 51-6243
Est. 1939
CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(PAID UP CAPITAL £7,000,000)
100 New South Head Road, Edgecliff, Sydney
Secretary-General: KEITH LOVE. Tel.: 32-0111
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
7% .. . 4 years and over
6% . . . 12 months' notice
5% .• • 6 months' notice
4% ... 3 months' notice
Interest is paid in Equal Quarterly Instalments,
Free of Exchange, on the last days of June,
September, December and March.
DIRECTORS
lAN M.JACOBY
(Chairman and Managing Director)
L. W. COPPI.ESON G. T. HARTIGAN
R. E. ASH C. S. GITTOES
TRUSTEES
FOR THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS:
The Perpetual Trustee Company (ltd.)
This is not a Prospectus. A copy of the Prospectus
covering this issue of Registered Debentures has been
lodged with the Registrar of Companies, Sydney.
Application must be made on the Forms enclosed
in the Prospectus, which is now available from
All Members of
The Stock Exchange
All Branches of
The National Bank
All Branches of
Custom Credit Corporation
limited
RD41.462
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Union Australia Group)
ESTABLISHED 7872
Head Office: Anchor House, 234-242 George Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne. Queensland Branch:
Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
Secretary, K. N. FINLAY
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the Manager,
who will quote you a price for the original.
Senco director Mr. John Robinson
Davies, who spends around 250 days of
the year visiting the 100 countries in
which his company distributes, was very
impressed with the Watson organisation.
Watson, which previously had sole dis-
tribution rights in Australia only for
Senco’s subsidiary, Soil Test Interna-
tional, now will have sole distribution
for all Senco’s products.
The new company, Watson-Senco Pty
Ltd, will have initial paid capital of
£50,000 and be 51 p.c. Australian-owned
The partners envisage it will in time
represent a large investment for them.
They plan to tap export markets in
Malaya, Thailand, Pakistan, South Africa
etc., which have previously been
inaccessible to the Chicago company.
Watson has to date exported to Malaya.
India, South Africa and New Zealand.
The new company will be able to take
advantage of Commonwealth preference
tariffs in Commonwealth countries.
Watson-Senco will make Senco
products at the Watson factory at
Nunawading in Victoria. The only other
manufacturing facilities Senco has out-
side the US are in Holland, plus some
sub-contracting arrangements in various
other European countries.
Senco will consider possible rational-
isation of production. The Australian
company could make some lines for
world distribution, thus obtaining the
benefits of mass or semi-mass production
methods in an industry which otherwise
has few opportunities for large-scale
production.
Mr Davies sees a big market both here
and overseas in the food and cosmetics
industries, for quality control equipment
which produces a better article at a
cheaper price.
BUCKINGHAMS LTD
INTERIM PASSED
Oydney retailer Buckinghams Ltd will
pass the interim dividend for the
half-year to January 31, 1962. Sales and
profits in the January period were lower
than in the corresponding 1960-61 period
“due to economic conditions,” but “a


COMPANY
THE
UNITED INSURANCE
LIMITED
Established 1862
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman).
R. J. VICARS. A. MURRAY JONES. HUGH DJXON,
D. A. T. DICKINS. K. B. MYERS, A. E. STEPHEN _
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of Every Description
J. O. LEWIS, General Manager.
marked improvement” has been noted in
current trading.
CHEVRON SYDNEY LTD
COURT HELP SOUGHT
A slow, rearguard defence of the
existing status of Chevron Sydney
Ltd is now calling upon every legal
stratagem left. Directors have been
forced to manoeuvre within the limits
of a failure to win sufficient approval
of an earlier device to postpone deben-
ture payments. Their defeat makes it
necessary to ward off the lurking receiver.
The struggle for the required 75 p.c.
support from debenture holders yielded a
70.2 p.c. vote in favor of deferment until
July 31, 1962. Efforts to lift this percen-
tage will continue until Court processes
are heard. The legal move is two-pronged.
Directors have first been granted an
order by the Supreme Court of Victoria
restraining trustees for the debenture
holders (T. and G. Nominees) from
taking action under the trust deed. As
well, another Supreme Court order has
allowed directors to convene new,
separate meetings of share and debenture
holders by May 22. These meetings are
to consider a “scheme of arrangement,”
which will be precisely the request for
deferment of overdue payments till
July 31, 1962.
The trustees have decided to be rep-
resented and to place facts of the situa-
tion before the Court. They have stated
that “enforcement action will be depen-
dent on the outcome of the Court
hearing.”
OLIMS CONSOLIDATED LTD
PUBLIC SHARE PLACEMENT
Consolidated Ltd has
announced a public share placement
of 192,000 ss. stock units at 10s. a unit
(plus brokerage and stamp duty) to
qualify for public listing. The group,
engaged in photographic and reproduc-
tion office equipment activities, com-
prises Olims Chemicals Pty Ltd, L. W.
Bagley Pty Ltd, Pentab Pty Ltd, Office
Machine Manufacturing Co. Pty Ltd,
Viz-Ed Equipment Pty Ltd, Microfac
Corp. Pty Ltd, and Pentab New
Zealand Ltd. The board has forecast a 12f
“Watch those Aussies down under. If they drill any deeper
they'll be draining us off!"
p.c. ord. dividend rate. Consolidated
earnings for 1960-61 were disclosed at
£45,882, equivalent to an earning rate
of 45 p.c. on the then issued capital.
SILKNIT LTD
GROUP LOSS £184,186
A ustralia Silknit Ltd incurred a
group loss of £184,186 (profit of
£24,262 in 1960) in the year to Decem-
ber 31, 1961. A 5 p.c. interim div.
becomes the year’s full rate, as no final
can be considered. Much of the loss
apparently derives from a solid stock
write-down.
WOOLWORTHS LTD
£100m. MARK PASSED
\X7oolworths Ltd disclosed its annual
* * turnover rate at more than £loom.
It is believed that sales of both the Myer
group and G. J. Coles are moving at
about this rate. For 1960-61 Myer
announced actual turnover of £88.7m.
and Coles £92m. excluding certain take-
over additions.
Woolworths’ deputy chairman, Mr
S. E. Chatterton, said that the company
keeps less than 2 p.c. of each £1 spent as
trading profit—that is, about 4yd. in the
£l. Last February that trading was
spread over 765 units in 689 places
throughout Australia and New Zealand.
Another 60 trading units will be com-
missioned this term, but the main
emphasis will be on consolidating existing
stores.
OIL
GOOD NEWS AFTER BAD
ood news quickly followed bad at
Moonie No. 3 well last week, but
not quickly enough to stop a lot of
unlucky sellers of Australian Oil and
Gas shares sacrificing their shares at
what shortly proved to be panic prices.
For the company, however, it was a
case of all is well that ends well. Having
had to report on April 24 that oil failed
to flow from the levels at which big
strikes were made in its first two Moonie
wells, 36 hours later the Union-Kern-
A.O.G. group could announce that be-
ginning only two feet lower that is,
between 5850 ft and 5877 ft —it had
struck oil in about the same volume as
in the two other wells. In one open hole
drill test for 60 minutes from a finch
bottom hole choke, the flow was at the
rate of 1500 barrels of 44 API gravity
oil a day. The group is putting
down another well at Wandoan, about
100 miles away to the north of the
Moonie area.
Beach Petroleum is also in the news
again with the announcement of a
farm-out agreement with Hackathorn
Oils Ltd of USA to drill a well in the
latter’s permit area east of Adelaide
(SA). Beach Petroleum will have
a 75 p.c. interest in the well, which it
will drill to 5000 ft before May, 1963.
West Australian Petroleum (WAPET)


f
AN ISSUE OF
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
£ptc fIUOEQSON's
sms
ON
HO
Wa
Illustrated are examples of the modern Eric Anderson Radio-Television
Pty. Limited retail stores, of which there are 47 in N.S.W., Canberra and
Queensland. The finance company subsidiary of the group is Mutual
Credits Limited. Applications accepted only on Application Form attached
to the Prospectus, which may be obtained from:
• THE COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OF SYDNEY LTD., or
• BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
at any of their branches in New
South Wales or the Australian
Capital Territory
• ERIC ANDERSON (CONSOLI-
DATED) LIMITED
Stoddarts Building, 125 York
Street, Sydney
• ERIC ANDERSON RADIO-
TELEVISION PTY. LTD.
14 Barrack Street, Sydney, and
branches in the city and suburbs.
• ERIC ANDERSON (INCOR-
PORATING PACKARD BELL)
302 Wickham Street, Valley,
Brisbane, or
• ANY MEMBER OF A RECOG-
NISED STOCK EXCHANGE
• Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange)
20 O’Connell Street, Sydney
OR POST THIS COUPON TO:
ERIC ANDERSON (CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED
Please post me, without obligation, a copy of your
Prospectus to:
NAME
ADDRESS
OH
(CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED
PER ANNUM
5 & 10 YEARS
2 years 7i% p.a.
3 years 8% p.a.
years 9% p.a.
E
AND SHORTER TERMS AVAILABLE
DIRECTORS: A. C. Cameron (Chairman),
E. A. M. Newton, E. S. Pratt, B. W. Solomons,
A. D. K. Cochrane.
Trustee for Debenture Stockholders: P.T. PTY. LIMITED,
A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (LIMITED).
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
is on tne move again, but the well (the
first this year by the company) spudded-
in last week at Wandagee, in the Car-
narvon basin (WA), about 140 miles,
south of Rough Range, is a stratigraphic
hole intended merely to seek information
on rock structures with a view to possible
exploratory drilling in that sector of the
basin. The company is to drill several
more stratigraphic holes in the Perth
basin.
Dullingari No. 1 being drilled by
Santos and Delhi, south of Innamincka
in SA, continues to make progress below
6000 ft, but without as yet any trace of
oil. The well has been cemented to
5206 ft. This well got the biggest
(£167,405) subsidy among the total of
£418,758 allotted to oil search companies
by the Federal Government last week.
A £40,000 drilling subsidy was announced
for Westgrove No. 1 (A.A.0.), the rest
of the money being allocated for seismic
surveys.
The next well (No. 5) to be drilled in
the Port Campbell (Vic.) area by Frome-
Broken Hill Pty Ltd will be spudded-in
early in July. Three of the first four
wells in the area have located gas.
ONE TO BUY
TTigh quality second-line industrials
are not easily enticed from holders’
hands in the present placid and hyper-
cautious market. One which will deserve
a little extra baiting is Electrical Equip-
ment of Australia Ltd.
The ss. shares now show moderate
sales at around 15s. 9d., to yield 3.5 p.c.
on an assured 11 p.c. dividend. Earnings
yield stands at 5.8 p.c. with the 1960-61
earning rate 17.9 p.c.
Presently improving economic con-
ditions could well take the shares up.
Yet the company gains as much of its
esteem from continuous and reliable
performance as from mere market
fluctuations.
Electrical Equipment may be chiefly
noted among the smaller manufacturers
for a well-conceived spread over the
electrical industry. At no stage has the
group been affected by the wild ups-
and-downs of television. Directors admit
that a better TV atmosphere certainly
provides a marginal fillip.
A diversely experienced board was
able, at the end of February, to report
a peak six-monthly profit for the half-
year to December. Sales lifted slightly.
The interim statement contained a con-
fident justification of the 11 per cent,
dividend.
The company was listed in 1950 and
has always given evidence of great
accounting reliability. Existing capital of
£900,000 is supported ;by reserves and
undivided profits totalling £560,779. No
mortgages, debentures or suchlike fixed-
interest borrowings mark the balance
sheet.
Directors clearly confirm that “our
consistent policy has been for major
capital increases to be raised by issuing
ordinary shares to our shareholders at
par.”


LEADING
Par
SHARE
Prices
Last
Sale,
PRICES
Div.
Rate
Div.
Yield
Earn.
Rate
Earn
Yield
Company
Value
1901
19/4/62
30/4/62
p.c.
p.c.
p.c.
p.c.
Amalgamated Chemicals
5/
14/3
18/74
18/7
124
3.4
21.4
5.8
A.W.A
5/
20/4 i
20/6
19/5
14
3.0
22
5.6
Ampol
5/
11/4
12/6
12/7
14
5.5
19
7.5
A.R.C. Ind.
10/
46/3
51/
51/
15
2.9
29.7
5.8
Associated Pulp
20/
29/3
32/6
32/0
—
—
13.0
8.3
Aust. Chemicals
10/
30/4i
30/3
30/3
124
4.1
21.5
7.1
A.C.I
20/
72/6
71/
70/9
8i
2.3
19.3
5.4
Aust. Guarantee
5/
14/
12/5
12/3
15
6.1
20.3
8.3
Aust. Gypsum ..
5/
14/3
15/3
15/9
10
3.2
14.9
4.7
A.P.M
20/
25/3
26/6
26/0
8
6
10
7.5
Bank N.S.W. ..
£20
£34
£39i
£40J
9
4.5
12.2
0.1
Bitumen and Oil
5/
24/
25/
24/9
174
3.5
32.4
6.5
Blue Metal Ind.
5/
22/7 J
22/9
22/10
15
3.3
27.6
6.0
Bradford Cotton
5/
7/6
7/3
7/6
10
6.7
11.2
1 .0
British Tobacco
20/
25/
21/6
21/6
8
7.4
9.7
9.0
B.H.P
20/
69/
63/
63/9
6i
2.0
15.5
4.9
Burns, Philp
20/
91/
£5/1/
£5/2/6
10
1.9
12.4
2.4
Clyde Ind.
5/
10/8
10/2
10/2
15
7.4
15.3
7.5
C.S.R
£20 £59/10/
£58/5/
£56
9
3.2
12.4
4.4
C.A.G.A.
5/
11/3
11/6
11/3
10
4.4
12.3
5.5
C.I.G
20/
£ 5
£ 5
98/
11
2.3
25.2
5.1
Commercial Union
5/
19/3
22/9
22/9
6^
1.4
18.4
4
Concrete Ind.
5/
15/11
15/101
16/
10
3.1
10.6
5.2
Consolidated Zinc
25/
62/6
65/
65/
15
5.7
11.6
4.5
Cox Bros.
5/
7/6
7/6
7/7
10
0.6
11.8
7.8
Custom Credit ..
5/
13/
12/
12/5
15
0.0
19.5
7.9
Cyclone . .
10/
20/
22/3
22/74
10
4.4
17.7
7.9
Dalgety-N.Z. Loan
20/
—
47/6
47/6
8
4.2
13.9
5.S
David Jones
5/
18/9
19/3
18/11
124
3.3
28.7
i .5
Drug Houses
20/
69/
19/3
68/6
Hi
3.3
17.7
5.2
Dunlop Rubber
20/
35/
42/3
42/
10
4.8
10
7.6
Elder Smith
12/
23/9
25/9
25/0
10
4.7
12.6
5.9
Electronic “B’
10/
13/3
13/6
12/104
124
9.7
—
—
Email
5/
7/6
8/
7/9
10
6.4
11
7.2
E.Z. Ind.
10/
12/11
13/11
14/
10
7.1
12.4
8.9
Felt and Textiles
5/
6/11
7/9
7/9
10
6.5
13.9
9
General Ind.
20/
14/0
11/3
11/3
—
—
—
—
G. J. Coles
5/
13/6
13/8
13/9
11
4.0
14.8
5.5
Goldsbrough .. .
20/
28/6
32/6
32/3
8
4.9
11.7
7.2
H. C. Sleigh ..
5/
11/
12/9
12/10
124
4.9
13.4
5.3
Henry Jones .. .
20/
80/
so/
8S/
10
2.3
28.6
6.5
H. G. Palmer .. .
5/
15/6
16/9
16/11
124
3.7
34.5
10.2
Howard Smith .. .
20/
54/
51/
51/6
10
3.8
13.6
5.2
Humes .. .. ,
20/
70/6
76/6
76/
14
3.7
24.6
6.5
I.A.C
5/
13/4
13/7
13/5
16§
6.2
20.6
7.7
I.C.I.A.N.Z.
20/
38/
42/3
41/9
7
3.3
9.7
4.7
J. Gadsden
10/
15/3
19/
18/104
8
4.2
10.4
5.5
John Lysaght .. .
20/
64/6
67/6
07/6
8
2.4
12.3
3.6
Kandos Cement .
5/
—
22/71
23/
124
2.7
13.5
2.9
Kelvinator .. .
5/
18/3
18/6
18/9
15
4.0
33.4
8.9
Lend Lease .. .
5/
20/
21/44
21/6
10
2.3
21.4
5.0
L, J. Hooker
5/
7/
5/1
5/3
—
—
1.1*
1.0
Mercantile Credit
0
5/
8/8
8/9
S/8
10
5.8
16.6
9.5
McPhersons . . .
20/
47/
41/9
41/9
Si
4
12.4
5.9
Minster ..
10/
62/
79/
78/
20
2.6
34.8
4.5
Moulded Products
5/
13/2
14/1
14/44
14
4.9
7.8
2.7
Mt. Isa Mines
5/
71/6
74/6
74/6
25
1.6
62.3
4.2
Mutual Acceptance
5/
8/10
10/6
10/3
15
7.3
22.3
10.9
Myer
5/
29/
33/
33/6
16§
2.5
28.3
4.2
National Consolidated
5/
27/
27/6
27/0
20
3.6
35.3
6.4
Olympic Industries
5/
7/7
9/2
9/
8/5
9
5.0
16.2
9.0
Peters (Vic.)
2/
8/6
8/5
15
3.6
18.9
4.5
Petrochemical . .
20/
26/
31/
30/6
6
3.9
5.9
3.8
Pioneer Concrete
5/
18/9
21/14
21/
124
3.0
30.7
7.3
R. M. Concrete
5/
17/41
18/3
18/
12|
3.5
22.9
6.4
Reid Murray
5/
5/3
4/6
4/3
—
—
9.4
11.0
Repco
5/
12/5
13/8
13/10
10
3.6
17.8
6.5
Rio Tinto
5/
15/9
19/6
19/3
10
2.6
71.7
18.6
Rothmans
20/
87/6
74/6
75/
17 i
4.7
47.7
12.7
Thiess
5/
13/
12/
11/11
124
5.2
14.4
6.0
Tooth
20/
60/
66/
60/
134
4.1
15.9
4.8
Union Carbide ..
20/
80/
78/
78/
10
2.6
15.9
4.1
Waltons
5/
13/8
13/9
13/8
124
4.6
19.7
7.2
Woolworths
5/
15/4
10/74
16/8
12
3.6
15.4
4.6
Wormald
5/
11/10
12/
12/
10
4.2
14.2
5.9
W. R. Carpenter
5/ 30/
* Estimated on
32/9
'ast half-year’s
34/
profit.
15
2.3
35.1
5.5
December
22, 1961 ..
MELBOURNE STOCK EXCHANGE
AVERAGE YIEED ON 100 ORDINARY SHARES
, —50 Other Stocks —Random-^
t 50 Leading Stocks \ Sample
Div. Yield Earn. Yield Div. Yield Earn. Yield
April
19,
1962
4.27
6.27 5.03
3.02
April
24,
1962
Exchange Closed
April
26,
1962
4.26
6.27 5.03
3.09
April
27,
1962
.. 4.27
6.14 5.02
2.88
April
SO,
1962
4.27
6.14 5.08
2.77
SYDNEY
STOCK EXCHANGE
INDICES
Banks,
Other
Base
All
etc.
Finance
Pastoral
Retailers
Metals
Ords.*
Industrials
December 22, 1961
. . 137.37
541.02
182.31
389.15
604.15
299.07
318.74
April 19, 1902
. . 151.68
564.67
189.87
393.55
602.46
304.45
321.12
April 24, 1962
151.74
566.53
190.02
395.05
603.42
305.06
321.68
April 26, 1962
.. 151.92
567.78
189.53
393.35
604.27
305.61
322.59
April 27, 1902
.. 152.98
566.47
189.30
392.64
003.18
305.30
322.14
April 30, 1962
155.89
565.11
1S9.57
390.68
601.31
304.45
320.61
* Peak
348.4G September 16, 1960.
SHAREMARKET SUMMARY
'T'he sharemarket’s wild and wanton
A Moonie obstreperousness has been
speedily and sensibly dissipated. A pre-
sumed finish to A.O.G. rights trading on
Monday did not create any stir until the
last moment. Then investors were left to
digest a fortnight’s extension of dealings
—surely an unfair strain on too
frequently irritated stomachs.
Actual business over the day saw both
shares and rights gently recede, in line
with the less excited atmosphere at the
end of the previous week. Most other oil
issues followed suit.
The more purely investment sections
still present a staid and careful stance to
the world. While the undertone may
charitably be described as firm, seeds of
unsteadiness remain all too readily
apparent. This especially applies among
good quality industrials, where adjust-
ments are variable though small.
Even leaders partake of the ruling
indecision. Burns Philp has certainly held
the bloom of the bonus issue, but C S.R.,
despite share split and issue prospects,
continues easier. Steadiest of all recently,
Henry Jones and Tooth keep their ranks.
It is along the second line that the
variability chiefly expresses itself, again
mainly fractionally. Yet turnovers are
standing fairly high, without suggesting
any really vigorous activity.
Building and automotive stocks are
proving slow to respond to more positive
economic conditions, behaving almost
as if some additional stimulus is still
needed.
Of the principal investment sections,
banks and other finance show a mild
tendency to advance. Retailers are clearly
indecisive, the big stores especially draw-
ing back a little.
Base metals have yet to cope with a
late May meeting of the world Lead-Zinc
Study Group. They seem commendably
steady.
A.P.M. LTD
PROSPECTS BRIGHTER
A USTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS
Ltd is experiencing a “quite good”
demand for its products. Competitive
imports are still worrying, and the
Department of Trade has been asked to
take corrective measures. Yet directors
expect the current 1961-62 year to yield
higher sales and profits than in 1960-61.
Valuations of company land and shares
in A.P.M. Forests Pty Ltd have estab-
lished a reserve totalling £4,883,750. The
proposed one-for-four bonus issue will
absorb £4,383,750, leaving £500,000 in the
reserve.


CAPITAL ISSUES
PENDING
01
Terms of
Books
Terms of
Company
Class
Number
Issue
Close
Payment
Remarks
Aust. and International
Insurances
••
10s.
310,000
1 for 1 at
April 2
In full May 9
Aust. Paper Manufacturers
20s.
4,383,750
1 for 4
bonus
1 for 5 at
June 30
—
Bonds Industries
20s.
250,000
April 16
15s. on appli-
15s. in call
a premium
cation by
on Nov. 28
Burns Philp
of 10s.
May 30
20s.
1,200,000
1 for 5 bonus
Oct. 31
Clarke Bros. Holdings
5 s.
491,505
1 for 2 at
par
April 4
In full on
May 22
Colonial Sugar Refining
Co
. .
20s.*
3,018,920
1 for 7 at 10s.
July 31
15s. on
15s. (inc. 5s.
premium
Oct. 1
premium on
April 1)
Huttons .. ..
• •
5 s.
1,325,500
1 for 4 at
March 30
2s. 6d. on
3s. 9d.
premium of
application
(including
Is. 3d.
by May 31
Is. 3d.
premium) in
Indoor Bowling
call on
Sep. 30
5s.
406,66G
1 for 6 at
n/a
June 30
To share- and
Lords Holdings ..
par
noteholders
10s.
80,000
1 for 4 at
n/a
n/a
McDowells ..
a premium
of 2s. 6d.
20s.
113,999
1 for 6
April 30
bonus
20s.
170,000
1 for 4 at
April 30
In full on
a premium
of 20s.
1 for 10 at
May 31
Milton Investments
20s.
46,861
April 16
10s. on May
10s. in call
Queensland Press
10s.
2,369,500
par
1 for 2 at
July 31
31
In full on
on Aug. 31
Stocks and Holdings
par
5s. def.
574,666
1 for 3
May 11
To ord. and
Steel Mills ..
bonus
deferred
shareholders
5s.
266,503
1 for 4 at 4s.
April 30
In full on
Tarax Drinks ..
premium
May 31
5s.
628,052
1 for 4 at
April 26
In full on
a premium
June 15
Woolworths Ltd ..
of OS.
5s.
12,406,650
1 for 5 at
Aug. 15
Januarv 24,
To share- and
par
1963
noteholders
Woolworths (N.Z.)
5s.
2,097,074
2 for 5 at
March 22
In full June
Yates Seeds
par
30
20s.
51,603
1 for 5
April 17
bonus
M ining —
Interstate Oil
Longreach Oil
5s.
4,000,000
2 for 3
April 30
n/a
1,913,467
offered to
public ; bal-
ance to Con-
solidated
Zinc
2s. 6d.
4,607,084
2 for 1
April 13
In full May
11
* After splitting
£20 shares to
20s. units.
DIVIDEND DECLARATIONS
WEEK ENDED
APRIL 30,
1902
Company
Div. p.c.
Rate For
Year
Last Year
Books
Payable
Fairymead Sugar Co. Ltd, final . .
4
8
4, 4
11/5/62
26/5/62
Hawkesbury llevpt. Co. Ltd, int. ..
National Dairy Products Corp.,
4
—
4, 4
18/5/62
1/6/62
qtr. int. . .
50 cents
$2.00
17/5/62
9/6/62
Permanent Trustee Co. of N.S.AV.,
int. ..
5
5, 5
22/5/62
P.G.IL Industries Ltd, int.
84
—
84, 84
11/5/62
25/5/62
Tutt Bryant Ltd, int., ord.
5
—
5, 5
11/5/62
31/5/62
Whitefield Ltd final ord. . .
64
124
6J, 0»i
21/5/62
1/6/62
Whitefield Ltd pref., fin. 4 mths. . .
2 it
21/5/62
1/6/62
Younghusband Ltd, final . .
44
74
3, 44
Brick Industries Ltd., final
East African Coffee Plantations Ltd.,
74
15
74, 74
9/5/02
6/6/62
int.
34
—
5, 5 5/6
17/5/62
8/0/62
COMPANY
RESULTS
Year
Net
Deprecia- Earning
Ord.
, Ordinary Shares—
Par Last Sale Div.
Company Ended
Profit
Tax
tion JiaLe
Div.
Value
Price Yield
United Uranium N.L. 31/12/61
£
348,536
£
£ p.c.
— 41.2
p.c.
20
5/
p.c.
4/5 22.6
Whitefield Ltd .. 31/3/62
30,307
550
7 13.S
12A
20/
45/6 5.5
Younghusbahd Ltd . . 31/3/62
204,516
115,000
56,406 11.1
71
5/
7/9 4.8
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. 1> KATE It,
N. \V. C. DRAPER
(Members o) Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761
(4 lines)
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stoek
Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building,
150 Oueen St., Melbourne,
67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale,-” Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
423 Little Collins St.,
Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
GUNTON. STEEL & HIU
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS.
Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange.
Kindersley House, 20 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.
Box 1632, G.P.O.
Telephone:
28-2641 (6 lines)
Telegrams:
“Gunot.” Sydney
Telex: Syd. 242
All the
family
will love
4
only
Everybody's
EXCHANGE RATES (T/T)
AUSTRALIA ON
LONDON
£ A to £stgl00 125
NEW ZEALAND
£A to £NZ100 124
USA
$1 to £A1 2.2512
BELGIUM
Francs to £A1 .. .. .. 112.74
FRANCE
New Francs to £Al .. .. 11.074
ITALY
Lire to £AI .. .. 1404
JAPAN
Yen to £AI 818.40
WEST GERMANY
DM to £AI 9.045
SWITZERLAND
Francs to £AI .. .. .. 9.506
HONG KONG
Pence Australian to SHK .. 18 9/16


LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721.
Telegrams anti Cables:
“LAG RAM,” Sydney.
WALTER P. HAM & CO.
WALTER PERRY HAM and WILLIAM
JOHN BAKER
Members of The Stock Exchange 0/ Melbourne
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
INVESTMENT HOUSE,
116 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Telephone: CO-0221 (30 lines)
Telegrams: HAMWAL. Melbourne
GILBERT HARRIMAN & CO.
STOCK AND SHAREBROKER
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
KINDERSLEY HOUSE,
7th Floor,
20 O’Connell St.,
33 Bligh St., Sydney
Telegrams:
HARRISHA. SYDNEY.
Tels: 28-8398, 28-8399
STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Suite 1, Sixth Floor, Temple Court
422 Collins Street, Melbourne
Phone 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
SYDNEY: 383 George Street, 29-7865
ADELAIDE: 61 Gawler PL, 7-8407
BRISBANE: 334 Queen Street, 31-1621
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS
ALL OFFICES— “OPTIONS”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your
fancy write to the Manager, who will
quote you a price for the original.
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Monday, April 30
T came back from Easter firmly con-
-*■ vinced that the renaissance of the
ordinary sharemarket must be at hand.
The interim report season was about
over and the air seemed a good deal
clearer with Hookers, Reid Murray and
General Industries having all plucked
up the courage to blurt out the awful
truth.
Now the future looks a good deal
rosier. Production figures are up for
everything from brassiers to motor
vehicles. Retail sales are rising and so
are the figures for building commence-
ments. Even C.S.R. is putting on a
braver front with its declared intention
to continue paying 9 p.c. dividend after
its premium issue and share split. So
when the market re-opened after Easter
it looked ready to go.
Then, moments before trading began,
Mr Doyle Graves struck a note of un-
expected gloom with his announcement
that Moonie No. 3 had so far failed to
strike oil. Down went A.O.G. with such
a thud that even I was tempted into buy-
ing 100 rights. I got them late on the
Tuesday at 465. My reasoning simply
was that the market had overdone its
reaction to bad news, just as it had in
the past to good news. I hardly expected
to be able to sell again within 48 hours
and make a profit of about 255. a share,
but such was the good, and even less
expected, news on Anzac Day. That
gave me a profit of £l27 —and
also a tinge of conscience as I read one
financial writer’s comment that the
A.O.G. market was “still obviously
dominated by speculators aiming to make
kills on the strength of mood changes,
rather than by persons attempting in-
vestment appraisals.”
I must have been really stung by this
pertinent remark because I bought back
into A.O.G. again next day when the
rights had slipped back to 665. 6d. To
my mind, the success of Moonie No. 3
has carried A.O.G. into the genuine in-
vestment class as it now seems reason-
ably clear that a significant oil field has
been found at Moonie. What remains to
be proved is whether it is big enough
to justify construction of a pipeline to
Brisbane, 200 miles away.
In the ordinary sharemarket I bought
another 200 Mauri Bros, to bring my
holding up to 500. If Burns Philp could
produce a bonus issue in advance of its
first set of consolidated accounts, let’s
hope Mauri Bros, can, too. This, of
course, is blind investment if ever there
was, but where would the sharemarket
be if we didn’t indulge in a little wishful
thinking occasionally?
It was the same sort of pretty care-
less reasoning which led me into buy-
ing 25 M.L.C. shares at £119 10s. each.
The theory here is that M.L.C. shares
should be worth even more soon when
they are each split into three (bringing
the price down to a mere £6 10s.) and
when they are listed more prominently
on the Stock Exchange’s official list in-
stead of being buried away in the un-
official section.
To finance these purchases I had
<£•369 left over from my Lenten trading
plus the proceeds of my 300 Hornibrook
which I sold in disgust after the interim
dividend was cut from 5 p.c. to 4 p.c.
I’d held Hornibrook longer than any
stock that’s ever been in my portfolio—
a whole year, in fact — and I expected
something better for my patience. The
same thing happened last year with Antill
Ranger which I held for eight months
only to see its dividend cut, too.
O’Donnell Griffin, bought last August,
now has the dubious honor of head-
ing my portfolio. I sincerely hope it
treats me a little better.
Details of these transactions were:
BOUGHT
100 A.O.G. rights at 46/- .. £233
200 Mauri Bros, at 23/3 .. £238
25 M.L.C. at £19/10/- .. .. £496
100 A.O.G. shares at 81/6 .. £413
SOLD
300 Hornibrook at 27/- .. .. £423
100 A.O.G. rights at 73/- .. £360
Although I made <£69 on Hornibrook
as well as £127 on A.O.G., I finished
the week still owing £228 but I’ll cover
that with some Fibre Containers.
The portfolio now is: —
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
400 O’Donnell
Griffliu 28/S/G1 11/8 15/-
800 Southgate 6/11/61 8/6 7/6
1,000 United Motels 20/11/61 3/6 3/9
1,000 Harris Hold-
ings 5/12/61 7/- 8/6
200 Hunter Douglas
notes 21/2/62 36/- 41/6
200 Beau Monde 8/12/61 25/- 32/-
500 Fibre Con-
tainers 13/12/61 17/6 19/-
400 W. J- Manufac-
turing 24/1/62 11/9 13/-
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 23/—
500 Mauri Bros 16/2/62 22/9 23/6
100 F. W. Williams 20/2/62 36/6 36/6
1,000 Mid-Eastern
rights 22/2/62 1/- —
200 Penfolds Wines 2/3/62 9/3 —
400 Anderson Meat 2/3/62 12/- 13/-
400 Kandos 9/3/62 21/- 23/-
500 Peters 15/3/62 8/2 8/5
100 Philip Morris 16/3/62 26/- 8/5
S00 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 5/9
500 Peter Lloyd 21/3/62 5/6 5/9
500 Beady Mixed 6/4/62 17/9 1S/-
25 M.L.C. 27/4/62 £19/10/- £19/10/-
100 A.O.G. 27/4/62 81/6 80/-


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented Ore
Concentrator has proved over many
years to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin to the
sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
“"Everlasting” Boiler Blow Off Valves,
Rapid Magnettising Machines, George
Ellison Switch Gear, Blasting Mats,
Explosives, Gog Splitting Guns, etc.
Makers of Classifiers, Water Filters,
Steam Valves, etc.
MAM
LAMD
COTTON
KEEPIT DAM IN MOTHBALLS
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Tn the north-west of NSW they refer
to the Keepit Dam as “the finest
water-ski area in the country,” adding:
“So it should be; it cost £l2 million.”
As a water-ski area, Keepit certainly
is magnificent. Young people come out
from Gunnedah and other neighboring
towns and dash across the waters in ex-
pensive speed-boats. They have a club-
house and picnic-grounds. If the dam
was built to give country people the
sporting amenities that are available in
the city, it is a great success. But at £l2
million
Nothing else seems to be happening
at Keepit. The hydroelectric installations
are feeding six megawatts into the State
electricity network, but equipment to
allow the automatic release of water
through the gates when the dam reaches
a certain level has not operated since
the dam was built.
“It is a dam in mothballs,” said the
president of the Namoi Shire Council.
Mr Kelvin Vickery. “They turned on
the automatic equipment and water came
over the gates when the Premier opened
the dam. But when he turned his back
to go and have afternoon tea, they
turned the automatic equipment off and
h hasn't been used since.”
When the Premier, Mr Heffron, opened
it in October, 1960, he said that the dam
“provided another milestone in the in-
spiring pattern of development taking
place on every side in NSW.” He added
that “even our most unrelenting critics
would concede that the NSW Govern-
ment has been most active in water con-
servation in the postwar period.” The
major purpose of the dam, the Premier
said, was to maintain a reliable flow of
water in the Namoi River for irrigation,
stock and domestic use.
T ocal people say that no firm decision
has been made —or at least made
public—on what is to be the extent and
type of irrigation of the area, whether the
river-flats are to be cut up for closer
settlement, and what crops are to be
grown. They claim that the dam’s flood-
gates were not used as effectively as they
might have been last winter to keep the
Namoi flowing in a dry period. On the
other hand, some of the local farmers
say that during the wet summer the dam
was not used to mitigate flooding which
occurred in the Namoi and Peel systems.
This is, perhaps, an incomplete list of
the complaints about the dam which one
can gather in the district in a few days.
But what seems to be the principal cause
of dissatisfaction is that all decisions on
what is to happen at the dam have to be
referred by the acting officer-in-charge,
Mr J. Roy, to the Water Conservation
and Irrigation Commission in Sydney.
The general feeling is that mistakes could
be forgiven, provided they are made on
the spot; that the decisions of the officer-
in-charge would be accepted locally, al-
though there are undoubtedly conflicts of
interest. But it is hard to stomach the
idea of the officer-in-charge phoning
Sydney each morning, giving river levels
and other relevant information and then
getting instructions on what he should
do.
However, Mr Roy says that the dam
was not built for flood mitigation, and
that if he opened the floodgates every
time a local farmer phoned, the dam
would be dry. “Some of these fellows
phone every time there’s a cloud in the
sky,” he said.
IT'eepit Dam was talked about for 60
years before anything happened; then
it took nearly 20 years to build. Its orig-
inal purpose was to supplement the waters
of the artesian basin which stretches west.
When water was first taken from the
basin after it had been undisturbed for
many thousands of years, the level began
to drop. However, experts say that the
level is now constant and the earlier
drop was possibly only because of the
release of accumulated pressure.
Keepit is now unlikely ever to be
needed for its original purpose of keeping
the Namoi flowing and so providing a
reliable and permanent supply of water
for domestic and stock use on holdings
further west, to where the Namoi joins
the Darling at Walgett.
The realisation, while the dam was still
being built, that it would probably never
be needed for the purpose for which
it was being built rather left things up
in the air. But it was fairly certain that
an amount of water would be available
for irrigation in the area near Narrabri.
Dried fruits or fruit for canning were
at one stage suggested, but the uncertainty
of overseas markets would make these
a doubtful enterprise for new farmers.
/Cotton is the white hope in the district
for an irrigated crop. In 1958, the
NSW Department of Agriculture set up
an experimental farm at Narrabri. Its
principal work so far has been with
cotton and other crops, such as soya
bean, which could possibly rotate with
cotton.
The farm has experimented with at
least 180 varieties of cotton seed, includ-
ing types from Russia, Egypt, the Sudan
and the Argentine. It has even used a
strain of wild cotton from the nearby
Nandewar Ranges.
However, the prize exhibit at the farm
is Mr Paul Kahl, a real, live American
cotton-farmer, who migrated to Australia
from near Fresno. California, and who
with a partner, Mr Frank Hadley, has
taken up 1800 acres at Wee Waa to grow
cotton. Mr Kahl has about 80 acres
which he planted last August and will
harvest this month. Next year he plans
to plant an extra 800 acres.
Mr Kahl said that he left California
because “he was tired of the neighbors
breathing down his neck. 5 ’ He believes
conditions for irrigated cotton at Narrabri
are “ideal.”
This year Mr Kahl has to send his
crop to Queensland by truck for ginning,
but he is confident that by next season
there will be enough cotton grown at
Narrabri, either by Australians or by
Americans who follow his lead, to justify
the establishment of a ginnery there.
The scientists at the experimental


Basis
Greasy Equivalent
30001b.
Clean Weight C.W.C.
Type
78.
Highest/Lowest Price Paid-
(Pence per lb.)
r— Turnover s
, — ; —April
27 ,
, —Week Ended—,
Week
Closing
27/4/62 / —‘—To Date N
Ended
To
Month
Seller
Buver
High
Low High
Low
27/4/62
Date
May, 19G2
115*
115
115*
115-1 1161
99*
38
4,862
July, 1962
113*
1131
113*
113 1162
101
46
5,169
September. 1962
no!
110*
110*
110-2 1162
1032
40
1,449
October, 1962
1092
109
1091
1082 1162
104
no
4,339
December, 1962
108-2
108*
108|
1082 113
1032
71
3,070
January, 1963
1082
108*
108*
108* 112*
1032
3
476
March, 1963
108*
1081
108*
1082 1102
104
14
867
Mav, 1963
108*
1081
108*
1082 no
104
17
616
July, 1963
108*
1081
10S*
108 no
105
40
349
September. 1963
108
1072
1082
1072 1092
1072
9
38
October, 1963
108
1072
10S|
1072 109*
107-2
25
114
Total Number of Contracts
403
60,644
farm have learnt something of practical
cotton-farming from Mr Kahl, and at the
same time they have helped him with
their knowledge of local soils and
climate. Mr Kahl is sure that Australian
farmers could successfully begin farming
cotton in the district now.
“They can learn the way the wheat
farmers learnt,” he said. “They just have
to watch me. When I plant, they plant.
When I spray, they spray. When I water,
they water. That’s how it goes in farm-
ing.”
However, Mr Kahl emphasised that it
might take £20,000, plus the cost of land,
to begin cotton farming. These days,
there being no cotton pickin’ mammies
available, sowing and picking require
expensive machinery.
It can cost £5O an acre to grow cotton,
but the yield on current world prices
could be £lOO an acre gross. Mr Kahl
thinks that the Narrabri area could
carry 50,000 acres of cotton, but others
put the figure lower.
Most of Australia’s cotton at present
is grown in Queensland. Other experi-
ments are taking place in the Riverina
and on the Gemalong Estate near Parkes,
in the central west of NSW. Some dry-
land cotton is grown near Narrabri, but
the yield from dry-land cotton fluctuates
widely.
The yield from dry-land cotton may be
only about 4001 b of seed cotton an
acre, while a successful crop commercially
should yield 30001 b and yields of up
to 50001 b have been achieved in other
countries.
The point from which advocates of
local cotton production argue is mainly
that it could save Australia foreign
currency. There is world over-production
of cotton, as there is of many agricultural
products, but Australia produces only a
fraction of her requirements. In 1960
Australia produced raw cotton worth
£556,000, but imported £5,172,463 worth
of raw cotton and £43,826,444 worth of
cotton piece-goods.
WOOL
NEW £5m. AUTOMATED STORE
Automation will come to Australia’s
conservative wool-selling trade with
the erection at Sunshine, Victoria, of the
first half of a giant £ly million ultra-
modern wool store.
It will be the first of eight automated
wool stores to be built throughout Aus-
tralia as part of a £5 million two-year
modernisation programme of the Dal-
gety New Zealand Loan group of
companies.
The first half of the new Sunshine store
will be ready for the start of the new
wool-selling season in June and the whole
building will be completed next year.
Two thousand feet long and 700 ft wide
and covering 28 acres, the store will be
one of the largest single-storey buildings
in the Southern Hemisphere.
Ninety-five per cent, of the stacking
and handling of bales will be done by
special mechanical equipment. A new
system of flexible mechanical handling,
based on radio-controlled lift trucks
with hydraulic clamps, will enable bales
to be picked up, transported and stacked
in piles of four, six, eight or ten at a
time. Three sides of the building will
consist of 370 sliding doors that will
enable semi-trailers to drive direct to
any storage area.
Each bale will be weighed by weighing
machines, will have its weight stamped on
it automatically, and will have its mark-
ings photographed. The 16mm. film will
be developed and projected on a screen
so that details can be recorded on punch
cards. The building will include a
1000 ft show floor where bales will be
displayed for inspection by valuers and
buyers.
More than a million square feet of
glass-fibre reinforced aluminium foil
insulation under the roof will maintain
static atmospheric working conditions,
irrespective of the weather outside.
Fibreglass panels interspersed among the
roof sheets will provide the main lighting
for the storage areas.
r T"'HE company describes the classing
area, illuminated by thousands of
multi-matched fluorescent tubes, as
“probably the best-lit and most modern
classing and binning area in Australia.”
The store will be served by a double-
track rail siding nearly half a mile long,
running the full-length of the store. This
will be covered with a cantilever canopy
to provide all-weather servicing.
The company describes the new store
as “developing a new concept of wool
storage and handling on a single floor,”
and adds: “The traditional multi-storey
wool stores were quite suitable for a
generation ago, but they can no longer
economically cope with the vastly in-
creased volume of wool now being
handled. Handling costs have spiralled
enormously and multi-storey stores only
add. to the problem because they cmnot
be effectively mechanised with modern
equipment.”
RABBITS
WINTER MASSACRE
"Cor decades Australian formers have
chosen the summer months as the
time to get out the poison tin for their
annual onslaught on rabbit hordes.
“Poison when the ground is bare of
feed —otherwise the pests will ignore the
bait and go for the green pick,” many
an oldtimer has advised.
Science has now disproved this theory.
Research by CSIRO and the research
section of the Victorian Lands Depart-
ment actually favors winter as the best
poisoning time. And for this reason
Victoria is mounting its biggest-ever
rabbit poisoning campaign in the Mallee,
in the north-west of the State, from May
until July or August.
The campaign, using carrot bait
(specially grown on irrigation in northern
Victoria) and “1080” poison, will cover
16 million acres.
The scientists have pinpointed many
errors in previous poisoning methods.
They say near-100 per cent, kills can
be achieved by following their recommen-
dations. These include two “free-feeds”
of at least 601 b. of bait to the mile, spaced
at least three days apart, and poisoning
with “1080” three days later.
On this basis rabbits will take the bait
in any season, the scientists say. They
prefer winter because carrot lasts longer
in good condition in cooler weather.
With myxomatosis on the wane and
rabbits on the increase in many parts
of Australia, the Victorian advice could
come in handy.
SYDNEY GREASY WOOL FUTURES EXCHANGE SUMMARY
THREE DAYS TO APRIL 27, 1962


REVIEWS
TV
SAY WHEN
T ast week, along with some hundreds
of thousands of other viewers, I saw
a young man named Paul McShane carry
off “Coles’ £3OOO Question.’’ For the bene-
fit of any Coles' shareholders who are not
familiar with this show, the £3OOO cheque
was not won easily. Mr McShane had
appeared on five occasions, answering
questions which required more than an
encyclopaedic knowledge of his chosen
subject, Gilbert & Sullivan.
He had won nominal sums of £2OO-
- 1500 previously. To secure the
cash prize, he had to say when “Patience”
was first performed in Australia (1881),
and name the two leading performers on
that distant occasion. Shareholders need
have no fear that Coles are throwing
money around wildly to attract a big
television audience.
The show has improved in format and
interest since I first watched it a year
or so ago. I found its present succession
of four or five contestants a night, each
startlingly expert in one subject, much
preferable to the over-exposed general
knowledge experts on “Pick-a-Box.” Five
looks at any quiz wiz is quite enough
for me. and I was mildly troubled by the
compere's suggestion that we might see
Mr McShane again. If another Gilbert
and Sullivan expert can be found? Let's
hope no other appears.
Meanwhile, Woolworths’ shareholders
might be interested to know what their
company is doing to match Coles’ success
with a live show on television. I can
report that the other chain store giant
is some months entrenched in daytime
television in several States with a guess-
ing-game show called “Woolworths’ Say
When.'’ This has a youthful compere
named Jimmy Hannan, who immediately
endeared himself to me at first viewing
when he showed visible distress on being
addressed as Mr Hanlon. The format
of the show is a simple one, unlikely to
strain the minds of viewers or contestants.
Two women are seated at tables and
shown twelve prizes. In turn, they have
to select ones with a total value of a
certain figure, say £lOO. At a total of
£9B or so, they say 1 When”, stop accumu-
lating loot, and hope that the opponent
will “bust.” In my flaming youth there
was a card game of similar nature, called
pontoon, or vingt-et-un.
The show is good, simple entertain-
ment ; at its worst, painless viewing, and
at its best as exciting and naturally
more real than much that passes for enter-
tainment on night television. To cavil, I
saw a Stuart crystal vase spelled
“Stewart”, and shuddered when Mr
Hannan announced that a prize came
from the “Chick Salon.” On the credit
side, too, I liked the compere's easy way
with the contestants, and his careful
avoidance of nearly all the faults.
“Woolworths’ Say When” provides
some fine, unintentional humor which
made me regret that more working people
are unable to see it. The juxtaposition of
such prizes as a battery-operated mega-
phone and a sporting rifle, in a list offered
to the women on the show, struck me
as funny. At the same time, I gave full
marks to Mr Hannan for mentioning
these prizes with a straight face, and get-
ting on with the job. Nor does he say a
wmrd about some of the one to 24 dozen
fly swatters, egg rings, packets of seed,
bubble pipes and other items which the
contestants have to win to make their
totals right. In the hands of lesser com-
peres with high notions of themselves as
humorists, such items could be murder.
There was evidence of this on my
screen immediately after the Woolworths’
show. In Sydney, weekday afternoon
viewers have a battery of four similar
live shows, and two of them, compered
by George Foster and Walter Elliot,
were pretty good examples of how far
from entertaining, and at times repulsive,
the genre can be. Mr Elliot, in particular,
seemed to have learned his trade in the
old radio school, where it was considered
good form to browbeat and generally
score off the contestants.
However the fourth show, conducted
by an unobtrusive Terry Dear, restored
my opinion of the possibilities of this
kind of live show, even for night tele-
vision. Lowbrow that I am. I'd prefer
Mrs Smith's struggles to guess the value
of twelve dozen dust cloths, make the
round £lOO, and take home the loot, to
Mr Barry Jones’ regurgitation of the
Encyclopaedia Britannica, the leaps and
yodels of the “Revue 20’’ crowd, or some
of the brays which emerge from panel
discussions.
To those I said “When'” some time
ago.
FRANK ROBERTS
AMT
GUSTY GROTESQUES
John Perceval. Museum of Modern
Art. Melbourne.
Town Perceval’s final exhibition
before he leaves for America is a
distinguished one. The ceramics in par-
ticular are remarkably good. In them
Perceval achieves a rich blend of fantasy
and realism which is thoroughly original
and an important contribution to the
diverse and flourishing artistic life of
this country. As personal statements
they reveal a strong-minded, highly
imaginative artist of great technical skill
who approaches every theme directly
and vigorously. In a more general way
they stand as clear, sardonic and provo-
cative comments on a wide range of
human emotions and pretensions. His
stripping of figures to expose their most
grotesque elements is ruthless; yet he
could never be accused of lack of
warmth. In fact he seems to warm to
his figures only when he has reduced
them to their bare bones and a lew
lumps of flesh. What might, less lavishly
adorned, seem primitive or decayed,
takes on an air of bouncy, gusty life.
No one, 1 think, will be surprised if
Perceval has a success overseas equal to
that of his friends who have preceeded
him.
The paintings in this show will possibly
disappoint many who expect more finish


in exhibited work. Next to the ceramics
they seem only preliminary studio work.
Certainly they have the same dash and
liveliness of the ceramics, but it is more
slap-dash and activity for its own sake.
Without the ceramics to illuminate them
a little I doubt that they would make
much impression at all, and against the
ceramics they seem inferior. But this is
just a minor fault in the arrangement of
the exhibition, and in no way detracts
from the delight and strength of Perce-
val’s whole achievement.
BILL HANNAN
FILMS
A PLASTIC EXPERIENCE
Approach to Sculpture. David Muir.
Sydney.
"piLMS about sculpture are pretty rare
treats for any filmgoer but films
featuring an Australian sculptor are the
rarest of all. This short 16 min. produc-
tion by David Muir is the result of an
unhampered personal enthusiasm for an
art whose value tends all too often to
be obscured by the greater publicity given
to painting. The film achieves an imme-
diate freshness of approach which places
it in a class quite outside the usual run of
culture quickies.
The viewpoint is quite comprehensive.
Using examples from various State
galleries and the Nicholson Museum,
some of the basic concepts of sculpture
are analysed and illustrated. The shots
are happily workmanlike rather than
arty, the well-tailored script right to the
point as a succinct introduction to
sculpture for a reasonably sophisticated
audience. One gets the impression that a
§ o °d collection from many historical
Periods, Archaic, Egyptian, Greek, Primi-
tive ’ as well as mod ern, could be drawn
together in this country. For once we
are to t^le °f the problem of
Scul Pture as plastic experience ; literature
is put way in the background. Three-
dimensional diagrams provide interesting
clues to the understanding of what, to
many, can be baffling contemporary
preoccupations with formative geometry,
the rich possibilities of negative space
tensions and the evocative qualities of
texture.
Appropriately carrying forward these
ideas, Clem Meadmore designs, cuts,
welds, modifies and adds texture to a
sculpture in sheet steel. His subtly pro-
portioned work in simple planes is clearly
the best choice for the theme of the
film sculpture independent of nature
yet striving for the inevitability of natural
law. A terse ’cello commentary on the
images by John Allen adds depth to this
interesting experiment in film-making.
Apart from the festivals, it deserves to
find its way into educational film libraries.
J. HENSHAW.
TAKE IT EASY
The Alamo. Paris. Sydney.
Jn 1836 the State of Texas, then part
of the Mexican Empire, was dreaming
of secession and independence. Attempt-
ing to forstall this, the Mexican Govern-
ment sent a punitive expedition against
Texas. The route of its forward march
lay over the Alamo where there was a
makeshift fort held by an inadequate
handful of Texan troops. Against forces
their superiors in numbers, equipment,
training, experience and discipline the
Texans held out for thirteen hopeless
days.
John Wayne has taken this epic situa-
tion and made a spectacular film. Just
to show he is still the daddy of them
all he acts as producer, director, and
Feiffer
OMCE AGAIM FROM THE
SV3 WB BAEEMEMT Of
THE TIME-LIFE
OWEPIU6 IK) UTTIE aP
fJ£W MORMr, Club
M66aT(E>m, the fwn
FALLOUT SHELTER
BRIM6S WU THAT
El/ER-SAFE SIU6ER
of SOU6S • ayoe
CONBLRAD - an
wap rr awe!
\ majuW W # 6WT
mtMROUND
itfiA/ it/mfp w
io com Our THM.fo
vfgw W OuH CHI-ILO
op£p Wm 6&m?u
SOU AW iCMtftj
l C J 'D KIDS j\s iqq,
AW 'Mfjl - f/?£
yjflA/ bOOVtitfH;
A/VP I 9Ub h HOtf
uNmeaom
yrw mcwto
MM
MA PICMI V'W
o[/( WV 00
in mr w m hovel
tilu Mf 60Wn VNI
mum wu
WITH A ‘Md
IM o\tt (AIIOUT LOVENE^T
WDBRGROUNQf
WONDtZRPUL, Cim ■
this is mo free
actw smmoFF
WITH THIS OITB j
REmO6R-"THE g
HOLE WE Vl6 1
MAM 8 E OVR Om ' '
mjw
Wlatest
wo
u mm
iHIU
FOUOuJ-


ng*.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
•
Offices'.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
star, a triple distinction, although l
suspect that the opening scene's beauti-
ful, crisp characterisation, dialogue and
photography, were the work of another
hand. After this short curtain-raiser the
film slipped into a “take it easy pardner”
style marked with the Wayne personality.
Wayne himself plays Colonel Crockett
to the Colonel Bowie of Richard Wid-
mark. Against this pair of giants,
Laurence Harvey has a very uphill
struggle making us believe in the often
inept but dedicated garrison commander
Colonel Travis. Yet in the end he almost
pulls it off, through sheer intelligence and
discipline of acting.
In case glorious scenery, commando
heroics, and ample jaw socking should
not be enough, Wayne has thrown in
Linda Cristal as a beautiful young Mexi-
can widow, trapped by the forces of war.
If this does not get you, the religious
protestation when the little band are near
death may do so; if not, certainly the
last and finest scenes of all will. Through
the performance I had the misfortune to
sit next to a lady whose perfume was not
Chanel No. 5. It still drew me in.
DAVID CALLAN
THEATRE
A TASTE OF HONEY
Five Finger Exercise, Peter Shaffer.
Ensemble Theatre. Sydney.
The Power of Darkness. Tolstoy.
National Institute of Dramatic Art.
Jn Sydney last week something rare in
theatre occurred: it was possible to
see two completely serious works for
the stage, plays, that is, that used the
theatre for something more than tran-
sient delights. Both proved their
power to move their audiences far
beyond those bounds we have come to
accept as the normal range of our local
stage, and both casts were caught up
into high achievement.
“Five Finger Exercise” is an English
play that builds truly Strindbergian in-
tensity about the inability of a self-made
man to realise that his son is different
from himself. The father has an image
of his boy, an image that warms him
and makes his business life worthwhile,
but an image that is quite inaccurate.
In the fierce clashes of family life
that arise from the differences between
image and reality, Mr Shaffer has got
off some remarkably penetrating bits of
theatre and dialogue which ranks with
the very best of recent work.
Here is a playwright who understands
the proper meaning of diction. Shaffer's
people do not all talk the same regard-
less of status, age and life-experience.
Father, mother, son, daughter, young
German tutor —the five fingers of the
exercise—have a way of speech which
is utterly individual. Rhythm, vocabulary,
accent, activity all differ.
The wonderful result is that we see
five people unfold in front of us. Five
individuals, not five mirrors of the one
sensibility. Five humans with their own
special problems, special senses, special
agonies, special sweetnesses.
The plot of “Five Finger Exercise” is
something of which it is a little unfair
to speak in a review, since there are
elements of suspense and ambivalence
throughout. But if you care to, you may
take my word that here is a thoroughly
rewarding night of sound theatre, very
well acted by principals William Aaron
as the son. and the potent Mr James
Scullin as the father. Young Miss Anna-
Marie Berner, as the daughter, brought
off as nice a piece of child-acting as one
could wish for.
Hayes Gordon’s direction is, for this
critic, about the best piece of sustained
effect Mr Gordon has yet given us, even
if the melodrama of the ending is not
yet quite in tune.
'Tolstoy said of “The Power of
Darkness”: “Either I’ve forgotten
what a play ought to be like or it really
turned out to be something marvellous.”
Something marvellous it is, even if the
NIDA production by recently imported
producer Joe MacColum fell short of
the heights here and there.
Professor Quentin’s students gave us a
night of giant theatrical power. Sure
enough, it was studded with weaknesses,
but it was also shining with that parti-
cular glory which comes only from at-
tacking the forts of Heaven.
I hope that all the aspiring playwrights
in Sydney and its surroundings were
present. They would have seen that there
is a particular sort of naturalism that is
best left alone, left in the safe hands of
the masters who squired naturalism. A
season of Tolstoy. Gorki, Zola, and
Hauptmann would humble all our little
Weskers into silence, keeping them mute
until they had something new to say.
Mr MacColum’s production had all
manner of merits, and if his main actor,
Tim Cohen, as the doomed Nikita was
not equal to the task Tolstoy set well,
maybe no actor on the local scene would
be. Finely shaped and strongly held
performances by Denis Olsen, as Akim.
Nikita's father ; Unity Earle, as his
mother ; and Brian Harold, as a laborer,
Mitrich, gave promise that this present
graduating class may well be the soundest
yet to come from NIDA.
1 did not think the setting, an interior
with only a half-broken roof to suggest
that it was an “exploded” interior, came
off happily; the roof effect managed to
suggest a verandah very strongly, and
did not isolate inside action from outside.
In perhaps the climactic scene of the
play, where the old laborer Mitrich
comforts the child Nan. whilst outside
the new-born baby of her stepsister is
being smothered and buried, this setting
fault obtruded.
Let us hope that Professor Quentin has
gained courage from these performances
and that repeats of this giant play will be
staged.
KEVON KEMP


THE RED PAGE
A PISTOL-SHOT AT THE CONCERT
By RODNEY LIVINGSTONE
“T>olitics in a work of literature is like a
■*- pistol-shot in the middle of a concert,
something loud and vulgar, and yet a
thing to which it is not possible to refuse
one's attention.” This quotation from
Stendhal, with which Mr Howe begins
his impressive study of politics and the
novel/" gets right to the heart of the prob-
lem. The two terms of his title have long
been felt to contradict each other, and
the subject has produced two opposing
extremes of thought: one extreme claims
that the novel should deal with those
essential human problems which recur
eternally, and that the novelist who con-
cerns himself with the contingencies of
political trends, and with political
attitudes as such, will find himself for-
gotten by future generations of readers.
The other extreme, dominant in our own
age, demands novels in which the
political and the “human” elements are
related to each other in a very simple
way: the latter should be secondary to,
and even merely illustrative of, the
former. The dangers of both extremes
are apparent nowadays when politics has
become a dominant force. The humanist
wing, if it avoids politics altogether, runs
the risk of ending in escapism or triviality,
whereas the political wing, in the too
facile assumption that the vital human
issues are the political ones, succumbs
all too often to the temptation to produce
either out and out propaganda or else
journalistic narratives of ephemeral or
local interest.
JV/fR Howe manages to hold the two
A antagonists—the human and the pol-
itical —far enough away from each other
to take a good look at both and the
complex relationships that obtain be-
tween them. There are excellent studies
of Stendhal, Conrad, Henry James, Tur-
genev, and then of the political novelists
of the 20th century: Silone, Koestler
and Orwell. Perhaps the best section
is on the American novelists where he
traces a line of development from Haw-
thorne's “Blithedale Romance” through
Henry Adams’s “Democracy” to James’s
“The Bostonians.” The Americans, Mr
Howe argues, while they have never been
able to depict “formidable systems of
thought or parties locked in bitter com-
bat,” have been much more successful
in showing “how social and individual
experience melt into one another so that
the deformations of the one soon be-
come the deformations of the other.”
The chief example of this kind of analysis
is the working-out of the parallel dis-
arrangement of public and private,
political and sexual life in “The Bos-
tonians.”
Mr Howe does not have a general
argument but he has a general method.
The distinction is important: it is the
difference between a coherent book and
what, in Mr Howe's case, turns out to
be a rather fragmentary work, a collec-
tion of separate essays which do not
quite add up to a whole book. There
are none of the great literary-political
apercus one expects from, say, Baudelaire
in the essay on Choderlos Laclos: “7'he
Libertine novels comment on and ex-
plain the (French) Revolution,” or “The
Revolution was made by voluptuaries.”
But there is a great deal of sensitive
analysis and perceptive comment.
'T'he political novel develops, Howe says,
A when novelists begin to develop
ideas about society as such, rather than
about “the mere unquestioned workings
of society.” The characters of a political
novel “think in terms of supporting or
opposing society as such: they rally to
one or another embattled segment of
society ; and they do so in the name
of ... an ideology.”
It is the inclusion of an ideology, and
of the tensions generated between it and
the stream of human experience, which
distinguishes the political novel. The
great political novelist is far from being
a great propagandist; he is, rather a
person who is capable of understanding
and representing imaginatively a variety
of different points of view, without
falsifying them in order to demonstrate
the truth of his own political position.
Thus Dostoevsky’s greatness in “The
Possessed” is due in part to the fact
that he managed to hold all three of
the conflicting trends of Slavophile
thought at once and that he is aware,
even at his most malicious, that the
characters he satirises are part of the
Russia he exalts. As Howe says, “The
sores are on his back.” This view of the
political novelist is not exactly original
but it is worked out throughout the book
with great subtlety and sympathetic in-
sight.
/"\ne minor criticism, which 1 hope does
not sound like carping, is that Mr
Howe lacks scholarly precision. He fails
to deal adequately with material he has
consulted. The entire omission of notes
and bibliography certainly facilitates
reading, but it hinders thinking. For
example, both he and Lionel Trilling
(whose essay he refers to) have written on
“The Princess Casamassima” by James,
and they both shed a good deal of ink
on the problem of whether James has
given an accurate description of anarchist
societies. Now, whereas Trilling con-
cludes: “He is giving a very accurate
account of anarchism” and “ The
Princess Casamassima’ is a brilliantly
precise representation of social actuality,”
Howe quotes Mr George Woodcock as
writing: “James shows merely a
knowledge of the kind of distorted
rumors and journalistic stories by
which (the anarchist) were represented
in the newspapers of the late nineteenth
century.” And though Trilling goes to
some trouble to establish the links be-
tween Bakunin’s ideas of anarchist
organisation and those depicted by
James, Howe does not bother to refute
them. The issue is not a vital one, al-
though Howe does base an important
conclusion on it, namely that James,
“despite many fine touches, was relying
far too comfortably on his celebrated
lack of knowledge.” It is a point on
which one would welcome a more ex-
tensive discussion, and there are others ;
one of them is particularly alarming.
*Politics and the Novel. Irving Howe.
New Left Books. 20s.


Interpretations of Stavrogin in “The
Possessed” range from George Steiner’s
notion that he represents God to Howe’s
idea that “Stavrogin suffers from acedia,
that torpor of the spirit which provides
the greatest resistance to God because
jt lacks the power to resist anything.”
Steiner’s important book. “Tolstoy or
Dostoevsky,” appeared after the Ameri-
can edition of the present work, but
a good two years before the English
edition, so a footnote would not have
been an impossibility.
Finally, 1 would take issue with Mr
Howe on a more important matter,
namely what I think is his over-estimation
of Orwell’s “1984." His defence of it
is spirited and subtle but, I think, far
from conclusive. The case against its
inclusion in such a work is briefly this:
the necessary and fruitful tension be-
tween the concert and the pistol-shot
has been broken. “1984” consists prin-
cipally of pistol-shots. To change the
image to Marianne Moore's definition of
literature as the creation of “imaginary
gardens with real toads in them,” we
may say that Orwell has concentrated
too much on the reality of the toads,
and has failed to realise how necessary
the imaginary gardens are. We tend (and
Howe does, too) to discuss “1984” in
terms of its factual value. Will Orwell’s
prediction come true? If the answer is
yes, he has written a great work; if
it is no, he hasn’t.
Now, one of Howe's minor objections
to the work is that Orwell’s vision of a
complete totalitarianism is incorrect be-
cause it is unlikely that the sexual in-
stincts could be so thoroughly suppressed
as they are in Oceania, without some
compensating outlet. It is a question of
probability, and this puts the book in
the company of astrological literature
rather than in the tradition of the novel.
“1984” is just an ideological construc-
tion ; it presents a journalistic and
schematic picture of the human beings
caught up in the totalitarian State. Far
from testing political ideas and systems
on the complexities of human experience
(as Howe elsewhere demands, rightly,
that the political novelist should), Orwell
stacks the cards against the characters,
determined to ram home the thesis that
the essential humanity of man is de-
structible. This is Orwell's private night-
mare and a very distressing one, but it
is essentially facile and arbitrary. In
“1984” it is the human beings that are
simple and the structure of the totalitarian
police that is complex.
Nonetheless, although I believe Mr
Howe to be mistaken about Orwell, this
does not disfigure his book which is one
of the most important contributions to
the subject that we possess.
THAT CERTAIN BOOK
HEMINGWAY OUT OF THE CLOUDS
By GAVIN CASEY
/"''loud-cuckoo land is a country of
many provinces, and for me Ernest
Hemingway, magnificent though he was,
lived in, or at least too often visited, one
of them. He left the place, and came into
a world I really knew when he wrote
“To Have And Have Not.”
His bullfighters, his American expatri-
ates in Europe, his volunteers in World
War I, were fascinating characters, most
splendidly animated by a man who knew
his world and its people, but that world
was not mine. Big-game hunting and
mountaineering are exciting activities,
full of stories which Hemingway told
nobly. But they are forms of play, and
where I have always lived the play is all
the more fun because the work is more
important.
In “To Have And Have Not” the
main character was the servant of the
playboys, and he despised them. Their
unconcern for realities drove him into
an economic corner from which he
sought a violent way out. His sympathies
were involved, but his main motive was
to keep himself and his boat afloat, in a
community that would not care much if
they both sank.
All this, as Hemingway saw it and
told it, was my meat. The book excited
and delighted me, and it still does so. The
years have altered, and then re-sorted,
some of the basic situations. No numb:r
of years is likely to change the essential
truths in the story, or the vigor of the
imagination which escaped its pattern,
or the validity of its grasp of what goes
on in the human heart and the human
head, apart from what happens on the
docks and in the waterside saloons of
Florida.
Before his own world of strain and
perpetual uneasiness proved too much
for Ernest Hemingway, he rose often to
great heights, particularly, as I judge it,
in his short stories. But I believe that
in some respects “To Have And Have
Not” was the maximum altitude he
scaled. It was a landmark in his career
as a writer, as it was in m_, life as a
reader. It had much of the best that was
in him, and if it must, like most novels,
be overlain by changing situations and
literary methods, and become dreary to
the young, I do not believe that the time
is yet, or will be for a long while.
It is my own belief, as a writer and as
a person, that nobody should ever be
bored. The exotic and unusual interest
me and entertain me, but not more than
the events of everyday life, in which
there is all the love and hate, all the
humor and drama, to satisfy anybody
who is not a glutton. Those who lead
dull lives are dull people, and it is their
own fault. The writer who is discontented
with his surroundings, as material for his
work, would most likely be dis-
contented anywhere.
Ernest Hemingway wrote, almost
always, of his own environment, and
that this happened to be exotic very
often, perhaps improved rather than
reduced the value of much of his other
work. But “To Have And Have Not”
was, and is, the one he might have written
especially for me. In it were the most
men who were excitingly like the men I
know, and the most places and situations
that resembled the ones that in real life
I have found always fascinating.
This is another contribution to the
series in which writers take a
second look at the books which
made an impact on them in their
early years. So far Ross Campbell,
Donald Horne, Max Harris, Kylie
Tennant and Hal Porter have con-
tributed. Other contributors will
be A. D. Hope, Kenneth Slessor,
David McNicoll, Sydney Deamer,
Peter Hastings, James McAuley,
Peter Coleman, Alexander Mac-
Donald, Harry Messel, W. C.
Wentworth and Alan Reid.
A NEW DIMENSION
Paintings of S. T. Gill. Introduction and
commentaries by Geoffrey Dutton.
Rigby. 635.
Architecture. W. J. Splatt. Longmans.
6s.
Design. Longmans. Colin Barrie. 6s.
/Ane purpose of the handsome volume
of paintings by S. T. Gill is, in Geof-
frey Dutton's words, “to prove that Gill
also had the qualities of imagination,
delicacy, and poetic feeling that are liable
to be passed by as long as he is known
only as the artist of the goldfields.'’ They
are indeed very different paintings from
those we usually connect with Gill. His
characteristic attention to homely and
comic detail is still present, and their
outstanding quality, both historically and


artistically, remains their rigorous hon-
esty of observation, and the refusal by
the painter to make his subject confirm
to the technical vogues of his time. Yet
in subject and feeling they reveal a new
dimension in the man. Of the 12 beauti-
fully produced plates, nine are devoted
to the romantic, personal themes of the
Australian Months and Seasons. He de-
picts a tranquil, productive domestic life
placidly adjusted to the flow of seasons
in a country which clearly he feels to be
thoroughly his own. That they appear
artless and uncontrived merely serves
as further indication of the artist’s
rigorous objectivity and his complete
absorption of all the details of his subject.
Geoffrey Dutton’s introduction and
commentaries not only illuminate the
vital qualities of the paintings but also
convey his own enthusiasm. Apart from
the annoyance of having to turn over
the page for commentaries which could
have been put on the facing page, the
production cannot be faulted.
The two recent additions to Longman’s
series of booklets, “The Arts in Aus-
tralia,” confirm my previous impression
that the attempt to give any worthwhile
information in such a short space is
doomed to failure. W. J. Splatt’s booklet
on Architecture manages reasonably well
in spite of its limitations, but one still
wonders what possible audience it could
serve. To range rapidly over a large
number of styles is likely to leave the
uninitiated confused and the informed
dissatisfied.
Still, at least what there is of Splatt’s
commentary is reasonably clear, and the
subject could be pursued by an interested
student. Of the volume on Design noth-
ing of the kind could be said. Some point
might be made of the illustrations by
another more lucid commentator, but in
the sixth-form prose of their present
commentator nothing emerges that can’t
be gleaned any time of the day from the
advertisement columns of the papers.
Perhaps the subject must remain forever
vague because of the diversity of the
products and the conflicting commercial
interests of their purveyors. Certainly
the verbiage and cliches of this booklet
do nothing to dispel the cloud ; in ed,
they obscure the issue further by pre-
senting a quite erroneously hopeful view
of the present standards of manufactured
goods in this country.
BILL HANNAN
CORRUPTION IN THE COUNCIL
Don’t Speak to Strangers. G. R. McCal-
lum. Macmillan. 17s.
An Affair of Men. Errol Brathwaite.
Collins. 20s.
I Know My Love. Catherine Gaskin.
Collins. 225. 6d.
Walk Back With Me. John Dalton.
Hale. 18s. 9d.
HThe most amateurish of these four
A novels is “Don’t Speak to Strangers”.
I read this short book at a sitting, and
while I read I believed. This must be
said firmly, for the moment I stopped
reading its numerous illogicalities,
absurdities, misunderstandings and plain
misrepresentations crowded into my
mind, one part of which simply had to
reject the very bases upon which the book
stands. Another section of my brain
reflected that those folk who protested
that “Summer of the Seventeenth Doll”
gave a warped picture of Australia would
find a happy hunting ground here. The
novel, by implication (and that near the
beginning where “Dummie” is in contact
with juvenile court and hospital) con-
demns, or worse overlooks completely,
the work of countless devoted magis-
trates, trained social caseworkers, doctors
and nurses. It’s impossible. But while
you read you do believe in “Dummie”,
the boy who forgot how to speak. You
believe in Glory, his supposed mother.
You can swallow a catalogue of coinci-
dence and disaster which led them to the
shocking climax —though even in “J. 8.”
more awful and arbitrary tragedies were
never visited upon fictional people. Why
then does one believe in this book, even
temporarily? I think because of its very
amateurishness: the author allowed
herself to be completely carried away,
and her writing is adequate to her queer
“inspiration”. You can’t argue with any-
one so muddled, or so sincere.
“An Affair of Men”, winner of an
important New Zealand literary prize, is
the work of a cai f ul, fair, detached
writer. Set in Bougainville during the
war its main characters are Captain Itoh,
a Japanese officer leading a small band of
soldiers in search of a party of shot-
down allied airmen, and Sedu a native
chief. The main barrier to belief is lhat
while Itoh is depicted fairly and roundly
Sedu is not. Itoh’s evil thoughts and
actions are largely a result of his training
and environment —he is painted dark grey
rather than ink black. But Sedu is shin-
ing, perfect, saintly, without blemish. He
is an Australian-educated fully quali-
fied medico, a Christian by education but
also, more importantly by instinct. A
man without fault. Sedu has to win, and
Itoh to alter and founder, as his whole
philosophical foundation crumbles. The
background to this is of exciting action,
well-described jungle and village scenery
and conflicts arising from the chase situa-
tion. But I simply could not accept Sedu,
which is not to say he is an impossible
character, for perhaps he really existed,
but merely that Errol Brathwaite failed
to convince me of his perfection hence
half the impact of the book goes.
Catherine Gaskin’s is a thoroughly pro-
fessional novel of the Ballarat goldfields
(Eureka included) and Melbourne in the
1850 s. The tale revolves about Emmy,
a remarkable, redoubtable woman ; Rose,
lovely, selfish and exuberant and Adam,
the romantic hero par excellence. This is
the world of “Better Class Romantic
Fiction” and who shall question its


ARE YOU A
SUCCESSFUL
WRITER?
If YOU have the urge to write, you can
learn to write successful Stories, Articles,
written Sketches, Radio Talks, Pars, Verse,
etc. There is a large, and constant demand
for well-written work.
STOTT'S training will provide you with
the assistance and knowledge of highly-
qualified and experienced Instructors.
Mrs. .T. Penna gained £7O for Short Stories
sold while still engaged on her Course.
Mrs. L. King was paid £2l for her sth story.
What these students have done. YOU can
do. If you would like information about
our Courses in Story Writing, Freelance
Journalism, etc., post the Coupon today.
j 5O Minders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagh St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 251 Murray
St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPOA' —— -
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE... B. 9G2
terrain? It contains every necessary
ingredient for popularity, success and
filming.
"Walk Back With Me” is perhaps
exaggerated, but exaggerated in the repu-
table cause of shaping an exciting, fast
moving work of fiction. The setting is
a large imaginary town some hundred
miles from Melbourne, whose outwardly
respectable city council has been graft-
ridden for many years. The local news-
paper, in a concerted effort to expose
corruption, imports two skilled journa-
lists, one from Sydney, one from Mel-
bourne to intensify its long-standing (and
physically dangerous) campaign for a
Royal Commission. Although this book
has been released only recently 1 have
already heard its “improbabilities”
questioned. I scarcely think Australians
(who may any day read accounts of
real estate swindles; vending machine
company defaults ; of ketches lurking out-
side territorial waters, and the findings of
Administrators appointed to corrupt
councils) ought to think Duguld. the
corrupt and corrupting building-con-
tractor-councillor and his henchmen and
standover men hard to swallow. This sort
of novel has often been written before,
but it is the first Australian sample to
come my way. It is excellently done by
any standards and, apart from its political
excitements, the sub-plots, secondary
characters and occasional sentimental
interludes are well, and often movingly,
handled.
NANCY KEESING
SUN AT THE CENTRE
Tolstoy Remembered: By His Son.
Sergei Tolstoy. Weidenfeld and
Nicolson. 31s. 6d.
C'ergei Tolstoy was the eldest son of
the author of “War and Peace.”
These memoirs, found after his death in
1947, were published in Moscow two
years later and now appear in English
for the first time. While they do not
explain the source of genius, they provide
admirable descriptions of the form it
can take as seen through the eyes of a
sensitive child.
Sergei lived to be over eighty and was
already an old man before he set down
his recollections. It is doubtful if these
unpretentious jottings say anything new
but nonetheless they have a vivid fresh-
ness about them that makes them a wel-
come addition to a field already richly
documented.
Life in the Victorian family has been
likened somewhere to the solar system.
The centre of the system was the sun
which like Papa shed benevolent light
and not a little heat on all who revolved
around him. Mama like the moon existed
to reflect the personality of her lord and
master, while carefully keeping their
appointed places were the planets or
children. Scattered about iike a myriad
of stars and showing as few traces of
life were the domestic servants. While
this structure was more middle class
than aristocratic in origins it appiied in
essentials to the Tolstoy family and it
operated until crisis and breakdown
appeared at the centre.
"He was perturbed at the idea that he
was given such a lot of care and was
only reassured when he was told that
the same treatment was given to every-
one at the hospital. He kept repeating a
sentence he had read in some novel:
To die means to join the majority.’ And
he remembered the words of an old
peasant: ’One should die in the summer —
it's easier to dig a grave.’ ”
The narrative is full of the light human
touch. Gorki we learn “used to play
rounders with the children with great
enthusiasm,” Prince Kropotkin the
anarchist “looked rather like a kindly
professor,” and of Turgenev “he told us
that once, in Paris, he had attended a
lecture on pornography and that during
the lecture experiments had been con-
ducted on the people present.”
DOUGLAS TERRY
MUDDY PORTRAIT
Saint-Beuve, a Portrait of the Critic.
A. G. Lehmann. 1804-1842. Oxford
University Press. 102 s.
Tt’s a lucky student who has escaped
A the don whose lectures are chap-
ters of some book he is writing. A.
G. Lehmann, who is professor of
French studies at Reading University,
England, has given us a study which
suggests that it was compiled in this
way. Only lectures could be as boring
as this.
Not that the professor has the bless-
ing of rich material. Charles Augustin
Saint-Beuve was only a minor figure
in Paris at the time of the Restoration
when viewed beside Hugo and de
Vigny. It is true that his friendship
assisted Hugo's early recognition, that
his views were respected by de Vigny,
but apart from his singular flair Saint-
Beuve had little to offer as a person-
ality. No wonder the professor cannot
bring him to life; heroes of books have
to be a little larger than life in some
way. From the moment that Hugo
appears he leaps out as a full lusty
character.
Ploddingly, the professor has detailed
in catalogue fashion the child, the adoles-
cent, the journalist and lover, the writer,
but he has failed lamentably to do the
thing one would have considered most
important: to establish why Saint-Beuve
was so important as a critic. I would
have liked to see what qualities his com-
ments possessed that made them so
valued in his day, or since. What new
light did they shed then? How have they
weathered since? The professor touches
only lightly on these. He calls his wmk
’a portrait’. Harold Nicholson has given
us a better impression of the man: others
have commented on his writings and
criticism more fully. The professor may
have broken new ground to some extent
by defending Saint-Beuve against vilifi-
cation heaped upon him for seducing
Hugo’s wife - but does anyone really
care about such things at this distance
of time?
DAVID CALLAN
HENRY LAWSON
COMPETITIONS
Entry forms for the 1962 Grenfell
Henry Lawson competitions in verse,
prose and art may be obtained from the
Secretary, the Festival Committee,
Grenfell, NSW.


u
(j
-nAv
O
Company Notice
BEST & GEE PROPRIETARY LIMITED
REDUCTION OF CAPITAL
BEST & GEE PROPRIETARY LIMITED, whose
Registered Office is at 364 Lonsdale Street, Mel-
bourne, Victoria, and which is registered as a
Foreign Company in all the other States of the
Commonwealth and in Canberra, HEREBY GIVES
NOTICE: —•
1. That on the 2nd day of March, 1962, a Special
Resolution of the Company was passed reducing
the capital of the Company from £60,000 to
£24,763 by cancelling 2,974 unissued Preference
Shares, 7,500 unissued Ordinary Shares and by
repaying one-half of all the issued Preference and
Ordinary and Deferred Shares in the Company.
2. That the said Special Resolution was confirmed by
the Supreme Court of Victoria on the 9th day o'f
April, 1962.
3. That a copy of the Order of the said Court con-
firming the said Special Resolution and a copy of
the Minute referred to in the said Order in terms
of the Schedule hereto, have been duly filed in the
Office of the Registrar of Companies at Melbourne.
SCHEDULE
“The capital of Best & Gee Proprietary Limited
is now’ £24,763 divided into 8,513 Preference Shares
of £1 each and 15,500 Ordinary Shares of £1 each
and 15,000 Deferred Shares of one shilling each. At
the time of the registration of this Minute all of the
said Shares have been issued and the full sum of
£1 per Share has been and is to be deemed to be
paid up on each of the said 8,513 Preference Shares
and on each of the said 15,500 Ordinary Shares and
the full sum of one shilling per Share has been and
is to be deemed to be paid up on each of the said
Deferred Shares.”
DATED this 26th day of April, 1962. KIDDLE,
BRIGGS & WILLOX, 400 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the said Company.
Missing Friends
TO JEFFREY NOEL CARSTENS of address
unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife HAZEL
ISABEL CARSTENS has instituted divorce proceed-
ings No. 296 of 1962 against you in the Supreme
Court of Victoria for a dissolution of her marriage
to you on the ground of desertion and FURTHE it
TAKE NOTICE that unless you file an answer herein
in the office of the Registrar Supreme Court Mel-
bourne on or before the 12th June 1962 the case mav
proceed in your absence. JAMES THOMAS RYAN
of OAKLEY THOMPSON & CO.. 443 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Anyone knowing the whereabouts of MICHAEL
GOULD, formerly of Swan Hill, Victoria, please
contact GARDEN & GREEN, Solicitors, Swan Hill,
Victoria.
Divorce Notice
Matrimonial Causes Act, 1959.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO GEORGE HENRY JOHN JOHNSON late of
Balmain.—TAKE NOTICE that SARAH JOHNSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 626 of 1962 on
the ground of desertion If you wish to defend you
may file an answer in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by the loth day
of June 1962 and obtain a copy of the petition and
notice of petition without charge from GREGG &
MILNE, Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. If
you do not wish to defend but wish to obtain copies
of all documents filed herein you must file a notice
of address for service.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the economic
growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
Positions Vacant
THE KING’S SCHOOL
PARRAMATTA
. Applicaiions are invited to fill several vacancies
on the Teaching Staff of The King’s School
in First Term, 1963.
- Special consideration .will, b'e. given to appli-
cants well qualified to teach Science and/or
Maths, but' Masters to' teach English, History,
Geography and Economics are also required.
Masters joining the staff will be expected
to make a full contribution to .the general
life of the school outside as well as inside
the classroom.
All classrooms, Science Labs and Masters’
Common Room now in use (opened First
Term 1962) are modern.
Applicants in the first place should send
full statement of qualifications, copies of two
testimonials and names and addresses of two
referees to the Headmaster: H. D. Hake,
M.A. (Cantab).
THE
ARMfDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the
rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on application
to
A. H. CASH, M.A. (Oxon),
Headmaster.
GOLD STAMPING
Of Initials, Names & Inscriptions
Genuine Gold, Clean Impressions
For
-k Brief Cases -k Attache Cases
-k Portfolios -k JLedgers
* Club Registers
Repetition Work a Specialty
McDOWELL’S
ENGRAVING BAR
gkood floor, king street
McDowells will serve you Best
ENGINES
RECONDITIONED
WHILE-YOU-DRIVE
Super Nu Metal Pat. expands up to 30%,
eliminating slackness and lack of power
caused by WORN engine parts. Replates
worn Upper Cylinders, main bearings,
diffs, gears, SAVES rebore, ends piston
slap, rattles, oil, petrol waste. RESTORES:
New compression Power, top speed zip.
ADDS £ s. d. resale value. GUARANTEED:
Up to 25,000 miles according to engine
wear. SIMPLY add Re-Nu expanding liquid,
Nu Metal or in tablet form to oil. petrol,
plug boles. 4,6, S cylinders, 00/-, 70/-, SO/-.
Manufactured since 1981. Harmless to Finest
Engines. Open Saturday. Sold only by
RE-NU CO. (ESTAB. 1932).
Scientific Colleges & Plastic (Ind. Co. Pty. Ltd.),
58 Swan Street, Richmond, Vic. J 81755.
I enclose £. ... for Super Nu Metal, or send copy
of testimonials, engineers reports and free folder
describing action of Nu Metal.
NAME
ADDRESS ............................. Bun


"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 691
Across
I—Smuggler who fires a heavenly body. (11)
7—Opus 100 js at first to do some arresting. (3)
9—Natty North takes a Kipling poem to Tyson’s dad. (5)
10— Liquor achievement of I—across is nonsense. (9)
11 — Press joined by Ellington Wellington. (4, 4)
13 —Strays in such money. (6)
15 — 1 leave the ladies burdens. (5)
16— One mile per hour dropping on a relative stress. (8)
18 —Fast time’s radical reeking. (8)
20—Bury this examination. (5)
23 — Wanderer’s gestures of assent
about mother. (6)
24 — Flourish a plate on which to
serve flour-mill offal. (8)
26 — Led no song arrangement like
Cyrano. (4-5)
27 A couple in tow. (3)
28— Used to be cut b'ack. (3)
29 Sex-rite time for remotest parts.
(11)
Down
1— Chap to cultivate a Spanish
headgear. (8)
2 Discharge of publicity on
Florence. (3-4)
3 Rested poetry by Macaulay. (3)
4 A backstop of courage like Lady
Chatterley’s lover. (10)
5 Pinched to approve. (4)
6 When the Merry Monach came
back with balance and a fine
speech. (11)
7 Italian who is first against red
wine. (7)
8 — Give gratification if curiously
asleep. (6)
12—It's inharmonious record on the
alternative jig. (11)
14 —Cross Middle Harbor on this
very impolite game of cards?
(4, 6)
17 —Burl the Waggish is included in
historical records and papers. (8)
19—Excavations after royalty furs.
(7)
21— Game excursion on mixed oil in
a North African city. (7)
22 Bowling— not fast —in a WA
town. (6)
25—A surreptitious expression to win
attention with a corresponding
footnote over the way. (4)
27 —I can be seen to join a Trade
Union bird. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 690


■
%
'jrvk.
}S %
New edition
BRITANNICA
now available direct from the publisher on j
Book a Month
Payment Plan
you get all 24 volumes now—pay later!
HOW WILL THEY MEASURE UP
AGAINST THE KIDS NEXT DOOR?
Uncomfortable as the idea is, this is the time to face it.
Everyone wants more for his children. And your children will
have to compete just as you’re competing now in the adult
world.
That’s one of the biggest single reasons why so many
families have Encyclopaedia Britannica in their home. The
Britannica is an easy source of reference the whole family
can use. It is the world’s most complete collection of facts
and knowledge excitingly explained by leading authorities.
In it, you can learn about sports, find a hobby, increase your
appreciation of art, learn about gardening, missiles, philosophy,
science . . . just about any subject you’ve ever heard of . . .
and thousands you haven’t.
The Britannica is more than words—and more than its
brilliant illustrations. It is a seeking of the mind for truth
and fact. It is priceless for your children. It can be equally
invaluable to you.
fill
as*
fill
$
SI
Sill
IS
fill
m
9
s
9
si!
9
fill
9
m
KM
II Sill
9
I
9
9
9
SH
ii mi
■
~ •
II SHI
3
II SI II
9
9
9
II SHI
9
9
IWII
I! fill
e
HR II
Ira
min
ii mi
INI
e
9
II Sill
IHII
9
9
m
II Sill
9
9
II SI II
9
9
min
INI
9
9
The latest edition of Britannica the greatest
treasure of knowledge ever published is the
greatest in our almost 200-year publishing his-
tory. All 24 handsome volumes of this world-
renowned reference library will be delivered to
your home NOW direct from the publisher. You
pay later at a cost so low it is as easy as buying
a book a month!
Equivalent to a library of 1,000 books
The Encyclopaedia Britannica is the most valu-
able gift you can give yourself and your family
the priceless gift of knowledge. Information
on every subject significant to mankind is con-
tained in its new edition. It is equivalent to a
library of 1,000 books, bringing you the know-
ledge and authority of world-recognised leaders
in every field.
Just think of a subject and you'll find it in
the Encyclopaedia Britannica whether it is
information on the rules of a sport, the back-
ground of a religion, how to build a brick arch
in a fireplace, or the science of launching a
guided missile.
The new Britannica almost “televises" informa-
tion to you, with 25,042 magnificent photo-
graphs, maps, and drawings. In every respect,
Britannica is the largest and most complete
reference set containing 27,357 pages and over
38,000,000 words.
Symbol of a good home
Encyclopaedia Britannica cannot help but have
a lasting effect on you as well as on the growth
and development of your children in school and
in later life. Benjamin Franklin said: “An
investment in knowledge pays the best interest,"
and Britannica gives you the accumulated
knowledge of the world in clear, easy-to-read
language and superb illustrations. It is essential
in every home where education is valued and
respected.
Preview Booklet Offered FREE
Simply fill in and mail the coupon today, and
we will send you . . . without cost or obligation
. . . a copy of our beautiful, new booklet which
contains an exciting preview of the latest edition
of Encyclopaedia Britannica. Send no money.
It's yours, absolutely free! However, to avoid
disappointment, please mail the coupon today,
before it slips your mind.
lA.NHIO
a
Hi
ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA, DEPARTMENT E.B. 33
257 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me free and without obligation, your colourful Preview Bookie! which
pictures and describes the latest edition of ENCYCLOPAEDIA BK IT ANN 1C A—
and also complete intormation on how I may obtain this magnificent set, direct
from the publisher, on the Book a Month Payment Plan.
Name....
A ddress.
(please print)
City Zone- State
In New Zealand, write E. 8., Post Office Box 464, Wellington.
