

The Bulletin
"Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
MAY 26 ONE SHILLING
/HAT'S WRONG WITH ARBITRATION?
J. D. PRINGLE London Newsletter • MALCOLM MUGGERIDGE Beaverbrook's “Christ" • Dr WESTERMAN
Man in Brussels • COMMON MARKET Cocktails For Six ? • BARTON Federation Prime Minister
* + THINKING THE UNTHINKABLE Looking Forward to World War 8


I
if
to celebrate the hour-long
Margot Fonteyn
TV Spectacular
■ :i
K&jg IgMSfe. r '
IS■ i§. Wmmm 8BB!. S : . 1 § sS. 3
Magnificent 5-page
color programme
A programme to keep by you as you watch
the outstanding TV performance presen-
ted by The Australian Women's Weekly
and BP Australia Ltd. Glowing color
pictures show Dame Margot and stars of
the Royal Ballet in the roles they will
dance from Don Quixote, Sylvia, Valse
Excentrique, Tarantella from Swan Lake,
Blue Bird, Birthday Offering. An exciting
color souvenir!
mlkunMcui
WOMENS WEEKLY
ISSUE DATED MAY 30


BfAVERBROOK'S CHRIST page 57
A Malcolm Muggeridge Book Review
•
As I See It —By Alan Reid .... 6
Dr Westerman—Our Man in Brus-
sels .... .... 12
John Douglas Pringle Common
Market, Xovent Garden and
Sidney Nolan .... ... 14
Arbitration Economists v. Law-
yers, Wages v. Leisure 16
The War in Vietnam “Beautiful
Phoenix” . .... .... .... 19
Franco Opens the Door .... 20
Barton—Federation Prime Minister 22
Thinking the Unthinkable—Looking
Forward to World War 8 26
Common Market r — Cocktails for
Six? 32
Hot Seat and £5OOO p.a. .... 52
Moscow Variety Theatre ..„ ... 55
That Certain Book—A. D. Hope on
Longfellow .... .... 58
•
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
AROUND SYDNEY 11
LONDON NEWSLETTER 14
OVERSEAS 19
AROUND MELBOURNE 21
FORUM 26
LETTERS 30
WILD CAT 32
MAN ON THE LAND 52
REVIEWS 54
RED PAGE 57
FEIFFER 63
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 ; Phone. 27-5971
Vol. 84
No. 4293
A MATTER OF TRUST
pREDICT ABLY Red China and the Soviet Union have promised in the
most hostile language a showdown over US troops now being moved
into Thailand. The US has rightly threatened to use “aw'esome combat
power” in defence of Thailand if the Communist powers in any way try
to thwart America’s legal response to Thailand’s legal call for aid. The
Communist rot has to be stopped somewhere in Asia and the rights of
small nations must be upheld at some point or another. Thailand may be a
testing point. The sovereign Thai kingdom has every right to fight for its
independence, every right to oppose Red Imperialism, every right to expect
aid and comfort from countries "vitally concerned with peace and good order
in South East Asia.
Australia’s role in the struggle must be unequivocal not only because
this country has an immense, vested interest in an anti-Communist buffer
in South East Asia but because it is important that it support the United
States on this issue if it is to retain L T S confidence and respect. The Prime
Minister’s announcement of the establishment of a US naval radio station
in Western Australia is a case in point. The Americans have taken up 28
square miles of Australian territory for the purpose and are supplying most of
the money and materials needed to equip and man the base. This is a ges-
ture of I S confidence and an indication of Australia’s importance in the
anti-Communist alliance—a gesture which this country must live up to.
THOSE EEC. BLUES
voices are again being heard in Britain confidently predicting
that the United Kingdom will not, after all, join the European Economic
Community. (See London Newsletter, page 14.) It is argued that Britain’s
admission on terms fully acceptable to both LTK and her Commonwealth
partners is virtually impossible, while any other arrangement which does
not adequately protect the traditional Commonwealth economic and political
links will only jeopardise Britain’s world position and will, therefore, be
rejected by London.
Australia, New Zealand and Canada are by no means the only Common-
wealth countries concerned-—Ghana and Nigeria are even more worried and
are loudly agitating against a “sell-out” by Britain.
Still the odds are that Britain will join. Otherwise, British manufacturers
will be strangled by the EEC’s common external tariff and see their American
competitors enjoy ever greater advantages secured for them by the progressive
reciprocal tariff cuts initiated by President Kennedy.
Britain lives by exports of manufactured goods and everything else,
however important or painful, is only marginal. Realism demands that
Australia should prepare to meet the challenge.
THE COVER
JN London the other day Australian painter Sidney Nolan in praising the
vitality of contemporary Australian art, said: “I’d love to let Bob Dickerson
loose in this city!” The Bulletin let Dickerson loose on its cover and
the result is the compelling, brooding figure of a judge which symbolically
illustrates our cover story on Arbitration on page 16. The original Dickerson
painting is for sale and may be bought on application to the artist care of
The Bulletin.


National
Notebook
Papua and the Dutch Queen
\\l e reported in our May 5 issue that
the Hanuabada Local Government
Council in Papua had —with tongue in
cheek?—cabled birthday congratulations
to Queen Juliana of The Netherlands.
The whole idea, of course, was to let
the Administration in Port Moresby and
the Government in Canberra know that
Papuans in Australian New Guinea were
concerned about fellow Papuans in
Dutch New Guinea.
We have just learned that Queen
Juliana sent back a cable thanking the
Hanuabada boys. The cable was sent to
the Netherlands New Guinea Govern-
ment in Hollandia, transmitted to the
Dutch Liaison Officer in Port Moresby
(Mr Kees Pley) who dutifully handed it
on to the President of the Hanuabada
Local Government Council.
Error of Judgment
VlT'reckfrs have moved in at Royal
** Parade, Parkville, opposite the Carl-
ton football ground. Parkville is one of
Melbourne’s oldest suburbs but it wasn’t
an old Victorian terrace which the
wreckers had come to demolish. It was
part of Melbourne University’s Interna-
tional House, just five years old.
International House was founded in
1956 as a hostel for visiting students and
Australians. The first stage was a three-
storey residential block for about 50
students and a single storey wing with
communal facilities dining room,
kitchens, common-room and offices. As
always, finance has been hard to come
by. A public appeal was opened and
governments, companies and private in-
dividuals contributed, but there was not
enough. Voluntary fund-raising com-
mittees were set up to close the financial
gap. These committees, mainly of women,
have worked very hard over the years.
They have organised “paddy’s markets,”
jumble sales, done catering, private re-
ceptions and also manned a coffee
counter in the Union Theatre. Altogether
they have raised around £20,000.
But now the spacious, modern
common-room and offices are reduced to
rubble. The architects seem to have
found it necessary to demolish part of
five-years-old stage one before they could
begin the building of stage two, the final
residential block.
The Same Quiet Way
TXecently, while in Bathurst, we took
time off to visit No. 10 Busby Street,
the tin-roofed, semi-detached home of
Mrs Ben Chifley, widow of the Prime
Minister. Since Chifley’s death in 1951.
Elizabeth Chifley has lived on in the
house in the same quiet way in which
she lived through the turmoil and tumult
of her husband’s political life. The study
w'here Chifley worked has been left un-
touched since his death but the rest of
the house has been freshly painted.
“When Ben became Prime Minister
everyone thought we would move into a
grander house or the Lodge at Can-
berra,” Mrs Chifley told us, “but Ben
said, ‘No, this is our home’.” Mrs
Chifley, because of her frail health
always stayed in Bathurst while her
husband was in Canberra or over-
seas. "But he always phoned me every
night and came home once a fortnight
for a weekend,” she said.
Mrs Chifley never leaves the house
now' except to go to the hairdresser and
for a drive on Sunday afternoon, or to
play cards at the Croquet Club once a
month.
"Everyone comes here so I don’t have
to go out,” Mrs Chifley said. “Our back-
door is open to everyone from senators
in Canberra to all my old friends here.
Even Mr Menzies calls w'hen he is in
Bathurst. But my most frequent visitors
are my neighbors.
“When they come we talk a lot, but
not about politics Ben was the one
for that. Every day and each night
after dinner we play canasta or bridge.”
If people don’t come in Mrs Chifley
plays cards with her lifelong friend, Mrs
Isobel Clarke, who lives with her.
“Mrs Chifley can’t do much now, not
even the needlework she used to love so
much.” Mrs Clarke said, bringing out
some of Mrs Chifley’s embroidery to
show us. “Instead she reads. A book
every two days.”
Because of a Dull Sex-Life
who calls himself the hack-
journalist of the Durrell family and
whole-heartedly concedes that big brother
Laurence is the genius, is in Australia
with his wife, Jacqueline, and a BBC unit
to make two films on wild-life here. He
will write a series of articles for the
London “Sunday Telegraph.” He will
also write a book on his tour, which
includes New Zealand, Malaya and East
Africa. He may even write a book on
each country, showing that you don’t
need to be a genius to expand the
material for one book into a quartet.
Mr Durrell a blue-eyed, shaggy-
bearded man of 37, has had 11 books
published since 1953, all of them about
animals except “My Family and Other
Animals” which was about the Durrell
tribe. How does he go about writing his
books? “Reluctantly,” he answered. But.
more seriously, he said he took a mini-
mum of notes, absorbed atmosphere
'“like a sponge” and didn't begin writing
until he got home to Jersey.
Rather ungratefully, because, after all,
his books are bought and read only by
human beings, Mr Durrell prefers ani-
mals to human beings. “Animals are not
such hypocrites,” he said. His favorite
animals “apart from my wife, you
mean?”—are the great apes. “They put
on such a performance, just like politi-
cians,” he said.
Mr Durrell admitted that the English
have a particular attitude towards ani-
mals. “It’s because they have such dull
sex-lives, they have to concentrate on
something,” he explained.
The Durrells have their own zoo on
Jersey with 650 animals and 3s. admit-
tance to make it pay its way. However,
Mr Durrell half-agrees with people who
believe there should be no zoos at all.
“Some of them are no better than three-
ringed circuses,” he said. “1 hate animals
being treated as merchandise, but I do
think that rare species sometimes have a
better chance of surviving in zoos than in
the jungle.”
Mr Durrell is most interested in
animal conservation and wants to see
what is being done here. “It is most
important,” he said. “Animals are part
of a country’s heritage. You have such
fantastic stuff here. If you don't look
after them, it’s like being left 29 Rem-
brandts and letting them rot in an attic.”
Although the English love of animals
has meant that the Durrells have a large
public for their books and TV appear-
ances, apparently there is a keen rivalry
in the naturalist business. When the
names Armand and Michaela Denis came
up, Mr Durrell’s bearded jaw jutted.
“Denis?” he said, “Denis? We don’t
know them at all. Never met them.”


“We don’t believe in the personality cult
in this business,” Mrs Durrell said, “We
believe the animals should come first.”
No Time To Spare
\ lthough invitations to the “No Time
to Spare” exhibition at David Jones,
Sydney, went to several members of both
the Federal and State Governments, only
the Leader of the Federal Opposition,
Mr Calwell, and the Leader of the NSW
Opposition, Mr Askin, apparently had
time, not to come themselves, but even
to find someone to represent them. The
exhibition of photographs of the 34
buildings which the Cumberland County
Council has put on its “A” list for
preservation, as well as paintings, furni-
ture and other objects from the houses
themselves, was organised by the women’s
committee of the National Trust of Aus-
tralia (NSW).
Among those not present was the
NSW Premier, Mr Heffron. “I read in
the paper the next day that he had
been celebrating 21 years as a Minister
and had taken his wife to the pictures,”
a member of the committee said. “I wish
he had come to look at our pictures.”
The pictures the politicians missed
were taken by Max Dupain. The exhibi-
tion was designed by architect Alistair
Morrison. The household objects the
committee gathered together included
39 early 19th century Australian paintings
and miniatures, and represented an im-
mense amount of hard work and some
inspired scrounging.
Although the exhibition is extensive,
the committee had many refusals by
people who would not take the risk of
period furniture and delicate pictures
having to travel in removalist vans.
The exhibition covered the 34 buildings
« the prese rvation of which is regarded
a§ essent j a ] 5 whatever the cost” but con-
centrated on Camden Park; Old Govern-
House Parramatta- Elizabeth Bav
HnWtvillp Richmond- Bliph
House, Flobartville, Richmond, Bligh
House; Glenfield, Casula and Newington.
The exhibition included massive pieces
of furniture—a four-poster, a mahogany
wardrobe—but as well tiny objects of
everyday living—a fan, a soap-dish which
belonged to Governor King, a silver cup.
The section dealing with Camden Park
included a Regency sarcophagus wine-
cooler and three or four encrusted bottles
of wine, laid down before 1876 when
phylloxera wiped out the original vines.
A member of the committee was
worried because the bottles were standing
on their bases instead of resting on their
sides. She told us there weren’t many
of these bottles left, but that someone
had in recent years sampled the contents
of one and found it not too bad —con-
sidering.
The champagne for the reception,
donated by Mrs F. Penfold-Hyland, was
very good indeed.
Dr. John Burton's Neutralism
We note that through a £2678 Rocke-
feller Foundation grant to the A.N.U.,
Dr John Burton (External Affairs Secre-
tary 1947-1950) will undertake a study
of Asian and African non-alignment
policies.
Dr Burton who thinks that Australia
should not, for example, be aligned with
the United States in Asia is now in the
odd position of accepting American gold
-—provided by ultra capitalist sources
like the Rockefellers —to prove, presum-
ably, just that point.
Tanner
"I know one Australian soldier's worth a dozen Chinese but do you think four is enough?"


Th is Australia
MENZIES' BUNDLE
FOR BRITAIN
As I see it
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
R. G. MENZIES
The gloves are off
Qo far Aus-
tralia has
raised with
Britain only the economic aspects of
Britain's proposed entry into ECM. Out
of deference for the feelings—and elec-
toral wellbeing—of the Macmillan Gov-
ernment, which is already experiencing
some political unpopularity, Australia has
politely refrained from emphasising the
likely political consequences of Britain’s
entry into ECM. That era is over. The
gloves are coming off. That is why Prime
Minister Menzies is on his way to Lon-
don and Washington.
Present forecasts are that Menzies will
get the “brush-off” from both British
Prime Minister Macmillan and President
Kennedy whose United States’ administra-
tion is exerting formidable pressure upon
Britain to enter ECM without the safe-
guards which various British Common-
wealth countries, notably Australia,
Canada, and New Zealand, are seeking
for the commodities they have tradition-
ally sold on the British market.
Menzies may get the “brush-off.” But
he is holding a few cards that could take
tricks. There is significant body of opinion
in Britain still dubious about the wisdom
of Britain’s proposed entry into ECM on
a basis that does not provide adequately
for the maintenance of Britain’s links
with British Commonwealth countries. II
Menzies came out with the declaration
that Macmillan in insisting upon Britain’s
entry into ECM is presiding over the
obsequies of the British Commonwealth
—as is probably the situation if Britain
enters ECM without adequate safeguards
for the interests of Commonwealth mem-
ber nations —there could be a reaction.
It is possible with the feeling that already
exists, particularly within the older group
in the British Conservative Party, that
with Menzies, a strong advocate of the
British Commonwealth concept, putting
such a viewpoint, the British Conservative
Party could split on the issue. If that
happened the Macmillan Conservative
Government, already shaken by a series
of by-election reverses, would face an
uncertain future. Without the Macmillan
Government, what happens to President
Kennedy’s cherished ambition to have
Britain in ECM? What Britain’s alter-
native government —Labour —would do
about ECM is by no means resolved.
Whether Menzies would have (a) the
influence to wreck the joint Kennedy-
Macmillan ambition to see Britain in
the ECM or (b) the ruthlessness to use
that influence to wreck the Kennedy-
Macmillan project unless his terms are
met remains to be seen. On paper, his
terms do not seem excessively high when
measured against the magnitude of the
Kennedy-Macmillan project. He wants
the preservation at its existing level of
the historic economic association between
Australia and Britain that will permit the
maintenance of a political relationship
that has operated since Britishers first
landed in Sydney Cove. Britain probably
wants this also. The complicating factors
are that the six European nations now
in ECM, not Britain, have the final say
on the terms of British entry into ECM
and stubborn US opposition to the con-
tinuation of economic associations be-
tween Britain and British Common-
wealth countries, such as Australia, that
buttress the political association between
Britain and the Commonwealth countries.
Actually, if you look at it dispassiona-
tely, the political implications in Britain’s
proposed entry into ECM are obviously
much larger than the economic ones from
the viewpoint of Australia at least, though
for Britain itself the economic—and
political—advantages it gets out of entry
into ECM might outweigh the political
factors involved in its position vis-a-vis
Australia.
On the economic side individual Aus-
ralian industries, such as dried fruits,
dairying and canned fruits which owe
their prosperous existence to their pri-
vileged access to the British market, may
face a doubtful future. But, broadly,
Britain’s joining of ECM will merely
accelerate an economic process which
has been under way since the end of
World War 11.
As Mr Cairns (Lab. Vic.) asserted in
the House of Representatives last week,
the percentage of Australia’s exports that
have gone to Britain over the past ten
years has declined by nearly 10 per cent.
Trade with Asia has been filling the gap.
In 1950/51 Australia’s exports to Asia
represented 12.73 per cent, of Australia’s
total exports. By 1960/61 they had risen
to become 29.92 per cent.
Cairns was undoubtedly out to prevent
the Government falling victim to its own
propaganda.
While individual industries can be ad-
versely affected by Britain's entry into
ECM, catastrophe can and has come to
individual Australian industries through
drought, bushfire, or loss of a market
without the nation’s general economy
being affected to the same catastrophic
extent. When Cairns pointed out that in
1951/52 Australia’s exports to Britain
fell by £113,000,000, in 1953/54 by
£58,000,000 and in 1957/58 by
£55,000,000 without a serious decline
from full employment, he was reviving
the classical Labor theory of depression
years. That theory was that Australia,
possessed within its borders of unlimited
quantities of such basics as food, clothing
and shelter could insulate itself to a
considerable extent from overseas fluc-
tuations and continue to develop from its
own resources. As Cairns emphasised,
the fall in Australian exports to Britain
during the first two or three years of
Britain’s entry into the Common Market
might amount to £40,000,000 or
£50,000,000. But these amounts were
less than the figures of 1951/52, 1953/54,
or 1957/58, years which Australia sur-
NEXT WEEK'S ISSUE
® LESLIE HAYLEN Labor’s
Artful Dodger.
• NEW GUINEA NEWS-
LETTER—The UN Mission;
Buka.
• LIVING WITH THE BOMB
—More Unthinkable Thoughts.
• ALAN REID—As I See It.
® THAT CERTAIN BOOK—
W. C. Wentworth on The
Golden Bough.


vived successfully and with full employ-
ment maintained.
Now Menzies is off to London on a
different and bigger tack —the political
tack. For the political consequences of
Britain’s entry into the ECM must be
immense. When Britain enters ECM it
will be accepting heavy responsibilities in
Europe. Its capacity to maintain its in-
fluence in the Far East and the part of
the world in which Australia’s interests
lie must be affected. As an inexorable
necessity, Australia must be driven into
closer association with other countries,
such as the United States and Japan. The
old Commonwealth links must start
breaking.
And once they start breaking there is
no knowing where the process will end.
Britain’s mercantile fleets have carried
Australia’s exports ever since the colony
came into existence. Will they continue
to carry Australia’s produce when the
produce is no longer going by and large
to Britain? It is extremely doubtful. Other
nations with which Australia will be
trading will expect to get access for their
fleets to at least some of this business
and it might suit Australian interests to
give them access.
Can Australia justify preferential entry
into the Australian market for British
products once Britain refuses to accept
Australian products on a preferential
basis? Without Britain’s support in the
area—support which will be inhibited by
its European association once it enters
the ECM —will not Australia have to
seek to strengthen its position in the area
by using as a bargaining point the
preferences it once gave Britain?
How about the intangibles for which
there is much historical but little econo-
mic justification? Australia’s membership
of the sterling bloc? The fact that it
does its insurance business with London
and that the premiums it pays are a signi-
ficant item in its balance of payments
problem a problem that as far as
Britain is concerned must intensify for
Australia as its trade with Britain, or the
ECM area of which Britain will be part,
progressively declines?
Can Britain depend on unqualified
Australian support in the future or will
Australia, despite sentiment, be forced
to look firstly to its own interests? Has
Britain weighed these intangibles against
the advantages it judges will accrue to
it from entry into the ECM?
TEACHERS
A TEACHERS' STRIKE
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
stopping short of the strike
which some of them wanted and
which their pupils would certainly have
preferred, Tasmanian teachers have com-
mitted themselves to a greater industrial
militancy of action than anything Aus-
tralian teachers have previously contem-
plated. Disappointed and angered by
salary rises of £6-£l4 p.a., they are
organising mass meetings to protest
against the Public Service Tribunal deter-
mination which set these “paltry” in-
creases.
This was the first teachers’ award made
by the tribunal, under the chairmanship
of former police magistrate, Mr G. F.
Sorell. The State School Teachers’ Fede-
ration maintains that its awards should
be made by a departmental tribunal.
All teachers are annoyed because a
senior administrative officer of the public
service was allowed to give evidence
against the teachers’ case. What, they
asked, would public servants’ reaction be
were a teacher to challenge a general
public service case for higher pay?
Federation President N. H. Campbell
said that teachers had always opposed
being placed under the jurisdiction of
the Public Service Tribunal. By pegging
male salaries for another three years
the tribunal had widened the gap between
Tasmanian and mainland salary scales
for teachers. “This is education on the
cheap, and it won’t work,” he said.
Mr Campbell said that increased mar-
gins (up to <£l62 p.a.) for senior women
teachers reflected “a degree of responsible
thinking,” but there would still be £192
difference between male and female
salaries when the determination became
fully effective in 1965. No more than
half the State’s women teachers can ex-
pect any rise, as it has not been granted
to lower grades—generally a poor field
of investment from the department’s
viewpoint because of their predisposition
to marriage.
Mr Campbell said that a graduate
teacher starting in Tasmania got £1337,
compared with a medical officer’s £2132
on commencement, a legal officer’s
£1677 and a geologist’s £1404. This
comparison, of course, is open to the
counter-argument that teachers are not
only educated at public expense, but get
accommodation and pocket money while
training, whereas the other graduates pay
their own way.
These comparisons between Tas-
manian and mainland teachers’ salaries
challenge the Government. The Tas-
manian graduate would have got £136
more had he been in Victoria, or
£l3l more in NSW. At the other end
of his career he could dream of £2854
as headmaster of a big Tasmanian high
school, whereas in WA such a man would
get £3142.
PRODUCTION
THE BIG LEAP
FORWARD
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
VlTestern Australia’s big leap forward
’ in agricultural production which has
been proceeding quietly since World War
II is beginning to show up in the statistics.
It was highlighted this week by specula-
tion that WA farmers might plant close
to a 5,000,000-acre wheat crop in the
coming season.
Australian Wheat Board member
D. W. Maisey said everything pointed to
an acreage much bigger than last year’s
record 4,250,000 acres. There was a
general feeling of confidence among
growers, thanks to the opening of
valuable new markets in Asia and par-
ticularly China, considerable increases in
export prices and the coverage of the
season’s crop by the current stabilisation
plan.
If the expected increase comes about,
WA will become a bigger wheat planter
than the traditionally biggest wheat
State of NSW. Though total production
in the west is still smaller because of
lower yields there are indications that it
will eventually catch and pass its eastern
neighbors as a wheat producer.
Wheat is not the only produce to
show a dramatic increase in the last
10 years. Wool production increased by
85 per cent, compared with 45 per cent,
for the whole of Australia, lamb and
mutton by 100 per cent, and beef by 63
per cent. Milk was the only primary
commodity not to show a sizable in-
crease.
This percentage growth is likely to
become even greater as the south coast
land boom adds about 5,000,000 acres
to the land under production. The State
Government has been throwing open
land at the rate of 750,000 acres a year
for the last three years and the American-
backed Esperance Development Co. is
tackling a 1,500,000-acre development
project to mature in 1974.
WA is already a bigger export earner
per head of population than any other
State, with primary products making up
about 80 per cent, of the State’s overseas
exports in the last financial year. It looks
like depending on its primary producers
for its basic prosperity for some years
to come.


UNIONS
SUDDENLY, THIS AUTUMN
From MUGGA
J. McDOWELL
On the move
Unionists of all colors expected
some fireworks when J. McDowell
won the position of Commonwealth
Councillor in the Amalgamated Engineer-
ing Union in March this year. His
victory, along with C. Shearer’s the year
before, meant that for the first time in
over a decade the Communist party had
lost control of the largest union
affiliated to the ACTU. But, as it
happened, most trade unionists were
mystified: nothing happened. There
were not even any sackings in the Sydney
office which is honeycombed with Com-
munist party members. Labor party
members and National Civic Council
men who had worked for McDowell and
Shearer started complaining. Then
suddenly it happened.
The Commonwealth Council early this
month sent a letter to the Industrial
Registrar in Melbourne asking him to
conduct an election for certain union
positions. This request for an indepen-
dent ballot was made under the 1949
Chifley legislation in the Arbitration Act
which provides that the executive
officers of a union, or a branch of the
union, can request a ballot to be con-
ducted by the Industrial Registrar. The
immediate effect will be that the alter-
native, tiresome procedure of getting
1000 union members to sign a petition
will not be necessary. Although a move
to have an independent ballot is normal
for a number of unions, the Communist
party and their supporters, in the Aus-
tralian Labor party have been fighting
against it for years. The disadvantage
for them is obvious: there is no way of
rigging an independent ballot.
The second new move by McDowell
and Shearer, at least according to the
remarks made at the recent Queensland
meeting by ex-Commonweaith Councillor
G. Hennessy, and held in the presence of
the Chairman of the AEU. Mr. Arthur
Horsburgh, was to recall for nominations
for the positions of three organisers which
had been wrongly called for under the
union's unregistered rules. This could
have the effect of forcing three organisers
to face an independent ballot. Two of the
organisers are Communists and the third
is a typical Victorian Central Executive
member, Mr Wally Butler. If it comes
to an independent ballot the three of
them would probably lose their positions.
At the Queensland meeting Comrade
Hennessy also demanded to know what
the AEU's policy on ‘‘Court-controlled'’
ballots was. Some of the members pre-
sent suggested that Mr. Hennessy must
have a direct telephone line with AEU
headquarters.
In a third move McDowell and
Shearer drew the attention of branches
to the powers of District Committees to
“deal with and regulate rates of wages,
hours of labor, terms of overtime, piece
work and general conditions affecting
the interests of members in their respec-
tive Districts.”
This is to counteract the Communist
party (which still controls nearly all
District Committees) from using AEU
money for straight-out Communist party
activities. The Melbourne District Com-
mittee's accounts, for example, show that
a total of £l7O was paid out of AEU
funds for affairs which have little or no
relation to AEU business.
The Victorian Peace Council received
£2 for literature, and £lO “to help it
over the difficult period of Christmas
and New Year”; £lO went to the Sea-
men’s Union for pamphlets. The bogus
ALP Victorian Executive “Scope”
received £2l and the Victorian Trade
Union Defence Committee (the organisa-
tion set up by the devout unity ticket
members of the Victorian ALP Executive
LOYAL SUBJECTS?
May 27, 1882
Cpeaking at one of the dinners at
which he was on show in Lon-
don. Sir Henry Parkes declared that
certainly there are no braver, no
truer, no more loyal subjects of the
Queen than Australian colonists. Now,
what is this but bunkum? In what
way has our courage, our truth, or
our loyalty been put to the test? We
have had no wars. Our good faith
, , ~ ° ■ ,
has been altogether a commercial
commodity, and' modesty might have
held Sir Henrv silent on such a topic.
As for our ‘ loyalty, the Imperial
authorities have been so cautious
never to thwart our interests that a
monotonous condition of content with
• .• , u
existing connections can scarcely be
,• . J
claimed as redounding to our credit.
\i m ~ .. & . r , u
Whether the sentiment of loyalty
, , , e ? -v
would be proof against any act of
Imperial authority which might tap
the pockets or affect the prejudices of
our people, remains to be discovered.
When one recalls the peculiarly for-
cible independence of language em-
ployed by Victor,an Liberals with,n
he past twenty years, at different
imes, one might be disposed to be a
httle less positive than the distm-
guished creator ot the Kiama Ghost.
TPhe Marine Board, Adelaide, has
decided to prohibit all vessels
clearing from that pious port on Sun-
day. All hens found laying on the
Sawbath morn are flayed alive and
the owners boosted up for two years.
It is also said that a baker who put
yeast in his dough, and allowed it to
work on the “Looard’s day” has been
arrested, and the authorities are now
busy discussing whether he is to be
torn to death by wild horse, or sent
over here to be “tramcar’d.”
• •, •
lAvery tram extension is a nail in the
gu T . • A , T ,
f , coffin L 'cetfng Act. Last
Sunday 14 003 patriots v,sited
B ? tan y ‘° P lant fl l owers °" 'f e S P°
* he , re , Ca P ,al " * a ™ es J°° k ff
£ nded - »K«rwh.ch they adjourned to
,- lan , , 1,11 ~s P ant t rant
Jimmy s health with such enthusrasm
. L, . ■ . f u - f - , „ iiU
that each patriot felt as if he could
, r , ( . , •
nil the whole of the return cars him-
T c , ,
self. Tramcarring from Svdney made
h , , , travellers' of course
te b 1n e travellers > or course.
'CHjrther light has been thrown on
-T t | ie death G f the Kanaka who
recently leaped overboard at Bowen
(Q from a steame r. The poor fellow
' b s< , parate d from his wife by
an employe £ who had both under a
]abor P g / e ement, and removed to a
distant “station. He escaped, and
made his way back to his wife, only
to be arrested. He was a prisoner
when he jumped overboard. The
Premier of Queensland is going to
enquire into the circumstances of the
case.


and in effect controlled by the Com-
munist party) received £B4 “towards
the cost of their TV programmes.”
The TV programmes were put over
Melbourne TV stations by the Trade
Union Defence Committee during the
last Federal elections, but because they
were so blatantly anti-Catholic they
must have lost votes to the ALP.
Evidence from AEU records them-
selves indicate the involvement of the
union with the Victorian communist-
front Trade Union Defence Committee.
The minutes of the AEU’s Melbourne
Political Committee of February 6 read:
“The District Secretary reported regard-
ing the Melbourne District Committee’s
support of the Trade Union Defence
Committee which was composed entirely
of Labor Party members representing
34 unions who had come together for
the purpose of propounding trade union
views and trade union independence. A
monthly publication called “Scope” was
being produced and up to date this had
been financed by the Melbourne District
Committee.”
Although it has lost control of the all-
powerful Commonwealth Council, the
Communist party is intensifying and
broadening its activity in the lower
apparatus of the union. So next month’s
election for the Sydney District Secretary-
ship will be worth watching.
DEVELOPMENT
THE BIG SMOKE UNDER FIRE
From MIKE MOONIE in Wangaratta
\ Wangaratta hall filled with the
King Canutes of the population
wave last week discussed ways of diver-
ting people from the cities to the bush.
They met under the shadow of recent
statistician’s figures showing that the per-
centages of Australians living in capital
cities rose from 54.21 in 1954 to 56.12
in 1961. Figures for Victoria showed
that 65.25 of the State’s population lived
in Melbourne last year, an increase of
nearly three per cent, in seven years.
So the first Victorian Country Indus-
tries Conference met to dam the gallop-
ing growth of the capitals and cry for
decentralisation. Delegates cheered
statements criticising the “great agglom-
erations of Sydney and Melbourne.”
They sat glumly through familiar recitals
of the hurdles faced by industries on
which the growth of country towns must
largely depend. But on the whole, the
emphasis was on the “what can we do
about it?” aspect rather than on the “look
what a mess we’re in” side.
First among the countrymen’s hates
was transport policy, with Victorian
Transport Minister Sir Arthur Warner
starring as the villain. Industrialists
claimed the Victorian policy virtually
forcing all freight onto the railways and
denying them freedom of choice between
road and rail beyond a 50-mile radius
pushed-up their costs, tied their hands
and gave an advantage to metropolitan
competitors who had wharves, factories
and markets all well within 50 miles.
Economist Sir Douglas Copland urged
a reversal of freight policy which, he
said, made it cheaper to send raw mater-
ials by rail to Melbourne than to ship
finished goods. This policy discouraged
country manufacturing and tended to
make the metropolitan industrial machine
mightier yet. Gippsland cement manu-
facturer Dr Stephen Gottlieb brought the
house down with a wry story of a road
built to give access to choice limestone
deposits. His company paid £30,000 as
half the cost of construction of the
road but since it was opened in 1956,
had been stung £42,000 in road tax for
the privilege of carting over it.
Federal Opposition Leader Calwell
threw his weight behind the decentral-
isers with statements that Australia’s pre-
sent pattern of development was wrong
and potentially dangerous ; and that
development of the North was the
nation’s problem of problems. Calwell,
who oddly enough is a former Melbourne
City Councillor, pronounced himself
wholeheartedly in favor of a scheme,
widely canvassed in the conference, to
encourage establishment of industries
outside the capitals by giving taxation re-
bates to country firms. He proposed a
general governmental attack on the de-
centralisation problem with the Com-
monwealth providing the funds and, the
States, better equipped with constitu-
tional powers, putting the policy into
effect.
For his pains, he was handed a suit
length of terylene produced by Wangar-
atta’s Bruck Mills to enable him to go
to Canberra decently clad.
The local products also made the grade
at an official dinner at which only locally
produced food and wines were served.
The obvious need is for a sustained
propaganda effort to highlight the grind-
ings and squeakings of the big cities and
to accent the positive advantages of
country life and investment. Years of
whingeing about city skullduggery have
got nowhere.
LAW
DISQUALIFIED
POLITICIANS
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
"Politicians are quite used to badly
drafted Bills but it became a really
serious business in Tasmania recently
when it looked liked disqualifying six
elected members from sitting in Parlia-
ment. They were discovered to be ineli-
gible because they had once borrowed
money for housing and land development
from the Agricultural Bank —that is, they
had had dealings with the Crown despite
the Constitution Act passed many years
ago which made such dealers ineligible
to sit in Parliament.
To make their seats safe a special Act
of Parliament had to be passed. Opposi-
tion Leader Bethune used the occasion
to deliver this blast: “To ensure that
legislation is just, practical and capable
of achieving its purpose, something more
is needed than a hasty instruction to a
draftsman to prepare a Bill to achieve
a certain purpose.”
Had the Agricultural Bank legislation
been more carefully drafted it could
have included a section to permit mem-
bers of Parliament normal borrowing
facilities without compromise to their
seats. As it was, validating legislation
had to be rushed through.
Mrs L. A. Heaven, who entered the
Assembly after successfully challenging
B. P. Crawford’s election at a recount to
fill a casual vacancy in Franklin, has
since been under scrutiny under the
same Constitution Act because she
was a member of the State Milk Board.
In fact Labor’s habit of finding jobs
for supporters is always likely to embar-
rass these people when they have a fly
at an election.
Remuneration by direct salary or
allowances for service on statutory
bodies has more recently compromised
four aldermen, Lord Mayor Basil Osborne
and Aid. Lipscombe, of Hobart, and Aid.
(Senator-elect) Turnbull and Aid. Dorothy
Edwards, of Launceston, all of whom
were at odds with the Corporation Acts.
Aid. Osborne and Turnbull were paid
members of the State Ambulance Com-
mission and Aid. Lipscombe and Edwards
were on £5OO apiece as Metropolitan
Transport Trust members. Parliament
quickly validated their positions, accept-
ing the startling revelation that all four
were members of these bodies because
the Acts which set them up demanded
that the two cities should have represen-
tatives. Again, no one had bothered to
write the necessary clauses into the later
legislation.


COMMUNIST PARTY
A REPORT ON THE
QUEENSLAND COMMUNISTS
LANCE SHARKEY
Proud
FROM JOHN HIGGINS IN BRISBANE
gatecrashing of the Labor Day
march in Brisbane by the communist-
dominated Queensland Peace Committee
has focused sharp attention on the
Communist Party’s present organisational
set-up in this State. It is an organisation
of which the CP's Lance Sharkey is
proud.
The Party is still an active and
influential power in Queensland and
maintains a complicated and formidable
apparatus. In the last couple of years
the Party has shown a significant interest
in aboriginal affairs, particularly on
Thursday Island and in the Cape York
Peninsula; and it has also greatly intensi-
fied its activities in connection with the
Weipa bauxite project, the Mary Kath-
leen uranium field, and mighty Mt Isa.
Jhe Party’s interest in Queensland’s
vast mineral wealth is understandable
enough. Surprisingly, the Party has
struck pay-dirt at Mt Isa of all places,
dominated as it is by the right wing
AWU; but so far it has failed to capture
industrial control, or at least top level
managerial patronage, at either Weipa or
Mary Kathleen.
The Party sent one of its most trusted
lieutenants in the person of Mr Kevin
Brandon Loughlin north to Townsville
in 1956 in his capacity as paid Building
Workers’ Union organiser. He wasted
no time preparing a first-class intelligence
report on Weipa, including harbor
depths, channels, etc. One copy went to
the Trades and Labor Council, and it
is not difficult to imagine where other
copies went. Mr Loughlin was a mem-
ber of the Communist Party’s Towns-
ville District Committee during his
sojourn in the north, and has only just
recently returned to Brisbane.
The Queensland Division of the Com-
munist Party of Australia has four
representatives on the Party’s Central
Committee. They are the State president
Mr Claude Jones; the secretary Mr
Edwin Alexander Bacon; Mr Alexander
McDonald, and Mrs Alice Maud Hughes.
Recent ex-reps, include Messrs Max
Nordau Julius and Albert Robinson.
All of these except Mr Robinson are
on the Queensland State executive, which
is directly responsible for the functioning
of the Party in Queensland. Others on
the executive include Messrs E. G. Crisp,
J. B. Henderson, W. E. Bowden and
W. F. Bishop.
Next to the State executive is the State
Committee. This consists of about 25
members including Building Workers’
Union secretary G. M. Dawson, Painters’
Union secretary E. J. Hansen, and
Trades & Labor Council paid secretary
Alexander McDonald.
McDonald provides almost a classic
example of the Communist Party tech-
nique of placing members on other
people’s payrolls. Post-war State sec-
retary of the Ironworkers, he was tossed
out in 1951 at the first court-run ballot
he contested, giving solid substance to
charges of ballot rigging in previous
elections. Secretary of the Trades Hall
at the time was communist Mick Healy,
who immediately developed a sudden
sickness which prevented him from
working in an office, but allowed him to
return to the Brisbane wharves! “Poor
old Alex is out of work - let’s give him
Mick’s job” was the cry that immediately
echoed around the Trades Hall and
poor old Alex got the job and has held
it happily ever since. He represents the
Trades and Labor Council at ACTU
meetings, claiming to speak on behalf
of organised trades unionism in Queens-
land though he was tossed out by his
own rank and file.
Other members of the State Committee
include Messrs Jones, Bacon, Hender-
son, Julius, Bowden, M. Myles, Mrs
Hughes, E. W. Browne, R. A. Anear,
F. B. Thompson, W. F. Bishop, E. G.
Crisp, F. D. Elder, Stella Nord, W.
Stubbings, H. Thomas, Elizabeth Thomas,
C. Reed, T. Pastourel, J. A. Nolan,
K. Loughlin and C. Gifford.
For administrative purposes, the Com-
munist Party has divided Queensland
into six sections. These are: Brisbane
District, including Ipswich, covering a
total of about 40 branches; Townsville
District, including the Bowen-Collins-
ville-Scotsville area; Wide Bay Section,
covering branches in Bur.daberg and
Maryborough areas; Central Section,
covering branches in the Rockhampton-
Mackay areas; Cairns Section; and,
finally, several isolated country branches
under the direct control of the Queens-
land State Committee.
In the Brisbane District. Ipswich
(which has three branches) comes under
the direct control of the State Com-
mittee ... as does the Wide Bay, Central
and Cairns Sections. Membership of the
Brisbane District is estimated in the
vicinity of 500, with approximately the
same number spread over the rest of
the State, the majority of whom would
be in the Townsville District.
The Brisbane District Committee con-
sists of Messrs W. E. Bowden, M. Myles,
R. A. Anear, W. Stubbings. J. Hender-
son, F. Eider, E. Crisp, W J. H. Harris,
J. F. Daly, R. W. Brown. S. Tapper,
L. Lenane, W. Hill, W. Gi'lespie, J. A.
McLean, J. Fitzgerald, H. R. Hamilton,
with Stella Nord and Joyce Slater
supplying the feminine touch.
these top level formations the
Party organisation in Queensland
moves into a series of sub-committees
which are co-opted by the State Com-
mittee to formulate and advise on various
policies. These include the Arts Sub-
Committee, which covers the activities of
film societies, New Theatre, Realist
Writers,, etc. ; the Youth, Union and
Cadres and Education Sub-Committees.
Apart from these formations the Com-
munist Party in Queensland relies heavily
on the functioning of what is known in
communist jargon as “fractions”. These
fractions comprise all Party members
within a specific industry or organisation.
The fractions have proved to be the
most logical and effective method of
implementing Party policy within par-
ticular spheres of interest to the Party.
Some of the larger fractions have
regular meetings and even a standing
Fraction Committee. There are fractions
in all the important unions, and they
meet regularly.
There have also been fraction meet-
ings of Communist Party members
belonging to the Australian - Soviet
Friendship League, the Union of Aus-
tralian Women, Australian-China Society,
State and Federal Public Services, the
RSSAILA, New Theatre, Eureka Youth
League, the Film Society, and even the
Greek community of Brisbane.
State headquarters of the Communist
Party is on the sth floor of Heindorff
House, 171 Queen Street. The Brisbane
District Committee shifted recently to
Duncan House, Duncan Street, The
Valley. The Townsville District Com-
mittee offices are sited at the Left Book-
shop, 88 Flinders Street.
These are the only permanently estab-
lished Party offices in Queensland, apart
from the People’s Bookshop in Bruns-
wick Street, The Valley, which keeps
open house for the Comrades.
(To be continued)


Around Sydney
CASE OF CONSTABLE 1804
draughty high-ceilinged corridors
of Sydney’s ancient police head-
quarters had rarely seen such activity
as last week. Senior officers were
going into huddled conferences; re-
porters were demanding statements
from Commissioner Norman Allan;
the tension was like that of the mutila-
tion murders. What had happened?
Had the Slasher struck again? No!
Constable 1804 had resigned.
The resignation of a young con-
stable from a Force of a couple of
thousand might not seem very import-
ant to the uninformed. But it was
special enough. Constable 1804 is
none other than Johnny Raper, the
Rugby League star, the idol of every
kid north of the Murrumbidgee.
For nearly eight years the NSW
Police Force had gone out of its way
to help Constable Raper’s football
career. His rosters were always speci-
ally arranged to make sure he was
off-duty on the nights he trained with
his team (the star-studded premiers,
St George) and for club games on
Saturdays. He was given special leave
to play for NSW in Queensland and
to go to England and France with
the last Kangaroos’ side. When foot-
ball injuries dogged him, Raper was
given time off from the Force or
placed on “light duties” to help him
recover.
When, a couple of years ago, the
Police Department launched a special
investigation to see if crack sleuth
Detective-Sergeant Ray Kelly’s direc-
torship of a land development com-
pany contravened police regulations
forbidding outside earnings, no one
said anything about the cash police
sportsmen were making from profes-
sional football said to be in the
range of £lOOO a year for some.
When Raper began endorsing foot-
ball shoulder pads, shin guards and
balls, he took the advice of senior
officers and paid the five per cent
royalties (said to amount to about
£5OO a season) to the Police Boys’
Clubs. Raper, a pleasant young man,
liked the Force, and, likewise, the
Force was happy to have him in its
ranks. Particularly happy when, in
1960, he won a special award as the
Police sportsman of the year.
The same year he was chosen “best
and fairest” Sydney Rugby League
player of the season by the State’s
two biggest newspapers. Some critics
called him Australia’s top player and
the greatest lock forward of all time.
So you can imagine the disappoint-
ment on Tuesday of last week when
Raper announced that the Police
doctor had refused to pass him as
fit (after two months on “light duties”)
because of a result of a knee opera-
tion an operation, incidentally,
brought on by football injuries. The
NSW Rugby League doctor had given
Raper the all-clear, and so had other
physicians he consulted. But no clear-
ance from the Police doctor, no play.
The story made headlines.
League fans were miserable. It
looked as if the shining star would
not even be able to fight against the
English tourists, due to meet Aus-
tralia for the First Test on Saturday
fortnight, June 9. Momentarily, Raper
seemed beaten. He even talked of
retiring from football forever.
But the Rugby League boys soon
put a stop to that. They called John
into special conference and guaran-
teed to find him a job for life, at far
more than the Police Force could
ever pay. So, next day, Constable
1804 submitted his resignation to In-
spector Whiteman, officer-in-charge
of the 21 Division, to which he is
attached.
“Johnny has already lost the best
part of £4OO through being unable
to play football this season,” St
George officials explained to the news-
papers. “He can’t afford to stay in
the Force any longer with these inter-
ruptions to his sporting career.”
The normal three months’ resigna-
tion period was waived and his re-
quest for immediate release was
passed up the line right to the
top. After 24 hours of agonising ten-
sion for League fans, Commissioner
Allan announced at 3 p.m. last Thurs-
day that Constable Raper’s resigna-
tion had been accepted. Within an
hour, St George Club announced
that Raper would play for them on
the following weekend.
He is scheduled to trot on to
Sydney Cricket Ground this Satur-
day to play for Sydney against the
Englishmen. Commissioner Norman
Allan, a Rugby League fan, is almost
certain to be among his excited fans.
★ ★ ★
You must not get the impression
from the foregoing that Sydney people
are basely commercial about sport.
Refinements still survive in this city.
For example, what could be more re-
fined than a foxhunt without a
fox?
That’s exactly the sort of expedi-
tion that 50 or so members of the
Sydney Hunt Club set out on last
Sunday. With red coats, hounds and
cries of “tally-ho” they trotted off
into the fields of Ingleburn, about 20
miles from the G.P.O. There were
plenty of foxes about; poultry farm-
ers have lots of tattered hen carcasses
to prove it. But the Sydney Hunt Club
preferred to have their hounds set
off on the trail of a piece of rag
somehow made to smell like a fox.
“It’s the sport that counts,” explained
their leader.
And the NSW Animal Welfare
League smiled benignly. “We agree
that foxes can be a nuisance,” said
League secretary A. G. King. “But it
would be just outright cruelty to chase
any animal and then have it killed
by dogs.”
★ ★ ★
Sydney’s latest claim to fame: we
indisputably have the biggest potholes
in Australia!
Evidence of this came from an un-
impeachably official source after last
week’s Big Wet. At a Sydney City
Council meeting, Alderman Con Wal-
lace, that well-known Civic Father,
had apparently been standing outside
his headquarters at the Hasty Tasty
restaurant at Kings Cross, surveying
the city’s roadworks. “Some of the
holes in Darlinghurst Road are 10
inches deep,” he told a shocked Coun-
cil meeting.
“They’re more than 10 inches deep,”
interjected Aid. F. G. Pursell. “Down
in York Street near the Harbor Bridge
I noticed a man’s hat floating in a
pot-hole. When I picked it up I
found a man underneath. I started to
pull him out, but he said, ‘Hang on,
mate, wait till I get my feet out of
the stirrups’l”
BLIGH


OUR MAN IN BRUSSELS
Dr Westerman: No. 7 Trouble Shooter
W. A. WESTERMAN
“A blow in”
By ALAN REID
HThe big-framed, assertive 48-years-old
Wilfred Allan Westerman, who put
Australia's case for the continuance of
traditional preferences in the British
market to the council of the European
Common Market in Brussels recently, is
known as an astute and capable nego-
tiator. But there is another side to
Westerman. Although he is an intellec-
tual, he talks and acts like a suavely
tough business man rather than a Public
Servant. This other side of Westerman
Westerman the hard trader could
be more important than Westerman the
negotiator in the years ahead when as
Permanent Head of the Trade Depart-
ment he has to cope with the trading
problems created for Australia. by
Britain’s entry into the ECM.
When, for example, Westerman was
assistant to Sir John Crawford-(now at
the Australian National University but
then permanent head of the Trade
Department) Trade Minister John Mc-
Ewen, himself basically a tough “cookie”
who does not play the game of politics
for sport but to win, did • not like the
freight increases that the British shipping
lines proposed to levy on Australian
exports. McEwen and Crawford con-
ferred. Neither of them had come down
in the last shower. They were aware
that the British shipping combine was
about as hard to buck as Fate. So they
selected Westerman to do the bucking.
Getting at the facts in the shipping
industry then (it has since become a bit
easier) was like trying to harness a well-
greased pig. For instance, you would
find that one of the best and most con-
vincing arguments that the shipping com-
panies had for a substantial freight rise
were the high stevedoring costs. But then
when you went into it you found that
the bulk of the stevedoring companies
were owned by the shipping companies.
High stevedoring costs were not disad-
vantageous to them. They got the profits
from their stevedoring operations and
then the cost of the stevedoring opera-
tions went, like a cost-plus factor, into
their freight rates.
They were benefiting two ways, and
justifying the criticism of a government
inquiry that they were charging “what
the traffic would bear.”
I had the impression that the shipping
combine was rather contemptuous of
what Westerman could achieve when the
news leaked that McEwen had given him
this particular assignment. But Wester-
man played it very smartly. He sat down
and provided himself with a mythical
ship. He victualled, bunkered and loaded
it in the United Kingdom. He paid a
full crew full wages. On paper, he sailed
it to Australia, paying insurance, harbor
dues and wharfage charges all the way.
In Australia, he unloaded it and reloaded
it and then sailed it back to the United
Kingdom.
When the shipping companies saw his
voyage profits, they hastily settled for a
much lower freight rise than they had
originally contemplated putting on,
though in the end they won out. They
did this by approaching the shippers^—
the customers —and persuading them
into an arrangement which cuts the
government (and Westerman) practically
out of any negotiations on freight rates,
an arrangement which some of the
shippers now regret.
Not quite pukka
Tt is operations like this that make
J- Westerman a bit suspect among the
old-guard Public Servants. He is not
quite pukka. He is a go-getter. He departs
from the normal and time-hallowed
procedures. He is always “chancing his
arm” taking risks instead of playing
safe. When McEwen recognised that
Australia’s historic trade patterns were
changing, that exports to the European
zone gradually were declining and exports
to Asia increasing, it was Westerman
(with Crawford) who counselled Mc-
Ewen to get a formal trade treaty with
Japan, the fastest expanding market for
Australian goods in the world, despite
the political difficulties then existing in
Australia. There was considerable poli-
tical risk in this, as was shown by the
fact that the Labor Opposition voted
against the Treaty when it was brought
to the Federal Parliament for ratification.
I doubt whether too many Public Servants
would have advised their Minister to
take such a risk. They would have left
the Minister to make the decision on his
own so that he would carry the sole
responsibility.
But Crawford and Westerman took
the view that basically Australia had to
sell its goods-where they were wanted.
The United Kingdom was growing less
interested in Australian goods (the pres-
ent negotiations are really an attempt
to force upon unwilling customers—the
six Common Market countries and the
United Kingdom—goods that they are
no longer anxious to take). The Trade
Department had to go out and sell the
goods where they were wanted was the
Crawford-Westerman theme. Japan
wanted them and a formal trade treaty
with Japan would enable them to be
sold more easily in that country. There-
fore there should be a trade treaty.
McEwen accepted this advice. He and
Crawford went off to London to re-nego-
tiate aspects of the British Trade Agree-
ment with Australia, while Westerman
went to Tokio to negotiate the Japanese
Trade Agreement. In this particular
instance, Westerman showed himself not
only a hard trader but a good salesman.
He got the Japanese to agree that it was
in their own interests to have a respon-
sible approach to the Treaty. If they
started flooding the Australian market
with cheap goods to the detriment of
Australian industry, they would in the
long term impair their access to the most


stable and high-income importing market
in this area of the world. On occasions,
some Japanese manufacturers have been
too greedy. But by and large they have
showed restraint and whenever examples
of Japanese manufacturers breaking the
spirit of the Treaty have been drawn to
Japanese attention the Japanese Govern-
ment has reacted promptly and taken
steps to see that the Australian complaints
were dealt with promptly and fairly ef-
fectively.
A Go-Getter
rpo some extent the old guard Public
Service suspicion of Westerman can
be understood. It is not only that the
Trade Department is a “go - getter”
Department (it has to be to persuade
manufacturers and industries of all kinds
into doing the things that they might
not be anxious to do in the export field
if it is to perform its function) but
Westerman is also by Public Service
standards a “blow in”. Though he is now
Permanent head of the Trade Depart-
ment and as such very much a member
of the Commonwealth Public Service’s
hierarchy, he has only been in the Public
Service for twelve years, and men who
have spent a lifetime in the Service are
always suspicious of newcomers, parti-
cularly it they advance rapidly.
Westerman, son of a farmer, a big-
boned powerful man who did a bit of
dairy farming as a boy, started his adult
life as a schoolteacher. But he always
had a hankering for the academic life.
While schoolteaching he acquired his first
degree, doing part of it by correspon-
dence. Then he acquired a scholarship
to Columbia University in New York.
There he took his doctorate (doctors of
the non-medical variety are thicker in
Canberra than pre-myxomatosis rabbits).
He became lecturer in Rural Sociology,
and his activities brought him to the
attention of the Australian Government.
Westerman received an appointment
to the Trade Commissioner Service and
operated in New York. But he was still
not a Public Servant, as the Service did
not then operate under Public Service
control. When he returned to Canberra
in 1950, however, he was made Director
of Trade Promotion and International
Trade Relations and from there on his
rise was meteoric. He became first assis-
tant Secretary of the old Department of
Commerce and Agriculture (which was
later to form the nucleus of the Trade
Department).
He became McEwen’s and Crawford’s
Number 1 trouble shooter. When the
Trade Department was formed with
instructions to clean up the mess that
had developed over import licensing,
Westerman was the man who handled
the sticky ones. McEwen told him he
wanted the system operating efficiently
and on a “no-favours-for-anyone” basis.
He backed Crawford and Westerman
until they had the system operating in
such a way that they could give the
Government the target figure on imports
it wanted practically to the pound and
charges of racketeering in licenses
(highly lucrative to those who could get
their hands on them) practically ceased.
When import licensing was abolished,
there was a pile-up of applications to
the Tariff Board from frantic Australian
manufacturing interests whose businesses
were threatened by the vast inflow of im-
ported goods. Complaints mounted. The
political situation started to get ugly. Par-
liamentarians started asking pointed and
angry questions. Something had to be
done. Westerman went in as chairman
of the Tariff Board.
Pushing uphill
Westerman streamlined the Tariff
Board administration. Again he ran into
hostility from the old-guard Public Ser-
vants. They claimed that he was ruth-
lessly denuding departments of key per-
sonnel in order to maintain his success
record. His methods may have been un-
conventional by Public Service standards.
But he achieved his objective. Complaints
started to decline both in volume and
regularity.
IT'hen Crawford shifted to the Austra-
lian National University and Britain
announced its intention of seeking admis-
sion to the European Common Market.
Again a trouble shooter was needed, and
again Westerman was selected. He was
appointed to succeed Crawford as Per-
manent Head of the Trade Department.
Westerman has won plaudits for the
thoroughness and technical competence
with which he put Australia’s case at
Brussels for preferred entry into the
United Kingdom to be maintained per-
manently even after Britain’s entry into
ECM. Personally, I think he was push-
ing uphill. He held very weak cards.
If McEwen could not get any worthwhile
guarantees from the top —and he could
not —it would be a miracle if Westerman
were able to break through at the lower
level.
But Westerman will hold stronger
cards when he starts the hard trading
that is inevitable once Britain enters the
ECM and there is no longer the com-
pulsion upon Australia to give British
goods the preferred treatment that they
had in Australia while Australian goods
had preferred treatment on the British
market.
I have seen an estimate that New
Zealand, despite its small 2,000,000
population, represents a purchasing power
equal to the whole of South East Asia,
if Japan and the entrepot trade of Sin-
gapore is excluded. This is a measure
of how high - income a country New
Zealand is compared with the low - in-
come countries in South East Asia. If
these figures are anywhere right, that
makes Australia, with its much larger
population and similar high-income econ-
omy, a very valuable market indeed for
any exporting country to get access to.
Japan already knows this. In some items
we are already Japan’s largest customer,
exceeding the United States, Britain,
Europe and any country of South East
Asia. Obviously this trend is going to
continue.
Once the ECM negotiations are finally
cleared up—and this could be before
the end of this year—Westerman’s quali-
ties as a trader will become more impor-
tant than his capacities as a negotiator,
and on his record so far he is a hard
trader for the advancement of Australian
interests.


LONDON NEWSLETTER
COMMONWEALTH OR COMMON MARKET?
Notes on the EEC, Covent Garden and Sidney Nolan
From JOHN DOUGLAS PRINGLE
"Dy the end of July the British Govern-
** ment hopes to know whether it
can get into the Common Market or not.
The negotiations will not be over they
may go on for another six months or
more; but about that time Mr Heath,
the Minister who is responsible for the
negotiations, should be able to return
to London from Brussels with a fair idea
of the final terms. The Cabinet will then
have to decide whether they are good
enough or not. If they are, the Govern-
ment will try to sell them to the British
people and the other members of the
Commonwealth. If not, it will presum-
ably go to the country with the vote-
winning cry: “We could not let the
Commonwealth down . .
This may sound cynical. Perhaps it
is. But it also represents, fairly accurate-
ly, the mood of the country. For it is not
true, as some Australians may think, that
Britain is prepared to sell the Com-
monwealth for her own commercial
interests. There is still a healthy egoism
in the British people, as there must be in
any nation worth a row of beans; but
the Commonwealth still means some-
thing.
Just what it means is harder to say. I
think it was the American philosopher
Whitehead who once wrote that the
upper classes in England look to Europe
while the working classes look over the
seas to the empire. The rich, he said,
travel in Italy, read French literature and
listen to German music; but if you go
into a miner’s cottage you will find
hanging on the wall a photograph of a
son or a brother in Canada, Australia or
New Zealand.
There is a good deal of truth in this
remark, though since Whitehead the
British working classes have also dis-
covered Europe, and it is perhaps signi-
ficant that it is a Conservative Govern-
ment which is taking Britain into Europe
while the Labour Party hesitates and
talks about the Commonwealth. But of
course it is not as simple as that. The
chief opposition to the Common Market
comes from the extreme Right of the
Conservative Party, which still dreams
of the British Empire and has never been
really happy about the new Common-
wealth, and the extreme Left of the
Labour Party, which suspects that all
Europeans are reactionary Catholics and
dreams of a tight little socialist island.
As a result you find fiery Socialists like
Barbara Castle sharing a platform with
die-hard Tories like Lord Hinchingbroke.
I doubt whether either of these ex-
tremes really care about the Common-
wealth as such. Lord Beaverbrook says
he does, and this ancient but formidable
sprite is conducting a vigorous campaign
against the Common Market in his
newspapers. But Lord Beaverbrook only
cares about the white Dominions. The
“Daily Express” and the “Evening Stand-
ard” never lose a chance to mock at
India or Ghana.
But there are others who see in this
new Commonwealth not only Britain’s
greatest achievement but a working
model for a better world. They believe
that this loose but sensible relationship
between nations of different races and
religions is likely to contribute more to
peace and the creating of a future world
government than building a new power
block in Western Europe. They are
ready to go into the Common Market
so long as it is an outward-looking body
and so long as Britain may retain her
links with the United States and the
Commonwealth. They are not prepared
to enter a European Federal State which
would cut her off from both.
This, I think, is emerging as the
dominant mood in all parties. It is
probably the view both of Mr Macmillan
and of Mr Gaitskell. Whether the
European countries will have us on those
terms has yet to be seen there are
many who think they will not. But it is
certainly this aspect of the Common-
wealth, and not the more simple Beaver-
brook-Menzies line, which is likely to
carry the greatest weight. To intelligent
young people in Britain, India and
Nigeria mean as much, or almost as
much, as Australia and Canada.
★ ★ ★
Last week I went to Covent Garden
to see the ballet. It was a rich but
curious programme.. It began with some
pretty nonsense resurrected from the
19th century by the Copenhagen Ballet
which made me think what a silly art
form ballet can be. However it gave us
an opportunity to see the Danish star,
Erik Bruhn, blond, grave, romantic, a
“danseur noble” if ever there was one
and a schoolgirl’s heart-throb down to
his ballet shoes.
Then we had a bit of fireworks by
Covent Garden’s own Svetlana Beriosova
and Donald Macleary, with Beriosova
especially brilliant in a ravishing pink
tutu and holding her body like a sword.
Then “Sylphides” with the Russian
refugee dancer Nureyev in the part of
the poet. Nureyev arrives on the stage
trailing clouds of ballyhoo but it does
not take a minute to recognise that this
is the real thing. He is one of those
rare stage personalities who have only
to stand in a corner to rivet attention on
them. A strange young man, with the
head of a faun or an urchin according
to your romantic temperature, very
‘•cool” in the American sense of the
word (“The Observer” called him “A
Russian James Dean”), he appears slight-
ly bored with the rest of the proceedings
and dances with a kind of lazy, detached
grace which catches your throat. Like
so many of the best male Russian
dancers he leaps like a wallaby apparent-
ly without effort and seems to move from
earth to air and back again in one
flowing line. His head, neck and should-
ers are neat and feminine; his body and
legs virile and muscular; but the total
impression is as much animal as human.
Australians should send for him at once.
Finally there was the new production
of Stravinsky’s “Rite of Spring” for
which Sidney Nolan has designed the
back-cloths and costumes and which was
the chief reason for my visit. When this
ballet was first produced in Paris in
1913 it caused a riot in the theatre.
Today, nearly fifty years later, Stravins-
ky’s score still sounds as modern as the
atomic bomb and as primitive as a


SIND IT
sac
©
m
m
ROAD
FOR SPEED SAFETY SERVICE
Ji'fJiiillW* A MEMBER OF THE MAYNE NICKLESS GROUP
DAILY SCHEDULED ROAD SERVICES
To ALL Capital Cities
Throughout Australia
PERTH 8-4421
MELBOURNE 30-4161
NEWCASTLE B4998
CANBERRA 9-1970
RADIO PICK-UP TRUCKS
throwing-stick. Nolan has designed two
great back-cloths, the first a character-
istic slab of Central Australian sand-
stone which might be a piece of Ayer’s
Rock or the wall of some huge cave with
the mark of an aborigine’s hand on it.
The second, more striking, has an
enormous mushroom shape that might
be a tree or an atomic cloud. (It is a
shape which has always fascinated Nolan
he called it the Moonboy when he
painted it on his roof in Melbourne.)
This shape is lit so that it appears pale
and silvery at first then glows with the
rising sun and finally turns blood red as
the Chosen Maiden dances her sacrificial
dance.
Unfortunately the choreography by
Kenneth Macmillan hardly matches
either Stravinsky’s superb music or
Nolan’s designs, both of which have a
genuine feeling for the primitive. The
dancers’ movements seem jerky and
artificial and far too disciplined for a
primitive tribe. They belong rather to an
industrial society. (Perhaps this was
intentional. As “The Times” said, even
Nolan’s sets could have been either pre-
history or post-history.) Also the Covent
Garden corps de ballet is both too
English in temperament and too classical
in training to throw itself easily into
cataleptic abandon.
Still, a notable evening. As I drove
home along the Embankment beneath
the artificial stars of the new Shell sky-
scraper, I reflected that this was the kind
of evening which only a world capital
can provide. Like a Roman Emperor
Covent Garden had ransacked the world
for artists to entertain us dancers
from Russia and Denmark, a painter
from Australia. Do civilizations fall back
on this when they have run out of native
genius? The rich can buy their art; the
poor must make it.
THE LEARNED DOCTORS' DILEMMA
man in London reports that the
musical production “My Fair Lady,”
based on George Bernard Shaw’s “Pyg-
malion,” has now earned nearly twice as
much money for the Shaw estate as
Shaw left when he died in 1950; an irony
Shaw might not have appreciated.
Now entering its fifth year at Drury
Lane (it is in its second run in Mel-
bourne) after being seen by 3,565,000
people, “My Fair Lady” is estimated to
have earned here and in America over
£630,000 for the Shaw estate. The film
rights have been sold for £2 million
and the estate will get three per cent,
of the gross takings. With percentages
rolling in from other sources, too, the
three beneficiaries of the will are likely
to have received £400,000 apiece by the
end of the year.
The British Museum, the Royal
Academy of Dramatic Art, and the
National Gallery of Ireland were Shaw’s
second choice. The residue of his estate
—he left £363,233 gross, on which
£180,571 duty was paid—was to have
gone to the launching of a new British
one-sound-one-letter alphabet. Shaw
estimated this would save the country up
to £lO million a day.
“He took it very seriously indeed, and
consulted me right up to his death-bed,”
says Sir James Pitman, MP, head of the
College whose shorthand system Shaw
used in writing all his plays. “But just
before his death he told me: “You’ll find
they’ll contest the will.”
They did. The outcome of prolonged
debate was that only £B3OO was al-
located to the alphabet. Four years ago
four people shared a £5OO prize for a
new alphabet in a competition that
brought 60 entries from America, 40
from Canada and several from other
countries.
Later this year, it is hoped to publish
“Androcles and the Lion” in the finally-
chosen alphabet with the coven-
tional text on facing pages. Under the
terms of the will, 13,000 copies are
already earmarked for public libraries in
the English-speaking world and Latin
America, and all national libraries.
What is happening to Shaw’s post-
humous fortune has appropriately
Shavian overtones. The Royal Academy
of Dramatic Art, for example, now finds
itself in the happy position of being
able to discourage Mrs Worthingtons
from sending their daughters on the
stage. “We have cut down the number
of students from 300 to 170,” says an
official. “We get over 600 applications a
year for places—many from girls who
frankly do not stand a chance of success.
Until Shaw’s bequest we relied almost
entirely on students’ fees to carry on.
Now we are concentrating more teachers
on small classes, and putting on better
quality productions to attract professional
attention.”
At the British Museum the only
tangible signs of Shaw’s windfall are
half-a-dozen rare books and manuscripts.
One rather odd choice as a memorial to
this fervent vegetarian and antiblood-
sports Fabian is the “Book of Hunting,
Hawking and Biasing of Arms.” “We
intend to use the bulk of the interest
from the bequest on enriching the
reading room,” says an official. “He
mentions in his will that he had daily
resort to it at the beginning of his
career.”
Fittingly, it is in his native Dublin
that the bequest has had the liveliest
results. Last month it was announced
that the National Gallery of Ireland had
paid a reputed £60,000 for a “St Mary
Magdalene” and “Holy Family” by
Murrillo, and “Abraham and the Three
Angels” by an earlier Spanish painter,
Fernandez de Navarette.
Remembering his statement that by
the age of 40 he had earned only £lOOO
by his pen, it is likely Shaw would have
even wryer comments on the way the
money is now coming in.


ARBITRATION
Economists y. Lawyers; Wages v. Leisure
By JOHN KERR
Mr John Kerr, Q.C., is Presi-
dent of the Industrial Relations
Society and has been a prominent
controversialist in the New Guinea
debate and other public issues.
A T the recent convention of the Indus-
trial Relations Society at Terri gal,
an academic asked Mr Maloney, NSW
Minister for Labor and Industry, how
long we would have to put up with
economically illiterate judges deciding
big economic issues in arbitration cases
after argument by economically illiterate
barristers.
Mr Maloney came down heavily on
the side of the lawyers as opposed to the
economists. He said he certainly would
not displace the lawyer-arbitrators for
economists in NSW, and that if six
economists were arguing about the pro-
per answer to any problem they could
be trusted to come up with seven differ-
ent solutions.
The talk at this convention about
whether the top-level control of arbitra-
tion in Australia should be in the hands
of lawyer-judges raises again the old
arguments about lawyers and legal com-
plexity dominating arbitration and about
the use of legal and forensic methods in
this field. The big questions in arbitra-
tion involve understanding fundamental
economic facts and principles and if
lawyers, rather than economists, are to
decide big economic questions then
economists will often have to give evi-
dence before them.
Lawyers are used to the legal hurly-
burly, the rough and tumble techniques
of the law, to vigorous, tough cross-
examination, but economists do not like
to put up with this. In the 1961 Basic
Wage Enquiry, one economist of stand-
ing, Dr Perkins, decided not to give
evidence, after a ruling that he would
have to subject himself to general cross-
examination on economic matters.
In 1951 Professor Higgins, visiting
Ritchie Professor of Economics in the
University of Melbourne, who gave evi-
dence in the 1950 Basic Wage Case
said: “Each party to a case will endeavor
to prove that expert witnesses called by
the other party are incompetents, liars
and cheats”. He went on to say that
all this has the inevitable effect of
making economists reluctant to appear
on either side of an arbitration case.
The expert, he claimed, cannot explain
himself fully to a court of laymen whose
background training is so different from
his. “He cannot quiz the learned judges”,
said the equally learned professor, “as he
can his graduate students, to make sure
that he has been properly understood”.
Instead he gets well and truly quizzed
himself.
Lawyers, however, are still the domin-
ant figures in settling the big questions in
arbitration in Australia, both on the
Bench and at the Bar table, though the
ACTU in recent years has not briefed a
barrister but has relied on the vigorous
advocacy of its .well-known officer, Mr
Hawke, who nevertheless has a degree in
law as well as in economics. The econ-
omists are heard in the witness box, or
through their published articles and
papers which are tendered in evidence.
Often, however, economic arguments are
put directly by non-experts at the Bar
table to non-experts on the Bench.
There is a tendency for this kind of
procedure, despite the quite considerable
experience of the Bench in economic
matters, and the hard work and pre-
paration at the Bar, to result in little
cross-discussion between Bench and Bar.
Economic arguments and submissions
based on statistical and other economic
material are presented and listened to,
more or less silently. We have, there-
fore, the rather surprising fact that when
the economists come as witnesses they
complain about the vigor and the alleged
unfairness of the legal techniques used.
When they stay away the learned judges
do not seem to quiz the learned counsel
and advocates who act in some respects
as substitutes for the economists, to
probe and test the economic submissions
being made.
Although it must be a bit galling for
the economists to see lawyers, and
others without economic training, making
decisions in the light of the state of the
economy—which in their turn affect the
economy nevertheless there are good
reasons why the lawyers are in the
strong position they occupy. After all


what is really going on is dispute-settling
with argument and counter-argument and
with differences of opinion not only
about economic facts and principles but
also about what is just and reasonable.
Holding the balance between disputants
and making judgments about what is
reasonable and fair in the light of expert
evidence (and after argument) is a tradi-
tional role of lawyers.
At the same convention of the Indus-
trial Relations Society Mr H. A. Bland,
the Secretary of the Department of Labor
and National Service, took up this ques-
tion and said: “With some trepidation
I venture to raise the question whether
lawyers, generally speaking, get the sort
of training or have the opportunities for
comprehending the sorts of issues that
arbitrators and conciliators will be in-
creasingly called on to consider. I
wonder, too, whether the litigous pro-
cess, so loved by lawyers and so well
tried in courts of law, is the way to
unravel these issues.”
For the time being, however, it is the
lawyers, in the main, who are doing it.
Legalistic
T et us take a look at the way in which
the big issues of wages and conditions
of work are fixed in Australia today by
this lawyer-controlled system of com-
pulsory arbitration.
We have a highly complex and exces-
sively legalistic set of arbitral arrange-
ments. This is due not to the role of
lawyers in the system but to the fact that
the industrial field is divided between
State legislatures and tribunals on the
one hand and Federal tribunals on the
other.
The Commonwealth Constitution per-
mits the Commonwealth Parliament to
enter the field of industrial relations only
by establishing machinery for the settle-
ment of interstate industrial disputes.
It cannot legislate directly on industrial
matters as the States can. New South
Wales, for example, has directly legis-
lated for a 40-hour week, for two weeks’
and later three weeks’ annual leave, for
long-service leave and to preserve the
automatic adjustment of the basic wage.
Because of this divided industrial
system and the limited Federal power
resulting from the Commonwealth Con-
stitution, a great variety of constitu-
tional and legal questions arises. It is
extremely difficult for the union leader
and the industrial officer, and certainly
for the ordinary citizen, to understand
the legal intricacies of the system. Never-
theless, this legal complexity has been
with us for a long time.
It is obvious enough that the Federal
award structure has been growing and
that, as the years have gone by, more
and more Australian workers have had
their wages and conditions of work regu-
lated by Federal awards.
We have long become accustomed to
the economic enquiries at which a Fed-
eral basic wage is determined for incor-
poration in all Federal awards. In these
hearings a general review of the state of
the economy is undertaken and the Com-
mission considers whether or not there is
economic capacity to pay an increased
basic wage. The Commission is generally
concerned with two types of problem;
first whether the state of the economy is
such as to justify adjustment of the
basic wage to maintain its real value,
having regard to rising prices and the
decline in value of money, and, secondly,
whether economic factors warrant an
increase in the real level of the basic
wage.
These questions involve looking at
various “indicators” of the state of the
economy but a central interest is to
see whether there has been an increase
in productivity and, if there has,
to ensure that the worker gets his share
of the increased wealth by an increase
in the real level of the basic wage, over
and above any increase needed merely
to maintain its purchasing power.
The Commission repeatedly has to
consider this question of productivity. It
has heard evidence from economists in-
cluding, in 1961, Sir Douglas Copland.
There is really no dispute between the
parties, it is said, that workers are entit-
led to their share of increases in pro-
ductivity. It is, therefore, inevitable that
the unions will rely upon improved pro-
ductivity, as justifying a greater benefit
to the worker. This increased benefit to
the worker —this improvement in his real
remuneration and reward —is not con-
fined, however, to claims for an in-
creased real basic wage.
It is now also being realised that, in
addition to the regular Basic Wage
Enquiries, a test case takes place every
few years to review the level of margins
in the Federal system —that is to review
that part of wages and salaries over and
above the basic wage.
This generally takes the form of a hear-
ing in relation to the Metal Trades
Award but what is done in that Award
rapidly spreads throughout most of the
award system—Federal and State —and
margins are increased more or less in
proportion to the increase in the margin
of the fitter under the Metal Trades
Award. This happens not only in the
manual callings but in most callings,
however highly paid.
Such a hearing, like a basic wage
enquiry, also involves a general review
of the economy to see whether anything
more can be done in margins policy than
merely to preserve the purchasing power
of the margin paid to each worker •
to see, in other words, whether every-
one can be given a real increase. This,
in its turn, means an assessment of
movements in productivity in Australia
in an attempt to ascertain whether there
is capacity to provide a real increase in
margins.
From time to time other big industrial
issues arise requiring full-dress economic
enquiries, for example whether there
should be an increase in annual leave
from two to three weeks, or a decrease
in weekly hours from 40, to say, 35.
Here again capacity to pay for such
changes has to be found in the economy
and its growing productivity.
An Industrial Legislature
Tt follows that general economic test-
A case hearings must necessarily take
place regularly before the (Arbitration)
Commission, and it follows that the Com-
mission is really an industrial legislature
with a key economic role in the com-
munity. It has the major task of deciding
the way in which, and the extent to
which, increased productivity of Austral-
ian industry is going to justify real ad-
vances for the Australian wage and salary
earner. It would be understandable if
the lawyers who play the main role in de-
termining these economic questions be-
come planners and policy makers.
However, the Commission has regu-
larly repudiated the notion that it is a
social or an economic legislature. It has
said that it is not its function to aim
at such social and economic changes as
may seem desirable to its members. “The
true function of the Commission”, it has
stated, “is to settle industrial disputes. . . .
It will not ignore the consequences to
be expected from its actions but it will
not deliberately create situations which
would need rectification by Governmen-
tal action.” In the 1961 Basic Wage
Judgment it said “We are not national
economic policy-makers or planners.”
The lawyers are not, therefore, anxious
to thrust their own economic policies and
plans down the community’s throat.
All this is true enough. But in the
specifically arbitral field the Commission
has great powers in the distribution of
increases in productivity and, although
it cannot pursue general economic poli-
cies of its own, it can decide in appro-
priate matters whether such increases in
productivity or the workers’ share of
such increases—are to be given as in-
creased leisure or as increased wages.
As we shall see these are very important
powers and they are without doubt legis-
lative in character.
In carrying out its difficult task the
Commission has been to a great extent in


the hands of the parties who initiate pro-
ceedings before it. There is some reality
underlying the idea that the Commission
merely settles actual industrial disputes
between particular parties in particular
industries. The Commission is affected by
the way the claims made by the moving
parties are timed in accordance with
their own industrial strategy.
It may find itself, during a period of
from 18 months to two years, facing at
least one Basic Wage Enquiry, a general
margins hearing and, say, a claim for
three weeks’ annual leave all heard
separately and all timed, as to the presen-
tation of claims, by the parties. It follows
that this important body, which despite
its protests is really an industrial legis-
lature, has not so far been able to
ensure that attention is given in a con-
sidered way, after full argument, to the
manner in which available capacity for
improvement is to be divided up between
different types of claims.
An enquiry every three years?
A serious doubt must arise as to
whether we should continue the long es-
tablished practice of moving from test
case to test case in an unco-ordinated
manner and at the mercy of the indus-
trial strategy of the parties. If this kind
of economic, political and social problem
exists and is to be solved by arbitration
then there should he one general econ-
omic enquiry undertaken for all pur-
poses every three years or so.
One full debate should be held about
every three years on the question whether
productivity has increased and if so
whether there is any capacity to increase
the real level of wages and to improve
the important conditions of work. If
capacity is found to exist, consideration
should be given to the distribution of the
ensuing benefit as basic wage, as mar-
gins, or as increased leisure.
In this way the parties would be
forced to settle on a plan of distribution
and real issues could be pinpointed and
argued about. Now these real issues are
rarely if ever debated openly because
of the piecemeal approach.
Whether the Commission could, by
procedural and administrative devices,
produce a general hearing of this kind
is a matter of debate.
A move towards the goal of a single
“productivity” hearing could result from
a decision of the Commission in the 1961
Basic Wage Case when it isolated for
separate treatment the two fundamental
questions in basic wage determination.
As to the first preservation of the
purchasing power of the basic wage
it refused to re-establish a system of
quarterly automatic adjustments, but it
did decide to deal with this matter on
an annual basis and to assume that “the
effect of movements in the Consumer
Price Index should be reflected in the
basic wage unless we are persuaded to
the contrary by those seeking to oppose
the change.” This concerned the problem
of maintaining the real value of the basic
wage.
As to the second fundamental ques-
tion the Commission said:
“Since such a consideration of price
movements is to take place annually
the question remains whether the
Commission should at the annual
hearing continue to review all factors
in the economy to decide whether or
not to change the level of the real
basic wage. It seems to us that once
the question of prices is dealt with
otherwise a review of the economy
generally and in particular of pro-
ductivity increases could more properly
take place at longer periods of time,
say, every three or four years.”
This decision recognises that it is dif-
ficult to detect real movements in pro-
ductivity over a shorter period than from
three to four years.
This difficulty also applies to the
carrying out of the same type of en-
quiry for other purposes than basic
wage fixation. In other words, having
conducted an enquiry to see what pro-
ductivity increase has occurred, what-
ever be the purpose for which it was
conducted, it would be of little use to
have another such enquiry for the same
or any other purpose until after some
three or four years have elapsed.
Some may argue that it is a matter for
the organised trade union movement to
decide whether it will take its share of
increased productivity as basic wage,
margins or increased leisure, and that
its industrial strategy on these matters
is the only significant one—that the em-
ployers and governments have no interest
in the matter. For example, it is said by
some that if the union movement wants
extra leave and is willing to face up to
the consequences of this in being able
to get smaller real increases of wages
than it otherwise might have got, this
should be the end of the matter.
But this is not true for the obvious
reason that choice between increased
wages and increased leisure is itself a
matter affecting the productive capacity
of the country in which employers and
governments have an interest, and a
choice by the unions in favour of in-
creased leisure may, at a particular time
and in particular circumstances, be op-
posed to the general public interest. Simi-
larly in particular circumstances it may
suit the employers to press for increased
margins rather than basic wage, in order
to give an impetus to the waning forces
producing skilled labor.
The only really satisfactory way of
facing up to all these matters is to have
a general “productivity” economic en-
quiry every three or four years and to
decide deliberately how to distribute any
productivity increases which have taken
place. If either by its own handling of its
procedures or as a result of legislative
amendments the Commission were to
undertake such a general enquiry every
three or four years, the ordinary detailed
award-making could proceed on an
industry - by - industry basis in the
traditional way.
A proper enquiry into productivity will
throw up a number of difficult questions.
Not the least of these will be the find-
ing of some reasonably satisfactory way
to measure changes in productivity. An-
other difficulty which the Commission
has left open for future consideration is
the way in which over-award payments
or actual salaries paid, as opposed to
award salaries, are to be looked at.
It is argued by some that productivity
increases are in fact distributed from
year to year by the operation of the
labor market and that when one looks
at average wages and salaries actually
paid from year to year it can be seen
that these keep up with, or outstrip in
real terms, increases in productivity.
“Not desirable”
We can now come back to the first
** question: Should all these matters
be decided by lawyers and, if so, what
should be done to see that they get
proper economic assistance? In the
1947 Commonwealth Conciliation and
Arbitration Act provision was made for
the establishment of an office of
economic and industrial research to col-
lect and compile, in accordance with the
directions of the Chief Judge, informa-
tion which might be of assistance to the
Court and to the Commissioners, and
to carry out research in respect of such
matters as the Chief Judge directer. No
staff was ever appointed and it seems to
have its own economists and statisticians.
These provisions of the Act were later
repealed.
However, if the Commission calls into
consultation from time to time econo-
mists of its own choosing, it would need
to be able to give them protection from
the too vigorous use of forensic
techniques.
The question for the future remains:
Are we to leave all these matters to
lawyer-judges as the dominant decision-
making authority, taking special steps to
see that they are provided with proper
material, or are we to call upon econo-
mists, academicians retired politicians,
trade union leaders? Or perhaps a mixed
tribunal? The community will probably
decide to keep the lawyers.


OVERSEAS
THE WAR IN VIETNAM
or, sitting it out at the "Beautiful Phoenix"
From JOHN STIRLING in Saigon
A star shell climbs into the sky above
Saigon, and as it falls, lighting up
a corner of the flat plain beyond the
city, a battery of howitzers barks into
the night. On the roof garden of the
glass-and-concrete Caravelle Hotel, when
the sound of the guns breaks through
the tinkle of ice in tall glasses, and the
soft plash of the fountain, conversation
stops for a moment, as for some tactless
intrusion.
In the My Phong (“Beautiful Phoenix”)
nightclub, on the river front, the eight-
man orchestra exchange weary glances
as they strike up their thirty-first tune
of the evening. The spotlight moves
round the satin-quilted walls of the stage,
and picks out Linda, top chanteuse,
gliding towards the microphone. She
grabs it to her like a long-lost lover, and
belts out a Vietnamese-American version
of “My Heart Belongs To Daddy”.
On the dance floor, Marie Thuy, grade
A taxi dancer, jives with her partner,
a young American in a Hawaiian shirt,
who spends the daylight hours teaching
Vietnamese soldiers guerrilla warfare.
Marie Thuy deserves her A-grade.
Her skin-tight green silk gown plunges
deep at the neck and splits just below the
hip. When her .partner twirls her round,
Marie’s long black hair streams out like
a comet’s tail, and her heavily mascaraed
eyes flash with pleasure. About 15 other
couples are jiving on the dance floor, and
another 10 or 12 are watching from the
tables around it.
With minor variations, the routine at
the My Phong is repeated nightly at the
Arc-en-Ciel in the Chinese suburb of
Cholon, where superb Szechuan food is
combined with hot torch singing; at the
Cong-Hoa, which boasts an Olympic-
sized swimming pool; the Dai Kim Do,
installed in the Grand Monde building,
which in its heydey was the biggest
brothel and casino East of Suez; and at
the Tour d’lvoire, a nightclub with bitter-
sweet memories for thousands of Legion-
naires who drank deep at its bamboo bar
during the Indo-China war.
Now the Foreign Legion has yielded
place to American servicemen. There
are more .than 1,500 G.l.s in the Saigon
area. In the evening, hundreds of them
change from service denims into colored
shirts and wander down the boulevards
looking for amusement.
Saigon’s entertainment industry is
hastily retooling to cater for the G.I.
influx. Bar girls and dancers are going
to day schools to learn English. Around
To-Do (Liberty) boulevard, in central
Saigon, many new bistros have opened
up, with names like “Montana”, “Blue
Angel” and “Flappy Bar”. For all of
them, business is good, and getting
better.
Yet the nightclub owners are filled
with a deep, nagging anxiety. Looming
over them, like a black monsoon cloud,
is the “Austerity Law”, approved in
principle by the National Assembly,
which aims to make Saigon one of the
primmest cities in the Far East. Its
sponsor, Mrs Nguyen Thi Minh, said
that its purpose was to protect “Vietnam-
ese traditional virtue”, and to restore a
“wholesome, typically Vietnamese
society, by banning vain and degrading
entertainment.”
The Law puts an end to beauty con-
tests, cabarets, cockfights and boxing
matches, unless they are in the “interests
of the art.” Fortune-tellers, prostitutes
and sensational newspapers are threat-
ened with heavy penalties. But it is
Article 4 of the Law which marks the
end of the road for the night-clubs.
Article 4 bans professional dancers and
organised dancing, whether in public or
in private. Those who violate Article 4
may be fined up to 50,000 piastres
(£243), or go to gaol for up to three
months.
The Law is still in President Ngo
Dinh Diem’s palace, awaiting his sig-
nature. Many in Saigon hope that it
will never be signed. Leading the resist-
ance to the Austerity Law is Madam
Nhan, founder and organiser of the
Waiters’ and Cabaret Employees’ Trade
Union of South Vietnam. A recent meet-
ing of the Union, attended by more than
a hundred taxi dancers, passed a resolu-
tion asking the Government to delay the
Austerity Law until new jobs had been
found for all those who will lose employ-
ment by it.
Madam Nhan has spent more than
half her life in the nightclub business.
She speaks nostalgically of the French
colonial days in Vietnam, when the pro-
fession of taxi girl was not frowned
upon, as it is today. A slim, tense
woman, who looks 10 years younger
than her real age of 43, Madame Nhan
gets angry when people accuse “her”
taxi girls of immorality. Most of them,
Madame Nhan emphasises, are well-to-
do citizens, and many are supporting
aged mothers or young children.
TI/Fadame Nhan says that 428 of
1 A Siagon’s taxi girls have joined her
Union, and another 700 or 800 remain
unorganised. The girls with union cards
have been sorted into grades A, B and
C. Girls like Marie Thuy of the My
Phong, who speak French, dance ex-
pertly, and are pretty as well, naturally
make Grade A. They earn upwards of
10,000 piastres a month (£49) by way
of salary, commissions on drinks, their
cut from the dancing fee (300 piastres
a dance), and gifts from the gentlemen.
Grade B girls are easy on the eye, but
a little heavy-footed and not able to
exchange banter in French or English.
They earn between 6,000 and 8,000
piastres a month. Girls in Grade C,
Madame Nhan admits, are usually too
old for the game, but what else can they
do, poor things? They are lucky if they
earn about 2,000 piastres—just enough
to keep themselves. “We are hardworking
people,” Madame Nhan declares, “and
we in the nightclub business are con-
tributing to Vietnam’s defence by paying
taxes.”
Undoubtedly Saigon’s entertainment
world is paying taxes. But they scarcely
match the sacrifice of hundreds of men
—and women —who are being killed each
month in the vicious guerrilla war in the
rice fields. When villagers from some
bleak “strategic hamlet”, or soldiers
from some remote army post travel to
Saigon (risking Communist ambushes on
the way), they must be amazed by the
serene and luxurious atmosphere of the
capital. Of course, everyone in Saigon
knows that there is a war on. But
sitting in the Caravelle roof garden, or
in the air-conditioned Blue Angel bar,
or listening to Linda at the My Phong,
it is much easier to forget.


FRANCO OPENS THE DOOR
A timid, belated start on more liberal policies?
From NEIL McINNES in Madrid
IT would be an exaggeration to say that
Franco appears to have become more
popular in a country where (one is
reduced to guessing) a substantial
minority cordially detest him and another,
perhaps equally substantial, are bitterly
disappointed with his regime. It would
also be hazardous to generalise from
what one hears in this republic of silence,
where, even in the privacy of an apart-
ment, some bourgeois are reluctant to say
anything about “the old man” —whereas,
paradoxically, in a bar a worker will
buttonhole the foreigner to proclaim
obscene and picturesque abuse of the
Head of the State as though the police
didn’t exist. (The use of French, widely
spoken among the migrant labor of north
Spain, is the usual precaution for these
outbursts.) Yet one has enough evidence
to venture the generalisation that apolo-
gists of the regime feel less embarrassed
and more enthusiastic in speaking up for
Franco to a foreigner (automatically
assumed to be critical), whereas opponents
confess to being more hopeful, even if
they are hoping in spite of Franco. In
particular, one hears spontaneous praise
of the Caudillo’s “flexibility” or (what
comes to the same thing) of his two
Ministers, Senores Rubio and Ullastres.
This is criticism, as direct as one is likely
to hear publicly in Spain, of the policies
previously followed by Franco, before he
showed his “flexibility” by allowing the
cautious Catholic liberals to eclipse the
fascist forces around the throne.
The regime has in no apparent way
been liberalised, though one hears interes-
ting stories of Ministries that have fallen
into the hands of the Rubio-Ullastres
clan deliberately “scooping” the Informa-
tion Ministry—i.e. publishing as official
documents and communiques material
that would probably have been censored
by a department that remains the oppres-
sive and stupid master of the Press. That
Press is as empty and official as ever,
but the sources of genuine information
have multiplied in a nation that is now
sending more labor than ever before to
work in manpower-hungry Europe, and
which last year received eight million
tourists. The reasons for a more favor-
able attitude to the regime lie elsewhere:
in the fact that, at last, Franco has
allowed to be set on foot policies that are
progressive in the literal sense that they
indicate tasks that can occupy the State
for years ahead and open up perspectives
that reach well beyond Franco —indeed
beyond the likely span of his regime.
Chief among these are the agrarian
reform, which in principle aims to redis-
tribute land tenures in a country half of
whose population are peasants but where
18 p.c. of owners hold 90 p.c. of the
cultivable land; the banking reform,
which in theory should break the strangle-
hold of finance capital over productive
enterprise; and the move to associate
Spain with the Common Market, which
logically should restore the country to its
place in European civilisation.
The first measures of the agrarian
reform that have got past the Cortes are
of very limited effect, and the Govern-
ment permitted the scandal of Bills it had
prepared itself being burked by feudal
landed interests represented in that
“Parliament”. Similarly with the bank
reform, private concerns were able, once
again, to prevent the establishment of an
agricultural bank, sorely needed by the
peasantry, while the industrial banks will
be obliged only very gradually to release
their grip over enterprise.
That the regime shrinks from envisag-
ing the likely or logical implications of its
own actions does not alter the fact that
these are progressive policies, whose
gradual implementation could bridge the
gap between this and a successor regime.
The liberation of the Spanish peasantry
from idle landlords (which the Republic,
to its discredit, never attempted and
which Franco ignored for 20 years) has
now been begun, however timidly ; it will
not have to be invented by a revolutionary
Government after Franco, but is a task
that can be handed on to a Catholic
democrat party. The mild and belated
attack on the small clan of usurers who
control industry was begun with the
nationalisation of the Bank of Spain this
month, dictated to Madrid by Washing-
ton and the Common Market powers.
There again, a line of action is suggested
that a new Government could continue
without seeming revolutionary. Finally,
Madrid’s application to Brussels might
lie pending for a long time, for some
European capitals are unwilling to associ-
ate with Franco, but it could be taken
up later at a suitable moment without his
successor being accused of suddenly offer-
ing to sell Spain to the Europeans.
Tn general it could be said that, in the
A end, Franco has had the courage to
preside over the liquidation of much of
Francoism, and has used his authority
as the greatest of “patriots” to bring
many Spaniards who are chronically
suspicious of modern Europe and all
foreigners to envisage a modernisation of
the country in partnership with its neigh-
bors. Opponents here quickly point out
that he has not, and probably could not
have gone very far in any of these
matters; some add that he is making
ineffectual gestures to please the American
and European lenders who saved him
from bankruptcy in 1959. But in these
affairs, the hardest step is the first one and
there is advantage in having it made
b> a personality whose authority over
nationalist and reactionary forces is
unchallenged. For example, the decree of
April 15 which allows foreigners to invest
freely in Spain and take out all their gains
and profits would have been greeted as
a sell-out to American capitalists if it
had been issued by a new Republican
Government. (Economic nationalism
assumes in Spain pathological forms seen
commonly in newly independent colonies.)
In beginning work that others can
carry on after him Franco might avoid
a judgment history was preparing for
him after his 20 years of flirtation with
causes that led nowhere: co-operation
with the Axis, a “mission” in Islam,
autarchy, “Hispanidad”, Algerie Fran-
caise, etc. In allowing men like Rubio
and Ullastres to gain the prestige that
came with the first successes of these new
policies, he might also have prepared the
party that could govern the country after
his disappearance. In the meantime, he
has given some Spaniards a vision of
what Spain could be without Franco, a
country that liberated its peasantry, gave
freedom to its entrepreneurs and sought
closer association with West Europe.


Around Melbourne
A VISCOUNT, A VISCOUNT, A VISCOUNT...
■jl/fELBOURNE may not be Australia’s
most musical city, but rest
assured, we are strong on singing
commercials. In recent weeks we
have seen a truly magnificent climax
to the struggle between the cigarette
companies, symphony orchestras,
military bands, choirs, the lot. No
doubt you have witnessed the superb
Craven A March with Bob Gibson
and his orchestra. And even a varia-
tion of it with bagpipers marching
through a Scotch mist.
Sydney was responsible for the
Craven A March, but it occurred to
your pioneer, that there must be
somebody in town who was respon-
sible for singing commercials, a man
who lay awake nights, fighting for
worthy lyrics to rhyme with words
like filter and smoke. And indeed
there was, the band leader Tommy
Davidson, who claims to write and
produce as many singing commercials
as anyone in the country.
Tommy said that his finest pro-
duction was the Viscount song. It
won an Australian Federation Broad-
casting Stations National Award
(Creative Division) for one of the best
eight commercials of 1959-60. You
have have heard it:
“The new king size Viscount,
The Viscount, the Viscount,
“The new king size Viscount,
So smoke some today.”
This year the Viscount song hit
television, and it took six months to
organise it. Tommy believes never
will there be another TV commercial
like it. He hired a 46-piece symphony
orchestra and a 12-voice choir. They
took three hours to record the song
in Melbourne. The next move was
the filming in Sydney. A special stage
had to be built at the Pagewood
Studios. Another 46-piece symphony
orchestra, plus six males and six
female models, had to be hired. Both
orchestra and choir had merely to
mime nicely, while Tommy did the
conducting in his dinner suit.
The filming took 10 hours. The
result appears on the screen for 57
seconds. The cost: £5500.
But they’re not all like that. For
Du Maurier he handled it very simply
with a three-piece rhythm section and
a vocal trio:
“If you like what’s new in modern
living
Here’s a new king size filter
cigarette.”
But as Tommy points out the sing-
ing commercial writer really feels
happy when he hears his jingles sung
in the streets, when they’re playing
them at all the school dances. His
latest jingle for Worth’s hosiery,
tastefully done with a good Dixieland
band, has been so well received it has
made the juke boxes around town:
All the shades of New Orleans
Are in hosiery by Worth
And you will agree indubitably
They are the finest nylons on
earth.
Yet of all his singing commercials
he looks back on this hosiery com-
mercial with the most affection. It
was played to the accompaniment of
a 14-piece orchestra, including seven
strings, four woodwinds, piano, drums
and bass. Lorenzo Nolan, an Irish
tenor, sang it with true feeling:
The colors of Spring are so
beautiful,
The colors of Spring are so gay,
The colors of Spring are so
delicate
As soft as the morning in May.
We have taken the Spring colors
and woven them
Into stockings of gossamer sheer,
With a hint of a tint just a hint
of it,
So wear them me beautiful dear.
Tommy explained that he had made
as many as six singing commercials
in a day and in these times it was
easily the most financially rewarding
work for top musicians. A good sing-
ing commercial man could make £5O
for 90 minutes work. At this stage
I left him and returned to my TV
set. I turned it on and saw a little
beauty. It was all about a deodorant
sung to the tune of “The Blue
Danube”. I wondered if it was one of
Tommy’s.
★ ★ ★
Tt’s the fashion in Melbourne to be
blase about filing - cabinet - glass-
houses, but as filing - cabinet - glass-
houses go our 20 storey ICI building
is imposing. Even Robin Boyd hag
praised it. It was Australia’s first sky-
scraper and we used to call it the
ICU building. That’s because you
could see some surprising things when
the nurses sunbathed on the roof of
St Vincent’s Hospital. Furthermore
the City Council had neglected to put
a roof on a certain convenience down
below.
But the ICI folk have been in
deadly trouble. In November, 1960,
glass panels started to fall from the
west wall and drop into Nicholson St.
below. Indeed they fell so regularly
that the ICI engineers had to put
up a special awning to catch the
falling glass. By February of this
year 71 sheets sft by 3ft had fallen,
making a fine shower of glass.
The property manager, Mr C. E. H.
Biss, was aghast. This glass had been
imported specially for its toughness.
Eventually it was discovered that the
shattering was caused by tiny im-
purities, smaller than a pinhead.
Meanwhile the boys in the Com-
monwealth Offices opposite were
having a lovely time. They had a
large chart on the wall marking off
all the 700 panels in squares. They
took daily bets as to which panel
would fall next. The man who picked
the right square would take the jack-
pot.
Last week ICI decided to spoil the
fun. All 700 panels will come down
leaving the bare concrete which they
will spray with a pigmented plastic
envelope to give protection against the
weather and to blend with the other
walls of the building. ICI is not
boasting about the cost of this but it
should be well over £50,000.
So far there has been no decision
about glass or any other material as
a permanent replacement, but all in
all it has been quite an education for
people who live in glass houses.
★ ★ ★
Vou will be sorry to hear that the
A good name of Victorian League
football is being sullied by demon
drink. The beer can, because of its
lightness, its convenience, and easy
disposability has caused a boom in
drinking at football matches this year.
It is now normal for football caterers
to have a handy stock of at least
18,000 cans of Carlton & United
Brewery’s finest.
BATMAN


EDMUND
BARTON:
LUCK
AND
DESTINY
NOBODY would have singled
out Edmund Barton, nick-
named by his mother "Toby"
when he was born as the tenth
child of William Barton on Janu-
ary 18, 1849, as a "man of
destiny". His father was a former
secretary to the Australian Agri-
cultural Company who, after
quarrelling with his employers,
had opened in business as
"merchant, agent, bazaar and
repository for carriages and other
goods, for sale on commission"
and later as Sydney's first stock-
broker. His mother kept a school
for young ladies at 100 Macquarie
Street, Sydney, between the
premises of a milliner and a
chimney-sweep.
Though the parents had succeeded
somehow in sending an elder son to
Oxford, there would have been little hope
for Toby if he had not been lucky from
the day he was born. His talents and
personality were exceptional; his chances
of cultivating them at the outset seemed
nil. But before the year in which he was
born was out the new secular State
education system had provided Fort
Street School in Macquarie’s old Mili-
tary Hospital to nurture his earlier years,
the first steps had been taken to re-found
Sydney Grammar School to carry him
on, William Charles Wentworth had
organised the preliminaries for a uni-
versity and Charles Badham, a notable
classical and Shakespearean scholar, the
intimate of Newman and Thackeray and
Grote was preparing to so behave about
the Thirty Nine Articles and life and
religion in general that Europe would be
glad to see him leave for the Antipodes
to tutor young Barton.
So Barton trotted from the family
home in Cumberland Street, now razed, to
Fort Street for two years, ambled up the
east hill to the dungeon-like class rooms
which no less an architect than Blackett
had built at the new Sydney Grammar
School, played on the “goat run” which it
called a playground, was its school cap-
tain for the two years 1863 and 1864,
and was finally remitted to be matured by
the ministrations of Badham which put
a mark on him for life.
His mode of living, his scholarship, his
passion for Shakespeare, whose works he
knew nearly by heart, were all influenced
by or stemmed from Badham, as did his
habit of quoting the Iliad in the original
to his opponents in Parliament or hurling
Italian proverbs at the Irish in all-night
sittings.
Properly conditioned for life, he left
Sydney University with every honor it
could confer on a classically-minded
Master of Arts. And presently a brown-
haired, black-eyed youth with the makings
of a noble forehead, was seen fleetingly in
Mr Bradley’s legal office in Margaret
Street, going through the preliminaries
for the Bar examination. In 1871, at
almost the earliest possible age, he was
passing out of the chambers of a Mr
Davis with whom he was reading, to
brave the rigors of the country Supreme
Court circuits of New South Wales.
And though on these it was not possible
to learn much law, it was possible to
learn a lot about human nature and the
art of advocacy and the politics of New
South Wales.
The Colony was still a crude and rough
and ready place. Gold was the watch-
word. Hill End was going great guns.
Towns were small and primitive—the
five largest in New South Wales, outside
Sydney, held only 28,000 people all told
and Sydney itself was a cesspit of civic
and hygienic corruption, the size of
Wollongong of today, in which 42 out of
every 100 children born died before the
age of five.
The other colonies of Australia were
still foreign territory. Prudent Govern-
ments kept their railway systems away
from each other’s borders —New South
Wales had only 400 miles of railway any-
how. Chicanery was the order of the
day in politics of which the watchword
v/as, “Here today and gone tomorrow”,
and any Government that survived a full
year felt itself all over to assure itself
that it was really there.
At the same time, it was a decade of
bustling progress. Population was increas-
ing at a great rate. The loan houses were
building a boom as the time payment
houses did nearly a century afterwards,
the railways were beginning to reach out,
the free selectors were having a merry
time with squatters’ land and sheep. And,
altogether, it was a great country for a
young man of education to be born in,
and especially to be a politician in.
When young Barton had married a lady
The first in a new series on
Australian Prime Ministers
By M. H. ELLIS
whom he met while on tour with a cricket
team in the smoky village of a New-
castle w'hich had 7000 inhabitants in
those days, he decided that it was time
to settle down, and that politics was his
natural metier. He was again lucky. The
very year in which he made his decision—
or perhaps he made his decision because
of the event—a seat in the Legislative
Assembly was created for the University
and Barton set out to contest it, greatly
daring, against the Attorney-General,
W. A. Windeyer.
He seemed to have little chance of
victory since Windeyer, apart from his
ministerial office, was a Fellow of the
University and its first graduate. How-
ever, the neophyte came within six votes


of victory and in the following year, when
the incumbent took a Supreme Court
judgeship, he won the seat even against
Dr Renwick, another Fellow and generous
benefactor of the University.
So there he was, just 30 years old, an
MLA, but probably more concerned with
politics as a promoter of his legal career
than anything else. Once he was secure,
the University seat was abolished after
only four years of existence and he fled
in 1880 to Wellington electorate.
His entry into debate had not been
altogether auspicious, though he was
approved in certain circles as a moderate
free trader. He supported Henry Parkes’s
Education Act Amendment Bill to provide
secular education against Archbishop
Vaughan, who had yearned to shed his
blood in opposition. (He had cast at the
Archbishop quotations from Nestor
extracted in Homeric Greek out of the
ninth book of the Iliad and enshrined
them with a rough—very rough—trans-
lation in the Hansard.) Obviously though
a young David ready to tackle opponents
several times his size, he was not going to
be a comfortable political companion and
when he made another speech in which
he defended the right of the Legislative
Council “as the Upper House of the
Commons of New South Wales” to
originate or amend taxation measures,
members of Governments began to glance
at each other uneasily and to think up
ways of disposing of him.
Full of Political Scorpions
f'F'HE urge to political mayhem became
stronger in Sir Henry Parkes and his
followers when the quoter of Homer
(sometimes it was Euripides) joined hands
with another newcomer named George
Houston Reid and poured contempt on
Parkes’s timid attempts to reform the
blackmail system of free selection before
survey. And though he and his friends
“did for” the Ministry of Parkes who fled
incontinently to the shelter of Tenterfield
electorate, Barton himself discovered that
his own Wellington had become full of
political scorpions all waiting eagerly to
poison him on the hustings. He fled just
as incontinently as Parkes to the shelter-
ing arms of East Sydney which Parkes
had left.
New South Wales politics obviously
formed a dangerous whirlpool, and it
appears to have occurred to the young
orator that it would be less dangerous on
the one neutral rock visible in a turbulent
sea in which nineteen Governments had
foundered in twenty years. The Speaker-
ship certainly would not be a bad place
to rest on after the excitements of four
elections in as many years.
Hence when the new Government of
Alexander Stuart approved his nomina-
tion, he became, at 33, the youngest and
most dignified-looking Speaker the New
South Wales Legislative Assembly had
ever boasted.
Parliament was also proud of his record
as Speaker when he resigned after three
years in office, though throughout, as was
natural in a body in which nearly every-
body sometimes was drunk at the same
time, it had consistently resisted his
strange obsession for decorum.
One Parliamentarian, indeed, Mr
“Mudgee” Taylor, a member who, when
in an adventurous mood, would have
made Mr Dan Curtin MP, at his liveliest,
sound like Lord Chesterfield addressing
a girls’ school, carried his opposition so
far that he appealed to the Privy Council
on the right of the Speaker to eject him
for disorderly conduct—and won. And
it was not so long after that incident
cropped up that the youthful Speaker
began to meditate on how wrong it was
for one to tempt providence too far and,
after one or two unsuccessful attempts,
persuaded Parliament to allow him to
resign both his Speakership and his seat.
Parliament no doubt was glad to see the
exit of one who had actually objected to
members bringing their beds into the
chamber.
That seemed to be the end of that. He
refused Henry Parkes’s offer of a seat in
the Legislative Council. He refused offers
to stand for another electorate, no doubt
having decided that the classification
which divided electorates into two varie-
ties —“pigrooting” and “buckjumping”—
was just. Later at the end of the 1880 s
he accepted a Council seat and the Attor-
ney-Generalship from the short-lived
Dibbs Ministry—things were steadying up
in New South Wales politics by that
time. Only seven ministries went under
during his first ten years in active politics.
Fate once again had been working
again on his future, or rather continuing
to prepare the foundations for the work
for which he seemed destined from birth
and for which his experiences had now
conditioned him.
Tt is singular that the first attempt to
A found a Federal House of Parliament
in Australia had issued from a Privy
Council recommendation in the year of
his birth. It had failed only through an
accident in the House of Lords —fortun-
ately, since no Federation could have
outlived the gold fever days of the
fifties and the loyalist expansions of
the North, and some other influence
such as the wide isolation of the
colonies from each other both in distance
and outlook. Now just as he had
acquired the experience needed for the
task Barton suddenly found himself pre-
cipitated into the movement for
Federation.
The timid planting of fresh Federal
seed at the Intercolonial Conference of
1880, over which Graham Berry of Vic-
toria had presided, had proved prema-
ture and Parkes who laid it in ihe furrow
as quickly plucked it from the soil and
put it back in the bag for nearly a
decade ; so that it was only in November
1889, that Parkes, (who only a few
months before had introduced a curious
bill to change the name of New South
Wales to “Australia”, presumably with
the idea of annexing the rest of the con-
tinent some of his enemies suggested)
produced it unexpectedly from its wrap-
pings at the Tenterfield School of Arts
on October 26,1889, while discussing the
report on defence of the colonies just
made by a British officer, Major-General
Edwards.
A Quirk of Fate
Tf, said the Grand Old Man of New
A South Wales politics, they were to
carry out the plans of General Edwards
something more would be needed than
the already existent Federal Council of
the Colonies. They would need “one cen-
tral executive authority which could bring
all the forces of the different colonies into
one national army.” He declared that,
“the great question they would have to
consider was whether the time has not
now come for the creation on this Aus-
tralian continent of an Australian Gov-
ernment” and for a convention of the
colonies appointed with the authority
of the colonial Parliaments to “devise the
constitution which would be necessary for
bringing into existence a Federal Govern-
ment with a Federal Parliament for the
conduct of national business.”
Out of that speech arose the 1891 con-
vention, the first meeting of representa-
tives of the colonies, which produced
any progress worthy of being called con-
crete towards the realisation of the
Federal idea. Once more the hand of
fate seemed to intervene in a special way
to steer Barton towards his destiny. He
had written to Parkes congratulating
him on his Tenterfield speech and in their
subsequent contacts the ageing Parkes
had seen the light of enthusiasm in his
correspondent’s eye and had marked him
down as an apostle of the inner circle
of Federalists. He made rapid progress.
He went to the convention as the leader
of the indeed mediocre New South Wales
delegates ; but he would have emerged
only as a secondary figure if it had not
been for the illness of the distinguished
constitutionalist Inglis Clark of Tas-
mania. Only because of Clark’s illness,
through another unexpected quirk of fate,
did he find himself alone with Samuel
Griffith and Charles Cameron Kingston
on the Queensland Premier’s yacht,
Lucinda, drifting round the Hawkesbury
River mouth and helping in Clark’s stead


to draft the bill which eventually formed
the basis of the Australian Constitution.
It was largely Griffith’s bill, but when
they returned to harbor the author of
the Queensland Criminal Code was
generous. Barton who, he said, “took
Mr Inglis Clark’s place when he was laid
up.. . devoted himself to that work as
strenuously and industriously as any man
whom I have ever had the pleasure of
working with, and I venture to say that I
have done a good deal of hard work in
my time.”
So Barton came out of the conference,
what he had not been when he had gone
into it: a national figure, a personality
whom everybody could visualise through
cartoon and story.
The picture of him at the time was a
curious one. He was 42 years old. He
was tall and broad-shouldered beyond
the average and the long, tight-buttoned,
frock coat which he affected above a pair
of grey trousers accentuated his appear-
ance of height, especially when he
appeared, as he usually did, under a silk
hat and a broad high collar.
Conviviality and wisdom
TTis head and countenance were unusual.
They were often described as “noble,”
“finely chiselled,” a “sculptor’s delight.”
The brow was broad, the forehead high
under a luxuriant thatch of brown hair
adorned with a white quiff. The nose, a
magnificent feature, was classic in line.
The mouth has been described by Deakin
as “fish-like.” but at least in his later
years when I studied him more than once
on the Bench, it did not appear so. The
upper lip was long and slightly over-
hanging, the mouth wide and generous
and capable of breaking into a charming
smile, the lower lip slightly full at centre
and the chin firm and leaner than would
have been expected on such a face,
divided by the “imaginative cleft.”
At first glimpse one might have thought
that for all its massiveness it was not a
strong face. It was certainly a bewilder-
ing one which looked, on close inspec-
tion, as if the upper structure of a
powerful skull had been cemented on to
the strong jawpiece of a slightly smaller
skull. There was determination there and
sometimes there was passion and anger
in the strange, black wide-apart eyes. It
was also the face of a controlled man.
He was no orator, though in moments
of inspiration he was a phrase-maker.
He did not make contrived speeches. He
delivered himself in carefully thought out
impromptu sentences, sometimes long
and involved, in a voice that surprised by
its lightness of timbre. He was an easy
man to report and what he said fell into
order as it hit the paper, sentences com-
plete, commas going naturally into their
places and the meaning, once there was
time to take it in, usually precise.
Though he had the reputation of being
indolent there was no real indolence in
him. The legend of his dissipations, his
preference for an easy chair at the
Athenaeum and for good company was
largely the legend of his enemies. He
had little care for detail, but he was a
sound delegator of authority and of
planning and the band that soon adhered
to him, Quick, Garran, Atlee Hunt and
the rest, found themselves often work-
ing through the night on his missions.
He himself devoted his energies to essen-
tials —the projection of basic principles
and ideas, and to leadership.
He was a convivial and clubable man.
the heart and soul of the Sydney Athen-
aeum, haunt of the great Bulletin men
of his day, of George Rignold and his
theatrical band, of everybody who sub-
scribed to the club watchwords —“con-
viviality and wisdom.”
At the Athenaeum, apart from his Sun-
day night “open-house” at his Kirribilii
home, he lived his social life presiding
over the club’s affairs. It was fitting that
when Barton died, the Athenaeum should
die, too.
He had, of course, his chambers in
Denman Chambers, for he needed to
make a living which was not so easy in
the years 1891-98, when the reckless loan
policy of the land banks and the after-
maths of industrial disturbance and gold-
mine speculation were coming home to
roost. His desk like everything about
him was huge and in those days covered
with briefs. It is still there and the room,
soon to pass when the new Supreme
Court is built and Denman follows Sel-
borne Chambers into oblivion is now
occupied by a silk who is a grandson
of his old master, Badham.
Legend was beginning to build itself
round Barton in the stirring years of the
early ’nineties. His practice was mostly
commercial. He was earning the repu-
tation of being a great arbitrator. He
and his friend O’Connor held retainers
for the now rapidly expanding railway
department which never seemed to be
able to build a bridge or a railway with-
out becoming involved in endless disputes
with contractors who, being largely Irish
or “North Country,” were hard dealers
and fond lovers of a penny.
His arbitrations were his downfall in
some respects, politically, for he was al-
ways in trouble with them to the end of
his political life and they were always
providing excuses for his political op-
ponents to allege improprieties connected
with offices of profit under the Crown
affecting both O’Connor and himself. All
the same, if it had not been for them
and especially for the two-year-long Mc-
Sharry case he could not have survived
financially and led the Federal move-
ment.
When Parkes had carried through the
1891 convention and had an actual basic
model for a Constitution Bill in his
hands, it was to be expected that he
would do something about it. All he did
was to suddenly deflate and pass on the
torch to Barton who had emerged from
the conference obviously the great
figure of the future in the Federal move-
ment in NSW. He had told the Assembly
that, “There is one great thing which
ranks above all others in my political
life, and will actuate me until it is accom-
plished and this is the question of the
union of the Australian colonies.”
He seemed, however, to some of his
supporters to have queer ways of going
about it, though not so queer looking
back on them. For one thing, he dismayed
his followers almost immediately after
accepting the leadership of the Federal
movement from Parkes, by joining the
ministry of George Dibbs, the implacable
enemy of the 1891 convention, and being
his acting-Premier during his absence
abroad.
His own Federalists were so embittered
by this apparent betrayal that they were
foremost in finding an excuse, in his re-
tainer from the Railway Department
which he insisted on regarding as a pri-
vate corporation, to tip both himself and
his faithful apostle O’Connor, who had
followed him into the Ministry as head
of the Crown Law Office, out of the
Cabinet.
Stumping the towns
"Out there was method in his madness
also he was clear minded ; for he
weakened the enemy camp by joining it
and converted a great section of it and
at the same time made it specific that
Federation solus and not Federation
tied up with free trade or protection or
political alliances, was a supreme issue
which transcended other issues and which
called for adherence from all parties.
Parkes accused him shrilly of betraying
his trust and doing nothing. But he and
his growing band of young workers, link-
ing hands with the Australian Natives
across the Murray River in what the
NSW enemies of Federation were pleased
to describe as “the cabbage patch,” were
soon stumping the towns on either side
of the river. Barton, the ostensibly indo-
lent, was the head and front of this
activity and wherever he appeared the
dust rose. He was the most indefatigable
addresser of meetings the decade knew.
It was said that in four years he addressed
300 meetings, no mean feat for a large
man who, like men of his build often
are, was not as strong as he looked and
who always was full of queer antidotes.


Always ask for
AIN S L I E’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Halloran Manton Pt» 'H,
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd.,
Sydney.
Eslab'ish“d 1 Stp
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jacks ONTTsa
.OSULUVAJV
fc PTY LTD v
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Pafet Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATOP.S AND
COUNSELLORS •; PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
He and his followers soon showed that
they were doing something when at a
meeting held in the Sydney Town Hall
on June 3, 1893, they formed the central
organ of the Australian Federation
League, locals of which had been
springing up like mushrooms on both
sides of the border in the South. (They
narrowly averted a resolution that Aus-
tralia become a republic.) At the end
of the following month the followers, led
by Quick and Garran, and assailed by the
cries of “words, words, words,” adopted
the “Corowa” resolution demanding that
each Colonial Parliament pass an act pro-
viding for the election by the people of
representatives to attend a conventicn to
consider and adopt a Bill to establish a
Federal Constitution for Australia, and
for the approval of the Bill so drafted by
referendum before transmission to the
Imperial Parliament.
Of the subsequent six-year fight the
story is in the history books along with
the phrases in which Barton, in particu-
lar, gave reality to the aim: “For the first
time in history we have a nation for a
continent, a continent for a nation.”
He led the battle cleaving through a
welter of side issues.
The famous blunder
TTe fought his way back into the Legis-
lative Assembly to lead the Opposi-
tion in the New South Wales Parliament
against Reid’s free trader opposition to
the Federal movement as he planned it.
He fought Reid on his own ground in
King electorate in a battle which was
something between a Kilkenny football
match and a vaudeville show. He was
defeated
He fought out a by-election in Hast-
ings-Macleay in a campaign in which his
own side proclaimed him on their ban-
ners as “Australia’s noblest son” and the
Opposition urged his defeat on the
curious ground that he was “too big a
man to attend to their obscure needs of
roads and bridges.” He won. His single-
purpose mind later led him, after the de-
feat of the first referendum in New
South Wales, to resign the leadership of
the Opposition to W. J. Lyne, a former
opponent of the Federal movement, so
that he might keep his purpose isolated.
The convention of 1897-98 which was
the direct outcome of the Corowa resolu-
tions was his personal triumph. By the
time that peripatetic meeting began
in Adelaide he had acquired complete
ascendancy over the Federation move-
ment and there was no other possible
leader of the convention or of the dele-
gation which later went to Westminster
than himself.
As Sir Ernest Scott put it he showed
himself “urbane, watchful, intimately
acquainted with every detail and every
item of business, adroit in steering round
difficulties and smoothing down persona!
discords—a great leader of a deliberative
assembly.”
He was not daunted when his own
Colony defeated the Bill at the first
referendum, nor was there any shout of
triumph from him when the second refer-
endum was carried by a satisfyingly large
majority through his own influence and
leadership, after the antagonisms of and
in the other colonies other than New
South Wales and Queensland had been
defeated or reduced to impotence by the
utter boredom of electors worn tired by
three years of raging campaigns.
The fight was not over even then, for
the last of the lions in the path of
Federation had to be defeated in London
by the divided delegation which carried
the Bill to England under his leadership
—himself, Deakin. Kingston, Dickson.
Parker and Fysh.
When he returned to Australia, arriv-
ing 14 days before Lord Hopetoun. the
first Governor-General, he met a curious
disappointment For Lyne, the erstwhile
anti-Federalist to whom he had handed
over the leadership of the New South
Wales Opposition, had ousted Reid and
become head of the Government. And
it was upon him, as Premier of the
mother State, that Hopetoun in his
famous “blunder” called to form the
first Commonwealth Ministry.
It cannot be said that Barton enjoyed
office when friend and foe alike refused
to support Lyne or to serve under any
other but himself in that office. He was
a tired man. and in any case administra-
tive detail was almost as hateful to him
as party wrangling—what he called “ran-
corous party strife and scuffling on the
steps of the Temple.”
He was glad to retire, after three years
of it, to the stately calm of the new High
Court Bench with Griffith, his old draft-
ing colleague of 1891, and his old crony
of the Athenaeum and Dibbs ministry
days, R. E. O’Connor.
He died in 1920, dignified, aloof in
public but gregarious in private, studious
and amused with life to the end as far
as his ailments would allow. Nothing
became him better than the modesty
which led him in the culmination of his
triumphs, at the banquet on the day after
the inauguration of the Commonwealth
when he replied to the toast of “The
Commonwealth”, to attribute the
credit for an achievement which was
truly his to another: “The father of the
constitution of New South Wales was
Wentworth . . . but it was Sir Henry
Parkes who from the very beginning
recognised the potentialities of this great
union. ... To Sir Henry is due the fruition
of the struggle to unite the Colonies
which has today been so happily brought
about ; and it was to me a great privilege
to be enabled to continue that great man’s
work. I ask you to drink in solemn
silence in memory of Sir Henry Parkes.”


FORUM
THE UNTHINKABLE WAR
A book of thermonuclear pornography?
By JOHN DAVY
qpO many people, the mushroom clouds now sprouting over the Pacific
signify a new spurt in the race to final disaster.
The American tests will be followed by more Russian tests. The number,
variety and destructiveness of weapons on both sides will soar. Other countries
will develop or acquire their own thermonuclear arsenals. The nations of the
world will be poised tensely like Wild West gunmen, hands hovering over their
holsters, watching for the first sign of a draw. One false move, and a radio-
active blood bath will be inevitable.
In Westerns, disaster is sometimes avoided by the hero coolly turning his
back 011 the villain and walking out of the saloon. The bad man then slinks
out of town before dawn, his nerve broken. It is sometimes held that unilateral
arms control of this kind is the only hope of relaxing tension ■ —and that
America should take the part of the hero.
Why, it is asked, does America need
tests? Her military strength is already
overwhelming. Not long ago the
American Deputy Secretary of Defence,
Mr Gilpatric, said that American forces
were now strong enough not only to
survive a surprise attack by Russia, but
to deliver a counter blow more devastat-
ing than Russia's first strike.
The much-feared “missile gap” has
faded away. Earlier intelligence estimates
suggested that Russia might have built
200 or more ICBMs (inter-continental
ballistic missiles) by now, as against some
sixty to seventy so far deployed by
America. But it appears that she has
actually built no more than fifty or so
and her strategic air force is very much
smaller than America's Strategic Air
Command.
Furthermore, recent policy statements
suggest that the President and his policy
makers do not believe an all-out gun-
duel with Russia is likely at present.
They are at least as anxious about Com-
munist “nibbling,” local “brush-fire”
wars, and guerrilla incursions. A con-
siderable effort is now being made to
strengthen conventional and “uncon-
ventional” ground forces.
Again, the United States is officially
committed to properly safeguarded dis-
armament. But the resumption of tests
will tend to make Russian negotiators at
the Geneva talks more obstreperous than
ever they are unlikely to agree to
effective inspection while Russia feels
appreciably weaker than America. Why
sabotage one's own disarmament policy
by tests whose only effect can be to
increase an already large margin of
military superiority?
This is the situation as it appears to
many in Britain. But in America the
whole picture is extraordinarily different.
It is not easy to appreciate from this side
of the Atlantic the black, nightmarish
picture of Russia which haunts the
American imagination. Several events
have enhanced the nightmare. There was
the shock of the Russian H-bomb test in
Truman's day, revealing an unsuspected
technical competence. Then came Sput-
nik I, evidence that Russia could not
only match but anticipate American
technology. It created the spectre of a
“missile gap.” Last year there was the
new Berlin crisis, and the brutal resump-
tion of Soviet tests.
All this has contributed to the
apocalyptic state of mind to be found
among so many Americans. Although
any rational calculation suggests that a
direct Russian attack on America has
never been less likely, a Pentagon official
confessed to me quite seriously a few
weeks ago that during the autumn Berlin
crisis he left his office every evening
wondering if he or it would still exist
next morning.
This grim blend of anger, fear and
profound distrust of Russia strengthens
the hands of all who believe in toughness
and negotiating from a position of
maximum strength. These include many
Pentagon officials, who seriously believe
that the best hope of halting the arms
race is to intimidate Russia, or alter-
natively to force her to compete until her
more limited economy can no longer
stand the strain. Such attitudes are
bolstered —often in unscrupulous ways—
by the colossal military and commercial
interests who profit from an expanding
defence programme.
They are opposed by a less well-
defined but influential collection of
people. It includes men like Dr Jerome
Wiesner, the President's Science Adviser,
who is convinced that a balance between
Russian and American power can and
must be struck, and who would be will-
ing to abandon some of America's
strategic superiority in exchange for
parity and stability.
But this issue is only one facet of a
wider debate on the whole problem of
guaranteeing American security and
defending the free world against the
Communist menace which haunts officials
and citizens alike. As a result, the
peculiar dilemmas of the thermonuclear
age are now being debated in America
more widely, in more detail, and often
with considerably more sophistication,
than anywhere else.
IT'he “Great Debate”, as it has come to
be called, was originally the preserve
of the professional students of military
strategy mostly civilians financed by
service and defence departments or
private foundations. They operate from
Harvard and Princeton, from Rand (the


high-powered research corporation in
California mainly financed by the Air
Force), and from innumerable other
institutes and departments. They have
formidable expertise and an even more
formidable jargon.
But recently their scholarly and often
horrifying debates about strategy and
deterrence have been more widely taken
up in lay circles —first by intellectuals
and contributors to various journals and
periodicals, and then, after the Berlin
crisis and the announcement of the new
civil defence programme, by the public
at large.
The debate is diffuse, ranging from
whether you should mount a machine-
gun at the entrance of your fall-out
shelter to defend it against hungry neigh-
bours, to highly technical discussions of
how to deter war. But some of the most
violent passions have been aroused by a
thick book in a sombre black cover,
entitled simply: “On Thermonuclear
War”. The author, Herman Kahn, has
been called names ranging from monster
to genius, and his book variously
described as “brilliant,” “stupendous,”
and “thermonuclear pornography.”
Kahn blandly discusses theoretical
situations in which 20 million casualties
might seem “acceptable,” world-destroy-
ing “Domesday Machines” as ultimate
weapons in the weird calculus of deter-
rence, methods of evacuating entire cities
and preparing for post-war recovery, and
a fictitious “World War Eight” in 1973,
a world containing, as he says, “50,000
buttons.”
“The Book,” as this work is now widely
known, contains the almost unaltered
text of three enormous lectures delivered
at the Princeton University’s Centre of
International Studies some three years
ago. They comprise a kind of thermo-
nuclear thesaurus, a study of different
kinds of nuclear war and their effects,
together with various “strategic postures”
for deterring war and for fighting it if
deterrence fails.
The central anxiety of Kahn’s critics
is that his cool discussion of thermo-
nuclear war might make it seem more
acceptable. Once such a war becomes
“thinkable,” they argue, it becomes more
likely to happen. War can only be
deterred if both sides believe its conse-
quences would be so appalling as to be
“unthinkable.” To assert —as Kahn does
-—that under some circumstances thermo-
nuclear war might seem a sane choice is
in itself a kind of insanity. His belief
that a well - prepared society could
recover from a major thermonuclear
attack in ten years demonstrates total
ignorance of how society works. In
short, say the critics, people like Kahn
are dangerous, irresponsible academics,
playing an intellectual equivalent of toy
soldiers with artificial rules which has no
equivalent in the real world.
In a few weeks a new book by Kahn
will be published called “Thinking the
Unthinkable”. The title is an oblique
retort to his critics who, Kahn feels, are
simply refusing to face the ugly facts of
the thermonuclear age. It is perhaps no
accident that he and his colleagues often
call themselves “analysts.” On the couch
lies society, wriggling unhappily, while
Kahn and his fellows persuade it to stop
repressing unpleasant self - knowledge.
Far from diluting the horrors of thermo-
nuclear war, analysis provides a much
more precise and trustworthy account of
them.
An intellectual Billy Bunter
It is simply not true, he asserts, that
an all-out nuclear war today would
destroy the world. If fought during the
1960 s it would even be unlikely to destroy
America and Russia—the disaster would
be “unprecedented but not unlimited.”
But at the present rate of progress, Kahn
says, there is a technological revolution
every five years—and mutual suicide will
become rapidly more possible.
There is more chance of avoiding war
by studying it than by merely exclaiming
at its horrors, Kahn maintains. He
accuses his critics of a dangerous reliance
on a simple fear of war. The whole
concept of deterrence depends on con-
vincing the enemy that he can gain
nothing by war. This makes it vital to
work out balance sheets of probable gains
and losses if deterrence were to fail in
various situations. An effective deterrent
must be based on such analysis, and the
more detailed the better. This, say
Kahn and his colleagues, is simple
prudence and common sense.
is an enormous man, built like a
prize-winning pear, who looks like
an intellectual Billy Bunter. He graduated
in physics from the Californian Institute
of Technology and went to work for the
Rand Corporation at Santa Monica. The
corporation is suspected by some of
being the seat of a sinister conspiracy to
manufacture scientific-sounding reasons
why the US Air Force should have more
funds, more weapons and more power.
Rand inmates, on the other hand, say
that it is a kind of Californian, missile-
age All Souls, a home of stimulating
argument and intense intellectual en-
deavour. They claim that its views are
not in the least monolithic, and that its
recommendations often annoy the US
Air Force intensely. Kahn’s book is a
distillate from his years at Rand.
Less than a year ago Kahn was
appointed Director of the Hudson In-
stitute at White Plains, north of New
York, where he is now planning a
massive series of studies, including “how
to prevent accidental war, and stop it if
it starts.” The Quakers are considering
whether to ask him to embark on a
study of non-violent means of settling
disputes. “The sense of the meeting is
not yet quite in my favor,” Kahn says.
“But I’d very much like to do it.”
He lives a thoroughly non-belligerent
life in a new, sparsely furnished house
on a quiet wooded hillside a few miles
from the Institute, with a vivacious wife
as slight as he is large, and two small
children. He concedes that his views
have changed, in some ways, over the
years. He has become “more impressed
by moral arguments: first you use them,
then you accept them, then you believe
them.” Slightly ruefully, he confesses to
the bizarre intellectual positions Rand
workers have sometimes arrived at. One
of his weirdest stories is of an inquiry
he made to discover “where people draw
the line.” At one extreme, he decided,
was the Hindu, who draws the line at
killing an ant. At the other he quotes
three scientific colleagues, “all bachelors,”
who would consider the mankind-destroy-
ing Domesday Machine a possible de-
terrent weapon, “but they drew the line
at a Galaxy-Destroying machine.” He
himself claims to draw the line at hitting
cities with thermonuclear weapons.
“You just shouldn’t do it.”
He is generally respected by the other
professional strategists, despite his un-
academic weakness for the flamboyant
phrase, and some of the more drastic
passages in his book which, it is said,
he put in “mainly to shock the
bourgeoisie.” “Herman’s is a very rich
book,” said one colleague slightly wist-
fully. “Things will never be the same
again.”
While the public debate, stoked by
the more lurid parts of Kahn’s book, has
tended to focus on the stark issue of
whether thermonuclear war is “think-
able” or “survivable,” a parallel debate
has developed on a more technical level.


It raises issues of central importance for
America’s future strategy.
On first encour/er, some of the
ideas now under serious discussion by
American strategists seem to belong in
a book of sick jokes rather than among
responsible intellectuals.
Earlier this year, for instance, a group
of strategic philosophers held a con-
ference in Washington on the theme
“Slow Motion War”. The aim was to
study a theoretical type of war in which
each side would drop, or threaten to
drop, one bomb at a time on the other,
with intervals between each move for
discussion and bargaining: “If you
destroy Detroit, I'll wipe Omsk and
Tomsk off the map,” etc.
Professor Klaus Knorr, the reserved,
aquiline scholar of F'rinceton University’s
Centre for International Studies, who
organised the conference, acknowledges
that slow-motion or “limited strategic
war” is a “bizarre concept.” He thinks
it should be studied, though, as one
possible way of fighting a thermonuclear
war without producing total disaster.
This underlines the belief of many
strategists that disaster can be avoided
only by finding ways to “tame” thermo-
nuclear war—to control and limit its
effects. Both sides could recover from
a limited thermonuclear war in a few
years, so that the threat to resort to it
would be more “credible.” It would thus
be a more effective and “rational”
deterrent than the threat of total destruc-
tion to both sides.
This enrages many critics, who hold
that disaster can be avoided only by
ensuring that thermonuclear war is too
horrible to contemplate at all. It is a
division between those who think that
a thermonuclear war is too horrible to
be fought, and those who think that,
however horrible, it might have to be
fought. The two views have been called
“deterrence only” and “deterrence plus
defence.”
The “deterrence only” school include
most of the adherents of FINITE
DETERRENCE (minimum deterrence).
Their argument is basically simple: if
each side can be certain of inflicting
terrible damage on the other with its
strategic forces, then neither side will
use them. On this view, “slow-motion
war,” civil defence, and anything else
that makes thermonuclear war appear
more survivable or more thinkable are to
be vehemently rejected. Finite deterrence
envisages a limited force of invulnerable
retaliatory missiles on both sides, too
small to knock out the other’s striking
forces in a surprise attack, but large
enough to secure enough to deliver a
punishing retaliatory blow after an
attack.
The most drastic versions of finite
deterrence, on the other hand, which
rely on the horror of deterrence failing,
recommend no civil defence, keeping
cities vulnerable, and even the placing
of military targets in or near cities. This
makes the civilian populations of each
side a hostage against a failure of
deterrence.
The Reasons Why
|”|pponents of finite deterrence criticise
it on the following grounds:
1. No defence policy can reduce the
likelihood of war to zero. It is fool-
hardy to stake everything on deterrence.
2. If deterrence does fail, finite de-
terrence, with its emphasis on automatic
retaliation against cities, would guaran-
tee maximum casualties and destruction.
3. In practice, both sides might have
a powerful incentive to hit, not cities,
but military targets, in order to reduce
the enemy's ability to retaliate.
4. Effective retaliation is technically
difficult. The side striking second might
be so weakened that a well-prepared
enemy could recover from the retaliatory
blow quite quickly.
5. The “balance of terror” is always
in danger of being upset by technical
advance (e.g., in anti-missile missiles),
by extensive civil defence on one side
only, etc.
6. Finite deterrence is essentially
irrational—since mutual destruction of
cities could serve no rational purpose.
Thus it makes peace depend on each side
believing that the other might behave
like a madman.
7. Finally, and this is seen by some
as the central point, the very horror of
a purely “punitive” strategy would make
the threat to use it unconvincing. The
“incredibility” of the finite deterrent
would encourage provocation and black-
mail. It offers only one extreme response
to severe provocation or aggression.
How could America offer convincing
protection to some 44 allies and a large
number of neutrals without the ability
to threaten limited thermonuclear strikes
against the enemy? Such a situation
would simply tempt allied countries to
have their own nuclear deterrent. This
trend is already apparent in several
NATO countries, who fear that when
America no longer needs overseas air
force and missile bases to protect herself
she will have much less incentive to risk
all-out war to protect others.
Most other strategic theories are built
round the proposition: What if deterrence
fails? It is at this point that the academic
strategists tend to usher the student into
a labyrinth of thermonuclear alternatives.
The old hands can scuttle about inter-
minably without getting lost, but the
newcomer is advised to keep to a few
recommended routes. The most import-
ant is labelled “deterrence plus insur-
ance.” This calls for “credible” and
“usable” alternatives to the threat of all-
out war against cities. The main alterna-
tives are:
COUNTERFORCE CAPABILITY.
This is a force which can knock out or
severely damage the enemy’s strategic
forces. It must obviously be very much
larger than a force needed to destroy
cities, since there would be far more
military targets and they would be better
protected.
The possessor of counterforce capabil-
ity may be tempted to strike first in a
crisis or at least his opponent will
believe that he might. Supporters of
counterforce notably some US Air
Force people say this would be use-
ful. A “credible” threat to strike first,
which could actually be carried out with-
out guaranteeing the destruction of cities
on both sides, would be the most effective
counter to extreme provocations.
Opponents of counterforce say that
this strategy can only stimulate the arms
race, heighten tension, and possibly
provoke a “pre-emptive” attack to
anticipate an expected strike by the other
side.
CONTROLLED AND LIMITED
STRATEGIC WAR CAPABILITY.
Under this heading comes slow to
threaten and carry out limited motion
war, and any system designed thermo-
nuclear attacks on military or civilian
targets. (The weapons needed either for
a finite deterrent or a counterforce deter-
rent could obviously be used for limited
strikes as well. So the emphasis here is
on choice of targets, means of accurate
delivery, techniques of threatening and
bargaining, “self-control” and com-
municating with the enemy.)
Both these concepts imply that a
thermonuclear war might actually have
to be fought, so they presuppose civil
defence, separation of military and
civilian targets, preparations to “recover”
from a war, and other measures to make
an attacker's task more difficult.
A more rugged road trodden by some
has been called “extended deterrence.”
It has a stark simplicity: the US, it
recommends, should acquire far more
weapons of all kinds than her enemies,
so that she could confidently threaten to
start and win any kind of thermonuclear
war, if necessary.
This has a certain appeal to the more
purple-faced elements in what President
Eisenhower called the “military industrial


complex,” those who wish to be very
tough with the Russians, and those who
wish to make a lot of money out of
weapons contracts. It has little support
among the academic strategists.
Obsessed Eggheads?
THhis, then, is a quick tour of the
■*" strategic philosophers’ Tractatus
Strategicus, so to speak—or rather, of
that part which concerns “central war”
(direct thermonuclear conflict between
Russia and the US). It sounds and
often is chillingly academic, and has
led to a widespread impression that
American strategic policy is a product
of abstract theses and computer calcula-
tions compiled by cloistered and obsessed
egg-heads with narrow horizons and
tortuous minds.
The truth is more complicated. To
begin with, the professional strategists
range over a much wider field than
“central war.” They are embroiled in
complex debates about tactical nuclear
weapons and local wars. NATO and the
spread of nuclear weapons, the role of
conventional and guerrilla forces, and
myriad problems of disarmament and
arms control.
They have undoubtedly had a pro-
found effect on the context in which
American strategic policy is discussed.
They have formulated some key concepts
and drawn attention to critical problems.
However, strategic decisions are made
not in Princeton and academic institutes,
but in the White House and the Penta-
Next week:
Living with the bomb
gon. Here the atmosphere is far from
cloistered. Political gales blow full force
down the corridors most of the year
round, and the decision-makers are ex-
posed to gusty pressures from allies and
enemies, domestic opinion, industry and
military lobbies.
Since President Kennedy took office
there have been some marked changes
of climate, changes which the furious
public dust storms churned up by the
civil defence debate and Herman Kahn’s
sombre writings have threatened to
obscure. American strategic policy is
now revealing some important new
trends.


letters to the editor
THE SINNER’S ABC
Sir,
Mr Semmler (Bulletin, May 5), by
dint of name-listing and bald assertions
of superiority, probably quite genuinely
imagines he has quashed the peevish
critics within the gates of the ABC.
For instance producers usually don’t
even rate a credit in the ABC’s own
weekly programme magazine.
Again, to list training courses is not
to convince staff of their effectiveness.
(One trainee said: “What training? A
week hanging round, four hours on a
tape recorder, and I’ve been in business
ever since.”) Brochures? Advice? Ad-
dresses to writers’ groups? Any ex-
perienced programme man will tell you
that there is only one way to train
writers —subsidise them, turn them loose,
then produce the results so they can
see where to improve next time. Three
hundred and sixty-five brochures will
never add up to One Day Of The Year.
Nor will present rates of pay for ABC
playwrights even reimburse them for
the overseas fare that well-spent
kudos-experience we all find so invalu-
able in dealing with ABC executives.
That list of “national” programmes, by
the way—only one Italia Prize for us in
all those years? And that only in radio?
How can that be?
Now, programme ideas (here again we
have from Mr Semmler only the care-
fully pruned list, the bald unbacked
assertion: “whatever my sins, the rejec-
tion of worthwhile programme ideas is
not one of them.”) The corollary here,
inescapably, is, “If / reject it, it is
worthless.” This wouldn’t by any chance
be complacency, would it? Anyhow, it’s
a pointer to what lies behind the ABC’s
failure last year to get up the three
important series it planned: on Aus-
tralia’s Defence Policy; on Australia’s
part in World War II; and on Abori-
gines’ problems. It is most illuminating
to learn what Mr Semmler thinks of
these important national issues.
What is the function of a production
team? To function it must first exist
and, according to Mr Semmler, it does
not exist. “Production people,” their
departures in busloads lamented in my
last letter turn out in Mr Semmler’s book
to be just one or two little old pro-
ducers, wandering off in ones and twos
for overseas experience. But the TV
industry in happier climes has a broader
interpretation of production men’s
functions: not only are there producers,
there are directors (unrecognised in
ABC staff listings and only admitted last
month in film —to the tune of one man):
there are production assistants (non-
existent here); scriptwriters (ditto on
ABC staff lists); film editors, film camera-
men and production secretaries. If Mr
Semmler cares to sit down for. a quiet
half-hour with the auxiliary staff files
and a bit of paper, he can tot up well
over two dozen irreplaceable. men and
women, some Australian, some from
overseas, who have walked out of these
vital jobs in the past three years. One
of the eight producers who have left the
ABC’s staff in the last three and a half
years did so because he met an ad-
ministrative blank wall every time he
asked for a raise to match increased
responsibility. He was then replaced by
a less experienced man at a cost to the
taxpayer of nearly twenty pounds a
week more in salary. Which of the five
ABC sins would this be? Bureaucracy?
Favoritism? Inefficiency? Complacency?
Or timidity?
Several people who have attended the
BBC’s TV production course have
noted with interest Mr Semmler’s use of
the American Latinism “passed summa
cum laude” for one of our producers’
Assessors. The truth of the matter, just
for the book, is that in this course
nobody passes, nobody fails, no marks
are awarded, no judgments handed
down. It is exactly what its title says—
a training course—usually attended by
people who already have jobs earmarked
for them, and who will subsequently be
judged by their ability to profit, on a
practical level, from what they learn.
This course, some seven winters ago
when the gentleman in question went
through it, lasted four weeks. It in-
cluded an hour and a half spent in
charge of a control booth —on closed
circuit. The course is designed for pro-
duction assistants and learner-producers
not for executives who expect thus
magically to acquire the power to deter-
mine the abilities of men with years of
practical experience.
As for those members of the Film
Committee who have, it is vaguely as-
serted, “studied film-making in Europe
and America,” this rather reminds the
present writer of that Prestidigitator
whose billboards bore the magic words:
“Performed Before All the Crowned
Heads Of Europe.” Let’s just say that
“From NBC to Movietone On A Bicycle”
might be a suitable subtitle for this epic
in parvulo.
Not even the most cynical and dis-
gusted of the ABC’s angry swarm of busy
TV bees would deny the difficulties
their executives experience, caught with
inadequate budgets between the Scylla
of a Government which cold-bloodedly,
regards them as propaganda tools, and
the Charybdis of getting the wretched
stuff on the air with the help of produc-
tion men more experienced than them-
selves in the medium. But MUST they
make like nothing at all is wrong, when,
there is such evident misery and con-
cern among so many devoted and dedi-
cated staffers? Shame on you, Uriah
Wackford Semmler!
ABC Sinner Number Three
POSSUMS IN THE ROOF
Sir,
I must confess that there were
moments when 1 was reading M.H. Ellis’s
review (Bulletin, May 12) when I had
to rub my eyes and remind myself that
he was reviewing S. Encel’s very useful
“Cabinet Government in Australia”. In
saying that I am not for a minute for-
getting that it is the undoubted preroga-
tive of every reviewer to give whatever
impression he will of the nature and
•value of the book before him.
It is another matter, however, when
Ellis challenges Encel with failing to
niake points (e.g., Labor Ministers
publicly opposing the Prime Minister and
Cabinet majority on policy issues) to
which Encel in fact devotes extensive
attention. It is another matter again
when Ellis charges Encel with error over
Speaker Cameron and the Under-Secre-
taries question when Encel in fact quotes
the Speaker’s own words, saying he had
first provided Parliament House accom-
modation for them, but had subsequently
decided that he had been in error and
had withdrawn his recognition of their
status.
Finally, it is still another matter v/hen
Ellis, accusinig Encel of errors, himself
falls into error. Thus, Calwell was not
one of Curtin’s Ministers in the period
November 1942-February 1943 when the
South-West F'acific conscription question
was at issue. And Curtin did not go to
Federal Conference on that question for
the purpose of dragooning Cabinet. As an
old anti-conscriptionist himself and as
a strict Party-Constitutionalist, he went
for the much wider purpose of having
the Platform changed on this subject so
that he might carry the bulk of the Labor
movement inside and outside Parliament
with him, and incidentally before he
raised the matter at all in the full
Cabinet.
L. F. CRISP
Australian National University
Canberra.
THE END OF PURITANISM
Sir,
The London Newsletter (Bulletin,
April 2) in which is discussed the
“new freedom” in Britain’s sexual morals,
reminded me of one of Will Dyson’s


most powerful cartoons. As the Old
One views the night scene from the top
of a New York skyscraper he mutters:
“We live and learn.” Viewing the British
scene of today your correspondent goes
one better: “On the whole I found the
change good. Britain may not be a
greater or a better nation than in the
past; it will certainly be more fun to
live in.”
Oh, what fun to see our daughter
pregnant on her wedding day; what fun
for dear old dad playing Peeping Tom
at the strip tease club; what fun for
faithful mum, swilling her daily gin
with her cronies at the alcoholic club
round the corner.
And what of the children? Leave
them to us, says the National Marriage
Guidance Council; we will bed them
down with other children and pin on
the walls simple charts on the art of
fornication. Oh, what fun!
In the minds of many modern writers
who encourage this “new freedom,” all
this may be great fun, but —what a hell
of a reckoning.
There is another cartoon here for a
modern Dyson. Khrushchev watching
from the summit of a nuclear testing
tower; waiting for the ultimate soften-
ing of the Western fibre to repeat from
history what happened to other dissolute
nations; to swat us like so many flies.
PAT LAWLOR
Wellington (NZ).
AUSTRALIA’S RELIGIOUS SECTS
Sir,
Thank you for Peter Kelly’s objective
journalistic approach in his “Australia’s
Sects”, (Bulletin, May 12). A similar
approach on the Anglican, Presbyterian,
Methodist and Roman Catholic, etc.,
sects would be of interest for future
articles.
For the sake of accuracy, however,
some of the comments on the Seventh-
day Adventist Church should be clarified.
In all gospel fundamentals the Adven-
tist is one with his brother Christians of
the various Protestant churches. The in-
ference in Mr Kelly’s remark on the
Jehovah’s Witnesses, “like their most
closely related sect, the Seventh-day
Adventists”, has no basis in fact, unless
it be in a like acceptance of the Bible
doctrine that death is a sleep.
Whereas the Jehovah’s Witnesses regard
all others as of the Devil, the Seventh-
day Adventist readily acknowledges his
adherence to the historical Protestant
presentation of the great Bible doctrines.
If such be orthodoxy, then the Adven-
tist is truly orthodox, and pleased to
acknowledge the Fathers of the Reforma-
tion as his spiritual ancestors.
Mr Kelly suggests that it is “probably
for their health activities that Adventists
are best known in Australia”, but what
must surely be unique in business prac-
tice is the use of profits from their na-
tionally-known health food company for
humanitarian activities. These include
medical services, education and welfare
work in the homeland and in the large
mission field of the South Pacific Islands
of Papua-New Guinea, etc., with their
under-privileged and needy peoples, and
including work amongst Australia’s own
native sons. In all this, it should be made
clear, the local Australian homeland
churches are self-supporting, and that
these are very largely responsible for the
financial support of the Church’s 43 pri-
mary and 19 secondary schools.
In theory, sir, it is correct to say that
“the faithful”, to quote Mr Kelly, are
the shareholders in the Sanitarium
Health Food Company—the pioneer
manufacturer in Australia of so many
popular health food lines. It is well to
notice, however, that in this company
no shareholder draws a dividend or
director’s fee, and the highly trained
management, technologists and sales
staff draw salaries which would be con-
sidered pocket money only in commen-
surate positions outside. Such is the re-
sult of devotion to the ideal of the
Christian evangel.
LLEWELLYN JONES
(Director of Public Relations
Seventh-day Adventist Church)
Melbourne.
Sir,
Not unlike the Press generally, the
new Bulletin appears to find the
“exposing” and deriding of minority
religious groups of considerable value to-
wards satisfying the low standard of
journalism acceptable to the average Aus-
tralian reader.
The ethical and dogmatical points as
claimed by Peter Kelly in his article
“Australia’s Sects” (Bulletin, May 12)
are attributable not only to minority
sects, but also to powerful majority ones,
against which the Press appears to lack
the courage to make exposure. Or could
it be that the facts are so well known
that reference to them would be devoid
of news value. From Peter Kelly’s
article, I extract the following points he
claims attributable to respective minority
sects:
(1) “Their denunciation of the British
Empire.”
(2) Family smashing, “enticing wives
away from husbands.”
(3) “Partial to more than a few drops of
alcohol.”
(4) Proselytising, “In the proselytising
business.”
(5) If you buy certain foods which he
listed, “you may indirectly be giving
money,” to a certain sect he named.
Does The Bulletin and the Austra-
lian Press generally really consider such
claims to be peculiar to minority sects
alone, when one of the most powerful
religions in this country has gained its
prominence by indulging in all these,
and more, on a far greater and nefarious
scale.
I consider his reference to the brands
of health foods as put out by one of the
sects entirely unethical. At least, they
are in a “wholesome” business, not an
“unholy” one such as alcohol and gamb-
ling as fostered under the name of
Christianity.
Personally, I boycott the firm who put
out the foods of the counterpart brands
to those he mentioned.
R. B. LOWNDES
Toongabbie (NSW).
THE BATESON STORY
Sir,
I frankly don’t believe that Sir Albert
Bateson (Bulletin, May 12) exists. He
may do so but I find it scarcely credible
that any Government in this country
could have suffered such a dangerous
nincompoop for more than five minutes.
JOHN LOCKE-WATERS
Cdr. RN (ret.)
South Yana (Victoria).
Sir,
I found your profile of Sir Albert
Bateson fascinating but incomplete in
many details. The story gave insufficient
credit for Sir Abert’s many activities in
the field of the arts, literature and
belles lettres. A lthough shy and retiring
as your biographer suggests, he once
told me that he was an inveterate letter
writer to newspapers in all capitals on
many subjects under a variety of pen
names ranging from cruelty to animals
to water conservation. I understand that
just after the war he refused the editor-
ship of “The Sydney Morning Herald”
on the grounds that he didn’t like half-
time jobs.
S. MACPHILLAMY
Launceston (Tas .).
Sir,
It was Bateson more than any other
man who gave Sir Mark Oliphant the
backing he needed to build his super-
cyclotron in 1949. That the machine has
not yet been built and the costs have
multiplied tremendously has not shaken
Sir Albert’s confidence. As he always
says to the small-minded panic-mongers:
“It’ll all be the same in a hundred years.”
S. HARBINGER
Perth.
Sir,
I am surprised that Robert Bonington
(Bulletin, May 12) did not see fit to
mention the big role that Sir Albert
Bateson played in improving the rela-
tions between Australia and Red China.
After Chou-en-lai wrote to him in 1956
about the 100 Flowers Blooming, it was
Bateson who, with characteristic panache,
urged upon Mao-tse-tung his scheme
for setting up backyard foundries all
over China. When the full story is told,
we can be sure the Chinese people will
know how to express their gratitude.
W. WOODS
Adelaide.


The Wil d
Cat Pages and
THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
BRUSSELS
COCKTAILS FOR SIX
|Tonsidering the cries of calamity which
heralded his departure and are still
coming from many quarters, perhaps the
most remarkable of all Mr McEwen’s
revelations since he returned from Britain
and Europe is his confidence that satis-
factory transitional arrangements will be
made to safeguard Australia’s exports
to Britain until 1970 when the Common
Market’s agricultural policy is expected
to be fully implemented. It seems that it
is only what comes after 1970 that still
has the Minister for Trade genuinely
worried. For one certain thing he
found out in Europe is that, when the
transitional period is over, the Six are
determined not to find themselves left
with a market within a market simply to
accommodate the Commonwealth’s tradi-
tional trade with Britain. The best that
Commonwealth countries can hope for
in the long run is to get a preferred
share of imports into the Common
Markets as a whole.
However, as Mr Dean Rusk, the US
Secretary of State, made perfectly clear
on his recent visit here, the United States
is firmly against any form of survival of
British preferences, and with the great
weight it carries in the councils of
Europe (and apparently with the British
Government) we may count ourselves
extremely fortunate if our exports to
the Common Market will enjoy any pre-
ference at all after, say, 1970 when the
seven-and-a-half year transitional period
is over. Nor can we rate very highly the
chances of getting long-term assurances
for markets for say wheat and sugar
through world commodify schemes
which, taking a view born of bitter
experience, Mr McEwen regards very
sceptically.
/\ne cannot get away from the fact that
the US wants the abolition of prefe-
rences to get a bigger slice of the big UK
market for its own surplus agricultural
products, largely at the expense of imports
from Commonwealth countries. Equally,
as it has shown in the Geneva discussions
on wheat, the UK will continue its tradi-
tional battle to import commodities and
raw materials as cheaply as possible.
With the US winning new markets
through the disappearance of prefer-
ences, with the UK following its cheap
imports line and with both countries fas
well as the Six) determined to fully pro-
tect domestic producers, world com-
modity agreements satisfactory to Aus-
tralia seem very dubious.
Bearing all this in mind some people
are wondering if it is politic for Aus-
tralia to be taking the stand that before
Britain signs on the dotted line it must
insist that the Six guarantee, for an
unlimited period, the right of entry on
preferred tariff quota terms to a volume
of imports from Australia comparable
with present levels—allowing for normal
expansion. Mr McEwen is adamant that
nothing short of this would be acceptable
to Australia. Our Government will cer-
tainly leave no stone unturned to keep
the UK delegation on this track in the
critical months of commodity by com-
modity negotiations in Brussels. Appar-
ently Dr Westerman and his cohorts from
Australian industries will be on hand in
Europe over this crucial period to jog
the memory of the British negotiators on
the spot. And if need be, despite its
tiny majority in Parliament, the Govern-
ment will send a Minister over to get a
word in with the British Cabinet and
other places not so readily accessible to
a delegation of civil servants and trade
advisers.
Mr McEwen believes that serving
Cocktails for Six in Brussels is a far
better method than that employed by
New Zealand and Canada, who have
made no barnstorming tours of Euro-
pean capitals to alert heads of Govern-
ments to the right and force of their
case to have tradit'onal trade with
Britain preserved. They have merely
represented their views to the British as
the negotiating party concerned, confi-
dent that it will carry their flag success-
fully. It is quite clear that Mr McEwen
is not prepared to let it go at that; not
because he necessarily mistrusts the
British but because, on the score of food
and raw materials, Britain's paramount
interest is to buy them as cheaply as
possible whereas ours is to sell them at
prices satisfactory to Australian produ-
cers and high enough to sustain our
overseas income at levels required by
the balance of payments.
nnHOUGH Mr McEwen was deploring the
■ other day that his personal interven-
tions in Britain and Europe hardly com-
manded as much space in the British
Press as a single horse race, one hears
that in Europe he got the ear of people
INDEX
Cocktails for Six .... .... 32
Japan Government Aims at
Stability .... .... .... 34
Marketing, Management,
Shipping .... .... .... 35
News Pointers .... .... 36
Italy’s Chemical Industry .... 36
Anti-Climax on Briquettes .... 38
One to Buy .... 40
Economics Anonymous .... 41
Company Reviews
Gibson and Howes Ltd .... 42
Tyree Industries Ltd .... 42
Mick Simmons Ltd .. .... 43
Howards Ltd .... .... 44
An Interesting “Spec.” .... 48
Company Notes .... .... 46
Oil .... 49
Speculator’s Diary .... .... 49
Sharemarket Summary and
Statistics .... .... 50, 51
Man on the Land:
Wheat, Weather .... 52, 53
Statistics 34, 53


who really count in the scheme of
things. For instance in his talks in Rome
he told important Italian politicians that
if sugar beet production was expanded
sufficiently in Europe it could be that
the future of the predominantly Italian
labor force of the Australian sugar indus-
try would be put in jeopardy. In France
he made a point of calling on the French
Minister who controls the farm vote in
the House of Deputies, telling him that
he too was dependent on the farm vote
and understood the importance to the
French Government of keeping French
wheat farmers on side. Adroitly, Mr
McEwen told him that it would not be
the end of the world for Australia if, as
a result of Britain joining the Six, France
sold a little more of its soft wheat to
Britain and Australia perhaps a bit less
than at present and that in the end satis-
factory arrangement could be made. This
may well have turned the tide in his
talks with General de Gaulle.
Tn recent years Australia’s balance of
payments with the Common Market
has been persistently favorable except in
years of low prices for wool (which com-
prises up to four-fifths of Australian
exports to them.) With new horizons
looming up for their exports to Austra-
lian markets, especially for capital goods,
in the event of Britain joining them, the
Six have good reason to be sympathetic
to the Australian case. However, there is
clearly much still to be done after
McEwen’s efforts to get the Six to see
Australia’s problem whole, as related to
their own economies. One of these is
undoubtedly the degree to which the
agricultural resources of the Common
Market are to be developed with the aid
of protective devices.
For instance the recent swingeing
increase in subsidies to West German
farmers seems to run counter to any idea
that the Common Market will in future
rationalise the use of its agricultural re-
sources with a view to eliminating ineffi-
cient producers. And it would seem un-
likely that Britain, with its own highly
protected agriculture, would raise any
objections to high protection for agricul-
ture should it join the Six. On the other
hand it would seem that Europe—and
the UK not the least—would have every-
thing to gain economically by a greater
concentration of economic effort on
manufacturing.
If we could somehow get the Six to see
their agricultural future in terms of the
needs of the less well developed coun-
tries and ourselves with economies
geared to providing bulk commodities
and raw materials we would be well on
the way to resolving the main problems
implicit in Britain's application to join
the EEC.
A ustralian manufacturing industries,
like American, may yet have to face
up to the fact that the best way to hold
the volume of commodity and raw mater-
ial trade with an enlarged Common Mar-
ket may be on President Kennedy’s lines.
In other words, we might have to make
sweeping reductions in the Australian
tariff in order to turn the Common Mar-
ket away from high protection for its
own agriculture. The Common Market
countries would view our case with much
more favor if they thought there was a
real prospect of getting easier access to
our own market in manufactured goods.
As it is, they are doubtless well aware
that in the event of the UK joining them
and preferential arrangements for our
commodities and raw materials going by
the board, Britain’s own preferences in
our market would have to be reconsid-
ered. Some people seem to think that
the future of these preferences is a
matter for Australia alone to decide. In
theory this may well be true, but as a
matter of practical commerce it may not
necessarily be so. One would have
thought that by 1970, when it is now con-
sidered the Common Market will have
abolished all its internal tariffs, estab-
lished its uniform external tariff and gone
a long way towards fully implementing
its common agricultural policy, the Six
will expect to be on all fours with
Britain in its commercial arrangements
with outside countries and there seems to
be no doubt that Australia will be one
of these. In that case how could we
keep the British preferential rate for the
UK without extending it to the whole
Common Market?
UK Preferences
Yet, Mr McEwen appears to want to
fight to the death for the survival of
British preferences in the Australian
market and sees something very sinister
in the American view that the whole
Ottawa system of Commonwealth prefer-
ences should be dismantled. One can only
think then that he is still hoping against
hope that Britain itself will not go
into the Common Market unless the Six
are prepared to recognise the UK as a
“market within a market,” which even
Mr McEwen has found the Six are abso-
lutely unprepared to do. While it is
true that the Minister of Trade is still
very concerned about what happens after
the transition period, it appears that he is
not worried to the point of setting in
train any moves to reorient rural indus-
tries—such as wheat, dairying, sugar and
fruit—which are recognised as being the
most vulnerable in the event of losing
part or all of their share of the UK
market.
Nor has there been any signal of
second thoughts from the two giant
aluminium projects which stand to face
a high tariff on metals (not ores and con-
centrates) if Britain joins the Six. But
it is conceivable that these important
schemes, and also any expansion of
smelting and fabricating facilities in
other metal industries, such as copper,
lead and zinc could well be halted until
the fate of future imports of metals into
the Common Market is decided.
4 lot of people seem to think that
Britain and the Six will be so busy
attending to their own industrial invest-
ment that very little capital will be left
over for foreign investment. But this
line of thinking seems unnecessarily pes-
simistic. For one thing it neglects the
important point that an enlarged
Common Market will be just as interested
after Britain joins as it has been since
1959 in exporting to third countries.
Being predominantly exporters of manu-
factures, particularly of heavy capital
equipment, and importers of raw mate-
rials and commodities the Common
Market has a vital interest in maximising
its external trade. But the terms of trade
are so heavily in favor of exporters of
manufactures and adverse to the primary
producing countries that to achieve a
balance in payment between the one and
the other the manufacturers are bound
to continue to be heavy exporters of
capital. An enlarged Common Market
seems unlikely to give its blessing to any
reversal of the terms of trade against
itself, though this has been plugged con-
sistently by McEwen during his travels
both in the US and Europe. As a matter
of fact because Western Europe and
Britain are so heavily dependent on im-
ports of commodities, and raw materials
and the primary producing countries are
so heavily dependent on their imports to
them, the former have to take the choice
between paying adequately for their im-
ports on the one hand or making up the
difference in exports of capital to balance
the overseas payment of the primary
producers.
Capital Inflow
In recent years the bulk of our direct
private capital inflow has come from
the UK and Western Europe (about two-
thirds) and most of the remainder from
North America. So with the United
States allegedly pouring capital into the
Common Market and Britain, so as to
have as big as possible a finger in the
manufacturing pie behind common
tariff, it has been suggested that Aus-
tralia could be left out in the cold. But
in his Arthur Capper Moore lecture
Dr Harold Bell, economist to the AMP
Society, recently made a searching ana-
lysis of this and came to some reassuring
conclusions. He felt that “the Common
Market arrangements are inducing a
great rationalisation of production, and
mergers are occurring of leading produ-
cers in the same field, sometimes within
one country, sometimes embracing pro-


-Wholesale Prices,
Government
Price—..
Index (a)
Import
Export
Security Share
Index Goods Princi-
Price Index Price Index
Price Index Price Index
Total
pally Home
Total
(b)
(c)
(d)
Compiled
Food
All Groups
Produced All Groups
Sydney Stock
by
1958 59
115
116
108
105
106
68
96
163
1959/60
120
119
114
109
107
76
96
221
1960/61
128
124
119
113
109
70
93
219
(e)
(e)
1961/62
July
114
109
109
72
92
219
August
112
107
109
72
92
216
September
128
125
111
106
109
71
92
214
October
108
104
109
70
94
213
November
107
103
109s
69
95
213
December
125
124
108
104
109s
70
95
211
January
109s
105s
109s
71
98
218
February
109s
105s
189s
73s
96
229
March
125
124
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
96
224
(a) Wholesale Price
(Basic Materials
and Foodstuffs)
Index, (b)
Index of f.o.b. price
of goods leaving
country of
origin in period shown.
(c) Since
July,
1959.
net price at current yield
of a theoretical
15-year bond whose
price on 1952/53
average long-term
bond yields
is 100. Income from
bonds is subject
to current
Federal
taxation less
a
rebate of
2/- in
the
pound.
(d) Shares
of companies listed on
Sydney Stock Exchange.
(e)
Quarter ended.
ducers in several countries. This is
creating industrial giants of considerable
financial strength and considerable pro-
ductive capacity. Bigness tends to widen
horizons particularly when productive
capacity in one’s traditional markets is
tending to match or outstrip emerging
demand. Although a market of ten
million people may look small compared
with nearby markets, the fact is that ten
million people of our country enjoy one
of the world’s very high living standards
and we are likely to receive greater
rather than less attention because of these
structural changes.”
Dr Bell was confident that Australia
stood as good and possibly a better
chance of getting more overseas capital
on a Government loan basis from Europe
following Britain’s entry,
However, we cannot confidently expect
a rising spontaneous flow of overseas
capital to come here failing a resumption
of growth at a considerably higher rate
than experienced over the last year or
more. This could depend as much on
motivating influences inside Australia as
on anything else, and there still seems
to be some way to go before we move
out of the stage of economic recovery to
a platform from which expansion, say,
of immigration, the key ingredient of
growth, could be envisaged,
J. C. HORSFALL
JAPAN
GOVERNMENT AIMS AT STABILITY
From JOHN CAMPBELL in Tokyo
Tapanese economic growth, which over
the past three years has amazed the
world, is to be forcibly restrained by
the Government this year. A sharp
decline in Japan’s international balance
of payments, rising prices on the home
market, and an early election for the
Upper Elouse of the Diet, have convinced
Prime Minister Hayato Ikeda’s conser-
vative Liberal-Democratic Party that at
least a temporary halt in Japanese indus-
trial expansion is necessary and Govern-
ment planning is now directed toward
keeping economic growth in 1962 to
about 5.4 p.c. (18 p.c. in 1959, 14 p.c.
in 1960 and 13 p.c. in 1961). Most
Japanese seem to be relieved that the
Government is transferring the emphasis
from economic growth to attaining
economic stability.
Prime Minister Ikeda, with accustomed
bluntness, said recently that “part of the
blame” for rising prices must be borne
by the Government, “but the entire nation
is also responsible.” This effort to appor-
tion blame resulted in Mr Ikeda facing
a revolt within his own party. The direc-
tor of the Economic Planning Agency,
Mr Aiichiro Fujiyama, engaged in some
blunt speaking of his own and asked the
Government to re-examine its whole
economic policy. A hurried Cabinet
meeting was called and it was announced
that economic growth would be soft-
pedalled and measures to bring about
price stability stressed. This, it was felt,
would put the Liberal-Democrats in a
better position to fight the forthcoming
election for the Upper House.
This does not mean that Japan is in
danger of a serious recession. Although
small business has been adversely affected
by tight money policies, the average
wage-earner has never had it so good.
In the spring labor offensive just ended,
unions representing workers in transpor-
tation, shipbuilding, electrical products
and textiles gained wage increases averag-
ing <£A3 15s. Although the gap between
annual wage increases and annual in-
creases in the cost of living was sharply
narrowed last year, wages over the last
decade have increased at an average an-
nual rate of about 9 p.c.—far above the
increase in living costs.
TJespite difficulties in balancing export
earnings and import expenditures
(in 161, Japan spent US $4341 m. on
imports, but earned only $4341 m. from
exports) Japan has been able to maintain
virtually full employment. In fact, there
is an acute labor shortage in the younger
age groups and among skilled workers.
There were 2.5 jobs for every high
school graduate coming on to the labor
market in 1961 and the proportion of
jobs to labor was even higher this April
—the graduation month. So acute is the
labor problem in such industries as
transistors, electronics, watches and
clocks and textiles that labor scouts are
sent around the nation’s high schools
well before graduation to sign up suitable
students. In many cases, clandestine
bonuses are paid students to join a speci-
fic firm.
The high starting wages for youngsters
inevitably affects the whole wage structure
of industry. It is plainly impracticable to
pay new juniors more than relatively
experienced workers who have been em-
ployed three or four years. As a result,
the wage pattern is steadily spiralling up-
wards. The combination of rising wages,
rising prices, enormous investment by
industry on new plant and equipment
and a slowdown in export are the basic
reasons for strains being felt by the
economy.
Industry has been frankb scared by
the prospect of tougher foreign competi-
tion on the Japanese domestic market
arising from the steady lowering of trade
barriers. In addition, the trend toward
regional economic blocs such as the
European Common Market has raised
the fear that Japanese goods will be un-
competitive unless they have a very great
price advantage.
Japanese industry has decided to fight
these two spectres by investing enormous
sums (£A4545 m. in 1961 alone) in
re-equipping, rationalising and modernis-
ing its plants. In textiles, electronics,
automobiles, appliances and some chemi-
cals Japan literally has new industries
built from the ground up. This, it is
hoped, will make Japanese goods more
than competitive, whether in foreign
markets or at home.
To put the economy on a sound basis,
the economic planners now believe there
must be a sharp and continued expansion
in exports while keeping new domestic
investment and imports to a minimum.
In the United States, Europe, Latin
America and Australia, Japan is now
launching one of the biggest export
drives in its history.
PRICE INDICES
BASE: 1952/53 = 100


Another “ Wales” Service
market
Importunities
Oversea markets, like gold, are where you find
them, but it is easier to find them with the
help of the “Wales”. There you can obtain
information on new markets or be put in
touch with businessmen overseas. Exporting
is made easier for you, too, with assistance in
many ways ask for copies of the booklets
“An Australian Exporter’s Guide” and “Plan-
ning a Business Trip Overseas”.
You can bank on the “ Wales”.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
MARKETING
STANDARDS IN EXPORT
1%/Ian y Australian companies consider
technical details about their pro-
ducts as only “fringe problems” when
planning to manufacture for export.
This was commented on recently by Mr
A. L. Stewart, Director of the Standards
Association of Australia. “Most com-
panies,” he said, “concentrate on the
price level that their product must meet.
They overlook the fact that behind nearly
every commercial transaction involving
international movement of a raw material
or manufactured product there lies a
specification.”
This specification may be a national
standard of the importing or exporting
country, or in these days it may be an
internationally recommended standard.
Because differences in national standards
represent technical impediments to inter-
national trade, there are organisations
working at the international level to
establish recommendations through which
national standards may be brought into
agreement.
To provide the maximum service to
the Australian company interested in
importing or exporting, the Standards
Association draws on reference informa-
tion available through their affiliation
with the International Organization for
Standardization (ISO) and the Inter-
national Electro-technical Commission
(lEC). SAA pays £3OOO annually in
fees alone for these affiliations.
The Standards Association welcomes
requests for information and guidance
from those companies proposing to enter
the international field.
B. H. CLAPCOTT
MANAGEMENT
TOP LEVEL TALKS
A study conference for top business
and Government executives will
open at the University of Queensland
next Tuesday. It has been arranged by
the Australian Institute of Management
to assist the work of the Queensland
Development Advisory Committee in
.studying all aspects of the State’s
development.
The Prime Minister (Mr Menzies)
will be the key speaker; others will
include Sir William Gunn, chairman of
the Australian Wool Bureau and the
International Wool Secretariat, and Sir
John Crawford, director of the Research
School of Pacific Studies, Australian
National University, Canberra.
SHIPPING
FREIGHT COST BURDEN
TI/Tr A. F. J. Smith, president of the
Export Development Group of
NSW told members at the annual
meeting this week that Australia was
singularly unfortunate that nearly every-
thing exported or imported had to be
carried in ships belonging to other
nations.
“We are unable to compete in the
sphere of international shipping under
present conditions,” he said. “The cost
of freight and of insurance payable to
overseas interests constitutes a drain on
our international reserves. While we can-
not compete in shipping, there seems,
however, to be scope for more of our
insurance to be underwritten in Aus-
tralia and for Australian companies to
compete for the large scale lines of mar-
ine insurance related to the major ex-
port commodities.”


NEWS POINTERS
AUSTRALIA
® A ustralian merchandise exports to the United Kingdom in the six
A months to December 31, 1961, totalled £102.7m. (up £3.96m.).
Imports amounted to £122.3m. (down £51.7m.), leaving a merchandise
trade deficit of £19.6m. for the half-year (£75.2m. in six months to De-
cember 31, 1960).
® Cautious reaction followed last week’s call by the Federal Opposi-
tion Leader, Mr A. Calwell, to give “greater freedom” to trading banks in
Australia. Mr Calwell said it was essential to weaken the “fringe” banking
system.
© The B.H.P. has started surveys of diamond and percussion drilling
sites on its temporary iron ore prospecting reserves in the Robe River Valley
and Duck Creek (Pilbarra) areas of Western Australia. A geological survey
will be made at the same time as exploratory drilling.
® The total market value of unit trusts, land trusts and mutual funds in
Australia rose by £4.Bm. to £92.5m. in the March quarter of 1962.
© The chairman of the Australian Petroleum Association, Mr R. C.
Sprigg, said that discoveries of oil outside the Moonie field in Queensland
in the remaining months of 1962 were “almost certain.” He added that
“1962 will register a turning point in the development of our national re-
sources.”
# Mr. S. Morata, assistant director of the Japanese Productivity Centre,
who arrived in Sydney to take part in the second Australian conference
on productivity, said that Australia should devote more attention to
to industrial research aimed at raising productivity. He added that, since the
Japanese Productivity Centre was established in 1955, productivity in Japan
has increased by about 30 p.c.
© The Minister for Trade, Mr. J. McEwen, said that a joint campaign to
expand exports will shortly be undertaken by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment and private enterprise. The campaign will include publicity drives and
seminars on exports in capital cities.
OVERSEAS
• HThe President of the British Board of Trade, Mr F. Erroll, said that
A the recent bilateral tariff agreement with the European Economic
Community “will result in a substantial reduction in tariff barriers on a re-
ciprocal basis.” Since the agreement is part of the GATT’s “Dillon Round”,
the latest tariff concessions will extend to other GATT members. However,
the UK Government has promised to reduce proportionately existing prefer-
ence tariffs on some Commonwealth products (mainly textiles containing
synthetic fibres) marketed in Britain to preserve their relative degree of
preference.
© Japanese Government trade officials are expected to “introduce a new
formula to promote trade with Communist China, under which Japanese
traders will be permitted to exchange goods on a deferred payment basis”,
“The Japan Times” reports. Meanwhile, four leading iron and steel mills
—Fuji Iron and Steel, Yawata Iron and Steel, Nippon Kokan and Kawasaki
Steel are completing arrangements to buy 105,000 tons of coal from
Peking.
© The UK Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr Selwyn Lloyd, said that ex-
change control over investment in non-sterling area is being relaxed. The UK
Information Service says this reflects improvement in Britain’s balance-of-
payments position and the continued strength of sterling. Some displace-
ment of some UK investment in foreign securities in favor of direct invest-
ment may follow the modification of exchange control.
® The Japanese Finance Ministry has asked 150 major manufacturing
companies to reduce their investment in capital equipment in 1962 by
20 p.c.
© Share capital of Lufthansa German Airlines is being raised from
US s4sm. to US $62.5m. and shareholders are being offered stock at par.
At present the West German Government holds 81 p.c. of Lufthansa’s
capital. The balance is held by the various State Governments, the German
Federal Railways and private investors.
ITALY
CHEMICAL INDUSTRY GROWS
/Chemical industry in Italy had a later
start than other vital sectors of the
secondary industry. However, over the
past 50 years, and especially in the last
decade of Italy’s great industrial boom,
it has expanded rapidly and reached out-
put levels achieved by the leading in-
dustrialised countries. As early as 1956
overall production levels were three
times as high as those of 1948.
Since then the rhythm of growth has
become even faster, both through the
improvement of existing facilities and
the creation of new enterprises. At
the same time industry evolved from
basic production activities to more com-
plex manufacturing processes. Taking the
monthly average of 1950 as 100, the
index of Italian chemical production
rose to 264.9 during the first nine months
in 1961, as against 241 during the same
period in 1960 and 205.3 in 1959. The
Italian rate of increase in this sector
was the highest among the major Euro-
pean countries, and even higher than
in the US.
Since 1958 and 1959 capital invest-
ment in chemical industry in Europe has
equalled that of the United States. This
great financial and production effort was
shared by Italy with investment rising
from US s2oBm. to US s26om. This
was attained despite the need for the
solution of several other problems posed
by the policy of interrelation and econ-
omic co-operation adopted by the West
European countries, and by the intensi-
fied competition between East and West.
Expanded and new activities in the
Italian chemical industry range from the
production of sulphuric acid, oxalic acid,
borax, potassium sulphate, ammonia,
etc., to the manufacture of acrylic resins
and related intermediates, including lamp
black, phthalic anhydride, propylene
acids and glycols, phosphorus and its de-
rivatives, chlorinated hydrocarbons, poly-
ethylene and a wide range of synthetic
products.
Organic chemistry was likewise char-
acterised by rapid growth, notably in
methanol production. Substantial increas-
es were also recorded in the output of
acetic anhydride, acetic acid and its de-
rivatives, and of formaldehyde. Output
of synthetic phenol rose as a result of
the increase in the manufacture of phen-
olic resins and polyamino fibres. The
steady growth in the output of phthalic
anhydride, which is largely used in the
manufacture of resins and plasticisers,
was reflected in the substantial amount of
sales abroad.
As in other industrialised countries,
petrochemicals have become one of
the leading aspects of chemical produc-


MARKETING ADVERTISING COUNSEL'
£ PRACTICE |
i THilken Wife Ply Ltd
formerly ‘Cossey Waite Advertising’
M\m
4th FLOOR SUITE, REGENT BUILDING
167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
2 2411 (6 lines)
Box 347 E GPO, BRISBANE, telegraphic address'HlLKENAD*
ACCREDITED ANC, AAB, AFCBS, PPAB,TAB
member ABC, CAB, AAAA ■
T. H. Waite Managing Director F.A.I.
take
a good
look
at..
>
You’ll like what you see . . .
because Rural Bank Short
Term Deposits pay you the most
bank interest on your money.
Interest is paid at the rate of
4% p.a. for 12 months,
3£% p.a. for 3 to 11 months,
and your investment is always
absolutely safe.
RURAL BANK
FOR EVERY CLASS OF TRADING BANK BUSINESS
“makes money work”
HEAD OFFICE: Martin Place, Sydney
tion in Italy. The output of organic petro-
chemical products in 1959 more than
doubled the 1958 ievel; further import-
ant boosts were recorded in 1960 and
1961.
The future outlook for petrochemicals
is very promising. In Italy 70 p.c. of the
hydrogen used for the synthesis of am-
monia is being currently produced from
petroleum and natural gas. A very im-
portant polymer derived from petroleum
gas, polypropylene, is being produced by
Montecatini in Italy under various brands
and forms. It is the primary ingredient
for substances like “Moplen” used in
the manufacture of plastic materials,
“Moplefan” used in the manufacture of
films, and “Meraclon”, a component of
synthetic fibres. Foreign manufacturers
in different countries, including Ger-
many, France, the UK, Japan, Austria,
Sweden, etc., have been granted a licence
by Montecatini for the production of
its polypropylene.
New plastic materials and synthetic
fibres are constantly being developed.
Thirty plants are currently operating,
seven of which were opened in 1960.
Many of their activities are closely con-
nected with other nationwide industries.
Montecatini has petrochemical com-
plexes at Novara, Ferrara, Milan and
Brindisi; Edison’s plants are located
at Mantova, Venice and Siracusa; ENI
has a large petrochemical factory at
Ravenna; Brindisi’s plant is bound to be-
come Italy’s largest manufacturing centre
of its kind and one of the most important
in Europe. Further development of
petrochemistry is closely tied with re-
search. The Natta-Montecatini process is
very important in this respect since it
has paved the way to significant develop-
ments in the industrial use of resins, syn-
thetic rubber, etc. It is estimated that in
1961 Italy’s petrochemical industry had
used ten times as much oils derived from
petroleum as in 1958.
Three hundred plants in 30 countries
all over the world are currently manu-
facturing synthetic resins, fertilisers and
a vast range of synthetic products using
patent processes discovered by this
leading Italian concern.
of chemical products are ris-
ing. According to official statistical
data, Italian chemical industries exported
218,730 m. lire worth of products in
1961, as compared with 176,081 m. in
1960, a 23.6 p.c. increase, exclusive of
exports of artificial and synthetic fibres
and of basic products obtained from coal
and mineral oil distillation.
A substantial rise was recorded in
export sales of chemical fertilisers (30.6
p.c.), artificial plastic materials and syn-
thetic resins (23.6 p.c.), miscellaneous
inorganic chemical products (21.8 p.c.),
miscellaneous organic products (25 p.c.)
and pharmaceutical products.


TRADE
WITH JAPAN
Gollin & Company Limited has appointed Mr. Keith C.
Gale as its resident representative in Japan.
Mr. Gale will be stationed at Tokyo and, in conjunction
with Alliance Industries and Shippers Pty. Ltd., will assist
in the development of Export Trade with Japan and
adjacent countries.
The Gollin Company's close association with Alliance
Industries & Shippers Pty. Ltd., Tokyo, will continue and
will in no way be affected by this appointment.
Mr. Gale, who was formerly Acting Trade Commissioner
in Calcutta, commenced at the Company's Head Office
on the Ist May, and will spend several months at the
Gollin Australian and New Zealand Branches before
moving to Tokyo.
GOLLIN & CO. LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Townsville, Port
Moresby, Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin, London
I
[lit]
VICTORIAN S.E.C.
ANTI-CLIMAX ON BRIQUETTES
A fter all the fuss in February about
the report which the Victorian
State Electricity Commission was pre-
paring for the State Government on its
losses on briquette operations, the dis-
closure last week that the report would
not be made public came as an anti-
climax. Leaks from the report had
suggested the Commission had put up
some costly browns, if not blacks, on
this side of its otherwise highly efficient
activities.
It seems, however, that the S.E.C. has
nothing in particular to hide, except from
rivals in the provision of boiler fuels.
At any rate, its reluctance to give gratui-
tous information to its strong oil com-
pany competitors has been accepted" by
the State Government as a good enough
excuse to refrain from publishing the
full report.
The taxpayer is not likely to shed many
tears over this or even the fact that losses
on briquettes this year are going to
exceed even the high figure of £450,000
incurred in 1960-61, because the Govern-
ment has turned its face against making
them a charge against the State’s
finances. Instead, the S.E.C. is, as before,
going to accommodate them in its own
accounts, albeit this may be somewhat
uncomfortable for it, in view of the paltry
profit it made last year when the net
result was on the right side by only
£219,000 after special write-offs of some
£1.4 million.
However, consumers of electricity
which naturally provide the bulk of the
S.E.C.’s revenue have been assured that
at least for the time being electricity
charges will not be raised. And in the
meantime the State railways will continue
to get revenue of some £3 million a
year from freight on transporting
briquettes.
Since nobody’s pocket, except the
S.E.C.’s itself, is going to be hurt, the
public seem to be quite prepared to
whitewash the S.E.C.’s past errors in
briquettes, such as the real howler in
siting the two new briquette factories by
the side of the Morwell open cut and
later finding the coal in that cut was un-
suitable for briquette making. The fact
that brown coal has now to be carried
four miles by rail from Yallourn to feed
the factories is a serious dis-economy in
the whole operation. But it isn’t the only
trouble.
Another is the weight of dead money
being carried as a result of the major
design for briquette production going
sadly astray, leaving the Commission
with a weight of costly unused equip-
ment. The original idea of building four
factories in a bold attempt to get Vic-
toria free of its dependence on NSW
coal was excellent, but its implementation
ran into a series of snags. The first
was shortage of funds, which prevented
the construction of two of the proposed
factories for which expensive equipment
had been bought and delayed the con-
struction of the two others until their
completion in 1960, six and eight years
behind schedule.
?T\he other obstacle was, of course, the
A great flow of competitive black oils
coming from the four major oil refin-
eries built in the 1951-56 period and not
in sight when the S.E.C. laid its plans
for briquettes in the late 19405. It is
certainly understandable that with such
a cloud over the pricing of black oils,
the S.E.C. doesn’t want to open its books
for the benefit of the oil companies.
There’s no question of anybody obeying
the golden rule in this contentious field
unless by compulsion.
Anyway the S.E.C. deserves a bit of
public sympathy just now as, like other
semi-Government authorities in Aus-
tralia, it is feeling the draught from the
reduction earlier this year from 53- p.c.
to 5i p.c. in its permitted borrowing rate.
Its latest combined cash and conversion
loan brought in only £2.6m. of the
<£4.2m. sought, cash subscriptions
accounting for only <£1,510,000 or
£632,000 less than the last previous
issue. The conversion operation was
even less satisfactory in that the conver-
sion ratio was some 30 p.c. worse than
last time ; but this was partly to be attri-
buted to the preconversion operation in
1959 involving securities maturing this
year.
J. C. HORSFALL


INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITY
‘SIT
ilisgli
fOYS, MEtaWHNC
usm
MYER’S. BENDIGO
t fj]' t
% *< '' ' j
*OWRINGS, MIIDUSA
M V 'S ' £§ 4
is
iiSiill
!*»•
mu
COXfOYS, ADELAIDE
i/s
a;
!li
Dlillli
?:y.
Hi::
mniii*a!“
Es!=
mm
m
10
If
FOYS (WJU
STORE
RETAIL
OF
CHAIN
AUSTRALIA
WIDE
12 TRADING COMPANIES
113 STORES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
o
o
DEPOSIT INVESTMENT
PLAN
The Company will accept deposits which it can profitably
employ and will pay the following rates of interest per annum.
gig**
■
;SSS=
i#
rims
m
55-=si
sssssam
mm
■ISiSs
, A3NOAS
\VS
!so*sl
linnwi
WMaasasgaa
o I
wtswsl
H I
d \
tiammmmmm.
Ham mm mm mi
in
it hm
APPLICATIONS mav I . toafcwj 1 p on loim\ HtjciKij to ttffi prmlwi cppic'. v.l the which fnay be obtained froifl:
• The Secretary, Cox Brothers tAusti.ilia) Limited. 7f» Flinders lane, Me!h.
# The Manager af any stme in the Cox-Bros, group,
* Any Member of a'Slonk txchange.
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE
lAN POTTER & CO.
MEUOURME —SYDNEY- —BRISBANE
A9EIAIOE—CANBERRA HW


-
m
better return
a
m
mmmm
P.A. for 8 and 10 years
REID MURRAY
Acceptance Limited
Reg. First Mortgage Debenture Stock
FIXED LONG TERM STOCK
A> P.A. 8-10 Years
9<y<
o P.A.
5 Years
■B«*
O P A.
3 Years
7'/s<76 ps.
2 Years
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
mam
P.A. on 12
mths. notice
P.A. on 3
mths. notice
a°/o P.A. at cat!
Applications accepted only on forms at-
tached to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of
Adelaide Ltd.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
RMA.2OV
ONE TO BUY
11/'ith all economic indicators pointing
’ ’ upwards, the market gloom pervad-
ing engineers should soon be dissipat-
ed. Clyde Industries Ltd, as one of the
leading heavy engineers, has been more
deeply enshrouded than most, particu-
larly when earnings for the year ended
June 30, 1961, at 16.4 p.c. on higher
average capital gave scant cover for the
usual 15 p.c. dividend to ordinary share-
holders.
Apart from the heavy engineering
products of locomotives and railway
rolling stock and buses, other members
of the group make trailers and general
engineering products, car batteries,
greasing and materials handling equip-
ment, aluminium kitchenware, assemble
Renault “Dauphine” cars, and carry on
as civil and mechanical engineers. There
are also merchandising subsidiaries,
handling machine tools and ships’ sup-
plies.
Other subsidiaries handle finance and
leasing of machinery. Glazebrook Paints
and Chemicals Ltd was acquired during
1960-61, and Clyde hopes to develop
products allied to the paint industry.
Clyde has a joint venture with Minster
Ltd and an English company, on a pro-
ject to reclaim rubber. Clyde did hold a
244 p.c. interest in Volkswagen (Aus-
tralasia) Pty Ltd, which was sold for a
capital profit last year of £1,122,917.
Since 1960 Clyde has had an interest in
the distribution of Volkswagens through
a 49 p.c. share interest in Regent Motors
(Holdings) Ltd.
At the first prospect of a commercial
oil-field in Australia, Clyde stepped
smartly into a joint company with a
French firm to undertake projects in oil
refining, chemicals, petrochemicals, fer-
tilisers, bulk ore handling and so on.
Management has since 1949 deliber-
ately diversified from its main heavy en-
gineering interests. But it was the heavy
engineering side which gave the market
most concern. Competition was keen,
and there was surplus capacity. In
March this year directors reported that
group profits for the half-year to Dec-
ember, 1961, were less than for the half
year to December, 1960, but an improv-
ing trend was evident, and if this con-
tinued, and the forward outlook for
1962-63 was favourable, the 15 p.c.
dividend would be held in 1961-62. The
group enjoyed a high state of liquidity.
It seems idle to expect the current
year’s results to do better than equal last
year’s, but investors at the present price
level of about 10s. 3d. to yield 7.3 p.c,,
assuming a steady 15 p.c. dividend,
should see a recovery of the company’s
fortunes during 1962-63. Clyde rareiy
sells at merely twice par.


CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(PAID UP CAPITAL £7,000,000)
7%...4 years and over
6% .•. 12 months' notice
5%. ..6 months' notice
... 3 months' notice
Interest is paid in Equal Quarterly Instalments
Free of Exchange, on the last days of June.
September, December and March.
TRUSTEES
FOR THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS:
The Perpetual Trustee Company (ltd.)
DIRECTORS
lan M. Jacoby
(Chairman and Managing Director)
L. W. Coppleson G. T. Hartigan
R. E. Ash C. S. Gittoes
This is not a Prospectus. A copy of the Prospectus
covering this issue of Registered Debentures has been
lodged with the Registrar of Companies, Sydney.
Application must be made on the Forms enclosed
in the Prospectus, which is now available from
All Members of
The Stock Exchange
All Branches of
The National Bank
and
Custom Credit Corporation
limited
100 New South Head Road, Edgecliff, Sydney
Secretary-General: KEITH LOVE. Tet.: 32-0111
RD42.562
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Tt would be a mistake to call Australian
investors unsophisticated merely on
their recent performance in the oil share
market. It is all very well to say that
American investors would never have
been carried away by an oil strike like
Moonie, nor have been prepared to part
with their shares simply because one
well at one particular level failed to
repeat a flow of oil found at the same
level in an adjacent well. That is not a
true test of sophistication at the present
stage of Australian oil search.
Oil share speculators the world over
relate their buying and selling as much
to their own particular financial position
as to the news. Nobody holding a
speculatively valued oil share (and all
Australian oil search shares are in this
class) on borrowed money is going to
stand by idly when the news is bad or
even indifferent. Equally, whether he is
playing with borrowed funds or not, a
speculator may well follow the old adage
of selling on the news, be it bad or good.
This apart, once solid grounds existed
for thinking that there was a commercial
oil field in Australia it was inevitable
that the whole platform of oil search
share prices would be raised and,
naturally, shares of the company giving
these grounds would be lifted well above
the general level. This would have
happened in any country finding oil for
the first time, as it did in Canada in
1947 when the fabulous Leduc field was
discovered oil search shares hit the
roof there just as they did on the Moonie
strike here.
This is just the situation investors in
oil search shares have been preparing
themselves for over many years, buying
across the board when the search was in
the doldrums and selling when periodic-
ally it came to life, as it did with the
Puri strike in Papua in 1958.
a matter of fact if American valua-
tion methods were used in valuing
our oil search shares the whole level of
this section of the market would be con-
siderably higher than it is at the moment.
In the USA and Canada they weigh the
acreages of leases very highly in their
calculations of the theoretical value of
oil shares and these have a direct bear-
ing on market prices. But although this
has time and time again been brought
to the attention of investors here it has
had no perceptible bearing on the
market.
Australian investors have bluntly re-
fused to be carried away by this brand
of “sophisticated” thinking, preferring
to value the shares of individual oil
search companies by a variety of con-
siderations peculiar to the search in this
country. This is perhaps little better than
rule of thumb. It is early even yet to
construct a ready reckoner which related
the prices of various oil search shares
to a combination of such factors as
adjacency to Moonie, known geophysical
information, imminence and scope of
drilling programmes and even, say, the
potential overall availability of funds for
oil search investment here if one could
estimate it. (This of course is impossible).
Even so some brokers have put out
first editions of handy ready reckoners
for the guidance of their clients. These
have received wide currency but investors
in oil shares have certainly not been
blinded by them, which in itself shows
they are probably more sophisticated
than they’re given credti for.
Of course, as with any type of invest-
ment, be it in shares, land or anything
else, there are mugs as well as
sophisticated participants.


COMPANY REVIEWS AND NOTES
GIBSON AND HOWES LTD
EARNINGS EASE SLIGHTLY
A s long as conditions of over-supply
prevail throughout the world, com-
panies in the sugar industry can hardly
be called growth stocks. Yet all operat-
ing companies in Australia seem to be
able to earn fair profits, and at the
same time quietly line their coffers.
Gibson and Howes Ltd, Queensland
sugar planter and miller of Bingera, near
Bundaberg, reduced its dividend only
once, in 1932 when drought hit the
crops. The company now supplements
rainfall with irrigation water to minimise
the effect of the vagaries of nature.
Weather conditions in the 1961 season
were unfavourable insufficient rain,
a cold winter with frosts and then un-
seasonal downpours during a critical
period at harvesting time. All this re-
duced the sugar content of last term’s
cane harvest to a considerable extent: —
Raw Sugar
Cane Crushed, Produced,
Season Tons Tons 94 n.t.
1953 308,755 37,900
1954 328,994 41,750
1955 318,088 39,900
1956 359,325 44,205
1957 189,760 25,350
1958 318,600 42,083
1959 279,425 39,195
1960 296,915 42,500
1961 282,210 37,217
Considering the adverse weather condi-
tions, the management felt that produc-
tion and yield were satisfactory. In 1957,
a similar drought year to 1961, sugar
production was considerably lower.
Directors attribute the increase in pro-
ductive capacity of the mill’s assigned
areas to the superior cane varieties now
available, and the development of
modern cane farming techniques em-
ployed by grower suppliers.
About one-fifth of the mill intake is
from the company’s own plantations,
the balance from suppliers, but a higher
cane yield and sugar yield per acre is
obtained from the company plantations.
Shareholders received two bonuses in
the ’2os, participated in a par cash issue
in 1951, and received a one-for-two
bonus in 1954, bringing issued capital
to its present level of £630,000, all in
ordinary shares. Reserves were increased
in 1960 by £230,000 set aside for con-
tingencies no longer considered necessary
and £20,000 tax overprovision ploughed
back.
Net profit for the year ended Decem-
ber 31, 1961, fell from £105,515 to
£96,824, after providing an undisclosed
sum for taxation, and £71,912 (down
£2180) for depreciation on buildings,
sugar factory, machinery, rolling stock,
pumping station equipment, irrigation
plant etc: —
Net To Re-
Dec., Profit Dividends Reserves serves
£ p.c. £ £ £
1954 . 99,783 12 75,600 24,183 253,380
1955 .. 90,690 12 = 75,600 15,090 268,470
1956 .. 83,556 12 = 75,600 7,956 276,426
1957 . . 75,669 12 = 75,600 69 276,495
1958 99,771 12 = 75,600 24.171 300,666
1959 99,342 12 = 75,600 23,742 324,408
Tax provision written back .. £20,000 344,408
Prov. for contingencies
transferred to reserves £230,000 574,403
1960 .. 105,515 12 = 75,600 29,915 604.323
1961 . 96,824 12 = 75,600 21,224 625,547
This represented an earning rate of 15.4
p.c. on the one-class paid capital, com-
pared with 16.7 p.c. in the previous term
and 15.8 p.c. in both 1959 and 1958.
Dividend was steady at 12 p.c. p.a., in-
cluding the customary 2 p.c. “bonus”
loading.
Management says that the new plant
and machinery used in 1961 for the first
time produced excellent results. The new
subsider improved the filtering quality
of Bingera’s sugar. A new automatic
high-grade centrifugal station with an-
cillary crystallising equipment is being
erected to permit greater control over
final raw-sugar quality:—
1959 1960 1961
£ £ £
Paid capital 630,000 630,000 630,000
Reserves 324,408 604,323 625,547
Staff Funds 13,025 38,033 37,967
Overdraft 506,867 385,488 264,157
Sundry creditors ) 528,772* 159,807 110,069
Tax provision j 159,794 176,180
Final dividend 44,100 44,100 44,100
2,047,172 2,021,575 1,888,020
Freeholds, plant 1,285,853 1,227,508 1,234,718
Investments 13,844 13,969 20,519
Stocks 107,133 114,810 115,584
Debtors 595,423 619,418 464,419
Govt, securities 43,200 43,200 43.200
Cash etc. 1,719 2.670 9,580
2,047,172 2,021,575 1,888,020
♦lncluded provisions for tax, contingencies, etc.,
in 1959.
During the year book debts were re-
duced, allowing a reduction in bank over-
draft and creditors.
A subsidiary acquired during the year,
Protein Stock Foods Pty Ltd, devoted
time to experimental and development
work with the lot feeding of stock. A
mechanical harvester has operated suf-
ficiently well to warrant the purchase
of a second machine this season. The
company has 86 miles of tramway which
hauled to the mill 90 p.c. of total cane
crushed in the last season.
Sugar production in Australia is regu-
lated by a system under which the re-
turn from output within the local quotas
(“mill peaks”) allotted to individual mills,
determines the “No. 1 pool” price. A
much smaller payment is made for “sur-
plus” sugar accepted in excess of the
quota-allocation. The final price for raw
sugar of 94 net titre in No. 1 pool in
1960 was £5O/8/9, and the 1961 final
price is expected to be not less than £49
per ton.
Favorable weather conditions promise
an ample supply of cane to fill the mill
peak of 39,000 tons for the current sea-
son, with a margin for production in No.
2 pool. The Sugar Board has announced
its intention of acquiring excess sugar
for the 1962 season, 15 p.c. over and
above mill peaks. The British Common-
wealth Sugar Agreement has been ex-
tended to 1969, and recent exports to
Japan and Canada suggest that produc-
tion of sugar tonnages at Queensland
mills will exceed that of recent years.
The 20s. shares, backed by 395. lOd.
worth of tangible assets, are available on
the market at about 445. to yield
a modest 5.5 p.c. They may appeal to
investors who would be embarrassed by
requests for further capital, and who
prefer the prospect of an occasional
bonus distribution in lieu of higher divi-
dends.
TYREE INDUSTRIES LTD
DIRECTORS MAKE INTRIGUING MOVE
TAirectors of Tyree Industries Ltd,
Sydney manufacturer of electrical
transformers, recently made an intrigu-
ing move. They had decided to combine
the interim dividend with the final, as
negotiations were being conducted with
the McGraw-Edison Co. of America,
then six months ahead of schedule, an-
nounced that they proposed to recom-
mend a final dividend of 12i p.c., pay-
able from profits for the year to June
30, 1962.
In the previous year, dividend was an
interim and final 5 p.c. Current trading
results fully justified the increase in
dividend from 10 p.c. to 121 p.c., said
directors in the latest communique.
This is quite a spectacular recovery of
fortunes; after a maiden profit of
£18,398 in 1957 which allowed a
p.c. dividend to be paid, Tyree ran into
trouble in 1958 when the demand for
conventional types of transformers fell
off, liquid funds were temporarily short,
a fire destroyed equipment, and the re-
organisation of the factory and tooling-
up for the manufacture of McGraw-
Edison transformers took longer than
expected. Dividends were omitted for
two years, although unprofitable trading
was confined to 1958. The company
resumed dividends with the 8 p.c. pay-
ment in 1960.
Reserves have been accumulated to the


»• • •
» ®
superbly ' ***%v
dry ...
TiitaoWs
FINO DRY
SHERRY
flttGove?
,T[D
ASK ALSO FOR ST. AGNES BRANDY
extent of £143,996, mainly from reten-
tion of profits in the period since con-
version to public status: —
To
June Profit Dividend Reserves Reserves
30 £ p.c. £ £ £
1957 18,398 6y 2 = 13,065 5,333 97,620
Capital reserve 150 97,770
1958 Loss 24,691 nil 73,079
Capital reserve 106 73,185
Provision written back 4,137 77,322
1959 21,448 nil 21,448 98,770
Capital reserve 333 99,103
1960 37,256 8 = 18,180 19,076 118,179
Share premium 1,684 119,863
1961 47,491 10 = 23,358 24,133 ‘143,996
* Subject to £ 103,196 intangibles as at 30/6/’6l.
Stocks more than doubled during the
last financial year, due largely to the
greater turnover achieved, and there was
a corresponding rise in amounts due to
creditors:—
1959 1960 1961
Capital £216,759 £227.261 £233,576
Reserves 98,770 118.179 143,996
Mortgage 38,179 36,057 54,561
Long-term
creditors 33,378 21,598 20,020
Overdraft 28,471 37,115 27,771
Creditors 92,381 132,503 262,036
Pax provision ... 3,598 23,045 36,983
Pinal dividend ... 9,090 11,679
£511,536 £604,848 £790,622
Freehold £89,105 £99.083 £127,540
Plant, cars 143,053 142,727 167,914
Stocks 102,778 113.935 259,235
Debtors 69,185 141.448 130,072
Cash and bank . . 1,219 2,959 2,665
Intangibles .. 106,196 104,696 103,196
£511,536 £604,848 £790,622
At the annual meeting, directors advised
that both stocks and creditors had been
reduced. Because of keen competition
in the field of air-conditioning it was
decided to withdraw, and stocks had been
mostly disposed of by December. Manu-
facturing activities of the company are
carried out at Kingsgrove (NSW) and
Hendon (CA). A new factory opposite
the main building at Kingsgrove was
completed during 1960-61, financed by
a mortgage with the Commonwealth
Development Bank.
The recent interim announcement re-
garding the dividend included the state-
ment that sales for the six months to
December 31, 1961, showed a satisfac-
tory increase over the corresponding
period. Extensions at Kingsgrove are
now complete, allowing a steady increase
in the production of the larger type of
transformers.
The negotiations with the McGraw-
Edison group could relate to further
technical association, or perhaps a closer
financial connection. At present Canad-
ian Line Materials Ltd and McGraw-
Edison (Canada) Ltd hold 18,005 and
24,144 ss. ordinary shares respectively
in Tyree. Tyree is finding the manu-
facture of larger type transformers a
very competitive field, due to imports,
although directors perceived that Austra-
lian electrical authorities were placing
more of their future orders with Aus-
tralian manufacturers.
While investors prepared to pay the
current price of 13s. 6d. for the ss.
shares, yielding 4.6 p.c. on the 12i p.c.
dividend basis (earnings yield 7.4 p.c.
on last year’s earnings performance), are
largely buying into the unknown, this
stock holds interest for the spectator.
MICK SIMMONS
LONG, HARD ROAD AHEAD
1%/Tick Simmons (Holdings) Ltd, once
considered a dynamic post-war
growth company, has passed its interim
dividend for the six months to January
31, 1962, after failing to pay a final
dividend last year. The company and
its predecessors have been famous as a
tobacconist and supplier of sporting
goods for 87 years.
Directors reported last week that the
company operated profitably in the first
half of the current year, and turnover
exceeded that of the previous correspond-
ing period, due to the greater number of
outlets in the chain. However, the cost
of establishing these additional units,
plus the generally unfavourable trading
conditions, affected results adversely.
After the experience of last year, when
profit fell from £53,660 to £15,697, and
allowed the payment of only a 3 p.c.
dividend, omission of the interim divi-
dend was no great surprise. Depreciation
charge rose from £12,560 to £20,178,
but the tax provision was only £6,763 in
1961 (£37,100 in 1960). The 1961 re-
sult was in fact the poorest result since
1945, and was a sorry contrast with the
buoyant years of 1954 to 1956, when
profits were around £70,000 to £BO,OOO.
In 1955 a holding company was
formed by a two-for-one exchange, and
dividend was at the rate of 12k p.c. a
year until 1959, when it was whittled to
lli, 10 and finally 3 p.c. in 1960. Dur-
ing 1959-60 shareholders were asked to
subscribe to 7 p.c. convertible notes
which mature on October 31, 1965. Re-
serves have made slow progress:
To
Re- Re-
October Profit Dividends serves serves
Provision written back £9,858 £241,070
1959 £49,998 11% p.c. = 46,942 3,056 244,126
Tax written back 1,200 245,326
19-50 £53.660 10 p.c. = 41,727 11,933 257,259
Net addition cap. reserves 10,237 267,496
Tax written back 1,664 269,160
1961 £15,697 3 p.c. = 12,518 3,179 272,339
Six new suburban branch stores were
opened during the year and three closed.
At December last, the company had
trading premises at Haymarket, Wyn-
yard, Hay Street, Kings Cross, Newtown,
Bondi Junction, Campsie, Hurstville,
Sutherland, Caringbah, Balgowlah,
Hornsby, Parramatta, Penrith, Liverpool,
Campbelltown, Newcastle, Taree, Lis-
more and Jindabyne. The Jindabyne out-
let is to cater for the hire of ski equip-
ment in the Snowy Mountains.
Trading for 1961 was considered most
unsatisfactory, and certain important
policy changes were made, the chief
of which was the decision to discontinue
the sale of large electrical appliances
such as television sets, refrigerators and
washing machines, and to concentrate on
the retail and wholesale selling of sport-
ing goods and apparel and the whole-
saling of tobacco and cigarettes.
In 1959-60 Mick Simmons entered


the vending machine business. A subsi-
diary, Mick Simmons Vending Service
Pty Ltd, was set up to own and operate
cigarette vendors on a large scale in the
Sydney metropolitan area, chiefly in
hotels and clubs, using “Seeburg”
machines imported from America. It is
now the largest cigarette vending opera-
tor in NSW, and monthly sales through
machines trebled during 1960-61. Un-
fortunately the vending industry has suf-
fered bad publicity.
A loss of £3567 was carried forward
by this subsidiary at October 31, which
directors expected to overtake in the cur-
rent year. A small company was formed
in Canberra during last year to purchase
a local cigarette vending business there,
v/hich has since been extended to near-
by parts of NSW. A dividend was paid
to the parent from profits earned during
the first six months of operation.
The greater number of retail outlets
v/ould account for part of the increase
in stocks in 1961, but it probably is
evidence of the stickiness of trading in
the last financial year.
Overdraft increased to substantial levels,
and short of a big increase in trading,
the working capital position will become
cause for concern. Outsiders already
have a strong equity in the business: —
1959 1960 1961
Paid capital ord. £417,266 £417,266 £417,266
Reserves 244,126 257,259 272,339
Outside interests ( 3,137) 32,665
Notes 75,000 214.089 214,089
Mortgages 179,002 173.928 169,970
Overdraft 172,814 79,687 229,635
Creditors 223,959 321,658 265,722
Staff funds 24,434 26.151 24,923
Tax provision 29,896 37,100 6,831
Final dividend 20,863 20,863
£1,387,360 1,544,864 1,633,440
Freeholds £526,075 526,075 502,078
Plant 61,207 104,687 121,346
Stocks 346,596 397,418 490,767
Debtors 430,822 485,624 475,533
Cash etc. 550 4.690 14,559
Goodwill etc. 22,110 26,370 29,157
£1,387,360 1,544,864 1,633,440
The chairman (Mr N. H. Routley)
admitted in his last address to share-
holders that sporting goods cannot be
classed as necessities, and that non-es-
sentials suffer whenever there is a tight-
ening up in public spending, such as in
the last couple of years.
The latest cancer scare may tend to
aggravate the recession for Mick Sim-
mons, and it will be a long, hard road
ahead for management. The Bs. net
tangible asset backing for the ss. shares
is small comfort for the shareholder,
when the market price is below 4s. The
ss. convertible notes sell at around 4s.
to yield 8.7 p.c.
HOWARDS LTD
REWARD FOR PATIENCE
it not for the relinquishment of
the Westinghouse franchise at the
end of 1960-61, and the proposal to re-
turn four-fifths of its issued capital, Bris-
bane motor agent, Howards Ltd, might
still be leading a sedate existence, quietly
padding reserves and building up its in-
vestment portfolio.
Almost since the dawn of the motor
industry Howards has been distributing
vehicles in Queensland, firstly General
Motors’ products, and since 1930 Morris
products for the whole of Queensland
and the Northern Rivers district of
NSW. In 1954 it acquired the franchise
for Wolseley, Riley and M.G. cars and
Nuffield Universal tractors. Rights to the
distribution of Studebaker cars did not
produce much revenue while dollar
shortages prevailed.
Profits showed a decline, with fluctua-
tions, from the 1951 peak, illustrating
the edge gained by Holden’s over B.M.C.
products. But the company still earned
a very satisfactory margin over profits
up to 1960-61. A one-for-two bonus in
1957-8 from assets revaluation reduced
the nine-year history of 20 p.c. dividend
payments by only 2£ p.c. Disclosed re-
serves had been almost doubled in the
ten years to June 30, 1960.
The November, 1960, economic re-
strictions suddenly reversed the improved
trading trend of the first five months of
the year, and turnover for 1960-61 was
£1,250,000 lower than in the previous
term. Substantial losses were sustained in
the four months after November, 1960,
and the final profit of £42,151 for the
year “spoke volumes for the inherent
strength of the company.”
Once or twice in earlier years share-
holders were given a glimmer of the
management’s very conservative prac-
tices, when profits arising from the sale
of assets were used to reduce the book
value of those assets, rather than be
added to visible reserves. Likewise no
provision was made for income tax in
1960-61 because of the large balance
already standing to the credit of provi-
sion for tax.
The latest net profit was just sufficient
to cover the reduced dividend of 13-1/3
p.c.:—
To
June Net profit Dividends Reserves Reserves
£ p.c. £ £ £
1951 150,407 20 = 41,707 110,700 513,139
To Staff Fund 25,000 488,139
1952 102,479 20 = 41,706 60,773 548,912
1953 99,461 20 = 41,706 57,755 606,667
1954 129,338 20 = 41,706 87,632 694,299
Assets revalued 14,700 708,999
1955 140,134 20 = 41,707 98,427 807,426
1956 105.022 20 = 41,707 63,315 870,741
1957 86,384 20 = 41,707 44,677 915,418
Assets revalued 90.000 1,005,418
Reserves capitalised 104.176 901,242
1958 75,446 20 = 52,124 23,322 924,564
1959 74,489 17 l / 2 = 54,724 19,765 944,329
Assets revalued 8,254 952,583
1960 75,839 17»/ 2 = 54,724 21,115 973,698
1961 42,151 13-1/3 = 41,695 456 974,154
Reserves were shown at £974,154.
The 30 - year association with Email
through the Westinghouse franchise was
severed by mutual agreement. From
May 1, 1962, Howards’ arrangement
with B.M.C. was altered for the fran-
chise to cover distribution of Morris and
Austin vehicles in Brisbane and Too-
woomba, and B.M.C. parts and acces-
sories throughout Queensland.
The release of funds previously de-
voted to Westinghouse activities prompted
directors in March, 1962, to propose
that 4s. of every ss. ordinary stock unit
be repaid to shareholders, and that divi-
dend for the current year be Bd. per
unit or 66-2/3 p.c. on the new capital.
This provoked a group of shareholders to
oppose the move ai.J solicit a take-over
offer from several companies, as more
beneficial to shareholders than a return
of capital. Directors then revealed that
in July, 1961, they had considered a mer-
ger with another motor company.
As the dissentient shareholders’ action
did not attract an offer, directors invited
leading stockbrokers to investigate the
possibility of a take-over. The plan for
a return of capital was postponed, pend-
ing developments. The objecting share-
holders did succeed in learning more de-
tails of their company’s inner strength
which was difficult to assess from the
published accounts: —
1959 1960 1961
£ £ £
Paid capital, ord. 312,709 312,709 312,709
Reserves 944,329 973,698 974,154
Creditors 117,933 140,217 152,020
Unearned interest 7,908 7,759 5,890
Bank Overdraft 51,770
Staff funds 25,000 25,000 25,000
Tax provision 81,537 89.947 48.953
Final dividend 54,724 54,724 41,695
£1,544,140 £1,655,824 £1,560.421
Freehold 355,885 364,537 335,665
Plant 20,401 16.471 13,216
Stocks 339,149 376,268 279,315
Debtors, shares 743,445 892,001 828,432
Cash, etc. 85,260 6,547 103,793
£1,544,140 £1,655,824 £1,560,421
Sundry debtors and bills receivable (less
provision for doubtful debts) and shares
in companies at cost (less provision for
depreciation) were always lumped to-
gether.
In April directors divulged that the
realisation of Westinghouse stock and
increased sales of B.M.C. vehicles had
freed large sums of money for invest-
ment, and by March 31, 1962, the com-
pany had £350,000 invested in short-
term treasury bonds, £50,000 on the
short-term money market; £391,823 as
the cost of stock exchange investments
(market value £493,436), as well as
£10,564 in the bank. They also presented
to shareholders a balance sheet with
more details of the company’s position
as at June 30, 1961. Investments, separat-
ed from debtors and bills for the first
time, were shown at £141,433 in shares
and £12,000 in debentures.
Reserves, earlier shown as <£974,154,
were understated by £69,761 represent-
(Continued Page 46)


m
FINANCE CORPORATION
of AUSTRALIA LIMITED
OFFERS A SPECIALISED FINANCE SERVICE
We have finance available for :—
LENDING
▼
Developmental
T
Capital Equipment
▼
Commercial and Industrial Properties
▼
Business Expansion
DISCOUNTING AND PURCHASE
Mortgages
▼
Contracts of Sale
T
Leases
T
Hire Purchase Contracts
FINANCE CORPORATION of AUSTRALIA LIMITED
ADELAIDE
F.C.A. Building,
IS Franklin Street
Telephone SI 3781
MELBOURNE
Union House,
SI Queen Street,
Telephone 613051
SYDNEY
Anchor House,
Cnr. George and
Bridge Streets,
Telephone 27 7003
BRISBANE
Mercantile House,
262 Adelaide Su,
Telephone 31 2861
PERTH
M.L.C. Building,
171-177 St. George's Tee,
Telephone 21 6892


ing provision for doubtful debts, stock
depreciation reserve, investments depre-
ciation reserve, property depreciation and
capital surpluses on the sale of Rock-
hampton and Townsville premises, all of
which had previously been deducted from
the appropriate assets.
On April 30 Howards Ltd received
an offer of 17s. 6d. cash per ss. share
from Industrial Enterprises Ltd, the
holding company for the Toowoomba
Foundry Group, one of the largest
private companies in Australia. This was
not deemed fair value and was declined.
A week later Queensland Can Co. Ltd
offered seven ss. shares for four
Howards ss. shares plus 6d. cash for
each Howards share. The effective cost
to Queensland Can would have been
about £30,000 in cash and £550,000 in
shares.
Queensland United Foods Ltd then
hurriedly bid one ss. share and 11s.
cash for each ss. Howards share.
Howards directors, who had previously
recommended acceptance of the Queens-
land Can offer, subsequently withdrew
their recommendation in favour of
Queensland United Foods the Peters
and Pauls group of ice-cream, milk and
frozen food companies.
The Can offer was worth about
245. 14-d. per Howards share compared
with the United Foods’ offer of about
245. lOd. But Wednesday, May 16,
brought an amended offer from Queens-
land Can of two Can ss. shares and Is.
cash for each ss. Howards share, worth
275. 6d. for each Howards unit at the
time of the bid.
No matter who is the final victor, the
Howards shareholder who saw his in-
vestment valued at 15s. in February,
should have no cause for complaint.
READY MIXED CONCRETE
UK EXPANSION PLAN
Tt is a familiar cry in Australia that
overseas companies operating here
should allow local investors to contribute
capital and participate in the growth of
the business, but the situation is seldom
reversed.
But Ready Mixed Concrete Ltd last
week announced an arrangement through
.London merchant bankers J. Henry
Schroeder Wagg and Co. Ltd to offer
750,000 shares in its UK subsidiary to
British investors and 250,000 to Cana-
dian investors. This company, Ready
Mixed Concrete (United Kingdom) Ltd,
will seek listing and quotation on the
London Stock Exchange after the place-
ment.
The ss. stg shares will be offered at
245. stg —a 19s. premium. Profits for
the current year are estimated at
£stg6oo,ooo, less tax £322,500, leaving
a net profit of £277,500. This gives an
earning rate of about 23.8 p.c. on capital
after the issue. On the indicated 10 p.c.
dividend rate, yield offered is 2.1 p.c.
(At the time of the announcement, shares
of the Australian company were selling
at 17s. lid. to yield 3.5 p.c. on a 12i
p.c. dividend rate. Last earning rate was
22.9 p.c.)
Funds raised will be used to expand in
the UK and overseas. At present there
are 59 plants operating in Britain, with
eight others operated under arrangement
or by an associated company. There are
subsidiaries or associated companies in
West Germany, Austria Italy, Trinidad
and Israel. The Australian parent will
retain control through the 2,460,000 ss.
ordinary shares held by R.M.C. Trans-
port (NSW) Pty Ltd.
THE NESTLE CO.
EARNINGS LOWER
Nestle Co. (Aust.) Ltd, Australian
offshoot of the international maker
of confectionery and instant coffee,
earned less in the year ended December
31, 1961, than in the 1960 bumper year.
Result was £1,039,908 after £877,933
'tax (including an adjustment to last
year’s provision) and £602,021 deprecia-
tion. The previous year’s profit was
£1,214,675 after £1,034,735 tax and
£653,156 depreciation. After allowing
for preference dividends of £BO,OOO,
earning rate on ordinary capital slipped
from 19.7 to 16.7 p.c. The ordinary
dividend absorbs £720,000 of profits.
Nestles produces chocolate confec-
tionery lines and other specialty foods
such as condensed and powdered milk,
Nescafe and Nestea, cocoa, Milo and
Lactogen. It also distributes the confec-
tionery products of James Stedman Ltd.
Nestles does not allow much informa-
tion on the rate of trade to percolate
through to the investing public and its
competitors. Only preference shares are
held by the Australian public anyway.
The one comment made by directors in
their report is that profit was satisfactory
having regard to the trading conditions
which resulted in a lower turnover.
Paid capital has been increased from
£6,750,000 to £7,250,000 since balance
date, by the private issue of 500,000 20s.
shares. This is the second capital
increase since 1959.
Reserves of £1,969,774 include
£1,395,000 set aside for the replacement
of fixed assets. The appropriation for
this purpose from 1961 profits was
£240,000, compared with £383,503 in
1960. Book value of fixed assets of the
parent company in Australia (consoli-
dated accounts are not published) was
£6,007,689 cost on valuation
£12,519,983 less provision for deprecia-
tion £6,512,294.
Stocks rose from £6,073,971 to
£7,316,570, and contracts for forward
delivery (at cost) were £287,984 greater
at £1,563,234. Sundry debtors, less a
provision for doubtful debts, and cash at
bank were £3,028,201.
The company is indebted to the bank
for £924,822. There was no overdraft
in 1960. Sundry creditors, including tax
provision, were £473,120 higher at
£6,306,902, and contracts for forward
delivery were £287,984 higher at
£1,563,234.
ARGO INVESTMENTS
BUILDING UP RESERVES
Argo Investments Ltd, Adelaide,
added £132,000 to reserves in the
year to March 31, 1962, as a result of
a special £90,000 dividend from a sub-
sidiary, and profits realised on securities
and from capital reconstructions. This
brought total reserves to £583,742, as
against paid capital of £1 million.
A special resolution will be submitted
to the annual meeting on June 1, pro-
posing to increase nominal capital from
£2m. to £sm.
The market value of the investment
portfolio was £2,081,649 or £326,988
above book value. This was spread over
approximately 450 companies. Net
profit, as previously published rose from
£71,703 to £85,089, equalling 8.5 p.c. on
capital increased by cash and bonus
issues in March, 1961. The 8 p.c. divi-
dend required £BO,OOO.
BANK OF ADELAIDE
LATE BID FOR SAVINGS
HP he 96-year-old Bank of Adelaide has
decided to establish a savings bank
subsidiary. It becomes the last of Aus-
tralia’s eight major trading banks to enter
this field. The decision has been made
somewhat sooner than many observers
expected.
Directors have registered the Bank of
Adelaide Savings Bank Ltd with nominal
capital at £1 million. Initial paid capital
of £500,000 will all be subscribed by the
parent.
The new bank can conduct its activities
through the trading parent’s 170 existing
branches and agencies. These are mostly
in South Australia, though there are
branches in each mainland capital and
in London. The Bank of Adelaide also
owns a 40 p.c. interest in Finance Cor-
poration of Australia Ltd.
Trading bank moves into the savings
field have been accelerated over recent
months. The two immediately previous
entrants were the Commercial Bank of
Australia in April and the National Bank
of Australasia in January. This latter
had experienced Treasury reluctance to
approve a “National Savings Bank” and
has registered as the National Bank
Savings Bank Ltd.


AN ISSUE OF
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
a*
0*
C fjS
Illustrated are examples of the modern Eric Anderson Radio-Television
Pty. Limited retail stores, of which there are 47 in N.S.W., Canberra and
Queensland. The finance company subsidiary of the group is Mutual
Credits Limited. Applications accepted only on Application Form attached
to the Prospectus, which may be obtained from:
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OF SYDNEY LTD., or
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
nt any of their branches in New
South Wales or the Australian
Capital Territory
ERIC ANDERSON (CONSOLI-
DATED) LIMITED
Stoddart.s Building, 125 York
Street, Sydney
ERIC ANDERSON RADIO-
TELEVISION PTY. LTD.
14 Barrack Street, Sydney, and
branches in the city and suburbs.
• ERIC ANDERSON (INCOR-
PORATING PACKARD BELL)
302 Wickham Street, Valley,
Brisbane, or
• ANY MEMBER OF A RECOG-
NISED STOCK EXCHANGE
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange)
20 O’Connell Street, Sydney
m
OR POST THIS COUPON TO:
ERIC ANDERSON (CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED
Please post me, without obligation, a copy of your
Prospectus to:
NAME ,
ADDRESS ,
EH
(CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED
335*'
PER ANNUM _J
5 & 10 YEARS
' ■ '
2 years 7i%p.a. 4 years 82% p.a.
3 years 8% p.a. : 5 years 9”i> p.a.
10 years 9% p.a.
AND SHORTER TERMS AVAILABLE
DIRECTORS: A. C. Cameron (Chairman),
E. A. M. Newton, E. S. Pratt, B. W. Solomons,
A. D. K. Cochrane.
Trustee for Debenture Stockholders: P.T. PTY. LIMITED,
A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (LIMITED).
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
LINCOLN MILLS
SYNTHETIC YARNS NOW
'IfiCTORiAN wool yarn spinner Lincoln
* Mills (Australia) Ltd, has decided
to produce also synthetic yarns. Under
licence from Joseph Bancroft and Sons
Co., of Wilmington, USA, Lincoln will
use the Ban-lon process. The new
machines, bought for cash, fit in with
directors’ policy of specialising in the
supply of yarns to textile makers.
The company has acquired Atyl Pty
Ltd, yarn thrower, by an issue of shares.
Both Atyl and the synthetic plant are to
operate in the mill available as a result
of Lincoln’s hosiery branch sale to
Kayser Pty Ltd.
H. G. PALMER
NEW RETAIL OUTLETS
IJ G. Palmer (Consolidated) Ltd,
radio, television and electrical
appliance retailer, is to occupy G. J.
Coles’ old premises in Pitt Street, Syd-
ney. This move gives Palmer its first
city store. The building has been
obtained on a long term lease. The com-
pany’s expansion of outlets continues.
Recent and immediately proposed exten-
sions will bring Palmer’s Australia-wide
retail chain to 93 stores —NSW 48, Vic-
toria 24, Queensland 14, South Australia
6, ACT 1.
Export possibilities are also kept in
mind. The H. G. Palmer lawnmower is
going to South Africa.
MOTELS OF AUSTRALIA LTD
LINK WITH MERC. CREDITS
IVfoTELS of Australia Ltd, a leading
Sydney-based motel operator with
investment interests, reports that an
agreement “reached in principle” with
Mercantile Credits Limited last October
has been put into operation.
Mr W. M. Thompson, general man-
ager of Mercantile Credits, joins the
Motels of Australia board.
Mercantile Credits Ltd will supply
<£500,000 at current mortage interest
rates, repayable in quarterly instalments
over nine years and subscribe for
400,000 shares at 2s. 3d. premium, 9d.
below the market price ruling in October,
1961. “The shares have now been
issued as paid to 3d. together with the
full premium and the balance of 4s. 9d.
per share will be called on June 30.”
Directors say that funds made avail-
able as a result of the agreement, to-
gether with proceeds arising from the
disposal of assets of Carapark Produc-
tions Ltd, will enable Motels of Aus-
tralia to “finance the present phase of
expansion.
“Profits are continuing at a rate well
in excess of budget estimates, leaving a
substantial margin over the 12i p.c. divi-
dend charge. All shares in Carapark
Holdings Limited have now been
acquired.”
With the disposal of Carapark Pro-
ductions’ operating assets, the unprofit-
able section of Carapark business is
being eliminated.


A. L. NEVITT. DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT. A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. ISB7W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street, Phone 6089
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building,
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale”, Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
John M. Robertson, Thompson
cand Co.
Members of ths Stock Exchange of
Melbourne
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
423 Little Collins Street
Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67-6154, 67-6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721.
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
CONSTABLE & COMPANY
BW 0781
Member of the
SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE
25 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY
The Mall, The Corso, Manly
Telephone: 97-5867
CC.S.
COFFS HARBOR RUTILE N.L.
AN INTERESTING "SPEC" `
Harbor Rutile N.L. ss. shares
are now fully paid and selling
around 11s. 3d. The market still remains
attracted by the Co’s half interest in the
E. I. du Pont de Nemours Co. rutile
contract.
The contract will last for five years —
and could run for 15 years —from
October, 1962. \nd it will be worth £1
million a year, or £1.7 million if the
total rutile taken is T'ted from 30,000 to
50,000 tons a year.
Since Kathleen Investments (Aust.)
Ltd, whose main asset is the holding in
Mary Kathleen Uranium, now owns
more than half Coffs Harbor’s capital,
(through its subsidiary Australasian Oil
Exploration Ltd) the contract has a wide
investment interest as well as national ex-
port importance. It is believed to be the
first bulk shipment rutile contract, elimi-
nating bagging of sands.
The other partner in the contract, which
will be operated jointly, is National Min-
erals Pty Ltd, now a part of Peko-Walls-
end. Coffs Harbor Rutile was incorpor-
ated in Sydney in 1956, at the height of
the beach sand boom. So far, it has made
small profits in 1958 and 1961 but has
paid no dividend. At June 30, 1961, the
excess of current assets (including £20,658
of minerals at cost) over current liabilities
was only £10,786. Pacific Mining N.L.
and Gold and Mineral Exploration N.L.
took up large parcels of scrip when Coffs
Harbor publicly offered 1,148,000 ss.
shares in November, 1956. The shares
were quoted from March, 1957, in both
Sydney and Adelaide.
Pacific Mining disposed of its interests
at a low price and it may be assumed that
this block forms part of Kathleen Invest-
ments’ holding.
"Production began at Branschieds in
Aug., 1957. Output between this time
and June of the following year totalled
3670 tons of rutile and 15,500 tons of
zircon. These modest figures compare
with expectations of 12,400 tons of rutile
and 15,500 tons of zircon. Sales brought
in £164,234, but expenses—including a
royalty reduced from £7 to £2} a ton —
were £202,236 and, after taking in the
value of stocks, the profit at £14,817 was
rather nominal.
The main area being worked out and
no satisfactory reduction in royalties be-
ing arranged to meet lower rutile prices,
the equipment was moved, late in 1958,
to Redhead, near Newcastle, where opera-
tions have continued since March, 1959.
The life estimate in 1959 was 20 years.
A call of 4d. a share was made in Sep-
tember, 1959, to finance plant alterations
and a final £5OOO royalty payment on
Redhead It was more than 96 per cent.
subscribed, of which almost all was re-
ceived by the end of October.
The plant alterations were expected to
raise capacity by 1000 to 4500 tons of
rutile and 500 to 4500 tons of zircon a
year and to allow for profitable opera-
tions despite low prices. By October,
1959, production was running at the rate
of 4000 tons of rutile and 2500 tons of
zircon a year.
This was a marked change in little
over a year, because for a six weeks’
period around August, 1958, the com-
pany had been a bitterly divided house.
There had been a conditional offer for
the 3s. shares of Is. 6d. a share from an
overseas group.
Mr E. W. Langley opposed the bid,
recommended by directors, who, in a
chairman’s letter, claimed to own or repre-
sent one-sixth of the capital.
Seemingly, the overseas group, ap-
proached as a customer, had been attrac-
ted by the Newcastle area option.
At the polls on September 5, 1958, the
directors secured about 60 per cent,
or more of the votes, suggesting the con-
siderable strength of their opposition and
the extent of feeling that royalty burdens
had been excessive and directors’ fees
high when there was no dividend.
Only the chairman remains of the
August, 1958, board of six directors.
The assets would appear to be con-
veniently situated, and, by New South
Wales standards, to be a low-cost pro-
ducer of a material in renewed demand,
not as source of titanium —the wonder
metal for aircraft and rockets —but for
pigments for paint and paper making.
Rutile prices, though deflated, are better
based. The combined operation, which
will initially cover 30,000 tons of rutile
and 23,000 tons of zircon, should win
profits from three main sources on a
turnover of about £1.5 million a year—
first, for rutile sales to Du Pont, second
by rutile sales to other customers, and
third by sales of zircon.
REPCOLTD
EXPORTS TO JAPAN
Automotive parts maker Repco Ltd
will start shipping machine tools and
equipment to Japan in two or three
months. The company is also considering
possibilities of manufacture in Japan to
protect its prospective market.
It appears that most Japanese motor
vehicles are either new or near-new. The
time seems ripe to develop automotive
servicing. Repco also intends to push
sales in the expansive markets of Hong
Kong and Malaya.


OIL
SIGNIFICANT LINK-UP
HThe debut of Mid-Eastern Oil N.L.
has been nicely prefaced with the
news that the company is to undertake a
combined search programme with Caltex
in their adjoining permit areas in the
southern sector of the Surat Basin in
northern NSW. A link-up had been on
the cards for some months following the
Moonie discoveries across the border in
Queensland and the hiving off of Wood-
side (Lakes Entrance) Northern Rivers
permit areas to form Mid-Eastern.
Caltex is throwing in 4772 square
miles of territory and Mid-Eastern 6088,
all of which is at the southern extremity
of the Surat Basin and a good 200 miles
from Moonie. The first seismic work in
the areas is being undertaken in the
Coonamble district. Drilling is unlikely
for some months pending the completion
and assessment of the surveys.
The operating company of the partner-
ship is to be American Overseas Pet-
roleum, which is also an affiliate of the
Caltex group but does not hold a direct
interest. Mid-Eastern holds 50 p.c. and
each of two Caltex affiliates, California
Asiatic and Texaco Overseas Petroleum,
25 p.c. Through its 20 p.c. interest in
Mid-Eastern, Woodside (Lakes Entrance)
participates indirectly.
Interlocking of company interests of
partners in the Associated Australian
Oilfields group is to be carried a stage
further by H. C. Sleigh and Associated
Freney acquiring big shareholdings in the
new Amalgamated Oil N.L., which is
soon to float. The attraction of this
venture is that a considerable acreage of
search area has been acquired on the
eastern flank of the A.O.G. area con-
taining Moonie. The company also has
two areas in the Georgina Basin (NT)
and two others in the Murray Basin
(NSW).
After the false rumors of the previous
week, A.A.O. reported a gas flow of 1.3
m. cub. ft a day from its Westgrove No.
2 well around the main target area of
3100 ft. This, of course, is well below
the 1.75 m. cub. ft a day found in Glen-
tulloch late last year and much less than
the best find at Pickanjinnie in the Roma
district, but is apparently regarded as
satisfactory by A.A.0.; especially as only
a small show of gas was located in West-
grove No. 1, which was completed at
6442 ft last month. The No. 2 well is
drilling ahead and the group has also
spudded in a shallow hole at Rosewood
(Q.) about 18 miles south-east of Injune.
Oil Search’s associate, Burmah-
Murphy, which has an option expiring
next November to link formally in the
search in Oil Search’s Papuan permit
areas has not yet reported on its in-
vestigation into the possible commercial
use of gas found in some of the latter
company’s previous wells. But Burmah-
Murphy, which operates here through a
wholly owned subsidiary, 8.0. C. of Aus-
tralia Ltd, is showing more and more
interest in Australian oil search gener-
ally. Its latest move is to take a half in-
terest in the leases held by Clarence
River Basin Oil Exploration Company,
which has had promising shows of gas
in the Grafton (NSW) area. This is quite
a boon for Clarence since its new partner
will spend £335,000 in surveying its
areas before Clarence is involved in any
expenditure.
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Monday, May 21.
radio stirred me out of my sleep
JL the other morning with Ethel Merman
belting out that song from “Call Me
Madam” about her father who was
blessed with 1000 acres of gravel and
sand in Oklahoma:
He dug and he dug and, what do you think?
Oil! Oil! Oil!
The money rolled in and I rolled out
With a fortune piled so high . . .
All very well, perhaps, for those who
bought AOG at ss. but hardly the right
morning melody for those of us who
bought at 80s. or 90s. As I said last
week, in times like these we must be
brave even braver in fact than last
week! The point, of course, is that the
market price of AOG over the last few
months has been purely a relative figure.
At no time has it been related to any
absolute value. Certainly, if AOG shares
were worth 80s. on the strength of two
wells, they should be worth more now
with three wells successful. But were
they worth 80s. before Moonie No. 3
came in? Apparently the market now
thinks not. The prospects are better than
ever but the mood has changed and it
seems unlikely to recapture its reckless
enthusiasm.
So, swallowing heavily, I rang my
broker on Monday and told him to sell
my 100, even though it meant taking a
horrible Toss of £B9. That might look
grim—particularly on top of last week’s
loss of £62 on Southgate—but there
should be every chance of recouping that
loss when Mid-Eastern comes on the
market, maybe this week. Besides, my
two previous encounters with AOG
earlier this year had yielded profits of
£ 155 so there’s no reason why I should
be feeling sorry for myself—or, I suspect,
why any oil speculators should be feeling
sorry for themselves.
Nevertheless these experiences with
AOG and Southgate were sufficient to
remind me that it was time I bought
some good, solid industrial shares again.
With so much conjecture these days
about the riches which the new Com-
panies Act might uncover, I feel it’s
probably a good deal more sensible to
examine those companies which, on their
own admissions, are obviously under-
stating their profits. It has been
interesting to note that the past year’s
recession has take nits toll of companies
that have been in the habit, in boom
years at least, of showing a tax provision
greater than the net profit. In fact I can
think of only three companies whose
profits are still eclipsed by their tax pro-
visions—James Hardie, O’Donnell Grif-
fin and Swan Brewery.
James Hardie was the daddy of them
all last year with a net profit of
£573,000, tax of £821,000 and depreci-
ation of over £ 1,000,000. But that was
for the year ended March, 1961. Results
for the past year are due any day and,
in view of the company’s dependence on
the building industry, it might be wiser
to see if the recession has had more
effect on James Hardie’s tax provision
than on its declared profit—as was the
case with Kelvinator.
Swan Brewery is also about to publish
its results for the year- to -March. Last
year Swan Brewery’s published profit of
£488,000 was almost £lOO,OOO less
than its tax provision of £585,000. The
recession has probably had little, if any,
impact on beer consumption in the West
so that it seemed safe to buy Swan even
at 19s. 6d. I bought 400 at that price.
Payment for these was provided by my
400 Kandos Cement which I sold at 235.
6d. for a profit of £3O. Kandos will
doubtless prove to be an excellent long-
term investment but from a short-term
point of view I feel the money should
be better employed in Swan Brewery
shares.
SOLD
400 Kandos at 23/6 £460
100 AOG at 65/9 £324
BOUGHT
400 Swan Brewery at 19/6 £398
These transactions left me with £231
in cash and these shares:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
400 O'Donnell
Griffin 28/8/61 11/8 18/-
1,600 United Motels 20/11/61 3/9 4/4
1,000 Harris Holdings 5/12/61 7/- 8/3
200 Hunter Douglas
notes 21/2/62 36/- 44/-
200 Beau Monde 8/12/61 25/- 34/-
400 W. J. Manufac-
turing 24/1/62 11/9 12/9
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 24/6
500 Mauri Bros 16/2/62 22/9 25/-
1,000 Mid-Eastern 22/2/62 1/-
400 Anderson Meat 2/3/62 12/- 12/-
500 Peters 15/3/62 8/2 8/-
100 Philip Morris 16/3/62 26/- 24,/-
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 5/9
500 Peter Lloyd 21/3/62 5/6 5/9
500 Ready Mixed 6/4/62 17/9 18/-
25 M.L.C. 27/4/62 £l9/10/- £22
200 Malleys 3/5/62 20/3 22/3
500 Merica 10/5/62 7/- 7
400 G.U.D. 8/5/62 23/- 24/6
400 Swan Brewery 17/5/62 19/6 19/9


Company
LEADING SHARE
/ Prices— —
Last
Par Sale,
Value 1961 14/5/62
price:
Div.
Rate
21/5/62 p.c.
5
Div.
Yield
p.c.
Earn.
Rate
p.c.
Earn.
Yield
p.c.
Amalgamated Chemicals
5/
14/3
19/8
19/5
121/2
3.2
21.4
5.5
A.W.A
5/
20/4i/ 2
21/6
21/5
14
3.3
22
5.1
Ampol
5/
11/4
12/5
12/5
14
5.5
19
7.5
A.R.C. .. .»
10/
26/3
50/41/2
50/9
15
3.0
29.7
5.9
Associated Pulp
20/
29/3
32/
31/9
—
13.6
8.5
Aust. Chemicals
10/
30/41/2
28/71/2
28/10
121/2
4.3
21.5
7.5
A.C.I
20/
72/6
74/6
73/6
8-1/3
2.2
19.3
6.8
Aust. Guarantee
5/
14/
12/3
12/9
15
5.9
20.3
8.0
Aust. Gypsum ..
5/
14/3
15/11
16/
10
3.1
14.9
4.6
A.P.M
20/
25/3
28/9
28/9
8
5.6
10
7.0
Bank N.S.W. ..
£20
£34
£42/4
£ 43%
9
4.1
12.2
5.6
Bitumen and Oil
5/
24/
26/10
26/3
171/2
3.3
32.4
6.8
Blue Metal Ind.
5/
22/71/2
23/9
23/7
15
3.2
27.6
5.9
Bradford Cotton
5/
7/6
7/D/2
7/2
10
6.9
11.2
7.6
British Tobacco
20/
25/
22/
21/9
8
7.4
9.7
9.0
B.H.P
20/
59/
64/
62/6xD
61/4
2.0
15.5
4.8
Burns, Philp ..
20/
91/
£51/2
£5/11/
10
1.9
12.4
2.2
C.S.R
£20
£591/2
£ 56%
£ 5 6V2
9
3.2
12.4
4.4
C.A.G.A
5/
11/3
11/3
11/4
10
4.4
12.3
5.4
C.I.G
20/
£5
99/
93/6
11
2.2
25.2
5.1
Commercial Union
5/
19/3
23/101/2
24/9
6 1/2
1.3
18.4
3.7
Concrete Ind.
5/
15/11/2
15/9
15/11
10
3.1
16.6
5.2
Consolidated Zinc
25/
62/6
61/6
64/
15
5.9
11.6
4.5
Cox Bros
5/
7/6
7/71/2
7/9
10
6.5
11.8
8.0
Custom Credit ..
5/
13/
12/3
12/41/2
15
6.1
19.5
7.9
Cyclone
5/
26/
22/
21/51/2
10
4.6
17.7
8.1
Dalgety-N.Z. Loan
25/
41/71/2
43/6
8
4.6
13.9
7.6
David Jones
5/
18/9
18/9
18/10
121/z
3.3
28.7
6.5
Drug Houses
20/
69/
69/6
69/3
111/4
3.2
17.7
5.1
Dunlop Rubber
20/
35/
40'10 1/2
41/6
10
4.9
16
7.8
Elder Smith
12/
23/9
25/9
25/71/2
10
4.7
12.6
5.9
Electronic “B”
10/
13/3
12/71/2
13/3B
121/2
9.4
—
Email
5/
7/6
7/10
8/6
10
5.9
11
6.5
E.Z. Ind.
10/
12/11
13/4
13/
10
7.7
12.4
9.6
Pelt and Textiles
5/
6/11
7/7
7/9
10
6.4
13.9
9.0
G. J. Coles
5/
13/6
13 5
13/5
11
4.1
14.8
5.5
Goldsbrough
20/
28/6
32/6
32/
8
5.0
12.6
7.9
H. C. Sleigh ..
5/
11/
13 1
12/7
121/2
4.7
13.4
5.2
Henry Jones
20/
80/
88/
86/9xD
10
2.3
28.6
6.5
H. G. Palmer ..
5/
15/6
17/3
17/10
121/2
3.5
34.5
9.7
Howard Smith ..
20/
54/
50/71/2
50/6
10
3.9
13.6
5.4
Humes
20/
70/6
76 6
76/3
14
3.6
24.6
6.4
I.A.C
5/
13/4
13/5
13/7
16-2/3
6.2
20.6
7.5
I.C.I.A.N.Z.
20/
38/
42/
41/9
7
3.3
9.7
4.6
J. Gadsden
10/
15/3
19/1
19/xD
8
4.2
10.4
5.6
Kandos Cement
5/
—
24/
23/
121/2
2.7
13.5
2.9
Kelvinator
5/
18/3
19/6
19/6
15
3.8
28.6
7.3
Lend Lease
5/
20/
22/11/2
22/9
10
2.2
21.4
4.7
L. J. Hooker ..
5/
7/
5/10
5/7
—
—
1.1*
1.0
Mercantile Credit
5/
8/8
8/
8/3
10
6.1
16.6
10.0
McPhersons
20/
47/
42/
42/
8-1/3
3.9
12.4
5.9
Minster ..
10/
5/
62/
79/41/2
79/6
20
2.5
34.8
4.7
Moulded Products
13/2
14/3
14/4
14
4.8
7.8
2.7
Mt. Isa Mines ..
5/
71/6
75/
75/3
25
1.7
62.3
4.2
Mutual Acceptance
5/
8/10
10/
9/11
15
7.6
22.3
11.1
Myer
5/
29/
34/
34/7
16-2/3
2.4
28.3
4.2
National Consolidated
5/
27/
27/8
26/
20
3.8
35.3
6.7
Olympic Industries
5/
7/7
9/4
9/7
9
4.6
16.2
8.4
Peters (Vic.) ..
21/
8/6
8/2
8/1
15
3.7
18.9
4.7
Petrochemical ..
20/
26/
29/71/2
29/6
6
4.0
5.9
4.0
R. M. Concrete
5/
17/41/2
17/10
17/11
121/2
3.5
22.9
6.4
Reid Murray ..
5/
5/3
4/1
4/2
—
—
9.4
11.3
Repco .. ..
5/
12/5
13/11
14/3
10
3.5
17.8
6.2
Rio Tinto
5/
15/9
20/
20/
10
2.5
71.7
18.9
Rothmans
20/
87/6
77/
72/
171/2
4.8
47.7
13.2
Thiess
5/
13/
12/
11/11
121/2
5.2
14.4
6.0
Tooth
20/
60/
66/3
71/6
131/2
3.8
15.9
4.4
Union Carbide
20/
80/
79/
77/6xD
10
2.5
15.9
4.0
Waltons ..
5/
13/8
14/3
14/
121/2
4.5
19.7
5.7
Woolworths
5/
15/4
16/10
16/6
12
3.6
15.4
4.6
Wormald
5/
30/
34/3
12/
10
4.2
14.2
5.9
W. R. Carpenter
* Estimated on last
xD Ex Dividend.
B Buyer.
. . . . 5/
half-year’s profit.
11/10
12/3
35/
15
2.1
35.1
5.5
SYDNEY
STOCK EXCHANGE
INDICES
Banks,
Other
Base
All
etc.
Finance
Pastoral
Retailers
Metals
Ords. *
Industrials
December
22, 1961
.. 137.37
541.02
182.31
389.15
604.15
299.07
318.74
May
14,
1962 ..
168.40
569.29
188.51
390.91
601.81
308.70
324.17
May
15,
1962 ..
.. 168.32
573.50
187.61
389.31
604.40
309.09
324.36
May
16,
1962
.. 169.30
580.61
188.29
389.19
602.59
309.45
324.83
May
17,
1962 ..
.. 169.42
581,07
187.31
387.52
599.70
308.17
324.35
May
18,
1962 ..
.. 170.32
580.14
187.31
388.49
602.82
309.45
324.54
May
21, 1962
.. 170.30
577.24
188.12
387.67
603.24
309.26
324.48
* Peak 348.46
September 16,
1960.
MELBOURNE
STOCK
EXCHANGE
AVERAGE YIELD
ON 100 ORDINARY SHARES
■50 Other Stocks-
-Random—^
—50 Leading
Stocks
Sample
Div. Yield Earn. Yield
Div. Yield Earn. Yield
December 22, 1961
4.26
6.13
5.30
7.46
May 14, 1962
4.26
6.13
5.09
2.02
May 15, 1962
4.25
6.12
5.09
2.01
May 16, 1962
4.29
6.89
5.10
2.14
May 17, 1962 ..
.,
4.26
6.15
5.10
2.04
May 18, 1962 ..
4.25
6.14
5.11
2.16
May 21, 1962
4.26
6.14
5.09
2.04
SHAREMARKET SUMMARY
sharemarkets have once more
begun to cover their activities with
a wide cloak of caution, almost as if to
give the recent small upward drive an
excessive reconsideration. Most prices
appear to be declining the role of point-
ing the direction towards which some
principal economic indicators are tend-
ing. It may, of course, be that investors
remain fretful about Common Market
dangers and also await more positive
employment figures.
In the light of the industrials’ latest
behavior, it would be impossible to de-
scribe dealings as anything but tolerably
firm, yet lacking excitement. Indeed,
though turnovers have generally kept at
reasonably high levels, Melbourne signi-
fied its doubts towards the end of last
week by a sizable drop in volume. And
Monday’s trading opened much more
sedately than usual.
Blue-ribbons again seemed to suggest
the true shape of the market. Adjust-
ments have been steadied, with even the
forward-pressing Henry Jones shedding a
little lustre. The previously advancing
ACI also copied this pattern, leaving
Tooth alone to gain strongly over the
week. CSR and ICI retreated fraction-
ally.
The once stalwart British Tobacco is
now at the mercy of tobacco scares,
which have made some inroad on its
leader status. Monday’s 21s. 7d. crept
uncomfortably close to this year’s earlier,
all-time low of 21s. While on tobacco,
Rothman’s heights are still being scaled
and the week saw a ss. fall to 775.
Choosiness speaks for the rest of the
investment market. A more radical des-
cription is needed to fit certain engin-
eering and building materials issues, now
displaying a measure of unease. Humes,
Kandos and Cyclone mirrored this trend,
while Concrete Industries and Ready
Mixed Concrete failed to stand much
above the ruck.
Hire purchase stocks, a little vague
recently, assuredly helped hold the line
last week. They were joined by a good
number of electricals and automotives.
Retailers are still wavering and on Mon-
day both Waltons and Woolworths, for
instance, edged back.
By and large the forward jerk away
from the doldrums now looks premature.
But many sections of the market are
now sensitively poised and ready to
exhibit more than merely technical
reaction.
Viewed from earlier dramatics, oils
preserve their rather deadpan oscilla-
tions. AOG, old and new, kicked up at
the end of last week’s trading and step-
ped ahead again on Monday. Not much
sympathetic movement was in evidence.


DIVIDEND
DECLARATIONS
Company
WEEK ENDED MAY 21,
Rate for
Div. p.c. Year
1962
Last Year
Books
Close
Payable
Australian Woollen Mills Ltd., int. ..
31/2
—
2y 2 , 3>/ 2
14/6/62
5/7/62
Aldershot Ltd., int
3V 2
_*
2y 2 , 4Vi
14/6/62
Barret Burston (Aust.) Ltd., final ..
6
10
4, 4
17/7/62
Bradley Bros. Ltd., int. ord. ..
4
—
4, 4
21/5/62
8/6/62
do., int. pref
4
—
4, 4
21/5/62
8/6/62
Devon Credits Ltd., special bonus ..
Frank G. O’Brien Ltd., int
2V 2
1/6/62
30/6/62
5
—
5, V/ 2
28/5/62
6/6/62
Garrison Industries Ltd., int.
5
—
5, 5
28/5/62
30/6/62
Gibson and Howes Ltd., final
Goldsbrough. Mort and Co. Ltd., final
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co.
(Aust.) Ltd., int. pref
Gordon and Gotch (A’sia) Ltd., final
ord. .
7
12
5, 7
11/5/62
5
8
3, 5
7/6/62
21/6/62
4
4, 4
15/6/62
1/7/62
10
18-1/3
8-1/3, 8-1/3
1/6/62
22/6/62
do , final pref. ..
4
8
4, 4
1/6/62
22/6/62
H. G. Palmer (Consol.) Ltd., int.
6V 4
—
6y 4 , 6y 4
31/5/62
15/6/62
Kinnears Ropes (Aust.) Ltd., final
5
9
4, 5
6/7/62
27/7/62
J. C. Ludowici and Son Ltd., int. 1st
pref.
2V2
2%, 2y 2
30/5/62
5/6/62
do., int. 2nd pref.
3
—
3, 3
30/5/62
5/6/62
L. J. Hooker Investment Corp. Ltd.,
int. qtr. 8 p.c. pref
2
2, 2, 2, 2
22/6/62
30/6/62
do., int. qtr. 6 p.c. pref.
Mark Foy’s Ltd., final ord
IV2
— 1V2, iy 2 , iy 2 , iy 2
22/6/62
30/6/62
614
12 y 2
6y 4 , 6y 4
18/6/62
2/7/62
do., final pref.
National Reliance Invest. Co. Ltd.,
year
3
6
3, 3
18/6/62
2/7/62
10
10
10
31/5/62
19/6/62
Nestle Co. (Aust.) Ltd., int. qtr. pref.
2
—
2, 2, 2, 2
1/6/62
1/7/62
Rocke Tompsitt and Co., Ltd., int.
4
—
4, 4
1/6/62
8/6/62
Sangara (Holdings) Ltd., int. ord. ..
5
—
17/5/62
27/6/62
W 7 m. Brooks and Co. Ltd., int. 1st
pref. ..
7y 2
7y 2 , i2y 2
25/5/62
31/5/62
do., int. 2nd pref.
4
—
4, 4
25/5/62
31/5/62
Company
Barrett Burston
Year
COMPANY
RESULTS
,—Ordinary Shares—,
Ended
Profit
£
Tax
£
Deprecia-
tion
£
Earning
Rate
P-C.
Ord. Par
Div. Value
p.c.
Last Sale
Price
Div.
Yield
p.c.
(Aust.) Ltd.
30/4/62
235,949
214,799
122,216
19
10 10/
22/3
4.5
Fairymead
31/12/61
180,086
U/a
82,445
12
8 20/
28/9
5.6
Gibson & Howes
31/12/61
96,824
U/a
71,912
15.4
12 20/
44/
5.5
Goldsbrcugh Mort ..
31/3/62
602.384
520,000
387.453
12.6
8 20/
32/
5.0
Kinnears Ropes
28/2/62
128.314
67,000
52.429
11.8
9 10/
17/6
4.9
Mark Foy’s
28/2/62
18,838
u/a
28,551
3.5
12 Vs 5/
12 3
5.1
Nestle Co. (Aust.) Ltd.
31/12/61
1,039,908
877,933
602,021
16.7
12V 2 20/
not listed
Wunderlich .
28/2/62
280,781
u/a
317,207
17.2
12 V 2 20/
68/
3.7
REGISTRATIONS OF NEW MOTOR
(EXCLUDING MOTOR CYCLES)
STATES AND TERRITORIES
VEHICLES
Month
N.S.W.
Vic:
Qld:
S.A.
W.A.
Tas.
N.T.
A.C.T.
Total
1961.
October
8,769
6,197
2.580
1,885
1,687
721
112
259
22,210
November .
8,840
6.543
2.734
1,767
1,791
754
84
283
22,796
1962,
December
7.596
5.595
2,691
1,858
1,762
695
82
271
20,550
January
8,169
4,824
2,376
1,553
1,791
558
60
203
19,534
February .
8,676
5,818
2,571
2,052
1,894
819
74
324
22,228
March
10,576
7,195
2,784
2,404
2,107
868
53
302
26,289
April*
8,195
5,916
2,822 2,087
♦Preliminary
1,947
783
108
236
22,094
SHORT-TERM MONEY MARKET
SELECTED ASSETS AND LIABILITIES OF AUTHORISED DEALERS
Holdings of
Common-
wealth , Interest Rates on Loans Accepted
Government During Month
f Liabilities to Clients Securities , At Call Fixed Periods-^
All Cheque Other (at face Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum
Month
Paying Banks
Clients
Total
value)
per cent
per cent
per cent
per cent
of Weekly Figures—£
million-^
p.a.
p.a.
p.a.
p.a.
1959 June
28.3
19.8
48.1
50.4
2.94
3.13
3.00
3.50
1960 „
27.2
52.7
79.9
82.3
2.75
3.50
3.00
3.50
1961 „
34.4
62.7
79.1
100.4
2.50
4.88
3.50
4.83
1960/61
Jan.
32.1
66.8
98.9
101.4
2.50
4.50
3.50
4.50
Feb.
35.0
63.9
98.9
101.4
2.38
4.03
2.88
4.31
Mch.
44.3
54.7
99.0
101.6
2.50
4.56
3.38
4.63
April
40.3
54.8
95.1
98.5
3.00
4.81
3.94
4.75
May
33.8
61.4
95.2
98.3
2.75
4.83
4.13
4 88
June
34.4
62.7
97.1
100.4
2.50
4.88
3.50
4.83
1961/62
July
31.9
67.6
99.5
102.5
2.25
4.88
3.38
4.88
Aug.
34.7
67.7
102.4
105.6
2.25
4.25
3.00
4.25
Sept.
33.2
69.9
103.1
106.6
2.25
3.75
2.75
3.75
Oct.
35.7
72.0
107.7
111.2
2.25
3.88
2.88
3.88
Nov.
33.5
76.3
109.8
113.5
2.25
4.31
2.75
4.34
Dec. (a) 33.8
76.6
110.4
114.1
2.25
4.00
2.75
4.00
Jan.
35.6
74.8
110.4
114.0
2.00
3.75
2.75
3.88
Feb.
34.9
73.8
108.7
112.5
2.00
3.93
3.00
3.94
Mch.
34.7
76.0
(a)
110.7 114.8 2.00 4.00
Excludes one Wednesday in December.
Source: Reserve Bank of Australia.
3.50
3.94
IAC Ltd.
FUNDS FOR L. J. HOOKER
fjpHE whole L. J. Hooker organisation
put on a healthier bloom as one
consequence of Industrial Acceptance
Corporation’s decision to enter the Cen-
tenary Estates development scheme. Total
cash accession filtering through the
Hooker group fairly quickly may reach
.omething like £lm. In a critical battle
or liquidity, that counts.
Well endowed with liquids, as are
many of the hire-purchase and finance
companies at present, lAC makes its
latest diversion soon after tacking on a
hotel interest, Chevron Queensland, with
CAGA and real estate agency T. M.
Burke, also with Hooker. Participation in
Centenary brings it to the plan for a
satellite township on the southern bank
of the Brisbane River, seven miles from
Brisbane.
As well as providing Centenary with
future funds for its programme, lAC
will first repay existing debenture bor-
rowings and other loans made through
the Hooker group. Debenture repayment
needs £ 103,000 plus interest and a small
premium, in accord with original pro-
spectus conditions.
Not content with this, and to Hooker’s
further benefit, lAC is buying for cash
and at par a 373 p.c. equity interest in
Centenary. To give lAC this, Hooker
Finance Ltd has sold all its shareholding
and the percentage is made up by sale
of some of the Hooker Corporation’s
holding. Hooker and lAC now have
equal interests, totalling about 75 p.c.,
the remaining 25 p.c. being publicly
held.
An upper limit to lAC’s fixed interest
assistance has been established but not
disclosed. It has been based on Cen-
tenary’s prospective debenture raisings
originally estimated as necessary to com-
plete the scheme. Likewise not disclosed
is how many of lAC’s shares are de-
ferred for dividend, in line with portion
of the flotation issue.
lAC has no blanket agreement with
Hookers, though this constitutes the
pair’s second big deal. The relationship
is being discussed, and cemented, deal
by deal. It is hardly necessary to add that
Centenary expects its plans to adhere to
the prospectus schedule and believes that
the foreshadowed initial dividend of 10
p.c. for the year to June 30, 1963, is
assured.
A reconstructed Centenary board now
comprises Messrs. F. E. Bunny, W. M.
Edmends and L. Newton, all representing
lAC, and Messrs. T. A. Dalton, A. T.
George, W. M. Kay and F. Pace, with
Sir Arthur Fadden as chairman.


STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Suite 1, Sixth Floor, Temple Court
422 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Phone 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
Sydney: 383 George Street, 29-7865.
Adelaide: 61 Gawler Place, 7-8407.
Brisbane: 334 Queen Street, 31-1621.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
All Offices: “Options”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. W. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road,
Melbourne
Telephone: 51-6243
Est. 1939
THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND V
WHEAT BOARD
£5000 A YEAR JOB A "HOT SEAT"
\lfHO will become the £5OOO-plus a
" year chairman of the Australian
Wheat Board when veteran marketing
authority Sir John Teasdale retires later
this year? The appointment promises to
be one of the most controversial and
most eagerly - sought in Australian
primary industry.
The chairmanship of the Wheat Board
has long been a “hot seat” politically
and appointments often have a strong
political flavor. It is a measure of the
job’s importance that the final appoint-
ment will be subject to the personal
approval of the Prime Minister, Mr
Menzies.
The Federal Government will have a
difficult job finding a man to match 80-
year-old Sir John Teasdale, the wily
Cumberland farmer’s son who rose from
a West Australian bush humpy to a
knighthood. An acknowledged world
authority on wheat marketing, Sir John
has a lifelong record of fighting for
what he believes the best interests of
Australia’s wheatgrowers. In his many
fights he has been no respecter of persons
and many Cabinet Ministers have felt
the weight of his annoyance.
If the Federal Government favors any
one candidate as Sir John’s successor it
has not given any sign. Not many
months ago a senior Cabinet Minister
was alleged to remark, while glancing
over a list of Wheat Board members:
“There’s not a chairman among them.”
But the names of several board members
are being mentioned as possible choices.
Probably the best chance of sitting
board members is held by Victoria’s Mr
A. C. (“Cliff’) Everett, who has served
more than 20 years on the board. He is
a leading member of the influential Vic-
torian Wheat and Woolgrowers’ Associa-
tion and one of Australia’s staunchest
advocates of a reserve price wool market-
ing scheme. A forceful speaker, he is
regarded in the wheat industry as a
controversial figure.
Another Victorian, Mr E. E. (“Big
Jim”) Nuske, had been rumored as a
possible successor to Sir John for several
years, but this Wimmera wheatgrower
appears to have removed himself from
the list of “possibles” by standing for
election as a wheatgrower representative
on the board this year and he is certain
of election.
Two other current board members
whose names are being mentioned are
Mr T. C. Stott, of South Australia, and
Mr D. Maisey, of Western Australia.
Mr Maisey is not entertained as a likely
choice in Canberra. Mr Stott is secretary
of the powerful Australian Wheatgrowers’
Federation and Speaker of the South
Australian House of Assembly (in which
as one of the two Independents he holds
the balance of power). It has been
rumored in Adelaide that the South
Australian Premier, Sir Thomas Play-
ford, might support Mr Stott for the
Wheat Board chairmanship if he were
reasonably certain of a Liberal win at
the resulting by-election.
A rank outsider, whose name has been
mentioned in Melbourne, is a former
chairman of the Board, Mr Fred Cullen.
Mr Cullen was deposed to make way for
Sir John Teasdale and the circumstances
of his eviction have rankled in the wheat
industry for years. There is no likeli-
hood that Mr Cullen will be appointed
while the present Federal Government
remains in power, however. Even a
Labor Government might hesitate to
appoint him on the ground of age.
A newcomer to the chairmanship
stakes, reported to be the unanimous
choice of the Wheatgrowers’ Federation,
is the Wheat Board’s general manager,
Mr Chris Perrett, who retires from the
general managership about the time the
chairmanship will become vacant. He
has conducted many of the board’s
recent negotiations with communist
China. Nevertheless, he is not con-
sidered by well - informed Canberra
sources as a likely selection.
\ name mentioned a great deal in the
year is that of the present secre-
tary of the Department of Primary Indus-
try, Mr Jim Moroney. Although regar-
ded by many as too valuable to the Gov-
ernment in his present post, Mr Moroney
is given a good chance.
Two other men who could be strong
contenders are both bankers —Mr John
Robertson, former assistant general
manager of the ANZ Bank, and Mr Len
Dooling, chief manager, Victoria, of the
Commonwealth Banking Corporation.
Mr Robertson has just been appointed
to the board as its finance member
The appointment of such a “high-
powered” financial expert has caused
conjecture that the Federal Government
may be giving him six months’ schooling
for the chairmanship’s post.
Mr Dooling, if interested, would be
even more of a “natural” for the chair-
manship. As well as being an extremely
capable and articulate banker, he is
closely connected with primary industry
in many ways.
The odds at the moment appear
heavily in favor of the non-wheatgrower
candidates, as the Federal Government
is believed to be anxious to take a firmer
grip on wheat marketing—and, indeed,
on the wheat industry. This is not sur-
prising, for under the wheat stabilisation
agreement the Government is now com-
mitted to virtually subsidising the indus-
try to the tune of £lO million or more
annually.
Out of the rumored candidates Messrs
Robertson, Dooling and Moroney appear
the likeliest selections for the chairman-
ship, with Messrs Stott and Everett as
the favorites on the industry side.


w
EEKLY AVERAGE
CLEAN WOOL
PRICES
Quality
Classification
(Bradford
Standard)
Week
Ended
18/5/62
Source: Australian Wool Bureau
Australian Averages ; :
Opening Closing
Week . Week Week Week
Ended 1961-62 1960/61 Ended
Change 11/5/62 7 ,7/61 30 '6/61 19/5/61
N’cle
Centres Selling
Week Ended
18/5/62
G’lng Ade L’tn
H'bt
d.
d.
d.
d.
d.
d.
d.
d.
d.
d.
d.
COMBING—
70’s Good
130
par
130
122*
125*
123*
Average
126
+i
125
117
120
119
126
—
—
—
.
64’s Good
123
par
123
114*
117*
116*
—
—
—
—
Average
118
+i
117
109
112
113
116
115
120
—
—
60’s .Good
108
par
108
104
108*
109
—
—
—
—
—
Average
103
par
103
101
104
107
103
102
103
—
—
58’s Good
98
par
98
97
101*
101
—
—
—
—
97
Average
94
par
94
95
98
98
—
94
94
93
93
56’s Good
92
par
92
95*
97*
96
.
—
—
—
92
Average
90
par
90
92*
94
93
—
89
91
88
88 '
50’s Good
79
—i
80
90*
91*
89
. .
—
—
—
83
Average
83
par
83
92*
93*
91
—
—
—
78
78
CARDING—
Merino
48
+i
47
49
48
51
47
49
Comeback
46
par
46
49
48
50
—
—
47
—
Pine Xbred
46*
par
46
51*
51
53
—
_
—
—
Med. Xbred
40*
par
46
52*
52
53
—
—
—
—
—
* Nominal.
Sa
Next Week:
Brisbane,
Melbourne.
SYDNEY
GREASY WOOL
FUTURES
EXCHANGE
SUMMARY
WEEK
ENDING MAY 18,
1962
Basis Greasy Equivalent 3,000 lbs. Clean Weight C.W.C. Type 78
-Highest/Lowest Price Paid-
(Pence per lb.)
,— —Tu move r ■>
, May 18 >,
, Week Ended
Week
Month
Closing
18/5/62
, To Date ..
Ended
To
Seller
Buyer
High
Low
High
Low
18/5/62
Date
May, 1962
117
116 Vi
118
116%
118
99 Vi
105
5,120
July, 1962
114 Vi
Traded
115
113
116%
101
143
5,531
September, 1962
111%
lllVi
111%
110%
116%
103%
75
1,700
October, 1962
109%
109%
109%
108%
116%
104
139
4,832
December, 1962
108%
108 Vi
109
107%
113
103%
144
3,461
January, 1963
108 Vi
108%
108%
107%
112 Vi
103%
26
562
March, 1963
.. 108'A
107%
108 Vi
107 Vi
110%
104
22
994
May, 1963
108
107%
108 Vi
107%
110
104
53
792
July, 1963
108
107%
IO8V2
- 107%
110
105
36
480
September, 1963
107%
107 Vi
107 Vi
107 Vi
109%
106%
3
56
October, 1963
107 Vi
107%
107%
• 107
109 Vi
106Vi
30
280
Total
number of
contracts
776
63,103
WEATHER
THE SEASON IN APRIL-MAY
by M. H. ELLIS
A ccording to the records of the Aus-
tralian Woolgrowers’ and Graziers’
Council the rainfall in the Darling
Downs, Maranoa and most of the
Warrego region of Queensland was
normal during April. Pastures arid stock
are generally in fine winter condition.
The winter season’s grass and water are
assured in the South and Central Eastern
districts, as more rain than usual fell in
the autumn. On the Central Highlands
rain has been adequate and the only part
of the North with cause to complain is
Carpentaria where, in many parts, sum-
mer rainfall was below average. Parts of
Queensland that needed more rain at the
onset of winter were mostly in the West
and Central coastal and ’owlands regions.
NSW: The pastoral districts in
general were dry during April though
grass was not scarce, if of relatively poor
nutritional value. Winter feed has
promised to be short in several parts of
the Southern, Riverina and Western
sections. Rain was urgently needed in
some of these districts at the beginning
of May and artificial feeding was
operating in some areas. In contrast to
the dryness of the south, the North
Coast, North Western Slopes and North-
ern Tablelands had too much rain, with
flooding in the North Coast and Hunter-
Manning arers, producing losses of stock,
crops and prope r ty. Leaving out the
Central and Southern Tablelands, the
winter began in NSW with from ade-
quate to more than ample water supplies,
but with feed supplies reduced by either
too much or too little rain Generally
stock were fat. cattle and sheep con-
signments to Sydney sale yards above
average, and the disease and pest position
satisfactory.
Victoria: At the end of April useful
rain fell over most Victorian pasture
areas, but it came late for winter growth
of grass. Pasture for winter is by no
means assured and hand feeding began
early in many districts. Stock are in fair
to good condition. Dam water, where it
is most needed, is low.
South Australia: Except in parts of
the South and South-west the cold wea-
ther came down on a very dry State
which had had little rain during April:
The pastures which sprang up after the
March rains withered under the drought.
Both paddock and hay feed has been
sadly depleted and the sellers of stock
foods have been enjoying a boom. There
is little hope in most parts of the State
of anything but a hard winter, since
there cannot be any worthwhile growth
until spring. The Northern position is
least hopeful except in the eastern and
western portions of the belt. In man)
parts of the far north it is critical.
Western Australia: Only light and
dispersed showers were recorded over
most of WA during April, save in the
Port Hedland district which had some
storms. The early finish of the wet and
lack of follow-up rains spoilt the Kim-
berley season, though conditions are far
from as bad as they might have been.
The country from the De Grey to the
Gascoigne is dry, but not critically bad.
The East Gascoigne and the strip through
to the Eastern Goldfields has been with-
out rain since January or February, 1961.
Stock losses have been substantial there
and the w'ool clip a thin one. In the
agricultural districts April was one of
the driest months recorded. The main
occupation in WA when this was written
was “waiting for rain.”
Tasmania: Is in the opposite position
to WA. The whole island had good rains
in April, those parts South Eastern,
Dement and Midland—which were in
relatively serious straits got enough to
rescue them, but not to assure a good
winter. Given normal winter falls, Tas-
mania as a whole should be well out of
trouble.
Northern Territory: Seeding has
taken place in the McDonnell-Tennant
Creek belt and the pastures are rapidly
drying out. Top feed is not altogether
satisfactory and some mulga has died,
but there has been a good growth of
ground feed. South of the McDonnells
the drought joins with that of Northern
South Australia and the sandhill country
north of the Finke is naked. In the
East Barkly, feed is abundant but dry
and the Mitchell grass in particular is in
a disappointing condition save on part
of Rankine Plain. Considerable areas
were on fire early in the month. The Dar-
w'in district is facing water shortages and
stock losses on all properties in the Kath-
erine area are expected to top those of
last year, as a result of the early finish of
the wet season. Surface water is already
very short. The Elliott has good condi-
tions, but farther North-west on Victoria
River there is an abnormal drying up
of holes and the great bulk of tinder-dry
grass standing is making owners nervous.
It needs only one idly flung match or
reflecting broken bottle to line the hori-
zons with fire.


REVIEWS
MUSIC
THE MOZART EISTEDDFOD
Don Giovanni. Mozart. Elizabethan
Trust Opera Company. Palais.
Melbourne.
T may have caught the Trust’s “Don
Giovanni” on an off night, but the
performance I saw (May 16) resembled
an eisteddfod too closely to be enjoyed
as an opera. As each of the singers
made an entrance there was a tendency to
wonder whether he would take the night’s
prize, left unclaimed by some too palp-
able flaw in the work of the others.
What introduced this competitive note
was largely, I think, a faulty production
by Stephan Beinl, on top of the fussy
and inefficient set designs of Edith
Kresta and Helmut von Obstfelder. Neu-
trality rather than expectation was the
keynote of Leporello’s opening soliloquy:
confusion began with the entry of Anna
and Don Giovanni. The masterly swift-
ness with which Mozart leads to the
Commendatore’s death was betrayed in
this duet, where the stage action made it
hard to determine whether the Don was
more interested in escaping into the
darkness or in reading the time by Anna’s
wrist-watch.
This kind of uncertainty, which mixed
realism with high stylisation, which
allowed Ronal Jackson to play a very
sober libertine, whose ebullient vigor
was confined to a couple of skipping bat-
like exits, continued through most of the
first act, though it was less noticed in
the second. It had the unfortunate effect
of offering each new aspirant the chance
to steal the show by putting on a vigor-
ously characterised performance. A near
miss by Neil Warren Smith, who seemed
afraid to proceed and make capital of his
success with the “Catalogue” aria, left
the honors with Cynthia Johnston, whose
Zerlina was both pert and delightfully
sensuous.
Una Hale was unfortunately penalised
by a cardinal error in casting. Her voice
and ample personality both demanded
the part of Elvira, a richly feminine
character who is one of Mozart’s most
tormented and most personal creations.
Cast as Donna Anna, Miss Hale sang
and acted with great warmth, but her
voice has not the edge nor the monu-
mental reserve which belong to Anna.
She was capably supported by Gregory
Dempsey’s Don Ottavio, which was
markedly less stilted and pinched than
his Bacchus in “Ariadne”. Ana Raquel
Satre, who was billed as Elvira and who
should on any count have been cast as
Anna, was replaced in this performance
by Althea Bridges, who sang accurately
but nowhere made a bid to encompass
this very searching part.
Even Wilhelm Loibner’s conducting,
highly praised by the daily Press, fell
below the mark I had set for it. His
orchestra was always taut and springy,
but it was not always with the singers, and
his pace in many of the arias was uncom-
fortably fast. The ensembles fared better,
and a single purple patch was achieved
in the superb second-act sextet in which
the disguised Leporello unmasks before
the cruelly deceived Elvira.
But the most critical failure was that
of Ronal Jackson, who had the most
critical role. A dominating Don Gio-
vanni could have held this performance
together, but Mr Jackson was impeded
either by natural reticence or by the
general dampening effect of the produc-
tion. Of course he was, like the rest of
the cast, hindered by the poor acoustics
of this stage, which sucks up more sound
than it throws out ; but a more careful
producer would have made sure that he
sang his most opulent and heroic phrases
more towards the footlights, not tucked
away upstage under the statue’s elbow.
KENNETH HINCE
TELEVISION
OUR BOY IN AFRICA
The Teeth of the Wind. Cameron,
ABN-2.
Tn Melbourne recently, Dr Darling of
the ABC announced that a minimum
of £2OO would be paid soon for origi-
nal hour-long television plays. In Syd-
ney more recently one called “The Teeth
of the Wind” was on view, and made
me wonder whether Dr Darling had seen
it earlier, and been moved to a gesture of
sheer desperation?
I could not imagine him remarking,
“By Harry, that’s what we’ve been after!
Up the payment immediately!” But I
could imagine him soliloquising, “Let’s
raise the ante, and see if THAT helps!”
Well, it may, a little. It could flush
some writers who have been lurking in
other nearby fields. Probably it will in-
crease the number of “first” scripts, and
reduce the number of first, seventh and
15th attempts to write short stories. It
will certainly enliven the dreams of glory
expressed in espressos.
Unfortunately, without something
more, it will also lead to further televi-
sion plays of the negative quality of
“Teeth of the Wind.” That something
more? It might be a dozen things, in-
cluding a University of the Air series on
Drama, beginning validly with television
drama, and conducted by someone both
talented and experienced, from overseas
if necessary. It was done for music, and
radio.
“Teeth of the Wind” was written by
John Cameron, described in the ABC’s
journal as a former Sydney theatre man,
now a Melbourne TV executive. His
earlier play, “The Outpost,” was televised
in Australia, England and the USA. In
the recent statement, Dr Darling in-
dicated that the grand slam is worth
about <£soo-600 to the playwright at
present.
Mr Cameron set his second play in a
new African republic where a United
Nations force held the elected President
and VP in protective custody, with an
Australian officer (Alan Hopgood)
directly responsible. Our boy became in-
terested in a Dr Pearson (Joan Harris),
made friends with a couple of Old Hands
(Kurt Ludescher and Mary Ward), and
naturally met President Ngimba (Keith
Eden in brownface).
As you can imagine, these characters
talked over the political, anthropological,
humanitarian and other aspects of the
situation. An Australian sergeant added
a blowhard radical note. And our boy
looked either worried or evasive, and said
pathetically, “I really don’t know enough
about the situation.” Later, thirsting for
knowledge, he listened to one of
Ngimba’s many harangues, and asked,


“Does that mean you want to get rid
of all free enterprise and become a
Communist country?” Keith Eden gave
him a dark look.
After some 40 minutes of this,
Ngimba’s electors came unarmed to re-
lease him, and our boy had to decide
whether to open fire and kill “thousands,"
or order his six or seven visible soldiers
to lay down their arms. He decided for
pacifism and eight or nine natives over-
ran the place.
Then it transpired that the laid-down
arms had been used to kill the two
women in the cast, and our boy was
lectured by Ngimba, who felt that “a
few hundred lives” taken by the mob
were preferable to the “thousands” the
Aussies might have shot, and a cheap
price for “helping 40 million people
towards freedom.”
The author of all this “met some South
Africans when I worked in Canada a
few years ago.” The net result was
neither drama nor documentary. It was
Blue Hills moved to Africa, but with a
less accurate presentation of the pros and
cons than Gwen Meredith provides in
her more intense moments. And if the
ABC pays <£2oo for nothing better than
this, I know one licence holder who will
complain bitterly.
Without the something more mentioned
earlier, the position for TV play writing
here could not be more ridiculous than
if the United Nations were to offer
Ngimba’s people shipments of washing
machines and refrigerators, complete
with instruction books, but without a
spark of electricity or a single engineer,
doctor, hygiene expert, and so on.
Ngimba's untutored could be expected
to keep chooks in the refrigerators and
corn in the washing machines, and the
ABC’s untutored playwrights throughout
Australia can be expected to do much
the same with the current offer.
FRANK ROBERTS
THEATRE
AT THE SUMMIT
The Moscow State Variety Theatre.
His Majesty’s. Perth.
A dvance publicity for this show warns
that it is vastly different to the sort
of thing we expect to see at the Tiv.
This was to be a kind of concert by
artists of the first rank representing the
many branches of theatrical entertain-
ment. With a fairly hazy version of the
archetypal modern Russian in mind, I
was easily misled into expecting excell-
ence without imagination, technical
supremacy without brilliance and humor
without fun. What a surprise! True,
there was no chorus line and no little
man with the light patter and the soft
shoe shuffle. There was instead virtuo-
sity, glamor, excitement, beautiful girls,
gaiety and a good measure of laughs.
This is variety in its truest and best
sense. Here are gifted and highly trained
specialists in a well-balanced but diverse
programme—dancers from the Bolshoi
Ballet, puppeteers, singers, musicians,
acrobats, jugglers, a contortionist, a
magician.
Eugeny Avxentiev is a virtuoso of the
balalaika. His playing is strongly remin-
iscent of Segovia on the guitar, for he
combines complete technical mastery
with great musicality and his remark-
able control of tone and mood alone
make the comparison with Segovia legiti-
mate. In the same class is the doira
player, Gafour Inogamov. This rather
unlikely instrument is really a large tam-
bourine and is balanced on the thumbs
and played with the fingers. At first
glance it would seem to have limited
usefulness, but this artist, either as a
soloist or when providing rhythm accom-
paniment to the folk dancers, produced
as much and more from it as another
man might on a full set of tympani. His
playing was passionate, evocative and
wonderfully exciting.
Though Margarity Olkhovskaya and
Alexander Artamonov are not outstand-
ing jugglers they are certainly very skil-
ful and their routine was different. Miss
Olkhovskaya includes among her not in-
considerable charms the most beautiful
legs seen in show business since the days
of Betty Grable, and Artamonov’s “Fight
of Two Russian Boys” the funniest thing
in the show.
Amongst so much that is brilliant it is
difficult to say which excels and I am
unable to choose between the dancing and
the puppetry. Both folk and classical
dancers gave superb exhibitions in
dances well chosen to exhibit both their
interpretative and executive skills. They
were breath-taking. And the puppets,
operated not by strings from above', but
in some mysterious way from below,
performed so many complicated move-
ments at the same time in their wonder-
ful satire of the village concert soprano
and her oafish flautist accompanist that
it seemed incredible two people could
have managed voices and puppets as
well. They smiled, frowned, sang,
shrugged shoulders, visibly sighed, beck-
oned, all in smooth rounded movement
and delightfully “hammy" characterisa-
tions.
The show as a whole moved at a good
pace, was simply staged, well lit and, for
the most part, well dressed. We forgave
the men their rather non-U evening
clothes, for who could carp in the pre-
sence of so much skill and talent. They
all accepted well-deserved acclaim with
unconcealed delight and unusual modest}'.
The Company will tour Australia and
New Zealand throughout May and July,
and with any luck their visit may serve
as something more than a mute reminder
of the generally poor standards of individ-
ual performance and variety generally in
this country. The Moscow Variety Com-
pany demonstrate on the simplest level
that talent is only the foundation and that
mediocrity ought to be unforgivable.
MARY LORD
PARIS NEWSLETTER
THE CURTAIN FALLS
By William Millinship
TTnscripted quarrels have to some
extent enlivened an otherwise dull
theatrical Paris season, in which serious
new plays have flopped dismally one after
the other. A smart, black-tie audience
started things off the other night at the
Comedie Francaise. It screamed its dis-
approval on the first night of a play by
Jacques Audiberti, called “Le Fourmi
Dans Le Corps" (“The Ant in the Body").
Elegantly dressed men and women
shouted their disgust at a seduction scene
in which the seducing is the work of a
nun. Audiberti. it was noisily decided,
had gone too far.
On the second night, the play went off
without trouble in the first half. The cast
even had five curtain calls. But soon after
the interval, someone in the stalls said
loudly: “It's a very bad play.” People
all over the theatre whistled and yelled
their agreement with this judgment.
Someone even called for the execution of
Ivl. Andre Malraux, Minister for Culture,
The Government, however, has had
nothing to do with the uproar surround-
ing a surrealist ballet set to music by
Scarlatti, with ideas, costumes and decor
by Salvador Dali. The libretto mixes
up the present day and the age of Charles
V. The hero, a knight in shining armor,
flies about in an airship made of knives,
the heroine in an aeroplane built of
spoons. Television comes into it and a
whole side of beef, carved specially
according to Dali's instructions
Directed by Maurice Bejart. the show
divided the first night audience into two
camps—one protesting, the other applaud-
ing. M. Dali, himself, did not see the first
performance, but is firmly in the hostile
camp. He is demanding the removal of
his name from the bill.


ART
STRENGTH OF PURPOSE
Stanislaus Rapotec. South Yarra
Gallery. Melbourne.
few works that Rapotec has previ-
ously exhibited in Melbourne, most-
ly from his long series of “Tensions”,
have been very severe, limited and a
little exhausting. Obviously he was a
painter of great strength and singleness
of purpose, one who would paint a prob-
lem through to his complete satisfaction.
Now, in a commanding exhibition of
paintings and drawings at the South
Yarra Gallery, we see a much warmer,
richer and more personal painter. This
is in part due to the greater freedom and
diversity of his shapes and compositions;
in part to the fact that a good number of
the works are programmatic. The tre-
mendous strength of purpose and unhesi-
tatingly bold design is still present, but
the purity of the abstraction has been
relaxed, as it has in so many cases re-
cently, in favor of a translation of
nature into abstract terms.
Of these programmatic works the
most striking are the large paintings,
particularly the huge “Meditating on
Good Friday”, along with the other two
which will accompany it in the Tate ex-
hibition, “Experience in Spring” and
“Experience in Broken Hill”, and, to me
the most absorbing of all, “Experience in
Bush”. They are striking because they
succeed on both major levels, as satisfy-
ing and stimulating organizations of
forms, and as rich evocations of their
subjects. Whether the painting or its sub-
ject came first is to me of no concern.
What is immediately clear is a strong ex-
perience which comes directly from the
work and evokes a total sympathy with
the painter’s visual and sensual world.
The best tribute one can pay to his
artistry is that, in spite of the forceful-
ness and originality of his style, one is
more aware of the feelings and ideas em-
bodied in the work than of their mode
of expression.
These remarks apply equally to the
religious work “Meditating on Good
Friday”, which aroused some contro-
versy when it won the Blake Prize. For
a start it is interesting to see how neatly
Rapotec’s characteristic shapes adapt
themselves to a general kind of religious
symbol the circle and cross, the
heavily brushed, barbed lines and
how instantly appropriate the restricted
color range seems. Indeed a good deal
of meaning could, I think, be accurately
read into it, and the fact that you could
never be absolutely sure either that you
were right or that you had exhausted its
meaning makes it rather apt for religious
purposes. On the other hand, treated
more rigidly as an abstraction, as a
meditation, which it claims to be, it can
still stand firm, as a profound, respectful
and stirring experience capable of evok-
ing a parallel experience in an onlooker.
I have not yet heard which Church
has managed to capture it.
BILL HANNAN
PERSONAL
SYNTHESIS
Johnsonian Club Art Prize Competi-
tion. Brisbane.
second competition for this prize
attracted 270 entries, many from
other States. For a prize of £l5O the
number of top-line artists was surpris-
ingly low and the standard unworthy of
the spirit that prompted the gift. The
winner is a young, very promising Bris-
bane lad, Mervyn Moriarty, who has
been moving up into the top class for a
year or so and who, in my opinion,
should have won last year. His style,
as might be expected from his youth, is
derivative but it is at least a personal
synthesis which has taken whatever is
good from the abstracts. The winning
picture is called “Journeyers” in which
two human forms are just a little more
than adumbrated, facing a zone of
abstraction, with a planet, sun or moon,
the distant goal. The whole conception
is trite but is beautifully realised with
geometric precision, predominantly in
strong blue and red. The picture
has distinction of taste, nice symmetry
and warmth of feeling. It was an inevi-
table choice for the prize and only one
other entry came near it, Joy Roggen-
Lamp’s “Landscape”, a free, fluent
version of a field in cool grey-green
strongly reminiscent of Jackson Pollock.
After that the quality fell away rather
badly, only Gabriel Pearl’s strongly
drawn “Shell Pickers”, Brian Dean’s very
satisfying “Portrait, Lola”, Harry Cot-
terell’s workmanlike “Old Cattle Dip”,
and Nancy Carroll’s Melbourne old
buildings cheering the spirit.
The show needed more stringent cull-
ing and it lost a lot of interest by the
difficulties of space. No picture shows
well when bang up against another out
of harmony with it. The Club Lounge
and other smaller rooms in which the
exhibits were stood up on tables are
totally inadequate for proper exhibition
of the entries. A big competition should,
in justice to the entrants and viewers, be
properly hung in a properly lighted
gallery.
J. V. DUHIG
FILMS
URGE TO LIVE
Kapo. Savoy. Sydney.
IT'apo a concentration camp inmate
promoted to be an unavoidably
brutal supervisor over fellow-prisoners—
was one of the most horrible institutional
by-products of the Nazi Third Reich.
Where a German guard could occasion-
ally afford a little compassion, the kapo
had to be methodically brutal —merely to
survive.
In his “Kapo” the Italian producer,
Gillo Pontecorvo, has attempted an
almost clinical study of how a pleasant,
attractive and intelligent Jewish teenage
girl (brilliantly played by Susan Stras-
berg), gradually becomes a cold, calculat-
ingly brutal kapo because of her almost
animal urge to live.
To escape certain death at a “medical
selection” she tries to hide the sores on
her hands and successfully diverts the
Nazis’ attention to the charms of her
youthful figure. Soon she becomes a
resigned mistress to the SS guards and
is then made a kapo. The transformation
is gradual and the young collaborator is
understandingly, almost sympathetically,
portrayed.
When the Third Reich is collapsing a
group of Allied war prisoners, mainly
Russian, is marched into the camp to
build fortifications. Realising that the
Germans will kill everybody before
retreating, a rising is planned. The
young kapo, who rather unconvincingly
falls in love with a Russian prisoner,
sacrifices herself to make the escape
possible.
It is not really a willing sacrifice —at
first she agrees to help because she is in
love with the Russian soldier; when she
realises that even her lover decides to
sacrifice her for the sake of his comrades
she resignedly goes to her death.
Even in her last moments she is dis-
appointed —instead of the face of her
lover bending over her she sees one of
the SS guards whom she used to “enter-
tain.” It is he who, in response to her
last plea, helps her rip off the Nazi
emblem from the tunic of her newly
acquired and hated Wehrmacht uniform.
Pontecorvo has successfully attempted
a study of the grim concentration camp
reality in terms of individual human
beings. There is only the bare minimum
of Nazi atrocities, and it is specially
pointed out that the film deals with a
“labor” camp, not an “extermination”
camp. The pace is quick, acting
uniformly good and convincing, and the
background authentic. There are some
remarkably poignant and sincere scenes.
EUGENE BAJKOWSKI


THE RED PAGE
BEAVERBROOK'S CHRIST
By MALCOLM MUGGERIDGE
r ord Beaverbrook, searching round
for another subject for his busy pen,
has hit upon Jesus Christ. * It might
seem, at first glance, a curious choice.
The founder of the Christian religion
scarcely measures up to the heroes of
the City and of politics w'ho have hither-
to attracted Lord Beaverbrook’s atten-
tion. Nor, one might suppose, would
his teaching be calculated to make a
strong prima facie appeal to one who,
throughout his public career, has always
insisted on w'orldly success as the reward
and measure of all human endeavor.
The Empire Crusader wall surely find
little to his taste in a gospel of renuncia-
tion. Is a millionaire to applaud the
sentiment that the poor are blessed? Can
the champion of Sir Roy Welensky, and
the familiar of prime ministers, assent to
the proposition that the meek inherit the
earth?
Anyone who has worked as I have for
a Beaverbrook newspaper will know
that there is a strong strain of religiosity
in the proprietorial directives with which
editorial underlings are ceaselessly bom-
barded. Mixed up with the log-rolling,
the endless reiteration of some lunatic
proposition, as that there will be no war,
the relentless pursuit of private vendettas
and crusades, are fragments of scripture
and echoes of Presbyterian earnestness.
Into that crafty, resounding voice there
comes from time to time what Tom
Delnier has aptly described as a “magni-
ficent diapason of deep sincerity”.
Lord Beaverbrook is, indeed, a spoilt
evangelist. He has strong biblical pre-
dilections. The faith he imbibed as a son
of the manse in New Brunswick has left
its mark upon the style and idiom of his
utterances, if not upon his conduct. He
fights the bad fight with all the exuber-
ance and fervor of old-style revivalists
like Moody and Sankey. In my day the
“Evening Standard" vans carried a bill:
“Is There An After Life! See Tomorrow's
‘Evening Standard’.” It was made
abundantly clear to us that the answer
offered must be emphatically in the
affirmative. Anyone who was a believer
when he picked up a Beaverbrook news-
paper must be a believer when he laid
it down.
It is true that Lord Beaverbrook’s own
course, from youthful speculative
triumphs in Canada to newspaper pro-
prietorship, and somewhat furtive shuffl-
ing along what Sir Charles Snow calls
the corridors of power, could only with
difficulty be equated with that of Bun-
yan’s pilgrim. This, however, did not
deter him from seeing himself as a Mr
Great-Heart. In his entourage of
sycophants, buffoons and tame celebri-
ties he liked to include someone who
could provide organ accompaniment for
nocturnal hymn-singing sessions. Any
tendency to carry mockery into the
realm of Christian apologetics was liable
to receive a sharp rebuke.
Tesus Christ, in any case, is a name
which makes news. During his life-
time he would not, perhaps, have rated
the attention of William Hickey, but his
subsequent fame, and the wealth and
eminence of many of those associated
with it, qualify him for a place now in
any gossip column. From Lord Beaver-
brook’s point of view, his is essentially
a success story. From humble origins
(though as the Son of God, he might be
considered to have exalted connections)
he achieved a position of outstanding
power and influence. The Crucifixion
was a setback, certainly, but the Resur-
rection more than compensated for it.
Thenceforth, he progressed almost as
fast as the circulation of the ‘‘Daily
Express”. Though his earthly estate was
negligible, and far below the level at
which death duties become payable, his
posthumous circumstances put him in
the multi-millionaire class. His astonish-
ing career, from carpenter's son to an
accepted position on God’s right hand,
exemplified Lord Beaverbrook’s favorite
proposition that dazzling opportunities
await whoever has the shrewdness,
energy and pertinacity to see and seize
them. In his case, not even the sky was
the limit.
It is as a successful propagandist that
Jesus Christ wins Lord Beaverbrook’s
particular admiration. Without the
advantage of a chain of newspapers,
lacking financial resources and powerful
earthly connections, he still managed to
put across his ideas so effectively that
nearly two thousand years later they are
still ringing in mankind's ears. Is it
surprising that so outstanding a feat
should impress another operator in the
field of propaganda who, with so many
additional advantages, has seen every
cause he espoused founder, every indivi-
dual he attacked thrive, and most of
those he praised fall in public esteem?
No doubt, too, Jesus Christ would
have made, in Lord Beaverbrook's esti-
mation, an admirable columnist: a sort
of super-Godfrey Winn, felicitously re-
minding his readers of life’s deeper pur-
poses and truer values. His evangel
might well have been advanced by
editorial support such as the “Express”
newspapers could have afforded, but the
fact remains that, by mere word of
mouth, he did surprisingly well. Lord
Beaverbrook attributes this success in the
first place to his choice of disciples. He
eschewed “intellectuals who would have
spread the doctrine quickly”, and went
for “simple men of tenacious character
who will obey and bear witness”.
“Almost any twelve honest men selected
at random,” Lord Beaverbrook considers,
would have been as serviceable as the
actual apostles, ft was not for them to
“theorise and embroider on the teaching
as men of greater intellectual force
would certainly have done”, but just to
report what they saw and heard. Like
good “Daily Express” correspondents,
their function was to be on the spot,
and first with the news.
After the Sermon on the Mount, Lord
Beaverbrook tells us, Jesus Christ em-
barked upon his “great campaign”, in
the conduct of which he appears
“simply and nakedly as the greatest pro-
pagandist the world has ever known.”
The main propagandist weapons he
used were “personality, example and
oratory”. It is significant that so old a
hand at the game as Lord Beaverbrook
should omit any reference to the truth of
what was being propagated as a factor
in its successful propagation. In his
own essays as a propagandist he has
always concentrated on presentation
rather than content, and assumes that
Jesus Christ would necessarily have
done likewise. The skill of this earlier
practitioner was such, moreover, that he
needed no Christiansen to devise the
make-up and headlines. Christ was his
own Christiansen.
As for the teaching itself. Lord Beaver-
brook is inclined to accept its validity
as originally propounded, but to deplore
subsequent glosses upon it. St Paul, for
instance, falls under his displeasure as
importing
into the pure ethic of the word as
preached by Our Lord a vast amount
of extraneous matter whether out of
Neo-Platonism or Mithraism or the
Osiris cult which formed the sub-
stratum of the vast superstructure of
Catholic doctrinal Theology.
He was “a citizen of the world”, “a
highly educated man”, “an intellectual”,
and, as such, divorced from “the simple
folk” to whom Jesus Christ addressed
* The Divine Propagandist. Lord
Beaverbrook. Heinemann. 10s. 6d.


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D”, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
himself. In Lord Beaverbrook’s eyes,
one feels, St Paul might almost have
been a contributor to the “Observer”.
Lord Beaverbrook has to take account
of certain seeming discrepancies between
Christian teaching, as propounded in the
Gospels, and his own, as propounded in
the “Daily Express”. Take for instance,
the awkward question of riches. If there
is one point on which the “Express”
newpapers are consistently emphatic, it
is in recommending, as laudable and
beneficial, the assiduous laying up of
treasure on earth. Against the ostensibly
harsh observation about the eye of a
needle, and the difficulty a rich man has
in entering the kingdom of heaven, Lord
Beaverbrook sets the parable of the
talents, which, as he sees it, amounts to
a clear recommendation to study the
stock-market, and invest boldly and
profitably. His conclusion is that Jesus
Christ considered the habit of acquisition
“laudable enough in the first instance”,
but disapproved when it grew “until the
victim becomes a slave to his money”.
Flere he can derive comfort from the
thought that, as his own career amply
shows, in becoming rich and important
it is the first instance which counts.
A gain, the “Express” newspapers
in all circumstances, to strike
a note of optimism. A boom is always
with us, or round the corner. Dangers
which seem to threaten never will
materialise. Old men live for ever, trade
is always brisk, and stock-market prices
are always rising. Any suggestion that
Jesus Christ was inclined to take a
poor view of man’s earthly circumstances
is, in Lord Beaverbrook’s opinion,
another of the deplorable falsifications
of his teaching by intellectuals and theo-
logians. On the contrary, he was an advo-
cate of “social cheerfulness” here and
now.
Nor will Lord Beaverbrook counter-
nance what he calls the “Gentle Jesus”
view of the founder of the Christian
religion. Paintings like “The Lost
Sheep,” and phrases like the “Lamb of
God” have been “pressed into service”
to propagate this fallacious view. So
have “those parts of the Sermon on the
Mount which deal with non-resistance,
the suffering of a persecution gladly, and
the doctrine of turning the other cheek.”
“Extraordinary vigilance,” he insists,
“has to be exercised against accepting an
absolutely literal interpretation of such
sayings.”
Jesus Christ, that is to say, was no
“Man of Sorrows”, but rather a “happy
warrior”, whose robust teaching “has
been conquering the world ever since
Calvary, and continues ever year by
year its victorious advance.” So con-
sidered, he can take his place in the
“Daily Express” pantheon, along with
Bonar Law, Sir James Dunn, Sir Winston
Churchill, and other worthies who have
deserved and enjoyed Lord Beaver-
brook’s esteem. So interpreted, his
teaching can be appropriately included
in the Opinion Column, which, under
Lord Beaverbrook’s direction, day by
day enthuses four-million-odd readers.
“The desire for the spiritual King-
dom,” Lord Beaverbrook writes, “is apt
to belong to later years.” Volumes of
belated piety like “The Divine Pro-
pagandist” are not uncommon among
ageing captains of industry and of the
Press. Normally, they are privately
printed, and circulate among relatives
and unresisting employees. This particu-
lar one is likely to enjoy a far wider
circulation. It would be surprising if
one or other of the “Express” news-
papers did not choose it for serialisation,
and, as has happened in the case of the
same author’s previous volumes, adver-
tisements are likely to appear, shortly
after publication, offering to buy back
copies already distributed because of the
strong demand for it.
Lord Beaverbrook’s mental processes
may be somewhat rudimentary and con-
fused, to the point of, at times, baffling
the best eorts of the preforming seals he
maintains to expound them. Yet they
are undeniably spirited, and self-pro-
pelled on a majestic scale. Thus his
views on the life and teaching of Jesus
Christ, though not, in themselves, either
profound or illuminating, have a certain
piquancy precisely because they are his.
To students of the contemporary scene,
“The Divine Propagandist” is by way
of being a collector’s piece. I shall not
surrender my copy when the call comes.
It would be absurd to suggest that Lord
Beaverbrook’s motive in writing it was to
allay stirrings of conscience which may
have afflicted him in old age. A more
likely explanation, I should have thought,
is that “The Divine Propagandist” is
intended to provide what the French
police call a piece justificative for use, as
and when required, in the hereafter.
“Have we a sure hope of immortality?”
Lord Beaverbrook asks, and goes on.
“The answer is ‘Yes.’ ” In the light of
this certainty, he must expect to appear,
in the not too distant future, at the
pearly gates, where the circulation and
advertising revenue of his newspapers,
and the cause of Empire which they have
so stoutly upheld, may, alas, make little
impression. In this contingency, a pre-
sentation copy of his latest work might
come in handy.
THAT CERTAIN BOOK
ALL HAIL
TO HIAWATHA
By A. D. HOPE
the editor’s letter running in my
head I sit down to think. What
writer then . . . most influence . . . forma-
tive years? What is influence anyway?
Look it up. Influence: “The supposed
flowing from the stars of an etherial fluid
acting upon the character.” Could this
be Longfellow perhaps? To our high
requiem become a star? Who knows at
my age, what really are the things that
influence poems written 40 years later?
The earliest memory of verse rhythm at
the age of two or thereabout is singing
“Jesus Loves Me”:
“Little ones to him belong
I am weak but tea is strong.”
But then there must already have been
nursery rhymes. The syncopated rhythms
of “Goosey, Goosey Gander” were especi-
ally thrilling and agreeable, I remember.
But how many others have I forgotten?
Year after year the anonymous poems
and songs that gave pleasure and formed
the patterns of expectation and were for-
gotten when I grew and explored further.
At eight the memory of writing a poem
in fifty-two stanzas for my mother’s birth-
day, one for each week of the year—pious
sentiments in ballad metre. Wordsworth
and Tennyson already familiar names.
At ten I read “Macbeth” right through
with bristling attention and went on to
“Titus Andronicus” which I found more
satisfying, tasted “Paradise Lost” but
found it unpalatable, tasted again, “Don
Juan” and found it “just right” like
Goldilocks with the youngest bear’s por-
ridge, but had it taken away from me:
“Not at your age: later perhaps you will
understand.” At fourteen “The Faerie
Queene” and the classical response of the
poet to the poet’s poet: a long Spen-
serian tale in the famous thumping
stanza . . . and so on. But where to im-
pute most influence, the etherial fluid
flowing from the stars? When I look at
my own poems they seem quite unlike
anyone else’s, but all parents are apt to
think their children unique and peerless.
It is only commonsense after all to think
that one begins to imitate someone —but
then I have imitated so many in my
time. One day I would be writing bad
Swinburne, the next worse Browning. I
shall write to the Editor of The Bulletin
and tell him to ask someone else. But
before I do I have another thought:
There is for nearly every poet a
moment of illumination, a moment of
conscious vocation when he knows that
he is going to be a poet. It may happen


NEW RELEASES
FBOM PENGUINS
THE EVER-INTERESTING TOPIC William Goldmg
What happens when the cat of sex is thrown among the pigeons
of an ancient school?
THE BEIL Iris Murdoch
A compassionate and fearless novel by the author of 'Under the
Net' who J. B. Priestley called ‘a superbly equipped novelist. 7
THE CONTENDERS John Wain
A story of fierce rivalry between two successful men by the
author of Hurry on Down.
THE VGDI John Braine
This second novel by the author of 'Room at the Top' was called
a good novel, realistic, sharp and humane, by the Sunday Times.
CHOSEN WORDS Ivor Brown
The pick of the famous 'Word' books by the Observer's former
Editor.
THE LOST CHILDHOOD AND OTHER ESSAYS Graham Greene
A collection of succinct and sparkling essays, mainly literary,
by one of the great novelists of today.
CANCER R. J. C. Harris
A remarkable report from the laboratory by a leading research
worker.
THE WAY OF ZEN —Alan Watts
An explicit and orderly account of the nature of Zen Buddhism.
THERESE RAQUIN: EMILE ZOLA
A new English rendering of a great French 'naturalist 7 novel.
Write for a complete list of all that Penguin
has to offer.
PENGUIN BOOKS
P.O. BOX 61, MITCHAM, VICTORIA
&
m
The first major new Penguin
series for twenty years. 1962 in-
troduces Peregrines an entirely
new paperback series. Pere-
grines represent in content, for-
mat, and quality of production
a new departure for a publishing
house which for more than a
quarter of a century has played
a leading part in the widening of
popular culture. With Peregrines
a series of established, standard
books on literary criticism and
biography, history, the arts, phil-
osophy, and other subjects be-
come available at reasonable
prices. Not only are these works
of unquestioned scholarship: in
spirit they are also united by a
common humanity of approach.
The first eight Peregrines are:
SEVEN TYPES OF AMBIGUITY
William Empson
THE REBEL
Albert Camus
SHAKESPEARE'S HISTORY PLAYS
E. M. W. Tillyard
THE BACKGROUND OF ENGLISH
LITERATURE AND OTHER ESSAYS
Herbert Grierson
THE COMMON PURSUIT
F. R. Leavis
THE NOVEL IN FRANCE
Martin Turnell
THE QUEST FOR PROUST
Andre Maurois
THE SEVENTEENTH-CENTURY
BACKGROUND
Basil Willey


anywhere and the moment may be
brought on by all sorts of circumstances.
But for some it begins as they read some
other poet and I think this was the case
with me and I believe I remember the
occasion, an early autumn morning in
the country in Tasmania. I am sitting in
an old wicker chair in the garden between
a japonica hedge and the tankstand and
I have just begun to read Longfellow’s
“Hiawatha.” I am about ten years old
and the poem has me in its spell, why
this poem particularly I cannot say, but
I am so completely absorbed that I go
on hour after hour sitting and reading
until about midday I notice that the sun
has gone in and that a great thunder-
storm is slowly mounting over the valley
of the Macquarie River like the smoke
of the calumet.
“Through the tranquil air of morning
First a single line of darkness
Then a denser, bluer vapour,
Then a snow-white cloud unfolding
Like the tree-tops of the forest
Ever rising, rising, rising
Till it touched the tops of heaven ...”
It is not perhaps the greatest verse in
the world. I found it fatally easy to write
when I imitated it. But Longfellow has
it in control and it is adequate to his
story and lasts the distance of a long
poem surprisingly well. Longfellow and
his “Hiawatha” have fallen into the dol-
drums since those days, with the other
Victorian poets. But Longfellow who
was once preferred to Tennyson is today
hardly able to draw a civil word from
the critics. He is said to be “academic,”
“sentimental,” “to lack force and intellec-
tual fire.” I have not read him myself
in 30 years or more. Yet I am grateful
to him for that day in the garden when
I read the last part of the poem at
desperate speed to finish before the first
drops of rain drove me indoors. This
“Indian Edda,” as its author called it,
created a world of a peculiar power, for
it suddenly opened, or seemed to open to
the boy the racial imagination of the
fierce Red Indian whom up till then I
had known only as the painted scalpers,
raiders and torturers of boys’ fiction.
“Hiawatha” is not unfairly called an
“Edda.” It is perhaps not a great poem,
but it is a genuine poem of real and sus-
tained power, a poem which appealed to
the imagination of the mature Baude-
laire. It is not always the great poems
which have the most seminal and pro-
creative force in the world. The windy
mythology of Macpherson’s “Ossian”
only raises a smile today. Few can
struggle through the whole work. Yet
in its time it captured the imagination
of Europe. It fired the mystical vision of
Blake as it was able to bring a sense of
mystery to the stubborn realism of
Stendhal.
I don’t know quite what “Hiawatha”
did for me or to me. Nothing I have
written would suggest, I think, any direct
influence. But it was from about this time
that I conceived the idea of a poet as
a man looking out from the place inside
where thinking and feeling goes on and
celebrating what he sees. From that time
on I knew where I was going.
THE BOOKS AND THE KEY
By DESMOND O’GRADY
VTothing useful can be said in a review
about the 443 works by 74 authorsf
which make up the Great Books series*
but it is worth noting that more than
half of them wrote in the years between
1550 and 1900, that Freud is the only
twentieth century writer to get a
guernsey, and that among those omitted
are Luther, Moliere, Calvin, Leibnitz,
Voltaire, Dickens, Balzac, Einstein... .
But the set is something more than a
handsome collection of masterpieces;
there are a number of additional books,
pamphlets and services which go with
it, and the principal of these is the
Syntopicon.
Mortimer Adler worked for eight
years, using 125 assistants much of the
time, to compile the Syntopicon. This
two-volume work, an ideas index, has
a fascinating history as well as an
ambitious aim. It is the brain child of
Adler, the American educationalist with
a passion for order, a hatred of Dewey’s
educational philosophy and an ambition
to compile a new Summa comparable to
the Aquinas synthesis. Aided and
abetted by the president of Chicago
University, Robert Hutchins, who is
co-editor of the Great Books, Adler has
for many years attacked the relativism
which the pragmatists instilled in genera-
tions of US teachers. As Hutchins says
in “The Great Conversation”, which is
one of the volumes accompanying the
Great Books set, “if you are an American
under the age of ninety, you have
acquired in the educational system only
the faintest glimmerings of the beginnings
of liberal education”.
Adler stormed up and down the
country for many years with his message
that organised US education was a
racket and that US graduates could not
read, write or think. US children, he
claimed, were being trained as salves be-
cause they were educated only to make a
good living, rather than to lead a good
life.
The answer of Adler and Hutchins to
what they called the decay of American
education was complex but central to
it was a belief that philosophers, and
teachers, ought not avoid the duty of
making up their minds. Adler asserted
that it was possible, through will and
reason, to distinguish between good and
evil and saw the teachers’ failure to
teach as a “betrayal of the clerks”. He
attacked their attitudes as contrary to
the Western tradition and believed it
imperative, if they were to be effectively
combated, that the books which embody
the great themes of Western civilisation
be read.
Of course reading them is not easy,
nor was it encouraged at the time Adler
and Hutchins began campaigning. At
the beginning of the Depression, he
began a Great Books course in the base-
ment of a church and that was probably
the basis of his “How to read a book”
which told people not only how, but
what to read. This lead on to the Great
Books series. When it was decided to
publish the series, Adler saw an oppor-
tunity to undertake a project which has
attracted his systematic mind for a long
time. This was to prepare an index to
what, to read. This lead on to the Great
Books. Adler estimated it would take
two years to compile the index, but he
first of all had to decide which were the
ideas the Great Books constantly debated.
He finally worked out a list of 102 major
ideas, although admitting that the figure
was arbitrary. He next listed 3000 topics
which could be subsumed under the
major ideas and then set a staff of 125
to work hunting through the Great
Books, and the Bible, to find references
to the ideas and topics. They worked
through each book four times, searching
out six ideas a week.
Instead of taking two years the project
took eight. It provided employment for
many needy graduates in Chicago; the
novelist, Saul Bellow, needy or not, was
one of the editorial staff and it may not
(Continued on page 62)
* Great Books of the Western World.
Edited by Robert Maynard Hutchins
and Mortimer J. Adler. 54 volumes.
Encyclopaedia Britannica Inc. £282.
fHomer, Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euripides,
Aristophanes, Herodotus, Thucydides, Plato,
Aristotle, Hippocrates, Galen, Euclid, Archi-
medes, Apollonius, Nicomachus, Lucretius,
Epictetus, Marcus Aurelius, Virgil, Plutarch,
Tacitus, Ptolemy, Copernicus, Kepler,
Plotinus, Augustine, Thomas Aquinas, Dante,
Chaucer, Machiavelli, Hobbes, Rabelais,
Montaigne, Shakespeare, Gilbert, Galileo,
Harvey, Cervantes, Francis Bacon, Descartes,
Spinoza, Milton, Pascal, Newton, Huygens,
Locke, Berkeley, Hume, Swift, Sterne, Field-
ing, Montesquieu, Rousseau, Adam Smith,
Gibbon, Kant, “The Federalist” (by Hamilton,
Madison and Jay), J. S. Mill, Boswell,
Lavoisier, Fourier, Faraday, Hegel, Goethe,
Melville, Darwin, Marx, Engels, Tolstoy,
Dostoevsky, William James, Freud.


POEMS
Eagle
The simple world is ample mystery
to scoop the heavy earthen eagle high
into the windy stresses of the sky
and still him seriously above the sea
a mile away, his wires unconsciously
controlling and directing breaks and hills
of air to hold him there. All movement stills
and holds in his suspense, but mastery
is only means to sight his quarry with;
he uses miracles as every-day.
It's we who, watching, recognize the way
he proves high air an axiom with the earth
to be the true explicit mystery,
wider than skill or greed’s necessity.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT
Exemplary Poem
A tree will move of its own accord
on a nightwrapped lawn
planting its earthy feet
where they never stood ground before
and a lightblinded man
lost in that strange fashion of removing
will find the reasonable harmony of gardens
loosed at a dark order from its cords
will wander scanning the misplaced feet
that tread his metric comfort into the dirt
will find the bars ruled by the sun’s straight finger
really a treacherous hostage from the night
will wrap himself in a book
will light a cigarette will go to bed
will dream of a house besieged by trees
singing a strange triumph over his head.
ANDREW TAYLOR
General Cemetery
If wombs and tombs are punctuation marks,
what shall we call this sentence of our life?
—condemned to turn to dust in dusty parks
beside a marble in memorian wife.
In life, in death, a double bed of stone
can hardly leave us other than alone.
So sleep the sleep of the just you shrivelled bones
(you could as well be just for all we know)
nor fill the air with such sepulchral groans
because the ground is hard with ice and snow.
Though not so cold as you, we yet are cold:
we eat our crust and do as we are told.
With quick cut flowers w f e fill the weathering urn
(assure yourselves of life by killing things)
forget the dead—the earlier victims—turn
to listen as the sunset closing rings.
And all may read our vacancy of mind
in doggerel verses, blurred by rain and wind.
WILBUR SANDERS
Gideon's Advance
Fat with grapes and drowsy, the valley sinks to
slumber.
Charcoal embers wink and glow like sparks on
wine.
Charcoal eyelids, shutting out the night, confine
within, small blacknesses too manifold to number.
Gideon issues each of his three hundred men
with trumpet, lamp and empty pitcher—nothing
more.
They, bullock-shouldered rustics, tiptoe down to
war
carrying their arts and trades against the alien.
Sleeping bodies cluster on the soil in rows;
how still. How nearly dead. What's that? Is
someone coming?
A yawning sentry, drunk with reminiscence,
humming
folksongs dear to home (dearer while absence
grows)
ponders the middle watch; rehearses his sweet-
heart’s name.
Trumpets glimmer in the shielded lanternlight
pitchers, hunching blacker than the drunken
night.
await their moment: after fanfare, prior to flame.
Each man of Israel's band—though faithful both
to Lord
and Captain —hesitates before the battlefield
and begs the earthenware he holds to be his shield,
the tuneful brass which presses on his thigh, a
sword.
RODNEY HALL
The See pent
Where stunted gums and banksias crowded
the dark, mist-haunted mountain's head,
where, fresh among the ferns, we found
the lyre-bird’s singing, dancing-mound.
“Go back.” it seemed the mountain said.
Through tea-tree flowering chastely white,
through scrub, from rocky ledge to ledge,
I led towards the bare bluff’s edge,
when, llowering from the scrub, blood-bright,
the lowrys rose in startled flight.
Then she who followed screamed, and cold
my blood went. Where I saw her keep
arrested, horror-held, in deep
rock-green coils-, marked out with gold,
the mountain’s serpent lay asleep.
ROLAND ROBINSON
The Polynesians
They were blown across the sea
Like spores of ferns and mosses.
Some survived. There were unaccountable
losses.
In a paddock in the King Country
A telegraph pole,
Ferns and moss all up one side of the boll.
In the distance a mountain
With bush to its summit;
And a long wind, with rain, blowing from it.
W. HART-SMITH


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO: CLAUDE SINCLAIR MONTAGUE
CROUCH.—TAKE NOTICE that the said
GWENDOLINE CROUCH has commenced a suit
No. 154 of 1962 against you in this court, and
is applying for dissolution of marriage on the
ground ’ of desertion and separation and pre-
sumption of death and take notice that you
are required to enter an Answer to the said
suit at the Divorce Office, Macquarie Street,
Sydney on or before the 6th day of July
1962. and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited, or obtaining
further time, the petitioner will proceed and
Urn suit be heard and determined, your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.—C. A. H.
Tjr ARMS. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO- MARGARET LORRAINE CHOAT.—TAKE
NOTICE that MURRAY VERNON CHOAT has
filed a Petition, Number 896 of 1962, on
g.ound of desertion. If you wish to defend
this suit you must file an Answer at the
Divorce Office, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, N.S.W. on or before 17th July,
1962. You may obtain a copy of the Petition
and Notice of Petition free of charge from
Messieurs BRIERLEY. HODGE & CO., Solici-
tors, 126 Phillip Street. Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
TO. OTHELLO NAPOLEON BARRATT.—
TAKE NOTICE that ALICE BARRATT (form-
erly LE MAN) has filed a petition for divorce
No 2998 of 1961 on the ground of desertion.
If you wish to defend you may enter an
answer m the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 6th Day of July,
1962, and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from Messrs. VICTOR H. BENSON,
J. A. CLAYTON & CO., Solicitors. 160 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney. If you do not wish to
file an answer but wish to receive a copy of
each document filed in the proceedings you
should file a notice of address for service
on or before such date.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar in Divqrce.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSE ACT 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
MC 46 Of 1962
TO: MURRAY JAMES AIKEN formerly of 11
Rose Avenue Bellerive in Tasmania but whose
present address is unknown. —TAKE NOTICE
that June Irene Aiken has filed a Divorce
Petition against you on the ground of deser-
tion. Included in the Petition is a claim fox-
custody of the children of the marriage and
costs, AND TAKE NOTICE that if you intend
to defend the Petitioix you must file an
Answer within 28 days of the Publication of
this notice at the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania, Macquai'ie Street, Hobart
in Tasmania from which address further
information can be obtained otherwise the
Court may hear and determine the proceed-
ings in your absence. DATED the 14th day
of May, 1962. REGISTRAR— BUTLER McIN-
TYRE & BUTLER. 22 Murray Street. Hobart.
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Missing Friends
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of JOHN
McNALLY CORRIE, Traixsport Driver, form-
erly of Stafford, Brisbane, Queenslaxxd (1959)
and of 24 Glenview Street, Paddington,
Sydney, N.S.W. (1961) please contact CRANS-
TON McEACHERN & HALLIGAN, Solicitors,
240 Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
Notice of Citation
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
In Divorce
TO: RICHARD JOHN ROBERTSON.— TAKE
NOTICE that KATHLEEN VALERIE ROBERT-
SON has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1377
of 1962 on the ground of desertion. If you
wish to defend you may file an answer in the
Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydixey, by the 13th day of July, 1962
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from A. F. KINLEY, Solicitor of 63
Elizabeth Street. Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS.
(Registrar.
jandwic
BAR
V, l
'“main
(ftcZAwty
kind of writing and which are furthest
away: Thomas Wolfe, Ernest Heming-
way, F. Scott Fitzgerald, and Saul
Bellow?”
Finally a list of the translators of the
works of imaginative literature may be
of interest: Aeschylus—G. M. Cookson;
Sophocles—Sir Richard C. Jebb; Euri-
pides—Edward P. Coleridge; Aristo-
phanes Benjamin Bicklev Rogers;
Homer Samuel Butler; Virgil Sir
James Rhoades ; Dante—Charles Eliot
Norton ; Rabelais—Sir Thomas Urquhart
and Peter Motteux; Goethe George
Madison Priest; Tolstoy Louise and
Aylmer Maude; Dostoevsky—Constance
Garnett.
ENGINES
RECONDITIONED
WHILE-YOU-DRIVE
Super Nu Metal Pat. expands up to 30%,
eliminating slackness and lack of power
caused by WORN engine parts. Replates
Worn upper Cylinders, main bearings,
diffs, gears, SAVES rebore, ends piston
slap, rattles, oil, petrol waste. RESTORES:
New compression Power, top speed zip.
ADDS £ s. d. resale value. GUARANTEED:
Up to 25,000 miles according to engine
wear. SIMPLY add Re-Nu expanding liquid,
Nu Metal or in tablet form to oil, petrol,
plug holes. 4,6, 8 cylinders, 60/-, 70/-. 80/-.
Manufactured since 1934. Harmless to Finest
Engines. Open Saturday. Sold only by
RE-NU CO. (ESTAB. 1932).
(Scientific Colleges & Plastic Ind. Co. Pty. Ltd.)
58 Swan St. (Op. Richmond Stn.)
Phone: J 81755.
I enclose £ for Super Nu Metal, or send
copy of testimonials, engineers’ reports and
free folder describing action of Nu Metal.
NAME
ADDRESS BUL
be too fanciful to see the influence of
this stint in “Augie March” and “Hender-
son the Rain King”. In any case, the
operation must be as weird as anything
Bellow has described. Deadlines were
set for each idea so the staff worked with
forbidding bulletins announcing, say,
Angels—Jan. 13, World —Dec. 22. Adler
would give pep talks, spurring his re-
searchers to greater feats of detection.
The result of so much system and
industry is found in the 2400 pages of
the Syntopicon which is not only a
comprehensive ideas index but also
carries brief introductory essays to each
of the 102 ideas which attempt to
summarise the history of the idea, its
various meanings, and the problems or
controversies it has raised. In his
preface to the Syntopicon, Adler dis-
tinguishes its various possible uses: 1. As
a reference to what great minds have
said on a range of subjects, as a cross
reference to related ideas, and as a lead
to discussions of the same topics in books
outside the series; 2. As a book to be
read because the introductory essays,
while designed primarily to direct people
to the Great Books series, are also of
value and interest by themselves; 3. As
an instrument of a liberal education.
This, in fact, is the reason why the
Syntopicon is the key to the series, and
its justification. Syntopical reading, says
Adler, is the reading of books not in
isolation but in relation to each other
and to the whole tradition. He goes on
to say that the unity of the Great Books
does not reside solely in the fact that
each of them is worth reading; their
deep unity lies in the relation of the
books to one tradition.
This attempt to “articulate the living
organism of Western thought” does not
imply a scorn for that of the East but
rather a fear that the West is increas-
ingly unaware of its own tradition. Adler
would like to see the Syntopicon
accepted as a standard reference work
in the sphere of ideas, as the dictionary
is in that of language.
The other additional books are for
those who want a guide in self-educa-
tion, and those who have no need of
them can ignore them. The six Reading
Plan books are mainly outlines of the
texts, with a series of questions about
them designed to promote thought and
discussion. The volume Imaginative
Literature I has an introduction by
Saul Bellow and, at times, reveals its
origin rather quaintly: Two of the
questions about Rabelais are: “Is it a
pleasure to read aloud - in mixed or
unmixed company? Which of the follow-
ing American writers : are closest to this


Feiffer
MD I OPSM
MM
TH£RS WIU,
3£ (MPFtP
PEACE.
UOO
PMtM
OJI6H
AMP A 'fELcPHODE
CALL from MU
MOTHER £AqiM6,
’you -UJERE FI6HF
I WA6 MROU6!'
WHAT
do mu
WAMT?
MOTHIM6
cnmes.
AMP A 6<%>P 70 B.
AMP A SFMSF 3F
PPRPOBF. AMP
MUSCLE 5.
6(l/£ /M
[OHAT
pogsrr
&EF
UOU ?
AMP A &AUTIFUL 61RL FROM
A Mice &ACK6ROVM COHO'LL
<bPM, "i\e pound you, My
DARUN6, POUND YOU.
AT WT/"
f?OM'T eXPecT
TOO MUCH-
AMP WU
guoMT 0£
ommrev.
hti tVHW
: £Pe§|
’M
JfcfAMgg.
IK rOUHP YOU
MY DARUH6
Found you
AT FAF.T/
ifitv* ■ „
m
« I OPFM
MM
H6U 3E
&ACK-
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 694
ACROSS
I—Australian tennis player holding the character who
is inclined to do his block. (7)
s—Tipsy selection was in the van. (7)
9—Ate where it is dropped from 12-across, as a
theme for painter Longstaff. (5, 4)
10— Yours Truly had one order of merit, in a manner
of speaking. (5)
11— Queen Elizabeth takes in Ireland. (4)
12— It could make us very crook
chaps take in an American
soldier and sit back. (10)
15— Lee slips into the ovals. (8)
16— Beef to be at the helm. (5)
19— Say the taste is curious. (5)
20— Agnes and I interrupt mother
with medication. (8)
23 Heir’s speed, (anagram) (10)
24 Stupid fellow gets 100 by
allotment. (4)
26—Fragrant Manila resin and I
are after electric light with
them. (5)
28— Tall employees who painted
9-across at midnight. (9)
29 Amounts of medicine to be
taken as an inquiry into the
activity of wise men. (7)
30— Doesn’t yield wicked sisters.
(7)
DOWN
1— Equipped for a picnic but
blocked. (8)
2 Weight on the window ledge
before it is a sickness. (11)
3 Nose is broken for con-
siderable periods. (4)
4 Term idea, (anagram) (8)
5 Particle of a word which is
no ordinary nine. (6)
6 Peach fastens firmly to direc-
tion. (10)
7 Hawaiian garland. (3)
8— Disguise for the American
prosecutor when mother is to
issue an invitation in cloth.
(6)
13— The girl is up with lan’s
Greeks. (11)
14—Chant about some club going
out like a failing candle. (10)
17— Innkeeper is heartened by a
novelist named Jules. (8)
18— Rascals see first-rate quarrels.
(8)
21— Hatred affected this spun
yarn. (6)
22 The aristocracy has such a
little bird with the French. (6)
25—Mussolini’s isolation is far
too much for one sister god-
dess. (4)
27—He reduced the manuscript
letters in a German city. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 693


These areJhe books
that
■a,
i
♦
:3*
SJP
Keystone Press Agency photograph of the burning of the books, Berlin, May 10. 1933.
These are the books that had to burn. For
within the great books are volumes that hold
the ideas and thinking that challenge the fettered
mind; the thoughts and theories that have built
democracies, withered tyrants, opened new
worlds, riddled superstition with everlasting
truth.
Contained within the great books of the
western world is power enough to frighten
any dictator; wisdom and strength enough to
make any thinking person sounder in judgment,
bolder in thought.
These great volumes contain a great conver-
sation of ideas that have echoed from mind to
mind through the writing and thinking of
civilization’s great men.
A conversation that has
created the lasting insti-
tutions of our world
today—science, govern-
ment, literature, philo-
sophy, religion—all the
great humanities.
Included with this
magnificent set is the
revolutionary two-
volume SYNTOPICON
which makes these writ-
ings and ideas easily available to anyone who
seeks the truth. The syntopicon is a unique
idea-index that allows the reader to consult
any author of the great books of the
THE SYNTOPICON
western world on a given idea as easily as
looking up words in a dictionary. With the
syntopicon as your guide, the great books
can be your key to new worlds of confidence,
new avenues of thought.
If you seek more from life than you now
have, don’t miss this opportunity to learn all
the details of this handsome new Private Library
Edition of the great books. Mail the coupon
below for a free descriptive booklet. It will
explain how you can find new understanding of
yourself and the world through the great ideas
which have engrossed men since the written
record of man began. It is in this way you can
share the mighty heritage of Western civilization.
GREAT BOOKS
OF 1 THE
WESTERN
GREAT
1
BOOKS
Mail
Coupon
Now for
GREAT BOOKS OF THE WESTERN WORLD G.B. A 4
257 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, free and without obligation, your colourful Pjeview Booklet
which pictures ;and describes the latest edition of GREAT BOOKS OF THE
WESTERN WORLD—and also complete information on how I may obtain this
magmncent set, direct from the publisher ,
Name
(please print)
A ddrcss
City —— ——Zone S tate
In New Zealand, write E. 8., Post Office Box 464, Wellington.
ed 2ar*
