

The Bulletin
OCTOBER 6 ,1962
AUSTRALIA 1/-, N.Z. 2/-, SINGAPORE, MALAYA $1
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION -EST.IBBO
PERTH'S
COMMONWEALTH
GAMES


: : :
Jr
.
:
:
3
:S
n
M
m
./• «
«88
Find out how little it costs to
raise office efficiency by 20%
Not a big office, but it’s as pleasant as a
Spring morning 365 days a year. That’s
because an economical Carrier air con-
ditioning unit controls the temperature,
keeps the humidity just right. It will sur-
prise you how little the benefits of air
conditioning would cost you in your office.
YOU’LL GET —AND HOLD—THE BEST
EMPLOYEES if your office is air condi-
tioned. Because the office conditions
are so good—never hot and humid,
never chilly in Winter—you'll find they
tire less easily, make fewer mistakes.
American experience shows air condi-
tioning raises efficiency 20% or more.
AIR CONDITIONING ISN’T JUST SOME-
THING FOR THE GIANTS. A more com-
fortable atmosphere, harder working
staff, less absence from hay fever or
sudden colds- —now the small office can
have these, too. Carrier can air condi-
tion the small office as economically
as the large! Hire purchase and leasing
terms are available with subsequent tax
benefits. Decide now to make this
investment—it will pay for itself over
and over in better, more efficient work.
“OUR OFFICES ARE NEAR THE RAILWAY,”
a factory manager writes, “and we
were spending a fortune on cleaning
and redecorating. We air conditioned
the offices easily and cheaply and
general morale has never been higher.
I feel a lot better at the end of the
day myself, too.”
PRIVATE SECRETARY: “I d much rather
work in an air conditioned office.
You're more comfortable because the
heat and the humidity of Summer
vanishes. And so does the cold of
Winter. It's like having a pleasant
Spring day all year long.”
WHAT TO DO. Just post the coupon
below. Absolutely free and without
obligation we'll send you further details
or an engineer will call to quote on air
conditioning your office. It is impor-
tant you get expert advice at the start,
if time and money are to be saved. By
consulting C irrier, you are certain of
the best advice, as Carrier is the world’s
leader in air conditioning—specialising
in the whole field from giant installa-
tions in new buildings to economical
air conditioners for your own home.
WHAT AIR CONDITIONING
CAN DO FOR YOUR BUSINESS.
HAIRDRESSERS, BEAUTY PAR-
LOURS — Attracts new, better
customers. Staff works better,
no Summer slump.
DRESS SHOPS, SHOE SHOPS,
DEPARTMENT STORES — More
customers come in, stay longer.
Filtered air keeps merchandise
cleaner.
HOTELS, RESTAURANTS
Guests have heartier appetites.
Adds prestige. Stimulates busi-
ness all through the day.
MOTELS, APARTMENT BUILD-
INGS — More comfortable liv-
ing. Easier to let inside rooms.
Cleaning, redecorating costs
down.
consult
fh
world’s leader in air conditioning
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
DON’T EVEN DICTATE A LETTER! Ask vour secretary to
clip tins coupon and send it off. NOW IS THE TIME! Install
air conditioning before Summer starts and erioy the
benefits immediately! You get the best deal, the best service
now. CA.IOA.FP
TO: CARRIER AIR CONDITIONING PTY. LTD.
36-40 Bourke St., East Sydney. ’Phone 35 3211
□ Please send me further details of air conditioning equipment,
explaining how it can be installed with maximum tax relief.
□ I would like an expert to call free and without obligation.
NAME
ADDRESS
TYPE OF BUSINESS


ABORIGINAL ART Page 16
On The Conveyor Belt
•
The BBC and the ECM
A Matter of Dishonesty .. .... 6
Perth’s Commonwealth Games
—A Big Effort 12
Turn of the Tide Importing
Rather than Exporting Talent 17
Body Beautiful Big Business 20
A Page of Lugt 24
A Regenerate Germany Life
Without Father 25
Cutting the American Aid
Programme Scraping the
Bottom of the Barrel 28
Among My Souvenirs 29
Changing Face of Communism 30
“Old Tote” Opens 34
Last Days of the British Raj
Hugh Atkinson 37
Trading with Asia 41
Are Farmers Uneducated? .... 61
•
NATIONAL
NOTEBOOK 3
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 8
OUT AND ABOUT 17
BUYING A WINE? 22
OVERSEAS 25
AROUND
MELBOURNE 29
FORUM 30
LETTERS 32
REVIEWS .... 34
RED PAGE 37
WORLD OF
BUSINESS 41
MAN ON THE LAND 61
FEIFFER 63
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone 27-5971
Melbourne: Phone MF 3341. Brisbane: phone
82691. Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3
Vol. 84
No. 4312
National Notebook
Victoria's I
To Victoriana
Olans to move the cast-iron dome and
A rotunda of London’s Coal Exchange
to Melbourne have reached an interest-
ing stage. The City of London Corpora-
tion unexpectedly offered £25,000 to-
wards the cost of moving the building,
described by Victoriana enthusiasts as
one of the “12 irreplaceable buildings
of 19th century England,” to Melbourne.
The director of the VicC-ian Gallery,
Mr Eric Westbrook, said he expected the
extra money needed for the move to
come from “friends in London and Mel-
bourne” who wanted to save the build-
ing from the destruction facing it as a
result of a road-widening operation in
London. Mr Westbrook is one of the
leading spirits behind the plan to bring
the Coal Exchange to Melbourne; an-
other is Mr Roy Grounds, architect for
the Cultural Centre.
Both realise that it will need skilful
manoeuvring if they are to pull off their
coup. The Premier, Mr
Bolte, has shown much
less enthusiasm for the
Cultural Centre project
since the failure of the
public appeal for £1
million and consequent-
ly whenever Messrs
Westbrook or Grounds speak about tack-
ing on the Coal Exchange they always
underline that no government or public
monies are involved. Last week, Mr West-
brook tried some hopeful appeasement by
suggesting that the rotunda, an ancesior
of Melbourne’s cast-iron lacework, could
become a great tourist attraction.
Mr Bolte, however, wa.> not to be
appeased with assurances that his gov-
ernment would not have to fork out
money for the Exchange, nor even by
the lure of it drawing tourists to his be-
loved Victoria. Boldly he took the ini-
tiative and challenged Mr Westbrook on
artistic grounds. “The dome and rotunda
would have to fit into the whole plan
and be aesthetically satisfactory," he said.
“It would not appear to me th. t it would
not be architecturally suitable.” The
Lord Mayor of Melbourne, Cr Nathan,
was even blunter: “The authorities in
London have not seen fit to preserve the
building and I don’t think we should
bother either. Let’s not clutter our
beautiful new Cultural Centre with such
paraphernalia.”
Mr Westbrook found that even Pro-
fessor Brian Lewis, head of the univer-
sity’s architecture department, was no
ally. “Its interest is in English history
rather than ours,” said Prof. Lewis. “It
should be preserved in London.”
From this position, it will need some
inspired countermoves from Messrs.
Westbrook and Grounds if they are to
have their cast-iron extravaganza in-
stalled by the Yarra.
Promotion
Garnett Carroll’s production of the
Rodgers and Hammerstein musical,
“The Sound of Music”, after a run of
almost 12 months in Melbourne, has
come to Sydney's Tivoli Theatre. Before
the opening night in Sydney, special per-
formances were given for a matinee audi-
ence of nuns and an evening audience of
priests. This was a pleasant gesture on
the part of the Tivoli management, as
the musical is the story of the Austrian
Trapp Family Singers and part of it is
set in a convent. But it is also shrewd
promotion. In Melbourne, apparently,
just about every convent-school girl and
brothers’ school boy saw the show.
Staff artist Les Tanner went to the
matinee when the
theatre was packed with
an enthusiastic audience
of nuns. “They’re not
just with us, they’re
ahead of us,” one of
the theatre management
staff told Tanner.
At interval the theatre had arranged
for ice-creams and sweets for the nuns.
Flowever, the sweet-seller, not used to
distributing largesse, was worried because
although there were enough boxes of
sweets for each nun to have some, there
weren’t enough for each to have a box
to herself.
“Just go down the aisle handing them
out and tell them about the loaves and
fishes,” said a quick-witted member of
the management staff.
Tanner’s impressions of the matinee
are on page 17.
i Planning Perth
Perth, perhaps the most comfortable
city in Australia, is anxious to
become a planner’s dream. This plan-
ning idyll is largely a result of Perth s
comparatively slow growth in the past.
Even in the middle of the city it is
possible to put up a building without
calling in Whelan the Wrecker to pull
down" the old one first. The Narrows
Bridge and the Kwinana Freeway were
built entirely on reclaimed land with
not a building disturbed in the process.
This happy state of affairs obviously
cannot go on indefinitely even in the


smallest city, and Perth had a glimpse
at its future problems last week when
Legislative Council Labor l eader Frank
Wise rose to speak on Government
amendments to the Town Planning
Scheme Act. One of the amendments
lays down some rules about compensa-
tion for resumed land, and though Mr
Wise did not oppose them he took the
opportunity of reminding the whole
community what they were in for when
they agreed to the Stephenson Plan in
1955.
Mr Wise concentrated on the inner
ring road, a part of the proposed city
by-pass system which passes through a
dense and industrialised area. He said
businessmen in the area were suffering
mental stress because they did know
when they would have to move to make
way for the inner ring road, or how
much compensation they were going to
get. He pointed out that the cost of land
acquisition in the whole by-pass proposi-
tion was more likely to be £15,000,000
than the £8.500,000 estimated by the
Metropolitan Town Planning Authority.
Having said that there was concern
about the uncertainty of timing in the
development plans, he went on to make
his main point that human needs should
not be forgotten in the enthusiasm for
development. Citizens had a right to
enjoy the benefits of their enterprise if
they had built up a business in a par-
ticular place. They should not be ex-
pected to pick up the bill for a project
which would largely benefit future
generations.
Mr Wise is not the first public figure
to raise doubts about the first of the
authority’s plans which affects a densely
populated area. The Perth City Council
has already objected to the inner ring
road proposal on the grounds that it will
take away public reserves, that its pro-
vision for public transport into the city
is unacceptable and that the authority
should receive and consider objections
before it finally adopts the plan.
The inner ring road is not part of the
original Stephenson Plan for city
development. It is the result of a survey
on the city’s transport needs by an
American firm of consulting engineers.
It is expected to take 30 years to put
into effect and to cost <£30,000,000.
Though Professor Stephenson has given
the amended plan his blessing, the
changes already made suggest that the
Stephenson Plan will be bent more than
a little before it is finally adopted.
The inner ring road controversy is
only a symptom of the problems that
development can bring to a community
that has suffered from under-develop-
ment for most of its life. Town plan-
ning brings headaches, and headaches
are not consistent with the relaxed way
of life for which Perth is now justly
famous. When the builders move in
something has to come down, and it
may be a way of life.
Second Instalment
While last week’s The Bulletin with
Peter Kelly's story of Queensland
Labor and Jon Molvig’s cover portrait of
Edgar Williams, was on the bookstands,
Mr Williams, who is Queensland secre-
tarv of the Australian Workers’ Union
was receiving his biggest rebuff vet from
the Queenland ALP.
In a contest for a vacancy on the seven-
man inner executive of the Labor Party,
Mr Williams came third in a field of
three. As a further indication of the ab-
solute and naked control of the ALP by
the Queensland Trades and Labor Coun-
cil, the vacancy went to the treasurer of
the T & LC, Mr “Bert” Milliner. In
normal political terms, this is just crazy.
While Mr Williams’ union has a mem-
bership of 72,114, Mr Milliner’s Printing
Union has only 3574. Still, in Queensland
Labor circles, it is not a question of
majority rule.
Point of safe
T ast week in the office of the Austra-
lian Investment Company in the
Strand Arcade, Sydney, Mr and Mrs
Kosti Simons sat at a table selling copies
of Mr Simons’ book “Not with a Kiss”
to the public. They sold over the five
days between 12 and 14 copies a day at
17s. 6d. each, as well as distributing 200
copies to city booksellers. It cost Mr
Simons 10s. per copy to have 1000 copies
of "Not with a Kim” printed. On the
copies he sold himself he made 7s. 6d.
a copy (because the Australian Invest-
ment Company gave him free floor-space
for a week), and on the copies which
went to booksellers he made Is. Bd. a
copy.
At the end of the week, Mrs Simons
said, they had netted "practically noth-
ing”. However, when Mrs Simons came
Tanner
"The Americans are militarists...
sending troops to crush opposition
to their national policies


to see us in The Bulletin office, she
said they were not surprised or dis-
appointed by the result.
Mrs Simons, who is in her final year
of an English honors course at Sydney
University, said that her husband’s ges-
ture in having his novel printed at his
own expense, was a “protest at the
present state of Australian publishing.”
Mrs Simons said that her husband had
not submitted the novel to any Australian
publishers before making his decision.
A previous novel, set in New Guinea, had
been submitted and rejected in Australia
and England. Mrs Simons said that one
Australian publisher had given her hus-
band a detailed and, in fact, encouraging,
report on the New Guinea novel; others
had merely advised that “their lists were
full.”
“My husband regards it essential that
if he lives in Australia he should be pub-
lished in Australia?” Mrs Simons said.
“He does not believe that an artist should
be at a distance from his audience.
“We estimate that nearly 12,000 manu-
scripts of novels pass through local pub-
lishers’ hands in a year. Yet last year
only 12 novels were published. Yes, we
know that a lot of bad novels are written.
But, surely it is possible that five out of
a hundred have some merit, yet not even
that percentage gets published.”
The “protest” of Mr Simons has
focused some attention on Mr Simons
and some more attention on the state of
Australian publishing. While publishing
might not be as simple as Mr and Mrs
Simons believe, their gesture is still an
oddly gallant one.
...like integrated education."
PLAIN ENGLISH
"THE BULLETIN" IN ASIA
HHhe Bulletin is now selling in South East Asia. There is something
**■ at once ironic and encouraging in this simple commercial venture.
It is ironic because the “old’’ Bulletin (bless it!) was until relatively
recently in its 82 years’ existence tenaciously dedicated to the proposition
of white Australian superiority—a superiority which it proclaimed with
a famous weekly editorial slogan “Australia For the White Man.” While
anti-Asian it was not an imperialist slogan for we are not an imperialist
people. We are too close to our own violent colonial beginnings for that
and besides we have a huge country, untapped resources and too few
people to develop them to worry about coveting our neighbors’ backyards.
If that slogan meant anything, perhaps, it meant that we once lived in a
closed society, our eyes upon England and Europe.
The fact that Australians today recognise not only that they
have a role to play in the world but in this particular part of it is the
thing we find encouraging about air freighting copies of The Bulletin
to South East Asia.
It means that while we still believe we are no less part of the western
community from which we sprang we are finding ourselves very much
more a part of the Asian community than we had allowed ourselves to
think. With the development of the Common Market and the disappear-
ance of our traditional markets Australia is looking for new fields of trade
and business. Where more natural than among its neighbors in Asia?
Great and historic changes are now taking place in Asia of which
the creation of Greater Malaysia is an example. Changes such as these
will have profound effects on Australia, on our relations with Asian
countries, our comprehension of them and, indeed, our security. There
is a rapidly growing desire in Australia not merely for closer relations
with Asian countries but for a greater understanding of them—their
history, development and national aspirations. Understanding is essential.
It does not necessarily in all cases lead to blanket approval and acceptance
—although it can often do that—but it dispels illusions and misconcep-
tions which are in themselves dangerous. Only recently Australians have
experienced the results of misconceptions over West New Guinea. The
Indonesian case based on “anti-colonialism” and the rights of success of
nations had the support of all Asian countries, Communist and non-
Communist alike. Australia until recently supported Holland not in
order to perpetuate a colonialist regime—the Dutch had to leave sooner
or later anyway—but to allow the Dutch to bring the primitive Papuans
to the point of self-determination, a policy in which Australia believes and
rigorously pursues in its own half of New Guinea. And yet in many Asian
eves Australia was being imperialistic and even “anti-Asian.’
Differences and misconceptions abound in all relationships and in
Australian-Asian relations they proliferate. The greatest Australian mis-
conception about Asia is a tendency to regard it as a threatening monolith,
uniform in prejudices, aspirations and outlook rather than as a fragmented
continent of different nations, cultures and histories. The greatest Asian
misconception about Australia —sedulously fostered by Communists in
Asia and Australia—is that we are imperialistic, anti-color, anti-Asian.
These notions are not helped by an immigration programme which while
in itself defensible is offensively misnamed the White Australia Policy.
That we are neither imperialistic, anti-Asian nor even anti-color thousands
of Asian students who have happily lived and studied among us can and
do testify. Obviously understanding is the thing. At all events we welcome
our new Asian readers and point to next week’s FORUM-a debate on
our immigration policies. ‘


THIS AUSTRALIA
COMMON MARKET
A BBC "APOLOGY"
Exploiting the British
As I see it
R. G. MENZIES
Against the Establishment
FROM ALAL REID IN LONDON
Australia,
Canada
and New Zea-
land are emerging as the villians in the
British version of the ECM play.
Even the BBC, that nominally objec-
tive and politically independent authority,
is either pushing the Macmillan Govern-
ment line or has fallen for it. I listened
to an hour long BBC programme in Lon-
don which said quite categorically that
Commonwealth countries did nothing to
assist British industry.
Later I pointed out to the show's pro-
ducer that the script was factually incor-
rect. There was for example, now be-
fore Australian Cabinet and waiting out-
come of ECM discussions, several hun-
dred tariff items giving preference to
British products.
None of these items competed with
Australian domestically manufactured
products. But their existence probably
prevented local manufacturers starting up
in these commodities and they repre-
sented a significant sacrifice on Austra-
lia’s part. Their existence added to Aus-
tralian living costs. Japanese and others
interested in AusCalian markets would
undoubtedly give their ears to see them
go.
The producer made a kind of indirect
apology for these inaccuracies in the
script.
He claimed that at a period when the
British Foreign Office was telling the
BBC that there were only two copies of
the 1 reatv of Rome (the blueprint under
which ECM operates) in London and
these tw'o had not yet been translated
from Italian into English. Tw'o Austra-
lian fruitgrowers selected haphazardly for
BBC interviews w ; ere able to produce
copies of the Treaty and to quote from it.
He produced other examples of how
people in Commonw'ealth countries
seemed better informed on ECM issues
than the British public despite the fact
that it is the British community that is
going to live wdthin ECM. In essence
the British people are not being told why
it is going to be wonderful for Britain
to be in ECM. They are just being told
that it is going to be w'onderful.
Against this "Establishment” approach,
you can see why Mr Menzies believes
that his arguments and warnings during
the week of the Prime Ministers’ Lon-
don Conference was as far as the British
were concerned so much w'ater off a
duck’s back. Britain aKvays had had a
trade advantage with Australia, he told
them. Over the ten years up to 1961-72
Britain had a visible trading advantage
of £ASO4 million and an invisible sur-
plus of £A635 million a total
of £A1139 in Britain's favor.
Were not those interests so vast that
the British should consider preserving
them through the terms of its proposed
entry into ECM? Did the British not
realise that in self-preservation Australia
might be compelled to w'ipe out British
preferences?
The British shrugged their shoulders
indifferently. ‘That was entirely Aus-
tralia’s business,” they murmured.
Menzies, appreciating that the Mac-
millan Government was determined to
enter ECM, whatever the terms and irre-
spective of the pledge that it would not
enter unless Commonwealth interests
were safeguarded, realistically concen-
trated on trying to retrieve something
from the wreckage. He gave the tight
little island back to the original Britons
and tried to get something out of the
ECM six. If you look at section of the
Prime Ministers’ London Communique
for which he w'as primarily responsible
he has sought to pressure to bear
on the Six to establish an internal price
and levy policy for temprate foodstuffs
that will permit some entry to outside
suppl ers, but equally as important pre-
vent Europe becoming the dumper of
uneconomically produced foodstuffs in
third markets.
M enzies also sought to tie down
Britain—hitherto a significant opponent
of international commodity agreements
—to agreeing to support the proposition
that they should be made as part of the
price for Britain’s ECM entry. Whether
he can succeed in keeping Britain tied
down to acceptance remains to be seen.
But it wars not a bad political exer-
cise. Faced with t! prospect of getting
nothing. Menzies succeeded in getting a
few promises which are worthwhile to
Australia if kept. His fear, however, in
view of Britain’s recent performances
must be whether the promises are w'orth
the paper they are written on and the
ink in which they are w'ritten.
EDUCATION
NO THIRD UNIVERSITY
Baxter wins again
Tn the largely unreported world of
University rivalries the Vice Chan-
cellor of the University of New' South
Wales, Professor J. B. Baxter, operates
with a finesse and flare that outshines the
drab drama of C. P. Snow's university
novels.
However the dons of Snow's Masters
would applaud the Vice-Chancellor's
habit of modest silence at his greatest
successes. The State budget last W'eek,
by a significant ommission, gave Frofes-
sor Baxter one of his major political
victories.
In his speech the NSW Treasurer, Mr
Renshaw, made no reference to the pro-
jected third university within the Sydney
metropolitan area. The accompanying
estimates made no allowance.
Clearly then the State Government,
without public announcement, had re-
jected the report of its own committee on
Higher Education, presented in Sep-
tember last year. The report of the five
member committee said that a third
university in the Sydney area should be
in operation by 1965. Furthermore it
said that the main contract for the build-
ing of the University, at whatever site,
should be let by March next year.
The report estimated that by 1965
£6.8 million pounds wc-uld have been


VISIT VICTORIA
See Australia’s greatest race at one
of the greatest racecourses. More
than £lOO,OOO in stakes will be
raced for at the Melbourne Cup
Carnival this year by the cream
of Australia’s horses. In addition
there’s an exciting fashion quest
carrying prizes valued at £7,000.
The Melbourne Cup is a must for
every racegoer and a magnificent
spectacle for the tourist.
For further information about
these Victorian Holiday Resorts
post this coupon.
VIC
n^TEE]
THE VICTORIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAUX
276 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
78 ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
28 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
32 KING WILLIAM ST., ADELAIDE
Please send me detailed information
about
spent on the establishment of the new
University on a North Shore site. Last
June State Cabinet eliminated a site at
St Leonards from consideration by
giving it to the Electricity Commission
to build a new sub-station. Following
that Cabinet meeting the Minister for
Education, Mr. Wetherell was quoted
as saying that he expected a decision on
the site of the new university at the fol-
lowing Tuesday’s Cabinet meeting.
Next day he went with the Minister
for Local Government, Mr Hills, to
inspect a 500 acre site at North Ryde,
already endorsed by the metropolitan
planning authority, the Cumberland
County Council. Then there was silence.
At a press conference last week on
the eve of the budget, the Premier,
Mr Heffron, neatly side-stepped a
question on the third University with
an earnest discussion of methods of in-
creasing the use of existing University
facilities in U.S.A.
It is true that Government finances,
as the budget itself revealed, were tight,
but for the Cabinet to go against its
own committee’s report requires some
other explanation and that lies in the
attitude of the King of Kensington, Pro-
fessor Baxter.
Only a week previously in an address
to students justifying fee rises, the Vice
Chancellor of the University of New
South Wales revealed that the report of
the committee of which he was a mem-
ber was only a “majority opinion” and
that he had opposed the early creation of
a third university.
He explained his opposition on the
grounds that “it would cost twice as
a much to educate each student if a
new university was set up, as it would
to expand the present universities.”
Furthermore he was against the decision
of the University of Sydney to peg its
numbers at 16,000 and proposed a ceiling
of 25,000 for Kensington.
The committee had representatives
from the Universities of Sydney, New
England, NSW, CSIRO and the State
Department of Education, but oddly
enough no Commonwealth representative.
After the publication of the report the
Vice Chancellor of Sydney, Professor
Roberts, announced he was 100 per cent
behind it. The present Minister for
Education, Mr Wetherell, has supported
a third university publicly and has said
“expansion on present university sites
would be very difficult.”
So it is not difficult to deduce where
the weight of majority opinion came
from. But Professor Baxter had two
assets, first the relationship he had built
up between the Premier, Mr Heffron, and
himself while the Premier was Minister
for Education and, secondly, the hard-
up finances of the State Government.
So he won.
RICHARD HALL
QUEENSLAND
NICKLIN'S THROW
Why Nicklin gave Labor a second chance
TVjring last week’s abortive attempt
by the Queensland Parliament to
fill the Senate vacancy caused by the
death of Dr Max Poulter, Premier Nick-
lin went out of his way during debate
not to attack the ALP’s one nominee
for the vacancy, Mr Alf Arnell. He re-
peatedly stressed that the Labor Party
was treating Parliament with contempt
by not acceding to the Government’s re-
quest to submit at least two names.
Nicklin’s request for the names is de-
signed to get him out of the invidious
position of choosing “Unity Ticket”
Arnell. But not once did he mention
this during debate. This was covered up
by: “It is not a case of Arnell or not
Arnell. It is a case of the Opposition re-
fusing to do what we ask and it being dic-
tated to by someone outside this Parlia-
ment.”
But the ALP’s Parliamentary leader,
Mr J. Duggan, had no illusions. He put
up a game defence of Arnell’s Unity
Ticket manoeuvres and told Parliament
that Arnell’s “explanations were accepted
unanimously by the QCE”.
The other main feature of the debate
was Mr Duggan’s acrobatics. Duggan,
along with other members of the inner
executive of the QCE (with Mr J. Eger-
ton absent) had recommended to the full
Executive that the ALP should accede
to the Government’s request and submit
two names to Parliament for the Senate
vacancy. The inner executive argued
that if they only submitted Arnell’s name
the ALP ran the strong risk of rejection
by Parliament; and it was not impossible
in the circumstances that the Nicklin Gov-
ernment would then choose Mr V. Gair,
the ALP’s arch-enemy.
Why was the debate held and why
has Nicklin given Labor a second chance?
The only explanation lies in the nearness
of the next year’s State election (which
will be held about May). Nicklin is not
game enough to gamble on going ahead
without the ALP and selecting someone
for the Senate vacancy because he could
then be accused of partisanship.
But he has probably lost a number of
votes by giving the ALP a second chance.
MUGGA


WRITERS
A WRITERS'
TRADE UNION
Defence against publishers
OLAF RUHEN
“Insignificant advances”
T>ecent weeks have seen the rebirth
of an old idea among some Aus-
tralian writers the formation of a
writers’ trade union. Prominent writers
who support the move are Miss Maysie
Greig and Mr Olaf Ruhen, the president
and vice-president of the Sydney
PEN. The idea will be exhaustively dis-
cussed at the October meeting of the
PEN executive.
Part of the background agitation is
based on the old dissatisfaction with
Australian publishers. The authors
claim, for example, that Australian pub-
lishers demand world rights when they
accept a book, even though the Aus-
tralian publisher often lacks the facilities
for the successful promotion of books
overseas. On the other hand if the
author decides to be published overseas
he faces the possibility of losing the Aus-
tralian market, firstly because Australian
bookshops are largely run by the pub-
lishing houses and unless the author is
particularly well known the booksellers
will only order a limited number of his
books, sometimes none at all, as a kind
of retaliation against the author’s choice
of an overseas publisher; secondly
because overseas publishers themselves
do not promote the books in Australia
unless they feel assured of a substantial
sale. One example was Max Murray’s
“Twilight at Dawn” (1957). Australian
publishers were not offered the book
even though as a semi-hrstorical novel
set in Australia, this country would be
its best market. Michel Joseph, the Lon-
don publishers, snapped it up. It was
given excellent reviews in Australia but
not promoted here. Thus the Australian
author often has to decide between an
overseas market or an Australian market
but rarely can he get both.
On this question Morris West com-
ments: “Angus and Robertson have
London offices but make no impact on
the market. A large capital venture is
needed to break into overseas markets,
such expenditure is not being made.”
Then there is the question of royalties.
Overseas publishers often give an initial
124- p.c. royalty to an established writer.
The publisher here is loath to give more
than 10 p.c. as an initial royalty. On
the related question of advances Mr
Ruhen points out that advances on
royalties in Australia are often so small
as to be insignificant, sometimes none
are paid at all.
Another abuse the authors seek to
rectify is the habit publishers here have
of keeping manuscripts for months, even
years, before giving a decision on them.
This is time which the author cannot
afford. Authors are reluctant to give
concrete examples mainly because they
fear discrimination on the part of the
publishers; but any one connected with
the writing business will know of this
practice. Overseas publishers accept or
return manuscripts within three weeks.
Why cannot Australian publishers do the
same?
A more dubious demand is for pro-
tection of Australian writers from, over-
seas competition in the way some manu-
facturers are protected. This sort of
demand has been made for years and
as A. G. Stephens of The Bulletin
pointed out in 1912 it would merely be
protecting bad writers who were afraid
to face competition of good authors
from overseas.
Writers in Australia have never had
a trade union as such, though there are
several writers groups whose function
is mainly literary. Writers usually dis-
like being organised. Some major writers,
even when they nominally belong to a
writers’ organisation, hardly ever attend
any of its functions (such as Morris West
and Patrick White who have both
belonged to PEN and Jon Cleary who
REFORMING THE PUBLIC SERVICE
October 7, 1882
The Civil Service of New South
Wales is badly manned, badly
directed, and badly paid. It is badly
manned, because there is no other
method of gaining a place in it than
through intrigue; it is badly directed,
because there is no inducement for
able men to join it; and it is badly
paid, because the bad personnel of
the Service renders it necessary to
employ more men to do a given
amount of work than otherwise
would be required. We may as well
say at once that we do not expect
any improvement of the existing or-
tier of things until the present system,
if system it may be called, be dis-
placed in favor of competitive ex-
animation. To have an efficient pub-
lie service you must have an edu-
cated public service. And the way
to gain this is to make the gate so
narrow that the minimum of numb-
skulls shall pass in, and to make
the position worth gaining and worth
retaining.
A„ ti t , u. • •
r was k lOLl §ht m in ffie NSW
Puiliament to substitute a
simple declaration for the blasphe-
oat1 ’ and ir HENRY
™ K -S opposed it successfully. He
took the fugh ground that this nation
is built on a Christian basis. Chris-
tiamty has advanced to a startling
stage when the MASTER’S words
‘ Let your yea be yea,” is ruled out
of order as impracticable, and men
of our Premier's type stand up and
plead for the retention of a formula
more blasphemous than the lowest
idolatry is capable of. The Pagan
swears by his idol, and we smile. To
us, living in these days and having
advanced to the idea of ONE
SUPREME POWER whose greatness
is unnameable, is handed forth a
form of oath that would disgrace the
maunderings of a joss-house. Who
or what is Sir HENRY’S god? To
what a depth of blasphemous indif-
ference to Truth have we come, when
its championship is permitted to drift
into the hands of proved charlatans,
and the holiest precepts are lightly
wielded by such to carry out the
ends of a paltry and contemptible
ambition?
A ustralian wines are coming into
prominence at home through our
exhibits at the Bordeaux Exhibition,
As usual, Victoria has eclipsed New
South Wales there. Recognising the
necessity of making a good show, if
any, our neighbors have gone into
this matter with their usual energy
an( j go-aheadism. As a result of this,
their colony occupies, in her own
name and right, no less than two-
fifths of the area allotted to colonial
courts, New Couth Wales and South
Australia taking a subordinate place
with only two-fffths between them.


G
11l & . I
f “'«Mi:nA rsnii
'UIILT
*' NT* C t
The vines we tend at
Coonawarra Estate have
amongst their number a
proportion of the precious
Cabernet Sauvignon some
of which is vintaged
separately and bottled as:
“COONAWARRA
ESTATE
CABERNET”
The discriminating diner
would be well advised to
seek it out it is a rare
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CLARET
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors j
S. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd. cisn
dislikes writers as such). There are also
political divisions.
There are three main inter-state
writers’ organisations. Firstly there is
the PEN Club with centres in Sydney
and Melbourne and members in other
parts of Australia. Among the promi-
nent members of PEN in Australia are
Sydney Courtier (president of the Mel-
bourne PEN), Oalf Ruhen, Maysie
Greig, Frank Hardy, Judah Waten, Mar-
garet Trist, Dorothy Blewett, Leslie Rees,
Charles Meeking, Walter Stone. The
PEN tries its best to stay out of politics
and concentrate on literary activities. It
has about 60 members in Sydney, 70 in
Melbourne and about 20 who live out-
side either capitals but who pay their
dues and turn up to meetings of either
(such as Bill Barney), this makes a total
of about 150.
The Fellowship of Australian Writers
has more members than PEN, though
many of its members are also members
of PEN. Politically it is more active than
is the PEN. At one time most of its
members leaned to the extreme Left,
though this is not true to the same
extent now.
The third inter-state writers’ group is
the Realist Writers. This is a Com-
munist dominated organisation. Accord-
ing to its leading spokesman Judah
Waten (who is the Communist Party’s
cultural commissar) its membership is
“about 150 all told.” It claims centres
in most capital cities and the larger pro-
vincial towns in NSW and Queensland.
Its prominent members include Mary
Gilmore, Katherine Susannah Prichard,
Frank Hardy, Dorothy Hewitt, Waten,
John Manifold and Dennis Kevans.
Many other writers who at present tend
to the right-of-centre such as Olaf Ruhen
as well as those on the non-Communist
Left such as Gavin Casey and Stephen
Murray-Smith have been members at
one stage of their careers.
The Fellowship and the PEN co-
operate well on such questions as the
opposition to censorship, but there have
been few real contacts, outside of on
an individual member basis, between the
Fellowship and PEN on one hand and
the Realists on the other.
The writers who favor the establish-
ment of a new trade union come mostly
from the Fellowship and the PEN, or
belong to both, as do both Mr Ruhen
and Miss Greig. If none of the existing
writers organisations seems fitted for the
job then Miss Greig and Mr Ruhen hope
to see a new organisation formed for the
specific purpose of being a writers’
union. Present moves to draw the
Fellowship and the PEN closer together
seem likely to lead to a union of the two
clubs.
ROBERT MURRAY
WATER
MELBOURNE OR THE BUSH
W ho gets a drink when Melbourne has 5 million people?
people of Melbourne learnt one
of the great facts of life in Aus-
tralia recently when the Melbourne and
Metropolitan Board of Works gave details
of its plans for the city water supply
over the next 35 years.
Melbourne is expected to have a
population of 5,000,000 by 1995
and there is not enough water handy
to sustain such a population. Just over
the Great Dividing Range, however, on
the headwaters of the Goulburn River,
the judicious expenditure of some
£4,000,000 would divert 20,000,000,000
gallons annually to keep the Melburn-
ians clean and safe from thirst.
There were no whoops of exultation
from the city slickers at the news, but
there was an immediate howl of protest
from the rich and fruitful Goulburn
Valley where the farmers exist by irri-
gation. The protests made headlines in
every of the 80-odd country newspapers
of the Murray and Goulburn Valleys
and the Murray Valley Development
League headquarters in Albury was in-
undated with telegrams and letters ob-
jecting to the scheme.
Irrigators’ leagues and water users’
associations held special meetings all
over Victoria’s 2,000,000 acres of irri-
gation districts demanding Melbourne
call off its water grab. A joint meet-
ing to combine the protests has now
been called at Shepparton for October
22 by the president of the Murray Val-
ley Development League, Councillor E.
V. Whyte of Wentworth, New South
Wales.
This dour citrus-grower from the
Pomona irrigation settlement heads an
organisation unique in Australia which
has thousands of members and speaks
for 350,000 dwellers in the Murray
Valley. He was quick to point out that
the seriousness of the water grab from
rural Victoria paled into the shadow of
a much greater crime - a city of
5,000,000 people. He declared: “If the
people of Melbourne want our water let
them come and live in the Murray
Valley. Not one drop will we yield
from northern Victoria to help build a
city that already holds two-thirds of
Victoria’s people.”
Cr. Whyte is not the only one who
thinks along those lines. Every local
government leader in rural Victoria has
had more than a few words to say on
the undesirability of a bigger Mel-
bourne.
The Develop Victoria Council con-
veniently provided a forum for their
opinions at its annual conference on
September 13 in Melbourne when it
produced State Opposition Leader
Stoneham to lambaste the lack of fore-
sight of the Bolte Government in sug-
gesting that Melbourne be allowed to
grow unhindered. ‘"Quite obviously,”
said Mr Stoneham, “the Government
was not aware, until so reminded by
the Board of Works, that the concen-
tration of Victorians into Melbourne
was accelerating so rapidly.”
The Develop Victoria Council is a
lively body comprised of enterprising
businessmen with an eye to the finan-
cial advantages of a decentralised Vic-
toria. They have persuaded the ally-
hungry councils of Victoria’s provincial
cities into a united support that may
soon shake the State.
CLIFF CALDER


LOCAL GOVERNMENT
AFTER THE LABOR
EXPULSIONS
Inside Wollongong
ALD. ALBERT SQUIRES
The exception
The recent expulsion of Alderman
Bill Farrell from the ALP brings
about an unusual situation in Wollon-
gong (NSW) Council. In an extremely
pro-Labor district, w'hich has possessed
for years a dominantly Labor Council,
there are as many ex-Labor aldermen
as official Labor representatives.
With the exception of the Mayor
(Aid. Albert Squires), who is elected by
popular vote and not by the successful
aldermanic candidates, there now are
only four ALP aldermen, out of the
15 w'ho represent five wards. The cas-
ualty rate among Labor aldermen is
high and Aid. Farrell joins aldermen
Fred Finch. Peter Barnes and Bill Jack-
son as an ex-Party member on Council.
All, apart from the latter who resigned
from the ALP in the nick of time, w'ere
expelled from the Party. And if it w'ere
not for the untimely death of deputy
mayor, Aid George Parker, several
w'eeks ago, the number of ex-ALP aider-
men w'ould be greater than the official
ALP representatives.
Meanwhile the independents six
—outnumber both groups.
But it is not so much the current
situation that is interesting; more intri-
guing is the coming local government
election. The postponement of ALP pre-
selection in Wards Tw'o and Five be-
cause of the enquiry into the charges
against Aid Farrell has already stimu-
lated early interest in the elections. With
Independent aldermen in Ward Three,
Birch and John Parker, having such a
strangehold in that area, Farrell will
almost certainly have to defeat the offi-
cial ALP candidate to regain his place
in Council.
In Ward Three, awaiting pre-selection
are a right-winger. Myles Heffernan, the
wife of a State Executive member, Mrs
E. Ryan, and Mr George Petersen, who
readily admits to 13 years’ membership
in the Communist Party, which he relin-
quished in 1956 following the Hungarian
Revolution. A mixed bag—but no more
so than elsewhere in the city.
In Ward Three the central ward,
where Labor has little chance of get-
ting more than one candidate elected
the Party is faced with a sitting aider-
man being beaten into second place on
the ticket by a crushing loss in pre-selec-
tion. Not only that, but the alderman
—George Hanley—was beaten by local
AEU president Mr Harold McDermott,
against whom there are pending charges
of publicly supporting Communist can-
didates in union elections.
And out in Ward Four, w'here hangs
the perpetual pall of smog over Port
Kembla, pre-selection candidate Mr Ken
Payne, beaten by four votes, has chal-
lenged five votes gained by Aid Ray
Wetherall.
The situation among independents is
no less interesting. Already a horticul-
turalist, a pilot and a department store
executive have signified their intention
of contesting the elections. All three are
newcomers to the local government
game. The horticulturalist is a Mr Rob-
ert Hall, of Balgownie, who will oppose
Aid Squires for the mayoralty. Hall,
an unknown in civic affairs until com-
paratively recently, sprung into promin-
ence some months ago with the promo-
tion of a not-too-successful youth festi-
val. Just prior to his announcement
that he would stand for mayor, he let
it become known that he had devised,
through experiments with plain , a staple
food diet which would keep a human
alive for a year at a cost of only nine
pounds. This, he said, was aimed at
solving the food problems of Asia.
A bachelor. Hall appealed to women
voters in his platform by stating that he
would have a different Mayoress from
local women’s service clubs each month
if elected.
The other two new independents in
the running for two vacancies which
will exist in Ward Three are founder
and pilot of the voluntary Aerial Patrol,
Mr Tony Bevan, and department store
executive, Mr Don May. Bevan, at
27. probably will be the youngest starter
in the elections.
Apart from these, the Ratepayers’ Re-
lief Group, formed following rate in-
creases this year, has announced it will
have candidates in each ward, while the
Women in Local Government Commit-
tee, which already has one representa-
tive on Council, probably will do some-
thing similar.
All in all what with horticulturists
ready to feed the starving millions of
Asia, ex-Reds, former ALP members,
union leaders accused of being “pink”,
modern suffragettes, angry ratepayers,
pilots and store executives- —Wollongong
seems set for one of the liveliest coun-
cil elections for many many years.
TRL OR MURRELL
STOPPING
THE TRAFFIC
all it progress if you like, but W'hen
the new university-college at Wol-
longong, NSW, held its first open day,
the tradition of student pranks and
brushes with police was immediately
established.
The most successful enterprise w'as
an impromptu pole-sitting contest on
the traffic lights at Wollongong’s busi-
est intersection. Before the police
moved them the students had estab-
lished what they claim is a world re-
cord of 35 minutes 40 seconds.
RELIGION
BACK TO
"SECTARIANISM"?
Four significant developments
REV. HARRISON
Cold water on “ Union”
The Rev. Mr H. Harrison is the first
Canberra minister to become Mod-
erator General of the Presbyterian
Church in Australia and he marked his
inauguration with a controversial at-
tack on Christian unity and some re-
marks which many regard as sectarian.
Addressing some 400 de.egates at the


I
FIRE PROTECTION PIPS
family fun centre
with your own
SWIMMING POOL
c
M
vi
■
- X .'< ..
::;x-
-•Hi -,-. 1 I|| IMllli A -
25,000 GALLONS FOR IMMEDIATE ACTION
Have you considered the dual advantages of your own 1.8.C./Jacuzzi
swimming pool?
You have a large supply of water —10,000, 15,000, 25,000 gallons or
more—available for immediate fire fighting, a cool oasis for the family on
a hot summer's day. Fire protection plus family fun with your own
1.8. C. Jacuzzi swimming pool.
1.8. C. engineers can plan your pool to include auxiliary fire fighting equip-
ment. Whatever shape pool you prefer, 1.8. C. engineers can plan your
pool to harmonize with its surroundings.
Quality filtration and other pool equipment (made under licence to Jacuzzi
Bros. Inc. California, largest pool equipment makers in U.S.A.) give you
an efficient, healthful, easily maintained pool.
SEND FOR FREE BOOKLET NOW
Send for Australia’s most com
prehensive pool booklet, with
specifications, booklets and
much useful dool information
C
INTER
y*I,TT
it!
BRISBANE: 450-466 Ann St. Ph.: 2-1561
SYDNEY: Doody St., Alexandria.
Rockhampton Townsville Cairns
POST TO YOUR NEAREST
BRANCH
/jjzi To 1.8. C. Please send me
your free pool booklet
Name |
\Hdress
I
l _ j
Iss>
PTY. LTD.
TENNYSON STREET, RICHMOND, VIC.
KAYSER
announce a
new colour
CLEOPATRA
for nylon
hosiery and
lingerie
Presbyterian general assembly in Mel-
bourne he poured cold water on the
growing moves for union between the
Christian denominations and made a
series of thinly-veiled attacks on the
DLP.
Rev. Harrison outlined what he called
four significant developments of the past
year. The first was the situation aris-
ing from the last Federal election when
a Church party almost achieved a bal-
ance of power in Parliament. Little
could be done about this, he said, but
urged his listeners to “teach our people
the glorious history of the Reformation,
and point out that in Europe church
political parties have an inglorious re-
cord of intrigue and reaction."
He then went o.i to claim that a trend
to McCarthyism had developed in Aus-
tralia in recent months and reminded
his fellow clerics that “it was the Gen-
eral Assembly of the Presbyterian
Church of USA which first led the
counter-attack that eventually took the
sting out of the serpent, McCarthy, and
his henchmen.” His other two points
were less original a reminder that
Australia would soon have a common
frontier with an Asian power and the
observation that Britain’s entry into the
Common Market would have far-reach-
ing effects on Australia.
Rev. Harrison. 59, minister of St.
Andrew’s, has been in Canberra tor
some 22 years. He was born at Nor-
tham (WA) and after enli ting in the
army at 16 became active in the Sal-
vation Armv in Melbourne. After
studying divinity ac Melbourne Uni-
versity he was ordained in the Presby-
terian Church in 1933. Service at New-
ton (Tas.) and Clarem. f (WA) fol-
lowed before he went to Canberra in
1940.
He became a close friend of Labor
Prime Minister John Curtin and went
to Fremantle to conduct his burial ser-
vice. These days, Prime Minister ' en-
zies is among his congregation and for-
mer Governor-General Lord Dunrossil
was one of the eiders of his kirk. Lady
Slim was another distinguished
congregant.
In Canberra, by all accounts, Rev.
*arrison is well-known and popular,
and the delegates to the Assembly w'ere
well-pleased with the choice of him as
Moderator-General, even if many of
them were out of sympathy w'ith his
views. It is in other denominations, not-
ably the Methodist and Congregational,
that questions are being asked. In Vic-
toria, leaders of these churches and of
the Presbyterian feel that they have
gone a long way towards agreement on
church union. In the Roman Catholic
sphere, too, there is speculation about
the extent to w'hich the new Moderator-
General may devote himself to turn-
ing the clock back.


PERTH'S COMMONWEALTH GAMES
For a small town - a big time effort
By FRANK ROBERTS
IN about six weeks’ time, on November
22, Perth will present a genial host s
front to its expected 30,000 visitors,
but although November s smile will be
quite genuine, a close look will show the
fine lines lingering lrom Octobers fur-
rowed brow. No one really doubts that
everything will be fine and finished for
the Games, but its still hard to believe
at the moment. As one Perth writer put
it recently, ‘ the city will still be sweep-
hIo - e cust . un er ru g w ,en visitors
_in o arrive in ovem er.
Lacking an Avery Brundage to spur
it along with well-chosen threats, Perth
may have been a shade too casual in its
earlier preparations for the Common-
wealth Games of 1962, but as the con-
crete sets and the builders’ debris is
cleared away some experts see Perth’s
final effort as much better than Mel-
bourne s for the 1956 Olympics, because
lt had much less to begin with.
Before Perth secured the Games four
years back it had approximately the sports
facilities of a large country town and
there was no question of "bringing an
existing arena up to a required standard.
i erth had to promise and deliver an
entirely new layout.
The Games committee settled for an
area of bushland just beyond the fringe
suburb of Floreat Park, and planned to
spend about £li million on an athletics
stadium, Olympic pool, basketball and
boxing stadium, and velodrome. Naturally
it was an underestimate. The swimming
pool, at Beatty Park, is expected to cost
a cool million on its own, about four
times the original estimate.
However, Australia's “Mr Swimming”
w Berae p hilli saw the poo i reC ently
on his way t 0 other , ames in i ndonesia
and Europe, and praised Perth to the
skies for bui i dina “ t ; le best swimming
stadium { have ~ een in the world - It
was welcome praise for an officialdom
troubled by bitter questions about the
cost tb is and some 0 ; the other Games
venues, and of houses at the Games Vil-
lage.
Such questions were inevitable Aus-
tralia’s second smallest city has under-
taken a tremendous expenditure to stage
the Games. The main athletics stadium at
Perry Lakes will cost about £ 1,000.000,
the swimming stadium perhaps’another!
With access roads landscaping, affore-
station, and the dredging and clearing of
a Gke nearby, the whole operation was
expected to run to two or three millions.
A later and more accurate estimate leaned
towards the five million mark.
This included a brand new Games
Village of 150 houses at Wembley
Downs, where cost estimates have gradu-
ad y climed to about £750,000, or
£5OOO a home when they are offered
f° r sa le after the Games.
These would be staggering figures if
Perth’s commercial outlook was not
nearly all boom at present. Huge mineral
discoveries in the West, the arrival of
new industries and plans for many more,
together with talk of naval bases, big
land improvement and settlement schemes
and extension of the standard gauge rail-
way nne have all turned ho P e into head y
optimism. The West feels about to leap
ahead and the Games > drawing tens of
thousands of visitors including some
very big wheels, could be the top of the
hill for Western Australia.
Perth’s general outlook is another
matter entirely. Someone will have to pay
for the Games, the average citizen feels,
Apart from the huge capital works ex-
penditure, the actual running of the
Games will cost more than half a million
pounds. Of this amount, about £300,-
000 ma y be recouped at the “gate”, the
Commonwealth has given £60,000, other
State Governments are being asked to
match that among them, various Austra-
lian companies have contributed about
£30,000 and in June of this year,
about £70.000 still had to be found,
A Doorknock was held in Perth. The
citizens of the host city contributed a
total of £ 13,000.
The Lord Mayor, Sir Harry Howard
(Colonel Glenn’s lamplighter) also had
reason to wonder recently whether he
was in Perth, WA, or Perth, Scotland,
when his Council decided that as he was
getting a costly new Town Hall for the
Games, a new £5,300 Daimler was out
of the question.


S3G
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A413,000.000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Another cause for dourness around
Doorknock time was the allocation of
large quantities of Games seats to organi-
sations in other States, in keeping with
Commonwealth Games Federation rules.
It can be rough when the host, who feels
sure he is going to pay the piper, can’t
buy tickets for own show, especially the
more desirable sections of it, such as the
swimming finals.
However, people who know the Perth
temperament well are certain that none
of this will rub off on the city’s visitors
next month. No one will be grossly over-
charged for meals and accommodation,
offered tickets at scalpers’ prices, or
otherwise made to feel unloved and un-
welcome. This is just as well, because
many, and perhaps a majority, of Games
visitors will be paying guests in Perth
homes. Hotel accommodation was booked
out long ago, including more than 500
rooms in hotels and motels not yet com-
pleted.
Perth’s supporters are certain that as
the gap of weeks to C. G. Day narrows,
the visitors begin to arrive, the City
of Light begins to glow, and about 1200
athletes and their supporters from more
than 30 Commonwealth countries begin
to fly in, Perth will shake off its transient
pessimism and prove that, of all Aus-
tralian cities, it is the home of good
humor and casual friendliness.
The City of Light tag, from Colonel
Glenn’s space flight, is being woven into
the city’s decorations. The main streets
will be ablaze with self-illuminated swans,
crowns, colored birds in gilded cages, and
shields and flags of the competing
nations. Fresh paint gleams on the city’s
buildings. Perth’s gardens will soon be-
come a floral jungle. A bank has a dis-
play of the State’s wildflowers on ice.
And a perfume company is hurrying
along a brew of the West’s famous bor-
onia. “My Fair Lady” has begun a
Perth season.
And Perth's own home-grown critics
say this is fine, but what of the thousands
of motorists coming into Perth by the
Eyre Highway and catching their first
view of the city over the vast stretches of
its rubbish dump? They will just have to
overlook it, the officials reply. Hold their
noses and drive on.
Probably the motorists will not mind
a little more wasteland after their Nulla-
bor crossing, although the Games in
Perth have led to rapid improvements in
conditions over the 1200 mile stretch.
Several oil companies have established
service stations along the route this year,
and there are occasional motels where
nothing existed last year.
The Games Publicity Bureau has dis-
tributed a booklet to motor clubs and oil
companies throughout the nation, giving
honest information about the difficulties
of the five-day trip by car from Adelaide
to Perth, and incidentally publicising the
Games.
The most important fact for the motor-
ist is that automobile clubs of all States
will co-operate in a roving service-van
patrol between Ceduna and Norseman,
769 miles apart, from November 10 to
December 9. With occasional light air-
craft support, the service patrol will limit
the fears of trans-Continental motorists,
of being stranded for a long period in the
middle of nowhere. The patrols will
operate only by day. Night on that high-
way belongs to the emus and kangaroos.
Whether most of Perth’s visitors will
arrive by car or air will be a toss-up.
The air traffic is estimated at around
15,000, but the number of motorists
coming can only be guessed. About 2000
will make the journey by train, and Fre-
mantle will have up to 11,000 visitors on
its peak shipping day during the Games.
Some thousands from other states and
New Zealand will live in ships booked
as floating hotels for the period. And
then, of course, half the navies in the
Commonwealth will have ships there.
When success becomes a problem
Tn fact, one of the dangers to the
A success of the Perth Games will be
too much success. No one has the faintest
idea how many visitors are coming, how
many thousands have made private ar-
rangements for accommodation, or plan
to camp out to take pot luck. Perth could
be faced with the dilemma which hit the
Mayor of Tokio recently when the
Olympic Federation warned him to expect
300,000 visitors in 1964, not the 30,000
his city had planned to greet, and ac-
commodate.
That bogey, too much success, has al-
ready shown up in the quick sellout of
seats for the entire swimming and fenc-
ing programs, although a way may be
found to increase temporary seating for
the swimming stadium. The last day’s
program in the main athletic stadium is
also reported sold out, although there
are plenty of seats on other days, so
far.
For many people, inability to join the
7000 at the swimming stadium, or the
50,000 at the athletic stadium, may only
be fortunate if they can see the best ot
it on local TV. They will have a perfect
view of the ceremonies, of the Duke of
Edinburgh’s arrival to open the Games,
and of many of the finals. While driving,
radio will be with them, and even above
them. Perth’s 6KY has chartered a plane
to help locate and untangle t uffic snarls,
with a police sergeant as observer.
The home supporters of national teams
from Asia, Africa, North America, the
West Indies and the Pacific will also hear
the more interesting results quickly,
through Radio Australia. Their own
newspaper, radio and TV representatives
will have good facilities for their work
inside the Perry Lakes stadium.
The 1962 Games will be the first for
nearly half of the competing states and
nations, and if you wonder how the
Commonwealth has grown so numerous,
there will be many small teams from such
places as the Isle of Jersey, Fiji, Mauri-
tius, Aden and Gibraltar. This will be
the biggest Commonwealth Games in the
meet’s 32 years, and the first occasion
when people from nearly every nation
and territory in the Commonwealth will
be able to meet.
From that aspect Perth is the ideal
Australian state for the Games, or per-
haps more accurately the first truly rep-
resentative Games are ideal for Perth.
The city, 2000 miles from Canberra, is
strongly oriented towards South East
Asian and African countries, as neigh-
bours and trade partners. As someone
was quick to remark during King Phumi-
phon’s recent tour, Perth is only a quick
jet flight away from Singapore, Kuala
Lumpur, Bangkok, Manila, Karachi, New
Delhi.


Estab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutionthroughout Australia
JACKSON
OSUI
LIVAIV
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Pape? Merchants,
M ami f act uring Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE HANDFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS A- OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
This was also pointed out quietly by
another Australian, the 1962 Games
organising director, Mr Jack Howson,
during his visit to the recent sports fes-
tival in Djakarta. He suggested that an
Asia Games in Perth might be consider-
ed some time in the future. Howson’s
notion was supported by the presence of
an Australian team which helped Indo-
nesia’s athletes prepare for competition,
and then flew to Ipoh for the Malayan
championships. The main obstacle to
Howson’s idea was the Asian Games lay-
out Djakarta had prepared, including a
100,000 roofed stadium, with other
venues to match, all prepared in two
years. But Perth’s advantage might be
that it would not fail to invite one nation
or another, and cause a fiasco.
At the Perth Games, Australia’s con-
tingent of 230 will be the biggest, with
the advantages which always exist for a
host nation's team, but we do not
appear to have more than three certain
gold medal winners in Dixie Willis, Dawn
Fraser and Murray Rose. The track
favorites, for instance, would be Can-
adian Harry Jerome for the 100 yards;
Jerome, Antao of Kenya and Johnson of
Jamaica for the 220; Brightwell, England
and Milkha Singh, India for the 440;
Snell of NZ for the 880 and mile;
Tulloh, England and Halberg, NZ for the
3 miles; and Kidd, Canada, for six miles.
But in many other events, from box-
ing to weightlifting, almost any of the
nations could provide an upset, and
enough of those would level down the
points totals of the big-team countries,
Australia and England.
The one thing certain is that in events
where there are Commonwealth records,
they will be broken with exciting regular-
ity. This is normal. After the 1958
Cardiff Games, only four records remain-
ed unbroken. Since 1930 in track and
field events Englishmen have won 40
gold medals, Canadians 20 and Aus-
tralians 19, while the women’s medals
run Australia 19, England 11. But five
of Australia’s gold medals were won in
Sydney in 1938 by Decimn Norman, who
will be a special guest at the Perth
Games, after a volte face by the Games
Organising Council.
One special guest the Council does not
want, incidentally, is the small black
bush fly which tormented the Italian
tennis players in Perth two years ago,
and is the bane of cricket tourists. Sev-
eral mass sprayings of the Perry Lakes
area are planned, from now until Games
time. It's an example of Perth’s deter-
mination to be meticulous in its arrange-
ments and leave no opportunity for visi-
tors to take away a critical impression of
the West.
More than 2000 members of various
committees and auxiliaries have worked
up to four years on the finer details, and
the success of the Games will owe much
to them. One of the most active commit-
tees has now taken charge of the Games
village, and the catering. Its secretary,
Mr Jack Caddy, has recently bought or
hired £lO,OOO worth of temporary furn-
ishings, to supplement about £lOO,OOO
worth of equipment borrowed from the
Services, business firms and Govern-
ment departments. And in six weeks’
time he will have 1200 hungry athletes
to feed.
The competitors will not be leather-
bedded at the Village, but they will live
in very modern homes, with all the es-
sential gear for reasonable comfort.
Perth firms have already offered them
free dry cleaning, laundering, shoe rep-
airs, hairdressing and other services. The
village will be guarded around the clock
by Services patrols. The young athletes
will even have about 60 selected “house
mothers” to advise and look after them.
Perth's big-scale planning and equally
important attention to the small details
that make or mar have spared the city
any official criticism during the four
years. In fact the Commonwealth Games
Federation secretary, Mr “Samdy”
Duncan, has visited Perth twice, looked,
nodded approval, and returned to Lon-
don without hurling a single thunderbolt
at Perth.
Duncan is a calm man. During a
recent Perth rumpus over supposed or-
ders from London about Me opening
ceremony, he merely said, “We have no
wish to dictate to the organis'ng council.”
So the Council discarded a suggestion
that the Duke of Edinburgh’s car be
the only one allowed in the arena for
the opening ceremony.
The Duke will remain for the run of
the Games, and it’s to be hoped that he
will be invited to attend at 3.45 p.m.
specifically on the first day. That is the
hour set down for tiie official cere-
mony, beginning with a march past of
1200 athletes. For two hours prior to it,
for some reason best known to the organ-
isers, there will be a giant youth rally in
the arena, with demonstrations by
marching girls, boy scouts, girl guides,
service cadets and surf lifesavers. High
school girls will do representative folk
dances and then ail present will form in
the shape of a boc .erang, facing smaller
groups forming tableaux of the various
States’ floral emblems. This display of
proud nationalism will very likely endear
us to our overseas visitors, no end.
At the other end of the meeting, and
more fittingly, Perth will a Carnival
on the Swan, with 3000 people on the
river to do just about everything that
can be done in or on water. It will go on
into the floodlit night, and, as they put
it, “barbecues along the river will give
visitors a taste of the western Australian
way of life.”
Then it will be time for the trek back
across the Nullarbor Plain, and, among
the athletes, a parting for another four
years until the next Commonwealth
Games, probably in India. If Perth has
lived up to its reputation the 1200 visitors
from more than 30 countries will leave
with a much better conception of Aus-
tralia and Australians. Whether it is a
good or bad one, those two weeks in
November-December will tell.


m
:
'
. where experience
your host
has been
1853
mmm
wmmm
WSMm
m
mm
■ : x y
xx-xxx.-x..
mmmz
:
mWjmm
N
m
wmmmmmm
%
X \
i
I
My*
■
SSX
x';:
xx’:
:"x':
fea
: : » >
Home of Australia’s most-pampered guests
WMM
sr
FEDERAL
HOTELS
Across the Nation
FH 218
MENZIES
Melbourne
60-1581
SAVOY PLAZA
Melbourne
62-4141
HOTEL FEDERAL
Melbourne
62-3721
HAMPTON COURT
Sydney
31-7081
WREST POINT
Riviera
Hobart- 5-1021
LENNONS
Brisbane
32-0131
LENNONS
Toowoomba
T'mba 2-2433
LENNONS GOLD COAST
Home of Tropicana
Holiday
Surfers 9-2001
COCKPIT
Essendon Air Terminal
39-6133
MENZIES SYDNEY
Opening '63
in Carrington St.,
opp. Wynyard Park.
For immediate reservations, phone your nearest Federal Hotel.
h dh


>
h
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using “ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-water systems,
and household requirements. Easy to install. Inexpensive
to operate and will last a lifetime. Large quantities in
use throughout Australasia. Other types for different
conditions available. -
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
Agents and Manufacturers of “Everlasting” Boiler Blow
off Valves, “Curvilinear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines, Ellison Switch Gear, Blasting Mats, Explosives,
Log Splitting Guns, etc.
OUT AND ABOUT
"CONVEYOR-BELTING”
ABORIGINAL ART
Is the way native art is sold fair to the aborigine
or the buyer?
By ROBERT MURRAY
English comedian Spike Milligan, at
present in Australia, recently wrote
to the Press about the present
method of marketing aboriginal bark-
paintings. Mr Milligan says that the
missions are “conveyor-belting” the
aborigines and that the missions’ docu-
mentation on bark paintings cannot be
relied on. Mr Milligan’s letter underlines
a feeling among some collectors that the
way aboriginal art is produced and sold
is not ideal; from the point of view of
either the aborigine or the buyer.
R. M. Berndt of the Department of
Anthropology, University of Western
Australia, says: “There is a tendency in
the direction of mass-production. And the
large quantities of bark paintings and
other objects which find their way via
the missions into city stores are mostly,
by Aboriginal standards, poor: they are
produced for a specific purpose, to satisfy
a current demand.”
Most genuine aboriginal art comes
from mission stations in the Northern
Territory. It includes bullroarers, didjeri-
doos, spearheads, woomeras, fire-sticks,
model canoes, yam sticks, tapping sticks,
bark paintings, crabs’ claw pipes, wood
carvings, feather flowers, pandanus work
and various items made from shells, and
boomerangs.
The test of the genuineness of any of
them is not easy. There are some rules.
For example, a varnished boomerang is
obviously a fake. Yet, according to Miss
E. Louis, of the Church of England
Mission, Sydney, the missions do sell such
fakes to tourists, because the tourists
prefer the varnished fakes to the genuine
article.
Forged bark paintings are another
matter. It would be nearly impossible for
a non-expert to tell a real bark painting
from a fake one, but, according to ex-
perts in aboriginal art, fakes do exist.
They are mainly the work of white men
living in the Territory towns.
Missionaries are not likely to sell fake
bark paintings but it is hard to defend
them from the charge of encouraging
work which is turned out too quickly.
This comes about through the method of
payment for the work. On the missions
the Aboriginal gets paid a flat rate for
his work no matter how good or bad it
is.
The method of resale of the art works
differs according to the denomination of
the station. The Church of England mis-
sions sell direct to he public through
their centres in the capital cities. The
Methodists on the other hand sell only
through their depot in Darwin, and then
mostly to dealers in southern cities. If
we assume a basic £l/10/- as payment
to the aborigine the resale prices become
interesting.
According to Miss Louis the Church
of England may resell a bark painting
for anything from 10/6 to £l5/15/-,
according to the size and quality of the
painting. The dealers bargain with the
missions for their purchases and are able
to sell them to the public (notably to
visiting American executives) for up to
£2OO. A recent sale of bark paintings
which originated on the Yirrkala Metho-
dist Mission bought prices of £175 and
more, according to Sydney art dealer
Rudy Komon.
The Missions aim to give the aborigines
a measure of dignity by way of a personal
income. The money they earn they use
to buy goods at the mission stores.
Obviously then they will produce as
much “art” as they can if there is to be
a flat rate. Also, they will produce work
on themes most acceptable to the mis-
sionaries. Missionaries do not admit that
they give preference to themes which, if
not pro-Christian, are at least neutral to
Christianity; however dealers such as
Rudy Komon and experts on aboriginal
art such as Dr Stuart Scougall claim there
is a suppression of non-Christian spirit
paintings.
Perhaps the most famous aboriginal art
is the Namatjira-type landscape painting.
According to some experts, the task of
telling a genuine Namatjira from a fake
one is really difficult. However, the
director of the Queensland Gallery, Mr
Taurie Thomas, and the director of Bris-
bane's Johnstone Gallery, Mr Brian
Johnstone, both claim that a Namatjira
painting would be quite easy to forge.
Whether easy or hard one thing is
certain, and that is that some people
would buy anything if it had Namatjira’s
signature on it, as Mr Battarbee himself
admits. The price for a genuine Namat-
jira is very high. Some dealers put it in
the £ 1000 range.
WITHOUT HASTE
VTineteen-sixty-six is now being talked
about as the year for the adoption of
decimal coinage. However, sceptics
remain.
Decimal coinage was the subject in-
vestigated by the first select committee
appointed by the new House of Repre-
sentatives in 1901. The committee’s
report recommended decimal coinage,
based on gold, but although this was in
the days when the most expensive part
of office equipment was possibly a steel-
nibbed pen, nothing was done.
Britain has an even longer history of
talking about the subject, but doing noth-
ing.
The British committee, although deci-
mated, recommended decimals, but no-
thing came of it. The subject was debated
in the House of Commons, and, accord-
ing to a contemporary observer, the
debate showed “a fear of the lack of
intelligence of the common people in the
minds of those who are not in daily com-
munication with them, and no fear at
all in the minds of those who are.”


TURN OF THE TIDE
Revet-sing our pattern of exporting talent and importing
it instead
S.-iff artist Les Tanner went to a performance of “The Sound of Music” given
for nuns at the Tivoli, Sydney.
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Let’s not call it a tide when it’s only
a trickle. At present in Sydney are
three theatricals who are reversing
Australia’s pattern of exporting our talent
and importing that of other countries.
Miss June Bronhill is starring in Garnet
Carroll’s production of the Rodgers and
Hammerstein musical, “The Sound of
Music,” in which Miss Rosina Raisbeck
sings the Mother Abbess. Popular-style
singer Miss Lorrae Desmond has her own
television and radio shows for the ABC.
Each is Australian. Each has had a good
measure of success overseas. Each has
returned to work here. Each would, in
fact, live here live, that is, in the
theatrical sense of making an indefinite
stay if the right sort of work kept
coming.
Miss Lorrae Desmond is described as
“disturbingly pneumatic” by a Sydney TV
critic with disturbing frequency. She is
a pretty, pert girl, who probably would
not be irked at being described as “very
feminine.” Perhaps in the best tradition
of the all-Australian girl, she is as pin-
neat in a theatrical dressing-room, usually
a place of unlovely squalor, as she is in
front the camera. Here are no messy
cosmetics, no untidy heaps of discarded
costumes.
Miss Desmond is quiet-spoken and in-
telligent. Professionally she is frivolous,
privately she is probably fairly shrewd.
“I went to the furriers today to hire a
white fox stole for the show and I
nearly bought a white mink stole,” she
said with an irresponsible giggle. Nearly
but she didn’t, of course.
Miss Desmond on television obviously
projects a certain type of personality,
at least as far as the TV critic’s chair.
Had the ABC (God save the mark!) or
her agent here ever tried to establish a
sort of public personality for her, say,
as Marilyn Monroe was built into a
“sex symbol?”
Miss Desmond frowned. “No,” she
said, “the ABC has certainly never tried
anything like that. But it’s funny you
should say ‘sex symbol.’ Those words
seem to be cropping up all the time
lately.”
Well, if someone tried to establish a
public personality for her, how far would
she go along with the idea?
“No distance at all,” Miss Desmond
said firmly. “I have no intention of being
a sex symbol, or any sort of symbol. If
they want me to be sexy, well, I’ll be
funny-sexy, because I think being sexy
is funny. If they want me to be a siren,
I’ll ham it up for them. If they want me
to have sex appeal, they can’t expect
me to be serious about it, because I
don’t think it’s anything to be serious
about.”
Miss Desmond said that she had en-
countered the personality-building type
of manager both in the United States
and England.
“They really carve you up in little
pieces over there,” she said. “One
manager I had in London wanted to tell
me what to do, when and how to have
my hair cut and so on. People like that
are not interested in establishing you in
a worthwhile career which may last.
They are interested in a quick percentage
for themselves. I used to say that I
wanted to try intimate revue, that I
would love to be in a musical comedy,
but all they were interested in was getting
me to record the latest ‘pop’ song before
the American record came on the British
market.
“I found what seemed to be a good
manager in Hollywood, but I felt very
wary of their methods. They took me out
to dinner while they discussed, over my
head how they proposed to ‘market’ me.
It was decided that I was refined, that
I had a British accent, so the best way to
put me over would be as a refined
British singer. 1 remember after Marilyn
Monroe died, Kim Novak said that
actresses were just regarded as cattle to
be bought and sold. 1 realise now how
true that is.”
Miss Desmond is doing a series of 15
television and 15 radio shows for the
ABC. She claims that she discovered
the ABC rather than the other way
about.
“When I came back first in 1959 a
friend suggested to someone he knew
in the ABC that I would like to do a
15-minute programme,” she said. “I got
about £4O for it.”
Miss Desmond’s present series will
take her through to the New Year. What
next? Miss Desmond can’t make up her
mind, and at present falls back on the
“take a good rest” way of thinking. She
is doubtful whether she has the tempera-
ment to stand up to American methods:
she is hardly more enthusiastic about
returning to Britain.
“You can make a lot of money in
England but it can be grinding work,”
she said. “Panto every year. I did it for
six years, always the principal boy.
England at present seems to be going
through a transition period. Variety
theatres are closing down, but clubs are
mushrooming. There are nearly 200 of
them in Manchester alone. They are not
like any club here. Miners might come in
straight from the pit without changing
their clothes. The people who run them
are totally inexperienced in show busi-
ness and they arranged the most in-
credible bills. But what does it matter?


No one in the audience listens. But the
money is good. I can earn as much in
a week there as in three weeks here.”
Miss Desmond also is happier with the
ABC than she was with the BBC. “The
BBC will spend money like water on
some things and then be terribly penny-
pinching over others,” she said. “They
were always trying to get me to get
someone cheaply, with the idea that it
was ‘good TV experience’ or something
like that. Here in Australia” she added,
“I have a lot more say about things.”
Miss Desmond is perfectly certain
that she would like best to live in Aus-
tralia, if she got the right work and
if the public did not tire too quickly of
seeing her face. She is quite definite that
she did not go to England to achieve
fame there. Her course was more devious.
“In 1951 I was the singing cigarette-
girl at the Celebrity club,” Miss Desmond
said, “And it was clear there wasn't
much future in that. The trouble with
popular singing is that you can learn
only by experience. Every time someone
says ‘Have you ever done this?’ you say
‘Yes’ and then learn as you go along.
“I decided to go to England where
I could learn as I went along simply
because it's easier to lay an egg if there’s
no one round. I began at the Bluebell
Hotel at Sunthorpe, and there was
certainly no one there I knew. Later I
did shows for the troops. Three guineas
a performance, and that had to cover
expenses. Later I went to the Coconut
Grove in London and worked up what
I hopefully called my act. I know now
that it was terrible.”
Miss Desmond said that among po-
pular vocalists there was no feeling that
overseas experience was necessary or
important. “The rock and roll singers
finished that attitude for ever,” she said.
“When I sang in Wollongong they
shouted ‘Good on you Aussie' and when
I sang at the Lido in Adelaide, no one
knew or cared whether I had been over-
seas or not.”
Miss June Bronhill came back to Aus-
tralia two years ago with the Sadler’s
Wells production of “The Merry Widow.”
That was her first time back since she
went to England in 1951. When Garnet
Carroll offered her the lead in “The
Sound of Music” she happily came back
again.
“I thought it would be for about 12
months and that I would not be on my
way back to Europe,” she said. “But on
the basis of the Melbourne run we could
become another ‘My Fair Lady.’
“I must say I am a bit stunned at
the prospect. If I get back to London
after three or more years, will everybody
have forgotten me?”
Miss Bronhill said that she found her
role in “The Sound of Music” “musically
frustrating and dramatically unsatisfying.”
“It makes no demands on the voice and
it is by no means the most interesting
character I have every played,” she said,
“but I still love it. I love the pleasure
it gives to people. You know, men come
to it, thinking they will hate it and then
they come backstage and admit that
they wept all the way through.”
(It is also Miss Raisbeck's experience
that “The Sound of Music” is the sort
of musical that makes strong men weep).
Miss Bronhill said that she had had
little trouble adapting her voice to eight
shows a week, instead of the two or
three performances she did in opera.
“I don't think I have the most musical
voice in the world,” she said. “I don't
particularly like to hear it. Sometimes I
do and I think—awk, what a sound!
But I do have a solid technique and
that has enabled me to adapt my voice
to the extra work. But it is still a
pretty exhausting role, simply because
I have 13 changes of costume eight times
a week. That's how many a week? How
many a year?”
On her precious Sundavs off Miss
Bronhill has done some television work.
She recently taped ”La Serva Padrona”
by Pergolesi for the ABC.
“I adore television,” she said. “I find
it most stimulating and a wonderful dis-
cipline. Of course, there is the initial
shock of seeing yourself, but I never feel
television is soulless. I can always feel
the audience.”
Miss Rosina Raisbeck is also carrying
her home 24 pieces of luggage
around with her, and has seen her seven-
years-old son, Jimmie, only twice in the
past 12 months.
Miss Raisbeck said that her son was
staying with her sister 35 miles out of
Sydney. During the run Miss Raisbeck
will be able to visit him only on Sundays.
“And I loathe travelling at any time,”
she said.
The need to find somewhere to be with
her son, and to unpack 24 pieces of
luggage have made Miss Raisbeck, who
was here last in 1958, decided that she
will probably stay.
“I have signed on with ‘The Sound of
Music’ for the duration, but afterwards
if I have the choice of touring and being
without my son, or giving up the stage
and being with him, I will give up
singing,” Miss Raisbeck said. “I would
be quite happy to go into business.”
Miss Raisbeck said there were many
things she missed about London, but the
chief was having a permanent home.
“I just have nowhere to practice and that
is terrible for a singer,” she said.
Miss Raisbeck feels that the experience
a singer gets in Australia still counts for
very little overseas, but that it counts a
good deal, as far as the singer is con-
cerned.
“I feel that any singer who is planning
to go overseas should spend an extra
12 months in Australia getting expe-
rience,” she said. “The young people
don't realise how lucky they are that
such good work is available to them
here.”
Miss Raisbeck says she feels Austra-
lian stage-performers lack discipline.
“At Covent Garden everyone walks
around on tip-toe back-stage,” she said.
“It is simply a way of showing,respect
and consideration for your fellow
workers, but here people don't bother.
And near enough is good enough. You
know,” she said in an aside, “this part
of the Mother Abbess is very bad for
me. It has made me very dictatorial.
“But I have always been a perfectio-
nist and am never satisfied with a per-
formance. But, on the other hand, I
feel I lack ambition. If I had had more
ambition I would have striven harder, and
I would care more now about keeping
on singing. But there are so many other
things I like. I like to design my own
clothes. I like upholstery, all sorts of
things like that. In fact, I just like
living.”


Today’s Business Demands Air Conditioning
... Sound Investment Demands
YEAR ROUND
AIR CONDITIONING
B
T
The “Comfort Zone** . , #
where temperature is
automatically controlled
between 70 °F. and 80 °F.
with humidity properly
balanced . . . the zone
that is created when
Chrysler Airtemp
“Packaged”
Air Conditioning
is installed!
& 0
COOLS AND HEATS: Simply
flip the switch ... set to any
desired temperature and discom-
fort is automatically banished by
fresh springtime air.
dh
DEHUMIDIFIES: Excess moist-
ure is removed. Merchandise, dis-
plays and valuables are kept sale-
able and usable.
&
CIRCULATES: Fresh treated
air is gently, quietly and efficiently
circulated and directed to all areas
=6
CLEANS: Dirt, dust, lint, soot
and pollen are removed from the
air. Reduces cleaning costs . . .
provides healthy conditions.
I^-
VENTILATES: Outside air is warmed
or cooled and dehumidified, cleaned
and introduced quietly without drafts
—the atmosphere is always fresh.
fmm
■
More Businesses do more Business with Chrysler Airtemp, your
Airtemp Distributor will show you why.
Q’LD.: Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., 620 Stanley St., Woolioongabba. Phone 4 2941
N.S.W.: Strataflo Pty. Ltd., Cnr. Paramatta Rd. & Barr St., Camperdown. Phone 51 6645
A.C.T.: A.C.T. Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd., 14 Yallourn St., Fyshwick. Phone 9 0081
VIC.: Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., 291 Moray St., S. Melbourne. Phone 69 7114
S.A.: Craig & Seeley Limited, Largs Terrace, Largs Bay. • • • • Phone 49 8311
W.A.: Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd., 657 Murray St,, Perth • • • • • Phone 23 2214
Send for our 30 page Brochure on Airtemp Equipment.
AIRTEMP
Today, Air conditioning is a “must”
for modern business— and it’s easy
to understand why.
People look for the comfort
of air conditioning whether their business
takes them to an office block
or small shop.
They want to shop, to work, to relax,
to eat in comfort.
And comfort is what they get with
the controlled conditions provided
by Chrysler Airtemp
year round Air Conditioning.
And you want a long term investment
of which you can be certain.
For instance,
in anticipation of future expansion,
remodelling and additions,
flexibility is a vital factor. While
the first cost of installation is
so are operating and maintenance costs*
Chrysler Airtemp
pioneered “packaged” Air Conditioning
with an eye to these needs
of modern business.
‘‘Packaged” air conditioners, singly or
in multiple combine the most
economical temperature and
humidity control, long life, low
maintenance cost and
greatest flexibility.
Designed and engineered by Chrysler,
Airtemp is hacked by 26 years of
proved dependability.
Yes, sound investment dictates
the use of Chrysler Airtemp Air Conditioning
in every type of business.
eMS7
A FORWARD LOOK PRODUCT OF CHRYSLER AUSTRALIA LIMITED AIRTEMP DIVISION S JL


THE BODY BEAUTIFUL IS BIG BUSINESS
The good old days of black coffee and unrequited love have gone forever.
By JAN SMITH
This little skinny character is sitting
on a beach with a beautiful girl.
He’s puny, spavined, under-develop-
ed. Suddenly a big lout comes up and
throws sand over them. The little fellow
protests feebly and gets clouted for his
trouble. Not only that. The girl, sens-
ing where the balance of power lies,
changes partners.
This socially significant story at one
time appeared on the back page on nearly
every magazine in this country, simul-
taneously planting doubt and fostering
hope in the minds of millions of under-
nourished, physically inept men who had
never heard how Don Athaldo and the
boys could help them.
The story had a happy ending, though.
The hero, after mortifying his flesh with
an assortment of dumb-bells and pulleys
in the privacy of his own home, returned
to the beach, vanquished the bully and
recaptured the girl. The moral was
simple. No muscles equalled no sex
appeal equalled no girl.
In 1962 the pursuit of the body beauti-
ful is no longer a solitary wrestling with
the devil. It has become a moral duty, a
social responsibility. The Tarzan-type
hero in the leopardskin wraparound has
gone forever, and the privacy of your
own home has given way to the public
discipline of the health studio and the
fashionable novelty of slimming prepara-
tions in assorted makes, flavors and
calorific content.
Ten years ago, when chubby girls
could rely on nothing but black coffee,
wafer biscuits and romantic anguish,
there was a kind of macabre fun about
slimming. You could compare notes with
girlfriends over a meagre lunch with
martyred satisfaction.
There was an excelsior feeling about
losing weight. Alone and unaided, in the
teeth of parental disapproval, you were
scaling a personal Everest. Every piece
of cake rejected was a moral victory. At
the same time, presumably, the objects
of our affection were closeted in their
bedrooms developing biceps and pec-
torals.
The advent of dexedrine and appetite
depressants made things easier—the re-
cord fast was four days and three hours
—but there were certain drawbacks. Like
frozen peas and cake mix, they took
away the virtuous glow wffich came from
a tedious job well done. Before long an
unfamiliarly lean Jack Davey was giving
his blessing to Tafon, and slimming sud-
denly was respectable.
Tafon, a methyl cellulose type bis-
cuit that gave an illusion of fullness, was
the first of the bigtime whittlers. Spelt
backwards, it read Nofat. Avodex, a sim-
ilar preparation, followed.
Then cholesterol came in and frighten-
ing words like coronary occlusion, pul-
monary embolism and fatty degeneration
were bandied about. Insurance com-
panies, discovering that slim people lived
longer, began to look at policyholders’
waistlines. Doctors had to be told.
Chemists’ shops today are full of
assorted dietary aids, one of the current
favorites Metrecal, coming in three
flavors of vanilla, butterscotch and
chocolate. Also in the running are
Swedish Milk Diet. Dietrole, and Slim-
plan all based on a liquid vitamin and
protein mixture. Some need mixing,
others do not. Metrecal is now in wafer
form and for the sophisticated, the liquid
version may be jazzed up with rum or
coffee flavorings.
Last month another preparation called
Limmits came on the market. Li mm its
(“miss a meal a day—and never feel the
difference”), is a biscuit-tvpe food con-
taining vitamins and minerals, and sell-
ing at 6s. 9d. for a packet of six—three
meals of 175 calories each.
“These lines are hard to shift in the
winter,” one chemist said, searching for
brochures, “b-ut in the summer there's
no trouble. Nobody feels as hungry in
hot weather.” Another chemist took a
gloomier view. His shop was near a big
newspaper office, and maybe some of the
cynicism had got across the counter.
“These sort of things are here today and
gone tomorrow,” he said. “It all depends
on advertising.”
There's been plenty lately, he said, but
slimming perparations had been around
for ages. There was a thyroid-capsule
preparation called Youth-O-Form, for in-
stance, which had been on the market
well before the war and was still going.
In any case, it was the accompanying diet
chart that did the trick. “It’s basically
psychological,” he said. “People like to
be organised, and there's nothing like a
few rules and regulations to give them a
boost with their dieting.”
Advertising, however, carries a lot of
weight and the electrical-goods people
have been quick to get in with hand-
operated electrical massage appliances
to whittle unsightly bulges. One of the
manufacturers, Pifco, is known primarily
for hair - dryers, but the association
between Moffat Virtue, the tractor and
harvester people, and ladies’ waists is
more obscure.
Manufacturers have also been quick
to provide a host of godsends such as
starch-reduced bread, low-calorie rolls,
saccharine-type sweeteners and diabetic
jams and tinned fruit. There are some
brands of low-calorie spaghetti, and
another traditional enemy of the dieter,
the banana, is also undergoing image-
improvement.
It is the American-style health studio,
however, that has manned the loudest
guns in the fitness campaign. A combina-
tion of gymnasium and Roman baths,
they have probably achieved more
notoriety and built more muscle than
any of the other methods. Sydney led
the way with the American Health
Studios in and now there are similar es-
tablishments in all capita] cities and the
larger suburbs.
With their tiled steam-rooms, individ-
ual hot-boxes and piped music, these
new-era health studios (for both sexes)
are a far cry from the older physical
culture centres like the League of Health,
which a few years back in Sydney were
still selling fruit juice at a shilling a glass
and discouraging tobacco with good
clean literature and an absence of. ash-
trays.
But some of the old romance of pri-
vate enterprise has gone. It is very
hard to think romantic thoughts about
men while pedalling a stationary bicycle
in a room full of earnest, overweight
women. Our homes may not have had
the advantages of endless belts, gradua-
ted weight bars and rotary wallopers, but
neither did they have wall-to-wall mirrors
to shatter our illusions.
The instructors, all shapely girls well
on the right side of 30, are a big im-
provement on the white-blouse-and-navy
bloomer gym mistress, but there is still
no room for slackers. “You're not exactly
overweight,” they told me, which is praise


I X L
This World Famous Brand is Manufactured
and Distributed by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES AND
ASSOCIATED COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
TIMBER MERCHANTS
SAW MILLERS
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Union Australia Group;
ESTABLISHED 1872
Head Office: Anchor House, 234-242 George Street, Sydney
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS' BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne
Queensland Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek Street, Brisbane
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in ail Principal Country Towns.
Secretary, K. N. FINLAY
with a far fainter damn than Madam will
get in most department stores where de-
viation from the norm, hereditary or
otherwise, is entirely Madam’s own fault.
Fees, in the vicinity of £8 a month or
£27 for a 12 months’ course, are reason-
able for working women, but for the
housebound young mum with an unpaid
washing machine and post-natal slump,
who probably needs the exercise more, it
is usually a next-year or sometime thing.
However Silhouette (a combination of
the original Silhouette and American
Health Studios) are now running a con-
test for a Ford Falcon, which may be a
significant attempt to reach this hitherto
submerged market.
Another Sydney studio, Slenderella, is
also based on American principles, but
with a significant difference. The accent
is on relaxation and the whole treat-
ment rests on specially designed tables
providing passive exercise for the client
who spends a blissful 40 minutes in a
darkened cubicle listening to music and
being simultaneously toned, firmed,
stimulated and rejuvenated.
Keeping clear of the high-pressure
tactics, Slenderella gave more than
20,000 treatments for women clients in
its first year (1960-61) and after four
months extra rooms and tables had to be
added to meet the growing demand. Diet,
as such, is not part of the Slenderella
programme, but sensible eating habits
are encouraged.
“We don’t have anything like the other
studios’ course basis,” the manageress
said, “but we do feel that people should
have a minimum of three treatments a
week. Everything is scaled for the in-
dividual, and there are no set lengths for
courses. You just stop when you feel
like it.” Naturally tape measures and
weighing machines, used jointly after
every sixth treatment, play their part in
this decision. But the prospect of 40
minutes of automatic peace, plus side
benefits, at 12s. 6d. a time, is probably
a hard habit to break.
So far, Slenderella caters for women
only. A second studio was opened re-
cently in the Northshore suburb of Chats-
wood, and they hope to move to other
states in the near future.
What our mothers used to call inter-
fering with nature has been given the
green light on Macquarie Street and
Madison Avenue. Today we must tailor-
make ourselves not for the boy, man, or
husband next door, but for the doctor
and the insurance agent. If your doctor
happens to look like Ben Casey, you’re
in luck, but small and large, the pursuit
of physical fitness is done for secondary
motives. The accent has shifted from
sex-appeal to business promotion, longe-
vity and reduced premiums. The good
old days of black coffee, unrequited love
and dexedrine are gone forever.


3
FIXED LONG TERM STOCK
9% P.A. 8-10 YEARS
4%
P.A.
at call
REID MURRAY
Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stock *
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
Applications accepted only on forms attached to the
Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON &. CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William St., Adelaide 408 Collins St., Melb.
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
REID MURRAY
by Reid Murray Holdings Ltd.
KMA.2«V.*3
BUYING A WINE?
An occasional column
IyfAURiCE O'Shea is a great name in
1 the wine industry and Mt Pleasant
is a location that will always be associated
with him. He took over these vineyards
in 1921 after studying wine making in
France, and immediately set about to
improve both the extent and quality of
the vines and the wines they produced.
In 1932 the McWilliam family, interested
in dry table wines, joined Maurice and
continued to plan ahead with him.
One result of this planning was the
Lovedale property on the Cessnock-
Branxton Road vines were planted
and were starting to show promise at the
outbreak of World War IT. The Govern-
ment took over the property and con-
verted it into an emergency landing field
for the duration.
In 1950, supposedly because the
emergency, after four years of peace, had
now ceased, the Government released the
area and Maurice and the McWilliams
started again. They planted the area
mainly with Semilion, or Hunter River
Riesling, and these vines are now produc-
ing grapes from which a delicate dry
white wine of outstanding character is
being made.
The pick of the . ine is put to one side,
bottled in the first year and called ANNE
RIESLING. The young wine is light, well-
balanced, with a crisp finish. As it ac-
quires bottle age it develops tremendous
character and for this reason I think it
is of especial interest. The 1962 vintage
is in bottle now and is full of promise. It
can be drunk now as a fresh young wine.
The 1959 vintage, on the other hand, is
a big robust white with terrific flavor,
very reminiscent of some Cote de Beaune
white burgundies, and shows how worth-
while it is to keep some wines to de-
velop. A special treat is to line up the
four last vintages to compare the dif-
ferent stages of bottle maturation, then
you see for yourself how the color deep-
ens, the nose becomes fuller and more
pronounced, the body builds, the taste
becomes more and more pronounced, and
the finish lingers on. In all, how much
fuller and richer the wine becomes.
CELLARMASTER


EXPORTERS: this will interest you even if you*ve never thought of using Air Cargo before!
if
!
/ &
Spoils
to the
“Victa”
n 1
:
. ii'mi . .
:
A
m-M
.
'y,,-
II
IMd JSmL », *rV -' i
rP & 1 *v. s » v; **s /
vmm vx=>
- '- ‘" . &*? l A|
PI!
Qantas helps Australian
Manufacturer to mow down
overseas competition
While overseas competitors were letting grass grow under
their feet waiting for their ships to come in, Victa Mowers
cut a swathe through traditional export procedures to
clean up a fertile export market in South Africa.
Following an urgent call for repeat orders, Victa sales
director decided a fast shipment was needed to avoid
losing out on a newly developed market. “Let’s send this
urgent consignment by air,” he said, “Same as we sent
our samples.” The savings in time, crating costs, ware-
housing—and the gain in goodwill and reputation among
the trade outlets—have justified Victa’s decision to retain
their lead by always shipping by Qantas Air Cargo.
“Spoils to tbe Victa,” a Johannesburg gay blade was
heard to say, “Quite a coup-de-grass!”
QANTAS AIK CAKSO
41 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
HOW THIS EXPORTER BENEFITED:
1. Stockists were kept supplied and sales impetus
maintained.
2. Wholesale and retail outlets were satisfied that
replacements and spares could be obtained readily,
without delay.
3. Necessity for protective crating was eliminated;
packing time and costs minimised.
4. His capital was released quickly, turned over more
rapidly—not tied up for months in profitless delays
and demurrage.
5. Insurance rates were minimised as risk of theft was
reduced.
HOW THE QANTAS EXPORT
CONSULTANT SERVICE CAN HELP YOU
Qantas puts at your disposal one of the most compre-
hensive transport systems in the world. Qantas analyses
each export/import problem individually and offers you
this Qantas six-point service—FßEE.
1. Distribution time and static time analysis gives you
a time and motion plot on your goods from despatch
to arrival.
2. Costing breakdown on your complete shipping
operation.
3. Systematic appraisal of packaging with suggested
modifications for the lighter, more economical hand-
ling and packing of your freight needs.
4. Advice on alternate routings, accelerated cartage,
taxation and insurance reductions.
5. Analysis of current economic situation of world
markets, quarantine, import, currency and customs
regulations.
6. A business venue in many overseas countries in
Qantas offices in Europe, America, Asia, the Orient,
New Zealand and Africa.
EXPORT it by QANTAS if it’s
IMPORTant to you!
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in association with Air India, 8.0.A.C., S.A.A. and TEAL.
QAC38.95.82


A PAGE
OF LUGT
"Please! I don't want to be the first man in space!"
"I'm sorry , I thought your ad-
vertisement was for a missal
expert."
£ Of course I feel frustrated, but it's putting my kid
through school."


OVERSEAS
A REGENERATE GERMANY
Life Without Father
By EMERY BARCS
“TI/’e have done penance, shall we ever
" receive absolution?” mused the
distinguished middle-aged West Berlin
journalist as we walked slowly down
drab Turmstrasse to catch a taxi back
to my hotel in Kurfuerstendamm.
1 didn’t think he expected an answer,
and his question remJned floating in
the air. It was high noon on a bright
day in May but 1 found the midday sun-
shine strangely unwarming.
We had just left the Criminal Court
of Moabit where we had spent the
morning listening to the trial of former
SS Obersturnfuehrer (Colonel) Dr Al-
fred Karl Wilheim Filbert and five of
his wartime underlings. The charges
against them: As members of Striking
Commando 9, Group B, they actively
participated in the extermination of “at
least” 10,500 Jews in Vilna, Grodno,
Lida, Vilejka, Molodeczno, Nevel and
Vitebsk between July and October, 1941.
I knew personally a fair number of
Nazis before World War 11. But only
that morning in the Main Jury Flail of
Moabit did I see for the first time in
person representatives of Hitler’s hor-
ror squads.
Not one looked like the stereotyped
film version of an arrogant or savage
Nazi brute. They were just six neatly
dressed middle-class men —the youngest
49, the oldest 62 all rather smallish
in build, some of them wearing spec-
tacles. Their faces were the normal
faces in the street one sees then forgets,
seemingly the faces of the ordinary man.
Yet—as two of them admitted in low,
monotonous voices they tore babies
from the arms of their mothers, shot the
sucklings in the necks and threw them
into ditches which the fathers had to
dig. Then they finished off the mothers.
And the fathers. The young and the
old.
For 14 years after the end of the
war—until their capture in 1959—these
six men lived like respected and popu-
lar citizens. Did the memories of their
crimes haunt them? At the trial only
one expressed remorse. The others, in-
cluding Dr Juris Filbert, the man in
charge of the Commando Unit, pleaded
innocence. “We simply carried out
orders which we had no right to ques-
tion,” he said.
Murderers have no special faces. But
1 wished—and I felt that everybody else
present including the judge, the prosecu-
tor and the audience felt the same —
that six subhuman monsters sat on the
wooden bench. Then it would have
been so much easier to explain their
deeds.
But we couldn't change the fact that
what we saw were six average men;
good parents, diligent and reliable in
their work, anxious to succeed. All six
had made modest but respectable careers
—four as business executives, one in
the public service, and one in the police
force in which he had advanced to the
rank of a captain.
How could so many men like these
commit those ghastly crimes of the Nazi
era? This often and inconclusively de-
bated question is now being asked with
unexpected insistence by a large section
of the West German youth which never
knew Hitler. Some 22 million West
Germans belong to this category.
Their interest in the causes, crimes and
downfall of the Nazi-regime is a recent
and unforseen development. During my
previous visit to West Germany in 1959
I found almost no trace of it.
At that time the general opinion was
that young West Germans were not
interested in either current or past poli-
tics. “All they want,” 1 was repeatedly
told, “is to get on in life, and they are
prepared to work hard for a succcesful
career.” My conversations with them
convinced me that the Weltanschauung
of the new German generations was en-
tirely materialistic.
Whenever I broached the subject of
Nazism my young friends invariably
answered with a shrug. Their words
differed but their attitude was a uni-
form .. . “what has that madness got
to do with us?”
Some older Germans welcomed this
indifference to politics and the past be-
cause it saved them from uncomfortable
confrontations. Others saw in if a sign
of health sobriety. Only a few seemed to
be disturbed. They feared that complete
lack of political preparation and educa-
tion, and the failure to grasp the signifi-
cance of the Nazi era, might leave the
new generations mentally defenceless
against the blandishments of some future
demagogue.
Returning to West Germany for
another tour last May I was surprised
at the extent of the change in three
years. Wherever I went young men and
women in their late ’teens and early
twenties asked me about my reactions
to the Filbert case. And this led to very
thorough discussions of Nazism.
But what has brought about this
change? The answer a medical student
in Bonn gave me was typical of most of
the replies I received from Luebeck in
the north to Munich in the south:
“I wasn’t keen on politics,” that medi-
cal student told me, “until in ’59 they
started to paint swastikas on the walls
of Cologne and other parts of Germany
and in other parts of the world. After
that came Eichmann's arrest. I brought
a paperback copy of the “Diary of Anne
Frank” which left me completely shaken.
I started to ask questions at home and
discovered certain things. One step led
to another. Now I’m in the Social
Democratic Party.”
And here is what a pretty and charm-
ing secretary-typist told me in Munich:
“I was six when my father was killed
on the Russian front in 1944. 1 adored
him and I unreservedly accepted the
story that he died for a great cause.
“Then I saw a play about Anne Frank


THE UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Established 1862
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
J. W. Dunlop (Chairman), Sir Edward R
Knox (Deputy-Chairman), R. J. Vicars
A. Murray Jones, Hugh Dixson D. A T
Dickins, K. B. Myers, A. E. Stephen.
Fire. Marine and Accident Insurances
of every description.
J. O. LEWIS, General Manager.
and honestly—l believed that it was a
sort of propaganda. But I became inter-
ested and began to read her Diary and
other books about Nazism. It was
terrible.
“When I questioned my mother she
told me that father had been one of the
earliest members of the National Social-
ist Party. He fought in the SS. Mother
also told me that on his last leave father
seemed to be very upset and said he sup-
ported a system which brought only
suffering to mankind. She thinks he
returned to the front with his mind
made up to die. I don’t know whether
this is true but I want to believe it is.
And I also believe that such things
must never happen again.”
I could quote similar discussions at
great length. Millions of young Germans
have begun to realise during the past
two or three years what sort of heritage
12 years of criminal Nazi rule has left
them.
Probably those who have become fully
conscious of the implications of the past
represent a minority—for the thinking
and worrying is done by a minority
everywhere. But their impact on the
present state of the West German mind
is already noticeable.
Anne Frank’s Diary
Germans have so far bought
” almost a million copies of the paper-
back edition of Anne Frank’s Diary and
sales continue to be heavy. Max
Frisch’s play. Andorra, a gripping de-
nunciation of anti-Semitism, has been
performed to packed houses in a dozen
German cities and it is still difficult to
obtain tickets to it almost everywhere.
German artists, musicians, writers and
actors —Jews and non-Jews—whom the
Nazis forced into exile, and who chose
to return to their homeland after the
war, had a lukewarm reception and sup-
port at first. In recent years, however,
their public has greatly increased.
Of course not all of those who read
Anne Frank, see Andorra and applaud
such artists as Fritz Kortner, are young.
But most of them are. And while the
West German Government and the
Social Democratic Opposition keenly
support this conscious and deliberate
break with the past, plenty of Germans
resent it.
Most of those who resent the new
interest of the young in the rise and fall
of the Third Reich are middle-aged and
elderly people who would have liked
to forget that they ever had anything to
do with Adolf Hitler. They are those
millions of men and women who “did
nothing else” but vote Nazi for years
before 1933 and who had generally
“mitgemacht” (co-operated) while the
swastika was in the ascendant.
For years these millions hoped that as
far as they were personally concerned
the past was well and truly buried.
“Schwamm drueber,” (a sponge over it)
they said, and were rather annoyed when
their own fellow-countrymen reminded
them of Auschwitz or Buchenwald.
Then suddenly, almost overnight, they
were faced with a flood of painful and
annoying questions from their own off-
spring. The essence of them was (and
stili is), “How could you support such
a bunch of criminals?” Or “How could
you acquiesce in their deeds?” This per-
sistent questioning, and everything con-
nected with it, has created a conflict
between the generations which carried
Hitler to power and those which only
witnessed the consequences of 12 years
of criminal madness.
One result of this conflict is that it
has forced many of the former “mit-
mc.chers” to face the questions and to
find answers—and not only for the
questioners but for themselves. “How
could you,” triggered off a thought pro-
cess which has led a goodly number of
middle-aged Germans to ask themselves,
“How could we?”
Most of those who are intelligent,
well-informed and honest enough to
carry out an auto-analysis, and suffi-
ciently articulate to formulate their con-
clusions blame “le viol des foules,” for
their past enthusiasm for, and co-opera-
tion with, Nazism.
Major or Minor Crime?
A fair proportion of young Germans
seems inclined to accept this conclu-
sion which—in a way—clears their elders
from the major crime of Nazism and
makes them only guilty of the minor
crime of cowardice. At first they were
bluffed by Nazi propaganda and later
they did not dare to speak up when
silence meant consent.
In addition this explanation answers
some of the thinking young Germans’
most haunting problems.
For if the conclusion is correct then
Hitlerism was not the crime of a nation
unique in its predestination to revert to
prehistoric savagery despite its cen-
turies-old and impressively solid culture
and civilisation, but a scientifically devel-
oped method of raping the masses which
could be, and in many ways has been
repeated (by Communists, for example)
at other times and elsewhere.
The Filberts and their associates were,
then, not representatives of the “eternal
Teutonic beast.” They were either heirs
of the eternal hangman and his jacks
whom the Pilates, Torquemadas, Hitlers
and Stalins always needed to keep their
own hands physically clean, or frighten-
ing examples of Modern Mans
dangerous exposure to Pavlovisation any-
where.
Wide acceptance of the theory that
Hitlerism was an example of the power
of the technique of modern mass-con-
ditioning has created a conscious rejec-
tion of all “isms”—including idealism—
among the majority of German youth.
“We don’t want to be exploited again
for the sake of some nebulous Weltan-
schauung," I was told time and again.
Answers to a Pole
"CUrlier this year a public opinion poll
was held at the University of Bonn.
Some 500 students were asked a num-
ber of questions and their answers were
revealing.
To the question, “Would you be pre-
pared to sacrifice you life for your
country?” Only six per cent, answered
yes, while 22 per cent, said that no ideal
was worth dying for.
Another 12 per cent, of the students
believed that life has beco. ie so material-
istic that no so-called ideals could arouse
West Germans at present. Some 60 per
cent, expressed abhorrence of sentimen-
tality in politics and rejected any sort
of Weltanschauung.
But 35 per cent, admitted that per-
sonal freedom and human dignity were
issues worth fighting for, and another 22
per cent, said that the right to free
expression and to free exercise of reli-
gion should be defended by all means.
Public opinion polls and my personal
experience show, however, that there is
one ideal (if one can call it that) which
German youth has wholeheartedly em-
braced. And this is political union
among the nations of Western Europe.
It is not the economic usefulness and
expediency of the Common Market to
which they subscribe, but to a strong,
free and united Western Europe which
could live its own life and could defend
its own values—not only against the
obvious foe, but also against friends.


When A.M.P. was
in 1849, sailors
looked like this
founded
SB
*3
-x
n
’"Sv
to!
mi
Z 3
ms
\
rTS
e*
2T-
SBSB
■
m
s,X
rr
r
gSs£3£^
KJ
#u~
wiz.
y
7
MODERN SHIPS and navigational aids have taken us far
from the era of the sailing ship and jolly Jack Tar. Life
assurance has changed too. So have financial problems
and the means by which they may be solved. To be surs
you have found the best solution ask your A.M.P. man to
check that you are getting maximum value for your
premiums.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Australia’s largest and oldest life assurance organisation
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE. Offices in cities and towns throughout
Australia and New Zealand and in the United Kingdom
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by funds c) £550,000,000
Y/hich the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members,
U 2923


CUTTING THE US AID PROGRAMME
Scraping The Bottom of the Barrel?
From GODFREY HODGSON in Washington
1N about a month’s time, Fowler Hamil-
ton, head of America’s aid pro-
grammes now concentrated and in
theory reorganised in the Agency for
International Development, will be go-
ing to Europe.
He will try to put more urgently and
directly than ever before to America’s
European allies—including Britain
the Administration’s growing feeling that
aid cannot go on like this much longer.
A week ago the House of Representa-
tives approved an appropriations bill
which slashes the programme the Presi-
dent asked for by £390 million, or 29
per cent.
In fact, since “tougher” military and
political forms of aid were relatively
gently treated, the blow was even heavier
than that: long-term development loans
which the Administration regards as the
most useful form of aid for developing
countries were cut by almost 40 per
cent.
It is true that the Administration un-
doubtedly asked for more than it needed
because it knew it wouldn’t get what it
asked for. It is also true that some of
the cuts could be restored in Senate, as
has happened before. But the axe this
year was heavier than usual, and pro-
spects of rescue are slimmer than usual
too.
A Catastrophic Vote
This vote in the House may be a
catastrophe for the world: it is a full-
blown triumph for one member of Con-
gress. Representative Otto Passman, De-
mocrat of Louisiana, is one of those men
whom chance places in a position where
they symbolise the instincts in this
case the worst instincts of half a
nation. Passman is tall, thin and 62,
with heavy spectacles and a sharp taste
in clothes. He was a poor white boy
from the cotton fields w'ho left school
at 13 and made a fortune estimated at
$750,000 in the hotel equipment busi-
ness. Like many Southern Congressmen
of modest ability, he rose to power
through seniority because he has a dead
safe seat, and he has acquired an extra-
ordinary grasp both of parliamentary
technique and of the foreign aid pro-
gramme, of which he is both arch enemy
and the absolute master as chairman
of the sub-committee which prepares
the annual appropriation.
If this w'as Passman’s triumph, it
should not be supposed that he be-
witched a reluctant House into adopting
his hostility to aid. On the contrary,
there never was a part of American
policy that had so few staunch friends
in Congress and country, and dissatis-
faction has reached a new intensity this
year.
There are many reasons for this. One
very important one is to do with the
emphasis of the programmes: under
Eisenhower it was heavily on the mili-
tary aspect of aid, which w..s presented
as the cheapest way of putting soldiers
in the field against Communism. To an
extent the Kennedy policy is aid for aid’s
sake. There has been a growing reac-
tion from Congress that “we are help-
in our enemies,” which exploded into
an insurrection the President was only
just able to quell when the Senate tried
to stop aid to Poland and Yugoslavia
earlier this summer.
But one of the most solid points in
a characteristically sulphurous vein that
Passman made was this: “Unless we do
something about the drain on our gold
you won’t have enough left to plate
your watch. We can’t continue this pro-
gramme without bankrupting America.”
This was the point that has force for
many who are not foes of foreign aid.
There are many in Congress who would
like a tax cut but who fear budget de-
ficits: aid seems the logical place to cut
expenditure. But a far more serious
deficit is that in external balance of
payments.
The Administration maintains that de-
ficit is disappearing. But it has not dis-
appeared yet. It raised spectres of a
loss of confidence in the dollar that
ghost is laid now and of cuts in Ame-
rica’s whole strategic commitment
around the world. And the deficit is
caused not by excess of imports, but by
excess of aid.
The Administration remains as firmly
committed as ever to massive aid, both
as a national interest and a national
duty: as the free world’s best hope, as
Fowler Hamilton is fond of saying,
against “both Communism and chaos.”
But between the hostility of Congress
and the pressure on balance of pay-
ments the dilemma is becoming intoler-
able. The Administration’s long-term
policy on aid was summarised with
characteristic clarity by Walt Rostow
last year. He looked forward to the
time when “one area after another with
which we have dealt on an emergency
basis is put under long-term arrange-
ment geared to its own development
efforts, and in which not only United
States funds but funds of other deve-
loped nations will play apart.” In other
words, aid was to be shifted from grants
to loans: it was to be tidied up and
made more effective on the successful
model of the Marshall Plan: and the
newly affluent nations of Europe were
to be brought in to share the load.
The first has largely been done. This
year’s programme doubled loans and
lowered grants from two-thirds to under
half of the total spent. There is still
much tidying up to be done, as Mr.
Passman has shown and Mr. Hamilton
would admit. What does the Adminis-
tration mean to do to rt the load
shared?
Establishing Priorities
The American case that Hamilton
will put will be this: It is now clear
that there are limitations on American
resources for aid. America will have
to establish priorities and these will
not be easy to establish between the
greatest need, the greatest prospects, and
the greatest political advantage: all that
is certain is that Alliance for Progress
in South America comes first here. Euro-
peans must be made to believe that they
cannot assume that America will always
put money into the most unpromising
countries after Europeans have taken
their pick of profit and prestige.


Around Melbourne
AMONG MY SOUVENIRS
now that it is all over, how can
” we face the dreary months
ahead? The very thing which makes
Melbourne so lovable is finished and
the bitter truth is this, we have to
wait 28 weeks for the start of another
football season. So I sit here sadly,
studying my football souvenirs, like
Hamlet studying Yorick’s skull.
It was a notable season for sou-
venirs.
For example, you could get St.
Kilda ties, towels, beanies, money
boxes, hearth rugs, bottle openers,
cushions, drinking mugs, lamps, cof-
fee tables with the badge inset, um-
brellas, ear rings, baskets, even gentle-
men’s hose with the badge tastefully
embroidered. Why, you could buy a
club football sweater for your poodle.
You think I made that up do you?
All right then. You buy them at an
establishment called “Poodles’ Para-
dise” in South Yarra. What’s more,
you can buy a Melbourne poodle foot-
ball sweater with the number 31 on
the back. Number 31 is Ron Barassi,
Melbourne’s captain. This is a favor-
ite because Ron Barassi has a host of
admirers amongst South Yarra’s
poodles.
Melbourne, like Glasgow, Madrid,
Buenos Aires or Moscow always has
been a great football city. We claim
the greatest enthusiasm per capita in
the world (during the season 140,000
went to a match every Saturday). We
have a contempt for other codes than
Australian Rules and even a contempt
for people w'ho play the same code in
other cities.
One newspaper here recently ran a
poll to decide how we should handle
interstate matches. Well, 42.3 of the
readers suggested that we should scrap
them all together. We hate anything
that interferes with our local, domestic
round of matches. There was an exam-
ple of this during the first semi-final.
Somebody had the brilliant idea of
taking Miss Tania Verstak on a grand
tour of the ground at half time. May-
be they drove her around a little too
quickly, but the tour was almost a
flop. Now, Melburnians dearly love
Tania, but this was neither the time
nor the place for her to appear. A
“semi” is an immensely serious occa-
sion. Bringing Tania on was almost
like interrupting a church service.
In truth there has never been a final
series like those of 1962. For several
years now the VFL has had the policy
of selling all the tickets for the finals
before the series starts, right down to
the standing room. This means you
cannot buy a ticket of any kind on
the day, even though crowds of
100,000 or more get into the ground.
It was felt this would save the un-
savory business of people camping
and queueing outside the ground.
Well, one must report that the basic
instinct of human beings wanting to
stand one behind the other is incur-
able. The queuers slept all night out-
side the five ticket offices in the city.
They made their beds in Elizabeth
Street, Collins Street and such and
there were 2,100 yards of queues.
Surely then there w'as no need to
queue outside the M r G for the mat-
ches? But there was. Don’t you see,
the people who had standing room
tickets still had to queue so that they
could get the best positions. For last
Saturday’s Grand Fin d the first Essen-
don supporters arrived at 4 a.m. on
Thursday—sB hours before the game
was due to start. Now the pavement
in Brunton Av ue is far from com-
fortable. The supporters get pelted
with eggs by bodgies. They can’t
sleep because cars pound by all
night. When it’s wet it’s hell. One
young gentleman said: “We decided
to come because it was a holiday and
we had nothing to do.”
Another said: “You just can’t bar-
rack properly unless you get right on
the fence.”
The splendid plans for the pre-sell-
ing of all tickets went awry because
in the Preliminary Final Carlton and
Geelong played a draw, and with the
curious system of goals and behinds
in Australian Rules, this is not easy.
Carlton kicked the equaliser 35 sec-
onds before the final siri_.i.
This called for a replay and the
whole program was put forward an-
other week.
However the VFL bore this disaster
well. The extra match meant an ex-
tra return of £16,000. The replay
meant the whole capacity ground had
to be sold again, both at city offices
and football club offices. So we had
the treat of people sleeping in the city
streets again and at all the League
grounds.
One gentleman, to make himself
entirely comfortable, pitched a tent
outside the office at the Carlton
ground.
With this sort of enthusiasm tak-
ing place Australian Rules in Mel-
bourne is in very good shape.
TTowever, although w_ don’t like to
mention it to otbu.s, particularly
to heathens from Sydney, there’s a
menace just down the road at Olym-
pic Park, to wit, soccer.
In 1951 the soccer takings at Olym-
pic Park were £150; this year they
will be £lOO,OOO. They have had at-
tendances of over 23,000 and they
have even nabbed the best centre
player in the VFL, Hawthorn’s Bren-
dan Edwards. There are now 108
senior soccer teams in Victoria and
transfer fees for top players are up
to £l,OOO.
Something has to be done, so the
VFL has just bought 200 acres of
land at Wheeler’s Hill, Waverley, 13
miles from the city and right at Mel-
bourne’s fastest - growing population
area.
The rewards of football are lush.
Now that the season is over the teams
are making their trips. The Fitzroy
and Geelong teams, officials and all,
are taking themselves on a nice trip
to New Zealand. Collingwood are
going on a dreamy sea-cruise to Nou-
mea. Other teams are going ta Surf-
ers Paradise.
Then for next year St. Kilda are
contemplating a trip to the Orient,
say, Hong Kong or Japan, and Mel-
bourne are going to Hawaii where
they will play exhibition matches in
Honolulu. We always feel that for-
eigners, whether yellow, brown or
white, have only to see our code and
they will take it up at once. But
as I said now it’s all over.
The august Australia Hotel on Sat-
urday night had its Grand Final night
in the Gold Room. The orchestra was
all dressed in football togs, the pop
singer wore a football sweater, and all
the guests were presented with little
footballs. They played the 12 songs
of the football teams, and then blew'
a whistle for half tim instead of
interval.
It will be tragic missing out on that
sort of thing right up to next April.
BATMAN


FORUM
THE CHANGING FACE
OF COMMUNISM
Neither Marx's West nor Stalin's East?
From EDWARD CRANKSHAW
For 17 years the W'orld has been Jiving in the shadow of the cold war. Both
East and West have grown so used to the habits of thought and language which
it bred that it is hard for them to realise when the shadow no longer represents
real substance.
Is the cold war a traditional struggle between Great Powers, or an ideological
conflict between Communism and capitalism or totalitarianism or democracy?
It obviously began as a bit of each.
But as a struggle between Great Powers it has been crystallised into a con-
flict between the United States and the Soviet Union which militarily neither can
W'in. This military stalemate is already being recognised. What is harder to
recognise but just as important is that the ideological conflict is also changing its
character in the direction of confusion and compromise. We know' that “the West”
is neither purely capitalist nor everywhere entirely democratic.
For many, however, there remains, and must remain, a conflict between
claims of improving Soviet conditions including, however relative, those of
more freedoms and fewer restraints and Soviet inspired, where not actually
Soviet controlled, aggression abroad. “We will bury you,” Mr Khrushchev said
in the US. But how and by what means? The language of peaceful co-existence
seems to remain as full of ambiguities and submerged threats as ever.
VTowhere in the West today is there a
true capitalist society, in the classical
sense understood and defined by Marx.
Nor does the West any longer represent
the imperialist phase of capitalism, as
defined by Lenin. We are no more a
capitalist society than the Soviet Union
is a Communist society.
Definitions of what we variously are
must be left to the political philosophers
and the economists; forecasts of where
we are going, to the prophets. But before
w'e can be ready even to contemplate
these problems, which are clearly of un-
ending fascination (since both East and
West . obscurely trying to build an
entirely new kind of society, never seen
before and only very lately dreamed
of as a practical possibility), we have
to clear our minds of r. good deal of
lumber. We have, to beg : n with, to
decide what Russia is not.
The Soviet Union of Khrushchev is
not the Soviet Union of Stalin, nor of
Lenin. I take this as common ground.
But the Soviet Union is still run by the
Communist Party and ordered in ac-
cordance w'ith its ideas, as it was under
Stalin and Lenin. If the Soviet Union
has changed, then the Communist Party
has changed. If it can change a little
it can change a great deal. But most
people, including many Russians, speak
and behave as though the Communist
party had not changed at all, and in-
deed can never change. It is on this
assumption that our present policies are
largely based.
Our case against Communism may
fall under three heads; political, moral
and philosophical. It is the political case,
superheated, as it were, by the moral
case, that has in the past made the con-
flict a matter of life and death for us.
And the politic T case originated in that
moment when Lenin, with his successful
revolution, translated the conflict between
a homeless international conspiracy
against established .w and order into a
conflict, inspired on both sides by un-
changed ideas, between the newly born
Soviet State and the established Govern-
ments of all other countries. Lenin was
committed to the dream, even more
sharply articulated by Trotsky, of a
Communist world achieved by a series
of violent revolutions.
Since revolutionary situations are most
likely to present themselves towards the
end of long and exhausting wars, and
since his view of history told him that
wars, fought for markets, were an in-
evitable consequence of capitalism, he
was further committed to a belief in the
inevitability, indeed the necessity, of war.
This thesis remained an integral part of
the Communist canon until early in 1956,
when Khrushchev, at the Twentieth Party
Congress, formally erased it. In so doing
he removed the main political objection
to Communism, as distinct from Russian-
ism, and opened interesting vistas which
have not yet been prcperly acknowledged
by the West, much less explored.
The moral case was also strong. It was
concerned with the methods employed by
the Communist Government of the Soviet
Union to increase its influence and power
abroad and to consolidate its rule, first
over the peoples of the Soviet Union,
then over those of eastern and central
Europe who were brought beneath the
sway of Communism by force or threat-
ened force, of Soviet arms.
There is no need to recapitulate these
methods. They were abominable. Some
of them have already been deplored by
Khrushchev, others almost certainly will
be. Leninist doctrine, Stalinist militarism,
and Russian police manners, created be-
tween them what we still think of as
the Communist menace.
The one, as I hav said, was super-
heated by the others. But the point to
be made is that if Lenin s revolutionary
doctrine is abandoned, which is certainly
so, and if Stalinist militarism and Russian
police manners are in the process of
modification, which appears to be so we
are left with a good many things we do
not like, some, perhaps, that are dan-
gerous, but no longer with the things
against which we are now armed, fixed in
an attitude of implacable and eternal
hostility the Communist menace.
The third case against Communism, the
philosophical one, is not a thing *o make
war about; it never has been. It is simply
the objection to a system whose pro-
ponents arrogate to themselves the mon-
opoly of truth. This may rem compara-
tively unimportant beside the issues
war and peace; but since it has a dn
bearing on the behaviour that shapes
those issues, it is worth including. For
in this matter too the Comm mists are
changing.
All these things are to the good. Much
remains that is by any standards bad
from the repression of free speech to the
continued economic exploitation of cen-
tral and eastern Europe in the interests
of the Soviet Union (Soviet attempts to
make Comecon work are severely hamp-
ered by the Soviet custom of overcharg-
ing for exports to the People’s Derpocra-
cies and underpaying for imports from
them); from the calculated use of the
lie to active subversion abroad; from the
too easy resort to violence, especially in
eastern Europe, to the persistent suppres-
sion of truth. But these things in them-
selves do not const!' tea r active menace
to the non-Communist world.
Further, whereas under Stall, the evils
of the Soviet Communist system could be
said to differ in kind from the evils of
bourgeois systems, it is now possible to
argue that they differ, sometimes depres-
singly widely, only in degree. Finally, it
is now possible to perceive some differ-
ences in favour of the Soviet Union, or
at least certain achievements worthy of


interested contemplation, if not emula-
tion.
The great achievement has been the
bringing into play of the masses, the
common people, through education on a
gigantic scale and something like quality
of opportunity, at least for equal talents.
Bound up with this has been a sustained
and dedicated attempt, only partly suc-
cessful, to instil a spirit of co-operative
effort and to achieve a rational control
of resources through central control of
the means of production in the interests
of all.
There is no need to recount the cost
of this, the atrocity of some of the means.
We do not, if we are sane, go on re-
counting the cost of the French Revolu-
tion. A new society, whether one likes
it or not, is in fact being born and the
travail that has accompanied that birth,
even though it may have been largely
unnecessary, is, in its most acute form
done with. What we have to deal with is
what stands before us now, with its suc-
cesses and its failures.
At least a sense of order
It is these achievements that appeal
so strongly to the backward nations out-
side the Soviet bloc. Out of chaos and
starvation, the Soviet system has brought
forth order and a measure of prosperity,
to say nothing of the most spectacular
achievements i the advanced sciences.
The senior politicians of the uncommitted
nations, or most of them, know some-
thing of the exorbitant price in suffering
on the one hand and moral corruption
on the other paid foi those achieve-
ments. They know, too, that except in
China and Yugoslavia (both of whom
have quarrelled with Russia), not one of
Communism’s conquests, with th: solitary
exception of Cuba, was the result of a
popular revolution; all were made by the
Soviet Army. They know, too, that when
Communists come bearing gifts it is time
to be alert.
But their successors will be far Jess
aware of all these things. And if the
Soviet Union succeeds in transforming
herself materially, and in allowing her
European dependencies enough freedom
to be themselves and to prosper, then
we may well expect Communism to be
regarded with a more sympathetic eye.
But will it then be Communism?
Certainly Mr Khrushchev, in the teeth
of disapproval not only from China but
also from neo-Stalinists in eastern Europe
and at home, is doing his best to win
such sympathy. Having, as it were, out-
lawed war and discounted violent revo-
lution he has put himself in a position to
wait indefinitely for the Communist mil-
lennium. In Africa and in Asia he is
going very quietly indeed. More than
this, he seems to be using the unortho-
dox ideas of Socialism which are en-
demic in Africa to stimulate debate at
home.
One day, and clearly for tactical rea-
sons, he attacks the newly independent
nations for woolly thinking about Social-
ism and capitalism; on the next he in-
jects the result of this woolly thinking
into public debate at home. Thus, early
last month, “Pravda” and *lzvestia” suc-
cessfully gave remarkably full coverage to
an interview granted by President Nasser
to the editors of the two papers in which
Nasser spoke with the utmost freedom
about his ideas on Socialism for Egypt,
which, from the Soviet point of view,
were utterly heretical.
Nearer home the return to the thesis
of “different roads to Socialism,” pro-
pounded in 1956, but shattered by the
Hungarian uprising, has been restored.
Poland is pursuing a highly individual
path making accommodation with Rome,
allowing all sorts of freedoms to artists
and writers, turning her back on that
disastrous sine qua non of the Commun-
ist world, the collectivisation of agricul-
ture.
Some of her neighbors are experiment-
ing, none so freely and spectacularly, in
other ways. Rumania has put out lines
to the West and shows every sign of re-
sisting Soviet pressure to cast her newly
established, or resurrected, industries into
the bottomless paol cf Comecon, as it is
at present constructed. Hungary is show-
ing signs of recovery from the shock
of 1956. The formal expulsion of Rakosi
and Gero from the C mmunist Party is
only an outward sign of a strong move-
ment towards liberalisation.
Bulgaria, always the first of the satel-
lites to follow Khrushchev’s examples,
is hampered in the new drive towards
self-expression only by the fact that she
has no friendly neighbors (she is per-
petually at odds with the Greeks and
the Yugoslavs over territorial matters).
Consequently she entirely depends on the
Soviet Union, which seems unable to re-
sist charging her n.ore for her imports
and paying her less for her exports than
any other of the People’s Democracies.
Even Czechoslovakia, held down firmly
in the Stalinist image and perhaps con-
soling herself with her comparative
material prosperity, shows signs of stir-
ring. The iron rule of Novotny and his
friends is fractured, and with Moscow’s
approval.
Even in East Germany there is a re-
placement for Ulbricht ready for the
moment when Russia decides that she can
afford to relax his gaoler's rule.
As for the homeland itself, it is hard
to know what Mr Khrushchev believes
and what he does not believe. Once upon
a time he talked like a militant Leninist:
this was only to be expected, considering
that his way to power and his sole claim
to authority rested on his capture and re-
juvenation of the Communist Party ap-
paratus, which Stalin had made sterile.
Since then he has talked differently:—
We are getting richer, and when a
person has more to eat he gets more
democratic.
No longer wedded to immutable dogma
Also in 1959 (at the time of the Russo-
American rapproachement, that is),
Khrushchev could say, quite forgetting
his role as leader of the world Com-
munist movement, and thinking as a
Russian, that if only Russia and America
could agree the peace of the world would
be ensured, for between them those two
Great Powers could stop any war, any-
where.
The new flexibility is to be seen even
over the issue of the Common Market.
While it is being officially denounced
as an imperialist plot directed against the
Soviet bloc on the one hand and the ex-
colonial nations on the other, last week in
Moscow there was an important meeting
of economists from Communist parties
all over Europe some of whom had quite
other things to say about the way in
which the Common Market, even in its
present form, was helping to raise the
living standards of the workers.
It is a slow business. There are two
steps backward for every three forward.
Anachronisms abound. But the change is
there. The Soviet Union is no longer
the headquarters of a belligerent revolu-
tionary organisation stopping at nothing,
including the fomenting of wars, to
achieve its ends. She is no longer wedded
to an immutable dogma. She has come
alive.
But she is still Russia, with all that
this implies, still dangerous, but much
more comprehensible. She presents a
serious challenge. A people reared in
violence and conspiracy, particularly
Russian violence and conspiracy, do not
change overnight into angels. But it is
the challenge now of a new and over-
bearing society rather than of a revolu-
tionary movement armed with tanks and
atom-bombs. If we can tear ourselves
away from the past and look at that chal-
lenge in the face we could be the better
for it. It might well teach us more about
the needs of our own society. Certainly
the Russians have learnt a good deal
from us.


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
THE KANGAROO KILLERS
Sir,
“While there’s open spaces, there’ll al-
ways be kangaroos”: (Bulletin, Septem-
ber 15) that I think ; s the belief of one
of your contributors. That may be. There
are vast open spaces in Africa almost de-
nuded of game; space is no guarantee of
survival: the Olyx of Saudi Arabia had
all the space in the world, with ideal
conditions; they are now extinct. Why?
Well, sportsmen in Cadillacs with mach-
ine guns drove into the open spaces, and
that was that chum. And again your con-
tributor does not specify why five Species
of kangaroos are nigh extinct and several
others gone for good? “Open spaces” is
only a temporary reprieve for the ’roo.
Spike Milligan
Woy Woy (NSWh
Sir,
Really Mr Lamond I thought you'd be
the last to tie me kangaroo down sport!
(Bulletin, September 15). For the re-
cord let it be clear that there never has
been the slightest fuss nor any argument
about the thinning of kangaroos on
stations where their numbers have become
too great.
The immediate and pressing concern
which Mr Lamond dismisses lightly is
the growth of the new fast expanding
kangaroo meat industry which, unlike the
the periodicity of a station drive involves
constant slaughter of anything that hops
and anything with meat.
Latest figures based on A.B.C. sources,
Australia wide, report the export of 50
tons weekly plus an additional 10 tons of
pet food consumed within Australia.
One hundred and thirty-three kanga-
roos constitute one ton of meat so the
total of these animals processed weekly
is 7980 to which simultaneously slain
pouch young carry the total to a conser-
vative 10,000.
With Australia lacking anything com-
parable to the great game reserves of
Africa, with modern means of getting
anywhere fast with refrigeration trucks
available, with civilisation on the gallop
and big money involved, with rarer'mem-
bers of the slow breeding kangaroo family
threatened with extinction what Aus-
tralian. really wrapped up in his own
country, can sit by and let things slide?
Now is the time to take stock of the
situation and its implications— not later
when it could be just a little too late.
Don’t forget the pathetic case of the
koalas which as late as the 1920 s were
legal money spinners for hard hearted
hunters.
They’ve never recovered and man with
his periodic burning off still makes life
difficult for the survivors (I’m nursing a
blistered fly-blown Teddy at the moment.)
Remember that with the hardier Red,
Grey and Rock kangaroos (Wallaroos) go
such precariously clinging relatives as
delightful Rock wallabies, Nail-tailed and
Hare wallabies. Even the elegant Prettv-
face or Whip-tail which is practically of
kangaroo size could be in jeopardy.
Many have forgotten that the fleet
and handsome Toolache wallaby simi-
larly a lover of open areas of south-
eastern South Australia was so attractive
for “sport” and for its beautiful pelt that
it was completely exterminated by the
mid 1920'5.
Mr Lamond's reference to the “roden-
tary teeth" of kangaroos with which
“ —an old man will eat as much as eight
sheep. —does the poor old marsupials
some sad injustices.
The boot is on the other foot for the
kangaroo as a unit is an extremely light
grazer thriving on the poorest vegeta-
tion and seldom damaging root structure.
It doesn t compare with the lawn mowing
sheep.
In northwestern Western Australia it
was found through CSIRO investigation
that in unimproved pasture country "sheep
ate out high protein grasses completely
and dropped back. Euros (Rock kanga-
roos) in the same area maintained them-
selves as usual on the remaining low
protein growth unacceptable to the
woollies. In fact, with water points avail-
able that were never there before, Euros
had it far better than in the dry old days
Nevertheless they received direct blame
from pastoralists for the decline of the
sheep.
DAVID FLEAY
Fleay’s Fauna Reserve,
West Burleigh (Queensland).
SANTAMARIA AND TV
Sir,
Mr Mullins' letter on my article,
“Santamaria Moves North” (Bulletin]
September 8) adds one fact only to the
matter discussed, which, however, makes
the tactics of the National Civic Council
appear in an even worse light than be-
fore. The fact (not denied in my article)
was that a token permission had been
given by Archbishop Duhig—whether or
not the full significance was impressed
on the Archbishop.
Mr Mullins does not, of course, men-
tion the fact that the correspondence
took place shortly after the venerable,
91-year-old prelate, whose name is a by-
word for tolerance and generosity, had
entered the Brisbane Mater Hospital in
mid-July for a serious operation and is
still hospitalised.
Mr Mullins, of course blandly passes
over the most extraordinary feature of all,
namely that the official Catholic Radio
and Television Committee in Melbourne,
under the presidency of the Rev. Dr
Percy Jones, was willing to do the “nego-
tiating*’ with Archbishop Duhig on be-
half of the “unofficial” N.C.C., which in
terms of the Rome formula on the
“Movement” issue is supposed to be
following a prudent and sincere policy of
non-involvement with the official rami-
fications of the Church.
If everything is as above aboard as Mr
Mullins would have us believe, why did
he not, as a Brisbane resident and
Queensland president of the N.C.C.,
approach Archbishop Duhig direct for
the necessary authority, having first got
the permission of the Melbourne Catholic
committee to use the programme?
Some N.C.C. members have said,
however, that if the programme was pre-
sented in toto as a “religious programme”
before noon on Sundays, it would cost
only £5O. If the seven minute talk by
Mr Santamaria was presented after noon,
the cheapest they could manage was up-
wards of £2O a minute. Hence, the final
deal was to import the whole Melbourne
Catholic programme.
The presentation of Mr Santamaria’s
“Sunday Magazine” talk, by the way,
whether it appears in Melbourne or Bris-
bane, raises issues that should surely be
looked at by the Australian Broadcasting
Control Board, whose policy is to per-
mit only religious programmes before
noon on Sundays. The Melbourne Catho-
lic weekly, “The Advocate,” of which
Archbishop Mannix is the proprietor, and
which usually publishes a report of Mr
Santamaria’s talk, said through the mouth
of its TV commentator (“Advocate,”
March 8, 1962, column 5, line 9) that
Mr Santamaria’s talk is “a political com-
mentary.” Should the talk be given at all
in its present time spot? Is the Board
blinking its eye at a devious way of get-
ting Mr Santamaria's politics onto TV?
It is significant, too, that since the
appearance of my “Bulletin” article on
September 8, Channel 7 now tells its
viewers that the programme is sponsored
by the N.C.C. Before that, it merely said
“Sunday Magazine" was a “paid reli-
gious programme.”
Both Mr Mullins and Monsignor Tor-
pie have misunderstood the paragraph in
my article about the meeting of the
Brisbane Catholic TV committee. (If
they re-read the passage they should
understand this.) They are correct that
the meeting was postponed a week. But
I did not mean to say (perhaps the passage
was open to this interpretation) that the
chairman, Archbishop O'Donnell, and
some other members expressed hostility to
the N.C.C. move at the meeting. Let there
be no doubt, as Monsignor Torpie should
be aware, that such hostility was ex-
pressed.
JAMES FENNELLY
Brisbane.


SANTAMARIA MOVES NORTH
Sir,
As an admirer of The Bulletin I was
rather taken aback by the reply of Mr
B. Mullen of the National Civic Council
to an article written by Mr T. Fennelly.
Mr Mullen’s letter seems to show clearly
that the original article was based on
complete fabrication and would seem to
evacuate from those narrow-minded
bigots whom we hear with Christian
Charity. But for a reputable paper like
The Bulletin to become involved in
such a thing is rather astounding. Let
us have the facts and the truth even if it
hurts, but let it always, be the truth.
D. DROULERS
Sydney.
THE ABO VOTE
Sir,
The tone of your correspondent’s
article (Bulletin, September 15) on the
granting of Aboriginal voting rights in
the Northern Territory is to be deplored.
It gives a misleading picture of the life
and attitudes of full-blood Aborigines.
To write of Aborigines preferring “to
sit in the dust ... on free rations” rather
than work is just not true. On Govern-
ment settlements they do no receive
rations unless they work and, where
training in skills is available, they readily
learn and employ these skills. For in-
stance, at Maningrida (Arnhem Land), a
Government settlement, Aborigines are
employed as carpenters, builders, timber-
millers, reafforestation officers. Many do
skilled work in the market garden, others
drive and service complex tractors and
equipment. I would suggest your corres-
pondent look about in the Territory and
see whether he can find unemployed
Aborigines where work is available.
STAN DAVEY
Secretary, Federal Council
for Aboriginal Advancement.
Bay swat er (Victoria).
NORTH-WEST PASSAGE
Sir,
I have just perused Keith Willey’s
article “North-West Passage, 1962”
(Bulletin, September 1). If "his general
conclusions about the Kimberleys are
no more accurate than his remarks on
Wyndham, I suggest you give him away
as a regular contributor. I spent some
months in Wyndham in 1954, and have
in all paid three visits to the township.
Since I was there, it has grown
sufficiently to warrant a bank opening.
In 1954 there were well over "a
hundred children attending the local
school, which makes his population
figures just silly. The local police
estimated (and I think quite accurately)
that the permanent population was
between 450 and 500. (Mr Willey gave
the permanent population at a “couple
of hundred permanent residents”. His
opinion of the friendliness of the
populace is as different from mine as are
the Bulletin’s on Communism and
those of the late unlamented Stalin. I
found the people are,without exception,
ready to extend the hand of friendship.
I was there six weeks at one stretch,
waiting for some ore assays from Mt.
Isa, and I think I met everyone in town.
Drink! Yes, they all drink, but I never
saw a drunken man in my whole period,
and I was boarding at the Six Mile
Hotel, one of the best run hostelries I
have known in the whole of North
Australia.
DOUGLAS C. TILGHMAN
Berry (NSW).
WHEN IS LEFT, LE[?]T?
Sir,
Jim Jupps’ article “What Happened
To the New Left” (Bulletin, Septem-
ber 16), provides some strange interpreta-
tions of what is supposed to represent the
“New Left”.
For instance, “new liftists mainly from
the University have harried Mr Sam
Goldbloom and his attendant sprites at
most of his meetings.” Mr Goldbloom
was the intended victim of a McCarthy-
ite head hunting expedition and I hardly
think that is the mark of “new. leftism”.
In fact, it appears that Mr Jupps’ idea
of being “left” is to belittle what the left
wing in he Labor Movement is doing,
such as his reference to the Sydney “new
left” for its “Aldermaston” marchers as
not understanding the “focal points” for
intellectuals.
All experience has shown that “Alder-
maston” marchers not only draw into
activity large numbers of intellectuals
but also they are a very effective means
of propaganda for nuclear disarmament.
Mr Jupp says “Because the Sydney
‘left’ forms a rainbow of Trotskyists,
Syndicalists, Revisionists and what nots it
has always suffered from sectarianism”.
I can appreciate that from time to time
sectarianism affects the left wing but
what concerns me is that there is a
dangerous and Weird trend among some
people of the alleged “left” who think it
is sectarian to do anything “left” and that
the job of the “left” is to fight leftism.
A strange and ludicrous state of affairs
for “Socialists” to be in.
G. McDONALD
Trades Hail, Melbourne.
LEFT OUT
Sir,
Mr J. Jupp in “What Happened to the
New Left” (Bulletin, September 15) has
mentioned all groups of the so-called
“New Left” active among the intellec-
tuals, but has forgotten to mention the
only group which is active in the trade
unions, the Social Democratic Group in
Melbourne.
The Social Democratic Group in Mel-
bourne was formed in 1959 and since
then has published regularly the “Social
Democratic News and Views,” as well as
distributing Social Democratic and Free
Trade Union publications in Australia.
In the last few months this group has
published the following pamphlets:
1. International Situation Speeches
held at the last congress of the Socialist
International: 2. The World Today
The socialist perspective, declaration
adopted by the Council of the Socialist
International; 3. Socialist Alternative for
East Central Europe declaration of
the Socialist Union of central Eastern
Europe.
O. ROZENBES
Secretary, Social Democratic
Group.
Melbourne.
WHAT HAPPENED TO THE
NEW LEFT
Sir,
The Victorian Fabian Society is an
expanding and united body with some
influence in Victorian Labor politics pre-
cisely because its anti-communism (and,
for that matter, anti-Liberalism and anti-
Movementism) takes the form of a posi-
tive committment to socialism at once
practical and constructive. This is a far
cry from the “conscious” (“Shiftless”
might be a more accurate description)
anti-communism which finds its fulfil-
ment in harassing a man as fine as Sam
Goldbloom—and which caused the
breakup of the original Melbourne “Out-
look” group. It is a pity that in an other-
wise admirably incisive article Mr Jupp
(Bulletin, September 15) could not
have made this distinction a little clearer.
RACE MATHEWS
Croydon (Victoria).
“SUPERSTITION”
Sir,
Why doesn’t Frank Knopfelmacher
(Bulletin, September 8) come down to
earth? The main objections to State Aid
are the superstitious teachings of the
Roman Catholic Church —the “dead
issues of the 17th century”— which he
dismisses in the last paragraph of his
article.
In a Brisbane parish some months ago,
a Roman Catholic priest actually blessed
infant children with a bone. —Brisbane
“Courier” (16/10/61).
Some two years ago, the statue of
Fatima was sent on a tour of adoration—
the hallucinations of two 10 year old
girls.
The worship of the “Host”; kissing the
feet of the Crucifixion at Easter; burning
candles for the dead—are all very live
issues in the Roman Catholic Church to-
day. (Apparently the Knopfelmacher
Mental Hospitals have out-patients as well
as inmates.)
Is it any wonder that a sane Govern-
ment refuses to support such 17th Cen-
tury superstitions? Perhaps a major Poli-
tical Party may do better if its leaders
had different backgrounds.
The Roman Catholics tend to isolate
themselves with their own schools; their
own clubs; their own sporting fixtures
etc., and apart from duplication this is
generally not in the best interests of the
State. The Government is therefore
“adopting the course which is in the best
national interests.”
R. W. BOYS
Kilkivan (Queensland).


REVIEWS
THEATRE
LOTS TO LEARN
By KEVON KEMP
Dark Of the Moon. (Richardson and
Berney); National Institute of
Dramatic Art; Old Tote Theatre.
Sydney.
A ny adventures into a new style of
theatre is bound to have perils, and
NIDA'S brave new Old Tote Theatre
is finding this out quickly with its present
production of the remarkable “Dark Of
The Moon.”
The Old Tote is a theatre whose stage
has no proscenium, and whose walls and
ceiling are common with the auditorium.
One can quarrel a little, if desired, with
NIDA'S claim that this is “open stage”,
since along with some distinguished com-
pany I like reserving this term for the
true open platform stage with audience
seated three-sided around it.
There is no doubt, though, that the
simple form used at the Old Tote gives
a warmth and intimacy to the player-
audience relation quite different from that
of the proscenium technique. It is this
strange new intimacy that the Old Tote
producers and cast must come to terms
with just as fast as they can.
They cannot go ahead, as they did
with “Dark Of The Moon,” and produce
the play as if it were for a proscenium
stage which by some fearful accident had
had its front blown off.
Tom Brown’s production, fluid, well-
paced, and with much (but not enough)
fire, took little advantage from the free-
dom of this new stage. The action and
playing was essentially proscenium style
—a sad retreat into old forms that
puzzled the audience unnecessarily.
Elaborate settings are completely out
for stages that are open, and such de-
vices as revolving trucks and ingenious
folding scenery only embarrass the
audience at close range.
Scenery, as no doubt Mr Brown and
others will learn, comes between the
audience and the actor in open-stage,
unless it is very carefully appraised and
criticised before being allowed room.
The entire value of open-stage is that
it puts a tremendous challenge out to
producer and cast. It is a style which
demands the utmost simplicity, integrity
and ruthless honesty of approach; its re-
wards are great but so are its disci-
plines, and many many things have to
be unlearned for success in the new style.
I am saying this all at length, out of
great respect for the new theatre and its
devoted and dedicated staff, and from
the warmest of wishes for its permanent
success. I am also saying it after many
personal productions on open stages,
knowing the pitfalls and pratfalls that
the technique involves.
All this preaching apart, Mr Brown’s
staging of this moving and poetic play
that is almost a folk-opera, is an ex-
perience for Sydney theatregoers. The
student actors mostly achieve ensemble
and concentration to a degree of high
intensity, and intensity that pulls the
audience right into the heart of the play.
It would be a pleasure to say that these
heights are reached consistently through-
out the play, but, alas, they are not.
For some reason, the producer has not
seized on the music of the play as much
as is needed for the full effect; the bal-
lads of "Dark Of The Moon” are an
essential part of it, and it is the produc-
tion’s loss when they are disregarded or
minimised. Miss Rosalind Seagrave, as
Barbara Allen, completely threw away
one of the finest scenes in modern play-
ing simply by making nothing at all
out of her singing of the Barbara Allen
ballad.
The story is the story of the ballad, a
witch-boy who falls in love with the
beautiful Barbara Allen. He can become
a human if Barbara is true to him for a
year.
Against a background of primitive hill-
folk and their fierce revivalist religion,
the story runs swiftly until Barbara bears
a witch baby, and subsequently is raped
by the valley’s strong man on the Lst
night of Barbara’s year of faithfulness, so
breaking the girl’s promise, and ending
the legendary love affair.
There is poetry and fantasy here of
the highest order, and endowed with that
special strength that comes only from
legend. It is a tale that demands song,
and Mr Brown denied the song. Without
song, the production has pace, but it will
not haunt the memory, as, down the
years, the Independent Theatre’s produc-
tion of the play back around 1949 has.
On the credit side, many most compe-
tent bits of character playing were shown
by the students, and though there were
no outstanding individual performances,
yet the strength of character playing is
a fine witness to the basic quality of
NIDA's work.
It has been a courageous opening for
one of Sydney's most charming and
promising theatres; all who love theatre
will wish the Old Tote a long, proud
life.
CIVILISED ENTERPRISE
The School for Scandal: Muse Theatre
Club. Melbourne.
tT’-HERE are few experiences in theatre
more pleasing than a good perform-
ance of “The School for Scandal.” Mel-
bourne's students of the play have been
particularly well served this year, with
an excellent production by the university’s
Three Drama Groups earlier on, and now
this one, some few degrees better by the
Muse Theatre Club under Alan Money.
Mr Money’s staging of classic plays in
his tiny theatre is, in aims and achieve-
ment, one of Melbourne’s most civilised
enterprises.
In no sense is the play cut down to
size or vulgarised. Indeed, its best quali-
ties are displayed more effectively than
in many a more lavish production. The
acting is of a high order. All members
of cast have the ability to negotiate
Sheridan’s long lines with clarity and
point, and most of them move easily.
Over all there is a fine and clear sense
of style. Geoffrey Page and Iris Hall
as Crabtree and Mrs Candour achieve
many felicitous touches, and neither part
is allowed to become a mere grotesque.
Donald Sey as Sir Peter Teazle, Jeannie
James as Lady Teazle, and Mark Albiston
as Joseph Surface are others who are
particularly good, and Tom de Kessler’s
settings are delightful.
JAMES MURPHY


TELEVISION
LAST POST
all the staunch willpower of a
' ’ rabbit facing his first snake, I tried
to turn the dial from “Letter Box” last
Thursday night, but there was no escap-
ing the merry, beady eye of Mr Bill
Acfield. So I had to sit petrified through
some 25 minutes of entertainment roughly
similar to being lost in a hall of mirrors
with a group of Yaklanders who instist on
playing a word game in their own pecu-
liar language, with rules handed straight
down from Bedlam. It was a;c eerie
experience.
The show, if that’s the euphemism I’m
after, began with an announcement that
this was Australia’s favorite electronic
word game. As I cowered, waiting for
some IBM monster to spit electronic
words at me, the c meras focused on
Mr Acfield’s beard, which was a beauty,
and then moved to contemplate “our
lady of letters, Myra Roper.” Both looked
tolerably human, and so did the two other
people identified as Champion and
Challenger. But as my hand flew to the
tuning dial, some Weirdo pressed a button
and I was lost.
Now I was looking at Champion and
Challenger seated behind two small
stands, and in the foreground I could see
the diagrams of 16 squares they were
huddled over. So I was both facing them
and looking over their shoulders. It was
gruesome. Then either in the mirror, or
in person, or both, Mr Acfield appeared
from behind a sliding panel, made a
simple gesture, and produced no, not
a white dove a card from which he
read, “Your first letter is N.”
In their wild hall of mirrors Champion
and Challenger proceeded to dab this
and other letters into the squares as Mr
Acfield named them, resulting in cross-
words with such everday Yakland terms
at LLLL, SSSP, and OENS. Occasionally
Champion accidentally got one of the
four squares across or down to spell out
an English word, such as ILLS, or in
three consecutive squares made TOG or
GOO. After 16 letters had been placed
in this random fashion, and all of the
squares filled, Miss Roper appeared on
camera to read for us the English words
we could all see, but if she was follow-
ing any rules I was certainly not fol-
lowing her.
For instance, she accepted ENS and
SAL as words, but ignored IDS, ALI and
SO. As fast as Champion won each game,
she cried, “Custard waffles” or some
such term, and lights flashed, bells rang,
and she won stuff like a radiator, or a
canteen of cutlasses. Once she cried,
“Summer nighters,” and Mr Acfield
echoed, “Summer nighties ah, night-
ers.” Man, it was the most.
As though these proceedings were not
sufficiently confusing, every so often a
card with 16 squares was shown on the
screen, and Mr Acfield would part his
beard carefully so say, “Game No. 6,
Brisbane. Your something letters are N
and E.” Quick as an electronic flash I
guessed that weeks ago viewers had had
this mystery explained to them, and to
the devil with any who had since been
hypnotised into looking in.
Well, that was “Letter Box”. And to
think television hesitates to show foreign
language films because people might not
be able to follow them. “Gate Of Hell”
in Japanese would be so much easier to
understand than Mr Acfield’s own
peculiar corner of television.
FRANK ROBERTS
ART
EXQUISITE
FEINT
Adrian Feint. Johnstone Gallery, Bris-
bane.
A drian Feint is an artist of all distinc-
tion of mind with a technique of
great delicacy. When brutal-minded
writers rely on coarseness, exaggeration
and the homely trowel, the currency
gets debased and the words I want to
use now are tarnished and currently
meaningless; used even in the proper
sense they seem mawkish. I just want to
say I think Feint’s work exquisite and his
34 oils are all in varying degrees literally
exquisite. All but three or four land-
scapes are flower still lifes done in glow-
ing color and faithful detail which give
an effect of self-sufficient perfection. The
flowers are far more than botanical speci-
mens as so much flower study is; they
are pictures which match the flowers in
beauty.
One remarkable effect, in works so
light in actual solid content, is that oc-
casionally more than one object is por-
trayed so that the spatial relations deter-
mined by the shape, size, texture and
intervals of and between the objects have
an interest of their own. In some pictures
there is a background of water bearing
far away a small boat which produces an
air as romantic as a Verlaine sonnet.
Paintings like these of Feint’s have been
a distinctive feature of Australian paint-
ing. Nobody has ever done ffower paint-
ing quite like this and in its exquisite
delicacy it is not likely to be surpassed.
J. V. DUHIG
RARE BIRDS
Max Lyle. Museum of Modern Art,
Melbourne.
Stephen Walker. South Yarra Gallery,
Melbourne.
T>oth Max Lyle and Stephen Walker
sculpt in metal, neither very im-
pressively. They have each been singular-
ly fortunate in their display. The some-
what unpromising setting of the Museum
has been splendidly adapted by Martin
Pollard for Lyle’s exhibition; and the
charming garden surroundings of the
South Yarra Gallery show the Tas-
manian sculptor’s work to the best pos-
sible advantage.
Stephen Walker is at his best when the
sculptural demands of his work are least
exacting. The small metal sculptures
which treat nature rather literally
leaves, birds, animals contrive to suit
the material to the motif, and are at-
tractive in spite of an excess of knobbly
welded detail. The larger, more for-
malised wood and metal sculptures on
the other hand have little more than a
surface appeal. “Animal Headed Forms,”
the largest and most expensive of the
pieces, in brass-covered wood, is at first
sight impressive, especially in its setting
here, but it is very hard to see in it more
than a nicely proportioned lump, which
fails to justify its lumpishness.
Max Lyle is more preoccupied than
Walker with unity of form and intellec-
tual content. This does result in more
apparent successes, but they are often
facilely obtained, and Walker is probably
the better sculptor. One does at least
sense in Walker that he started from
reality, and that his failures arise from
the universal difficulty of translating life
into art; whereas in Lyle the sculpture
seems to have come first and to depend
on the often fortuitous combination of a
number of fruitful shapes.
In the case of both these sculptors there
is still lacking that qualitv of complete
vision which makes for generally
meaningful statement. Neither should be
relegated to the rank of promising—we
are too short of sculptors to be able to
downgrade honest and accomplished
work but the standard is only good.
Perhaps the very raritv of exhibitions of
this standard accounts in part for the
failure of these two to reach a very high
standard.
BILL HANNAN


RADIO
IN THE HEMING WAY
Tn June, 1917, Ernest Hemingway was
still at high school; in September he
was a junior reporter for the Kansas
City ‘Star’, writing his sister Marcelline
“three pages of raves” about a movie
star he had met, and in July, 1918, he
received more than 200 pieces of shrap-
nel below the waist, and a machine gun
bullet in the knee.
Repatriated, “he wasn’t the same old
friend and playmate I had known ... a
lifetime of new experiences war, death,
agony, new people, a new language, and
love had crowded into Ernest’s life.”
And so the Hemingway attitude was
formed? It was less immediate than that.
In Marcelline’s recollection, he did not
only fill in time as described in Soldier’s
Home, but read much, had many visitors,
lectured (showing his holed, blood-stained
trousers), “enjoyed showing his trophies”,
fired souvenired star shells to entertain
his father's friends; but also “in between
these extrovert activities, Ernie had
quiet, almost depressed intervals.”
Still in 1919, about 18 months out of
high school, Hemingway told his sister:
“There’s a whole big world out there full
of people who really feel things. They
live and love and die with all their feel-
ings. The Italians live all the way.”
These fragments from the early life of
Hemingway tell you nothing definite
about the man. Neither did the recol-
lections of a score or so of his peers in
a sound “Portrait” broadcast by ABC
radio last week, from which the early
Hemingway and so much else was miss-
ing.
Edited and produced at the BBC, with
narration by Eric Linklater, it gave the
listener this confusing picture:
Morley Callaghan: “He had to be
champion.”
Louis Kazan: “An odd religious
streak.”
Sidney Franklin: “I didn’t believe the
man was anything.”
Lillian Heilman: “I think he’d always
had a naive mystique about courage.”
Robert Ruark: “Easily wounded, some-
times cruel as a child.”
Sir Adrian Holman: “He was a kind
and lovable creature among those he
liked.”
Archibald Macleish: “Approach
through theory to the thing made him
gag.”
Toots Schorr: “Most gennel and kind
man around the ladies.”
There was much more during the fea-
ture. But not all that much more. If
the broadcast had been called, “A Few
Sidelights on Hemingway”, this would
have been jes’ fine. As a “portrait” it
was a very lightly splashed canvas.
The great virtue of the radio feature
was in the pleasure of hearing voices of
people known only by their reputations.
The molasses voice of Dos Passos, more
intriguing than his sidelight (“Few people
I’ve had a better time with than old
Hemingway.”), or the Gallic wartime
recollection by Charle of the Ritz
(“walking up the stairs like a big bear,
with three Fifis on his arm ... is thisl
the Ritz? Well, I take over the Ritz.”)
As a kind of literary world travelogue;
centred on shifting images of Heming-
way, it was interesting, and it was good
radio. Hemingway battering his way out;
of a crashed plane with his head is
imaginable. So is Hemingway shootingj
accurately while standing on his head on
a boat (though a defect of vision causedl
his Army, Navy and Marine rejections in
1917). And there were strange bonuses.
Lillian Ross murdered Hemingway in the
“New Yorker” magazine when he came
from Cuba with the MSS of “Across the
River and Into the Trees”. On tape, she
claimed “a warm and friendly memory
of Hemingway.”
Despite its limitations, the radio fea-
ture composed of taped recollections of
a person or event can be more interest-
ing, because it is less costly and can
take in more territory, than similar items
on television. If the Hemingway feature
failed as a “portrait it remained a good
feature, and its audience might well lift
cups of instant coffee and cry, “Ole!”
DALE MILLER
COMMONWEALTH LITERARY
FUND FELLOWSHIPS
Attention is drawn to the fact that the Common-
wealth Literary Fund offers a number of Fellowships
each year to enable writers who have proved their
ability in the field of creative literature to devote
their time for a period to a literary project they may
wish to carry out.
The Fund will consider all applications made to it.
Forms of application, which set out the conditions
of the awards, etc., may be obtained from the
Secretary, Commonwealth Literary Fund, Prime
Minister's Department, Canberra. Any further
information is also available from the Secretary.
Applications for Fellowships usually close on the Ist Septembei
each year but it has been decided that this year the closing date
will be extended to the 22nd October.
ART PRIZES
YI/e have received notice of the follow-
ing art contests and awards:
Bendigo (Victoria) Art Prize of 100
guineas for oils and 40 guineas for water
color. Closing date for entries is Novem-
ber 2, 1962. The Bendigo Art Gallery,
which is sponsoring the contest, says that
it endeavors to avoid conservatism in
judgment and welcomes entries of high
standard.” Conditions and entry form
from Mr B. S. Andrew, the honorary
secretary, Bendigo Art Gallery, Bendigo,
Victoria.
The 1963 Australian Fashion Fabric
Design award. Total prize money is
£l5OO and the contest is sponsored by
Roy H. Taffs Pty. Ltd., Bruck Mills
(Aust.) Ltd., and Tennyson Textile Mills
Pty Ltd. Prize-winning entries and entries
selected by the hanging committee with
material printed from submitted design
and garments made from these materials
will be shown at Farmers, Sydney, next
June. Closing date of November entry
is open to members of the Contemporary
Art Society. Information about the
society and the contest can be had from
the clerical secretary, 33 Rowe Street,
Sydney.
The Grace Art Prize Contest, with first
prize of £5OO and second of £lOO has
been organised as part of the North Side
Arts Festival. The festival, to be held
next August, is the first organised on the
North Shore of Sydney. Prize money for
the art contest has been given by Grace
Bros., Chatswood. Entries close on July
12, 1963. Entry forms from the North
Side Arts Festival, care the Arts Council
of Australia, 163 Crown Street, East
Sydney.


THE RED PAGE
MOUNTBATTEN SPARED A YEAR
"Histories are kind to the British ... They usually write them“
By HUGH ATKINSON
The Last Days of the British Raj.
Leonard Mosley. Weidenfeld and
Nicolson. 31s.
TLTistories are kind to the British. But
as Indians have pointed out it is
usual for the British to write them. The
surrender of British power in India has
been widely celebrated by the liberal
conscience. An act of humanity. An
example : t the world. A olazing triumph
of enlightenment over arrogance and re-
action without a parallel in the bloody
book of conquest. Perhap it was. But
there were some tangled skeins in the
Indian tapestry in the last days of the
Raj. And before the departing soldiers
had got the view of India they wanted
most—from the blunt end of a ship
—the tapestry’s peacock colors were
drenched red by a fury unknown since
Genghis Khan.
Who was to blame for Partition? If
Partition was inevitable who was to
blame for its carnage? What efforts did
the British make to bring the Hindus
and Muslims together? How can the
speed with which Radcliffe cut up the
country ever be justified to posterity?
Why was the Kashmiri question left to
fester independence? Why did Attlee
sack Viceroy Wavell and saddle up
Mountbatten in the midstream?
The blood has dried now although the
wounds are unhealed. The dust of the
great migration of 16,000,000 people,
with its cholera stench, blazing villages
and close to a million slaughtered bodies
has had fifteen years to settle. Leonard
Mosley, distingui hed biographer and
foreign correspondent, set himself the
task of answering the great interroga-
tives, of untangling the t-.ngled skein.
His Last Days of the British Raj is in
many ways a terrible story. Stupidity,
arrogance, fanaticism, bitterness, greed,
envy and ambition crowd the stage. In
the wings the voices of reason, devo-
tion, temperance and warning are whip-
ped away by the coming storm.
Indian independence properly dates
from Gandhi s take-over of the Congress
Party in 1917. Although it is the In-
dian view that Congress was the instru-
ment that continued the struggle begun
by the National Revolution of 1857.
This is the uprising the British call the
Indian Mutiny and explain rather
quaintly as an extravagant reaction to
the greasing of the Sepoy’s bullets with
cow’s fat and pig’s lard, the one being
sacred to the Hindus, the other abhor-
rent to the Muslims.
The extraordinary personaiity of
Gandhi, his hypnotic grip on the Indian
imagination and his brilliant and ruth-
less political manoeuvring dominated
the struggle the way the Himalayas
dominate the Terrai. On the will of
one grotesque little man, armed only
with a stave and a Woolworth’s watch,
the pride, pomp and power of the
world's mightiest imperial nation buck-
led and collapsed.
Satyagraha, the terrible Gandhian
QiR Cyril RaJclijfe was told his only
task would be divide the country.
“Otherwise,” said an India Office Offi-
cial, “you will have nothing to worry
about.” Radcliffe had never been to
India in his life. He did not know
a Hindu from a Muslim, a Sikh from
a Jain, a tamarind from a peepul tree.
He was, as Viceroy Mountbatten re-
presented him, a *ruly impartial ad-
judicator. In the withering blast of a
Punjabi summer, Sir Cyril Radcliffe
consulted the maps. The Partition
line he was to dravj on the paper cut
into the body of India, changing the
lives and allegiances of 80,000,000
people, severing farms from their
water, railway stations from their
shunting yards, mills from their grain,
cities from their hinterland. After
more than two hundred fantastic years
the British were leaving India. The
price was Partition. Mountbatten had
given Radcliffe five weeks to carve up
the country.
weapon of civil disobedience and pas-
sive resistance, demoralised the British
as bayonets and bullets never could. It
is a weapon which, perhaps, could only
have been used by Indians. Not because
there is anything innately saintlv in the
Indian character as the West has been
propagandised to believe. But because
Satyagraha required a national talent
for masochism, a violence in reverse.
Passionately, but without protest, the
Indians submitted to beatings, shootings,
jailings. Passionately, they brought
trains and armoured cars to the halt
before carpets of prostrate bodies beg-
ging to be rent to pieces under the
wheels. Passionately they offered their
naked heads and shoulders to the
scourge of the policemen’s lathis and
:he rifle butts of the army.
Satyagraha was Gandhi's invention
and in India it mostly died with him.
The west can make a great mistake if
this is unrealised or forgotten. Any-
one who knows India is aware that the
disparate people of that sub-continent
have at least one thing in common a
remarkably low boiling point of political
and religious temper.
The other side of Satyagraha is the
dreadful slaughter that turned Calcutta
into a charnel house in August, 1946.
In the seventy-two hours after Jinnah
called his Muslim League to Direct Ac-
tion, 6000 men, women and children
had been hacked to death in the city
and more than 20,000 wounded. The
gutters of Chowringhee Square stank
with corpses until the vultures picked
them clean. In the nine months between
August, 1947, and the spring of the fol-
lowing year between 14.000.000 and
16,000,000 Hindus, Sikhs and Muslims
were in flight from the blood-crazed
mobs. In that period over 600,000 of
them were killed. Or, as Leonard Mos-
ley writes: “Not just killed. If they
were children they were picked up by
the feet and their heads smashed against
the wall. If they were female children
they were raped and then their breasts
were chopped off. And if they were
pregnant they were disembowelled.”
This was the time in which ambushed
trains, packed to the doors with re-
fugees and their bundles, would pull
into the stations up to their windows
in blood, the only living occupants the
crews upon the footplates.
It is impossible to estimate the trau-
matic effects of Partition on leaders
like Nehru. The desperate sincerity of
his attempts to keep India neutrai among
the quarrelling camps, the addle-headed
pacifism so irritating to western poli-
ticians, should be understood not only
in terms of the man's own spirit, but in
his Gandhian inheritance and the sick-
ening tragedy of the Last Days which
cannot but still haunt him.
Leonard Mosley presents Viceroy
Wavell as a simple, direct, and unfor-
tunately inarticulate soldier who was
completely lost to an understanding of
the labyrinthian Hindu mind. Indians
are famous talkers, famous horse-trad-
ers. Politics is a national obsession. And
yet it would seem that it was Wavell,
the simple soldier, who saw further
than the superiors who sacked him. The
Wavell Plan, if it had been accepted,
would have achieved independence with-
Partition and probably without blood-
shed. But Attlee had set the date for
Indian independence by June, 1948. He
was determined that the date would be
kept. The devoted Wavell was dis-
missed out of hand and a man who


could talk, with brilliant judgment and
chiarm, was to replace the tired and
puzzled soldier. As Noel Coward said,
“When the job is impossible, they call
in Dickie.”
Mountbatten is convinced that among
the architects of Indian freedom, his
achievement will go down in history.
Perhaps it should. But not quite the
way he envisages it. Attlee proposed to
Mountbatten that he should take two
years to do the job. But Mountbatten
set on becoming First Lord of the
Admiralty. His ambition would not
permit him such a long absence from
the seat of his Naval career. Mount-
batten could, however, spare a year. He
and Attlee temporised on fifteen months.
It seems a strange way to begin one of
the most fateful missions of our time.
History will hardly deny Mountbat-
ten his brilliant achievements in negotia-
tion. He was sent in to do a fast job
of salesmanship and painless surgery.
But when one considers how much good-
will there was behind Britain’s wish to
give India her freedom, what a stagger-
ing morass of unpreparedness, blunders
and lack of planning separate the wish
from the achievement!
Gandhi and Nehru share the respon-
sibility for partition. Had the Muslims
been granted the representation they
asked for in Congress, Mahommed Ali
Jinnah would have had little support
for his claim for separate rights. Had
Nehru not been so intransigent towards
the Muslim leader, his ccnternpt for
the man and his aspirations displayed so
openly, perhaps there could have been
areas of agreement between them. Until
the last tragic denouement, against all
signals, portents and warnings, Nehru
seemed unable to realise that Jinnah
could and would lead his people into
Pakistan.
Histories are kind to the British. But
as Indians have pointed out it is usual
for the British to write them. If the
Labor Government was prepared to
give a united India its freedom by June,
1948, one wonders how it was possible
to promise a divided India freedom ten
months earlier. Partition of India was
announced in May, 1947, and no plans
were made for dividing the army until
June, six weeks before the deadline.
Partition announced in May but the
Commission to decide the boundaries
of how the two new states would be
divided not appointed until the end of
June. Sir Cyril Radcliffe handed a map
and given five weeks to divide the
wealth and people of two major Indian
provinces. The Princely States, bound
to Britain by treaty, brilliantly co-opted
by Mountbatten for either India or
Pakistan with the exception of Hydera-
bad, the greatest of all Princely States
and the geopolitically important Kash-
mir, having boundaries with India,
China, Tibet, Pakistan, Russia and Af-
ghanistan. Mountbatten’s failure to
achieve a result in Kashmir has festered
the years since 1947 and will poison
Indian and Pakistani relations for many
years to come.
If to read the past is to learn the
future the Last Days of the British Raj
can be a frightening instruction.
THE DEATH OF A QUIZ KID
Spirit Lake. MacKinlay Kantor. W.
H. Allen. 375. 3d.
A Gay and Melancholy Sound. Merle
Miller. Heinemann. 265.
IVFacKinlay Kantor has been disgrace-
-1 A fully served by several Australian
reviewers who have obviously avoided
reading the whole book and who have
been misled by its blurb into describing
it as yet another huge novel of Western
pioneering. Towards its close Spirit Lake
becomes far more than this.
Spirit Lake, as these reviewers have
said, does trace the histories of nume-
rous family groups and individual pion-
eers in lowa in the 1850’s. As has also
been noted elsewhere there are many
fascinating chapters describing the social
organisation of various Indian tribes and
settlements, some tribal, some dispos-
sessed and demoralised. Kantor gives a
splendid, if disjointed account of aspects
of Indian life, lore, hunting and agri-
cultural and religious procedures. Then,
at very long last, the author unites his
tenuous threads into an account of an
appalling massacre of white settlers by
a band of Indians outlawed, for their
evil and antisocial ways from their own
people. These singularly revolting sav-
ages kidnapped a couple of white women
whose sufferings, though imaginable and
indeed inevitable, were none the less
horrifying for that. Hidden in the last
few pages one finally discovers a map,
a most impressive bibliography, and a
short author's note divulging that, the
whole novel was substantially factual,
and that Kantor's interest and research
dates back to 1930.
Frankly, although one may feel that
Spirit Lake is a failure, and for parts
of its inordinate length a bore, it is not
a work to be dismissed patronisingly.
Apart from the Indian sections with their
fascinating fragments of translated song
attributed to a luckless woman called
Cornsucker, the real “guts” of the book,
when Kantor at last gets down to them,
are superb. It is sad to reflect that the
material for six manageable novels is
boiled up in this stodgy duff of words.
Ihe style, too, is often daunting, lean-
ing heavily on the word “twas” and an
eccentric printing of dialogue, and some
of the domestic incidents are described
with a coarseness I found repellent.
A Gay and Melancholy Sound also
deals with lowa, about 100 years later.
It is a singular book in several ways.
It purports to be spoken onto tape by
one, Joshua Bland, an lowan native
whose pioneering Methodist grandfather
might well have known some of Kan-
tor’s characters. The lowa that Miller
satirises through Bland is doubtless the
brash and logical outcome of its tough,
ill-educated, puritanical foundations.
Bland has determined to suicide on the
eighth day after he begins to ‘‘tape” his
autobiography and does duly destroy
himself. But his story, though bitter, is
indeed both Gay and Melancholy and is,
in parts, one of the most astringently
comic books I have read for many a
long day. Moreover, whenever one feels
disposed to dismiss some character or
viewpoint as outrageous one remem-
bers that the narrator is mentally dis-
turbed, drug-ridden, grossly biassed and
therefore what he says is entirely allow-
able.
Bland is the tragic outcome of that
peculiar kind of exploited childhood in-
vented and perfected in America during
the "thirties and "forties. Child exploi-
tation is age-old, of course, but one sub-
mits that infant coal-miners and seam-
stresses were in a different category from
Quiz Kids, Aquatots and Miller’s fic-
tional participants in “Can You Top
Them? and “The Harvey Jordan
O’Connor Cranium Derby”. Bland was
the victim of his extraordinary, preten-
tious, malaprop “Mummy” and her ap-
palling second husband, the arsonist
Pavan aided and abetted by the ignorant
small town greed and snobbery of the
folk of New Athens, lowa.
Joshua Bland bred, groomed and
flung to the wolves as a genius ended
as an unusually intelligent, rejected, un-
loved man who despite material success
as a theatrical producer is a failure in
everything that distinguishes a Siiliac
from a human being. He has killed the
love his second wife wished to give him;
he has lost, regained and lost agtiin his
self-respect.
Miller makes his story acceptable,
amusing, compassionate and a work
of art. Technically the novel is interest-
ing. Bland in his remaining hours aban-
dons his AA sobriety, smokes heavily,
takes both benzedrine and barbiturates.
His “speech"’ fluctuates to the moods
and rhythms of the narrated material,
of his state of mind, and of his phy-
sical condition at any time.
While Miller’s prose often echoes
Hemingway and his matter Salinger, the
total effect is of an author of undoubted
individuality and skill.
NANCY KEESING


IF YOU HAVE A
FLAIR
FOR WRITING...
Turn your talent into a spare time in-
come. There is a constant demand for
well-written stories, articles, pars, radio
and TV scripts, etc., and you can learn
to write successfully for Australian and
overseas magazines and papers.
Stott's will provide you with interesting,
practical Home-Study instruction of the
highest quality. All Stott Literary Instruc-
tors are fully qualified in their respective
fields.
Stotts Correspondence College
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney; 292 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane; 21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; 22
Howard Street, Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
NAME
ADDRESS
Age (B 1862)
STOTT'S COLLEGES undertake that no rep-
resentative will call following your inquiry.
THE FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances
effected at lowest current rates.
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims.
DIRECTORS:
Alfred S White (Chairman) E. G.
Conen, T K. Magney. A G Parker,
Douglas Wadley
H. H .Moulton, Managing Director.
B. J. Lane, Manager
Phone: 27-7401 (Branches in all States)
20 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. "D", Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
AGELESS?
Age of Consent. Norman Lindsay.
Cardinal Edition, Pocket Books
Inc. 6s.
Perhaps the best testimony to the long-
recognised excellence of “Age of
Consent” is that, while it was apparently
designed to be a light and undemanding
novel, it probes certain aspects of the
human condition deeply enough to secure
a long continuance of life. On the sur-
face it has a gay and delicate structure;
you’d think the wind could blow it away;
but it is founded securely enough by
Lindsay the writer in problems that must
have been acute to Lindsay the artist;
problems concerned with the degree of
the involvement or the detachment
which relates the artist, willy-nilly, to
the world he records, and the degree of
control with which he can manipulate
this relationship. For Lindsay the artist
the topic may well have been sovereign;
but Lindsay the writer could exercise
such art that its significant weight lies
concealed behind a lively happy comedy
of love and life and an idyll in an oyster-
bed.
I like the Werner Laurie editions my-
self, though I did not believe that the
sketches accompanying the text would
well transfer to the smaller pages and in-
ferior paper of a soft-cover; but I have
had to reconsider, for they have suffered
less than in my expectations. It was good
to read again and enjoy again, and start
wondering again why Australia seems to
lag behind the United States in apprecia-
tion of our senior novelist,
OLAF RUHEN
THE NEW DLP
The Formation of the Democratic
Labor Party in NSW. Denis Strang-
man. Sydney University DLP
Society, Box 338, Broadway. 2s. 6d.
VTo flags were flown from the DLP’s
New South Wales office in Bathurst
Street on September 29th—its sixth
birthday. There’s no money for bunting,
and nothing to celebrate.
Three months after it started, the
party in NSW could claim a member-
ship “equal to half the effective member-
ship” of the ALP in NSW. Today, most
branches are dead, candidates are re-
luctant to come forward, and active
members are around 50. While NSW
Liberals look with some bitterness at
their party’s achievements in other States
and at Canberra, the NSW DLP casts
longing eyes at Victoria where its coun-
terpart (still operating as the Australian
Labor Party State of Victoria) can
claim 250 branches with 12,000 mem-
bers and has scored a four per cent,
increase in its vote—to 16.85%—since
its formation in 1955.
So it was both courageous and strange
that Mr Strangman, Secretary of Sydney
University’s DLP Society, should choose
to recall the stirring days of 1955-
56 in his monograph. The contrast with
today is but too clear. Relying on some
unpublished records to fill in the gaps
in the Press accounts, he has told one
side of the story quite well. His back-
ground account is very sketchy, but he
does supply a useful and praiseworthy
chronicle of the ir.tervention of the
Federal ALP Executive, the formation
of the Caretaker Executive, the subse-
quent purges of the “Groupers” and
the rise of the Rank and File Commit-
tee leading to the stage where some
were convinced that they co Id no lon-
ger fight within the ALP.
The monograph claims to be factual,
and, in a very narrow and naive sense
of that term it is that. The charges
by Dr Evatt’s supporters are given but
vaguely and too briefly, and the Fede-
ral Executive’s reply to the allegations
of the forerunners of the DLP is almost
entirely ignored. The author makes a
simple-minded distinction between facts
and interpretation which bars his way
to proper analysis, which alone can
make sense of the “facts”. Thus, no
new light is thrown on the AWU-Evatt
alliance, nor does Mr Strangman find
it significant that of 30 members of the
immediate forerunner of the DLP
the ALP Rank and File Rights Com-
mittee—9 stayed in the ALP, 19 joined
the DLP and 2 remained outside both
parties. Even from these figures, let
alone from other evidence in the mono-
graph, it is clear that there were im-
portant conflicts within the forces op-
posed to Evatt. An analysis of just who
stayed in the ALP and who broke away,
in terms of their background and type
of union, would have been very valu-
able.
But it would ha.e undermined Mr
Strangman’s purist ideological commit-
ments. In many ways the most inter-
esting part of the monograph is what
it reveals about the author, and hence,
presumably, about some of the younger
members of the DLP. He is quite clearly
shocked by the purges, and there is not
a line which shows that he is aware that
this faction fight was but one in a long
series, that the methods used are the
normal way ALP politics, and, with
minor variations, the politics of other
parties are carried on. Mr Strangman
hopes that now he has “assembled the
facts . . . the discussion will take place.
How much truth can we place in the
charges made by the ‘rebels’? Was Kane
unjustly dismissed?” These are, indeed,
important questions, but only for an his-
torian or detached political scientist
not for anyone active in politics.
The position of complete powerless-
ness of the DLP in NSW is thus well
reflected in this honest monograph. It
is written from the point of view of a
political innocent who finds purity easy,
since no one wants to corrupt him.
HENRY MAYER


POETRY
The Red Leaf
How shall the artisi raise ms hands
Against the weight of time and use?
One must be still to see the way
Light comes into a room. There stands
An empty canvas prime ! with grey.
The colours of the world fly loose.
At the wind’s brutal reprimand
Summer puts off its easy crown.
Tempestuous clouds and branches rage
Outside this room where all is planned
For skill and spirit to engage
In their long struggle to set down
The flux of sense in a new mode
Of calm, resolve light’s discords, make
Another world from flakes of paint.
But how begin? How lose the load
Of time and use, how rouse the faint
Spirit to work when the winds shake
Such colour from the trees? One knows
Mozart was hungry, Handel blind;
With cause enough for tears they drew
Music from dark and want. There blows
One red leaf on the floor, a new
Colour into the room, the mind:
I’ll set this tongue of cadmium red
Down on the dove-grey canvas, here.
The heaviness of time will fall
Away; all is not done or said
Or painted yet. It glows. Now ah
The colours of the earth draw near.
MIRIAM STONE
Soiree
Measureless sorrow: Krote thinks
of Schubert, plays a bunch of wrong
notes; hears, sotto voce, “. . . drinks . .
Schubert drank like a fish. The song
enchants all hearers. Though the bass
makes nonsense of the score, applause
begins before his last grimace
lets him respond and smile. A pause
at nine, but Krote keeps his place
by the piano, spins the stool,
looks through the music, hears the bass
expand; exhale success.
(The fool
might learn, at least, to count in time.
Oh, music’s real as air, I breast
no other element, and I’m
faithful, if dull of wing.)
A guest
remembers him at last he’ll play?
Enchanted! Krote floods the dim
room with a rain of notes that say
existence is God’s love for him.
FRANCIS GEYER
Time Out Of Mind
Time out of mind,
And out of the heart, too:
Yet I am not resigned
To be what I do.
Living, I seem to live
Outside my nature.
Giving myself, I cannot give
True form or feature.
In youth my range
was fear, vanity, lust,
Shall I take in exchange
Fatigue, rage, self-distrust?
Only those joys that lie
Closest to despair
Are mine to hold on by
And keep me clear.
Yet at best or at worst,
This unknown self will see
What its Creator first
Thought it to be:
But I shall know this
Only in knowing
My self’s Self, who is, and is
The end of my going.
JAMES MCAULEY
Peruvian Rugs
With what prodigal wastefulness
did those ancient Peruvians
wrap their dead in polychrome rugs!
In the flanks of a man-made mountain
on the desert coast at Nazca,
mummies, tucked away in the .arth
like so many cocoons,
each wrapped in layer upon layer
of exquisitely-woven rugs,
each uniquely different, individual.
Each mummy was an individual,
but none was self-sufficient,
an end unto himself, each man
was a stitch, a knot, a tie
in the completed fabric.
What very beautiful rugs!
What devoted workmanship!
Simply to keep a dead man warm in his tomb.
W. HART-SMITH


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Some Aspects of Trade with Asia
At the commencement of The Bulletin’s organised dis-
tribution throughout Malaysia, it becomes a more than
useful discipline to re-examine some of the conditions
ruling Australia’s trade with this most crucial area, and places
further north. This need be done in no narrow company sense,
for it is still primarily notions of national policy which must
be hammered out to stimulate our economic viability with a
great collection of Asian countries.
Yet we may, in beginning, recall that, apart from a broader
stream of trading moving to and from our mainland, a sizable
number of Australian firms operate directly in this region.
Firms like ACI, BHP, Humes, Century Battery, Repco and
Rothmans come quickly to mind. The compulsion of Australian
industry to export can only add to this manner of contact.
In spite of the echoing demands of the much publicised
export drive, though, and the issues presented to us by the
Common Market, some business reluctance or natural laziness
may hinder our exploration of the strange, new markets. Only
a few weeks ago, however, Sir John Crawford gave weighty
emphasis to our necessary cultivation of these future trading
affinities.
Thirst Sir John suggested a programme of seeking markets
everywhere we can, “but not least in the non-aligned econ-
omic areas of Asia, Latin America and the Middle East.”
Sir John was extremely careful to indicate that Asia does
not constitute an exclusive bloc “and there is not likely to be
one which would make sense for us.” In fact, Asia is no unity
politically, economically or culturally. We shall delude
ourselves wholly if we think the area, where so much of our
future will reside, is simply amenable to any uniformity of
easy trading arrangements.
So there will develop the separate problems of highly indi-
vidualised countries, of Malaya, of Indonesia, of China, of
Japan. Nevertheless, on general lines, Sir John again: “We may
need to recast our shipping policies, further extend our export
credit arrangements, enlarge our economic aid, review our
policies and capital invested from abroad, and re-design our
import policies.”
Qver it all, and not only for us, hovers the major and increas-
ingly efficient industrial power of Japan a necessary
trading partner and no less a competitive commercial rival.
Some features of the Japanese situation were considered in
these columns last week. Add to them European and American
preoccupations with Asian trade and a few additional im-
plications for Australia have to be realised.
It may sound commonplace to recall the usual urgencies of
competition. Business takes that for granted. But does it?
So, even on an occasion such as this, it is once more urgent
to raise the whole question of Australian costs and the burden
they could especially impose upon us in our Asian ventures.
Sometime, and probably very soon, we shall have to pull our
collective head from the sand to look at such horrifying matters
as wages and management costs in relation to exports. Trans-
port, too, is of overwhelming concern.
The last few paragraphs stress, perhaps overmuch, the com-
petitive atmosphere facing Australia as more of its trade
enters the Asian orbit. There remains, and this is a suitable time
for us to say it, a huge fount of economic endeavour to be
shared, plenty of basic problems to be solved together.
These problems, as they concern some of our northern
neighbours, are often lumped together under the guise of
providing assistance for “under-developed” countries. Requests
well within our capacity to satisfy are probably going to
multiply. We should furnish our help in no spirit of superiority.
Conceptions of aid have received lots of varied reformula-
tions lately, not always from benevolent motives and obviously
with the interests of “developed” nations scarcely concealed. It
is worthwhile pondering some ideas of the present US Ambas-
sador to India, “Affluent Society” Galbraith, expressed in
recent lectures. They apply exactly to Asian lands.
“To see the countries of the world, not as divided between
the developed and the underdeveloped, but as spaced along
a line representing various stages of development is essential
for obtaining an accurate view of the problem of assistance,”
Galbraith maintains. No one group of countries thus becomes
uniquely placed to give assistance and no other group is con-
demned merely to receive it.
The borrowing and lending of resources between differently
positioned countries therefore becomes a matter of “great
judgment and great discrimination.” We have surely moved far
from the time w'hen the provision of capital alone was felt
sufficient to lead a less-advanced nation on its way. Galbraith
chides also: “No one should be excessively impressed by econ-
omic aid which is in the form of ten-year loans at six and a
half per cent. Few countries in any early stage of development
can safely pay the price of purely commercial credits.”
In the immediately topical picture, there is one other tre-
mendously pressing task in which Australia should join hands
speedily with its northern neighbours the miserable question
of world commodity prices. When it suits us, we splendidly
regard ourselves among the advanced industrial lords of the
earth, sustained as we may be in an armour of protection.
Malaya and Indonesia are, of course, less diversified than us
and thence the more dependent on commodity exports. Richer
industrialised countries certainly give every evidence of wishing
to evolve international schemes aimed at stabilising prices.
As late as last Thursday, Mr Menzies was discussing moves
towards these agreements with the American Under-Secretary
of State, Mr G. Ball. Past experience may well show the failure
of many ambitious commodity plans. In the hard devising of
modestly empirical schemes, Australia could seek links with
those Asian peoples to whom its co-operation will be pledged on
so many other grounds.


TWO VIEWS ON A
TRADE MISSION
jy|R W. Beattie, a Melbourne businessman who recently
returned from a tour of South America, observed on his
recent return that there had been a pitiful lack of “follow up”
to the recent trade mission to that area and for this reason
the mission could be considered a “flop.” He reckons the
South Americans see us as still a British Colony and a poor
one at that! They didn't see much point in developing mutual
trade.
Naturally Mr Beattie has angered members of the South
American Trade Mission and some of them said in effect that
he was talking nonsence when their leader Mr MacKinnon
addressed the Victorian Manufacturers’ Export Group a little
later in Melbourne.
One of the mission, Mr J. P. Young, told the meeting that
more than 100 Australian firms were following up the mission’s
efforts and he expected a ten-fold increase in trade with South
American countries. The mission itself wrote £5 million new
business on the trip and executives of many Australian firms
were now in South America examining merchandising, pro-
motional and trade credit requirements of particular countries.
Mr Young said “the Australian stands in the highest esteem
with these people and it is absolute rubbish to suggest that
there is any antagonism against Australia and its products.”
NEW ANGLES ON
OUR EXPORTS
Qome of the “Export Action” shorts produced for showing on
Channel 2 and originally intended for home consumption
only, are considered (and rightly) so good that they are to
be exported themselves. They certainly have punch and should
convince overseas buyers that Australian exporters of manu-
factured goods mean business.
As a matter of fact, all manner of new angles on exports are
coming to light. Melbourne publishers F. W. Cheshire told
The Bulletin that Australian publishers had about 400 titles
currently on display at the Frankfurt International Book Fair
and that they were attracting much interest. So much so that
the export group of the Australian Book Publishers Association
has arranged with West Germany’s Book-publishers and Book-
sellers Association to have them displayed in West Berlin
from November 16 to 28. After being exhibited there, the
volumes will be donated to the Berlin University.
Cinderella of Australian exports, Australian book exports
are only a little more than £lOO,OOO a year. The publishers’
efforts to crack the Common Market are commendable on
both cultural and commercial grounds.
Equally commendable in the export line to what will soon
seemingly be part of the Common Market is the establishment
by a Melbourne associate of Lines International of a domestic
appliances factory at Larne, in Northern Ireland to be supplied
with components manufactured in Australia.
Mr R. E. Nordhoff, an Australian director of Lines Inter-
national, recently flew' to Northern Ireland for the opening.
Before he returns via South East Asia toward the end of
October he intends to investigate market possibilities for other
Australian products to be assembled or manufactured in the
UK for local and Continental cosumption. He will also be
trying to establish similar Australian manufacturing connec-
tions with interests in Thailand, Malaya and Singapore on his
way home.
This brings to mind the promising start made this year by
Development Finance Corporation with its project to “export”
Australian financial “know how” to South-East Asia. Nothing
has been heard from that quarter for some time, but as the
UK’s Colonial Development Corporation found when it tried
the same game on a world-wide scale in British colonies after
the war, this sort of export business can be painfully slow
(and not very rewarding either, the CDC discovered.)
Gibson Kelite Chemicals Ltd, also of Melbourne, provides
yet another angle on exports in that it says it has “exported
two senior executives to Britain.” Their job will be to supervise
the marketing of industrial detergents, floor polishes and
finishes which the group has just commenced exporting to
Britain after “a very careful investigation of the market.” It
sees Britain as a springboard for sales in the Common Market,
where in its view there is “extensive potential”.
DECENTRALISA TION
IN PRACTICE
rpHE deputy-leader of the Opposition in the Victorian Parlia-
ment should have been more merciful to the Govern-
ment than to ask a detailed question about the level of employ-
ment in the State's country areas. For though the Government
professes to be a champion of decentralisation, from the
answers given to Mr. Lovegrove it clearly hasn't the foggiest
idea of the state of employment even in the State’s major
provincial cities.
The questions were interesting in themselves. First, Mr.
Lovegrove asked: “How many employees were employed in
each year in each of the 16 country towns in which 29
secondary industries were established during the period
January 1, 1959 to June 30, 1962?”
This question shows at least that Mr Lovegrove has his
finger on the pulse of decentralisation and its implications for
employment. But all the Government could do was to quote
the statistics for employment for 1954!
The second question was: “What is the location and type of
each of the 22 secondary industries which have closed down
in country towns during the same period?”
The Minister for State Development (Mr. Fraser) certainly
had the answer to that one and it is quite interesting. Nine
textiles concerns (Bendigo, Nagambie, Echuca, Traralgon,
Creswick, Wodonga, Daylesford, Gisborne and Woodend)
closed down; so did four footwear manufacturers (Wedder-
burn, Yarrawonga, Beechworth and Rutherglen) and three food
factories (Robinvale. Dunnstown and Bendigo.) The six others
were a tannery (Beechworth), a polish manufacturer (Traral-
gon), one aerial maker (Moe), an umbrella firm (Stratford), a
gas meter maker (Ballarat) and a wall board factory (Eildon).
So on balance the country areas of Victoria have gained only
seven new factories in 3i years, hardly a momentous step
forward in decentralisation even without the figures for
whatever gain or loss has occured in factory employment.
HONG KONG SEEKS
NZ PACKAGED MEAT
lnterflora, an Auckland company has hit upon
the idea of establishing a long distance butcher's shop in
Hong Kong.
A Hong Kong customer with a craving for NZ meat may
place his order with a local agent for a minimum amount of
£l5. The order is then relayed to New Zealand where enter-
prising Enzedders prepare, package and despatch the meat by
refrigerated ship.
On arrival, it is stored in a refrigerated locker where the
customer may lop off his beefsteaks at his pleasure.
The service is designed to counter the shipping of live Aust-
ralian beef to the colony from Australia. Prices for individual
packaged NZ meats are claimed to be cheaper than other im-
ported meats.


dhd
Travel with
confidence!
THE
COMMERCIAL
MANE OF
AUSTRALIA
LIMITED
makes all
travel arrangements
for you!
Travelling for business or
pleasure, you can travel
with complete confidence
when your travel reserva-
tions have been made by
the C.B.A.
Our experienced Travel
Officers will gladly arrange
all details for you.
• .
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited
The Commercial Savings Bank of Australia Limited
PER JACOBSSON HAS AN
ARGUABLE POINT
By “CROESUS”
British plan to establish a mutual
A currency account in the Interna-
tional Monetary Fund along the lines
pushed by Maynard Keynes at Bretton
Woods 17 years ago got a cool recep-
tion at the recent meeting of the IMF
countries in Washington.
There was apparent agreement that it
was worthy of further study, but, as the
Wall Street Journal put it, United States
officials made it clear that they would
prefer to see it studied for a long time.
One has to face the fact that both
through its big voting power and its
major contribution to IMF funds, the
United States has a commanding influ-
ence over IMF policy decisions.
At the moment the US is unlikely to
side with any plan which throws the in-
dependence of the dollar into the scales
of world monetary management, how-
ever well intentioned towards improving
international liquidity or even towards
galvanising the international strength of
the dollar itself, a subject on which it is
highly sensitive at present.
The Washington correspondent of the
London Times summarised US opinion
in these terms: “There is the well-known
objection to any kind of guarantee for
the dollar and the fear that fiscal and
monetary discipline might be blunted.”
The British suggestion is also seen as
a step towards a supra-national central
bank.
It is believed in Washington and also
by Per the IMF’s managing
director, that existing arrangements are
sufficient to assure adequate liquidity in
the foreseeable future. Moreover, there
is the fundamental and emotional objec-
tion to compromising the control of the
dollar which US officials regard as an
inevitable consequence of ...fernational
guarantees of any kind.
The US antipathy to the plan is such
that although there may still be a full
discussion of it at the IMF meetings in
a year s time, the Americans say that
existing IMF arrangements to ensure in-
ternational liquidity will suffice for at
least another five years.
The US President set the pattern for
official US responses to any plan for
ra ical change in IMF policies when he
addressed the meeting. According to
the Times” he seemed to say that “what
Was 8 00 d for the United States was
good tor the free world.”
Mr Kennedy said the US was pledged
to keep the dollar fully convertible into
gold. Further, “the US balance of pay-
ments deficit was not the result of any
monetary or economic mismanagement,
but the result of expenditures the Ame-
rican people had made on behalf of the
people of the free world.”
The President gave some eye-catching
figures on this. In 1946, the US held
over 60 p.c.of the world stock of gold.
Now it holds only 40 p.c. (about $16,000
million).
Over the 16-year period since 1946,
the US spent about $BB,OOO million
overseas for defence and aid of other
countries. Europe received about
$26,000 million in economic aid alone


EXPENDITURE ON
EDUCATION IN RELATION TO GROSS
NATIONAL
PRODUCT (a)
Actual
Target 1970
Actual
Target
1970
Current
Total
Current
Total
Current
Total
Current
Expend'-
Expendi
Expendi-
Expendi-
Expendi-
Expendi-
Expendi-
E lendi-
ture
ture
lure
ture
ture
ture
lure
ture
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
U S A 3.6
4.5
4.4
5.3
Ireland
... 2.5
27
3.0
3.6
Neiherlonds
3.5
4.2
4.1
4.9
Switzerland
.. 2.5
2.9
3.4
4 1
Canada
3.4
3.7
4.1
4.9
Australia
2,3
2.9
Sweden-
3.4
4.1
3.9
4.7
Germany, F.R. 2.1
2.8
2.7
3.2
Italy
32
3 4
4.5
5.4
Icelond
... 2.0
2.5
2.7
3 2
U S.S.R
. 3 2
3.7
5.0
6 0
Yugoslavia
... 2.0
2.6
2.6
3.1
U.K
3.0
3.7
3.9
4.7
Turkey
... 1.7
2,1
2.4
2.9
Norway
.. 2.8
3.7
3.7
4.4
Portugal ....
... 1.6
2.1
2.2
9.7
Austria ......
2.7
2 9
3.3
4.0
Spain
... 1.4
i .6
2.1
2 5
France
. 2.7
3.5
3.7
4.4
Greece
... 1.3
1.4
1.4
1.7
Belgium
2.6
2.8
3.7
4.4
Luxembourg
.. 1.3
1.4
2.1
'2.5
Denmark
2.5
3.0
3.2
3.9
(it now has 40 p.c. of the free world’s
monetary reserves).
Mr Kennedy said that the US could
bring its international payments into
balance overnight by withdrawing its
overseas forces, reducing aid and tying
aid expenditure wholly to purchases in
the US, raising high tariff barriers and
restricting its foreign investment.
But what would this entail? No less
than a return to the era of dollar short-
age, to economic and political insecurity
in the free world and American isola-
tion. Happily the US has no intention
of retracing its steps, the President said.
With the IMF (backed strongly by the
US) against both a change in the price
of gold and a plan which would super-
cede gold as the lynch pin of inter-
national liquidity, countries like Austra-
lia having to temper their rates of
growth to the exigencies of the present
international liquidity set-up have to
take note.
But this does not mean that internal
monetary and price stability, which the
IMF seeks to promote in its member
countries by obliging them to operate
within the confines of present inter-
national liquidity arrangements, is pre-
judicial to growth.
One may not go as far as Per Jacob-
sson in thinking that present arrange-
ments are adequate, or that even a little
inflation is a dangerous thing, to see
this.
But in wanting a new approach by the
IMF to international liquidity, Britain,
who like Australia, has had its fill of
balance of payments troul 'es since the
war and has had to stop growth and in-
flation in their tracks to avoid going
over the hill, thinks there should be an
arbitrary expansion of international
monetary reserves it could call on to
keep growth moving without sc many
stop and go signals.
That is the general opinion here, too,
expressed very strongly last year when
the IMF told us to confirm to its pre-
cepts of stability before handing over
the £7l million drawing to sheer up our
international reserves.
However, even if this or any other
country doesn’t like his full prescription
of stability medicine for inflationary dis-
eases, nor is satisfied with the present
degree of flexibility in drawing on inter-
national monetary reserves to sustain
growth, Per Jacobsson has an arguable
point in maintaining that monetary sta-
bility is a “pre-requisite of rapid econo-
mic growth.”
Probably the substitution of “steady”
for “rapid” would put him on firmer
ground because, as we have learned from
experience here, the bed-fellow of rapid
growth is inevitably inflation.
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
ECONOMIC ASPECTS
OF EDUCATION
TJow much of the national income
should Australia be spending on
education? How much can we afford
to spend? Are we keeping pace with
the effort being made in this sphere by
countries with comparable economic re-
sources? Do we fully appreciate the
economic importance of education, its
influence on productivity?
In his “Some Economic Aspects of
Education” published recently by F. W.
Cheshire, P. H. Karmel, Professor of
Economics, University of Adelaide,
argues that we can and should spend
much more than at present on educa-
tion; that internationally our expenditure
as a percentage of gross national product
is well down the list and that apparently
we have set no target to increase it as
have most other countries.
In the table on this page Australia
ranks 15th in order of percentage of
current expenditure out of gross mate-
rial product on education and 11th if
capital expenditure on education is in-
cluded.
Professor Karmel says that “ this com-
parison becomes even more unfavour-
able to Australia when it is realized that,
as far as current expenditure is con-
cerned, all countries which rank above
Australia, except four, had smaller pro-
portions of their populations oi school
and college age; and that, as far as total
expenditure is concerned, of all the
countries which rank above Australia
only one had a larger proportion of its
population of school and college age
and a higher rate of population growth”.
However, he points out that the pro-
portion of gross national product ex-
pended on education has been rising
steadily over the past few years in Aus-
tralia.
“Rough estimates indicate that the
figure for total expenditure has moved
from about 2.2 p.c. in 1953-54 to 2.9
p.c. in 1958-59 and thence to 3.3 p.c.
in 1960-61. However, over this period
the proportion of population of school
age has risen sharply. Moreover, since
the proportions in other countries are
also rising, the level of the Australian
figures cannot be regarded as anything
but relatively low.
“This is underlined by examining the
target figures in the table. If these tar-
gets are met (and the authors of the
study from which they have been taken
regard them as within the capacities of
the various countries concerned) by
1970, three-quarters of the listed coun-
tries will be spending relatively more
than Australia is now spending on cur-
rent educational services and two-thirds
of them will be spending relatively more
on current and capital educational pro-
grammes combined.
On a proportionate basis, then, we
spend appreciably less than Sweden or
the United Kingdom, the United States,
Canada, the Soviet Union, Italy, the
Netherlands and a number of other
countries. This immediately raises the
issue of whether we should be putting
more of our resources into educational
activities.
It is not for an economist or an edu-
cator, says Karmel, to lay down any
figure as being the right one. “Nor is
there any magic figure.”
On the other hand, he continues, one
must not ignore the iron law of econo-
mics: that resources are limited, de-
mands on them are many, and if more
(a) For all countries other than Australia, the source of this table is Svennilson, Edding and Elvin. The
estimates for gross national product are on a comparable basis. Educational expenditure excludes expenditure
on pre-school education, youth activities, libraries outside educational institutions, education in military
establishments, research outside higher education, theatres, radio, television and other mass media,- but it
includes transfer payments (e.g., grants to students) and welfare expenditure (e.g., school meals, health
services, books, transportation). The figures for Australia are based on published data for the public sector
and approximate estimates for the private sector. They do not include all transfer or welfare expenditures,
which, however, are only relatively small in Australia.


Invest in progress
and the
ever-growing demand
for more power
90 building projects—valued at £l2O millions—some built,
some under construction, others planned and approved. This
is the tremendous growth rate of the inner Sydney city area
alone. In every phase of this, and other developments,
electric power is INDISPENSABLE. That is why an invest-
ment in electricity offers maximum security.
Gilt-edged S.C.C. Loans supply many thousands of private
investors, trustees and executors with regular interest and
maximum security.
THE SYDNEY
COUNTY COUNCIL
5‘% LOAN
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT
GUARANTEED BY THE
GOVERNMENT OF N.S.W.
Your S.C.C. investment earns you £5/7/6 a year for every £lOO
invested. Interest is paid every 6 months. Capital is repayable
in full at the end of 8, 10, 15 or 20 years.
Holders of S.C.C. Loans No. 53 (£4/12/6% maturing Ist October,
1962) and No. 79 (£5/5/0% maturing Ist November, 1962) can
now CONVERT TO HIGHER INTEREST.
000
LOAN
CLOSING
MONDAY!
Applications may be lodged at any office of the Commonwealth Trading Bank;
Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of New South Wales; The
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited; The Rural Bank of New South
Wales; or through a Stockbroker; or at the Council's Head Office, Queen
Victoria Building, George Street, Sydney ('phone: 2-0259).
Underwritten by Ralph W. King & Yuill and Ernest L. Davis & Co., Members of the
Sydney Stock Exchange.
resources are devoted to the enjoyment
of A, less will be available for the en-
joyment of B. If we put more re-
sources into education, wc must put less
into health or defence or television or
hotels.
This is what is meant by “facing eco-
nomic realities”. If, further, we take
into account political realities, it is fairly
obvious that Australians are not likely
to double expenditure on education at
one blow.
Having said this, Karmel proceeds to
show why it is important to make a big-
ger effort in education, to devote more
of national income to fostering it.
“Education has directly beneficial ef-
fects on production and the rate of eco-
nomic growth, so that there is a sense
in which it pays for itself by future
production, just as any ordinary invest-
ment in capital equipment does. More-
over, these economic benefits tend to be
underestimated; consequently, invest-
ment in education tends to be too low,
in the sense that additional expenditure
can be expected to yield handsome
dividends.
“Apart from these economic conside-
rations, the individual’s right to educa-
tion (as distinct from society’s require-
ments for trained workers), which is
surely one of the foundations of demo-
crat , is a powerful argument for a
greater educational effort.
“Finally, when international com-
parisons are made, Australia, which is
among the richest countries in the
world when measured by almost any
standard —low infant mortality, high ex-
pectation of life, low density of house-
occupation, high usage of automobiles
—ranks relatively low in expenditure on
education.”
Professor Karmel says some people
may argue that the fact that Australia
is one of the richest countries in the
world while not being a relatively high
spender on education, throws doubt on
the economic importance of education.
But he thinks this is fallacious.
“Education is by no means the sole
or even the most important factor in
determining a country’s productivity,
and in any case its benefits accrue over
a longish period. Nevertheless, Austra-
lia’s present high standard of living,
which is partly the result of a small
population enjoying relatively great
natural resources, must also be attri-
buted to the benefits of an educational
system which has provided universal
elementary education for a long period.”
He points out that educational ex-
penditures undertaken now will be of
economic benefit over the next 30 years;
their benefits will be seen in higher
rates of growth of productivity.


THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY
COMPANY LIMITED
ANNUAL MEETING
Extracts from Address by the Chairman,
Mr. C. Y. Syme, given at the Annual
Meeting of shareholders held on Septem-
ber 14, 1962, at Essington Lewis House,
500 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Net profit of the Parent Company at
£9.2 million, after providing £9.9 million
for depreciation and £5.2 million for in-
come tax, was virtually the same as in
the previous year.
With the growth of the subsidiary com-
panies, and particularly of Australian
Iron & Steel Pty. Ltd., the consolidated
accounts have assumed increasing impor-
tance. On this account the Board decided
to adopt the same balancing date for Aus-
tralian Iron & Steel Pty. Ltd. as for the
Parent Company. Accordingly, the con-
solidated profit and loss account con-
tained in this year’s report includes the
profits of Australian Iron & Steel Pty.
Ltd. for the year ended 31st May, 1962.
The consolidated profit and loss appropria-
tion account has been increased by the
addition of profits of that Company for
the six months ended 31st May, 1961.
The consolidated profit and loss account
shows a combined net profit, including
that attributable to minority interests, of
£14.6 million, which is a reduction of
£567,000 or 3.7% on the figure of £15.1
million for the previous period. This
profit was arrived at after providing £24.4
million for depreciation and £14.9 million
for income tax. Reduced earnings of in-
terest, which stemmed from lower aver-
age funds available for short term invest-
ment, was a factor in this result.
On the operating side, the year was
marked by unusual difficulties, in the face
of which it was a noteworthy achieve-
ment that production was increased by
some 9%. This increase was not accom-
panied by a commensurate rise in pro-
fits, and the reasons for this call for some
comment.
Under conditions of reduced local de-
mand, which applied for practically the
whole of the year under review, the Mills
experienced a change in product mix and
an order book which necessitated smaller
rollings with more frequent section
changes. This state of affairs adversely
affected production costs and profits.
At Newcastle, operating conditions
were also rendered extremely difficult by
a major reconstruction programme being-
carried on in the steelmaking section and
the Bloom, 28” and 18” Continuous Mills,
concurrently with regular production
This construction work was carefully
planned to proceed with minimum inter-
ference to operations and that objective
has been achieved to a remarkable de-
gree; nevertheless the effect on results
was material. It is expected that this
work will be completed within the next
few months.
During the year full production was
maintained at our principal operating
centres, despite reduced local demand.
This was made possible by the sale of sub-
stantial tonnages of steel products and
pig iron on export markets. With world
steelmaking capacity in excess of de-
mand, export markets have been under
increasing pressure. They have weakened
progressively under intense selling com-
petition and reduced requirements of the
importing countries. Despite the con-
siderable curtailment of export possibili-
ties during the latter half of the period,
the Company and its subsidiaries effected
export sales totalling £29 million in the
year under review, an increase of some
£18 million over the previous year. The
return from such sales has generally been
below the return to be expected from
equivalent sales on the domestic market,
although it has been materially assisted,
in the year under review, by rebates of
payroll tax under the Commonwealth
Government’s export incentive scheme. It
is not anticipated the Company or its sub-
sidiaries will be eligible for rebates on the
same level in the current year.
During the second half of the financial
year the tonnage of domestic ordering
increased noticeably. This upward trend
has since continued and local sales are
now at a high level for practically all our
finished products. The first three months
of this financial year have shown sub-
stantially better results than the same
period last year. Two factors are mainly
responsible for this: firstly the return of
local demand to higher levels and
secondly the bringing into operation of
important new equipment that has been
under construction for some time —chiefly
the cold rolling mill and electrolytic tin-
plate plant at Port Kembla.
EXPORT: Our experience over the last
few years has clearly demonstrated the
uncertainty of export business, both as to
availability and profitability. Indications
are that competition will become even
more intense over the next several years,
as substantial increases have been plan-
ned in world steel capacity. In 1961, steel
output of the non-Communist world was
244 million long; tons or 13% above the
level of 1957.
It has been estimated that by 1965
capacity in the free world will have
reached a level more than 50% above that
recorded for 1961. However, current mar-
ket conditions suggest that expansion in
capacity may not be matched by an equal
growth in demand, and if this proves to
be the case export prices will remain
under severe pressure.
This outlook emphasises the vital neces-
sity for costs to be held at levels which
enable reasonable profits to be earned
with selling prices which are competitive
at home and abroad. Ultimately, we de-
pend not only on the Company’s ability
to sell abroad, but also on the ability of
our Australian customers to maintain
their markets against competitors using
foreign steel. We are continuing to devote
a good deal of attention and capital to
the reduction of costs through improved
technology and productivity. But not all
our costs are amenable to control. There-
fore we must pay particular attention to
those costs which we can control, includ-
ing the cost of servicing the capital re-
quired for developmental purposes. The
decision of the Directors to raise a con-
siderable amount of fixed interest capital
was made against this background.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE: Depreciation
has been provided for on the same basis
as in the previous year, and the increased
charge against profits for this item reflects
the expenditure on new facilities brought
into operation during the year. Capital
expenditure by the Group has continued
at a very high rate, and during the year
amounted to £51 million. On this occas-
ion, a rather higher proportion than usual
of the year’s expenditure was either not
productive at the end of the period or
became productive only late in the period.
We expect our capital expenditure during
the current year to be at the same rate
as during the year under review.
Continued high levels of investment in
new plant and equipment, coupled with
the obtaining of useful export business, has
enabled the work force to be fully em-
ployed during the year, and total employ-!
ment actually increased.
Early this year, the Commonwealth
Government introduced legislation to pro-
vide for a deduction from assessable in-
come of 20% of capital expenditure on
new manufacturing plant used in Austra-
lia for the purpose of producing assessable
income, or installed ready for use for
that purpose. Broadly, this allowance
applies only to manufacturing plant de-
livered to site on or after 7th February,
1962. Whilst our construction programme
is extensive, the allowance for which the
Company will be eligible in respect of
the period 7th February to 31st May,
1962, will be relatively small since expen-
diture incurred in that period for the most
part related to projects commenced prior
to 7th February, or not completed by
31st May, 1962. The application of the
legislation involves considerable com-
plexity, and since it was not nossible at
the time the accounts were finalised to
assess with reliability the amount of
allowance which may be recieved in re-
spect of the financial year under review,
no allowance has been taken into the
accounts. In future years, the investment
allowance is expected to be a valuable aid
to industries such as ours. However, its
scope has been closely restricted by the
relevant legislation and the allowance
will not apply to a substantial amount of
the Company’s capital expenditure.
DEBENTURE STOCK: The Board has,
on previous occasions, advised share-
holders that it considered the heavy capi-
tal expenditure on the expansion and
development programme would continue
to require the use of three broad forms
of financing, namely internal funds,
equity capital and borrowed money. In
accordance with this policy, a par issue of
shares was made to shareholders in Aug-
ust of last year, this issue raising approxi-
mately £16,200,000. Prior to the year under
review, borrowing arrangements were limi-
ted to private loans negotiated by certain
subsidiary companies. Whilst these have
provided a valuable supplement to the
finances available to the Group, such
sources are necessarily limited, and the
private borrowings covered by existing
arrangements will shortly be fully taken
up.
In these circumstances, your Directors
considered it desirable, in the long term
interests of the Company, to create a
prime instrument of security which would
be available to support any borrowings
which may be sought in the future. Con-
ditions being favorable, it was decided to
offer to shareholders three series of Aus-
tralian Currency First Mortgage Deben-
ture Stock, having- maturities of 15. 20
and 25 years, each bearing interest at
7% per annum. This issue, which was
underwritten as to £12 million, opened
on the 9th April, 1962, and was closed
four days later, subscriptions totalling
£21,582,100.
On the 5th June, 1962, an underwritten
public issue of £7,500,000 sterling 63%
Debenture Stock 1977/87 ranking pari
passu with the Australian Debenture
Stock was offered in the United Kingdom
at £981%. At the date of this issue, which
was necessary fixed some time previously
international market conditions became
unfavourable, resulting in a public sub-
scription of only £920,250 sterling, the
balance being subscribed by underwriters.
Despite this undersubscription the mar-
ket price of the sterling debenture stock
is now at a premium. The proceeds of
this issue will be used to meet sterling
commitments for capital and operating
expenditures of the Group.
At the time the Australian and ster-
ling issues were under review, the possi-
bility of a limited private placement in
the United States of America was investi-
gated. Consequent upon the large sub-
scription to the Australian issue, the
Board decided not to proceed with
borrowing in U.S.A.
The Australian and sterling issues of
Debenture Stock will make a material


contribution to the finances available for
the Group’s development, and, as the
interest is deductible for Commonwealth
income tax purposes, these issues pro-
vide relatively cheap finance, which must
ultimately enhance the value of share-
holders’ equity in the Company. The
Board does not presently have any plans
to make further debenture issues, but will
continue to have regard to a proper bal-
ance in the financial structure of the
Company.
OPERATIONS: The output of raw mater-
ials and finished products continues to
reflect the heavy investments that have
been made in plant and equipment
throughout the past decade and again
reached record levels during the year
under review.
The total coal mined in our collieries
was 15.9% higher than the record of the
previous year; pig iron production was
12.3% higher and ingot steel production
rose by almost 9%, and for the first time
we exceeded a combined steel output of
4 million tons.
Supplies of electrolytic tinplate, which
became available for the first time in
April last, have been readily accepted by
the trade. Overall demand for both elec-
trolytic and hot dipped tinplate has risen
to record levels, and Australian needs will
require maximum output until, at least,
the end of the first quarter 1963.
Commonwealth Steel Company Limited
incurred strong competition from impor-
ted stainless steels, but it is expected that
sales will reach satisfactory levels in the
current year. The wire-making companies
also experienced reduced local demand
and difficult selling conditions overseas,
but their position has greatly improved
in recent months.
CONSTRUCTION: Considerable progress
has been made with our heavy construc-
tion programmes at all The most
recent major units to come into opera-
tion were the cold rolling mill and the
electrolytic tinplate plant at Port Kembla.
The latter has more than doubled our
capacity for tinplate production, and we
are now proceeding to add a continuous
annealing line, this being scheduled for
completion during 1964. Another construc-
tion project now under way at the Flat
Products Division is the 140” plate mill
due for completion at the end of 1963,
and, in conjunction with this, approval
has recently been given for the addition of
a 120” plate finishing line.
At Newcastle, we have in hand a par-
ticularly heavy programme, including the
rebuilding of No. 2 Battery of Coke Ovens,
additional by-product recovery plant, a
fourth blast furnace, basic oxygen steel-
making enlargement and modernisation
of the bloom mill and a new high-speed
rod mill. These projects should be com-
pleted during the current financial year.
In connection with the projected steel
plant at Whyalla, your Board recently
approved the erection of a second blast
furnace with a daily capacity of 1650 tons
of basic pig iron. Preliminary design
work has been commenced and the fur-
nace is expectel to be commissioned m
1965. Initially, it will replace the existing
smaller furnace and will make us'- of
much of the present auxiliary equipment.
The smaller furnace will be held in re-
serve until further capacity is required.
EXPLORATION: Our known reserves of
iron ore in the Middleback Ranges in
South Australia and of coal in New South
Wales have been increased as a result of
further testing. Further Temporary
Reserves for exploration tor iron ore in
the Pilbara region of Western Australia
were granted for two years as from 1st
April, 1962, and consequently exploration
activities have been expanded in the Robe
River, Duck Creek and Roy Hill areas,
w bere preliminary investigation has indi-
cated the existence of substantial reserves
of ore. in North-West Queensland, dril-
ling and underground exploration of the
ore bodies have continued at Constance
Range.
BHP PLAYS A TRUMP
words, as Bernard Shaw never
grew tired of proclaiming, butter no
parsnips. So BHF’s odd ha'penny may,
so far as the markets reckon portents,
be worth all the chairmen's addresses in
the country, and then some.
It is vain to protest that the company
spreads such excellent butter rather thin.
For the dividend rise, which we our-
selves felt had to come, must be lovingly
and carefully conceded. From 6.25 to
6.66 p.c. can be spanned quickly. Yet
this small mite, if it indeed remains the
full 1962-63 rate, puts more than half
a million pounds into shareholders’
pockets.
BHP directors, such is their domestic
responsibility, distribute such seemingly
trifling largesse under the aura of great-
ness, in size, and a still-remaining, vast
capital programme. They are hardly
likely to be impelled by extra-company
situations. But it is devoutly to be hoped
that the sharemarkets place a proper
evaluation on what must be taken as a
sign of long-range confidence.
They now have plenty of chances to
link this one move with a host of other
welcome indicators. Seldom in the same
week have so many satisfying company
reports arrived together and looked
promising enough to budge still-jaded
investors. In Sydney at least, a long
week-end intervened for the necessary
rumination.
Up till then, it scarcely needs saying,
trading stayed peaceful, peaceful all the
way. Fractional adjustments repeated
day by day, brought prices back without
conveying any very firm hints that they
had too far to go. Nevertheless, with
everything suggesting that they needn't
do so, back the markets went.
No main investment section held it-
self aloof from the drift. Equally, of
course, each can accept correction from
the BHP pointer and the other company
results. If this happens, the market’s
spasmodic oscillation around narrow
margins can well cease.
Though we must not expect dramatic
advances for a while yet, only a juster
assessment of the economy’s improve-
ment. This the markets can hardly dodge
much longer.
The reappraisal is naturally being
conducted, as experienced sources are
maintaining, under the scrutiny of in-
creased emphasis on capital security and
income return. One of the most cautious
of Australian analysts believes that
prices of most stocks are now quite
realistic. This may sound very inhibiting,
but within even these constraints there
is plenty of room for considerably en-
hanced sharemarket activity.
That will be a sign of health as
meaningful as the better company re-
sults.
A brewer stems the tide
Tt looks odd to see any Australian
brewing group in retreat. Share-
holders could therefore be forgiven their
early shock at Tooheys’ profit decline,
relatively small though this turned out
to be. An infusion of managerial vitality
was widely held to be essential. The
talent the old company has recently
gained will clearly see it over all forth-
coming hurdles.
Given sufficient time, even an ever-
present threat of takeover may be safely
negotiated. Such vaguer prospects,
though, are not of immediate worry:
that is made up of a profit which did
not cover a steady 9 p.c. dividend on
higher capital and the knowledge that
this current year’s dividend must be
met on still higher capital.
The board is thoroughly sure this can
be done and it also has many other
developmental fish to fry. Sales are going
well ahead.
New managerial brooms are sweeping
through otiose property assets, slowly
as the land market at present dictates.
The group is engaged, too, in new and
hopeful ventures- —a hotel-motel in
Frenchs Forest and a complete modern-
ising of the Royal Narrabeen hotel. Given
time, there’s no reason to worry.
Engineer flows on
/~fiviL engineer Thiess Holdings has
brought to light an excellem 1961-62
result, which must have dispelled much
of the chatter on arbitrated contracts
hanging over from the previous vear. Tt
is often none too easv to assess the true
profit levels of this tvpe of company,
what with many varying adjustments on
depreciation and so on. Earning trends
are best exemplified before the provision
and we shall examine these in detail later.
The past year’s advance, from
£206,459 to £294.894, is also compli-
cated by considerably less tax —down by
£37,222 to £16.942. Here again, this
looks an accumulation o. several items.
Principal benefit could derive from the
group’s coal developments at Callide-
Kianga. A good deal must have been
spent before sale of these assets to the
joint Peabody company, with the tax-
free benefit on plant uppermost.
Export incentives deriving from the
cementing of the Japanese ventures must
also have played their part. The largish
capital profit, £113,647, came not only
from direct plant disposals but from sale
of equipment to Thiess-Peabody.


Broker goes “bulling”
\Ui th business unlively in stocks and
shares, Melbourne’s Collins Street
armers trekked out to the Royal Show
in large numbers last week with rather
easier consciences than usual.
Taking a turn at livestock buying for
a change, Mr Staniforth Ricketson, who
has a property at Launching Place, near
Melbourne, had second top price Angus
bull “Plaister Farm Lodestone” knocked
down to him for 800 gns.
The best Angus bull on sale went for
1000 gns. to Bob Graves, whose magni-
ficent property, Battery Park, Mansfield,
The Bulletin visited recently. Mr
Graves deals in livestock only.
Rewards in retail
TVie Bulletin has long favored estab-
A lishment of retail portfolios by young
investors. This year has provided ample
evidence of the rewards that have come
from adoption of such a course.
Last week, Myer Emporium followed
G. J. Coles by announcing a spanking
good profit for the year to July 31. The
profit climbed from £3.5 to £4.49 mil-
lion in the year.
The profit is equal to just on 34+ p.c.
compared with 28+ p.c. in the previous
year. Even at 295., the ss. shares re-
present value for the portfolio investor.
Look to the old hoteL
T>rand new international class hotels
had short-lived glamour for the in-
vesting public. The Chevron Sydney
story is well-known. The Southern Cross
hotel in Melbourne, though less extra-
vagantly capitalised, may have adminis-
trative problems for another six months,
and must pay management fees to Inter-
continental of 25 p.c. on gross profit
before shareholders get a look in.
The threat of competition from the
newcomers (and from the proposed new
Qantas hotel in Sydney) should not be
allowed to totally obscure the merits of
the older hotels, to whom Australian
travellers have sentimental attachments.
The Hotel Metropole, which passed on
the crown of Australia’s largest hotel to
the Southern Cross, has 371 rooms cater-
ing for 515 house guests (Southern Cross:
435 rooms for 850 guests). Major re-
building of the interior has been done
since 1958, so that 256 of Metropole’s
bedrooms are newly renovated with
private bath or shower and 65
are under renovation.
The entire elevator system has been
renewed, and the entrance and main
foyer will also be renovated.
The Metropole still finds that half its
clientele come from the country. Vic-
torian and Queensland visitors predomin-
ate amongst interstate guests, and the
overseas clientele is growing. Not all
Americans are millionaires, and 40 p.c.
of tourists to Australia are from New
Zealand, many of whom find their way
to the Metropole.
Economic conditions plus new com-
petition contributed to the lower occup-
ancy rate experienced by most hotels this
year. But The Bulletin learned that
Sydney hotels suffered less from motel
competition than Melbourne hotels.
Country visitors to Sydney travelling by
air or rail still demand a central locale.
Most country visitors to Melbourne on
the other hand come by car.
The Metropole added £14,173 to
1960-61 profit, making £78,453 for the
year to June. 1962. Higher room revenue
and closer attention to overheads offset
the lowest room occupancy since the
war.
When all the rebuilding and refurbish-
ing is out of the way, perhaps within 18
months, gross earnings from this very
valuable property bounded by Phillip.
Young and Bent Streets—must improve
strongly. Present book value of £BlO,OOO
for the property and £130,000 odd for
furnishings and plant, looks absurdly low
on today’s market.
This represents capitalisation per
Metropole room of not much more than
£2500. compared with an estimated
£lO,OOO for Southern Cross and £31,000
for Chevron Svdney. And no outside
interest has priority over shareholders
as to profits or assets.
Paid capital is a mere £564,502, and
the 20s. shares are obtainable at about
435. 6d. to yield 5.7 p.c. right away.
An expected VG revaluation of the
hotel property will produce a big in-
crease in rates, but other than this factor,
the Hotel Metropole business looks
rejuvenated.
Spring feeling
TTendersons Industries Ltd. whose
main spring-making plant is on
Ford's doorsteo at Geelone. is another
company currently enjoying reflected
glory from the recovery of the motor
industry and is also benefiting from the
rising demand of industry in general for
its products.
In this case, however, the market gives
full recognition to the company’s excel-
lent record and current prosperity by
giving a 3.2 p.c. yield tag to its £1
shares with buyers at 60s. and sellers
665. signalling wide differences of opinion.
However, there can be no mistaking
the merits of last year’s performance nor
of the immense strength of reserves.
Profit was lifted from £222,142 to
£244,262 and the dividend held at 10
p.c. (from 27 p.c. earnings) for the 12th
year in a row.
Hendersons is another company ex-
ploring markets in the Far East. The
report says its negotiations for overseas
orders have produced satisfactory re-
sults.
Awaiting the light
'C'rom the sound of chairman Mr
A Oswald Burt’s remarks at the meet-
ing of Davies Coop, which is still battling
from amber to green, the company’s
future will depend largely on the out-
come of the Tariff Board’s hearing of
the general textiles reference on cotton
piecegoods production.
Clearly after the unfortunate experi-
ence of a couple of years ago in rayon,
the better outlook for this synthetic is
not goading the board into a possible
repeat performance in that line of coun-
try. One gathers that the company’s
rayon stocks have been cut to the bone.
High hopes
'JpHE Australian Gypsum Industries
group, premier producer of gypsum
and plaster in the Commonwealth, whose
profit slipped, but not disastrously, last
year has high hopes on two fronts. One
is that building activity will recover
sufficiently to reverse last year’s perform-
ance; the other that its overseas opera-
tions will help materially to pull its local
chestnuts out of the fire.
The group’s interests in New Zealand
have been extended by a new mill at
Christchurch. It has also sent trial ship-
ments of gypsurn to Japan and the
Philippines, and considers the prospects
in those markets encouraging. Other
possible overseas markets are also being
investigated.
Why the neglec ?
With the motor industry, its main cus-
tomer, booming (for bearings and
radiators in particular), and an excellent
result for 1961-62 promising further ad-
vances this year, National Consolidated
ss. shares are being incongruously neg-
lected in the market, being down to 245.
6d. now and showing a yield of 4.2 p.c.,
their highest for a long time.
Is there, then, some big seller about
who regards the recovery of the motor
industry with suspicion and is unimpress-
ed by the company’s wide diversification
during the last year or two?
Directors say that last year’s good
result was achieved despite slightly lower
turnover and that new subsidiaries are
not pulling their full weight yet, but
should do so in the current year.
Off to a good start
Bowra Holdings Ltd, the Perth engin-
eering group floated earlier this year
—its ss. shares are listed in Melbourne
and Perth —has lost bide time in living
up to its prospectus dividend forecast of
“at least 10 p.c.” Its 6 p.c. interim for
1962-63 and current high level of opera-
tions put it well in line for 12 p.c. for
the year. The price of the shares, which
have recently been mentioned favorably
by The Bulletin, has made a fitting
response.


How the bank’s knowledge
l-L- can help your
planning*
w
\
A
..
<s&
The C.B.C. is one of Australia’s oldest
financial institutions. The bank has an excellent
picture of industrial and commercial activities
and trends both in Australia and overseas.
Its knowledge and experience may enable the C.B.C. to
assist your planning for expansion. The C.B.C. in this way
has helped many of its successful customers to plan wisely
and well.
The manager of your nearest C.B.C. branch will gladly
give you further information on this and other C.B.C. services.
fdhdfhfdh
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
Young engineer progresses
1%/B'cNamee Holdings Ltd, mechanical
and electrical engineer, which joined
Sydney lists late in 1960, had another
good year, improving earning rate from
13.4 to 16.1 p.c. Profit of £29,220 was
£5,485 higher after a bigger tax pro-
vision, too.
As well as catering for the heavy in-
dustrial, chemical and petrol companies,
McNamee also supplies government de-
partments, and was talking about export
markets in South-East Asia two years
ago.
The ss. shares sell around 7s. 3d. to
yield 6.9 p.c. on Sydney, Brisbane and
Melbourne markets.
Cheap clothing chain
(Sydney clothing retailer Buckinghams
Ltd has shed seven of its stores to
Woolworths Ltd for £750,000 cash.
The funds will be used to consolidate
other trading activities, and to expand the
finance and home sales division. In the
present state of the market, these plans
do not inspire any enthusiasm.
Woolworths will use the stores as ad-
ditions to the Rockmans chain, and has
taken over the stocks of women's apparel
as well as the properties.
Buckinghams has been in the doldrums
since 1959, and was periodically the
subject of takeover rumors.
Meat trade healthy
Companies usually have strong reasons
for being unable to make accurate
forecasts of future operations. At the
1960-61 annual meeting of F. J. Walker
Ltd the chairman said his company’s as-
sociation with primary industry made
forecasting extremely difficult.
But this meat and wool processor did
not disappoint shareholders in the year
just concluded. Turnover was up frac-
tionally to £10,880,000, but group
profit was £2,879 higher at £271,255.
Depreciation and amortisation were
£5,285 less at £77,596 but the tax
provision was convincingly higher at
£185,400 (last year £142,350).
All is not bad in the me it trade. The
10s. shares hang around 255. to yield an
unexciting but solid 5.0 p.c.
Suitable to lay by
I>elease of the first group profit and
** tax provision made by Sydney ink
maker and machinery merchant F. T.
Wimble and Co. Ltd, disappoints on first
digestion. Group profit of £73,520 for
1961-62 was £4792 lower than the pre-
vious year’s parent profit, and the tax
provision was only £39,562.
But the group accounts should give
shareholders something to chew over.
Last year, presumably as a curtain-
raiser, the company produced an asset
revaluation reserve of £249,813 in
parent accounts, and together with share
premiums (£67,500) earned in 1960-61,
has the material for a bonus hand-out
whenever the trading outlook brightens.
The last major capital change was a
one-for-one par issue in 1953. The com-
pany is very capable at handling its
finances without frequent recourse to
shareholders or outsiders.
On 1960-61 parent balance sheet fig-
ures, the newly sub-divided ss. shares
had a tangible asset backing of 20s. 7d.
Top price this year was 295. 9d. The
present market price of about 20s. to
yield 3.7 p.c. contains little risk, and the
shares could be happily stored in the
bottom drawer.
More money in motor parts
_ , r ,
I) IRECTORS pred.ctions of record profits
for Natlonal Consolidated Ltd, made
in Ma Y last at the time of the Murfett
takeover, proved true enough.
Depreciation was higher but tax lower
to leave a net profit of £853,384 in the
to June fB5Ol more than in 1960 .
No mean feat for a company basically
geared to the motor industry’s require-
ments, despite efforts to diversify.


Schweppervescent trading
"JYl’ore flavor filtered to shareholders of
Schweppes (Australia) Ltd, which
last week announced another profit in-
crease for the year to June.
Since hitting the lists of Exchanges
in all capital cities, Schweppes’ profits
have moved up from £193,859 to
£216,752 to £247,533. The’modest
maiden dividend of 7 p.c. is now sup-
planted by an 8 p.c. rate, which was
again well covered by earnings of 14.8
p.c.
In September last a one-for-six pre-
mium issue brought paid capital to
£1.75 million, so the 14 p.c. profit im-
provement was necessary to hold the
earning rate.
Talk round ’Change was that Schwep-
pes has been looking for avenues outside
aerated waters, fruit juices and cordials,
and jam-making was mentioned. As
Kraft Holdings Ltd (Australian subsidi-
ary of National Dairy Products Corpora-
tion of U.S.) have now launched into
the superior sounding “conserves” and
“jellies,” Schweppes would find it a
sticky market.
Merchant looks outside
/Gilbert Lodge (Holdings) Ltd has
investigated possible export markets,
and after providing for the estimated
tax benefit, the net expenditure so far
is £7200 on that account.
The company, not unnaturally, had
an extremely difficult year on local
markets, and profit slumped 40 p.c. The
earning rate of 12 p.c. still seemed to
justify payment of a 10 p.c. dividend for
the twelfth successive year.
Advances in transport
Tntroductjon of standard gauge to the
Melbourne - Albury railway has
brought many improvements in its train.
The Railways have provided new terminal
facilities in Melbourne and Sydney, and
improved rolling stock. Thomas Nation-
wide Transport Ltd reported last week
that it was able to use greater mechanisa-
tion and more efficient handling methods
as a result.
TNT’s turnover substantially increased
to £4,478,458, largely in the rail
division, against a background of keen
competition. Its after-tax profit of
£141,759 (approximately 3 p.c. on
sales) represented a very satisfactory
earning rate of 17.7 p.c., in accordance
with prospectus estimate of at least 15
p.c.
TNT impresses with its vigorous ap-
proach to new problems and new
methods. During the year it introduced
the “Flexivan” rail-trailer service between
Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney. A new
terminal was built at Devonport, and
major additions were made to the road
transport premises in Melbourne and
Adelaide.
The 1962-63 results must be 25 p.c.
greater than 1961-62 to maintain earning
rate on enlarged capital, but indications
are that for the first quarter this has been
exceeded.
“They also serve . .
Standard Insurance Co. Ltd,
debacle looks like being with us for
a long time yet. Liquidators of the fail-
ed company are still unable to estimate
the “wash up” for creditors. Sharehold-
ers have lost all, of course.
Policies outstanding, particularly de-
fended actions in Workers’ Compensation
and Third Party in NSW will hold up a
final figure for several years.
Then, of course, the complicated
liquidations of H & S Credits Ltd and
its associate International Shipping &
Export Agency Co. Pty Ltd will add con-
siderable delay to the Standard Insurance
wind up.
Further proceedings against certain
company officers in Sydney are pending.
It looks like a long wait for the credi-
tors.
Spoken in jest?
three weeks ago The Bulletin
pointed to apparent ascendancy of
ARC Industries Ltd over its rival Cyclone
Co. of Australia and suggested that the
wheel could go the full circle with ARC
one day making a bid for Cyclone.
Late last week ARC announced a one-
for-one bonus issue. While certainly
justified on results which in 1961-62 pro-
vided an earning rate of 32.1 p.c. on
capital, ARC's bonus had a mysterious
flavor about it.
The dividend rate on the new capital
will be pruned on a pro-rata basis from
15 to 1 2 p.c. after the bonus. Share-
holders, then, will get no immediate bene-
fit from the bonus.
The cost of servicing any new capital
with dividends is reduced by half because
of the bonus. This method of reducing
equity cost has been practised nicely by
BHP, ICIANZ and ACI in recent years.
Presuming largely, it can be pondered
whether ARC has made this bonus to
reduce the cost of any new capital it
issues in a takeover.
If this is so, and if Cyclone is in
ARC’s sights, then present ARC share-
holders’ equity is not watered by such
a takeover as otherwise would have’ been
the case. The bonus could comfortably
be ascribed as a logical clearing of the
decks for a takeover.
On present share prices ARC probably
could still acquire Cyclone after its bonus
-—if Cyclone was a willing party. Rumor
has had it that Cyclone is willing to give
up running alone after a not-so-good
year.
Theoretically, ARC ss. shares (a split
of the 10s. shares accompanies the
bonus) should bring around 12s. after
the bonus. Cyclone’s 10s. shares cur-
rently sell around 19s. Two ARC for
one Cyclone (a par transaction) would
win the day.
the world of business
"Charles! We're soon going to need a bigger portfolio!"


Australian Paper
Manufacturers Limited
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
HEAD OFFICE: South Gate, South Melbourne, Victoria.
Mills at Melbourne, Broadford, Fairfield and Maryvale, Victoria;
Botany, N.S.W.; Petrie, Queensland; Miliicent, S.A.;
Bayswater, W.A.; Sales Offices in all State Capitals
HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE 1962 ANNUAL REPORT
For the 12 Months Ended 30ih June, 1962
SALES
Sales of 289,597 tons were up by 3-8% on last year’s figure but
below 1959-60 tonnage of 300,229 tons owing to excessive imports
at low prices. Improvement in demand which began in September
was maintained and is continuing.
SELLING PRICES
Prices of high grade carton boards reduced. Export rebate allowed
on container materials for export packaging to assist customers
to compete with low cost imported materials. Prices maintained
generally at steady level for several years.
TARIFFS
Additional temporary duties imposed on wider range of papers
and boards on 29th May, 1962, should reduce imports with
consequent improvement in our sales.
PRODUCTION
Production was 293,453 tons of papers and boards and 95,089 tons
of woodpulp.
PROFIT
Net profit of £2,089,250 equivalent to a return of 11 *9% on issued
capital, or 28-6 pence per share.
DIVIDEND
Final dividend of 12 pence per share making 20 pence for the year
compared with 19-2 pence last year.
BONUS ISSUE
Issue of one share for each four held on 30th June, 1962, effective
2nd July.
DEVELOPMENT
AND
CONSTRUCTION
Good progress with erection of pulpmill at Port Huon, Tasmania,
to start production in December, 1962.
Petrie Inverform machine producing beyond expectations.
Design work on new mill at Spearwood, near Perth, progressing.
FORESTRY
Commercial quantities of pulpwood being delivered to Maryvale
Mill from thinning operations in company pine plantations.


INVESTMENT ADVISOR Y SER VICE
Oeaders of Ihe Bulletin can use
a personal investment advisory
service.
If you have an investment prob-
lem, write to the Financial Editor,
attaching the coupon at right.
The Bulletin financial staff will
seek out the information you require.
Selected letters of enquiry will be
published (without the names of
writers) together with the Editor’s
answers.
All communications will be treated
as confidential.
COUPON
ATTACH REQUEST, AND POST
TO:
FINANCIAL EDITOR,
The Bulletin, BOX 2521 G.P.0..
SYDNEY
MR
NAME mrs
MISS
ADDRESS:
STATE
THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
From a large number of readers' letters seeking "The
Bulletin's“ advice on investment matters, these have been selected
for publication. The balance have been answered personally.
I will soon reach retiring age and shall
want to invest a lump sum of super-
annuation. Would you confirm or modify
my idea about the merit of debentures
and/ or notes of those finance companies
in which the main banks have substantial
shareholdings? — G. M. (Glandore).
Your thinking of yield and security is
sound and, therefore, your object is solid,
fixed return investment. With this in
mind we lean more to debentures as the
better security.
Those you mention, i.e., those in which
the banks hold an interest, are obviously
the best of the finance companies, but
why concentrate on one category? Some
of the industrials, such as Lend Lease,
Waltons, BHP and North Shore Gas are
well worth consideration. Why not talk
it over with your broker? You will find
him helpful.
★ ★ ★
Included in my portfolio are 300
Brambles Industries, purchased in 1957
for 14 s. My main interest is capital
appreciation in the short-medium term
and I would appreciate your advice
whether to sell or hold. — R. D. (Mount
Isa ).
Your Brambles, which cost you 14s.
in 1957, show today a loss of only a
few pence, and during the five years you
have held them have returned you ss.
per share in dividends so they don’t owe
you anything. There are not many
shares carrying a 175 p.c. premium re-
turning a 7.3 p.c. yield, so our advice is
to hold.
A good prospect for an extra invest-
ment is C. V. Holland (Holdings) whose
124 p.c. dividend is covered 2.6 times by
profit and whose shares at 11s. (ss. par)
yield 5.7 p.c.
★ ★ ★
Could you tell me whether there is any
hope of having any of a deposit with
Commercial Credit Corporation of Aus-
tralia Ltd returned, or otherwise? — L. T.
{Sydney).
The company you mention, Commer-
cial Credit Corporation of Aust Ltd is
the subject of a Government Board of
inquiry set up under the new Companies
Act.
Under these circumstances it would be
out of order for us to comment on the
point raised. Lor your information Mr
Laurence W. Street, a barirster, and Mr
James G. Wheeler, a chartered account-
ant, have been appointed investigators.
Should 1 sell or “sweat it out’’ with a
holding of 2000 Timor Oil shares, bought
in small lots between 1958-1960? They
average out at around 4 s. 6d. and at the
moment stand at Is. 6d. — F. O’M.
(Manildra).
Oil shares should be bought and treat-
ed as an “if stock.” If oil is struck by
the company in which the shares are
held they are very valuable, provided the
strike is of commercial quantity. If
prospecting brings no results, the shares
slowly deteriorate in value and the longer
held the greater the loss.
The market may yet rise, so to hang
on for a while longer may enable you to
minimise your present paper losses. The
yearly report, when presented, will dic-
tate your future action. Incidentally,
since you wrote, the shares have lost
another 3d., and it’s bad policy to sell
on a falling market.
★ ★ ★
/ have £l5O to invest and can afford
to allow this to remain untouched for
the next five years. 1 am interested in
capital gain. Are unit trusts a better
investment for small investors than
shares? —C. J. M. (Brisbane).
It is understood that you do not desire
to touch for five years any investments
made and, therefore, capita 1 gain is your
main interest. In these circumstances
£l5O is not too small an amount to
start with. The shares we would advise
you to purchase are: 100 Kandos Cement
at 17s. 6d. and 100 Timber Investments
at 95., or in place of the latter share an
excellent one for growth is Tulloch’s at
7s. In fact, for growth prospects Tul-
lochs is a high ranker. If Tullochs is
taken in preference then 50 Timber In-
vestments could be also purchased and
at a little below the market rate as such
a quantity would be an “odd lot.”
Unit Trusts do have the advantage of
offering the small investor a coverage of
many stocks; in other words “your eggs
are not all in one basket,” but preference
is a matter of the investor’s choice.
★ ★ ★
On September 24, 1960, 1 invested
£1,500 in Reid Murray Debentures at
8%; on December 16, 1960 £5OO at
Bi%; on April 13, 1962 I converted all
to 9% redeemable 31st December, 1969.
Disquieting rumors have caused me con-
siderable anxiety. 1 would be pleased if
you would clarify the position. As the
debentures are quoted on the Exchange,
is it possible to sell.
W. G. D.
(Redcliffe).
There are disquietening rumors cur-
rent about Reid Murray, but they relate
principally to the profit (or loss) figure
the company will show for 1961-62.
It appears likely that a sizeable loss for
the year will be disclosed shortly.
However in the long run the security
of your 9% debentures appears assured.
The company has solid assets which
would more than cover the repayment
of all first mortgage debenture borrow-
ing in the event of it being wound up.
It must be admitted that the company
is suffering from a liquidity problem and
although it is apparently paying all in-
terest as it falls due, it is making every
effort to delay redemption of its borrow-
ings—instance your own conversion to
debentures maturing in 1969.
The debentures are quoted on the
Stock Exchange and although no recent
sales have been you can still
offer them for sale and should be able
to attract a buyer. However you will
almost certainly have to accept a dis-
count on the face value of the de-
benture.


COMPANY ANALYSIS
H. PETTIFORD UNDERPRICED
By “SECURITY”
Qn September 19, H. Pettiford Hold-
ings Ltd made its preliminary pro-
fit announcement for the year ended
June 30, 1962, the fifth year as a pub-
lic company. Net profit before tax was
£79,655 (compared with £84,679 in the
peak year 1959/60) but, partly as a
result of past losses of W. H. Hole,
acquired late in 1961 ? only £9,650 was
provided for tax. However, as a 10 p.c.
dividend on the present ordinary capital
of £402.429 would appear to be covered
at least H times by this profit, even
with full tax deducted, it seems that the
ordinary shares could well be under-
priced at 325. sd. to show a dividend
yield of 6.2 p.c.
The original business of H. Pettiford
was established in 1941 to manufacture
wire shelves and component parts for
refrigerators. At „t time the business
was conducted from a small factory of
only 1.600 square feet at Redfern, but
by 1943 (and this was during war years)
the Redfern factor.,, could no longer cope
with the expanding businerj, and ope-
rations were transferred to St. Peters.
In March 1958 the ground was pre-
pared for public listing when LI. Petti-
ford Holdings was incorporated to ac-
quire H. Pettiford and Co. Pty Ltd,
Brightseal Pty Ltd, Galvosteel Pty Ltd
and S. R. Sheetmetal Products Pty Ltd.
This group, in addi L ion to providing
welded wire steel products for refrigera-
tors and stoves, hotel and cafe supplies,
etc., prod ces a wide range of miscellane-
ous items and is also engaged in zinc plat-
ing and the manufacture of certain gal-
vanised farm and station equipment.
Of the 141,500 £1 shares issued in
1958 only 40,000 were offered to the
public at par. Since then the spread
has been increased, first as a result of
the W. H. Hole acquisition, and again
by a placement of ordinary shares in
connection with .. ' er acquisitions made
during the 1961/62 year.
W. H. Hole & Co. Ltd, a manufac-
turer of wire products, would appear to
be a business very similar to that of H.
Pettiford & Co. Pty Ltd. Contrary to
H. Pettiford, however, W. H. Hole had
a poor record which in 1958-59 and
1959-60 culminated in losses.
The other acquisition made at ap-
proximately the same time as the ac-
quisition of W. H. Hole was a joint
venture with Philips Electrical Indus-
tries Pty Ltd and involved a group of
companies which trade in Victoria under
the name of Wing Industries.
The result has been to increase the
ordinary capital from £141,500 to
£402,400 approximately, an increase of
185 p.c. over a period of two years.
No increases in capital occurred be-
tween July 1, 1961, and listing date.
As a copy of the 1962 balance sheet
is not yet available, it is difficult to make
any estimates of movements in reserves,
particularly when a private placement
of shares has been made during the
year, but it seems likely that the total
capital of the groty as at June 30,
1962, would be £685,000 at least. This
would represent an incre of 365 p.c.
since June 30, 1958, whereas operat-
ing income has increased by only 177
p.c. during this same period. However,
it must be borne in mind that, unless
the W. H. Hole acquisition was made
solely for the company’s tax losses,
which would seem to be unlikely, time
has not been sufficient for this particu-
lar acquisition to return to a profitable
basis.
Despite these figures, the ordinary
shareholders of the company have been
treated quite well during its short period
as a public company.
During 1961 the comp..ay made a
one-for-three issue at par, which would
have had the effect (on ffie basis of
market values of the shares at that time)
of raising a shareholder’s dividend in-
come by 16 p.c.
Although this increase is not dra-
matic in respect of the increases
which have been applicable to a num-
ber of companies, it is of some moment
when considering the current yield on
the shares, particularly as the dividend
appears to be well covered.
The low current price does not seem
to be justified in view of the results
achieved during this last year. The
shares which were selling at 465. ex-
issue in October 1960 have been as
high as 40s. during 1961, but recently
they have declined to as low as 28s.
The market is justifiably cautious
about low tax provision and it therefore
remains to be seen whether the com-
pany can during 1962/63 raise its pro-
fits to a level whereby earnings will be
maintained or increased even when full
provision may be necessary for tax.
It would seem reasonable that a stock
such as this should sell at around ten
times earnings and on average one
would expect the dividend to be covered
about twice. This means that earnings
next year will need to increase to about
£BO,OOO.
Even if no tax benefits are available
from the past losses of W. H. Hole a
return to the lowest profitability level
of the four years to June 30, 1961,
would be more than sufficient to achieve
these earnings. It is therefore suggested
that this stock is undervalued at prices
below 355.
SIGNIFICANT RATIOS
Year to June 30. 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Profitability Ratio % 26.4 33.4 55.7 27.9 16.5
Earnings per Share
Shillings 3.33 3.98 7.20 3.14 3.48
Price/Earnings Ratio
(a) 7.3 8.2 7.5 11.8 9.2
Retention Rate % .... 57.6 36.9 46.6 34.0 50.2
Dividend % 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0
Dividend Yield %
(a) 8.1 6.2 4.9 5.4 6.2
(a) based on last sale in month accounts presented.
Profitability Ratio Estimated Operating Income as
Retention Rate
percentage of Net Working
Capital plus Fixed Assets and
Intangibles.
= Depreciation plus retained pro-
fits as percentage of Estimated
Operating Income.
CLEAR PATTERN OF CAGA'S
FINANCE OPERATIONS
/Commercial and General Acceptance’s
pattern of borrowings and finance
operations was made very clear to share-
holders at the annual meeting. The chair-
man (Mr R. J. Vicars) backed up his
more general remarks with significantly
chosen figures.
Thank goodness he did not deem it
sufficient merely to suggest that “the
borrowing programme is carefully
planned and reviewed continually in the
light of changing business conditions,”
or that maturings of debentures and notes
were spread in accord with repayments or
outstandings.
Shareholders were told that open-
market indebtedness was lifted from
£21.7 million to £23.6 million during
1961-62. However, repayments are com-
ing in at about £2O million a year, thus
guaranteeing ready funds to redeem the
said debentures and notes.
The original hire-purchase bias has
changed. Funds now move into per-
sonal credit, lease facilities, short-term
mortgages, project development and in-
dustrial loans, though h.p. still predomin-
ates and Mr Vicars hastens to confirm
that 97.9 p.c. of all funds invested lie in
short-term transactions.
With this h.p. emphasis, CAGA is
probably more than contributing to the
overall advance of outstandings through-
out Australia, for July and August busi-
ness this year constituted a two-months
record. Sharemarkets are still valuing the
company among the best, as evidenced by
current prices around 10/3 to yield 4.9
p.c.


PATRICK & COMPANY
viembers of the Sydney Stock Exehani:
1(5 O Connell St.. Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
150 Queer St. Melbourne
67-5957 (7 lines)
43 Northbourne Ave.,
City. Canberra, A.C.T.
4 0365-66
Flinders House, Crown St., Wollongon
B 5900
Telegram."- ana Cables
“Uosdale” Sydney Melbourne
'ii Wnllonetioe
RALPH VV. KING & YUILL
Members oj Sydney Stock Exchange
W. KEITH YUILL—KEITH C. PHILLIPS
lAN C. WALTON—CORDON G. KING
WALTER I. SUMMONS
WILLIAM S. SHUGG
(non-member partner)
33 BLIGH STREET. 2-0137
84 William Street, Melbourne. 67-5089
340 Queen Street, Brisbane. 31-2191
Telegrams and Cables: “Ralphking"
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Grafton
and Tamworth
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc
J. W. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road.
Melbourne.
Telephones: 51-6243 51-6245
Est. 1939
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street. Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member ot the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721.
Telesrams and Cables:
“LAG HAM,” Sydney.
A. L. NEVIH. DRAPER & CO.
A C NEVIT'I. A. c. DRAPER.
N VV C. DRAPER
(Members 01 Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor.
Tile National Mutual Lite Building.
297 Queen Street. Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO’*
Phone, m-2761 p.o BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
I'OVVNSVILLt BRANCH.
2 Denham Street. Phone 6089
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
I hate to disappoint the directors
of Ready Mixed Concrete, who
have obviously become such avid readers
of this diary, but I’m really not going to
say very much about them this week.
The fact that at the annual meeting
last Friday they suffered the humiliating
rebuke of having the motion to adopt
their annual report and accounts de-
feated on a show of hands is sufficient
commentary on the feeling of the meet-
ing. (One dissenting shareholder then
pointed out that as shareholders’ protests
had now been registered, no useful pur-
pose could be served by defeating the
motion. Fie moved that the motion be
put again and on this occasion it was
carried almost unanimously).
However ineffectual the directors may
have been in answering the many
criticisms levelled at them, this much is
certain: they must now be a somewhat
chastened lot.
Friday’s meeting should also long
serve as a poignant lesson to the direc-
tors, not onlv of RMC but of any
company, of the danger of issuing mis-
leading information to the public.
Finally, the directors should be given
the credit for conducting last Friday’s
long, angry and crowded meeting (400
must have been there) in a reasonable
and eood-natured way.
The day before all this John Fairfax
Ltd well nigh excelled itself. In the
very issue in which announced a 25
p.c. increase in its proprietors’ pre-tax
profit, the “Financial Review’s” main
editoria’ solemnly declared, “Recovery
Too Hesitant.” It went on to say that
there was “disturbing evidence that re-
covery may indeed be slackening to a
dreary plod.”
The directors, however, did not al-
together agree. On page 29 of the same
issue they said that in the first 12 weeks
of the 1963 financial year their revenue
had again “materially increased” and
profit was up “substantially.”
Now in fairness to the “Review’s”
editorial writer, his point was whether
the recovery might be confined to “a few
lively industries.” The newspaper indus-
try certainly rates as one of the lively
industries, as anyone who works in it well
knows.
Puzzling as all this might be, my main
task last week was to raise £B9O to pay
for my previous week’s sins. John
Lysaght obliged by raising the dividend
to a 10 p.c. basis, the rate promised in
the prospectus 18 months ago and which
the company was not able to honor last
year. However, the shares did not move
up enough immediately to cover even
my brokerage and I found myself still
losing <£l3 on the deal. But it brought
in a much-needed £635.
Another £ 60-odd came in from my
remaining 100 Ready Mixed which were
summarily dismissed from my portfolio
the moment the annual meeting was over
and they had served their purpose by
getting me into that meeting. This 100
cost me another £29 on top of the £99
lost on the other 400 sold a fortnight
ago.
The combined loss of £42 on John
Lysaght and Ready Mixed last week
could have been much more than offset
by selling my Waugh and Josephsons.
But this company created something of
a minor sensation on Friday by not only
paying a 5 p.c. final dividend but
turning in quite a fair profit instead of a
loss that was feared in some quarters.
So 1 abandoned any thought of selling
Waugh and Josephson, at least until this
week.
Instead I decided to take a profit of Is.
a share on the 400 Brambles bought only
the week before. Brambles ran up from
11s. 9d. to 13s. 9d. in the short space
of a week but were back to 13s. 3d.
again by the time I sold. They are prob-
ably worth a good deal more than this—
the yield is still 7.6 p.c.—but the need
for cash was too great. They brought
in £255 to give me total cash of £939
so that at long last I was out of the wood.
But not really, as I’d already spent
£196 an 1000 Vesta on the strength of
a takeover rumor. Now, I know I am
old enough to take no notice of takeover
rumors, particularly about Vesta, but we
all have our weaknesses, don’t we? And
3s. 9d. seemed so little for a 10s. share.
So I still have a debt of £147.
Details of the week’s transactions
were:
SOLD
200 John Lysaght at 63/- .... £622
400 Brambles at 13/3 £255
100 Ready Mixed at 12/9 .... £62
BOUGHT
1000 Vesta at 3/9 £196
The portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
600 O'Donnell Griffin 28/8 61 13/6 19/-
2000 United Motels 20 11/61 3/9 3/9
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19 '9 25/6
800 Goodwins 21 3/62 5/9 6/2
400 Malleys 3/5/62 20/9 23/6
1000 Hanimex 23/5/62 4/11 6.6
300 National Consol. 30/5 62 26/1 25/-
300 Marcus Clark notes 22 6/62 27/6 29/-
100 James Hardie 29 / 6/62 98/- 96/-
600 Courtaulds 24.7/62 11/4 11/-
100 CSR 1/8/61 49/- 50/-
400 AWA 10/3 62 20/- 19/6
500 R. W. Miller 21/8/62 17/3 18. 3
1000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9 5 10
100 AOG 27/8/62 55/6 57/3
1000 ANI 14/9/62 4/- 4 -
400 AWA 10/8/62 20 - 19 6
Josephson 11/9/62 14 6 16/3
400 Western Mining 19/9/62 13/3 13/3
200 Shipping News 20/9/62 24 - 23/6
1000 Vesta 27/9/62 3/0 3, 0


DISSENT
A RADICAL QUARTERLY
Articles on State Aid, Disarmament, Decen-
tralizing education, paying prisoners, social
welfare, town planners, Pilkington Report
Reviews of “Australian Civilization” the
Chifley Memorial Lecture on “New Guinea”
and the Fabian booklet “Public Ownership”’
Writers include P. Gill, A Clunies-Ross, Prof’
R. Downing, Chris Watson, Rod Allen Norm
Fisher, Frank Crean, 10/- sub for 4 issues.
Box 4044 G.P.O. Melbourne.
is ■
(HOLDINGS) UMITID
An issue at
par (£100) of
£500,000
registered
first mortgage
debenture
stock
Per Annum
5 and 10
years.
2 YEARS
3 YEARS. .. 7%P.A.
: YEARS . .., P.A.
' % \>' ' '• > f, ' A ' r< r <■
AND SHORTER TERMS AVAILABLE
METHOD OF INVESTING Application for Debenture
Stock will proceed only on one of the forms of application
referred to in and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus
obtainable from and lodged with
■ JAMES WALLACE (HOLDINGS) LIMITED,
123 Sussex Street, Sydney.
a The Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney Limited any branch in New South
Wales or the Australian Capital Territory.
■ Any member of a Recognised Stock
Exchange.
Underwriting Brokers
■ RALPH W. KING & YUILL (members of the
Sydney Stock Exchange), 20 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, with offices at Melbourne, Brisbane,
G-rafton, Tamworth.
EXPORT CREDITS
A VITAL NEED
"|V/jf any sections of Australian industry
continue to clamor for more ade-
quate and flexible export finance. So
much world trade now hangs upon at-
tractive, officially sponsored, long-range
credit, that reiterated demands here are
not surprising.
Justification of their substance must
not be lightly doubted, despite the
Federal Government's provision of tax
incentives, depreciation allowances and
the newer forms of term lending institut-
ed through the trading banks.
If the export drive, to which frequent
lip-service seems to be paid, is speedily
to produce results, there may be every
case for Government and industry to
come closer and discuss all aspects of a
national export programme.
This suggestion does not belir:ie the
present means of governmental encour-
agement, which might only need more
publicity. On the other hand, they might
also need broadening.
Last week the director of the Cham-
bers of Manufactures (Mr R. W. C. An-
derson) complained that export business
was being lost for lack of suitable export
credit. Apparently a number of exporters
refrain from first steps into foreign mar-
kets preparatory surveys, negotiations,
and submission of tenders if long-
term, low-interest finance cannot be pro-
vided.
“The terms on which the finance is
made available must be competitive with
what is offered overseas, and, most im-
portant, there must be absolute certainty
that when the conditions are met the
finance will be available,” Mr. Anderson
urged.
Not the least burden of his remarks
was directed at the potentialities of the
newly developing nations, to which an
increasing volume of Australia's trade
could be aimed, if special financial ar-
rangements rescued them from chronic
balance-of-payments troubles. Such tech-
niques are necessary to penetrate these
markets against superior credit facilities
preferred by other countries.
These remarks should foster a closer
examination of what financial advantages
Australia can furnish. It hardly sounds
enough to parade EPIC, basically a pure
insurance device. Though many trading
bank sources have often maintained that
orthodox bank finance suffices to carry
exporters, not even the term loans may
measure up to wider and riskier overseas
tendencies.
Dr Coombs summed up the term-loan
province in his last Reserve Bank report:
“As to export finance, loans will be
generally for capital goods and in some
cases for activities associated with the
supply of capital goods such as installa-
tion costs.” The range is designed for
three to eight years “or possibly a little
longer.”
Mr. Anderson talked about “a form of
partnership between the Government and
private financial institutions.” He evi-
dently had in mind Britain's recent
alliance between the banks (medium-
term) and the insurance companies (long-
term).
Similar refinements and extensions will
be called for here and not merely to
cover heavy capital equipment and con-
struction contracts.


AUSTRALIAN CONSOLIDATED INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Reg. Office: 500 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria
ADDRESS OF THE CHAIRMAN OF DIRECTORS (MR. J. A. FORREST) AT
ANNUAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS HELD IN MELBOURNE ON 19th SEPTEMBER, J 962
Ladies and Gentlemen:
With your approval I shall now address
you on the position of the Company’s
affairs and the results of the past financial
year. First I wish to refer to two changes
which have occurred on the Board of
Directors.
Directorate:
In July this year, Mr. S. G. Garns-
worthy retired after a record period of
service to the Company and its predeces-
sors extending over sixty years. Mr. Garns-
worthy started work in the glass industry
in a junior capacity and progressed with
it and its associated enterprises to become
General Secretary of this Company, from
which position he retired in 1946 and
joined the Board. His untiring efforts and
wise counsel contributed greatly to the
pi’ogress and welfare of the Company. His
colleagues on the Board accepted his
resignation with regret and with under-
standing and I am sure you join the
Directors in sincerely wishing him a long
and happy retirement.
Mr. Garnsworthy’s resignation caused a
casual vacancy on the Board which was
filled by the appointment of Mr. J. C.
Stewart who is here with us today.
I shall now deal with the accounts and
related matters.
Review of Accounts:
The Group Reports, Accounts and Bal-
ance Sheet for 1962 will have reached you
in good time for you to have read and
studied them. It will be apparent that
some changes in details have occurred this
year. They give effect to provisions of the
new Companies Act which operated from
Ist. July, 1962. In passing, it is interesting
to note that these new provisions do not
materially alter the form and content of
our reports and accounts as submitted
to shareholders in recent years.
Net Group profit for the year was
£2,327,000 after providing for taxation and
the various other items set out on page
18 of the Report. This profit is down on
the previous year’s figure of £2,653,000 as
it was expected to be when looking for-
ward at this time last year. However, in
view of the economic difficulties of last
year I think shareholders can regard the
result as satisfactory, though a drop in
profits is never welcome and is always a
challenge to management.
The proportion of profit due to outside
shareholders is higher this year following
the completion of arrangements with Pilk-
ington Brothers Limited and others
through which they purchased shares in
certain subsidiaries.
There were transfers to reserves total-
ling £737,000 and the profits remaining
unappropriated are £1,165,000. The total
General Reserves of the Group are
£11,224,000.
Shareholders’ Funds:
During the yeai'7”Shareholders’ Funds
increased from £31,500,000 to £40,759,000
mainly through the Bonus Issue and the
Cash Issue of Ordinary Shares about
which you know already. There were other
important increases in Capital and
Revenue Reserves which you will have
noted from the Consolidated Statement
and the Directors’ Report.
The Shareholders’ Funds of £40,759,000
in the total of £55,398,000 employed in the
Group reflects the strength of the Share-
holders’ financial interest in the Group’s
assets.
Investments:
The Company’s investments, reported at
cost, show a x-eduction this year arising
mainly from the maturity of certain Gov-
ernment Securities, the proceeds of which
were devoted to capital expenditure with-
in the Group. It will be noted that the
market value of the listed securities we
own is considerably higher than their cost.
Fixed Assets:
Capital expenditure on new projects and
on modernisation continued during the
year. The gross increase in Group Fixed
Assets was £11,600,000 of which £4,200,000
was the result of the revaluation of cer-
tain freeholds mentioned last year in con-
nection with the recent Bonus Issue of
ordinary shares. The remainder £7,400,000
was the aggregate investment in capital
items for the year, and, after writing off
depreciation at the usual rates, Fixed
Assets stand in the Balance Sheet at
£31,671,000. Finance for capital expenditure
was provided from internal sources and
from that part of the Cash Issue of Shares
which was received during the year. As
mentioned last year the high level of ex-
penditure has reduced the Group earning
rate on funds employed. This reduction
is likely to persist until the various pro-
jects on which the money is spent are
completed and come into full and profit-
able production.
Taxation and Depreciation:
A total of £2,816,000 has been provided
to meet the estimated 1962 income taxes
payable on Australian and Overseas in-
come. This sum is included in the total of
£5,209,000 appearing in the Consolidated
Statement of Assets and Liabilities. The
£5,209.000 may appear high but it is re-
quired to meet the 1962 taxes as well as
the 1961 taxes which were not assessed
when the books of the subsidiaries con-
cerned were closed for the year.
The amount provided for Depreciation
this year was £2,558,000 and £588,000 was
set aside towards replacement of fixed
assets. As you know it is our practice to
provide a reasonable amount for deprecia-
tion of buildings. Although this is a legiti-
mate charge against income it is still not
allowable for Income Tax in this country
and consequently can only be covered by
our tax paid income. It is hard to under-
stand why this unsound taxation treatment
of an ordinary cost of deriving income
should continue.
While on the subject of taxation we are
glad to report that some of our industries
have received the benefit of Payroll Tax
rebates on Exports. Other industries will
receive benefit from the taxation allow-
ances recently introduced by the Govern-
ment in respect to new investment in pro-
duction facilities but a great part of our
investment in capital items during the last
two or three years will, of course, not
qualify for these allowances.
Costs and Profitability:
On previous occasions, reference has
been made to rising costs and the inability
of industry to go on absorbing them in-
definitely. The full effect of cost increases
which occurred during the previous year
was felt by our companies in 1962 and
these, together with slackness of trade in
some of our industries during the first
half of the year, price reductions to meet
overseas competition and some expenditure
of a non-recurring nature, contributed
largely to the reduction in profits. To
meet this strain on profitability, we con-
tinue to pursue increased sales, new appli-
cations and markets for our products,
higher efficiency in operation and invest-
ment in the most modern equipment suit-
able for our purposes.
Subsidiary Companies:
Comments on the year’s activities of
the subsidiary Companies are contained
in the report by the Joint General Manag-
ers which you will have taken the oppor-
tunity of reading along with the pub-
lished report and accounts. I do not pro-
pose to add to what they have covered
but will confine my comments to new
developments and overseas activities.
New Developments:
The Sheet Glass Factory at Dandenong,
Victoria, has just commenced to make
glass and we are very pleased with initial
operations. The official opening of the
plant will take place next month. Plans
for this undertaking have worked out to
schedule and we are confident that it will
operate efficiently and in due course
make its contribution to profits. Its out-
put wdl enable the Company to supply
ali Australian requirements of high quality
sheet glass but severe competition from
?*T er v, eas ™ ai } u f ac turers must be expected
We have had material benefit and assist-
Phkington Brothers Limited of
Lngland with whom we are associated in
this venture. They are world leaders in
flat glass manufacture and their ex-
perience in the industry extends back xor
well over one hundred years. Various
Government Authorities and the suppliers
of goods and services have also played
an important part in bringing the Dande-
nong factory into operation in good time
I take this opportunity of thanking them
for their assistance.
The agreement with Harbison-Wa.’ker
Refractory Company of Pittsburgh U.S A
mentioned last year, has been satisfactorily
concluded. We have joined with that Com-
A a nr m a new company called Harbiscn
Pty. Limited w r hich is now engaged
on the construction of a factory at Unan-
derra near Port Kembla, N.S.W., to pro-
duce basic refractories used in many major
industries for the lining of furnaces and
simdar purposes. At present most of these
lefiactories are imported from overseas
The Harbison-Walker Refractory Co is
one of the largest and most experienced
w£ P f mes °P ei ; atin §' in this field and we
with them ai ' d t 0 & successful association
An agreement has been made with
Societe Chimique de Gerland of Lyon
France, under which we will manufacture
ln Victoria for the Australian Market the
well-known “Gerflex” resilient vinyl
flooring m tile and continuous form. This
1S a Q ua hty product which enjoys
a mxr d-wxde market and reputation. Plans
undertaking are well advanced.
h«r M ron i th< ? se s P ecif ic items, a num-
ber of other developments, large and small
are in contemplation and many valuable
beeii C buil°t n up Wlth ° verseas companies have
Overseas Interests:
Recently, I was overseas and took the
opportunity of meeting our own represen-
tatives and business associates in the
United States of America, the United
Kingdom and on the Continent and also
inspected our plants in South East Asia
Mr Quinn accompanied me to America'
Earlier i visited South East Asia with
Mr Haile and from what was learned at
first hand on that visit, it was felt that
the time had arrived when there should
be local participation in our Singapore
ana Malayan enterprises. Accordingly
Malayan Containers Limited was formed to
acquire the shares in Malayan Fibre Con-
tainers Limited and Singapore Glass
Manufacturers Company Limited Con-
currently, we offered almost half the
shares in the new Company to the public
of Malaya and Singapore. The offer was
well received and the number of shares
applied for greatly exceeded the number


WBEnSjBM
meet”
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM 2dol. <=
available. There are good grounds for
feeling that the negotiations for the estab-
lishment of Malaysia will be successful and
that the climate for developing industries
in that area will continue to improve.
In Bangkok, our Company had another
successful year with a steady increase in
sales and the business outlook for the
current year is reasonably good despite
the troubles in neighboring countries.
The New Zealand companies in the
Group were adversely affected by economic
conditions in that country. The immediate
outlook for the Dominion is not as bright
as it has been and some adjustments will
have to be made to meet difficulties
which are looming, particularly with re-
gard to overseas trade.
Our published report and accounts this
year features the Group interests overseas.
We hope that shareholders found the in-
formation interesting and that it conveyed
I to them something of the importance of
these industries and activities.
I Future Prospects:
In the present financial year the first
five months trading by the subsidiary
companies shows considerably improved
results when compared with last year but
they are still less than the figures for
the corresponding period of the previous
year which was an all-time record. Al-
though the trend is definitely upward
both in Sales and Profits there is still
some hesitation in business and it is not
easy at this stage to predict the final
results for the year.
This hesitation is to some extent an
aftermath of the economic difficulties of
last year but an important factor we
think is the doubt felt in many circles
regarding the effects on Australia should
the United Kingdom join the European
Economic Community. Very important dis-
cussions are going on in London at this
time and we can only hope that a solu-
tion satisfactory to Australia and the
other members of the Commonwealth will
be found. Whatever the outcome of those
discussions, there is no justification for a
timid approach to the problems. Australian
industry has met and overcome difficulties
in the past and it has the resources in
men and materials to do so again. In
A.C.I. confidence is high and we feel that
with its industrial and geographical diver-
sification the Group will give a good
account of itself whatever the difficulties.
The need to increase exports from this
country is pressing and notable and suc-
cessful efforts are being made by the
Government and some sections of In-
dustry in this regard. Some of the In-
dustries in our Group are in a position
to enter the Export Market and have done
so but this is not the case with the major
part of the Group’s products. Sharehold-
ers will appreciate that over the years
we have established manufacturing
centres near the markets in which we
are interested and an extensive Export
Market has been developed from Singa-
pore.
Vote of Thanks to Staff:
On your behalf Ladies and Gentlemen
and on behalf of the Board I wish to
express thanks to all employees in Aus-
tralia and Overseas for their good work
last year under the capable direction and
leadership of the Company’s General
Management.
Behind the Balance Sheets
WORMALD BROS LTD
SCOPE FOR CAPITAL GROWTH
The Great Fire of Melbourne in 1897
which destroyed almost all the build-
ings in Flinders St between Swanston and
Elizabeth St, highlighted two companies
—Mutual Store, whose building was the
only one to survive the flames, and Wor-
mald Bros Ltd, whose sprinkler system
in the store was the reason for its sur-
vival.
From this red-hot beginning Wormald
has expanded rapidly but caref .lly, until
today it is the principal fire protection
engineer in Australia.
In point of fact the company began
as a partnership in 1889, but changed
its name to Wormald Bros in 1900. From
the automatic sprinkler system, it natur-
ally expanded into allied fields such as
fire alarm systems, fire extinguishers and
fireproof doors. During the Second
World War, all production was chan-
nelled to the defence forces, but on the
cessation of hostilities a rapid change
was made to peacetime production and
expansion began outside the capital
cities.
In 1949 the present company was
formed to obtain Stock Exchange listing
with a paid up capital of £276,000.
Since then benefits to shareholders in
the way of cash issues have been numer-
ous. These, however, have been more
than matched in recent years by the use
of the high market premium o" 1 the
shares to acquire allied companies by
share exchanges.
Issues to shareholders since flotation
have included a two-for-nine at par
(1952), a one-for-three bonus (1953),
one-for-five at par (1954), one-for-three
(1955 and 1956), 7 p.c. convertible
notes one-for-four (1957 and 1960).
These involved a total increase of
£ 1,368,174 in new capital. Takeovers
have involved the issu of an additional
£1,325,378 in new capital including
£220,000 in prefs. The 20s. ordinary
shares were split into ss. units in July,
1960.
During 1961-62, takeovers included
GAAM Engineering Co. Pty Ltd and
McCarron Bird Pty, involving the issue
of 762,000 new ss. shares. At June 30
last paid up capital stood at £3,034,552
consisting of 320,000 20s. 5 p.c. prefs
and 10,858,209 ss. ordinary shares. Since
then this has been increased by the issue
of an additional 1,600,000 ss. share; to
redeem the 400,000 20s. 7 p.c. convert-
ible notes.
The two latest acquisitions bring to 94
the number of subsidiaries in the group.
Nearly half (40) of them are based in
NSW, 17 in New Zealand, 15 in Vic-
toria and the remainder in Western Aus-
tralia, South Aust., Queensland and the
ACT.
The greater number operate in the
field of fire protection and detection.
However, this has gradually been ex-
tended into allied fields. Subsidiaries
now manufacture and supply office equip-
ment and furniture including filing
cabinets and lockers, steel and aluminium
fire doors and grilles, while one subsidi-
ary manufactures chemicals for the
foundry trade and for fire protection
appliances.
Profitability of the group has been
consistent since flotation with increases
every year except in 1954-55. However,
earning rate, because of the continually
rising capital, has not shown the same
improvement, although the cover for the
10 p.c. dividend paid every year since
1953-54 has been healthy.
In common with most other industries,
the company had a difficult time in 1961-
62. It maintained its position in all sec-
tions, but profit margins in a number of
lines were cut because of intensified com-
petition and the net profit budget was not
achieved.
Nevertheless the year’s result of
£368,154 was equal to 12.9 p.c. on
average ordinary capital employed after
deducting the pref. charge of £16,000.
In 1960-61, the profit of £365,777 was
equal to 13.9 p.c. on capital after pref.
charges. Last year’s 10 p.c. took
£271,456 compared with £251,055 the
previous year. Ordinary capital during
the year rose from £2,497,052 to
£2,714,552.
Purists might say that l he company
maintained its higher profit, only ' . the
manipulation of the tax provision. The
1960-61 figure of £327,804 appears
high in relation to t u e group profit, in-
cluding outside shareholders’ interests, of
£382,261, although directors have only
written back £2627 as over provided.
The 1961-62 figure of £223,087, con-
versely appears low and is equal to a
little over 7s. in the £ on gross income.
Despite the large number of takeovers
by share issues, most of the issues have
been mad- at p .r. As a result, share
premium reserve at June 30 stood at
£57,634, while assets revaluation re-
serve was unchanged at £176,644. This
latter figure has remained steady since


1958, indicating that fixed assets at
£3,469,940 are probably very conser-
vatively valued.
Total reserves, including a genei.l re-
serve of £549,907, subject to intangibles
of £205,280, give a net tangible assets
backing of 6s. 9d. to the ordinary shares
and £l2/7/3 to the prefs.
The company found liquidity tighter
during the latest year and had to draw on
the bank and unsecured loans to finance
a lift in deb* from £1,613,595 to
£1,840,575 and higher stocks, up from
£2,456,651 to £2,826,753.
With the current boom in office block
building in all the capital cities, Wormald,
because of its specialised lines, stands to
benefit over the next two years. With
the Quay end of Sydney looking like a
dentist’s nightmare, excavations for new
office blocks on amost every corner, or
skelton frameworks gradually taking
shape, Wormald will soon be called on
to install the fire protection equipment in
many of the buildings and then, as the
work progresses, other subsidiaries will
be able to supply the demand for fittings.
The shares are currently selling around
11s. 6d. to yield about 4.4 p.c. on a
dividend basis and 5.6 p.c. on an earn-
ings basis. With the current outlook
for industrial and office building there
appears scope for capital appreciation
although a substantial lift in profit will
be required before the dividend rate is
likely to rise.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £'ooo
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 2998 3041 3349 4118 4714
Less current liabilities 2042 2093 2431 2624 4093
Working capital .... 956 948 918 1494 621
Investments 16 95 199 84 127
Fixed assets 1883 2154 2281 2715 3470
Goodwill 234 100 121 154 98
Consolidated
adjustment 107
Total capital 3089 3297 3519 4447 4423
Represented by:
Loan capital 400 400 400 400
Minority interest .... 142 167 166 222 261
Pref capital 320 320 320 320 320
Ordin. capital 1424 1607 1714 2497 2715
Reserves 803 803 919 1008 1127
3089 3297 3519 4447 4423
Depreciation 82 110 143 167 174
Taxation 150 196 258 328 223
Net earnings 206 214 295 366 368
Dividend 166 177 185 267 287
Surplus 40 37 110 99 81
Earnings rate p.c. .. 13.4 12.3 16.6 13.9 12.9
Dividend rate p.c. .. 10 10 10 10 10
Div. yield (a) 5.5 4.4 3.2 4.8 4.4
High price (b) (c)4O/ 12/6 17/6 11/3
Low price (b) (c)34/6 9/6 9/6 9/6
(a) Early Sept, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
(c) 20/- basis.
NEWBOLD GENERAL REFRACTORIES
SOUND DESPITE SALES LAG
Shareholders of Newbold General Re-
fractories Ltd, were disappointed to
discover that 1961-62 was considerably
less profitable than the disclosed net
profit indicated. The tax provision fell
far short of that made in the two pre-
vious years, and the customary provision
for plant replacement was omitted.
The market is much less enthusiastic
about the stock than it was earlier in
the year, immediately following the in-
terim report which indicated that only
the building brick division was struggling
to equal 1960-61 figures.
It now transpires that the refractory
division, too, was trading under pressure.
Competitive conditions ruled. Imported
refractories, especially from Europe, and
a reluctance on the part of customers to
carry stocks, combined with higher manu-
facturing costs, added up to tougher
times.
In NSW, Newbold operates refractory
plants at Mayfield and Hexham (near
Newcastle) and Thirroul and Port
Kembh on the south coast. In Victoria
there is a plant at Dandenong (operated
by Ordish Firebrick) and in South Aust-
ralia at Beverley. Oil fired tunnel kilns
are operated at Thirroul and Dandenong.
The NSW plants suffered as to output
and sales, but the Ordish division in Vic-
toria (acquired in 1960-61) produced and
sold higher in the year under review.
BHP is a large customer, hence the
location of NSW plants, and the estab-
lishment of a plant in SA to service the
Whyalla steelworks.
Newbold is reputed to produce one of
the widest ranges of refractories in the
world. Some are produced under licence
from the US, and a recent agreement with
Carborundum International was imple-
mented, for the manufacture of silicon
carbide and fused alumina products.
The building brick division is run by
Goodlet and Firth and Clyde Brick,
making common and face bricks, and
Walker Benson, making terra-cotta roof-
ing tiles and stoneware drainage pipes.
Walker Benson has clay and shale re-
serves. The lower level of building ac-
tivity produced a reduction of 11 p.c. in
the sales of the building brick division
during 1961-62.
Considerably greater funds were tied
up at the end of the year in stocks than
in 1961. The closing stocks of £792,554
were after deduction of £llO,OOO tax-
paid reserve.
In the past Newbold has been able to
keep stocks at a minimum, but in future
it may be saddled with the expense of
carrying larger quantities.
However, the company’s liquidity was
again very satisfactory, and investments
appearing in the books at £273,175 had
a market value at balance date of £746,-
722.
Newbold had commitments at balance
date for capital expenditure totalling
£168,905. These could be satisfied with
ease provided the sales position brightens.
During 1962-63 a capital profit of
£72,117 on the compulsory sale of prop-
erties to the NSW railways augmented re-
serves, which now give asset backing of
9s. 9d. to the ss. shares.
The last capital moves were par issues
in 1958-59 and 1957-58 and a bonus
issue in 1955-56, all in the ratio of one-
for-four. No other issue seems imminent,
and the 12i p.c. dividend rate looks set
for the time being.
The ss. shares now bring 20s. sd. to
yield 3.1 p.c. immediately, and 4.7 p.c. on
earnings. Though fundamentally very
sound there’s no reason to jump into these
until an acceleration in sales is apparent.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY £’ooo
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 838 1203 904 1285 1462
less current liabilities 547 505 762 999 877
Working capital . . 291 698 142 286 585
Fixed assets . . . . 1652 1723 2011 2485 2846
Investments .... 82 96 731 599 273
Total capital . . .. 2025 2517 2884 3370 3704
Represented by:
Reserves .. .. 775 954 1171 1497 1804
Ordinary capital . . 1250 1563 1713 1873 1900
2025 2517 2884 3370 3704
Plant replacement 20 20 25 50
Depreciation .. .. 188 198 140 168 182
Taxation 110 114 342 352 263
Net profit .. .. 241 263 316 359 357
Capital profit .... 74
Ord. divs 156 195 214 234 234
Surplus 85 68 102 125 125
Earn, p.c 19.3 16.8 18.5 19.0 17.5
Div. p.c 12VSs 12V2 12 Vi 12 Vi 12Vi
Div. yield (a) .. .. 5.0 3.7 2.9 * 2.2 2
High price (b) .. 15/10 16/ 17/9 23/1 31/
Low price (b) .. 10/5 12/5 12/10 17/ 19/6
HUMES LTD.
DEPRESSION-PROOF STOCK
Tnvestors should mark down Humes
Ltd, pipe-makers and engineering con-
tractors, as recession-proof after reading
the imperturbable directors’ report for
1961-62.
The management appears too engrossed
with the company’s own expansion plans
to notice the economic clouds outside.
The reduction in the earning rate and re-
turn on shareholders’ funds over the last
two years is explained by directors a 3
“temporary,” and stemming from the
very considerable investment in providing
greater production facilities.
Directors elaborated that a major fac-
tory for the group may take 18 months
to build, and another 18 months or so
before it is producing at a reasonable
level.
Record group turnover of over £2O
million was written in the year to June
30, of which almost £l2 million per-


tained to the parent. Certain Australian
subsidiaries failed to reach budgeted sales
and profits, and actually made a loss.
These were largely associated wfith the
building industry, but directors wasted
no time on excuses.
The factors which do operate to pro-
tect Humes from the worst effects of
local recessions are that it caters not
only for private enterprise but also for
government and municipal bodies on
long-term projects, and it has major sub-
sidiaries in Singapore and New Zealand.
The relative importance of the local
and overseas companies can be deduced
from this table of 1962 results:
£AOOO
Pretax Tax Net
profit profit
Humes Ltd 1104 424 680
Hume
Inds. (NZ) Ltd 266 135 131
Hume Industries
(Far East) Ltd 226 77 149
The original inventiveness of the Hume
brothers laid the foundations for Humes
Ltd in 1910 when they produced rein-
forced concrete pipe by centrifugal pro-
cess. Later they produced a w'elded steel
pipe suite, ble for high pressure w - ater
supply. Concrete pipes and steel pipes
are the two main operating divisions to-
day, but many allied products are turned
out by the parent and its subsidiaries.
Each State capital and many country
towns have Hume plants.
Humes Industries (Far East) Ltd is
owned six-sevenths by Humes Ltd and
the balance by outside Malayan interests.
In October 1961 a wholly owned subsi-
diary, Hume Industries (Malaya) Ltd,
was formed. The Far East company has
a half-interest in Rheem-Hume (Far
East) Ltd. The value of this investment
in 1956 (basis for inclusion in latest
accounts) w'as approximately £204,000.)
An asbestos mine in Southern
Rhodesia, owned jointly wfith Goliath
Portland Cement Co. Ltd, and an NZ
mine, supply the Australian and overseas
Humes companies.
In 1960 Humes joined w'ith Wunder-
lich Ltd to form a company to make
asbestos-cement pipes. So far each has
subscribed £500,000 and factories in
Sydney and Melbourne have been erected
and are now in production. This com-
pany may not pay a dividend for some
time.
The expansion projects which occu-
pied so much of the group's energies in
1961-62 were the concrete pipe factory
at Auburn (NSW) and an asbestos
cement sheeting factory for Hume In-
dustries (Malaya) Ltd at Petaling Jaya.
These are almost complete, and the next
projects are to erect a new plant for
vitrified clay pipes to be made by Martin
Stoneware Pipe Pty, and an asbestos
cement pipe factory at Petaling Jaya next
to the sheeting factory.
Capital expenditure in progress, or
approved at last balance date, amounted
to £1.3 million. Additional loan capital
(8 p.c. notes) was arranged during the
year providing £1.5 million, and direc-
tors do not anticipate requiring more
finance within the next year.
In 1960-61 shareholders subscribed to
a two-for-five par issue, and the com-
pany also made a small placement of
shares. That was the first cash issue in
ten years. Shareholders had earlier re-
ceived bonuses in 1958 and 1950.
The financial structure of the group
appears particularly strong. Most free-
hold land is valued at cost, and most
buildings at cost less depreciation, with
the balance at 1956 valuations or sub-
sequent cost, less depreciation.
At June 30, the group had orders on
hand approaching £8 million, w'hich at
last year s turnover represents an average
of almost five month's w'ork. Since
balance date, a £2 million contract to
supply steel pressure pipe to the Snowy
Mountains Authority, w'as secured
against international competition.
The parent company expected to be
able to cope with all orders in 1962-63,
and forecast slightly higher sales and
profits than in the year under review.
The same modest forecast was made for
group sales and profits for the current
year.
Though not producing frequent capi-
tal benefits, Humes stock is worthwhile
for the medium to long term investor.
Price range this year has been from 71s.
to 78s. and the present price of 765.
allords a yield of 3.7 p.c. immediately,
and 5.7 p.c. if total earnings were dis-
tributed.
Humes’ sturdy behaviour in tw'o trying
years has enhanced its reputation, and
the 20s. shares are unlikely to shed much
of this premium in a hurry. A split to ss.
shares w'ould give the stock more popular
appeal.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £’ooo
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets . . 5664 5684 6139 8096 8320
less current liabilities 2965 3235 3560 5363 4504
■Working capital .. 2699 2449 2579 2733 3816
Fixed assets .. . . 5053 5594 6059 6995 7486
Investments . . .. 333 335 281 351 742
Total capital 8085 8378 8919 10,079 12.044
Represented by:
Loan capital .. .. 1626 1598 1582 915 2431
Minority interests . . 896 896 909 898 900
Reserves 3062 3383 3815 4388 4759
Preference cap. . . 363 363 363 363 363
Ord. capital .. .. 2138 2138 2250 3515 3591
8085 8378 8919 10.079 12,044
SALES n/a n/a 16,458 19.135 20,342
Depreciation ~ .. 424 462 539 613 705
Amortisation .... 40 20 20 20 20
Taxation 503 480 581 611 701
Net Profit 603 641 658 751 811
Net profits for
ords 576 614 631 724 784
Ord. divs. 299 299 315 412 501
Surplus ...... 277 315 316 312 283
Earn. p.c. .. .. 27.0 28.7 28.1 24.6 21 8
Div. p.c 15'/j 14 14 14 14
Div. yield (a) . . .. 5.5 3.8 3.3 3 9
High price (b) .. 58/6 64/3 76/ 89/6 75/
Low price (b) . . 48/ 47/6 59/3 53/ 58/3
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
ONE TO BUY
A.C.I. CONFOUNDS
THE MARKET
\&7 e Australian investors must be very
short-sighted to allow the blue chip
Australian Consolidated Industries Ltd
shares to fall as low as 60s. 9d. on re-
ports of lower earnings for 1962-63.
1 his is about the lowest price for three
years and returns 2.7 p.c.
Shareholders and market observers
have had the opportunity to peruse the
1962-63 accounts which present anything
but a gloomy picture.
True, the net profit was down, but
there were special factors accounting for
this. Adding back the provision for in-
creased cost of fixed asset replacement
(£588,000 for 1962 and £540,000 for
1961), the comparative net results were
£2,879,510 against the previous
£3,185,157 or a drop of about 10 p.c.
(The trading profit w'as only 3 p.c.
low'er.)
The tax provision w'as down from
£3,093,731 to £2,816,036, but its size
suggests careful provisioning before
arriving at the final profit. That earning
rate of 14.3 p.c. (1961, 25 p.c.) on
capital increased by the 1961-62 one-
lor-two bonus and one-for-five premium
issues, has plenty of padding.
Depreciation was the clue to the taper-
ed profits. This item involved almost
£500,000 more (at £2,558,439) than
in 1961. The chairman explained in his
annual address that the high level of
capital expenditure (£7.4 million in
1961-62) would reduc: earning rate until
the various projects were operating pro-
fitably.
Looking at the group's divisions in-
dividually gives no reason for gloom.
Glass containers and closures sold slightly
above 1961 levels. There’s no general
trend from glass bottles and jars to cans.
As many products appear to the observer
to be converting to glass packs as the
other w'ay about.
In the plastics division, where serious
deterioration might have been expected,
ACI sold slightly higher, although profit
margins w'ere narrowed.
The corrugated paper and cartons busi-
ness had the slackest time, due to over-
capacity in the industry in Australia.
Sales and profits were lower but in NZ
they were higher.
The tenor of the whole report by man-
agement and the board is one of expan-
sion, insuring the group, which is already
a leader in most fields in which it oper-
ates, from stagnation. Entry to the re-
fractory business wall be a new departure.
In most sections of the company's
business notable revival was experienced
in the second half of the year. The
company is on the march. Only the
market is out of step.


Corporation limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
w
PER ANNUM 3 YEARS
fd
COCO IS
V* % P.A. 3 years
% P.A " 2 years
V 2 %'P.A. 12mths.
FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN IN A PERSONAL EMERGENCY
APPLICATIONS MUST BE MADE ON THE FORM ATTACHED
TO THE PROSPECTUS, WHICH IS NOW AVAILABLE FROM:
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
PERTH: 81 St. George’s Terrace.
CANBERRA: Ist Floor, Northbourne Chambers, Northbourne Ave., City.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Bayliss Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any of the following Brokers to The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CQRRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
TRUSTEES FOR THE NOTEHOLDERS:
Bankers & Traders Insurance Company Limited CCI44/AB
Clip and Post Coupon
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the prospectus with application forms.
ADDRESS
MARKETING
IS ADVERTISING CONTRARY TO
THE PUBLIC INTEREST?
ThiE long-awaited radio debate on ad-
A vertising, which the ABC broadcast
in its “Forum of the Air” session last
week, proved just what most people ex-
pected it to be —an extremely vehement
declamation against the posed subject
that "Most Advertising is Contrary to
the Public Interest.” And who could
have anticipated anything else?
The affirmative case, presented alone
by Mr E. L. Wheelwright, senior lecturer
on economics at Sydney University, was
subjected to a high-powered barrage by
no fewer than 13 business executives
skilled in advertising; men who knew
the answers to all those arguments ad-
vanced by anti-advertising people over a
good many years.
If Mr Wheelwright had felt flattered
beforehand by such an array of talent
lined up to demolish his case, he must
subsequently have regretted his boldness
in tackling them single-handed.
Unfortunately for Mr Wheelwright,
his adversaries had prior knowledge of
his case, since he had used the same
arguments on the subject of salesmanship
about three years ago on a Melbourne
radio programme. The opposition was
thus lying in wait, as it were.
The learned lecturer condemned
modern advertising “on moral, cultural
and economic grounds,” and called it
“indecent shrieking in the market place.”
It was, he said, aimed at confusing the
consumer and was, therefore, morally
reprehensible. It dealt in half-truths and
suppressed whole truths. It added to the
cost of goods and, therefore, was waste-
ful.
On these points he was challenged by
Mr Fabricius (Unilever), who declared
that Mr Wheelwright had uttered the
usual stream of platitudes used by people
who should know better but didn't. So
far from being an important cost factor
in the price of goods, advertising in 1960
represented only 1.7 p.c. of the gross
national product and in 1961 only 1.5
p.c. This was a modest price that con-
sumers paid to have a free choice in a
free-enterprise economy—something that
could not happen in countries behind the
Iron Curtain where people had no right
of choice through advertising. (This wa-
presumably, a subtle shaft at Mr
Wheelwright’s favorable allusion, in his
debate three years ago, to the complete
absence of advertising in Moscow’s news-
papers.)
The suggestion that advertising was
wasteful by adding to the price of goods
was combated by another opposition
speaker with the claim that, on the con-
trary, advertising created a mass demand,
which in turn made possible the mass
production of goods at a cheaper cost
per unit. And, moreover, he said, with-
out advertising to create a demand, we
would not have the standard of living
enjoyed today, as evidenced by the use
of refrigerators, washing machines, TV
sets and other goods so necessary in our
modern living.
“And who would want to return to
the days when they never existed?” a
voice interjected.
In his formal reply, Mr Wheelwright
repeated that modern advertising exer-
cised a mesmerising influence upon a
confused community and should be
severely limited. Someone asked “But
what would you put in its place?”
That question has still to be answered.


THE
MAN
ON THE LAND
FARMERS' LACK OF EDUCATION
DEPLORED BY EXPERT
rPRADiTiONALLY the Australian farmer,
especially the dairy farmer, is not
a great believer in education, Mr E.
Munch-Petersen says in an article in the
Journal of the Australian Institute of
Agricultural Science.
Mr Munch-Petersen, w'ho is senior re-
search officer in the C 31RO's division of
animal physiology, says that theoreti-
cal knowledge, added to the practical
experience needed to deal with Austra-
lian conditions, w ? ould give excellent
results in dairying, as it has in other
branches of agriculture.
However, a comparatively low level
of factual knowledge is often coupled
with reluctance to improve the farm
and to permit children to ) tain a bet-
ter education. And since a high propor-
tion of dairy factories are co-operatives,
usually w'ith a majority of farmer-direc-
tors —sometimes exclusively so —the ad-
vance in manufacturing :hnology is
also slow.
A survey of 254 farmers in Victoria
some years ago showed that 61 p.c.
had up to seven years of formal educa-
tion; 26 p.c. had eight years; and J 3
p.c. had nine to twelve years.
In New South Wales a survey of 65
farmers revealed that 86 p.c. had a
primary school education, 12 p.c. secon-
dary and 2 p.c. university.
In Western Australia a survey of 100
dairy farmers showed that 74 p.c. left
school at 10-14 years of age, 15 p.c.
at 15-16 years and 11 p.c. t 17-18.
After reviewing the facilities in the
various States for giving agricultural
training, Mr Munch-Petersen says that
agriculture is being formally studied by
only a tiny fraction of students at high
school levels. Few, if any, of the gram-
mar and public schools teach agricul-
ture, yet a high proportion of their stu-
dents come from farming families—and
traditionally these are among the lead-
ing or most wealthy farming families.
University training in dairy science
as a formal subject is not a’ ilable in
Queensland. Tasmania, South Australia
or Western Australia. An estimated 20
to 30 in the senior year take such
training in the University of Sydney and
two or three a year may specialise in
dairy science subjects at the NSW Uni-
versity of Technology.
In Victoria about 3 p.c. of approxi-
mately 150 students of agriculture may
specialise in dairy science in their final
year.
An apprenticeship scheme for train-
ing men for the dairy manufacturing
industry exists for parts of NSW. Other-
wise only two State Governments are
actively training dairy technologists.
Victoria has an arrangement for train-
ing Victorian cadets in New ? Zealand,
and Western Australia provides a cadet-
ship at Haw'kesbury Agricultural
College.
Summarising the position. Mr
Munch-Petersen says the dairy farming
population has little chance of obtain-
ing good technical or vocational train-
ing in dairying.
“Its educational standard and desire
for improvement are not particularly
great,” he says. “Nor has there been
any resentment of the fact that existing
facilities for tradesmen are much greater
than any provided for the rural popula-
tion. Even so, Australia has produced
some excellent farmers whose contribu-
tions to dairying have been extremely
valuable.”
Pointing out that real progress in the
dairy factories must in the existing
situation depend on the manager, he
adds that no kind of certificate is re-
quired for factory managers, the majo-
rity of whom advance from the position
of operator.
MEDICAL SHEEPSKIN FOR
HOSPITAL PATIENTS
A medical sheepskin developed by the
joint efforts of the CSIRO, the Uni-
versity of Melbourne and the Alfred
Hospital, and now being used in hospitals
for people confined to bed for lengthy
periods, is one of many interesting ex-
hibits on display at the Commercial Bank
of Australia’s annual post-Royal Show
exhibition of prize fleeces in its main
banking chamber at 335-339 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
The display, which is conducted by
the Royal Agricultural Society of Vic-
toria, includes 35 fleeces and samples
of lambs’ wool.
HAY CROPS
GIVE WAY TO
PASTURES
/'|ne- third of Victoria’s farmland is
now in improved pastures. Four
years ago improved pastures accounted
for less than a quarter of the whole.
Today, with 12 million acres of sown
pasture, improved pastures account for
almost half of the State’s total pasture
area (native p stores are estimated at
141 million acres).
The important role of pasture improve-
ment is obvious when it is realised that
pastures now provide almost the entire
feed requirement of grazing stock in
Victoria.
Pasture improvement really got under
way in Victoria in the ’twenties. Until
then the dairy industry Victoria is
Australia's No. 1 dairying State relied
largely on fodder crops and oaten hay.
Today grass has replaced oaten hay, and
the better quality dry feed on pastures
during the summer has greatly reduced
the need for farmers to grow summer
fodder crops.
Victoria has about 25 million acres
suitable for pasture improvement and
about 9.6 million acres of pastures are
being top-dressed annually with an aver-
age 1.1 cwt of superphosphate to the
acre.
The area top-dresse' 1 annually has not
shown any great rise in recent years,
but there have been fluctuations from
year to year. In dairying areas pastures
usually get a bag of super to the acre
each autumn, but in sheep districts top-
dressing may be only every second, third
or even fourth yjar.
The Victorian Department of Agricul-
ture's agristologist, Mr R. L. Twentyman,
estimates that probably 15 to 17 million
acres of Victorian pastures have been
substantially improved as a result of top-
dressing.
Mr T'-entyman believes Victoria is
about half-way to obtaining its possible
pasture improvement potential, using
known methods. He points out that pas-
ture improvement on much of the re-
maining unimproved area will not bring
such marked increases in carrying
capacity as it has on land already im-
proved. This is because much of the
unimproved land is regarded as mar-
ginal in rainfall and from the economic
point of view.
HOW MANY CHEESES?
TTow many types of cheese are made?
Entered in the fancy cheeses section
at the Melbourne Royal Show were
Edam, Gouda, Tilsit, Feta, Roman,
Samsoe, Taffel, Burrini, Provolone and
about ten other types.


THE
ARM! DALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the
rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
A. H. CASH, M.A. (Oxon),
Headmaster.
Positions Vacant
ALL SOULS' SCHOOL
CHARTERS TOWERS
Wanted Master to teach Physics and Mathe-
matics to Senior standard, commencing January,
1963, resident or non-resident, award salary.
For particulars apply Headmaster.
Divorce Notices
TO: FRANCIS ROY CAMPBELL formerly of
Perth and Laverton, Western Australia. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife PATRICIA IVY
CAMPBELL has presented a petition to the
Supreme Court of Western Australia for a
decree of dissolution of marriage against you
on the ground of separation.
If you wish to defend the petition or insti-
tute proceedings against the Petitioner you
must file your, answer in the said Court at
Perth aforesaid within 28 days from the date
of this publication. In default of your so
doing the suit may proceed and the Court
will pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. Dated this 17th
day of September 1962.—G., J. BOYLSON
Registrar. E. M. Heenan and Co.. 64 St
George!s Terrace, Perth, Western Australia,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: MERVYN WILLIAM CLIVE SMITH late
of Paddington.— TAKE NOTICE that Lila
Annette Smith has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2973 of 1962 on the ground of
desertion and cruelty. If you wish to defend
you should file, an answer at the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street,
Sydney by 16th November, 1962 and obtain a
copy of the Petition and Notice of Petition
without charge from E. G. SAYEGH, Soli-
citor, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS. Registrar.
SfAUtg id he/m and XnuxA
id a tet d&rtefa than you, think,
,
SPRING IS HERE AND XMAS IS A LOT CLOSER
THAN YOU THINK. SOON YOU’LL HAVE TO THINK
ABOUT PRESENTS FOR THE FAMILY, FOR
RELATIVES, FOR FRIENDS BOTH HERE AND
MAYBE, OVERSEAS. WHY NOT A
subscription to The Bulletin”
AUSTRALIA'S OLDEST (ESTABLISHED 1880)
AND BIGGEST MAGAZINE OF NEWS AND
COMMENT? YOU CAN ORDER IT FROM YOUR
NEWSAGENT OR BY FILLING IN
THE FORM AT RIGHT
Subscription Deportment,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
name....
ADDRESS
■'"please arrange for my BULLETIN to
be delivered to me each week .
MY NEWSAGENT
by DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION ...•••• -
please tick (s/) method of
delivery you prefer.. . .. .
For those desiring direct
If-
Pominions £3 ea *
A 3. Remit^ to 2.
P&ofeh aAz talking tru/uz and mate almct tfus. BuMzUn/
PENICILLIN MILK GOOD
FOR CALVES, PIGS
Mow that penicillin with a dye to stain
milk is to be manufactured for
treating cows suspected of having mas-
titis, there should be more of such milk
available for calf feeding, says the Vic-
torian Department of Agriculture.
In the past, some of the milk from
treated quarters of the udder was run
into the bulk and sold, but most of this
milk will now be kept separate and, pro-
vided its appearance is satisfactory, it
should make good calf food.
If, however, the milk is clotted or
changed in any way except through the
color of the dye, it should be discarded,
or at least boiled before being fed to
calves or pigs.
PREPARATION OF
MEADOW HAY
A t this time of the year farmers should
be selecting paddocks to be closed
for hay. They should, however, bear in
mind that good quality hay cannot be
made from poor grasses with a low pro-
portion of clovers; that low grade hay
costs just as much as good quality.
These points, therefore, should be kept
firmly in mind:
@ Use only the best pastures for hay.
© They should contain 40 to 60 p.c.
of clover.
© The grasses should be palatable
types such as rye grass and cocksfoot,
as well as fog grass and sweet vernal.
® Don’t select a paddock that was
used for hay last year, because cutting
of hay puts a severe strain on the pas-
ture and can induce a potash deficiency.
© When closing a paddock for hay
top-dress with 1 cwt. of potash to the
acre if there is any likelihood of a potash
deficiency in the soil.
© Spread dung patches with the har-
row, which will also smooth out pug-
ging marks and simplify later operations.


Feiffer
EVER SINCE "THEM WERE
LITTLE I TOLP THEM'
THEMP GROW UP, THEMP
LEAVE US, THEMP BREAK
OUR HEARTS. PIP I OR
DIDN'T I TELL THEM 7
AMP WHAT PIP THEM
SAM? “NO, PA' NOf
WELL ALWAYS
OOK AFTER. MOU/ ’’
PIP THEM OR
DIDN'T THEM 7
But 1 told them.d/pmt i?
HUNDREDS OF TIMES. P'PWT
i 7 NO’' THEM SAIO"WfLI-
NE VER LEAVE MOP." THEM
THEMP CLOSE THE PCOe
TO THEIR .ROOMS.
THATs THE
WAM chil-
dren ARE
TOPAM. 'I'HET
PONT
LISTEN).
CHILDREN
.AIWAMS
HAVE TO
CONTRADICT
SECRETS
U A
TAMILM.
WHO
BROUGHT
THEM IW7D
THE WORLD 7
; hap to slip noise under.
THE (POOR. - ' iPOMT TELL
ME MOU WOMT OREAKOUR
HEARTS. IM WE FATHER!
motes i(JA
FAMILT WHO
'AUGHT
THEM HOW
TO REAP?
SO ONE OAM ITS"WE'LL
NEVER LEAVE MOO" AMD
IHE NEXT DAM IT'S
'PONT I HAVE THE
RIGHT TO A LITTLE
PRIVACY?"
50 THEM 6REIO UP
AMP THEM LEFT US.
SO WHO WAS RIGHT?
THE FATHER OR
the CHILDREN?
but a funny thim6
HAPPENED. THEM PIPHT
BREAK MM HEART. AS A
matter of fact r
FELT a IVHOLE EOT
BETTER. I
after all these
MEARS WHAT A
PISCOVERM TC>
MAKE '
PRIVACM f
WHO PAIP
THEIR
POCTOR
BILLS 7
A CHIEP
RIGHT f HOW
COULD A
OHIEP BE
RIGHT?
me Too.
owe:
HUNDRED
PEE CENT?
u)e /Jei/ee
UK6P
muDnen.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 713
ACROSS
I—Batting partisan of one thanks a princess article of
very tender years. (7)
4 —Six-footer after vegetables produced by a lowly
yeoman. (7)
B—Some blooming nothing is befogged. (4-2-1-4)
o—Party peak. (3)
I—ls1 —Is it anti-song? (anagram) (12)
3 Game in East Sydney. (3)
4 Negro spoilt one for whom there’s no hope. (5)
6 Services for the corresponding Islam organisation.
(5)
7 Mustard may be moans and wails. (5)
19—Employees stick. (5)
22—Product of the rose joint. (3)
24—Completely proscribe a lad
who is a namesake of a Ladd
and the German character
from Queensland. (12)
26 Tiller and he holding nothing.
(3)
27 But they’re not defecting
members of the Baseballers’
Union. (3, 8)
28— Did some striking editor get
a quid? (7)
29 The sweet back with hair. (7)
DOWN
1— Crook Shakespeare induces
such malevolence. (3-4)
2 Game if upset over the waist-
coat with one’s 70 lb. (10)
3 Fastening North early then
going crook. (7)
4 What makes the dishonored
pacer more frigid and more
dear? (7)
5 Mark Mark’s initial in the
opposite word. (7)
6 A woolgrower name for many
an Armenian. (4)
7 Parts of the motor strike tan-
trums. (7)
9—Encore a profit. (5)
12—Slacks at a Government House
ball would not be a drill
instruction. (5, 5)
15—Swallow. (3)
17—Its saucy craft in the air. (7)
18— Boxed strikes upset some
commo. (7)
19— Began an order to allot the
top role to Edward. (7)
20— Immovable emmet in the in-
sects’ equivalent of Genesis.
(7)
21— If an ice is ordered, she’s the
girl engaged. (7)
23—Scanned republic shocked to
have no wine. (7)
25—Between you and me, North
listed eats. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 712


OCt
ilfcl
■**
*s
V
0
EXTRAS
20
u6 y
gw
aNP
gA P
Ht
Carlyle EXTRAS the distinctive American
blend cigarette with so many extras
EXTRA FLAVOR: Carlyle Extras give you that extra mellow
flavor of fine costly tobaccos blended to taste so good.
EXTRA FRESHNESS: Carlyle Extras are the genuine American
blend made right here in Australia for unimpaired full freshness.
EXTRA SIZE: Carlyle Extras are 18% bigger make regular
American size look small. Enjoy extra smoking pleasure in Carlyle Extras size.
Only Carlyle could . . .
taste so good it’s blended
CQ ‘
r with just
a touch
of Turkish
World Copyright
MANUFACTURED FOR THE AMERICAN CIGARETTE COMPANY (OVERSEAS) PTY. LTD.
