

The Bulletin
DECEMiER 15)962
2/-, Malaysia $T
Me Japari
■
Buying a Christmas Wine?
JUatUfaAiiiiifik


mm
•:s»
SIISI
mm
mm
4 life?
®Ps#
p '4- j&isrVj!
teiS
sli>:
gjjSj(|fe
mm<
"Mil
Sfi^sgl
... ■ -
sdßpMPgE^&£> t • ’?• :
f *■
':■".••?: 4‘r^ta»
1
: ~;vm
gjig
IpgNs i Hnfitti
rail
*smi
8P
#
■" - M;
ii
ftEpg PHR %
.....
igWfife
■mm
2*a
c ' 4 'wi
; ‘ ■ ■ %»:£?>«**
>-•
i,-r fag
g \ 'I
,- ■ 4
i£ps§f ‘^ls^
& jfffp- V- “
fete
«s 2
* ** $mM mi ’•*
ZhMU
Els t^%^i < P *'3?^p® f:if i : 'SSWSS : ftWPSfi
,;5Wf: :\:>;v
■
#3?c Aifi JSc -jr^A
irfn? « #isH r .“: .r ‘ -AT jfefe
v-v
r*js
§Mmm* :i mJ.
>#4, /


National Notebook
Missing the Market
\ ustralian newspaperman Frederick
Nossal seems to be the latest loser
in the publishing lottery. His “Dateline
Peking,” published by a British house, is
now in the same unhappy position of
Marshall and Drysdale’s “Journey
Among Men”—much in demand for the
Christmas trade but entirely out of stock
in this country. New stocks of “Dateline
Peking,” an up-to-the-minute account of
life in Communist China, won’t be here
before February.
Where time stands still
TI/I'embers of the Society (unestab-
fished) for Unbalanced Develop-
ment were startled to learn that the pre-
datory eyes of Melbourne’s Lord Mayor
Nathan had lighted on the alley warren
behind the Tivoli Theatre, and across
Little Collins Street from the Town Hall.
Like the clock at Grantchester (10 to
three) and the public bar (18i minutes
to 11) of the Ancient Hunt Club Hotel
(“We serve Kelvinator temporite-cooled
beer”) which gets into the proposed
Development Act, time has stood still in
this particular heart of Melbourne for
many a long day.
Ghost-like, the Vic-
torian Pleating Co., W.
Sanderson (defunct book-
binder), Raymond Manu-
facturing and Paynes
(“morning suits for hire”)
have been able to keep
their ever-fading names on the tarnished
walls of the long-since burnt-out Rickards
Building for an age, while their neigh-
bors, such as the Royal Mail Hotel, have
had the severe attention of the devel-
opers.
The Melbourne City Council had
hardly finished announcing that, for
office extensions, it had taken an option
on the site, including the Tiv., when, as
if woken from a long unfinancial dream,
the Hammerton group sprung to atten-
tion, grasped their tools and started get-
ting on again with clothing their rusting
steel skeleton on the old Royal Mail site,
probably the crowdiest, and now the
thirstiest, corner in the city.
If the City Council’s option-taking does
nothing more than that and leaves the
Tiv. intact (as seems to be the intention)
Melburnians will be thankful, but the
ghosts of Rickards Building seem unlikely
to preside along the alley without a name
for very long now, because Whelan the
Wrecker has already raised his head
among them.
Forever blowing bubbles
Sydney’s fountains are flourishing
and multiplying. City Parks Director
Clarence Garth spoke with enthusiasm
about the dozen or so fountains under
his jurisdiction “that doesn’t include'
the Botanical Gardens, of course”—and
was happy to tell us that two more will
be spurting next year.
Fountains are no longer the simple
jet-in-the-air contraptions they used to
be. Sydney’s fountains not only spurt,
they trickle, gravitate and burst into puff
balls of water. One of the new ones will
feature a “wall of water”. Nor need the
suburban gardener fear water is being
wasted. All fountains re-use their water
until evaporation or wastage reduces it
to unviable proportions.
The only fountain to give any con-
siderable trouble has been the El Alamein
at Kings Cross which originally drenched
pedestrians on the opposite side of the
road whenever there was a moderate
breeze. The fine jets created another pro-
blem. Rubbish falling or thrown into the
basins was washed into the sump to be
pumped up for emission through the jets.
They clogged with distressing frequency,
Mr Garth told us. This was remedied by
enlarging the jets which also reduced the
spray. Now it takes quite
a gale to cause any undue
trouble and even this will
shortly be taken care of.
An automatic wind
controller will be set up
near the fountain. Acting
as a weather vane, the
force of the wind will create a vacuum
that shuts off the water whenever the
weather gets too gusty. When the wind
drops the pressure will be relieved and
the fountain switched on again.
The other trouble is caused by those
merry souls who drop a carton of deter-
gent or dye into the water. While the
colored water- or bubbles or both have
a spectacular effect they create quite a
nuisance. The fountain has to be
switched off for about three hours and
basin and sumps drained and cleaned.
This happens on an average of once a
month.
Nature Study
IV|acquarie Island, 800 miles south-
east of Tasmania but part of the
Tasmanian municipality of Esperance,
has seen some large-scale disturbances in
the balance of nature. When it was first
discovered (in 1810) it was the home of
countless fur seals, but hardy adventurers
from New Zealand and Australia, exter-
minated them by the middle 1830 s.
THE FIGHT BUSINESS Page 22
Gattellari waits for the count
•
The Currie Affair 6
Inside Japan 1962 12
Ray Price: High and Low Notes 17
Mixed Grill: A Page of Jokes 19
Henry Fonda: The Best of Both
Worlds 20
The Rocky Gattellari Fuss .... 22
Christmas Wines .... .... 23
The New Europeans —l. Jean
Monnet 24
The ‘Gabba Four Men and an
Ice Chest 28
The New Catholics A Lay
Quartet 30
A Christmas Offering—Handel’s
Messiah 371
Back to the Plot A look at
three Novels 40 1
Action on Trust Deeds at Last.... 45 j
EPIC’s Part in Exports 48!
National Plan for Water Con-
servation .... 60
TANNER # . ..... 4
PLAIN ENGLISH .. .. 5
THIS AUSTRALIA ..... 6
80 YEARS AGO .... . L... 8
AROUND
MELBOURNE 10
OUT AND ABOUT . .... 17
BUYING A WINE? 23
OVERSEAS .... 24
AROUND BRISBANE 28
FORUM 29
LETTERS 36
REVIEWS ..: 37
RED PAGE 40
WORLD OF BUSINESS 45
MAN ON THE LAND ... 60
FEIFFER _ _ ..... 62
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney.
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone
27-5971. Melbourne: Phone MF 3341. Bris-
bane: Phone B 2691. Adelaide: Phone
W 4121-3.
Vol. 85
No. 4321


Until 1919 the sealers continued to
visit the island, though, with decreasing
frequency as the sea elephant herds were
reduced. About 70 years ago rabbits
were introduced. They soon overran the
30,000-acre island, and would have
eaten themselves out had not sealers
brought in cats, which thrived at the ex-
pense of the rabbits, the seabirds and the
penguins. Thereupon, sealers introduced
dogs. These reduced the cat population,
but they also chased the sea elephants.
So the sealers systematically shot them.
The prolific bunnies and the wild cats
still survive, in some sort of balance.
Now Tasmania's Government Patholo-
gist, Dr C. A. Duncan, is to visit the
cold, windswept island to study the rab-
bits’ blood characteristics.
Seeing the light
After living in Melbourne for 14
years, abstract painter Allen David
has moved to Sydney, in full flight from
the Antipodeans and in search of sun-
light. Mr David’s photographic studies
of Central Australia, “Form Color Gran-
deur” were recently published by Gray-
flower Publications.
Since he has been in Sydney Mr
David has been busy taking photographs
which he hopes will show Sydneyras he
sees it. He has taken more than 300
pictures, of which he thinks about 20
are any good. A collection of his photo-
graphs of Sydney may follow the book
in Melbourne by the director of the Vic-
torian Gallery, Eric Westbrook, which
Grayflower proposes to publish.
“I really think I have sot a new angle
on the Bridge,” he told us. “To get it I
went down the Rocks area, and finished
up on the decrepit garage at the back
of a house where some English migrants
were living. They held the roof of the
garage up while I got my photograph.
To one side of the bridge is a house
with a girl sitting on a top window-sill,
sunning her legs, and below in the street
a man looking up at her. It was just the
shot I wanted but it took ages to get it.”
As well as taking photographs, Mr
David has been busy painting, mostly
abstracts based on his Central Australian
experiences. He hopes to give an exhibi-
tion before a trip abroad, which he has
planned for some time next year.
After living as an abstract painter
among mostly representational painters
in Melbourne, where for two years he
had his own gallery, Mr David has de-
veloped a theory that art is mostly a
matter of climate.
“Abstract art is really an explosion of
light,” he said “Of course, there is some-
thing lyrical in the pearly pinks and greys
of cooler climates but I feel, as Picasso
did, that I need the sun. I even find
that unconsciously I use the shrill, bril-
liant purples and greens of India. Per-
haps a musician or writer may have a
nostalgia for a cool, soft light, but once
a painter has found the sun he never
leaves it.”
Packing them in
HThe idea of a hotel as a topflight enter-
A tainment centre on the lines of the
American scheme of things has never
developed in Australia, due, no doubt,
to the licensing laws in most States.
These, generally, give the hotelier consi-
derably less rein than his nightclub com-
petitor.
The Sydney Chevron Hilton people
were naturally glum, but not unduly sur-
prised, when last year lavishly produced
local shows failed to raise more than a
ripple of interest. Former Chevron en-
tertainment manager, John Collins, went
to the US, succeeded in interesting three
shrewd operators there and began a
trans-Pacific shuttle service of nightclub
entertainers.
On the last night of the comedy team
of Rowan and Martin we saw 450 cus-
tomers at the Silver Spade room paying
an average of £3 10s. a head to occupy
every available table.
We learned that the US triumvirate
book the acts on a percentage basis, but
the Chevron people can knock back any
billing they think unsuitable. Progress to
date has been: Yvonne de Carlo stayed
only a week and that launched them into
the red, successor Pat Wymore proved
she had more to offer than the doubtful
importance of being Mrs Errol Flynn and
the customers began showing up in seri-
ous numbers; Rowan and Martin, a poli-
shed comedy team virtually unknown
here, gradually built up attendances to
capacity on word of mouth and reviews.
Miss Stevens broke all booking records
until she ran into a spot of legal trouble
over her contract with Warner- Bros.
"The Cuban crisis
has shown us
that America is nothing but
an off-shore island


Reassurance
Following the High Court’s decision
that a person could refuse to tell
police the source of his income, another
decision —by a South Australian court —■
seems to hold further reassurance. The
Court of Criminal Appeal in Adelaide
decided that “it is not permissible for
a police officer to persist in interrogating
persons in custody beyond the point at
which they intimate the desire to say
nothing or no more.”
The SA Chief Justice, Sir Mellis
Napier, Mr Justice Mayo and Mr Justice
Chamberlain said it was apparent that
some police officers were “under some
misapprehension as to their duty.”
“The fact is that the suspect is not
obliged to say anything and if he de-
clines to speak save in the presence of
his solicitor, the police officer who allows
zeal to outrun discretion or who tries to
browbeat or trick the suspect into
answering may be doing a grave disser-
vice to the force to which he belongs,
and to the administration of justice.”
The statement followed a hearing in
which the Court in a reserved judgment,
dismissed an appeal by a man against a
conviction for having received stolen
property.
Tailpiece
A Melbourne store is offering some-
thing in toys even more topical than
rockets and sputniks—ancient Indian
fighting kites. Made in India, they are de-
scribed as highly manoeuvrable.
Tanner
of Cuba"
PLAIN ENGLISH
PLAYED OUT
r\EAN ACHESON’S untimely if accurate observation to a West Point
audience that Britain’s role as an independent power is just about
“played out” has understandably aroused fear, anger and resentment
in Britain itself and not a few apprehensions elsewhere. So far, however,
it hasn’t provoked the sort of thinking it might have been expected to.
The deadliest of Mr Acheson’s reflections was that Britain should realise
that it no longer enjoys a “special relationship” with the United States.
If Britain does not then who does?
All of this is of singular importance to this country. Since World W’ar
II the people of Australia have comfortably believed that Australia and
New Zealand enjoy a “special relationship” with the US founded no
less than Britain’s on a common language and free institutions. We have
believed that in any situation affecting our vital interests American aid
and consultation .will be forthcoming. The leadership of this country
has reiterated this at frequent intervals in accents admitting of no con-
tradiction. And in addition we have believed that even if our “special
relationship” with the US proved of no account (as in the West New
Guinea affair) then there was Britain’s “special relationship” with the
US which still counted for a great deal. Therefore, Mr Acheson’s speech,
however undiplomatic, has done a public service. Whatever it may have
told a disappointed Britain it also had a message for an unheeding
Australia. While we cannot exist without the help of a great ally our
capacity to survive and manoeuvre as a nation in the tough years ahead
depends largely on ourselves and we must make our own way.
THE EINFELD CASE
of the most interesting features of the recent struggle in the
Australian Jewish community was the role played by Mr Sydney
Eihfeld. The issues were clear enough: the Australian delegation to the
United Nations had raised the matter of the persecution of Jews in the
Soviet Union; behind this in Australia was the agitation by prominent
Melbourne Jews such as Mr M. Ashkanasy, and Mr I. Leibler, and such
Liberal Party personalities as Mr W. C. Wentworth and Mr W. C.
Haworth. Opposed to them were apologists for everything the Soviet
Union does, such as the Jewish Senator Sam Cohen and such fellow-
travellers of the Communist Party as the Central Executive of the Vic-
torian ALP. In other words there seemed to be no problem where all
Jewish leaders’ loyalty would lie: it would lie with Mr Ashkanasy and
Mr Leibler. But Mr Einfeld in Sydney is also a member of the ALP —
like Senator Cohen and the Central Executive of the Victorian ALP.
Therefore his loyalties were divided and in the end, despite his past
record of complete loyalty to the Jewish community, he finally came
down on the side of the Labor Party and tried to have the leaders of the
Australian campaign against Soviet anti-Semitism dismissed. Fortunately
he was beaten. The Melbourne group had an overwhelming victory.
But in the case of Mr Einfeld perhaps the moral is that a man who
wants to be a leader of a special minority group cannot at the same time
seek to be the leader of a major political party because in moments
of crisis his first loyalty must go to one or the other — as Mr Ashkanasy,
also a Labor supporter, found. This has nothing peculiarly to do with the
Labor Party. It seems that the same point would apply to all minorities
and all parties. One’s first loyalty must go somewhere; yort cannot have
it both ways.


THIS AUSTRALIA
THE ALP
THE CURRIE CASE
Is Tasmania as bad as Victoria and
Queensland?
AUSTIN STEPHENS
Statutory Declaration
N. A. CURRIE
"I deny it.”
J. H. O'NEILL
“Watch them.”
At first no one took much notice
when J. H. O'Neill, doyen of Tas-
manian union movement for half a cen-
tury, was quoted in the Saturday Evening
“Mercury", Hobart, as saying: “Watch
Communist Infiltration”. It seemed in-
nocuous enough. But the Communist
‘‘Tribune" attacked O’Neill for saying it,
pretending that scores of Hobart seamen
and w'harfies had signed a letter of
protest. This too, though false, was not
particularly remarkable. But then the
sensations started. A former British and
Tasmanian Communist Party State Com-
mittee member, Austin Stephens, read in
Victoria of the Communist attack on
Jack O'Neill, and decided to name some
names in the Hobart “Mercury” of
October 12th of men who were on the
Communist Party State Committee with
himself between 1953 and 1956.
Still less did Austin Stephens realize
the chain of events that he set in motion
by naming Arnold Currie, Building
Workers Industrial Union Secretary, for
when Stephens left the Communist Party
and Tasmania. Currie w'as simply the
BWIU Secretary. Today, Arnold Currie
is BWIU Secretary. BWIU Federal Ex-
ecutive member. Hobart THC President,
Tasmania's sole representative on the
ACTU Interstate Executive, a delegate
to the Tasmanian ALP Conference, and
a Justice of the Peace in the Glenorchy
Municipality. But more significantly, by
Hobart industrial standards, he had won
“Old Jack - ’ O'Neill over.
Austin Stephens’ statement in the
October 12 “Mercury”, concluded, “Let
us heed Mr O'Neill’s warning”. Before
long Tasmanians w'ere doing just that.
Federated Ironworkers’ Secretary, R. W.
“Bill” Wood moved that “the Hobart
Trades Hall Council take exception to
Stephens ‘Mercury’ article and that THC
President Currie w'rite to the ‘Mercury’
denying that he was ever a Communist.”
But as a Result of two strange caucus
meetings Senior Vice-President Harry
McLoughlin, Reece’s Minister for Police,
Licensing, and Transport, ruled discus-
sion out of order and thus flattened
Wood. This was manoeuvred on a point
of order by Harry Wilson, Painters’
Union Secretary and Tasmanian Presi-
dent of the Communist Party and by
Tom Tate, BWIU State President, Aus-
tralian-Soviet Friendship Society secre-
tary, and ALP Conference delegate.
Currie remained silent inside and-outside
the THC, but eventually stated to the
Press: “The BWIU and the ALP execu-
tive w'ere the competent authorities to
handle allegations of association with
the Communist Party” (“Mercury” 29th
October 1962).
Jack O'Neill, w'ho had been running
an unofficial protectionist line for Currie,
then gave the “Mercury” a press state-
ment of what the THC delegated said
who w'ere allowed to say nothing: that
the THC “deprecated and repudiated the
statements made by Austin Stephens”
and expressed “full confidence in N. A.
Currie.” And so that there w'ould be no
doubt in anyone’s mind, “‘Old Jack" stat-
ed: "The Hobart THC definitely states
that Mr Currie is a financial member of
the Australian Labor Party.” This, in
English, means “How then can he be a
Communist now or ever?”
“I am not and never have been.”
Austin Stephens w'rote again
from Victoria by statutory declara-
tion outlining occasions and places he had
seen Currie at Communist State Conf-
rnittee meetings, and stating that Currie
delivered written and oral reports be-
tween Max Bound, Communist Party
Secretary, and Stephens, and that Currie
used the union car to deliver Communist
literature. The statutory declaration re-
enlivened the affair. Ignoring Stephens’
statutory declaration, Currie wrote to the
ALP executive: “I am not and never
have been a member of the Communist
Party ... I deny his allegation but I am
not going to reply to any more of them.”
As forecast on the Hobart wharf by
VSC Williams, wharfie President of the
ALP, the ALP white-washed Currie.
The matter had almost been dead and
buried for a week when suddenly Austin
Stephens himself arrived in Tasmania.
Then the whole Stephens-Currie affair
really rocketed. Most unexpectedly, Max
Bound, Secretary of the Tasmanian
Communist Party, made a Press state-
ment, which the "Mercury” ignored but
which the “Examiner” seized with both
hands. Bound attacked “Stephens, the
National Civic Council, the DLP, the
secret political police, and the Press.”
This not only provided the fanfare for
Austin Stephens' arrival, but it opened
up a second front for him, by bringing
in the “Examiner,” and therefore the
Burnie “Advocate,” to give Northern
and North-Western Tasmanians the
story.
He immediately stated to both main
newspapers his personal contacts and
experiences in the Communist Party
with N. A. Currie and others between
1953 and 1956, and set AEU circles
buzzing by stating that Terry Clapham,
now full-time AEU State Organiser, w-as
in the Communist. Party trade union cell
in the Launceston railways as a close
fellow-traveller. Clapham's subsequent
silence is making AEU men wonder
whether he is only a fellow-traveller now.
Stephens convinced more people still
wh6n he stated: “May I say 1 am a
Protestant and not a member of Mr
Santamaria’s National Civic Council,”
and, by going into the Hobart THC and
seeking out N. A. Currie, unionists every-
where were saying, “This bloke's got
something.”
His letter which appeared in the “Mer-
cury” (21/11/62) speaks for itself: “I
attended the THC in Hobart on Monday
afternoon to endeavor to arrange for
the public debate to w'hich I had chal-
lenged Mr N. A. Currie. First, 1 called
on Mr Brian Harradine, of the Feder^


ated Clerks’ Union, and Mr R. W. Wood,
of the Ironworkers’ Association, arising
from ‘The Mercury’ reports on this
issue at past Trades Hall meetings, and
they agreed to accompany me as an in-
troduction to Mr J. H. O’Neill. However,
when we arrived at the Trades Hall, Mr
O’Neill was out, and we went upstairs to
Mr Currie's office. He refused to see
me, and admitted Mr Harradine and Mr
Wood. Mr H. Wilson, the Tasmanian
president of the Communist Party, was
already in Mr Currie’s office. I waited
in the entrance hall of the THC for
them. In the meantime, Mr J. H.
O’Neill came into the building and I
introduced myself. I soon realised no
useful purpose would be served by con-
tinuing discussion with him. lam there-
fore writing to the executive of the
Hobart Trades Hall Council for per-
mission to attend this Thursday’s THC
meeting to answer any questions dele-
gates may have on the question of Com-
munist infiltration of the trade union
movement. AUSTIN STEPHENS,
Hobart.”
Communist Party Secretary Bound’s
tactical blunder opened doors to Stephens
at every turn, even television and a whole
branch of the WWF at Port Huon. Due
to interest by these watersiders and by
orchardists, a public meeting was put on
for Stephens, and it received a bigger
Press than ever from both papers. At
this meeting, Stephens produced docu-
mentary evidence which he said had
surprised even himself. He turned up
page 15 of the “Report of Proceedings
of the 1961 Annual Conference of the
Australian Labor Party, Tasmanian Sec-
tion,” in which the delegate from the
Kings Meadows branch was a P. Cun-
dell. Stephens then displayed a Com-
munist Party how-to-vote leaflet for the
December, 1961, Federal election.
Number 3 in the Communist Party team
was P. Cundall. The electoral roll
shows only one Peter Joseph Cundall in
the Kings Meadows area.
Finally, Stephens produced a second
statutory declaration made by another
person supporting his allegations about
N. A. Currie’s attendance at State Com-
mittee meetings of the Communist Party.
Stephens, when pressed by the audience,
would not reveal whose statutory de-
claration it was, “but read it and showed
it to the audience,” refusing to answer
whether it was by a Tasmanian or by
an ex-Tasmanian.
Stephens also told a newspaper re-
porter, “My old comrades have come a
long way in the Tassie ALP, not only
in the unions.” The ALP State Confer-
ence delegations have quite a sprinkling
of pro-Communists and some of the
names are identical to names who were
on the Communist Party State Com-
mittee with Stephens. The ALP in Tas-
mania is more like the Victorian and
Queensland branches than any other,
and electoral statistics since the last Fed-
eral election reflect a local distrust of
the ALP in industrialised Launceston on
three occasions since December 9th.
Firstly, in late December State Upper
House ALP candidate, Norman Laur-
ence, a moderate unionist, was badly
beaten. The high feeling over R. C.
Taylor’s proposed visit to the Moscow
WFTU meeting was supposed to have
been a destructive factor. Secondly,
Victoria’s Industrial Group candidate for
the Tramways’ union Federal Presidency
in November topped the poll in Launces-
ton and Burnie. Thirdly, the leader of
the ALP’s Launceston City Council team,
J. T. Brassil, was last in the whole field,
How long will it take the ALP in Tas-
mania, Victoria, and Queensland to
learn?
SECTS
THE DARWIN NAZI
"But search though he may, he'll be hard
put to find a practising Jew."
JOHN CROUCH
In protective custody
Nazis have come to cosmopolitan,
A easy-going Darwin. The unenviable
assignment of drumming up storm-
troopers from among this boozy, in-
dolent and essentially “fair dinkum”
community has gone to John Crouch.
He is a RAAF serviceman, English,
with thin lank\hair and a rather engaging
smile. He migrated here 18 months ago.
He also is an adherent of Britain’s Jew-
baiting National Socialist Party.
After brisk preliminaries (“A typical
attitude of the so-called Free Press!” he
snapped, when the editor rejected an
anti-Semite advertisement), he granted
an interview to “The Northern Territory
News.” While admitting that progress
in Darwin was “slow”, he said the
Movement was “developing quite rapidly
in the southern states.” '
He detailed Australian Nazis’ main
aims as:
• “Get rid of all Jews in Australia by
deportation.
• “Educate the people to the danger
of world domination by Jews, par-
ticularly the British Jews.
• “Prevent watering-down of the White
Australia Policy.”
“We are determined to block any
moves to bring in colored people from
Asia or the islands,” he said.
The National Socialist Party was anti-
Semite, but not murderously so, Crouch
claimed. Even Hitler had not meant to
kill the Jews. “The intention was to get
rid of them by such means as deporta-
tion, but then war intervened.” This fresh-
faced young Englishman in his early 20s.
refers to the Nazis as “we.” He considers
Sir Oswald Mosley old-hat. Mosley,
founder of the English National Socialist
Party and veteran of many a street brawl,
is “too unpopular with the people”. The
world's Top Nazis now are British ex-
schoolteacher Colin Jordan and American
Dean Rockwell. “They’re our leaders,”
he says.
Members of the movement learn un-
armed combat, and Crouch looks as
though he could handle himself. He may
need all that skill to remain in one piece
if he expounds his theories in the
Workers or Buffalo Clubs.
Darwin has a traditional role as the
nation’s safety valve. Along with the
pioneers, for half a century it has been a
receptacle for every type of misfit, ne’er-
do-well and runaway. Despite the area’s
increasing importance and sophistication,
the ratbag touch crops up in the most
unlikely places. On the credit side is a
rare tolerance, extending to race, re-
ligion, color, and politics. You can be
Communist, Christian, or Callithumpian.
Nobody cares, provided you are amiable
and a good drinker.
This is the town which 12 months.ago
turned out in mass demonstration to save
two Malayan pearl divers from being de-
ported. This year dozens of citizens
risked heavy penalties to hide a couple
of Portuguese Naval deserters from
police.
Crouch has recruited no members for
the Nazi Party in Darwin; nor is he
likely to. Apart from anything else, sheer
frustration must eventually wear him
down.
The Territory has Englishmen, Ger-
mans, Poles, Scandinavians, Frenchmen,
Greeks, Chinese, Italians, aborigines,


Thursday Islanders, Malays, Arabs, Ar-
menians, Japanese and Indonesians. It
even has former sponge divers from the
Aegean Sea, and a young Polynesian
housewife from Nauru.
But search though he may, from Alice
Springs to Darwin and back again,
Crouch will be hard put to it to find one
practising Jew.
Meanwhile in the RAAF Crouch faced
such hostility from fellow Air Force men
that he asked to be placed in cells on the
RAAF base under protective custody.
He is still in lockup awaiting possible
flight south. The officer commanding
Darwin RAAF base, Group Captain
Dixie Chapman, said that as the National
Socialist movement was not outlawed in
Australia no disciplinary action would
be taken against Crouch. Crouch has said
he is keen to return to civilian life. In
Canberra Minister for Air Fairbairn told
Parliament that in view of his Nazi state-
ments Crouch’s discharge would be
"“expedited”.
KEITH WILLEY
REDISTRIBUTION
LABOR'S DEMORALISATION
Relying on the Angel of Death
As I see it
YI/hen I came
down from
Press Gal-
lery to the Labor lobby last week after
the redistribution debate, groups of
Labor men were in anxious discussion.
The question they were asking each other
was: “Did Labor do the right thing in
taking the attitude it did on redistribu-
tion?”
Personally, I think that Labor’s hand-
ling of this issue is symptomatic of the
current flabbiness of its political thinking.
Labor has lost, Federally, the tough, pro-
fessional approach which has kept it in
power for so long in NSW. If Labor
wins the next Federal elections it will be
despite itself, not because of its own
efforts. Allan Fraser, Labor MHR for
Eden-Monaro, summed up the situation
neatly when asked by a pressman for his
impression of the year in the House of
Representatives which the Menzies’ Gov-
ernment despite its floor majority of only
one has operated with the smooth effi-
ciency of an up-to-date sausage-making
machine. Said Fraser, “1 seem to have
spent this year playing for the Gentle-
men against the Professionals.”
Looking at the redistribution issue dis-
passionately, Labor was presented from
the Parliamentary viewpoint with the
most fruitful opportunity of the Menzies
Government’s thirteen years of office.
The Country Party did not like the re-
distribution proposals which the Electo-
ral Commissioners had submitted for
Parliamentary endorsement. Their dis-
like of the proposals which would
have led to abolition of two Country
Party seats, one in NSW and the other
in Queensland was sufficiently intense
for them to vote against endorsement,
regardless of w'hether by so doing they
jeopardised the continuance of their
coalition with the Liberal Party and the
stability of the non-Labor Government
which has now ruled Australia since
1 949. On the other hand, Menzies’ sense
of propriety and the Liberals’ self-interest
impelled them towards acceptance of the
recommendations. Menzies believed that
the "umpires’ decision” (in this case the
Electoral Commissioners’ recommenda-
tions) should be accepted, and the Liberals
could see themselves getting (on paper)
a six to eight seat advantage over the
Labor Party on the basis of the vote at
the 1961 elections.
All the seeds for the growth of discord
between Liberal and Country Parties
were present. All Labor had to do was
to water them. Instead Labor handed
Menzies the Christmas present of a situa-
tion in w'hich harmony could be restored
between the coalition partners and in
which the price of the present w'ould al-
most certainly be footed by the Labor
Party.
Instead of backing the Liberals and
accepting a paper loss for a real gain,
Labor behaved like a group of wide-eyed
amateurs. They became impressed by
the fact that on paper under the pro-
posed redistribution scheme they would
need a swing of one to two per cent
more votes their w'ay than they received
in 1961 to win seats like Lowe (Labor
Minister William McMahon) and Benne-
long (Army Minister John Cramer).
They overlooked or unprofessionally
forgot that Australian history shows
that w'hen there is open, deep and con-
HIGH CHURCH, LOW BULLETIN
December 16, 1882
npHE position of the Church of
England in Sydney at the present
time would be absurd if it were not
humiliating. First, we _ have the
manner of appointment of the new
Bishop made a party question as
between the Highs and Lows. The
High Churchmen distrusted a com-
mittee of the whole Synod because
there they were outnumbered; the
Low Churchmen distrusted a com-
mittee of Bishops lest the Bishops
should appoint a High Churchman.
So the Dean of Sydney forced the
appointment of the committee of the
whole Synod, and the result was such
that the committee sat w'ith closed
doors lest the public should know how
the members discussed their to-be
Father in God. as graziers discuss
prize sheep: pedigree, such and such;
training, such and such: prizes, such
and such. And. after all the rigmarole
was gone through, an English
suffragan bishop refused the tempting
offer.
★ ★ ★
Bulletin doesn’t appear to
have been run with anything like
success. A week ago or so, the
PROTESTANT STANDARD dealt
us an apostolic knock, and not only
informed its readers we were not
respectable but that we were inclined
to be blasphemous. This arises
chiefly because we happened to
observe that most journalistic parsons
w'ere journalistic failures. Now w'e’ve
got the RC organ dow'n on us. The
Bathurst RECORD, the flambeau of
the West, says in its last issue: “From
time to time we pointed out that
certain newspapers published in this
colony were not good reading for
Catholics. We omitted The B' j letin.
Scarcely a number appears that does
not contain something grossly offen-
sive to bishops and priests. The
Bulletin is determined to take the
bread and butter out of the mouth
of the PROTESTANT STANDARD.”
Now', what are we to do? The
PROTESTANT STANDARD says,
with characteristic candour, that w 7 e
w'ill go to the same place as bishops
and priests, and the RC RECORD
hints that all Catholics should stop
reading The Bulletin. We may tell
the RECORD that there are fourteen
priests now' on our staff, and our
“spicy” pars are mostly written by
struggling Anglican clergymen. It is
true w'e haven’t nearly so many
Baptist ministers writing for us as
formerly. They were a little too
lively. What we employ the rev.
gentlemen for is to attack one another.


m\A
x i 1
m
jiaP;}
i
•> jUs** Jnf
F>l >* K
* f-i AVI PAG N £
Pink
for
girls
If she says “gorgeous”, “delightful", “heavenly”,
chances are it's Romalo Pink Champagne. A gay,
scintillating wine for joyous times ... for parties,
weddings and ever-so-special dinners for two.
All over the world sophisticates celebrate With Pink
Champagne. Australia’s finest is Romalo.
Trade Enquiries: S. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd.
348 St. Hilda Road, Melbourne
;inuing trouble between the two non-
Labor parties votes come Labor’s way
not in the handfuls of one or two per
cent but in the thousands of several per
cents. So they created a position in which
Menzies could retreat gracefully from
the redistribution proposals and make his
peace with the Country Party by giving
Labor support to the Country Party
(which was advocating a “loaded” vote
in favor of rural constituencies) instead
of to the Liberals. They passed up on
the chance to keep the Liberals and the
Country Party relentlessly at each other’s
throat in the months to come.
Even this would be understandable, if
Labor as a Party (as distinct from an
individual Labor MHR here and there)
stood to gain anything from a new re-
distribution. But in effect they have en-
dorsed the view put forward by Country
Party Leader John McEwen that it is
the Country Party that is getting the
rough end of the redistribution stick.
They have publicly supported the propo-
sition that there should be changes in the
Representation Act. As those changes
are to be worked out by Menzies and
McEw'en in conjunction, one thing that
can be relied upon is that both those
professionals will be guarding the inter-
ests of their own parties, not looking
after Labor's electoral welfare. It is
quite on the cards that a new' redistribu-
tion will suit Labor even less than the
one Labor assisted the Country Party to
torpedo last week.
The reasons which decided Labor to
take the course it did again reveals the
flabbiness of its political thinking. On
everything I hear Tom Uren. Labor
MHR for Sydney's Reid, was a major
influence (w'hich does not say much for
the leadership given by Labor’s official
leaders). Uren's line was that Labor
should play for time. It w'as to Labor's
advantage for the next election to be
held on existing boundaries. If a redis-
tribution could be stalled off sufficiently
long, there might be a by-election in an
electorate which Labor could win and if
Labor won it could then force a general
election on present boundaries.
Here, expressed in less stark terms but
Unmistakable, is the “Angel of Death”
theme, pioneered in Labor politics by
the Opposition Leader Mr Calwell. Just
as Mr Calwell can see in the death of
Archbishop Mannix the solution of his
Democratic Labor Party problems in
Victoria, somebody on the Government
side in a seat vulnerable to Labor is to
the conveniently, so that Labor can cap-
ture the Federal Government without
having to work for it.
Personally, I regard the “Angel of
Death" as a most uncertain ally in a
democracy where, unlike a dictatorship,
Lis services cannot be enforced. He is
He is just as likely to
strike against those w'ho consider him
their ally than against those to whom he
is a feared enemy.
As I see it, this is political thinking in
its most flabby and negative form in that
the approach is to hope for events to
produce the desired end product instead
of seeking to bend events into a planned
shape to achieve the sought-after aim.
It is this type of thinking that has
enabled the Menzies’ Government, de-
moralised and panic stricken after its
December, 1961, election reverses, to
survive through 1962, and to come to the
end of the year with its Parliamentary
morale strengthened and its grip upon
the Treasury benches seemingly as tight
as ever.
ALAN REID
RACE WAR
QUEENSLAND'S CROATS v SERBS
”The liberation of Yugoslavia"
■Racial animosity has sparked off an
unprecedented wave of violence and
fear amongst the Yugoslav community
in far North Queensland’s sugar and
tobacco towns. The latest event in a
chain of dramatic happenings, is an open
boast by a Yugoslav that he will “get”
a detective.
Enmity between two Yugoslav races —
Croatians and Serbians —is responsible
for the flare-up. Apart from age-old
differences, the Croats and Serbs fought
against each other during the last World
War. This year the bitter hatred has
resulted in:
® Many hotel brawls with scores of
Croats and Serbs slogging it out.
• A stabbing in the main street of the
sugar town of Innisfail.
• A raid by hooded and armed men on
cane-barracks, followed by a car
chase and a vicious fight in which
shots were fired and a man was struck
over the head with a rifle.
• The scrapping of a plan to start an
All Nations Club in the tourist-sugar
town of Cairns because the organiser
was told by a Yugoslav: “Start this
club and you take the consequences.”
Police have expressed anxiety over the
frequent hotel brawls involving knives.
A Serb, set upon by a dozen Croats out-
side an hotel in Innisfail, stabbed one of
his attackers and fled into the bush. The
stabbing victim looked certain to die
at one stage but he rallied and re-
covered. In a manhunt which lasted for
two days, police scoured thick bush
before the Serb finally gave himself up.
Fear reached its zenith when four
hooded and armed men held up six
Yugoslav cane-cutters in barracks near
Cairns about 1000 miles north of Bris-
bane. The raiders, one armed with a
pistol and the others with a knife, toma-
hawk and stick, ordered the occupants
to tear down photos of the Yugoslav
president, Marshal Tito, before they
decamped in a late model car. Two of
the cane-cutters, Dinko Spralja and
Dominic Letinc, the latter armed with a
rifle, gave chase and cornered the hold-
up men at a dead-end road near the
well-known tourist resort of Lake Placid.
The things that followed were far from


placid. Letinc fired shots into the air and
ordered the four men out of the car. In
the fracas that followed, one of the
hooded men attempted to stab Letinc.
The struggle ended when Letinc was
knocked out with a blow over the head
from his own rifle which shattered the
butt.
Police who rushed to the barracks
discovered a printed bulletin from the
Croatian Army, a political organisation
dedicated to the overthrowal of Marshal
Tito. Investigations were hampered be-
cause fear had silenced the lips of the
Yugoslav community. Fearful Yugoslav
women warned their menfolk not to be-
come involved and not to offer any
information to the police. Despite the
wall of fear-inspired silence, police
charged a wealthy tobacco farmer Josip
Kovac (22) of Dimbulah on the Atherton
Tablelands and he was convicted of
assault and having been unlawfully on
a dwelling. During the court hearing it
was revealed a Yugoslav had once fired
shots from a rifle into the tyres of a car
Kovac had been a passenger in.
Circulating the cane-fields and tobacco
fields are copies of a book called
“Croatian Struggle For Freedom And
Statehood”, written by Dr. Stjepan
Hefer, which claims the Serbs massacred
hundreds of thousands of Croats at the
end of the last war. Inflammatory
literature such as this certainly does not
ease the tension.
PETER SIMON
THE BORDER WAR
Australian Aid to Red China
Tf the Indian border war has done
-*■ nothing else at least it has helped
shock the Sydney Trades and Labor
Council out of its ideological doldrums.
At a recent meeting, which was largely
ignored by the Press, the right-wingers,
in the face of strong left-wing and Com-
munist Party pressure, passed a motion
which included these paragraphs:
“Labor Council expresses grave and
serious concern at the continued action
of the Commonwealth Government in
persisting with the sale of goods to Com-
munist China on extended credit whilst
that country is involved in an unlawful
act of aggression against India.
“This Council therefore calls upon the
Commonwealth Government to strongly
condemn the acts of war by Communist
China against India and to immediately
cease its present economic assistance
which is given by the granting of ex-
tended credit on the sale of goods which
are being used by Communist China to
earn foreign exchange in other
countries.”
Around Melbourne
AN ALBERT TUCKER FOR 2'- A MILE
HPhat fellow Batman may be satis-
A fied now that he has had our
nation’s first motor inn named for
him and opened with an energetic dis-
play of contemporary art.
Naturally the Americans had to set
the pattern for us to follow with our
usual diligence. And, to quote Mr
M. G. Sloman, the Chairman of
Capital Motor Inn Pty Ltd, a motor
inn “is neither a hotel in the accepted
sense of the word nor is it a motel,
but it does incorporate the best fea-
tures of both . . . the services and
sophistication of a modern hotel with
the informality and convenience of a
motel.”
The John Batman is in Queens
Road, St Kilda, a quarter of Mel-
bourne rapidly changing from its old
mansion character to flats and office
blocks and, now, to inner-suburban
hotel-motel sites. It is another mark
of the approaching trend towards a
total ban on parking in the choked
city proper.
According to what you mean by
sophistication, you may choose your
own degree of emphasis from the
following facts about the John Bat-
man: It cost more than £500,000. It
was designed by Robin Boyd, who has
let his head go, and the art is laid on.
The art isn’t only for show. Sidney
Nolan, Albert Tucker, Arthur Boyd,
James Wigley, John Perceval, Kenneth
Jack, Fred Jessup, Ray Crooke, Kevin
Connor, William Drew, Gareth Jones-
Roberts, Geoff O'Loughlin, Charles
Bush, Phyl Waterhouse, and John
Borrack are all represented by original
works on the walls of the lobbies and
the suites. The Batman management
will be pleased “to include on your
accommodation account the cost of
any painting purchased from the
exhibition.” Prices on inquiry at the
desk.
There are 85 suites in the six-storev
Batman, which our Mr Bolte, an in-
veterate opener, set formally on its
way. You may not be terribly curious
about those that run perfunctorily
from £3 19s. 6d. to £5 19s. 6d. a
night, but the Moonlight Suite may
stir you. This is the bridal suite, which
comes out at eight guineas (cham-
pagne or cider on the house) and
where all furniture and fittings, except
the midnight-blue ceiling, are white.
Then there is the Melba Suite, with
wall-to-wall kangaroo-skin carpet on
which I should have liked Dame
Nellie's views, also at eight guineas,
and the Summit Suite, at ten guineas,
designed with the “busy executive in
mind.”
But Mr Boyd's master work at the
Batman is the two-storey Penthouse
staircase, black carpets, black paint-
work, black bed-covers, and black
Studio Suite, with its own internal
drapes. It comes out at the top price
of 15 guineas a night, and I am happy
to advise that the lighting is not black.
As Mr Boyd so well says, “There is
something comfortingly old-fashioned
about associations with John and Eliza
Batman and early colonial hospitality.
These associations are reflected
throughout the inn. Its atmosphere is
of the kind most of us would like to
meet when we return ‘home' towards
evening. Guests will find comfort,
tranquillity, and relaxation.”
Indeed, the hospitality Mr Boyd’s
principals offer may even exceed that
offered by John Batman, the bold
colonial lad, and his Eliza. It includes,
without charge, which of course
makes it authentically hospitable, the
supply of pyjamas “and such articles
that people tend to lose."
This hospitality extends even to the
doghouse, likewise designed by the
busy Mr Boyd, where guests' pets
may eat first-class without a trace of
diffidence. For there is a most explicit
assurance that the accounting mach-
ines which will run up the bill for the
master without “delay or waiting”
won’t record any debit against his dog.
Ross Shelmerdine and his co-direc-
tors intend building motor inns also in
Sydney, Hobart, Brisbane, Perth, and
Adelaide. How soon I suppose de-
pends on how profitably the melange
of Robin Boyd, historical zeal, and the
tourist trade works for them in the
Melbourne venture.
It’s all very interesting, and if all
had gone well you could be landing
almost at the door of the Batman by
helicopter 12 minutes from Essendon.
Or you might have been picked up
from your property and deposited face
to face with an Albert Tucker for 2s.
a mile.
FAWKNER


UNIONS
HOW TO BE MISCELLANEOUS
Ariansen v. Gietzelt
If you are a Santa Claus, a lift-driver,
a cleaner, a night-watchman, or a
paint factory laborer, the chances are
that you are one of the 50,000 members
of the Miscellaneous Workers’ Union;
and if you are in NSW you will be one
of the 24,000 involved in an extremely
bitter battle for power.
The Miscellaneous Workers’ Union is
traditionally a socialist or left-wing union
and judging by its rule book it is auto-
cratically run by its General Secretary,
who at present is Mr R. Gietzelt. The
split in the union began about 18 months
ago but only came tc a head last week
when the union took action in the In-
dustrial Court against one of its Organi-
sers, Mr V. Ariansen. The Court action
resulted in Mr Ariansen returning a union
car which he had retained possession of
since his dismissal some time last month.
According to some of Ariansen’s support-
ers in the union, Ariansen claims that the
union still owes him some money on the
car which it purchased from him when
he joined the organisation back in 1956.
The real cause of the trouble in the
union is that the Organisers in NSW
claim the right to move resolutions,
speak, and more importantly, vote on
the 40-man State Council of the Union.
Ariansen was one of those who thought
that this reasonably democratic right was
a sufficiently important one to risk the
wrath of General Secretary Gietzelt. The
other issue over which Ariansen crossed
Gietzelt was in the proposed amalgama-
tion of the 700-strong NSW branch of the
Wool and Basil Workers’ Union.
The Wool and Basil Workers is one
of the small and dying unions (like
cemetery employees) which is now too
small to be run economically by a full-
time officer. For seme time the union
has been controlled by a Communist, Mr
R' G. Clarke, a member of the Central
Committee of the party and at one stage
a full-time functionary. Clarke has ap-
parently arranged with Gietzelt for amal-
gamation at a bargain price. The bargain
is that Clarke would be guaranteed two
triennial terms of office if he agreed to
the amalgamation.
Several other unions had been inter-
ested in absorbing the Wool and Basil
Workers —the Australian Workers’ Union
and the Storemen and Packers, for ex-
ample—but this would have meant no
l°b for Clarke. Gietzelt, with rather
strange left-wing views, was willing to
°hlige Clarke. Ariansen again crossed
Gietzelt ty asking some awkward ques-
tions about the proposed deal w'hich was
arranged without the knowledge of the
Organisers.
Even back in February of this year
Gietzelt told Ariansen, and his support-
ers, that if they went on with their op-
position to the amalgamation he would
“tip the can on the lot of you.”
Perhaps of all the moves that have
taken place in the past months none
caused as much comment as the admis-
sion to membership recently of Mr A.
T. Gietzelt, brother of the Federal Secre-
tary. Mr Gietzelt, the President of the
Sutherland Shire Council and a local
businessman, is a dyed-in-the-wool
socialist and a very prominent leader
among left-wing ALP members. The
story goes that at the last ALP June Con-
ference, because he could not force his
way through a difficult situation in his
own district to get to conference as
delegate, he was forced to sit out the
proceedings in the public gallery.
This year he is not taking any chances
and has joined the Miscellaneous Work-
ers’ Union and brother Ray. The point
here is that a few days before the con-
ference last year he tried to join the
MWU delegation to get there but ran
into unexpected opposition from the
group led by Ariansen. They would
not let him to take the place of a pro-
perly elected representative of the rank-
and-file.
Although Gietzelt appears to have
won for the moment there are bound to
be further battles in and out of the
Courts.
CHRYSLER TRUCKS
A STATEMENT published in
good faith in THE BULLETIN
(November 17) stating that Chrysler
was abandoning local truck produc-
tion is incorrect. Chrysler’s reply is
on page 35.
CHRISTMAS
THE BEER SHORTAGE
And the Mayor's Two Black Eyes
Tndustrial trouble at the Melbourne
plants of Carlton and United
Brewery Ltd usually breaks out as a
prelude to Christmas, but this year it is
on a scale which has seriously curtailed
the city’s supplies of canned and bottled
beer. Last week many hotels were devoid
of stocks of all but draft beer, while
others were stretching supplies by
rationing customers to one or two bottles
or cans.
As a result, thousands of Melbourne
drinkers will be celebrating Christmas
with the novel tastes of beer hauled
from as far away as Brisbane and Perth.
The trouble started as far back as
last July when the Trades Hall council
imposed a limit of eight hours weekly
overtime for Carlton and United’s
2000 metropolitan employees. The ban
was a move in a prolonged campaign by
the brewery workers to get a 35 hour
week, an extra week’s leave (making
four weeks a year) and higher pay. In
November, the unions tightened the
screws by banning overtime at week-
ends and it was this which jeopardised
the bottles and cans. The unions have
had two rounds of fines, £.lOO and
£5OO, without their ardour being damp-
ened. Late last week, meetings of brewery
workers agreed to voluntary levies of
£2 each for tradesmen and £1 for non-
tradesmen to meet the fines. The same
day, the Trades Hall imposed a black
ban on all exports of Victorian beer,
whether overseas or interstate. Union
leaders said this would help relieve Vic-
toria’s beer shortage, but the brewery
spokesman refused to say whether the
export supplies would be switched to the
local market or stockpiled. The only
exception to the export ban will be
supplies for fellow-unionists who are
members of ships’ crews.
To the Dean of Melbourne, the Very
Rev. T. W. Thomas, the shortage was
“a blessing in disguise.”
But the most serious casualty was
the teetotal Mayor of Footscray, Cr
K. Shorten, who had a near-empty cup-
board at a time when he was expected
to follow the tradition of providing
drinks after the last council meeting of
the year.
He went to the local hotel which
normally supplies the municipal needs
and was told in the bar he could only
have three bottles. From there he went
to the hotel back-yard to plead his need
with Mr Geoff Kay, the licensee. Mr
Kay stuck firm at three bottles and at
this stage an unknown assailant knocked
the Mayor to the ground. “When 1 got
up another big fellow hit me,” he said
later after being treated at Footscray
hospital for two black eyes. Police failed
to find his attackers. “I may have been
a bit persistent,” said Cr Shorten, “I
rarely go to hotels myself.” 4


INSIDE JAPAN 1962
A Tale of Three Cities
By PETER COLEMAN
Times have changed since Mr Leslie
Haylen, MFIR, returned from
Japan in 1947 to announce he
had told some Japanese wool buyers that
if they tried to buy Australian wool they
would be tossed into Sydney Harbor. To-
day Japan is our best customer for wool;
the Japanese-Australia market is the fast-
est growing market in Asia; and since the
Japanese hold all the strong cards in the
current trade talks (buying so much more
from us than we buy from them) we are
bound to make important concessions to
them and the trade between us is bound
to grow. Japan, as Australia’s New
Britain, is becoming increasingly popular
as a trade slogan.
But even apart from trade—simply
from the point of view of ways of life —
Japan and Australia have far more in
common than any other two countries
up and down east Asia. As far as ancient
Oriental traditions go, this is the age of
the Decline of the East and no other
country has adopted the Wisdom of the
West so thoroughly as Japan. The com-
parison only breaks down when one
realises that in such matters as the scale
of their industrial modernisation, the
degree of their TV saturation, the size
of their advertising agencies, the intensity
of their nightclub life, etc., they are far
more “Westernised” than we are.
The story of the New Japan can con-
veniently be told as a tale of three cities.
Tokyo: In a hurry
rpoKYO, where the foreigner usually first
arrives, is the exemplar of the New
Japan. A new city with few buildings
more than ten or twelve years old, it
was rubble after the war as the survivors
of the bombing, the servicemen back
from the lost territories in the Pacific,
and the settlers back from the lost
colonies in China, Korea and Formosa
starved together with little beyond their
fantastic Japanese discipline and the gen-
erosity of the Occupation Forces to sus-
tain them. The Korean War changed all
that —as it changed the post-war
“austerity” in Australia. The day of
the soldier was over, but the day of the
developer, the industrialist, the trader,
the adman arrived. Today Tokyo-
Yokohama (the two cities merge) is by
far the largest metropolis in the world,
with about 15 million people.
Built in a hurry, Tokyo is an ugly city
—the drive from the airport reminds one
weirdly of the drive from Mascot or
Essendon, and people concerned with the
Australian Ugliness should really look at
Japanese cities to get things into per-
spective. No one bothers very much to
show the tourists any famous sights or
buildings in Tokyo. The ancient temples
and the wonderful gardens are in the
countryside around the other cities —and
even there it pays to get there late in the
afternoon: otherwise you pay your yen
to some pot-bellied gum-chewing Zen
abbot, let yourself be pushed on by the
milling thousands of Japanese tourists
and students from fleets of tourist buses,
and catch a glimpse of Zen gardens
between the posing advertising agency
models and the family picture groups, be-
fore everyone rushes off to the next
temple. Religion in Japan seems as dead
as a dodo.
In Tokyo they suggest you look at
the fish market at 6 a.m. to see a symbol
of Tokyo's fanaticism about private enter-
prise. Beyond that they leave you to
pick up the feel of the place from the
extraordinary energy, zest and vitality of
the Tokyo-ites as you see them in the
streets.
Tokyo is a city of young people. The
average age of the Tokyo-ites is in the
20's and the most typical of the new
generations are in the big new blocks of j
flats where they live a coloured TV-
time payment-instant coffee-foreign
films way of life. They work and play
with tremendous zest and if Japanese
courtesy is sometimes overpowering
a girl at the foot of each escalator in a
department store welcoming each cus*
tomer to her floor it is well to remem-
ber that 60,000 are killed or injured each
year in traffic accidents and that


1,000,000 young people crowding into
or out of the city centre in the rush-
hours each day can lead, for example, to
an old woman being knocked over and
her spine cracked as hundreds rush over
her.
Lower down the age-level it is hard
to imagine a city where the teenage cult
has been carried to further extremes,
with its deafening bars, cafes, bands
catering solely to teenagers with long
hair, side-burns, jeans and whatever. It
is the mecca of teenagers throughout the
country (and while I was there one 19-
year-old crook was arrested for exploit-
ing the dreams of country girls of be-
coming screen and TV stars by setting
up a phony correspondence school in
dramatics. The girls sent in £6 in answer
to his advertisements in a girls’ maga-
zine and he sent back an application
form. He hoped to clean up a few
hundreds pounds before disappearing.)
It attracts people from all over Japan
because it is the country’s most pros-
perous city. It is this prosperity which
brings the national level to something like
European standards of living. They eat
more meat, butter, eggs and fish in Tokyo
than the other Japanese do —and so they
are growing taller and more good-look-
ing. Nearly all Tokyo families own TV
sets and more than a third of them have
refrigerators. As the population of
Japan increases and migrants keep pour-
ing into Tokyo from the countryside,
the city’s population increases by a
quarter of a million a year. (It is only
Japan’s success in birth control policies
that looks like limiting the population
explosion. It should settle at 100 million
by the end of the century. Abortion also
plays a small part over one million
a year. They are legal, though permitted
only if the doctor considers the mother's
health requires it a formality easily
got around.)
But the prosperity and modernisa-
tion are not universal in Tokyo. About
three million out of its 10 million are
borderline cases for State relief— a fan-
tastic proportion and slums such as
the Sanya district are fertile producers
of extortionists, prostitutes and anti-
police rioters.
As far as modernisation goes one of
the most curious exceptions is in sales-
manship. A hundred years ago the
Japanese welcomed the works of Samuel
Smiles; last month they were welcoming
Bale Carnegie and Australian busi-
nessmen dealing in high quality Japanese
goods who fail to get replies to letters
nbout minor complaints may see this as
a good sign. The tradition still lingers
jhat salesmanship is undignified—curious
ln a country with few natural resources
nnd living by trade. It can be a heart-
ache to the foreign advertising man set-
t!ng up business in Tokyo: accustomed
to his own importance at home he is
baffled by being ignored and kept wait-
ing when he calls on a potential client
in Tokyo. (The trick is to catch some-
one’s eye, bow formally and the poor
victim is honour-bound to stick with you
till your problem is solved.) In many
of the advertising agencies, particularly
the smaller ones, the atmosphere of the
pariah still hangs around. Anyone
familiar with the Disneyland of Western
advertising agencies will be surprised at
the shabby office furniture, the coffee-
stained tables, the peeling walls, the
frayed shirts. The great agencies such as
Dentsu, the fifth biggest in the world
and smaller only than the four American
giants, is of course quite different and
fully Westernised. But even this has
only happened in the past few years.
Before the war advertising was more
or less limited to advertisements in
newspapers by small companies making,
say, toothpaste. And since newspapers
began in Japan as the organs
of political groups opposing modernisa-
tion, they were argument-sheets of
limited appeal, not news-sheets. They
did not disclose their circulation even
to advertisers, and the advertisers saw
their advertisements more as donations
to the political faction behind the paper
than as valuable publicity. The adman
was a space-broker who bought space
from a paper for the cheapest price and
resold it to an advertiser who drew up
his own advertisement. (No one thought
an adman would be any good at that
sort of thing.) If as often happened the
advertiser went broke, the adman
couldn’t pay the paper and he went
broke. This space-broker tradition sur-
vives and the adman’s name is still low,
but it is changing with the growth of
genuine newspapers and TV and under
the influence of firms like Dentsu. The
professionals have taken over: tooth-
paste jingles fill up TV, and posters for
hair oil replace the shrines across the
mountain sides of Japan.
For most foreigners Tokyo and the
Ginza have entered world mythology as
the new entertainment and vice centre
as Asia. Certainly Tokyo is a wide open
city, though it has less prostitution than
London, less juvenile delinquency than
New York, less gambling than Sydney.
Nevertheless promoted by prosperity,
expense accounts and surplus energy the
nightclubs and the geisha system go
from strength to strength confined
only by the Japanese religion of work
and a discipline which turns the lights
off at midnight and sends the revellers,
the singers and hostesses home to get
enough sleep for the next day’s frantic
burst. Some British observers, such as
Angus Wilson, have seen something
neurotic in this expenditure of energy,
something cold and unhedonistic in the
mixture of frenzy and discipline. To
them the symbol of Tokyo is the people
falling asleep in trains at midday in cool
weather —unhealthy tension ending in un-
healthy lethargy, a sign that if Japan’s
prosperity burst, the debilitating nostalgic
autumn-leaf side of Japanese culture
could easily emerge again and lead the
people back to the political fanatics.
This is a rather big intuition to hang on
a man dozing in a train, though it is not
surprising that the foreigner looks for
some explanation of a vitality that leaves
him feeling so exhausted. One does feel
this sort of energy can’t last forever.
Meanwhile a more mundane symbol of
Tokyo’s night life might be the foreigner
who, after spending an evening sur-
rounded by pretty girls, stares goggle
eyed at his bill.
Toyota: Company Town
T>ut the new Japan is above all a work-
ing, industrialised Japan. Most of
Tokyo's workers are in manufacture trade
but you see this side of Japan even more
starkly outside Tokyo. Take, for ex-
ample, the town of Toyota, built a few
miles from Nagoya and given its name
by the Toyota Motor Car Company. It
is one of the biggest of the automobile
factories (there are nine others but some
are bound to collapse soon since few can
yet produce good cheap passenger cars);
it employs 13,000 people, and it pro-
duces about 200,000 vehicles a year. It
is here that the foreigner, while impres-
sed by the modernity of the factory and
the quality of its products, is usually
struck at once by the differentness of
Japan.
For example, the day begins with the
playing of the Company song:
Aspiring for a great future,
We stand on the hill of Koromo.
Clouds are white, the wind is green.
Oh whistle! Give a blow!
The sun of hope is rising again
this morning.
Toyota, Toyota, young Toyota!
Toyota, Toyota, our Toyota!
Such songs may seem to the foreigner
to make more sense in a factory
such as Kurashiki Boseki Co
where employees are mainly teenage
girls and much of their time goes into
school-work: you can think of their
company song as a sort of school song:
In graceful Japan
Our name is glorious.
To the ends of the earth,
Over the seven seas,
Our textiles reach far and wide etc.
But this is misleading. The same sort
of thing goes on in factories of older
men. They may not be taken as seriously


ACXK'
... ..
WWW
WITH
&c/tW€H9cC
SPECIAL KEYING SYSTEMS
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which operates that lock only and
no other, but the locks are divided into two or more groups. Each group
is subject to its own Master-Key which opens all locks in that group, but
no other group.
However, all locks are also subject to a Grand Master-Key which opens
all locks in all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike groups may also be included
in G.M.K. Systems.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM
YOU NEED CARRY ONLY
ONE KEY INSTEAD OF
HUNDREDS!
REPLACING INSECURITY
AND CONFUSION WITH
MAXIMUM SECURITY,
MAXIMUM
CONVENIENCE!
In industry and commerce today a Lockwood MK System is an essentia!
pre-requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade
and Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part
of the building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are
held on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries
enabling quick replacement of lost keys or damaged locks "true to code”, and
allowing absolute control of additions or extensions to the system.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss
Master-Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty.
Limited at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention.
Manufactured in Australia by
OGDEN INDUSTRIES PTY. LIMITED
Brisbane 7-3047 Sydney LM 3191, LM 3186 • Canberra 4-4098 ,
Adelaide W 2153 • Perth 23-2214 * Hobart 3-3141 • Melbourne 569-0611
in some factories as in others but no-
where are they scorned.
There is, in other words, a company
loyalty that at first confuses the-conser-
vative Westerner and disgusts the radical.
The unions are all company unions and
though they are finked on an industry
basis and then finked further into a
national confederation (Sohyo) the
loyalty goes first to the company, and
the Sohyo s annual call for wages strikes
are regularly ineffectual. (Sohyo, estab-
fished by the American Occupation
Force, is militantly left wing). This is
not to say they are tame cats. They
negotiate hard over the “fringe benefits”,
they insist on the maximum number of
“permanents” who can never be sacked,
they keep older inefficient men in work
who in ordinary Western businesses
would be sacked. They may contribute
to the inefficiency of some big compa-
nies but they are active unions all the
same.
In its turn a company like Toyota meets
the obligations of this paternalism provid-
ing company hospitals, free meals at
company restaurants, company playing
fields for company baseball teams, com-
pany houses and dormitories. It guaran-
tees permanent employment; a recession
would mean lower pay but never un-
employment. It provides pensions.
Taking all the fringe benefits into ac-
count (including bonuses in summer and
at Christmas varying with the company's
profits but usually equalling three
months’ pay) the workers in factories like
these have a European standard of living.
The average standard however is still
much lower. About half ot Japan’s 45
million workers enjoy the conditions of
permanent employees but most of them
about three quarters of them do
not work in industries as prosperous as
Toyota. (The six million “permanent”
females, for example, most ot whom
leave work at 2 I to get married, do not
earn Western wages.) The other 20-odd
million workers in small “cottage in-
dustries” are depressed by European,
though not by Asian, standards. In other
words although the old talk of sweated
labour is absurd now in relation to the
main export industries, depression con-
ditions by Western standards still prevail
for half of the work force. These are
the industries which produced Japan's
pre-war exports such as toys, bicycles,
sewing machines industries which are
bound to decline as all the under-devel-
oped countries enter this stage of in-
dustry which can be based on plentiful
labor and limited capital.
The Government’s solution in its
Income Doubling Plan is by a continued
growth rate of 7.2 per cent between
1960 and 1970 to transfer labour from
low productivity and declining industries
to the new high productivity export in-
dustries, such as electronics, chemicals,
and construction machinery, and so reach
a Western standard for all workers.
The institution behind it all is the
Economic Planning Agency which links
industrialists, economists, politicians and
unionists in the detailed planning down
to decimal points of future export pat-
terns. Toyota standards and better are
to become general though the plan
depends on unions remaining as “loyal’
as they are. No one doubts Japan's ca-
pacity to solve its technological prob-
lems it is already the world’s biggest
shipbuilder and among the biggest in
cameras, radios, cars and steel but
as intensified competition forces com-
panies to employ more “temporaries.”
who without rights to fringe benefits
obviously feel less of the traditional


C.S.R. CO’S HALF-YEARLY REPORT
POINTS FROM THE GENERAL MANAGERS
REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS
In his recently released report to shareholders, Dr. James Vernon, General
Manager of The Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited, mentioned:
• record production of raw sugar at Australian mills
• extension of British Commonwealth Sugar Agreement until 1970
• some improvement in the Company’s business in building materials
and industrial chemicals
• need for removal of uncertainties about tariff policy on manufactured
products.
Dr. James Vernon
THE COMPANY’S
SUGAR ACTIVITIES
Raw Sugar
Australian raw sugar mills: The
Company’s seven mills in Queens-
land and New South Wales are
expected to produce about 354,000
tons, 52,000 tons more than the
previous highest figure. All mills
have been crushing at high rates
and with satisfactory efficiency.
Fiji raw sugar mills: During this
current crushing season, harvesting
and milling have proceeded
smoothly and the quality of the
cane has been the highest for some
years. It is expected that about
250,000 tons of sugar will be made,
the second best output on record.
Conditions and relations in the
industry have been settled and satis-
factory.
Refined Sugar
Australia: Sales of sugar pro-
ducts during the half-year ended
30th September were 245,000 tons,
a small increase on the correspond-
ing half year of 1961.
We are now selling refined sugar
in 2 lb. and 4 lb. packets for the
grocery trade in all Australian
States. In addition, caster sugar in
1 lb. packets and soft brown sugar
in 1 lb. and 2 lb. packets are being
sold in New South Wales, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
New Zealand: Sales of sugar pro-
ducts by our subsidiary, New Zea-
land Sugar Co. Ltd., were 53,600
tons in the half year ended 30th
September, slightly more than in
the corresponding period of 1961.
SUGAR INDUSTRY MATTERS
Australian Raw Sugar Production
The 34 Australian raw sugar mills
(of which C.S.R. owns seven) are
expected to produce about 1,800,000
tons in the 1962 season. This will
be 450,000 tons, or 34%, more
than was produced in the previous
season, and about 430,000 tons
higher than the previous record
established in 1958.
Marketing of the large crop is
proceeding satisfactorily and the
exportable quantity of over
1,000,000 tons will make a sub-
stantial contribution to Australia’s
export earnings. Under contract
with the Queensland Government
C.S.R. markets the export sugar on
behalf of the sugar industry.
British Commonwealth Sugar
Agreement
The agreement has been extended
for a further year and will now run
until 1970.
The negotiated price for 1963 has
been agreed at £46.0.10 sterling per
ton, an increase of 5/7d. per ton
over the 1962 price. The negotiated
price applies to 315,000 tons of
Australia’s raw sugar exports and
126,000 tons of Fiji’s exports.
International Sugar Agreement
The quota provisions of the Inter-
national Sugar Agreement remain
in suspension, and re-imposition of
restrictions on exports does not
seem imminent.
Free market sugar prices have
continued to recover generally and
in October, immediately before the
Cuban crisis, were about £26 Stg.
per ton c.i.f. U.K., compared with
about £2O Stg. per ton following
the breakdown of the International
Sugar Agreement. In late October
the price reached £3O Stg. c.i.f.
U.K. and has since steadied at
around that level. These higher
prices are only partly due to the
Cuban crisis. A stronger influence
on the market sentiment is the
growing realisation in the sugar
trade that world free market demand
and supplies are in balance and
that the excessive world stocks of
recent years have disappeared.
European Economic Community
Negotiations in respect of the
place of the British Commonwealth
Sugar Agreement in the E.E.C. are
marking time while the E.E.C.
countries deliberate their own
common agricultural policy for
sugar.
U.S.A. Sugar Legislation and
Quotas
United States sugar legislation
was enacted on 14th July 1962.
The new Act gives Australia a long-
term annual quota of 40,000 short
tons, while Fiji has 10,000 short
tons. These long-term quotas are
at the premium price ruling in the
U.S.A.
In addition, both Australia and
Fiji have the opportunity under
the new legislation of competing
for the supply of “global quota”
sugar to U.S.A. at free market
prices. Advantage has been taken
of this opportunity to the extent
consistent with supplies of sugar
and commitments to other markets.
BUILDING MATERIALS
Earlier forecasts of a slow rate
of improvement in building industry
activity are being borne out, and
our business in building materials
has improved moderately in the
first half of our financial year.
C.S.R. Floor Tiles: The Austra-
lian floor tile market is growing
rapidly but low priced imports are
taking an increasing share of it.
Imports now supply 60% of the
total market for vinyl floor cover-
ings. In an effort to counter im-
ports, our floor tile prices have
been reduced and sales have so far
been maintained in physical quan-
tity, though not in value.
A Tariff Board enquiry is being
held to determine levels of pro-
tection for floor and wall tiles and
linoleum.
.Fibreboard Group: Sales of
Masonite and Timbrock hardboard
have improved moderately. Imports
are increasing, however, and the
loss in volume of sales has a severe
effect on unit costs in this capital
intensive industry. Imports from
New Zealand are being landed in
Australia at dumping prices and at
what appear to be dumping prices
from at least one European coun-
try, but we have not succeeded in
persuading the Federal Government
to take appropriate action. In view
of dumping from New Zealand,
which is beyond all doubt or ques-
tion, it is ironical that we are
prevented from exporting to that
country by New Zealand’s prohibi-
tion of imports. We are very firmly
of the opinion that anti-dumping
action should be taken by the
Commonwealth Government.
Gypsum Products Group: Sales
of plaster have begun to improve
in all States as the housing business
recovers. Sales in the Eastern States
are being assisted by the superior
quality of plaster made from Kan-
garoo Island gypsum deposits.
Gyprock plaster board continues
to progress and is now sold in all
States except Western Australia.
Pyneboard Group: “Pyneboard”
particle board is in strong demand.
Mineral Fibres Group: 8.1. Fibre-
tex mineral wool sales in New
South Wales, Victoria and Queens-
land are making progress. A new
factory is being built at Clayton in
Victoria and is expected to be
completed early in the new year.
Sales of blue asbestos are being
maintained but the world market
is very competitive.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS
C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd. (60%
C.S.R.): The improvement in de-
mand which commenced earlier this
year has been maintained, and pro-
duction is again at the 1960 level.
Selling prices, however, are lower,
being in many instances under
heavy pressure from imports.
C.S.R.C.-Dow Pty. Ltd. (50%
C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.): The
Altona factory is operating smoothly
and sales are increasing.
B. F. Goodrich-C.S.R. Chemicals
Pty. Ltd. (40% C.S.R. Chemicals
Pty. Ltd.) : The factory is producing
at its full capacity and sales are
commensurate. The Tariff Board’s
enquiry into the industry’s request
for increased duties has been com-
pleted and the report and recom-
mendation are awaited.
AUSTRALIAN TARIFF
POLICY
The Australian economy gener-
ally has continued to improve and
unemployment has been falling. It
will not be possible however for
manufacturing industry to play its
proper role in the still further
strengthening of the Australian
economy until the removal of some
of the present uncertainties which
manufacturers face in respect of
imports.


company loyalty, the future of the old
company sorrgs is uncertain.
Hiroshima; The new shrine
VJSThen the bomb dropped on Hiroshima
in 1944 killing (then or soon after)
200,000 people, it not only ended the
war, it changed Japanese politics for-
ever. Hiroshima was traditionally a war
city living by military and naval bases.
Today it is a shrine to peace and the
Japanese are a nation of pacifists. Every
day people still die as a result of the
effects of the bomb and Japanese from
all over the country daily visit the Hiro-
shima museum a plain concrete slab
filled with unsensational matter-of-fact
documentation of what the local people
call with a horrible understatement “the
disaster”. Outside there is a small tomb
of the ashes of casualties whose bodies
could be found and another one for the
ashes of children this one is perma-
nently decorated by children from all
over Japan. The few brief statements
on plaques of these tombs blame neither
Americans nor Japanese for “the dis-
aster”, only humanity, and say “We (i.e.
humanity) will not let this happen
again”. This expresses the attitude of
almost every single Japanese.
This is why although the people are
crazy with free enterprise to the point
of the madness of genius and the gov-
ernment is conservative (the Liberal
Democrats have two thirds of the seats
in the Diet, the Socialists one third), the
government and the people are com-
mitted to disarmament and to peace at
almost any price. There is no division
here between the parties: the only differ-
ence is in methods. The conservatives
and Democratic Socialists (a break-away
from the Socialists) believe in a balance
of power pending disarmament, and an
American alliance. The Socialists be-
lieve in neutralism and somehow' see
America as a graver threat to peace than
China or Russia.
This pacifism is the main link the
socialists have with the people of Japan,
apart from the leftist Sohyo. Otherwise,
as business booms, incomes rise and
share-holding becomes more wide-
spreading, the communoid Socialist
Party is doomed to be more and more
ineffectual. Over-simplifying grossly, the
Japanese Socialist Party is like the Vic-
torian ALP Executive. In the 1950’s a
sort of DLP split away because of the
Socialist Party’s communist leanings,
formed the Democratic Socialist Party,
and while it only wins a handful of seats
it splits the Socialist vote. At last
month’s convention of the Socialist Party
the right wing, tired of the Party’s splits,
futility and fellow-travelling, put for-
ward a programme incorporating what is
called the four great achievements of the
age: American standard of living, British
rule of law', Russian social security and
Japanese pacifism. The fellow-travellers
rejected it as un-Marxist, but supporters
of it were elected to key positions.
Nevertheless while the Party sticks to
nationalisation and fellow-travelling at
home and pro-Communism abroad it is
doomed to failure.
But the fact that it gets what seats
it does indicates more than the appeal of
pacifism and the strength of Sohyo. The
Socialists also draw on middle class sub-
urbs w'here a Marxising radicalism is
strong. Japan is the last country in the
free world where Marxism is still taken
seriously as a religion by intellectuals,
school-teachers, academics; and the Soc-
ialist Party is nothing if not Marxist.
HPhe influence of Marxism is seen strik-
ingly in the Japanese student move-
ment Zengakuren. These were the stu-
dents who led the demonstrations
against the Government’s attempt to
rush through a revision of the Security
Treaty with America as a sort of present
for the President on his Japanese tour
and culminated after days of rioting in
the cancellation of the tour and the fall
of the Kishi Government. Only in Tur-
key or South Korea, and for a time in
Hungary in 1956, has a student move-
ment been as politically successful as
this one. In the name of Marxism, they
denounce the “soft Stalinism” of Khrush-
chev, the “hard Stalinism” of Mao, the
imperialism of Kennedy, the conser-
vatism of the Ikeda Government. During
this year they sent representatives to
Leningrad to the International Union of
Students: on their w'ay they demonstrated
in the Moscow Red Square against Soviet
nuclear tests, only to be beaten up by
Soviet police for their pains. In Lenin-
grad they were first given something to
drink, which they accepted out of cour-
tesy, and then they were arrested for
drunkenness. Many of them are superfi-
cial “angry young men” w'ho haven’t got
good jobs yet; many are romantic puri-
tans disgusted with careerism and op-
portunism in the new Japan. (They
showed their contempt by urinating on
the walls of the Diet building during the
anti-Kishi riots.) When I asked their
leaders in their pokey little office in
Tokyo a study in pamphlets and
tangerine peel if their professors en-
couraged their political activities, they
said icily, “No. The professors are all
Stalinists.”
It is the universal pacifism and the
lingering Marxism which explain what
some extreme anti-Communist countries
such as Formosa regard as Japan’s i
fence-sitting. The Japanese Communist!
Party, now split into two over the Sino-
Soviet issue, is numerically tiny but as
the Socialists are so amenable to its
influence it is still a significant force.
But fear of Red China and hostility to
Russia because of its occupation of the
Kuriles reinforce liberal and right-wing
antipathy to the Communists. (When I
was there a right-wing youth was ar-
rested carrying a blood-stained .finger
which he had just chopped off a Com-
munist: he wanted to show it to the
Prime Minister as a measure of his anti-
Communist dedication.) Further, Russia
and Red China are among Japan’s nearest
neighbours and, without any defence
forces to speak of, Japan is in no posi-
tion to rattle sabres. Again, it is hard, in
a country where 80,000 Koreans have
volunteered to return to North Korea and
where illegal “refugees” from South
Korea are an immigration problem, to
see the anti-Communist issue in as clear-
cut way as, say, Formosa does. In any
case Japan above all needs trade when-
ever it can get it, and although its recent
five-year barter trade deal with Red
China for £45 million is of very minor
value to Japan and is unlikely to be in-
creased as Red China’s exports such as
coal and iron ore are of very inferior
quality, the Japanese are glad of any
trade at all.
There is no doubt that Japan is
fundamentally committed to democracy,
the American alliance, the Western way
of life, and that it has fundamentally
renounced war and imperialism. (If they
want the Kuriles back from Russia and
Okinawa from the Americans, this is
simply because the people there are
Japanese: a public opinion survey in
Okinawa last month showed a majority
wanted their islands to revert to Japan,
and on the map of the Pacific in Oki-
nawa airport I saw the w'ord “Help! 1
written above Okinawa.)
It will continue its mixture of moder-
nising, trading and peace-making of
Tokyo, Toyota and Hiroshima —as
long as it can sell its goods. The main
threat to Japanese democracy would be
the carrying of such campaigns as “Buy
American” and “Buy Australian” to un-
reasonable lengths against Japanese ex-
ports as happened in the 1930’5. If its
economy falters, no one could predict
what might happen or who might get
control the Communistic Socialists,
the anarchistic Zengakuren, or the
finger-chopping anti-Communists. It > s
in our interests to see that economy does
not falter.


OUT AND ABOUT
RAY PRICE: THE HIGHS
AND THE LOWS
A generation of jazz
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Currently playing to large and en-
thusiastic audiences at Sydney’s
Adams Hotel, Ray Price (who has
recently formed a new quartet) is back
in the spotlight after a difficult career
as one of Australia’s leading jazz musi-
cians. Small, tough-looking despite the
large horn-rims he wears, he bears the
stamp of a man who has been through
hard times. And in the deserted luxury
of a hotel lounge in mid-afternoon, wait-
resses hovering beyond the archipelago
of tables and chairs, he talked about a
very different world from the one he
now calls his oyster.
“My father was a builder,” he said.
“Used to construct brick cottages during
the Depression. At night we’d go around
as a touring band to make some money.
He’d play clarinet, my younger sister,
saxophone, my elder brother, cornet,
elder sister, violin, my mother, piano, and
I’d play drums.
“This Price Family Orchestra played
until the late ’thirties. Of course, we
didn’t know much about jazz it hadn’t
really penetrated Australia. My main in-
terests then were in Duke Ellington and
the big bands and classical music. I
worked on “Tempo” magazine in Sydney
before the war when I was in my late
teens, then in 1941 enlisted for ambu-
lance duty in New Guinea.”
He sipped his drink, the sunburnt in-
tense face, with the bristle of moustache,
deeply crinkled, the eyes intent on a
distant point of memory. “I can remem-
ber playing guitar in the jungle,” he
said. “Malaria and asthma had me in-
valided out by 1943, and then I came
back to Sydney to join a Bohemian set
that was going then.”
For a while, Price played piano at the
Booker T. Washington Club for Negro
soldiers, while meeting people like poets
James McAuley, Harold Stewart and A.
D. Hope, and artists, Wallace Thornton,
Hal Missingham and others at Repin’s in
King Street and the Ship and Mermaid
Inn in Gloucester Street.
Apparently, some of the parties the
Bohemians held belied the rather staid
impression conjured up by this eminent
roll-call of names. At a party in one
architect’s harborside boatshed, the entire
structure collapsed into the water, where-
upon an outraged landlord gave notice
to quit the premises no longer in exist-
ence.
Price’s sombre eyes lit at the memory,
and he went on to talk about the way,
in post-war years, Graeme Bell and others
stimulated in him a love for “the magic
of early jazz.” He worked with Bell and
James Somerville, and decided to bring
jazz to the Conservatorium, where he
had been studying bassoon for a place
in the Sydney Symphony Orchestra under
Eugene Goossens.
“The Registrar refused permission, but
Sir Eugene said he was most enthusiastic
Duke Ellington, for instance, was a
personal friend of his. We played to over-
flow audiences under Sir Eugene’s bene-
volent eye, with Wilfred Thomas com-
pering, Georgia Lee singing, and some-
times Nellie Small as vocalist.
“At a Town Hall ‘Battle of the Bands’
I beat Ralph Mallen, Bela Kanitz and
two other groups. I was on top of the
world. Then it started.”
Once more he was looking depressed.
“I made a series of recordings on some-
thing called John Mystery Label,” he
said. “So far as I’m concerned, it’s still
a mystery. The people behind it vanished
and I never got a penny royalties. There
were many fly-by-night concerns like
that in those days.
“Urged on by members of the band
to spread the gospel of jazz, I made a
country tour. It was a horrible flop. We
had bitter cold and torrential rain. The
country people were apathetic. You
couldn’t fight that. We arrived in Bris-
bane with acrimony on all sides. I was
flat broke. I’d spent my savings of
£l4OO. Agents had booked us into tin
sheds. Sometimes they’d been miles from
anywhere. The band broke up.”
Ray Price ordered a new round of
drinks, his gaze a long way away; he was
reliving the memory, not just recal-
ling it. “I went to work as a laborer
in a smelting works. After five months
I'd had it. I dropped a brown paper bag
on the manager it was full of water.
Unsmiling, he pressed on. “Then I be-
came a builder’s laborer, cycling to West
Ryde from Hunter’s Hill, excavating
trenches in pouring rain. The foreman
was notorious for his ungovernable tem-
per and penetrating voice. I removed his
packed lunch one day and substituted a
dead rabbit wrapped in a copy of the
‘Tribune.’ After that I started learning
the double bass living on the dole.”
Asked to play the cello concerto of
Macello for the Conservatorium Diploma,
Price told Sir Eugene Goossens he would
play on “ma bass.” The point was well
taken, and soon after his successful
graduation he joined the Sydney Sym-
phony, bass section, last stand.
“But the call of jazz was very strong,”
he went on. “I began playing jazz regu-
larly again, mainly with the Port Jack-
son Band which I took over as leader,
and mainly to escape from Sir Eugene’s
benign dictatorship.” Then the ABC
suddenly put an embargo on his jazz
activities it was all right for him to
play classical music in his free time, but
not jazz. He called a Press conference,
pointing out that Heifetz played jazz
piano, and mentioning, significantly,
Stokowski and Bernstein. The publicity
was wide jazzman vs. the ABC
and at the end of 1956 Price was again
out of work.
Times, again, were very tough: Price
even hawked around a car-polish he had
developed from a violin polish, and he
was still enduring this existence when a
driver who picked him up after he
thumbed a lift from Avalon into town
turned out to be the manager of the
Macquarie Hotel.
At the Macquarie, and later at Adams,
Price and his musicians played to in-
creasing success in an atmosphere of
booze and bonhomie. Today with a new
group of great talent, including trumpeter
Johnny Sangster, crowds (more sophisti-
cated than in the 1940’5) enthusiastic at
Adams and a European tour in the off-
ing, Price is unlikely to be returning to
smelting works, trench-digging, or selling
car-polish door-to-door.


BUYING A PAINTING?
W hat happens after the sherry has been drunk and
the crowd has gone?
By SHEILA PATRICK
This year could well gO down in
Australian art history as the year
when Australians, young, old, rich
and not so well heeled, decided that it
was fashionable and even profitable to
buy paintings by Australian artists and
hang them in their homes.
Art shows and art auctions have been
attended by larger crowds then ever,
and even little-knowm painters can fill or
overflow the galleries with enthusiasts at
official openings.
But what happens when the sherry has
been drunk and the fashionable crowd
has dispersed? What happens if you actu-
ally want to buy one of the paintings
(that is if you've managed to see them
through the crowd)? If you don't want to
“buy off the wall,” where do the paint-
ings go when the exhibition is over? Is
there a market price? How do prices com-
pare between artists? Where can a rea-
sonable choice of subject, artist and price
be made?
More seriously, is there any justifica-
tion for feeling that galleries tend to
“push"’ one artist at the expense of others,
whom the customer might prefer? Do
galleries advise artists to reduce their
output so that scarcity will make their
market price rise?
The only way to get any real answer
to any of these questions is to go and buy
a painting. It is like buying a hat, you
don’t know what you want until you see
it.
Recently having £6O with which to
spring-clean the sitting room, I decided
against buying a badly needed new car-
pet and instead, had the old one cleaned
for £lO and set out with the remaining
£5O to buy myself an original painting to
hang over the fireplace where for many
■years a large Dufy print of “Marseille
Harbor’’ had hung.
Very few artists are listed in the tele-
phone book, many paint from out of
town, interstate or anywhere from Cairns
to a cave at Avoca or a potting shed in
Melbourne. Anyway, I wanted to see a
mixture of artists, compare their work,
prices and subjects. So while on a shop-
ping expedition to the city, I decided to
try Farmer's Blaxland Galleries.
“No.” said the liftman emphatically,
“No show today, Madam,” he repeated.
“But I want to buy a painting.” “Well,
it’s closed. No one there. Come back next
week.”
David Jones Art Gallery was a bit
better. At least I got into the place.
After tiptoeing into a darkened gallery,
I asked a grey-haired woman at a desk
where I could buy an original Australian
painting.
She shook her head. “Not here. We’re
busy. We don’t sell paintings— just like
that. Come back one day when we are
having an exhibition of Australian
painting.” “But,” I insisted. “I want to
buy one now.” “Mr Duncan is too
busy.”
“What about these on the walls?” I
asked meekly, indicating the paintings
covering the walls in the dim light. She
shrugged. “They're not Australian.
They're originals from an overseas col-
lection.”
She turned on her heel and left me as
I peered at the canvases on the walls. My
God, they were too. Three original Dufys
—real ones and one a glorious collection
of reds depicting soldiers in a town
square. “Try downstairs in the picture
department,” she flung over her shoulder.
Downstairs in the basement a white-
haired assistant shook her head. “Oh no,
only prints here, sometimes an original
water color fruit or flower piece. Try the
gallery upstairs.”
I had better luck at the Dominion
Gallery, a block up the street. It wasn't
listed in the telephone book but having
got the address from a friend I finally
discovered this charming gallery on the
fifth floor of an old building on the
corner of Park and Castlereagh Streets.
A friendly director Mr Evatt, listened
sympathetically to my request for an ab-
stract painting and led me to a small
room where about 30 paintings by various
artists, were hanging, all for sale.
All were Australian, except one by a
Frenchman. An enormous gold framed
Norman Lindsay of luscious nudes dom-
inated the room. “They are still popu-
lar,” Mr Evatt said. “Get about £4OO
for that. I sell one every now and them.”
“An abstract?” he said. “What about
this Frank Hinder ‘City Lights.’ it’s 40
guineas. Hinder is not a prolific painter.
Won two Blake prizes, a Mosman Art
Prize and an Oscar for theatre design in
Melbourne. “If you like, it would be a
good investment as well. Hinder’s work is
in the State galleries in Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Perth.”
“Or what about this small David Harri-
son, ‘Deluge,’ only 12 guineas. Or a
Strom Gould, 75 guineas? He’s well-
known and popular. People are buying
Gould these days.” “And Sheila Mac-
Donald, earth and abstract, she’s popular
too. 40 guineas. And there’s a smaller
one. That's about 30 guineas.
“By the way, you wouldn't know
where there is a good typical Drysdale
for sale?” Mr Evatt asked hopefully. “I
have an American client who'll pay up
to £lOOO for one.”
I shook my head.
“Here's a Ray Crooke. Forty guineas.
He’s an interesting artist, and not prolific.
Sells well when I can get them. He’s a
good investment as well as a charming
painter. Typically Australian, but not
abstract.”
He pointed to a design of fish swim-
ming in browns, pale sea-blues and
greens. “A bargain at 30 gns. Painted by
a Frenchman named Henri. Could get
twice that price in Paris for his work.
What about an abstract Ogburn for 25
gns?” I said 1 thought I liked “City
Lights” and promised to return if I deci-
ded on it. “Do you like anything on the
walls of the gallery?’’ he asked. “A young
painter from Avoca, lives in a shed. Very
promising young chap and he’s selling
quite well too.”
Down in Bligh Street, towards Circu-
lar. Quay, an exhibition ot Strom Gould
hung on the walls of the Macquarie
Galleries. Another woman, small and
rather shy, was asking the large, dark-
haired woman in charge of the gallery
where she could buy an Australian paint-
ing.
The tall woman grunted. “What sort
of painting?” she asked. “We have quite
a lot at the back here.” She disappeared
into an annex and returned with a large
portrait of a girl in blue. “Elaine Haxton
65 guineas,” she said. The would-be
buyer shrugged.
I asked whether I could look at the
paintings too as 1 was interested in buy-
ing one. The woman in charge glared
at me. “I’m busy,” she said, “I'll see
you in a minute.”
She put another Haxton in front of
her customer. “Junks in Singapore,” she
said “or what about a Fred Jessup, 95
guineas?”
It was a large oil in a heavy gilt frame
—of a bowl of flowers. The customer
didn’t look enthusiastic. "Wonderful
value. The white flowers in the work are
a masterpiece. I’d buy it myself really,”
the big woman said. I left them arguing
and said I’d come back later.
A few days later I returned to the
Macquarie Galleries determined to ferret
out a painting or two. Another woman
was in charge this time and completely
charming. We both went into the tiny
back room stacked with paintings and
she began dragging out several large
ones.
The first one, “Burning of Knossos”
by Stan de Teliga 60 guineas, glowing
pinks, reds and blues, a semi-abstract,


A mixed grill
Wow! Is this really YOUR HAND Mr Meekly?


was wonderful. It could be the one.
“Here’s a pure abstract by Frank Hodg-
kinson," the woman said. “It’s only 35
guineas. It was a strong painting in
browns, fawns, white and yellow. I made
a note of it. Reasonable in price too.
A strange yet fascinating Donald
Friend caught my eyes in a corner. “Oh,
it's cracked,” the woman said, “but I’ll
ask him if he'll sell it. Might be a
bargain but I doubt it. Practically a vin-
tage piece that one. We’ll see”.
She rummaged further and produced
a strong, restless abstract by a New
Zealand painter, Louise Henderson, 60
guineas. The “Burning of Knossos” was
the one I liked best and I sat for five
minutes gazing at it, trying to feel
whether we could live together success-
fully.
At the Terry Clune Galleries in Mac-
leay Street, Potts Point, Mr Frank Mc-
Donald said he was delighted to meet
someone who wanted to buy a painting.
“Just the person 1 want to see,” he said.
“And an abstract wonderful!”
Into the back room we went and he
pulled down an exciting, gay abstract.
Reinus Zusters 65 guineas. A bit ex-
pensive, but quite the most interesting
painting I had seen. Perhaps I could
stretch the budget. I might even beat him
down.
Mr McDonald rummaged in the racks
and dragged down a large pale green
and purple abstract. “What about this
Kitching, grey, black and white? “An-
drew Sibley 40 guineas. He’s very popu-
lar now. Do you like purple? Here’s a
cheap one. Margo Lewers crayon draw-
ing, fixed and framed for 20 guineas. Or
a Breen for 30 guineas?”
The telephone rang downstairs. “Have
a good look around the racks and I’ll
pull down anything you fancy,” he said.
He left me pottering about the fixtures.
The Barry Stern Gallery in Glenmore
Road, Paddington, was shut but a small
note said to knock. A smiling, young
woman opened the door and when I
explained that I was looking for an ab-
stract Australian painting so big, not
too expensive say, about 40 or 50
guineas. She was delighted.
“Wonderful,” she said. “I’d love to
find you an abstract you’ll like. We’ve
had lots of enquiries for paintings lately
but not many for abstracts. Have a look
at the exhibition on the walls, and I’ll
dig out a few I think may interest you.
We have a number upstairs.”
We went through the gallery together,
Mrs Richardson giving me a quick
sketch of the life and work of any of the
artists whose work I admired. An An-
drew Sibley all mauves and greens, Ro-
bert Jackson gay and abstract. “He’s a
young painter from Melbourne,” she
said. “Very promising. Lives in a potting
shed in the Botanical Gardens, can’t get
into his studio for pots and plants. Arch
Cuthbertson, another promising young
painter. And what about Ross Morrow
beautifully muted semi-abstract ‘Man
on Horse’?
“What about a cup of coffee while
you have a good look at a couple of
these you fancy”, and she returned a few
minutes later with another painting and
two cups of coffee.
, Two hours later, we were still arguing
about the Andrew Sibley and the Robert
Jackson. “Would you like some sand-
wiches and soup?” she asked, “I’ve got
plenty in the kitchen.”
THE BEST OF BOTH WORLDS
Henry Fonda takes his pick of stage and screen roles
By PATRICIA ROLFE
IN the Queen Anne suite of the
Chevron Hilton Hotel, Sydney,
which, inevitably, looks exactly like
the shop-window of any good-class furni-
ture store anywhere, American actor Mr
Henry Fonda sat and looked down from
the 13th-storey windows at the back-end
of the city of Sydney, a view which gives
it the graceless anonymity of most other
Western cities.
Mr Fonda, alert and amiable, was re-
ceiving the Press. Interviewers arrived
each half hour with a punctuality which
was commendable, if perhaps a trifle
disconcerting for Mr Fonda. Each half
hour there was another face, another
voice; the same questions, and probably
the same answers.
But the unspoken question was why
on earth would Mr Fonda, aged 57, of
sound mind, sound financial position and
sound professional reputation, undertake
a personal appearance tour, which has
taken him almost round the world, in-
volved him in endless interviews and
cocktail parties, for a film—“ How the
West was Made”—which sounds just like
any other film?
It is more baffling when Mr Fonda
admits that films run a poor second to
the stage in his affections. However,
his best-selling point for “How the West
was Made” is that these days he makes
films only when he thinks they will be
good.
What brought Mr Fonda on his per-
sonal appearance tour was simply the
novelty of it. In his 30-odd years of
film-making he has never been overseas
to publicise a film before. “And, of
course,” he added. “It was a free trip.
1 went first to London, which I love,
and managed to see a lot of my friends
there. Then I went to Japan. I saw
only Tokio and Osaka, which is rather
like just seeing Sydney and Melbourne,
or New York and Philadelphia, but it
was something. Then 1 had just two
nights and one day in New Zealand and
I met a lot of nice people there and heard
about their fishing. Now I'm in Austra-
lia and meeting a lot nice people.
And I know I'd like to come back to
these countries and see them properly.”
Perhaps, of all the actors of the ’forties
(some are dead, some forgotten) Mr
Fonda has, by a combination of circum-
stances, plus his own astuteness, managed
most successfully in the difficult ’sixties
to carve out exactly the acting career
he wants. (Mr Fonda’s career began,
incidentally, when Marlon Brando's
mother, an amateur actress, “pushed”
him into acting. “I wanted to be a
journalist but couldn’t get a job,” Mr
Fonda said. “Do. Brando, who was a
close friend of my motner they were
always in and out of the Christian
Science Church got me a role in a
local production.”)
Mr Fonda does not make as many
films these days as his long-time friend,
James Stewart. On the law of averages,
he doesn’t get as many failures. He is
not, like Robert Taylor and Robert
Young, tied to the long-running, soul-
destroying television series. He did do
one TV series of limited duration called
“The Deputy.” Nor, of course, does he
hang around Hollywood, hoping. Most
of his time is spent on Broadway, and,
he said with fingers crossed, since he
appeared in “The Farmer Takes a Wife”
in the early 'thirties, he as never had a
stage flop.
At the end of the war, when he re-
turned from service in the navy, Mr
Fonda had three more films to make
under contract to 20th Century-Fox. He
made those, then pulled up stakes and
went to New York.
Soon after that came “Mr Roberts,”
which was his longest run. He played
in it for more than four years and later
starred in the film version.
“It remains my favorite role,” he said.
“We in the cast all felt the same way
about it. Through all the 1600 perform-
ances it was a real love affair. Every
night I used to feel wonderful getting to
the theatre. Of course, it had the traps
of a very long run, but it never became
stale and boring.”
One of Mr Fonda’s later stage suc-
cesses was “Two for the See-saw.” The
author, William Gibson, later wrote a
book, outlining in painful detail the long
job of getting the play written, re-written,
cast and produced. Practically the only


e 9 •
You’re so right
insist on
‘BLACK &
WHITE’
M\ ))£
fNDUIScOTCHII
' BLACK '
U, —
] WHITE \
't'J BUCHANAN eq
(ASCOW SCOTLAI’
//rU'PUINIM
IMtCkSJYY*
m
CUA»ANT|| 0 WHOUI
HATt/fMO IN KOU*»«
„ SCOTCH WHISKY
BLACK & WHITE
special BLEND OF
. 11A BUCHANAN'S
CHOICE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
SCOTCH WHISKY OISTIUtOS
Glasgow l london
DISTIUERY MUIBEN SPErSIDE SCOtl*>®
NET CONTENTS 1 PINT 6 TLUID OIS
4x
*
r i
A ifn aV
lf+V V
S, d
-q r
SCOTCH WHISKY
. o; ■ ■
"B U C H AN AN'S"
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD., GLASGOW, SCOTLAND & LONDON
JB 148
bright spot in the early dark days for
Mr Gibson was after the play had been
hawked around for some time, Mr Fonda
read it, accepted the leading role immedi-
ately without reservations and with, ap-
parently, perfect faith in his own judg-
ment.
Mr Fonda said that he always sorted
out theatre possibilities before consider-
ing any film or TV roles. However, he
has now missed this Broadway season,
as he will not be back home until half-
way through the winter.
“I have no film contract,” he said,
“and will sign a contract only for a
particular role in a particular film. I
have already signed to make ‘Seven Days
in May’ next year and may make an-
other two films, provided I can find the
scripts'l want. However, with our taxa-
tion it makes no difference whether you
earn 100,000 dollars or 500,000 dollars.
There is only the satisfaction of making
good films.”
When he goes to Hollywood for a
film he either stays at a hotel or takes
a house. No, he said, he did not feel
that the Hollywood he knew had entirely
vanished, although, of course, there had
been tremendous changes. He, person-
ally, still has a good many friends living
there —James Stewart, Dorothy Maguire
(these are the remnants of the group—
Stewart, Margaret Sullavan, Fonda, Josh
Logan—who in the ’twenties were among
the pioneers of summer stock theatre apd
who did 50 plays in five years so they
could satisfy Broadway producers on the
score of experience).
“Of course, it is different from the
days when MGM and Fox had, maybe,
20 or 30 productions going at once,” he
said, “but I don't think of Hollywood
as finished. It is continually meeting
new challenges. But there is a differ-
ence in the chemistry of Hollywood.
None of the studios can afford what
they used to call a ‘stable of stars’ any
more. Rock Hudson is about the only
film actor I know who is under long-
term contract.”
Although Mr Fonda is still devoted to
the stage himself, he does not regard
stage-training as essential to an aspiring
film-actor. “Each generation has a new
way of going about things,” he said. “In
my day most young actors tried the stage.
My daughter, Jane, who has just made
the film version of Tennessee Williams’s
‘Period of Adjustment’ after appearing in
the same role on stage, studied with Lee
Strasberg at the Actors’ Studio. These
studios are to the young players what
summer stock was to us. But there are
a lot of good actors in films who have
never been on stage and wouldn’t know
what to do if they did get on stage. I
think that just as many of today’s young
film-stars will be long-term successes as
from our generation, but the interesting
point is, which ones?”


SPORTING NOTIONS
GATTELLARI v. ALGIERI
"... and sat down. Ten seconds later he was about £1100 richer"
By DISCUS
an anthropologist or related
" scientist happens to visit Austra-
lia he is asked a standard question from
the grab bag, does he think Australians
might become a Latin race in view of the
climate? On one famous occasion a Syd-
ney reporter with both the opportunity
and the imagination varied the routine
by creating a Professor Puffin, who de-
clared that Australias’ long narrow faces
were clear evidence that we’d all end
looking like kangaroos.
I remembered some of this on a recent
night in Sydney as I watched a one-ring
circus being staged at Rushcutters Bay
stadium, under the general title of an
international boxing match. The princi-
pals were a boy named Sal Algieri, de-
scribed as “a Golden Gloves winner”, and
Rocky Gattellari our flyweight champion,
all eight stone of him. Rocky was having
his sixth professional fight, and his first
since wanning the title earlier this year.
And the crow'd of 10,000 or so was about
to have its nose pulled once again.
Fortunately for those of us who had
paid our way in, the semi-windup had
been a fast and furious encounter be-
tween two bantamweights. It was a good
cut above the previous week’s events
when the preliminaries were fought in
waltz time and I walked out on the alleged
main event in round 6 because the high
bleachers are a dangerous place to .fall
asleep. But no one falls asleep when Mr
Gattellari is fighting. His act is too good
to miss.
On this occasion it had really begun
some hours earlier when Gattellari's
master mind, wine merchant Vic Fiorelli,
had evidently boned up on his Shylock
before the weigh-in. When Algieri step-
ped on the scales, Mr F. had demanded
he remove a further pound and a half of
flesh, or no fight. Rocky was not going to
meet a boy 53 pounds heavier. Algieri
sweated off a few ounces but had to for-
feit £5O cash, which Mr F. declared
would be given to charity. But Mr
Fiorelli consented to allow the fight to
be held—a decision which 10,000 people
soon had reason to regret.
Act Two began about 9.30 p.m. when
Algieri came down the aisle dressed in
red, and then Rocky and the C. B. de
Mille mob in his “corner” came in at the
usual trot, dressed in pure white. Rocky's
white towel was over his head, his white
gown reached to his ankles, and the
“Rocky Gattellari'’ on the back was
nearly as large as its copies on the hand-
lers’ singlets. Rocky jumped into the
ring and did a little dance arouncf as
thousands cheered. You instinctively
looked for the cameras and the director.
Then the gloves were put on, and
Rocky and his crowd held a long con-
ference in their corner while everyone
waited. Up in the bleachers section,
where I stood, hundreds of young Italians
chattered and a dead ringer for Mussolini
in front of me fired nervous bursts of
language into the smoky air. At last
Rocky turned his face towards ring cen-
tre and the referee, Victor Patrick born
Lucca, called Algieri and Gattellari to-
gether, reminded them they were present
to box one another and not merely to
pose. The boys went to their corners,
shed their gowns, and came out —well,
I’m not sure of the word for it, but it
was something less than fighting.
Algieri, a rangy customer, threw a long
left hand that travelled limply from his
hip to Rocky’s, and a battered looking
gent who had appeared next to me cried
out, “He can’t fight!” Apparently this was
not as obvious to Rocky, who treated
Algieri with great caution for a couple
of minutes, until the third or fourth limp
slap told his fighting instinct that here
was a palooka spelled with a small “p”.
Then Rocky rushed in, punching left,
right and centre, and as soon as one
reasonable blow from the fusillade con-
nected with his person, Sal Algieri felt
that honor was satisfied, and sat down.
Ten seconds later he was about £.llOO
richer.
A couple of people suggested next
day that some subsequent action of
Algieri's caused the wild hooting and
booing that followed. All ,1 noticed was
that the predominantly red-blooded, red-
faced Australian ringsiders were reacting
as we mostly do to barefaced robbery.
Rocky and his corner were behaving
as though he had just downed the world's
best rather than the world’s worst
bantamweight. They danced, kissed,
leaped, and locked arms in mid-ring to
have their smiling faces photographed
for posterity.
As Mr Fiorelli had had his share in the
choice of Algieri as a suitable opponent
for his boy, one might have expected the
camp to have-had the decency to be a
little shamefaced. There was no evidence
of it. It was all rah, rah, rah—we won,
you lost.
Next day the Sydney Stadium man-
ager, Mr Harry Miller, blamed himself
and his New York agent, one Dewey
Fragatta, for the debacle and apologised
to his public, if any is left. This was the
third bad fight in a row at Sydney
Stadium. (The fourth, between a middle-
weight slugger and a welterweight, Jones
and Kalingo, was yet to come.) The pre-
vious week a prelim, boy from Mexico
had waltzed with Aldo Pravisani, and
the week before Alfredo Cota had fought
a Phillipines boy, the welterweight
Kalingo, in strange circumstances.
The referee on that occasion was Ron
James, who manages Sid Prior, who fights
in the same division as Cota. James gave
the fight to Kalingo when Cota’s eye
started to bleed from a two-stitch cut.
Cota declared he'd been robbed of a
rematch with Prior in this way, and flew
home to Mexico when he learned there
was no Boxing Commission to appeal to.
Stronger and more persistent men
than he have demanded a Commission to
govern boxing in this country. Profes-
sional boxing is a betting sport. Imagine
horse racing under the control of a pro-
prietary company which appoints its own,
single, stipendary on whose decisions


punters had to depend. Or professional
cycling or running without a governing
organisation.
Stadiums Ltd owns boxing body and
soul. Its Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne
managers strip titles from boxers, shelter
others who won't defend, keep their best
local boys at home, hang on to any good
importations, try to palm off the bad ones
on one another, manage to maintain an
uncritical Press, make or break rising
fighters as they please, reject advice from
the Association for Sporting Medicine,
or any suggestion for independent fight
judges in addition to their own referees.
In general Stadiums Ltd acts like a
paranoic despot with three heads. Its
Melbourne manager, Mr Dick Lean, im-
ports such fighters of world rank as
Auburn Copeland and Love Allottey,
and keeps them in Melbourne, boxing
one another and Wally Taylor. In Sydney,
second and third-raters from anywhere
are preferred, to fight one another or
make the local champions look good,
over local boys who deserve more main
events —the only way they can gain ex-
perience and polish. Much the same pre-
vails in Brisbane.
The Algieri affair was the stone end.
It was a scandal. At first it seemed a mere
oversight that Mr Miller had not seen
Algieri work out, or at least invited him
to the office to go two rounds with a
paper bag. Then it transpired that he had
seen him in the gymnasium, but, we must
assume, had not noticed any lack of
ability. Algieri's trainer Ern McQuillan
declared afterwards that it had been pain-
fully apparent. But not one word was
said publicly, by Mr Miller, by
McQuillan, or by any of the boxing
writers, until after the fight.
Algieri's subsequent statement that he
had taken a “dive" was laughable, but
it was used as a fine old smoke screen by
all concerned. And still no one asked
why an alleged boxer who would not last
a round with the rawest prelim, boy had
been inflicted on the paying public, and
for that matter on Gattellari, whose re-
putation could suffer from it.
That must be blamed on his camp and
its razzle-dazzle. Rocky Gattellari will not
go down in my book as a fighter until he
beats someone. It may appeal to Stadiums
Ltd in Sydney to have Mr Fiorelli sell
£BOO worth of tickets to a loyal national
following every time his boy fights any-
one, but it does not appeal to the other
customers who pay their money to see
him down stumblebums, even when it is
done with Hollywood dramatics.
Flyweights do not command big
money. Any of the world's first 20 would
jump at the chance of earning a quick
couple of thousand against Gattellari. In-
cluding perhaps a dozen boys in Ghana,
which looks like becoming the world's
top boxing nation. I don't believe Rocky
is ready to meet a really good fighter,
but if his camp insists on acting as
though he’s already wearing the world
crown, let’s have some proof.
Stadiums Ltd may not realise it, but
fight enthusiasts would rather pay £5
ringside and down for a really good
match than waste 30s. on one or more
rounds of farce. You can see a whole
circus of clowns for less.
Criticism of the Gattellari hoopla is
pertinent for another reason at present.
This was mildly expressed in a Sydney
newspaper one afternoon towards the
end of the Commonwealth Games, with:
“We ARE capable of doing greater things
than win gold, silver and bronze medals.”
This belated discovery by one of the
greatest malefactors in our recent sicken-
ing display of colonial egotism was good
to read. Up to that point 1 had been
thanking Perth for its newspapers, which
have kept national pride within reason,
and recorded the fact that a few other
countries have won medals, even with-
out a team of 250.
BUYING
A
WINE?
A Christmas column
is the season to be jolly.
And what better way to get jolly
than through health-giving nutrition-
laden, vitamin-endowed, protein-packed,
wine.
Australian wine-makers are increas-
ingly conscious of the Cabernet Sauvig-
non grape—the magnificent grape of the
Bordeaux. Its small yield per acre re-
sulted in the past in its relegation in
favour of the Shiraz or Hermitage variety
with a subsequent lighter style of wine;
although the vigneron had long realised
that the body and fruit of the wine made
from the Cabernet made it ideal for
blending.
But it was still used sparingly because
of its small yield and consequent lack of
supply. However, vignerons wisely went
ahead planting and expanding the acre-
age, and have been using it more and
more, not only to add character to a
bulk blend of Shiraz, but also in larger
proportion as a distinct wine type verging
very close to true Bordeaux style.
A good example of this heavier, darker,
more pungent wine is Thomas Hardy's
CllO Cabernet Sauvignon 1958, a blend
of Cabernets from all over the place.
Another wine, containing less Sauvignon,
but with it showing clearly through, is the
Mildara Cabernet Shiraz, particularly
good examples being Bins 23, 24 and 25,
all of which have some bottle age. Still
another red, distinguished and distinctive,
Penfolds Grange Hermitage, has Caber-
net and a lot of wood character pre-
dominant, with its famous bouquet
suggesting the flavors of blackberries,
raspberries, truffles and old boots.
Another interesting innovation in the
industry is the increasing number of late
picking, or Spatlaese, white w'ines avail-
able. In this method of wine-making, the
grapes are left on the vine until they
start to shrivel, thus containing less mois-
ture and more sugar. The resultant wine
is full of fruit and flavour, rich, aromatic,
and sweet. Examples are the Kaiser Stuhl
Blue Ribbon Riesling and John Browns
Spatlaese made last year at Milawa.
By far the best is the celebrated
Orlando Barossa Spatlaese, of which 1959
is the current vintage available. This wine
is a magnificent illustration of its type,
rich, golden and luscious, ideal with des-
sert, a commendable alternative to
Sauternes and a welcome relief from the
omnipresent dry wines. Expensive, but
worth it.
In conclusion, a few words about a
recently released white. Messrs Chaffey
and Edwards own a vineyard down
McClaren Vale way and make an excel-
lent wine called Seaview Rhine Riesling.
The 1962 has a strong pungent nose, full
palate and firm finish. There is a little
too much sulphur for my liking but this
will be absorbed into the wine in a few
more weeks. An excellent wine though
and a further example of the tremendous
progress being made by the smaller
vigneron.
CELLARMASTER


OVERSEAS
THE NEW EUROPEANS
1. MON NET —"I never had a job I didn't ask for"
By ANTHONY SAMPSON
YIfHAT kind of men are running the new institutions of Brussels and
” the Common Market? What are their ideas, their backgrounds and
their attitudes to democracy, and how do they differ from ours? Anthony
Sampson, author of the current best seller "Anatomy of Britain", has
been talking to some of the "Eurocrats" in Brussels and Paris. In this
article he describes the central but little-known role of the most
influential of them all Jean Monnet.
Among Common Market people in
Brussels, the conversation nearly
always, in the end, turns to the
subject of Jean Monnet.
Beneath the formal hierarchies of the
Commission, the Council and the delega-
tions, one becomes aware of a ground-
bass of influence and opinion—the net-
work of men who know Monnet. “What's
his actual job?” one asks about a promin-
ent Eurocrat: “I’m not sure —but he's
very close to Monnet.”
In the Commission itself Monnet's in-
fluence is everywhere: the key figures
are his old friends and colleagues. In
London, Monnet moves in and out of the
Hyde Park Hotel, seeing Ministers,
bankers, businessmen without being
noticed. In Washington he slips in to
see Kennedy without fuss: Felix Frank-
furter, Eisenhower, Dulles and McCloy
have all been close friends.
Everywhere he operates not as a poli-
tical leader but as a private person: but
his views and statements carry the
immense authority of the undisputed
Father of the Common Market, and his
career and character have been crucial
to the development of the European
Community.
Monnet looks in some respects a typi-
cal Frenchman—short, well-groomed,
spruce in spite of his 73 years, taking
great care of his health. He has a neat
moustache, sits upright, produces from
his pocket a pair of patent folding spec-
tacles. He seems reminiscent of Agatha
Christie’s omniscient detective Hercule
Poirot: he talks precisely, logically, with
a recurring theme: “It’s all quite simple .”
But in other respects he is very un-
French. He talks excellent American
English, is much influenced by America
and devoted to Britain and British prag-
matism. He has been an American
banker and a British civil servant. Ever
since he began as a brandy salesman in
Canada before the First World War, he
has broken away from the French mould
of examinations, cadres and hierarchies.
He has never held a position in the
conventional hierarchy. He recalls how
an American friend, Dwight Morrow,
once told him: “There are two kinds of
people in the world: those who want to
be something and those who want to do
something. There's less competition
among the second.” It's this detachment
from public fame—and particularly from
French politics—which has given him
not only his unseen influence but the trust
of his friends: for he has never appeared
to be competing, or to be using colleagues
for his own ends.
Today, he operates from the organisa-
tion called the Action Committee for the
United States of Europe—a committee
of European political and trade union
leaders. But the driving force is Jean
Monnet. He works from an office in the
Avenue Foch, with his assistant Francois
Duchene (an English-Swiss journalist,
formerly on The Economist) and two
secretaries. He operates in his unique,
free-booting way—talking to politicians,
statesmen, journalists; ringing up Wash-
ington, London, Brussels: sometimes fly-
ing off at a day's notice: “When he feels
he must push somewhere,” said one
official in Brussels, “he comes here and
pushes.”
His achievements, at first sight, seem
difficult to equate with his background;
but behind his varied career are consis-
tent threads. He was, in the first place, a
businessman, heir to a brandy firm; and
his private means helped to give him a
detachment, an ability to keep away from
detail and concentrate on thinking, a
knack of getting experts and technicians
to work for him, without being too
involved in them. He is still not much of
an expert on tariffs and economics, and
no match for the mandarins in mastery
of detail: but he always keeps a step
ahead of others in his thinking.
He has always insisted on putting in-
vention and administration in separate
compartments, and has kept away from
day-to-day administering (the time when
he was involved in it, as President of the
Coal and Steel Community, was the
time he least enjoyed). His way of life
strengthens this detachment: he lives out-
side Paris, in a thatched country house
with his artist wife, and commutes every
day—a very un-Parisian thing to do. At
the same time he has kept the practical
grasp of a businessman, and he has


* **
\
&
t
&
Dial yourself COOL
at Melbourne’s Southern Cross
No matter how strong the outside sun, inside the Southern
Cross you’ll enjoy cool air-conditioned comfort.
In every room and suite there’s a simple control switch. With
it you select your ideal temperature.
Only the Southern Cross offers individual air-conditioning. It’s
just one more exclusive feature of the Hotel of New Horizons.
Ask your travel agent for full details.
Rates from £4 a single, £7.5.0 a double.
SOUTHERN
CROSS
HOTEL OF NEW HORIZONS
131 EXHIBITION ST., MELBOURNE
Book NOW through your travel
agent, or by contacting direct,
The Southern Cross (Melbourne
63 0221, grams “Inhotelcor”).
mb
*
wJagi|WHf;wiiiMi
1
1KC17.24
r/Tn\^
INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS
K.
switched easily from Government to
business to statesmanship.
But he sees himself primarily as a
politician, driven to economics to pro-
duce practical results: and the most im-
portant thread in his career has been the
gradual evolvement of the theory which
eventually brought about the Common
Market and is still changing the face of
Europe.
Put briefly, it is that, in order to solve
international problems, you must change
their context: that once the context is
changed, people's attitudes will change:
that change begets change. Or, as he
said in a speech in London last May:
“Human nature does not change, but
when nations and men accept the same
rules and the same institutions to make
sure that they are applied, their be-
haviour towards each other changes. This
is the process of civilisation itself.”
This idea has evolved from his aston-
ishing career. He has chosen his
own tasks—“l never had a job I didn’t
ask for” —and his career has been like
a series of well-timed pounces on to
international problems. When the First
World War broke out, at the age of 26
he offered his services to the French
Government and soon suggested a new
approach to Anglo-French buying in
America: that the two countries, instead
of acting independently, should jointly
plan the allocation of their resources —
which he thenceforth organised, thus
making his name as much in London as
in Paris.
He was shocked by the limits of
national co-operation and after the war,
when he became deputy-secretary of the
new League of Nations, he percieved
more clearly the dangers of nationalisms:
“I saw the power of one country to say
no: I realised that goodwill was not
enough—among men or nations.” He
then went back into business, did some
banking in America, reorganised the
Swedish match industry, Polish currency,
Chinese railways.
Dislike for grandeur
Tn the Second World War he was once
A again in charge of co-ordinating Anglo-
French supplies from America. After the
fall of France he came to London, and
swiftly proposed the great scheme for
Anglo-French unification, drafting
Churchill’s historic statement. In Lon-
don he kept aloof from de Gaulle—dis-
liking his emphasis on national grandeur
■—and became a British civil servant, re-
turning again to America. He pressed
Roosevelt to provide war materials with-
out worrying about the cost. He coined
the phrase, “we must become the great
arsenal of democracy.” And he sowed the
seeds for the Lend-Lease programme.
This intense wartime experience left
Monnet with a unique experience of
national behaviour. After the war he was
for a time preoccupied with France’s
economic recovery: he told de Gaulle
that grandeur by itself was not enough,
and drafted the celebrated Monnet Plan
for modernising the old basic and back-
ward industries of France, with the help
of committees of businessmen, trade
unionists, civil servants and economists,
It was a ruthless rebuilding—for the
plan was financed not only out of Mar-
shall Aid, but also out of inflation, with
corresponding suffering for ordinary
people—but it began France's post-war
pattern of planning and spectacular ex-
pansion. The plan embraced a favourite
Monnet principle, lately echoed in
Britain’s own Neddy— namely that when
people themselves reach planning solu-
tions, they acept them and rise above their


HELP
LEGACY
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
own milieu, in a way that they could
never do if a solution were imposed from
above.
Monnet, however, was aware that
France could not plan her future in iso-
lation, and he had been disappointed by
Britain's nationalistic and restrictive re-
covery programme. And in the meantime
the problem of Germany was mounting.
It was this that led to the most significant
moment of Monnet’s career. By 1950 he
was convinced that the only solution to
the German problem was to change its
context. And so he drafted for the then
Foreign Minister, Robert Schuman, a plan
for pooling coal and steel in a new Com-
munity—thus breaking the national hold
on the two most crucial commodities of
war and peace. “It was the simplest and
the hardest solution. All the vested in-
terests were against it.”
But the six Governments at this time
of crisis, accepted the plan, and Monnet
carried it out for three years. It worked.
The old problem of the Saar dissolved
overnight, and the new context, as
Monnet had predicted, began to pro-
duce a new way of thinking. The Coal
and Steel Community, with modifications,
became the model for Euratom and the
Common Market itself.
Always one step ahead
TDlonnet watched (he insists, without
* much surprise) his principles put into
practice, the change begetting change.
How far nationalisms are really dissolv-
ing remains to be proven: but the early
results (helped by the crest of a boom)
were spectacular. He watched industrial-
ists and planners visualising not nations
of 50 million, but a continent of 180
million. People not only adjusted them-
selves, but anticipated change. “The
history of European unification,” he said
this year, “shows that when people be-
come convinced a change is taking place
that creates a new situation, they act on
their revised estimate before that situa-
tion is established. After all, Britain has
asked to join the Common Market be-
fore it was complete.”
In achieving this transformation, Mon-
net had the support of a formidable
group of allies who made up, in effect,
the hard core of the New Europeans.
How he achieved this hold on so many
formidable people remains something of
a mystery. His personal qualities provide
some of the answers. As one of his group
said: “Firstly, the fact that he never
wanted a public position; we always
trusted him. Secondly, he was brilliant at
seeing other people's points of view.
Thirdly, he was always one step ahead,
while others were busy administering the
previous step.”
At each stage of his varied career he
accumulated more key men as his disci-
ples. During the wars, in London and
Washington, he established his Anglo-
American bonds, and his consistent
American support has always been a
great source of strength. After the last
war, in Paris, his team for the plan in-
cluded some of the best brains in France,
notably Robert Marjolin, Pierre Uri and
Etienne Hirsch. Marjolin later became
head of the Organisation for European
Economic Co-operation, helped to negoti-
ate the Treatey of Rome, and became
Vice-President of the Commission in
Brussels. Uri, an international economics
don, later helped to draft the Coal and
Steel treaty, played a big part in prepar-
ing for the Treaty of Rome, and still
keeps closely in touch with Monnet.
Hirsch, an intellectual engineer, took over
from Monnet as head of the plan, and
then became President of Euratom until
he was (virtually) sacked by de Gaulle,
who disliked his supranational behaviour.
Monnet’s influence on this kind of
man —who combines technical expertise
with political influence —causes him often
to be regarded as the chief of the techno-
crats. But Monnet himself does not be-
long to any rigid academic tradition. It is
the combination of Monnet’s pragmatic,
developing theories with the technical
skill of his lieutenants which has been so
formidable in planning the New Europe.
But what also binds them together—
and what has no real equivalent in Britain
—is the intense interest in growth and the
future, the mixture of vague Continental
Socialism (Monnet always regards him-
self as a Socialist) with a fervent belief
in the necessity for expansion and
change, and a dislike of the past. In the
post-war years, while Britain was pre-
occupied with fair shares and full employ-
ment, Monnet’s group were worried above
all about building new systems, a new
future.
They remain baffled by the British
Labor Party’s lack of interest in growth,
and its devotion to uneconomic proper-
ties: to them the development of new
markets, new industries and new employ-
ment is a constant stimulus. Monnet,
above all is astonished at the Labor
Party’s refusal to admit that the pattern
of world politics can be changed. He des-
cribed how his friend Max Kohnstamm
(the Dutch vice-president of the Action
Committee and one of the most impor-
tant of his followers) was recently staying
at the Hyde Park Hotel, and was asked
by one of the hall-porters about the
Common Market. He talked about the
success of the Market, its stimulus to ex-
pansion and change. The porter said
simply: “Why change?”
The new Europe
T>ut Monnet is convinced that Britain,
once within the Common Market, dis-
covering the new context, will change as
other countries have changed—and that
the protectionist worries of French busi-
nessmen before France went in, will turn
to bold schemes for the future.
Monnet is aware of shortcomings in the
democratic structure of the Community,
but not seriously worried about them.
“We're going through a stage of a ‘Gov-
ernments’ Europe’— we haven’t yet
reached a popular Europe,” he said to
me. “At present we can't be clear-cut
about the powers of the various institu-
tions: we haven’t yet got the system which
is at the same time popular, efficient and
stable, and is not national.”
He does not think the time is yet ripe
for a directly elected European Parlia-
ment, which might prove ineffectual. But
he has been determined from the start
that the Community shall not be secretive,
and should permit free discussion: “The
fundamental rule of democracy is dis-
cussion—it’s just as important as the
power of decision.” He wants a United
States of Europe (and therefore is against
admitting neutrals who refuse political
commitments) but has no wish to force
the pace to political union: “You won’t
get political union until you have com-
mon interest. In time Britain will have
the same common interest. People’s atti-
tudes must change, because their pers-
pective changes.”
In the meantime Monnet is much con-
cerned with global consequences of the
Common Market. He preserves a much
calmer attitude to Russia than some of
his anti-Communist colleagues, and he be-
lieves that the new strength of Europe
will inevitably alter the balance between
Russia and America —that the New
Europe, and the prospects of closer links
with America, will set up new patterns
of changes.
“When America and Europe,” he said
in a declaration of the Action Committee
last June, “have made it clear to every-
one that the West is changing by its own
will from within, but cannot be changed
by outside pressure, that it is consolida-
ting its unity on a long-term basis, then
- the conditions will be created for a lasting
peaceful settlement between the East and
West.”


FELT AND TEXTILES
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
Head Office: 8 Nicholson Street, Melbourne, C. 2.
EXTRACTS FROM THE 1962 ANNUAL REPORT
(for the year ended 30th June, 1962)
CONSOLIDATED SALES:
£41,162,000 —5% higher than 1960/61, and the
highest recorded.
CONSOLIDATED NET PROFIT:
£1,576,199 (£1,112,886 in 1960/61)
Parent Company’s share of profits £845,086
(£217,340 more than in 1960/61)
Distributed to shareholders 65.8%
Retained in business 34.2%
Return on paid-up capital 15.2%
Depreciation provision £1,120,551
TAXATION:
WOOL PROCESSED
Australia
New Zealand
South Africa
37,061,000 lbs.
7,166,000 lbs.
1,619,000 lbs.
Total
45,846,000 lbs.
AUSTRALIAN OPERATIONS:
Net profit (after tax) £410,518
(1960/61 —£347,368)
Export Sales £3,297,000
A new company, Waverley Wools Proprietary
Limited, incorporated in South Australia, in
association with Onkaparinga Woollen Company
Limited.
Broadloom Wilton and Axminster carpet production
capacity doubled at. British Australian Carpet
Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd., Tottenham, Victoria.
Footwear Division manufactured 6,919,000 pairs.
New type of resilient smooth P.V.C. continuous
floorcovering and new variety of flexible P.V.C.
tiles being developed by Plastics Division.
NEW ZEALAND OPERATIONS:
Record net profit (after tax) £A414,404
(1960/61—£A352,681)
Dividend on ordinary shares—l2l4% (unchanged)
SOUTH AFRICAN OPERATIONS:
Record net profit (after tax) —£A751,277
(1960/61 £A412,837)
Dividend on ordinary shares (including special
dividend) —1714%, an increase of 5%
PRODUCTS
Scoured and carbonised wools.
Combings and wool tops.
Woollen and worsted cloths and yarns.
Industrial felts.
Fine felts and felt floorcoverings.
Hair felts.
Carpet underlays.
Wilton and Axminster carpets—all widths.
Tufted carpets.
Carpet yarns.
P.V.C. floorcoverings.
Plain and printed P.V.C. sheeting.
Self-adhesive P.V.C. film.
Plastic foam.
Shoes, slippers and sandals.
Embroideries and clothing.
Quilted and plain bedspreads.
Camp stretchers and sleeping bags.
Mattress cases and protectors.
Non-woven fabrics.
Waddings and paddings.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
-o’stjluva.n ./
f\ piy-ud. AV
TRADE MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Around Brisbane
THE 'GABBA - FOUR MEN AND AN ICE CHEST
TTere in Brisbane all Australians
are divided into two kinds
Queenslanders and Southerners. There
used to be signs out in Queen Street,
“The Queensland Owned Store.” But
you don’t see them any more —those
Southerners have got the lot. The
same story goes through every enter-
prise. Even Lennons Hotel, once a
special Queensland pride, is part of
the Federal Hotels’ chain. Yet there
is a feeling of sorrow, even pity, for
all those who with their money-
grubbing desires have to live else-
where. It is generally agreed here
that Brisbane is favored with the
finest climate ever given to mankind
and that Southerners suffer unbear-
ably from rigors of weather. The
Antarctic Circle cuts through the con-
tinent somewhere south of Mur-
willumbah. Let it be admitted that
occasionally Brisbane is hit by a
ferocious westerly. On these occasions
sensible non-Southerners look at each
other and say, “Not our weather.
This has blown up from Melbourne—
straight from the Chilblain Belt.” But
every other year Brisbane comes into
its own with a Test match like the
one just finished and for a week the
old town becomes the centre of the
English-speaking world especially
with a dozen English sports writers
and columnists writing like crazy. As
usual they have been casting their
eyes over the Woolloongabba Cricket
Ground.
The Old ’Gabba is almost a mirror
of Brisbane itself blousy, quite
hideous yet in a curious way possess-
ing character. Until 1958 it had the
world's worst conditions for the
Press. At the end of every tour the
English cricket writers would devote
almost a chapter to the horrors of the
’Gabba, suggesting no more tests for
Brisbane. Something had to be done.
though the facilities for the
spectators were miserable the QCA
put up a building which included new
changing rooms for the players and
on top the finest Press box in the
country. Not only did it have fans
and plate glass windows but a
luncheon room and facilities for a
bar. I remember Jack Fingleton
looking around in wonder at all this
and saying, “Righto, boys, two tests
for Brisbane.” The Old ’Gabba is one
of the few grounds left with trees
and right now the magnificent
poincianas are a blaze of red. All
through the match you hear the trains
puffing outside and there’s one little
ceremony which should be made a
special tourist attraction for the
Americans. The steam engines cross
the very busy Woolloongabba inter-
section and lo! —a guard walks in
front of the engine waving a flag and
ringing a bell. The seating accommo-
dation, particularly in the outer
ground, is virtually nonexistent. The
idea is to sit on the iron-hard embank-
ment which is as bare and as dusty
as Simpson’s Desert.
To endure the discomforts it is the
done thing to bring cushions, ground-
sheet and vast quantities of beer. I
remember one time seeing four men
carrying an old-fashioned ice chest
into the ground. They were like
pallbearers with a coffin but it was
loaded with beer and ice. Actually
one of the improvements for the
ground this year was a bar 80 feet
long under the Moreton Bay fig trees.
It is said to be the longest open-air
bar at a sporting ground in Australia.
You can buy by the glass or the can,
and by three in the afternoon it is
really something. By comparison The
Hill at the Sydney Cricket Ground is
as peaceful as the Mitchell Library.
Here they roar abuse at the
players, the umpires and everybody
in sight. The Reverend David Shep-
pard took a fair cop. He was known
as “Your Reverend” to the boys at
the 80-foot bar.
Whenever play became slow (which
was practically always according to
the bar boys), they introduced the
slow hand clap. This consisted of
banging two cans of Castlemaine
Four together. One was frightened
even to imagine what His Grace the
Duke of Norfolk thought about it all.
The atmosphere was quite different
from Lords and certainly the boys in
the outer at Lords never came to the
ground in bare feet as they did at the
’Gabba. There was no official protest
over clanking of cans although the
crowd was asked to turn down tran-
sistor radios.
They need transistors in the outer
because when you are lying on your
back in the sun it is very difficult to
watch the game. The crowd was dis-
satisfied with the brightness of the
cricket but it didn’t come out too
badly compared with the First Test
against the West Indies. The run
totals for the first four days were
321, 252, 236 and 346 compared with
359, 290, 309 and 259 in 1960. Most
of the beer lovers had forgotten what
really slow cricket was like. In 1958
in Len Hutton’s day when there was
60 minutes less cricket the totals were
142, 148, 122 and 106. The fourth
day was a real bobby dazzler. Trevor
Bailey took six hours to get his 50,
and on one occasion he took 48
minutes to get a single run. Yes, it
must be conceded the cricket up here
was definitely brighter and the local
breweries were ecstatic.
STOREY.


FORUM
THE NEW CATHOLICS
A Lay Quartet: Santamaria, Charlesworth, McAuley, Buckley.
By PETER GOUGH
TTHAT great champion of the laity, John Henry Newman, was subject to
countless sufferings as he followed the “kindly light ” of truth. Among
the more notable of these annoyances was Monsignor Talbot, Rome-based
agent of the English Bishops, and confidant of Henry Manning. “The laity”,
Talbot wrote to Cardinal Manning, “are beginning to show the cloven hoof.
They are only putting into practice the doctrine taught by Dr Newman in
his article in the ‘Rambled . . . What is the province of the laity? To hunt,
to shoot, to entertain. These matters they understand, but to meddle with
ecclesiastical matters they have no right at all . . . Dr Newman is the most
dangerous man in England and you will see that he will make use of the
laity against Your Grace.”
In the past the greatest concession that
could be bestowed upon a layman was
to look upon him as a second-rate cleric;
in this role he functioned as a handyman
to the priest. A small quota was found in
the parishes: the wardens who looked
alter the money collections and were the
heart and soul of the parish housie enter-
prises.
But today an entirely different type of
senior layman is coming to the fore: the
Catholic lay intellectual. Although
numerically small, they are beginning to
wield a powerful influence on the Catholic
image. The Catholic lay intellectuals in
Australia have been slow to move, but
the last 5 years have cast a new light on
lay activity in this country; half a decade
has seen a quartet, more often than not
at opposite ends of the pole, spring into
vocal action, the like of which has not
been previously heard.
Obviously the name best associated in
the popular mind with Catholic lay
activity is Mr B. A. Santamaria of Mel-
bourne. In the ’fifties the Evatt “dis-
closures” saw the Labor Party split from
top to bottom, and soon the name
Santamaria conjured up in the Austra-
lian mind anything from out-and-out
fascist to potential saint. There is little
doubt that Bob Santamaria is one of the
most intriguing figures to enter the Aus-
tralian public scene—large slices of his
activities are not so public, and this only
adds to the intrigue.
At the sensational unveiling of the
Movement a knowledgeable opinion
among Catholics was that this brilliant
graduate of Melbourne University would
have a short flush of publicity, and then
fall back to an insignificant role as a
public fgure; however, the facts have
been otherwise.
Survival for Mr Santamaria was
made possible by the tenacious hold on
life by his patron, the near centenarian,
Archbishop Daniel Mannix, who saw to
it that his protege was given a life-line
after the dropping of the Movement
bomb. A number of Mr Santamaria’s
supporters among the bishops now hot-
footed it to the shelters, and even asso-
ciated Mr Santamaria with the bomb
that exploded their once-loved Move-
ment. But the weaning process has been
completed and B. A. Santamaria has a
niche, by his own right, in Australian
affairs.
However, it should be appreciated that
the ideologies favoured by Santamaria
have been queried time and again; a sec-
tion of the Catholic laity being among
his loudest critics. This critical school
maintains that in a purist assessment
determining Australian Catholic intel-
lectuals, the National Civic Council
leader would be outside the pale. In
such minds Mr Santamaria is viewed as
a man not given to speculative thought:
he is a fixer and organiser the ideas
are only an appendage to bolster
activities already undertaken.
As a public figure the top asset pos-
sessed by Mr Santamaria is a fascina-
ting fluency of speech. A lecture by this
short and balding man is a rare treat,
especially in these days when public
figures often flounder with the spoken
word. On television with his wonderful
flow of language, plus a springing agility
in dealing with facts, he is sudden death
on a would-be assassin—all done in a
charming Victorian-age manner.
It is a pity that his intended book
on the Movement is way past earlier an-
nouncements concerning the proposed
time of publication; however, a chapter
on the Movement was provided by Mr
Santamaria in Henry Mayer’s sympo-
sium “Catholics and the Free Society”,
but the twin role of advocate and judge,
too often adopted by Mr Santamaria,
was unsatisfactory. The Movement is
not a question of facts; basically, it is
principles and ideology that should con-
cern our assessment, and here Mr
Santamaria is found wanting.
A speculative case contrary to the
Movement has been advanced in
Catholic circles, and the top spokesman
of that case is Dr Max Charlesworth,
Senior Lecturer in Philosophy at Mel-
bourne, and second member of our
Catholic lay quartet. Some 10 years ago
Charlesworth won an Archbishop Man-
nix Scholarship and took it out at
Louvain, Belgium, long recognised as
the most vital Catholic establishment in
philosophy; here, the dreary and unreal
repetitive jargon passing for Thomism
has long been put aside, and an exis-
tentially aware neo-scholasticism has
emerged and is continually in the pro-
cess of development.
An appointment to the Philosophy
Department at Melbourne in the second
half of the ’fifties quickly saw Charles-
worth spring into action as a critical
interpreter of the Movement. It was at
this time that the “Catholic Worker”
established itself as a Catholic liberal
review with the cognoscenti, and
Charlesworth became its most articulate
spokesman.
The influence displayed by Charles-
worth has a much wider range than
simply taking an anti-Movement stance.
On the vexed question of Church-State
relations Charlesworth’s championing
of John Courtney Murray, the American
Jesuit, was something most novel to Aus-
tralians; previously the Spanish-line had
been bandied about as “official” by
clerical spokesmen and their lay zealots
in this country, but this is no longer the
case and a more liberal interpretation is
now the order of the day.
Ecumenism is another subject on
which Charlesworth has put his lay
mind to work. He is an informed en-
thusiast for dialogue among theists. In


this regard one feels certain that he
has leaned heavily on his friend Father
Eric Storman of Newman College, Mel-
bourne. The clerical company is good
since Father Storman is considered the
best all-round Catholic theologian in
Australia.
Also, it is of interest that Charles-
worth seems to be looking more to
America in formulating his ideas. Pre-
viously any impetus to the intellectual
life among Catholics in Australia came
by way of England. Converts to Catho-
licism, especially from Oxford, had
great favour among the better educated.
But a period of transition has set in,
and the huge resources of American
Catholics are at last paying dividends in
the ideas field. Charlesworth has been
among the first to recognise this and is
a leap ahead of those who still stick to
the Chesterbelloc tradition.
McAuley and de Boismenu
"Out it is now time to broaden our hori-
zons on the role of the laity.
Catholic life in Australia has been too
long bogged down by the Movement and
the social apostolate. The theological
and spiritual content of lay Catholics in
this country is too thin; hence, it is fit-
ting that James McAuley, the most
notable convert to Catholicism in Aus-
tralia, should be a member of the
quartet.
Prior to his conversion McAuley has
written that he could well say about
Australian Catholics what Newman had
said of the community he was about to
enter over a century before: “ 1 have no
existing sympathies with Roman Catho-
lics; I hardly ever, even abroad, was at
one of their services; I know none of
them, I do not like what I hear of
them.” The Catholic literary giants, so
near to the saints in most Catholic
minds, have had no influence upon him.
They, in fact, get a critical manhandling
when McAuley turns his gaze upon
them. Chesterton and Belloc are cut
down to size, Graham Greene is not
taken seriously, Gerard Manley Hopkins
is spoken of as a minor figure, and the
mincing morbidities of Mauriac are of
no consequence. After a lecture in this
venomous vein someone was heard to
remark that McAuley was the only
Catholic writer still on his feet when the
evening concluded.
The Catholic faith is a confident
answer to McAuley’s metaphysical grop-
ings. Catholic strength in art and politics
could be ignored, and the support Mc-
Auley has given to Santamaria is of no
Catholic consequence. But the fierce
assent McAuley gave to the spiritual
insights of the wise and saintly Bishop
Alain de Boismenu of New Guinea is
of vital Catholic consequence. This
articulate sense of the spiritual is now
McAuley’s great gift to Australian
Catholicism —the de Boismenu message
is the food Catholics should be seeking
from Professor McAuley; and McAuley,
too, should be dispensing it.
Only one vacancy remains in our
quartet and so far Vincent Buckley has
not been mentioned. And yet any dis-
cussion concerning Australian Catholic
intellectuals must soon come face-to-face
with Buckley. By sheer weight of his
contribution to the intellectual life of
Australia, and his Catholic contribution
has been immense, demands that Buck-
ley completes the four.
During the last 10 years Buckley has
been a moulding influence among the
young Catholic intellectuals within the
universities. The war he wages on gra-
cious living, and the tears he shed over
Hungary readily register Buckley’s ana-
thema to a cosy Catholicism. Sin, pain,
and suffering are as real to Vincent
Buckley as the cakes and ale at a Catho-
lic Club picnic. But Buckley is no
ascetical recluse; a Rabelaisian like
Brendan Behan will set him off at his
mirthful best. Buckley still calls himself
an Irish-Australian, when that sort of
thing is out of fashion in the better
Catholic places. But a stuffy Catholicism
backed up by overtones of the Move-
ment, will see him craving for escape.
A vital interest in people, especially
the young and unknown university stu-
dents, is a fascinating feature of Buck-
ley’s living Catholicism. This is the
same spirit that Buckley musters as
prime mover and father-figure of
‘"Prospect”, that Catholic review with a
difference, in its insistence on the value
of ideas in Catholic life. The openness
of Buckley’s mind can be appreciated
in a talk he gave on the Goulburn epi-
sode: “I want my children”, he said,
“educated to an awareness of that super-
natural order which is after all, very
close to the lives of us all, and I want
them brought to this awareness among
children who are themselves aware of it.
This desire would remain for me, and
for the majority of Australian Catholics
if every Bishop dropped dead tomorrow.
The issue, for us, is not what the
Bishops want as what we want.”
Finally, as we look back upon our
quartet we realise that James McAuley
is the only non-Melburnian in our
group. The centre of the Movement up-
heaval, Melbourne, has by far the most
articulate Catholic voice in Australia.
It is obvious that Sydney should make
a bid for that “voice” but it cannot
boast a single publication that could live
in the company of the Melbourne pro-
ductions: “Catholic Worker,” “20th
Century,” “Prospect” and “Social Sur-
vey.” Seemingly, in this matter the
venerable shadow of Archbishop Man-
nix has been the deciding factor. In
such circumstances the Catholic lay in-
tellectual has little reason for complaint
about the times in which he is living—
outside of the apostolic period R.C. lay-
men have never had it so good.


I
I
■£w.«’°" 5
in. b^ m
u#' t£D
iP rMY^IU^
Xjvi GRE* T RV -.»«--1W
1 k «ntSBOR H omoNIC° R 1 JHj
CH^ 5 -«‘N K * N ° H '?.? R o UTTt
the E* s ' „ thE ” l ap_sTßf-
c DtVo '" v^F(k VTH & N ° H ' S ° R -o UTt LE
'S«y cHms^ wWfU c d ,vs
sstS&i
h^S&- s *SZ&~£SZ'
«iz >»° ”?.t W"“‘‘S'.s OK®*;
Qf tHS- ’*«' .kl C-r7 M*D B
G
ss^s^
* D
w *«« ftN
' nr ' g --ggj
r
I_fi* * * * . a
[** I* * % **l f
I |, **"*«• c* »** t -
’** *:««%v« *»v
* j« H t * * * v|-
’4l
, % % * !
Everyone who loves tine music will prize this new,
exclusive, limited-edition collector's item. It features 16 top
Christmas favourites, performed by true greats in the world of
music. It is your Goodyear Dealer's unusual way of wishing you
a Happy Christmas. No coupon to post, nothing else to buy.
Just call at your Goodyear Dealer and get your record—true 52/6
value, but you pay only 15/-. Hurry—while the supply lasts!
GOODYEAR
Get set for
SAFE holiday motoring
When you cal! at your Goodyear
Dealer's or Motor Tyre Service
h'°re, have your tyres checked.
And be sure to see the new kind
“/ tyre . . . GB—the tyre that’s
Better 8 Ways.
°*ly


I
DALWOOD
hermitage
r... i
m
+0
Reserve Bottling
>££*■** 8Y PENFOLDS WINES
AO*LAiOC ®»:8«A* 4
CONTENTS; I PT. 6 FL <> zs
LDS WINES
ecAiot »*»»****
PT. 6 FL. OZS
(*
V' '•


. . -P .
9
ft V 1V
I®' A t ; y : !
«S
ll
*?* '■
m
m&gsM
WOOD
DALWOOD
CHABLIS
i
Reserve Bortiing
Sv O» 1 tv 1l ' ED 8y p ENfOLDS WINES E TV lT0 „
IPW
CONTENTS: ! PT. 6 FL. OZ$
iPSgllgl
The
Classic Wines
of Dalwood
Dalwood in the Hunter Valley of New
South Wales has long been known to
wine enthusiasts for its outstanding
table wines. This historic vineyard estab-
lished in 1831 by a gentleman from
Wiltshire named George Wyndham,
was later acquired and extensively
developed by Penfolds. Dalwood Wines
are classic examples of the wines that
have made the Hunter Valley famous.
DALWOOD HERMITAGE
CLARET
*
DALWOOD BURGUNDY
DALWOOD RIESLING
*
DALWOOD CHABLIS
PW37!


#
m
* <
w
■
m
■
n
.
•i
H
■
i 1
2
H
S 2
5 'CxH
w
kW,, ,iiaaeggwynwHTO»^
16 years ago, this car was nothing to brag about
The early VW had its problems.
(New models usually do.)
It was noisy. Shifting was tough.
And it wasn’t exactly a powerhouse.
But it had “new idea” written all
over it.
Its shape was functional. The
rear engine made for outstanding
traction. It was air-cooled, so it
didn’t boil over or freeze.
That old VW may have made a
racket, but it also made a point.
Every new idea about it worked.
And so we’ve stayed with it.
Instead of costly retooling every
year, we’ve invested 16 years of time
and effort into perfecting the one
basic model.
The noise is practically gone. The
gear-shift is one of the smoothest
in the world. And you can even ac-
celerate uphill.
We’ve made over 3,000 changes
so far (16 this year alone). All to
make it work better; none to make
it look different. The VW may still
not be perfect.
But it’s a good 16 years
better than the first one.
VW.7229


letters
to the
editor
CHRYSLER REPLIES
Sir,
I address you in connection with an
article headed “A Loophole in the
Tariff Act” on page 8 of The Bulletin
of November 17, 1962, in which article
it is stated that “The Chrysler Com-
pany recently announced it was abandon-
ing local truck production . . .” My
Company is greatly concerned about the
publication of this statement, which is
not only completely false, but also
damaging to our marketing endeavors.
The following facts endorse my words
that your statement above quoted is
completely false:
1. At no time have we made any
statement concerning abandoning
local truck production nor have we
any intention of making such a
statement or actually abandoning
such production.
2. It is a truth that our current truck
range would have a substantially
higher Australian content than the
majority of trucks sold in Aus-
tralia.
3. On June 29 of this year we an-
nounced a completely new Dodge
range of trucks, for which trucks
all sheet metal has been designed,
pressed, fabricated and assembled
in Adelaide.
4. We are already actively engaged
in concentrating our truck produc-
tion activities in a separate plant.
W. R. GREIG
Director, Marketing and Product
Planning
Chrysler Australia Limited.
Adelaide (S.A.)
HISTORY WITHOUT FACTS
Sir,
Exact factual information is apparently
The Bulletin’s only criterion of an
historical work. Historians will hardly
allow that this is the only or the most
important criterion but factual accuracy
is undoubtedly desirable. The Bulletin’s
review of Professor Clark’s “A History
of Australia” (September 22), supported
by Mr Forsyth's letter (Bulletin,
November 3), shows every sign of being
a draft chapter in an indispensable
“Companion to Clark”.
For full value a list of supposed
errors should be comprehensive. One
noticed last year that the volume on
“The Fifteenth Century” which com-
pleted “The Oxford History of England”
had a list of corrections in the front
compiled before publication. Even in
this standard work the list of corrections
was neither accurate nor complete. It
is similarly a pity that your reviewer,
Mr M. H. Ellis, and your correspondent,
Mr J. W. Forsyth, should have allowed
limitations of space to inhibit their con-
structive task of compilation. It was not
always so. After all, whole volumes of
corrections by reviewers were issued
after the publication of the first volume
of Gibbon's “History of the Decline and
Fall of the Roman Empire” (1776) and
the first volume of Macaulay’s “ History
of England” (1849). Gibbon’s first
volume was hotly pursued by over
twenty whole books by critical reviewers.
One critic, for example, wrote two
books. The first claimed numerous
instances of Gibbon’s inaccuracy and
plagiarism. The second claimed further
instances of Gibbon’s “misrepresentation,
inaccuracy and plagiarism”. Other
laments included “An Historical and
Critical Inquiry into the Existence and
Character of St. George, Patron of
England ... in which the Assertions
of Edward Gibbon’s History . . . are
Discussed.” Likewise Macaulay’s first
volume was criticised as factually in-
accurate. Over a dozen critical books
attacked Macaulay’s truthfulness and
use of evidence.
However, all such antiquarian attacks
were and are in danger of degenerating
rapidly (as in Mr Forsyth’s list of Pro-
fessor Clark’s supposed errors) into
“Janssen was not a captain but a skipper
under the merchant whose name was not
Rosengrin but Rosengain or more
properly Roosengin”. How seriously
would we take a review of a Shake-
spearean study which solemnly stated
that Richard Burbage was not a theatre
owner but only one of seven “house-
keepers” of the Globe company which
included the actor-writer whose name
was not Shakespeare but Shaksper or
more properly Shakspeare?
The sharpness of the detailed attacks
on Gibbon, Macaulay and Clark may
be seen as an acknowledgment of the
importance of these historians. Great
historical works often confer a reflected
immortality on their most determined
assailants. We think of Gibbon and
Milner, Macaulay and Paget. Will we
also remember Clark and Ellis?
L. R. GARDINER
A. W. MARTIN
Canterbury (Victoria).
CRANKS AND NUTS
Sir,
Your article headed “Unbecoming a
Professor”, which appeared in Ihe
Bulletin of November 10, has been
read by me with grave concern, concern
that a weekly paper with a reputation for
fairness, which your paper has enjoyed
for many years, should have published
such an article without full investigation
of facts, and concern that my reputation
should be held in such light esteem as
not to warrant such investigation.
On September 24 I put the following
questions to Mr Huilgol, an Indian
student engaged in research in my de-
partment this year, and who is the
author of the article, “The Syllabus
Makers,” appearing in the Melbourne
University’s “Cranks and Nuts.”
“With reference to your article ‘The
Syllabus Makers’ for ‘Cranks & Nuts,’
will you please let me know whether
you agree that the following is a correct
statement of facts concerning my associa-
tion with you on this matter?
(1) That at no time have I asked that
your article be withdrawn from
Cranks & Nuts, and that I re-
gard the article generally as fair
comment.
(2) That I expressed disappointment
with your example quoted of
Mechanical Engineering, as it
would have the effect of dis-
couraging students from taking
the Mechanical Engineering
course. That in actual fact the
course was little different in 1952
to 1962, and I requested that you
either put the hours of lectures
and practical work in, or withdraw
the example, as the article would
read quite well without it.”
Mr. Huilgol’s signed reply of the same
date is as follows:
“As to paragraph (1), I have had
three interviews with you on the matter.
At the first, you did net ask me to with-
draw the article but did request me to
delete two paragraphs dealing with
Mechanical Engineering. At my second
interview, when I stated that I had asked
for the withdrawal of the whole article
you expressed surprise and said that
was not your desire. At the third inter-
view, when Mr Svensson and Mr
Williamson were present, you stated
that you believed our proper course was
one of the following three:
(a) Not to publish the article at all;
or (b) To publish it in a public news-
paper;
or (c) To publish it with the insertion
of certain figures you con-
sidered proper.”
Concerning the comparison of total
hours of lectures and practical work
in the 4th Year of the Mechanical
Engineering course at the University of
Melbourne in 1952 and 1962, the
position is as follows:
Lecture times given to the Editor of
Cranks & Nuts were essentially correct,
although wrongly used. However, a mis-
take was made in computing the Prac-


tical Work times by the omission of 78
hours in 1952 and 120 hours in 1962.
The correct position can be summarised
as follows:
(1) The average student in 1952 (i.e.,
one taking Machine Tools as
optional subject) would attend
212 hours lectures for Pass or
257 hours for Honours, and do
312 hours Practical Work, and
attend no Tutorials.
(2) The average student in 1962
would attend 300 hours lectures
for Pass and Honours, and do
254 to 326 hours Practical Work
according to subjects chosen. He
could attend voluntary tutorials
up to a total of 100 hours accord-
ing to subjects chosen, with extra
tutorials for the few students
selecting Engineering Mathem-
atics IV, although in 1962 the
lectures and tutorials for this sub-
ject were under 50 hours total.
In order to maintain standards and to
keep abreast of modern developments,
there is undoubtedly a tendency to put
more into a course, but I doubt if the
4th Year Mechanical Engineering course
is more difficult in 1962 than 1952.
The principal difference is in the pro-
vision of more tutorials which have been
added to assist students. Tutorials can
easily be eliminated but it would not be
wise to do so.
The above should dispose of any
allegations of censorship or undue in-
fluence, and I trust that you will now
do me the favor of publishing this letter.
P. L. HENDERSON
Professor of Mechanical Engineering
Past Dean of the Faculty of
Engineering
University of Melbourne.
WRITERS
Sir,
In your November 24 issue Mr Don
Houghton, President, The Australian
Radio, Television and Screen Writers’
Guild, expressed himself as being con-
cerned with accuracy in reporting.
Mr Houghton was not accurate
when he said, “At this time there are
no Writers’ Trade Unions in this
country.”
This is not a fact.
AJA membership includes many Aus-
tralian authors and writers.
H. GORDON COLEMAN
Secretary, Australian Journalists’
Association, NSW District
Sydney.
KILLING KANGAROOS
Sir.
I read with interest the article by Mr
Lamond on the dingo (Bulletin, No-
vember 24), and take it that he means
his remarks apply anywhere in Australia.
As a small grazier for forty years
pitting my wits against the dingo with
poison and traps I find it difficult to
agree with Mr. Lamond when he states
that two trappers recently told him that
a catch of one per cent of bitches was
their record.
Not being a professional I never use
a prepared lure and during my seventeen
years at this place more bitches than
dogs have been tied up in my traps out
of an annual average catch of fifteen.
Many of my neighbors report is much
the same strain. Nevertheless as far as
we can evaluate the position there is no
difference in the dingo population here-
abouts: yet by Mr. Lamond’s calcula-
tions there should be ere this a distinct
decline in numbers if attacking the
female is the answer to the dingo
problem.
LOUIS O. BANCROFT
Eidsvold (NSW).
Sir,
It has been interesting reading various
people’s ideas on killing kangaroos.
Risdon is now a property of 12,500
acres, 105 miles from Brisbane and 4
miles from Warwick to the nearest part
of the boundary. The country whilst
mountainous is all cleared and improved.
When I took over from King Ranch
(Aust.) Pty Ltd I refused various shoot-
ers permission to shoot kangaroos on
the property and to my knowledge no
’roo has been shot in the 11 months
that I have been here.
During the late winter and early
spring, a burning programme was carried
out which resulted in a very heavy
growth of young fresh grasses in the
spring. One paddock of 1300 acres was
subsequently spelled for two months. The
nett result of this was that when we took
1200 wethers out to put into this pad-
dock and 70 odd calfy heifers, we
counted over 300 kangaroos in the pad-
dock. It would be hard to know how
many ’roos the W'hole station is running,
but I would think over 1000.
If this number of ’roos are living on
the door-step of the City of Warwick
(and it would be quite difficult to
eliminate them), it would seem that the
fears of those people who envisage the
total extinction of the ’roo population
of Australia is unfounded at the present
time.
KEITH LEAHY
Queensland.
SNAIL'S CRAWL TO RAT RACE
Sir,
The term “rat race” (Bulletin, No-
vember 10) is not applicable to the
sedate tempo of the Australian book-
publishing apparatus, with its long delays
in giving decisions on manuscripts, even
longer delays in getting accepted manus-
cripts into print, and its pessimistic small
first editions produced at a high cost per
copy, usually not followed by any
further printings even when the first
printing is sold out. “Snail’s crawl”
would be a more appropriate term.
Yet there are some signs of a new
outlook. There were 600 Australian
books produced last year, and only the
publishing of novels remains to be
gingered up. Max Harris (November 10)
got to grips with this problem in sug-
gesting a closer liaison between Austra-
lian publishers and Australian libraries.
There are some 600 public and muni-
cipal lending libraries in Australia, sup-
ported by taxpayers’ and ratepayers’
funds. If each and every one o.
libraries would buy (on the average) two
copies of each new Australian novel
that is published in hard-cover library
format, then the cautious Australian
book-publishers would have the basic
guarantee of sales which would encour-
age them to publish many Australian
novels of good quality which at present
have to be sent overseas to find pub-
lishers.
Is it too much to expect the Australian
“association of librarians” to make this
rule? In every other civilized country
the public and municipal libraries make
fiction-publishing possible. Why not in
Australia too?
P. R. STEPHENSEN
Cremorne {NSW).
OUT OF TUNE
Sir,
May I, as a visitor from London,
make a few comments on the article by
Frank Roberts in your issue of No-
vember 17. I did net see Michael Noon-
an’s play “The Music Upstairs” and
cannot therefore comment on its quality.
But it did seem to me to be a little
illogical and unfair that he should use
his dislike of this play as a stick with
which to attack those Australians who
argue in favor of a firm “quota” of
Australian material on TV.
So Frank Roberts didn’t like the
play. Fair enough. But supposing he had
liked it? What would have become of
his argument? Would he then have
argued for more? No, one play doesn’t
make an answer or an argument.
What I found really astonishing was
his suggestion that Australian writers
would provide a diet of “unrelieved me-
diocrity”. From what I have seen, Aus-
tralians seem to be able to do most
things as well as any other people, and
some things better. Why it should be
different in the field of writing baffles
me. There are a dozen or more Aus-
tralian writers resident in the UK, who
are among the top creative workers in
TV and film. They went there because
the opportunities to work in TV in their
own country were too limited. Some of
them, like Peter Yeldham, Bruce Stewart,
yes, and Michael Noonan have
proved that their talents are not simply
geared to “mass production”, and have
created much fine work for TV, film,
and theatre. I cannot believe that you
don’t have the writers: but I do know
that they don’t have the opportunities.
Of course, Frank Roberts is absolutely
right to oppose the idea of a closed shop
for drama and variety; this would be
disastrous. But the complaint, surely, is
that Australian writers are hardly ever
allowed in their own store and it seems
to me to be pretty valid.
You need more scenes like “Jonah’’,
more plays like the “Music Upstairs”
and not less. You won’t get winners
every time. But unless you speculate, you
won’t accumulate.
TED WILLIS
(Chairman, British Screenwriters’ Guild)
Sydney.


REVIEWS
MUSIC
CHRISTMAS OFFERING
By JOHN SMALL
Handel’s “Messiah”; Sydney Symphony
Orchestra and Hurlstone Choral
Society, with soloists, conducted by
Sir Bernard Heinze.
This year’s “official” performance of
Handel’s “Messiah” was in many
respects a notable advance on past per-
formances. The score used was based
on an edition prepared from Handel’s
conducting score, and bore no trace of
the tasteless additions with which later
musicians tried to improve what Handel
originally wrote. Several of the arias
were performed in unfamiliar versions—
“ Rejoice greatly” was done in 12/8 time,
“But who may abide” was sung by the
alto, and so on. Whoever decided to use
this score deserves to be complimented.
However, the performance differed in
a number of respects from Handel’s
original conception. First, the forces em-
ployed were much too large. Handel
used about 60 singers and instrumenta-
lists at the first performance; last week
Sir Bernard Heinze conducted a choir of
110 or so and an orchestra of about 60.
It isn’t mere pedantry to mention this
the more performers there are, the easier
it becomes to obscure the lyric and dra-
matic force of the work with virtuoso
playing and massed choral effects. In
partial mitigation of this point it should
be mentioned that most of the arias were
accompanied by a group of 20-odd
strings.
Secondly, there were too few oboes
and bassoons. The modern orchestra has
a higher ratio of strings to woodwind
than its mid-18th-century counterpart,
though conductors of baroque music tend
to forget this.
Thirdly, the continuo instruments
seemed to have no clear function. The
harpsichord might as well not have been
there most of the time for all one could
hear of it. The organ generally came
in only during choral passages or at
cadenzas and seemed to be there only to
add weight and color to whatever was
going on.
Fourthly, ornamentation was used
hardly at all and not very effectively. If
ornaments are to be added to the vocal
parts, they should be used strictly in
accordance with eighteenth-century
practice.
. .
ese matters may seem trivial, but,
in tact they mean that what was per-
ormed last week was not what Handel
intended people to hear. And it is
surely not too much to ask that musi-
„■ nc „„„ Un . - .1 , r
cians pay Handel the compliment of as-
~ . , i , , .
suming that he knew what he was doing,
•.t0, % a , =’
instead of adapting what he wrote to suit
their own preconceptions about what he
should have done.
The soloists generally sang very well,
and the orchestra was excellent. The
choral singing left much to be desired,
though.
There is little point in recounting the
manifest faults of the Hurlstone Choral
Society, which is quite a reasonable choir
as amateur choirs go. Their rehearsal
time is limited to two hours a week most
weeks, and most of that time is spent in
making sure that those who attend know
their parts; the membership is constantly
changing, and as the choristers get no
pay professionals have little inducement
to join; new members are recruited on a
“do-you-enjoy-singing” basis, and the
auditions are not very stringent. Given
all this, it is surprising that the Hurl-
stone Choral Society sings even as well
as it does.
There is nothing wrong with amateur
choirs. But something is radically wrong
when an amateur choir of indifferent
standard is called upon to do the singing
at major concerts. Sydney badly needs
a good choir, run on a professional basis
if necessary. Such a choir would have to
be subsidised by the A.8.C., the City
Council and the State Government, but
the money would be well spent.
FILMS
CALIGARI '62
The Cabinet of Dr Caligari. Regent,
Sydney.
TTappy thought: Remake “The Cabinet
of Dr Caligari”. Second thought:
Not such a happy thought after all.
Publicity says that producer-director
Roger Kay made this new version (if it
can be called that) as “a tribute” to the
old German Expressionist classic of
1919. One must give his sincerity the
benefit of the doubt, since 20th Century-
Fox would hardly have borrowed the
title in the hope of rewards at the box-
office. Yet if the intention was to make
a prestige film, the intention has mis-
carried. It is in fact nothing more than
a well-oiled but unoriginal and un-
exciting psychiatric suspense drama
which borrows no more than the external
structure of the original film.
Paul Rotha called the 1919 “Caligari”
“the first significant attempt at the ex-
pression of a creative mind in the
medium of cinematography.” Today
perhaps even the film societies play it
partly for laughs. But without doubt,
despite its heavily stylised acting and the
Expressionist painted setting which now
look so old-hat, it came as something
new and exciting to the avant-gardist of
its day, and its influence might be traced
as far as Bergman’s “The Magician”.
There was a challenge here to make
something that was as bold and experi-
mental in the cinematic terms of 1962 as
the original film was in 1919. But Mr
Kay’s version is for the most part routine
commercial stuff, loaded with the sort of
tediously pretentious dialogue that makes
one feel the invention of the talking
picture was an error. The few passages
of fantasy (reproducing the heroine’s
morbid dreams) use well-worn technical
tricks, with perhaps one mildly original
touch the interpolation of inter-cut
still shots at vital points.
In place of the original Gothic tale of
a murdering somnambulist controlled by
an evil megalomaniac, Mr Kay’s screen-
play gives us Glynis Johns as a holiday-
ing young lady trapped in a mysterious
mansion, peopled with mildly nutty
characters and ruled over by the suavely
sinister Caligari. Ironically, the only


thing he has really taken from the ori-
ginal is not the picture but the frame —■
the story-outside-the-story which ex-
plained the whole thing away as a
lunatic’s fantasy. This was not part of
the original scenario at all and the two
authors, who intended the film to be a
symbolic attack on German authorita-
rianism, bitterly resisted the change.
So in the end the new film is left with
little to connect it with the old one
except the title and an irrelevant plot-
twist. The whole film betrays so little
creative enthusiasm that one has the
impression that Mr Kay became aware
of this fact some time after the initial
happy thought, but not quite soon
enough.
MARTIN LONG
THEATRE
CATALYSTS FROM THE CITY
The No-Hopers. Peter Batey. Union
Theatre. Melbourne.
TT'ven in the pub, even in the middle of
summer, things are slow in Upoti-
potpon. Mike O'Shaughnassy, the
licensee, and Ben, the rouseabout, yarn
the days away in the bar, while Maggie,
Mike’s nervy wife, plays the pianola dis-
approvingly. Archie and Alma (Dave
and Mabel) fail to get to the point. Edna,
Archie’s mother, takes no chances just
the same.
Suddenly there arrive catalysts from
the city —Barbara Craig, a rich girl
astonishingly interested in geology, and
Joe Cook, a loud-mouthed traveller in
lingerie. And the classic mistakes and
misunderstandings of farce pile up—Ben
decides that Barbara is after gold, and
persuades Mike to help him get in first;
Maggie half decides that Joe is more
sympathetic than Mike; Archie and
Alma, encouraged by Barbara, decide
to get a move on. The wrong person
is hit over the head in the dark. We
get our share of laughs.
But it is all rather labored. The fault
seems to be partly in the writing, but
mostly in the production which is also
by Peter Batey. Individually the actors
are good, but on the first night they
seemed to be constantly taking each
other by surprise, killing each other’s
effects, not quite getting there on time
with their reactions. Undoubtedly these
faults will be minimised as the season
progresses, but I suspect that there is
something fundamentally wrong here —
either Mr Batey, having written an ac-
ceptable farce, regrets not having written
a genuine comedy; or else it is so long
since the members of this company last
played in farce that they have forgotten
the technique. Joan Macarthur as
Maggie and Frederick Parslow as Ben
have the best lines —both are good, but
have often been better. Brian Hannen
is splendid as Archie. The set, by
Richard Prins, is first-rate.
JAMES MURPHY
THERE IS A TIDE...
It a Christmas dinner in Perth during
the 1960-61 Festival a responsible
citizen, an Australian, stated plainly that
Shakespeare, Beethoven and Rembrandt
should be burnt; this was 1960 and we
should have something up-to-date.
In the Sydney Morning Herald of
October 22, Mr Eric W. Bedford said:
“The Australian people want an Austra-
lian Theatre more than they want Italian,
French or German opera, American
dust-bowl drama, the cold grey light of
Ibsen or the English drawing-room
comedy-drama.”
Also in the Herald, on October 23, Mr
John Moses asks for a permanent drama
company in Sydney. His is not a soli-
tary voice. In recent months this same
plea has been made many times both
vocally and in print. In 1952 I made
it myself and even attempted to found
some such company. Despite having
been offered some financial backing and
promises of support from many quarters
all my efforts failed. There were two
basic reasons for this. First, the general
public were apathetic and, secondly, a
theatre or even a hall could not be found
near to the hub of the city.
Has the situation changed at all? It
undoubtedly has in one respect. The
comment in Perth, Mr Bedford’s letter
and the numerous pleas and statements,
of which Mr Moses’s is the latest, all
show that the public is starved for good
theatre. In 1962 they are clamoring
for a theatre of their own.
There is, however, in this expression
of their need, perhaps induced by its
very urgency, a fundamental miscon-
ception. Much as I love Miss Zoe Cald-
well, an actress of tremendous warmth
and humanity, who makes her demands
out of an intense love of her country
brought to the boil by the frustrations of
the present state of the Australian
theatre, she should not stress, as Mr
Bedford overstresses, the national angle.
As is any other art so theatre is inter-
national.
Must the geographical isolation of
this continent also deny Australians the
right to see and enjoy the great plays
from the storehouse of Western culture
that were enjoyed by their forebears? In
spite of Mr Bedford's somewhat con-
temptuous description, into which
“Saint Joan” or “A Man for All Seasons”
do not appear to fit, this culture still
endures in the rest of the Western
world.
If we follow Mr Bedford and reverse
the picture Mr Ray Lawler’s splendid
play “The Summer of the Seventeenth
Doll” should never be seen elsewhere in
the world. But Mr Lawler's play is
plainly international. Its theme, as I see
it, the conflict of generations in changing
conditions, is universal. There is a
danger, though, in the national color of
a play being too strong. Some English
plays in local dialects are incomprehen-
sible in this country. With Mr Lawler’s
play the color was so strong that while
in London it was partially understood
but still loved, in New York it was so
little understood that it was not even
liked.
Some writers spend their lives in the
country about which they write. Others,
perhaps wanting a more universal appeal
in their work, live away from their home-
land. Yet others travel and then return.
It is not necessary for them to live where
their work is read or performed.
Obviously the actor must live where he
works and while working gain experi-
ence and knowledge of his craft. In
the present conditions in the Australian
theatre he has little or no hope of any
solid gain in experience or craft. He
goes overseas, not for financial reward,
but to learn, as Lord Reith puts it,“to
stretch himself to the limit of his cap-
abilities.”
Efforts are being made here to fill this
need of the actor which would lead to
satisfying the need of the Australian
public for a better standard in their
theatre. The work of the Union Theatre
in Melbourne, the Perth Playhouse, the
trust with their now defunct Trust Play-
ers and the Old Tote Theatre in Ken-
sington, NSW, all aims in the right direc-
tion but none show signs of the neces-
sary strength to effect a real change in
the standards of the theatre.
The economics of the situation are
against them. In Perth the theatre is
near enough to the centre of the city for
the support of the general public but the
population is too small for the theatre
to establish a company and director and
maintain them. Without large subsidies
they cannot persist in their effort.
The populations of Melbourne and
Sydney are more than large enough to
support a resident theatre but the Union
in Melbourne and the Old Tote in Syd-


FOR ALL TRAVEL
CONSULT . . .
MACDONALD HAMILTON & CO. PTY. LTD.
Accredited Agents for:
• The major shipping companies of the world.
• All airlines—domestic and international.
• The leading motor tour companies in Australia, New
Zealand, North America, United Kingdom and Europe.
• Hotels throughout Australia and the world.
We offer expert advice and assistance for passports and
other formalities and deliver tickets within the city area.
These services are entirely free of charge.
N.S.W.: 4 Martin Place, Sydney. Telephone 25 1901. OLD.: 193 Mary Street, Brisbane. Telephone
31 0221. 279 Kent Street, Maryborough. Telephone 2497. Quay Street, Bundaberg. Telephone 34.
VIC.: 311 Collins Street, Melbourne. Telephone G 2 3281.
ncy are almost “out of town.” They
cannot expect to draw on the support of
the general public even to the extent of
balancing their budgets. Short of being
heavily subsidised a balanced economy
is the only way they can give real con-
tinuity of work to both actors and direc-
tors. Only by this continuity will the
artists gain solid experience and know-
ledge of their craft.
The number of amateur drama groups
in Australia is out of proportion to its
population. They are starved of theatre
but their love of it does not lead them
to give much support to the professional
effort. Why should it when they can
“do-it-themselves” at standards only a
shade lower?
Acting can be called the least pure of
the arts. There have been many occa-
sions in the theatre when lack of craft
has not prevented the actor from giving
an effective and memorable performance.
Outside of those cases where the extreme
youth or age, or extreme oddity of ap-
pearance serve, how much more effective
might that performance have been if that
actor had possessed besides his natural
self-expression a sound knowledge of his
craft.
The painter learns to draw, the writer
to write, the pianist starts with five-
finger exercises and the singer with
scales. With what does the Australian
actor start? He has before him various
semi-amateur groups, NIDA with a
strong educational flavor, the experi-
mental Ensemble Theatre, a slim chance
of a Williamson tour and that’s about
all. Apart from the few students at
NIDA what work can the would-be
actor get? Perhaps two parts a year,
with luck, in five years a dozen, prob-
ably most of these for no pay in semi-
amateur productions with little or no
help from the director. How can Aus-
tralian actors achieve professional
standards in these conditions? Where
can they perform their “five-finger ex-
ercises” under good teachers?
Apart from the fringe efforts mention-
ed earlier, Melbourne is to have a cul-
tural centre and Sydney an opera house.
Neither of these can fill properly the
function of the citizens’ theatre. They
are more of the shape of cultural monu-
ments while the citizens’ theatre should
be part of the heart of the city. The
bricks and mortar should be in the centre
of the city and it is the responsibility of
the community through the city fathers,
the elected city council to see that such
a theatre is available.
This theatre should be large enough
to hold an audience of economic size yet
small enough to give reality to the actors.
Evidence seems to show it should seat
between 500 and 800. The stage should
be to the best modern design and the
architect must consult with experienced
theatre directors. These last remarks
may seem too obvious to be made but
to my certain knowledge in the last few
years there have been built several thea-
tres with insurmountable architectural
defects.
The City Councils must be cajoled
and chased until they realise the need
of the city and take action. In Sydney
the council is at this very time poring
over plans for a new building at the
corner of George and Bathurst Streets.
A theatre of the size suggested could
easily be incorporated here and what a
fine position. At intervals between oc-
cupation by professional companies it
could be used by amateur groups. It
would without a doubt turn into a profit-
able investment as it would have no
competition. It would be the only small
theatre in the centre of the city.
There is obviously a superabundance
of raw material from which to form the
company. Once the company was estab-
lished it must be maintained and held
together under one director for at the
very least six months. This is the very
minimum of time necessary for the con-
tinuity of work without which the actors
and the director cannot explore and
practice the fundamentals of their craft.
Further essential continuity of work
could be assured by a system of ex-
change with companies from other cities.
With the rightly placed bricks and
mortar and established companies the
standards of the live theatre in Austra-
lia would soon rise to the top inter-
national level. The movement will re-
quire financial backing. The Australian
Elizabethan Theatre Trust could not
afford to do this on its own. It would
again be a civic responsibility to nurse
the venture until it achieved a state of
economic balance.
The advance in standards could be
hastened by the employment of directors
from overseas or of Australian directors
who have had solid overseas experience.
Those directors with purely local experi-
ence are no doubt talented. They can
mount a play, move and group the
actors, pace the production, set it and
light it and sometimes show great in-
ventiveness. The talent with which they
are working, however, has little real
knowledge of their craft and these direc-
tors have not the capability of teaching
it to them.
The live theatre is struggling to find
a true state of balance all over the world.
“There is a tide . . said Shakespeare
and if communities such as the City of
Sydney assume their responsibilities and
take this tide at the flood Australia
could very well lead the way in the art
of the theatre.
ALEXANDER ARCHDALE


PLAYWRITING COMPETITION
The committee for celebrating the
150th anniversary of the Crossing of the
Blue Mountains offers a prize of at least
£lOO for a play which shall run for
about one hour. The theme should be
historical and have some connection with
the Nepean Valley. The play must not
have been performed before the closing
date of January 15th, 1963. The de-
cision of the appointed judges shall be
final. Further details from J. Mullane,
18 Bellevue Street, Regentville, via
PENRITH. Phone Penrith B 2310
CHRISTMAS BOOKS
BACK TO THE PLOT
Melodrama, Malice and Madness
By NANCY KEESING
The Leaping Blaze. Helen Heney.
Angus and Robertson. 22s. 6d.
The Well Dressed Explorer. Thea
Astley. Angus and Robertson. 22s.
6d.
Mad as Rabbits. Elizabeth Lane.
Rigby. 23s. 6d.
HThe plot is coming back. It has suf-
fered some change in its period of
eclipse and nowadays it is usually inter-
woven intricately with the actions of
characters, who influence it rather than
be made to conform to it. But neither
of the two books reviewed here follows
this trend.
The Leaping Blaze is one of the most
arbitrarily planned books I have read
for years outside of crime and science
fiction. By the end of the first chapter
the plot has thickened to a point where
it is hard to sort out characters, loyalties
and implications and the device of
gradually disclosing facts through the
revelations and memories of the char-
acters adds to the difficulties. Some of
the information which comes near the
end you really need at the beginning.
The prose is rather tight-packed (and
there are numerous printing errors to
add to the puzzle).
All of this is regrettable because, de-
spite crude melodrama in many of the
incidents, Miss Heney explores some
worthwhile points. She may have over-
reached herself but she deserves a seri-
ous hearing.
The purpose of her book is twofold:
firstly to explore a character, Evangeline
Wade, who is not so much “corrupted
by power” as the blurb says, as pro-
pelled and blinded by a desire for
power—a different matter. Along with
this theme is the desire to probe, within
the range of the plot, certain social and
personal problems of a group of intelli-
gent and partly assimilated aboriginal
people.
But all the time one comes up against
that plot! For all I know everything de-
scribed by Miss Heney really happened,
and I rather think that the Awful
Secret in Evangeline Wade’s family (or
something very like it) is taken from
cold fact. Yet truth is not only stranger
than fiction, it is frequently impossible
for use in fiction. Things do happen in
life that are so melodramatic, so wildly
coincidental that they simply cannot be
used, unrefined, in art. Through ad-
herence to a rigid plot the author has
been forced to twist and turn her
characters even more swiftly and less
convincingly than does her arch pup-
peteer, Evangeline Wade.
In Thea Astley's The Well Dressed
Explorer the theme is casual and pre-
sented biographically. (Some provision
ought to have been made for rounding
out the motivation of some of the
people concerned, especially the women.
More of this below.) Miss Astley. in
her earlier novel A Descant for Gossips,
displayed the evil consequences of
malicious gossip in a small town. The
Well Dressed Explorer is a further ex-
ercise in malice, but of a different
nature. It is as if one had asked her —
“What on earth do women see in that
pompous, tubby little bore George
Brewster? What on earth makes him
tick?” Miss Astley, a superb raconteuse.
sets out unhurriedly to explain. The
malice this time is in the narration
which, though of good length, and most
carefully written, has the slightly flip in-
completeness of a verbal account. It
demands that to some measure the
reader must fill out the picture even
further. George Brewster is depicted in
full length from early adolescence to
sixty-ish death. George, son of decent,
lower middle-class Protestant parents
who constantly change from sect to sect,
is destined for a successful career in
journalism, conversion to Catholicism,
and a lifetime of womanising, whisky
and brash good times. As a boy he was
spellbound to Nita, his lovely, unscrupu-
lous first love. To some extent George
seeks his childhood idyll again in the
arms of every woman chance brings his
way. His life might have been very dif-
ferent had Nita (a half-figure despite
her vitality) been as essentially naive as
was George. In their early twenties Nita,
after numerous defections and decep-
tions, married another man. Not that
George had remained faithful to Nita
—though he owned a conscience of
sorts and after discarding one lass knelt
to pray: “ ‘Please God,’ he prayed,
‘make her happy. . . without me’ he
added thoughtfully.”
The book’s undoubted success lies in
Thea Astley’s wit and zest. Occasion-
ally her elaborate style becomes too
weighty and contrived for its purpose
but when she allows her malice full
rein she invents satirical aphorisms
with some of the ease of a Samuel But-
ler. The novel's weakness is in its
women. Miss Astley is cruel to her
George and yet she never, even in the
remorseless death scene, really hates
him in the way that Christina Stead
hated Jonathan Crow. She is however,
by implication, far crueller to the
women characters even to patient,
pretty Lissie, George Brewster’s loyal,
long-suffering wife. She cannot really
forgive these girls their fondness for the
absurd George, and while enough of
George is shown to make us understand,
forgive and laugh at him, the harem,
his daughter included, tends to remain
incomprehensible. Whatever in each of
them makes them need their affection
and/or infatuation for George is not
really explained or fully suggested.
Thea Astley's descriptions of people
and places is superb—from lush subur-
ban back gardens to city crowds, arty-
crafty parties, newspaper offices, Miss
Astley’s feeling for atmosphere is exact
and exactly conveyed.
Mad as Rabbits (with amusing illus-
trations by Paul Rigby) is one of those
episodic “neck of the woodsy” books in
the tradition of Steele Rudd and Charles
Shaw in Australia and of countless
American writers. Its fun stems not only
from Elizabeth Lane's hard work, but
from happenings on a lonely farm in the
Victorian Wimmera some half century
ago. Miss Lane came somewhere near
the tail end of a poor farmer's family
of twelve children. Life in a family of
twelve could seldom be dull, either in
the Wimmera, Wahroonga or Woolloo-
mooloo. Stories of how a neighbor, Mrs
Murphy, acquired her sewing machine
have not been spoilt for want of the tell-
ing, but without exaggeration books of
this type would be dull indeed. Occa-
sionally the author sheds her mantle of
facetiousness, and then the reader re-
flects that while Australia has produced
numerous books in the genre of Mad as
Rabbits, no one (not even Aeneas Gunn
or Myrtle Rose White) has done for
their particular necks of woods what
writers like Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings
in America, or “Elizabeth” in Europe,
did for theirs.


DOES HAPPINESS GET YOU DOWN?
Flowers and Fury. Geoffrey Dutton.
Cheshire. 20s.
Whose who suspect that there is a kind
of people for whom life is a con-
tinuous comedy and death a reasonable
curtain to make room for a new audience
will find the case stated in Geoffrey
Dutton’s “A Word for my Daughter”:
Never believe them when they say
The good thing dies,
The tragic is the greater play.
The worst still lets the best be gay.
For a detailed programme of this
comedy see “A South Australian
Almanac”, composed in terza rima “For
the birth of Francis” at a time when a
tragic poet might have been walking the
floor:
In September waterfalls spout from
the sleek green hills
And my beans are swept away; better
are found
In the market anyway, where the hall
fills
Up with New Australian women and
the sound
And scent of voices going with schin-
ken and pickles,
And jagdwurst and prager and bier-
wurst and sauerkraut.
Nor need the comedy be restricted to
South Australia; there is plenty of fresh
scenery in Europe, on the Danube:
One warm, wet day in Australia, the
Danube at our feet,
Across, the deep forest darkening
Silent beyond the plucking noises
Of the river at its banks, the Austrian
girl
To whom this river was every day,
explained
It was her father’s hunting-forest;
The Russians used machine guns on
the deer.
And one can be “A Boy from the
Bush in a Yorkshire Dale”, ruminating
on the difference between Australian and
those English pastures:
How impossible to say to a girl “In this
meadow
Fair and green we may us sport and
not be seen.”
You could find a nutbrown maid, cool
as a shadow,
But could you show her “watir clere”
(dog-brown!)
“Of the rivere?” Where her “grene
wodle?” Where her lost meadow?
And then you can skip a winter and
be back in Australia for the spear-fish-
ing whose equipment offers such oppor-
tunity for poetic counterpoint with the
physiology of love.
Art, no less than life, brings Geoffrey
Dutton an embarrassment of riches;
consideration of a brothel gives birth
to metaphysical poetry:
In war love bursts like a flower
through concrete,
Smells sweet, until its petals turn to
fire.
Death makes all lonely figures obsolete,
The mathematician who multiplies
desire
Even though he intends to divide and
subtract again.
The delicate song of Verlaine proffers
itself in its petticoat for translation:
Last of all clothing
Always in fashion,
Alone enclosing
The skin of passion.
Satire hands him a brick to drop with
careful calculation into the literary set-
up; it is about a dead bird in a university
attic:
Where better than a university
For the death of a singing bird?
And no less than “That admirable poet
Slessor” contributes a phrase for a theme
and variations:
That admirable poet Slessor
Once said that sometimes she
Was like sherry.
But to go on the strength of this
through the wine-list in praise of “a
different she' is a little as though Count
Rasumovsky had decided to improve on
that admirable musician Beethoven.
All in all, Geoffrey Dutton’s comedy
is a celebration of life’s pleasures, but it
is a calculated hedonism. For one thing,
he knows that pleasures are not so easy
to come by in hospitals, madhouses and
slums, and he puts these scenes against a
love-song for two people in the four
seasons in the title-piece of his book,
“Flowers and Fury”.
For another thing, he knows that seats
at comedies must be paid for, and he
knows the price of the tickets, as will
be seen in “Abandoned Airstrip, North-
ern Territory.” The inverted gaiety of this
piece is about as close as he comes to
anguish. Camped on a World War II air-
strip with anthills breaking through the
tar he is wakened by a howling dingo,
and using the dingo's loneliness as a com-
parison he meditates on the death of
solo-fliers, his friends:
It is perhaps the worst evil of war
To give that sense of belonging and of
love,
And all for death, which peace cannot
restore.
As to the dead:
Frank , Sam and all the rest, I hear
the oath
With which you'd greet the holy com-
radeship
Of Anz.ac Day .Greater bad luck you
both
Would call it, leave the love. You’d
rather slip
... Out after the dingo than be yarded,
However highly cattle are regarded.
Dingo, lucky brute, no stranger calls
you mate,
You are nobody’s good bloke, you
share no plate.
In a world where millions hanker to
belong
You have the courage of a lonely song.
The reconciliation of this with the
present is one of his best efforts:
Love can be shared, death not. How-
ever brave,
Years of freedom walk by on their own
And loneliness will never have a child.
Love takes its sharing moment, that
we have,
High above ant and airstrip as the
moon,
With friend or lover, mother, wife or
child,
In bed or cloud or desert, none the
same.
It is a new tone in Dutton’s verse,
and a good thing, too, because it was
beginning to look as though happiness
was getting him down.
RONALD McCUAIG
THE YEAR 1
Sydney Cove 1788. Original Diaries.
Edited by Dr John Cobley. Hodder
& Stoughton. 30s.
/'Vme of the most useful pieces of
research work ever done on the
documentation of Australia’s foundation
years is contained in this 296 page
volume. It is so useful because it brings
within the reach of the student and the
teacher far from the facilities of the
research libraries in which original docu-
ments repose transcripts of a great
variety of detailed information in origi-
nal documents not otherwise available to
them. Seemingly it is inaccessible even
to the professional academics dowered
with large salaries, long vacations and
sabbatical years, judging by some of the
practical offerings to Clio which have
been placed on the altars of history by
professors in recent times.
John Cobley’s enterprise to the un-
initiated looks unpretentious. He has not
followed the normal modern “scholarly”
practice, which makes it so easy to
appear learned, of evolving the spirit of
an age out of his own consciousness of
the say-so of some particular person
whose views match his own intuitive
and often uninformed estimates.
He began his work without know-
ledge of the period, without being in-
doctrinated for years with the pre-con-
ceptions of Ph.Ds. He was, however,
obviously equipped with the weapons
which make a research worker—an in-


DECEMBER RELEASES
NAMATJIRA OF THE ARANDA, Vic Hall
The tragic story of the controversial aboriginal artist, a man torn
between two worlds.
MEN OF THE SNOWY MOUNTAINS, Mona Ravenscroft
An account of people from around the world, each contributing
something to this mighty scheme.
NO ROADS GO BY, Myrtle Rose White
The new illustrated edition of this classic of life in the Outback.
25/-
FLORAL ART, Lyn Clarke
A book that will become a standard text and satisfy completely
any floral art club members.
PUBLISHED BY
RIGBY LIMITED
ADELAIDE - MELBOURNE - SYDNEY
BRISBANE - PERTH
tense curiosity, a fresh mind excited by
the novel, and the deadly persistence
and the sound eyesight needed to spell
out correctly the details of manuscripts
that often look as if they had been
written on fluff with diluted arrack.
In his own words, his mission was
to provide an editorial frame in which
to concentrate “the daily activities of
this small community, their thoughts,
their reactions and motivations,” through
“study of the journals of the time, and
not a later interpretation of them.” He
defines his method: “I have studied all
these documents and from them noted,
with original words and spelling, every
event and every opinion recorded in
Sydney Cove in 1788 and extant in
1961.” However minute the detail or
however inaccurate that detail may now
appear to us to be, it has been trans-
cribed. The removal of repetitions has
left these notes in the form of ... a
■ J ay to day account of the events of the
first year.”
This task has been accomplished with
unflagging care; the author says without
selectiveness save through the omission
of records of monotonously routine
tasks and through necessary condensa-
tion of evidence in court trials. Care, to
be exact, has been carried to the limit
of excluding the writer’s opinion by
making no alterations of crudities in
spelling or seemingly improbable expres-
sion. Repetition has not been excluded
when it is needed for emphasis or to
“more properly describe the nature of
the problem, as in Phillip’s repeated
requests for farmers, and for overseers
for the convicts.”
It needs great historical insight to
follow this line, but having recently
prepared a biography of Phillip, I have
discovered for the first time in years of
detailed probing of his age that his
greatness can only be expressed in terms
of repetitions. These alone can provide
a picture of his unswerving persistence
of purpose, which seems to be only
equalled by that of this new and satis-
fying depicter of his age.
Those who have experienced Dr
Cobley at work will know how good he
has been for them even if they have a
comprehensive knowledge of the period.
His curiosity about detail is limitless and
if something eludes him he pursues it,
nose down to the trail like a hound-dog,
until he has established whether, say, Dr
Worgan of the Sirius, son of Handel’s
friend, brought the first piano on this
continent to Botany Bay in his own ship
or whether it travelled in another vessel.
(It took some tracking before the fact
that it came w'ith him was established.)
The conjunction in the book of many
minds and different kinds of minds and
grades of social standing and intellect
provides one of the most remarkable
pictures that could be imagined of the
isolated little band engaged in attaching
itself to the barren rocks of an inhospit-
able shore, mostly hungry, mostly
frightened or despairing, some of it
hysterical as it watches lifeline after life-
line with civilisation being cut as the
transports leave for Asia and for home.
Not the least remarkable effect of the
correlation of annals is the manner in
which it illustrates the sinking of what
was at first an effervescent community
into one that is sodden and detached
from the world, its Homers going dumb,
its recorders becoming ever fewer, the
monotony of its existence broken only
by sordid violence, contention and a dull
sort of hardship common to almost
everybody. The results of an inevitable
continual rubbing of shoulders which
leads nearly everyone to hate almost
everybody else is obvious. The common
hatred of most is the antipodean prison
house from which there is no escape.
Even in the beginnings, when they had
been lodged round Port Jackson for
four months suffering the south-westerly
gales and torrential rains of their first
winter in “wattle and dab” huts which
melted around them in the deluge, they
were feeling desperately lonely. You
read in the journals, amid the records of
the marriage of a couple of convicts,
the trial for insolence of another, the
appearance of natives who speared two
convicts, the cry of the surgeon Worgan
for news about the great world. The
transports are leaving in six weeks for
home, but he cannot even wait till the
eve of their departure to write:
-I shall put a letter on board each ship for
you. . . . Pray, Mr Dick, have you had an
opportunity of sending me a packet of news:
Who is the King? the Queen? the ministers?
What’s the whim? Our whim will soon be
to go naked for you know ‘When we are at
Rome etc.’ As for my part, I shall be obliged
soon to make a virtue of necessity, for I
have torn almost all my clothes to nieces
by going into the woods . . . Our excursions
put me in mind of your going a steeple
hunting. We sometimes put a bit of salt beef,
or pork, Brisket, a bottle of O be joyful in
a knapsack, throw it over our backs, take
a hatchet, a brace of pistols & away we go
scouring the woods . . . sometimes east,
sometimes west, NS.”
The “woods” at that stage began at
King’s Cross and north of Druitt Street.
Even eight years later tall timber en-
croached on Hyde Park Hill as far north
as Market Street and Queen’s Square.
Dr Cobley’s volume certainly is no
hurriedly assembled gathering together
of “selected documents”. It contains no
ponderous notes, but an excellent biblio-
graphy mostly of original diaries and
logs; also, an adequate index and four
colour illustrations from Bradley’s
Journal and seven pictures and charts
in black and white.
It does not, of course, carry history
to the point at which Surgeon Worgan’s
worst fears were realised. The com-
munity was almost naked and starv-
ing to death when the sails of the Lady
Juliana, which brought extraordinary
succour in the shape of 200 lady con-
victs, loomed up outside the Heads in
June, 1790.
It ends just as one of the age’s
quaintest diarists, John Easty, had been
forgiven the 50 lashes awarded him for
“leaveing the camp without leave” and
as Governor Phillip was making his first
attempt to civilise the aboriginals.
This he did by capturing one who
“set up the most piercing and lament-
able cries of distress” and who was seen
“secured with a rope and a man leades
him abought,” after he “had sullenly
submitted to his destiny.”
Dr Cobley has not finished his task.
He proposes to continue to enshrine the
domestic history of Botany Bay year
by year. His next volume is already in
preparation.
M. H. ELLIS


On time...
every time
V v■ - ; H f <*s fe
• ■ , to#** '■ ' ~ ?
-/ -s*.
m .
jpg
»-v . .-
Jr
L
Q
w
:
««<•<••■••; »
M
VKS&C ■
: IT? ■<*?.
V% I > i /" ; ,;«
With 2 highly trained staff, pantechnicions and equipment
especially designed for fast safe transportation, Mayne Nickless
operate Australia's most reliable interstate freightways. To
facilitate the fast handling of all goods, Mayne Nickless main-
tain a large fleet of Radio Pick-up trucks.
MAYNE NICKLESS LTD.
. INCORPORATING ANT ILL RANGER
Australia's most reliable Interstate Freightways
SYDNEY'MELBOURNE'BRISBANE-PERTH
ADELAIDE • CANBERRA • NEWCASTLE
PORT KEMBLA • LAUNCESTON • .HOBART
Fast daily schedules
to all ma-in centres.
ZILICXZJ*
m
for every transport need
THE ORDEAL OF REG SAUNDERS
The Embarrassing Australian. The
story of an aboriginal warrior.
Harry Gordon. Lansdowne.
28s. 6d.
An the whole the aborigines of Austra-
” lia have been a disappointing race.
While Australia would like to be able
to boast that-their continent once be-
longed to a proud warrior people of
ferocious disposition, strange and won-
derful customs whtr fought like devils
in defence of their homelands and then
being vanquished bowed cheerfully to the
coming of civilisation.
Unfortunately neither in literature or
legend has the aborigine ever been
credited with any of the splendid manly
virtues that are usually attributed to the
Maoris, for instance, or the redskins of
North America. And yet ironically in
the very quality of body and mind which
it is the Australian genius to exalt above
all others the aborigine is pre-eminent.
Compare him with the average Euro-
Australian. Man for man he is more
fleet of foot; more graceful of move-
ment; more flexible of limb. His eye is
quicker, his aim is straighter, his ear is
more acute, his body is better adapted
to pain and punishment. He is clever
with his hands; he has a gift for impro-
vising tools and devices; an understand-
ing of the resources and materials of
nature which to us is uncanny.
In social accomplishments, singing,
I (lancing, playing an instrument, in com-
petitive sports which emphasise purely
individual achievements he is clearly our
superior. As swimmer, sprinter, long dis-
tance runner his potentiality is waiting
to be discovered. In the ring and outside
'it; on and off the football field he is a
courteous and considerate opponent; a
modest winner and a graceful loser.
1 In some instances, the boxers Jack
Hassan, Elley Bennett, Alfie Clay for
'example, these natural endowments were
brought to maturity, bloomed for one
brief spring and withered away long
before their time; in others, such as the
aboriginal fast bowlers, Jack Marsh and
Eddie Gilbert, unfriendly circumstances
nipped two promising careers in the bud;
mainly though, a thousand native ambi-
tions and abilities, hopes and desires have
been left to waste their sweetness on the
desert air, flowering unseen and dying
without trace.
Unfortunately we have not until very
recently had any really firm ground, any
precise information about individual
cases, to form theories on how this may
have happened. Harry Gordon’s bio-
graphy of the aborigine Reg Saunders,
who rose to be a captain in the second
A.1.F., is therefore of great interest.
The author knew Saunders in Korea
in 1950 where at one stage the aborigine
was commanding 200 white troops, and
renewed the acquaintance after the w r ar
and interviewed scores of Australians
who had known him at different times
of his life.
Saunders was born in Portland, Vic-
toria, in 1920 and brought up in the
vicinity of the Lake Condah aboriginal
mission. The native community centering
round Lake Condah contains a fair pro-
portion of West Indian blood and it is
of some significance that Saunders’ pater-
nal grandfather was a negro from
Jamaica. After the death of his aboriginal
full-blood mother when he was very
young, he and a younger brother were
reared by their father and carefully edu-
cated to avoid the influence of aboriginal
society. To Reg’s father, the son of a
negro, the aborigines were a lazy, shift-
less Jot whom Reg is inclined to distrust
even to this day. He has not therefore
been torn between the agonising alterna-
tives presented by two incompatible cul-
tures as other outstanding and highly
intelligent aborigines such as Albert
Namatjira and' Robert Tudawali have
been.
Being, therefore, somewhat unrepre-
sentative of his people, this story will be
of little use to the student of race rela-
tions but there is plenty in it for those
who are concerned about the relation-
ship of individuals to society. In the
pre-war days under the tutelage of his
father Saunders learned the skills and
practised the virtues of many of the
proud and independent spirits of the
Australian bush. He shone-as a sports-
man. His heroes were Les Darcy, Kings-
ford-Smith, Bill O'Reilly and Phar Lap.
The war inevitably was his oppor-
tunity. Unfortunately the military period
of his life is all too easy, because of
numerous war diaries, to document and
all too unrevealing. His army career fol-
lowed much the same lines as those of
a hundred splendid wartime soldiers
who have been commissioned from the
ranks. It included no special deeds of
valour but Saunders’ name was usually
linked with the names of V.C.’s and
famous fighting commanders because it
was assumed that being an aborigine he
had had to overcome unusual handicaps.
Long after hostilities had finished, when
wartime exploits were being relived in
clubs and bar-rooms, it was a proud
boast that one had fought alongside Reg
Saunders, had known him well enough
to clasp his hand.
In the genuine democracy of the army
in war, as it used to be in the democracy
of the bush, it is the quality of the in-
dividual that is all important. Saunders
was bound to succeed in the army. In
circumstances which called for swift
decisionsTind instinctive understanding of
his fellow men, he earned a high re-
spect, just as in the early years of our
pastoral history before the outback be-
gan to be swallowed up by civilisation
the first families of half-castes were
highly esteemed for the qualities that
were necessary for collective survival
in the bush.
In the modern State it is more a
question of the individual being able
to conform to the needs of a much larger,
less tangible society. Resuming civilian
life as a tram conductor, Saunders drift-
ed from job to job, moving generally
down the social scale; joined up again
for Korea and resigned when he became
bored and disgusted with the peacetime
army; began drifting again and now
works in a foundry and lives in a Hous-
ing Commission home at St Marys, near
Sydney. One of his AIF colleagues


HELP
LEGACY
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
hearing afterwards of his fate called it a
“horrible waste of man.”
What went wrong? Has Saunders
failed as a civilian where he succeeded
as a soldier, or has society failed
Saunders? The author of “The Em-
barrassing Australia” seems occasionally
to pose the question in the course of his
narrative but he has not made it his
business to answer it. The clues are
more likely to be found in his experi-
ences as a private citizep but the book
is largely concerned with his military
career.
It was not simply the case of the
restless adventurer pining for action. He
returned from the Second World War
anxious to settle down with his wife
and family. He thought of a farm but
he had no money and lacked either the
patience or the acquisitive instincts to
make it; and in any case, as with most
aborigines, a taste of city life makes the
bush seem so dull.
It was not a question of discrimination
against the color of his skin. Occasion-
ally he encountered petty instances of
racial prejudice but usually he found
his black skin was a decided advantage.
It seemed to make people want to be
unusually generous. Business finds it
good public relations to offer a black man
a job. Australian Rules umpires are more
likely to nominate an aboriginal foot-
baller as the “best and fairest player.”
“I wouldn’t be white for quids,” says Reg
Saunders. As a foundry worker it is
the quality that raises him above the un-
distinguished mass.
It is an exasperating thought that such
a brave soldier, such a thorough gentle-
man, , can find so little of purpose or
meaning to perform in our modern
society. Reg Saunders’ history is poig-
nant enough in itself and yet it is im-
possible to read it without thinking of
the tragedy of the whole aboriginal race.
Lacking the sustaining hopes and beliefs
in a divine providence that in European
societies seems to lend a benevolent
moral sanction to most of our worldly
affairs, knowing no doctrine which
teaches that our present misdeeds will
find a justification in the future, the
aborigine views us in the hard, wild light
of the only reality which he knows. The
sight, it is fair to presume, is not a pretty
one, but he must either grit his teeth
or face it and bury his soul in drink and
oblivion.
E. G. DOCKER
4 POETS IN 1
Four Poets: David Malouf, Don May-
nard, Judith Green, Rodney Hall.
F. W. Cheshire. 17s. 6d.
rp o the long list of pleasant surprises in
this sensational year for Australian
publishing Cheshires now adds one
more: a representative selection from
the work of four poets, the youngest of
whom is 25 and the oldest 28. Its con-
cept, we are told, arises from the dis-
turbing difficulty of presenting the work
of young poets in individual volumes,
It’s a good idea, and the Common-
wealth Literary Fund is backing it.
The introduction explains that the
four poets are broadly in sympathy
with each other. But their achievements
differ widely. At least one of the quartet,
David Malouf, is potentially important;
his work stands out in this company.
Another two were certainly worth pub-
lishing. Only one, and so far, the least
known, has still to substantiate his
claim.
Malouf’s contribution is aptly called
“Interiors.” His is an “enclosed” poetry,
personal but not private or difficult. He
has a notable gift for evoking a family
mood, projecting a sense of time.
An afternoon late summer, in a room
shuttered against the bright,
envenomed leaves;
an underwater world, where time,
like water,
was held in the wide arms of a gilded
clock
and my grandmother, turning in the
still saragossa
of memory, wound out her griefs and
held
a small boy prisoner to weeds and
corals
while summer leaked its daylight
through his head.
It is a representative passage, demon-
strating Malouf's effective blend of at-
titude and prosody. There is no strain-
ing, and in more ambitious poems, like
“Footnote for a Bestiary,” where the
language is more sensuous, it still
matches the imagery. At times in
“Hotel Room Revisited” and “Epitaph
for a Monster of our Time”—a dryness
creeps in which is deliberate but too
common, nowadays, not to blur distinc-
tion. To judge from this dozen poems,
David Malouf has a positive rather
than experimental link with his sur-
roundings and a firm grip on his emo-
tional material. Other poets’ influences
on him are not very apparent and while
his field may be limited, he moves in it
with splendid conviction. He is already
making his mark.
In her better poems Judith Green re-
minds one of her fellow Queenslander,
Judith Wright, without inviting damag-
ing comparisons. It comes out in poems
which have the nicely judged simplicity
with which Judith Wright can touch us.
The calabash made once
a coolamon
for a black bush baby;
for me a song
a slow ripe fall
of fruit and tendril
so full so still
I cannot mend it.
Like Judith -Wright, Miss Green has
a significant concern for woman’s ex-
perience of man through her own two-
sidedness, exceptionally well handled in
‘‘Seer,” even a somewhat similar way of
exploring thought through feeling and,
finally, though not yet fully realised,
she shares her instinct for the natural
heaviness of words to suggest physical
substance. But her verse-craft is some-
times awkward. ( Fluorescence wipes
anonymous/whoever enters. Or: Slier-
bert on Athos Rucksacks, beer./ Ob-
serve precariously the box/ decollete for
Rosenkavalier.)
Overall, the blemishes do not seri-
ously detract; a poem like “The Boy in
the Green Gown” has poise and intense
driving force.
Rodney Hall, who lived his formative
years in England, is more careless, per-
mitting rhyming needs to dictate to him,
which must always lead to the flat or
too obvious, and some of his pictures—
as when he lets a “pathway shrivel
round the columns of my memory’
touch banality. Prosiness, in fact, is his
danger, but that he will survive it is
suggested by his irony and the more
than merely appealing dexterity that in-
forms “Madam’s Music” and “She.” At
his best he combines youthfulness with
felt resonance: there's a poet at work,
taking his risks and learning to control
them.
About Don Maynard I am less happy-
His poems are, above all, incomplete:
expressionistic, but what they express is
neither clear enough nor arresting, and
his technique, which never lacks confi-
dence, is casually mannered. Unusual,
quasi-geometrical verse patterns must
be justified in the ideas they express, the
response the poem evokes in the co-
operative reader, otherwise nothing lS
more formalistic than this kind of the
unconventional. These are as yet short-
hand notes towards an individual poetry.
Possibly Maynard is still looking f° r
his medium, some half-way house be-
tween prose and poetry, and he may
find it in association with the visual arts
. . . not unlikely through television.
DAVID MAR[?]N


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Action on Trust Deeds at Last
Some £.50 million of fixed-interest securities, ostensibly
protected by trust deeds, now stand in jeopardy as one
consequence of company failures and defaults during
1962. Last week one or two trustees manfully girded them-
selves to the task of pursuing the interests of debenture and
deposit holders in accord with their documentary pledges.
It is idle to remark' that these efforts will be watched with
profound concern.
On them, as we perhaps indicated in our consideration of
Reid Murray (The Bulletin, December 8), depends much of
the future of this type of investment in Australia. Whether
under eventual receivership or by Court decision, the
principles and priorities of company borrowings have to be
unambiguously resolved.
It is far too dangerous, viewing the future capital demands
of a vigorous private sector, to permit any lingering scepticism
about what are really unnecessary dangers and risks in fixed-
interests. This kind of investment has recommended itself
by its relative safety in the past. That prime condition must
be seen to apply again in the very near future.
So the Equity Trustees’ action in respect of Reid Murray
Acceptance, the Bankers and Traders’ intervention in David
Murray Holdings and even the Factors’ attempt to win a stay
of all legal proceedings, are crucial moves to clarify prevailing
misunderstandings.
Apart from the individual Trustee moves, we have to
welcome the perhaps belated but at last visible anxieties of
the Australian- Associated Stock Exchanges. Their recent
statement was aimed particularly at “the trust deeds associated
with note and debenture issues.”
In particular it is good to learn that the Exchanges may
meet the problem head on by far stiffer listing requirements.
And since legislative action will be needed, it is to be hoped
that the “Standing Committee of Commonwealth and State
Attorneys-General” receives the new suggestions as quickly as
Possible.
The Exchanges are at least grasping the right nettles.
Among their desiderata for listing will be a provision that a
borrowing company report more frequently to a trustee on
«s financial standing. Most importantly, the exact relation-
ship between the trustee and the company is to be clearly
defined.
[ TH contemporary instances in mind, the Exchanges ask
’ for clarification of the legal position where a group allows
a subsidiary to raise term finance. Again they demand a
of securities, “distinguishing between those that
i ar e secured by a charge over specific assets and those which
have only a floating charge.”
Any additional clarity will be valuable to hedge term invest-
ments around with a safety that has formerly been taken for
Ranted. But it can hardly be denied that in the softer condi-
ll °ns of the past, some trustees have been laggard and loth in
Passing the provisions of existing trust deeds.
Even existing Companies Acts contain provisions which
s hould have kept trustees right up to the mark. “The trustees
shall exercise diligence in ascertaining whether or not the
assets of the corporation which constitute or may constitute
the security for the debentures are sufficient or are. likely to
become sufficient to discharge the principal debt and any
interest thereon.” Too many big fish swam under that net.
RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES
ON WAY OUT?
Sir Garfield Barwick has tossed his hat into the ring with
a vengeance. The projected legislative moves against
restrictive trade practices and monopolistic business look
certain to provoke widespread controversy, no less on matters
of principle than on their mechanical details. Already the
confidently asserted support from “a clear majority” of State
Governments appears in need of correction and businessmen
seem equally divided.
Not a few observers express surprise that the relatively
youthful Australian industrial pattern demands curbs on such
things as price fixing and cutting, boycotts, collusive tendering,
discriminatory dealings and a whole host of fairly secretive
commercial practices. In many of these habits, however,
local- business is thoroughly and competently mature.
However vague the term “public interest” sounds, there can
be no doubt that over a wide area it calls for protection. One
friendly critic of the possible legislation has mentioned the
high incidence of restriction among the distributive trades, and
claims that “the margins added on ex-factory prices are the
largest in the world.”
Everyone in Australia knows the huge competitive pres-
sure our manufacturers are about to face in a crucial struggle
for exports. Under these conditions, the completest virtues of
free competition must certainly be exercised inside the country.
The present-day free-enterprise system may look very unlike
its 19th century counterpart. But it still has to satisfy and
obey certain social necessities, which should not be overborne
by unlawful and restrictive behaviour. /
Sir Garfield puts forward his plans as an attempt to “halt
practices which deprived, or tended to deprive, the com-
munity of the benefits 'of free enterprise and the individual
trader of business opportunities that ought fairly to be open
to him.” Therefore the machinery is designed to strike at any
harmful act, be it collusive agreement or “a position of power
or of monopoly agreement.”
At first glance, the devices of tribunals and registered
documents setting out justifiable practices may appear some-
what cumbersome, though they are plainly better than the
comparatively narrow range of reference permitted the English
restrictive practices courts.
Considerable flexibility and acute practical judgment will be
needed efficiently to implement Sir Garfield’s provisions,
especially as they apply to monopolisation and takeovers.
Rigidity of definition in the early stages must be avoided, else
the legislation will put arbitrary shackles on the very enterprise
it aims to encourage.


“EAST IS EAST..AT THE
ILO CONFERENCE
You don’t have to be a fellow traveller to take some of the
A aggressive points put to the International Labor Organisa-
tion’s fifth Asian Regional Conference in Melbourne last week
by Mr Vassilenko, representative of the USSR in a speech
which the chairman thought too long and brought to an abrupt
close. In case anybody has forgotten, the Soviet is an active
member of the ILO even if it doesn’t always swing along with
it, and thinks the Director General’s annual report, which the
delegates have been debating in Melbourne, is the latest in
bad Westerns.
Irritating though this may be, much of what Mr Vassilenko
had to say could well have been said with conviction —though
without the Russian’s innuendoes by, say, Mr McEwen.
Skipping the bit where the Soviet delegate invited the
capitalist countries to get out of Asia altogether and stop-
exploiting the under-developed countries there, Mr Vassilenko
had this to say on the effects of deteriorating terms of trade:
“According to the data of the Moscow Institute for World
Economics and International Relations, the total yearly losses
of the under-developed countries as a result of unfair terms
of trade amount to 14 to 16 billion dollars. A very large
share of these losses is born by the under-developed countries
of Asia. The overall relationship between export and import
puces, as can be seen from available information, including
that found in the Director-General’s Report, is evolving to
the detriment of these countries. The terms of trade between
them and the world market are deteriorating.
“Far from slackening, the trend towards further uncompen-
sated outflow of values from the Asian countries toward the
world market is growing. To offset these losses through the
setting of fair prices both for imported and exported goods,
i.e., above all for raw materials, is the most urgent issue of
our day. Measures to this effect within the context of inter-
national agreement would lead to a considerable increase in
accumulated reserves and would thus speed up the rate of
economic development.”
Then the Russian delegate got down to very brass tacks on
the subject of the heavy accumulating debt whose servicing
threatens to throttle development in Asia. Again, skipping
some of the expletives on this, Mr Vassilenko was on the same
track as the almost universal opinion of the recent Colombo
Plan region delegates at their recent conference here, even if
his horizons were more fireball than theirs.
“The United Kingdom, the Federal Republic of Germany,
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
are charging enormous interest up to 5-6 p.c,” he said. “And
if the US is now loaning to India free of interest, this is on
condition that all Indian purchases made with this money be
made in the US. Mr Kennedy, as we know, has remarked that
in 1962, 80 p.c. of the ‘aid’ extended by the US will revert to
the US. And what does that mean? It means that a country
has to purchase equipment at prices 40-50 p.c. above world
market prices.
“The effects of such ‘aid’ are already now becoming visible.
During the third five-year plan India will have to spend up to
5.5 billion rupees in hard currency in repayment of loans and
of interest thereon. During its second five-year plan Pakistan
will have to spend 2.4 billion rupees to the same end, at a
time when its overall export returns amount to only 11.6
billion rupees. Now has such ‘aid’ created the industrial
potential on the basis of which the recipient countries might,
without harm to their development, pay off this enormous
tribute?
“One is bound to answer this in the negative and thus the
tribute paid in amortisation of this ‘aid’ vitiates the western
countries and particularly the US in attempting to tie in this
‘aid’ with specific political factors.”
And have we not heard from the mouths of some of oar
politicians something of the following ilk on the effects of the
Common Market?
“The Common Market is tending through the erection of
high customs barriers, to intensification of the unfavourable
terms of trade picture and to the further transfer of national
income from the Asian countries irrto the pockets of Western
monopoly capital. The market will have the further nefarious
effect of ensuring the stultification or indeed utter ruin, of
certain branches of industry and in the first place of those
working for the export market.”
It all goes to show that the big Western industrialised
countries have got to come up with some new answer to the
problems of the under-developed countries.
But Mr Vassilenko didn’t go unanswered. Scorning the idea
that anybody was likely to be taken in by the Russian’s speech,
Mr George P. Delaney, US Government delegate, quoted the
ninety billion dollar overseas aid assistance and private invest-
ment outlay by the US since 1945, and he also quoted President
Kennedy: “To those people in the huts and villages of half
of the globe struggling to break the bonds of mass misery we
pledge our best efforts to help them help themselves, for
whatever period is required not because the Communists
may be doing it, not because we seek their votes, but because
it is right. If free society cannot help the many who are poor,
it cannot save the few who are rich.”
ANZ BANK’S CRASH PROGRAMME
OF TRAINING
HThe ANZ Bank has made an extremely practical suggestion
towards the preliminary training of recruits for industry
on the verge of genuine expansion. The only criticism seems
to be that the idea arrives too late in the year to allow
immediate official implementation.
With Australian industry poised on the knife-edge of
decision to utilise admitted idle capacity, employers may be
hesitating to engage labour “less trained or otherwise less
efficient than existing employees,” the bank considers.
Why, then, should not Governments, employers, trade
unions and schools be brought together to devise a “crash
programme of training over the Christmas-New Year period?
Teachers, classrooms, factories and workshops could be used
during their normal close-down. When industry reaches full
swing once more, very many of the present unemployed,
including school-leavers, “would be more reasonable employ-
ment risks.”
The stage of economic recovery now attained displays
“idle purchasing power and unemployed labour not being
matched with idle capacity.” When more jobs are readily
available, the unemployed must be absorbed without any undue
lift in costs or reduction in productivity. The case ?° r
adequate pre-training is therefore clear.
One valuable break-through in the employment pattern is
the recent decision of the engineering and electrical trades to
adopt shortened apprenticeships for young men between 1
and 20.
Custom had decreed that apprentices be enrolled between
about 154 and 164. The new move will encourage you* s >
before seeking apprenticeship, to benefit from the avails c
higher education more and more necessary in these days o
industrial complexity.
With all this enlightenment around, dare one expect g°'
ments, trade unions and industrialists to get together on
economic and social problems raised by increasing automation


Another “Wales” Service
• •
•••
Oversea markets, like gold, are where you find
them, but it is easier to find them with the
help of the “Wales”. There you can obtain
information on new markets or be put in
touch with businessmen overseas. Exporting
is made easier for you, too, with assistance in
many ways ask for copies of the booklets
“An Australian Exporter’s Guide” and “Plan-
ning a Business Trip Overseas”.
You can bank on the “ Wales”.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
A6133G-«
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
ROMAN holiday
FOR FREE TRADERS
With its stiffer upper protective lip,
the Australian Industries Develop-
ment Association says that realising they
have “a back bench enclave” in Parlia-
ment, free trade forces have been having
a Roman holiday in the current contro-
versy over the Tariff Board. It then
gives the Government some advice
which sounds awfully like a big stick
from the manufacturing interests.
“It is Government’s duty,” it states,
“to carry through the policies of the
people, not to set up autonomous little
governments which can defy elected
Government, popular opinion and needs,
for the sake of personally conceived
ideologies. It has been conveniently for-
gotten that the late James Scullin in
1930 temporarily took tariff-making out
of the hands of the Tariff Board and
imposed immediate, across-the-board
tariffs to protect Australia’s solvency.”
AIDA apparently has a predilection
for this sort of action by any govern-
ment when it means higher tariffs. It
certainly applauds both the appoint-
ment and the work of the Special Ad-
visory Authority:
“The Minister for Trade had the un-
enviable job of trying to overcome the
problems created by the Government's
mistake ot precipitously lifting import
restrictions. Speed was essential, so a
Special Advisory Authority (Sir Frank
Meere) was established to undertake this
work. Sir Frank knows more about Aus-
tralian industry and its problems than
most men, and has no personal axe to
grind apart from dedication to his
country.”
The Association thinks that those w'ho
are not pleased with the Special Ad-
visory Authority are short-sighted, saying
the importance of manufacturing indus-
try, which has been so strongly helped
hy Special Authority decisions, in the
improved employment position is proved
since it contributed 63.2 p.c. of the rise
in employment in the 12 months to Sep-
tember last, whereas other employments
accounted for only 28.8 p.c.
At any rate, it seems AIDA will shed
few tears at Sir Leslie Melville’s de-
parture,
"hard sell" on
exports
The intensive method of pushing ex-
ports, based upon a relatively
j narrow range of commodities, has been
i tu| ly justified by the recent building
Materials mission to Malaya and Singa-
P°re. Both the Department of Trade
the manufacturers concerned express
themselves pleased with results so far
at tained.
Business actually won was beyond
first expectations. Better still, the run
of orders suggests a trebling of sales
levels in the near future.
This kind of trade mission is less
diffuse than others the department has
sent to various parts of the W'orld. The
emphasis does not rest so much upon
propaganda and softening up a market
as upon distinctly hard selling.
Malaya and Singapore proved, and
should continue to prove, a favourable
area for the goods covered by the
mission. One considerable advantage in
the two places is the large number
of Australian - trained architects and
engineers with some prior interest in
Australian-made building materials.
The 12 firms comprising the mission
included N. V. Appleton, BHP, Burnie
Board and Timber Pty, CSR Building
Materials, Hills Hoists, Ralph Symonds
and Wunderlich. A keen demand was
noticed for plywood and roofing
material. Sales were effected on normal
commercial export terms.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
"EPICS" PART IN THE EXPORT EFFORT
The higher rate of claims announced by
the Export Payments Insurance
Corporation (EPIC) for the last five
months reinforces the impression that as
Australia’s export drive increases both
in breadth and tempo, so do the risks
of default by overseas buyers.
Talking about this to The Bulletin
in Melbourne, EPIC’s Commissioner, Mr
G. A. Hawley, said present conditions in
overseas markets intensified the risks,
not that EPIC whose 121 per cent,
increase in business so far this year
giving it a £374 million annual cover
rate (£33 million in 1961-62) spread
over 339 exporters (298 last year) had
been put on a limb.
The Corporation has paid out £14,000
in the first five months this year and a
further £9,000 of claims had been ad-
mitted for payment. In addition, export-
ers have reported £40,000 to be overdue
for payment by overseas buyers. Last
year total claims were £22,000.
Speaking about the world markets for
manufactured goods, he pointed out that
they had become “buyers’ markets com-
pletely” and exporters had to be in-
creasingly aware of the uncreditworthy
buyer, especially in countries where the
swelling demand for imported goods was
a product, inter alia, of inflation.
Where inflation is rife importers will
buy readily on credit because, whereas
they can purchase the currency to pay
for goods at current prices, they can sell
them on a rising market. At the same
time continued inflation is more likely to
bring default on overseas payments.
On top of this there is the matter of
the deterioration of the terms of trade of
primary producing under-developed
countries, to which not only Mr Hawley
but also the recent Colombo Plan and
International Labor Organisation confer-
ences in Melbourne drew attention. The
erosion of prices of primary products
exported by many of these countries,
coupled with the growing official over-
seas debt to be serviced, puts continuing
strain on their overseas payments posi-
tions and intensifies the risks of expor-
ters to them not being paid.
In the conditions of increasing compe-
tition in such markets the inexperienced
exporter has to be doubly aware of the
danger of dealing with uncreditworthy
buyers. In such conditions, Mr Hawley
emphasised that “many buyers not com-
mercially regarded as creditworthy find
ways of obtaining goods on credit.”
EPIC has built up a unique system
of commercial and also economic intel-
ligence to put exporters on their guard
as to both uncreditworthy customers and
countries. Mr Hawley said EPIC had
records of 10,000 overseas buyers and
the number was growing rapidly. It also
maintained continual vigilance on the
credit status of overseas countries inter-
esting to Australian exporters.
This is not to say that EPIC will neces-
sarily refuse cover at the appropriate
premium to exporters wanting to trade
with risky countries, though from the
tenor of Mr Hawley’s remarks trade with
bad buyers gets short shrift from the
Corporation.
Mr Hawley quoted recent instances of'
EPIC giving cover to exporters faced with
high risks. One of these was before the
recent change-over in West New Guinea
when the influx of troops substantially
increased the demand for Australian
goods. He said it was doubtful whether
Australian exporters would have respond-
ed to this without EPIC’s protection. In
any case neither EPIC nor exporters got
their fingers burnt as a result of the
sending of increased exports to the area.
Present high risk countries in EPIC’s
book are Vietnam and Korea. Last year
Ceylon >vas considered a big risk, but
this has now lessened.
unique value of EPIC to Australian
exporters is, perhaps, not so much
the cover they can get from it though
the importance of this cannot be over-
rated —but that EPIC is so well-informed
on the whole arena of exporting.
Much of such intelligence comes from
EPIC being a member of the Berne
Convention, the international association
of export credit insurance institutions, of
which Australia, the US, Britain and
West Germany are members, but not,
incidentally, Japan. Japan’s absence has
given it the opportunity to outdo mem-
bers on some occasions in the liberality
of its credit extensions in the pursuit of
export orders, but there is some talk of
Japan linking with the Convention.
The insurance provided by EPIC,
which incidentally operates on strictly
commercial trading lines under charter
from the Federal Government, is largely
concerned with export trade not normally
insured with private insurance companies.
It is not so much that EPIC’s field is
more risky than private insurers for
in fact the two over-lap but rather
that it has a trade promotional element
which is less evident in private insurance.
Under the 1956 Act which incorporat-
ed it, EPIC operates on a “no-profit no
loss” basis and its commitments are guar-
anteed by the Government, the avowed
aim being to facilitate the expansion of
Australian exports by giving exporters
at least the equivalent Government
backed insurance facilities of those avail-
able to their competitors in overseas
markets.
By the nature of the area of insurance
in which it operates, EPIC might be ex-
pected to incur some losses which no-
body could complain of writing off
against the value of acquiring a foothold
for more products in more export
markets, so in terms of the success of
the latter objective its bigger log of
claims this year may be considered quite
encouraging and certainly not excep-
tional.
It is not so long since EPIC persuaded
the Government to widen its brief so
that Australian exporters can trade on
equal terms with competitors.
For instance, within the global limit
of £5O million for its contingent lia-
bilities it is now permitted to extend
cover for up to 95 p.c. in cases of de-
fault for political causes and up to 85
p.c. for commercial default. It can now
provide a measure of indemnity against
the risk of default on contract by a
solvent buyer. It has reduced the waiting
period before payment of certain types
of claims and introduced new and spec-
ialised types of policies, such as overseas
processing and stockholding policies.
Perhaps the most notable example of
the Corporation’s widening spread of
business is seen in the field of capital
goods exports, in Which Australian manu-
facturers have been showing very much
greater interest in the last year or so (a
reflection of the lull in private invest-
ment in this country among other things).
1%/Ir Hawley said that exporters sup-
ported by EPIC had tendered for 39
contracts for capital goods to the value
of £4O million since the beginning of
1962 compared with 34 contracts to a
value of only £l4 million in the like
period of 1961. Only a small proportion
of these contracts may prove success-
ful (perhaps only about 10 p.c. judging
on general experience of world export-
ers), but the rising interest in this fid
is encouraging and for this EPIC can
take some of the credit.
And here is a thought for exporters
who have yet to knock at EPIC s door.
Any firm winning a contract with pap
ments up to five years can use his EPI
policy as security for bank finance.
Another thought is that the Corpora
tion will now give cover for credit tra e
transacted by Australian businessmen
between countries outside Australia, P r °
vided the commodities are not comp etl
tive with Australian goods. So to b e ®
client of EPIC you don’t necessary
have to be an exporter of Austral 2 ,
goods at all.


PRESS CLIPPINGS
WILL TELL YOU
Keep fully intormeo by letting us
supply you, or your office, with
press clippings on any subject in
which you are interested
We offer a complete coverage of
newspapers and magazines, all
States, city and country. This
press clipping service enables you
to keep a complete tab on any
matter —your company, trade or
orofession, financial news, com-
pany reports, publicity mentions,
new industries, political and
editorial mentions, publicity
checks, oress releases, sales
leads, competitors' news.
We will supply clippings on
any subject you may care
to specify.
A.N.Z. PRESS CLIPPING SERVICE,
. -- • -
199 Liverpool St., SYDNEY. 61-4230.
WILL 1963 BE WAPET'S
LUCKY YEAR?
This month marks the ninth anniversary
of the discovery of oil in Western
Australia. Early in December, 1953,
oil was found in the Rough Range No.
1 well on the lonely North West Cape
in what proved to be circumstances al-
most unique in world oil exploration.
Since then West Australian Petroleum
Pty Ltd, the most active of Australia’s
many oil explorers, has poured nearly
£2O million into the search, almost half
in the Rough Range area. And the end
is not yet in sight. In the coming year,
another £2i million expenditure is
planned.
West Australian Petroleum Pty was
formed in 1951 —a joint operation be-
tween Australia’s Ampol Petroleum Ltd
and the Caltex group. In 1958 the
Shell company joined the group, the
split-up being four-sevenths held by Cal-
tex, two-sevenths by Shell and one-
seventh by Ampol Exploration in which
the Australian public has a large share
interest.
Because of the success of the Rough
Range well, exploration and drilling have
naturally been concentrated in this area.
Both Rough Range and Cape Range ap-
peared to be text-book structures for the
accumulation of oil, so in what almost
amounted to counting the oil barrels
before they were capped, the drilling
crews began work on other wells after
the strike to prove the size of the field.
But after nine wells on this structure
and 24 in the area, they were finally
convinced that the deposit was a freak-
ish occurrence with an area of less than
100 acres—not a commercial proposi-
tion.
Today all that marks the site is a
“Christmas tree” which can be used to
draw the oil off should it become com-
mercially feasible, a black stain on the
rocks where production tests were con-
ducted and the rusting accumulation of
rubbish synonymous with any masculine
frontier camp.
But despite all the disappointments in
the area, WAPET geologists are still con-
vinced that commercial oil exists in the
area and much of the coming year’s
work will be in continuation of solving
the “Riddle of Rough Range.”
Despite the concentration of work on
this area, WAPET’s two other areas, the
Fitzroy-Canning Basin and the Perth
Basin, are not being neglected.
One of Sydney’s leading oil men, ask-
ed to forecast where, after the Moonie
field, he considered oil would be found
in Australia in commercial quantities,
said, without hesitation, “The Fitzroy
Basin”—and WAPET geologists are
just as confident.
To date 15 major wells have been
drilled here, several of which found small
but significant shows of oil. But the
problems are far greater than elsewhere
in the company’s areas. The Basin is
1200 air miles north of Perth and
covers much of the country that has
never been properly explored.
Wet seasons, which prevented all
wheeled vehicle movement for months
on end, added to the company’s difficul-
ties. One well was drilled through the
wet season but all equipment and food
had to be flown in at almost prohibitive
cost.
Roads are in many cases non-existent
and the company has had to make its
own. In fact, in the past 10 years, it
has become the most active road-making
body in the State, constructing almost
500 miles of new roads and 10,000
miles of access trails, as well as thous-
ands of miles of seismic line which
usually become trails or roads for the
farmers.
Aeromagnetic work has begun over
the South Canning desert. Planes will
fly more than 20,000 miles over country,
parts of which have never been
trodden by white men. This survey will
locate areas to be checked later by
ground parties, perhaps to be flown in
by helicopter.
The Perth Basin, which stretches from
north of Geraldton to the south-western
tip of the State, has had the least work
done on it despite its proximity to Perth.
Here, one of the inhibiting factors
was the almost featureless nature of the
area which buried the vital geological
information under hundreds of feet of
sand.
But in recent years with improvements
in seismic methods, the WAPET scien-
tists have a much better picture of the
area. Of the three wells drilled by the
company so far, Eneabba failed to
reach basement at 13,700 ft, and Jurien
bottomed at 3366 ft. Both encountered
traces of gas and oil.
The third well, Woolmulla, is located
about halfway between these two on
what appears a promising structure.
Should oil or gas be found in this
well in commercial quantities, the results
could be far more valuable than a larger
strike in either of WAPET’s two other
areas.
WAPET’s managing director, Mr Pat
McGrath, said recently in Perth that
the company would not be drilling many
more dry holes. He also said the end
was not yet in sight for the search for
oil in the west — 1963 could be the
lucky year.
ACTION IN THE
GEORGINA
JgxcEPT in the post - Rough Range
scramble for permit areas, when
all Australia’s sedimentary areas and
even much territory outside them were
allocated, little serious interest has been
taken in the Georgina basin, to the
north-east of Alice Springs in Northern
Territory. It is therefore something of
an event that at long last some ex-
ploratory drilling is to be done there.
The geology of this basin and of its
flanking basins Barkly (to the north),
Amadeus (to the west) and the Eromanga
sub-basin (to the east in Queensland) —
is as yet poorly defined.
None of the present permit holders in
the basin—Smith Australian (6,620
square miles), Continental Oil & Gas
(7,833), United Australian Oil (8,897),
Titan Petroleum—is S.E. listed or has a
link with Australian public companies.
However, one of them, Smith Aus-
tralian, in which Place Gas & Oil
(Canada) has a quarter interest, has now
made an agreement with Farmout Drillers
NL (2s. shares currently around Is.) for
the latter to do 5000 feet of test drilling
in its permit area (OP 41) on the
western side of the basin, where in 1956
gas ignited in a water bore while its
casing was being welded. This follows
Farmout’s drilling preparations at Alice
River No. 1, near Barcaldine across the
border in Queensland.
Farmout’s drilling, which is expected
to start by the end of the year and
finish by April, will be within a radius of
the Ammaroo water bore, which is about
12 miles from the Ammaroo homestead.
For its pains Farmout gets a 50 p.c.
interest in 200 square miles of OP 41,
together with an option up to December,
1963, to drill in the Lucy Creek area of
100 square miles covering the Lucy
Creek anticline.


INVESTMENT SECTION
LOTS HAPPENING FOR INVESTORS
Tnvestors need not complain of any
A lack in business excitement as the
Australian Stock Exchanges approach
their brief Christmas-New Year holiday.
This time of the year seems no longer
distinguished by ultra - quietness and
dullness. One of the marks of our so-
called sophisticated investment atmo-
sphere will be to keep interest at stretch
all the year round.
But whatever close scrutiny is being
swept over the markets, share dealings
are still held within reasonable and
judicious bounds. No doubt we may
boast a sense of pride that the worst
happenings during the past week or so
(Reid Murray, Pacific Acceptance, A. G.
Sims, for instance) have been early and
effectively discounted.
This particular skill, however, could
be largely the exercise of professionals.
There must be a great number of small
holders and the less informed left con-
templating fearful losses, even wonder-
ing how the thronging schemes of
arrangement might in the end save the
day for them. Their return to the hurly-
burly, granted the market’s solid under-
tone, looks a little problematical as yet.
It is not going to be easy, as well, to
work out the short and long term
influences of some of the changes just
around the corner new slants on
trustees and fixed interest borrowings,
Government action on monopolies and
restrictive practices.
These long-overdue novelties demand
a good deal of digesting by all parties
concerned, not least investors. The
year’s end has certainly been stirred up
by their advent. Above all the excite-
ment, though, chief importance should
be given to the fact that at present both
the economy and the exchanges are set
healthily solid. Even Mr Korman is not
expected to rock them too much, despite
the first glimpse conveyed by Factors
asking for a stay of all legal proceedings.
Stanhili’s results should be available
before these lines are read.
As we have just said, most of the
local portents appear good. Overseas,
too, most of the principal bourses
(especially New York and London) are
viewing their own prospects more
favourably. While .n Australia the
emphasis may move particularly to-
wards stability, that’s no bad thing after
the past year or two.
With correction ready to assert itself
after a few days of mild exuberance, the
now equable Australian markets may be
ripe for more distinct advances early in
1963. Certainly the end of 1962 and
first dealings in the New Year should
give no evidence of retreat.
In the economic picture, employment
is widely thought to be the most in-
transigent feature. Even here many are
willing to predict a fairly comfortable
absorption of the school-leavers’ bulge.
They are able to point to the “multiplier”
effect of increasing output, obviously
better wool prices, building and motor
vehicle advances.
There are not wanting some who see
a need to force some check upon stimulus
given to the economy’s private sector.
Sir lan Potter shrewdly assessed this
situation at last week’s meeting of Port-
folio and Development.
“The economic barometer is set fair,
with indications of better weather ahead
. . . It seems more ihan probable that
Australia is about to enter a further
phase of expansion and it is not unlikely
that before long we will be constrained
to think of the risks of too rapid ex-
pansion . . . This stage, however, has
not yet been reached and it would in
my opinion be premature to check too
quickly the stimulus,” Sir lan argued.
He maintained that a state of full
employment could be reached in the
first half of 1963 and also saw no
occasion for immediate anxiety on the
balance-of-payments front.
Were any checks required, Sir lan
added, they could be best achieved by
a reduction of activity in the public
sector, “which has been utilised (and
very successfully) to take up the slack
that developed in the private sector
during 1961 and early this year.”
These are larger issues. At this present
moment, investors may be taking most
heart from a procession of highly
encouraging company reports. Most
significant in this context were per-
formances by two of the “Big League”—
the world of business
"If you really wanted to better yourself, my man, you'd buy
United Consolidated ords at 18s. 6d. and a parcel of Grundle
Holdings' new issue at par!"


REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
9% p.a s-1 Oyrs.
BV 2 % p.a.. .....4 yrs.
0% p.a., r ._.3 yrs.
%p.a......2 yrs.
7Vz%p a. 12 mths.
lie
(B % p.a.— 6 mths.
Funds may be withdrawn in
a . personal emergency as
set out in the Prospectus
Incorporated under
the Companies Act of
New South Wales on
the Bth March, 1950.
Applications for these Notes must be made on
the form attached to the Prospectus which is
now available from
All branches of the Company's
THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lons-
dale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House, Corner Wharf
and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68
Grenfell Street.
PERTH: 7th Floor, 81 St. George's Terrace.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Baylis Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from the following Brokers fo The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of fhe Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Trustees for the noteholders are the Bankers and Traders Insurance Co. Ltd.
„ CCISI A/B
~C/ip ana Post Coupon I
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney. j
Please send me without obligation a copy of the prospectus with application
forms.
NAME
ADDRESS
CSR and ICIANZ. Both those giants
have clearly emerged from a pall of
doubts. It may be some while before
we see massive market attention being
paid to leaders again. But their invest-
ment day is far from done and the two
companies mentioned have, for 1961-62,
done their best to show why.
A real blue chip
market hailed enthusiastically the
1961-62 increased profit of Com-
monwealth Industrial Gases Ltd, and
after a prior sale of 82s. the quotes were
83s. 3d. buyer, 85s. seller.
But the stock has a long way to go
before it recoups the ground lost during
this calendar year. Peak price was
£5 13s. The present yield of 2.6 p.c.
(earnings yield 6.1 p.c.) looks more
attractive than BHP’s 2.5 p.c. (earnings
yield 5.5 p.c.) on prices which have
been so heavily hammered.
C 1G is every bit as blue a chip as
BHP, and the 61 p.c. controlling interest
held by the British Oxygen Company of
England is an inbuilt stabiliser.
William Adams’ recovery
JQetailed reporting emanates from
companies when 4 suits their book.
William Adams and Co. Ltd, the Sydney
steel merchant which smudged its copy-
book in 1961-62 by failing to cover a
lower dividend, wisely reported precise
figures for the half-year to October 31.
The profit of £135,067 suggests an
annual profit of around £270,000
(assuming both halves to be equal) a
strong recovery on the 1961-62 result
of £120,022, but still far short of the
£316,693 in 1960-61.
As average capital this year will be
30 p.c. higher than in 1960-61, the stock
may never again achieve such a high
market rating as it commanded in the
days of steel shortages.
Sales in the merchandising and steel
divisions are stronger, but capital equip-
ment is still “flat.”
The market outlook for other steel
merchants, William Atkins and Martin
Bright, and the wire and steel manu-
facturers H. Pettiford and Gerrard, all
of which balance in June, must be
shinier, too.
Geo. Fielder tidier
Qeo. Fielder & Co. Ltd is tidying
itself up after a dismal 1960-61,
when profit slumped. First, profit re-
covered quite well from £40,267 to
£117,874 in 1961-62 allowing ordinary
dividend to move up from 3J to 8 p.c.
A further increase will be necessary
in the current year to win back investors’
favor, for even after the substantial 1961-
62 lift, earning rate is but 11.1 p.c.
This year will see the burden of extra
capital (225,000 ss. shares were issued
for a takeover while £211,591 con-
vertible notes become ordinary shares
at the end of this month).
Another apparent bright spot came
late last week when the George Weston
group purchased for £4oo,ooo—the
issued capital of T. Brunton & Co. Pty
Ltd of Melbourne, a sub subsidiary of
the Fielder organisation.
The cash payment will go a long way
to expunge any liquidity problems that
may have been pressing on Fielder. The
payment, by the way, is equal to about
Is. lOd. on each of the 4,242,644 Geo.
Fielder shares on issue.
Given a continued profit recovery, the
ss. Fielder shares offer prospects of
sound capital appreciation beyond their
present price of 6s. sd. Moreover, the
immediate dividend return of 6.1 p.c. is
high for the food industry.


PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
p.a. for 6 years
5% p.a. for 12 months
Other rates and terms available see
Prospectus for full details. Your copy
available from all Members of Stock
Exchanges, over 750 branches of the
A.N.Z. Bank Limited and I.A.C.
Branches.
Applications for stock will proceed
only on one of the forms of application
referred to and attached to a printed
copy of the Prospectus.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
C Registered 19th December, 1929)
Branches at
SYDNEY— MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
HOBART CANBERRA
Underwriters: Tan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney,
Adelaide and Brisbane.
8223 N
Success without glamor
Tn these days of widely-publicised re-
A ports of big-board glamor stocks, or
conversely news of gigantic losses,
tentative investors could be forgiven if
they overlooked some of the smaller
profitable companies. Such a concern is
Melbourne printing machinery supplier,
Aldus Ltd.
Formed five years ago as the public
company for the Seligson and Clare
group, Aldus has gone from strength to
strength.
A thoughtful investor who accepted
the underwriter’s original invitation to
subscribe for, say, 200 shares in 1958
at a cost of £lOO, can now be well
satisfied with his returns.
Providing he took up his entitlements
to new issues as they were made, the
shareholder would now own 343 shares.
[Since floating, the company has made
three issues—a three-for-10 par issue in
November, 1958, three-for-20 at a 7s.
premium in June, 1960, and another
three-for-20 at 7s. premium in February,
1962.]
At today’s current market price of
27/6 the shares are now worth about
£472. Total cost of this investment
amounts to £2Ol.
New float delayed
HFhe Christmas printing rush is holding
up a new debenture issue to be
made by brokers J. B. Were and Son for
Motor Credits, a Victorian finance com-
pany. It is now set for early in the
New Year.
The company reported last week that
its business during the September
quarter was double that in the like period
of 1961-62. Earnings showed a corres-
ponding increase.
The current buoyancy of the HP
business is more evident in their capital
raising activities than in official figures
for HP outstandings, and Esanda, the
wholly-owned HP subsidiary of the
ES & A Bank, is another to be seeking
more money from the market. It is to
raise £2 million on first mortgage deben-
ture and unsecured notes.
Interest rates on these have been cut
pretty fine, reflecting the generally high
state of liquidity and also some soften-
ing of commercial rates. Debenture
coupons range from 5i p.c. for two
years to 6J p.c. for six years, while note
interest is slightly higher at 5f p.c. for
two and 7 p.c. for six years.
Hand of genius missed
I>alph Symonds Ltd is already missing
the genius of its founder and name-
sake who died in December, 1961.
Profits which had increased year by
year since 1953, were reversed from
£160,850 in 1961 to £101,866 in the
latest period to June. The result was
after a comparable allowance for de-
preciation of £91,855, but no provision
was made for tax (1961 £32,000).
Sales declined and more than £23,000
was spent in export promotion and pro-
ject development.
The ex-holders of 7 p.c. notes which
converted to shares on balance date will
be disappointed if the interim dividend
of 4 p.c. for the December, 1962, half-
year (already announced) is followed by
a 4 p.c. final.
The 1961-62 payout was 5 p.c.
interim and 3 p.c. final, compared with
the customary \2i p.c. total.
The company’s trading problems were
multiplied by a fire early in November
in its plastic division where waterproof
glues and plastic surface-materials are
made.
Healing’s profit slips
A . G. Healing Ltd failed to hold the
gains made in the first year of its
merger with A. E. Goodwin Ltd. The
1962 profit (year to June) was £521,932,
compared with £596,387 earned in 1961,
and £551,399 being the sum of the
individual companies’ profits in 1960.
Tax provision was £21,056 higher and
depreciation up £4,614 for the latest
term. The earning rate of 16.3 p.c. at
least covers the annual 15 p.c. dividend,
whereas Clyde Industries Ltd, which
competes in the heavy engineering field,
was unable to pay its 15 p.c. dividend
without drawing lightly on capital profits.
A. G. Healing ss. shares are currently
selling at 10s. lOd. to return 7 p.c.,
against Clyde at 9s. 6d. to yield 7.9 p.c.


Policy of modesty
Fowler’s reported profit of
£77,982 (previous £60,212) for
the year to September maintains a policy
of understatement. The tax provision of
£92,046 infers that the Commissioner
took a brighter view of the company’s
trading position.
The company explained that its stated
profit was after providing £9,000
(£9,750 in 1960-61) for doubtful debts,
£13,000 (£5,000) against stock, and
writing off £3,000 of a subsidiary’s good-
will.
But the extreme competitiveness
both local and from overseas —of the
market for sanitaryware and floor and
wall tiles makes the ss. shares around
11s. 3d. to yield 4 p.c., look fully-priced.
Two companies’ great growth
Sydney stocks widely tipped to
A reveal hidden booty in their first
consolidated accounts, recently published
their balance sheets. They are J. Field-
ing and Company Ltd, cardboard box
makers, and Washington H. Soul Pattin-
son and Co. Ltd, manufacturing and re-
tailing chemist.
Fielding’s parent profit rose from
£244,566 to £263,058 and the group
profit for the year to September 30,
1962, was £370,981. The latest earning
rate is thus a very commendable 29 p.c.
Pattinson’s group profit of £269,360
did not show such an advance on the
parent’s £227,905 for the year to July
31, 1962, or the parent’s previous profit
of £214,399. Earning rate on steady
capital was 24.8 p.c., a shade higher
than on 1961 profit declaration.
Both companies also divulged their
tax provisions for the first time, but, as
both derive a great deal of their income
from investments in listed companies
and others, the tax figures are of little
assistance in testing the veracity of profit
disclosures.
Fielding’s net asset backing per 20s.
share on group accounts is now 425. lOd.
(1961 parent figure 40s. 9d.), and the
excess of market value over cost of the
portfolio of investments gives an extra
cover of 9s. 3d. a share.
Pattinson’s net asset backing per 20s.
share on group accounts is now 51s. 7d.
(1961 parent figure 425. Bd.), and the
excess of market value over cost of the
portfolio of investments gives an extra
cover of wait for it 395. 6d.
Fielding scores in terms of earnings,
Pattinson for assets. Before the profit
announcements the market price of their
20s. shares was £5 7s. 6d. and £7 12s. 6d.
respectively. Fielding’s is now £5 15s.
to yield 3.1 p.c. in income, 5.0 p.c. on
earnings. Pattinson’s is now slightly
lower at £7 ss. to yield 2.1 p.c. and
3.4 p.c. on earnings.
The fact that Pattinson could multiply
its capital nine times to £1,085,274
solely by bonus issues, and build up an
investment portfolio of £1,565,513 of
listed stocks (worth £3,699,763 on the
market) plus unlisted stocks £106,352
on the side, indicates the exceptional
profitability of making and dispensing
drugs and pharmaceutical products.
A Second Covent Garden
VI/hen they got into trouble in New
” York with financing the Empire
State Building, they turned to London.
The Clore-Cotton people—the largest of
their type in the world—had other New
York irons in the fire. So, to the party
went Second Covent Garden Co. Ltd.
Second Covent Garden was born of
the First Covent Garden which is the
landlord of one of London’s biggest
commercial areas well known for opera
and vegetables.
Here is a sophisticate in the true in-
vestment sense. Akin to a share invest-
ment company, the property investor of
Second Covent type builds up a port-
folio of commercial property based
mainly on long-term borrowing.
Profits are not spectacular, but hidden
growth is, provided, of course, that the
investment officer knows his job.
The institutions upon whose long-term
lending depends the success of the
property investor, do this type of thing
themselves, of course. But, they do not
get the spread of risk so necessary for
the prudent operation of their business.
So, they are quite keen to lend funds on,
say, 40-year terms to the entrepreneur.
Australia has not seen much of this
type of investment sophistication,
especially at public level. Our property
developers, in the main, have been quick
profit takers on their projects, not
investors.
But there have been one or two
“Covent Garden” operations springing
up. Next week, the Sydney list should
be graced by one, and one which is not
only modelled on Second Covent
Garden but one which includes it as the
major shareholder.
Sponsored by Sydney’s Development
Finance Corporation Ltd, Realty De-
velopment & Mortgage Co. Ltd will just
appear on the Sydney list. It will not
place any public shares, having sufficient
spread of shareholders now.
In its three years, Realty has built up
a portfolio of shopping centres, headed
by St Ives in Sydney. Other Realty
properties are the centres at Wentworth-
ville and Seven Hills in Sydney, and Mt
Gravatt in Brisbane.
Sites being developed include centres
at Hornsby (Sydney), Strathmore Heights
and Thomastown (Melbourne) and a
home unit project in Brisbane.
Now that Realty has become a divi-
dent payer (four p.c. for 1961-62) the
directors, in what may be reckoned as
a curious piece of timing (what with
Reid Murray and all), are complying
with a stated obligation to list the shares.
This type of venture, however, does
not borrow funds from the public, and
does not borrow in any other way but
by secured debenture.
Equity growth can be quick. In
England this is recognised, and the top
five professional landlords on the London
Exchange carry earnings yields of
between 2 and 2.8 p.c.
Realty shares (£1 units) should go
to a small premium on listing, but a
scrip shortage appears certain, and the
price could rise quickly especially when
the growth potential is established.
According to Sir Garfield, I should have nothing to do with mergers
or takeovers. He'll think you're trying to monopolise Santa Claus!


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor.
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
8 Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5957 (7 lines)
43 Nortbbourne Ave.
City, Canberra, A.C.T.
4 0365-66
Flinders House, Crown St., Wollongong
B 5900
Telegrams and Cables:
“Kosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor
58 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. VV. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road
Melbourne
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Telephones : 51-6243, 51-6245
Est. 1939
HELP
LEGACY
oli the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney, 8M 2001. *
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
VI/hile the wayward were still turning
” in some ugly losses last week, the
big fellows began to weigh in with more
encouraging news. CSR reported on
its bumper sugar crop, ICI had its
profits up 43 p.c. and CIG was holding
the line.
Just how far the recovery is being
reflected in company profits was graphic-
ally demonstrated by William Adams.
During the week William Adams an-
nounced a half-yearly profit of £135,000
which eclipsed the whole of its previous
year’s profit of £120,000. This big profit
jump was achieved on an increase in
sales of only 8 p.c.
This made one of my motoring en-
thusiasts wonder what sort of profit in-
crease Harden and Johnston might pro-
duce for the current year. Harden and
Johnston are the NSW distributors for
Chrysler vehicles whose sales have re-
ceived a great boost by the introduction
of the Valiant. In the first nine months
of this calendar year, sales of Chrysler
vehicles throughout Australia were up
from 800 units to 6000-odd, an in-
crease of 700 or 800 p.c. If William
Adams can more than double its profits
on an 8 p.c. sales increase, what will
Harden and Johnston do with a 750 p.c.
sales rise! Hardly a valid analogy.
Even so Harden and Johnston’s profits
should show a very healthy rise on last
year’s £llO,OOO which was equal to 29
p.c. on capital. Admittedly the 10s.
shares have already had a good price
rise this year from under 30s. to the
present figure of 355.
The market is expecting big things of
Harden and Johnston. So I bought 200
at 355. to go alongside my other white
hope in the motor industry, LNC.
Otherwise last week was a case of a
lot of bright ideas which, on closer exa-
mination, weren’t so bright or couldn’t
be fulfilled, anyway.
Some of my friends were active in
George Fielder, for example. Not only
did it come out with a very good profit
increase but it has re-sold its Melbourne
flour mills in a remarkable deal. Two or
three years ago George Fielder took over
the whole Brunton’s company for an out-
lay of £350,000. Now it has re-sold the
Melbourne subsidiary alone for £400,000
cash.
Even so this may not do very much
for George Fielder’s share price. It all
depends on how profitably the company
can use this cash windfall. So I didn’t
buy any shares.
Nor did I follow another current take-
over prospect, AEI. Its £1 shares have
moved up suddenly from 13s. to 15s. 6d.,
something of a record high for poor old
AEI in recent years. The only plaus-
ible explanation can be that the English
parent company is going to buy back the
shares.
The previous week I’d put my finger
in the Hestia pie by acquiring 100 Holy-
man Woods shares which, I hope, I’ll be
able to retain in full and so ultimately
have 100 Hestia shares. As Hestia shares
should sell well above par (55.) sooner
or later, the purchase price of Is. 3d.
seemed something of a bargain, even if
it did mean exploiting the spirit of the
takeover offer.
For cash I had my £5O Hanimex divi-
dend and also the proceeds of the sale
of my A. G. Campbell rights. These I’d
sold at 7s. as the issue drew to a close.
I’d bought 1,000 rights at 6s. 9d. in the
hope of a good rights market. I couldn’t
have been further wrong. A. G. Camp-
bell produced one of the dullest rights
markets I’ve seen. Shipping Newspapers’
rights haven’t been much better, for that
matter.
These experiences should have been
lesson enough to me, but I did buy some
rights to Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie’s new
issue. Now I did this purely on my
broker’s advice as I am not exactly an
authority on gold mines. What did ap-
peal to me was the 9 p.c. tax-free yield
the 10s. shares w'ere showing at 11s. But
it was the rights I bought. I got 1000
at 4s. 3d. which, with the 2s. application
money, involved me in £322
This I’ll have to cover in the next few
days with AWA whose consolidated
accounts didn’t produce anything start-
ling.
SOLD
1,000 A. G. Campbell rights at
7/- £340
BOUGHT
100 Holyman Woods at 1/3 .. £7
200 Harden & Johnston at 35/- £356
1,000 GMK rights at 4/3 £321
(plus 2/- call)
The pre-Christmas portfolio consists
of: —•
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 26/-
400 Mai leys 3/5/62 20/9 23/3
2,000 Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11 8/3
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 26/-
300 Marcus Clark notes 22/6/62 27/6 39/-
100 CSR 1/8/61 49/- 50/9
400 AWA 10/8/62 20/- 19/9
1,000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9 5/6
100 AOG 27/8/62 55/6 54/-
1,000 ANI 14/9/62 4/- 4/2
400 Western Mining 19/9/62 15/9 18/-
200 Shipping News 20/9/62 24/- 23/-
1,000 Vesta 27/9/62 3/9 2/3
500 Kauri 11/10/62 6/6 5/6
400 Waned 11/10/62 12/8 12/8
400 Nightingale 17/10/62 14/11 17/-
400 Aeron 1/11/62 12/- 12/9
400 Functional 2/11/62 7/7 7/8
1000 Prasby 8/11/62 2/8 2/11
400 Jacoby Mitchell 12/11/62 15/- 15/9
200 Waugh &
Josephson 14/11/62 16/6 19/ —
2,000 LNC 23/11/62 2/8 3/3
100 Holyman Woods 26/11/62 1/3
200 Harden & Johnston 3/12/62 35/- 35/-
1,000 GMK rights 5/12/62 4/3 4/6


The main business of Esanda Limited is to conduct hire purchase
and finance operations as a wholly owned subsidiary of the
E.S.&A. BANK
through the Australia-wide branch system of the Bank
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
CURRENCY
ISSUED AT PAR
INTEREST
6
5
4
2
years
years
years
6 3 4%
6V S %
6V 4 %
5V 2 %
years
REGISTERED UNSECURED NOTES
ISSUED AT PAR
Applications can be accepted only on one of the forms of application
attached to a printed copy of the prospectus which are available from
Members of Stock Exchanges and at any office of The English Scottish
and Australian Bank Limited.
m
ESA
ESANDA LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
Registered Office: 3G5 George Street, Sydney
EL. A 2
ONE TO BUY
WALLAROO-MT. LYELL OFFERS
A GOOD SPECULATION
TCl’s move back into Australian Ferti-
lisers Ltd, which is also making a
share issue, has returned more attention
to the industry. In the light of this,
the 20s. shares of Wallaroo-Mount Lyell
Fertilisers Ltd possess a certain specula-
tive interest.
The shares are quoted in Adelaide,
Melbourne and Hobart. Immediate
yield on an unwavering 8 p.c. dividend
is a modest 5.4 p.c., with earnings yield
6.1 p.c. on profits as disclosed for the
year to June.
“Disclosed” seems hardly the word, for
enlightenment on comprehensive report-
ing has yet to reach some South Aus-
tralian companies. A new Companies
Act still has to go before SA’s Parlia-
ment.
But 1961-62 might be the last financial
period in which Wallaroo-Mount Lyell
could conceal its taxation and depreci-
ation provisions.
Shareholders might then learn that
the company’s profitability is not necess-
arily confined to a figure representing
not less than 8 p.c. and not more than
10 p.c. on ordinary capital.
The company is an old-established one
dating from the purchase in 1913 of
Wallaroo Phosphate Co. Ltd and the
fertiliser works of Mount Lyell Mining
and Railway Co. Ltd in South Australia.
Initial capital of £336,900 was un-
changed until conversion of notes (issued
in 1958) into ordinary shares on Decem-
ber 31, 1961, bringing paid capital to
its present level of £505,350. (Of this,
a mere £40,725 is held by Mount Lyell
Investments Ltd as an historical relic.)
The company cannot, therefore, be
said to have exhibited much growth, al-
though it consistently earned profits (with
the single exception of a small loss in
1936) and only failed with dividend pay-
ments in 1923 and 1936.
September’s report stated that demand
for superphosphate and mixed fertilisers
during 1961-62 had at last exceeded the
1957 figures, with despatch of over
140,000 tons. Unfortunately the demand
is strongly seasonal, and storage must
be available for over half the annual
output.
In the last year, a 15.000-ton storage
shed with modern bagging facilities and
mechanical equipment for individual and
bulk loading was constructed at Birken-
head. The Birkenhead works draw sul-
phuric acid from Sulphuric Acid Ltd
in which Wallaroo has invested
£lOO,OOO with Adelaide Chemical and
Fertilizer Co. Ltd and Cresco Fertilizers
Ltd.
This associate company uses sulphur
deposits at Nairne controlled by
Nairne Pyrites Ltd, in which BHP is
also interested.
The three fertiliser companies also
co-operate in sales and distribution
through a company they formed, Ferti-
lisers Sales Ltd.
The Wallaroo works draws its sul-
phuric acid from the Broken Hill Associ-
ated Smelters Pty plant at Port Pirie,
and the phosphate rock comes from
Ocean, Nauru and Christmas Islands.
The possibility of reducing costs
through more efficient handling—the sell-
ing price of superphosphate is 10 p.c.
less than ten years ago—and the scope
for greater usage of superphosphate, trace
elements and other fertiliser mixtures
could enlarge Wallaroo's profits in two
directions.


“CRICKET HUMOUR”
“SKETCHES AND STORIES”
by Arthur Mailey; 2/6
Send Postal Note or Money Order to: —
SHIRE PICTORIAL,
Box 60. Caringbah, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Svdney.
Phone: BW 1011, BW 1012. BW 4991
DIRECTORS:
STRUAN ROBERTSON (Chairman), S. E A. STIRLING
JAMES H. STEPHENSON, R. G. GALE, RAYMOND S. GOWARD, C.B.E.
A. C. MAITLAND R, A. CATLEY
(Managing Director) (Manager)
Branches and Agencies in all States
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
COMPANY ANALYSIS
SHAREHOLDER BENEFITS FROM PGH
By “SECURITY”
/"kN December 3rd, PGH Industries
Ltd closed its books for the third
issue to shareholders in the company’s
thirteen years as a public company.
These three issues have added about
£447,000 to the ordinary capital which
has increased from £43,750 in October,
1949, and after this current issue will
be £1,392.786. As it is apparent that
over this period tw'o shares have been
issued to other than shareholders for
every share issue to shareholders, it is
as w'ell to examine the company’s record
in shareholder benefits.
The original company w'as formed in
1949 as Porter & Galbraith Ltd to
operate a tile w'orks at Doonside, New
South Wales, which had been founded
in 1918. In 1959 the name was changed
to the present style following a merger
with Hansen Consolidated Industries Ltd.
Subsequently the group acquired Tar
Products Pty Ltd, Builders Brick Pty
Ltd, South Australian Brick Company
Ltd and Adelaide Potteries Ltd, all in
South Australia. Other acquisitions in-
cluded the Alien Bros group of com-
panies and Baker & Watson Pty Ltd in
New South Wales and most recently
Brisbane Brick & Builders Supply Co.
Ltd of Queensland. The activities of the
present group, while mainly associated
with the building industry, cover cera-
mics, aluminium fabrication, furniture
manufacture, road contracting, plastics,
wood products and anti-corrosion, water-
proofing and sealing products.
Shareholders and investors are cer-
tainly kept fully informed by the com-
pany as in addition to the fairly detailed
annual report on the year’s activities,
quarterly profit figures have been given
for the last four years. When it is
remembered that even in 1958 following
the merger with Hansen Consolidated
the group consisted of eight subsidiaries
(one with branches in all States and
another with branches in three States)
and that today there are some thirty-
eight subsidiaries, the management must
keep very fully informed on the group’s
activities to publish such figures with
confidence.
Sales figures for the group are avail-
able from 1954-55 year onwards but
these are not given at quarterly intervals.
With such information it is apparent
that not only can the progress of the
group be followed more effectively but
some very interesting comparisons are
possible.
The following table shows sales, net
profit before tax and depreciation, earn-
ings and ordinary .capital reduced to a
base of June, 1959 = 100.
Net profit
before tax
and Ord.
Year Ended Sales depreciation Earnings Capital
June, 1959 100 I'OO 100 100
Sept.. 1959 104 102 113
Dec., 1959 103 108 113
March, 1960 117 116 115
June, 1960 135 133 128 122
Sept., 1960 139 135 129
Dec., 1960 145 140 147
March, 1961 154 146 . 152
June, 1961 177 147 141 154
Sept., 1961 147 137 154
Dec., 1961 165 155 181
March, 1962 183 177 223
June, 1962 207 213 208 223
These figures are interesting as they
indicate that ordinary capital over the
whole three year period has increased
at a greater rate than sales or profits.
However, during the first 15 months,
although ordinary capital increased more
rapidly than profits, at first profits
tended to catch up and overtake capital.
Bearing in mind that the calendar year
1961 was a difficult period and looking
at the fairly rapid increase in profits
during 1962 there is every reason to
believe that, given normal conditions,
this capital-profit pattern could repeat
itself during 1963, particularly when it
is borne in mind that certain heavy
capital expenditure has been incurred.
Another interesting document was
published during August in connection
with the takeover offer for Brisbane
Brick. Details of all additions to the
ordinary capital of PGH Industries since
July, 1957, are given and the profits for
the year 1956-57 onwards are given for
the group as it existed at July. 1962.
These figures give a good indication of
the progress which has been made over
the last six years. The index using 1956-
57 as the base shows the following
pattern:
Year to
SOth June 1957 1958 1959 19«« 1901 1952
Net profit
before tax 100 142 193 238 171 245
The company in its latest annual re-
port gives a Seven Year Financial Review
and the earning rate quoted therein
appears in the first line of the table
below. These figures appear to be based
on the ordinary capital at the end of
each financial year. If, however, ‘‘aver-
age” capital (averaged according to the
time it was raised during the year) is
used and convertible notes treated as
ordinary capital the rate would seem to
be more in line with the second row' ol
figures in the table:
Y !4th°Jane 195 S 1959 1900 1901 1902
Earnings % 27.3 26.5 2t.l 23.8 24.1
Adjusted rate 31.9 22.8 26.4 21.8 25.9
Bearing in mind the strong growth
pattern of the group as a whole and
from an examination of the various
“earning rates” it seems that PGH can
be expected to earn 26 p.c. on ordinary
capital.
The new capital being raked should
have every possibility of earning after
tax about 16 p.c. on the total money
raised which would be equivalent to
nearly 29 p.c. on the ordinary capital
content. This suggests that the earn-
ing rate is unlikely to be w'atered by the
new raising.
Although it is difficult to pick a price/
earnings pattern in the building materials
industry it w'ould seem that 17.5 times
earnings would be a conservative multi-
plier— many stock sell at more than 20
times earnings. This suggests that PGH
shares should be priced between 21s.
and 225. 6d.
It is suggested that ex rights the old
shares should be sound buying at up to,
say, 19s. 6d. and the rights up to 10s.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
DICKSON PRIMER (CONSOL.) LTD
WELL OUT OF THE CHRYSALIS
As primarily a merchandising organisa-
tion representing many overseas
firms, Dickson Primer Consolidated Ltd’s
emergence from the chrysalis seems to
date from the relaxation of import
restrictions in February, 1960.
The business originated in 1922, and
became a public company in 1951. Its
wide variety of interests was sectionalised
into subsidiary companies. At that
stage the group had agencies for
cement, timber, plywood, building
supplies, metals, machinery and elec-
trical equipment.
Today there are 37 subsidiaries
serving all States of Australia and New
Zealand. Several are manufacturers,
chiefly of hardware; with plants at
Marrickville and Newcastle in NSW, and
also in Adelaide. One surprising interest
is in the manufacture and marketing of
reducing and figure-forming vibrating
machines. Two other subsidiaries are
drilling engineers, working on founda-
tions for buildings, bridges and wharves.
..The company is agent for several
Italian firms in the heavy electrical
field, associated with power transmission.
It is agent for Swedish and British
machinery and equipment, and handles
second-hand machinery and steel rails
and accessories from BHP.
Timber is imported from the west
coast of North America, South East
Asia, Pacific Islands and New Zealand.
Dickson Primer is NSW distributor for
CSR building materials, and until
December 1, 1962, was NSW distributor
for Southern Portland Cement. This
has now been replaced by representation
for Kandos Cement.
Since 1956 television servicing has
fieen an important part of Dickson
Primer’s business. It is the largest
servicer in Australia, and it makes and
erects antennae.
Profits, which had not exhibited much
progress to 1959, leapt 50 p.c. in 1960,
then almost doubled in 1961. The
latest net result was more in the nature
of consolidation —it was after all a
difficult year in the building industry—
and profit of £149,368 (1961 £142,710)
»as after £78,101 (£92,011) tax and
£ 159,103 (£132,415) depreciation.
Earning rate shaded to 20.1 p.c.
Steady improvement in building activity
should at least preserve the present
Margin over the 15 p.c. dividend. An
unsecured note issue will convert to
ordinary shares next balance date, in-
creasing capital by £91,372.
Meantime an issue of shares to share
and noteholders in the ratio of one-to-
four (at 3s. 6d. premium) will increase
paid capital by <£219,018 and add
£153,312 to share premium reserve.
This is tfie first capital benefit to share-
holders since the convertible notes were
issued in 1958. (Benefits have been
received in the form of increasing divi-
dends and share prices).
Ex rights to the issue, the ss. shares
sold at 14s. 9d. to yield 5.1 p.c. in
income and 6.9 p.c.-in earnings. The
20s. 8 p.c. notes which convert in
approximately 6 months’ time are better
value if the price differential between
four shares and one note exceeds 4s. sd.
until the payment of the final dividend
on December 17. These, ex rights, were
offered at 50s.
The company has undoubted merits—
strong bread and butter lines plus
dynamic products 2s icing, capable
management and a valuable association
with Development Finance.
But as an investment proposition it
appeals more for income than for growth
because in the last two years the pay-
out has been too great in relation to
earnings. Shareholders’ funds have been
aggregated by share premiums and asset
revaluations, rather than from accumu-
lations of profit.
If the dividend rate were trimmed,
more economical finance for expansion
could be obtained from profits retention,
to the ultimate benefit of shareholders.
ACCOUNT SUMMARIES
£'ooo
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 704 611 660 2114 2669
less current liabilities 557 444 544 1467 1887
Working capital 147 167 116 647 782
Fixed assets 269 303 486 1340 2026
Investments 147 148 210 84 112
Intangibles ’ 180 180 108 7 25
Total capital 743 798 920 2078 2945
Represented byr
Loan capital 97 123 .189 562 954
Minority interests - -- 56
Ordinary capital 286 286 286 689 785
Reserves 360 389 445 827 1150
743 798 920 2078 2945
Depreciation 29 38 63 132 159
Taxation 27 28 41 92 78
Net profit 52 54 78 143 149
Dividends 34 34 43 102 111
Surplus 18 20 35 41 38
Earning rate 18.1 18.9 27.4 21.0 20.1
Dividend rate 12 12 15 15 15
Dividend yield (a) 6.8 4.5 5.3 4.6
Price/earningr
ratio (a) 10.0 14.1 9.1 15.7
High price (b) 6/6 9/\\ 13/4 24/- 16/44
Low price (b) 5/6 6/ 8/11 13/3 13/3
(a) End of December, month accounts presented
(b) Previous calendar year.
CLIFFORD LOVE AND CO. LTD
CORN TO ADD STRENGTH
Announcement that the association
with Corn Products Co. of
America would be strengthened, was the
chief item of interest in the published
accounts of Clifford Love and Co. Ltd
for the year to September 30, 1962
Technical liaison so far has been
costly, but should yield many benefits,
said directors in their annual review.
In July 1961 the association was first
reported as a manufacturing agreement,
so the latest statement can be con-
strued as a hint that the starch division
will commence manufacture of Corn
Products lines.
The American company planned to
assist Love in making cornflour, starch
and industrial commodities, and extend
both the food and industrial products. To
this end new plant was installed in J 961.
Clifford Love has mills at Enfield and
Lane Cove in the metropolitan area, and
at Cootamundra in NSW producing pack-
aged cornflour, starch, custard powder,
rice and rolled oats, such industrial pro-
ducts as starch, dextrines, adhesives,
wheat gluten and flour, and animal
feeds.
The trading result for the year to Sep-
tember was £95,168 (1961 £104,111)
after providing £65,484 (£82,143) for
tax, and £63,074 (£65,598) for deprecia-
tion. On higher capital (increased by
the acquisition of the National Trading
Co. Pty of Perth), the earning rate
slid from 10.2 to 8.7 p.c.
As the company earned £33,000 in
1929, who can feel there has been real
progress when the best profit since was
£104,000 in 1961?
£'ooo
September 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 610 876 957 1016 1186
less current liabilities 776 1068 983 1039 1123
Working capital -166 -192 -26 -23 63
Fixed assets 1070 1275 1181 1311 1352
Investments 13 3 2 5
Intangibles 173 150 150 150 151
Total capital 1078 1236 .1308 1440 1571
Represented by:
Long-term liabilities 22
Ordinary capital 834 926 950 1045 1092
Reserves 244 310 358 395 457
1078 1236 1308 1440 1571
Depreciation 39 52 58 66 63
Taxation n/a n/a 74 82 66
Net profit 58 94 104 104 95
Dividends 63 79 80 87 93
Surplus -5 15 24 17 2
Earning rate 7.0 10.1 11.1 10.2 8.7
Dividend rate B£ 8 \ 82 8|
Dividend yield (a) 5.3 ' 4.2 4.7 5.0
price/earnings ratio (a) 2.1 1.8 1.6 1.7
High price (b) B/7 9/9 11/10 9A-
Low price (b) 6/8 7/1 7/2 7/3 7/3
(a) End of December, month accounts presented
(b) Previous calendar year.


V ae
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£.4413,000,000
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
From a large number of readers' letters seeking "The
Bulletin's" advice on investment matters, these have been selected
for publication. The balance have been answered personally.
7 have an extensive portfolio (enclosed)
selected for capital appreciation within
three to five years. 1 have £l5OO a year
in dividend income for reinvestment.
What do you recommend to buy? (Most
of this portfolio was bought in May,
1962, before the fall in share prices.)
—R. L. (A uckland, NZ).
You have a very strong portfolio,
obviously chosen with care. Thus
although much of it is now selling below
your cost price, the outlook for a
recovery in prices is excellent.
The only ones which we consider do
not enter this category are Ready Mixed
Concrete (recovery will be very slow)
and Phillips Oil (which has to break
into a highly competitive field and it
will be several years yet before sub-
stantial return can be expected).
You have a sizeable holding in both
Pioneer Concrete and Concrete In-
dustries. We feel that one of these
should be sold, although both prices are
depressed. Hold on for a while for a
rise.
You have no BHP and we recommend
a purchase for prospects of capital
appreciation over the next few years.
The inclusion of one or two of the bank-
backed finance companies, say Aus-
tralian Guarantee or Industrial Accep-
tance, would be advantageous, as well
as Olims Consolidated and Amalgamated
Chemicals or Jordan.
★ ★ ★
Four months ago I sold 1000 BHP at
555. as 1 needed cash. I intended to buy
back a similar number, but now 1 feel
there may be better growth prospects in
Mt.lsa. H. A. P. ( Toorak, Vic.).
BHP shares, at their present price,
still contain growth potential—although
it may not be as great as previously
imagined. We take it that you have a
fairly large portfolio and that 1000 BHP
shares will not unbalance it.
Buy with confidence. They fit well
into a portfolio designed for capital
growth rather than dividend. Your
alternative, Mt Isa, fits the pattern of
this, but Mt Isa relatively is not as
“cheap” on the market as BHP.
★ ★ ★
1 hold 400 Molloy 7 p.c. 7s. 6d. con-
vertible notes costing 9s. 6d. The shares
are now quoted at ss. 3d. Should I
purchase another 400 to average down?
I also hold 600 Email costing 10s. 10d.
Should 1 buy an equal number at Bs. to
average down? Do you recommend
South Coast Estates at present prices?
E. H. H. (Glen Innes, NSW).
Molloy Holdings operates in a highly
competitive field and was hard hit by
the credit squeeze. About half the
£44,634 loss of 1961-62 was due to
bad debts. We can see a slow recovery
in share prices in the next 12 months
to be followed by the notes which .con-
vert on a one-for-one basis in Novem-
ber next year. A purchase of another
400 would average you about 7s. 6d.
quite a rise on current prices. We would
hesitate to buy in again at this stage.
You have apparently had your Email
shares for some time and bought them
near the top of the market. We believe
the present price of about 7s. 9d. is real-
istic, for the company has had trouble
getting an adequate cover for its dividend
every year since 1955. The current year is
showing a better result than last, when
profit failed to cover dividend by a small
margin. Profit for the latest year should
show a rise which should lift the share
price a little. But to expect them to go
to your average price of 9s. 6d. is too
hopeful on present signs.
South Coast Estates does not appeal
as an investment at this stage. Land
developers on the south coast of NSW
have had a tough year and are still
experiencing difficulties. We cannot
recommend them.
★ ★ *
Would you at present sell 300 Mc-
Donald Industries (average cost ss. 5d.)
and reinvest in R. W. Miller, CBA,
Adelaide Steam or Wm. Ramsay? I
already have a £5O face value interest
in these. 1 have been buying shares
since September, 1958, and now have
since September, vter, and now have
market value of £6OOO. My broker has
been persuading me to do some selling
as well as buying. A. R. K. (East
Coburg, Vic.).
The Bulletin supports the policy of
“taking a profit”, but qualifies it with the
condition that you must earn better with
the proceeds from sale than you jget from
the stock to be sold.
In the case of your McDonald In-
dustries, you have certainly done well.
If you sell now there are several stocks
in which v/e believe you can do better
from both income and capital growth.
BHP offers excellent capital growth,
although you will drop in dividend
return. However, British Tobacco or
APM both offer good dividend income
allied with capital growth prospects.
Olims Industries is in the same category.
R. JW. Miller could be a good growth
stock, but we reserve our decision on
this until the 1962-63 figures are avail-
able and we can see what the company
has done with the funds it raised recently
from the public.
Adelaide Steamship does not appeal
except as a possible takeover speculation.
CBA is sound, but hardly inspiring at
present prices. It is a stock to hold for
15-20 years. Wm. Ramsay has oiteo
been recommended by us.
Your spread does appear unwieldy
with average holding only £2OO. Your
aim should be to prune it back to more
workable levels. This should be done
gradually; taking any profit on t ®
weaker reeds in the portfolio, a"
strengthening your holdings of 1 e
better performers.


IM L.'J
m
mm
1 . .. 1 ■■ : 1 '■
mm
mmm
' - >■' m
m'
m*
mm mmm m
m i
:-:-r
a
eoqjaded
«
■M
mm
-M
•* mmm
V
a
*\l
K
mm
Eyecatching and practicaf
new packaging is helping to
win big export markets for
many Australian manufac-
turers . . . new markets from
Colombo to Covent Garden
. . .. from Brazil to Bangkok.
A.P.M. is playing a vital part
in this expansion. This true
Australian company not only
supplies the quality paper-
board that’s needed, but also
offers up-to-the-minute know-
how and new ideas needed to
create sales-winning protec-
tive packaging.
m
m
AUSTRALIAN PAPER
MANUFACTURERS LTD
OWNED BY AUSTRALIANS


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
WATER-NATIONAL PLAN URGENT
By I. M. HARDY
HThere can be little doubt that the Aus-
tralian nation has a truly wonderful
future. However, we would be foolish
indeed if we were to regard our future
economic development as limitless. In
considering the question of a ceiling we
must take into account one of our prin-
cipal shortages the quantity of fresh
water available to us.
Cliff Calder’s article entitled “Mel-
bourne or the Bush” (Bulletin, October
6) highlights the speed with which we
are reaching the point where major deci-
sions on the utilisation of our meagre
water resources will have to be made.
We must never forget how small our
national supplies of fresh water really
are after allowing for the conservation
of all available sources of supply from
both surface and underground sources.
The limitations are imposed by the loca-
tion of our continent and its topography.
Australia lies predominantly in the tem-
perate zone latitudes of low rainfall
producing large areas of semi-arid to
desert land and it lacks high moun-
tain ranges.
Apart from the high country of the
Great Dividing Ranges in the region of
the eastern NSW/Victorian border, there
are few high ranges capable of trapping
snow to feed a large river or lake system.
Precipitation of moisture on the conti-
nent produces an annual discharge from
all the rivers of Australia of a mere sixty
million acre feet.
To illustrate how little this is for a
continent of three million square miles,
it might be compared to the discharge of
the River Danube at approximately 228
million acre feet. In other words, just
one of Europe’s mighty rivers discharges
nearly four times as much water an-
nually as all our Australian rivers com-
bined.
Although much research has been and
is being carried out in producing rain
from cloud formations, it can be said
that up to date there is no economic
method known to science which could
hope to increase the rainfall on a con-
tinental scale, although limited aug-
mentation may be possible by inducing
precipitation in certain areas from suit-
able rain-bearing clouds.
To demonstrate to what extent water
affects the economic activity even in a
region generally well watered, the people
of the Mississippi Valley had an expe-
rience in recent years when for some
odd reason the regular snowfalls on
the ranges feeding the tributaries did not
eventuate in their accustomed quantities.
As a result, industry throughout the
whole of that vast industrial region
slowed up and, had the drought per-
sisted, some would have had to consider
closing down.
Up to the present, with our currently
small population of ten million people,
the necessity to establish priorities in the
use of our water resources has not
arisen on a truly national scale, but the
recent move by the Develop Victoria
Council to dispute the proposed diver-
sion of the Goulburn waters to Mel-
bourne, and disputes which have already
arisen between New South Wales, Vic-
toria and South Australia on the uses of
the Murray waters, highlight the ques-
tion and emphasise the urgency of the
problem.
Surely we are rapidly reaching the
stage when, forgetting about State
boundaries, some Federal authority will
have to consider in what proportions and
from what source our water resources
are to be used for the following main
purposes:
• Rural primary production.
• Manufacture of capital goods.
• Manufacture of consumer goods.
• Mining, quarrying, etc.
Such an authority would have to
operate on a Commonwealth basis as
the use of water often affects more than
one State.
We have already conserved more
water than we have actually planned to
use, so let us endeavour to catch up
with planning so that we will be able
to use our water resources in the most
economic fashion.
The authority should comprise a body
of commercial, economic and scientific
thought to advise the Federal Govern-
ment, which would have to provide or,
arrange for the raising of the capital
funds required for the implementation 1
of the necessary works.
If we do this there should be every
chance that such major national deci-
sions will be made in a climate of calm, |
scientific reasoning and sound social i
judgment.
MENACE OF LICE IN SHEEP -
AND A NEW DIP CURE
A ustralian Departments of Agricul-
ture, as well as the graziers affected,
have been concerned by the great in-
crease of lice, even in districts where
sheep are regularly dipped, for these
Departments and the CSIRO have
proved that lice can cause the loss of
one-fifth of the wool clip.
Sheep heavily infested with lice actu-
ally leave that proportion of their fleece
on the trees and fences against which
they rub themselves to relieve the irrita-
tion set up by these parasites. There is
some loss in price, too, for wool con-
taining lice.
The rapid reproduction of lice—24,
or at most 36, days after hatching out,
a female louse begins egg-laying, and
in three generations, or a little more
than three months, has some 30,000
progeny—makes it all too easy for one
lousy sheep, in the inevitable contacts
of pasture and yards, in a surprisingly
short time to spread lice right through
a hitherto clean flock.
So that any dip used must not only
kill all living lice at the time, but by
its long term residual effect also kill the
lice which hatch out days after dipping.
Further, such a dip must not damage
the wool, nor have any objectionable
effect on the flesh; it must be safe on
the sheep and innocuous to persons
handling it.
All these conditions are said to be
fulfilled by a newly marketed dip, Top
Clip, an important constituent of which
is the organic phosphate diazinon which,
for some years used effectively against
the blowfly menace, has been found to
kill lice on contact, even at the very
low concentration of A O. 1%. an
to give six months’ protection against
further re-infestation of dipped sheep.
This dip, of course, must be used a
the right time and in the right way. Bes
results are secured by dipping as soon
as possible after shearing, when t e
parasites are fewest, for some have been
removed in the fleece and others ha' e
then died from exposure.
The diazinon in this dip is f ata .
keds as well as lice and if, in
with this, zinc sulphate is used f° r J|
matitis and Romite for itch-mite (if l
happen to be present) the one dipp l
proves effective against all external s c |
parasites.
MARIEL LEE


Po« :< ions Vacant
ADULT EDUCATION organisation requires an
Executive Officer who will be appointed to the
position of Secretary or Asst. Secretary for the
Sydney region (depending on qualifications). Salary:
£1759-£2450 (Secretary); £llOO-£1350 (under review)
(Asst. Secretary). Applications close 14th January.
Further information from the General Secretary,
W.E.A., 52 Margaret Street, Sydney (29-8005).
Legal Notices
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959 IN THE
SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH WALES
In Divorce.
TO: ROBERT EDWARD HERRAMAN, for-
merly of Carlton in Victoria. TAKE NOTICE
that GRACE HERRAMAN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3100 of 1962 on the ground
of separation. If you wish to defend you
may enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by
the Ist day of February, 1963, and obtain a
copy of the petition without, charge from
N. V. Menlove, Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
LAUNCESTON DISTRICT REGISTRY
No. M.C. 104 of 1962
Between
ADELE EVA WILLIAMS, Petitioner
and
STANLEY GEORGE WILLIAMS, Respondent.
TO: STANLEY GEORGE WILLIAMS, formerly
of No. 101 Hill Street, Hobart, in Tasmania.
TAKE NOTICE that ADELE EVA WILLIAMS
has filed a Divorce Petition against you on
the ground of desertion. AND TAKE NOTICE
that if you intend to defend the Petition you
must file an answer within 28 days of the
publication of this Notice at the Registry
of the Supreme Court of Tasmania, Mac-
quarie Street, Hobart, or at tire Launceston
District Registry, Cameron Street, Launceston,
front which address further information can
be obtained, otherwise the Court may hear
and determine the matter in your absence.
DATED this 30th day of November, 1962.
Seal of the Court. (Sgd.) J. V. TANNER,
District Registrar.
A DIVORCE PETITION has been filed citing
DANIEL BREWER, late of 13 Collard Avenue,
Loughton, Essex, England, who may apply
to the Divorce Registry, Somerset House,
London, W.C.2. England, for a copy of the
Petition. If within 80 days he has not com-
municated with the Registry, the Court may
hear the case in his absence. B. LONG,
Registrar.
THE MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
No. M.C. 163 of 1962
BETWEEN WINIFRED EDITH HOLLY
BOWER Petitioner and JOHN LESLIE BOWER
Respondent. TO: JOHN LESLIE BOWER for-
merly of Katherine in the Northern Territory
but whose address is unknown to the Peti-
tioner. TAKE NOTICE that Winifred Edith
Holly Bower of 12 O'Grady Avenue Lutana in
Tasmania, Secretary has filed a Divorce Peti-
tion against you on the ground of desertion
or alternatively on the ground of separation.
Included in the Petition are claims for cus-
tody, maintenance and costs AND TAKE NO-
TICE that if you intend to defend the Peti-
tion you must file an Answer within twenty-
eight days of the publication of this Notice at
the Registry of the Supreme Court of Tas-
mania, Macquarie Street, Hobart in Tasmania
from which address further information can be
obtained, otherwise the Court may hear and
determine the matter in vour absence. DATED
this 3rd day of December 1962.—C. BRETTING-
HAM-MOORE, Registrar.
NEW CATTLE CLASSES FOR
ROYAL SHOW
VTew classes have been introduced into
T* the cattle schedule for the 1963
Royal Easter Show. For the first time
there are classes for Poll Devons and
Brahmans (four classes for both breeds
females up to 18 months of age and
females 18 months of age and over;
and a similar age division for males).
There is an additional class for Dairy
Shorthorns (for a heifer under two years
old, not in milk and npt necessarily in
calf).
In the dairy cattle section, the pen
of three females, the sire’s progeny and
group classes, are in two age divisions
(animals two years old and over and
animals under two years).
Animals which have been treated
with hormones are not eligible for entry
or exhibition at the Show.
Prize money worth nearly £6,500 is
provided in 325 classes for beef cattle,
dual purpose cattle, dairy cattle and
cattle paraders’ competitions.
Entries for the cattle section close on
January 21.
MECHANICAL CURRANT
PICKER SAVES LABOR
A mechanical picker designed for use
with black-currants and similar
crops has been undergoing field tests in
the UK. Two men can pick more than
a hundredweight of fruit an hour with it.
The machine consists of a 98 c.c.
four-stroke engine mounted on a trolley
and driving two or four sheathed, rotat-
ing flexible cables.
At the end of each cable is a vibrator
which is held in the hand. This contains
an eccentric flywheel that gives a vibrat-
ing action to inverted V-shaped
rubber-covered prongs.
When the prongs are rubbed along the
branch the fruit is shaken off into a
plywood container standing under the
bush. While one man holds the vibrator,
which has a pistol grip, another holds
the main part of the bush and passes
branches for stripping.
The picker, still in prototype form, has
been made by a firm in Kent, England.
Feiffer
THE ISSUE OF MOB
VICtEfJCE Ak)P ITS
REtATIOfJ TO OUR.
EWCKdOti
WSTEH has
RAISEP A
NUMBER OP
romsTiuo.
fiOESTIOUS.-
\>£ Mi A 6&£
THAT THE BOLE
Of lUt 6J7 U-
CkfOß lE>
Mot omlh to
TfACH K£
SUBJECT m
TO IMPART AM
WERSTAUPW&
OR MORAL VALUES.
m ops cm m pm
A STUPEUt BEWO
the pom he is
Mum to 60. ope
hust mK.iOimu
THE SPIRIT OF HiE
culture, the SPIRIT
OF OUR CULTURE IS
LATENT VIOLENCE.
TWW&H ACHIEI/f/OS TEMPORARY
RELEASE THBDWSH r£I£VISW
programs amd m£W5-pap£r
HEAPUWES, THIS SPIRIT
MUST OCCASIOUALW FIUD
A DIRECT OUTLET- MORPER
IOOIJ'T PO. IT LOSES SHE
THE RESPECT Of HIS MEI6HBORS.
Rouem, hob
VIOLENCE WILL 00
PgRFECTty. Had
CM DUE LOSE
I' the respect of
I H 6 UEHSHBoRS
IF THEM TOO
ARE OURUIU6
AITOMOBK.ES ?
Cor problem -them is that
while it mam be all to'
THE 6000 TO LECTORS
A6AIMST THE SPIRIT OF
LATENT UICLBUCE, IS IT
PESIRAEIE TO LECTORS
-THAT SPIRIT lUTO
fxflwcriou ?
m 0106 gIAKTETW
COUP6MIO A SPIRIT
iUHICH W ITS MORE
OR6AUTZEP FORM
■IS PEfEfJPEP OU
TO PEFEWP THE
FREE WORIP?
SO oafc %t&C
REMAIMS: IF U)E
ROB HEM OF
THEIR P6SIR6
TO TAKE THE
WIVE RslTo( OF
MISSISSIPPI,
PO WE ALSO
ROB THEM OF
THEIR PESIRt
T<3 TAf-E OOBA?
IT IS DOT EAST
TO TEACH IM
THE TWEMTiETH
6EDTORM.


PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BUL-
LETIN to be delivered to me each
week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick (y) whichever
method of delivery you prefer.
For those desiring direct sub-
scription :
Please find enclosed my cheque/
money order for months
subscription to THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea): 1 year.
£2/12/-; 1/2 year, £l/6/-, post free; British
Dominions, £3/6/-; other countries, £3/16/-.
N.Z SUBSCRIPTIONS; Remit to Box 965,
Wellington, N.Z.: 1 year, £2/12/?; 1/2 yeah.
£l/6/- (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
ONLY TWO MORE
WEEKS TO XMAS
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 723
ACROSS
I—American prosecutor to put a parliamentarian on
trial, this marking the time of receipt. (4-5)
s—lmplied5—Implied thanks by a citizen of Sheridan. (5)-
B—What makes some bowling screw? (7)
11— Unmanned German berated without its boy flower.
(7)
12— Wheedled! Dash! Thanks to the circular. (3, 6)
14 — Like this to know an old form of land tenure. (5)
15— The dead spit of a buckjumper looking down the
throat? (12)
18—Entreaty from Canio’s pulpit. (12)
22—Processes when stamping
defeats. (5)
24 Chap to cultivate as head-
gear. (9)
25 Seek my hand with an artist
weapon of an aboriginal. (7)
26 Daughter of Polonius. (7)
29 Lives in a shoe after pence.
(5)
30— singularly seen by one
duet arranged with depravity.
(9)
DOWN
1— Dope from Gordon. (6)
2 This is the end of you! (3)
3 The Maori gets a drink. (3)
4 Parent idol as seen in tem-
ples. (7)
5 A thinner spurt is affected. (5)
6 Impudence of John Oscar
Wills-Legerton in hugger-
mugger. (5,2,4)
7 Ten arise from learners. (8)
9—Japanese of a good round
vegetable. (7)
10—A young man out in the
middle. (5)
13—5-down misrepresented one bit
of drudgery for a muse. (11)
16—None rue the plutocratic run-
ning bird. (7)
17—Unsettled account came in
waves. (8)
19 — Elia has a way to thrash. (7)
20— Part of a long poem unable
to love. (5)
21— Mitigated as loch. (6)
23 —Cleaned direction blubbered.
(5)
27- for dad. (3)
28— Is after him on formal occa-
sions. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 722


ai
mm
s
II I i 11
'
it
■
mwm
an iis
. - ‘ ..U-
- v-*»*««
*»*««
2*
SR
*»»V,
/, itfp-
v-'
-r:
j
Sf
L A
'
:
v . wr„
■< •, fcsassw r ■&?%&
■ 1:1' I-
V
f* I a
,?‘V ' *
' '
•Jar -■ :
- *
Festive idea:
with the golden taste of sunshine
Celebrate a real Australian Christmas
with Brandy Freshers. These are the
new, crisp-tasting drinks, short or long,
with a sunshine base of good Australian
Brandy.
Our Brandy is the joyous, golden-
E VERY ONE LIKES BRANDY GINGER!
To large glass add 1-2 ozs. (2-4 tblsps.) Brandy, add ice, fill with
ginger ale and enjoy. SEND NOW FOR FREE RECIPES LEAF-
LET for exciting long and short Freshers and punches with
Brandy. Just write to the Wine Information Centre in your State.
Box 3634, G.P.0., Sydney Box 155 C, G.P.0., Brisbane Box T 1650, G.P.0., Perth
Box 4057, G.P.0., Melbourne Box 2600, G.P.0., Adelaide Box 809 H, G.P.0., Hobart
hearted spirit from sun-blessed grapes,
winner of many overseas awards,
least expensive base of all for
countless summer cool-offs. Moderate
people who like to enjoy the good life
enjoy Brandy often. You, too?
BLAZING
CHRISTMAS
PUDDING
Heat Brandy over low flame un-
til nearly boiling. Pour over
pudding and set alight. Since
alcohol evaporates, children can
enjoy, too.
NICEST
POSSIBLE WAV
TO SAY
■ . . is to ribbon-tie our free
Brandy Drinks Recipe Leaflet to
a bottle or two of gift-wrapped
Australian Brandy.
AUTHORISED BY THE AUSTRALIAN WINE BOARD


1
fHHMig%
V
X
HMMnt|
■J*
r
■Mi
'
SsHSIk
MS
' :
«M
Compared with any other luxury car ...
PREMIER OFFERS YOU SO MUCH MORE
for so much less
Open the door on a new Premier. It looks rich . . . sumptuous
. . . inviting. And it has just about every luxury- appointment you
could possibly want to make motoring a new and delightful experi-
ence. Yet Premier can be yours for hundreds of pounds less than
other luxury cars. If you are a lover of fine cars, you should
drive a Premier. You’ll be impressed with its smooth, spirited
performance. With its superb comfort. With its wonderful silence.
Your Holden Dealer has a beautiful new Premier ready and
waiting for you to drive . . . now!
- xO&SSL
7*
■
m
B
Y 412
regd
mier is completely and beautifully appointed. Every Holden*
Premier comes completely equipped with world-famous Hydra]
Matic* automatic transmission; individual front seats; top-grained
leather upholstery; heater-demister built into a front seat console;
deep-pile carpeting; door-pull armrests on all doors and a centre
armrest in the back; two-speed electric windshield wipers; wind-
shield washers; dual horns; glovebox and luggage compartment
lamps; parking brake warning lamp; back-up lamps; anti-glare rear
vision mirror; chrome door scuff plates; Magic-Mirror metallic
exterior finish; narrow band white wall tyres; chrome wheel trim
rings; hood ornament; distinguishing badges; rear bumper over-riders.
PRICE £1,195 PLUS TAX
See your Holden Dealer . . . drive the new
HOLDEN PREMIER
OENE R m iMOTORS-HOLDEN'S PTY. LIMITED
