

The
Bulletin
Registered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
February 24, 1962
I;"
Leslie Bury
Menzies
Hair Shirt?
9 5 SINS OF THE A.B.C.
® INDIA'S ELECTIONS
• SHORT STORY
ALAN REID J. R. DARLING MUGGA


ON-THE-SPOT storage
-the commonsense way to hold feed for flood-bound stock
Plan your property layout so as to
provide Lysaght 500-bushel Grain
Silos in each stock paddock . . . for
the safe storage of feed oats over long
periods and the quick easy feeding of
stock when normal transport con-
ditions are impossible.
The commonsense way to avoid stock
losses during floods, drought or fire,
Lysaght 500-bushel Grain Silos im-
prove the value of your holding and
put extra profits into your bank
account every year.
/T
1
m
m
m t
mm
t-.m
* < t
i**
•iillllii!
LYSAGHT
500 BUSHEL
GRAIN
SILOS
* Patent Pending No. 55007/59
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Fremantle
Manufactured by: John Lysaght (Australia) Limited, Special Products
Division, Newcastle Works. Newcastle, N.S.W.
• Vertically rigidised walls and 6-ply horizontal ribs for added
strength.
• Two bagging outlets complete with steel covers.
• Improved centre and side-filling hole assemblies, complete with
hinged lids and positive fastenings.
» Combined roof step and ladder support.
» Wide turned-down eaves on roof panels.
® Segmented steel floor.
a Fully rodent-proof construction.
• Steel earth ring (optional extra).
Post coupon now for complete details to: B
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited
(City)
Please send me ftdl details of the complete range of Lysaght Grain
Silos.
NAME _
NAME OF PROPERTY
ROUTE OR RMS NO. _
DISTRICT STATE
-j j .—. i


Tanner
"HE WANTS TO START TROUBLE—HE'S TALKING PEACE AGAIN"


This Australia
ENTERTAINMENT
THE MIDNIGHT HORRORS
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
'T'he Leader of the Victorian State
A Opposition, Mr C. Stoneham, and
25 municipal councillors from Northcote,
Preston and Heidelberg last week attended
a special screening of “Gigantis The Fire
Monster” and “The Screaming Muni”
at Hoyts Ivanhoe Theatre. The films
had comprised the programme at a
midnight horror show at the Regent
Theatre, Thornbury, on January 28-29,
which was followed by widespread van-
dalism and the arrest of 21 youths on a
variety of charges, including wilful
damage and arson.
In the theatre itself, eggs and refuse
were hurled at the screen and the
manager clubbed with a bottle.
Police several times entered to restore
order, but had far bigger problems to
deal with when the mainly teenage audi-
ence poured out into the night. Hundreds
were involved in brawls, sometimes using
pickets torn from householders’ fences.
Milk bottles were smashed, lettei-boxes
ripped from front gates and bonfires of
old newspapers lit in the street. One
constable who helped subdue the mobs
said that midnight horror shows at long
weekends had brought “nothing but
trouble over the years.”
Almost three years ago the State Sec-
retary, Mr A. G. Rylah, ordered an
investigation into the films shown at
midnight horror shows following a simi-
lar outbreak of nocturnal vandalism in
the southern suburbs. Discussions
between the Government and Hoyts
Theatres followed, as a result of which he
was able to announce that there would
be few'er such shows in the future.
The recent northern suburbs rioting
resulted in some formidable groups calling
for a Government ban on the shows.
The State Country party leader, Sir
Herbert Hyland, promised an all - out
attack on the Government when Parlia-
C. STONEHAM
Different during the day
ment reassembles next month unless the
shows were banned, and Mr Stoneham
also called for a ban on Lehalf of the
ALP. Church and social welfare leaders
also took a strong line, among them the
Rev. Mr John Westerman, Director of the
Methodist Social Services Department.
"To turn these youngsters on the streets
at two or three in the morning with this
kind of stimulus is asking for trouble,”
he said.
The Government again called for a
police report on the matter. This claimed
that up to a thousand youths had been
involved in the disturbances, some of
them coming from a similiar film show
in neighboring Preston. The police
recommended a State Government ban
on the shows.
At this stage, the cinema interests were
showing alarm, particularly when it be-
came known that some of the northern
municipal councils were considering
action. The Cinematograph Exhibitors
Association issued a statement pointing
out that ten horror shows were screened
on the night in question, but there had
only been trouble in one area. It blamed
this on “an irresponsible minority,” and
pointed out that the films shown had
been graded for general exhibition, that is,
were deemed suitable for children. One
theatre manager claimed that “they w'ere
not half as terrifying as Grimms’ fairy-
tales.” A least one municipal councillor,
Cr T. A. Cochrane of Preston, com-
plained of being lobbied by cinema inter-
ests at his home.
The State Government declined to
enact a ban on the shows, but reminded
the councils that they could outlaw them
be enacting regulations restricting the
hours during which places of entertain-
ment may open. Some councils have
done so, including Northcote, within
whose precincts the offending Thornbury
Theatre is situated. Others have been
reluctant to resort to regulations which
would apply equally to dances and other
entertainments less liable to provoke riot
and arson.
After the Government made its atti-
tude clear. Preston Council had a heated
debate about passing regulations to stop
the shows, but the Labor majority
rejected the idea. Northcote Council also
debated the issue and decided to press
the Government for power to increase
the existing penalty of a £lO fine. It
also decided to take legal action against
the management of the Thornbury
Theatre.
Meanhile, the mayors and councillors
who saw “Gigantis” and "The Screaming
Mimi' left the cinema with a feeling of
considerable anticlimax. Typical com-
ments were "Silly,” "Rubbish,” “Harm-
less” and “Irritating.” Cr A. E. Houston,
of Preston, suggested that if teenagers
left the theatre in the same mood of
irritation as he felt, “they might be led
to play up.” The Northcote councillors,
with a prosecution pending, made no
comment, but the Heidelberg group
“couldn't see anything wrong” with the
show.
Mr Stoneham felt that it was not the
films which had cajsed the trouble, but
their timing. “If they had seen it at a
matinee or the usual evening screening,
probably nothing would have happened.”
In other words, the trouble stemmed not
from the “horror” but from midnight—-
unless, of course, it was a product of
teenage resentment at the sheer inanity
of the celluloid fare offered them.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol. 83
No. 4280
SPORT
RACETRACK BLUES
FROM A NORTHERN TERRITORY CORRESPONDENT
ry\R\vrN Turf Club —possibly Austra-
lia's strangest racing body—is in
severe financial difficulties. Formed some
years ago after a very unsavory scandal
about Darwin’s wide-open, though illegal,
SP betting shops, it is possibly the only
country club in Australia which runs
regular weekly race meetings. The fields
are nothing much ; often only one or two
horses in each event and sometimes just
one race on the programme.
But, as an avenue for legal gambling on


Saturdays, it has been a great success.
And prize money has been as high as
£lOOO for a single race. Bookies accept
bets on races in all States and enormous
quantities of beer and whisky are con-
sumed at two thriving liquor bars.
Despite the betting motive, the Darwin
Turf Club is blessed also with a very
hard-working band of officials who love
racing for its own sake. Despite chronic
lack of funds, these men have turned a
stretch of swampland at Fannie Bay into
quite a respectable course, with a con-
tinuing programme of improvements. For
their trouble the City Council rewarded
them with a thumping bill for rates, based
on a new, higher assessment. Recently
they suffered another, possibly fatal, blow
with a demand for payment of more
than £l7OO income tax. Including what
is owed the Council, this meant the club
now faced a bill of more than £2500 for
rates and taxes.
Club chairman Ted D’Ambrosio said
last week that unless some relief was
forthcoming from the club's rates and
taxes problem alternative methods of
carrying on racing in Darwin might have
to be worked out. The continual calls
for money were little encouragement for
a non-profit sporting organisation.
The club would appeal against the
income-tax assessment, Mr D'Ambrosio
said. If this failed it might consider ask-
ing the City Council to act as trustees for
the racecourse, or call for establishment
of a commission to carry on racing in
Darwin.
COMMUNIST PARTY
SHARKEY'S LATEST PURGE
L.L. SHARKEY
Heads will roll
FROM MUGGA
r T''HE Australian Communist party
faces one of its most serious crises
in its entire history. Last weekend a
powerful delegation of the Central Com-
mittee, consisting of Lance Sharkey, Ted
Bacon and Laurie Arrons, visited Mel-
bourne. The main purpose of the visit
was to discuss the situation which has
arisen in Victoria over the party’s de-
Stalinisntion programme, and to initiate
a purge of the Victorian State apparatus.
The comrades scheduled for the high
jump include Flo Russell and Ken Miller,
but the chief target is Ted Hill. Ted
Hill is likely to lose his position as State
secretary and may disappear from the
Central Committee altogether.
The background to the purge is of
long standing, but the immediate cause
is the 22nd Congress of the Soviet Com-
munist party held recently in Moscow
and the effect that the conflict between
the Peking-Tirana axis and Moscow,
which came to a head at that congress,
has on the policy of the Australian
Communist party. The Australian dele-
gation, led by Sharkey (and which
included Bacon), backed the Soviet line
against the Sino-Albanians, together with
all other communist delegations, except,
of course, the Chinese and Albanians.
On their return, Sharkey initiated a com-
plete somersault and started to switch
the Australian party from its ten years'
old Chinese orientation back to the Soviet
one.
The decision to put the ACP under
Chinese tutelage was taken sometime in
1951, and the training of agents was
switched to Peking in that year. Batches
of agents went to China for periods of
training ranging from three years to only
a few months. At the conference of
Communist parties in 1957 the Austra-
lian Communist party was the only
Europe-type Communist party which
supported Mao against the Russians.
Sharkey became one of the chief prota-
gonists of the predominantly Chinese
orientation of the Australian Communist
party. All this is changing now and
Sharkey, gone Soviet again, is turning
ruthlessly on some of his fellow-Maoists.
The communist “Tribune” of February
14, which contains on page 9 a smudged
picture of Brigitte Bardot, also contains
a long statement by the Sydney district
committee of the Australian Communist
party endorsing the Sharkey line. It is
an excessive and fulsome praise of the
unique virtues of the Communist party
of the Soviet Union and contains not a
single word about the Communist party
of China. There are strong attacks on
the Albanian Communist party. Yet
“Tribune” does not contain some remark-
able bits which comrade Sharkey uttered
at that occasion. Sharkey admitted that
Albanians and Chinese quarrelled with
the Russians very severely, and he con-
demned them very strongly for their
vicious attacks against the Communist
party of the Soviet Union.
If they did it in Australia they would
get “their skin off their noses,” he said.
Yet Sharkey also condemned excessive
zeal in de-Stalinisation. It is all right to
rename streets and cities, but removing
Stalin's mummy was too much. He
added, not as a joke, that this could not
happen in Australia. He praised Stalin's
work, particularly against the Trotskyites,
but added that it is impossible to support
the Albanians and the Chinese. The
USSR believed in peaceful coexistence,
but the Soviet comrades do not deny that
force must sometimes be used. Sharkey
made it quite plain that the policy of de-
Stalinisation will be carried out but very
unwillingly. Like any policy change in
the Communist party, this too will be
accompanied by organisational and per-
sonnel changes, and the opportunity will
be used to settle old scores.
The pro-Soviet and anti-Chinese line
of last week's “Tribune” has not been
taken up by the Melbourne “Guardian,”
which is controlled by Ted Hill —an open
act of defiance. Sharkey’s visit to Mel-
bourne has as its main purpose to
enforce the line and to liquidate the
opposition. Meanwhile, Ted Hill is dig-
ging in and trying to marshal rank-and-
file support of trade unionists. Yet, no
matter how things go, heads will roll and
in a big way.
STUDENTS
PLEBISCITE
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
nrwo important decisions marking the
increasing politicalisation, though
not necessarily sophistication, of Austra-
lian students were made in Melbourne
last week at the Annual Council Meeting
of the National Union of Australian
University Students. The first is to hold
a plebiscite on what they call the “White
Australia’’ policy. About 50.000 students
from all Australian universities will be
asked in July for their opinions on fa)
whether they are for or against “White
Australia,” (b) what immigration policy
they would like to see replace the present
setup (assuming they oppose it).
The second is to send observers (not
delegates) to the 1962 Leningrad con-
ference of the communist-front Inter-
national Union of Students which has its
headquarters in Prague. The Melbourne
meeting recognised that the Leningrad
conference will be a communist stunt,
but claimed it would be better to take the
fight into the enemy camp rather than
leave the communists with a monopoly
of the ears of Asian neutrals.


MEDICINE
A DOCTORS' DARG?
W. SHEAHAN
" Infamous "
FROM A LAUNCESTON CORRESPONDENT
T2or some months word had spread
A around Tasmania, the story becoming
more exaggerated with each retelling,
that a child had died in Launceston
unattended by a doctor because it was
after surgery hours and no doctor would
answer the call. With this undercurrent
to give it impetus, the outcry was wide
and general when the public learned on
January 30 that Mrs Rita Rowe, an out-
of-town widow visiting her sister in Laun-
ceston, had spent an agonising hour
trying to get a doctor while her 12-year-
old son, Timothy, was in a violent
asthmatic attack from which he died
within minutes of a doctor’s ultimate
arrival. One doctor’s wife, Mrs Rowe
told reporters, had said that her husband
would visit the boy if no one could be
obtained. Otherwise, Mrs Rowe had the
experience so many had had on holidays
and at weekends —the doctors' telephones
were not answered. “We don’t suggest
that Timothy’s life could have been
saved,” Mrs Rowe’s sister told reporters,
“but it is disgusting that we couldn’t get
a doctor. There should be a law like
they have in NSW to deal with doctors
who won't accept emergency calls.”
Ironically, two general practitioners
have their private fomes nearby. Either
would have responded immediately, but
neither Mrs Rowe nor her sister knew
about them. And that was the basis of
the informed as opposed to the hysteri-
cal criticism which broke over the medi-
cal profession in the next few days. It
increased when the AMA spokesman
soothingly replied that people needing
emergency treatment “should contact
their usual medical practitioner,” and
that visitors and others who did not have
a regular doctor should call the Laun-
ceston General Hospital switchboard,
which had a list of general practitioners
available. But who among visitors would
be aware of the arrangement?
Some days later, Mrs Rowe told
reporters that she had had a similar
experience ten years before when she
and her former p.o.w. husband visited
Launceston during a holiday weekend.
At 8 p.m. on the Sunday he had had
severe chest pains, and when she finally
persuaded him to let her cafl a doctor
she was unable to raise one. The central
exchange—then manual —had in the end
put her on to one, “but he was unable
to come until after midday,” she said. “It
proved to be a coronary occlusion. I
often wonder had he had prompt atten-
tion whether he would have been spared
the years of suffering and invalidism
which followed.”
Last week, the Northern Tasmanian
executive of the AMA met. It after-
wards gave the Press a statement
which admitted that emergency
services “may need to be im-
proved. ’ Other Tasmanians, however,
consider a Bill on the lines promised by
Mr Sheahan in NSW penalising
“infamous conduct” is necessary.
Some doctors say privately that PMG
reluctance to waive regulations is their
main difficulty. Their names are not in
the Pink Pages: only in capital cities
are doctors listed there free of charge.
and to pay for the listing would be
advertising within the meaning of the
AMA code. These doctors want to have
a woman on duty outside surgery hours
to take calls and pass the information
to the doctors then on duty, who would
keep her constantly advised. But for this
to be effective her number would have
to appear with other “emergency ser-
vices” in the front of the directory, and
this is said to be contrary to regulations.
However, the real causes lie deeper.
Launceston is unusually well provided
with doctors, particularly specialists,
because it is the medical centre for half
the State. Every busy GP must envy
the relatively regular hours of the
specialists, and many certainly try to keep
their patients to consulting-room calls as
specialists do. Backed by automatic
exchanges and the anonymity of the tele-
phone directory, freed by the size of the
city from the close personalities country
doctors have with patients, and able at
worst to take the phone off the hook,
the comfortably established practitioner
reluctant to take out-of-hours calls can
avoid them. The younger men, the new-
comers and the undoubtedly large pro-
portion who would never fail any patient
no matter how inconvenient are there
ready, but the distracted wife or mother
can only pick names at random from
the phone book and call them in turn,
meanwhile collecting a mixed bag of
dentists who, under a quaint Tasmanian
convention of their own, often call them-
selves “doctor.”
WAR
REMEMBER FEBRUARY 19, 1942
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
ver the years some offbeat suggest-
tions have emanated from Darwin's
City Council, but one of its most unfor-
tunate must surely be the recent decision
to press for Australia-wide recognition of
the anniversary of Darwin's first bombing
raid on February 19, 1942.
Council and Armed Services represen-
tatives have decided to ask the Adminis-
trator, Mr Nott, to request the Prime
Minister to mark the anniversary in
future years by having official flags flown
at half-mast on February 19. “Some form
of official recognition” of the anniversary
will be sought. Mayor Harry Cooper
said: “Although February 19 is always
recognised in Darwin, it passes unnoticed
elsewhere in Australia. It should be either
all or nothing. Either the first enemy
bombing of Australian soil should be
remembered throughout Australia, or we
might as well forget about it altogether."
There is an excellent case for com-
memorating the anniversary in Darwin
itself. The raid razed Chinatown and
destroyed the “old Darwin" forever. It
killed several hundred people, many of
them civilians. It has its aura of tragedy.
It produced some heroes. But it would be
a sorry choice as a national anniversary:
too many of the stories survivors tell are
distinctly embarrassing. There was, for
example, the very well-known business-
man who pedalled his bicycle off south in
a panic and got as far as Adelaide River,
65 miles away, before he calmed down.
Or there were the two RAAF men who
were picked up in a vehicle hundreds of
miles away. They explained they'd shot
through on hearing a rumor that the
orders were “every man for himself.”
One old-timer and witness of the raid
commented: “The most politic thing
Darwin can do about the bombing is
forget it.”


MILK BARS
THE MILK WAR
“My husband keeps losing the plans. "
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
rowing antagonism between milk-bar
operators and dairy managers is
evident in Melbourne. The milk-bar
people claim that distributors are trying
to knock their business because there
is more profit on milk delivered to homes
than on supplies sent to the milk bars.
The dairy owners, on the other hand,
have counter-charged that the bar
owners have tried to play dairy against
dairy in an attempt to get concessions
and “fringe” benefits.
Allegations have been made that rr.ilk-
bar owners have asked dairies, in return
for their custom, to provide down pay-
ments on refrigerators, floor covering
and other shop requirements. Accord-
ing to Mr J. E. Welsh, secretary of the
Victorian Milk Distributors’ Association,
“dairy A will be told that dairy B has
agreed to pay for certain items and is
invited to make a better offer.” Milk
bars are businesses which change hands
comparatively frequently, and situations
have arisen where the new buyer of a
bar has taken possession unaware that
some of the assets he has bought are
actually the property of a dairyman.
On the other side, there is the com-
plaint by the secretary of the Confection-
ery and Mixed Business Association., Mr
G. U. Thomas, that dairies are “forcing
us to charge 6d. deposit on each bottle
because they know the public doesn't like
this and thus orders more to be delivered
at home.” Mr Thomas has also charged
that dairymen in the southern suburbs
have denied milk bars any choice in the
source of supply of their milk. “I
thought milk bars were supposed to have
a reasonable choice,” Mr Thomas said.
The situation partially arises from the
fact that milk distribution to confection-
ery shops and milk bars is less strictly
zoned than deliveries to households.
Milk zoning in Victoria goes back to
1933, but the system became far more
rigid during the War as a result of the
need to conserve manpower by eliminat-
ing competing deliveries to the same area
or the same streets. The overall patter is
set by the Milk Board, which specifies
which dairies may deliver in a par-
ticular municipality. In theory, this
leaves householders with a choice of
dairies for their home deliveries, but in
practice the permitted dairies agree
among themselves on further division of
the territory. This has virtually cut out
any competition for the householder's
trade.
The dairymen have not generally
applied this informal, tacit zoning to the
milk-bar trade. This has given the latter
some scope for bargaining in terms of
“fringe” benefits, though not in terms of
the price paid for the milk. This is
fixed by the Milk Board, which lays
down the price to the consumer and the
profit margins to distributors, processors
and shopkeepers—even to the nearest
eighth of a penny.
It seems pretty certain that the milk-
bar owners will come off second-best if
the present squabble continues. Over the
years the dairy owners have shown a
keen appreciation of the benefits to
themselves from zoning, and the Wonder
is that they have not already taken steps
to stop competition in supplying the milk
bars.


POLITICS
THE DUGGAN DRAMA
FROM JOHN HIGGINS IN BRISBANE
J. F. DUGGAN
Time is running out
HPhe man who has the job of leading the
-* ALP against the Nicklin-Morris
coalition Government in the next Queens-
land State elections is chunky, good-look-
ing 50-year-old John Francis Duggan. A
few years ago no one would have doubted
his ability to do it; but in recent years the
Duggan legend has become very frayed
around the edges.
He was one of the “golden boys'' of
Australian Labor politics ... an orphaned
grocer boy who came good in the Western
tradition . . . president of a Trades and
Labor Council when he was 21 years of
age... a Member of Parliament at the
age of 24 .. . and Cabinet Minister at the
age of 36 years, one of the youngest in
Australian political history. At 41 years
of age, with a good New Guinea war
record behind him, he was Deputy
Premier in the most strongly entrenched
State Labor Government in Australia, a
man equally at home at a gathering of
bankers as at a trade-union rally,
polished, approachable, courteous, and so
incredibly fluent that at a speaking rate
of 220 words a minute he was quite easily
understandable. He was tipped as a
future Prime Minister, he was odds-on as
a future Premier of Queensland.
Then in 1957 the Duggan bubble burst.
Within a few short months, his Govern-
ment was wrecked, split almost exactly in
half, destroyed at the polls and Duggan
himself was defeated in his own elector-
ate.
To understand what happened to Mr
Duggan, and what forces are now playing
on him, it is necessary to know the back-
ground of Queensland Labor politics.
Few people south of the border under-
stand the State’s Labor mentality. It did
split in 1957. but not for the same reasons
that Labor split in Victoria and New
South Wales. Queensland Labor has
always been essentially suspicious of
southern Labor. Queensland is not an
industrial State, and apart from the disas-
trous socialist ventures of the early 1920 s
and 1930 s (State farms, butcher shops,
coal mines, etc.) it has been essentially
conservative since 1923, after having lost
office for three years on a disgruntled
Depression railway vote.
Political Labor since that date, up until
1957 at any rate, was basically more Tory
than a Tory Government would ever dare
to contemplate, despite its heavy emphasis
on Welfare State conditions. Add a
rigged electorate, an essentially Right-
wing Labor Government, and in 1956
you had the story of the ALP Govern-
ment being returned with the greatest
majority in its uninterrupted 25-year
reign.
T lading the Government was Vincent
Clare Gair. portly, able, slightly pom-
pous. bred in the tradition of unfettered
political-wing leadership. Brooding in
the wings was the late Rochus John
Joseph Bukowski, the despotic all-power-
ful State secretary of the giant Australian
Workers' Union and president of the
Queensland Central Executive of the
ALP. At the 1956 Labor-in-Politics
Convention in Mackay a grim tussle had
taken place for Labor leadership in
Queensland between the political wing
and the industrial wing. The industrial
wing had demanded legislation for three
weeks' leave. All Cabinet Ministers, in-
cluding Mr Duggan, had spoken against
it because the Government could not
afford the expense. There was a backroom
conference, the results of which are still
open to dispute. It is generally accepted
that an undertaking was given in the back-
room that three weeks’ leave would be
introduced, but that it would not be men-
tioned in Mr Gair's 1956 policy speech.
Be that as it may, the word “got around,”
which could possibly explain that record
1956 majority.
Mr Bukowski and others on the
Queensland Central Executive later
claimed that the understanding was that
three weeks' leave would be introduced
in the current term of Parliament. Mr
Gair, supported by his entire Cabinet,
claimed that the understanding was that
it would be introduced when the Govern-
ment saw fit. One word led to another,
and the trial of strength was on. Under
Bukowski, the QCE made an issue of
it, formally expelling Mr Gair
for his refusal to bring down legisla-
tion Immediately. Of the 49 Labor Par-
liamentarians, 25 stuck with Mr Gair and
resigned from the ALr to form the
Queensland Labor party. Of his 10
Cabinet Ministers, nine stuck with him
to the bitter end.
TThe odd man out was John Francis
Duggan. He went through a variety
of manoeuvres before he decided ‘‘the
time for logic is passed,” and he made
the fateful decision to throw Vince Gair
to the wolves —fateful because if he had
stuck with Gair it is quite on the cards
that the Queensland Central Executive
might have backed down at the 1 Ith hour.
But with the Deputy Premier to rally
support, Bukowski stood firm. With
his record majority split in two. Mr Gair
was defeated on the floor of the House
and went to the country. First past the
post voting made the result a foregone
conclusion, and when the dust of battle
cleared the Nicklin-Morris coalition was
in office with a total of 41 seats. The
ALP won 20 seats, and Mr Gair's QLP
11 seats.
In the process, Mr Duggan lost his
22-year-old seat in Toowoomba in a par-
ticularly sectarian campaign. (A prac-
tising Catholic, Mr Duggan found himself
under direct att ck from the Bishop of
Toowoomba, the Most Rev. Dr W.
Brennan.) Mr Des McCawley, QC, son
of the first Catholic Chief Justice of
Queensland, took the field for the QLP,
and Mr M. J. R. Anderson. Mayor of
Toowoomba, went up as the Liberal party
candidate. Duggan was beaien b> a
reasonably substantial majority.
His last night before the poll saw him
addressing a fantastic crowd of nearly
2000 people in the main street . . . and
he wilted under t' strain. His plat-
form was taken from him at one stage
by Anderson supporters, and his attack
back on his Church and other critics mis-
fired. A crack by Des McCawley, one
of the wittiest conversationalists of the
Queensland Bar, swept through Too-
woomba: ‘Tie's a millionaire in words
but a bankrupt in ideas.” And all of
a sudden a lot of people who had thought
that Jack Duggan was brilliant because
he spoke so well began giving him an
extremely critical scrutiny.
A Gair Government Minister, the late
Mr George Devries, had died during the
campaign, and Duggan was hastily
nominated for the by-election. Once
again it was a bitter campaign, and once
again Duggan was defeated, this time
by a Country party candidate. It looked
the end for the ‘‘golden boy.” And then,
like a bolt from the blue, his Toowoomba
ALP colleague, Les Wood, collapsed and
died in 1958 while Leader of the Oppos-
tion —and back to Parliament and leader-
ship went Mr Duggan.
TVTow was the time for Mr Duggan to
show qualities that he had never
really been called on to show. He was


no longer the bright boy of Cabinet, sur-
rounded by tough, experienced politicians.
Instead he was left with the tattered rem-
nants of a party which had almost blown
out its brains in a fratricidal domestic
dispute. And here is the problem:
although in 1960 Mr Duggan’s team
picked up several seats at the expense
of the QLP (which was reduced from 11
seats to four), he has not yet proved an
effective Opposition Leader.
Perhaps because in his day he was able
to be all things to all people, Mr Duggan
has found it hard to concentrate on the
single obsessive subject of leadership, with
its prerequisites of ruthlessness and
determination. He has the innate courtesy
of a Nicklin and with it its innate risks.
No Duggan attack is ever really driven
home. He is likely to begin a debate
with a trenchant comment about a person
or an institution, and then comes the
inevitable qualification, spoken at the
standard rate of 220 words per minute
.... “On the other hand, I wish to make
it perfectly clear to this House that in
no way whatsoever do I for one moment
wish to reflect on the personal integrity
or character of the person or persons
mentioned, etc.”
Another of his failings as an Opposi-
tion Leader has been his apparent in-
capacity to create, train and effectively
mobilise a fighting Shadow Cabinet.
(Admittedly, he hasn't a great deal of
material to work on.) Because he speaks
so fluently himself, he perhaps feels
impelled to speak on every subject,
instead of insisting that other Members
take key debating positions. The result
is that a good deal of his effectiveness
as an orator has been dissipated. He
speaks a little about a lot and only
rarely gets in a major effective broadside
on a vulnerable issue. He takes the head-
lines, if any, on almost every occasion,
and meanwhile his backbenchers perish
in obscurity. The result is that hardly
anyone in Queensland today knows who
is in the Labor party outside Mr Duggan.
On the hard battleground of Parlia-
mentary tactics, Mr Duggan has let the
Government off lightly. He has a habit
of sitting on the front bench with one
foot tucked under a knee and the spare
foot begins a staccato tap as he prepares
to interject. He follows a debate keenly,
is the first to lead a shout of laughter
at a witticism, is impeccably correct with
the Speaker, and with nearly 27 years of
Parliamentary experience behind him, 10
cf them as a Minister, seems to know
his Parliamentary ropes. E t there have
been occasions, in the last session par-
ticularly, where Government Members
quite definitely would have crossed the
floor of the House to vote against their
own parties. Duggan never gave them
the opportunity. Gair wouldn’t have
missed it —and neither would any of his
predecessors.
Sitting on the sidelines in Parliament
watching him with sardonic interest is
veteran politician Ted Walsh, now out
of the QLP, a former ALP Treasurer and
Deputy Premier: and easily the toughest
and most experienced Parliamentarian
in the House, Walsh was a Cabinet
Minister when Duggan was a bright
young backbencher, and in fact groomed
him for years. Where Duggan is polished
and affable, Walsh is gruff and distant.
But where Duggan is elastic, Walsh is as
tough and unyielding as an ironbark
gum-tree. Ask Mr Walsh today what he
thinks of his one-time protege, and he
grins, touches his stomach and says:
“Jackie, he’s too much of a boy down
here.”
Certainly the next two years will see
the curtain fall on the Duggan Drama,
providing an answer one way or the other,
for if he's ever going to lead now is the
time he will have to prove it. Despite
everything, he is the ALP’s only draw-
card.
MIGRATION
THE REFUGEES FROM MAURITIUS
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
r T'HE 80 French families from the island
of Mauritius who have settled down
on farms or in businesses around Perth
are political refugees. Former sugar
planters and professional men, they fear
what will happen to their capital when
native Mauritians are granted self-govern-
ment. Already, they say, their position
has become dangerous since universal
franchise was introduced to the island
about six years ago. This has resulted in
native dominance of the island’s Legisla-
tive Council and a consequent attitude of
suspicion between whites and natives.
M. Alain Jauffret, former official in
the sugar industry in Mauritius, is arrang-
ing business affairs and accommodation
for the newcomers and says that the
number of migrants should rise to about
200 in another year. “If Mauritius is
granted self-government in the meantime,
that figure could be 2000,” he says.
Meanwhile the Mauritian influx, plus
the steady migration of South African
businessmen and public servants to WA,
has raised the question whether the Immi-
gration authorities will ever overcome
their “Laborer Complex” and get around
to recruiting systematically the sort of
professional and business men that we
have so far received by sheer good luck.
The very fact that no official figures are
available on the extent of professional
migration shows how apathetic they are
in this field.
Other considerations apart, one advan-
tage of professional migrants is that they
pay their own fares and buy their own
housing, whereas the assisted laborers
regularly present special problems. For
example, the Perth Rotary Club recently
started a sponsoring scheme guaranteeing
jobs and accommodation and the history
of the first 30 migrants to arrive in WA
under its wing is now the subject of some
controversy. A recent survey showed that
despite the guarantees, 11 of the migrant-
families were still without permanent
accommodation three weeks after their
arrival. A letter from Mr H. G.
McGuiness, chief migration officer at
Australia House, London, assured the
migrants that private accommodation
would be arranged at £4 10s. to £5 where
it was required.
A Perth Rotary Club official confirmed
the housing shortage and blamed it on
the seasonal situation when city accommo-
dation is at a premium during the
summer holidays. He also said some of
the migrants would not take the accommo-
dation offered because the rent was too
high while others missed out because
they took too long to chase up the offers
made by the Club. Local trade unions
climbed on the bandwagon with a state-
ment that carpenters and bricklayers
should not be encouraged to come to WA
unless there was certain employment for
them. Bricklayers’ Union secretary H. R.
Fletcher said that far from there being a
labor shortage in the industry, local
tradesmen were out of work. The WA
Employers’ Federation accused the unions
of making political capital out of a situa-
tion which ignored the obvious need for
labor in the near future. “We know the
projects coming up,” a spokesman said,
“we know how many more tradesmen
they will need and we will do our best to
get them.”
The Mauritians raised no such pro-
blems. Nevertheless, the WA Government
and businessmen are pressing for a resum-
ption of large-scale working class migra-
tion on the confident assumption that
WA will soon achieve its industrial take-
off. But at the same time changes in
building and industrial techniques are
reducing the size of labor forces and pro-
fessional know-how and capital may soon
be far more important than armies of
laborers. It will, however, be quite some
time before Government minds catch up
with this possibility.


LESLIE BURY
Mr Menzies's Hair Shirt
By ALAN REID
Six feet four-and-a-half inches
of looselimbed, almost awkwardly
coltish slenderness, Leslie Bury, 48,
parson’s son and ex-Englishman,
could be described with reasonable
accuracy as the Menzies Govern-
ment’s hair shirt. Though officially
Minister for Air, it is his role as
assistant to the Treasurer, Mr Holt, that
is probably the more significant. In
that role Bury is a constant reminder
that the Treasury—whose policies Bury
has consistently criticised since Novem-
ber, 1960 —has often before today cost
Governments their occupancy of the
Treasury benches.
Bury was a member of the Common-
wealth Public Service and himself a
Treasury official in 1949 when Treasury
helped the late Mr Ben Chifley to lose
the elections by insisting that the lifting
of petrol rationing was both financially
and physically impossible. Within a
matter of months, the disbelieving Aus-
tralian voters had replaced Chifley as
Treasurer with Arthur Fadden who pro-
ceeded to demonstrate that the Treasury
advice was not worth the paper it was
written on by proceeding to lift petrol
rationing and to finance its abolition
without wrecking the country’s economy.
Personally, 1 believe that Bury, extra-
ordinarily youthful looking despite the
49th birthday he will celebrate shortly,
would still be languishing on the Govern-
ment’s back benches but for the December
election result which reduced the Menzies
Government's majority from an alltime
record of 28 to a mere one. In the mood
of political repentance that fell upon it
after the elections, the Government was
prepared to wear a hair shirt—a symbol
of its repentance for past errors and for
its insistence upon the retention of
economic policies which obviously from
the election result were unacceptable to
Australian voters. Bury was in the
happy position that while he might not
have always been right he had at least on
numerous occasions pointed out (accur-
ately as events turned out) where the
Government —and its Treasury advisers
—was obviously wrong.
It is true he defended the extra sales
tax on motor vehicles. As a former
Australian official representative on the
International Monetary Fund and the
International Bank he has a high sensi-
tivity about the balance-of-payments
problem and he has blamed the inflated
car industry for much of the drain upon
Australian currency reserves held abroad.
He considered the Government’s punitive
action against the motor industry to be
justified in the national interest. But in
three other respects he was critical.
He criticised the decision to restrict
bank credit—not publicly but in the
semi-privacy of the party room where
(theoretically) backbenchers are entitled
to put their criticisms uninhibited. His
argument was not against the credit
restrictions in themselves ; it was against
the psychology that their imposition
would engender when they were imposed
along with other quite savage restrictive
measures. His opposition was similar in
basis to the line he had taken when
Parliamentary salaries were lifted in 1959.
He opposed the raising of Parliamentary
salaries on the ground that the timing and
psychology were both wrong. It forced
the Arbitration Court into the false posi-
tion that it had to give workers both
marginal and basic-wage rises irrespective
of whether or not the economy could
carry such rises, since it was obviously
impossible for workers to be refused
wage rises at a period when Par-
liament was conferring such rises upon
itself. Bury opposed two other facets of
the November, 1960, economic measures.
He was against the legislation that
sought to impose on insurance companies
a compulsory obligation to invest a fixed
proportion of their funds in Government
securities. He also opposed limiting the
amount of interest on debentures and
deposits outside the conventional banking
structure that a company could claim as
a taxation deduction—again largely on a
psychological ground : that by not allow-
ing companies to go on with work they
had already planned, confidence (and
employment) would be undermined.
In opposing the compulsory clauses
for insurance companies, Bury, who had
spent many of his formative years as a
bureaucrat, showed that he had escaped
contracting the classic disease of the
bureaucrat—the itch to control. Bury’s
basic philosophy is against controls. He
started oft' his Australian career as one
of Sir Alfred Davidson's bright boys.
Sir Alfred Davidson, then in charge of
the Bank of New South Wales, hit upon
the idea of encouraging graduates to join
the banks and he recruited a few in Aus-
tralia and more in the United Kingdom.
Among those recruited in Australia were
several who have since gone a long way.
Arthur (now Sir Arthur) Tange, per-
manent head of the External Affairs
Department, got his start that way ; so
did Jim PJimsoll, now Australian repre-
sentative in Manhattan; and Brian
Fleming, as assistant secretary in the
Treasury, came up through the same
hawse-pipe. Other banks were forced to
follow the Davidson lead, and so Dr H.
Coombs, now Governor of the Com-
monwealth Bank, and Fred Wheeler, the
present chairman of the Commonwealth
Public Service Board, started along the
paths that were to lead them to the
summit of the Commonwealth Public
Service.
"Dury, whose slow, smiling speech still
13 preserves a trace of his English extrac-
tion, was one of Sir Charles Davidson’s
“pommy” recruits. The son of a family
only modestly well-to-do —even now he
has manse-raised sympathy for the frugal
stipends paid clergymen—Bury, long,
rather gangling, had won his way largely
on scholarships from Herne Bay College
to Cambridge, where he took his MA and
specialised in economics and law. He
does not like being called an economist
—a word which has become slightly dis-
reputable over recent years in political
circles —but that is what he was when he
came to Australia in 1935 at the age of
22 with new worlds to conquer.


He claims that he has always nursed
from boyhood an ambition to go into
politics. But his early Australian experi-
ences probably deepened that ambition.
One of his first jobs was to travel round
Australia with the 1935 Commission on
Banking, chaired by the present Chief
Justice of South Australia, Sir Mellis
Napier, and of which Ben Chifley, then
out of a political job, was a distinguished
member.
Chifley always reckoned that the finan-
cial education he acquired during the 18
months he spent on that Commission was
invaluable to him in his later career.
Bury, still raw and impressionable, found
himself acquiring a similar education —
and one that was on the fringe of the
world of politics that he wanted to
enter.
With the Commission out of the way,
Bury went back to the routine of bank
affairs. When the war broke out, he
joined up, and as there was a dearth of
men with his qualifications in both
physics and mathematics he found his
way into 12th Australian Radar Det.
After the war Bury found his way into the
Commonwealth Public Service where so
many of “Sir Alfred Davidson’s bright
boys” had preceded him.
He went to External Affairs, where he
specialised in economic relationships. He
was sent to London during one of the
dollar crises which in those days plagued
the Australian economy and which
recurred throughout the postwar years in
a dollar-broke British Commonwealth.
I remember him coming back to Can-
berra from that excursion with a grow-
ing reputation for dependability and
shrewdness and earmarked as a man likely
to make quite a deep mark upon the Com-
monwealth Public Service. Then he
switched to Treasury. Here he was always
associated with Fred Wheeler, who was
always close to Chifley, in economic
planning. Although his political philo-
sophy differed from Chifley’s, he got on
well with that sturdily determined but
tolerant socialist and did a loyal and
capable job.
TTis real break came when Sir Leslie
Melville was appointed Executive Dir-
ector of the International Bank, and Bury
was sent to Washington as his understudy.
When Sir Leslie, now Chairman of the
Tariff Board, returned to Australia, Bury
fell heir to his job. It was a very nice job
—one of the real plums of the Common-
wealth Public Service. It was worth
$17,000 dollars a year, tax-free, and Bury
must have been sitting very pretty finan-
cially.
But though he had married in 1940
Anne, a daughter of the late C. E.
Weigall, former NSW Solicitor-General,
with valuable family connections in
Wentworth, the electorate that he was
one day to represent —and had acquired
a family of four small boys, the political
canker was still with him. When he
learned that Sir Eric Harrison was to
retire from politics and go to London
as Australian High Commissioner to the
United Kingdom, Bury decided that the
time was opportune.
Tradition is that Bury mentioned his
ambition of succeeding Harrison in the
blue-ribbon Liberal seat of Wentworth
to Prime Minister Menzies while Menzies
was in the United States on one of his
missions, that Menzies applauded his
decision, and that on his return to Aus-
tralia Menzies used all the powerful
influence he possessed within the Liberal
machine to get Bury the Liberal pre-
selection for the seat which Harrison was
about to vacate. Bury has on occasions
conceded that he mentioned his Went-
worth intentions to Menzies while Men-
zies was in the United States. But on
the Bury version he did not get an enthusi-
astic reception. Menzies is reported to
have merely grunted noncommittally and
to have shown no further interest in
Bury’s political ambitions.
But whatever was Menzies’s attitude
some of the influential people in the
Liberal party whom Bury had met
through his Canberra association reacted
favorably. Robert Willoughby, Liberal
party Federal secretary, a onetime private
secretary to Menzies, who had known
Bury for years in Canberra, gave him
support and help. This, however, nearly
cost him his seat. The locals did not like
an “outlander” being unloaded on them.
There were murmers and rebellions. Reg
Robson, brother of Murray Robson,
decided to oppose him, despite the Liberal
endorsement he had then received. He
wound up with five opponents, one ALP
and the rest a mixed bag of Independent
Liberals and Independents, all dedicated
to giving their preferences against him.
Though the seat had been going to
Harrison for years by a comfortable pro-
Liberal majority of better than 15,000,
Bury on polling night had only 956


votes —well short of an absolute majority.
For several days until preferences were
distributed Bury did not know whether
he had won or lost. In the final washup
he won the seat from Reg Robson by
what for Wentworth was the staggeringly
narrow margin of 3002.
Bury did not make much of an impact
upon the Parliament for a long time. My
impression is that he suffered from con-
siderable frustration. He had arrived
with the intention of setting the Molon-
glo on fire, but it just went on flowing
down to the Murrumbidgee in the same
old way as though this fellow Bury was
still in far-off Washington instead of
nearby Parliament House. You got the
impression that he was spending too much
time at the bar or refreshment-room with
fellow-frustrates who were so deeply
engaged in mourning over past failures
to secure recognition that they had given
away all attempts to secure future recog-
nition.
T>ut Bury was too sophisticated to show
his frustration or allow it to continue
unchecked. His interest returned and he
got himself involved in various sidelines.
He took on Army Minister Jack Cramer
when Cramer retired a number of senior
Army officers arbitarily and without
making proper provision for their sever-
ance allowance. Cramer was a sad and
sorry Minister by the time Bury had
ended twisting his tail. Not that Bury is
a good speaker. He talks in a thin, rather
high-pitched voice. His content might be
interesting but his delivery is not.
There were signs that he had no rever-
ence for the views and few illusions
about the infallibility of his former
bureaucratic colleagues. He even had a
tilt at what was then the sacred cow of
the Commonwealth Departments—the
Treasury in which he had worked for so
long. Possibly the key to his economic
thinking is given by two things—a crack
he made in 1958 about faulty decisions
emerging from the Treasury because of
“insufficient imagination” and his own
dislike for being called an economist.
One of the consistent and, in my view,
valid criticisms made of the Common-
wealth Treasury is that it has not the
imagination to visualise the human
factors which affect any decision it makes.
The Treasury’s economists are technically
highly qualified people. They can draw
up blueprints that on paper work beauti-
fully. But they do not work beautifully
in practice because the human factor
emerges. The people for whom the plan-
ning is done behave in a quite human
fashion and immediately the plans start
to go to pieces. Quite a few Liberals,
knowing this weakness in the Treasury—
and also knowing the capacity of the
officials to blind a Minister with techni-
calities —suggested either directly or
indirectly to Menzies that Bury should
go into the Cabinet and be given a
Treasury association after the December
election setback.
The naming of Bury as assistant to the
Treasurer must have been galling to
Holt, even though publicly he has not
given the slightest sign of resentment.
Bury still symbolises the rank-and-file
opposition to his economic measures of
November, 1960 —opposition retrospec-
tively justified by the last election results.
As far back as August, 1960, when the
Government was insisting that imports
should be unfettered, Bury was declaring
that the imposition of short-term tariffs
as a substitute for quantitative controls
was necessary —a viewpoint conceded by
the Government within the last fortnight.
Apart from the sales tax on motor
vehicles, Bury was also critical of all
the Government’s November economic
measures, and they have now all been
withdrawn.
So far, Bury’s duties in the Treasury
have not been defined. A section of
the Liberals is hoping that Australia
will follow Britain’s example in recognis-
ing that Treasury, whose influence and
control extends over every part of the
Commonwealth apparatus, has become
too big for supervision by one man,
however capable. In the United King-
dom, Treasury work has become section-
alised. One Minister deals with high
policy, and other Ministers look after
other aspects. Whether Holt agrees to
any real say in Treasury matters passing
from his hands remains to be seen. But
in the interval Bury, who shares with
the permanent head of the Treasury, Sir
Roland Wilson, the hobby of carpentry,
remains a symbol. He is part of the
hair shirt that the Government donned
immediately after the elections with the
loss of 15 seats to remind itself of past
mistakes and of the fact that too un-
critical a reliance upon Treasury advice
has cost Australian Governments their
political heads before today.


INDIAN ELECTION
Nehru's Congress party enters its third election
By PETER KELLY
PRIME MINISTER NEHRU
For another five years
The most astounding fact surround-
ing the elections now being held in
India is the scarcity of informa-
tion about them. There have been
the usual headlines in the Press announc-
ing the elections, but that’s about all.
There even seemed to be doubt about the
exact date of the elections. The London
“Times” said the polls were to open on
February 16 ; “Time” gave the date as
February 18 and the Information Service
of India as February 19. In fact,
the London “Times” seems to know more
about it than the Information Service.
With a population of roughly 438 mil-
lion, the Indian Republic is the biggest
country in the world governed by a par-
liamentary democracy and its elections
among the most important in the Free
World. Since it won its independence
from Britain on August 15, 1947, India
has held two general elections: the first
spread from October, 1951, to March,
1952 ; the second was held in February,
1957. The current elections are the third
since independence. The 210 million
eligible voters, of whom approximately
125 million will vote, will elect 494 mem-
bers of India’s Lower House, the Lok
Sabha (meaning House of the People),
and 2930 members of the 13 State
Assemblies.
The main result of the elections is a
foregone conclusion: Prime Minister
Jawaharlal Nehru’s Indian Congress
party will still rule. The Opposition
parties together have only 121 seats in
the Lok Sabha ; the Congress party holds
the remaining 373. The reason for this
amazing “majority” lies in India’s histori-
cal fight for independence from British
colonial rule. During the British reign,
the Congress party was the symbol of
independence to Indians and Mahatma
Gandhi gathered under its wings birds
of all political feathers: capitalists, com-
munists, Untouchables, maharajahs,
liberals, peasants, reactionaries. When
independence came in 1947 the Congress
found itself the only political party
capable of ruling the country and for
the last 15 years it has been able to
command large support precisely because
it is almost inextricably linked with the
“independence struggle.” But over the
last year or so the four major parties
(there are 16) have been growing more
vocal over different aspects of Indian
Congress party policy, and inevitable
corruption and patronage stemming from
a party so long in office are giving the
Congress a somewhat ragged look around
the edges. In 1958, Nehru’s brother-in-
law, wealthy businessman Raja Huthu-
singh, wrote a letter to “Times of India”
blaming Nehru for the nation's “corrup-
tion, nepotism, jobbery, and unseemly
haste to amass wealth by crooked gains
and avoidance of taxation . . . Our
present degradation is leading the country
to the same morass in which Chiang
Kai-shek’s China found itself.” But
the Congress party is a long way from
disintegration— at least as long as 72-
year-old Nehru is holding his party’s
reins. Nehru is the Congress.
The Jana Sangh party is a fanatical
religious group of Hindus who are
savagely anti-Moslem, anti-Christian and,
of course, pro-Hindu. With its elec-
toral symbol of a lamp, the Jana Sangh
holds only four seats in the Lok Sabha.
In some respects it is a totalitarian party
which would severely restrict the rights
of most Indian minorities —class, race and
religion. It, too, will probably pick up
one or two seats in the elections, but its
“ratbag" appeal to Hindus is mostly offset
by the appeal of Congress to Hindus.
The Praja Socialist party has 18 seats in
the Lok Sabha. It is a party which has
been described as the party of Indian
intellectuals, is non-communist and has
given the Congress some uncomfortable
moments in debates in Parliament. It
may pick up one or two seats, but Nehru
has effectively nullified it by adopting
some of its policies. Its obvious diffi-
culty lies in existence as an “alternative”
socialist party to the already socialist
Congress party.
Founded only three years ago, the
Swatantra (Freedom) party is a strongly
conservative non-communist group. Its
ten members in the Lok Sabha all come
from the other parties either as renegades
or rebels. It is possibly the most vigor-
ous and important group to grow up
since the last elections and its basic tenet
seems to be anti-sociaiist, or in other
words anti-planned society. Nehru has
scathingly attacked Swatantra by des-
cribing it as fascist and has dismissed it
with “nobody knows which century they
live in—lsth or 16th.”
the inevitable symbol of a
hammer replaced by ears of corn
but still retaining the sickle, the Commu-
nist party holds 30 seats in the Lok
Sabha. As in most countries, the Com-
munist party is highly organised and has
some limited success in India but it has
many problems which are worth discuss-
ing in some detail.
From its inception in 1925 the Com-
munist party has had a troubled exist-
ence. Three years after its beginning,
during which it was fairly successful in
organising strikes and capturing a few
trade unions, the Government put 31 of
its leaders on trial and after lengthy
proceedings it gave them long terms of
imprisonment. Instead of immediately
joining with Gandhi and Congress in the
struggle for independence it attacked
them both. Then it tried to capture the
Congress leadership from the inside but
its plans were discovered and it was then
looked upon as a traitor to Indian
independence.
When World War II broke
out, the Indian Communist party, like
all other Communist parlies through-
out the world, attacked the war
as being imperialist—until Russia was
attacked by Hitler. In India, this somer-
sault meant their supporting the colonial
British against the demands of the
majority of Indians for independence.
The Congress openly rebelled against the
British, refused to co-operate, leaving the
Communist party in the position of being
“anti-nationalist”. The communists


"Granted it's modern—but to LIVE in, I'd like one with an old-fashioned parlor."


supported the British Government, re-
cruited troops in India, and gave infor-
mation to British Intelligence about some
of Gandhi's supporters who were con-
ducting a violent rebellion as against the
non-violent one of the Congress.
The communists made many more
mistakes, chiefly through switches in
Soviet foreign policy which greatly
embarrassed its Indian party. It had
some success in Kerala in 1957 when it
polled so heavily there that it was able
to form a Government. But the Indian
Government, exercising its constitutional
rights, stepped in and held another elec-
tion. This time the communists were
heavily defeated, thus dashing their hopes
of capturing India by democratic means.
The Tibetan border dispute in 1959
with the Chinese and the ensuing murder
by the Chinese Army of many Tibetans
another set-back for the CPI. Again
it found itself against the nationalist
sentiments of the Indian people. It was
also racked with dissensions from within
and these somewhat paralysed the party.
Nehru took advantage of the CPl’s
troubles and dealt it a crushing blow by
declaring: “If any group in India in a
moment of crisis forgets its basic loyalty
is with India, then that group does not
represent India, whatever else it might
be.” He also drove the point home
further during the Kerala elections when
he said: “So far as the Communist
party of India is concerned, basically it
does not represent the nationalism or
ethos of the Indian people.” Its position
on the Tibetan dispute is still ambiguous
and as long as this situation remains the
CPI is fettered by its obvious anti-
nationalism.
of the most interesting aspects of
the election is the fate of Vengalil
Krishnan Krishna Menon, India's
Defence Minister and Nehru’s “tough”
man. In his re-election fight for his seat
in North Bombay, the Swatantra, Praja
Socialists, and Jana Sangh parties are
combining in a bid to rid India of Menon.
He is being supported mainly by Nehru
and the Communist party. The “coali-
tion” candidate opposing Menon is
Jiwatram Bhagwandas Kripalani, a
former Congress president who fell out
with Nehru, formed the Praja Socialists
in 1951, and has since become an
Independent.
Kripalani is not the normal tub-thump-
ing politician: he is widely respected and
has been raising some pertinent questions
during his election campaign. He points
out that everywhere in the country Nehru
has recommended voters to vote for the
party and not for the individual ; but in
Bombay he has personally pleaded for
Menon. This is because, Kripalani
suggests, Menon needs Nehru's pres tig.
to prop him up and make him more
acceptable to the voters. There is
evidence for this as some Congressmen
have publicly refused to work for Menon
and stated that he is a bad choice of the
party, others have adopted Gandhian
“non-violent” measures by preferring
inactivity.
Kripalani is campaigning against
Menon mainly on foreign policy. In one
article he says: “Even about non-align-
ment I have often said that our Defence
Minister gives a twist to this principle.
This I did in the foreign policy debate
immediately after the national uprising
in Hungary had been put down by Rus-
sian tanks, killing thousands of Hun-
garian patriots whose only crime was
that they were fighting for their freedom.”
He goes on to criticise Menon for descri-
bing the Hungarian uprising as a “street
brawl.”
Menon is also vulnerable over his atti-
tudes to the Chinese-Indian dispute. With
China seizing roughly 14,000 sq. miles of
Indian territory, the protests, up till last
year, from Nehru and Menon were
muted. Menon has obviously adopted a
line of appeasement with China and
during the United Nations debate over
Tibet he refused to support a vote con-
demning the Chinese.
Menon is still relying on “appeals” to
the Chinese to save him from action on
India’s borders. The Chinese should
withdraw from Indian territory “in the
interests of peace and socialism.” But
Menon’s hand will eventual!/ be forced,
if only because of the increasing attacks
on Nehru in the Chinese Press.
But one fact more than any other has
saved Menon from oblivion: Goa. He
more than anyone was responsible for
the “defensive” war on the 700,000
inhabitants of Goa. The 36-hour war of
liberation did many things for Menon. It
turned attention away from his inactivity
on the Sino-Indian border ; it lessened the
pressure from the Indian Left who have
long campaigned against the presence of
the imperialist Portuguese on Indian
territory ; and the proximity of Goa to
his North Bombay constituency won him
acclaim from the Bombay masses.
The war, if a bun fight can be called a
war, also cut the ground from under the
Jana Sangh party. With over 304 million
Hindus in India, the Hindu Jana Sangh,
with its ideal of a Hindu State, was also
pressurising Nehru and Menon to drive
out the Chinese and other “aliens” from
Indian soil. The Goan war, however, has
removed one of its main talking points.
And this more than anything else will
prevent heavy losses against Nehru’s
Congress party. It needed something to
bolster the growing Indian discontent
with its corruption and Goa conveniently
turned attention away from it. Neverthe-
less, Nehru will suffer some casualties.
“Yes, my boy, she’s got her mother’s looks and my nature."


PLAIN ENGLISH
MR NEHRU'S NEXT FIVE YEARS
44 -'|-AWAHARLAL, you are our
I father and mother,” weeping
I Congress party members told
Nehru when he threatened to
resign two years ago over criticisms
levelled at his conduct of the Prime
Ministership and leadership of the
party. It was a touching scene even
allowing for the comic way in which
Mr Nehru had staged it. It was liter-
ally true. It still is. There is no doubt
that Mr Nehru’s Congress party will
be returned to office in the current
Indian elections even if with reduced
majorities. Mr Nehru’s giant shadow
across the land makes any other result
impossible. The elections themselves,
apart from the sheer wonder they
evoke in contemplating an electorate
of 210.000.000 going to the polls in an
orderly democratic voting process, are
interesting principally in that they will
be perhaps the last in which Mr Nehru
will participate as Prime Minister. For
all his vitality, his drive, his cold
vanity. Mr Nehru is verging on old age
and is showing it. At 72 he is less and
less tolerant of criticism within or with-
out the party. He finds the rough and
tumble of debate in the Lok
increasingly irksome. He showed
unforgiveable petulance in debates last
year on China’s aggression in the dis-
puted northern border areas. He is
still the reasoned Parliamentary
speaker dealing with unruly children,
knowing better than they the tremend-
ous problems of steering so cumber-
some and leaky a ship of State. But
behind the immaculate dressing, the
fresh rose on his frock coat, the emaci-
ated beauty of face and pure diction
there is fatigue and perhaps the be-
ginnings of despair. Mr Nehru’s old
age may turn out a greater tragedy than
that of most ageing giant figures. Mr
Nehru will return to power for another
five years, but —after that? There are
at least half a dozen men in his own
Cabinet as capable as he. and some
of them are basically sounder. The
name of Morarji Desai. the Finance
Minister, springs to mind. But who
are they in the gigantic, sprawling
context of a sub-continent divided by
race, religion and culture?
They lack the aura, the magnetism
merely to hold their own party to-
gether against the centrifugal forces of
corruption, cynicism and despair. It
is impossible to think of them holding
the country together long enough to
attack and overcome India’s chronic
ills of overpopulation, disease, extreme
poverty, communalism and illiteracy.
Somewhere among India’s 438.000.000
people there are politicians and states-
men of greater promise than Nehru.
But they have not made themselves
known yet. and India must therefore
hold to the one overpowering figure
which binds it together. Nehru has
had more than his fair share of luck,
and he knows it. He was Gandhi’s
heir whether Gandhi entirely approved
him or not. He is still the living
symbol of independence and anti-
colonialism. He remains an image of
international rectitude, although the
image is now a little tarnished. He
has made his fair share of mistakes.
Although undoubtedly tough on
Indian communists, for whom he re-
serves his own brand of vitriolic scorn,
he has been soft with external com-
munism. He was wrong about
Hungary, which, for newly independent
Asian countries, was a postwar test
of conscience comparable with that
posed by Spain for prewar Western
countries. His tremendous vanity mis-
led him. He knew about communism.
He knew about the Chinese who were,
after all. Asian. He refused to con-
sider the cold facts about China, pre-
ferring silence and scorn to public
anger and denunciation. He deliber-
ately evaded public debate and criti-
cism on the issue, preferring the
subtleties of Krishna Menon. the
brooding, limping, brilliant figure
whom he admires and loves so much.
He is capable of paltry acts, of which
the invasion of Goa was one. It has
undoubtedly silenced critics both of
the Right and Left and assured Krishna
Menon's victory in North Bombay
constituency. But it was basically an
act which betrayed all that he had
stood for as well as his friends through-
out the world.
But his greatest problems lie at
home in tackling the intractable ills of
India, which seemingly remain im-
pervious to Five Year Plans, foreign
aid or all degrees of economic plan-
ning. Ills which an Indian intellectual
recently described as “frightening in
their immensity, depressing in their
hopelessness.” Nehru knows their
immensity and hopelessness perhaps
better than anybody else, because he
can see things as a whole. Part of
that whole is his own age and his
knowledge that the whole structure of
Indian State and society may well
collapse when he leaves the scene.
NEW EDITOR
QWING to the pressure of other
commitments within Aus-
tralian Consolidated Press. Mr
Donald Horne has relinquished
the editorship of “The Bulletin.”
Mr Peter Hastings, formerly the
Associate Editor of the “Sunday
Telegraph” and a well-known
contributor to “The Bulletin”
and “The Observer.” will be the
new editor of “The Bulletin.”
Mr Horne will remain a direc-
tor of The Bulletin Newspaper
Company.
The Investors' Paradise Lost
jHE almost certain entry of the
I United Kingdom into the Com-
-L mon Market usually provokes
two kinds of reaction in Aus-
tralia: panic or complacent indiffer-
ence. The panic mongers were
deservedly censured last week by the
British industrialist Lord Chandos in
Sydney, who again pointed out that
only about 15 per cent, of Australia’s
exports are endangered—a high
enough percentage, but not one that
raises images of cataclysm. Even if
exports of wheat, butter, lead and
zinc will suffer, wool, which is half
of our export, is duty-free under the
Common Market tariff and would not
be affected. Although all this has been
said before, it is well worth restating.
However, the risk of complacency is


as bad as panic. There can be no
avoiding the fact that we will obvi-
ously face intensified competition for
markets, and already this week the
French-proposed Geneva conference on
marketing of cereals has broken up
after Britain had demanded that prices
for Australian exports be lowered yet
further and to a ridiculous extent.
Moreover —and this point has been less
widely appreciated—the problem goes
beyond the finding of markets for
Australian exports; it includes finding
new investors interested in Australian
development. For when Britain enters
the Common Market it will no longer
regard us as an investors’ paradise.
The plain fact is that Britain itself
has a near-stagnant economy. Its out-
dated industrial complex has no chance
of competing against Continental Wes-
tern European efficiency. It will need
most of its investment capital itself
for reorganisation and modernisation
of plant if it is to hold its own in the
Common Market. Further, it is un-
likely that Britain will want to invest
what money it has for overseas invest-
ments in industries outside the Com-
mon Market when so much can be
reaped from Italian and German pros-
perity. (France, too. after two years
in the Common Market, has met its
balance of payments problem for the
first time since 1927.) Add to this the
development of a Central Bank of
Europe where perhaps currencies will
be pooled, Britain will inevitably be-
come increasingly Europe-minded.
In other words, Australia will not
only have to find new markets but new
investors. There may be no call for
panic, but there is no justification
whatsoever for complacency. For-
tunately. however, steps in the right
direction are being taken. Last week,
the Australian Trade Mission ship
“Chandpara” set out for a tour of
South-West Asia carrying a 25-member
trade mission and displaying 150 Aus-
tralian products in the hope of expand-
ing the comparatively small export to
that region now worth only £lB
million. Almost on the same day it
was announced that a Canadian Trade
Mission will tour Australia next month
to explore not only the possibility of
increasing Australian purchases of
Canadian goods but of increasing
Canadian investment in Australian
industries. The only risk is that not
enough such trade missions are being
exchanged.
Who are You?
SOME little time ago we hit on
the idea of conducting a survey
of “Bulletin” readers. We
wanted a more precise picture
of who our readers were and what
they were interested in. We asked
Motivational Surveys (Australia) to
prepare a questionnaire for us—
something different from the aver-
age survey, more comprehensive,
more revealing.
What Motivational Surveys did
was to prepare a lengthy question-
naire designed to tell us a great deal
about the personal and economic
habits of our readers. They distri-
buted more than 2000 question-
naires in “The Bulletin” of February
10. Those who answered the survey
also got six months’ free subscrip-
tion to “The Bulletin” by filling in
a separate form enclosed with the
questionnaire.
As we go to press the question-
naires are coming in steadily. More
than half those sent out have
already been answered. When they
are all returned they will be pro-
cessed on electronic computing
machines and the tabulated answers
made available to us. Later we will
publish a full report on the survey
in “The Bulletin.”
We and the advertisers wanted to
know something about our readers,
their tastes and interests, whether,
to take some examples at random,
they preferred beer to whisky, what
other magazines they read and why,
what they liked in “The Bulletin”
and what they didn’t like, whether
they liked our articles, our covers,
our art work, whether they thought
we could improve.
Our survey is probably the most
extensive and penetrating ever
undertaken in the Australian maga-
zine field. At this stage w'e would
be foolish to try and draw hard and
fast conclusions from the answers
that have come in so far. Reaching
accurate conclusions from all the
answers in relation to age, income
and educational groups is a tricky
business only to be had from the
experts conducting the survey. We
will have those results in a few
weeks’ time.
However, even at this stage we
have found out some interesting
things. In the first place, our readers
are rather younger than we had
thought. Many are well under 20,
and it looks from here as if the
majority of our readers range be-
tween 20 and 50 years of age.
We haven’t a clue, at this stage,
as to whether we have more tinkers
or tailors among our readers.
“Bulletin” readers seem to comprise
everything from lawyers to doctors,
from businessmen to pastoralists,
from housewives to university
students. On the whole, whoever
they are, “Bulletin” readers seem
to be in the higher income brackets.
More live in houses than in flats.
Most seem to drive fairly expensive,
late-model cars. They comprise
more beer than whisky drinkers.
They are very well travelled. Most
seem to have travelled once and
many have travelled twice or more.
Their educational standards are
rather high. This is indicated not
only by their educational records
but by the uniformly high standard
of their written remarks on the
survey form. Everybody took the
questionnaire seriously, everybody
answered it specifically and to the
point. Only one or two objected to
the questionnaire. One reader
returned the survey form with the
remark that it seemed like a Gestapo
trick. Another summed up his
reactions to “The Bulletin” in three
short words: “Don’t want it!” Our
favorite reader must be the gentle-
man who at 96 says he finds “The
Bulletin” better than ever. While
that’s nice to know, we think there
is plenty of room for improvement,
which is why we had the survey
done. We will publish more about
the survey next week when we know
more ourselves and will publish a
special report on it in a few weeks’
time.


Feiffer
if <401) THIWK TH/s 16
NOW W SHOOLO
me eeeu awe
time tie used to
m BEFORE m
PROJECT. \
'-fFAH?
OHXMTAIUM, UKZ NOW
IK) THB OF THS
IF i-iOU (jOAtiT AM APP4£
'OP 40M6THIKJ6,
00 400 00?
AH C
IK) TH6
fW
AP6A?
/
o-t v
i take a shortcut me
mooch ehe fouktaiD
AREA, THE 6RACS ARB A
AMP rue FARM COLISEUM
Tm 1 TAKE THE SELF-
service elevator up to
THE mETEEDTR FLOOR
60 ID THE '
noose AMP
ASK
|MPMMA
FOR
AD
APPLE-
nieu, tottizs ns in go to
im etfoxe w m&e
mo
I'D 66T AM a wie?
■tai mb'
mi ME!
MIL, 10 STOP PINAm FOR A
HIMTB /M FROtOT OF OUR. HOUSE
mps i always plmed m
10 LOOK UP TO OUR MDOOIO
am to mtMfIMMAf
come
TO -
THE
WINDOW!
meteen
.FLOORS?
mu, mete uoe to Live it m
Om TH6 THIRD fLOOR. 60 Amw
momma vooqld com to the loiupou)
a m 10 mu ‘THROW MB DOW N
AN APPtf, MOMMA /"amp cne'O
THROW H€ POttvM)
'APPLE-
THROW
YPOOM AM
/ APPlfr-
-IHR£S „
FLOORS ?-
QVR
MOMMA f-
IOELL, IF HOO LIKE apples
NOW MOU SHOOU? TRM
THEM AFTER mm
TKROOM FROM THE Ttilßff
FLOOR .
m-
I PW ML WU CHILPRes)
6M AFTER SLUM
CLEARANCE-


FORUM
THE FIVE SINS
OF THE A.B.C.
By J. R. DARLING
'SfybHEN Lord Beveridge was ashed to ta\e over the chairmanship of
the most thorough of the committees appointed to investigate the
BBC, he expressed himself, somewhat injudiciously perhaps, as determined
to lay bare the four scandals, as he called the inevitable faults of monopoly:
bureaucracy, complacency, favoritism, inefficiency.
'T'hat, in effect, not one case of alleged
inefficiency or injustice was proved
against the BBC does not free us from
the obligation to watch ourselves and to
try to make sure that we are similarly
free from blame. No big organisation,
Government or private business is free
from the criticism of being bureaucratic,
that there is too little taking of respon-
sibility in the lower ranks, too much of
ponderous files, with nothing much more
than “passed to you” on them until they
reach the man at the top, who then has
to decide and pass them all back again.
Complacency is a fault of which no
intelligent person is ever guilty, and I
can assure you that the staff of the ABC
are not complacent, but, on the contrary,
very anxious to continue learning.
Favoritism is, I suppose, hard to watch,
but it is guarded against fairly assiduously
by rules and regulations and by an
extremely active staff association.
Inefficiency—well, it is hardly possible
to claim complete efficiency without
appearing complacent, and there are
special circumstances which make it par-
ticularly difficult for the Commission to
claim full efficiency. If both in Sydney
and Melbourne we could operate from
one central building, or at the most, two,
we would clearly be more efficient. I am
not blaming anyone: there are other
demands for capital and possibly they are
more important, but it is difficult to be
efficient in unsuitable buildings and with
inadequate capital.
The fifth sin which Lord Beveridge
might have added is timidity. This is
what our critics are always saying about
us, though perhaps not very clearly indi-
cating what they mean. I should myself
have thought that we had at least been
as bold as our competitors in the type
of music and the type of play which we
have produced. Possibly, like all those
who work in any way for the Govern-
ment, we have been unduly sensitive
about questions in Parliament and letters
to the newspapers, and in order to avoid
Emphasising that “I spea\ for my-
self and am by no means sure that
what 1 say will have the support
of the Commission as a body,”
Dr /. R. Darling, the new Chairman
of the ABC, recently delivered a
paper on ‘‘The ABC and the
Australian Community” at the New
England University Conference on
Mass Media. In the part of it which
we reprint here he examines a
number of the criticisms regularly
made of the ABC.
these have tried too carefully to protect
the sensibilities of the public. But, on
the other hand, we are accused of being
insensitive to public opinion. It all
depends on which side you happen to
be in any given argument. But timidity
in any such organisation is always a
danger, and it might be well to remember
that in any decent democracy it is not
possible to please all the people all the
time, and that once one has realised this
one has achieved the freedom to do with
courage what one believes to be good and
to be prepared to accept and, of course,
to weigh seriously the criticism which
one’s decisions have aroused.
TThese then are some of the difficulties as
A I see them. Nor are the prospects for
the future and the policy which we should
set before us for the next three years
very much more clear. In the first place,
let us reassert the principle of independ-
ence, and let us do it with a clear idea
as to our meaning. It is not within our
understanding of British democracy that
a national broadcasting or television
station should be a Government broad-
casting or television station. It is desir-
able that it should be—as it is—independ-
ent of whatever party happens to be in
power for the moment. Amongst its
prime responsibilities should be that of
giving an entirely objective news service
and commentaries upon the news com-
prehensive enough to represent all sides,
so that this news at least can be relied
upon as disinterested. Then, when con-
troversial issues arise, as they must or
should do in a democracy, it should
provide a forum on which all sides are
adequately represented. No one, I think,
will quarrel with this definition of inde-
pendence—in theory, at any rate. In
practice, it isn’t quite as easy as that.
All Governments are sensitive of
criticism. All parties, whether they are
in power or in opposition, are sensitive
to what appears to them to be an undue
amount of time or prominence being
given to their opponents. The fact that
the Commission has been equally criti-
cised from both sides indicates that, in
fact, it has really managed to be fair.
A more difficult problem arises in the
case of real minorities ; that is to say,
minorities which do not have a represen-
tation in Parliament, which in fact repre-
sent only a small part of the population,
and yet may possibly have, as they cer-
tainly think that they have, a right to
the expression of opinion. In my opinion,
a national broadcasting station cannot
avoid the responsibility for letting minori-
ties be heard, even if the minorities are
unpopular as being destructive of our
way of life and unlikely to give any
quarter once they become powerful.
Democracy, as we understand it, stands
for variety and a fair chance for all to
be heard. As a person strongly convinced
of Christian truth, I believe that rational-
ists and agnostics should be heard ; for
how else can they be answered? The
same is true of other minorities. We
must get them into the open, if we want
to confute them properly. It is, more-
over, a fact —even if it is an unpalatable
fact —that majorities do not always have
the monopoly of truth, and minorities
are valuable in at least forcing the rest
of us to think. A national broadcasting
institution must stand for objectivity in
presentation, for wideness of interest, and
for the defence of the rights of minori-
ties. This will get it into trouble from
time to time, but it will only be able to
defend itself from this trouble if its own
conscience is clear in the matter.


■jITY own conclusion in my short term
in this position is that it is going
to be quite impossible to satisfy every-
body ; that people more frequently write
when they have a grievance than when
they are happy, and that I must get used
to living with this situation. It is true
that the criticisms to a large extent cancel
each other out, for they come from the
Right and from the Left, from the high-
brow and the unsatisfied lowbrow almost
equally, and this is some consolation.
But I believe, nevertheless, that we
should take more rather than less risks
because, if we do not, then I don't think
anyone else will.
I have spoken before of timidity in
controversial matters. The same prin-
ciples apply in programming. Courage
does not consist of choosing odd people
to interview just because they are odd,
but it does lie in not being afraid to
give interesting people with heterodox
ideas a chance to be heard just because
they are odd or unpopular. It does not
mean the frantic search for outre and
dashing modernity just because it is new,
but it does mean not avoiding all that is
new because a majority of viewers will
not, at first viewing, understand it. The
same is true in music.
For the function of this medium,
broadcasting and television, is even more
than that of the stage to hold a mirror
up to Nature. It is to tell the truth, the
whole truth and nothing but the truth ;
and truth is the criterion by which all
programming should be judged. This
applies particularly to the balance of the
programmes. True that murders and
horror and accident and sensation are
part of life, but they are not the whole
of life and they should not appear to be
the whole of the programme. A broad
and comprehensive cover of the whole
field of human activity is the ideal, so
that those who can give up time to watch
have the chance to enlarge their sym-
pathies, their knowledge of the world,
and their understanding of political
affairs and modern developments. We
live in a scientific age and it is of special
importance that we should endeavor to
explain this age to the layman.
This, of course, leads into the wider
aspects of education, and in this field we
do have, in a way that commercial
stations do not, clear responsibilities. By
the educational field I mean not only the
direct school and university which,
obviously, nobody else —except possibly
a universtiy or education department-
can serve if the ABC doesn’t ; I mean
more the task of educating and elevating
the taste of the community which has
so admirably been undertaken in the field
of music by the ABC or. radio. For
myself, i have never thought that the
commercial systems could contract out
altogether from this field themselves, but
clearly it is more the responsibility of a
national station to go a little, at least,
beyond what people are ready to accept
at first, and gradually to raise the taste
of the community.
This is clearly a tricky thing to do,
because if you do it too obviously or
too fast you will drive away from you
altogether the public whom you wish to
interest. There cannot, in fact, be a
sharp distinction between education and
entertainment. (The success of archaeol-
ogy as a subject for programmes is an
interesting example of success of this
sort.) Education has got to be entertain-
ing and entertainment has got to be, to
some extent in the widest sense, educa-
tional. These are, of course, only words ;
how the synthesis can be achieved is a
matter for the technical experts and the
producers, on whom we are, or should
be, utterly dependent. In the end, it is
only quality that will carry across and
entice audiences. If there is quality in
the production, then even ostensibly high-
brow programmes can be entertaining.
/Tn the other hand, when I am criti-
cised by many of my friends for
what they call the “low” quality of ABC
programmes, I often wonder how much
entertainment they expect to get from
the comparatively modest sums which
they pay for their licence, even if we
include the depreciation on their sets.
It is only, surely, in the first exciting
days of the Introduction of television that
it can seem possible to provide, for the
full six hours or more of each day, pro-
grammes which everybody will enjoy.
There must come a time when people
make selection of programmes, and if
it can be so arranged that the varied
audience which we have to please can
be satisfied, or more or less satisfied, on
two nights of the week, then surely this
is about as much as anybody can do for
them. The great difficulty which I myself
find, and I suppose a great many other
people do, too, is that the times when I
happen to be free to watch television
do not seem to coincide with the times
at which there are programmes put on
at which I want to look. I suppose that
a better ordering of my time and a closer
study of the programmes in advance
would enable me to resolve this prob-
lem. Alternatively, I think that we should
recognise the fact that just because a pro-
gramme is available to everyone at a
certain time, it does not follow that
everyone who wants to see it can see it
at that time. There are many pro-
grammes which would bear repetition
quite soon after they are first put on, and
we should not be afraid to do this. The
idea that the whole audience is there all
the time is a misleading idea.
The most common criticism of tele-
vision programmes remains that they are
made up too much of American films
and American programmes, and that by
contrast too few are live or Australian
in origin. That this is so arises from
fairly obvious and inescapable causes,
especially the problem of cost. With its
enormous audience and its multiplicity
of TV stations, America is incomparably
the largest producer of TV programmes.
With its system of networks and the
enormous income to be derived from
advertising, the American producer can
afford to produce on a lavish scale quite
impossible for smaller countries. It can
afford to buy world-class artists and to
pay them more or less whatever they
ask. By the time that these programmes
have been put over the air in America
they have probably paid for themselves
and left a substantial profit. They can
then be sold overseas at a price very
small in comparison to their initial cost
of production and enter into what is, in
fact, unfair competition with local
production.
There is no answer to this, at least no
immediate answer ; and probably never a
complete answer. Even if it were not a
matter of comparative costs, a country as
small as Australia would not have the
artistic resources to provide an entire
programme, let alone three competing
programmes, itself. There are, it is
true, other sources from which pro-
grammes can be drawn, the BBC for
example, and the Independent Television
Services in Britain, and these do provide
a fair share of ABC programmes and
one which is increasing: but even these
compete, to some extent unfairly, with
the local programmes. Of course, we do
not aim at being, nor would it be good
to be, entirely self-supporting. We shall
always wish to have some of the best
programmes from overseas, but the best
balance of local production with imported
has not yet been achieved.
'T'here is only a slow answer to this
difficulty. It is still comparatively
rare for us to be able to produce pro-
grammes in our studios which can obtain


and hold a market overseas, and only
when we can be assured of such an over-
seas market —even in a fairly modest way
—will we be able with our resources,
financial and artistic, to do more in the
direction of local production. Even as
it is, our studios and equipment are taxed
almost to excess, used as they already are
for multi-purpose activities. But the
main requirement is quality in the writ-
ing of script, in the production, in the
rehearsals and in the recording. The
strides which have been made by our
own producers in improving the quality
of our native productions during the
comparatively short period during which
we have had television in Australia indi-
cate that we need not despair of the
possibility of soon satisfying the over-
seas market, but we shall not do so with-
out the risking of more money than we
can now afford, without paying script-
writers more adequately, without allowing
more time for rehearsals and without
taking experimental risks, and in conse-
quence without having occasional
failures. It must be the policy of the
Commission to take these risks, for only
by succeeding along these lines can we
satisfy ourselves that we are fulfilling
the terms of our charter to develop
adequate and comprehensive pro-
grammes. Under present financial con-
ditions it is very difficult to tackle this
important aspect satisfactorily, but it
must be tackled certainly before the time
when satellites revolving round the world
will reflect on our screens simultaneously
a programme intended for the opposite
side of the world.
More important even than money are
the quality and training of those engaged
in the industry. If it is the function of a
national system to take the lead in the
provision of programmes of native chara-
cter and origin, it is equally its function
to provide the best opportunities for the
training of staff. I believe that the ABC
should take, as in a limited sense it al-
ready has, the lead in establishing
methods of training for broadcasting and
television personnel, recognising that
what may once have been only an
industry must now be regarded as a pro-
fession, and that the implications con-
tained in that are the establishment or
development of courses now available
for initial training ; secondly, the arrange-
ment of interchange with overseas
instrumentalities interested in training;
and, thirdly, the creation of opportunities
for in-service training at a higher level.
I should be interested to receive comments
on this suggestion from commercial
stations. It is one in which we have
already given considerable service, most
gratefully acknowledged, in other coun-
tries, especially in South-East Asia.
LETTERS
SNOWY ELEPHANT
Sir,
In Mr Herbert’s article (Bulletin,
February 10) he seems to show a
remarkable misunderstanding of this huge
project. This is reasonable since the
scheme is so vast and complex, but in
writing such an article he encourages the
even lesser-informed to fall into line with
his own views. This is shown by an
editorial also in the same edition, headed
“The Snowy Disaster,” in which the
writer blindly echoes the more startling
opinions of Mr Herbert, so that the
public, who are lending the money to pay
for this scheme, may become even more
misinformed.
Mr Herbert has been mistaken funda-
mentally in his understanding of the idea
that the irrigation side of the scheme was
of even greater importance than its hydro-
electricity. The fact is that the scheme
fundamentally was to supply water for
irrigation in the Murray and Murrum-
bidgee Rivers, that otherwise would have
run out to sea via the Snowy River.
Further, it was able to provide this water
at the most useful time, i.e., supply the
Murray and Murrumbidgee Irrigation
Areas with water during the dry season.
This point is emphasised by the fact that
the upper waters of the Murrumbidgee
itself are actually dammed and directed
through the scheme so that they may be
made available at a more favorable time.
As a by-product of this irrigation
scheme, advantage was to be taken of
the fact that the eastern watershed of the
Great Dividing Range in this area falls
gently to the east (and therefore unsuit-
able for hydroelectric use), but drops
steeply to the west. In this way the
diversion of the water could be made to
generate electricity and thus provide a
means of paying for the scheme. So the
position is that the Commonwealth
authority provides to the State authori-
ties approximately two million acre feet
of water a year, at no cost. Further,
Mr Herbert’s suggestion, cunningly
placed in a sentence which contains the
words “The facts or official estimates are
these,” that the Snowy River itself could
be harnessed to provide the same electric
power at a fraction of the cost, is utter
nonsense.
Another important feature, which is
apparently unknown to Mr Herbert, is
that of the electricity produced. It has
never been put forward with any
authority that in Australia hydroelectric
power could be provided cheaper than
thermal power. Rather, the point has
been made that hydroelectric power can
provide peak electric power cheaper than
thermal stations. It is well understood
by all experts that thermal stations gener-
ate power at a steady output quite
cheaply ; but to increase power to meet
peak demands twice daily requires fan-
tastic costs in plant and running costs.
On the other hand, hydroelectric power
can be provided at such peak periods at
a very cheap price. This brings us to
the point that the Snowy Scheme pro-
vides to NSW and Victoria electricity at
peak periods at standard prices for the
time being. This means these States get
power at peak periods at the same cost
as their steady output, thereby relieving
these States of tremendous capital and
running costs. Also to be remembered
is that when the scheme has paid for
itself, which will be in a remarkably
short time, this power will be available
at fantastically cheap rates.
So the final position is this, that the
water for irrigation is provided free and
at the most advantageous time, whilst
peak electric power is provided not at
tremendous cost, but at unbelievably
cheap rates.
As to Mr Herbert’s comments on agri-
cultural production, it is hard for me
to follow his argument. Australia is
the driest continent in the world and
exists mainly on export of agricultural
products. To suggest that irrigation
schemes are “the extraordinary emo-
tional attitude of most Australians” is
quite a remarkable point of view.
To conclude, I would like to point out
that I have only been back in Australia
some three months, after an absence of
several years. To think that Mr Herbert’s
comments, or similar ones, were made in
1960 and have never been answered, is
truly amazing. Australia has made a
great step forward with the Snowy
Scheme and, besides the immense bene-
fit of the scheme itself, it now has
developed a source of highly trained and
experienced technicians as well as com-
petitive and competent construction com-
panies that will be invaluable to the
necessary development of this young
country.
N. SWAIN
Manly (NSW)
TAKE IT OR LEAVE IT
Sir,
Although not a great student of the
elements of logic, I feel compelled to
comment on David Williams’s article,
“Take It or Leave It’’ (Bulletin,
February 10).
It seems that Mr Williams’s “careful
look at Australian television” never went
deeper than the glass on his set. If it
did, surely he would have realised that
a good play is a prerequisite to good
players. The best and highest paid actors
(despite the inference, the two are not
necessarily synonymous) need good
material. And good material means good
playwrights and scriptwriters. The posi-
tion of wages for these last two is one


which could bear examining by one more
qualified than I.
Two facts I do know, however: first,
that playwrights are not paid on any
system vaguely resembling ‘'hours spent.”
And secondly, that they are paid pro-
portionately less than correspondents to
the columns of glossy girlie magazines.
GAWEN S. RUDDER
Hunter’s Hill (NSW)
WHAT’S WRONG WITH WATTS
Sir,
Further evidence of Mr Negus’s
capacity for gross misunderstanding and
misrepresentation is provided by his
latest attack on me (Bulletin, February
17). In neither of the two public dis-
cussions with Dr Woodbury or, for that
matter, in neither of the two public dis-
cussions with Dr Grove Johnson, or on
any other occasion whatsoever, did I
deny, “jib at"’ or “indignantly refuse to
affirm” “the universal principle of con-
tradiction”—a principle whose validity
I have always maintained and defended.
The thesis which I argued at the public
discussions referred to may be studied
in my article on “The Thomist Proofs of
Theism,” “Australasian Journal of
Philosophy,” Vol. 35 (May, 1957), pp.
30-46. Neither there, nor in the MSS.
of my addresses at the public discussions,
nor in the MS. of a much more detailed
treatment of the theistic proofs which
is in course of preparation, is there the
slightest gleam of evidence for the fan-
tastic assertions about my opinions made
by Mr Negus. The critical inquirers, as
distinct from partisans, who attended the
discussions are also witnesses to the
baselessness of his charges. The most
charitable view is to suppose that he has
failed completely to grasp my basic con-
tention that there is no possibility of
communication between a “supernatural”
order and a “natural” order, because
of the absence of common terms ; or,
to put it in another way, we cannot apply
analogical predicates to God unless we
have independent knowledge of at least
some positive predicates which apply to
Him, and which will therefore serve as a
criterion for the use of analogy.
Only one other point need detain us.
Mr Negus confuses history and theologi-
cal doctrine. Not only secular historians
but Church historians declare Christi-
anity to be the product of movements
such as those mentioned by me in the
University Tutorial and WEA Syllabus
referred to. The historians who happen
to be Christians might also, on occasion,
confess their faith in an overruling
Providence which used these movements
to produce the new religion ; but the his-
torians who are not Christians decisively
reject this theological interpretation of
historical fact.
G. STUART WATTS
Sydney
Sir,
And still Mr Negus persists in telling
us that Mr Watts denies the principle
of contradiction, only this time he
embellishes his story with time, date
and place!
I was present at the Woodbury-Watts
debates, and can say quite definitely that
no such assertion, nor anything which
could possibly be so construed, was made
by Mr Watts. Nor have I heard him
deny the principle throughout the many
lectures I have heard since that time.
Mr Watts’s philosophical views are
well known to a large section of the
community, and it is interesting to specu-
late as to why Mr Negus is so vehement
in ascribing views which not only are
not those of Mr Watts but which are, in
fact, actively denied by that gentleman.
NEVILLE A. COHEN
Randwick (7VSIT)
STATE AID
Sir,
An editorial in a Sydney morning
paper points out that the attitude of the
Country party to the question of
financial justice for those who support
private schools is foolish, and also, by
inference, suggests that it is un-
Australian.
How could the question of justice ever
be foolish? The case for financial sup-
port for the private school system rests
on the principle of distributive justice.
That principle affirms that if taxes are
raised from the whole of the population
for the purposes of coercive education of
the whole of the population, then it is
unjust as well as an abuse of power if
those funds are used for educating only
a proportion of the population. So far
in all the arguments on this question I
have never heard a reasonable refutation
of this principle. I have heard it said
that one religious denomination would
be at an advantage if its schools were
helped in this way. That may, or may
not be correct, but it has no bearing on
the question of justice. The State is
concerned to see that justice prevails,
and it is not concerned with the perform-
ance of any particular religion other
than to see that religious freedom is
maintained within our community.
The State is not concerned to see that
a particular religion or a particular
philosophy, or even a particular sect,
should be placed at a disadvantage be-
cause some other religion, philosophy or
sect happens at a particular time to be
in the ascendancy. If the Catholic
religion is gaining in strength and not
infringing State laws, and if other
denominations are losing in strength
under the same conditions, then surely
this is a matter for the denominations or
sects which are suffering in this way.
I could not support the thesis that the
State should come to the aid of the party
on the down-beat. And for the same
reason the party on the up-beat should
not be unfairly handicapped. To pro-
mote this type of handicap is to be
unjust as well as shortsighted.
In the meantime the cause of Christian
education, as well as education in
general, suffers. Those who would, for
the sake of political advantage, stand
idly by, or who would promote this
injustice for the sake of political or
religious advantage, take their stand with
the Phillistines, and will surely come to
the Phillistines’ reward.
JOHN F. HEESH
Leura (NSW)
ROCKERS ROCK JAZZ
Sir,
Mr Adrian Rawlins informs us that the
Open Air Jazz Convention held recently
at Frankston (Vic.) (Bulletin, February
10) was commercially inspired. For a
commercial venture it was surprisingly
chaotic, due partly to the dishonest
advertising that heralded the event.
Most of the audience, on arrival at the
Frankston Oval, were surprised to find
that an entry fee of 10s. was being
charged. No mention of such a high
admission charge had been made on the
advertising posters. Jazz-lovers, deter-
mined to avoid parting with their cash,
climbed over locked gates or squeezed
through holes in the surrounding fence,
cheered on by their less-adventurous
friends on the inside.
The jazz, however, was good, particu-
larly the vocal numbers, and as the night
wore on the initial ill-humor of the
listeners was appeased by the quality of
the music. Others mellowed as their car
friges emptied. Then about 11 o'clock
the “rockers” arrived, VBs roaring and
sideboards quivering with expectation.
Jazz-lovers are often dismissed as
queer, or “beatniks” or anti-social
by the general public, but they are
seldom unreasonably aggressive nor are
they criminally inspired. On the whole
they are a pacifist lot who prefer to sit
quietly out on a limb. One may wonder
in their company, but it is impossible to
fear them.
The “rockers,” on the other hand, con-
stantly reveal themselves as brutal
morons, displaying all the characteristics
of a destructive, almost Fascist, mob.
When they arrived on the scene, what
had been a reasonably friendly gathering
developed into an acre of tension, sneers
and abusive language, culminating in a
brawl provoked entirely by the “rocker”
element.
At this stage the police arrived and
shortly afterwards the convention was
closed and the crowd dispersed.
Unfortunately, the authorities appear
to have no effective method of preventing
these outbreaks. If they had, the Frank-
ston concert may have ended on a
happier note.
JOHN DEVERALL
St Arnaud ( Victoria )
THE RED AND THE BLACK
Sir,
Mr Geo. Cook (Bulletin, December
30 and February 3) denies that he opposed
voting rights for aborigines before the
Parliamentary Committee on Voting
Rights. I was present during Mr Cook’s
appearance and took notes of some of
his remarks. According to my record,
he said that “voting rights would cut


M
Si
v:
v
X
p t.
M
-
a,
X-5
m&i
m
'Sf?
/. i
/y
✓"*.: a
*
%
$
FA
m
\,M
w
f mm
m
/
ANZ66I. 24
Saving
or
paying
by
cheque...
You’ll like the convenience of a
Savings Account and a Cheque Account
at the same office.
(jcru'dt Hike, ext
A*N*Z BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA’S MOST FRIENDLY AND PROGRESSIVE BANK
m
HELP
round
Donations
the
169
all
year
dne
2001
Elizabeth
Street
BM
across existing procedure on the missions
and stations,” and that aborigines did
not want voting rights. He admitted to
the Committee, in answer to a question
from one of its members, that he had
not spoken to any aborigines on the
matter and had never visited a mission
or station.
The truth of this can doubtless be
established by reference to the official
records of the Parliamentary Committee.
At present the education of the
majority of aborigines in Queensland is
the responsibility of the Department of
Native Affairs, whose 1960 report states
that of a total of 2954 aboriginal chil-
dren receiving education, only 18 are
attending secondary school. That is,
0.6 per cent., while among white children
the percentage receiving secondary educa-
tion would be around 16 per cent., accord-
ing to figures issued recently by the
Education Department.
Mr Cook does admit that ‘"some sec-
tions” of the Native Affairs laws “could
well be repealed.” Perhaps he might be
prepared to approach the head of his
department (the Minister for Health and
Native Affairs, Dr Noble) to move for
repeal of the clause which gives his
department the responsibility for educat-
ing aborigines and for this responsibility
to be handed over to the Education
Department.
But perhaps Mr Cook has in mind even
worse sections of the Act, such as Clause
16 (l)a, which gives a Protector, subject
to approval of the Director (of Native
Affairs), the right to “take possession of,
retain, sell or dispose of any property
of an Aborigine whether real or per-
sonal.” Or the right to “at any time
revoke any exemption and thereupon the
provisions of this Act shall apply to such
Aboriginal as if no exemption had ever
been granted” (Part 11(4).
Or the provisions of the Aboriginal
Award of the DNA, under which abo-
riginal workers are placed at a terrible
disadvantage in comparison with white
workers engaged in the same occupations.
Even the low wage rates prescribed by
the special award for aboriginal stock-
men, for instance, are not guaranteed.
In this connection, M. E. Langford
(Bulletin, February 3), in quoting the
improved wage rates granted to aborigi-
nal station-hands last December, omits
to point out that, under the Aboriginal
Award, notwithstanding anything therein
contained, “a Protector of Aborigines
.... may claim a lower rate in respect
of any employee not considered capable
of earning the prescribed rate, provided
that .... the approval of the Director of
Native Affairs shall be first obtained.”
This clause is wide open to abuse by
unscrupulous employers and easy-going
Protectors and Departmental officers.
Finally, Mr Cook seems to know more
about me than I do myself. Those
people who are working for the advance-
ment of aborigines, and the aborigines
themselves, are best able to judge of my
sincerity, and 1 leave it to them.
(Mrs) D. MARCHISOTTI
Pinkenba (Queensland)


THE HARD RING
OF AUTHORITY
This incident, small but significant, took place
in an Australian city
By FRANK ROBERTS
A sudden hard ring on the door-
bell at night can be alarming to
people who never have visitors.
It suggests authority. And that
was exactly what Peter found when he
opened the door. One police sergeant
in uniform and two detectives. He was
relieved because he had done nothing
that could possibly interest so many
policemen.
But instead of asking where they could
find Mr X or Mrs Y, one of them said,
“Mr Peters?”
“Yes,” Peter said.
“We'd like to talk to you about this
note,” the detective with the smiling Irish
eyes told him. And produced a piece
of paper with heavily ruled lines and
some typing between them.
Peter knew it immediately, although he
had never seen it. In the afternoon Joan
had told him that their daughter had
mentioned finding a note on the steps
inside the block of flats with: “Upstairs,
if you don’t stop making a noise, I’ll kill
you,” on it. According to Sue’s story,
she had torn it up and thrown it in the
wastepaper bin outside.
As a family they had suffered for some
weeks from the running, jumping and
thumping of two Unquiet Americans and
their children in the flat above. Peter
had typed a polite letter to the agent
about them, and sent them a carbon copy
for their information. The noise had
continued unabated.
Now, confronted with a note bearing
the recognisable type-face of his machine,
Peter knew all. Sue had been alone in
the flat for an hour before Joan had
come home, and Sue, aged eight, could
type quite well with one finger, although
she tended to get the keys stuck and had
bent the arm of the “s” key, and had
lately been forbidden to use the machine.
“Oh, yes ”he said, but Smiling Irish
had a routine to go through and was not
going to be deterred.
He said, “You may not know, but
every typewriter has certain definite
characteristics and the typing can be
identified as easily as handwriting.
Now, we have had the typing on this
note compared by our expert with the
typing on this letter.” And he produced
the Unquiet Americans’ carbon copy.
“Yes, of course ——Peter said.
“Our expert has told us that the typing
on these two documents came from the
same machine.”
“Of course, I can see that,” Peter said.
“But I can tell you how it happened.
Or, better, Joan can.” And he called her.
“It’s about Sue and the note this after-
noon,” he told Joan. “I think you could
tell them better than I.”
Joan looked at the note and the letter
in Smiling Irish’s hand, and he passed
the note to her. “They don’t think you
wrote it, surely?” she asked Peter.
“We're just looking into the matter,”
the uniformed sergeant said.
“A threat to kill has to be taken
seriously,” the second detective added.
“By a child?” Peter said.
“Oh, this is quite ridiculous,” Joan
interrupted, and told them briefly how
Sue had mentioned the note.
"We didn’t take any notice,” Peter
said. “Children say all kinds of things.
I’m surprised the people upstairs ”
“I’ll get her up,” Joan said, and went
to Sue’s bedroom and woke her and
brought her out.
“These are policemen,” Joan said to
her. “Tell them what you told me about
finding a note this afternoon.”
“Wait a minute,” Peter said. “Perhaps
we'd better all go inside. I'm sorry, I
should have thought of it before.”
“Yes,” the second detective said,
glancing around the lobby. “This is
hardly the place.” Peter felt that he had
been found guilty of a breach of the
correct etiquette for a householder being
interviewed by police.
They tramped into the kitchen because
it had the brightest light and the most
chairs. An opened, half-consumed bottle
of sherry stood on the kitchen table.
Joan had her hair down and wore a
rather crumpled cotton gown, and Peter
had his oldest clothes on. The detectives
wore immaculately pressed suits and
shiny shoes and blocked hats. They
could have answered a call to Govern-
ment House quite creditably.
“Now,” said Smiling Irish, “we don’t
want to keep the little girl up. Did you
type this note, dear?”
"I' m a failure. I just can't BEEIEVE in striped toothpaste."


“I’m not allowed to use Daddy’s type-
writer,” Sue answered forthrightly.
“You know there’s a comma you put in
when you spell ‘don’t.’ Where does it go,
before or after the ‘t’? ”
“I’m not sure, but I think it goes
before.” It was after, in the note.
“And how do you spell noise?”
“N-o-i-s-e.” It was ‘noice’ in the note.
“You’ve objected to the noise upstairs,”
Peter looked at Joan hopelessly and
said, “Send her back to bed.”
Smiling Irish said. “Plaven’t you banged
on the water pipe down here, for instance,
with something?”
“About three weeks ago, and just
once.”
“A threat to kill is a very serious
matter,” the second detective remarked
again.
Smiling Irish said. “We had a call of
this nature earlier, and in cases like this
we can take the person before a psychiat-
rist for examination.”
Peter realised he had been very slow
on the uptake. There were three be-
cause they had expected to deal with a
raging maniac. Apparently the Unquiet
Americans had given them an impression
of extreme fear.
Peter was not afraid of psychiatrists
and said so, although who can be sure of
proving his sanity, once it is in question?
“He did not type that note,” said Joan,
who had returned to the kitchen.
“I was out during the afternoon,”
Peter said.
The second detective produced one of
Peter’s business envelopes, addressed,
with a fresh stamp on it. “The people
found the note in this in their letter
box,” he said.
“Did you write it?” Smiling Irish asked
Joan.
“No, neither of us wrote it.”
“They really believe I did it, don’t
you?” Peter said. The sergeant and the
second detective looked at him steadily.
“You think I wrote it, but tried to
make it look like a child's doing?” Peter
said.
“That’s about the size of it,” Smiling
Irish said.
“That’s how it looks to me,” the
second detective agreed.
“I don’t think a child of eight can type
as well as that,” Smiling Irish said. “But
she can obviously spell noise, and she
knows where the apostrophe goes in
‘don’t’.”
Peter knew better. Sue had a photo-
graphic memory. She had merely pre-
sumed she had been asked about those
particular words because she had made
mistakes in them, and had corrected the
mistakes. The facility kept her high in
her class, although she was not particu-
larly brilliant.
“Well, I'll say no more,” Peter said.
“You really believe I’d be such a fool?”
“I think that’s exactly what happened,”
Smiling Irish said, very serious now.
“This will have to be reported, and
there will probably be further investiga-
tion. But we’ll leave it for the present.”
The two detectives picked up their hats,
glancing at the wine bottle. The sergeant
put his cap on.
“If you're having trouble with your
neighbors, the best thing is to move.”
Smiling Irish said.
“I’ve been here nine months, they’ve
been here four weeks,” Peter told him.
“Do you know how many weeks it would
take me to get the phone on again, apart
from the general trouble of moving?”
“It may still be good advice,” Smiling
Irish said. “Good night.”
When they had gone, Peter sat down
in the kitchen and looked at Joan help-
lessly.
“He’s one of their crack detectives,”
Peter said. “And she took him in com-
pletely.”
“It’s all fantastic,” Joan said.
“You know what it means?” he said.
“If I bump someone in the street by
accident, and he starts a quarrel, or any
little thing like that happens, I’m gone.
This will be brought up. I’ll go in as a
violent character.”
“I can make her tell the truth
tomorrow,” Joan said. “But they would
only think I’d bullied her.”
“One of their crack detectives,” Peter
said again. “And a kid of eight fooled
him completely. It makes you think,
doesn’t it?”
“It’s terrible.”
“They could have taken me along,
quite easily. Charged me. I could be in
jail now, with the job ahead of proving
I didn’t do it. Do you think a magis-
trate would have believed me in the
morning, any more than they did
tonight? I don’t happen to have the
money for bail, for a solicitor, for
adjournments.”
“What could you do, then?”
“If I had lost my temper, or anything
like that, and they’d arrested me, I
would have gone to jail as sure as 1 m
sitting here.”




A PRIDE OF PROFESSIONS
Artist Robert Hughes gives his totally unscientific
view of business methods and professional procedures.
"I don't know this Corbusier fellow, Jones, but my
office takes some pride in its plumbing details."
“I think Neil's dead right. Who Wan[?]k White anyway?"
“Twenty inches' thickness of double-
reinforced concrete will be needed,
which is, of course, beyond the purse of
the average citizen."
"I like the Way you control
your sincerity."
“None are so lonely as those in power,
Miss Saxby."
“ Bible.”
"I do not propose unduly to play upon your emotions."


“l might have to he flown to
America for a miracle operation.”
He was eighteen years older than Lottie.
A SHORT STORY BY PATRICIA ROLFE
I" —; hy do they always go
Wdown to the sea, the
! old people? You can
i see them any day to-
L ! wards evening, frail
and brittle, like some-
thing left high on the sand by the tide.
They struggle against the stream of
homegoing young people, who are brown,
loud and strong, as they make their
way to the sea.
Every evening in summer, and in
winter when it was warm enough, Lottie
and Charles left their one-bedroomed
flat on the second floor of Mrs Battle’s
“Cheltenham.” They edged their way
along the dark corridor, Lottie coming
behind, gently pushing Charles forward.
At the head of the stairs she nimbly
skipped ahead, carefully plucking at him
until he had negotiated the steep, narrow
stairs. Then they were in the street.
“Ah!” said Lottie. “It’s nice to get
a breath of air. It’s a lovely evening.”
“Mind my arm,” Charles said.
“Is it stiff today?”
“It is always stiff. If you had broken
your arm at the age of 74, just because
o f some other person’s carelessness, you
would know.”
“Yes, of course.” She was that other
person.
They tottered to the corner, Lottie
alternately pushing and pulling, then
they turned the corner and were caught
up in the crowd of young people making
their way along the ocean beach into the
Corso for the ferry or bus home
“My, what a crowd!” Lottie said. “If
I’d known it was such a crowd for
Saturday, I don’t think I’d have brought
you ”
“Here, mind my arm!”
“Here, mind who you’re pushing,”
Lottie cried as a young man and woman
swung past arm in arm.
“Goodness,” she exclaimed, “did you
see that girl?”
“What? What?”
“Nothing. Just a girl.” If she had
pointed out to Charles that in her humble
opinion that girl had so little on she
might as well walk up and down the
street naked, Charles would only say,
“And who are you to talk?” Very well,
she’d brought it on herself, but she
wasn’t giving him any opportunity to
sneer. Lottie noticed the young people
and was intensely critical of them. It
would not have occurred to her, how-
ever, to envy them their youth, or even
to want her own youth back. Her wants
were more immediate and pressing. Site
was critical of the half-naked, sweating,
brown, flaking and frowsy young people,
but she could never really think of them
as belonging to the same race as herself,
as having any correspondence to herself
young. Perhaps if she had her children,
and now had grandchildren, there would
have been some continuity of feeling.
How could she think of a young woman
in two pieces of cotton who pressed
shoulder to shoulder, thigh to thigh
against a young man almost completely
naked as having any relation to her-
self? Why, she had never seen an un-
clothed man except Charles, and then
only when it was unavoidable. Now, of
course, she had to bath him, when he
could be prevailed upon to take a bath.
That annoyed and disgusted her. It
seemed unfair that a woman who had
always had a proper regard for modesty
should have to bath an old man.
“Can you manage, dear?” she asked,
farther on. For an instant she felt frantic
with impatience. Fie was so slow and
stupid. He could not even find his way
to the ocean beach without her, even on
days when there was no crowd. He
was a big man and still a heavy man,
so that he pressed against her unbearably.
“Come on, dear,” she said gently, find-
ing once more that false calm which was
intended only to secure peace for her-
self, not to make things more pleasant
for him.
At last they fought their way through
the crowd, and, gasping for breath, like
salmon at the river’s source, reached the
roofed seats under the Norfolk pines
where the other old people sat.
Charles sat down abruptly on the
nearest bench and Mrs Meekin had to
struggle along on her fat bottom to get
within speaking distance of Lottie.
“Been hot today,” Mrs Meekin de-
clared. Her conversation followed
rigidly-set patterns. No cliche was left
unspoken.
“Yes, it’s been hot today,” Lottie
agreed.
“The hot weather doesn’t agree with
me,” Mrs Meekin sad for about the
seventieth time this summer. “It plays
up with the old arthritis and it brings
me out in lumps.” She extended a fat
forearm for Lottie's inspection, again
for the seventieth time this summer.
“Look at them. I’m covered in them.
I have a very sensitive skin and a very
nervous temperament. Doctor Middle-
ton herself had to admit I had a sensi-
tive skin.”
When she had exhausted the limited
possibilities of her health, Mrs Meekin
glanced past Lottie to Charles.
“How’s he today?” she asked. “Same
as ever. They’re difficult. Difficult. I
can’t say I was sorry when I put mine
under. Or rather I burnt him. The
Crem. It's free and easy without them
I always say. And you know another
thing, the gay sparks are worst of all
when they're old. It just all goes out
of them and you’re left with stale beer.
I’ll bet he was a blade when he was
younger.”
| ottie felt on difficult ground now.
A too-abrupt switch of conversa-
tion, and this old one would be after her
like a cat after a mouse.
“He was very handsome,” she con- ,
ceded, glancing at the ruin of it.
“I’ll bet,” Mrs Meekin agreed. “And
lively, too, I’ll be bound. I wouldn’t
have minded a looker. Mine was a
funny little joker. Nothing to him at
all. Was you married young?”
“Not so young,” Lottie said carefully. I
“Not so young?” Mrs Meekin echoed.
“Was it second time up for him?”
“Oh, no,” Lottie said. “He was a
bachelor of 42.”
“A bachelor of 42,” Mrs Meekin |
echoed. “Lord, how did you nail him?” i


SEASHORED
77/ never leave Charles, she had said,
and, of course, she never had.
"What was the old fool tal\ing about?”
Lottie smiled, pleased for the moment.
It had been easy, dead easy, when you
thought about it. She should be proud of
herself for that. She’d never been pretty
but she'd had a lively way with her, and
she d been a smart dresser in those days,
particularly for a country town. A
bachelor of 42 and just her behind the bar
at the time, although she was the licensee’s
wife, of course.
“You'd have been about 30, eh? Get-
ting on a bit, but still smart I should
think. I was married at 17 myself, but
I wish I'd have left it a bit. I’d have left
it altogether, but nobody wants to be an
old maid. A woman really hasn’t got any
choice. About 30 when you married
him?”
“He's 81 and I’m 63,” Lottie said,
which was perfectly true.
“Eighteen years’ difference! Lord,
that’s a lot! It probably didn’t seem so
much when you married him, but now’s
the time it tells. You’re a young woman,
comparatively. In good health, a bit of
life in you yet. You could have another
go if you wanted to. You just have to go
along to the Senior Citizens. They sit in
rows there, like crows on a fence, wait-
ing to be picked off. If I had my health—
You’re a young woman, and look at him,
an old wreck. Why don’t they go? Why
do they hang on when they’ve got
nothing to hang on for? That’s what
I can't understand. That’s what I’d like
to know. Why can’t you have them put
away, quietly and painlessly, like at the
dogs’ home?”
Lottie was afraid now that Charles
might arouse himself from his customary
torpor and hear something of this. She
glanced at him, but he was still staring
ahead, across the sand, across the water
at nothing.
“I think he’s had enough air for
today,” she said, leaning towards Mrs
Meekin.
Mrs Meekin nodded.
“Too much fresh air isn't good for
you,” she pronounced. “I know some-
times after I’ve walked along the prom-
enade I can hardly get to Doctor Middle-
ton’s surgery. I said to Doctor Middle-
ton the other day that the fresh air was
giving me giddy turns, and she said,
that’s a new one on me. She’s a very
sarcastic young woman. Doctor Middle-
ton, and thinks she knows everything.
A new one on her. I might have some-
thing that medical science hasn’t even
found out about yet, for all she knows
or cares. I might have to be flown to
America for a miracle operation. I’d go
back to Doctor Harrap only he’s such
an old fool. Last time I went to him—”
“Come on, Charles,” Lottie said firmly.
She grasped his arm and got him back on
his feet. Then she turned him in the
direction faced away from the sea.
“Who was that you were talking to?”
he demanded when they were still within
earshot.
“Oh, you know her. That’s Mrs
Meekin from St Malo flats. Fixed rent,
too. £2 14s. a week unfurnished. One
bedroom like ours.”
“What was the old fool talking
about?”
“She asked how long we’d been
married.”
“Oh,” he said. “Here, mind my arm.
Here, slow down across this road. We’re
not going to a fire.”
T ottie felt a rush of indignation. He
A-y wasn’t interested. He didn’t care.
Didn’t he even remember that he hadn’t
married her? It was so dreadful. Every
day she woke to the horror that this
day might be the day that someone,
somewhere, was going to find out, that
someone would remember her from the
Royal at Goodonga nearly 40 years ago,
and then it would be all over Manly.
You know that old couple who go to the
ocean beach every evening—oh, I’ll point
them out to you next time —they’re not
even married. She left her husband in
the country, and ran off with this chap.
He used to sell life assurance. Oh, yes,
it happened years ago. Nearly 40 years
ago. And he hasn’t married her yet. A
real Darby and Joan and not even
married. Isn’t it a laugh?
Lottie could hear the laughter as she
pushed Charles through the naked, sweat-
ing young people, standing in groups on
the footpath. What does it matter,
darling, he had murmured, as long as
we’re together? It did matter then, and
it mattered now. She had run off with
him, she admitted that, but it was only
on the understanding that they’d be
married as soon as possible. We’ll be
just brother and sister until we're
married, Charles darling, she had said,
holding his hand on the train to Sydney.
But of course, that was all very well,
easier said than done. Men were all alike.
He had said time and time again that he
would go back and see Jim, persuade
him to give her a divorce. Every time he
went away he promised to go to
Goodonga, and every time he came back
he said: “You understand, dearest,
pressure of business, but next time—” In
the end she had gone. She had gone at
night, taking a taxi from a town 25 miles
away, so that no one would see her. I
can understand you falling for him,
Lottie, Jim had said sadly, him with his
bowler hat and the rosebud in his button-
hole, but it won’t last, love. That sort
of thing doesn’t. And when it finishes,
you can come back to me. We can get
a pub in another town, start again where
no one will know. And we’re still married
in the eyes of the Church, so how can
you worry about what people think?
It’s adultery, why complicate it with
marriage in other churches, or some-
thing like that? It’s adultery. You
might as well leave it at that.
I’ll never leave Charles, she had said,
and, of course, she never had. She
pushed him up the narrow stairs, and he
squeaked and grunted at her touch.
Finally they got back to their flat and
Charles sank into the filthy old armchair
where he spent most of his time.
She went into the tiny kitchen. It’s
only just for the present, Charles had
said nearly 40 years ago, until we can
find something more suitable. When
we’re married we’ll get a house at
Mosman. It's small, but I'll be away a
lot and you might be lonely in a big
house. Of course, it’s only a bachelor’s
quarters. I’m expecting you to give it the


feminine touch. Fancy it up with cur-
tains and stuff. Oh, I will, darling.
We’ll have frilly curtains in the bedroom
and a beaded lampshade and moire
cushions in the lounge.
Now she pushed aside the plastic cur-
tain, stiffened and discolored with age,
and lit the gas flame. She slowly opened
a tin of baked beans and poured them
into a saucepan. She put a couple of
pieces of bread under the griller. But
somehow she had never got around to
the curtains or anything. Somehow I
never really settled in here, she thought.
She poured the barely warm beans on the
burnt toast and carried them into the
other room.
She put one plate on the tray arrange-
ment which fitted across the greasy arms
of Charles's chair. She set her own plate
on a straw mat at the maple-colored
dining-table.
From this corner of the room she
could see out the window. When they had
come here first she used to sit by the
window, and she could see right up and
down the street. She could see when
Charles was coming home, perhaps after
weeks away. He used to come from the
ferry by the ocean beach, so that he
could see her standing at the
window waiting. Then he would stand
still in the street, sweep off his hat, bow,
then blow a kiss off his fingers. Now tall
buildings had blocked out almost every-
thing except a sliver of the promenade,
if she leant her head against the wall
she could see half the stage, the right-
hand half where the open-air concerts
were held every Saturday. She could
not hear what was said, but she could
hear the audience’s bursts of laughter,
and she could sometimes hear the singers
at the microphone and see at least one
half of the acrobats’ acts.
TPonight he would probably be asleep
A and she would be able to watch the
concert. But first, she must escape for
half an hour. There were several excuses
she could offer. Sometimes none of them
worked and she had to stay at home,
but, as a matter of principle, she always
tried.
“Do you want a paper, love?” she
asked.
He roused himself and then motioned
to her to remove the tray.
“What was that?”
“Do you want a paper?”
“A paper? There’s nothing in the
papers that concerns me.”
She took the tray and her own plate
into the kitchen. She washed and dried
the dishes, then came back into the
living room. If he were asleep, she might
almost risk slipping out and back with-
out telling him. But he was not asleep
He was silting there watching her when
she came back Into the room.
“I’ll have to slip out for a minute,” she
said. “Isn’t it a pest? We’re short of
butter.”
“Won’t tomorrow do?” he demanded
querulously.
“There mightn’t be enough for the
morning.”
He was greedy, so he said nothing
further.
She put on her hat and hurried out of
the building. Most of the young people
had gone now, so she made quite good
time to the other side of the Corso.
it was a few minutes after six when
she got to the church. It was dark
and cool inside and there weren't many
people about. There were one or two
sitting in the seats and at the altar two
heavy-footed women in pastel linen
dresses and white straw hats were, with
many deliberate bows and whispered
conversations, putting fresh flowers and
candles on the altar.
The priests had finished hearing con-
fessions. Lottie always felt relieved
when they had finished. If she came to
the church when the red lights were still
burning, she felt indecisive. She should
so. Perhaps today she could go. Then,
of course, she was sure to be a long
while, and everybody kneeling outside
would be impatient. And they would
peer speculatively at her when she came
out. That was bad enough, but what
would she say inside? Bless me, Father,
for l have sinned. And how long is it
since your last confession, my child?
Lord, he would calf her child still! And
she was in her sixties. In her sixties but
in good health with a bit of life in her
yet. It is forty years, Father, since my
last confession. That is a long time, my
child. And what have you done in those
forty years? Father, l have committed
adultery. How many times, my chi id ?
He would lean towards her. his white
face floating in the dim light, as she
remembered the priests’ faces from her
childhood. You must say how many
times, my child, otherwise you can’t be
forgiven. Oh, Father, forty years is a long
time. How could she guess, even roughly,
how many times? Even if she could
guess, how could she bring herself to
admit to the total. And it was nearly
twenty years since it had stopped. She
could never drag her mind past this last
obstacle. . How could she ask a priest if
the sins stopped when you did? You
were supposed to separate and everything
before you could go back to the Church.
How could she leave the old man? It
just wasn't possible.
She dismissed the thought of con-
fession that would wait until next
week and went to the front of the
church. She knelt at the communion
rails and said some prayers. They
followed the childish pattern set in her
schooldays. She moved her lips as she
prayed to help concentration, but still her
mind wandered. To the flowers on the
altar, to the red carpet, to the two women
in pale linen, now standing with their
heads, or, strictly speaking with their
bosoms, together, and each grasping an
immense brass vase stuffed with pink
gladioli.
At last she stood up and walked to the
brass candelabrum. She slipped some
money in the box and lit a candle.
Please let him die. Please let him die
soon. It’s useless letting nim hang on.
He’s more dead than alive anyhow. He
wouldn't miss anything if he died now.
If he died she could come back to the
Church. She would even go back to Jim,
if he'd have her. They could go to a pub
in another town. Even now. Oh, please
let the old man die soon.
She turned away from the candles and
went to the centre aisle. She moved to a
seat somewhere in the centre of the church
and knelt down again. I’m sorry about
praying for someone’s death, she said.
I'm sorry if it's a sin to pray someone dead.
But, after all, we all have to die, I
have to die, too, and I don't want a
deathbed repentance. It’s all right in
theory, but it s a big risk. 1 mightn't
get a chance at the last minute. I
mightn't get forgiven, because I’ve left it
until the last minute. I'd like to repent
now. but how can 1 leave the old man?
She scuttled up the aisle again. Butter,
butter, she said to herself. I musn’t
forget that 1 said 1 was going out for
butter. 1 must hurry back. The old man
will be waiting.
She dropped on her knees at the back
row. Was it wrong to pray for someone
to die? After all, everyone had to die.
A few months or a few years, what did
it matter to God? And, after all, she
was only praying that she could get back
into the Church. She had to resolve to
sin no more, in fact, she wasn’t sinning
any more. But how could she explain
that to a priest? It was too personal.
How could it be sinful when all she did
was push the old man from his bed to his
chair, and, when the weather was good
enough, push him to the ocean beach?
And bath him when he could be per-
suaded to take a bath, which wasn’t often
enough?
TIER lips moved over the known prayers
of childhood again. If only he were
dead when she got back. If her prayers
had been answered so quickly she would
have a Mass the day after the funeral.
Then her thoughts strayed to the two
women at the altar. How she longed to
get back into the Church! Why, Mrs
Mediicott, I don't know how we could
get on without you! How did we get on,
Mrs So-and-so, before Mrs Mediicott
offered to help? Do you know, Mrs So-
and-so, Mrs Mediicott has polished all


the brass vases, while we’ve been turning
around. Mrs Medlicott, what beautiful
embroidery on this altar cloth! Did you
really do it yourself? Mrs Medlicott,
you are a treasure! Look, Mrs So-and-
so, Mrs Medlicott has made four dozen
small cakes for the school fete! Mrs
Medlicott, we’d like you to become
president of the ladies auxilary. Mrs
Medlicott, you really are the most
wonderful president we’ve ever had. Mrs
Medlicott. Once the old man was gone
nobody would suspect she hadn’t been
married. My late husband, she would
say, not making a fuss about it. Quite
calmly and full of confidence, the way
other women did. My late husband was
very fond of this and that. My late
husband never liked this or that. My
late husband. My late husband wasn’t
a Catholic, but, thank God, he was
converted on his death-bed. It was a
miracle. Oh, no, Mrs Medlicott, it was
your prayers.
Charles was sitting there very still in
the dim room when she got back. He
was so still he must be asleep. He was
so still he might be dead, but when she
moved closer to him she could see his
eyes were open and that he was looking
at her.
‘ Well, you certainly took your time
about it,” he said. “I had quite a turn
while you were out.”
"Oh, Charles,” she said tremulously,
“do you feel better now?”
“No,” he said. “I want my medicine
and my pills and I want to go to bed,
although I won’t sleep when I get
there.”
She went to the kitchen and poured a
dose of his mixture. If only she could
make a mistake about his heart pills, a
mistake that might be fatal. She wished
she had listened to Doctor Harrap when
he had explained how dangerous they
were. She measured the mixture and
took two white pills from the bottle.
She dropped the two pills into the mix-
ture and gazed in surprise as they melted
quite quickly, leaving no trace in the
glass of liquid. She poured a handful
of pills into the palm of her hand and
let them drop one at a time into the
liquid. Eight pills had dissolved now.
She took a sip. It did taste rather odd,
but perhaps it was only her imagination.
She tasted it again, then poured the liquid
down the sink. Where would she be if
she tried to murder him and failed?
Bless me, Father, for I have sinned.
And how long is it, my child, since your
last confession? My child, and she was
63, but in good health and a bit of life
in her yet. Forty years, Father. Forty
years, my child, that is a long time. And
what sins have you committed in those
40 years? Father, I have committed
adultery and murder. Adultery I don’t
know how many times, but murder only
once, only one murder. And, even then
I didn’t bring it off. She carefully
measured another dose of the mixture
and took just two pills from the bottle
and cradled them carefully in the palm
of her hand. She must rely on prayer.
I must have faith in the power of prayer,
she told herself, and raised her eyes to
Heaven.
CJhe took his medicine to him. He
took the two pills and drank the
mixture. Then she pushed him to the
bedroom and began the slow, frightful
business of getting him undressed. She
remembered after his accident the nurse
saying one day that patients who were
dirty were always more difficult to get
on with than clean ones. Clean people
were generally cheerful in old age. It
was strange to think of Charles—him
with his bowler hat and the rosebud in
his buttonhole- —as an old man who
didn t like taking baths. He had been
such a dandy, but perhaps dandies
weren’t particularly clean. So much
time in trimming the moustache, brush-
ing the hair smooth. Of course, now
she kept his clothes clean and fresh, but
it was a trial to have someone heavy
and helpless, and rather smelly as well.
“What sort of a turn did you have,
Charles?’’ she asked. “Was it like any-
thing you have had before? Do you
think it was your heart?”
It was just a turn. How do I know
what sort of a turn it was?” He was
lying, of course. Nothing had hap-
pened while she had been at the
church.
At last he sank into the bed.
“I'll never sleep with this arm to-
night,” he grumbled, and promptly
rolled over and almost immediately
began snoring.
Lottie tidied the room for a few
minutes, then went back into the living
room. She looked at the clock. The
concert was due to begin within minutes.
She took out the mirror from her hand-
bag, carefully combed her hair and
straightened her collar. At the last
minute she dashed into the bedroom —-
he was snoring quite loudly now —and
dabbed a bit of her 4711 behind her
ears. Then, quite perked up, she sat at
the window and waited for the concert
to begin. Sixty-three and a bit of life
in her. Once the old man was gone she
would be able to go to the concerts. She
would be able to pal up with some of
the regulars there. Who knows, a
widower or someone like that? For
companionship. And she would go
along to the Senior Citizens. She was
always seeing photographs of weddings
“met at the Senior Citizens’ Centre.”
She would get herself a couple of new
dresses and a new hat and get her blue
shantung dyed navy, once the old man
was gone, and move about a bit. In
good health and a bit of life in her.
She could see a segment of the crowc
arriving for the concert, and within a
few minutes the lights of the open-air
shell flashed on.
She stood up, then, and pressed her-
self against the side of the window-
frame to get the maximum area of the
stage in view. However, she couldn’l
see the compere. He was on the other
side of the stage.
First there was a team of acrobats.
Although she couldn’t see the first
steps of their acts, or the exciting
moments when bodies were flung
through the air, she could see each time
the pretty girl in pink spangles and the
young man in white flannels and
athletic singlet, at the end of each turn,
come and stand hand in hand to take
their bow. When it was finished she
clapped enthusiastically, then looked
carefully behind to make sure she hadn’t
disturbed the old man.
After that there was a comedy team.
She couldn’t hear what they were say-
ing. She could only see them when the
tall, thin fellow chased the funny little
fat one across the stage. She could hear
the roar of laughter and the spatter of
applause from the crowd. But it didn’t
matter. She didn’t care much for humor,
and she hated anything low or broad.
After that there were some dancers.
She couldn’t really follow the thread of
what they were doing, but every now
and then they swept across to her side
of the stage, he in tails and she in a
violet-colored sequinned dress. The man
would swing the woman back across
his outstretched arm until her bright,
gold hair touched the floor behind
her.
Lottie loved that. She jigged in time
to the music. It was almost as good as
being at the concert, really. She loved
a bit of life and brightness.
A woman in a hooped skirt came to
Lottie’s side of the stage and a man in
a maroon-colored dinner-jacket hurried
after her with a microphone. The
woman bowed gracefully to the audi-
ence and elapsed her hands in front of
her. She looked, Lottie decided, exactly
like a telephone-doll. A telephone-doll
was something Lottie had always wanted.
But somehow she had never got around
to it. Somehow she had never settled in
here.
“Ah, Sweet Mystery of Life,” the
woman sang, and with every “Ah! ”
rammed through the roof of the singer’s
mouth, Lottie flung back her head in
an ecstasy of joy, a little of which
remained with her an hour later when
she crept into bed beside the old man.
But what remained in her mind and her
heart when she died in her sleep several
hours later is another matter.


The Wild
Cat Pages
ECONOMIC POLICY
REFLECTIONS ON THE 20p.c. INCENTIVE
FINANCE BUSINESS ECONOMIC COMMENT INVESTMENT OIL AND MINING
IVTOW that Mr Holt has released some
details about the 20 p.c. plant
replacement incentive, a more critical
examination of the scheme is possible.
Even at first sight the early enthusiasm
will be dampened by the fact that the
Government has not differentiated between
the essential and non-essential industries,
and has largely chosen to ignore the
long-run inflationary effects of creating
an inbuilt expansionary mechanism in
the consumer goods industries. In the
early stages, the inflationary influences
will be outweighed by the immediate
boost to employment, but in the long
run this lack of selectivity could easily
result in extending and perpetuating
the basic disproportions which have
developed in the Australian economy.
Mr Holt said that the incentive will
take the form “of a deduction from
assessable income equal to 20 p.c. of the
cost (including installation expenses) of
plant qualifying for the allowance,” and
will apply for plant in use or delivered
to manufacturing premises after February
7, 1962, and “used within the manufac-
turing premises in the production of
manufactured goods. ” The official
emphasis is on “processing.” The incen-
tive will apply to “plant used in processes
such as timber milling, butter and cheese
manufacture, bacon, ham and fish curing,
canning of meat, fish and vegetables, as
well as processing by deep-freezing and
packaging of primary products.”
Here the incentive will clearly benefit
labor-intensive processes. Unfortunately,
primary producers who use the 20 p.c.
annual depreciation rate are not given
the benefit of an option, which will put
some major export earners at a dis-
advantage.
Mining plant qualifies r or the incentive
only if used for “concentrating and sub-
sequent activities.” Extracting activities
are specifically excluded. This will place
coalmining at a grave disadvantage.
“Plant used in the building industry
for the purpose of construction of roads,
bridges, retaining walls, etc.,” will also
be excluded. This means that a company
like Thiess Bros, which does a lot of
development work, will not benefit from
the incentive, but cigarette and popcorn
manufacturers will. A ball-point pen
manufacturer will get the same incentive
allowance as a steel mill or a heavy-
construction engineer. In the long run
this will favor consumer goods against
producer goods. There is nothing wrong
with consumer goods, which add so much
to our standard of living. But basic
development must be given priority and
special assistance in a free-enterprise
economy which has no centralised alloca-
tion of productive resources. Basic
industries normally show a lower rate of
profit than consumer goods industries
and require special incentives.
A/|r Holt has indicated that he may
A make some changes in the incentive
scheme. It is to be hoped that immedi-
ate reduction in unemployment is not
the only goal the Government has in
mind, and that the 20 p.c. incentive will
be used as a means to accelerate capital
accumulation for balanced economic
growth. It is also to be hoped that
the Government will soon decide to intro-
duce more realistic depreciation allow-
ances —at least for the basic and export
industries. The 20 p.c. incentive cannot
take the place of a new taxation policy.
It must be remembered that, although
the incentive allowance—in its present
form—will initially be a powerful fillip
to the labor-intensive industries, in the
long run it must lead to displacement of
labor by machines precisely in these
industries. The incentive has a distinct
inbuilt long-run tendency to encourage
the switchover from labor-intensive to
capital - intensive plant. In itself
a good thing, this will pave the
way for reductions in unit costs through
automation and semi-automation. But
labor thus displaced will have to be
absorbed by other sectors of the economy.
And only the essential industries, if they
develop at an adequate pace, will be able
to provide the necessary employment
opportunities. If they do not grow fast
enough, we shall have a hard core of
“unemployable unemployed” on the i
American pattern. This is why the newly
announced system of incentive allow-
ances contains an inherent long-run
contradiction.
But on the whole this is a step in the
right direction and despite all the draw- 1
backs and reservations indicates a wel-
come change in the Government's econo-
mic policy.
E.B.
COSTS
OVERPROTECTION DANGERS
many years the policy of the
Federal Government, especially
under the Labor regime, has been to
protect the local industries by tariff;
theoretically, quite a sound policy, pro-
vided it does not increase the cost of
living. But this is precisely what has
happened.
The rigid application and the inflexi-
bility of the tariff policy (can anyone
remember an instance of a major tariff
being reduced?) has had the result of
bringing an inflow of overseas capital
for the purpose of establishing new
industries. Overseas manufacturers, find-
ing that the tariff wall retarded the
market for their products in Australia,
decided to get behind the wall by


Another “Wales” Service
personalized
cheques
“Wales” Personalized Cheques add a
personal touch to your cheques by
having your name printed on them.
These cheques are available in con-
venient pocket size cheque books of
thirty forms at a cost of 1/- per book,
additional to usual stamp duty.
This is another of the advantages
of a cheque account with the “Wales”.
Enquire at any branch.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(incorporates in new sooth wales with limited liability)
A 6147«
operating locally, as Australian industries,
thereby gaining freedom from competi-
tion front other overseas manufacturers
and working under the general protec-
tion of the tariff wall while supplying
the local market.
Both State and Federal Governments
usually regard wages increases with
leniency for fear of losing votes, and
objections are seldom raised to higher
rates being awarded. All industrial costs
rise with each wage rise, but that does
not worry the principals. They just pass
the increases on to the public, which
has to pay them, plus the usual profit
ratio, or even more. If there is likely to
be any troublesome competition from
imported goods they just ask for another
course or so of bricks to be put on the
tariff wall, and get them almost auto-
matically.
The effect of overprotection of
industry on our still incompletely
developed country is becoming acute.
Today almost every secondary industry
in Australia is working under roughly
double the costs of ten to 15 years ago,
while the public has no choice but to pay
these costs by meeting almost any price
demands the manufacturers make. No
relief can be found in imported goods
at lower prices, because of the tariff
wall, and the industry can always justify
price increases by pointing to some cost
or wage increase.
Meanwhile, the cost of living is rising
more rapidly than any increase in real
wages or income in the industrial or
commercial field can cope with, while
many of those in the primary industries
would be on the bread line already were
it not tor the subsidies they receive.
TTntil Australia becomes a major manu-
facturing country with a highly
developed basic industry and an adequate
volume of manufactured goods exports,
our overseas earnings will depend on
the sale of primary produce and raw
materials. For many years now the terms
of trade have been steadily turning
against primary producers, and this
trend is unlikely to change.
There is no quick solution. Australia
must invest an increasing portion of her
national income in the basic industries
and try to reduce the secondary indus-
tries’ dependence on consumer goods.
The basic industries find it much
harder to absorb cost rises than consumer
goods manufacturers. On the other
hand, too much is being spent on aiding
those sections of the primary industry
which have a poor international market
outlook.
Costs must be kept down at all stages.
This can be achieved only if the unprofit-
able sections of the primary industry are
deprived of artificial supports, the
export-earners aided and protection for
the inflationary consumer goods manu-
facturers severely, if gradually, reduced.
COMMONWEALTH TRADE LINKS
CANADIAN MISSION
the difficulties expected because
of the continuous integration of the
European Common Market and the
United Kingdom’s anticipated entry into
the European Economic Community
becoming more and more real, Common-
wealth primary producers are realising
the need for closer liaison on economic
matters.
A Canadian trade mission is scheduled
to arrive in Sydney from Vancouver on
March 13. Mr G. H. Hees, the Canadian
Minister for Trade and Commerce, said
in Ottawa last week that the mission will


'k-'rti
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using “ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-water systems,
and household requirements. Easy to install. Inexpensive
to operate and will last a lifetime. Large quantities in
use throughout Australasia. Other types for different
conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDG- PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curs ilinear” Mining Tables,
Rapid Magnetic Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the economic
growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
discuss with Australian business leaders
the opportunities for increasing com-
mercial ties with Canada and give a
better understanding of Canada as a
source of supply.” The mission will
explore market possibilities in Australia
and attempt to assess the implications of
Australia's economic growth on the
Canadian economy. It will also study
Australian industrial methods to get a
better grasp of the specific requirements
of the Australian market.
The Canadian mission will visit Can-
berra and six main commercial centres
in Australia and will also tour New
Zealand before returning home.
Australian exports to Canada in 1960-
61 totalled £17,026,894, the principal items
being cane sugar (£8.1m.), dried and
preserved fruit (£2.7m.), meats and
sausage casings (£3m.) and wool, hides
and skins (£1.5m.). Other main exports
included w'ine and brandy, pig-iron and
foodstuffs of vegetable origin.
Imports from Canada in the same
period totalled £45,664,272, leaving Aus-
tralia with a trade deficit 0f£28,637,378.
Main imports w'ere aluminium, motor
vehicles and parts, metals and metal
manufactures and machinery (£19.3m.),
pulp, paper, board and paper products
(£11.1m), timber products (£sm.) and
chemicals, medicines, etc. (£1.1m.).
One of the main obstacles to a large
increase in Australia s trade with Canada
is that both countries are in many cases
exporting largely similar primary pro-
duce.
It is difficult to imagine a great increase
in the trade exchange, unless more Aus-
tralian products can be marketed in
Canada and other countries in North and
South America.
More wool and wines could perhaps
be exported. Australian sugar sales to
Canada could also be increased if some
Cuban sugar exports should be displaced.
At this stage this may be difficult
because Canada enjoys a relatively large
trade surplus with Cuba and appears to be
inclined to continue its trade with Havana
despite strong US objections.
JAPAN
OSAKA'S FIFTH TRADE FAIR
"Established in 1954, the Osaka Inter-
national Trade Fair has become a
major trade promotion centre in the Far
East. At this stage 28 countries are
expected to participate in this year s Fair,
to be held between April 5 and 25, 1962.
Official Government entries have been
announced by 18 countries, including
Australia, the United States, the United
Kingdom, Poland, West Germany and
Czechoslovakia. In addition, there will
be at least 11 private entries, including
Italy, Belgium, France, the USSR,
Sweden and Austria.
Spread over the Minatc and Hon-
machi Fair grounds will be some 6665
stands, including 1392 grandstands.
Exhibits will cover manufacturing and
service industries, with particular empha-
sis on capital equipment, agricultural
products and raw materials. The Aus-
tralian pavilion will have 80 stands,
exhibiting wool, textiles, agricultural pro-
ducts, raw materials and some capital and
manufactured goods. The Fair will be
served by a modern communications
system and a public-relations section.
It is interesting to note the great
interest displayed in the Osaka Trade
Fair by the United States, the European
Common Market (EEC) countries and the
Soviet bloc.
The US pavilion will occupy 3025 sq.
metres and have 201 stands designed to
“integrate all displays into one idea of
publicising modern food processing to
create better living.”
The EEC will be represented by
official exhibits from West Germany and
private stands from Holland, Italy, Bel-
gium and France. The Soviet bloc's team
will comprise Czechoslovakia (textile,
printing and welding machinery, jewels,
foods, etc.), Rumania (a wide range of
manufacturing and primary products),
the USSR (mainly construction and civil
engineering machinery), Poland (machine
tools, etc.) and Bulgaria, Hungary
and East Germany, which have
not yet released the details of their
entries. Communist China is not taking
part, but there will be a Government
entry from Nationalist China, exhibiting
Taiwan’s basic products.
Osaka, one of Japan’s greatest indus-
trial cities, specialising in production of
heavy machinery, electrical appliances
and precision instruments, is one of the
main centres of Japan's rapid industrial
expansion. The Trade Fair’s main
entrance will be erected opposite the


Asashiobashi station of the Municipal
Rapid Transit Railways. Overseas visi-
tors will be served by the Tokyo and
Osaka international airports.
Japan’s rising standard of living and
changing eating habits give hope for an
increase in consumption of Australian
meat and dairy products. Australian
prices should competitive against
the rather high-cost Common Market
agricultural products, but Denmark and
Poland may be strong rivals for some
Australian dairy produce and bacons and
hams.
MANUFACTURERS
"OPERATION BOOMERANG"
A ustralia’s growth to nationhood was
technically reached at Federation, yet
many years were to elapse before full
recognition of her new status by other
countries. Her contribution to the
British Empire trade absorbed the bulk
of exports from “down under” and to a
large extent these were merely the means
of payment for imports, for until recent
years what secondary industries there
were in Australia had been to a major
degree hampered by the public’s stubborn
refusal to buy anything not bearing the
magic word ‘ imported” on the label.
World War II gave our secon-
dary industry the boost needed for rapid
development. The postwar era, with its
impetus of import restrictions, was indeed
the mother of invention as far as increased
industrial output was concerned. It was
not long before Australians realised that
many of the previously imported goods
were capable of being made right here
and, perhaps more important, from raw
materials obtainable from home sources.
With the often bitter lessons learned
from trying to cash in on established
markets with wares that were poor in
quality or shoddily produced, Austra-
lian manufacturers finally began to make
some inroads.
As a direct result of the increase in
population due to the expanded immigra-
tion programme, overseas concerns set
up factories and created competition from
within, having realised that Australia had
reached a stage where her population
not only provided a major market but
could also serve as a manufacturing
centre for exports to the Asian and other
markets in the southern hemisphere.
Today, the picture is changing even more
rapidly than perhaps the early pioneers
had dared to hope, and to some extent
in a manner not conceived by most.
The rapid effects of the immigration
programme meant that just about every-
thing in the range of consumer goods was
instantly swallowed up by the hungry
home market. The time would come, of
course, when the saturation point would
be reached, but it was a long way off and
could be dealt with when the time came.
Well, the time has come and, judging
by the report of the Associated Chambers
°f Manufactures of Australia (ACMA)
on the progress made in the current “Buy
Australian—And Your Money Comes
Back To You” campaign, there were not
too many in the boom times who were
endowed with the foresight to make
some provision for the future. The report
states that “many attempts have been
made in the past to mount 'Made in Aus-
tralia' campaigns, without success Some
of the reasons have been obvious—finan-
cial limitations leading to spasmodic
activity ; campaigns too narrow in scope
and objective, being typical.” Other
reasons, typical but not mentioned, were
also obvious. Apart from an appeal to
patriotism there was so often little incen-
tive in price, quality or presentation.
Tt says much for members of the Cham-
bers that planning of the present
campaign—‘Operation Boomerang”—
was begun some years back. Two con-
cerns, Industrial Public Relations and
N. V. Nixon, finally submitted a joint
proposal last February and three months
later the campaign was officially
launched in Canberra. Through radio,
television, Press, to lapel badges, the
training of retail staff in stores, and the
pricking of the social conscience, Aus-
tralians are being exhorted to “Buy Aus-
tralian”. Unlike previous attempts, the
campaign is expected to continue for at
least four years, and if the Chambers
manage to secure from industrialists an
average subscription of £1 p.a. for each
worker employed, total expenditure will
reach £1,000,000. So far, the report states,
“Operation Boomerang"’ has been respon-
sible for “ . .. a number of requests...
received from diplomats for full details
and progress reports of the campaign.”
The message has a good chance of
reaching overseas and the report goes on
to say that “in some cases, this interest
stems from domestic campaigns of the
same kind in their home countries,”
adding casually “and in others interest
has its origin in likely loss of exports to
Australia as a result of the campaign.”
The basic objective of all campaign
activities is to create and maintain a
favorable image of industry in all sections
of the community. To achieve this broad
objective many problems must be over-
come ; many ideas changed ; many wide-
spread prejudices removed. Some of the
more important aspects which will be the
subject of special and increasing atten-
tion in the near future are:
Full Employment: industry is the
major employer of a rapidly expanding
work force and full employment can be
achieved only through an expanding
manufacturing industry.
Exports: The need for a secure and
stable domestic market if manufacturing
industry is to expand exports and Aus-
tralia is to avoid recurring balance of
payment problems.”
Sound stuff this and if Australian
industrialists follow it our manufacturing
industry could well become a force to be
reckoned with at home and overseas.
But the continuance of the old pre-
conceived and unwise notions about the
industry being purely a means to the
profit-end have such ghastly implications
that the mind boggles at the immensity
of the disaster. The whole concept of
industry’s place in the social structure of
modern living has altered. With the
European Common Market looming like
a black cloud over the industrial horizon,
Australians on both sides of the board-
room table will indeed have to change
ideas and remove prejudices. If they
don’t, the full potential of “Operation
Boomerang” will never be reached.
Neither will Australia’s effort to break
into overseas markets against world-wide
competition be fully effective.
BRYAN MELLONIE
“Peter likes to put realism into his talks on World affairs."


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you properly
covered? Now is the time to
review your insurances. Serious
financial losses can result on private
and business premises that are
improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IS YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
COMPANY REVIEWS AND NOTES
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE CORP. LTD
AFTER THE DEFENSIVE BONUS
A USTRALIAN GUARANTEE CORPORATION
Ltd enjoys the backing of the
mighty Bank of New South Wales, which
holds a 40 p.c. capital interest in the
company. This facilitates A.G.C.’s large-
scale borrowings at minimum market
rates and provides for direct support
through overdraft accommodation when
necessary. Debenture issues have been
filled without much difficulty, as the
backing of “The Wales” ensures a high
credit rating.
This attractive position is probably one
of the main reasons why Associated
Securities Ltd made their recent bold
bid for A.G.C. Although Associated
Securities has powerful overseas associ-
ates —the Royal Bank of Scotland, British
Wagon Co. Ltd and Pearl Assurance Co.
Ltd —and its Australian associate, the W.
R. Carpenter group, none of these would
be nearly as immediately valuable as the
145-year-old Bank of New South Wales.
Apart from this, A.G.C.’s high earning
rate, fast expansionary programme, a
healthy assets backing of 10s. 6d. for
each ss. ordinary share and its sizeable
reserves of £7,026,350 provided further
incentive to Associated Securities to
attempt the merger. The terms offered
by Associated Securities Ltd were three
ss. ordinary Associated Securities shares
plus 18s. cash for every four ss. ordinary
A.G.C. stock units. This represented a
bid of about £22.4 million for a paid
capital of £6,225,000.
The offer was rejected by the directors
of A.G.C., who felt that Associated
Securities is a much smaller company
(A.G.C.’s shareholders’ funds total £13.9
million against Associated Securities £3.8
million), and opined that Associated Secu-
rities “cannot possibly have the experi-
ence required to run a combined operation
of a size such as this could be.”
Following rejection of the takeover
bid, the Bank’s interest in A.G.C. was
stressed by the appointment of “The
Wales” general manager, Mr H. C. C.
Marshall, and the assistant general mana-
ger, Mr J. C. Kenny, to A.G.C.’s board.
The offer would have required £5.6
million in cash, and accounts of Associ-
ated Securities at June 30, 1961, did not
disclose that the company held cash of
this amount. A.G.C.’s board felt that
the merger would not have given adequate
protection to the A.G.C. debenture hold-
ers and that the offer did not fully repre-
sent the true worth of A.G.C. shares.
Rejection of the bid was followed by a
defensive one-for-three bonus issue. The
company expects to maintain the 15 p.c.
dividend rate on the higher ordinary
capital of £8,300,000 —an increase of
£2,075,000 —but may prove to be a con-
siderable strain on its resources. The
bonus issue will come from the company's
share premium reserve, which at June 30,
1961, stood at £2,154,929.
Registered in New South Wales in
1925, Australian Guarantee Corporation
Ltd has long ranked among the leaders in.
its field. Motor vehicles purchases are
extensively financed and there is a close
association with Ford dealers.
A.G.C. operates in Australia, New
Zealand, Papua and New Guinea
through eleven wholly owned subsidi-
aries :
Transport and General Life Assurance Co. Ltd,
Transport and General Insurance Co. Ltd,
T.F.C. (Wholesale) Pty Ltd, Traders Finance
Corporation Ltd, Empire Insurances Ltd,
Alliance Finance Corporation (N.Z.) Ltd. A.G.C.
(Wholesale) Pty Ltd, A.G.C. (Pacific) Ltd.
During the year A.G.C. acquired three
new companies A.G.C. (General
Finance) Pty Ltd, A.G.C. (Properties)
Pty Ltd and Hunt Bros (Securities) Ltd
—for an undisclosed cash sum. The
company also holds a 55 p.c. interest in
Carapark and General Finance Ltd in
partnership with Carapark Holdings Ltd.
But this subsidiary is expected to be
liquidated in view of the recent takeover
of Carapark by Motels of Australia Ltd.
The slump in the motor vechicles indus-
try and other consequences of the credit
squeeze were felt by A.G.C. and other
hire purchase and finance companies.
New car registrations last December
dropped by more than 2000 compared
to November, 1961, figures. Last Dec-
ember’s figures were also nearly 2000
below December, 1960, registrations.
However, the latest figures indicate an
increase in the number of registrations in
January, 1962. This trend should con-
tinue following the reduction of the sales
tax on motor vehicles from 30 p.c. to
22} p.c.
The electrical appliances industry yet
has many problems to face. The TV
industry is still struggling to recover from
a double setback encountered late in
1960 and 1961. However, demand for
TV sets has come mainly from the
newer broadcasting areas. After next
year many sets will be coming due for
replacement. By 1970 replacement will
account for 85 p.c. of the whole Aus-
tralian TV market. This should give a
certain boost to demand for hire purchase
funds. Insurance subsidiaries earned
profits comparable with last year, but are
still feeling the effect of the high rate of
motor vehicles and workers’ compensa-
tion insurance claims. The generally
improved results were achieved through
group reorganisation, close attention to
internal economics and diversification of
investments.
Despite difficult trading conditions,
consolidated net profit of £1,282,999
(after deducting £2365 capital profits)
increased by £266,388 —a rise of 26 p.c.
on the previous year —after deducting
£567,742 (up £319,007) for depreciation,
amortisation of lease and providing
£914,449 (up £171,095) for taxation:
Pares".* and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends N To He- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Old. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
6 & 5 p.e. 15 p.c.
1958.. 1,332,186 34,000 933,750 364,436 6,485,539
Capital profits, £llO6 .. .. 6,486,645
Tax overprovided, £11,234 . . . . 6,497,879
To contingencies provision, £lOO,OOO 6,397,879
1959.. 1,225,661 34,000 933,750 257,911 6,655,790
Capital profits, £1596 .. .. 6,657,386
1960.. 1,016,611 34,000 933,750 48,861 6,706,247
Capital profits, £2365 . . . . 6,708,612
Surplus on consolidation, £2489 .. 6,711,101
1961.. 1,282,999 34,000 933,750 315,249 7,026,350
After paying the unchanged pref. divs.
(£34,000), the earning rate showed 20.26
p.c. on unchanged average ordinary
capital, compared with 15.81 p.c. in 1960,
19.72 p.c. in 1959 and 30.1 p.c. in 1958.
The ordinary dividend was steady at 15
p.c., absorbing £933,750. Reserves
benefited by £315,249 and also by £2365
capital profit, £2489 surplus on consoli-
dation, rising to £7,026,350 (free of
intangibles).
Paid up capital at balance date re-
mained unchanged at £6,875,000 —-in
150,000 6 p.c. cum. 20s. first prefs.,
500,000 5 p.c. cum. 20s. second prefs.
and 24,900,000 ss. ords —but will jump


Pick up a better return
with complete security
with
REID MURRAY
Acceptance Limited
Reg. First Mortgage Debenture Stock
P.A. for 8 and 10 years
pa.
2 Years
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
7 Va^o
P.A. on 12
mths. notice
PA on 6
mtfts. notice
570
P.A. on 3
mths. notice
Applications accepted only on forms at-
tached to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. G 71924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of
Adelaide Ltd.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
rma. aev
GUARANTEED BY RflD MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
heavily when the bonus issue scrip is all
issued.
Borrowing on debentures rose by
£5,897,103 to £37,702,905 (including
£27,603,035 with maturity over one year).
During the year the company was offer-
ing higher long and short term rates on
its debenture issues. Deposits decreased
by £2,371,537. Bank overdraft of
£2,880,306 disappeared. Creditors and
dealers’ reserves and deposits, etc. in-
creased by £913,586 to £3,658,479. Unex-
pired risks were lower at £1,786,824. Un-
earned income increased by £615,399 to
£6,926,152 representing 12.5 p.c. of net
outstandings—a satisfactory proportion,
if 10 p.c. is taken as a safe margin. The
ratio of combined debentures and de-
posits to shareholders’ funds was 3.05 to
1:
Consolidated Balance Sheet. ,
Paid capital:— 1959. 1900. 1961.
Lief. .. £650,000 £650,000 £650,000
Old. . . 6,225,000 6.225,000 6,225,000
Reserves .. 6,655,790 6,700,247 7,026,350
Debentures .. 27,522,541 32,005,802 37,702,905
Deposits .. 6,243,115 7,038,898 4,667.361
(herdnitt .. 2,880,306
Creditors, etc.* 2,004,027 2,744,913 3,658,479
Lnexpired risks 1,893,481 1,835,814 1,780,824
Unearned income 5;.98,200 6,310,753 6,926,152
Stuff fund .. 220,570 214,143 206,374
Tux provision 964,579 1,021,888 987,284
Final divs. . . 483,875 483,875 483,875
£58,721,178 £68,117,639 £70,320,004
Fixed assets .. 947,626 1,022,947 1,360,265
Shares .. 51,002 1,173,041 1,195,605
Loans, debtors,
tic. .. .. 57,604,713 05,709,783 66,277,248
Cask, bonds, etc. 117,837 211,868 1,487,486
£58,721,178 £68,117,639 £70,320,604
* Includes dealers’ reserves and deposits, etc-.
Fixed assets increased by £337,318 to
£1,360 265.. Investment in shares was
higher at £1,195,605. Cash bonds etc.
increased by £1,275,618 to £1,487,486.
Outstandings of balance date increased
by £567,465 to £66,277,248. The ratio of
outstandings to paid capital was 9.6 to 1.
The company enjoyed a highly
liquid position at the time when the
credit squeeze still operated in the
economy. At June 30, 1961, it had
£1.2 million in the bank, and £1.5 million
on short call, and its monthly receipts of
£7 million were more than enough to pay
oft all short term borrowings as they fell
due. At no time did the credit restric-
tions appear to affect liquidity, particu-
larly in December, 1960, and January and
February, 1961.
Losses on repossessions have been
Written off and substantial provision has
been made for losses not yet ascertainable
A.G.C.’s results are among the best
for hire purchase and finance companies,
an improvement in the earn-
lnB rate which leaves a satisfactory margin
°ver the dividend commitments.
Audited profit of the group for six
Months to December 31, 1961, was
Sported to be 20 p.c. higher at
£ 1-320,230. Group net profit after tax
l°r the half year was shown at £764,882.
Total gross receivables, excluding money


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
Offices :
SYDNE/, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
on short call, rose from £64,438,953 to
£65,368,790.
The company is in a strong competitive
position and the one-for-three bonus
issue may prove a good weapon against
takeover bids. But the very extent of the
defensive gift issue may pose some major
problems and may reduce the earning
rates on capital and shareholders’ funds.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
changed hands at 14s. The immedi-
ate return is 5.3 p.c. on the basis of the
steady 15 p.c. dividend. The 6 p.c. cum.
20s. first prefs. changed hands below par
at 19s. yielding 6.2 p.c. The 5 p.c.
cum. 20s. second prefs. were last traded
at 14s. a unit.
Net tangible assets backing for 20s.
first pref. shares was £92 13s. 6d. each,
for 20s. second pref. shares £27 10s. each
and for ss. ord shares 10s. 6d. a unit on
consolidated accounts.
LAMSON PARAGON INDUSTRIES LTD
STATIONERY FOR COMPUTERS
Lamson Paragon Industries Ltd was
set up as a holding co. in a format
reconstruction involving an effective one-
for-one bonus in June, 1957. Operating
through a number of subsidiaries, with
plants in all States (except Tasmania)
and in New Zealand, the group is engaged
in manufacturing various office machines,
sales counter-check books, continuous
stationery, autographic registers, type-
writer-attachments, Taylorix accounting-
systems, carbon paper, ribbons, carbon
copy-books, printed forms of all des-
criptions, formalisers, guillotine detachers
etc. There is a close technical link with
the Lamson Paragon organisation in the
UK. The company is a leader in the
manufacture of stationery for electric
computers and tabulators.
Australia already has 82 computers in
service and demand for electronic data
processing machines is expanding.
During last term Lamson Paragon
Industries Ltd acquired the whole of the
shares of Roneo Co. (Melb.) Pty Ltd.
Part of the consideration was satisfied by
the issue of 40,000 fully paid 10s. ord.
shares. Roneo Co. holds the agency of
Roneo Ltd, London, manufacturers of
steel office equipment, visible recording
systems and duplicating machines. In
November, 1961, Lamson Paragon
absorbed Lamson Engineering Co. (N.Z.)
Ltd, of Wellington, New Zealand. Con-
sideration was 45,000 f.-p. ordinary shares
of 10s. each, issued to Lamson Industries
Ltd, London, at a premium of 7s. 6d. a
share.
Lamson Paragon's chairman noted that
the credit squeeze coincided with a re-
organisation of the company's produc-
tion methods, which resulted in some
abnormally heavy costs, mainly due to
conversion from metal plates to the more
efficient rubber plates.
All subsidiaries traded profitably. The
New Zealand and Western Australian
subsidiaries showed excellent results.
Although net profit was lower than in
the previous year it was still the second
highest in the company’s history.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended October 31, 1961, was £39,136
lower at £192,443 after writing off
£79,031 for depreciation (up £10,698),
providing £127,767 for taxation (down
£30,944), paying £23,059 interest on
unsecured notes, £4256 directors’ fees,
£4920 auditors’ fees, writing off £3348 of
intangible assets and deducting the
£21,676 interest of outside share-
holders :
Lamsox Paragon axd Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Oct. Profit. , Dividend —-> serves. serves*
31. £ £ £ £
1959. .171,739 8 p.c. = 113,520 58,219 711,273
Added realisation reserve, £3OO .. 741,573
Intangibles written-off. £9,858 . . 731,715
Plus reduction intangibles, £9,759 .. 741,474
Unexplained reductions, £2,400 .. 565.352
1900..231.579 9 p.c. - 127,710 103,869 823,959
Share premium, £12,000 .. .. 835,959
Profit sale assets, £1,044 .. .. 837,003
Excess tax provision, £34.101 . . 871,104
Intangibles written-off, £3,348 .. 867,756
Unexplained reductions, £2,404 . . 865,352
1961. .192,443 9 p.c. = 129,510 62,933 928,285
‘Subject to intangibles, £730,967 at 31/10/61.
The earning rate on higher average
ordinary capital declined to 13.3 p.c.,
compared with 10.3 p.c. in 1960, 12.1
p.c. in 1959, 10.4 p.c. in 1958 and 14.5
p.c. in 1957. Dividend rate was steady
at 9 p.c. on higher capital, absorbing
£129,510.
Reserves received £62,933, and also
benefited by £12,000 share premiums,
£1044 profit on sale of assets and £34,101
excess tax provision accumulated over a
number of years. Reserves were reduced
by £3348 intangibles written-off and
£2404 unexplained reductions and were
disclosed at £928,285, subject to £730,967
intangibles.
Consolidated figures indicate a strong
trading position during a difficult period,
but the balance sheet hows a decline in
liquidity.
Paid up capital increased by £20,000
to £1,439,000. Outside interests were
higher at £219,186 (up £9602). Bank
overdraft rose by £112,932 to £288,745.


Btl
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
Financier . . Established 1882
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Interest payable quarterly through the Bank of N.S.W.
Free of Exchange.
DIRECTORS:
W. R. Schofield (Chairman)
T. H. Martin Dr W. F. Pattinson
Alternate Directors: R. V. Agnew, G. L. A. Donohoo
Trustee for Debenture Stock Holders:
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
APPLICATIONS AND PROSPECTUS
Applications will be accepted only on one of the forms
of application attached to the printed copy of the Pros-
pectus which may be obtained from:
• Ail branches of the Bank of New South Wales in New
South Wales, Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
Telephone: BW 4521-2-3
AND BRANCHES
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O’Connell Street, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne. 340 Queen Street, Brisbane
BROKERS IN VICTORIA
Clarke & Co., 450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS IN QUEENSLAND
Charles Elliott & Son, 356 Queen St., Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BROKERS IN CANBERRA
T. J. Thompson & Sons, C.B.C. Chambers,
Petrie St., Canberra.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
I.
■/
2
PER ANNUM
FOR S YEARS
6 months
9 months
12 months
2 years
3 years
4 years
Sundry creditors increased by £91.153 to
£291,379:
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
1959. 1960. 1961.
Paid capital .. £1,419,000 £1,419,000 £1,439,000
Reserves .. .. 741,273 823,959 928,285
Outside interests .. 202,831 209,584 219,18 G
Mortgage .. .. 102,139 99,557 101,533
Convertible notes. . 354,750 354,750 354,750
Overdraft . .. 21,420 175,813 288,745
Creditors .. .. 220,158 200,226 291,379
Tax provision .. 149,662 179.470 151,628
Staff funds . . 142,328 109,337 100,751
Final div. .. 70,950 85,140 86,340
£3,424,511 £3,656,836 £3,961,597
Freeholds.. .. 593,892 598,664 624,532
Plant, etc. .. 743,417 855,336 936,518
Stocks .. .. 808,663 858,408 1,059,019
Debtors .. .. 540,491 614,720 608,896
Cash, etc. .. 1,868 3,287 1,665
Intangibles .. 736,180 726,421 730,967
£3,424,511 £3,056,836 £3,961,597
Freeholds rose by £25,868 to £624,532.
Plant and machinery, motor vehicles and
furniture and fittings increased by £81,179
to £936,518. Stock on hand was £200,611
higher at £1,059,019, including some
£40,000 of stocks of Roneo Co. (Melb.)
Pty Ltd. Cash and debtors were lower.
In the current year a general upward
trend in the industry is discernible. With
more efficient and economical production
methods, introduced last term, the com-
pany may anticipate improved earnings.
Net tangible asset backing works out
at 12s. Id. for each 10s. ord. on consoli-
dated figures. At the last sale in Mel-
bourne the 10s. ords. changed hands at
19s. 9d. a unit. The immediate yield is
4.8 p.c. on the steady 9 p.c. dividend
rate. The 10s. 6y p.c. convertible notes
fetched 19s. for an immediate return
of 3.4 p.c.
DEVELOPMENT
UNDERWRITING LTD
FACTORING MOVE
A fter a period of internecine warfare
which threatened to completely de-
stroy the company, the board of
Development Underwriting Ltd is getting
on with the task of rehabilitation.
The company floated just prior to the
credit squeeze but despite the difficulties
of this period earned a profit of £11,548
in the period to June 30, 1961, equal to
p.c. on capital.
1 The trouble came when Stocks and
Holdings Ltd made a takeover approach
that was opposed by Savoy Corpora-
tion Ltd which has a large shareholding
in D.U.L., and its own plans for D.U.L.’s
future. After several days of behind-the-
scenes moves settlement was reached
"'hen Stocks and Holdings withdrew its
offer and representatives of Stocks and
Holdings and Savoy Corporation joined
the D.U.L. board.
First step in the move to restore the
company’s prestige was the decision to
tfiove into the factoring field, which will
be done with the co-operation of over-
seas interests.
Operations during 1961 were fairly
evenly divided between mortgaging busi-
ness, commercial advances, real estate,
and commercial interests in real estate.
However, the new board plans to give
greater emphasis to merchant banking
activities.
Only time will tell if the new partner-
ship will be effective.
ROTHMANS
GOOD PROGRESS
T ast week’s half-yearly report by Roth-
mans of Pall Mall (Australia) Ltd
indicates good progress. The new brands
are doing well. Rothmans now markets
fi-ve brands in seven packings. Directors
say that Rothmans filters are still out-
selling and outgrowing any other cigar-
ette on the Australian market.
Peter Stuyvesant is now a “volume
seller.” Rothmans plain “has the top
sale in the plain cigarette market.” Carlyle
Extras and Princeton have achieved
adequate sales. Rembrandt is also profit-
able in its own field.
Mr R. A. Irish, the company’s chair-
man, said that Rothmans continues to
sell more than 47 p.c. of all cigarettes
sold in Australia. “The growth in Roth-
mans domestic sales was more than 80 p.c.
of the total market increase” in the six
months’ period.
Net profit before tax for the half-year
to December 31, 1961, was disclosed at
£1,029,921, compared with £908,571 for
the June, 1961, half and £1,108,343 for
the December, 1960, half. Depreciation
charged for the period was £182,166. An
interim dividend of 8J p.c. was
announced, “with the intention of paying
174 p.c. for the year.” Profits for the
current year are expected to be at least
comparable with 1960-61 earnings.
Mr Irish said that no royalties for
brand names are paid for sales on the
Australian market.


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(J Members o) Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building,
150 Queen St., Melbourne,
67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
Financiers in London, Tokyo,
New York.
Experts in every field of business
and commerce.
Unbiased correspondents in
Canberra.
Facts are presented precisely,
concisely in
The Australian
FINANCIAL TIMES
OUT EVERY MONDAY
PRICE 1/6
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Monday, February 19
'T'hings are looking up. They’ve decided
to publish this diary every week
again instead of once a fortnight.
When I was in short pants, I was told
you could judge the prosperity, or other-
wise, of the country by the size of the
Saturday edition of an unmentionable
Sydney morning newspaper which carries
a large volume of classified advertising.
(It’s not a bad guide, either. Last Satur-
day that paper had 60 pages, a year ago
(early recession) 64 and two years ago
(boom time) 80.) Anyway, it now seems
that you might be able to tell the tone of
the sharemarket by how often this diary
appears. Spare me the time when it
appears once a month. Or not at all!
This past week has been full of frustra-
tions. I began by wanting to “short”
some James Hardie Asbestos when they
suddenly went up to £5 10s. But the next
day the price was back to £5 again so
the chance was lost. They sold as low
as 935. in Melbourne a day or two later.
At that price they were probably good
buying, but not at £5 10s.
This week I was also full of ideas for
exploiting the rights market. I have a
theory that rights usually accentuate the
general market trend: if the market as a
whole is weak, rights tend to be very
weak ; if the market is firm, rights are
often really strong, particularly at the
very end of an issue. That was part of
the reason why I ordered 1000 R. H.
Lawrenson rights last week, expecting to
get them at 4s. or less. But I was being
a bit ambitious. The first sale was 4s. 9d.
and they shot up to 7s. before the
directors threw a bit of cold water on
everyone’s enthusiasm by warning that
no dividend was likely this year. By then
I’d withdrawn my buying order and was
poised over the Fenwick market waiting
for a bargain.
Fenwick shares, it seems, don't know
how to fall. Nothing will weaken them,
not even a tug strike. So I felt that the
rights to the new issue were certain to
be strong. Nevertheless, I thought I might
just happen on a few at about 17s. 6d.
But they, too, got away from me. No
doubt the shares will soon be back to
their cum-rights price just as they quickly
got back to their cum-bonus level. The
present price of 28s. is equal to about
50s. before the bonus. Why, I don't
know, but there it is.
I had more luck with the A.C.I. rights
I bought the previous week at 38s. 3d.
Ffaving made a bad mistake by selling
my 1.C.1. rights at 11s. 9d. (now equal to
17s. 6d.!), I decided I’d better take up the
100 A.C.I. rights and pay the first call of
15s.
Friday brought to an end another of
my many rounds with Rothmans. I found
the half-yearly report frankly disappoint-
ing, even if the dividend rate was put up
to \l\ per cent. The cold truth is that
Rothmans’ profits seem to have reached
their peak. While they will probably con-
tinue to hold this lofty level, the pros-
pects of further substantial profit
increases seem remote. So I sold my 50
shares, a little nostalgically, at 925. for a
£2B profit.
The Rothmans sale brought in barely
enough to pay for my previous debts and
the £75 A.C.I. application money.
There’ll be a £3O refund coming from
Planet soon, too, as I was told this week
that I’ll be getting only 400 of the 1000
shares I applied for.
Then, also on Friday, I bought 300
Mauri Bros. Fd watched them go up to
245. and slip back again, regretting all
along that I’d sold my P.M.U.’s back in
September at £9-odd (equal to 19s. 6d. a
Mauri share). What convinced me that
I should buy back was a broker’s circular
which pointed out that Mauri Bros, had
made only one cash issue in 40 years, the
conclusion being that retained profits
(hitherto undisclosed) must be on a
mighty scale to finance all expansion. To
pay for these, I sold my 300 Lindeman
shares which Fd acquired through Leo
Buring. This turned out to be quite a
useful exercise as the 800 Leo Buring I
bought at 6s. 4d. cost me £262 and I got
£3Ol for them when I sold them as 300
Lindeman at 20s. 6d.
SOLD
50 Rothmans at 92/- .. £227
300 Lindeman at 20/6 .. £3Ol
BOUGHT
300 Mauri Bros, at 22/6 . . £345
All this left me owing £76 and holding
these shares:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Sliares Company Bought Share Pritt
300 Hornibrook 4/3/61 23/- 28/6
200 Southern TV 26/6/61 20/ 27/3
400 Derrin Bros 14/8/61 10/- 13/-
400 O'Donnell
Griffin 28/8/61 11/8 16/-
200 Shipping News 25/9/61 17/3 22/6
800 Southgate 6/11/61 8/6 9/3
1,000 United Motels 20/11/61 3/6 4/-
500 Western Mining
(contributing) 20/11/61 8/3 13/9
1,000 Harris Holdings 5/12/61 7/- 8/6
200 Hunter Douglas 7/12/61 26/- 41/-
200 Beau Monde 8/12/61 25/- 33r
500 Fibre Con-
tainers 13/12/61 34/9 39/-
3,000 Planet Oil 15/1/62 1/-
100 B.H.P. 24/1/62 64/6 69/6
400 W. J. Manufac-
turing 24/1/62 11/9 13/;
100 A.C.I. 15/- paid 7/2/62 53/3 58/-
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 24/-
300 Mauri Bros. 16/2/62 22/6 22/


Out and About
TELEVISION
A SPACE FOR STARS
THE ARTS BOOKS SPORT FOR THE CONSUMER ABORIGINALITIES
“MU’e’ve something for everyone tonight,
** so stay with the show,” pleaded
Johnny O'Keefe as he went through his
opening patter for his Friday night
viewers. The almost plaintive tone
revealed more than his own desire to
stay on air: it came straight from the
hearts of Australian TV producers who
find themselves on a starless air although
the industry has entered its sixth year.
O'Keefe himself—likeable man, willing
worker, happy trouper —is not a star. He
pulls well with youngsters, but nobody
has ever heard of a fortyish banker
taking a furtive peep at O'Keefe’s offer-
ings, nor yet a thirtyish mother with a
yen for the stomping compere.
Behind O'Keefe lies a string of names
which had hours of glamor but no
seasons of national glory. Keith Walshe
has retired from the floor to become a
production boffin. Graham Kennedy’s
name has had only qualified honor
beyond his home-city limits, and down
there his pull is reported to be weakening.
Bobby Limb and Dawn Lake, notwith-
standing their ability to look the way
you and I would like to look at a party,
have tipped but never kicked ratings.
Bland Digby Wolfe, off for a few more
weeks, relies so heavily on his production
unit that he glimmers as one of a con-
stellation but does not shine as a lone
star.
Does it matter? Are local TV stars
desirable? Yes and Yes.
A long-shining star is an entertainer
who does his work superbly well. Perry
Como spreads sentiment superbly;
Danny Kaye excelled at song-and-dance ;
Belafonte is superb as joyful masculinity ;
Betty Hutton as joyful femininity ; Louis
Armstrong, that instinctive musician, is
superb with voice and trumpet. Bally-
hoo can create quick-burning meteorites ;
only excellence can maintain stars.
It is important that Australian TV
should throw up a few people who can
do, and are encouraged to continue to
do, things superbly. Stars set high
standards. And there is a more immedi-
ate reason for taking the stand that
home-fired stars are really necessary: an
economic reason. One star or a select
few of the first magnitude would bring
Some stability to the live-production
departments of the stations.
Stars make audiences, audiences make
sales, sales make profits. Profits in
production departments to date have
been good in parts, tainted in parts. TV
managements tend to bear live produc-
tion as an obligation. One show may
pay, another flop. Profits, when they
come, are out of proportion to resources
employed and ulcers bred.
Now wave a wand and give a star to
the production manager. He will build
a show and sell it in several States over
good long seasons. His department is out
of the hazard class. The managing direc-
tor will smile at him. Money will be
available for more shows made from
more intensive work. To continue the
over-simplifying dream, a stabilised, con-
fident electronic show-business might be
constructed on a platform of stars.
The question is still begged—how to
find, discover, fashion, groom or some-
how create a star? Obviously nobody
knows the synthetic answer. It’s a good
wager that Australian TV’s first real
billboard toppers won’t come from any
home-made recipe or executive con-
ference formula. The mothers who urge
their young, the producers who try to
tailor their artists—both are likely to
win minor placings at best.
The proposition is so full of incalcul-
ables that the first one up may well be a
wrinkled gnome with a false nose and
funny hat from the RSL club circuit, a


gnome with a deep conviction that people
are ridiculous. Or a teenager from the
upper crust with an outrageous, unreason-
able desire to sing for the joy of it.
If our national gods are generous,
somewhere in Australia must now walk
a few people with the narcissism and
exhibitionism of the show personality
balanced against talent and resolve to
work superbly. Should you see one of
these rarities, sell your blue chip shares
and invest in him. TV has a space for
stars now.
HARRY ROBINSON
FOR THE CONSUMER
ON CREATING A DEMAND
T have always had an instinctive distrust
-*• for those sensible-sounding sugges-
tions usually offered by writers to the
letter-columns of the daily newspapers,
because said suggestions, though tinselled
by directness and the environs of the
paper in which they appear, are so rarely
practicable. Nevertheless, I usually try
to discover whether they are practicable.
Take, for instance, Mr Pinnit, who ha;
just returned to Australia from the Hima-
layas, who writes to say that Australians
should combat the fly menace by using a
plastic fly-flap with a grid-shaped far end,
such as he used when ridding his particu-
lar patch of Himalaya from the curse of
fly (180 corpses, and unmangled at that,
in one afternoon, says Mr Pinnit).
Well, yes, it sounds good. If you are
young enough, and guillible enough, you
may even become enthusiastic. But just
wait until you plod, and plod, and order,
and order, in your search for that plastic
fly-flap with a grid-shaped far end. You
will finish up with several dozen plastic
fly-swats (mostly blue) that you couldn’t
bear to refuse because the saleswoman
said they were what you were wanting ;
plus the bucket-shaped wire one you
couldn’t resist because your mother had
one when you were a small child, plus
the cans of other-type fly-spray that
might work because the old brand
doesn’t, but you still haven’t got a plastic
fly-flap with a grid-shaped far end.
What’s worse, the far end of your
housekeeping allowance has shrunk into
an exclamation mark. And then you
realise what you should have first
realised: Mr Pinnit possesses (and pro-
bably under glass, at that) the only
plastic fly-flap with a grid-like far end in
all Australia. Pitch your imagination just
a quarter-inch farther, by which feat you
will be in tune with that of Pinnit’s, and
see the Pinnit factory springing up which
will manufacture thousands and thous-
ands of plastic fly-flaps with grid-like far
ends. You will begin to detest Pinnit
because you have been sucker enough to
do your share in creating a demand. See
how cunning that Pinnit really is?
Meanwhile, you just keep on spattering
fly carcases on shiny walls and wish you
didn’t keep a dog or, alternatively, that
the dog you keep didn’t keep on digging
up bones. That Pinnit fellow probably
doesn’t keep dogs, anyway. I mean, how
could he when he goes around advocating
the destruction of the poor fly? When
you get down to bedrock, surely flies
are God's living creatures?
And were you really impressed by the
fact that Pinnit so casually threw in? The
fact that he’d been flitting around the
Himalayas with a plastic fly-flap? What
was he doing in the Himalayas anyway?
A fly-survey? If he were not doing a
fly-survey, why couldn’t he say so?
And wasn't there something more
interesting to do in the Himalayas than
pass one whole afternoon totting up
fly corpses? Was he too lazy to climb
the mountains that abound? Or pick the
little flowers that probably grow on the
lower slopes of the mountains? Or some-
thing?
I certainly didn’t believe that 180
business. Or, well, maybe if Pinnit were
directing the operations of little Indian
boys by lolling under a canopy of mos-
quito-net and sipping long, cold, gin kick-
“Your name please, Madam.”
me-ons, maybe then he could honestly
pretend to 180 fly corpses. But who
wouldn't, after an afternoon of long,
cold, gin kick-me-ons?
I am simply amazed, that’s all, that the
Pinnit saga finished so modestly with
a mere 180. If I were Pinnit, now, 1
would have achieved at least several
thousand corpses. Still, he’s been so
subtle all the way through: minimising
difficulties, exaggerating truth, and
puffing out his chest.
Personally, I never did believe in child
slavery.
MARIE BEARE
ABORIGINALITIES
A PARADISE NO MORE
\ s recently as ten years ago the
Northern Territory was a hunts-
man’s paradise. Coastal estuaries and
even the inland lagoons and billabongs
teemed with barramundi and other fish.
Geese, buffalo, crocodiles and wild pig
abounded through a huge area of the
Top End from the Western Australian
border to the Gulf country.
Darwin residents could shoot all the
game they wanted within ten miles of
town —often without leaving their cars.
Well, Australia has had other wild-
life paradises and seldom have they sur-
vived for long the activities of earth's
most destructive animal —man. The
Northern Territory was no exception.
Today the crocodile has been shot out
of all the nearer creeks. The only place
where you’ll find him in anything like
his old numbers is on the aboriginal
reserves —mainly along the Arnhem Land
coast.
The buffalo is a protected animal now.
Even the barramundi’s numbers are thin-
ning at an alarming rate. But whatever
happened to other wild life the Terri-
torian reckoned he’d always have the
magpie goose. This bird lived in the
Top End in such numbers that its liking
for grain was a major cause of the
collapse of the rice scheme at Humpty
Doo.
Darwinites used to speak of the
“millions of geese” and how “you
couldn’t shoot them out in a lifetime.
The facts have proved different.
Government bird expert Don Tulloch
now estimates their numbers at around
400,000. The species does not adapt to


changing conditions and at the moment
is decreasing rapidly.
Casualties among the eggs, attributed
[ to snakes and other causes, are so heavy
that even when left alone the geese barely
maintain their numbers. Under these
conditions shooting has taken tremendous
toll. The hunters go out almost every
time there’s a barbecue in Darwin, often
returning with a bag of 50 or so birds
apiece.
The trend has been accentuated
recently by the worst drought for
nearly ten years. On the deserted
paddy-fields at Humpty Doo today you
won’t find a tenth of the geese that were
there a few years back. In some other
areas they have disappeared altogether.
The Government has now acted to
protect one of Australia’s finest game
birds with a ban on shooting from
December 1 to June 1 each year—cover-
ing the vital breeding months of the wet
season. Goose-lovers—and that includes
all Territorians with a taste for fowl—
-1 hope the ban has not come too late.
Even more serious, perhaps, is the
plight of the Top End's beloved barra-
mundi. Not many seasons back they
were so numerous old-timers tell of
having them literally jump into fishing-
boats.
Spearing “barras” in shallow water as
the plains dried up after the monsoon
was a popular sport with whites and
blacks alike.
Now you could go out every day for
a week and probably not see one. Net-
ting of inland lagoons is banned these
days, but the damage has already been
done. Stretches of water which once
were alive with fish are empty today.
Even in the sea numbers have thinned
drastically. Experts fear the reasons may
be similar to those which threaten the
goose. Barras are defenceless against the
sharks which swarm in and around
Darwin Harbor. Commercial fishing may
have depleted their once-tremendous
numbers to where the species itself is in
danger of extinction.
In Darwin there have been calls for
a scientific study of the barramundi and
its breeding habits so it can be preserved,
both for sport and as an important
money-spinner for the Territory. It
would be a tragedy if what American
gourmet Maurice Dreicer described as
“one of the great fishes of the world”
was to disappear from almost its last
refuge.
KEITH WILLEY
JAZZ
PEANUT BUTTER JAM
ptoPLE of the younger generation
possibly owe their knowledge of
local —that is, Melbourne —jazz to one
man: Bob Clemens, music-shop prop-
rietor and promoter, in conjunction with
Frank Johnson, of “Downbeat” concerts.
The concerts were instituted 11 years ago
when local jazz was at the height of its
popularity with the general public and
Frank was being hailed in the daily Press
as “The King of Jazz.” (I can remember
knocking myself out over his playing at
the tender age of 12!) Although audi-
ences began to dwindle round 1954, Bob
kept the concerts going and over the
years has possibly done more for jazz
here than any other single individual.
His latest contribution to this city’s jazz
life is Downbeat Jazz Club, conducted in
a large, well-shaped room above his new
shop in Russel Street.
It has several advantages over clubs
® outer suburbs, even apart from its
central position: equipped with a
kitchen, it can provide supper services
°f a much more substantial nature than
•he usual coffee and soft drinks;
•he dance-floor, though small, is properly
sanded ; and there are plenty of chairs
for those who just like to prop up a wall
and listen. When final arrangements are
made, the club will feature a different
band every night, catering to all tastes
from very mouldie to very modern.
The night I first saw was billed as
a jam session after a concert I had been
unable to attend. Perhaps because most
musicians had played themselves out at
the concert, this jam was more like pea-
nut butter, though I must admit to hear-
ing some good and extremely tasteful
drumming from Roger Bodey, up for
the night from Geelong, and some
delightful “eupho-misms” from this city’s
leading eumphonium-ist (is that possibly
right?), the inimitable Pixie. Other
players, like Dave Rankin, Maurey
Garbutt and Gavin Gow, have, I seem
to recall, been known to play better. But
not to worry, the idea of having public
jam sessions is an extremely good one,
as concerts or dances seem to produce in
many musos a sort of defensive reliance
on past achievements or mere technique
which prohibits the inventive impro-
visation normally revealed at “in” func-
tions and private parties. If the club’s
jam sessions can reproduce the atmos-
phere of a private function in the way
Jazz Centre 44 under Horst Liepolt did,
then the possibility of more and more
Melbourne youngsters getting “the
message” is increased, and jazz— not
just a few musicians—benefits in the
long run.
Another very good point about
Clemens’s approach to the music is that
he eschews what have been called “fac-
tional interests” and presents a broad jazz
front for the music-lover to choose from.
This again helps jazz as a whole, not
just those who have decided that one
style of playing, chosen who knows why
(lest it be technical limitation) from the
very much larger sweep of jazz history,
should be made into a Jazz Establishment
and all else banished to the realms of
anarchy or eccentricity. If a series of
jam sessions giving jam and not peanut
butter can then be introduced, the club
will be providing a service to jazz as well
as its members.
ADRIAN RAWLINS
“Ever noticed the peculiar slant of their eyes ?”


THEATRE
THESE ARE MY SUNSHINE
Little Mary Sunshine. Rick Besoyan.
Palace Theatre. Sydney.
Oliver! Lionel Bart. Theatre Royal.
Sydney.
IT was a nice coincidence this week that
just as “Little Mary Sunshine” opened
and took us on a warm journey back to
the cloudlands of “New Moon”, “Rose
Marie”, and “Maid of the Mountains”,
so “Oliver!” came —a piece of extreme
brilliance in the new musical genre.
“Oliver!” pointed up the relevance of
“Little Mary Sunshine” ; it showed us how
irrevocable are the steps forward made by
the musical in the past twenty years or
so.
The older musicals shared with most
operas the notion that what mattered
most was the big musical number —the
aria or the chorus song —and that strength
of story, richness of character and drama-
tic consistency were of minor or no
importance. In the best of these older
works, the big numbers had enough tune
and vivacity to carry one along for a
time, but they never commanded the
impact and attention-value of the great
plays. Musicals were not considered to
be properly legitimate.
What has brought the modern musical
to its current artistic and economic
eminence is simply the search for truth in
the undertakings of the stage. Drama
first felt this breeze, the winds of change
towards simple statements that touched
the heart and convinced the minds, with
Ibsen and Strindberg. Now the same
impulses that urged them and Wedekind
and Toller and O’Neill have stirred the
popular musical theatre also.
Without any firm theoretical base,
musicals have nevertheless moved surely
to stories that provide the correct motiva-
tions for singing and dancing. Song
and dance are not imposed as arbitrary
units of an entertainment ; they grow
organically from the dramatic turns and
needs of the story.
All men have moments when only song
will express what they feel, or when only
dance will fill the need for self-expression.
The modern musical has come to recog-
nise this, and its triumphs are due to the
simple fact that the audience can say to
itself: “Yes, here I would burst into
song. Here I would have to dance.” The
truly song-like and dance-like parts of
modern city folk are often starved—but
they wake up quickly when the musical
calls properly to them.
“Little Mary Sunshine” looks back
with great affection and friendly mockery
on the older musicals, their foibles and
lack of realism. The simple-minded
heroine, so vacuous and virtuous; the
hero who must sing out his song of
rescue before he rescues the girl of his
dreams —the repetitious songs, the oppor-
tunities for the leads to smile and steal
scenes ... all these point up the sorry fact
that the old school was essentially
designed for exhibitionists.
But the selfish old days now have a
nostalgia about them ; the stylised pos-
tures have a patina, the costumes have
become antiques. This is what “Little
Mary Sunshine” plays on so well . . .
memories. Memories of countless bad
musicals by countless companies.
The show has great charm and inno-
cence, a night of pure fun. Miss
Geraldine Morrow, in the name role,
shows that she is one of our very promis-
ing young personalities. With advantage,
she could take her audience into her
trust a little more, show them that she
too, is laughing at her role. Mr Myron
Natwick, the hero, is pure delight. He
has rolled into one gloriously sustained
legpull all the ham musical stars and
matinee idol mannerisms he has ever
observed. “Little Mary Sunshine”, then,
is one to be seen —save it for the first
nostalgic mood that comes.
After hearing of so many English
musicals that “here at last is a British
musical to challenge America’s best” —
and having to stomach “Salad Days”, or
“The Boy Friend”, anyone can be par-
doned for having a slight bias against
the musical product that comes from the
UK.
Thankfully, Lionel Bart’s “Oliver!”,
stands up as a remarkable musical by any
standard. It has the strong Dickens
story, fetching and dramatically right
music, highly unusual casting—children
have to carry much of the show's burden
—light and heavy villians. It has, also,
a superb setting by Susan Kenny, and
a magnificent production by Peter Coe.
Mr Coe’s work, in fact, is the chief
glory of “Oliver!”. For those who can
spare the time to watch the many purely
directorial touches —the way he spills
masses of people on to stage in a second
or two ; the way he builds a scene by
adding figures one by one ; the masterly
uses of stage mechanisms ; the magnifi-
cent groupings that grow naturally and
organically from the relationships of the
characters —the display of directing
talent is dazzling.
Add to this virtuoso work —which
ought to be an inspiration to the Eliza-
bethan Trust to bring a top director here
for a long stay —the beguiling Fagin of
Johnny Lockwood and the strong, moving |
(though over-clean, too tidy, too well-4
dressed) Nancy of Sheila Bradley, with
the remarkable study of animal brutality
that is Mr John Maxim’s Bill Sykes, and
there is enough to satisfy any audience
ten times over.
Singing and ensemble work are way i
ahead of anything seen here, except “West
Side Story”, and there is some expert
work in all manner of minor roles —for
example, some of the falls and specialty
tumbles are of high circus quality. Norm-
ally ready to scruff child actors right off
the stage, I have to say that even faced
with fifteen or sixteen youngsters never
once did my foot itch. ‘Oliver!” provides
just about the best handling of acting!
children we are ever likely to see. It pro-1
vides, as well, just about the best evening
of theatre we are likely to see this decade. (
KEVON KEMP
BODIES BURSTING WITH SOUL
American Dance Theatre. Princess.
Melbourne.
Alvin Ailey’s American Dance
Theatre, sponsored by the Eliza-
bethan Theatre Trust, could manage only
a very short season in Melbourne. It is
a grave misfortune that they could not
stay a very long time. Never, I think,
have we seen such a splendid show.
Dancing must be very good indeed
before it even starts to get across. Most
ballets rely on programme or an expert
audience and bring the whole business
into disrepute. The beauty and
strength of Alvin Ailey’s work serve as
a reminder that bodies and movement
alone, unaided by the romancing of sym-,
bols, can evoke clear and basic ideas—|
ideas of what is natural and beautiful andj
human. Centuries of philosophers, puri-
tans and men of measure have wiped out.
in most of us the pure pleasure of
physical abandon. We even plan copu-1
lation. Apparently it takes races with i
minds purer than ours, though with morej
sullied skins—whom we exclude from i
our so graceful country —to turn the!
physical to the beautiful without setting,
it up as another god on the way. I
In short, the art of Alvin Ailey> |
Carmen de Lavallade, Brother JohUi
Sellars and the rest of this wonderful!
company, rests on their power to use the


Divorce Notice
Matrimonial Causes Act 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES—Jx Divorce
TO KEITH HUGH CAMPBELL late of Sydney and
Burleigh Heads Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE that
MARGUERITE BLANCHE CAMPBELL lias filed a
"etition for Divorce No. 3676 of 1961 on the
pounds of Desertion and Separation. If you wish
!| J defend you may tile an answer in the Divorce
•registry Supreme Court Macquarie Street Sydney
°n or before the 13th April 1962 and obtain a copy
f the Petition and Notice of Petition without charge
r°m MESSRS. A. J. TAYLOR A STATHAM, 27
winter Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
ART COMPETITION
Closing Date 39th April, 1962
Prizes totalling £259
Also Junior Section,
under 21, £5O
To mark the opening of the new
Council Chambers of the
Blue Mountains City Council
For details write to
TOWN CLERK,
Blue Mountains City Council,
Great Western Highway,
Katoomba, N.S.W.
most cultivated resources of the theatre
to evoke the most natural and dignified
responses. Their bodies burst with soul.
Their perfect dancing, their faultless pro-
duction, their stirring music, their simple
but absolutely just effects bring all their
themes to the highest pitch of life and
vigor.
Since their season was so short, and
their programme in any case subject to
nightly change, there is little point here
in mentioning particular parts ; but no
one given the chance should ever miss the
jazz singing of Brother John Sellars, or
the magnificent interpretations of Negro
spirituals. They are the best theatre we
are likely to see for many a day.
BILL HANNAN
PASSING THE TEACUPS
The Bad Samaritan. William Douglas
Home. The Melbourne Little
Theatre.
nrms is a play “on a more serious
theme" by the author of “The
Chiltern Hundreds” and “The Reluctant
Debutante.” Presumably, to avoid
handling two sets, the Little presents it
minus the Prologue and Epilogue which
the author regards as the “pivot” of his
play, and his “twin loves.” (See the
Introduction to his Collected Plays.) One
must register a formal protest against
this cutting of your coat to suit your cloth
—it need only be formal, since the play
is utterly foolish in either version.
One of the two sons of an English
dergyman cannot decide between two
girls—neither wants him anyway. Ihe
more “spiritual” of the girls, however,
loves the other son, a budding church-
man. She loves him so much that she
frightens him into becoming a Catholic
priest. This leaves her, ana the clergy-
man father, with quite a problem, but it
is all well within Mr Home’s powers.
Everything ends happily for everyone in
a beneficent blaze of technique.
Throughout the play the characters
explain themselves and each other end-
lessly to the audience. Everything is
neatly expressed and fatuously conceived.
‘‘Father isn't steel, you see, he’s clay.’’
‘‘Where I’m only lovely on the surface,
she has inner beauty.” The nearest these
silly people come to life is that, if they
used the American idiom, they might be
mistaken for escapees from a Feiffer
cartoon.
The performance is a good one. Peter
Adams, as the elder son, does the only
sensible thing, and plays for laughs.
Penelope Shelton, as the “physical” girl,
and Carl Bleazby as the father, carry as
much conviction as anyone could, and
occasionally achieve a genuine emotional
effect. The others do the best they can
with their preposterous parts, and David
Reid's production ensures that the tea-
cups are passed round satisfactorily.
One regrets the waste of resources.
JAMES MURPHY
FILM
BRILLIANT, BUT...?
The Hustler. Regent. Sydney.
is a sordid but brilliant film that
leaves a nasty taste in one’s mouth.
There are so many buts ... it is tragic,
hut not quite tragedy ; for nothing is
jesolved through violence and death when
‘they occur as climaxes to a seedy episode
in the life of a skillful but stupid young
man. Yet it is not melodrama either, but
something akin to it, in the clever use
of dead-end language, symbolism and
scenery, which do not achieve audience
involvement, but leave one always on the
outside looking in. The direction (Robert
Rossen) and the black-and-white photo-
graphy are first-rate, but they are tours
de force rather than art ; so that one
consciously admires the skill shown,
instead of being carried away by it.
Paul Newman acts splendidly, but acts
a loutish role that offers small scope for
dramatic development. He is devious
but shallow, and scarcely alters from
within, despite a last-minute conversion
triggered off by fear rather than under-
standing. Oddly enough, his supporting
actors, Jackie Gleason and George C.
Scott, are every bit as good ; and Piper
“Wars always make me feel
uncomfortable .”
Laurie perhaps even better. But even
they make the film good of its kind rather
than good. The trouble with it is that
it is too close to reporting, with inade-
quate comment. Above all, it is a slick
film but not good entertainment. There
is much to admire, but nothing to enjoy,
except technical excellences.
Of the technical excellences, snooker
and billiards come even before the direc-
tion, photography and acting. You prob-
ably won’t like this film ; but if you have
a passion for billiards you will.
ANTON VOGT


ART
WHERE EGGHEADS PEEP OUT
Annandale Imitation Realists. Museum
of Modern Art. Melbourne.
'T'he artfully assembled junk-heap of
the Annandale Imitation Realists
might yield a few curious scraps to keen
scavengers. There is some wit among
the dross, and a few patches of good-
natured, bumptious satire ; but on the
whole it’s a fizzer. No doubt there is a
great deal of junk lying around under
our noses by the time we’ve thrown out
the plastics, the girlie magazines and the
soap advertisements, but where’s the
point in gaily stockpiling it at two bob
a head entrance? Whatever spirit may
stalk the wastes of the Annandale tip, it
has not been successfully canned and
transported overland, ip spite of the won-
drous aid of PVA glue.
The funniest derelict you'll find is an
egg carton with two little eggheads peep-
ing out. The rest is merely unfunny,
which is a serious defect in a show that
must set out to entertain for want of
any other pretensions. Perhaps its aim-
lessness, its implicit suggestion that these
objects are the free and untrammelled
expression of the humble but acute
pleasure three young men take in their
poor surroundings, perhaps all that rot
will appeal to those dedicate*.! to the
proposition that Art is Inexplicable, just
as it is an apparent source of pride to
its creators ; but one may also reason-
ably expect more, even within the con-
vention. It is no funnier than a bad
abstract, though it has the redeeming
virtue of being rather less ugly.
At best the show might pass as an
inoffensive, good-humored cavort in the
scrap-heap, were it not that sometimes
the stench of the heap wafts through, too.
We might have been spared it, without
undue loss to art.
BILL HANNAN
SPATTERING AND SCATTERING
Ralph Balson. David Jones’ Art
Gallery. Sydney.
r T~'His exhibition of paintings in mixed
mediums by Ralph Balson is full of
restless experiment, a searching for an
ever-receding goal which may be un-
attainable. Remarkable about it all is
his youthful urge to plunge headlong
into new avenues, following the wayward
impulses of the moment. With such a
long history of pioneer abstract painting
behind him we might expect a .lowing
up ; but the sparks still fly, the sense of
adventure remains.
Essentially, the preoccupations here
are with paint, its density, opacity,
fluidity, its multifarious qualities ; paint
spattered, scattered, dribbled, crushed and
knifed into unexpected shapes which may
or may not suggest an image. At their
best, paintings like these do things barely
possible with traditional means ; namely,
all those varied weird and intricate effects
arrived at by chance or nature, depending
on one’s interpretations of the act of
painting. In this exhibition chance is
tempered with a guiding hand and a cer-
tain amount of calculation. There is not
the richness of the kind of Pollacks which
inspired a few of Balson’s works. On
the other hand, the expansion or dis-
integration of the most interesting pictures
is wholly in keeping with the mood of
our time, providing a sort of science-
fiction commentary on it.
Some of these spatters look very much
like models of organic molecules from a
biochemist's laboratory, others resemble
photographs of the universe, the light
traces of atomic particles or microscopic
slides of bacteria or fungi—all sub-
human images of current coin in the
modern interpretation of the material
world. For this reason, perhaps, Balson
has substituted numbers for titles, realis-
ing people will bring a fund of associa-
tions to focus on his paintings.
An expansive burst of whites in num-
ber 15 enables one to feel the overall
marbling as a slow explosion ; in others
along the same line this is often too
static. Number 32's fascinating moss-like
curtains of grey are full of the delicate
patterns of some found object ; a stone,
perhaps, whose original fluidity is frozen
hard yet revealed in its grain. Likewise,
number 33 necessitates a close look to
follow the thread-like involvements of
color few hands could imitate with a
brush. Number 25 evokes an image
of convulsed ocean depths ; number 17, a
rough, deep-sea cave.
Balson’s recent success in Paris has no
doubt contributed to this uneven show,
but we can be assured of one thing—his
next will be equally vital.
J. HENSHAW
IMAGINATION
William Peascod. Johnstone Gallery.
Brisbane.
At his first exhibition in Brisbane Wil-
liam Peascod shows 30 works ; all
but four or five are abstracts, most in
oils, a few in a plastic kind of fine
cement. The four or five very small
conventional landscapes indicate that he
is a good artist and a sincere one. The
difficulty is that the language of abstract
art is very restricted, in a state of ragged
poverty, and its idioms are few and
crude. The result is loss of individuality ;
the painter repeats himself to the point
of monotony and all imitate each other.
I have been told by an abstract painter
that the idea was to let external impres-
sions incubate in the subconscious from
which they erupt transmuted into areas
of paint. On the “tot homines quot
sententiae” principle, abstract art language
should be as richly luxuriant as James
Joyce’s English, but identical designs are
often common to many artists under
different labels. Peascod has “Day of
the Crucifixion”: to me it is meaningless
though a nice splash of color, but I have
seen an almost exactly similar design
called “Suburban Pastoral” which sug-
gests shepherds and shepherdesses doing
a passacaglia on the village green at, say,
Footscray. It is a very common abstract
idiom. When we think of the vast range
of expression enjoyed by Poussin and
the individuality of Goya, abstraction
by comparison is jejune and sterile.
Only the genius of Braque saved him
permanent stultification after his long,
fruitless efforts on the fringe of cubism ;
the same could happen here, but we must
face the fact that abstraction is now the
vogue and, what is more, it pays.
As abstraction, Peascod’s work is as
good as any I have seen and much better
than a lot of it; it is better controlled and
often leaves broad hints of reality. One
picture, “Erosion and Diggings (1),” is
basically a conventional view of an open-
cut mine. The splashes of black at the
bottom centre are, to me, out of place, but
seem apparently essential abstract jargon.
A few exhibits, “Dream Sequence, No.
1,” for example, are done in a dark brown
plastic cement substance of heavy incrus-
tations in very high relief. It seems to
me uncontrolled and slapdash technically
and is not at all attractive. One mon-
strosity is a collage job of huge chunks
of wood, very dark brown, glued on to
the canvas. It is called “Death of a
Wombat,” but I cannot conceive why.
Peascod is modest; he attempts noth-
ing obviously beyond him and his color
is always pleasant, smooth and, where
necessary, harmonious. He could be a
good artist in a medium better suited to
an active imagination requiring scope.
J. V. DUHIG


BOOKHUNTER
(< D/’ Uox G.1’.0., S.vdupy.
A. service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only If successful.
THE RED PAGE
BRAVE OLD WORLD
By IAN CAMPBELL
DOUGLAS
JAY
iir—
SOCIALISM
IN THE
NEW
SOCIETY
'T'wo strands of thought can be clearly
A distinguished in the British Labo
party: those who believe its future lie
in the here-and-now, and those who pu
their faith in the hereafter. The firs
emphasise “practical” measures such as
planning, controls, and to a lesser exten
taxation. The second hold steadfastly
to “doctrinaire’’ nationalisation and the
creation of an economy in which the
public sector is dominant. The here-and-
nows take for granted a regular swing
of the electoral pendulum and are
geared to providing an alternative Gov-
ernment ; the hereafters reject the
pendulum theory and concentrate instead
on offering "effective” opposition to all—
even the most popular—measures of a
Tory Government.
One section of the here-and-nows has
been dubbed the “jay-walkers” in honor
of its best-known exponent, the member
for Battersea North, Douglas Jay. In
“Socialism in the New Society,” * Jay con-
tends that the Labor debacle at the 1959
General Election was due to an unfavor-
able public image of the party created
on the one hand by “corrupting” influ-
ences among the Press, commercial tele-
vision and advertising, and on the other
bv dissension within the party and the
stubborn refusal of Labor’s hereafters
to drop the "discredited” policies of
widespread nationalisation and a State
monopoly of industry and trade.
He goes on to present a detailed ex-
position of the revisionist, or here-and-
now case. Labor set out to transform
society in 1945-51 and succeeded so well
that it has now to transform itself. First,
two “Marxist fallacies” must be
scrapped: "the idea that private enter-
prise capitalism will be rocked by the
trade cycle into collapse” and “the belief
that socialism consists in turning the
whole of industry and trade into a
State monopoly.” Where Marx was con-
cerned with the source rather
than the size of incomes, to Jay “the
flaw in the [present] system of income
and property .. . lies in their size and
distribution, not neatly in their source
and type.” Redistribution can best be
effected through government controls and
taxation. Here the author deftly trans-
poses the old argument of revolutionary
against revisionist. ’Progressive taxa
tion can transform society, while transfer
of ownership merely tinkers with propertc
claims.” A transfer to public owner-
ship is only one means of redistributing
incomes and resources —and not the most
important at that. Finally, to ensure
that the Labor party presents a more
favorable image to the electors, Jay
suggests that its relationship with the
trade unions (which include a surprise-
ingly strong contingent of hereafters) must
be such as to involve “consultation but
not subservience” ; it must “ensure that
political decisions are taken, and are
seen to be taken, by the political party.”
In chapter five, Jay offers an outline
and critique of the arguments of Labor’s
hereafters who, like Richard Crossman.
continue to predict the collapse of capital-
ist economies as a result of internal
contradictions. To Crossman, it seems
that our immediate prosperity is arti-
ficially induced and depends on the rapid
obsolescence of consumer goods: a
process which involves not only the
“waste” of resources, but also a “mis-
guided” allocation of priorities. Vital
public services are being skimped and
injustices perpetrated on less powerful
groups such as the aged, widows and
children. In contrast, “the planned
socialist economy, as exemplified in the
communist States, is proving its capacit
to outpace and overtake the wealthy anc
comfortable Western economies.” Thi
then, says Jay, is the ‘‘creeping crisis o
the 1960 s and 19705’ for which Crossmar
asks the Labor party to “hold itself in
reserve (presumably till 1980, if not 1984)
refusing in any way to come to terms
with the affluent society.” Even if there
were such a crisis, there is no assurance
that these tactics would enable Labor to
become the Government. Moreover
questions of resources and priorities will
be resolved, not by widespread public
ownership, but by increased governmental
planning and more effective redistribu-
tion of incomes and property.
"JThe here-and-nows and the hereafters
differ not only about the extent of
public ownership that is desirable, but
also about the role of the Labor party
while in opposition. To Jay, “the prime
duty of any party in opposition in a
democracy is to offer the public a prac-
tical alternative Government ” Whereas
to Crossman, “the idea of the Opposition
as ‘the Alternative Government’ is a rela-
tively new growth in the Labor party,”
and one that cuts across his own concep-
tion of an Opposition which has “won
the confidence of the voters by opposing
the Government, even when it was popu-
lar, and putting forward its own radical
remedies [even] when they were ridiculed
by the Establishment.”
The clash reveals an inherent contradic-
tion in two, at least, of the functions of
a parliamentary Opposition: criticism of
the Government, and the provision of an
alternative Government. Attacking the
Government may, in certain circum-
stances (e.g. when it is popular), mean
jeopardising a party’s stature as the alter-
native Government. Conversely, the
desire to create a favorable electoral
image may, from one point of view,
detract from a party’s effectiveness as a
critic of Government policy.
The least satisfactory sections ot Jay’s
book are those dealing with “War and
Peace” and “Society and Politics.” The
first offers gratuitous advice on such
questions as how to disarm, to create a
strong world government, to build an
international army, and to overcome the
Soviet veto in the Security Council. The
second purports, among other things, to
give an account of the impact of mass
media on British “values.” Under the
heading “Saving the Press”, the author
carries the old Tory-monopoly-conspiracy
view of the Press to fantastic extremes.
* Socialism in the New Society. Doug-
las Jay. Longmans. Green. 495. 9c!


So “subtle and insidious” is its political
power that “there have perhaps been
only two fair General Elections held m
British history since 1914: that of 1929,
when the Beaverbrook and Rothermere
interests were quarrelling with Mr Bald-
win, and the Tory Press and party
nullified one another, and that of 1945,
when party propaganda in the Press had
been muted for six years all but a few
weeks.” Needless to say, both these
elections returned Labor Governments.
“It is hard to resist the inference that
these two results represent the way the
British Electorate would normally vote
if Press propaganda were fairly distri-
buted.”
“Socialism in the New Society" remains,
nevertheless, a useful, readable presenta-
tion of the case for revisionism. That
such a book was written at all invites
comparison with the Australian scene,
where no printed justification of here-
and-now-ism has apparently been
thought necessary probably because
Australian Labor, unlike its British
counterpart, is very much in the camp of
the here-and-nows. Hereafters are
scarce, and are no more precious on that
account (vide the precarious party careers
of politicans such as Anstey and Black-
burn). Innumerable observers since Bryce
have remarked on the empirical, bread-
and-butter pre-occupation of Australian
parties: an empiricism that is
not confined to their parlia-
mentary wings. Trade unions,
employers' organisations and the party
machines are equally concerned w'ith
immediate benefits. The contrast with
Britain seems to be a consequence of
three factors: the ready acceptance by
many sections of Australian society of
State intervention in the economy —and
the anticipation of benefits to be derived
from such intervention ; the federal
nature of Australian politics—and the
opportunism associated with rapidly
alternating State and Federal elections ;
and the alleged absence in Australia of
a major continuing class struggle—or its
containment by the creation of systems of
arbitration.
Michael Shanks's “The Stagnant
Society” * seems to follow the pattern of
other “What’s Wrong With” books
currently appearing in a Penguin series.
A cover-blurb summarises the contents
in this equation: Class Barriers plus
Traditional Values equals Stagnant
Society. The author shows an
inextinguishable zeal for some-
what misguided reforms. He plain-
tively asks “Why won't our workers work
harder?” And is clearly upset to find
that “the biggest single restrictive practice
in British industry today is almost cer-
tainly the tea-break, and the general
reluctance of workers to speed up the
pace of work.'’ When he finds it incom-
prehensible that the pattern of over-
lapping trade union membership and
organisation “is neither tidy nor a very
efficient one” one is sorely tempted to
ask “What is wrong with Mr Shanks?”
* The Stagnant Society. Michael
Shanks. Penguin Special. ss. 6d.
WHAT'S IN A NAME?
Born to Fly. Nancy Bird. Angus and
Robertson. 255.
Tn this age of jets and supersonic speeds
A we forget that aviation thirty years ago
Was still in the pioneering stages. The
first passenger flight in Australia was
from Sydney to Melbourne in 1920 ;
Qantas were operating in Queensland in
the same year and Western Australian
Airways opened up in 1921. Mascot was
a nondescript place called the Bullock
Paddock, planes were crude affairs with
open cockpits and struts, flying aids were
almost non-existent. This was the kind of
life Nancy Bird took up. At the age of
17 she went for her first flying lesson.
The instructor was Charles Kingsford-
Smith. The year was 1933.
“Born To Fly'’ is her autobiography.
It tells of her barnstorming for joy-rides,
her ambulance work for the sick and
charter flights made in the outback. It
conveys, too, something of the excitement
of those early years, the chronic shortage
of cash, the public apathy, the hazards
of air travel. Hard and precarious as the
life was. it attracted nonetheless a distin-
guished group of people —Hudson Fysh,
P. G. Taylor, Jim Mollison —the list is
long and impressive. And the toll was
heavy: The Southern Cloud went down
in the Snowy Mountains in 1931, Ulm
and Littlejohn lost their lives in the
Pacific. Smithy and Pethybridge lost
theirs off Burma in 1935, Broadbent lost
his off Lisbon in 1958.
It is a lively account with plenty of
interesting snippets —Wing-Commander
Wackett, for example, built his private
aircraft, the Codock (the boys at Mascot
gave it another name), at Cockatoo Dock
on Sydney Harbor and brought it ashore
in a punt. The police would not let him
take its sixty-foot wing through the
streets until after midnight so the final
assembly of the aircraft was made at
Mascot at three o'clock in the morning.
The pick of the anecdotes, an old chest-
nut 1 suppose, is the one where after a
very bumpy trip Nancy Bird's pas-
sengers, a grazier and an abo stockman,
got out. The grazier asked Jacky if he
was glad to be back on terra firma. ‘“Yes,
Boss, the more firma the less terra.”
DOUGLAS TERRY
ERN MALLEY'S GHOST
Verse in Australia, 1961. Selected by
Robert Clark. Geoffrey Dutton. Max
Harris and lan Mudie. Australian
Letters. 17s. 6d.
Thirds, beasts and landscapes fill antho-
** logies of Australian poetry. Much
of the poetry is competently written,
although its spiritual relationships are
mostly with the Georgians and some of
the more trite sentiments and language
of the 19th century.
Australian poetry is deceptive because
there is so much of it being published in
anthologies and magazines. It looks
modern since most of the poets have
been able to master a conversational tone
that appears contemporary enough.
However, a close look will soon reveal
that the language, images, forms and
rhythms are hackneyed and dull. Adjec-
tives and verbs are generally as unexcit-
ing as they can be.
The number of poets in this country
who have progressively experimented
with their art is very small. Kenneth
Slessor, James McAuley and A. D. Hope
come immediately to mind.
Consequently, editors of anthologies
who want to present a variety of poetry
showing developments in Australia must
be confronted with considerable pro-
blems. For me. the “Verse in Australia' 1
anthologies always look better at first
glance than they do after I have studied
them.
Though birds, beasts and landscapes
dominate “Verse in Australia 1961,”
there are some compensations, and not
all of the “best'" poems of 1961 are dull.
A.D. Hope is featured with “The Coasts
of Cerigo”, and there is a very good poem
by T. H. Jones—“ Lucky Jonah”—which
attempts much more than most of the
poems in the collection:
“But I can hear ships’ bells
Strike the melancholy sound
Of dead men's names, of sunk ships]
names.
The lullaby and catalogue of the
drowned.”
Jessica Aldridge has the first poem in'
the anthology, and is able to achieve!
genuine beauty in a landscape piece


Estab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Mapping, Banking and Commercial
institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
O'SUI.I.IVA.V
PTYLTD
Bpyg yf"
tr a orv «**«aiw ark
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
Systems a office equipment
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
which finds a level beyond the ordinary
... though even here there are a few
stereotyped phrases. Rosemary Dobson
in her “Ghost Town: New England”,
i writes gracefully and with power, par-
ticularly in the first half of the poem.
There are also good poems by I. R.
Rowland and Chris Wallace-Crabbe ; and
a highly competent bird poem by
Douglas Stewart, which has a delightful
and inevitable ending:
“So when one soft grey feather flutters
down
I pick it up before cold time can take it
Or lose it where the fallen leaves lie
brown,
And put it, with this poem, in my
pocket.”
If is always easy to advise after the
event, but surely the editors could find
more balance than is presented in the
1961 edition. The ghost of Ern Malley
hangs over all experiment in this country
(he even influences Adelaide—as he does
the Jindyworobak spectre!) and prevents
poets, it seems, from trying exciting,
fresh poetic methods. But regardless of
this, it should be possible to obtain more
contrast within the limits of reasonably
competent, conventional verse.
Though “Verse in Australia 1961” is
less like a "we are all mates together”
collection than previous years, it is
hoped that the editors can wring more
variety out of 1962.
R. A. SIMPSON
THE PASSING OF THE G.A.N.
Henry Handel Richardson. Vincent
Buckley. Australian Writers and
Their Work. Lansdowne Press.
Bs. 6d.
,'The non-Australian approaches criti-
' cism of Henry Handel Richardson
with diffidence: it is plain that she
occupies a special place in the develop-
,ment of the Australian novel, and per-
haps an even more significant one in
that of Australian literary criticism. “The
Fortunes of Richard Mahony,” Mr Buck-
ley suggests, is historically important as
/'the first ambitious and conscious attempt
to capture that legendary beast, the
Great Australian Novel.” In retrospect,
it is remarkable not so much that it
gained this position but that it kept it
’ so long, in the face of such varied
achievements as those of Richardson's
neglected contemporary, William Hay,
or of today's Patrick White and Martin
Boyd, to look no further.
Such a situation presents embarrassing
'.difficulties to a critic, and Mr Buckley
has carried out a necessary task of partial
demolition and rearrangement with a
helpful gentleness as well as clear-
sightedness. Perhaps too much so in so
brief a study: some historical and bio-
graphical shadow-boxing is noticeable,
jSo that “Maurice Guest” gets eight pages,
and even “The Young Cosima” four,
as against four for “The Getting of
Wisdom.” distinguished by Mr Buckley
(together with “Ultima Thule”) as Rich-
ardson's best achievement. Yet Mr Buck-
ley cuts down “Maurice Guest” to some-
what less than size: right as he is about
( he general fakeness of its values, it
Can be defended on historical grounds
as a very full and accurate rendition of
the fake values (art as super-morality)
w hich did exercise many very intelligent
People for long enough.
Mr Buckley's study, inevitably, if not
wholly rightly, entres round discussion
of the “Mahony” trilogy ; and he is
surety right in distinguishing “Australia
Felix as flawed by “a dutiful determina-
tion to provide all the evidence,” and
“The Way Home” as “oddly and un-
discriminatingly detailed,” while con-
ceding the function of at least the former
as historical rendition and its inter-
mittent “Dickensian” vitality. (It might
be added that the attractive dramatic
raciness of Tilly's presentation, for in-
stance, lacks an essential Dickensian
dimension : can it be at all distinguished
from Lady Devine's?)
If Mr Buckley, however kindly, dis-
mantles the GAN, he replaces it with
something much more valuable, in
pointing out the intrinsic excellence of
its third book, and of “The Getting of
Wisdom. He might indeed have gone
further than he does in suggesting the
essential detachedness of “Ultima Thule”
from the rest of the trilogy ; it gains,
positively and largely, from a separate
reading. And he is strangely hard on
the method of the novel ; the shifting
among viewpoints (Mahony’s, Mary's,
Cuffy's), which he finds “tentative . . .
and often very odd”; whereas this move-
ment is surely always directed, as in the
telling simplicity whereby the internal
presentation of Mahony almost ceases
after his mental collapse.
Mr Buckley's distinguishing of the
essential qualities of this novel, and of
“The Getting of Wisdom,” is admirable:
the positive restriction of aim, the un-
winking fullness and honesty, the fine
detachment. The “warm heart and cold
gaze” discernible in this writing (applied
to Mary as much as to Richard, if it falters
in Cuffy’s case, as Mr Buckley points
out) indeed recall George Eliot. Mr
Buckley s tribute to the purity of con-
cern and presentation of this novel, too,
is admirable. This is surely one of the
most astonishing fictional presentations
of a child, at once wholly unsentimental
and untough ; wholly and warmly frank,
and wholly and refreshingly free of the
smart pseudo-Freudian. It is to be re-
gretted that he dismisses the short
stories of “The End of a Childhood,”
these astonishing apergus, as “hardly
worth critical discussion since ... so
plainly marginal’ to Richardson's
achievement (I think rather that they
demonstrate her strengths in isolated
purity), and so deprives us of a per-
ceptive discussion. Brief though it is,
Mi Buckley s study is a valuable one,
the most perceptive (along with A. D.
Hope’s brief article) and by far the most
substantial in the regrettably exiguous
criticism, chiefly biography-psychology
in any case, that has yet appeared on
this fascinating writer.
ALEXANDER PORTEOUS


COAST TO COAST 1961 62
Contributions are invited for the fif-
teenth issue of “Coast to Coast,” the
anthology of Australian short stories
published every second year. Writers may
submit two or three recently written
stories, which should be in the Editor's
hands not later than 12th March.
Previous publication is no bar to accept-
ance.
The anthology will be edited this year
by Mr Hal Porter, and contributions
should be addressed to the Editor, Coast
to Coast 1961-62, c/o Angus and Robert-
son Ltd, 221 George Street, Sydney.
A DAMNED NEAR THING
Civil War in Russia. David Footman.
Faber and Faber. 555. 6d.
One could, perhaps, ask for a more
explicit title. “Civil War in Russia”
suggests a description rather than a
history, but it covers more ground than
the author has seen fit, reasonably
enough, to discuss in this book. David
Footman has chosen to illustrate the main
course of events with short accounts of
some of the widely differing happenings
which, taken together, made up the Civil
War.
The book is divided into six roughly
equal chapters, following an introduction
which is a survey of the main stages of
the war and in which Footman makes
his first point: that it was, like Waterloo,
“a damned near thing". In a conclusion,
he discusses very briefly the similarities
and differences between the opposing
sides, which he deduces from his study,
and then makes his last important point:
that the comparatively small factor which
may well have tipped the balance in favor
of the Reds was the Bolshevik party
organisation. The six chapters are
accounts, almost independent one of
another, since most of them have been
published earlier in specialist journals,
of stages in the course of the Civil War
which the author has been able to isolate
and study in their bearing on the general
movement of the war. The first describes
the formation and early campaigns of the
Volunteer Army in the South, concern-
trating on its dealings with the local
Cossack authorities on the Don and in
other areas. The second combines the
extraordinary adventures of the Czecho-
slovak Legion with the foundation and
short life of the Samara Peoples’ Gov-
ernment and the Omsk Directorate. The
third discusses, too briefly, the organisa-
tion of the Red Army, taking as a turn-
ing-point the arrival of Trotsky west of
Kazan. The occupation by the Western
Allies of Murmansk and Archangel in
the Far North is described in the fourth
chapter, and the fifth and sixth follow
the careers of two Civil War leaders of
utterly different backgrounds, political
views, and spheres of activity, Kolchak
and Makhno.
Footman’s account of events and
military movements is extremely lucid
throughout. Even in the first two
chapters, writing about developments
which are still relatively obscure to us
because of the incomplete information
available, he keeps up a narrative which
is very easy to follow. The only regret
of the reader may be that the half-
familiar names which follow each other
across the pages of the book seldom take
on the outline of people. Footman
hastens too much to continue his neat
chronicle, and Kornilov, Kaledin,
Krasnov, Denikin and the rest pass along
without the reader's realising what kind
of characters these men had that could
affect the outcome of campaigns. The
chapter on the Far North repairs this
fault, when at least General Ironside's
huge shape comes into focus, but the last
chapters, built though they are around the
figures of Kolchak and Makhno, may
leave the reader with no clearer impres-
sion of Kolchak than of a studious naval
officer who might have been happier with
Jellicoe at Jutland than ruling at Omsk,
or of Makhno than of a modern
Spartacus with an odd predilection for
killing off his prisoners.
A stress, then, on events ; and the result
a good account of the behavior of some
of the groups opposed to the Bolsheviks,
shown through their actions or, often
enough, their failure to act. The Bolshe-
viks themselves remain in the back-
ground, which is perhaps to be regretted,
since it is they, who learnt some of their
methods of dealing with opponents on
the fields of the Civil War, who interest
us more directly.
ROSH IRELAND
TRICOLORED HATRED
The Algerian Problem. Edward Behr.
Hodder and Stoughton. 31s. 9d.
'T'he problem of Algeria becomes
more sinister and complicated
when we learn it is a vicious tri-
angle of Algerian Moslem against not
only France but the European settlers
who have lived in Algeria for over a
century and consider it their only home ;
European against Moslem and also the
Government in Paris ; and the generally
unstable French Government against the
rebels and. later, to her surprise and
embarrassment, against the settlers she
had considered loyal French subjects.
Author Behr gives the impression of a
journalist sitting safe'/ behind his type-
writer, quoting lavishly from other
sources, speeches and statements (all too
often in French) which are now history.
He tells us little of the people of Algeria
themselves, their feelings and hopes.
Occasionally Mr Behr talks with import-
ant figures on both sides, but generally
leaves it to others to carry out the journal-
ist's most fascinating (and often danger-
ous) task, on-the-spot reportage.
We know already that France sent a
paratroop division to stamp out the FLN
and crush the revolt ‘'by any means,” and
that, given a free hand, they perpetrated
the most barbaric cruelties on the
Moslems —resorting to mediaeval tortures
which surpassed the Nazis in brutality
and sadism. But what we don't know is
how the Algerian man-in-the-street (not
in the FLN) felt and reacted to it. One
wonders, too, if Mr Behr ventured into
the fascinating labyrinth of Algiers
the Casbah where the FLN hid and
operated with apparent ease for some
years owing to its maze-like construction
I was in Paris in April, 1961, when
France stood on the brink of civil war
precipitated by the four-day revolt of
Army Generals in their determination to
keep Algiers French, despite de Gaulle’s
efforts to find an amicable solution.
Later I went to Algiers.
My interest had been sufficiently
aroused by this time and 1 made straight
for the Casbah. I spent all my time talk-
ing to Algerians and Europeans. I was
handicapped by lack of French but
nevertheless found the Moslems friendly
and hospitable ; the Europeans arrogant
and fanatical. 1 saw at first hand the
terrible scars of the unnecessary tortures
inflicted by the French paras and heard
the feelings of the ordinary people. It
is not difficult to imagine the deep hatred
and bitterness which exist between these
elements
And after being in both France and
Algiers at a crucial time I would not
hesitate to condemn both France for her
weakness and arrogance and the Euro-
pean settlers for their fanaticism and
inability to face up to a situation they
had created as foreigners on Algerian
soil.
Despite the interesting material Mr
Behr presents in an easily absorbable form,
he makes the mistake most writers make
in similar books. He forgets that whilst
politicans and governments (especially
French ones) come and go it is the people
themselves who ultimately decide.
PHILIP DELL-CREED


“Robin, Marian...Marian, Robin!”
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 681
Across
I —Pert and vivacious preparer of potatoes. (7)
s—Cascara affected a whole city. (7)
9 Anglo-Saxon writer in a tree. (5)
10 — Italian who wrote operas with King George is evi-
dence of some copper under chemical attack. (9)
11— Murphy to be awaiting beer in an inner Sydney dis-
trict with a renowned cabinet maker. (11)
14—Device for counting a taxi re-
versing to you and me (6)
16 — Mirth hedge in a ditch. (4)
17 — Allow this to be a reason for
extra service. (3)
19— The kings in Italy are in fury.
(3)
20 — Towards. (4)
21— A statue fallen from heaven
wherein ten ring presently. (6)
23—Time’s out of mind? (6-5)
27 Princess I butchered in a costly-
state. (9)
28— Place for spotting no backward
peer. (5)
29 — Rolling stock bids for business
contracts. (7)
30— They deal ruthlessly in humanity
foams at the mouth. (7)
Down
1 — University leader has an oppor-
tunity to roll up. (10)
2 The edge of a little spirit at the
Chaldean city licence to print
a book. (10)
3 Unturned in the seed personality
of whom one is a great fan.
(3-2)
4 Hungry bird to duck us. (8)
5 Friend with an auto of the
wrist. (6)
6 Bring up a murderer to hit the
roof. (5, 4)
B—Distress signal to nothing in-
different. (2-2)
7 Ringlet mongerel is over 50. (4)
12 —Randwick in Sydney, or Fleming-
ton in Melbourne, is the piece
de resistance. (4, 6)
13 —What self-reliant smokers like
them with a royalty. (3, 7)
15 —What makes a geological forma-
tion caper over the line? (9)
18 —Monster business failure with
us, (8)
22—Ship holding the ship's company
salaries. (6)
24 — Garment put on to a little busi-
ness poisoner. (5)
25 — Middle Harbor region tips up.
(4)
26 Fifty-to-one on Leo. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 680


w
-
i# A : ?
Vv^
5i - > -
V*. ■• < '-
c w
-k.
■<f'y
9m
* :.*>*
\
<&£&•• X’^Kjggggga^.*
w
-^ ; '-
i
i
“WILL THE TRAIN STOP
JUST FOR YOU?”
SP
8*
%
5C
Q
<b
8A
gnfll
0«*«i
In a world so largely actuated by a profit motive, this is a fair question. The
answer is, yes—the train will stop to pick up its passengers.
The running of many country and suburban passenger train services is, from a
business standpoint, highly unprofitable.
And this despite the fact that the New South Wales Government Railways annually
transports some 253 million passengers by its country and suburban services, a
mammoth task demanding the greatest proportion of its transport effort.
But then, service to the people is the prime function of the Railways as true
today as it was over 100 years ago.
The Railways has continued to introduce new trains until today its passenger
services are the equal of any in the world. In over a century, only the ideal ol
service to the people has remained unchanged.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
etu*<f /6r04/2je*<%f
