

The Bulletin
OCTOBER 13. 1962
AUSTRALIA W. N.Z. 2/|, SINGAPORE, MALAYA SI
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION - EST. 1880
SURFERS
V! * j IS gjj& H| h 9B mb H ||


.34
tTi
rinceton
THE ONLY
13
CIGARETTE
WITH REAL AMERICAN TOASTED FLAVOR
■ '
filter
TOASTED
after action
satisfaction
Rich, blended tobaccos toasted to bring full,
satisfying American flavor. That’s Princeton,
the filter with the flavor you’ve been wanting!
So, after action get the satisfaction that
comes with Princeton filter, the honest-to-
goodness taste of real toasted tobacco.
* Made for the Riggio Tobacco Corporation of New York Ltd.


National Notebook
Vintage vituperation
HThe Communist Party has dragged an
A old war-horse, painter Noel Couni-
han, away from his easel to write an
“Art Affairs” column in its weekly Mel-
bourne sheet. There is little about art in
Counihan’s column, but followers of his
chequered career are finding lots of
choice vintage vituperation directed at
fellow artists and art critics. lan Fair-
weather, according to Counihan, is a
“tropical misanthrope”, Robert Hughes
“dilettante painter-poet” and Max Harris
an “ageing enfant terrible.” Professor
James McAuley comes out of the mud-
bath as a “Congress for Cultural Free-
dom poison peddler” and so on.
One of the few to get a guernsey from
Counihan is Queensland Gallery director
Laurie Thomas but only because he
disagreed on a TV programme with Mc-
Auley’s thesis that one could be both an
anti-Communist and a liberal (with a
small “1”).
Former Caulfield Grammar student
and St Paul’s choirboy, Counihan, now
48, came to the Com-
munist Party in 1931 after
a spell in the grip of Niet-
zsche and Schopenhauer.
Like his crony, Judah
Waten, he has made a
comeback as a Communist
party polemicist because
the party feels it needs all of the few
hands it can muster on deck these days.
The fact that Counihan is throwing his
eggs at such a wide cross-section of the
art and cultural world may also indicate
that the Communist Party has no plans
at the moment for a peace congress. In
his time, Counihan has produced work of
a high order. His performances as a con-
troversialist always recall George Orwell’s
observation that arguing with a Com-
munist is like playing chess with a man
who suddenly screams at you that you
committed adultery.
A rubbish tin marked
“Senator Aviett"
T>efore he left to live on the Gold
Coast with pay, perks and pension
prospects undisturbed by his move, Sena-
tor W. E. Aylett lived in Launceston,
headquarters of the Bass electorate. Now
Bass divisional council of the ALP has
moved unanimously to have the sunlover
expelled from the party.
But in the city’s public service circles
t ere is a group which finds his continued
a senc e more than tolerable. They are
vvorxers in the Commonwealth build-
lngs, who use Senator Aylett’s empty
office for brewing the traditional morning
and afternoon tea. The slops go into a
rubbish tin marked “Senator Aylett”,
thereby fostering in the mind of the gar-
bage collector the illusion that the senator
is still physically present.
Painless extraction
unexpected, but totally welcome,
gift of £6250 by the Weston Foun-
dation of England to the NSW Dental
Health, Education and Research Foun-
dation might, in the cynical view, be
rather of the character of cigarette com-
panies making gifts for research into
lung cancer. The Weston company
make biscuits, which many dentists
believe are a prime cause of tooth decay.
This is the second outside gift which
the foundation has received; someone
else gave it £5OO. However, the foun-
dation has in hand £BO,OOO from direct
donations from the 2000-odd dentists,
practising or retired in NSW. However,
a recent meeting of some of the 300-odd
Australian dentists in
London was held, and the
foundation hopes to tap
this rich source of revenue
to the extent of, perhaps,
£20,000
The foundation is con-
fined to NSW but other
States have shown interest. Nothing like
it exists overseas so the foundation has
to find its own way in judging the most
effective way of spending its money.
The foundation intends to spend its
capital, rather than invest and have only
income to spend. In this way the
£BO,OOO will be exhausted in five or six
years, but the foundation expects that
further donations will give it indefinite
life.
It has already called for applicants
for two research scholarships, one for
a dental graduate, who will do a science
course to equip him for research, and
then proceed with a research project of
his choosing. The other scholarship
will go to a dentist for research in some
specific branch.
Education will be part of the founda-
tion’s work, but it has not yet been
decided what programme is likely to be
most effective. However, the foundation
is inclined to believe that the place to
begin is with children.
Although the idea of dentists giving
money for research which might con-
ceivably finally solve the problem of
tooth decay, and thus kill the goose that
lays the golden inlay, the dentists do not
believe their foundation will lessen work
available. At present, only 40 per cent.
JAMES C. MEREDITH Page 25
From the Mississippi Mud
9
As I See It—By Alan Reid .... 6
Surfers Paradise—or the Road
to Umbigumbi 12
Johnny O’Keefe—Return to the
Idiot Box 16
The Three Days of October—
From Desmond O’Grady .... 18
What’s Wrong with Defence? 22
Plain Man’s Guide to the
Ecumenical Council 26
Algeria—New Problems .... 26
France—The Dregs of Fascism 27
White Australia—Two Views 29
Music—Local Land Marks .... 35
Franny and Zooey The
Mixture As Before 37
The Case of the Missing
Investor 41
The 30-20 Rule 44
Politics and the Egg Industry .... 57
•
TANNER 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 7
AROUND MELBOURNE 10
OUT AND ABOUT 12
Macao NEWSLETTER ... 22
OVERSEAS 25
FORUM 29
LETTERS 33
REVIEWS 34
RED PAGE 37
WORLD OF BUSINESS 41
MAN ON THE LAND ... 57
FEIFFER ..... ...... 59
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone 27-5971
Melbourne: Phone MF 3341. Brisbane: Phone
B 2691. Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3
Vol. 84
No. 4313


of people in NSW go to the dentist
regularly; the rest go when they have
toothache and then only for an extrac-
tion. With education, more of them may
be persuaded to go to their dentist earlier
and pay him more.
Rewriting our war history
A paragraph of the blackest shame has
been expunged from Melbourne’s
history. Since 1943 the city has believed
that somewhere in Melbourne skulked an
unknown vandal who threw a glass of
beer at Chloe in Young and Jackson’s
saloon bar during the peak-hour swill one
hot November day. According to one
report “servicemen and civilians tried to
seize the vandal, but he broke away, and,
racing out of the door, dragging one of
the staff who had caught his coat, he
escaped through the crowd in Swanston
Street and leapt on to a tram.”
At last the truth is out the glass
which hit the nation’s most famous nude
was not thrown deliberately at her, but
was merely the result of some innocent
gaiety, typical of the care-free life in
Melbourne’s bars at a quarter to six. Mr
Richard Simpson, 76-year-old picture re-
storer and framer at Kozminsky’s gal-
leries, told the story on the eve of his
retirement last week.
After the outrage, Mr Simpson was
called urgently to the scene to inspect
the damage. He arrived soon after 10
to six and a barman told him all: A man
in a brown suit had hurled a beer-pot
at him. The barman threw one back,
missed the assailant and hit Chloe. He
confided in Mr Simpson but considered
it diplomatic not to mention it to the
shocked, seething bar.
Long-haired Latitude
Qome three weeks ago, when an ill-
starred American comedian named
Lenny Bruce was in Sydney, the ABC
refused to allow him to appear “live”
on a personal interview programme con-
ducted by Mr Bob Sanders. This was
understandable as Bruce had established
a reputation for off-the-cuff remarks
couched in very old English, and perhaps
the ABC realised that Sanders’s occa-
sional leaning towards the pin-pricking
question might set Bruce off.
The very real danger of that was amply
illustrated last week when Sanders inter-
viewed our old friend Barry Humphries,
and asked, straight out, why he wore his
hair so long? As easily as giving the time
of day, Humphries smiled and answered,
“Oh, it’s obviously a castration complex,
Bob.” The cameraman was kind, and
continued to dwell on Humphries’ expres-
sion, which is one of the mildest. And
for the ABC’s relevant official it must
have been a moment for self-congratula-
tion. If a mild Humphries said that, what
might the surly Mr Bruce have uttered?
Out of Tune
nPHE famous Port Jackson Jazz Band
which has been playing on and off
in Sydney since 1948 and for the past
couple of years at Adams Tavern, Syd-
ney, has now split up. Disagreements had
been simmering for some time, mainly
over the carve-up of record royalties
which became a serious matter after the
success of their record “A Moi de
Payer.”
Breaking point came when Ray Price,
the band’s leader, sacked the trombonist,
John Costello. Then clarinettist Johnny
McCarthy and pianist Dick Hughes re-
signed in sympathy with the trombonist
and the three of them, with a drummer,
formed a new band. Ray Price is con-
tinuing at Adams and still calls his new
band the Port Jackson Jazz But
the others are now playing at the Mac-
quarie down in the ’Loo —and they call
themselves the Port Jackson Jazz Band.
Test Insurance
HThe insurance companies don’t often
A miss a trick. Now there's a new
lurk for the Test matches —personal wet-
weather insurance. The idea is that
cricket-loving Australians spend vast sums
to get to Test but what if play
is washed out? This is where Eagle Star
insurance comes in. You insure afresh
for each day of the Test match and you
pay so much in the pound for each
pound insured.
The odds don't look awfully good. For
example, to collect your money there
has to be not‘ a single ball bowled on
the given day. There are different rates
for every Test match and they are a
fine insight into the wet weather possi-
bilities of the various States.
For the first Test in Brisbane it is 5/-
for each £ 1 insured, for the second Test
"What do you think of State Aid
for Church Schools."
3 "
APmX? A
A UAefor'Jrt


in Melbourne 3/6, third Test in Sydney
4/6, fourth Test in Adelaide 2/6, and
fifth Test in Sydney 4/-.
The high rate for Brisbane may come
as a shock particularly when you con-
sider the Queenslanders had the extra-
ordinary courage to call their fun and
games festival last week—“Warana.”
That’s another one of those aboriginal
words and it allegedly means “blue
skies.”
The last word
Ooon the last heated criticisms will have
been made of Mr James Morris’s
series of articles on Australia, which ap-
peared in Manchester’s. “The Guardian”
and, when it was clear that Mr Morris
had not come to praise us, in some Aus-
tralian papers. Mr Morris is, of course,
entitled to his opinions, but he seemed
to have none that had not been expressed
more stylishly many times before. Mr
Morris’s “Coast to Coast” which deals
with the United States, has recently been
issued by Faber’s in paperback. Compa-
rison of the two sets of articles provokes
sad thoughts on the exigencies of free-
lance journalism, which can force the
writer’s pace so relentlessly.
Molvig again
Ton Molvig will delight many readers
** with his satirical, colourful cover
painting of a man and woman in
regulation Gold Coast uniform, sun-
glasses and all —walking down the main
drag at Surfers. The original is for sale
on application to the artist or to Rudy
Komon Galleries, Sydney.
Tamer
"Education should encourage a
fearless spirit of enquiry."
PLAIN ENGLISH
MR PICKARD'S CONSCIENCE
HPHE words '‘Civil Liberties” almost always imply, in some people's
minds, the idea of opposition to the tyranny of the State. There are
good historical reasons why this should be so and certainly it is a healthy
instinct to distrust the State. There is a wide range of cases where the
State is obviously illiberal if not tyrannical: bureaucratic suppression of
the rights of individuals whether they be private citizens or inmates
of mental asylums, the plain refusal to grant rights to aborigines,
outbreaks of censorship, and so on.
But there is also a wide—and increasing—range of cases where the
threats to individual rights come not from the State but from private
associations. Consider, for example, the case of Kenneth Pickard of
Newcastle.
He recently became a member of the Exclusive Order of Brethren.
Before that he had at various times been a member of the Federated
Moulders' Union shop committee and a union delegate. Now, as a
member of the Exclusive Order of Brethren his religious beliefs will not
allow him to remain a member of a trade union. So when his union dues
came up last week he refused to pay them.
Since then 60 members of the Federated Moulders' Union have
walked off the job in protest, union officials have tried to pressure
Pickard into toeing the line, he has been sent to Coventry by his fellow
workers, and generally forced to lead a miserable life. The employers
for their part have refused to support either Pickard or the union and
have adopted an official position of “complete neutrality”. It is not
known what exactly are their reasons for this stand but it is well known
that many employers object to conscientious objectors of Pickard's type
as industrial trouble-makers.
The union tries to justify its stand by claiming that if Pickard is
able “to get away with it” other members of the union may follow his
lead, and that union morale would suffer. It is clearly a pretty tinny
sort of morale that cannot withstand one man's refusal to join on religious
grounds. In any case the union refuses to take any notice of Pickard's
religious beliefs or to accept the principle that nobody should be forced
to outrage his conscience in order to earn a living. In a free society
the right to non-conformity is recognised, provided the law is not broken.
And this is the point: the State does not demand compulsory
unionism. Even in strong union states like Queensland and NSW the
law protects individuals who, on grounds of conscience, refuse to join
a union. Similarly the Commonwealth laws do not make unionism
compulsory. Here is a simple case where the State has enacted liberal
laws but a private association is attempting to override them.
Trade unions are, of course, not the only offenders. Cases which are
similar to the Pickard case, even if not always as obvious, occur from
time to time throughout the business world, the public service, the
professions, the universities, the churches. The trouble is that whereas
when the State interferes with freedom it almost certainly will be
exposed in the Press, the bullying of private associations often passes
without notice. Various countries have formed organisations along the
lines of the Scandinavian Ombudsman to whom any citizen may take
complaints of State illiberalism; what is needed in this country is an
extension of this sort of thing to cover attacks on freedom by private
bodies.


STATE AID
HONNER'S SWAN SONG
“There will be no Liberal split"
R. W. ASKIN
No split
npHE storm last Friday over the decision
by the NSW Liberal Party’s Joint
Policy Committee to support direct State
Aid for Church Schools will almost cer-
tainly be seen in perspective as Presi-
dent Ralph Honner’s swan song. A
Catholic himself, Honner has always ad-
vocated State Aid and was bitterly dis-
appointed when the Parliamentary
Leader Mr Bob Askin rejected it in his
policy speech before the last NSW elec-
tions. Although Honner has made it
clear that he will not stand again for the
presidency next year, he has at least had
the satisfaction, before he goes, of seeing
State Aid adopted by the Policy Com-
mittee—even if that Committee has no
real power.
And it hasn't. The Joint Policy Com-
mittee is made up of seven Liberal MLA's
and seven members elected by the Party’s
State Council. But it cannot instruct the
Parliamentary Party, only advise it. The
Parliamentary Party is perfectly free to
reject its advice, as it will certainly do
in this case.
Mr Askin was not present at the meet-
ing of the Policy Committee when the
State Aid policy was adopted by eight
votes to three, the eight supporters in-
cluding five MLA’s (one of them being
Eric Willis, Mr Askin's deputy in the
Parliamentary Party). Askin was of
course present on Friday afternoon’s
meeting when despite Press predictions
to the contrary it was decided not to
rescind the decision but in effect to bury
and ignore it. This time .all the MLA’s
supported Mr Askin in opposition to
State Aid—all except Mr K. McCaw who
is one o! its most dogged advocates on
grounds of both justice and vote-winning.
The Policy Committee's decision will now
in due course go before the Parliamentary
Party where it will be ignored; and that
will be that.
Agreement to “forget all about it” was
the more readily reached in view of how
the incident was blown up in the Press,
with stories of Liberals tearing each other
to shreds. What appears to have
happened is this: before Friday’s meeting
of the Policy Committee someone had
leaked the earlier State Aid decision to
an anti-Liberal political reporter of one
of the afternoon newspapers. Realising
that this might lead to bad publicity the
next afternoon, other members then
leaked the story to both the morning
papers. So on Friday afternoon the paper
which the Liberals were worried about
carried a story about compromise being
impossible, Askin’s leadership being
threatened, and anti-Catholic bitterness
rising. To put an end to such rumors the
Policy Committee agreed to forget the
whole thing. There will be no split over
State Aid.
Mr Askin's opposition to State Aid
these days (some time before the last
State election he was toying with the
idea of supporting it) is based on his
belief that it will not win more than a
handful of Catholic votes and would lose
some Protestant votes. If the Liberals
adopted it, Labor would immediately
adopt it, too, and then the Liberals would
be unable to attack Labor for doing so.
The Liberals in other words are forced
to oppose State Aid if they are not to
lose one of their main ar.ti-Labor plat-
forms. Even if the time will come when
they can support State Aid, that time is
not now, when it will give Labor such an
opportunity to accept Cardinal Gilroy's
recent Petition for Aid and consolidate
its Catholic vote.
Honner's defeat on this issue raises
again the question who will replace him
as State President next year. One of the
weakest parts of the Liberals' constitu-
tion is the rule making it impossible for a
Parliamentarian to be President—parti-
cularly when there are so many compe-
tent Liberals in both Houses of Parlia-
ment. There is talk now of changing this
rule. Otherwise two of the most favored
candidates are Brigadier J. E. Pagan, and
Vernon Treatt, the former leader of the
Parliamentary Party who lost his seat in
the last elections.
NEW GUINEA
A NEW HATE
FOR THE LEFTWING
Calwell's rare display of strong leadership
As I see it
A QUITE
s e r i 0 11 s
situation is
developing over Australian New Guinea
and Papua. Leftwing elements in Aus-
tralia are conducting a concerted attack
upon Australia s administration of these
territories. The aim of the attack seems
not to secure an improvement in the ad-
ministration—which would be legitimate
—but to discredit it in the eyes of the
worn which could make it even more
dill.cuh tor Australia to cope successfully
with an a ready delicate situation.
- T u xrut,
Mr Clyde Cameron, Labor MHR for
South Austral,a s Hindman*, par tc.pated
,n such an attack in the house ot Repre-
sentatives last week. In one respect. Mr
Cameron went even further than those
Soviet-dominated or Soviet-aligned coun-
tries which have already charged Aus ra-
lit, with fostering exploitation, near Slav-
ery, racial discrimination and other evils
„ the territories ,t administers. Mr
Cameron repeated these charges But
he went on to suggest a us ra lans
were hypocritical and not genuinely try-
■ns: .to help New Guinea s .nd.genous in-
habitants reach higher standards as a
prelude to self determination.
Mr Cameron’s charges, particularly
that ot hypocrisy, will probably have
more effect in biasing the minds of those
people who conduct the affairs of such
countries as are ideologically uncommit-
ted in the East-West struggle against
Australia than the propaganda of the
Soviet-aligned groups. Propaganda of
this anti-Australian type is much more
effective when it emanates from an Aus-
tralian source.
0 ition Leader Calwell, who what-
can be said of hi has a feeling
f
for the welfare of the country, was ap-
p „ j in his office t 0 the
re| o£ Mr Cameron’s speech
House Qf Representa ti v es. In a
of stro leadership rare in Mr
these d when he is confronte d
, efti Mr Ca|wen went immediately
J Parliament. He disowned Mr
Came criticis e d Australians who
their own nests . and endorsed the
statement by External Minister Sir Gar-
fe|d Barwick that the Foot report , eft
Australians w'ith no reason for shame of
preseltt treatment of the indigenous
q{ New Guinea .
11
But despite Mr Calwell o prompt re-


pudiation of Mr Cameron and his views,
the damage has probably been done.
As I see it, nobody could object to
Mr Cameron drawing attention to what
he considers shortcomings in the Austra-
lian administration of New Guinea and
seeking to have them corrected. To at-
tribute lack of good intentions to the
Australian administration of New Guinea
and Papua, as Mr Cameron did, is the
deadliest attack that can be made.
Cameron’s attitude stems from ideology
and personality. On the ideological side,
Mr Cameron classified himself as a left-
ist. In the same speech as he damned
the efforts of his fellow countrymen in
New Guinea, he expressed the belief that
Indonesia would turn to Communism
“in the not so far distant future.” With-
out the slightest condemnation in his
voice or his words he went on to ad-
vance the view that if Indonesia went
Communist it would receive from Com-
munist China military aid that “could
include nuclear weapons.”
Yet it is only a few months ago that
Mr Cameron was passionately supporting
the proposition that the Labor Party
should adopt a policy of rejecting un-
reservedly, for all time and uncondition-
ally, any thought that it might one day
acquire nuclear weapons or have them
stationed on Australian soil. As Deputy
Senate Labor Leader Pat Kennelly then
told the advocates of that viewpoint:
“Under your strange set of values it is
all right for someone hostile to us to
have bricks they can hurl at us but highly
improper for us to put ourselves in a
position where we can say ‘you hurl a
brick at us, brother, and we'll hurl one
back’.”
On the personal side, Mr Cameron is
a strong —and strange —hater. He hates
things and people you would expect him
to love. He hates the Australian Work-
ers’ Union, which took him out of a
shearers’ shed and made him a power in
the land, first as a top AWU official and
later as a member of Parliament. He
hates the AWU officials with whom he
worked for years and who were his
associates and collaborators in many of
the manoeuvres which carried him to
the top.
His hates are many and varied, and
now Australia’s administration of New
Guinea appears to have been added to
them. As Mr Cameron has consider-
able capacity, the leftwing which is out to
discredit Australia’s administration of its
New Guinea and Papuan territories in
the eyes of the world have acquired a
very useful ally, who because of his pro-
minent position as a member of Labor’s
“shadow cabinet,” has a readymade
forum.
ALAN REID
CENSORSHIP
"THE EXAMINER" BROKE THE LAW
"The Law is an ass"
HThe recent prosecution and fining of
A “The Examiner”, Launceston, and
its editor for publishing a report of a
children’s court case is only an incident
in citizens’ efforts to bring Tasmania
into line with other States (and Britain)
in the administration of juvenile law-
breaking.
As the Child Welfare Act stands, no
reference to a children’s court may be
published in Tasmania. The “cloak of
secrecy” as it was termed recently in the
report of a select committee which
enquired into crime and police adminis-
tration, was blasted earlier this year by
Mr L. E. Amos, headmaster of the 1200-
pupil Launceston High School.
Mr Amos told a parents’ meeting
that the children’s court was not up to
its job, that it was overridden by proba-
tion officers and that it was conducted
in such a way that it was an object of
amusement rather than awe to young
offenders.
After that “The Examiner” had edi-
torially given notice that it would if ne-
cessary break the law by publishing in-
formation about the children’s courts.
Shortly afterwards there was a State-
wide search for three escapees from Ash-
ley Boys’ Home. In terms of the Gov-
ernment undertaking, the authorities
warned the public by radio and Press
announcements that the youths were at
large. When they were finally caught
and charged with a number of crimes
the blanket of the law came down. “The
Examiner”, however, reported that two
of the culprits had been sent to gaol by
the children’s court.
Last week, before Mr A. P. Crisp,
PM, “The Examiner” and Editor R. J.
Williams were charged under a section
of the Act which prohibits reporting of
children’s court proceedings under pain
of a fine of up to £lOO. The defendants
pleaded guilty, stating that they had
acted in the hope of inspiring action for
the removal of a defect in the law.
Mr Crisp said that he was satisfied
that the defendants had “acted perfectly
honestly and that their intentions were
bona fide”, but the law had been broken.
He imposed fines of £2O on each.
A JOURNALIST'S LIFE
ffij^ulCetCn
October 14, 1882
Tt’s a very nice thing to be on the
A Press. Nicer, almost, than any-
thing we know—except keeping an
oyster shop or training the ballet. Once
you are recognized as belonging to a
paper, your privileges commence im-
mediately. Men wait to button-hole
you for pars, at one end of the street,
and dissatisfied individuals attend on
you with bludgeons at the other. The
most glorious of your privileges is,
perhaps, that you can go in for no-
thing any night the Parliamentary
pitch is on and sit over the Speaker.
We went there one evening in clean
socks and well-burnished bluchers,
and, having looked timidly around on
the assembled Juniuses, we went into
a room at the back, and, humbly
bowing to a leaden-visaged young
man who was wearily transcribing
shorthand notes, we proceeded to lay
our umbrella on a sofa, prior to col-
lecting material for a sketch which
should paralyze the universe. Having,
when near the door, pulled our hair
to the young man, he looked up and
said: “Er—l say—er —d’you know
this room belongs to THE HERALD?”
“What HERALD?” we enquired res-
pectfully. “THE SYDNEY MORN-
ING HERALD,” said he. “Never
heard of it,” we replied. Then, as an
afterthought, “It is probably a medical
journal? On this, the young man
darted towards us r uch a 100 < o
deadly horror, that, gathering up our
Property w <= T s > lded lnto th , e , next
compartment There was no sofa here
°"V gentleman with, a short dark
beard and two foreheads—one at the
f and Qne at the back of his
head Wg stood Qur umbre n a up in
j be corner Q f th e room, and were
about to make a jocular remark anent
| be appetising odour of saveloys
prevalent, when the dual-foreheaded
party said: “You may not be aware
0 f it, sir, but this apartment is sacred
to THE TELEGRAPH.” At this
awful intelligence we turned deathly
pale, and, falling on our knees before
our umbrella, offered up a heartfelt
prayer for its safety. Then, kicking
aside a shoe-sole and a block-tin shirt-
cuff which lay upon the floor, we
passed out into the public gallery.


UNTIL CHRISTMAS?
BACK TO THE CAVES
“The main danger is intection"
W. PENMAN
Scientific value
At 11.15 p.m. on September 21 two
men and two w'omen descended into
a vast limestone cave system 16 miles
south of Katherine at the start of a
strange adventure. They had announced
they would stay underground longer than
anyone else in the world.
The initial target was two months
below the surface. And experienced
speleologist Bill Penman, who was leader
of the party, said he might decide to re-
main there “until Christmas alone
if necessary.” Other members of the
group were ex-truck driver and “jack-of-
all-trades” Barry Mayor, 24, Maxine
Argent, 20, a former nurse; and Darwin
barmaid Miss Triss Fierinck. At the time
of going to press only Penman was left
inside and he sent up a message that he
now has a better chance of breaking the
record alone.
In deciding to go on their strange
adventure the four ignored warnings
from:
© Katherine Speleological Society
secretary, Bob Wren, who claimed the
tremendous humidity wc Id force them
to the surface w'ithin a few hours.
9 The Northern Territory Director of
Health Dr 1. D. Byrne who said he ex-
pected they would be “prostrate” from
dehydration by the end of the first day.
© Australian Speleolcjcal Federation
president, Warren Peck, who was among
the party that set the previous Australian
und rground cave record of 76j hours
in the Jenolan system of NSW. He said
if Penman's group could beat the recent
French record of two months it would
be “a remarkable feat” but added: “The
main danger is from infection. It is well-
known that virus r nd bacteria organisms
thrive and multiply at an astonishing
rate in conditions like the Katherine
caves, with high temperatures and
humidity.”
The night they went down I accom-
panied them 1400 feet in from the en-
trance to Tucker Point, a high vaulted
cavern about forty yards by fifteen,
where they established their base and
sleeping quarters, drawing their water
from a stream on another level 100 feet
below.
Despite the cold night the temperature
when we reached there w'as 95 degrees
and humidity nearly 100 per cent. How-
ever, other parts of the system are notice-
ably cooler and should provide relief
during the evenings.
Their supplies included tinned and
dried fruit, honey, canned foods, salt
tablets, carbide and medical and other
supplies. Mr Penman has with him a
supply of tranquillising drugs “for
emergencies”.
There were some bad moments early
w'hen they discovered they had left be-
hind the tin opener and spare cigar-
ettes. For the first 36 hou.s, until an-
other speleological party arrived cn the
scene, they had to go without smokes
and bash their food cans open on sharp
rocks.
They spent four days, until the Aus-
tralian record safely broken, sitting
about quietly, becoming accustomed to
life underground wdth carbide lamps and
torches supplying the only light.
Two big dangers faced them.
© Fires in the long grass above which
could clog the passages with smoke and
bring the party to a slow broil through
tremendous heat.
© An early wet with mon-
soonal rains sending floods of water
coursing through the caves.
Mr Penman has stripped to a brief
naga (native breechclout) while under-
ground and will neither wash nor sfiave.
As well as relying on his rations,
they are investigating the possibilities of
living off the land. Mr Penman said
he would be willing to have a go at the
bandy-bandy snakes whicl infest the
caves. Gutted and cooked properly,
snake tasted like fish, he said. Fie would
catch bats in the later stages of their
stay underground but would not eat them
except in dire emergency because they
carried many bacteria.
He hopes also that the explorations
and record attempt will “put the Kathe-
rine caves on the map" as a tourist at-
traction. It has certainly succeeded in
this. Daily at least '0 or 30 visitors
bounce down the several miles of bush
roads which lead to the caves. In fact
the number of callers at Tucker Point
has put serious strain on the air supply.
Mr Penman did not discount cave-
expert Peck’s warning about bacteria,
but is doing everything possible to com-
bat it. He has Je a “thunder-box”
cut of i four-gallon drum and is burn-
ing all body wastes with carbide.
He is keen not only to break
the world record, b also to do work of
scientific value. “Th tell us humans
originally came from the caves,” Mr
Penman explained. “We want to prove
they can go back to the caves in the
event of radioactivity from a future war
making the surface uninhabitable. We
b:'ieve these caves are big enough to
shelter the entire population of Kathe-
rine” (about 700).
H WILLEY
KIMBERLEY
MORE POWER IN THE WEST
The Lewis Report
A nyone visiting WA’s north-west
coast marvels at the size of the tides
that flow there, sucking through the
mangrove swamps and leaving ships
stranded in mud like beached whales.
The possibility of hooking the power of
these 30-40 foot tides into AusLalia’s
power system moves one step closer to
reality last week when the WA Public
W'orks Department released a report on
the economics of such a scheme. The
report was made by PWD design engineer
John Lewis and followed an earlier and
favourable investigation by France Tech-
nique, recognised world authorities on
tidal power.
Mr Lewis said the power of the tides
along the Kimberley coast from La
Grange to Darwin represented 50 times
as much power as is now generated
throughout Australia. The best of the
sites were spectacular by world standards
and probably formed the biggest block of
hydro-electric power in South-East Asia.
It would be technically and economic-
ally feasible to transmit Kimberley power


Estab'ished 1 80 S
Contractors to Government Municipal 9
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Austiaha
|jAC K S O NlTr^
OSULLIVam
*4 PTY LTD
'St O'
Jackson# O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & C®.
Printers, Pape? Merchants,
Manufactnring Stationers
head office and factories
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
to meet the increasing demands of the
industrialised areas of south-eastern Aus-
tralia, following the example now being
set in the Soviet Union.
On a preliminary cost analysis there
seemed no difficulty in connecting a d.c.
transmission line to the Australian grid.
The calculated cost for 2,000 megawatts
at 50 per cent load factor transmitted
over 1,800 miles was about o.ld per unit.
Higher load factors and greater loads
would reduce transmission costs. These
costs were based on Russian data where
similar problems existed, and if was dif-
ficult to see why the Kimberley proposals
should not compare favourably.
As a rough guide, the cost per kilo-
watt of peak power would need to be
less than £l5O. If it were £lOO the
proposals could become very attractive.
Even at £lOO per kilowatt a successful
proposal of 3,000 megawatts would cost
£300,000,000 and could only be es-
tablished on a national basis.
Though the possibility of hooking such
power into the Australian system still
seems a long way off, there are indica-
tions that the State Government is plan-
ning to use this vast potential on a small
scale in the near future.
Mr Lewis pointed out that the cost of
a 100-megawatt scheme to serve a local
mineral extraction industry would only
be £ 10,000,000 and that good sites exist-
ed all around the BHP iron ore deposits
at Koolan and Cockatoo Islands.
Industrial Development Minister
Charles Court has already said that tenta-
tive approaches have been made to the
Government on the practicability of pro-
cessing minerals in the Kimberleys with
hydro-electric power. The use of the tidal
power has already been discussed by
Cabinet, but it is not known on what
basis.
The report is probably one of the
biggest contributions yet made to the
WA’s long range industrial development
plans. Power costs have always been a
bugbear in attempts to attract industry
to the State. The Collie coal now used
as the major source of power is not as
well suited to cheap power as the deposits
in Victoria and New South Wales.
The State recently lost a £30,000,000
industry when the Alcoa alumina industry
decided to set up its processing plant in
Victoria instead of WA because cheap
power was available there. Though it has
now been revealed that the Victorian
Government offered Alcoa power at cut
rates which could cost it about £3,000,-
000 a year, this does not alter the basic
fact that WA power costs are one of the
big stumbling blocks to its industrialisa-
tion blueprint.
If the Kimberley tides can be harnessed
and the power economically transferred
to the southern half of the State it will
represent the State’s biggest step forward
yet.
ABORIGINES WELFARE BOARD
KEEPING ABORIGINES QUIET?
Abolish the Board
T ast Sunday morning in the Sydney
headquarters of the Building Work-
ers’ Industrial Union, aborigines from
all parts of NSW sat down with white
Australians belonging to the Australian
Aboriginal Fellowship to discuss what
ought to be done about NSW’s anti-
quated Aborigines Protection Act.
The Act (1909-43) sets up an Abori-
gines Welfare Board which manages 16
aboriginal stations and keeps a watchful
but distant eye on a further 33 aboriginal
reserves and the activities of an itinerant
dark population which lives neither on
station nor reserve.
By virtue of its legal authority over
persons of aboriginal blood, the Board
is able to make special housing loans to
needy and deserving coloured families, to
provide education bursaries for a limited
number of aboriginal children, and to
take care of a great number of older
aborigines who would otherwise be
totally destitute.
It is symptomatic of the outlook of
the Board, for instance, that its one
partly-aboriginal member, Mr Charles
Leon, is regarded as being on it merely
in an advisory capacity. His plea for
travelling expenses to enable him to visit
some of his people on stations and re-
serves, and to learn their views and real
needs, has often enough been peremp-
torily refused.
The Board’s principal achievement as
a tool of Government, it seems, is to
keep things on the aboriginal front quiet.
Listening to the various speakers,
graphically and very persuasively putting
their case, it was hard for a white
observer to understand why the dark
people of NSW have never been granted
a fuller and more effective role in the
administration of their own affairs. The
anger of these most articulate aborigines
was directed chiefly at the Board’s treat-
ment of the aboriginal population as a
class of social misfits who, like backward
children or juvenile delinquents, need our
patient help and understanding before
they can be cured!
“Look at me”, said Ray Peckham, “I
am not a full blood. I’m not a white man.
I’m an aborigine and I’m proud of it. Can
anybody tell me I can’t stand on my
own two feet. Look at Pearl Gibbs over
there, a quarter-caste and Matron of
Dubbo Hosi=l She used to represent
aborigines on the Welfare Board before
she left it in disgust. Do you imagine she
would be less intelligently responsible for
our people than some Education official,
a policeman, a so-called expert in an-
thropology”?
“I bet you”, said another speaker,
“that if you took Gus Kelly, who as
Chief Secretary, is responsible for abori-
ginal affairs, into the country he wouldn’t
be able to tell the difference between an
aborigine and a full-blooded cannibal.”
The cry “Abolish the Board” is a
catch-call that has been heard for more
than 30 years. Most of the aborigines
and Europeans who addressed the meet-
ing realised that this is not immediately
practicable nor politically conceivable.
The meeting resolved that the Govern-
ment should be congratulated on its
promise to repeal the liquor laws dis-
criminating against the aborigine, but
firmly reminded that this hardly went far
enough. It demanded that the Aborigines
Welfare Board should be reconstituted as
the Aboriginal Integration Commission
(a nicer name) and that aborigines elect-
ed to it by their own people on a regional
basis should be represented in numbers
equal to its non-aboriginal members.
E. G. DOCKER


Around Melbourne
LIQUOR AND THE SILK TRADE
All this past week here in Victoria
we have been talking excitedly
about liquor reform. Nothing too
extravagant, you understand, after all
the very quaintness of our liquor
laws has made Victoria famous all
over the world, wherever two or three
people gather in one place for a beer
or a Cinzano. Just as we are in
favor of hanging people, we have a
sincere love for six o’clock closing.
According to the last Gallup Polls
fifty-four per cent, were for hanging,
thirty-five against and eleven had no
opinion.
On closing times forty-six were for
6 p.m., three for 8 p.m., forty-seven
for 10 p.m. and four had no opinion.
We took little notice of the strange
West Australians who in the same
Poll voted six per cent, for 6 p.m.
closing and sixty-four per cent, for
10 p.m.
Actually drinking in Victoria has
a remarkable history. Back in 1864,
in the so-called Victorian Era, the
bars were open from 6 a.m. until
midnight and you could get special
licences to cover those terrible thirsty
remaining six hours. In 1885 we
began to tighten up a bit and the
pubs were open from 6 a.m. to 11.30
p.m. The real trouble began in the
First World War. The wounded
were returning from Gallipoli and it
seemed appropriate to cut the hours
from 9 a.m. to 9.30 p.m. Indeed it
was so appropriate a state of
emergency was declared and the
hours became 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Oh. fellow drinkers, we have now
been in this state of emergency for
47 years. During that time we have
had a galaxy of inquiries, referendums
and surveys. Towards the end of
1959 we sent away Judge Fraser on a
four months world tour to study
drinking habits all over. To many of
us stay-at-homes it sounded like a
dream assignment. Now Judge Fraser
is even better known in Victoria
than his tennis-playing son Neale.
Well, the Judge came out hard for
10 o’clock closing. He said: “No-
where did I see anything approaching
the rapid consumption of liquor that
can be witnessed at almost any
hotel in Victoria between five and six
o’clock in the evening. . . I found in
my discussions with people in other
parts of the world that the idea of
six o’clock closing was something for
which we are famous.”
The Victorian Government intro-
duced only the most inocuous of
the Judge’s recommendations. One
fascinating little idea that came in
was the 15 minutes grace. ' This
means that although the beer stopped
flowing at 6 p.m., you were allowed
fifteen minutes to finish it. It
accentuated a dear, old Australian
custom. Representatives of “Life”,
“Holiday”, even “Esquire”, have
come to Melbourne just to see it. If
you are allowed fifteen minutes, for
heaven’s sake, you have to make the
most of it. At our pub each school
of five at two minutes to six orders
twenty-five glasses. We fellows trained
in emergency can handle five beers in
five minutes.
Yet one of the American magazine
men to whom we introduced this
custom had the unkindness to report
that being in a pub at 6 p.m. was like
being in Dante’s Inferno.
have been changes, mainly
for the silk trade. Liquor can be
served in hotel dining rooms and
restaurants until 10 p.m., but the
glasses must be off the tables by
10.30. You can even get special
supper licences until 11.30 p.m. This,
however, is not much help to the
fancy hotels which run the lush floor
shows. This past week the Australian
Hotels Association has been fighting
a campaign for separate cocktail bars
where hotel guests can get a drink at
say, 8 p.m. before they go into the
dining room.
They also want special entertain-
ment licences so that hotels, restaur-
ants and nightclubs can serve liquor
with food, glory be, until 2 a.m.
This is stuff for the tourist trade. The
Lord Mayor Cr. Nathan was right
behind it and what was more import-
ant the Chief Secretary Mr. Rylah,
spoke a number of words in
sympathy. So there's a fair chance
that the fancy hotels like the South-
ern Cross, Chevron and the Savoy
Plaza will get what they want. As
for AHA’s other requests: a new bay
closing time of 7 p.m. and two two-
hour drinking periods on Sundays,
you could say that there is Buckley’s
chance. The wage-earner who can’t
afford to be a member of a smart
club, who can’t afford expensive food
so that he can get a beer after six,
will remain as he was before in the
war-time state of emergency or
Dante’s Inferno.
]Y/f ELBOURNE has been acting as host
for the greatest international get-
together here since the Olympic
Games . . . and all women. It is the
Tenth Triennial Conference of The
Associated Country Women of the
World. There are 1200 delegates,
women from 20 overseas countries
and every continent.
For the male reporters, to cover
such a conference was a most dis-
turbing assignment. There was a
large woman on the door to the
exhibition building. She looked me
up and down and said: “All right
you can come in if you're good look-
ing enough”.
Inside there was not another male
in sight, but there were women every-
where, and everything was being
organised by women. They were all
wearing name cards and, but for the
Indians and Africans in national
costume, there was an extraordinary
similarity about them mostly
fortyish and fiftyish, not chic but
businesslike and obviously enjoying
it immensely. They were armed with
guide books, autograph books,
cameras and, with the high noise
level from loud speakers and the
never-ending talk, it reminded one a
little of a meeting of shriners.
The theme of the conference was
the country woman’s part in a
changing world with discussions on
food, friendship, learning and
leisure. The discussions were to be
non-political and non-sectarian, so
one wondered how far they could go
on dangerous subjects like population
control. In the early stages the
Press ladies were worried about the
lack of hard news, and they hoped
that these ladies, who represented
more than 6,000,000 women, might
take some action on subjects which
had proved so fruitless in inter-
national male discussions. It would
be a pity if empty talk were wasted
over cups of tea.
BATMAN


COONAWARRA ESTATE*
CLARET
11 , (
I nuqgih
mimm
tMBRA tSTAH
< I. \ II ET
I*l A C t I» S 5
At Coonawarra Estate all
our skills are devoted
exclusively to vintaging
table wine. To achieve
distinctive quality we
have retained many of
the old hand methods
and each vintage is indi-
vidually made to give of
its best.
* "Estate” (as the word "Chateau" in France)
is used to distinguish this claret as being the
genuine product of the winegrower’s own
vineyard.
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
s. wynn & co. pi y. Ltd.
CI3NR
all the year round, Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
LAW
WHEN INSURANCE
COMPANIES GO BROKE
The Varadi case
J. J. MALONEY
In December 1961
Take the case of Mr I. Varadi, the
Clothing manufacturer. He had
done everything required under
the Workers' Compensation Act to cover
himself in the event of any of his
employees being injured. He had insured
himself, first with Nottingham (Workers’
Compensation Insurances) Pty Ltd, and
when they were taken over by Australian
and Overseas Insurance Co. Ltd, his lia-
bility was carried on by that company,
When, in time, that firm got into financial
difficulties, Mr Varadi's broker advised
him to insure with yet another company,
National and General, on April 18 this
year. This he did. Understandably Mr
Varadi thought he was covered against
any compensation claims by employees.
But in fact he was not, as he learnt to his
cost, during the period when he was in-
sured with Australian and Overseas In-
surance Company.
One of his workers, Mrs Nelly Fulton,
who had previously made a claim while
Mr Varadi was insured with Australian
and Overseas, claimed for further com-
pensation and the case was listed to be
heard in the Workers’ Compensation
Court on October 4.
Early in August, Mr Varadi received
a phone call from the solicitor of Aus-
tralian and Overseas telling him that the
company was no longer in a position to
pay Mrs Fulton’s claim nor could it
defend Mr Varadi on October 4.
Mr Varadi subsequently settled the
case at his own expense out of court last
week but not before it had cost him
around £Boo—despite the fact that he
had complied with the requirements of
the Act.
The story highlights an anomaly in the
NSW Workers’ Compensation Act where-
by the Act makes adequate provision for
injured workers whose employer is either
uninsured or goes broke (under the Un-
insured Liability Scheme) but provides
no protection at all for employers whose
insurance company goes broke.
Mr Ritchie, the Workers’ Compensa-
tion Officer of the Sydney Trades and
Labor Council, told The Bulletin that
over the last year there had been about
22 cases where employers who were in-
sured, with either the Standard Insurance
Company or with Australian and Over-
seas, had had to meet the costs them-
selves because of this situation. “Fortun-
ately, the employers have in the main
been large employers who have had no
difficulty in meeting the costs of people
who have claimed under the Act. But
employers haven’t a legal leg to stand on
when their insurance companies can’t
meet their liabilities.”
According to Mr Ritchie there has
been only one case where an employee
had been unable to be reimbursed by
his employer when the insurance com-
pany had been unable to meet its liabi-
lities. In July 1960, Mr R. Denmead,
employed as a jointer by a firm of
builders, K. E. Manning Pty Ltd, had
been operating a power machine and had
lost four fingers of one hand. At the
time, his employer had been insured
with the Standard Insurance Company
of New Zealand. Mr Denmead was off
work until November of 1960. Up until
then his hospital expenses and loss of
money were met by the insurance com-
pany. Mr Denmead resumed work but
since that time he has had eight weeks
off and spent two weeks in hospital.
None of these expenses has been met by
the insurance company or the employer
because at the same time as the Standard
Insurance Co. of New Zealand went into
liquidation so did the firm of builders,
K. E. Manning. The Act makes no
provision for this occurrence.
Mr Ritchie said that the Trades and
Labor Council made representations to
the Minister for Labor and Industry,
Mr J. J. Maloney back in December
1961 to have the Act amended to provide
for cases where insurance companies and
the employers can't meet their obliga-
tions but so far nothing has happened.
The Bulletin approached a Sydney
lawyer, Mr Zdenek Weiss who sug-
gested: “To provide for the future pos-
sibilities of insurance companies getting
into difficulties and consequently being
unable to pay claims under existing
policies, the Government should enact
a provision similar to the nominal defen-
dant provision relating to Third Party,
whereby an unsatisfied claim by a worker
be met from a fund established into
which all insurance companies licensed
under the Workers’ Compensation Act
contribute. This should also be made
retrospective.”
Meanwhile there are hundreds of
employers in New South Wales who are
unaware that the policies they held with
insurance companies who have gone
broke are worthless if any worker makes
a retrospective claim. Perhaps Mr
Maloney will eventually get round to
taking some action.


OUT AND ABOUT
THIS SIDE OF PARADISE
"Surfers" —or, the Road to Umbigumbi
By SCOTT DERRICK
Up at Umbigumbi at the moment
the locals are doing rather well.
The sun is shining, the air is
loaded with music and people are
munching their way through mountains
of food.
The locals say that it is not a record
year for Umbigumbi but it is a good one
just the same. They also tell you to stop
calling the place Umbigumbi. It USED
to be Umbigumbi but that was before
they changed it to Elston. Then they
changed Elston to Surfers Paradise.
They are always changing something
at Surfers Paradise. It’s no use going to
Surfers Paradise and saying, “I remem-
ber when . . .” because almost everybody
there can remember something more
wonderful than you can remember.
There was a time when the highway
was the most famous strip of bitumen
in Australia and glowed under such titles
as “The Millionaires’ Mad Mile”. Other
strips of bitumen have pushed the Surfers
Paradise roadworks out of the limelight
but absolutely nothing yet has been in-
vented to push the entire little resort off
its peculiar tourist pedestal.
Erosion could. According to coastal
engineering worriers the Gold Coast
beach-front has been receding at an
alarming rate. More than a chain of
beachfront has vanished in recent years.
If someone does not do more than just
sunbake on the beaches buildings will
tumble within a few years. Nobody has
yet shown any real action and the beach
looks somewhat shoddy with a set of
ugly council drain-pipes sticking out of
the sand.
Despite the erosion and the drain pipes
some of Australia’s most beautiful and
most social figures mingle with some of
the most woeful to romp and frisk on
the fashionable sands.
The Surfers Paradise of October, 1962,
is nothing much like the Surfers Para-
dise which years ago gave the area its
start in the multi-million-pound-a-year
tourist industry.
Some of the 4500 population of Surfers
wail over the departed dear old days but
most of the present population were
people who came to town in the wake of
the first wave of publicity.
Today things are far more conserva-
tive. No more three-day non-stop parties
with the guests representing all the top
names in the Australian Odd-Ballers
Register. No more 150 : guest private
parties that take over an entire hotel
dining room with one man picking up
the tab for the lot. No more peanut-and-
beer races and no more sitting in the
gutter drinking beer while being photo-
graphed for the social pages.
In fact, it was only last summer that
some of the old timers threw up their
arms in horror at the news that a cop
told a girl that the bikini she was wearing
while shopping was too brief to be seen
off the beach.
But a little of the wild past still lingers
in the atmosphere. The streets at this
time of the year are something of a
linguistic fruit salad, and grocers’ shelves
held a colorful collection of exotic foods.
In tourist circles it is called “The
Season.”
Being catered for right now are the
fortunate and the wealthy.
The fortunate are those who live in
the colder climates but can manage to
take their holidays during the deep-
freeze months.
The wealthy, of course, are always
fortunate while the fortunate are not
always wealthy. It is by this Law of
Frivolity that the entire Surfers Paradise
system operates. In simple language the
Law of Frivolity is that the height of
holiday enjoyment is equal to the depth
of the pocket added to the capacity of
the overdraft. For this reason Surfers
Paradise offers identical-looking beds for
a variety of prices which range from as
low as 30/- (with breakfast in bed) to
suites that cost £5/5/- single.
While the town outwardly pretends
that all its tourists are VlP’s and million-
aires it realises that millionaires today
are budgets apart. This combination of
pretence and fact has produced a most
happy tourist accident. It is an accident
which pays off in millions and is a lesson
to Australia’s hopeful tourist resort areas.
Not that the accident happened easily.
Various organisations on the Gold Coast,
ranging from chambers of commerce to
progress associations, have fumbled with
tourist promotion projects over the years
but there was little science behind some
of the expensive deliberations.
One of the best promotion stunts was
the giving of free Surfers Paradise holi-
days to interstate stores, organisations,
radio stations and newspapers, or anyone
else willing to give them away, with the
condition that the contest associated with
the holiday prize required continual pro-
motion over a minimum period of three
months.
The result was that dozens of normally
expensive publicity mediums in towns
and cities in Australia and New Zealand
were carrying a barrage of Surfers Para-
dise promotion material free. Surfers
Paradise accommodation owners provided


the holidays. Most other ideas have in-
volved too much money and too much
effort with too little of the required skill
and experience needed for a national
promotion. In spite of this, the area has
managed to keep one leap ahead of any-
thing else in Australia.
Today Surfers Paradise has that “some-
thing for everyone” atmosphere of
Paddy’s Market or King’s Cross, but
because of its occasional genuine associa-
tion with millionaires it manages to
retain an air of luxury around even the
most inexpensive things. For example Bon
and Tom’s snack bar would never “dream
of selling anyone a single pancake or
two pancakes. They sell a short stack
or a long stack.
Because of its mode of selling, Surfers
Paradise reaps the major share of
Queensland’s estimated £30,000,000
annual tourist revenue. To keep this sort
of money rolling into the Gold Coast
the City supplies a choice of 1800 land-
lords who offer a selection of 7000 units
to bed down in.
Better than at home
VTowhere in Australia do they sell beds
’ with such enthusiasm as on the Gold
Coast. The modern tourist bed is a better-
than-at-home room, has a swimming pool
outside the window, television and air
conditioning, breakfast in bed and many
laid-on services without surcharges.
Just what percentage of money flowing
into the banks comes from southern
tourists is unknown. But most of “The
Season” population is from New Zealand
or New South Wales and Victoria. In
fact, New South Wales and Victorian
school holidays are welcomed by Gold
Coast merchants almost as much as by
the kids themselves. The school holidays
mark the highspots in tourist population
figures, proving that children govern more
than just the record market.
Summer vacation periods are reserved
almost entirely for Queenslanders who
would never think of taking a holiday in
the winter. Perhaps it is just as well.
Queenslanders generally do not eat the
fancy foods of southerners and shop-
keepers clear their shelves of many
continental lines with the end of “The
Season”.
Food has always been looked upon as
the “little brother” of the tourist industry.
After finding his accommodation the
average tourist concentrates all his atten-
tion on locating food. Top of the restau-
rant list is Margot Kelly’s Hibiscus Room
in Hanlan Street. According to its own
publicity it retails “heavenly food and
glamorous music that change your night
of dining and wining into a wonderful
dream!” It also promises “our strolling
violins will bewitch you at your table-
side”.
Bewitching customers has been so
successful that the Hibiscus Room defini-
tely has become the best and longest-
lived of all Gold Coast eateries. Dealing
exclusively for the “international set” it
has such a grip on the fine-foods fanciers
that one hotel recently tried to woo the
chef away with a £lO a week rise if he
would swap stoves. He rejected the offer.
Restaurants have had a grim history
in the highly competitive tourist strip.
Some that came and went (for a variety
of reasons) included French Charles, a
little candle-in-the-bottle place with two
Frenchmen in the kitchen; the Corro-
boree, which staged the most spectacular
of Surfers’ floor shows: the Zuiderzee,
which closed as a Dutch-flavored night-
spot, reopened as a Spanish one called
Joy of Spain and folded to reopen as
Heinz Club and folded again to reopen
as —the Zuiderzee, with no relationship
to the first. Then there was the Moulin
Rouge which became the Flamingo and
proved to be a turkey; and the Salad
Bowl that became a memory.
Those which have stayed, such as the
High Bonnet, Cha Cha, and Jolly Frog
are proof of the need for restaurants and
cafes but only highlight how difficult a
commodity food is to retail in a setting
like Surfers Paradise.
Queensland liquor laws were amended
this year to grant restaurants the right
to serve wines and ales (but not spirits)
with meals. Only two restaurants in
Surfers Paradise obtained a licence, the
Hibiscus Room and the Chinese Cathay
Cafe.
Restaurateurs are not too sure the law
is a good one. It does give the applicant
for a licence an edge over competitors
by being able to offer liquor but it pre-
vents him from selling beer or wine other
than by the bottle. It also means that
drinking must cease at 10.30 p.m.,
whereas anyone can take their own liquor
into a non-licensed restaurant and con-
sume until any hour so long as there
is no dancing.
Papa Alberto’s spaghetti
FFhe non-licensed restaurants include
such new places as Papa Alberto, a
little arcade cafe where Papa makes
spaghetti in the window and sells it
steaming on a plate for 4/- a throw,
together with a chuckling commentary on
Italian foods. Papa could well become
a “character” and there are few places
where a character can feel as completely
at home as in Surfers Paradise.
The ageless John Paterson, who chuck-
ed his life as an industrial chemist to
devote it to extracting oil from mutton
birds and converting this oil into suntan
oil, remains the greatest character of
them all.
With his white pith helmet, with a
stuffed mutton bird atop, great, bare,
brown chest and roaring voice. John
Paterson has had more words written
about himself and Surfers Paradise than
any other man except the late Jim Cavill.
One-time circus-man Jim Cavill founded
the Surfers Paradise Hotel and pioneered
the showmanship publicity which is now
an accepted part of the tourist industry.
Surfers Paradise learnt well from Jim
Cavill. Even the stiff-collared, conserva-
tive Bank of New South Wales gave a
wink in the direction of accuracy and put
outside its premises a massive log which,
according to a plaque, is a replica of
the one upon which Jim Cavill sat and
dreamed up the name Surfers Paradise.
In memory of Matey
ThiE only other monument in the town
A is one to a stray dog called Matey
who wandered into the path of a car
when there happened to be a quiet news
day. The resultant story brought in suffi-
cient donations for a memorial to be
erected right in the centre of the village
to the memory of the hound.
It is delightful to know that a slot in
the side of the memorial collects about
£l5O a year from sentimental tourists
who never heard of the dog, let alone
knew it, before they saw the memorial.
The money is divided between the local
surf club and the RSPCA.
But Surfers Paradise keeps packing
them in on more than its buildings of
stone dogs and white elephants.
The collective buildings of the Gold
Coast are a credit to the desire for good
living by Australians who have poured
over £3,600,000 into the narrow strip
in the last 10 years.
The buildings range from those as
humble as the by-laws allow to the lofty,
10-storey-tall Kinkabool which stood
vacant as home units for over 12 months
and now is let as flats.
Of all the homes on the Gold Coast
4500 are classed as “unoccupied” or
holiday homes. Many an architect can’t
manage to walk along a Gold Coast street
without shuddering at the constructions
Gold Coasters proudly call homes.
A desire for individuality has brought
forth some spectacular results. If anyone
is to take credit for this forceful outburst
of individuality it must to a large degree
be the real estate agent.
Once a tourist attraction in himself the
real estate agent today has become just
an ordinary citizen . . . give or take a
sale. With the passing of the great Surfers
Paradise real estate era when a property
could change hands two or three times
in a day the town is looking around for
something as spectacular to take its
place.
The neighboring beach of Broadbeach
(it used to be just one minute away as the
real estate agent lies and now is two
miles as the road goes) has taken on the
quieter tones of the Coast life. It has even


taken some of the exclusiveness that
Surfers Paradise used to boast of.
That was a change which was bound
to come. Surfers Paradise has replaced
what it has lost with some solid com-
merce. Once upon a time Paula Stafford
used to sit upon the beach sewing bikinis
for her children. Today she manufactures
them on an Australasian scale, together
with other casual fashion wear, including
ski clothes. Her husband, Bev, now takes
trips to the Orient seeking new fabrics
for his wife’s firm.
It is estimated that £200,000 a year
is spent on fashions in Surfers Paradise
by the female tourist. One firm even has
had its designs registered in Canberra
as protection against style-spies from
southern firms.
Women’s magazines, including the
glossiest and toniest, pay their respects
to the Gold Coast contribution to fashion
by sending staff to write about and photo-
graph coming attractions. New Zea-
landers, a factor of growing impor-
tance in the Coast’s tourist income, taking
home with them fashions with the “Made
in Surfers Paradise” label have resulted
in thousands of pounds of annual mail
order business.
During “The Season,” the Beach-
comber which was in the news with
its pyjama parties and Hawaiian nights—-
stages a fashion parade once a week as a
night spot feature, a form of entertain-
ment which has never tarnished since it
was introduced, due, no doubt, to the
popularity of the bikini.
Whatever killed some other forms of
entertainment in other entertainment
places, some of the fault must lie with
the high cost of entertainers. Tourists who
were fortunate enough to have been
around during the years when rival res-
taurants battled each other for business
found themselves smothered by entertain-
ment. Restaurants piled on floor show
acts until their establishments were like
the Tivoli with a menu. People could see
a full variety show for the price of a
meal. And some of the entertainers had
big price tags.
Food (with entertainment)
Coast pioneer night-spot owner
Claude Carnell was able to get away
with his Currumbin Playroom and “22
acts in two one-hour floor-shows” because
he was selling entertainment (with food)
and not food (with entertainment). Today
Mr Carnell keeps his entertainers on the
beach front doing day shows. He has
the Greenmount, Rainbow Bay, Talle-
budgera and Burleigh Heads beaches
under his lease. The now extinct “Wind-
jammer” of Sophie Graves and Bob
Geraghty days lived because it only
opened during “The Season” and shut its
doors tight for the remainder of the
year.
The man with most to show for Gold
Coast entertainment business is Stan
Bourne who has clashed with newspapers,
the Queensland Licensing Commission,
hotel managers and some blue stocking
reformers on the degree of blueness in
his humor. He claims there is none.
After spending years at the Surfers
Paradise Hotel Beer Garden as resident
comedian and orchestra leader Bourne is
contributing to the ever-changing Sur-
fers Paradise scene by packing his bags
and gags and heading over the New
South Wales border. He has taken a 10-
year lease on the Cabarita Hotel on
the New South Wales north coast where
they are trying to develop a Diamond
Coast. Bourne has built such a reputa-
tion for himself that he feels enough
tourists will follow him across the border
to be entertained in what are to him
more liberal conditions. He also, repor-
tedly, has Horrie Dargie and Bobby
Limb in with him.
Part of his decision to change places
springs from some difficulty on arriving
at terms for a new contract with Chevron
Qld Ltd. Since Chevron (they own the
Surfers Paradise Hotel, too) was taken
over by hire purchase companies CAGA
and lAC they have not found hotel
business all beer and skittles.
The quiet-playing Paradise Room
orchestra of Max Wildman has also failed
to come to an agreement about new rates
of pay and they have moved lock, stock
and bongo drum to Melbourne. The as-
sistant manager of the Surfers Paradise
Hotel, Mr Tom Morrison, has decided
to go with Stan Bourne.
The new Chevron administration
showed their different ideas on hotel
management from the start. One of the
first things they did was to abolish the
deposit fee on glasses and jugs which
drinkers in the beer garden were charged.
The hotel later refused to reveal if the
decision cost them money and how much.
In the changing resort-hotel world
even the small change department is
changing. Nice as it would be to report
that the quaint custom of tipping was
not customary it is sad to say that it is
on the increase. An experienced hotel
man has confirmed that every month the
inclination of the travelling population
to give everyone in sight a silver coin
grows greater.
Waiters happily predict that within a
few years Australia will be as bad as any-
where for tipping. It is all a part of the
tourist-feeling which the visitor demands
to have and enjoy. Nobody other than
himself has developed the custom of
giving tips and only he can stop it. To
do so would ruin the delusion of
grandeur and opulence which goes with
being able to pass on a little something
to the humble worker. This in Surfers
Paradise at times is a bit of a laugh.
Dignified carnival
It has often been said that living in
Surfers Paradise is something like
living in the main alley of a dignified
carnival. The local residents have got
more capacity for make believe than
Walt Disney.
The Chevron Hotel smartest beer
and bed depot north of parallel 32 has
gone after (and captured) the bulk of the
Gold Coast convention business. To cater
for this trade, Chevron Hotel has built
special and splendid banquet and stage
facilities. But convention business means
that a big pool of staff has to be avail-
able for short periods to assist the cater-
ing of banquets, cocktail parties and
luncheons.
Chevron Hotel has a list of brick-
layers, office workers, housewives, etc.,
who have undergone a 10-week course
in the handling of fine wines and foods.
When the alarm bell goes the tradesmen
and office girls change into uniforms,
scurry up the big, broad white steps of
the Chevron Hotel and take their places
as waiters and waitresses.
So the bloke you slip that tip to at
Surfers Paradise next week may be the
same fellow you saw just down the high-
way finishing off a £.40,000 building.
And the waitress may own it. On the
other hand, it may be a genuine full-
time waiter to whom tips represent a
part of his wages. It’s up to the tourist
to decide which twin is the phony.
But Surfers Paradise, part-false, part-
true, sometimes shabby, often glamorous
mostly raucous and sometimes under-
dressed, mainly boastful, but occasion-
ally underestimated, remains the most
important Australian experiment in the
field of tourism. It is Australia’s only
genuine tourist town where the 4500
population rely 100 ped cent on the
tourist industry. By the use of imagina-
tion and considerable cash the experi-
ment has been a grand success.
The township supports seven chemists,
five fruit shops, eight service stations, five
butchers, one fairy floss machine, thirteen
gift shops, two schools, and twelve beauty
salons. But it has no police station and
no ambulance station and in a few weeks
time it will have no fire station —they
are moving that to Broadbeach.
Then, they’re always changing some-
thing in Surfers Paradise.


m
Y
%
l
“V
W'
H
*■
t
••-' :
a
i
mm
. s
S
111
<5
’’
m
•>
I*.*
W
-y® I ***'**
I
fl
T-
Sometimes Volkswagens feel lonely
Volkswagensgowhereothercarscan’t.
They keep going when othercars don't.
In summer when some cars sit on
the side of the road with overheated
engines, Volkswagens keep going.
VW’s air-cooled engine just can’t boil.
It can’t freeze either.
Volkswagen’s rear engine means
more weight on the driving wheels,
better road grip. Volkswagen takes
you through mud, sand or snow
places only VW can go.
VW's don’t stop at petrol stations
often either. They don’t need to. 37
miles between gallons is a long way
and that’s what VW’s do with normal
driving.
Volkswagens go in for service regu-
larly, of course. They go to authorised
VW service agents. That’s the best
service there is. Ask a VW owner.
Volkswagen owners aren’t lonely.
They’ve got a lot of friends; over
130,000 VW owners in Australia
alone. That's not surprising. You
get so much more with Volkswagen
that it’s commonsense to own one.
It’s fun, too.
Your authorised Volkswagen agent
will show you many ways Volks-
wagen is better. Some you’ll only
find by driving VW. Why not give
yourself one of the most enjoyable
driving experiences. Drive Volks-
wagen soon.
FROM
£849
TAX PAID
(State Capital Cities)
A product of Volkswagen (Australasia) Pty. Ltd.
ST’S A VOLKSWAGEN WORLD TEST DRIVE VOLKSWAGEN AT YOUR VW AGENT TODAY
VW 6935


Always ask for
AINSLIE’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd., Sydney
Halloran Manton Pty. Ltd.
THE WILD ONE
It won't he long before O'Keefe is hack there in the idiot box,
signalling to be let out.
BY CHARLES HUGHAM
Projecting the O’Keefe image
I can remember seeing him for the
first time at the Sydney Stadium, in
a performance which was later to be
captured by director Lee Robinson on
film. He was soberly clad, as usual, in
a grey, tightly buttoned suit, black
Italian shoes as pointed as those worn
by Walt Disney goblins, with massive
cuff-links flashing on several inches of
shirt sleeve. His hair was thick, clotted
with oil; his face of a puffy, toadstool
whiteness; his body small, plump,
twitching convulsively. The most strik-
ing features were the eyes - small beads
fixed in intense concentration. The
mouth, set in a hard, determined line,
twisted into a grin as he sprinted down
the aisle between clawing, pompadored
girls. To shrieks, he burst into song,
bending the microphone low. Johnny
O’Keefe was off.
At present in hospital, O’Keefe will
probably be back there on top within
a few months, whipping up a TV show,
dashing off to America to buy songs,
scrawling his signature across record
covers in stores across the country.
There hasn't been anything quite like
him in Australian show business. Others
may have nw.de more money Bob
Rogers, John Laws, Jack Davev, Bob
Dyer, Col Joye. But none of these, at
least overtly, has had the fanaticism, the
lust for power that have singled O'Keefe
out in a society that prefers the sardoni-
cally self-effacing.
Most of O'Keefe’s successful contem-
poraries Joye, Lonnie Lee, Warren
Williams, Johnny Rebb, Johnny Devlin
—affect an apologetic look as they groan
their numbers, obviously devised by
pseudo-hicks for a genuine hick audi-
ence. O'Keefe has never bothered to
conceal his arrogance, and his push,
granting his admirers only a rough cheer-
fulness they can identify with, a brisk
boy-next-door bonhomie that vanishes
the instant he’s away from the spotlight.
Extreme ambition and conflict ’ ave
marked O’Keefe’s life, and this, too, sets
him apart from his contemporaries, who
have striven to maintain an image of
moral cleanliness, frequent beach-going,
and an addiction to nothing more potent
than milkshakes in order to present their
followers with an idealised Caiifornian-
Australian prototype. They've gone
around in the required uniform jeans,
white sweaters, Speedos for the beach —
while he’s always been business-suited,
only in the early days breaking cut into
rhinestone spangles.
Most of them have been tall, fairly
good looking, outdoor Australian types,
of whom the ballad-singer Lionel Long
is a currently popular example. Without
the looks, the build, to capture the huge
female listening and viewing audience
between 12 and 18, O'Keefe has had to
capitalise on a wildly abandoned stage
presence, a loud and not unattractive
shouting voice, and an uncanny knack
of surrounding himself with pleasant
young performers and expert lighting,
cameramen and set designers.
His push looked like taking him a long
way at first. In November, 1959, he
sank the residue of three years’ earnings
into an extraordinary flight to America,
determined to build himself into an in-
ternational star. Liberty Records, evi-
dently impressed by the sales of his re-
cords in Australia (he was the first Aus-
tralian singer to catch on with his young
compatriots in a big way), launched him
in the States with a publicity campaign
featuring a nation-wide boomerang-hunt
(they photographed him holding one for
the LP record cover). After a record-
breaking sprint through 36 states, in-
cluding a brief appearance at Miami's
bizarre Hotel Fontainebleu, O'Keefe re-
turned to a Lee Gordon Stadium show,
flinging himself on stage to give the most
abandoned, most startling performance
of his career.
Probably because of his nationality,
O'Keefe made little impact in America,
where far less lively performers like
Fabian and Bobby Vee made a deep im-
pression. Unlike them, he never pro-
jected the required image of tanned,
golden-haired, simple-hearted boyhood.
Back in Australia, he again displayed his
headlines-grabbing talent when he be-
came involved in a car-smash, which was
followed by a picture of him on the front
page of the "Daily Mirror”, his head
cocooned in bandages, being carried
from a plane which had flown him to
Sydney.
It didn’t take long for him to turn
the accident to good account. He gave
a press conference in his hospital ward,
cracking muffled jokes through the band-
age cocoon. Then he flew back to Ame-
rica, where he was already dead in show
business, left New York furiously in mid-
blizzard, arrived in London, contacted
the BBC, found no interest there, and
suddenly collapsed, waking up in St.
George’s Hospital.
I shall always remember meeting him
after his return. He seemed distracted.
He’d only been back a day, and the
phone never seemed to stop ringing.
Someone was on the line, someone who
obviously leaned on his advice a
young singer, perhaps, or a songwriter.
“So I helped your new record, OK!”
O’Keefe was saying. “But the kids are-
n’t buying it, are they? And if they are-
n’t buying it, there’s nothing you can do
about it, is there? Whassat? Now see
here, it doesn't matter a flick of mah


THE ‘CLUB GRILL’ AT MELBOURNE’S SOUTHERN CROSS
a
CT
2
You would expect to pay more at
Melbourne's Southern Cross Hotel
but you don’t!
Rates commencing at just £4 single, £7.4.0 double,
are just the first of many attractions awaiting you at
Melbourne’s Southern Cross, Australia’s largest hotel, backed by
the skill and experience of the world’s leading international
hotel group. Others include elegant new restaurants, intimate
coffee lounges, cosy bars, and underground parking for over
300 cars. Comfort and good taste are the keynotes to every
individually air-conditioned guest room and suite.
SOUTHERN
CROSS
HOTEL OF NEW HORIZONS
EXHIBITION STREET
MELBOURNE
Book NOW through your travel
agent, or by contacting direct,
The Southern Cross (Melbourne
63 0221, grams “Inholelcor”).
IHC 11.24
r /f Z R s^
INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS
a*. ud
finger if they don’t go for you!” “Tell
him to get . . .” said O’Keefe’s wife from
the kitchen.
A click, and he was back in the
room, his face white and drawn, point-
ing to a photograph of Lady Dunrossil,
in mourning, after the Governor-Gene-
ral’s funeral. “That’s my wife behind
the veil!” he screamed, and he wasn’t
joking. “My wife! And I’m dead 7 tell
youl” He strode around his strange liv-
ing-room with its crimson and cream
walls, its padded white piano with a
framed record on top. “All the best doc-
tors in London were round my bed! Ha-
ha! Yeah, and now I’m dead! They all
came from Harley Street!”
This kind of spectacular explosion
seems more, typical of Hollywood in the
1930’s than Sydney in the 1960’5. Not
long after, I caught a glimpse of
O’Keefe’s astonishing methods. He was
in the midst of one of his perennial
crises, his programme “Six O’Clock
Rock” on the skids, trying to persuade
Qantas to give him, his wife and
children free seats on a plane to London,
ringing the heads of all three TV stations
in succession to put up some fantastic
scheme for a new, international O’Keefe
programme, to be financed here and shot
in England. At around 10.30 p.m., he
got on to the general manager of the
ABC, Sir Charles Moses. I have to admit
my ears pricked up. I could hear a voice
at the other end, sounding rather faint.
O’Keefe was saying: “Don’t you realise
I’m great? Look at your ratings, Sir
Charles!”
Apparently Sir Charles did. Soon after
O’Keefe wasn’t on his payroll. “Six
O’Clock Rock” had a variety of com-
peres, most likeably Rhett Walker (a
genuine discovery), most grotesquely the
prim Tanya Halesworth. Then, perhaps
advisedly, the programme went off the
air, and it has never been replaced. A
number of shows have been launched
since “The Bryan Davies Show”,
“Startime”, “The Col Joye Show” and
others but they’ve never recaptured
the zest, pace and enjoyable brashness
of the early “Six O’Clock Rocks”, which
owed a great deal to O’Keefe’s fantastic
personality.
Physically small, O’Keefe has always
been genuinely larger than life, with his
vast wardrobe of suits, North Shore man-
sion, habit of announcing plans for a
Hollywood career before breakfast, whiz-
zing round the world on lightning self-
promotion tours, badgering and hector-
ing Sir Charles Moses, being shooed off
a stage in a Canberra dress show and
collapsing again to be carried off to hos-
pital.
His dreams were fantastic, grandiose:
he wanted to make Sydney the enter-
tainment capital of the world, with him-
self as emperor, hiring people like Lena
Horne and Doris Day to sing for him,
convinced they would want a Sydney
season in preference to a New York
one, if only he were at the controls. A
fantastic man whose hopes have some-
times terminated in breakdowns, a man
who dislikes mundane reality, a man who
was never blessed with looks, physi-
que, the usual lures for the young who
demand superhuman qualities in their
idols.
This animated, determined, undeniably
impressive showman has lived a life en-
tirely suited to the quasi-American
aggressiveness of the New Australia.
Liking that aggressiveness, finding it vital
and exciting, one wishes him well. It
won’t be long before he’s back there
in the idiot box, wildly signalling to be
let out.


DEFENCE AND INVASION
Collective Security v. Home Security
By EK DUM
Mr Athol Townley's Three Year
Defence Plan of 1959-60 is merg-
ing into a new one. The last Bud-
get speech said this fresh scheme has
been drawn up in the light of changes
in the world political and strategic situa-
tion and particularly of the responsibili-
ties we have in the region of South-East
s * a - t
It appears that the “statement to be
made in the House in due course ’ will
lead to a rise in the annual level of our
defence expenditure.
A sum of £210,000.000 has been ten-
tativcly placed on the Estimates to meet
actual outgoings in 1962-63. The in-
crease of £6.9 millions which is only
chiefly attributable to the costs of addi-
tional proposals in the new three-year
programme .
This announcement has been received
by the public with inertia and general
indiflerence.
Publicity on defence now comes al-
most entirely from one side—the Gov-
ernment side. The critics are weary and
frustrated. The general tendency is to
accept the comfortable present and hope
that nothing will happen to destroy the
lazy illusion that, if we are attacked,
somebody else will do the fighting for us.
To justify Government laissez faire a
rich store of excuses and theories has
been accumulated not only by “peace
societies” and the Communists, but also
by some Regular Army leaders who are
now in the ascendancy and politicians.
There is always a new catchcry on
tap . . . “nuclear deterrent” . . . “global
defence” . . . “push-button” . . . “limited
war” . . . “collective security”.
The “global W’ar”, with its push-button
implications, was the pioneer of these
phrases which came into fashion after
Hiroshima. “One boml . . . one toot,
and ye're oot.” Therefore, it would be
useless for Australia to try to defend
herself by the old methods. All the
same, others would have to defend us.
Didn't they have to do it in the last war?
Hadn't that war shown them it was ab-
solutely indispensable to defend Austra-
lia? So, why worry?
But realisation soon came that our
presumed defenders were casting a cold
eye on our lack of compulsory citizen-
force. This was resulting in conscription
of young Americans and Britons under
draft schemes for anything up to two
years for service anywhere in the world.
The Menzies Government followed Peter
Fraser in New Zealand and introduced
National Training. About the only thing
national about it was the na e and every
interest seemed to be out to murder it,
anyhow, from birth. Red trade union
leaders slashed at it savagely and did
their best to sabotage it. Employers,
plagued by severe labor shortages,
trainees themselves losing a three months
stint at the university, mothers stampeded
by the peace societies, a war-sick public
ready to take the rainbow view all
conspired for its demise, each group for
its own reasons.
Now not only is National Training
dead, but the will to criticise the fact
that there is no universal training, or
partial training worth the name, is also
nearly dead.
There is criticism of defe-ee measures,
but mainly it is nebulous and destructive
rather than constructive. It has two main
trends, both based on vague premises.
One trend is towards criticism in terms
of finance —towards the theory that too
much, or too little, is being spent on
defence, or that vast sums are being
wasted. The other trend is towards the
theory that it doesn’t matter twopence
what our level of defence is because
financial considerations preclude our
keeping up with the Joneses of the larger
nations in actual military establishment;
and therefore that the b: t we can do
is to build up a capacious heavy industry,
ready to go on a war footing when the
first bomb falls, or the first hundred
thousand parachutists hit Australian soil,
and accumulate powerful allies willing to
save us.
Neither of these lines or criticism is
very useful, or comprehensive of the
whole vital issues.
Defence cannot be criticised in terms
of pure finance —how much is spent on
it, how much is spent per capita in re-
lation to the expenditures of other coun-
tries, how much is spent in proportion to
gross product or national income in rela-
tion to other countries.
Every country has its own special
needs. The defence need of Canada,
for instance, is very different from that
of Australia. Canada is a land mass as
big as our own, if with a different cli-
mate, but it is sandwiched in between
the two dominating giants of the world
system, a sort of no man’s land in peace-
time, but, at the first shot against its soil,
a bone which neither of the big dogs
could allow its adversary to gnaw at.
Canada’s southern communication
systems via the St Lawrence are inte-
grated with those of the United States.
Canada’s heavy industry and nuclear
materials are vital to United States de-
fence. Canada could never be the ob-
ject of a limited war aimed at its terri-
tory alone. At the first shot fired against
it, no matter by whom, it would become
for all defence purpose! virtually inte-
gral with the United States and defended
as if it consisted of sectors vT the United
States.
This is a position very different from
that of Australia. A large country de-


fends foreign soil only when the defence
is vital to its own security, whatever
other brotherly motives it may profess.
And it assesses priorities of defence in
crisis according to its own immediate
defence needs.
It is not possible to conceive the
United States not helping on a large
scale to defend Canada, even if its own
metropolitan zones were under direct
attack. It is possible to envisage a Ttua-
tion in a global war in which Australia
would be low down in American and
British priorities, especially if it'had little
to contribute to the war of organised and
trained manpower and seemed likely to
be a drain on the major pool of
weaponry, aircraft and logistic plant, es-
pecially ships.
Communication lines with our allies
are long. After getting the measure of
what even minor and non-nuclear wars
mean in terms of manpower support,
shipping and communications generally
through the experiences of Korea, the
United States would need a very strong
basis of reason for major defence of
Australia if the latter country were at-
tacked simultaneously with the US at
the outset of a global war. And the pos-
sibility that the US would be so attacked
as a No. 1 priority is very strong.
Australia is, indeed to look at it
from a starkly practical military view-
point—a continent which allied combat-
ants in a massive global war could allow
to fall into the hands of the enemy, let-
ting him exhaust his communications and
resources on the job. No wishful think-
ing will change this situation and no care-
free assumption based on Dyal assur-
ances from without can absolve an Aus-
tralian Government from the duty of
seeing the ultimate situation of danger:
the situation in which we are called on
to defend ourselves, on our own soil.
The discussion of defence on the basis
of cost plays into the hands of shirking
politicians, or timid ones afraid of the
selfish blocs of complacci 1 and subver-
sively pacifist pressure-groupers and
their followers. The phrases used by Mr
Townley in introducing his three-year
plan of 1960 are obvic..ffy intended as
answers to any charges of neglect to
carry out the adequate: “The scale of
Australian defence must be determined
by priorities”. In other words, if defence
cost more, adequate social service pay-
ments might be lower, or taxation heav-
ier. Therefore, the “scale of the defence
plan is governed by economics ... in a
country with such limited resources as
Australia”. ... It is “not practicable to
prepare for every contingency”.
And his Minister’s views have been
echoed three years later by Brigadier
Donald Jackson, Chief of Staff, Southern
Command, in an article in the United
States Military Review, official organ of
the American Staff Corps: “The direc-
tion to be taken by Australian policy as
well as the broad principles on which her
security should be based is affected by
a fundamental lack of power.” . . . “In
default of an effective world security sys-
tem, it is accepted that the best defence
lies in regional arrangements, preferably
in association with the power of the
United States.”
It is impossible to think of more de-
featist, or less prescient, military think-
ing. It is inexcusable on any grounds,
especially in the light of experience which
shows what might have been.
Collective Security
rpHE existing Australian defence concept
considers only one contingency
a limited war in which our allies might
be involved and in which all we would
have to provide immediately would be a
regular-cum-citizen spearhead to help the
neighbor countries, mostly the United
States, outside Australian territory, with
others than ourselves doing the bulk of
the fighting.
The contingency that Australia itself
might become a victim of a limited war
in which security would not be collective,
through overseas policies or circum-
stances just as the Dutch have been in
West New Guinea has no priority in
the plan.
So our main defence is supposed to be
achieved through pacts and alliances. We
are a partner in Anzus with the United
States and New Zealand for collective
defence; we are a partner in the over-
lapping Seato; we have an older British
Commonwealth partnership in Anzam
with the United Kingdom and New Zea-
land in an arrangement for the defence
of British Borneo, Malaya and Austra-
lasia. But so far as the public, at any
rate, knows there is no arrangement of
precedences for Australian defence with-
in these arrangements —who goes by the
board first if pressures become heavy, for
instance.
The one certainty is that within this
structure for limited wars we have a de-
fence set-up which needs to be bol-
stered by continuous apology, so meagre
is it, and so little conceived for that last
resource—the “metropolitan” defence of
Australia in case invasion does break
through the lines of the international
defence organisations of which we are
part.
To justify this position, politicians and
their military advisers have to magnify
their effort to the limit by abandoning
the theory that trained men are the basic
weapons of war and that the level of
reserves trained reserves determines
ultimate decisions in war.
Few men have to be made to look
more by vaunting firepower, instead of
personnel and training. The military sys-
tems of our great allies must be cited
as the ideal for our purposes, regardless
of the fact that they are designed against
the background of vast forces millions
strong, always in uniform and in train-
ing, forces armed with contemporary
weapons and backed by huge and global
logistical and naval and air facilities and
nuclear striking power.
All sorts of excuses are made for fol-
lowing the comfortable traditions of the
Pentagon which fought its war in Korea
with heated automobiles for staff offi-
cers, ten-course dinners at Eighth Army
Headquarters, turkey and beer in the
front line. But we do not remember in
planning defence what the hordes of
Chinese carrying their own rice and
armed with something that was like a
gas pipe equipped with a spring and a
crude cylinder holding fifty rounds, were
capable of doing to the most highly auto-
matised and pampered army in the world.
There seems to be no memory at Can-
berra of the fact that the best and tough-
est troops on our side in Korea, and
those with the “fightingest morale” dur-
ing that distressful Asiatic fracas, were
the least modernised; that despite all the
theories which had been flogged to death,
this and all the “petty” wars that have
been fought in the last decade and a half
have proved, on the try-out, to be what
all wars have always been irrespective of
standards of weapons: ultimately wars of
brains, and of men against men, PBI
versus PBI, with the human spirit as the
governing factor.
I believe that an old police sergeant’s
contribution to a debate on the proposed
arming of the Queensland police has
some application to modern theories of
war, especially when applied to jungle,
desert and Asiatic warfare against poorly
armed peoples driven to oppose cunning
to superior weapons: “Shure, give us re-
volvers”, said the grand old Hiberian,
“but hav ye iver used a gun against two
dhrunken wimmen armed with hairpins,
now?”
Collective Security Vital
T et it be clear that I am not criticising
collective security as collective secu-
rity. It is a vital ingredient, indispensable
to any scheme for the defence of Austra-
lia, both as a deterrent, and as a tactical
measure vital to our defence in any war
in which this country is threatened with
invasion. But taken by itself as the whole
corpus of defence it is the product of a
Maginot complex, of a blind eye which
fails to see the possibility that the enemy
might break through or get around the
collective screen, or that the collective
screen, for some reason, might not be
there at the crucial moment.
It is very easy but specious to suggest


that Australia cannot be abandoned by
its allies because of its strategic situation.
Necessity and desperation alike know no
law; and “the Devil take the hindmost”
has not become outmoded through the
advent of nuclear fission, however com-
forting it is to imagine that it has been.
In a global war, no enemy is likely to
make the same mistake that Japan made
last time of not making a major effort
against us, especially in view of the im-
portance today of Woomera and the vital
need to destroy the Australian section of
allied tracking stations which are part
of the nuclear and stratospheric defence
of the Western world. And any attack
that comes will be of Pearl Harbor sud-
denness and can only be met by imme-
diate readiness of large numbers of citi-
zen defenders properly trained for their
tasks. So that while it is not logical to
criticise lull participation in regional de-
fence, it is most reasonable to attack the
general air of fatalism, of surrender to
circumstances, of being afraid to drive
home the truth about security to electors
because it is unpalatable, of flatulence of
official thinking and the lameness of the
excuses given for it.
A ustralian defence policy is a com-
plete negation of the frequent as-
sertions of ministers that the Common-
wealth has become a great nation,
among the greatest in influence on earth.
That is a myth, while our military
strength remains where it is; for it is an
axiom in world politics that greatness
goes with power of defence or aggres-
sion. The extent of our influence—how
little it is regarded has been proved
again and again in international politics,
recently very forcibly in the Dutch-
Indonesian crisis. We had nothing but
empty words to use in opposing the rape
of West New Guinea.
Yet we are a nation of more than 10
million people, likely to be reaching out
for twelve millions when the next three-
year defence plan is complete, as nume-
rous as Britons at the zenith of the
Napoleonic wars. But our attitude to
defence is less self-reliant than that of
nations with less than half our popula-
tion, yet strongly in contrast to the atti-
tude of those who founded the Austra-
lian defence system.
When the Australian defence scheme
matured—the scheme w'hich was the nur-
turing ground of the First AIF and
therefore of Australian nationhood—its
framers did not turn their eyes to British
models. They did not aim at a force
primarily designed for fighting foreign
wars or holding colonies. The prototype
which stood out most clearly in their
minds was Switzerland with its civilian
army, always civilian controlled, civilian
manned, subservient to day-to-day public
opinion and as much a part of peaceful
Swiss life as the Alps themselves.
It was once said by an officer of the
German General Staff: “The Swiss have-
n t got a Wermacht; they are a Wehr-
macht.” He was using the word Wehr-
macht in its purest sense of a strong
human dam, tailored to hold back any
conceivable pressure from without. And
it was on that basis that Australian de-
fence originally was planned—on the
democratic theory that in the event of
invasion every Australian should be
ready on the minute to defend the con-
tinent, without further basic training.
Australia has diverged very far indeed
from Switzerland in its thinking in the
1 st fifty years, despite the lessons of
two wars. Switzerland would . have the
excuse for slackness of guaranteed neu-
trality operating perfectly in those two
wars and of a difficult terrain to attack.
But its principles of defence have been
unchanging in the face of wartime ex-
perience. The Schweitzer gets his
weapon with his vote, and training to
use it. There is no “collective security”
to vitiate military thinking.
Every Swiss who is able-bodied, enters
the front line of defence at 20 and does
116 days training. It is significant of the
national viewpoint that this front line
force in which he receives his basic in-
struction is called “the Elite”.
Later he does eight periods of three
weeks each over the period which ends
when he is 36 years old, after which he
transfers to the Lanclwehr in which he
remains on reserve until he is 50 it
was 60 till a year or two ago.
And this little “neutral” nation keeps
thoroughly up-to-date in weapons, or-
ganisation and training, revising them
every three or four years. From among
its population, equal to half of that of
the Commonwealth, it supports four
corps, 12 divisions three mechanised,
three field, three frontier and three moun-
tain —with the backing of an adequate
air force and with firepower kept up to
modern standards. L is prepared to use
nuclear weapons, “as soon as available”,
and has training cadres for them in
being.
Against this background, Brigadier
Jackson, Chief of Staff of the Southern
Command, AMF, in his article in the
American Military , has painted
a smug picture of the de lopment of
Australian post-World War II military
policy.
The Australian conception of land de-
fence, he declared, has cha ged from a
“national service scheme . . . not related
to the Regular Army . . . lacking the
scope to provide fully trained soldiers
. . . but a remarkable success when
previous ventures in obligatory service
are considered”.
One can only hope that his phrase
“previous ventures” are not intended to
refer to the ventures that produced the
leaders and men of Gallipoli, Pozieres,
Fromelles, Ypres, Bullecou.Villers Bret
and Mont St Quentin, El Alamein and
the New Guinea moss forests and Sattel-
berg.
However, it seems that with “the
change in the basis of national tension,
and the accent on the possibility of lim-
ited rather than global war, the national
service call-up was suspended in 1959
since, though it provided approximately
200,000 with military training” ... its
“demands on regular arm; manpower,
administrative effort, and on the Army
budget precluded the building-up of re-
gular combat units and th- purchase of
modern equipment”.
Thus we have a deliberate admission
by one of our regional chiefs of staff
that the concept of universal military
training was subordinated to the needs
of the Regulars, who only recently were
not even legal as a field force and existed
merely to do the staff planning for and
training of a democrate civilian army.
The viewpoint of those who now dom-
inate military thinking is even more fully
expounded in Brigadier Jackson’s next
sentences: “Furthermore, while volunteer
members of the CMF were volunteers
for overseas service, national servicemen
were liable only for home defence. Al-
though a high volunteer ratio in emer-
gency could be assumed, the amalgama-
tion prevented the ready availability of
the CMF as a fighting force.”
Except, of course, it should have been
added, on Australian soil, the defence
of which is the ultimate objective of
Australian defer .
'VTot much can be expected of a de-
” fence system that springs from Mr
Townley’s premise of a “fundamental
lack of power” and in an atmosphere in
which defence is never discussed with-
out references to the prohibitive costs
of materiel, the hopelessness of anything
that isn’t based on pen-tropic or some-
thing else “pen” and of keeping up with
Washington.
There is a sad defeatism about it all.
Mr. Townley, in bringing forward his
basic scheme in 1960, admitted our need
for an aircraft-carrier, but the money for
it was “not available from any likely
source within our budget”, and the enter-
prise of securing one “could not be
seriously entertained, because of conside-
rations of cost and timing"'.


Such assertions as, Australia’s decision
“not to keep pace with modern develop-
ments in this field is a sound one”. . . .
“security i. our area must be a collective
concept. We cannot stand alone” speak
for themselves in all their naked defeat-
ism, and they apply equally to the CMF
as to the Navy and the Air Force.
The CMF becomes a token force of
30,000 volunteers, handed the sop of a
“Royal” before the title of the largely
phantom regiments, integrated with the
permanent field force as a sort of vesti-
gial tail which cannot wag except when
animated by its owner, the Regular Army.
The Regular component, from being the
servant has become the master, in an
organisation which is reduced to a maxi-
mum field force of 'O,OOO men, two-
thirds of them receiving only the sket-
chiest kind of training. The CMF are
mere reserves or second-line troops, to
be used to back up the 23,000 men on
the permanent strength of the Regular
Army—including 12 generals, 20 briga-
diers, among 2924 commissioned offi-
cers and a total of 11,064 officers and
non-coms above the rank of lance-
corporal
There is, thus, nearly one officer,
commissioned or non-' 'mmissioned, to
every lance-corporal or private or an-
cillary in the Australian Regular Army,
which consists of staff, plus what Briga-
dier Jackson describes as that “well-
trained and well-equipped force . , . pro-
vided for movement overs ->s 04 short
notice”. The CMF, it seems to Briga-
dier Jackson, “served well enough when
there was time, to call up a volunteer
force and train it Lr services overseas
and military activity at that pace could
be accepted and there was no military
threat to Australia”.
Now the CMF is considered officially
good only for last-resort reinforcements.
Local battalions have lost their old,
proud identities as they have lost all
initiative. They cannot even waggle
their little fingers without cleaving their
way through masses of hampering red
tape wielded as a sort of t'ngle-foot by
majors t State Headquarters Commands.
TTp till a few years ago anybody who
understood clearly the role of the
Staff Corps was apt to be proud of and
sympathetic with the Regulars. They
wer. unpopular with Labor. They were
underpaid. They were trenched to
starvation point in times of depression.
They were retired on pittances on which
no man could live above laborer stan-
dard. But they were earnest and pro-
duced Chauvels, Lavaracks a..d Berry-
mans, Rowells, Robertsons, Wynbers.
Today th? old-time champion of the
Regulars is apt to be shocked by the
change that has taken place in the atti-
tudes of the now well-housed, well-paid,
well-allowanced and pensioned perman-
ent Royals, when he is struc! by a flash
of their lightning, such as Brigadier
Jackson’s remark that the CMF is merely
“essential for the full expansion of the
(regular) ground forces . . . much in the
same way as the US National Guard,
and with similar liniitc'ions ”.
This is a staggering suggestion.
Though the US National Guard is paid
for in the main by the US Federal Gov-
ernment, it is more a political machine
than a military one. Its commanders are
appointed by State C jvernors, not Wash-
ington, and are as often as not merely
political bosses. Its officer corps, in at
least half the states, is made up of ap-
pointees to whom it is desirable to hand
out political sinecures. Its armories as
often as not are political bribe, given to
impoverished but hard-vc 'ng villages as
“amenities”. A large section of its re-
cruits are in it because it is an escape-
hatch which enables them to shirk the
draft which might se.id them overseas
for two years fighting, in exchange for
six months nominal ’ ome service under
the command of a friendly politician. At
least half its units are 60 per cent, under
strength.
The CMF, even in its present sup-
pressed and shameful condition, certainly
is not to be compared to the US National
Guard without provoking resentment.
Yet at the same time the National Guard
system has some good features. It takes
reminders of the need for defence to
the people, down to the grass-roots of
community life. Its system and struc-
ture draw the States into the defence
field and emphasise patriotism and the
concept of service and the personal re-
sponsibility of the citizen to train him-
self to defend his home.
Australia’s defence forces outside the
land forces, present poor excuse for
keeping the Army at minimum sirength
for internal defence. How can an RAN
—less than one man to the mile—defend
a coast line 13,000 miles long and (vide
again Brigadier Jackson) be “responsible
for the security and control of Austra-
lia’s sea communications and provision
of forces either acting independently or
in co-operation with allies and sister ser-
vices in general operations of war”, with
“special emphasis on the means for anti-
submarine war”?
One submarine of the 6000-ton nuclear
types now at sea in the American Navy
could demoralise the whole Australian
“fleet” which hasn’t even an aircraft-
carrier reasonably operable under World
War 111 conditions. It won’t have (even
in terms of optimism) a couple of the
2500-ton, twenty-million pound Ameri-
can Adams Class missile ships under
three years from now. The RAAF, virile
in manpower, couldn’t defend Kangaroo
Island, much less Australia.
Not very much can I j done to build
up these forces under present conditions
in an age when a destroyer costs ten
times the price of the 42,000-ton Hood
of the late World War I vintage, and
even a trainer Vampire in the RAAF
runs to £30,000 it costs the same
amount to train a single fighter pilot.
But immense things can be done with
the land forces.
Ochool cadet corps are the natural
starting points for universal defence
training which is the only kind of train-
ing that can be effective against invasion
in a country as widespread and sparsely
populated as the Commonwealth. Here
intensity of military activity should not
be measured, as Brigadier Jackson
measured it in his article, by how many
men there are per head of population
in the force, but how many per strategic
square mile and vital objective.
Local training cadres and special
arms, organised with plenty of ccmpeti-
tive incentives as between towns, dis-
tricts, schools and units are basic essen-
tials. Whatever the imagination of the
Regular Staff Corps may say about possi-
bilities, war on Australian soil must be a
war of raiding parties or parachute in-
vaders versus guerrillas when it comes to
the final issue.
The guerrilla during the years of the
ascendancy of the push-button and the
almighty bomb as the ultimate and irre-
sistible weapon, was the forgotten man
of the military world. But there is an
amazing shift back to thinking about
man as the final weapon in every coun-
try—Russia has never forgotten him.
The US Director of Intelligence and
Research, Department of State, in the
United States, Roger Hilsman, wrote re-
cently.
In my judgment, it is nonsense to think that
regular forces trained for conventional war
can handle jungle guerrillas adequately . . . Re-
gular forces are vital to resist external aggres-
sion. But we must not be deluded ... by the
traditionalists’ belief that regulars can do any-
thing. Regular forces are essential for regular
military tasks, but guerrilla warfare is some-
thing special. It is ironic that we Americans
have to learn this military lesson again in the
20th century. Have we forgotten that we were
the ones who had to teach the British regu-
lars “Indian fighting’’ back when we wore still
a colony?
And have ice forgotten the lesson of
Malaya in recent years and that of our
own commandos in New Guinea, and
the US Strategic Services and other be-
hind the lines units of the Burma War?
Hilsman recalls that at one stage in
that campaign he and 200 Burmese kept
a regiment of 3000 Japanese constantly
on the bewildered move.
It seems likely that any war of in-
vasion which Australia may have to face
should be planned from the tactics of
Tito and Castro rather than from those
favored in Canberra.


Macao Newsletter
THE THREE
DAYS OF
OCTOBER
When the crackers go off
from DESMOND O'GRADY
October in Macao opens with three
national days which reflect the bal-
ance of power in this small city:
October 1 is Communist China’s national
day, October 5 Portugal’s and October
10 Nationalist China's. The Portuguese
celebrate with cocktail parties, sober
formal and hierarchical as only those of
a colonial society can be, but the Chinese
let their heads go. Macao’s biggest in-
dustry is the manufacture of fire crackers
and a fair proportion of the year’s pro-
duction seems to explode on the first
and the tenth. In addition, triumphal
arches are erected to commemorate
Communist or Nationalist victories while
houses, shops, bicycles and pedicabs
carry flags which indicate their owners’
allegiance: red for the Communist and
blue for the Nationalists. A few years
ago the red flags were a majority but
now they are barely a third of the total.
The refugee exodus earlier this year
was a bad advertisement for the Com-
munists but they aim to capture support
through the Macaoese schools. Forty
one per cent. (19,412) of pupils attend
Catholic school, 31 per cent. (14,727)
are taught by government Nationalist,
Protestant or independent schools while
28 per cent. (13,550) are at the Com-
munist schools. In Macao’s five square
miles the ideological competition leads
to dramatic juxtapositions: in the Green
island settlement where 7,600 refugees
live in huts donated by American, Mal-
tese and Australian (National Catholic
Rural Movement) Catholics, Catholic and
Communist schools stand almost side by
side. One reason the Communist schools
are attended by people who risked bullets
in their backs to escape Communist
China is that there is not sufficent room
in non-Communist schools.
The addition of 65,000 refugees to a
population of 250,000 has severely
strained the education system. The Jusuit
college Casa Ricci which opened in 1955
to cope with refugee children is a good
example of the increased load: it began
with 250 pupils and now has more than
2000. It is a good example of yet an-
other reason why the Communist schools
are well-attended: fees at the Casa Ricci
are kept at 2 cents (HK) a day and many
parents cannot pay even this. Neverthe-
less their children are accepted and the
school is run at a 50 per cent, loss —it has
to find 10,000 US dollars yearly to con-
tinue. Communist schools, however, are
free.
Portugal allows Baptists, Lutherans,
Seventh Day Adyentists and the Church
of England to operate freely in Macao
but tolerance has not inspired this
government, which recognises Taiwan but
not Peking, to accept Communist schools.
It has no wish to offend Communist
China: China finds Macao useful as a
port and a source of foreign exchange,
but insists on exerting its influence
and the Portuguese recognise what
they call “the facts of life": that not only
is their garrison pitifully small but more
importantly much of their water supply
comes from Communist territory as does
95 per cent of their fruit and vegetables.
For this reason the centres of power in
the city, apart from the Bishop's resi-
dence on Penha Hill, are the Leal Senado
and the Chamber of Commerce.
The Leal Senado, the Town Hall and,
seat of the municipal government, won
its title when the Macanese remained
faithful during the Spanish occupation
of Portugal in the 17th century. Just
across the square from this harmonious
building is the Chamber of Commerce,
which is also loyal after a fashion, but
to Peking. Mr Ho Yin, the chairman of
the Chamber of Commerce, is the un-
official Red Chinese consul and makes
frequent trips to Peking. He runs the
bus company and proves his belief in a
people's democracy by charging the one
low fare for any destination in the whole
five square miles, he controls the movie
houses which show both decadent capital-
ist and decadent Communist films, he is
head of the Communist hospital and
maintains magnificent “face” through
generous donations to charity. Mr Ho
Yin is the reason that there are Commun-
ist schools in Macao, and that they are
free. Because of Ho Yin no action was
taken when the Communists fenced off a
section in the Green Island Catholic
settlement for refugees and set up the
Communist school.
This is not to say that the Leal Senado
is without power. Its Malay Chinese
president Mr P. J. Lobo is Mr Big. He
is, among other things, multi-millionaire
owner of the Water Works, and paid the
Communist Chinese $500,000 some years
ago for the right to a water pipe line.
A similarly powerful man was Mr Fu
Tak lam who controlled the casino for
24 years. Just before his death two years
ago Mr Fu He lost control of it to the
Stanley Ho Hongkong syndicate so his
son, in a pet, closed the Hotel Central,
his nightclubs and restaurant and left
for Hong Kong.
A mysterious body
"IV|R Fu was one of the big men who
ran Macao and whose only aim was
to continue doing so. To his surprise
straight talking Governor Marques, who
has now become the Portuguese Minister
for Defence, granted the casino franchise
to the Stanley Ho group on the condition
that 90 per cent, of the profits be used
to develop Macao, instead of 100 per
cent, being salted away in a Swiss bank.
The eight-year development scheme
promises a new life for Macao. It
provides for the construction of an
airport, improvement of the port facili-
ties and for new schools and churches.
For the first time local profits will be
invested in Macao and that may restore
faith in the future.
Previously Hong Kong has meant
hope. “The Syndicate” has ruled Macao.
The Syndicate was the mysterious body
which ran the gold smuggling, fixed
everything—and anybody who investig-
ated its affairs. It made Macao the Casa-
blanca of the East and its operators
could afford Mediterranean villas on
Barra Hill and a house in Hong Kong.
The Syndicate is still potent so the poor
look to Hong Kong. About 70 are
smuggled there daily leaving Macao at
night in motored sampans which stay
outside the three miles territorial waters
during the day and making a run to
avoid the patrol boats the following night.
Because the Hong Kong patrols are more
vigilant now to prevent the arrival of
these refugees, the price of the trip has
nearly tripled to $5OO HK since June.
(There are approximately $6 to 10/-).
Just why they should want to go to
Hong Kong is revealed when one sees
the poverty in which they live in Macao
and the lack of opportunities it affords.
They may still be making fire crackers in
Hong Kong but there are other possibi-
lities. In one medium size house in Macao
there are 33 families —over 200 people.
To give just one other example: a 40
year old widow whose husband died in


”, 'JUS*
# STEEL PIPE ,of Course .
'■■■■■■
•• •
Wherever an/ great engineering project towers up
into the sky, steel pipe will inevitably be playing an
important part, as it did in this great dam.
For steel, alone, has the invincible strength ...and
the long endurance that endow it with a life span
far greater than almost any other material. Indeed!
it is partly this long life of service that makes steel
pipe so basically economical.
From the Australian tube mills of Stewarts and
Lloyds flows a continuous line of pipes and tubes
from Hot Finished Seamless down to the tiny 5"
diameter Continuous Weld; but, whatever the
pipe, each one of them shares two things, the
enduring strength of steel and the high standard of
manufacture that makes a quality product.
If you have any tube or reticulation problems, let
us assist you with information and general advice on
the use of steel pipe. Simply call our nearest branch
STEWARTS AND LLOYDS
(DISTRIBUTORS) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: AH Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.


escaping from China is trying to support
her four children: two daughters aged
13 and 9, and two sons aged 7 and 4.
None can go to school and all make
fire crackers at home. This earns them
$45 HK a month and they pay $16.5
HK for a very small dark room with no
electricity or tap water. Their expenses
are $l4O HK a month.
Macao is a staging camp for hope.
One turns down a side street and comes
to the wire fence border; across a shallow
stream is Communist China and a guard
carrying a Sten gun comes from his pillar
box to train his binoculars on you. About
ten people a week work their way through
the paddy fields and try to cross the
stream at night. Some succeed; others end
with a bullet in their backs. Still others
swim to Macao, some being up to seven
hours in the water. More come by boat.
Yet when they arrive there is so little
they can do that some take to drugs.
The Commissioner of Police has set up
a most successful rehabilitation clinic
for addicts—a vital element of the cure
is hard work. For them, as for the seven
year old boy down on one knee in front
of his shack nimbly rolling fire crackers,
the smugglers’ sampans to Hong Kong,
are still the boats of hope.
The development plan may bring
about the painful and dramatic changes
in time. One feels the pressure every-
where: driving along the handsome curv-
ing Praia Grande, the seaboard avenue
lined by banyan trees, one passes Govern-
ment House where white guards have
replaced the Africans who returned to
Angola last month after requesting an
increase in pay. One feels Portugal’s im-
perial dream dissolving; what will the
Avenida Oliveira Salazar be called in 50
years ... in 20 years time? Hard by it
are the small San Francisco gardens: at
one end stands the officers’ club, the
Club Militar, 50 yards away in the
centre of the garden is a red pagoda type
building, the Communist reading room
and, at the other end, is a modern white
stucco building, the Catholic centre.
There is a sadness about Macao where
one era is dying while the next is strug-
gling so painfully to be born.
THE ECUMENICAL COUNCIL
A plain man's guide
By ROBERT MURRAY
HThe ecumenical council to start in
A Rome on October 11 will be the first
since 1870. One of the problems facing
it will be moves for Christian unity.
Ecumenical councils started in the
fourth century. Constantine, who had not
at the time been baptised, called the first
council in Nicaea in 325 in response to
a petition by the Donatists. It was on
this council that subsequent ecumenical
councils of the pre-Reformation church
were based. It was the first attempt to
summon the entire episcopate.
In the “Great Schism” of 1378 the “con-
ciliar theory” developed. Put forward
largely by the French Clergy, this theory
stated that ecumenical councils were
superior in authority to the Pope. This
theory reached its peak at the Council of
Constance, 1414-18, and it was not until
the Council of Florence in 1439 that the
Pope was able to regain his authority.
Papal absolutist theories gained ground at
the last of the pre-Reformation councils,
the Fifth Lateran Council of 1512-17.
In 1517 Luther nailed his famous “95
’Theses” on the door of the Wittenberg
church and the Reformation began.
Luther was followed by the Swiss refor-
mer Zwingli, and the Frenchman John
Calvin, as well as “national” churches in
England, Denmark, Sweden, and parts of
Germany.
Almost the only thing these “refor-
med’ churches had in common was their
desire to destroy the authority of the
Pope and stop the drain on the finances
of the princes, who became the patrons
of the Protestant churches.
The Roman Church had become
corrupt in its organisation (through nepo-
tism, the selling of offices, absenteeism,
and the notorious sale of “indulgences”
which promised a safe trip to heaven for
the purchaser and his relations), and in
its financial arrangements, by which it
drained Germany and other countries of
vast sums to pay for the fine buildings
the Renaissance popes erected.
The reformers saw the Reformation as
a return to primitive Christianity. Some
denied that the clergy had any special
rights and instituted the “priesthood of
all believers.” Luther attacked the idea
of the Mass as a sacrifice; in 1519 he
also denied the doctrines of purgatory,
auricular confession, and priestly absolu-
tion.
After the Council of Trent no church
councils were called until 1869-70,
largely due to the Popes’ fears of a re-
vival of conciliar supremacy theories,
which remained strong in the French
church.
During the nineteenth century, however,
Ultramontism, the doctrine of Papal
supremacy, gained such ground that Pius
IX, the so-called Liberal Pope, famous
for his row with Bismarck over the Ger-
man Kulturkampf, felt strong enough to
summon an ecumenical council at the
Vatican.
From the start the council was domin-
ated by the “Infallibility” problem, which
divided the synod into two hostile camps.
The resolutions of the Vatican Council
entirely revolutionised the position of
the pope within the Church, and also of
ecumenical councils which, with the
pope, had till then been supposed to con-
stitute the representation of the Roman
Catholic Church.
The present Pope, John XXIII, de-
clared early in his reign his intention of
calling a council to discuss matters of
faith and doctrine. His reign has also
seen increasing contact between the
Roman Catholic and other churches, par-
ticularly the Church of England.
In June, 1961, Dr Fisher declared that
unity was certain “within a measurable
time.” He was careful to stress unity
rather than union, but ether churchmen
have not been so certain even of this.
The President of the Baptist Union of
Great Britain and Ireland, Rev. W. D.
Jackson, said this year that he saw the
Roman Church as “the enemy of truth.”
The Moderator-General of the Presby-
terian Church, the Right. Rev. H.
Harrison, said in Melbourne last month
that there was “no hope” of one Chris-
tian Church. The Catholic Church itself
is not without reservations on the ques-
tion of unity. In June of this year the
Vatican issued a statement that unity
could only mean that Protestants, and
others, must return to the Roman
Catholic fold.
At present this would mean acceptance
of not only Papal Infallibility, but such
other fundamental Catholic dogmas as
the doctrine of the “Real Presence” and
of the “Apostolic Succession.” On this
last point there is considerable disagree-
ment between the Roman Catholic and
Anglican churches. Both agree that the
succession to St Peter lies with the epis-
copacy (which other Protestant theolo-
gians deny), but the Catholics claim that
the succession lies only with their cfwn
episcopacy and not with the Anglican.
However, some Catholic theologians who
have tended to take a “soft” line on this
point raise the argument that Anglican
orders may be valid.
Moves for some sort of loose federa-
tion of Christian churches are sure to be
discussed by the council (as the latest
edition of the “Catholic Weekly”
suggests), which, this year, will be atten-
ded by representatives of Orthodox and
Protestant faiths. Meanwhile contacts
such as the combined service last
ANZAC day will continue.


OVERSEAS
THE WORLD
OF JAMES C.
MEREDITH
Getting out of the
Mississippi Mud
From GEORGE McGANN in
New York
Nearly 100 years have passed since
the Civil War ended, and still the
essential issue of that dreadful frat-
ricidal struggle remains unsolved in the
State of Mississippi. Except for the out-
lawing of legalised slavery, the lot of the
black man in that sovereign state has not
improved in any humanitarian detail No
Negro in Mississippi may live on equal
terms with a white man. He may not
vote; he may not attend the same schools;
eat in the same restaurants; share a seat
on a bus or train; or use the same water
fountain or lavatory He may not marry
or have sexual relations with a white
person, upon pain of swift lynching.
Racial conditions in the State of Mis-
sissippi (and to slightly lesser degree, in
its Deep South neighbors of Louisiana,
Georgia, Alabama and South Carolina),
have brought shame and embarrassment
upon the United States to an extent un-
dreamed of even by its enemies behind
the Iron Curtain.
In the United Nations, and elsewhere,
in its dealings with the rest of the world,
the United States has steadfastly cham-
pioned the cause of the emerging nations
against colonialism. But in the Deep
South the United States has retained its
own brand of colonialism, a tyranny
every bit as hateful as that imposed on
the Congo by Belgium or on Indonesia
by the Dutch, or on Algeria by the
French, or on Hungary by the Russians.
It was ironic that the very week which
saw the convening of the General As-
sembly within the glass walls of the UN
buildings on the East River, also saw the
most vicious anti-Negro rioting in
Oxford, as enraged racists killed two men
and wounded scores more in an attempt
to prevent James Meredith from attend-
ing classes at Ole Miss, the University of
Mississippi. UN Ambassador, Adlai
Stevenson, could have been forgiven tears
of chagrin as he met the stares of his
dark-hued colleagues from Africa and
Asia in the carpeted halls, or in the high-
ceilinged Delegates’ Lounge, of the
United Nations.
Of course it is true that the Federal
Government in all of its branches has
been striving to eliminate “colonialism”
in the Deep South. The Supreme Court
decision on desegregation of Southern
public schools “with all deliberate speed,’
remains a landmark of human freedoms.
President Eisenhower’s use of Federal
troops to integrate the school system of
Little Rock, Arkansas, and President
Kennedy’s use of Federal troops to inte-
grate the University of Mississippi in the
present crisis, have won the applause of
the entire Free World.
Nevertheless the newly-created nations
of Africa have every reason to suspect
the sincerity of American spokesmen
in world councils. “We cannot hope to
attain world moral leadership until we
erase the stain of race discrimination,”
warned C. L. Sulzberger. Foreign Editor
of the “New York Times”, last week.
“There is no escape from the political
syllogism that the United States cannot
pretend to guide the cause of freedom
until it practices that cause at home. It
is simply impossible to champion the
downtrodden overseas while permitting
a second class of citizenship at home in
the Land of Liberty The bulk of this
world, colored differently from those who
block progress in our South, is keenly
aware of this regardless of differences
on other ideas.”
A further unfortunate irony of the
Mississippi affair was the fatal shooting
in the back of Paul Guihard, a reporter
for Agence France Press, one of the
large group of foreign correspondents
who rushed to Oxford to cover the out-
break of violence which followed the
registration of Meredith at the University.
In his only despatch from Oxford,
Guihard —a huge, bearded, vital, wine-
loving individual—wrote: “The Civil War
has never ended,” a sentiment well-
received by many Frenchmen smarting
under American criticisms of the manner
in which France dealt with its Algerian
problem.
Mississippi, one of the smallest, poor-
est and “most Southern” of all the States
has long been woefully behind the times.
According to some, the State left the
main stream of American thought in
1830 and never returned. The break oc-
curred over slavery, when it first came
under attack by northern abolitionists
before the Civil War. Mississippi, then as
now, an agricultural State with the accent
on cotton growing, needed slave labor to
prosper.
There has always been only a slight
preponderance of whites over Negroes
in the Mississippi population, so fear of
the black minority becoming a black
majority has inspired many of the State’s
repressive actions.
The decadence of Mississippi’s im-
poverished aristocracy in the aftermath
ol the Civil War has been brilliantly
exposed by the late William Faulkner,
probably Oxford’s most celebrated son,
and perhaps exaggerated by such latter-
day biographers of the bigoted Southerner
as Lillian Smith, Tennessee Williams and
Truman Capote.
Most Mississippians regard White
Supremacy as a cardinal tenet of faith,
for reasons stemming tar back into the
state’s turbulent past. This zealotrv has
been encouraged by an “Establishment”
consisting of the four P’s Politicians,
Preachers, Press and Philosophers. The
“orthodox view” regarding the Negro
has been forced on the majority in Mis-
sissippi. Opposition in thought and
thinking has been activelv combatted
through the years. Non-conformists had
no real choice but to leave the State, as
did so many of its writers and artists
with the notable exception of that alto-
gether exceptional man. William
Faulkner.
In other areas of the Deep South, the
Negro has been making slow advances.
There are now 10,000 colored boys and
girls in classrooms with whites (out of a
total of a 2,210,000 children of both
races); segregation has virtually ended on
trains and buses, and at lunch counters
in much of the South. Hundreds of
thousands of Negroes have won the vote
in recent years. But these advances have
not yet come in Mississippi, where the
slogan is “Never, No Never.”
It was in Mississippi that the infamous
Citizens’ Councils, composed of die-hard
apostles of racism, were born. These
Councils have been able to force
businessmen, newspapers, radio and tele-
vision stations —as well as faculty mem-
bers of Ole Miss and other institutions of
learning—to keep inside the color line.
A professor of law who expressed the


opinion that the Supreme Court’s de-
segregation ruling was “the law of the
land” was hounded out of his job by the
Citizens’ Council of Oxford.
Anthropologists who called the Negro
“an inferior human being” were rewarded
with cushy professorships. Lawyers and
legislators who upheld the doctrine of
“State’s Rights” against Federal encroach-
ment were also taken care of by the
Establishment. Notorious rabble rousers,
notably the late Senator Ted (The Man)
Bilbo, of Mississippi, were re-elected
time and again and given prior places
at the pork barrel of political patronage.
John C. Calhoun, the pre-Civil War
Senator who most eloquently defended
State’s Rights, has become the patron
saint of Mississippi’s racists. They have
long held, quoting Calhoun, that the
state had the right to “interpose” its
powers between its citizens and the
Federal Government when an unpopular
law, such as the integration decision,
threatened the established color bars.
When James C. Meredith, a 29 years-
old Air Force veteran attempted to enroll
at Ole Miss he was rebuffed three times
before the fourth attempt succeeded
with the help of 15,000 Federal troops.
A quiet, soft-spoken religious man, who
has accepted what may turn out to be a
martyr’s role, he has a nice sense of
humor. Confronted by the militant op-
position of Governor Ross Barnett, who
vowed (but later reneged on the pledge)
to go to jail rather than admit him to
University, the young Negro smiled and
said, “If the Governor keeps this up I
may not vote for him.”
Meredith seems to be safe at the Uni-
versity as long as he is constantly guarded
by US marshals in class and out. His
future at the University, would appear
to be cloudy, if not downright dangerous,
however if he is left on his own.
A special session of the Mississippi
Legislature adopted a resolution, echoing
the belief of many citizens, that they
are engaged in a “great crusade” against
outside tyranny, particularly that of the
Federal Government and its agents, the
US Marshals and Federal troops. One
legislator sought vainly to introduce a
resolution that Mississippi secede from
the Union.
The residents of Mississippi seem to
have convinced themselves, too, that
they enjoy great support among their
fellow-Americans in other states. Evi-
dence to the contrary is ignored or dis-
counted. “The Jackson Daily News,”
published in the State capital, encouraged
its readers to ignore the “bad publicity”
engendered by the Meredith case in
Northern States. “There is nothing Mis-
sissippi can do that will please wild-eyed
social bandits who have used this venom
to turn many of the nation’s cities into
sidewalks of jungle terror,” the news-
paper added. “It shows again the extreme
to which racial agitators will go to
achieve a propaganda goal to embarrass
a decent, law-abiding people, patriotic
Americans who have the intelligence to
detect their diabolical designs.”
Men, women and children in Missis-
sippi have gone to great lengths to
demonstrate their solidarity in the present
crisis. Many wear “Ross Is Right”
placards over their hearts as they go
about their daily affairs. Motorcars bear
red, white and blue stickers with the
legend: “Help Ross Keep Mississippi
Sovereign.” Women wear sashes bearing
the same appeal. Confederate and state
battle flags fly from motorcar aerials and
from houses. A song, “Never, No Never”,
was hastily composed and recorded
during the riot-torn weekend when Mere-
dith gained admittance to the University
campus.
The future not only of Meredith but
of the University of Mississippi itself
was questionable, in the aftermath of the
riots. About half of the student body
of five thousand failed to report for
classes after the Federal troops moved
onto the campus. Most of the missing
will probably be back.
However educational standards at the
University have been slipping badly in
recent years. Faculty salaries are low
compared to other southern colleges and
many professors and lecturers have been
alienated by crude political interference
in the University’s affairs. “Right now I
would classify this institution as a fourth-
grade university,” one faculty member
commented recently. “It will never be-
come first-rate until we get over the race
question. We have turned to over-
emphasis on football teams and beauty
contests to give our citizens something
to be proud of. In any other state,
scholarships for baton twirlers would be
a big joke, but here they are a serious
matter.”
The Southern Association of Colleges
and Schools was said to be considering
stripping Ole Miss of its accreditation
as a member because of its current
troubles. This would be a calamity to
the students, since their degrees and
credits would not then be recognised by
most other institutions of learning in the
South or elsewhere.
Actually the University might be
closed altogether if rioting occurred again
after Federal troops were withdrawn.
After all, they can’t stay in Oxford for-
ever. And behind James Meredith are
many more dedicated Negro men and
women determined to enter Ole Miss,
no matter the risk to their own safety.
The Negro in America is on the march.
He is not going to be stopped at the
gates of Ole Miss.
BEN BELLA
AND
THE
COLONEL
Problems for
The first
Algerian
National
Assembly
From WILLIAM MILLINSHIP in Algiers
Algerian electors hopefully drew a
line under the -oubled transition
from French rule to independence when
on Thursday they ratified the single list
of 196 Deputies chosen by M. Ben
Bella’s political bureau to sit in the
country’s first National Assembly.
The Provisional Executive, set up in
agreement with France to handle day-
to-day administration during the take-
over, steps down when the Assembly
met last Tuesday week.
Within a fortnight Algeria will have
a Government, almost certainly headed
by M. Ben Bella, who has packed the
Assembly with supporters.
With only about 20 per cent, of the
Deputies classed as opponents of M.
Ben Bella, the National Assembly is
hardly representative of Algeria’s real
political forces.
The major unknown is the price M.
Ben Bella has paid for the support of
Colonel Boumedienne, the youthful com


C/1
%
/
CAN YOU WORK UNDER PRESSURE ...
THINK CLEAR! Y. .. MAKE VITAL DECISIONS. ..
at 46% of your working efficiency?
Business doesn’t wait for the weather. But recent American research laboratory studies
proved that your working efficiency drops 33% in 90° heat, and a disturbing 54% in
95° heat. Can you afford to work at 46% of your normal efficiency—sometimes for days
on end?
Air Conditioning is the Proved and Economical Answer. In summer air
conditioning maintains the correct temperature for maximum working efficiency—and this
need not mean installing a full central air conditioning plant. Westinghouse Room Air
Conditioners are particularly suitable for management and executive offices,
combining as they do high performance
with low purchase price and operating
cost. And in winter, they provide warm
fresh air—the healthiest heat of all—at
half the operating cost of other electrical
heating appliances. There are three
models, from 8,300 to 20,000 B.T.U.’s
including the Mobilaires which can be
installed permanently in one
place, or wheeled
from office to office
as needed.
Price from
215 Gns.
Enjoy
Westinghouse
refrigerated room
air conditioning in
your home, too!
1
you CAN BE SURE. .IF ITS
Wfestinghouse
ROOM AIR CONDITIONERS
Mail the coupon today for full details
i ;
I To: Department R.A.C., Email Limited, Consumer I
! Products Division,
I Box 4, Waterloo, N.S.W.
I Please send me literature and full particulars on j
| Westinghouse Room Air Conditioners.
| NAME I
ADDRESS I
i j
| PHONE No I
I PLACE X IN SQUARE IF SCHOOL PROJECT £ I
J I
WACI3HP
H
mander of Algeria’s regular army, whose
heavily armed troops from Tunisia and
Morocco were instrumental in establish-
ing M. Ben Bella in Algiers.
His dismissal
Colonel Boumedienne, aged 37, a tall,
fair-headed intellectual educated in
Cairo, is said to have a keen admira-
tion for Fidel Castro and political am-
bitions of his own. After a period as
war-time second-in-command of FLN
guerrilla forces in West Algeria, he be-
came commander-in-chief of the FLN
troops stationed on the frontiers. He
clashed with the FLN civilian leadership
in Tunis over a year ago, but the revolt
was ignored to avoid embarrassing the
FLN negotiators at Evian.
Colonel Boumedienne later opposed
both the Evian agreements, which he
believed would be an obstacle to the
Algerian revolution, and the agreements
with the European extremist OAS, which
saved Algeria from widespread sabotage.
His dismissal by Premier Ben Khedda
on the eve of independence was one of
the causes of the prolonged political
crisis.
The Colonel’s hand was apparent in
the removal of M. Ben Khedda and
others from the electoral list. As head
of the best-organised force in the
country, his views will carry great
weight, although he has no seat in the
National Assembly.
Colonel Boumedienne’s services will,
moreover, be essential in eradicating the
lawlessness which is driving European
skill and capital out of Algeria one
of the main causes of the present disas-
trous economic stagnation.
Trade is at a standstill, there are at
least two million unemployed, and the
country is faced with a terrifying short-
age of food, doctors and teachers this
winter. The French Government is of-
fering high salaries to recruit teachers
and Civil Servants for Algeria, but in-
creasing banditry there is discouraging
potential candidates.
Even extreme Left French newspapers
admit that Algeria is a long way from
the “oasis of peace” which M. Ben
Bella has promised. In restoring order,
he is likely to increase his debt to Colonel
Boumedienne.
The weight of Algeria’s immediate
problems and the need to attract in-
vestments are likely to postpone agrarian
reform and the revolutionary changes
promised by the FLN, including the
nationalisation of banks, insurance com-
panies and mines. And Colonel Boume-
dienne is considered one of Algeria’s
most impatient revolutionaries.
LES TEMPS
DES
ASSASSINS
The dregs of Fascism
From NEIL McINNES in Paris
Tf the conspirators who have several
-*■ times tried to assassinate de Gaulle,
and who have not yet disarmed despite
many arrests in their ranks, were all
French and were all reacting to recent
events in France and Algeria, their case
would not be especially interesting.
Their conspiracy, too, in that event would
by now have been broken by the French
police; subversion that was limited to
the national territory and which drew
recruits from one easily identified stratum
would be suppressed without difficulty,
given the massive countermeasures taken
by the police. (In the fortnight following
the last ambush of the President, for
example, one million people were in-
terrogated.)
On the contrary, the conspiracy is
directed from abroad and has bases in
four or five other European states; its
active members in France include


foreigners and French families who have
never, even remotely, been concerned
with Algeria. That is why repression is
difficult. It is also the reason why the
anatomy of this conspiracy leads one to
faicts about the persistance of fascism in
West Europe generally, as well as to
certain constants of French society that
date from before the colonial age.
For example, when the police tracked
down participants in the Clamart ambush
(where the President’s car was machine-
gunned), they found themselves arresting
Hungarians who have never left Europe,
and who were being sheltered by noble
families that have resided in Versailles
since Louis XIV. Among the de This and
de That clans of impecunious aristocrats
arrested as accomplices after the fact
was the du Paty de Clam family, which
is no newcomer to the French historical
scene.
General du Paty de Clam was
Marshal Petain’s chief of staff at Vichy
when the armistice with Hitler was
signed; his father, Colonel du Paty de
Clam, was the man who arrested Cap-
tain Dreyfus for alleged espionage in
1894 and was cashiered when Dreyfus
was rehabilitated in 1900.
Turning a penny by selling cars and
insurance, these broken down nobles are
hanging on in Versailles as though they
expected the Sun King to come back to
earth, while they pursue the Republic
with their hatred. They abet de Gaulle’s
enemies to avenge Vichy, but beyond
that it is revenge on the Dreyfusards
they seek, if not vengeance for 1789
itself. Indeed, the OAS network rounded
up in Brittany was staffed by noble
families that go right back to the
Chouans! Their terrorist exploit owe
less to Mao Tse-tung’s theory of revolu-
tion as retailed by the colonels from
Indo-China than to the Chevalier des
Touches and the royalist novels of Barbey
d’Aurevilly. In these Scarlet Pimpernels
one re-discovers the “other France” for
whom Algeria is just another pretext.
The Hungarians, of course, are re-
fugees from Budapest, 1956. Apologists
of the Horthy regime they are indeed
what the Russians said all their oppo-
nents were: genuine fascists who sought
to exploit the Hungarian national up-
rising and have not stopped fighting
since. Always ready to put a bomb in a
Communist bookshop or assassinate a
president, they live in a perpetual anti-
Soviet hysteria that has made them in-
valuable assistants in every subversion
with a vaguely anti-Communist flavor.
Their hero Kovacs organised the attempt
on Salan’s life in Algiers at a time when
he was reputed soft, but they have
rallied to his OAS since he became the
defender of Christian civilisation against
Moscow’s Arab catspaws.
Of the other foreigners, only the
Belgian Rexists, aided by common lan-
guage, operate inside France; their
fascist network in Belgium is an essential
platform for activities in this country.
It is supplemented by the facilities placed
at the disposal of the conspirators by un-
repentant fascists in Italy, Nazi relics in
Austria and of course the governments
of Spain and Portugal.
Hitlerite elements in West Germany,
it will be noticed, do not seem to be
used, perhaps because the French Army
stationed in that country can offer supe-
rior hospitality and communications,
being officered by unreliable men trans-
ferred from Algeria whose presence in
France is undesirable. The ease with
which conspirators move about Europe
at will testifies to the efficiency of com-
munications in this fascist underworld;
its ideology is John Birch crackpottery
but it has large funds and much devo-
tion.
Realising that it is a danger to them-
selves as well as to de Gaulle, the govern-
ments of Rome and Brussels have lately
cracked down on it, but with an ama-
teurish clumsiness that is the despair of
the French forces of repression, more
used to combatting experienced conspi-
rators. Franco, too, has cooperated by
sacrificing minor networks operating in
Spain, in return for French suppres-
sion of some of the more flagrant Com-
munist and anarchist bases on their side
of the Pyrenees. But as long as his op-
ponents in France are allowed their
freedom, he naturally gives a free rein
to several of the more dangerous gangs
—not because he wants to see them kill
de Gaulle but because they are useful
bargaining counters. Besides, some of
them are connected not only with his
regime but with his immediate family.
Unfortunately, Franco is cunning
enough to leave rival gangs free: both
the renegade colonels from Algeria,
under ex-general Gardy, and the civilian
doctrinaires of the corporate state,
grouped around Dr Lefevre. Barely con-
cealing their enmity under supposed
obedience to the conspiracy’s respectable
political screens, Bidault and Soustelle,
and at odds with the genuine settler
element in the conspiracy (Lagaillarde
and Susini), these groups conceive the
murder of de Gaulle as a competition:
the one that pulls it off will have staked
its claim to taking power in Paris. The
successive attempts on de Gaulle’s life
do not necessarily have the same origin,
therefore, but are rival bids in a terrorist
auction.
The unity that Bidault and Soustelle
are quite unable to impose on this patch-
work subversion, the men on the spot
in Paris have tried to forge. The organiser
of the Clamart ambush quite deliberately
made up his commando so as to give
every element its share of the blood and
glory: one renegade officer, one noble
family, a couple of the indispensable
Hungarians, a Foreign Legionnaire, one
paratroop deserter, and so on.
The cement of his motley killer squad
was of course Christian civilisation.
After his arrest he told rosary beads and
quoted Aquinas on the right of tyran-
nicide 'to gaping policemen who had
never before pinched a theologian for
attempted murder. The cardinals of
course have disowned the heretic, but his
lawyers are threatening, if the Church
continues to damn their client, to reveal
the names of eminent confessors who
granted advance absolution for the crime.
No doubt they could furnish such
names, for certain clerics have been
patronising anti-Communist organisations
that one could as well call para-clerical
as para-military; their members see every-
thing that happens in the world as part
of the struggle between Christian soldiers
and atheist Communism, in which the
former need not be delicate about the
means they use. Georges Bidault, titular
head of the conspiracy’s “National Resis-
tance Council”, is of course the founder
of the French Christian Democrat party.
Hereditary enemies of the Republic,
Hungarian refugees, the dregs of Euro-
pean fascism, and Catholic fanatics by
now outnumber in the conspiracy the
original components of the opposition
to Gaullism: the settlers and the colonial
army. The 750,000 settlers who have
had to quit their native Algeria are for
the most part struggling with the material
problems of their rehabilitation in France.
Happily, work is plentiful in the boom-
ing French economy, and governmental
aid lavish (especially if you line up
twice or thrice for the hand-out, as some
I know have done).
The less adaptable are applying as
strictly private enterprise the gangsterism
techniques they learned in the OAS in
Algeria, so there has been a wave of
hold-ups and bank robberies innocent of
political significance. For the rest, they
are useful in harboring wanted conspira-
tors, often, it seems, in good faith, taking
them to be refugees with perhaps an old
OAS record who deserve solidarity. The
settler leaders have withdrawn to the
sidelines; Lagaillarde is on the fence in
Spain, and Susini has retired to Den-
mark, with millions in OAS funds, to
write a history of the Secret Army. So
if de Gaulle is shot down soon, no
settlers will weep but he will not have
died by their hand or even, directly, to
avenge their sufferings.


FORUM
ASIAN IMMIGRATION ?
I .-A 'EUROPEAN AUSTRALIA" POLICY
By JIM FORBES M.H.R.
J find that so much of the argument on Australia’s Immigration Policy
turns on the assumption that the policy is one of absolute exclusion
of non-Europeans that it seems to me to be worth defining from the outset
fust how far our policy goes. Generally it can be said that the immigra-
tion laws governing residence in Australia permit a discretionary policy
which takes into account not only the qualifications of a person wishing
to settle here permanently but also considerations of a humanitarian
nature and of international goodwill. There are in Australia today
approximately 8000 persons not of European origin in a great variety
of capacities as well as the resident Asian population. Approximately
11,000 Asian students are attending our universities, technical colleges,
schools and other training establishments. A further 1000 students are
training here under the Colombo Plan.
Just let me summarise some of the
ways by which non-Europeans have
achieved permanent residence in Aus-
tralia in recent years both by way of the
established policy and by the exercise of
the wide discretion which is given to the
Minister for Immigration. Firstly, a non-
European lawfully resident in Australia
under immigration restriction who has
(a) lived in Australia for at least 15 years,
(b) has a good working knowledge of the
English language, (c) has taken a part in
normal Australian life and, (d) is of
good character, may be granted release
from immigration restriction and perma-
nent residence. This entitles him if al-
ready a British subject to apply for
registration as an Australian citizen; if
not already a British subject to apply for
naturalisation as an Australian citizen.
Secondly Australians marrying persons
who are not of European descent may
bring their wives or husbands and fami-
lies to Australia for residence. Thirdly,
large numbers of persons who came to
Australia as wartime evacuees from their
Asian homelands and who were still here
in 1950 were subsequently allowed to
stay permanently. Fourthly, a great many
Chinese and others who at the time when
the Communists over-ran their home-
lands, were here as students, merchants
and as assistants to businessmen have
been allowed to remain. Fifthly, provi-
sion has been made for the admission for
indefinite residence of highly qualified
and distinguished people of whatever
race who seek to reside here.
Lest it be thought that the 15 year
provision is window dressing it should
be pointed out that there are a large
number of non-Europeans in a wide
variety of occupational categories in Aus-
tralia at any one time for what is termed
long-term temporary stay. From the ranks
of people such as these, and in other
These two articles are condensed ver-
sions of papers read at a recent sym-
posium on Immigration Policy at the
Australian National University.
ways, no less than 2467 persons of
non-European origin were naturalised in
Australia between January, 1956 and
March, 1962.
Having clearly established that our im-
migration policy in so far as it affects
non-Europeans is not one of absolute
exclusion, even for permanent residence,
but one in fact which allows quite large
members of these people to reside in
Australia, we can now look more closely
at the policy. Even if it is not one of
total exclusion it is certainly a policy that
is highly restrictive. It is also a policy
which is highly discriminatory in the
sense that in most circumstances it is
very much easier for a person of Euro-
pean descent to be admitted to Australia
than a non-European, it discriminates be-
tween people of European descent, who
can enter Australia for permanent resi-
dence almost at will, against those of
non-European descent who find it very
difficult. Because people of European
descent generally have white skins and
those of non-European descent skins of
another color, the policy also discrimin-
ates against the colored peoples of the
world.
Therein, 1 believe, lies most of the
objections that have been registered both
inside and outside Australia to the pre-
sent policy. Because the policy is seen
as one of color bar which is offensive to
many people, the policy is, or appears
to be, so it is said, based on color pre-
judice.
Let me say at once that 1 believe this
approach to our immigration policy can
be both dangerous and inaccurate. I
believe that a reading of Australian
history will disclose that Australian im-
migration policies are not, and never
have been, based on a sense of racial
superiority or racial intolerance. From
the very first there is plenty of evidence
to suggest that the policy was based on
a firm determination to maintain the
homogeneous character of cur popula-
tion, that is, its European character.
Nor contrary to the generally accepted
belief has our immigration policy ever
been solely based on economic grounds.
It is true, of course, that economic
reasons have been a vital factor in the
formation and maintenance of the policy,
but ever present throughout the years
has been the feeling that this country
should be held and developed as a home
for the kith and kin of those who settled
it, aspirations which could not be
achieved if numbers of people alien in
race, customs, religion and culture were
allowed to settle here.
A desire to keep our population homo-
geneous does not necessarily imply a
sense of superiority, purely one of satis-
faction and a consciousness of difference.
There is a feeling amongst ordinary Aus-
tralians that the civilization or way of
life we have created in this country is
most satisfying and w'orth retaining.
I have many Asian friends. I don’t
have to tell them that the civilization
we have built up here is different to
theirs; they tell me.
Now, this sense of difference has 1
believe nothing whatsoever to do with
skin color. Why should we, just because
we happen to have built a European type
civilization in this part of the world and
want to keep it that way, why should w'e
be required to sacrifice it, to escape the
unwarranted accusation of color bar and
color prejudice? Why should we, who


happen to have white skins and they
being purely incidental to our European
origins, be the only country which cannot
claim the right inherent in nationhood to
determine the composition of our own
population and therefore our civilization
and our own way of life?
Let us make no mistake, if you ex-
amine the immigration acts of almost
any other country, they reserve to them-
selves the right to do just that. Not only
do they reserve to themselves the right
—they do just that. Whether it be Indo-
nesia, Malaya, Singapore, Thailand,
Burma, India, Pakistan, Ceylon, the
Philippines, Cambodia, Vietnam, Japan,
Ghana, Nigeria or many others, the same
pattern repeats itself. Their immigration
policies are based on the maintenance
of a state of society which they regard as
desirable. They differ only in what they
regard as a threat to that state. In Ceylon
it is the Indians, in Malaya it is the
Chinese, in Pakistan it is the Hindus.
Why then should we be required to
behave differently? I imagine this ques-
tion can be answered in many different
ways. Is it because some of us really
believe that behind our policy lies race
superiority and a color bar mentality and
that the elimination of these undesirable
attitudes will bring a change in the
policy? Is it that others, Asians for in-
stance, believe it to be based on race and
color prejudice, and that in order to
dispell this misconception we have to
change the policy? Is it because in the
eyes of the Asians we have inherited the
sins of some of our colonial forefathers
because we have a European type civiliz-
ation and therefore happen to be white?
Liberal principles
VTone of these seems to be a good
reason for giving up our right to do
what every other country in the world
does. The policy, as I have said, is not
based on racial superiority or a color
bar mentality; there is therefore no
ground for a guilty conscience on that
score. As for the misconceptions which
others have of the basis of our policy,
there is nothing there in my view which
cannot be overcome by patient explana-
tion, intelligent publicity, and above all
by excluding in our relations with non-
Europeans any trace of race or color
prejudice. If I may take an analogy, as
a liberal politician I am often accused
of being a tool of big business. Do I
react to that by advocating socialization
in order to prove that the charge is un-
founded? No, I do not, because that
would be to deny my principles and the
type of liberal society which I have a
right to advocate and implement. What
I do instead is to attempt to persuade
people that a belief in liberal principles
is not synonomous with being in the
pockets of big business, and underline
this with my own personal conduct and
the policies I advocate. It is of course
more difficult to convince people in this
way than by a dramatic change of policy,
but you have no choice if you are not
going to surrender your principles, your
rights, and the type of society you believe
in. The same is equally true of our im-
migration policy.
Having put the view that the object of
our immigration policy should not be
changed, now let me turn to discuss
whether there is anything to be gained
by changing its form, while leaving its
substance intact. Various proposals have
been made from time to time that we
introduce a quota system or negotiate
bilateral agreements with each of the non-
European countries. Speaking in Ade-
laide in December 1959, Mr Downer
had this to say about such proposals:—
“It is often said that an annual quota
would be more acceptable to our neigh-
bors than present practices. The idea is
theoretically attractive, but experience
shows there is much to be said for con-
tinuing as we are, and leaving untram-
melled the wide discretionary powers
vested in the Minister of the day. A
quota involves the idea of mathematical
fixity. How do you apportion the num-
bers between Indians, Burmese, Ceylo-
nese, Indonesians, Malays, Siamese,
Cabodians, and Vietnamese? In the
terms of practical politics these are dif-
ficult questions to answer. They have
not been satisfactorily answered yet.
“Now let us take the argument a stage
further. If we are to institute a small
quota we must consider in practice how
it would be filled. Even were students
excluded, the applicants would vastly
exceed the places allotted, and so there
would be a banking up of applications
which would take years to process. In
the result, to 99.9% of the 1300
million people of Asia, Australia would
be a closed country; and those who may
enter here now, would be barred from
doing so by the interminable queue
ahead of them. This, as I see it, would
produce irritations and bad feelings, and
the last state of our policy would be
worse than the first.”
The United States is often pointed to
as an example of what can be done with
a quota system. Without discussing the
United States system in detail may I
point to four aspects of American ex-
perience which suggest to me that the
adoption of such a system would aggra-
vate rather than solve our problems:—
(i) The existence of quotas has in no
way reduced the difficulty of the
US regarding content of admissions
from so-called “difficult” countries,
e.g. China and Italy—i.e. fraud,
impersonation, false declarations,
spurious marriage ceremonies, sale
of documents etc.
(ii) The US has not been able to fix
an equitable quota —none of the
controversial sources of applicants
would accept as fair anything the
domestic opinion in the US was
likely to accept.
(iii) The quota system has in no way
reduced the “pressure” of the
“difficult” nationalities (Chinese
and Italians) on the Administration
though legislation, Federal and
State and otherwise (through
Churches and unofficial bodies).
Indeed it may have increased it,
i.e. the quota is used as an excuse
for lobbying, not treated as an
answer to the problem.
(iv) On various occasions the US
Government has had to devise
“special exceptions” to the quota
for humanitarian purposes: these
often promote controversy and
become involved in other domestic
issues (e.g. Walter-McCarran Act
and McCarthyism). They would
not have arisen if there had been
no quota system.
The negotiation of bilateral agree-
ments would I believe be subject to
much the same objections. In addition
whereas it is possible to argue that the
announcement of a quota system, if not
the working of it, would be favourably
received by Asians, the same cannot be
said of bilateral agreements once*their
terms were announced. It would in the
dreadful expression so beloved by the
United Nations be counter-productive.
My view in conclusion is that we
should stick to our existing policy. By
all means let us modify it where it gives
needless offence, as we have done in
the past, but not by abandoning its sub-
stance. For the rest we should undertake
energetically the task of persuading our
Asian friends that it is not a White
Australia policy, but a European Aus-
tralia policy in the widest sense of the
term.


II-A CASE FOR REFORM
By KENNETH RIVETT
A ssociations for Immigration Reform have been formed now in four
Australian states, while another is under way in Darwin. These
bodies not only oppose the White Australia policy but have put forward
a considered alternative. That being so, the discussion should not become
a mere debate.
Constructive discussion must start by
recognising that the White Australia
policy is open to criticism on several dif-
ferent counts. It is not being opposed
solely because of the immense harm
which it does to Australia’s reputation in
Asia and Africa. If the policy itself were
not objectionable, the obvious course
would be to show Asians and Africans
its unobjectionable nature, which for
some reason they have not appreciated.
Lately, however, many Australians have
come to feel that the policy is unfortun-
ate on other grounds, and that therefore
there is no chance of defending it before
overseas audiences.
First and foremost, we object to
“White Australia” because it imposes a
color bar. Color bars which people are
unable to cross, whatever their needs or
merits or qualifications, are always
wrong. The White Australia policy is
not one of total exclusion, but the cate-
gories of non-European migrant who can
settle permanently in Australia are very
narrow.
We have established one of the most
rigid color bars the world has ever seen.
Despite the number of persons of Asian
race, mainly Chinese, who were here at
Federation, the White Australia policy
has been administered so inflexibly that
the last comparable set of figures shows a
smaller proportion of persons of Asian
race in Australia than in either Canada
or New Zealand. Moreover, Canada has
recently made big changes in its method
of immigration control, chiefly to remove
the appearance of discrimination against
non-Europeans. New Zealand has shown
itself more ready than we are to admit
Asians; for instance, recently when the
Government allowed the entry of 20
orphans from Hong Kong, the move won
so much support that the number was
raised to 50. Australia, by contrast, did
nothing.
Asian countries often impose strict
controls on immigration. But none of
them lets color play the same decisive
part in determining who shall or shall
not be admitted as it plays in Australia’s
case. There is no brown country which
says it will keep out all whites, yellows
and blacks unless the circumstances are
quite exceptional. Nor should we forget
that a color bar anywhere encourages
color bars everywhere. The White Aus-
tralia policy has different effects and
purposes from the apartheid policy of
South Africa, but is often invoked by
the defenders of apartheid to justify their
own evil measures.
A second reason for condemning our
immigration policy is its impact on in-
dividuals. The adalt children of Austra-
lian citizens of Chinese race cannot settle
here, unless the children are themselves
Australians. A case is known of a
Chinese who left Australia during the
twenties with his wife. While overseas
they had a son, who is now adult and
is not allowed to settle in Australia with
his widowed mother and his two Austra-
lian-born brothers.
The Asian chefs and cafe assistants
let into the country on a temporary basis
are not allowed to bring in relatives,
however close. Only when they have
been here for 15 years can they obtain
the right of permanent residence. Then,
if they also get Australian citizenship
or if they are British subjects, they can
be reunited with their wives and with any
children who are not adult.
Nor should we ignore the individuals
who have no family links with Australia
but could benefit economically from
coming here. Everyone recognises that
there must be some control over immi-
gration, and that the economic problems
of Asia, Africa and Oceania will be sol-
ved mainly by development within these
areas, not by population movements. Yet
it remains true that individuals can often
achieve a huge increase in their material
welfare by moving from a poor country
to a rich one; and even in an era of mas-
sive change, the individual still matters.
HPhe White Australia policy also pre-
sents a serious indirect obstacle to
the growth of trade with Asian countries.
As is well known, the immigration
authorities allow traders to come here,
like students, on a temporary basis. If,
during the next fifty years, our trade with
Asia were destined to take the form of
exchanging wheat and wo. 1 for Eastern
“spices” (as in the history books) and
for raw materials not grown or mined
in Australia, then these traders, along
with their Australian counterparts,
might be equal to arranging it all. It is a
commonplace, however, that our econo-
mic future depends largely on develop-
ing other exports besides the traditional
ones. We must think in terms of trade
between a highly industrialised Australia
and an Asia which is also industrialising
—trade which will occur, even so, be-
cause there are some things that we can
do better than they can and some things
that they can do better than we can.
This will require more from Australian
manufacturers than hurried visits over-
seas to see if Asians want any of the
goods that are produced currently in
Australia. It will require more than on-
the-spot study of what Asian importers
happen to be buying elsewhere at a par-
ticular time. It will mean research, in-
vention, all that industrialists refer to
when they speak of “developing’’ a pro-
duct.
To take an example: th agricultural
equipment industry contributes relatively
little to our export earnings, despite all
it has done for Australian farming. Seve-
ral causes are responsible, and one is ig-
norance of the Asian market. Before we
export to Asia on an appreciable scale,
it may be necessary for Asians with
practical experience of choosing, using
and maintaining farm machinery under
Asian conditions to come to Australia
and work side by side with our own
people. In that way, their knowledge
of Asian needs can be blended with our
own long experience in the development
of equipment shrewdly adapted to local
requirements.
It is unlikely, however, that Asians
with years of field work behind them will
involve themselves deeply in the pro-
blems of an Australian industry if they
can only come here on temporary per-
mits, which is the most they can hope
for—and then with limited confidence —
at the present time. Why should we let
our immigration policy hamper us so
needlessly in building up Asian mar-
kets?
All this is quite apart from the pre-
judice which the policy stirs up against
Australia and hence against its products.
The very stringency of the controls which
underdeveloped countries are forced to
place on imports leaves an pie scope for
political factors to influence our access
to markets.
Lastly, there is the effect of the White
Australia policy on racial attitudes within
Australia. While race prejudice in this
country was once intense and wide-
spread, there are many signs that it is
so no longer. From time to time, how-
ever, one finds evidence of fear, sus-
picion and even contempt for non-Euro-
peans. The best way to break down that
sort of prejudice is by enabling Austra-
lians, at every social level, to have close
and continuous dealings with non-Euro-
peans—provided, of course, that the im-


migrants admitted have been rightly
chosen.
The White Australia policy is often
defended as necessary in order to pre-
vent racial prejudice from causing racial
iriction. Yet by condoning and pander-
ing to that prejudice it gives it a kind of
sanction, w'hile depriving too many Aus-
tralians of the sort of contact that could
break it down.
When one thinks of the injuries which
the policy inflicts on individuals, of the
immense importance it attr hes to the
fact of color, and of the way it keeps
alive such race prejudice as still exists
here, ca.. one wonder that it should
be assailed so bitterly by Asians and
Africans who know nothing of Australia
except that it nearly exterminated its
aborigines and that it retains a White
Australia policy? It is assailed by mode-
rate politicians, journalists, academics—
the very people who would be spokesmen
for Australia if we had a decent case to
plead. It is assailed by Asians whose
own governments rest.ict immigration
fairly severely and by those whose gov-
ernments restrict it very little. What
makes it peculiarly insulting is that it is
imposed by a country which, unlike any
country in Asia, seeks actively to attract
immigrants. Nor, incidrntal'y, is it con-
doned by Tengku Abdul Rahman, who
is quoted as defending it but who in
fact said that “Australians had no racial
prejudices and would, in good time,
amend their immigration policy.”
(Italics added.)
For two generations, an idea has been
around that Australia can get by on the
policies of W. M. Hughes, expounded
in more polite language. It is an odd
idea, if only because Hughes could be
very charming when he chose, and he did
sometimes choose, even as regards the
White Australia policy. Much good
either his charm or his so-called out-
spokenness or the qualities of many
suaver spokesmen have done so far in
saving Australians from being regarded,
the world over, as having an outlook on
race which differs little from that of
white South Africans.
Mo policy should be condemned unless
the critic assumes the responsibility
of offering an alternative. The Associa-
tions for Immigration Reform have done
this explicitly by championing proposals
that were put forward in 1960 in a
pamphlet “Control or Color Bar?” The
Immigration Reform Group, which pro-
duced the pamphlet, has elaborated its
proposals in a book “Immigration: Con-
trol or Color Bar?” which Melbourne
University Press will publish shortly.
The Group’s policy stems from an
analysis of the harmful consequences
that could easily flow from non-Euro-
pean migration if it were not suitably
regulated. We recognise that beyond a
point immigration will not attract a pro-
portionate inflow of capital and may, on
balance, be harmful economically to the
host community. The living standards
of particular groups will certainly suffer
if the inflow of immigrants is occupation-
ally unbalanced. Moreover, if the quali-
fications of non-European immigrants
cause them to concentrate in jobs at the
bottom of the economic scale, that in it-
self will foster prejudice. Trouble may
also result if immigration is allowed to
outstrip the provision of housing.
The Immigration Reform Group de-
votes a long chapter to eight societies—
"I'm a little worried about Brother Albert ."
either multi-racial or with sizeable non-
European minorities that are often
mentioned when the White Australia
policy is discussed. CUr examples were
certainly not chosen to bolster a case,
and precisely because of this, the reader
may feel that the racial situation which
would exist in Australia if we allowed a
controlled and wisely chosen inflow of
non-Europeans would be totally different
from the position in the United States,
with its legacy from slavery, or in
Britain, which must live with the fruits
of past uncontrolled migration from
Commonwealth countries.
Adopting a suggestion made earlier by
what is now the Australian Council of
Churches, the Immigration Reform
Group proposes that, except in the case
of political refugees, migration shall be
regulated through bilateral ; greements
between the Australian government and
the governments of countries from which
immigrants may wish to come. These
agreements would state the occupational
categories in which migrants must fall.
The number of migrants in each cate-
gory might be set down. Alternatively,
the agreements might leave numbers in-
determinate within specified limits and
might state, instead, the conditions which
intending migrants would need to satisfy.
At first, the intake might be very small
—not more than 1500 a year. If things
went well, it could be increased.
This procedure wo' Id be more flex-
ible than quotas. It would recognise ex-
plicitly that the regulation of migration
to Australia affects the interests and dig-
nity of the countries from which t u e im-
migrants come, as well as the interests
and dignity of Australia. It would mean
associating the leaders of non-European
countries with our own leaders in re-
solving difficult issues, such as how many
highly trained people the developing eco-
nomies can prudently release.
The poorer countries will be unwise
to take too narrow a view of what they
can gain, in the long run, if some of
their best qualified people are allowed
to settle in Western countries. Yet they
have 0 od reason to limit the emigra-
tion of people with scarce qualifications.
Some Asian governments already dis-
courage it. Australia, for its part, should
certainly insist that any intake of non-
Europeans shall not be overweighted
with unskilled persons. Non-European
leaders could see readily that such an
intake would strengthen race prejudice
within Australia, and realisation of this,
along with their desire to limit the emi-
gration of trained personnel, could lead
to their endorsing Australian proposals
for intakes that were small and occu-
pationally balanced. At any rate, the
possibility is worth exploring.


LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
THE TAIT CASE
Sir,
The Victorian Chief Secretary and
Attorney-General Mr Rylah, has chosen
to break silence (Bulletin, September
29) on the proposed hanging of Robert
Peter Tait by attacking the “Bulletin”
article of September 15 by a Melbourne
correspondent. So far he has not taken
the Melbourne Press into his confidence
on the matter.
He wrote: “To say that the Crown and
the Defence agreed at the trial that Tait
was a psychopath who became uncon-
trollable while influenced by alcohol is,
to say the least of it, a complete exag-
geration highlighting the e/idence given
on behalf of the Defence by ignoring the
views of the experienced psychiatrist who
was called by the Crown. The jury cer-
tainly did not accept the Defence’s claim
that the old lady was killed while Tait
was in a psychopathic state. I would have
thought that a fair summary of the evi-
dence of the killing would have been
exactly the reverse”.
However your Melbourne Correspond-
ent’s accuracy is confirmed by referring
to the transcript of the trial.
After the Defence called Dr Guy
Springthorpe, who gave evidence of Tail’s
psychopathy, the Crown called Dr Alan
Bartholomew, the Psychiatric Superin-
tendent at Pentridge Gaol. He agreed that
Tait was “a chronic alcoholic” (p. 243),
a masochist (267), sexually abnormal
(267) a transvestite (267), a homosexual
(267 and 298), a sadist (268), a maniac
(268) and that he was suffering from
“a mental disorder or disease of the
mind” (269).
The Crown then called antother psy-
chiatrist, Dr L. A. Guile from the Alex-
andra Clinic. The first question he was
asked in cross-examination by Mr Starke,
QC (for the Defence) was: “Doctor, just
let me put it to you shortly, would you
agree that this man is a sexual psycho-
path?” Dr Guile: “Yes, I would accept
that description”, (p. 313).
On page 291 Mr Starke had asked Dr
Bartholomew: “In so far as Dr Spring-
thorpe says that this man was legally
insane from, at all events, after the first
blow, you will say that Dr Springthorpe
may be right or is possibly right?” Dr
Bartholomew: “Of course I would say
that, yes”.
As to Mr Rylah’s second point that the
jury did not accept the Defence claim that
the old lady was killed while Tait was in
a psychopathic state, it was decided by the
High Court of Australia in the Victorian
Case of Wilgoss v. The Queen that psy-
chopathy (sometimes defined as moral
imbecility) does not come within the
McNaughten rules of insanity, which are
essentially based on a concept of intel-
lectual knowledge, and it is absurd for
Mr Rylah to conclude that the jury de-
cided that Tait was not a psychopath.
This question was never put to them
for their decision nor, under Victorian
law, could it be put to them.
V. J. DOUBE.
President, Anti-Hanging Committee.
Victoria.
“NO LIBERAL SPLIT”
Sir,
It is surprising that a responsible jour-
nal like yours should print an article
based on as little fact as was John Hig-
gins’ on “The Liberal Split” (Bulletin,
September 29). Certainly the Liberal
Party itself was NOT the source of his
information.
Mr Hulme in defending Sir Roland
Wilson was defending the Federal Gov-
ernment whose policy Sir Roland imple-
ments. Claims other than Mr Hiley’s
of extra loan money for Australia have
not materialised to date.
There has never been State Executive
opposition to Mr Hiley’s standing for the
Deputy Leadership of the Party, Mr
Hiley’s election being quite acceptable to
the Party Executive. The right to elect
their Parliamentary Leaders rests solely
with the Liberal Parliamentarians and
always has. Consequently, Mr Higgins’
claim of “a stooge” prepared to stand
down for Mr Murray is groundless. In-
stead I challenge Mr Higgins to produce
one iota of factual evidence to substan-
tiate his claim.
Despite Mr Higgins surprise at Mr
Murray’s selection there is one unanswer-
able reason for his selection. Mr Murray
was the outstanding candidate for the
Clayfield plebiscite. The Clayfield Elec-
torate Campaign Committee is unani-
mously in favor of Mr Murray’s selec-
tion.
(Dr) A. W. HARTWIG
Vice-President Queensland Liberal Party.
Brisbane.
NO “HATE” FOR AMERICA
Sir,
Mr Peter Kelly’s article “Queensland
—Labor’s Key to Canberra?” (Bulletin,
September 29) seems inspired by a mix-
ture of spite and ignorance.
Mr Kelly quotes my “New Age”
articles as being of the “1-hate-America”
type. It is apparent that he is as little
acquainted with “New Age” as he is with
labor politics in Queensland generally. I
have been contributing to “New Age” for
more than three years and, if he were to
study the files of this paper, Mr Kelly
would discover that I have no “hate” for
America although I have plenty for
the policies of its government. He would
also discover that his implied suggestion
that my attitude towards the USSR and
China is one of blind adulation is equally
far from the truth.
I’ll gladly go on record as hating those
institutions in America and not in
America alone either which deny to
people all over the world the right to
live as they wish, free from foreign con-
trol, and to transform their countries
into something better than they were be-
fore. Especially when, at the same time,
they oppress their own minorities and
force whole sections of their people into
the category of second class citizens.
KEN KEMSHEAD
Grange (Queensland).
THE INTELLECTUALS
Sir,
In the September 15 issue of The
Bulletin in a Forum article by Mr
Jupp (“What Happened to the ‘New
Left' ”) presents us with a somewhat
dismal history of the intellectuals’ attempt
to break with Communist Party influence
which apparently has pervaded them since
1956.
He casts envious thoughts at the Vic-
torian Labor College and in a passing
shot writes: their “. . . sense of everyday
reality can be gauged from their recent
lecture series on Bernstein, Luxemburg
and Kautsky (who flourished in Germany
over 50 years ago).”
As its name implies, the Victorian
Labor College is an educational institu-
tion. Its basic teaching is scientific
socialism and for the source of this theory
it goes to its founder, Karl Marx. The
recent series of lectures presented by the
College were actually headed “The Real
Meaning of Socialism.” For the sake of
accuracy let me say that there were no
lectures on Bernstein or Kautsky.
To us, the meaning of socialism is a
major sense of everyday reality, while
the two lectures on Luxemburg were
given for this same reason; their impor-
tance to everyday reality.
But can the same be said of the every-
day reality of “The New, New Left.” (?)
Bereft of Labor support, they, according
to Mr Jupp, will follow the traditional
role of the Fabian Society as the Webbs
conceive it. What sense of everyday
reality is this that bases its activity on
Sydney Webb who wrote his Trade Union
History in the last century!
E. TRIPP
Secretary, Victorian Labor College
Trades Hall, Melbourne.
COMPULSORY READING
Sir,
I don’t know who it is that rejoices
under the name of Frank Knopfelmacher,
or to what political party he owes alleg-
iance, if any, but I thought his article on
“State Aid” (Bulletin, September 8)
quite the most reasoned statement of the
two sides of the case that I, a mere
“protestant non-paranoiac,” have yet
read. The article should be made com-
pulsory reading for all federal politicians,
State politicians, and newspapers editors.
Then perhaps readers of less erudite
material than The Bulletin offers, could
become better briefed.
R. M. HORNER
Church Grammar School,
Launceston (Tasmania).


REVIEWS
MUSIC
A CONSIDERABLE LOCAL LANDMARK
Seventh Subscription Concert: Blue
Series.
Seventh Subscription Concert: Red
Series. Melbourne Town Hall.
T'he interest in this pair of concerts
centred, for me, in the first perfor-
mance of Felix Werder's Monostrophe
for orchestra, composed in 1961 for the
Victorian Symphony Orchestra and dedi-
cated to its conductor Georges Tzipine.
This opened the blue series concerts, and
was paralleled in the red series by an-
other Melbourne work, an Overture of
Harold Badger.
Badger’s music proved brisk, extrovert
and engaging. Of a strongly English cast,
it generates its movement through the
type of short irregular metrical figures
which give resilience to certain music
of Walton, and more recent English
musicians. The general shape of the
Overture is identified by its broader
central tune, widely spaced and moving
in even-flowing notes; but the finer detail
which integrates the quick outer sections
did not completely register with me in
this single unprepared hearing. The
scoring is capable, attractive and vi-
gorous.
Werder’s Monostrophe, a longer work,
was rather different from the few earlier
works I have been able to hear, but no
less impressive. This difference seems to
spring from the composer’s deliberate
choice, and not from the natural develop-
ment of a trait of style already in
evidence.
What I have come to regard as the
characteristic Werder is a strongly dis-
sonant counterpoint not unlike the
manner and intensity of Bartok, and, like
him, obviously belonging to main stream
of 19th and 20th century instru-
mental music. Monostrophe breaks with
this tradition in that it uses many of the
basic techniques of the serialist or “12-
note” school.
It is not (I think) based on a determin-
ed tone-row, and it does not follow min-
utely and elaborately all the conditions
which the strictest serialist would require
of it. No special effort is made, for
instance, to avoid an occasional concord,
and there is no evidence of a recurring
pattern of tones which must fall in strict
rotation.
In fact, comparatively long sections of
the music give an impression of definite
tonality, or perhaps modality. One of
these sections is built on a sustained
pedal-point, another on an inverted pedal,
and it is difficult to pitch any harmonic
structure on a pedal without suggesting
a basic tonality.
But with these reservations the music
does fall within the 12-note context.
There is only one theme, or rather one
source of melodic material. This is
located in the first few bars, and charac-
terised by a wide and slightly slurred
melodic leap. From this point the whole
structure of the music arises.
Intricately contrapuntal in texture, it
uses extensions and contractions of the
basic material, inversions, retrogrades —-
the whole range of classical 12-note
gambits explained by Schonberg in Style
and Idea, and in more detail by later
commentators. These various derivatives
of the basic material are frequently
counterpointed against each other in a
display of staggering technical virtuosity
—a display which would be frightening
if it were made for the sake of virtuosity
alone, but which is continually curbed
to serve more musical ends within the
work itself.
The harmony of Monostrophe is, it
follows, of a kind not used to the same
degree in the earlier chamber music of
Werder. Here it becomes almost an ad-
dition to the fabric of counterpoint, a by-
product of the movement of the different
lines taken by the thematic material as
it evolves from its primary form.
Werder’s orchestration itself, though
apparently designed to show the virtuo-
sity of the local orchestra, does lend point
to another aspect of the music’s struc-
ture, highlighting the fact that even the
metres of the opening few bars are ex-
plored and developed in the rest of the
work.
This was an altogether fascinating
piece of work, and its performance a
considerable landmark in local music.
Without wanting to fall in behind Proust
or Joyce, who expect from their audience
a lifetime of study, I feel that a recording
of Monostrophe is very much called for.
Only to a recording could we give, as
listeners, some part of the attention
which the composer has given to the
making of this music.
For my own part, I would welcome
the chance to make some kind of final
evaluation of the music’s emotional im-
pact, which after a superficial hearing
was left rather in the shadow of its in-
tellectual challenge.
As soloist in the concertos of Brahms
and Sibelius, Ruggiero Ricci produced
at both concerts violin playing of great
beauty. Tzipine’s accompaniments were
excellent, and his performance of the D
Minor Symphony of Franck most atten-
tive and exciting.
It was a fine performance built from
the meticulous assembly of fine details.
In the first two movements particularly
his dynamic shading, concern for the
chromatic inner parts, and shaping of
decorative arabesques, gave vivid life to
a work which I thought had been ground
into dullness by sheer routine and repeti-
tion.
KENNETH HINCE
THE MAN FOR THE JOB?
Two Orchestral Concerts: Sydney
Symphony Orchestra conducted by
Francesco Mander.
OtNCE Nicolai Malko’s death last year
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra
has been without a permanent conductor.
The delay in getting a replacement has
largely been due to Sydney’s remoteness
from the important musical centres; any-
one who comes to Sydney for any length
of time runs the risk of being forgotten
in the places were musical reputations
are made, while a conductor with an
established reputation, who could afford
to be absent from the European scene,
has little inducement, apart from the cli-
mate, to come here.
In the period without a conductor the
orchestra’s standard of playing has deter-
iorated. There have been some excellent
concerts since Malko died—Horenstein’s
for instance —but the general level of
performance has been below what one


might reasonably expect. There has been
speculation about who Malko’s successor
might be, but there has been no indica-
tion of what steps were being taken to
fill the post.
It is now rumored that Francesco
Mander, who conducted two concerts last
week, may be the new conductor. Mander
was born in Rome in 1915, has done a
fair amount of conducting in Europe since
the war, and is at present director of
Braga State Conservatory in Italy. He is
also a composer; his second programme
included one of his works, a “symphonic
allegory” called “The Nightingale, the
Rose and the Scarab,” written in a lucid,
strongly melodic and harmonically con-
servative idiom.
The other works on the programmes
were a curiously mixed bag, seemingly
chosen to show how catholic Mander's
interests are. They included Beethoven’s
“Prometheus” overture, Cherubini’s sym-
phony, a Dvorak serenade for strings,
Tchaikowsky’s second symphony, “Pic-
tures at an Exhibition” and the Good
Friday music from “Parsifal.” The solo-
ist at the concerts, contralto Maureen
Forrester —a splendid artist who deserves
a review to herself —sang Brahms’ “Four
Serious Songs” and Chausson’s “Poem
of Love and the Sea.”
Mander has a brisk, energetic approach
to what he conducts. He delights in
strong rhythms and in vivid contrasts of
volume and tone. “Pictures at an Exhi-
bition,” which has these in abundance,
was probably the most successful item
and the Dvorak serenade, which has none
of them, the least. Mander’s besetting
temptation seems to be to overdramatise
as he did to some extent in the Beethoven.
The orchestra performed very well at
times, notably in “Pictures at an Exhibi-
tion,” and at other times in quite a slip-
shod way. There were frequent mishaps
of timing and intonation in all sections
of the orchestra, and the players did not
always respond to Mander’s directions
with precision. The strings, especially
the violins, often lacked co-ordination.
All this suggests either that Mander takes
some time to get the best out of an
orchestra, or that he presupposes a fairly
high degree of proficiency on the players'
part.
Critical reaction to Mander’s first con-
cert was not favorable. Roger Coveil,
in the “Sydney Morning Herald”, con-
sidered him “a conductor for whom the
gesture sometimes has to stand as substi-
tute for the deed,” and called his account
of the Dvorak serenade “entirely mis-
guided.” Martin Long said in the “Daily
Telegraph” that his conducting “seemed
to be aimed mainly towards superficial
‘effectiveness’ ” and “revealed a strong
element of showmanship.” After Man-
der’s second concert, Coveil dubbed him
the least inspired planner of pro-
grammes to have had charge of the Syd-
ney Symphony Orchestra for a long
time.”
JOHN SMALL
RADIO
SCHIRRA MAKES HIS SPLASH
Although men in local space have
not been really hot news since
Major Yuri Gagarin’s heyday, the
American orbitings do occur at night,
are fully reported in shortwave broad-
casts from The Voice of America
stations, and therefore remain good
radio news material for the all-night
stations.
There are four of these in Sydney,
where I happened to be, at about mid-
night on October 3-4. Two of the four
followed Cdr. Walter Schirra’s progress
breathlessly, but the others were satisfied
to mention it in their news on the hour.
Of the two interested parties, 2UW
handled events in a forthright manner,
admitting that it was taking its relays
directly from the V. of A., but two
stops along the dial 2UE went for the
Big Deal, with results like this:
Announcer: We now cross to Gary
O’Callaghan at our News Com-
munication Centre. Come in,
Gary.
O’Callaghan: Here in the News Com-
munication Centre we’re waiting
for Colonel Powers to come to
the microphone to talk to us.
He’s there now. Can you read us
OK? Yes, he’s there now. Come
in, Colonel.
This razzmatazz was followed by the
same Voice of America broadcast by a
Colonel Powers, which 2UW’s listeners
had heard, incidentally, some six
minutes earlier, without frills.
One further move along the dial
brought me to 2GB, where a lady named
Toni, her feet planted firmly on the
ground, was showing concern for people
who might be coming home from
parties and advising them to ring Yellow
Cabs. I went back to 2UW, and the
Voice of America reportage on Shirra’s
adventures 100 miles out, at 17,500
miles an hour.
From midnight until 2 a.m. when
things seemed to lull, radio kept its
listeners closely in touch with the pro-
gress of the orbital flight, with some
highlights which were memorable.
The best of these was from a taping
of Cdr. Shirra’s voice, out there, re-
marking on “the moon to the left of
me now”, as though he could reach out
and touch it.
Shirra was due to “splash” at 7.25
a.m. EST, and I managed to listen in
again then. Perhaps he had already
splashed and the other stations had
broadcast it, but I doubt that, and to
give credit where it’s due, 2UE spent
some 10 minutes of its money-spinning
breakfast programme on an uninter-
rupted relay of the descent, as seen from
the deck of the waiting aircraft carrier in
the Pacific. It was good radio, the
climax of an important event, described
as it happened. My morning newspaper
had Cdr. Schirra no further than his
fourth orbit. I wish radio could offer
us relays of the big news events more
often. Most of us would then listen
more often.
DALE MILLER
ART
THE SCOPE OF
POTTERY
Alex Leckie and Jo Caddy. R.S.A.S.A.
Gallery. Adelaide.
Alex Leckie has been known as a clay
sculptor and potter in Adelaide for
some years. His domestic pieces have
been restrained in shape, color, and
glaze; a dull finish gives many of them
an archaeological look as of having been
buried a long while in dry earth. He
has also made large figures in red drain-
pipe clay. Until now he has not gathered
together enough material for a compre-
hensive showing of what he can do, but
the present exhibition does just that.
There are conventional bowls and
vases, but also a variety of decorated
pieces where what seems to have been a
series of over-paintings and firings has
been used to combine pottery and sculp-
ture with painting. The effects, as might
be expected, are characteristic and per-
sonal, on the bottles, vases, figures, and
“three-dimensional paintings” (on the
surfaces of rotatable spheres), which
have been treated in this way. Indeed
there is so much related variety that the
first impression is that some museum
worker has dug up an intense little Min-
oan, Etruscan, or Aztec civilisation.
There is the plain utility crusty ware of
simple people who live in the sun, then
more sophisticated hollow female vase-
figures, and finally a series of myster-
ious hermaphroditic wine-bottles.
Jo Caddy’s paintings are a back-
ground to the ceramics, and many seem
to have been deliberately painted to echo
Leckie’s work. The whole show is very
satisfying, and marks the wider emer-
gence of Leckie as an artist.
ARLE HACKETT


A TRUE
CRAFTSMAN
REPLICA OF “THAT”
FAMOUS
ROCKER
BUY
AT
A
FACTORY
♦ * * PRICE * * *
the President rocker . . .
Normally worth £3l! A true
American Colonial style
rocker! A wonderful conver-
sation piece even Presi-
dent Kennedy has one! 17
cushion colours to choose
from!
ooigp
W. R.,
& P.
WOODWARD
102 CHANDOS ST., Crows Nest Sydney. Phone 43-5555
(Road directions: Just off Willoughby Road, short
walk from St. Leonards Station)
Also at 557 Parramatta Road, Taverners Hill, Leichhardt
NOTE INTERSTATE CUSTOMERS: Delivery and for-
warding charges 36/- extra anywhere in Australia.
Send money orders, postal notes.
FILMS
BOY AND GIRL AFFAIR
A Kind of Loving. Embassy, Sydney
It takes exceptional skill and sincerity
to tell a story about the ordinary pro-
blems of absolutely ordinary people and
make it absorbingly interesting from
start to finish. John Schlesinger, the
English director of “A Kind of Loving,”
has these qualities and more; on the evi-
dence of this, his first feature film, he
establishes himself as one of the most
brilliant men at work in the cinema
anywhere. The virtues of this film are
far too solid and consistent for it to be a
fluke or flash in the pan; one must look
forward to Schlesinger’s future work with
hungry expectation.
“A Kind of Loving” is the account of
the love and marriage of a junior
draughtsman and a stenographer; they are
the people you work beside every day;
their problem of adjustment, in one form
or another, is faced in every street in
every city of the Western world. The
boy is intelligent and ambitious, and has
the cheerful, unthinking ruthlessness of
youth; the girl is foolish, weak and affec-
tionate. The boy is impelled into the
affair mainly by sexual curiosity while
the girl, though shy about sex, is infatu-
ated. When the boy, irritated by her
silliness and prudery, drifts back to his
male companions, the girl makes pathetic
efforts to draw him back to her again,
finally consents to seduction. When she
becomes pregnant, he submits to marriage
with a reluctance he hardly disguises.
xhe irritations of married ljfe> with a
disagreeably possessive mother-in-law
forever in the background, build up to the
husband’s brief revolt. He gets drunk,
shouts a few home truths and packs his
suitcase. The story ends in compromise
ant j a precarious “happy ending.”
Schlesinger, his players and his screen-
writer bring to the film a realism that is
almost eerie; as another critic has said, it
makes a member of the audience feel like
an eavesdropper
Inevitably “A Kind of Loving” has
been compare d with “Saturday Night and
Sunday Morning” and “A Taste of
Honey.” The films certainly share a
startling naturalism, an industrial back-
ground and all-round excellence. But
there are important differences. “A Kind
of Loving” does not fasten attention on
the social background; although the set-
ting is once again an unprepossessing
industrial town, it is softened and even
romanticised. This soft-focused under
statement of the background is not, I
feel, a failing in honesty. It is psycholo-
gically right. For this is not a social
drama and the characters are not con-
scious rebels, as the central characters
of the other two films were. They are
not at odds with their environment, but
merely with one another,
MARTIN LONG
THEATRE
RIPE GOLDEN CORN
The Sound of Music. Rodgers and
Hammerstein. Tivoli Theatre.
The Lesson. lonesco. A Slight Ache.
Harold Pinter. Old Tote Theatre.
Oince two pretty distinguished firms
(Rodgers & Hammerstein, Lindsay
& Crouse) stand at the back of “The
Sound Of Music,” there is little doubt of
the show’s competence and ball-bearing
smoothness. What is disappointing about
it all is that four such craftsmen could
only come up with a one-dimensioned
musical.
Everyone in “The Sound Of Music”
seems possessed of a neverfailing source
of sweetness and light. Everyone is so
damned good that, unless you have an
uncommonly sweet tooth, interval time
will be throw-up time.
Added to the shining torches of divine
radiance that all on stage wave around,
the old writing firm of Lindsay and
Crouse has furnished each character with
an unequalled fount of cliche —cliches
of speech, feeling, and situation. It is
all predictable, “The Sound Of Music.”
It all runs on and on in a pattern easily
seen.
Even the show's big scene, in which
the (cliche) badly-dressed new gover-
ness teaches the family (seven sternly
disciplined children) to sing, has this
failing of pre-arrangement. The children
learn their tonic sol-fa with such speed
that they obviously know it all the time —
there’s not even the slightest bow to
realism, no stumbles, no mistakes.
The “Big Four” reach some sort of a
peak, however, when they have a Mother
Superior burst into song. A Rodgers
and Hammerstein type “big” number, at
that. This was a little too much for your
critic. The effect wasn’t at all helped by
the fact that Miss Rosina Raisbeck’s arti-
culation was so unclear that hardly a
word could be made out.
At the ingratiating Old Tote Theatre,
students of NIDA (National Institute of
Dramatic Art) gave their second pro-
duction of the current season. lonesco’s
“The Lesson” came off most brilliantly,
and, despite producer John Clark’s pro-
gramme note that the play had no clear-
cut message, the ideas came over with
tremendous bite and meaning.
lonesco’s satire has never been better
than in this early short play, in which
he beats hell out of our blind acceptance
and respect for academic learning and
instruction. The professor, says lonesco,
kills the pupil. In his play, the professor
does just that, combining elements ot
seduction and eventual murder in a dra-
matic tour de force. Miss Anne Dobrow-
olska and Mr Barry Egginton, as the
pupil and the professor, seemed to me to
get just about all that could be had from
the piece.
. By contrast, the Harold Pinter piece,
“A Slight Ache,” suffered sadly against
the genuine talent of lonesco. Pinter just
doesn’t bring his “nightmare” off, and his
language, symbols and contrivances slip
so badly that long before the end one is
more than half-expecting some strange
idol to enter and demand sacrifice.
Performances, in a stiffly mannered
style, by Miss Jane Bertelsen as a middle-
class English wife, and Mr Denis Olsen
as her neurotic husband, were much
better than the play deserved. As the
Matchseller, a wordless figure who no
doubt was some sort of a symbol, Brian
Harold managed to infuse his silence
with a remarkable sense ot inner acti-
vity.
All three players, in fact, maintained
a tight net of tensions and implied or
threatened actions that gripped the
audience almost all of the span of the
play. It was a tribute to the skill of the
.players that no one went to sleep, or
laughed in the “wrong” place.
KEVON KEMP


THE RED PAGE
THE FAT LADY OR CHRIST?
Salinger's quasi-religious guff
By CHARLES HSGHAM
Franny and Zooey. J. D. Salinger
Heinemann 20s.
Qince 1953, J. D. Salinger has been
obsessed with a literary family as
inbred as any in Ivy Compton-Burnett:
the Glass clan of New York’s East
Seventies, a fragilely ornamental collec-
tion of Irish-Jewish “characters” featur-
ing as stars Zooey, a handsome film and
Television actor, and Franny, his
younger sister, herself planning a stage
career.
The two stories that make up this
skinny volume introduce us to the Glass
world through a series of duologues. A
Yale athlete, Lane Coutell, talks at the
increasingly maddened Franny; Mrs
Glass talks at her son Zooey through
the bath-curtain and later while he is at
the basin; Zooey talks at Franny in a
loquacious attempt to have her alter her
vision of humanity. Carefully naviga-
ting the dip and swell of pretentious
American speech, Salinger unravels his
characters in great detail: the footballer
who wants to impress his girl-friend with
a line of intellectual patter, the nervous
girl who hies off to the washroom at a
moment of crisis, the cigar-smoking actor
who can talk about the Meaning of
Meaning while busily soaping his navel.
Salinger’s audience, whose needs he has
understood, have seen and enjoyed them-
selves in the cold mirror of his prose.
Glass mere and pere were once vaude-
ville performers, known as Gallagher and
Glass, who toured Pantages and Orpheum
circuits: Glass’s grandfather was Zozo
the Clown, who made a living diving into
water tubs. The seven Glass children,
Quiz Kids all, appeared to great acclaim
on “It’s a Wise Child,” a questions please
programme of the 1930 s and early 19405.
Like the Seven Little Foys or a mixed-
sex version of the S-V.ii Dwarfs, the
Glass boys and girls have each been
adorably different, sharing only virtue
and garrulity.
The eldest Glass, Seymour, committed
suicide in 1948 (the stories are set in
1955). The suggestion emerges very
strongly in the second story that Sey-
mour was a saint, even if his quoted
thoughts sound more like Cecil Blount
DeMille. The next Glass, Buddy, is a
writer-in-residence at a girls’ junior
college in New York State, the third, with
the nauseating name of 800 800,
mothered three children. Of the twins
Walt and Waker, only Waker survived
—a Roman Catholic priest. Walt died
in an explosion in Japan. Only Franny
and Zooey live in the East Seventies,
arguing and fussing, haunted by a preda-
tory mother.
The suspicion, seeded at the beginning,
grows monstrously as the book progresses:
we are meant to love the Glasses. And
Salinger, who is all of them wrapped up
in one big literary cuddle-bunny.
“Franny” begins with Lane Coutell read-
ing a letter from the girl while he waits
for her on a railway station. Salinger
wildly signals to the reader to admire
the letter, feel amusement at its bad
spelling, be charmed by its simple-hearted
literary judgments: “I absolutely adore
your letter, especially the bit about Eliot.
I think I’m beginning to look down on
all poets except Sappho.” We are also
meant to dislike Lane, who is both
healthy and naive—two reasons for Sal-
inger-Franny to shudder at him. Lane
takes Franny to Sickler’s Restaurant be-
fore the Yale Weekend and the author
felinely claws at him, probably getting his
own back for some well-deserved de-
bagging at college. Everything Lane is
made to say is stilted, ridiculous: even
Lane’s brief glance around the room to
catch admiring glances for his own ability
to snare a pretty girl. The fact that
Salinger thinks this is stupid and vulgar
exactly conveys his own inbred life-
lessness.
Gradually, Franny is reduced to ner-
vous prostration by her companion (all
the Glasses have tender, unbearable sensi-
bilities). She goes to the ladies’ room for
a moment of peace, sweating, pale and
unable to endure any more. Crouched on
the toilet seat, she reads a peagreen book,
“The Way of a Pilgrim,” which tempor-
arily consoles her for her companion’s
idiocy (its contents, by the way, are far
sillier than Lane Coutell at his worst).
She returns for a brief, bitter exchange,
then once again succumbs to spiritual
despair, takes a turn, falls in a faint, and
ends up mouthing something at the
ceiling.
The most disturbing thing about the
long duologue that makes up this first
story is not its callow and effete writing,
but its assumption that Franny herself is
in some way saintly, lovable and delight-
ful. She is in fact narcissistic, humorless
and, at times, inane. Salinger’s con-
stant nudges and asides seek to shanghai
us into her camp, there to give civilised
smiles at her goodness and sweetness. It’s
like being trapped for half an hour in a
telephone booth with Hayley Mills as
Pollyanna, Uncle Walt Disney ringing
up every five minutes or so to make sure
one’s admiring her.
The second story, “Zooey,” opens in
that most satisfactory of receptacles for
the self-admiring—a bathtub. One can
almost hear the “ah, that’s like me” on
the lips of countless American sopho-
mores as the author describes Zooey read-
ing a letter while dropping cigarette ash
in the bathwater. Zooey is beautiful. He
is thin. He is a TV star. He is in fact a
wish-fulfilment image for every non-
athletic, talented, beautiful-of-soul young
mixed-up kid in America. Mr Salinger
knows how to rake in the paydirt.
Into Zooey’s private bathroom world
comes Mother. You don’t need a seismo-
graph to register the tremors this inva-
sion of narcissistic privacy must have
caused readers across the Pacific. And
Salinger. Mrs Glass is, of course, even
more vulgar and stupid than Lane. She’s
worse than an athlete, even. She’s old.
She’s not beautiful-of-soul. Yet she can’t
be denied.
Down she sits on the lavatory, and all
the old, dreary cliches come out. You
know, the ones that make the good-of-
soul shudder. Zooey gets more and more
fussed: “All I want, Bessie, is to be left
alone in this bathroom. That’s my one
simple desire.” She nags him because he's
messy, because he’s losing pounds in the
tub, because he answers back: “Just don’t
be so fresh, young man.” And then, of
course, she makes vicarious love to him:
“You’re getting so broad and lovely. I
was afraid all those crazy barbell exer-
cises would do some —.” Mrs Glass is
created in a spirit of pure hatred—just
another example of Salinger’s loathing
of people without that specially beautiful
sensibility shared by Franny and Zooey.
And Salinger.
After the long duologue with Mrs
Glass, Franny and Zooey are left alone
together. Or almost alone: the ghost of
Seymour Glass is around somewhere in
the apartment, his room preserved exactly
as he left it when he went to be married.
But apart from the saintly Seymour, yet
another Salinger persona, and rather more
insufferable even than the rest, there’s
nothing left for us in the book except
Franny talking to Zooey and Zooey talk-
ing to Franny—in other words, Salinger
talking to Salinger talking to Salinger.
This last long narcissistic twitter com-
pletely discloses all we need to know
about the author’s personality and talent.
Zooey has no doubt of his own glory: “I
bring the sun wherever I go.” Franny re-
members how she suffered at college:
people made her jump into a pool for a
can of Medaglia d'Oro Coffee (these are
the healthy, tanned people Salinger re-
fers to more than once, and hates so


much). An Oxford Professor, luppei.
is full of hatred for her, she says: we are
meant thenceforth to hate Tupper. And
not only healthy, tanned people and
college professors are victims of Salin-
ger’s wrath—he’s even nasty to out-of-
towners (this book contains not only a
spiritual, but an urban snobbery). Zooey
says, obviously with an invisible pat on
the back from J.D.S.: “I don’t trust any
out-of-towners in New York. I don’t
care how the hell long they’ve been here.
I’m always afraid they’re going to get
run over, or beaten up, while they’re
busy discovering some little Armenian
restaurant on Second Avenue.”
He tells Franny that he and she are
exclusive: “We’re freaks, that’s all. Those
two bastards” (their parents, of course)
“got us nice and early and made us into
freaks with freakish standards, that’s all.
We re the 1 attooed Lady, and we re never
going to have a minute’s peace, the rest
of our lives, until everyone else is tat-
tooed, too.”
This is very close to the theme of
Christopher Isherwood’s “Down There
on a Visit,” in which the homosexual
narrator is obviously proud to be a mis-
fit. Franny and Zooey and the other Glass
children are misfits because of their un-
usually refined sensibilities (not evident
on paper, but never mind). Yet, Zooey
tells Franny, though people are horrible,
ugly, the Fat Lady at the circus in mul-
tiple, they’re all Christ: “There isn’t any-
one anywhere who isn’t the Fat Lady.
Don't you know that? Don’t you know
that goddam secret yet? And don’t you
know— listen to me now— don’t you
know what that Fat Lady really is? . . .
Ah, buddy. Ah, buddy. It’s Christ Him-
self. Christ Himself, buddy.”
This disgusting philosophy—people are
ugly and stupid and dull but they’re
Christ so you’ve got to love them —repre-
sents Salinger’s quasi-religious guff at its
worst. There isn't a trace of Christian
feeling in the book, yet this banal muck
is thrown at us in the last paragraphs as
the wisdom Zooey-Salinger alone can
give us, that we must take like a big
sugar-pill to Get Christ. And the Glass
family, with its helpless stupid parents and
angelic clever children, is meant to sym-
bolise the position in which the world
finds itself—the world, that is, of young,
good, rebellious, anti-athletic Salinger
readers. And the Glass children alone
remain pure, flawlessly reflecting the
author’s own piety. He has looked long
and hard at his Glasses, but he has only
succeeded in polishing up flattering
images of himself.
PYSCHO-ANALYSING MATTHEW FLINDERS
My Own Destroyer. Sidney J. Baker.
Currawong. 295. 6d.
MR Baker has branched out into a new
field, for him, in attempting a bio-
graphy of Matthew Flinders, the explorer,
according to the modern idea that it is
easy to write biography provided you
have the right gimmick. Mr Baker’s
gimmick is, according to the blurb, to
“set (his subject) within a framework of
psycho-analysis,” which thus enables him
to “reveal the inevitability of Flinders’
tragic end.”
His title is taken from Robinson
Crusoe which the author seems to con-
sider as Flinders’ theme-text (“I was born
to be my own destroyer”).
Mr Baker states his thesis in his pre-
face:
When we survey his brief forty
years of life, it would almost seem
that the whole of his experience con-
spired to bring ultimate tragedy on
him. If he had not read an adventure
book as a boy ... if he had not
voyaged with Bligh ... if he had not
served on (sic) the same ship as
George Bass ... if there had been no
Tom Thumb, if Flinders had not been
allotted the task of confirming Bass’s
discovery of a strait ... if he had not
happened to be in England at the time
a commander was needed for the In
vestigator . .if that vessel had not
been old and rotten ... if a letter
had not been delivered ... if a pump
had not failed . . .
Then, it seems he would not have been
subject to a “compulsion that drove him
into a snare of his own creation” and
“misfortune would not have piled on
misfortune for him” until it would “al-
most seem that he had been specially
chosen by fate as a target for malevolent
attention.”
To w'hich one might add that if
Napoleon had been born a girl and been
educated at Pymble MLC and married a
rich bookmaker he w'ould never have
been Emperor of France and the victim
of haemorrhoids on the night before
Waterloo.
Mr. Baker at once sets out to misjudge
Flinders by misjudging Bligh, reproving
the former for his meditation when Bligh
was appointed Governor of New South
Wales that, “I should indeed desire not
to be placed under his immediate orders,
since the credit, if any, should be due to
my labors, which would be in danger of
being monopolised.” Mr Baker is inclined
to believe, sagely, that “remembering
Flinders’ early dash with his father and
other clashes with authority,” whatever
happened between Bligh and Flinders was
closely linked with the latter’s “resent-
ment against autocratic direction.” He
feels that the essence of his reactions w'as
“identical with the factors that were to
provide the almost intolerable burden of
distress that clouded the lust quarter of
Flinders’ life.”
“Knowing as we do the forthright
clarity of Bligh’s opinions (even allowing
plenty of leeway for his peppery disposi-
tion) we would hardly expect him to
seek to usurp credit due to Flinders for
his explorations around the coast of Aus-
tralia,” he writes. “As Bligh's biograph-
ers have not failed to point out, he had
many failings, but jealousy does not seem
to have been one of the most outstanding
of them.”
That, so far as 1 am concerned, dis-
poses of Mr Baker’s ability to psycho-
analyse seamen of the Bligh-Flinders
period, for it was Bligh’s main burden
that he could never bear it that one drop
of credit should fall to anybody but him-
self in any circumstances whatever; not
even Cook. Bligh’s attitude to himself
was typified after his boat voyage when
the Bounty mutineers had cast him out —
a voyage made in company with the
sailing master of the ship, the master’s
mate, two midshipmen and a versatile
section of the crew: “No man shares with
me any honors 1 may receive for I have
none that merit it ... I have saved their
lives most miraculously.”
Flinders, in fact, was a generous soul,
naturally, in sharing credit for his work
with others, as witness his unstinted praise
of Bass, a naval surgeon who a seasoned
young navigating officer might well have
been inclined to rob of all the kudos of
their partnership in exploration.
Mr Baker has little knowledge of con-
temporary background and convention.
Mixed with his own obsessions about the
Oedipus complex is a habit of taking at
face value the high f luting diction of
the time, the exaggeration of expression,
for instance, which demanded that one
should write of the dead (whatever one
thought of them) such perfervid out-
bursts as, in Flinders’ case, “Oh, my
dearest, kindest father, hmv much I loved
you, reverenced you, yo_ cannot know”;
or in Governor Macquarie’s case, “Yes,
my heavenly darling Jane is gone!—she is
gone and lost to me and you forever!—
and with he all my earthly happiness is
forever fled!”
Mr Baker’s rather naive preoccupation
with psycho-analysis runs with an equally
naive and sketchy narrative of Flinders’
life and explorations, topped off with a
useful addendum consisting of a tran-
script of his victim's letters written from
Sydney and the Isle de France, not easily
accessible to students
Great coastal explorer he was, a man
designed by nature and training for his
task and with a gift and opportunity of
expression denied to most such men. He
was a plain, rather frosty Lincolnshire
man, a man of the eighteenth century
who writes very much as many another


man of his time and circumstances was
apt to write, who reacted to captivity as
many another of his type has reacted,
who was as introspective as his kind in
general.
He must be having a good laugh in
King Neptune’s Elysium as he reads Mr
Baker’s analysis of “the structure of his
personality,” his “unconscious drive to
master anxiety and relieve tension,” “the
seeds of guilt that lay buried far back
in his infancy,” “ the springboard that for
long established antagonism against his
father” and the conflicts of his “short
life” ... his “brief forty years of life,”
which was longer than that of Alexander
the Great, or Wolfe.
M. H. ELLIS
THE LARRIKINS
The World Turned Upside Down.
Donald McLean. Heinemann. 265.
A lthough the publishers describe The
World Turned Upside Down as a
novel, they include several features that
indicate the reader's responsibility to
treat it as a sociological document —a
foreword by Professor Ben Morris, for
example. On top of this, Donald McLean
records that “most of the incidents in
the story are described in newspapers and
other documents in Sydney’s Mitchell
Library.”
The leading characters are moulded
upon a group of Sydney larrikins of
whom several were executed for the rape
of a girl at Mount Rennie; and several
leading citizens of the time, including an
adolescent Dick Meagher, invest the “fic-
tion” with the assurances of their beings.
The scenes are the familiar streets and
resorts of Sydney, with an interlude at a
Queensland opal field, where man’s in-
humanity to man is illustrated from a
different viewpoint.
But in spite of the verisimilitude the
reader is asked to treat it as fiction; and
as fiction it must be reviewed.
Admit at once that the book has life
and variety; that the dialogue has been
well researched (though there is a little
overmuch thieves’ slang); that the back-
ground is sound and anachronisms (which
do occur) are few and insignificent.
Admit a stylistic excellence of the author,
who possesses enough to tackle
some torrid violence with emotional
surety. Admit that it fills the first duty
of a novel, “to entertain, intrigue and
amuse.” Classify it as essential reading
at least for the Sydneysider who
has an affection for the ground he walks.
And after all this a reviewer must come
to the conclusion that he is begging the
question: as a novel it has some signi-
ficant deficiencies.
The author who intends to base a his-
torical novel upon a set of established
facts has several resources. He may,
after arduous research, use the facts and
the characters as they appeared in his-
tory, merely finishing them with the van-
ished background as his imagination
supplies it. A better method is to intro-
duce fictional characters who, though
they play no significant parts in the re-
corded drama, have lives affected by it
in some serious degree. Or he may take
the main facts as the basis for pure
fiction, retaining only the period and the
tragedy, changing names, and altering the
circumstances freely to fit the characters
he has evolved.
Donald McLean has followed the first
method, and demonstrates its weakness.
There are few good books (if indeed
there are any) in which the characters
portrayed have been chiselled into a
shape that fits a given, unalterable
circumstance. Character must dominate
circumstance; and if this is not a prime
rule in his writing, the novelist’s develop-
ment of character in the round is retard-
ed, and retards communication. In this
instance the effect is the worse because
McLean has empanelled such a large list
of characters to depict. It is difficult for
the reader to establish, to his complete
satisfaction, the pivot round whom the
book revolves.
The next task of the author is the
adoption of a standpoint. Again he has
several choices. He may choose to be
omniscient, to present the thoughts of
his characters from the inside. He
may treat only one character thus sub-
jectively, writing either in the first or
the third person. Or he may, if his talent
is good enough, employ either first or
third person to deal with all his characters
objectively, heightening the realism, and
channelling the sense of story transmitted
to the reader. There are other methods,
but these five are the recognised best.
A restriction fitting any of them is that,
once chosen, they must be adhered to;
or if a standpoint is to be changed, the
change must be recognisable through the
use of italics or other fonts, or because
another chapter has been begun.
In general, Donald McLean adopts the
difficult omniscient viewpoint, but from
time to time he nods. It is disturbing
for the reader to be privy to the thoughts
of Walter O'Malley for chapter after
chapter, to see him in private moments
with no restrictions upon the view, to be
completely intimate with him—and then
to come upon a passage such as this:
“. . . they had found a shallow cave in
a rocky cliff. It V.d a clean sai.dy floor
and an entrance partly hidden by bushes.
Whether Mary Jane was a virgin when
she went into the cave has never been
established, but Walter claimed later that
she certainly was not when she came
out.”
It was good to see the work of Sydney
artist Frank Beck on the dust-jacket of
this English publication. It is an ex-
cellent job, and should justify the enter-
prise of the publishers in thus coming
to a Sydney source for illustration of
Sydney letters.
OLAF RUHEN
THE FALL OF ARNOLD ZWEIG
The Time Is Ripe. Arnold Zweig.
Anthony Gibbs & Phillips. 31s.
HTo review this book gives no pleasure;
-*■ the decent thing would be to ignore
it. For Arnold Zweig, creator of “Serge-
ant Grischa” and “Education Before
Verdun,” not to speak of a number of
first-rate works better known inside than
outside Germany, is one of the great
writers of our time. Now, in his old
age, he has brought forth a novel which
is almost too bad to be true.
Published in East Germany in 1957,
“The Time is Ripe” covers the period
from 1913 to 1915. Its intention may
have been to provide a backdrop, retro-
spectively, to Zweig’s own, unsurpassed,
war novels, and to fill in autobiographical
detail. The central character, philosophy
student and writer Werner Bertin, sug-
gests Zweig himself. Here we have an-
other attempt to recapture Europe and
Germany sliding into the great disaster,
together with an old man’s tender re-
collections. On neither score does it suc-
ceed, but on the first the failure is
shattering.
Admittedly, the translation is terrible.
So little do the translators know their job
that Brandenburg and Mecklenburg con-
sistently appear as Brandenberg and
Mecklenberg. But it does not make much
difference. There are flashes of Zweig's
old humanity, a few memorable passages,
description of landscapes and cities, but
the structure is feeble, the characterisa-
tion wooden and, very surprisingly, the
historical dialogue embarrassingly naive.
In the first chapters, never-endingly
larded with political asides, quotations
and glossaries built into the conversation
—there’s a gruesome bit where a luggage
clerk talks like a Foreign Office spokes-
man —I felt that perhaps Zweig was ex-
perimenting with Cocialist Realism. (He
could have grown tired of being defined
as the most advanced of the bourgeois
realists.) But not at all. Workers play
a much less convincing part than in the
Verdun novel. Zweig is simply repeat-
ing, on a lower level, what he did then;
linking the Common drama with high-
placed intrigue.
This is how it works out. Lenora,


Bertin’s girl, a Jewish banker’s daughter,
is sent off by her father to interview a
young Strasbourg financier to find out
what he thinks of French political plans.
It could not be more implausible, but
when Herr Derenbourg falls in love with
Lenora and becomes a rival to Bertin,
interest quickens. Towards the end the
Strasbourg boy gets killed in action, after
a courtship involving too much leader-
writing chatter to make his death regret-
table.
Except Lenora’s grandfather, the civil-
ised old banquier Wahl, there is not a
single character who is not content and
happy in the Imperial fool’s paradise.
Where, then, are the roots of the Verdun
disillusionment, the genesis of the titanic
struggle for Grisha’s life?
Sometimes a glimmer of purpose is
perceived ... in Berlin’s poetry and in
the figure of an old shepherd-monk who
dies from a viper’s bite when war breaks
out. So, perhaps one could be mistaken?
Could Zweig be trying to take Tolstoy
to his logical conclusion, submerging per-
sonal volition to the impersonal force of
events? Is he criticising his class and
time through the trick of identifying with
it? Is he demonstrating from Berlin
against too much hindsight? No: his
events have no force, society is shadowy,
but in a strange way his identification
with what he criticises impresses itself.
Nothing in Zweig’s more recent work
prepares one for this let-dov.n. Cauti-
ously rejecting the theory that “The Time
is Ripe” antedates his masterpieces, one
concludes that, exhausted at last by the
effort of greatness and the storms of his
period. Zweig has reached back and
found his Kleinbuergerlich middle-class
spiritual origins, while looking for the
opposite: a judgment on those who’s time
was ripe in 1914. A sad and peculiarly
German thing to happen, almost another
case of Gerhart Hauptmann.
DAVID MARTIN
LETTER TO THE RED PAGE
"The Spirit of Wharf House"
Sir,
In view of the controversy in your
Letters pages over my book on Robert
Campbell “The Spirit of Wharf House”,
your readers may be interested to know
that another review has appeared criticis-
ing the book, this time written by Mar-
garet Steven of the Australian National
University in “Business Archives and
History” August, 1962.
Twice now members of the Australian
National University have criticised my
book because I did not write for histo-
rians. They suggest it would have been
more accurate and valuable had they had
a hand in it. Historians had 115 years
between my hero’s death and my book’s
publication in which to publish their
masterpiece on the subject but they failed
to do so.
Miss Steven was unwise to point an
examplae of my “error”, p. 195. Fore-
warned of the difficulty of separating the
various Roberts she uses the historians’
so desirable standards of technique
which I lack and points to Robert Junior
as the Grand Master instead of Robert
11. But her Robert had been dead five
years! If she searches longer she will
find a portrait of Robert II in regalia
with the legend Colonial Treasurer and
First Grand Master, etc.
Regarding horseflesh, Robert Senior’s
fame lies in the importation and breeding
of horses. He imported stud animals
before Junior was in the colony. He
imported Hector while Junior was his
clerk. Hector was sold late in 1812 to
satisfy creditors. The sale took place in
Bligh Street and as Junior’s distingush-
ing name was Robert of Bligh Street the
trap was baited for our historian. By
not being specific in this case Miss Steven
has reserved a way of escape. However,
when Hector died his history was
published which confirmed the fact that
he had been imported by Mr Merchant
Campbell of George Street.
Miss Steven should not resort to
twisting my text to suit her criticism. I
did not say Hook was a minor partner
of the firm in Calcutta but a minor
partner of Campbell, who had many
commercial interests in which Hook did
not participate.
I said during Robert Campbell’s ab-
sence from the colony, 1810-1815, Hook
was his agent and agent of Campbell &
Co. He said so and signed himself as
such. I did not say he was merely Camp-
bell’s Agent. Is it then from these errors
that untenable assumptions in interpreta-
tion are made? By her or by me?
I said in my notes and not in my book
that Robert Campbell arrived in Calcutta
in about 1790. It was left vague and
does no matter to my story. What matters
is that he was an accomplished merchant
when he left there for New South Wales
in 1798 or is that an untenable assump-
tion?
Robert II as leader of the anti-trans-
poration faction, Colonial Treasurer,
Grand Master Mason, and general
benefactor was a great man. My book
is not over weighted in his favour.
Regarding Frederick—his two cousins
i n Canberra had no property of account
and small means, and through no fault
of their own, made no mark worthy of
historical record. Frederick did. He made
Yarralumla a model station and built
the house in which the Governor General
lives. He was a man of many diverse
interests. My account is based on facts
known to his family and . employees,
Those witnesses have not long to live,
and their information is first hand Surely
it should not be lost,
C. E. T. NEWMAN
POETRY
GANGSTERS
New Zealand Poetry Yearbook. Edited
by Louis Johnson. Pegasus Press.
Songs. Christopher Logue. Hutchinson.
Vou would expect an annual like the
A Poetry Yearbook, which has sur-
vived for a decade, to be a more worth-
while production than it is; or, certainly,
than this one is. It has poems by about
30 authors, an introduction by the editor,
and an essay by James K. Baxter. The
two bits of prose protest at length about
the treatment this coterie got from Allen
Curnow in his Penguin Book of NZ
Verse; Johnson’s, written with his habitual
maladroitness, is less interesting than
Baxter’s, which includes a maverick his-
tory of NZ poetry which is funny if not
accurate. To an Australian reader these
incidents of gang-warfare will seem either
unimportant or all too familiar; if the
latter, he can start casting his own list
of equivalents: Louis Johnson as Max
Harris —an illuminating comparison—,
Baxter as Hal Porter, and so on.
Forsaking the polemics, and looking
for poetry in the book, one doesn’t find
much. Certainly, no Australian devotee
of poetry need feel that across the Tas-
man exciting things are happening that
he ought to know about. The best poetry
here is by recognised names, like W. H.
Oliver, or by new ones whose gift is
genuine but not particularly compelling:
two priests, F M. McKay and J. E. Weir,
for instance. The latter has an Elegy of
moving and yet serene quality, for his
father killed in Crete.
Altogether, the hope of New Zealand
poetry seems to lie in such unheralded
names rather than in better known ones.
Mr Baxter, for instance, has about nine
poems, none striking, some routine. I
doubt if he has justification for what he
says in his epigram, “On a New Zealand
Anthologist”:
Old A , the station cook,
Serves nothing but boiled mutton,
Though fat eels wait in the creek for
gaff and hook
And the hills could yield a ten of
venison.
Christopher Logue, I read on the dust-
jacket of this reprint of his Songs —the
book first appeared in 1959—, is
currently writing the songs sung in “The
Establishment” night club, London. This
seems appropriate, because Mr Logue’s
poetry —if it is poetry —has the nastiness
of the revue without the humour. It
manifests in an obvious way the deca-
dence of the post-1945 generation of
English writers; Mr Butler has a lot to
answer for.
GRAHAME JOHNSTON


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Case of the Missing Investor
It would assuredly be rash, for the moment, to charge any-
one, even the wraith of an economic situation, with
murdering the Australian sharemarkets. There is, however,
a case for calling in the sleuths to search for a missing and
most elusive body—the common or garden, ordinary public
investor.
One simply cannot go on recording his absence week after
week. The signs of vanishing are all too obvious. He has
been careful to reveal no genuine evidence of a proximate
return. Even our own dauntless and adventurous “Speculator”
looks for once a victim of the current mood of buying caution.
“Speculator” at least has the excuse that his most recent
activities have been directed elsewhere.
So, we presume, has much of the activity of the smaller,
non-institutional investor, who has readily sustained the markets
in an easily remembered past. Narrow ranges and shrinking
turnovers proclaim the removal of this once-present stiffening.
Acute selection, as is only too plain, does not furnish sufficient
sinew for equity dealings to display any real advance.
Yet it must be said again and again that the local business
background is surely entering upon a state of encouragement
to renewed pursuit of the equity. Many of our best indicators
are on the march upward. A goodly portion of overseas un-
certainty has surely been fairly completely discounted. There
can be no complaints about inadequate liquidity.
Here, indeed, the boot has clearly been shifted to the other
foot. It cannot be too often that a public figure like Mr
Bolte can summon a fear of overmuch liquidity, as we report
him in the topic following. Nor can liquidity cast so many
of the type of shadows examined by “Croesus” on page 43.
condition of the economy surely makes it both publicly
and privately undesirable that so great a volume of investible
money should try to find its way into bonds and other fixed-
interest securities. For that is how the prevailing drift of the
ordinary, as well as the institutional investor flows.
The equity cult has naturally taken some knocks lately.
Under these circumstances, the pursuit of fixed-interest safety
brings its own special, and lasting, rewards. Yet there are a
host of manifest opportunities throughout the existing industrial
market. The missing investor should not postpone a return
much longer.
He will be hard put to find sufficient reasons soon, unless
he has simply got out of the habit of looking around. This
may well be a more serious situation than it seems. Having
absorbed a modicum of punishment, the old equity holder
can justifiably decide to bank his money or remain within the
certainty of a good fixed-interest shell.
This same phenomenon is not at present unique to Australia.
Other overseas stock markets lie in the doldrums precisely
because of a trend towards gilt-edged and a cautious avoidance
of any semblance of risk taking.
No less an observer than Mr Harold Wincott expects the
tendency to continue, at least in England. Writing in the
“Investors Chronicle,” Mr Wincott ascribes the causes to a
slowing-down of the pace of inflation; doubts about the
American economy; and uncertainties about the Common
Market and Australia need not confuse growth with inflation.
A ll those forces have sped their influences to Australia.
Maybe there is still a considerable hangover remaining.
Though, as we mentioned above, a good measure of the
original impetus has surely and accurately been discounted.
The putative equity investor must again become used to
looking at the fertile signs in his own economy. It would
not be too much to ask him, for instance, to lean upon such
a hardy traditional as wool prices, long a goad to Australian
markets.
If, in being ultra-cautious, our missing investor contrives
to stay unduly disturbed by extra-Australian influences, the
future of world trade and dollar fears for instance, he is
also advised to give this situation a more optimistic glance.
The Americans are seriously on the trail here, as we hope
to show in greater detail next week.
For Mr Kennedy has had one triumph at least which is
being hailed throughout much of the non-Communist world —•
the successful passing of his Trade Expansion Bill. Many
commentators see in this the first steps towards a true Atlantic,
nay free-world, economic partnership. Called forth by the
pressures and progress of the European Common Market, the
bill could loosen up world trade, improve the threatened
commodity position, and thus widely refurbish the whole
business climate.
It would be awful to get left behind, wouldn’t it?
LIQUIDS FOR LOANS
WORRY BOLTE
Tt is most unusual for a State Premier to be embarrassed
by a plethora of money, but that sounded like what Mr
Bolte was saying when opening the new premises of Hardie
Trading in Melbourne last week. The Premier said Victoria
had already raised £2s i million of its semi-government loan
requirements of £43 million for 1961-62. In his view the
Commonwealth and States alike could get their full needs of
loan money for the current year within the first six months
if they wanted to.
He said he was “apprehensive at the high liquidity of the
community” and thought that there was a strong likelihood
that bond rate would be cut unless the Government could find
an outlet for the surplus funds now in the hands of the public.
As Mr Bolte participated in the Loan Council meeting before
the Budget, when the Premiers apparently accepted Mr Holt’s
gloomy forecast of the loan raising possibilities for 1962-63
and decided in the light of it not to cut bond rate for the
September loan, his about turn is very remarkable, to say
the least.


IMPORTS UP, BUT
BEING HELD DOWN, SO . . .
Treasurer Holt made the right points in answer
A to Mr W. E. Wentworth’s expression of mild unease in
the House of Representatives on the third monthly visible
trade deficit in a row —registered in September.
So long as capital inflow is financing these trade deficits
there is nothing to panic about. While reserves did take a
slight knock early last month, in later weeks they’ve held
reasonably steady. This indicates apparent capital inflow has
been bridging the trade gap, or very nearly so, which is
quite a healthy situation in most respects.
It would have been most remarkable if imports had not
increased appreciably in step with the significant recovery in
industrial output and restocking this year.
As September’s imports were the lowest since April in toto,
it cannot be argued that the national tempo is again getting
out of hand. There could even be a measure of relief in that
September’s £B7l million total was a clear £lO million
lower than registered in August. The £13.2 million trade
deficit was also £lO million smaller.
Indeed, it could be argued that September’s drop in imports
could indicate some slowing down in the rate of recovery.
But, reduced to a daily basis, last month’s figures were not
significantly below August. Anyhow, on balance it was pre-
ferable to see a fall rather than a rise in imports last month,
even if it did indicate a slightly slower internal activity factor.
At any rate certain local manufacturers are obviously deter-
mined imports (at least of certain products) will be contained.
And, their very action is stirring up an ants’ nest in Can-
berra.
. . . TARIFF BOARD
POINTS A BONE
Judging by evidence given to the Tariff Board last year and
** referred to in its annual report for 1961-62 some manu-
facturers have assumed the role of policing imports, unoffici-
ally of course, by adopting “stand over” tactics to stop mer-
chants handling imported goods. Naturally the Tariff Board
deprecates this and is rightly incensed, it being the sole official
adjudicator on import questions now licensing is virtually in
abeyance.
The Board has also been told that certain Australian manu-
facturers have made agreements among themselves under which
Australian and imported goods are retailed at the same price
irrespective of store prices. Apparently local profits are
bolstered also by many imports being bought at “close out
prices,” that is, prices reduced to clear goods at the end of
production runs.
“Under some of these arrangements,” the Board states,
“distributors, wholesalers and retailers operated fixed discount
margins bearing little relationship to the cost of distribution
and selling.”
It thinks that “practices of this nature, which tend to inflate
retail prices, reduce incentive for efficiency and deny con-
sumers the opportunity of purchasing goods at competitive
prices.”
The Tariff Board’s solicitude for local consumers is touch-
ing, though it is probably more concerned that it has so far
been unable to stop practices which defeat the object of its
own devices, hinting it is exploring less conventional means
of doing so.
The implication is that the Board is pretty satisfied with
its present dispensation of tariff duties. Moreover, it also
believes that most industries seeking protection are worthy of
aid, so presumably those which are engaging in the above
practices are not getting as much protection as they think
they deserve or are merely greedy.
The Board’s latest report singles out some industries still
unworthy of tariff protection, mentioning some which should
give greater attention to management and marketing effici-
ency before applying to it and others which are able
to flourish under the roof of imports since restrictions were
lifted. Apparently it hasn’t much sympathy with the latter
but has for industries whose difficulties arose simply from a
reduction in the local market during the recession.
On the other hand, while it has come to the rescue of many
of these industries afflicted by reduced demand, it still holds
that where excess capacity has been uncovered by the recession
at least some of the cost of carrying that capacity should be
borne by manufacturers and not by the community in in-
creased tariffs.
ESSINGTON LEWIS’
“BABY” THRIVES
HThe Federal Government’s decision to extend its contribu-
"*■ tion to £20,000 a year for three years to the Industrial
Design Council of Australia is a timely recognition of the
great advantages that must accrue to manufacturing industries
from a rapid improvement in design standards.
Industrial design is a science which, in short, aims at better
marketing of manufactured goods. As such, it is quite as
important to marketing as the science of advertising. It was the
realisation of this fact that led to the formation of the Indus-
trial Design Council of Australia in 1958 under the dynamic
leadership of Mr Essington Lewis, a former chairman of
BHP, who lived barely long enough to see the Council become
a recognised force in industry.
Convinced of the great need for planned action to ensure
that Australian manufacturers would measure up to the highest
world standards in design, Mr Essington Lewis and his council
worked hard to promote their ideas, and to win support among
industrialists, educationists, designers and government admi-
nistrators who felt that no time should be lost in stimulating
moves towards better design.
Initially funds were derived from sympathetic people and
organisations to set up a council office in Melbourne in 1959,
and some time later the Federal Government granted £lO.OOO
to assist the council in launching its activities effectively. That
the Government has now increased its financial support is a
recognition of the council’s successful operations in building
up an awareness of the vital problem of industrial design.
Today, many manufacturers are receiving great assistance
from the council in improving their marketing technique.
NE W OPENINGS IN
THAI MARKET
T ittle enough attention has been focused on export oppor-
" tunities in Thailand even though Australia has almost
doubled her export earnings there in the last four years.
The latest figures from the Department of Trade reveal that
we exported goods worth £.2,311,000 to Thailand during the
1961-62 financial year—meagre enough. Now, however, an
additional, and practically ready-made £500,000 a year market
lies open to companies with enough enterprise and initiative
to grab the opportunity.
For, from Bangkok comes news, via the Australian Com-
mercial Counsellor, Mr R. J. Schneemann, that the Thai
Government, continuing its policy of discouraging imports
from Red-dominated countries, has banned all Polish imports.
Many of the £i million a year worth of products that
Thailand imported from Poland are goods that Australia is
already exporting to other countries.


Another "Wales” Service
roortunMes
Oversea markets, like gold, are where you find
them, but it is easier to find them with the
help of the “Wales”. There you can obtain
information on new markets or be put in
touch with businessmen overseas. Exporting
is made easier for you, too, with assistance in
many ways ask for copies of the booklets
“An Australian Exporter’s Guide” and “Plan-
ning a Business Trip Overseas”.
You can bank on the “ Wales' 9 .
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
TOO MUCH MONEY
IN BONDS
By “CROESUS”
A fter patting themselves on the back
for the £3O million over-subscrip-
tion to the September £5O m. Govern-
ment loan, it is to be hoped the monetary
authorities will now look a little closer
at the connection between their failure
to reduce bond rate for that loan and
the crawling pace of private investment,
epitomised by the stagnant waters of
equity investment.
In suggesting that the Treasury should
cut bond rate for the September loan
The Bulletin (August 4) pointed out
that he “shouldn’t worry too much about
the response of the loan market this
year, but should rather ensure that the
bond rate itself is adjusted to the needs
of the whole economy and not merely
to the narrower aims of the Treasury to
keep its cash deficit to a minimum.”
We said that in any case his estimate
of a £6O m. less harvest from the loan
market compared with 1960-61 was “al-
together too gloomy” and that there was
a danger, unless the bond rate was re-
duced, that he would fall into the same
trap as in the previous year when the
Treasury took too much money in loans
over a period when it should have been
running a bigger deficit financed by new
money creation by the Reserve Bank.
Putting the present position in a nut-
shell the attractions of a 5 p.c. bond
rate vis-a-vis the scope for investment at
current commercial rates in the private
sector are such that there is almost a
one-way traffic of money into bonds.
The traffic is so strong that although
in his Budget speech the Treasurer stat-
ed the banks would have to put in a lot
of their funds to fill his loans again this
year, in fact the £3O m. oversubscrip-
tion to the September loan was achieved
with barely a bean from the banks!
In failing to cut the bond rate for the
September loan the authorities certainly
seem to have missed a golden opportunity
to induce a better balance between the
flow of money into bond: and private
investment. In the period before the
next loan in February they are stuck
with the sole alternative of reversing the
continued trend into bonds through
active open market operations.
Maybe in confident expectation of
heavy Reserve Bank buying in this
period, Melbourne’s leading bond broker
has completely changed his tune on the
future outlook for bond prices.
A few months ago he was expecting
a massive switch out of bonds into com-
mercial investments.
While business confidence remains an
uncertain quantity some degree of Re-
serve Bank buying of bonds would be
appropriate. But whether in the light
of their past behavior in the market, the
authorities can be expected to take such
—for them —a bold step is very prob-
lematical.
It still seems that their main fear is
that a boom is in the making. Having
burned their fingers in 1960, they intend
this time to nip the next threatening
boom in the bud by increasing interest
rates in good time.
If the Reserve Bank now started buy-
ing bonds in the market on a heavy scale
to get the long-term rate down to 4\ p.c.,
it would add to the superfluity of money
without any firm assurance of how far
it would have to go before inducing a
swing of investment favor from bonds
towards commercial employments.
However, as the high relative yields
on bonds is still the main devil of the
monetary scene, the authorities would
be well advised to bend their efforts to-
wards getting them down,
The measure of their success might
well be a stronger pace of recovery fil-
duced by more vigorous private invest-
ment and a more lively stock exchange.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
LIFE UNDER THE 30-20 RULE
/\ne of the unexplained mysteries of the
" national income and expenditure
accounts is why the whole of the annual
increase in life insurance funds is reck-
oned as part of the funds available for
private investment.
Everybody knows that the life com-
panies have long been putting a generous
share of their accruing funds into Gov-
ernment and semi-Government securities
and that in 1961-62, for which national
figures of life insurance business within
Australia were published last week, they
have been obliged to build up a minimum
proportion of their funds in this form
under the 30-20 rule.
Not that the compilers of the national
income accounts are likely to spoil the
symmetry of their sums by making such
a recognition, nor that the life companies
are ever likely to forgive the licence, at
least while they have to abide by the
30-20 rule.
Statisticians may be hard put to it to
justify the accounting expediency and
may be puzzled when trying to reconcile
the increase of life insurance funds in
the national income and expenditure
White Paper with the overall increase in
assets of the life companies shown in
the Commonwealth Statistician’s release.
But there is no gainsaying the perform-
ance of the life companies as saving
media last year and their pervasive in-
fluence in the national financial scheme
of things.
In 1961-62 the £l7m. rise, making
the year’s total £l49m. in assurance
funds, was the largest ever recorded and
also made the total a record.
The annual increase has risen steadily
over the years and last year’s total funds
were nearly double the £79m. in 1953-
54. It accounted for about 14.1 p.c. of
“funds available for private investment”
compared with only 9.4 p.c. in the pre-
vious year, though for those sceptical
about the figures for private investment
funds this comparison /ill doubtless
seem merely notional.
Perhaps the most striking thing about
the employment of this massive increase
in life insurance funds last year is that
£42.2m. of it went into Government,
local and semi-government securities.
This was the net increase in these securi-
ties for all life companies in 196 i-62,
made up of £ 33.1 m. increase in Gov-
ernment and £9.1 m. in local and semi-
governments.
For comparison it may be noted that
for the six months to June, 1961 before
the 30-20 rule was laid down, the rise in
life company assets held in Government
securities was only £4.2m. while there
was an actual drop of £l.Bm. in their
holding of local and semi-governments.
In the same six months of 1961-62 there
were increases of £l6m. and £3.Bm.
respectively.
While this generous allocation to bonds
was at the sacrifice of additions to the
companies’ holdings of debentures (down
£lm.), notes (steady at £42.5m.) and
preference shares (also steady at about
£26.5m.), the companies still managed 4
to increase their holdings of ordinary
shares from £78.6 to £94.2m.
Doubtless the life companies have
tucked away some good bargains in ordin-
ary shares over the last year, though
judging by the current behaviour of share
prices they may have been a little early.
Clearly the 30-20 rule has not prevented
them from building up their portfolios
of equities, which in June, 1962 were
£94.2m. compared with £78.6m. a
year earlier and £ 70.2 m. in December
1960.
These seemingly brave excursions into
ordinary shares could well have been
made more in search of income than in
any high expectation of early capital
appreciation, the more so since lending
operations of the life companies for one
reason and another contracted appreci-
ably in the calendar year 1961, and
managed to lift only in the latter months
of 1961-62.
Lending on mortgage is probably the
most profitable of all avenues for the
employment of assurance funds. It cer-
tainly accounts for a large part of life
companies’ assets. Such funds comprise
one of the country’s biggest sources of
mortgage money. The recovery in the
mortgage lending of the companies in
recent months is evidence of the general
economic uplift.
The falling away of mortgage business
last year (funds paid on mortgage lend-
ing dropped from £66.5 to £44.5m in
1961-62) in face of the increase in
assurance funds over the year posed
problems for the companies in finding
alternative lending or investment outlets
providing satisfactory income. As a matter
of fact, like many other people and
institutions, the life companies were prob-
ably very thankful to take refuge in the
bond market last year for the employ-
ment of their high accruals of funds in
the absence of more rewarding business.
Overall, the life companies have man-
aged to come out of the recession with
no more than satisfactory additions to
their strength. It would seem that the
recessed level of economic activity has
for the time being reduced the average
return on their assurance funds. More-
over, while business has continued to
mount, its picture isn’t as pleasing as
in some recent years.
The number of new policies taken out
last yea- was the lowest for three years.
But despite this drop (from 605,107 to
559,180) in new policies in 1961-62, the
total sums insured under new policies
continued to rise (from £848.6 to
£900.9m.). Though last year’s in-
crease of £52.3m. was the smallest in
recent years, it was big enough to offset
an increase from £319 to £341.4m.
in sums assured of policies discontinued
or reduced during the year. As in
1960-61 the number of old policies dis-
continued or reduced last year exceeded
the number of new policies taken out.
SELECTED ASSETS
(within Australia)
£’000,000
Dec. * June * Dec. June
1960. 1961. 1961. 1962.
Loans
Mortgage: Rural 22.9 24.1 24.7 24.8
Housing 143.9 150.6 153.6 153.2
Other 189.1 192.1 196.5 • 201.2
On Policies 36.1 40.0 42.4 43 9
To building or housing societies 13.6 13.6 13.5 13.1
Other 13.5 13.7 12.8 13.0
Total loans 419.2 433.9 443.3 449.2
Investments:
Govt. Securities 224.3 228.5 245.6 261 6
Local and semi-Govt 113.9 112.1 117.3 121.1
Debentures 68.2 68.6 64.1 67.7
Notes 39.5 42.5 41.7 42.6
Preference Shares 24.5 26.0 25.8 26.3
Ordinary Shares 70.2 78.6 85.9 94.2
Other .... 4.5 4.7 3.2 3.8
Total Investments 545.2 561.1 583.5 616.8
Total Loans and Investments 961.4 995.0 1,026.8 1,066 0
* Including some business other than life.


...r
*2
mm-
m
v-m:
m
What is Will revision
It’s simply a matter of keeping your Will up to date with changes
in personal circumstances and current economic conditions.
The value of money and property varies, you may acquire new
assets and, perhaps, additional family responsibilities. These factors
could mean the Will you made some years ago is now out of date and
would not satisfactorily dispose of your assets. This could cause
unnecessary difficulties, and even hardship, for your beneficiaries.
If your Will has not been reviewed for some years, take an early
opportunity to examine it thoroughly with a senior officer of Perpetual
Trustee to give you expert assistance and advice. It’s a free service,
of course!
For more detailed information on Perpetual's many services contact
the Company today for a fact-filled booklet.
mEBJPETUA^j,
TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney. Telephone 2 0377
OFFICES AT NEWCASTLE, WOLLONGONG, ORANGE AND TAMWORTH
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (CANBERRA) LIMITED
M.L.C. BUILDING, PETRIE STREET, CANBERRA, A.C.T.
“PUT YOUR TRUST IN PERPETUAL"
INSTANT ENGINE STARTING
WITH — ■ m m
19
II
iiai
Proven the world over and endorsed
by Rolls Royce.
Avoid unnecessary engine
wear—just one quick spray
into the air intake is all
that's required. Saves money
by avoiding cylinder scour-
ing and gives longer battery
and starter life. Contains
anti-corrosive and anti-knock
additives with upper
cylinder lubricant.
Less than 2d. per start —Aerostart is available at only 21/6 from all garages and stores
Manufactured by:
AEROSTART (ANZIA) PTY. LTD.
2 Queens Road, Melbourne. 26-4653
SWITCHES IN
OIL TEST
SITES UNWISE
\\l ith Santos-Delhi switching its drilling
from South Australia to Queens-
land, Woodside returning again after
essays in the Murray basin Gippsland
to drill four new wells, and Oil Develop-
ment splitting its drilling between three
States, there is a danger that oil search
companies are spreading their operations
too widely without sufficient concentra-
tion of their limited resources on more
thorough exploration of particular areas.
WAPET, with its attention divided be-
tween the Perth, Canning and Fitzroy
basins, seems to have fallen into the same
trap.
One would have thought, for instance,
that Santos would drill at least another
well in the area of Dullingari, in South
Australia, where it pulled out last week
after reaching basement at 1 1,588 feet,
the fifth deepest hole yet drilled in Aus-
tralia. The company found two promis-
ing sections of Permain rocks in Dullin-
gari No. 1.
In going across the border into Queens-
land, the company says it is to drill on a
different surface structure revealed by
seismic surveys at Orientos.
The new well will drilled by Drill-
ing Contractors of Australia with the
same rig which drilled Dullingari. This
rig can drill to 12,000 feet.
Woodside, which also plans to drill
two wells in the Surat basin and one in
northern NSW, has decided to drill two
deep and two shallow holes in Gippsland
after studying the results of extensive
seismic surveys in the area during the
last six months.
The first well is expected to be spud-
ded in late this month on the Seaspray
structure, to be called North Seaspray
No. 1. The second deep well will be
drilled between Brigalong and Bairns-
dale and the two shallow holes on the
coast near Lake Tyers.
In addition Woodside expects to start
a marine seismic survey along the Gipps-
land coast (Ninety Mile Beach) in
November.
Its last well in Gippsland was at Mount
Wellington, completed (but not at base-
ment) earlier this year as a dry hole.
Since then it has drilled two stratigraphic
wells in the Murray basin in partnership
with Planet Oil Co.
Like Union Oil and AAO, Frome-
Broken Hill is putting its w'hole effort
into one area. Frome's present drilling
at Pretty Hill, 12 miles north-west of
Port Fairy, in the Western district of
Victoria, is proceeding according to plan.


ii®
i J,
2,
A happier choice for every occasion . . .
WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’s
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT,
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course!
ANGOVE’S LTD., REN MARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
YOUR FAVOURITE BRANDY . . ST. AGNES BRANDY
READY MIXED BUT NOT CONCRETE
'The present directors of Ready Mixed
Concrete Ltd must by now have had
forced upon them the need of responsible,
open and exact reports. After the
alarums of the past week or two, share-
holders can be in no mood for anything
else. They will not be fobbed off by the
slightest vagueness in any statement deal-
ing with the company’s affairs.
These natural demands, vigorously
initiated at the annual meeting, are
made the more necessary by Mr Les J.
O’Neil's resignation from the board. But
it is not the obviously startling questions
of service agreements and bonuses which
call for most attention. It is how the
basic activities of the company are pro-
gressing and how the board may cope
with the future.
For by far the most important of Mr
O’Neil’s worries should be seen to be
“the difference of opinion between some
of the directors and myself on policy
and administration of our company,
particularly in the ABM group.”
Such doubts raise for examination the
whole company’s modes of operation and
ability to cope with a local building and
construction situation that, on directors’
own admissions, is not going to be easy
during the immediate months ahead. Mr
O’Neil’s suggestion that board vacancies
be filled by “two practical experienced
businessmen with knowledge of quarries
and concrete" plainly needs implementa-
tion and not just “every consideration.”
No one, in supporting this attitude, is
attacking the legal and accounting bias
of the board and its top executive. Those
kinds of professional qualifications are
certainly no hindrance, except when there
comes a tendency for lawyers and ac-
countants to collect so many director-
ships that their energies are spread too
thin.
RMC, however, is crying for skilled
and imaginative industrial capacity. Lack
of just that experience could even nullify
‘'the integration of the ABM group and
other takeovers,” whose programming,
according to the chairman (Mr J. G.
Palmer), raises the main differences be-
tween Mr O’Neil and the board.
The group's inflated and almost violent
progress by capture also brings to the
fore its future earning problems. Some
droop in earning rate may well have been
expected for 1961-62, the times and the
task of consolidation being what they
were. Shareholders, though, cannot be
happy wflth earnings that barely protect a
dividend. Triumphal takeover advance-
ment during the boom has produced a
heavily, perhaps over-capitalised frame-
work, which does not acquire complete
life merely through the sum of its acquisi-
tions.
We are not in any way impugning the
basic financial or structural solidity of
the group. Yet it seems needful to point
out that it requires skilled and technical
handling.
Evidence of this must be clearly and
honestly provided. Shareholders’ con-
fidence may wither below the prevailing
market expression unless facts, and not
only wishes, emerge. Repetition of the
fictions in that notorious interim report
would not be condoned and they do not
bear defence as ‘’the forecasts of our
local managers . . . supported by Gov-
ernment statements and action designed
to stimulate the economy.”
Of the service agreements, commis-
sions and bonuses now brought into the
open by Mr O'Neil’s resignation, it is
difficult to speak. Such perquisites are
apparently to be accepted as part of the
facts of commercial life. Their size
and generosity look somewhat odd under
the gaze of that declining earning rate.
Their non-disclosure should look odd
under other gazes as well. Dare we
mention shareholders’ rights to know?
More incensed outside attention may
well be directed to a situation where a
large proportion of last year’s share sales
were made by directors, or their con-
nections, with knowledge denied to share-
holders and more than a very limited
area of the market.
A thinking Reid
We’ve been aware for quite a while
now that Reid Murray Holdings is
another boom-fed monster trying to live
on the thinner diet of a corrective econ-
omy. Directors have had to temper pre-
vious enthusiasms with a much more
thoughtful approach. In the meantime,
the markets breed on rumors of vast
losses and share prices stay around a des-
pairing 2s. 4d.
The board's latest considered announce-
ment certainly holds out distant hopes of
reorganisational advantages, yet share-
holders are ill-served by the evasiveness
of directors’ closing paragraphs. Earn-
ings, or their absence, may look a sordid
and inaccurate guide to directors under
present circumstances. Nevertheless,
shareholders should be entitled to more
than clouded hints about what actually
happened in the year ended August 31.
Until we are informed in precise terms of
the company’s position we advise holders
not to sell; nor investors to buy.
Directors are displaying a superfine
an too-ingenious compunction at' not
wishing to report on unaudited figures.
The group’s activities have always been,
and perhaps always will be, widespread
and of differing nature.
And, of course, not entire comfort
can be derived from the new financing
arrangements with Mutual Acceptance.
They are a help with the ever-pressing
burden of liquidity, but by no means re-
move the complexities of this particular
problem. The group is too big and vari-
ous for any simple solution.
Indeed directors still convey an air of
difficulty and it’s a pity to have to wait


*. o 9 - «
m '■
° o
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Btb March, 1950.
PER ANNUM
3 YEARS
The main business of
Cambridge Credit
Corporation Limited
is to make Eoans on
the security of first
mortgages on prop-
erty and the ac-
ceptance of selected
hire purchase agree-
ments.
FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN IN A PERSONAL EMERGENCY
APPLICATIONS MUST BE MADE ON THE FORM ATTACHED
TO THE PROSPECTUS. WHICH IS NOW AVAILABLE FROM:
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House, Corner Wharf and Que tn Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street,
PERTH: 81 St. George's Terrace.
CANBERRA: Ist Floor, Northbourne Chambers, Northbourne Ave„ City.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Bayliss Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any of the following Brokers to The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YU ILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
TRUSTEES FOR THE NOTEHOLDERS:
Bankers & Traders Insurance Company Limited CCI46/AB
C/ip and Post Coupon
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the prospectus with application forms.
NAME
ADDRESS
until “well into November” to hear the
whole story. Admittedly we are to get
it entire, even to the extent of sworn
valuations on landholdings. The board
is also at pains to give an impression
that overall book values have here been
sustained. Although this section of
activities has obviously had to meet a
Hooker-type situation, a general write-off
from developmental land does not appear
necessary.
Mutual Acceptance’s financing of
new h.p. electrical retail sales gives Reid
Murray a flow of funds from one of its
major operations to meet maturing deben*
tures and other necessities. However, the
group must continue its battle to per-
suade a sizeable numbei of debenture
holders to extend their terms. Credit re-
tailing is simply to be curtailed. Shades
of past glories!
Builders’ bloom
Queensland builder and construction
engineer, Keith Morris Construc-
tions, appeared unruffled by depressive
winds to turn in an agregate net profit
of £85,725, or £4371 better than in
1960-61.
Shareholders enjoyed benefits, too, from
a bigger dividend cheque. The company
paid 8 p.c. for three years, 9 p.c. in
1960-61 and 10 p.c. for 1961-62. This
required £48,430 of profits, another
£50,000 was transferred to general re-
serves and the carry-forward was
£29,986.
Besides luxury home and resort build-
ing, the group includes a civil engineer-
ing section which contracts for water,
sewerage and roadworks in Queensland
and New South Wales, and there is a
plant hiring division also.
Looking for a buyer?
fFHE principle of spreading one’s eggs
has paid off for A. J. Chown Hold-
ings Ltd, which last week announced a
14 p.c. better profit for the year to June,
and prophesied bigger things in 1962-63.
The nucleus of the business, begun be-
fore the war, was importing, mainly from
Japan, and particularly in Noritake china
ware. A switch to importing from
Britain and takeover of a plywood dis-
tributing business brought the first change
in the character of the group. Now it is
one of the largest plywood distributors
in NSW and has its own mill at South
Grafton.
Although Chown has now returned in
force to importing china, glass, and
textiles, management is anxious to de-
velop retailing and manufacturing, and
has so far extended to sheetmetal goods,
household utility wares, hardware retail-
ing, and an interest in the making of
golf clubs and golfing equipment.
A smart takeover in 1959 of Standard
Rubber Co. of Selangor Ltd brought
mostly liquid assets to the group. The
latest acquisition was a wholesale art
jewellery business, brought in April,
1962.
Getting back to results, the profit an-
nounced last week continued the un-
broken succession of record profits since
incorporation as a public company in
1954. The net figure was £.141,188
after £68,271 tax and £32,866 depre-
ciation. But higher average capital out-
weighed the profit increase, and earning
rate went down from 17.5 to 15.8 p.c.
Directors note an appreciable improve-
ment in trading conditions in the current
financial year.
With a handy share premium of 6s.
3d. over the par value of 55., directors
could find some nice pickings amongst
public or private companies damaged by
the recession.


Gratitude to Government
Amongst theories for more and more
government assistance, Evans
Deakin Industries Ltd shows rare grati-
tude and realism.
Directors said in the 1961-62 annual
report that “the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment has done a great deal for the
shipbuilding industry over the years, and
this is greatly appreciated by builders. We
are not unmindful of the difficulties
which they are having in maintaining
the shipbuilding industry in Australia.”
In the last few years, shipbuilding con-
tributed little to Evans Deakin results,
directors said. They were planning a
remodelling of the shipyard to permit
the construction of larger vessels and to
promote efficiency. This would cut
times of construction and improve the
company’s competitive position.
In accordance with June predictions
at the time of the Thirlwell and Mc-
Kenzie Ltd takeover, group profit was
substantially the same as in 1960-61. In-
cluding results of Queensland Machinery
Ltd, but excluding Thirlwell and Mc-
Kenzie, the profit was £1787 lower at
£180,545. This was after providing
£40,000 for contingencies and £12,743
for asset replacement, much the same as
in the previous year.
A substantial loss is expected from
Thirlwell and McKenzie for 1961-62
(last year it lost £32,093), but its ac-
quisition gave quick entry to the NSW
market, and presumably Evans Deakin
will benefit next year from the tax losses.
Evans Deakin was happy to adopt
Thirlwell’s clientele and workshops, and
is confident of putting the group on a
profitable basis before the end of 1962-
63.
Evans Deakin has a handy reserve of
liquid assets in the form of government
and semi - government securities
£156,870, shares in debentures in com-
panies £102,229, total £259,099, but
worth £355,012 on the market, plus
another £76,407 in shares and deben-
tures of unlisted companies. These in-
vestments produced income of £50,987
in 1961-62, a return of over 15 p.c. on
cost.
Marlow pace a welter
Tulius Marlow Holdings Ltd, the
** Melbourne shoe-maker, exceeded
prospectus forecasts of a minimum divi-
dend of 8 p.c. by paying 10 p.c.
The company can be congratulated on
its first public performance. Net profit
was 39 p.c. above the previous year.
Sales were a record, and directors now
estimate the company has 17.3 p.c. of
the men’s welted shoe trade.
The ss. shares, quoted only in Mel-
bourne, are traded around 9s. 7d. to
yield 5.2 p.c. The net asset backing per
share is a slim 3s. 2d., but when the
company can earn 22 p.c. on capital this
can be ignored.
Not shot, this Bisley
are more than 700 shirt makers
in Australia to cater for the ten mil-
lion or more shirts made each year. Bisley
Clothing Ltd uses five or six of these
manufacturers in its very neat operation
Bisley is nowhere near the large t seller
of shirts in Australia; this honor falls to
the privately-owned Arrow brand, which
incidentally is made by Pelaco for the
owners.
But Bisley sells some 300,000 high-
quality shirts yearly and appears to be
expanding steadily in its unit sales.
The share market treats the ss. Bisley
warily, perhaps too much so, foi
at the present price of Bs. the shares yield
a high 9.3 p.c. after brokerage.
If the 15 p.c. dividend were to go, then
1961-62 was the year to see it. As it
turned out, the dividend was safely cover-
ed by what must be granted as a good
year.
Profit for 1961-62 came out in last
week’s preliminary report as £31,659,
a clear decline of 19 p.c. on the previous
year.
This result was equal to 17.5 p.c. on
larger capital employed and, on the sur-
face, gave a gloomy comparison on the
previous year’s 25.5 p.c. rate.
But it is clear that two influences were
at work. Last year’s tax provision of
£10,675 was low because tax commit-
"My daddy's firm has initiated
more takeover bids than your
daddy's firm."
ment was offset by acquisition of a loss
company (a method more recently used
by Mr Theeman’s Osti Holdings Ltd to
reduce its tax).
Second, non-recurring expenses, in-
:luding a move to new premises and a
payment following the death of a joint
managing director during the year, were
charged against the year’s profit. Allow-
ing for the latter items, Bisley enjoyed a
record year.
With sales and forward orders well up
an last year, and no non-recurring ex-
penses in sight, a better year can be con-
idently predicted.
If earning rate moves up to 20 p.c., a
purchase of the scrip at Bs. buys eight
years profit and ten years dividend. This
is sound.
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
Sir,
In your issue of September 22, “Specu-
lator” made an interesting comment on
a broker’s estimate of the future divi-
dends of MLC Limbed. However, I
think that while “Speculator” arrived at
the right decision—to sell—his criticism
of the broker was not justified on the
ground actually given.
Nearly every purchase and sale of an
ordinary share involves a series of esti-
mates as to the future—future overall
returns in the case of an investor and
future market values in the case of a
speculator. These aspects are not unre-
lated, and whilst many ephemeral con-
siderations also affect the speculator,
basically an express or implied estima-
tion of future dividends is a major as-
pect affecting both investor and specu-
lator.
It is salutary to put one’s estimate of
future dividends down on paper. The re-
sults can be surprising, and serve to bring
both the investor and speculator down
to earth My objection to the broker’s
estimate referred to by “Speculator” is
not that such a precise estimate of
future dividends was put forward, but
to the implication that, on the basis of
the estimate, the then market value of
MLC Limited ordinary shares was
justified.
Indeed actuarial calculation on the
basis of the estimate of future dividends
and discounting at a rate of interest hoped
to be achieved allowing for future growth
—something in excess of long-term de-
benture rate —would indicate a fair pre-
sent market value of only £2 10s. to £3
per share, certainly nothing approaching
the £6 ss. at which purchase was being
recommended by the broker. If the pre-
sent market value of about £5 15s. is
justified, future benefits far beyond those
put forward by the broker would have to
be assumed.
ANALYST
Longueville, Sydney.


Company Analysis
QUIET ALFRED LAWRENCE A BARGAIN
By “SECURITY”
/\ne often wonders what a company
must do to become a market
favourite. It certainly seems that several
which have shown good records are
overlooked either because they are too
small or because they have failed to
make the financial headlines. Alfred
Lawrence appears to be such a company.
The business was established 80 years
ago and was incorporated as a private
company in 1915. In 1927, to raise
money from the public through an issue
of preference shares, the company was
converted to a public company; £14,387
was raised at that time, bringing total
preference capital to <£15,000 and the
ordinary capital, which was still held
entirely by the family, totalled £35,000.
Expansion seems to have been fairly
steady despite a slight setback in the
depths of the inter-wars depression
when, in 1930-31 year, the company
failed to pay an ordinary dividend and
paid only half the preference dividend.
Apart from this lapse (the arrears of
preference dividend were paid off in
the following year) the company has
never failed to pay a dividend.
In May, 1940, following the establish-
ment a year earlier of the New Zealand
company, the public was allowed to
obtain a stake in the equity capital when
20,000 <£ 1 ordinary shares were issued
at 225. Subsequently a further 714
preference shares and 9,286 ordinary
were issued to the public. The last call
made upon the shareholders for cash
was in 1947 when £.23,142 was raised
by a 9-for-25 issue.
It is not easy to determine the nature
of the company’s activities. Reference
has been made to the publishing com-
pany in each chairman’s address from
1957 onwards, but the only reference to
other activities appears in the 1961
address when reference was made to
“the food and beverage industries which
we serve. . .” The Sydney Stock Ex-
change Research and Statistical Bureau
has until recently described the com-
pany as “wholesale druggists and manu-
facturing chemists” while the Melbourne
Investment Service says “A large range
of essences, chemicals and pharma-
ceutical preparations is manufactured
99
For a number of reasons, it seems
likely that the production of essences
for the food and beverage industries is
the main line. In this area, the com-
pany would appear to have a number
of competitors, 25 p.c. of whom are
either public companies or subsidiaries
of public companies. Under these cir-
cumstances, the performance of the
company over the last ten years seems
quite remarkable.
It is probably fair to assume, also,
that the company has become well
established in its 80 years of business
life, and, furthermore, has managed to
maintain its position. Food processing
can usually be regarded as a fairly stable
industry not very subject to cyclical
fluctuations, and this would also apply
to those who serve it.
The company mentioned in its last
report for the year 1961-62 that it was
exploring markets in South East Asia,
but it would also be interesting to know
whether any of its major customers are
substantial exporters at the present time
and where their markets are.
The financial position would seem to
be one of considerable strength, even
though it is likely that when the present
holding company was formed in late
1959 the opportunity was taken to
revaluate fixed assets in Australia, and
New Zealand assets were revalued during
1960-61. The company has had no long-
term debt since a mortgage loan was
finally repaid during 1959-60, nor does
there appear to be any bank borrowing.
The history of earnings and dividends
is, however, the most telling factor and
in Alfred Lawrence’s case the record
is very good. Without making any
adjustment in respect of the cash issue
in 1947, per share earnings have in-
creased from 0.12 shillings in 1940,
when the ordinary shares were just
listed to 0.557 shillings in 1962. This
is an increase of 355 p.c. or approxi-
mately 74 p.c. per annum, while the
dividend per share has increased from
approximately 0.062 shillings per share
to 0.450 shillings per share in 1962,
or approximately at the rate of 94 p.c.
per annum. This is a remarkable record
over a period of 21 years, five of which
were war years.
Over the last ten years the record is
even more outstanding. The following
table shows the number of shares held,
dividend income for the year and earn-
ings from an initial holding of 100 20s.
shares acquired in 1952:
No. of £ £
Shares Divi- Earn-
ends ings
Income
1953 100 15.00 22.4
1954 100 15.00 36.4
1955 100 16.25 44.9
1956 150 27.00 43.9
1957 150 27.00 54.6
1958 150 30.00 54.6
1959 150 30.00 57.8
1960 3,000 63.75 57.8
1961 3,000 67.5 79.2
1962 3,000 67.50 83.5
This table suggests that earnings have
been growing at the average annual
compound rate of 15 p.c. approximately
and dividends at 18 p.c. approximately.
The market value of the 100 shares
at September 30, 1955, was £252/10/-,
and today the market value of the 3000
shares is <£.1,362/10/-, or it has in-
creased over the last seven years at the
average annual compound rate of 27
p.c. which is nearly double the rate of
increase in dividend income and over
four times the rate of increase in earn-
ings per share over the same period.
However, in 1955 the shares were
clearly much under-priced when they
were showing a yield of 6.4 p.c. and an
earnings yield of 17.7 p.c. Today at
around 9/6 to show a dividend yield of
4.7 p.c. and an earnings yield of 5.8
p.c. it is possible that they are still under-
priced.
If dividend income grows in future at
the rate of 74 p.c. per annum for the
next ten years and at only 3 p.c. from
then on, the ultimate yield from today’s
price would be 94 p.c.
The 74 p.c. rate is the annual rate
of increase in earnings per share over
the last 21 years. During the last ten
years this rate has been doubled. If we
assume that the next ten years will
produce a rate of increase of 10 p.c. per
annum and that an investor seeks a
return of 9 p.c. in his investment, then
the shares could be bought up to 12s.
ALFRED LAWRENCE HOLDINGS LTD
Average 1956-8 = 100
New Holding
Company Formed
Year to 30th June .... 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current Assets 104 108 99 100 109 110
Current Liabilities 91 125 122 132 159 148
N'et Working Capital 106 97 89 85 91 98
Fixed Assets 93 114 146 206 216 218
Total Capital 100 105 118 147 155 159
Estimated Operating Capital 98 114 112 107 143 146
Earnings 106 106 113 113 154 154
Ord. Dividend 96 104 104 232 252 252
Surplus ... .... 117 109 122 (-) 48 65
Note: No, details of trends of Loan, Preference, and Ordinary Capital are given because of the substantial
change on the formation of the present company in December 1959.
Dividend Yield % (a) 4.4 4.7 3.6 4.3 5.0 5.0
Earnings Yield % (a) — 9.5 9.2 7.5 3.9 5.9 6.2
(a) based on last sale in month accounts presented.


WESTERN MINING CORPORATION
LIMITED
CHAIRMAN’S SPEECH
ANNUAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS
FRIDAY, 21sl StPTtMBtR, 1962, AT 3 P.M.
Reviewing Western Mining Corporation
Group activities at the Annual Meeting on
21st Septmeber, the Chairman of the Corpor-
ition, Mr. G. Lindesay Clark, stated that the
consolidated group profit was £687,264. The
Western Australia group of Companies mined
1,107,893 tons of ore from which 316,033 ounces
of fine gold in bullion and concentrates were
produced. Total value of gold extracted by
the Group was £5,001,479.
After paying a tribute to the memory of
the late Mr. P. F. Espie, one of the Companv’s
Directors, the Chairman presented the 29th
Annual Report and Statement of Accounts of
the Corporation for the year ended 31st
March, 1962.
Mr Clark said:—
During the year, increasing calls on my time
made it desirable that I should relinquish the
position of Managing Director. Mr. W. M
Morgan, General Manager of the Corporation,
was appointed Managing Director. Mr. L C.
Brodie-Hall, General Superintendent in
Western Australia, and Mr. J. D. Campbell,
Chief Geologist, were also appointed Directors-
FINANCIAL RESULTS
Net profit for the year of £270,461 was
£27,107 lower than in 1960/61. Dividends re-
ceived from the Central Norseman and Gold
Mines of Kalgoorlie Companies were un-
changed at £281.887, whilst Management Fees
of £37,307 were £2,124 higher.
Dividends totalling 1/- per fully paid share
were paid during the year. Since the close of
the year a further dividend—the 30th—of
6d. per share was paid on 10th August, 1932.
CAPITAL
The Authorised Capital of the Corporation
was increased on October 27th, 1961 from
£1,000,000 divided into 4,000,000 shares of 5/-
each to £5.000,000 divided into 20,000.000 shares
of 5/- each.
Following the formation of Alcoa of Aus-
tralia Ptv. Limited in June, 1961. Western
Mining Corporation received 3,402,778 fully
paid £1 shares in that Company as consideia-
tion for its assets and contribution to the
aluminium project. The Corporation decided
to apply also for 1,597,222 contributing shares,
making a total eauity interest in Alcoa of
Australia of 5 million £1 shares, or 20% of
Alcoa of Australia’s share capital.
The Corporation made a renounceable rivhts
offer to shareholders in November. 1961 The
holders of all 5/- shares in the Company were
offered additional 5/- shares at a premium of
7/6d. in the proportion of three such shares
for each five shares registered in their names
on 30th Octob'r, 1961. The terms of the issue
provided that such shares would not rank for
dividends payable on or before 30th June,
1964 The issue was fully subscribed.
The shares were payable 2/6d. on acceptance,
and a call of 2/6d was made in March, 1962.
A further call of 2/6d. per share has been
made payable on 28th September, 1962, which
will make the shares paid to 3/- capital and
4/6d. premium. Additional calls of 2/6d. per
share are anticipated in March and Sep-
tember, 1963 to make the shares fully paid.
GOLD MINING
In regard to gold price, all that can be
said is that the pressures which many people
believe would be greatly relieved by an in-
crease in the price of gold are still building
up. There is need for greatly increased inter-
national liquidity, for which no satisfactory
alternative to gold lias yet been evolved.
Whether the great contribution that a mas-
sive increase in the price of gold could make
to these problems will ultimately cause the
rise to take place remains unresolved.
The Commonwealth Government has ex-
tended the Gold Mining Industry Assistance
Act. which was due to expire on 30th June,
1962 for a further three years to 30th June,
1965 The Commonwealth Treasurer also an-
nounced in his budget speech on 7th August,
1962 that further financial assistance to the
gold mining industry would be given in the
form of a development allowance to mines not
on subsidy. Details of this allowance are not
yet available, but it is designed to encourage
gold mining companies to spend more on
developing orebodies so that reserves can be
maintained and the life of mines extended.
Through its wholly-owned subsidiary,
Champagne Syndicate No Liability, the Cor-
poration has held the Mt. Charlotte Leases
situated at the northern end of the Kal-
goorlie field. Investigations carried out in con-
junction with Gold Mings of Kalgoorlie show-
ed conclusively that the Mt. Charlotte ore-
body could be equipped for production at
much less capital cost and operated more
economically as part of Gold Mines of Kal-
goorlie operations than as an independent
mine. An option was taken by Gold Mines of
Kalgoorlie to acquire the leases for 200,000
fully paid shares at par and this was later
exercised.
OPERATIONS
At Central Norseman, development on
shears amounted to 13,375 feet of which 33%
was in payable ore averaging 14.5 dwts. per
ton over 55 inches. Between the end of the
financial year and 14th August, 1962, 28% of
the 4,677 feet of development on shears was in
ore averaging 12.1 dwts. per ton over 55 inches.
The most important development result of
the year was on Crown No. 22 Level, where
the South drive exposed 835 feet of ore
averaging 22.4 dwts. per ton over 57 inches.
The total length of ore developed on this level
now amounts to 2,765 feet, averaging 15.3
dwts. per ton over 56 inches. Development
above and below this level indicates that a
major new ore position has been encountered.
Ore reserves at 31st March, 1962 were esti-
mated at 595,000 tons, averaging 10.0 dwts.
per ton.
At Great Western mining and treatment
operations are expected to cease by the end of
1962.
At Gold Mines of Kalgoolie (Aust.) Ltd.
operations and development work continued
satisfactorily during the year.
Ore reserves at 31st March, 1962 were esti-
mated at 1,139,000 tons averaging 5.9 dwts. per
ton.
The Kalgoorlie Electric Power Corporation
has advised that it will cease operations early
in 1963. This Corporation is presently supply-
ing some 45% of Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie’s
power requirements, and it became necessary,
therefore, to extend our own power house.
Orders for four new generating units were
placed during the year and these units are
scheduled to be in service by the end of the
current financial year. Power costs will be
substantially reduced when the new sets come
into operation.
An option over the Mt. Charlotte property,
some two miles from the Gold Mines of Kal-
goorlie mill, has been exercised since the
close of the year. An extensive drilling cam-
paign has proved 3 million tons of ore avera-
ging 3 dwts. per ton to a depth of 700 feet,
and has indicated that the orebody will con-
tinue at a similar size and grade to at least
1,000 feet below the surface. The massive Mt.
Charlotte orebody and strong wall rocks per-
mit low cost large scale underground mining,
and the free-milling ore lends itself to simple
treatment. It is proposed to increase the
treatment rate of Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie mill
from 41.000 tons per four-weekly period to
56,000 tons per period by the addition of a
free-milling circuit to treat approximately
20,000 tons per period of Mt. Charlotte ore.
On completion of this programme the Com-
pany's position will be considerably strength-
ened, not only by the larger ore reserves but
by being less dependent on subsidy.
Except for the purchase price of the Mt.
Charlotte Leases and certain plant satisfied
by the issue of fully-paid shares, the funds
for the new power generating equipment and
the balance of the Mt. Charlotte project will
come partly from internal resources and
partly from a proposed issue of 10/- shares at
a discount of 3/- per share in the ratio of
two such shares for every five shares held.
To carry out these proposals Gold Mines of
Kalgoorlie yesterday obtained the approval of
its shareholders to an increase in authorised
capital and to the issue of shares at a dis-
count. The issue of shares at a discount must
also be confirmed by the Court. Subject to
that confirmation the Company proposes to
make the offer to shareholders in October
for acceptance in November.
Western Mining Corporation would under-
write the issue and take up its entitlement.
GOLD PROSPECTING
Kalgoorlie Southern Gold Mines No Liability
Hole 5.E.12 was terminated at 7,848 ft. depth,
after attempts to by-pass a jammed core
barrel at that depth failed. Quartz dolerite
greenstone with several auriferous sections
was intersected in this hole from 4,870 feet to
7,782 feet, after which Black Flag sediments
were encountered.
As a result of re-assessment of the project
in the light of this information it has become
clear that further drilling is justified. A pro-
posal for providing further finance for this
drilling will be put forward in the new year
by which time certain modifications of the
drill will have been completed.
The funds of this Company were exhausted
during the year and further finance was sec-
ured by loans of £15,000 from Gold Mines of
Kalgoorlie (Aust.) Ltd. and up to £lO,OOO from
Western Mining Corporation Ltd. Options over
50,000 and 15,555 forfeited shares at par re-
spectively were granted to these two Com-
panies.
Gold Mines of Australia Ltd.
At dunes, holes drilled during the year
continued to intersect mineralised quartz
reefs of a similar pattern to those previously
worked two miles to the north, but up to date
no gold-bearing reefs have been found. Drilling
is continuing.
At Stawell, following indications from
earlier drilling, hole No. 23 has been drilled
eastwards at the northern end of the old field
into a parallel anticline about 2,000 feet east
of the old workings. From 1,771 feet to 1,990,
the hole showed quartz veining and quartz
spurs with heavy mineralisation. From 2,047
to 2,054, the core was typical Mundic lode
and the hole then passed into the key geo-
logical marker of the area, the footwall sand-
stone. Although assays were low, the best
being 0.5 dwts. between 1,909 and 1,928 feet,
this result is believed to be significant as it
has shown a new reef occurrence in a geo-
logical environment generally similar to that
of the old workings.
It is proposed to test this new position
by further drilling to the north and south of
the present hole.
IRON ORE
In July, 1961 the Western Australian Gov-
ernment accepted the Corporation’s tender to
mine the Tallering Peak iron ore deposits
for export, subject to preliminary testing, and
subsequently entered into an Agreement with
the Corporation setting out the conditions
under which operations would be carried
out. In addition, the Corporation was granted
five Temporary Reserves for iron ore explora-
tion in August, 1961. These reserves fall into
two groups, the first being the Tallering Range
and Koolanooka Hills areas, from which ore
would be shipped through the port of Gerald-
ton, whilst the second group of three reser-
ves is in the North Yilgarn area north of
Southern Cross, from w'hich ore would be
shipped through Fremantle.
It became apparent that the economics of
the project would require larger tonnages of
ore reserves than had been yet disclosed at
Tallering. The Government accepted this view
and included the Koolanooka Hills in with
the Tallering Range reserve and subsequently
granted reserves over the Blue Hills deposit,
some 45 miles east of Koolanooka.
A total of 12,710 feet of diamond drilling


has been completed at Tallering and Kool-
anooka Some 12,500 feet of shallow per-
cussion drill holes were put down to outline
ore bodies and to obtain samples. The ton-
nages of direct shipping ore so far proved
at Tallering and Koolanooka amount to 3.5
million and 1.8 million respectively.
The most significant feature of the drilling
has been the proving of tonnages of concen-
trating grade ore greatly exceeding the quanti-
ties of direct shipping ore. Preliminary tests
have already shown that much of this ore is
suitable for concentrating by relatively cheap
methods.
As it became increasingly clear that large
reserves could be developed, and that the pro-
ject involved more than the mining of direct
shipping ore, your Board came to the con-
clusion that it would be desirable to join with
partners with experience in the iron ore
trade. It, therefore, welcomed a suggestion
from the Hanna Mining Company and the
Homestake Mining Company to join in -the
development of the project. These are large
American mining companies and can provide,
in addition to finance, specialised experience
in the preparation and marketing of iron ore.
Arrangements have now been made under
which the costs of further testing and evalua-
tion of the properties from the technical and
commercial aspects will be borne by the
Hanna and Homestake Companies and they
will be entitled to acquire a joint 50% par-
ticipation in the enterprise on terms advan-
tageous to the Corporation.
The Corporation’s iron ore deposits were
inspected by Technical Missions from the
Japanese Iron and Steel Mills in June, 1961
and again in July, 1962, and we understand
their report was favourable. It is expected
that negotiations for an initial contract will
be undertaken in due course.
The second group of three iron ore reserves,
each of 50 square miles, is in the Yilgarn area.
The most southerly of these Yilgarn deposits
at Mt. Jackson lies about 75 miles north of
Southern Cross which is 240 miles from Perth
on the Kalgoorlie to Perth railway line.
The trans-continental 4 ft. 8y 2 in. standard
gauge railway line now terminates at Kal-
goorlie. The Commonwealth and Western Aus-
tralian Governments have agreed to convert
by the end of 1968 the Kalgoorlie to Fremgntle
section to standard gauge and to the con-
struction being of a type suitable for rapid
transport of heavy freights. Production from
the Yilgarn deposits will have to await com-
pletion of this conversion.
ALUMINIUM
Alcoa of Australia Pty. Limited
The progress being made by Alcoa of Aus-
tralia Pty Limited in erection of its plant for
production of alumina at Kwinana and alum-
inium metal at Point Henry is noted with
great satisfaction by your Board. It is expec-
ted that the Kwinana refinery, with a capa-
•■n 210,000 tons of alumina per annum,
will be in production in the last quarter of
next year and the first stage of the Point
£* ear y,smelter, with an annual capacity of
au.uoo tons of metal, will be producing metal,
initially from imported alumina, in about six
months’ time.
~ Lhe second stage, increasing the capacity of
tne Point Henry smelter to 40,000 tons per
annum, will shortly follow completion of the
mst stage. Construction of the fabricating
Plant is being begun and the first segment
win come into production in less than a year
irom date. Following completion of the fabri-
cating plant, equipment of the Anglesea eoal-
neid and erection of the power house will
commence.
lithium
„ A £ otal ,°f 2,183 feet of drilling for lithiur
been . completed on the Mt. Mario:
wef? la situated some 25 miles south
100 Jin? 1 Kalgoorlie. In one deposit reserves c
S T-n°n n ? of 189 % Li2o or 624,000 tons a
.Du/ 0 Li2o have been indicated. The ore poten
large° Ver wtlo '' e area appears to be ver
Pilot plant concentration tests of the or
rrmlo mdicated that concentrates containin
tir?^ e -rU a, i 1 Li2o can be produced by fiota
hp en t u have shown these concentrates t
suitable for commercial use and prelimin
tiai —fusions have been opened with poten
tial purchasers.
talc
rnTn^ e p Spril }g s Talc p ty- Ltd., in which th
C r P; P°’f tl ? n holds a 50% interest, has in
Gwma7m lts * exports to Sweden, England an
A crushing plant has been install
bullr ceramic grade talc. The firs
desna?p?u P !? ent of LO5O tons for Europe wa
despatched in April, 1962.
COPPER
made ™ d , u ced polarisation survey is bein
Moonta-Wallaroo area on York
T™ pla ’ So , uth Australia,
ine hn<, a h omalies have been located and drill
mg has been started to test them.
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM2OOI-, *
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
T turned into O’Connell Street last Fri-
day morning half expecting to see
Mr Palmer and Mrs Richards in helmets
driving concrete trucks into mobs of riot-
ing shareholders. But, alas, O’Connell
Street resembled no Ole Miss. All was
quiet. And the only concrete trucks to
be seen belonged to the rival English
Marley concern, now staging something
of a counter attack in Hunter Street
following Ready Mixed’s invasion of
England.
In a more serious vain, however, the
events of the last two weeks in the
RMC camp make any further comment
from me quite superfluous.
As to the value of the shares, the sad
truth seems to be that for the time being
they are worth no more than 10s., if that.
Even at Bs. the earnings yield would still
be only a very average 8 p.c. These are
figures best not thought about too much.
So let us look at happier subjects.
While I have been preoccupied with
RMC these last few weeks, other annual
reports have been coming out thick and
fast.
The best bit of news came from Hani-
mex which is unburdening itself of a
dividend for the first time since 1958.
This does not mean that Hanimex has
been losing money all this time. On the
contrary profits have been building up
steadily— £30,000 in 1959, £60,000 in
1960, £90,000 in 1961 and now £155,000
for the year just past.
You might well expect me to have
taken a profit on the 1000 shares I bought
in May at 4s. lid. but the result was so
good that I bought another 1000, this
time at 6s. lOd. The reason was the
earnings yield. At 6s. lOd. it was an
uncommonly high 20 p.c. and the pre-
sent price includes a sixpenny dividend
as well. If Hanimex was to show the
8 p.c. earning yield just mentioned in
connection with RMC, the shares would
have to sell at 175.! Now I don’t suggest
that this is going to happen. But I see
no reason why they shouldn’t go to 9s.
or 10s. in the not-too-distant future.
Malleys also had some interesting in-
formation in its printed annual report
which turned up during the week. What
caught my eye was the option the Whirl-
pool Corporation of America has to take
up shares. This option allows Whirlpool
to take up shares at a minimum price of
28s. and a maximum of 325. 6d. in
October of next year. If Whirlpool is
going to exercise this option, it will want
to see the market for Malleys’ shares up
to 28s. while Malleys itself would pre-
sumably prefer to see its shares worth
at least the maximum option price of
325. 6d. by then. This seemed sufficient
reason to retain my 400 Malleys shares,
particularly as the general tone of the
annual report was quietly optimistic.
Then there was Shipping Newspapers.
The consolidated profit of £lOl,OOO
didn’t come up to my expectations.
Nevertheless I took myself along to the
annual meeting, my penchant for this
sort of thing having been whetted by
RMC. However, this was a much more
gracious affair with many kind and
friendly words, followed by drinks and
savouries. I came away from this meet-
ing with a light step and the impression
that Shipping Newspapers could be quite
a growth stock. But not until it estab-
lishes itself in a new building at North
Sydney at the end of next year. So I
will probably take my leave of Shipping
Newspapers as soon as I can cover my
costs with a view to renewing my
acquaintance next year in time, I hope,
for the next convivial annual meeting.
What I did sell last week was 400
Waugh and Josephsons when they re-
gained par 20s. They gave me my first
real profit (£96) for a month or more.
They also brought in £392 which covered
the cost of the second thousand Hani-
mex but still left £lO7 owing from the
previous week.
Details of these transactions were:
BOUGHT
1000 Hanimex at 6/10 £352
SOLD
400 Waugh & Josephson at 20/- £392
This leaves me with my customary
optimism and these shares:
The portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share . Price
600 O’Donnell Griffin 28/8/61 13/6 18/6
2000 United Motels 20/11/61 3/9 3/9
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 25/6
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 6/2
400 Malleys 3/5/62 20/9 23/
2000 Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11 7/
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 25/-
300 Marcus Clark notes 22/6/62 27/6 29/9
100 James Hardie 29/6/62 98/- 93/-
600 Courtaulds 24/7/62 11/4 12/9
100 CSR 1/8/61 49/- 48/-
403 AWA 10/8/62 20/- 19/-
500 R. W. Miller 21/8/62 17/3 18/3
1000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9 5/10
100 AOG 27-8/62 55/6 59/3
1000 ANI 14 9/62 4/- 4/-
400 Western Mining 19/9/62 15/9 17/-
200 Shipping News 20/9/62 24/- 23/6
1000 Vesta 27/9/62 3/9 4/-


On time
every time
. .M. . ... » ■■"■*■•
... ,***
•»
m
m.
K.
y
Vm
Q
«*'«* y.r
's*'s&&■ - 13^$$*'
•<. \ x tI3
':*; ■: J ,
J3J?. ;\ ■'•“ •■••' '%• ' '. v -
*. **• ..
With a highly trained staff, pantechnicions and equipment
especially designed for fast safe transportation, Mayne Nickless
operate Australia's most reliable interstate freightways. To
facilitate the fast handling of all goods, Mayne Nickless main-
tain a large fleet of Radio Pick-up trucks.
MAYNE NICKLESS LTD.
INCORPORATING ANTILL RANGER
Australia's most reliable Interstate Freightways
SYDNEY- MELBOURNE-BRISBANE-P ERTH
ADELAIDE • CANBERRA • NEWCASTLE
PORT KEMBLA • LAUNCESTON • HOBART
Fast daily schedules
to all main centres.
m
for every transport need
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE CORPORATION
UP TO SECOND PLACE AGAIN
HThe 1961-62 accounts of Australian
A Guarantee Corporation Ltd are a
model of conservatism for the younger
members of the hire purchase group. Its
excellent result achieved “against a back-
ground of difficult trading in the Aus-
tralian economy” seems to prove that it
is better to advance slowly than over-
expand with the risk of writing unsound
business.
Management’s earlier conservatism and
rather colorless performance had, how-
ever, almost cost the company its in-
dependence. In January 1962 a rising
star in the hire purchase firmament, As-
sociated Securities Ltd, attempted to at-
tract AGC into its orbit with a share and
cash bid worth between 18s. and 19s.
per ss. AGC unit. AGC had to produce
a better profit (and a one-for-three bonus
issue) to justify its rejection of the offer.
Conditions contributing to the profit
improvement a 25 p.c. rise from
£1,285,364 to a rec--d £1,614,475
were a lower percentage of overdue
accounts and fewer repossessions on
hand than for many years. The greater
profit was derived from better business
written, not from extra business. Out-
standings were, in fact, virtually un-
changed over the year at £55.4 million
less income yet to mature of £7.9 mil-
lion.
The net profit restores AGC to second
place amongst hire purchase financiers.
Continuance of a policy of diversifica-
tion into general mortgage lending, fac-
toring, leasing of machinery and equip-
ment by what was essentially a motor
finance house, has reduced its depend-
ence on the motor industry. Sundry
debtors, loans and mortgages, goods on
lease and amounts owing on wholesale
plan, including stock on bailment, rose
over the year from £ 11.7 million to
£ 1 3.8 million.
A more useful employment of funds
is suggested by the appearance in the
latest balance sheet of £3.9 million
money at short call, compared with
£1,275,618 in cash on hand or at bank
in the previous accounts.
The bete noir of finance companies,
the calculation of deferred income, is
handled capably by AGC, which pro-
duced an actuary's certificate that the
AGC method produced a greater amount
of deferment than would be reserved by
true actuarial methods. Refined methods
of calculation are important chiefly on
contracts of more than four years’ dura-
tion, and AGC directors assert that its
proportion of long-term contracts is very
minor indeed.
Further evidence of AGC manage-
ment’s conservatism is given by the reve-
lation for the first time of a £700,000
provision for future bad debts. Pre-
sumably this has been appropriated from
profits over a period. Pre-tax profits have
been understated, therefore, by £1,166,-
000, creating a reserve “against unex-
pected troubles” which until now was
secret.
AGC has treated £93,000 taxation
paid in respect of Transport and General
Insurance premiums not yet earned as a
prepayment, thereby reducing the deduc-
tion from profit this year to £1,063,965.
Prior to this year’s defensive bonus,
shareholders had received one-for-three
premium issues in July 1955 and Novem-
ber 1954, and a 35-for-85 premium issue
in October 1953. 1-»e Bank of NSW
holds 40 p.c. of issued ordinary capital,
and this was an important factor prevent-
ing the success of Associated Securities’
bid.
Retention of the usual 15 p.c. dividend
required a further £155,625 this year.
The bonus shares ranked only for the
final 74 p.c. A full 15 p.c. charge next
year will require £1,245,000.
Since balance date AGC made an un-
usual offer for an Adelaide company,
Motors Ltd, which will enable Motors to
distribute some of its assets without tax
complication. At June 30, 1961, it had
an asset backing of 20s. 7d. per 5s. share,
but in the year just concluded it incurred
a loss of unknown proportions.
AGC proposes to form a new com-
pany to acquire such assets as are neces-
sary to carry on the motor business
(Adelaide’s main Chrysler dealership)
and return 8s. a share. This may be the
first of many excursions beyond tradi-
tional fields, and could give AGC a new
lease of life.
The 5s. shares at approximately 13s.
7d. return 5.5 p.c., and offer an earnings
yield of 8.1 p.c. They are about the same
price as in February when the market
was uncertain that company could
provide much cover for the bonus-en-
larged capital. The price range for this
year to date has been from 11s. 9d. to
17s. 6d.
Having demonstrated its capacity to
ride out economic storms, and pull some-
thing extra from the barrel when neces-
sary, the company deserves more con-
sistent support.
ACCOUNT SUMMARIES £’000
Juae 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current
assets 42.521 50,923 69,393 60,588 63,803
liabilities 14,430 10,680 9,181 7,123 7,772
Working
capital 28,091 40,243 50,212 53.465 56,036
Investments 831 1,053 1,385 1,407 1,352
Fixed assets 862 948 1,023 1,360 1,563
Suspense — — 6 38 —
Total 29,784 42,244 52,626 56,270 58,951
Represented by:
Loan
capital 16,423 28,713 39,045 42,270 44,444
Minority
interest — — — 99 110
Suspense — — — — 5
Preference
capital 650 650 650 650 650
Ordinary
capital 6,225 6,225 6.225 6,225 8,300
Reserves 6,486 6,656 6.706 7,026 5,442
29,784 42,244 52,626 56.270 58,951
Depreciation 107 36 249 568 529
Taxation 1,074 941 745 914 1,064
Earnings 1,371 1,262 1,018 1.285 1,614
Earnings for
ords. 1,337 1.228 984 1,251 1,580
Ord dividend 934 934 934 934 1089
Surplus 403 294 50 317 491
Earnings p.c. 21.5 19.7 15.8 20.3 19.0
Dividend p.c. 15 15 15 15 15
Dividend
yield (a) 5.3 4.7 6.3 5.9
High price ibi 13 9 15/ 19/ 17/9 14/
Low price ibi 9/7V 2 12 14 2 8/9 10/
(a) End of September, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.


m
LIMITED
m
An issue at
par (£100) of
£500,000
registered
first mortgage
debenture
stock
Per Annum
5 and 10
years. *
2 YEARS Gl% P.A.
3 YEARS .... 7% P.A.
4 YEARS.... 7i% P.A.
AND SHORTER TERMS AVAILABLE
METHOD OF INVESTING Application for Debenture
Stock will proceed only on one of the forms of application
referred to in and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus
obtainable from and lodged with
■ JAMES WALLACE (HOLDINGS) LIMITED,
123 Sussex Street, Sydney.
0 The Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney Limited any branch in New South
Wales or the Australian Capital Territory.
■ Any member of a Recognised Stock
Exchange.
Underwriting Brokers
b RALPH W. KING & YUILL (members of the
Sydney Stock Exchange), 20 O’ Connell Street,
Sydney, with offices at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Grafton, Tamworth.
ARC INDUSTRIES LTD
GOOD RECOVERY FROM "FREEZE"
Announcement of a share split and
a one-for-one bonus which will
bring no immediate income benefits to
shareholders of ARC Industries Ltd
suggests that directors are aiming to
strengthen the share premium in order
to cheapen the cost of acquiring other
businesses.
The proposed dividend rate is“7i p.c.
on the bonus-enlarged capital, equiva-
lent to the 15 p.c. rate paid for the pre-
vious eight years.
On a previous occasion, in 1956-57,
the company dispensed a one-for-one
bonus, and because of the extraordinarily
high earning rate then prevailing, was
able to hold 15 p.c. on the doubled
capital.
The bonus issue of £1,750,279.105.
derives approximately one-third from
share premiums and two-thirds from re-
valuation of shares in subsidiary com-
panies.
Shareholders were asked to contribute
capital in the ratio of one-for-five at 20s.
premium in 1960-61.
In 1960-61 ARC had been shaken
by the high rate ot bad debts in the
building industry. The sudden impact of
the November 1960 restrictions retarded
the date of commencement and construc-
tion of large works using ARC products.
Manufacturing facilities were therefore
not fully employed and some subsidiaries
operated unprofitably for that year.
Reorganisations and amalgamations
have eliminated losses in all but one sub-
sidiary for 1961-62.
The working capital position appears
entirely satisfactory. Loan capital inclu-
ded £291,900 unsecured deposits.
£257,550 loans on mortgage and £450,000
in 1\ p.c. registered unsecured notes.
The record profit for the latest year
ACCOUNT SUMMARIES £'ooo
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 1604 2420 3220 3491 4019
less current
liabilities 938 1407 1619 1212 1498
Working capital 666 1013 1601 2279 2521
Fixed assets 1342 1609 1896 2463 2768
Investments 20 22 23 25 23
Total capital 2028 2644 3520 4767 5312
Represented by:
Loan capital 109 382 824 839 1071
Pref. capital 105 110 115 60 60
Ord capital 1215 1215 1280 1737 1742
Reserves 599 937 1301 2131 2439
2028 2644 3520 4767 5312
Depreciation 59 70 76 109 117
Taxation 194 227 346 403 386
Net profit 385 372 518 481 563
Capital profit 15 12
Profit for ords 374 360 510 477 559
Ord dividend 193 194 200 243 266
Surplus 181 166 325 234 305
tarn. p.c. 30.7 29.7 40.1 29.9 32 1
£i v . , oc , , , 15 15 15 15 15
Dividend yield (a) 5.2 3.5 3.5 3 3
High price (b) 49/1 29/9 46/ 57/ 49/
Low price (b) 23/3 25/9 29/2 35/3 34/9
Snd of October, month accounts presented
(c) Previous calendar year
to June, of £563,171 after tax i
£386,180, admittedly down £16,909 o,i
1960-61, and depreciation of £117,102
(up £8321) compares with the preceding
year’s profit of £480,554 and the pre-
vious best in 1959-61 of £518,063.
The earning rate was reinforced from
29.9 to 32.1 p.c. on slightly higher
average capital. An additional capital
profit of £11,966 was made by the sale
of fixed assets.
The company has emerged from a diffi-
:ult period with very few scars and it
horoughly deserves the higher market
rating.
Directors must be speaking with cau-
tion in stating that dividend will be only
7i p.c. It seems a reasonable expectation
that, provided 1962-63 results are at
least in line with the latest figures, the pay-
out will be something greater.


INVESTMENT ADVISOR Y SER VICE
Oeaders ot The Bulletin can use
a personal investment advisory
service.
If you have an investment prob-
lem, write to the Financial Editor,
attaching the coupon at right.
The Bulletin financial staff will
seek out the information you require.
Selected letters of enquiry will be
published (without the names of
writers) together with the Editor’s
answers.
All communications will be treated
as confidential.
COUPON
ATTACH REQUEST, AND POST
TO:
FINANCIAL EDITOR,
The Bulletin, BOX 2521 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
MR
NAME mrs
MISS
ADDRESS:
STATE
THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
From a large number of readers' letters seeking "The
Bulletin's" advice on investment matters, these have been selected
for publication. The balance have been answered personally.
Could you supply me with informa-
tion about Hastings Deering Finance and
Investment Co. shares? J.E.D. (Nun-
dah).
A look at the record shows that in
1954 the finance offshoot of Sydney’s
Hastings Deering car dealership business
paid 8 p.c. dividend, but for the 8 years
since have paid a solid 10 p.c. dividend
per annum.
When you bought, the shares were
20/- nominal value, so your cost of
23/21 is equivalent to 5/91 per 57-
share. The market value is par (5/-).
The company appears to have reasonable
reserves and has an NTA of 5/7 per
5/- share. Looking at the 1962 figures
the company had a larger trading in-
come in 1962 (£364,427). Also liquidity
was better, overdraft being reduced by
nearly £96,000.
We are therefore of the opinion you
should not sell at the moment.
★ ★ ★
My holding in Australian Cash Orders
“B” has been falling steadily from over
£1 to the present price of 13.5. 9 d. The
shares seem to have a relatively high
assets backing. Why should they be so
low? Is it foolish to buy more? —L. W.
B. ( Wellington, NSW).
Australian Cash Orders “B” have since
1955 paid the following dividends: 1955
—174 p.c.; 1956—15 p.c.; 1957—10
p.c.; 1958—10 p.c.; 1959—121 p.c.;
1960 p.c.; and 1961—15 p.c. In
1961- the interim dividend was passed
and a final of 5 p.c. only paid. The
percentage profit to ordinary capital was
6 p.c. As you write, at 28s. lid. per
£ 1 share the NTA is high, but the
market has considered that a share pay-
ing 15 p.c. dividend and trading at 28s.
is worth no more than half when its
dividend falls to a third and is barely
covered at that.
We do not recommend purchase until
the interim figures are available to ascer-
tain what recovery has been made.
★ ★ ★
/ am thinking of applying for 500
shares in Independent Sydney Telecasters
Ltd and would like confirmation of a
verbal statement that whether or not the
licence is granted, none of the expenses
will be deducted from the individual ap-
plications—R. K. M. (Hornsby).
Let one thing be clearly understood,
your completion of the form enclosed
with your letter is not a contract to pur-
chase shares. You can only apply for
shares on the form attached to or en-
closed with the prospectus, and circularis-
ing for subscriptions to an issue without
a prospectus being issued is an offence
under the new Companies Act. The
reply you would therefore send denotes
only your interest in purchasing the
shares in question. Doubtless the pro-
spectus will set out the answers you re-
quire but obviously this will not be
available until and unless a licence is
granted.
We agree the shares MAY not go
to a premium after issue but we dis-
agree that there is no gamble.
★ ★ ★
1 have £4OOO to invest in equities.
My object is capital gain or income
whichever might be the most profitable
considering my income tax bill is 25-30
p.c. on the top few hundred pounds. I
contemplate £lOOO in each of 4 com-
panies, one of which might pay tax free
or pretty tax free dividends. I would
like to sell half my holdings, after 6
to 12 months, in one or all, at a profit in
order to diversify.
Do you approve of the following
selections: Frigrite, Finance Corporation,
Sun Electric and CRA
If you consider these are overpriced
would you please suggest alternatives?
W.W.
We fully concur with your choice of
CRA. The other stocks are of lesser
calibre. As income is less important to
you than capital gain, we would suggest
CSR and Lend Lease as subsitutes for
Frigrite and Sun Electric. We recom-
mended a purchase of these stocks
through the right in our August 25 issue.
Lend Lease is a fully integrated con-
cern and together with CSR will give
you strong representation in the building
industry. FCA, with a small capital
of just over £2 million, and a history
of regular par issues, should pay off as
an investment at present prices.
★ ★ ★
I have 4000 Ansett 51- shares, market
value about 5/- and paying 10 p.c. divi-
dend. The market value never seems to
rise much above par: is there a reason
for this? — W. H. C. (Nuriootpa).
Since the beginning of 1960 the high-
est price Ansett Transport shares have
been is 10s., since 1961, 6s. 7d, and in
1962, ss. Bd. For the same three years
the low figures are 65., ss. and 4s. lOd.
respectively. The present price is ss.
4d.-ss. 6d.
Since 1956 the company has paid a
steady 10 p.c. dividend per annum. This
may seem on analysis to make it appear
the shares are a little underpriced, but
with an NTA of ss. lid. the value is
not too far wrong. Add to this the fact
that, in mid-1966, 5,949,004 7 p.c. ss.
notes are due for conversion and the pic-
ture of value takes fuller shape.
We don’t know what you paid for
your shares, but you appear to be hold-
ing a share paying a steady 10 p.c. p.a.
—a share that may appreciate with a
good balance sheet and P & L account
for 1962. In these circumstances it
appears you should hold for a time
for a rise, meantime taking your 10 p.c.
dividend.


Positions Vacant
ALL SOULS' SCHOOL
CHARTERS TOWERS
Wanted Master to teach Physics and Mathc
matics to Senior standard, commencing January
1963, resident or nonresident, award salary
For particulars apply Headmaster.
f
For my Bno&ey
it's &
NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS BANK
ACCOUNT
EARN
3i%
INTEREST
UP TO £3OOO
Open a National Bank Savings
Bank account today . . . and
make every pay day a put away
day.
THE NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS BANK LTD.
A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
9684/i/62
A. L. NEVITT. DRAPER & CO.
A. L NEVIT'I. A C Ull A ('Kit.
N W C ORAI’KH
'Members 01 Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor.
The National 'Mutual Life Building.
297 Queen Street Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address - •‘NEVITTCO’ 1
I’lione. i 1-276) F.O BOX
(4 lines) No 1887 W
TOWN’S VILKt BRANCH.
i Oenham Street, (’hone 6(189
PATRICK & COMPANY
vtvmbers nl the Sydney Slock Kxcharu'
16 O'Connell St.. Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
150 Queen St. (Melbourne
67-5957 (7 lines)
43 Northbourne Ave.,
City. Canberra, A C.T.
4 0365-G6
Flinders House, Crown St., Wollongong
B 5900
Telegram.- ana Cables
•Kosdate” Sydney Melbourne
or Wnllimenne
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street. Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone. UVV 5721
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAG RAM,” Sydney.
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. W. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road.
Melbourne.
Telephones: 51-6243 51-6245
Est. 1939
HELP
round.
the
all
Donations
169
year
Elizabeth Street
Sydney
BM
2001
ONE TO BUY
J. BLACKWOOD LIKELY TO RISE
11/hen other steel merchants and sup-
"" pliers to engineers found the going
tougher in 1961-62, J. Blackwood and
Son Ltd, of Sydney, continued to thrive
and actually added 5 p.c. to parent com-
pany sales, setting a new record.
Its 10s. shares, now selling at about
375. 3d. to yield 4.3 p.c., therefore attract
for a moderate return immediately, with
prospects of a price advance on news of
a keener demand for company products
which one could reasonably expect in the
near future from present economic indi-
cations.
The chairman said at the annual meet-
ing that sales for the opening quarter
were better than in the previous corres-
ponding period, although that comparison
is not necessarily very flattering. However,
the month of August was a record.
Blackwood handles copper, brass and
other non-ferrous metals; steel plates,
sections, pipes and tubing; engineers’
handtools, precision and small tools, en-
gine packings and jointings, bolts and
nuts, rivets and screws; welding equip-
ment; plumbers’ brassware and general
plumbing requirements; pipe fittings and
valves. The 1961-62 balance sheet fea-
tures products of the valve department,
which is described as having the largest
stocks in NSW.
The takeover of A. E. Baker & Co
(Holdings) Pty Ltd in September 1961
gave Blackwood entry to the building and
plumbing fields, which at present are not
very buoyant, but directors consider it
was a good purchase from an assets point
of view. The Baker companies contri-
buted only nominally to profits in 1961-
62, but Blackwood directors look for-
ward to a steady improvement.
The Baker takeover added £119,200
to share premium reserve, and net tan-
gible asset backing per share was con-
solidated from 235. 7d. to 265. 2d. per
10s. stock unit.
The company relied increasingly on
bank accommodation over the year, and
overdraft at balance date was £163,295.
This could spell another issue to share-
holders within the next year or two. The
last issue was one-for-two at par in July
1959. The company has no term liabili-
ties.
Actual profit for the year to June 30
was £97,485, an increase of £13,999 over
the preceding period. The tax provision
was lower at £44,783 because substan-
tial payments were made for superannua-
tion and for the production of a new
catalogue, which the company has pro-
vided for in previous years.
The earning rate on higher capital was
fractionally higher at 27.6 p.c., and again
clears the 16 p.c. dividend (payable in
two equal amounts) with plenty to spare.
J. Blackwood has a relatively small
capital of £353,300, and the shares trade
between relatively narrow limits. In
1961 the price range was 41s. 6d. to
365., and this year to date the peak was
425., and the cheapest price 355. 6d. The
present quote is 365. 6d. buyer, 40s seller.
If they can be picked up near the lower
limit, they should prove a very sound
purchase.


MARKETING
FIRST SALVO IN CONCERTED FOOD
EXPORT DRIVE
TI/lore than 80 Australian food-produc-
ing companies this month will fire
the first salvo in a concerted export drive
aimed primarily at markets only ten
hours flying time from Sydney. Objec-
tive? The palates of three million
people in Hongkong.
Clearly these “get-up-and-go” compa-
nies have no desire to be left if Great
Britain joins the Common Market. Battle
tactics consist of a two-pronged, “hard-
sell” drive directed, firstly, at the trade,
and, secondly, at the consumer.
The campaign directed at the traders
opens in Hongkong’s newly completed
City Hall on October 22. Here, more
than 3000 guests drawn from the colony’s
retailers, importers, caterers and buyers
for the armed services and government
agencies will be entertained.
The second phase is aimed at Hong-
kong’s citizens themselves. In this, an
Australian Food Festival will be held,
with about 100 city stores displaying
our wares from February 18 to March 3.
Both promotions have been organised
by the Department of Trade in associa-
tion with Hongkong food importers and,
of course, Australian exporters.
The sampling display, the first of its
kind, will “sell” Australian food to the
colony’s traders only. Traders will see
and taste for themselves the quality of
Australian foods and so be encouraged
to build up their supplies in readiness
for the Australian Festival.
Amongst the goods on display will be
fruit, meat, vegetables, butter, cheese,
milk powder, ice-cream (mix), honey,
biscuits, smallgoods, soups (including
kangaroo tail soup—good news for the
bounty hunters), jams, condiments, beer
and wine, and even rice. And last, but
not least, the Australian Meat Pie.
During festival time, Hongkong stores
will arrange special displays of these
Australian foodstuffs.
A full-scale Press, radio and poster
advertising campaign and special news-
paper supplements will support the
drive, and organised contests, for retailers
offering the best display of Australian
products, will carry prizes.
Children’s painting books featuring
Australian food products, with punchlines
such as “A is for apple; the best come
from Australia”, will be distributed, and
special painting competitions for prizes
will be arranged for the children.
The potential of this vast market is
almost unlimited. For Hongkong is one
of the few places in the world which by
necessity has to import practically all
its food. And, there is little chance of
the Colony ever increasing its food
production. Land and water are both
scarce, and the population growth is
among the fastest in the world. In spite
of thousands of Red Chinese refugees
being turned back at the borders daily,
it is officially estimated that the popula-
tion will increase by one-third in the
next ten years to more than four million.
Almost every major food-producing
nation in the world exports to Hongkong.
Red China, the most successful, has 39
p.c. of the total market, while Australia
is at the bottom of the rung, cornering
only 3 p.c.
Other countries which export to the
Colony are Britain, the United States,
Holland, Denmark, France, New Zea-
land and Switzerland. In spite of the fact
that total Australian exports to Hong-
kong have increased by about 66 p.c. in
the last three years, there is still ample
scope, as shown by our low world per-
centage, for much greater promotion.
In 1959-60, our exports added up to
£8,517,000, in 1960-61 they w'ere
£10,516,000, and in the financial year
just ended £14,089,000. But of the £4ll
million worth of foodstuffs exported
from Australia during 1961-62, only £5
million worth went to Hongkong
£300,000 less than in the previous year.
Sugar, rice, and cheese sales dropped by
more than £ 1 million. This fall would
have been greater but for an increase in
wheat and flour exports, and significantly,
a large increase in fruit sales. Australian
oranges, for example, had their best year
ever, and brought in £72,000.
This better result was mainly due to
the foresight of our growers who visited
Hongkong personally and so learnt for
themselves what the customer wanted.
Learn they did. During their visit they
discovered that Hongkong importers
desired smaller oranges than Australia
had been previously sending. Smaller
oranges were sent —and they sold.
Here is one more example of the
successes to be had by making the per-
sonal approach. The benefits of this jet
age offer untold opportunities to Aus-
tralian exporters.
Oranges, for example, are in season
here and available for export at a time
when they are out of season in the United
States and Mainland China.
Qantas, which will have an exhibit at
the food sampling display, can fly fresh-
picked vegetables which, leaving at
breakfast time, can be served on Hong-
kong dinner tables. And Hongkong need
only be the base for a far wider export
potential.
The virtual absence of customs duties,
extensive port, banking and insurance
facilities, plus excellent shipping services
enable Hongkong merchants to make
quick deliveries to importers in the
Philippines, Korea, Thailand, Cambodia,
Vietnam, Taiwan, Singapore, and Indo-
nesia. It must be remembered that nearly
one-third of Hongkong’s exports consist
of goods originally imported.
NEW MARKETING SERVICE
FOR MIDDLE EAST
Anew Marketing Research Institute
has been set up in Beirut to assist
foreign companies in Middle East
marketing problems. The institute, the
first of its kind in the Middle East, will
be devoted to marketing surveys and
opinion research. It has a European-
trained staff.
The director, Mr Habib J. Saade, says
that the Middle East, with its rapidly
improving living standards and modern
development, should provide valuable ex-
port markets for overseas companies,
particularly Australia.
The activities of MRI include market-
ing, consumption, expansion, opinion,
social product analysis, economic re-
search, channels of distribution, legal
regulations, advertising research. The
institute’s address r Starco Building, P.O.
Box 4904, Beirut.
DIRECTORY ON WORLD
TRADE
Australian firms interested in selling
to or buying from the United
States, promoting investment, exchanging
information, or entering into licensing
arrangements, may find it an advantage
to have a World Trade Directory Report
on file with US Department of Com-
merce in Washington.
World Trade Directory reports provide
background data to American firms about
Australian businesses wishing to establish
contacts in the United States. The re-
ports are treated as confidential in Aus-
tralia and are made available *only to
bona fide American firms.
Any Australian firm desiring this ser-
vice may obtain a questionnaire form
from the US Consulate-General. From
the information supplied, a report will be
prepared and sent to Washington.
MOTOR MARKET SURVEY
The American Consulate in Sydney has
received the 1962 edition of the
World Automotive Market Survey and
Motor Census, prepared by Automobile
International’s research department. It
may be consulted at the US library.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
POLITICAL BRAWL THREATENS EGG
INDUSTRY IN NSW
/Currently before Federal Cabinet is
a measure to introduce stabilisation
into the egg-producing industry. It aims
to stabilise egg market prices on a Com-
monwealth-wide basis. Within the egg
industry itself it looks like developing
into a first-rate brawl between various
political groups.
The scheme, broadly speaking, is de-
signed to eliminate interstate trade in
-eggs. At present a producer can by-pass
the local board's marketing of his pro-
duce by shipping the eggs interstate where
prices may be more favorable. If the
Commonwealth Government should in-
troduce a stabilisation scheme, it is
argued, there would Lea Commonwealth
price for eggs and in that case interstate
trade would not be profitable. At pre-
sent control of such trade is hindered by
the fact that Section 92 of the Federal
Constitution states that “trade between
the States shall be free.”
The stabilisation scheme was put for-
ward by the Commonwealth Egg Market-
ing Association, composed of members
of the Egg Boards i:i each State. But
poultry-farmer members of the DLP in
NSW say that the stabilisation scheme
was originally put forward by the Com-
munist Party along with similar schemes
for other primary industries.
The question of Communist influence
in the egg industry, in NSW at any rate,
is a complicated one. The chairman of
the NSW Egg Marketing Board is Mi M.
G. Winfield, former ALP organiser and
an anti-Communist. But on the board
with him are two members of the Austra-
lian Poultry Farmers’ Association, said
to be Communist-dominated.
The scheme itself has been compared
with the uniform laws governing the
wheat industry. However, there is a
difference, as explained by Mr Winfield—
whereas the Commonwealth Government
guarantees a minimum price for wheat,
no such assistance is asked by egg pro-
ducers. In this it also differs from a
Canadian attempt to establish a stabilisa-
tion scheme, which was subsequently
withdrawn.
It is by no means certain whether
actual production controls are envisaged
under the scheme. One of the problems
facing egg producers is the periodic sur-
pluses in each State (one of the obvious
reasons for interstate trade existing).
Mr Winfield, for one, does not see
the scheme as entailing any system of
controls, though he admits that controls,
if they were to come, would have to be
instituted on Commonwealth level rather
than at the level of the States.
At the moment there is a feeling that
surpluses could be offset by the finding
of new markets in such places as Indo-
nesia. But more than the usual problems
are connected with such ventures. One
obvious problem is the lack of facilities
in many neighbour countries for storing
eggs.
Anyhow, as board members point out,
we will need to increase our egg exports
to countries other than Britain should
Britain enter the Common Market. It
is argued that stabilisation would aid this
by having a central authority to deal with
exports. Opponents of stabilisation say
that all the scheme will achieve will be
another group of officials which the in-
dustry will have to support.—R.M.
MORE MOTHS TO TACKLE
RAGWORT GROWTH
is persisting with its attempts
* to establish the Cinnebar moth in its
ragwort-infested hill areas.
Another shipment of 5500 pupae of
the moth arrived recently from th: Rhine
Valley, in Germany, Basle in Switzerland,
and from Austria.
Imported under strict quarantine con-
trol, the pupae will be watched care-
fully by Victoria’s Vermin and Noxious
Weeds Destruction Board until they have
passed through the dormant phase of
their life cycle.
If they are then certified free of the
diseases which have hampered the es-
tablishment of the moth in southern Vic-
toria in previous years they will be re-
leased to tackle the ragwort one of
Victoria’s worst noxious weeds.
The moths are expected to be released
after their emergence next spring.
The worst ragwort areas in Victoria
are in hilly parts of South Gippsland
and in the Otway Ranges.
BECOME SOUR?
By a SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
llThen Kraft announced that it had
taken over the Dewcrisp factory
there was jubilation in the North-east of
Tasmania. Kraft was the key that would
unlock the door to prosperity. More
production would be necessary.
Deputy Premier Fagan said that assist-
ance would be given to farmers wishing
to install irrigation projects in order to
increase productivity.
Big wheel of the Kraft organisation,
H. G. Osborne, predicted a bright future.
By the end of the year Kraft would have
a stake of £i million in the North-east.
Six months later things are dilferent.
When contracts for the growing of peas
were allocated growers found their allo-
cations cut ruthlessly. At least one
grower was cut from 50 acres to 13
acres.
Probes by the local Press brought no
satisfaction. All statements must come
from Melbourne; the local factory was
merely a cog in a large machine. Not
unnaturally this has given growers some-
thing to think about. Dissatisfaction is
rife and not only among the have-nots.
Has Kraft “come to holts” with the
Tasmanian Government on the matter
of the Bell Bay road? Has the proposed
development of a port at Bridport fallen
through? These questions are not getting
an answer at the moment.
The grape-vine says that the Dewcrisp
factory is under Iron Curtain conditions
of security. In the face of such reticence
there can only be speculation as to why
the big cheese seems to have gone sour.
INSECTARY FOR VINES AND
CITRUS FRUITS
'I/’ine and citrus growers throughout
* Australia are expected to benefit
from an insectary to be established at
Mildura, on the Murray, by the Vic-
torian Government.
The cost of the buildings for the
insectory estimated at <£25,000
will be met by the Australian Dried
Fruits’ Association and the Mildura and
District Citrus Co-operative Association.
The two industry bodies proposed the
establishment of the insectary, which will
be used for the study of vine and citrus
disease and insect problems and their
control by biological and chemical means.
The State Government will staff, equip
and operate the insectary.


Sydney Grammar School
College Street, SYDNEY
Assistant Science Master. A graduate with
an interest in biology is preferred, but other
specialities will be considered.
Laboratory Assistant. A fully qualified
man is required who has also specialised in
electronics. The successful applicant will be
expected to construct and maintain all kinds
of apparatus for use in teaching and research.
The facilities available for next year will
include 12 lecture-room laboratories and pro-
vision for research for staff and 60 boys.
Salaries will be commensurate with quali-
fications and experience on a scale adjusted
to that of teachers in public high schools.
Masters are required to participate in the
State Superannuation Scheme. Applications,
with references, should be addressed In
writing to the Headmaster, Sydney Grammar
School, College Street, Sydney.
Missing Persons
BRUCE Lachlan Charles (known as “Bill”
Bruce). Information concerning him is re-
quired to his advantage. He was last seen in
Sydney Australia in 1957 and is believed to
have been in Wellington New Zealand in 1958
and in Auckland, New Zealand in 1959 and
possibly 1961. He is 35 years old about 5’ 10”
tall with fair complexion light brown hair
protruding eyes slightly protruding eye teeth
surgical scar on throat of restless disposition
and by trade a carpenter. The said Lachlan
Charles Bruce or any person having know-
ledge of him since 1957 is requested to com-
municate with C. A. VAUGHAN & HAINS
Solicitors Cootamundra, N.S.W., Australia.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT. 1959
To: STEPHEN HENRY POWELL TAKE
NOTICE that RHODA ALICE POWELL has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3049 of 1962 on
the ground of desertion and cruelty. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer in
the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney by the 12th day of
November 1962 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from Charles
Griffiths, Solicitor, 107-109 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
To: JOHN KEITH McNAMARA late of Lalor
Park—TAKE NOTICE that JUNE MYRA Mc-
NAMARA has filed a Petition for Divorce (No.
2385 of 1962) on the ground of Desertion. If
you wish to defend you may enter an Answer
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney by the
19th November 1962, and obtain a copy of the
Petition and Notice of Petition without
charge from J. J. KIELY, Solicitor, 17 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
To: DUDLEY CLARENCE KEEN. TAKE
NOTICE that MARY THERESE KEEN has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3973 of 1961
on the grounds of drunkenness, desertion
and separation. If you wish to defend you
may file an answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, by the Ist day of November,
1962, and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from JOSEPH H. McDOUGALL &
CO., Solicitors, of 29 Bligh Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
S/Mng U he/u, and ){rttaA
id a Cot etode/t, than, you, think
i
SPRING IS HERE AND XMAS IS A LOT CLOSER
THAN YOU THINK. SOON YOU'LL HAVE TO THINK
ABOUT PRESENTS FOR THE FAMILY, FOR
RELATIVES, FOR FRIENDS BOTH HERE AND
MAYBE, OVERSEAS. WHY NOT A
SUBSCRIPTION TO "The Bulletin"
AUSTRALIA'S OLDEST (ESTABLISHED 1880)
AND BIGGEST MAGAZINE OF NEWS AND
COMMENT? YOU CAN ORDER IT FROM YOUR
NEWSAGENT OR BY FILLING IN
THE FORM AT RIGHT
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
name
ADDRESS
" 5 W
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick (v 0 "Mchever method of
delivery you prefen .
For those desiring direct
“ptosTflnd enclosed my eteque/money
order te months subscr.pt,on to
K £2 125.; % year-S 1 countries -
Pominions o v
iI.^UBSCRI^IONS^toBOK^
Sn yeari/l *•. (N.Z.„^rency).
Pe&jblz a/m fal/cing mate. and mote admit tfue BuMzUn/
WHITEHORSE NETTLE
NEW WEED MENACE
By MARIEL LEE
'I/'ictorian Wimmera farmers already
" have skeleton weed, bindii (caltrop
or three-cornered jack) and yellow iron
weed (Amsinckia hispida) to contend
with. So they were perturbed when, re-
cently, Mr W. Parsons, a senior research
officer of the Lands Department, an-
nounced that a patch of whitehorse
nettle, potentially as serious a menace
as skeleton weed, had been found near
Horsham. This discovery sharpened fears
that, if prompt measures were not taken,
the Wimmera wheatlands would soon be
overrun with weeds.
Some control measures have, except
in the case of the new menace, been
working out, but these, to be effective,
must be taken at the right time, in the
right way, and at prescribed strength.
Few farmers can at present recognise
whitehorse nettle. It is a perennial of the
tomato family, silver-green in appear-
ance, with a long root, small purple
flowers and small orange or green
berries. Any unfamiliar plant can be
identified by the nearest Lands Depart-
ment officer. Should it be pronounced
dangerous, it should be rooted out in its
vulnerable early stages, and on no
account be allowed to flower and set
seed.
Being a deep-rooted perennial, diffi-
cult to kill, the Whitehorse nettle will not
yield to cultivation, which has proved
effective against yellow iron weed. The
nettle starves out other growth, and as
yet there is no known plant which could
combat and control it as lucerne will with
skeleton weed.


Feiffer
MFIO CWT
UMPE£STAMP
ME. THEM
THIWk I
TALK TOO
MUCH-
mem mr umesr:w
THEM SHOULDN'T FISTEM
TO WHAT I SAM- THEM
SHOUT USTFM TO
WHAT I MEAN! f
WHAT I SAM /5
SLA BLA OLA-
WHAT I MFAM
i 5. mm
AMP POE TM.
WHAT I SAM IS
61BBLE GABBLE 6LBBLE- ,
WHAT I MFAM 15
I AM A LOST SOUL.
STOPM MM HAUWTEP
EMFS-
WHAT I 4AM IS
HA HA HA HA -
WHAT I MfAM
15 life 15 A
WASTE AMP
WOBOPM SARES
A FI 6 Fo|? ME
SOMEDAM ILL MEET A
MAM WHO WILL ISMOEE
MM STUPIP LOORPS AMP
MMOL) IMSTaMTIM THE
FRAGILE, PFLICATE.
PERFECTION THAT
LIES OFHIMP THEM.
HE WILL SEE
THROU6H ME.
AMP 00R5
MU 8 F A
BEAUTIFUL
J '
"The Bulletin', Crossword No. 714
ACROSS
I—Anglicised tout game enough for versatile folk.
(3-8)
6—Rested for a little time in the week-end. (3)
B—ltalians may be seen in windows. (9)
10— Tree. (3)
11— Happening to interrupt the observed figure. (9)
1 2— Coloured inscription read on Kelly’s present. (5)
Faith shown in a door-banger’s boast. (5)
15—Amateur hops into the Order of Merit in Hebrew
(4-4)
18 No angler disturbed Swinburne. (8)
20—Where one may see actors
and actresses entrances ef-
fected. (5)
24 Don’t stop conserving a
clerical worker. (5)
25 Plate on our shame. (9)
27 High Priest of Shiloh. (3)
28— A cop (not to say police)
station has a stream’s alterna-
tive course. (9)
29 . . ... (3)
30— Laughter is appropriate in
straitjackets. (6-5)
DOWN
1— Give “wrinkles” to queer
Davies. (6)
2 It’s frequently X’s. (5)
3 Came close to the North-East
with a communist. (6)
4 A place for taking off Brad-
man of the Ruhr? (8)
5 We met waste, (anagram) (10)
6 Remains with a study group.
(7)
7 Receive some dictation rook.
(4, 4)
9—Ben whose veins are injured.
(5)
14—Caspar rang Ingrid to hold
this act of ordering. (9)
16—Litigation about vehicle
bodies. (8)
17—They work on the highway
and make a grand go. (4-4)
19—The inquisitive take these ob-
scure dangers in gardens. (7)
21— Organ arrangement with mel-
ancholy expression? (5)
22 Attack donkey to go crook.
(6)
23 Search for structures. (6)
26—Monsters in the dog results.
(5)
Solution to Crossword No. 713


-
'IT*:
A
%Z SOCT 1961 ?|
UmffC
HStt*
jfp
J*
Mm
®^jas*sKf
litis
□L
,-.-iaa6»ti.-i.- •
mm"
»;_.
SmSM
ssgp3s
Si
fc
ili
Refinement,
room, and
rich new styling..
(in fact, just about everything you’ve ever wanted)
Holden’s rich new interiors and roomy seating give you the sort of
stretch-out comfort that makes long-distance travel completely
relaxing. And there’s a big flat-floored luggage compartment in
Sedans ... or six foot ten and a half inches of sleeping space in
Station Sedans. Best of all, Holden’s new low looks and clean-etched
lines —its tasteful colour range and quality finish have an air of
refinement previously only obtainable in high-priced cars. Yet
Holden is still the lowest priced six cylinder car, manual gear change
or automatic . . . still the only car designed specifically for Australia
and for you.
Drop into your nearest Holden Dealer today. Look at Holden
styling, Holden* prices and you’ll agree . . .
W 520
YOU’RE ALWAYS AHEAD WITH HOLDEN
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S PTY. LIMITED
* REGD.
