

The Bulletin
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
JULY 14 ONE SHILLING
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
INSIDE TOORAK
• CHURCHILL IN RETIREMENT
• THE HIGH COST OF PENSIONS
• THE MARGARET SMITH FUSS
• ASIA THE EMPTY CONTINENT
• BRENDAN BEHAN'S "THE CONFIRMATION SUIT"


When A.M.P. was founded
in 1849, sailors
looked like this
m
m
ul
Zl
2ft
I
U 2928
AfOW-z
AMP
MODERN SHIPS and navigational aids have taken us far
from the era of the sailing ship and jolly Jack Tar. Life
assurance has changed too. So have financial problems
and the means by which they may be solved. To be sure
you have found the best solution ask your A.M.P. man to
check that you are getting maximum value for your
premiums.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Australia’s largest and oldest life assurance organisation
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE. Offices in cities and towns throughout
Australia and New Zealand and in the United Kingdom
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by funds of £550,000,000
which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.


CHURCHILL
Page 18
He Did As He Damned Well Pleased
•
Inside Toorak Two - Car Rolls
Royce Families 12
Preparing for the Cup From
George McGann 16
The Margaret Smith Fuss 20
The British Rhine Army Scandal 22
Cuba Irrevocably Red? 23
Chiang and Mao Who’s Bluffing
Who? 24
The Confirmation Suit —By Bren-
dan Behan 26
The Pensions Monster—By M. H.
Ellis 29
Asia—- The Empty Continent .... 31
The Shadow of Dobell 34
Paul Smith on Sean O’Faolain .... 37
One to Buy 55
Wheat and Red China 60
•
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 8
OUT AND ABOUT 12
NEWPORT NEWSLETTER 16
SPORTING NOTIONS 20
OVERSEAS 22
AROUND SYDNEY ... ...... 25
SHORT STORY 26
FORUM 29
LETTERS 32
REVIEWS 34
RED PAGE 37
WILD CAT 41
MAN ON THE LAND 60
FEIFFER 63
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone 27-5971
Melbourne: Phone MF3341. Brisbane: Phone
82691. Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3
Vol. 84
No. 4300
THE FOOT MISSION IN NEW GUINEA
¥ OOKED at dispassionately what is so alarming about the Foot
Mission proposals for New Guinea? What indeed was not entirely
predictable about them? The Mission report was written in somewhat
sharper, more impatient language than we have become accustomed to
but that was expectable too. The world is becoming impatient with
gradualism and we simply have to face up to facts. The Mission’s
recommendations boiled down to three main things. In New Guinea
we must:
© Be one jump ahead of the awakening desires of increasing numbers
of New Guineans for a share of material goods. This simply means we
must be prepared to spend a great deal more money on developing the
territory, perhaps £50,000,000 annually. It is no use bemoaning the fact
or trying to avoid it. We occupied the country and we are responsible for
it. Above all it is idle to wonder whether we will “get our money back”.
In that sense we won’t. If we can reap dividends in the form of future
goodwill and a pro-Australian orientation every penny of the money will
have been well spent. But dividends or no dividends we will have to
spend the money. If we don’t others will.
© Have a reasonable proportion of New Guineans with a higher edu-
cation. This is a well-deserved slap in the face. We have occupied parts of
New Guinea for nearly 80 years (shades of the Congo and “80 years of
sacrifice!”) and have not yet produced a single University graduate. It
is no use talking of our splendid record, the cultural difficulties or citing
the unique geographical problems of the two territories. The simple fact
is that in pursuing a policy of uniform development we consciously and
with our eyes open, took a calculated risk that we could wait for a natural
elite to assert itself. We backed the wrong horse. There simply isn’t time
for New Guinea to grow into nationhood. Whether we like it or not it
is going to be catapulted into nationhood along with those native leaders
who at this moment quite genuinely believe the pace too fast.
© Create a national parliament of 100 representatives by 1964. This
is a tough one and it may prove almost impossible by that date even
though there is no shortage of native politicians in the Territory.
What New Guinea lacks are civil servants and technicians. Whether or
not Australia accedes to this request it is quite clear that the speed of
political development will have to be sharply increased.
The real problems of New Guinea lie in capital investment and
education. As we won’t get capital investment in anywhere near the
quantities needed, the money is going to have to come from the taxpayer’s
pocket. This unpopular task faces any Territories Minister whether
Liberal or Labor. So far as education is concerned we have botched it.
It is comforting to know that thousands of New Guineans are moving
slowly through primary and secondary stages. But where, oh where, is
New Guinea to get its doctors, lawyers and architects? Where does it
get its trained civil service, its airline pilots, business managers and
bankers? Even if we undertook at this stage an accelerated crash pro-
gramme for the education of a top level of New Guineans it will take
years and years before bearing fruit. But there will undoubtedly have
to be such a programme. No good will be served by a show of noisy
self-congratulation on our past record, excellent though we know much
of it to have been. Australia is no longer isolated and New Guinea is
as much subject to the winds of change as Africa. We are one of the
last colonial powers and we are now playing in the Big League of
world politics. In New Guinea we must be one jump ahead of our
critics who are numerous and powerful. Sir Hugh Foot, an able and
experienced colonial administrator, is no enemy of Australia. The
occasionally impatient tone of his report is merely a reflection of his
sure knowledge that Australia must move fast.


National
Notebook
Note from
Another Incarnation
/"|ur man Batman reports with delight
that the Batman papers were re-
turned to Tasmania last week, 40 years
after their unauthorised removal from
the State archives. These are nine docu-
ments, including a report made to
Governor Arthur by John Batman in
1835, and the copy of the treaty with
the natives which Batman sent with his
report.
The document shows that the settlers
from Launceston did not strike such a
hard bargain for the village site they
bought. The treaty price was 20
blankets, 30 tomahawks, 100 knives, 50
pairs of scissors, 50 suits of clothing,
30 mirrors, 200 handkerchiefs, 100 lbs.
of flour and six shirts, which must have
seemed enough to nomadic natives with
few proprietorial interests in the site of
the future city of Melbourne. Further-
more, the treaty provided for an annual
rental of blankets, tomahawks, clothing,
looking glasses, scissors and flour.
The Batman papers’ loss was not dis-
covered until 1945. when the Tasmanian
State Library took over the State
archives. Not until a few years "'ago
were thev traced to the Public Library
of N.S.W.. w'hich was unaware that they
had been removed “without authority”
front the Tasmanian archives when it
purchased them.
Food for thought
IVTeither of Sydney's universities exactly
basks in the warmth of the public's
affection, but t'he University of NSW
for its Foundation Day celebrations
seems to be slightly more original and
less puerile than Sydney University's
Commem. Day rag.
This year the students of the University
of NSW raised more than £SOOO towards
the cost of bringing an African to their
university to study. This wxts a very
good effort (although a letter writer to
the "Sydney Morning Herald " suggested
that charity could begin closer home
New Guinea. This suggestion was par-
ticularly apt, coming within a day or so
of the report of the United Nations’
visiting mission to New Guinea which
said, among other things, that Australia
should be aiming at 100 graduates a year
from that area).
However, to get back to Foundation
Day activities. The students raised more
than £SOOO, but during a pitched battle
they used, according to reports, one ton
of flour. This is possibly enough to keep
one African alive for the whole time
another, luckier, African is here studying
at the University of NSW.
Paper-Work
might learn something from
the United Kingdom in the pro-
duction and sale of public documents.
Anybody who deals with the gloomy
eyrie which retails these depressing
hunks of printing in Sydney wall cheer
this suggestion.
The British have made tremendous
advances in this field in the last few
years. Their public documents have
been brightened. They are printed in
bandy sizes, often with colorful bindings
The muddy-booted school
of writing
Whin Mr Len Evers, of Newport,
' NSW, this week received a joint
award for the best children’s book by
an Australian author for 1962, he
regarded it as a triumph for the mas-
culine forces over the numerically
superior feminine forces in children’s
bookwriting. Ihe awards were made by
the Children’s Book Council. Sharing the
award was Miss Jean Woodberry, of Tas-
mania.
Award-winning and other children’s
books are this week on display at
libraries and schools throughout Australia
for Children’s Book Week exhibition. (At
the display in the Public Library in
Sydney the transformation of David
Martin's “Speigel the Cat” from manu-
script to book is shown to bring home
to children that a book is a physical thing
which comes from a printing press, not
out of thin air. This display was arranged
by Mr Roderick Shaw.)
“Men hardly get a look in with chil-
dren’s books in this country anyway,”
Mr Evers said. “Not unless they are dead
50 years or something. All the books
are written by women, and, frankly, I
don't think most of them are suitable for
boys. They’re too airy fairy. They rely
too much on the imagination. Children’s
books by women remind me of the sort
of houses that women have where every-
thing's very nice, but you can't come
trampling in with your muddy boots.”
Before he undertook his prizewinning
book, “The Racketty Street Gang”,
published by Hodder and Stoughton, Mr
Evers did some research of his own on
what was likely to appeal to boys. “I tried
out Kingsley's ‘Heroes' and Hemingway’s
The Old Man of the Sea', which I ex-
purgated as I w'ent along. Ihe children
were completely wrapped up in them.
They lived the story of The Old Man of
the Sea’ from beginning to end.”
Mr Evers had previously writt. i three
novels for adults. “I wrote my first book
to prove I could write a novel,” he said.
“I wrote my second to prove I could
write a second and I wrote my third to
prove 1 could write another. Then 1
wrote a children's book to prove that I
could write a children's book.”
Since “The Racketty Street Gang” was
published he has done some work on
another novel, but has put it aside. “It
simply does not come off,” he said, “so
I won't worry about it for a while.”
He is currently writing nothing. “That
doesn’t worry me,” he said. “1 have no
wish to be a professional writer. I think
the professional writer lives in isolation,
in an ivory tower and after a while he
doesn t know w'hat is going on in the
world.
“And once you are committed to earn-
ing a living by writing you are in danger.
It seems to me to be rather like spiritua-
lism. People who have investigated
mediums have been led to believe that
perhaps in one case out of 10 a medium
really is genuine and really does have
contact with another world. But as soon
as she does it for money she has to be
successful every time, so she fakes it.
And that happens to a professional
writer. One time in 10 might be genuine,
hut the others are faked, and after a
while you don't know what is good and
what is bad.’ 5
At present Mr Evers is working full-
time as a psychologist at Long Bay gaol.
Originally he left school at 14 but after
a spell in the Army studied engineering
and Arts. Now' he is doing additional
work to convert his pass degree B.A. into
an honors degree to gain his Diploma of
Psychology. "Of course, there is wonder-
ful material out at Long Bay, but I
couldn't do anything w-ith it at the
moment,” he said. “Perhaps in six or
eight years something might come of it,
but I'm not impatient. After all, life is
long, isn’t it?”


and the Stationery Office sells them in
London in a bookshop which looks
much like any other bookshop and
employs the same methods. The shop
obviously is on the lookout for custom
and the UK Government wants the
electorate to read about what it is doing.
The Australian Government apparently
—and quite justly—believes that it is
difficult to sell its masterpieces. To buy
one of these masterpieces from the
Commonwealth at its selling head-
quarters in Australia’s largest city one
goes through the following procedure.
First, you go to the rear side entrance
of a large building at the corner of
George and Market Streets, well away
from the hub of official Sydney. Scan-
ning the directory you discover that
Sub-Treasury Sale of Publications is on
the eleventh floor. The lift and a walk
down a corridor lands you at the
counter of a room full of typewriters
clattering at judicious civil service speed.
Beside a set of pigeonholes a youth
continues talking on the telephone till
he finds it convenient to greet you with
the query, “Yes?”
You ask for a copy of the latest report
of the Department of Social Services.
“Department of Social Services?” he
asks with seeming dismay, “What’s it
about?” You explain carefully. But this
does not baffle him. “What’s it like?”
You tell him.
He tiptoes into the sea of typewriters
and consults. Then he leaves for some
rear fastness with the air of one setting
out to explore the Congo. Four
minutes elapse. He returns bearing the
depressing-looking document. “This it?”
You assure him it is and ask how much.
He goes away and consults again. As
the only customer you are beginning
to feel lonely, when he returns. One
and nine. By this time your thirst for
light literature has been whetted by
perusal of the latest Treasury Bulletin
which you have unearthed from under
a pile of back numbers on the counter.
He doesn’t know how much that is
either.
Time consumed in buying one docu-
ment: Just on eight minutes not count-
ing time spent in getting to and from
street level.
A cloak of respectability
A delaide’s brief lapse from respecta-
bility seems to have ended, now
that striptease shows in three nightclubs
there have been coldly frowned upon by
the law.
The first show opened about three
months ago and its success prompted the
establishment of two more. The clubs
advertised their shows in the Press with
pictures of suitably underdressed girls.
One club featured a lunch-time show on
Fridays, presumably to catch the week-
end shoppers.
But in a State which bans lotteries,
frowns on Sunday entertainment and
censored Tom Lehrer, such goings on
could not continue. Last week, accord-
ing to reports, members of the Vice
Squad told proprietors they would have to
“revise” their shows or risk prosecution.
Within a day or so the “Strip, strip, strip”
advertisements had vanished. One club
was advertising a “revue” with “an attrac-
tive floor show in sophisticated surround-
ings.” In another, “Striptease” became
“A European night.”
"The Americans are offering us experimental facilities at Johnston Island where they guarantee
nothing will explode!"


Th is Australia
CIVIL AVIATION
THE VICKERS-VISCOUNT
CRASH
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
“GUNNER” STARKE
Gusto
the sitting of the Board
“*■ of Inquiry into the loss of the
Vickers-Viscount VH-TVC with 15 lives
over Botany Bay on the night of Novem-
ber 30 last year, there have been few
members of the general public but
many air traffic control officers in the
public gallery. This is explicable in the
terms of the trend of the inquiry. Mr
Justice Spicer heads the Board, assisted
by three technically qualified assessors.
The inquiry is concerned to find the
cause of the tragedy, the second major
commercial air disaster in Australia over
the last decade.
Just what is meant by finding the
cause of the disaster bears several differ-
ent interpretations. The counsel assist-
ing the commission, Mr Reynolds, QC,
made it clear in his opening address that
the inquiry should not be confined to
the few seconds before the moment of
impact when the stricken plane plunged
into Botany Bay.
As he said in his opening address it
was “abundantly clear that the fail-
ure of the outer section of the star-
board wing of the aircraft caused the
crash”, but there were other questions
to be answered including whether the
captain was adequately briefed and
alerted on thunderstorm activities and
whether he was supplied with enough
weather information to make a proper
operational judgment.
Mr Reynolds told the board that there
would be no search for scapegoats, but
soon after in the inquiry the counsel
for the air traffic officers’ organisation,
Mr McConnell, was protesting at the
trend of the inquiry and claiming that
the no-scapegoat guarantee was being
violated by the line of cross-examination.
The answers, if there could be
answers, to Mr Reynolds’ questions
raised issues affecting not only the offi-
cers but also Department of Civil Avia-
tion policy. Evidence was given by a
number of pilots and air traffic control
officers on the state of the weather
around Kingsford Smith airport on the
night of November 30. But there was
conflict and difference of opinion among
both pilots and the air traffic control
officers, even in one case, between the
captain of one aircraft and his first
officer.
The inquiry was told that no storm
centres were shown on the airport’s
radar about take-off time, but it emerged
that the radar was generally not used so
much for w'eather purposes as for air-
craft surveillance and that in addition
it had a blind spot three miles wide at
5000 feet above the airport. However,
the board was informed that plans for
the installation of all-weather radar at
Mascot were well under w ? ay.
The director of Airways Operations
with DCA, Mr Gross, told the board
under cross-examination that if the true
state of the weather had been known
the airport would have been closed.
However, another witness, the senior
air traffic operations officer on the
night, Mr Rodoni, held to his view that
there was not severe turbulence on the
night, only “moderate”. He put forward
a theory that the tensile overloading
that led to the failure of the wing fol-
lowed the plane getting out of control,
through perhaps the pilots being blinded
by lightning. This was in contradiction
to the more commonly held theory at
the inquiry that the failure of the wing
had occurred when the plane encount-
ered extraordinary weather conditions,
with freakish severe turbulence
Radar entered the inquiry again as
the question of the advisability of air-
borne radar on planes came under argu-
ment. Orders to the airlines to install
radar in planes to detect weather patterns
ahead had been delayed by some dispute
as to the use of the radar and also the
question of cost. It was estimated to
the Board that £600,000 would have
been needed to install airborne radar in
the domestic airlines’ aircraft. Fourteen
days after the loss of the Viscount DCA
ordered domestic airlines to have radar
in all turbo-prop aircraft and at the
board a DCA witness admitted that this
decision had been speeded up by the
tragedy.
TI/Ir John Starke, QC, for the Depart-
ment of Civil Aviation, took issue
twice during the sitting over cross-exam-
ination on airborne radar and DCA policy
towards it, but after extensive legal argu-
ment Mr Justice Spicer made it clear
that he reserved the right to make recom-
mendations on radar, if he thought fit.
The few law students who occasionally
appeared to sit in the gallery and listen
to “Gunner Starke”, known more by
repute than achievement in Sydney, saw
little of the fire that has made his repu-
tation. In contrast to the counsel assist-
ing the Commission, Mr Reynolds, of the
Sydney bar, who is a precise and pains-
taking interrogator and wears either the
morning suit uniform or faultlessly cut
single-breaster suits, Mr Starke in an
old double-breasted suit made before the
days of vents, with lapels like wings and
a casual manner, seemed almost un-
gainly. But although it is probably fair
to say that Starke would be more at
home fighting a trial than sitting through
a long technical inquiry, when the oc-
casion came for battle he took it with
obvious gusto.
The majority of the Board’s time was
NEXT WEEK'S ISSUE
• GETTING OUT THE BUD-
GET—Cover Story
• NEW GUINEA—The Drinking
Problem
• ALAN REID—As I See It
• GEORGE RElD—Federation
Prime Ministers


taken up with the laborious business of
piecing together technical data about the
Viscount, listening to abstractions about
stress, strain, alloys etc. The closing
days of last week bought some touches
of humanity when eye-witnesses and
ear-witnesses of the Viscount’s last few
minutes gave evidence.
But through the apparent monotony
of the technical evidence it was hard to
remember that 15 men and women had
died that night.
ANOTHER STRUGGLF
FOR POWER?
As I see it
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
F. E. CHAMBERLAIN
Knows what he wants
W 1 ha v
™ nKK<O his *
tory today!” a
member of the ALP Federal Executive
said in Melbourne last week. He was
referring to the executive’s decision just
announced to establish an ALP Federal
secretariat. The ALP executive mem-
ber's assessment is not necessarily right
but it could be. It will depend on (a)
whether with the present limited resources
available £12,000 a year whoever
finishes head of the secretariat can make
it a meaningful organisation and (b)
whether the same head of the secretariat
uses it as a power point within the ALP
or as a means of giving the ALP a
much needed service.
The temptation to use the post which
will carry with it the responsibilities of
the Federal ALP secretaryship as a
power point will be almost irresistible and
in the Labor tradition. Labor men tend
to see themselves as powers within the
Labor movement, not servants of the
movement. It will require a big man to
withstand the urge to use the new posi-
tion as a power point from which he
can extend his dominance over the move-
ment throughout Australia. If the present
Federal secretary, Mr F. E. Chamber-
lain, decides for example to go after the
job and gets it he will have to reverse
the thinking and habits of a lifetime if
the secretariat is to weld the movement
together and not be just another counter
in the ALP power struggle.
Chamberlain is a man who knows
what he wants and goes out to get it.
This is one of the reasons that despite
his relatively minor power base in re-
mote Perth he has been able to dominate
the Labor movement over the past eight
years.
But properly handled the secretariat
could be of considerable value to the
Labor movement generally and not just
from a propaganda viewpoint. One of
the weaknesses in the Australian Labor
Movement is that, unlike its British
counterpart, there is remarkably little
liaison between the parliamentary and in-
dustrial wings. This is partly the product
of geographic factors; not only is Britain’s
national parliament in London but Lon-
don is also the headquarters of the
British Trade Union Movement as well
as the nerve centre for many of its larg-
est unions. In Australia the parliamentar-
ians are separated from daily close con-
tact with the trade union movement gen-
erally and many of the larger significant
trade unions by distance. Expense
Australian trade unions are run very
much on the cheap prevent the travel
that could compensate for distance. Only
a few Australian trade union leaders,
like Albert Monk, head of the ACTU,
have regular contact with Labor’s parlia-
mentary wing and even Monk's contact
is limited by the fact that for motives of
economy he has to do daily work more
appropriate for an unskilled office boy
than the head of the ACTU. One of
the odd results of this setup is that the
trade union movement is able to bring
heavy and often uninformed pressure to
bear on Labor’s parliamentary wing, but
the parliamentary wing is able to get its
viewpoint across to the industrialists only
unsystematically and on the basis of
personality rather than through a routine
ordered channel.
This inability of the parliamentary wing
to get its viewpoint across to the trade
union movement has undoubtedly been
a weakness in the Labor setup. The parli-
mentarians are elected on a broader
franchise and not on the vote of the
relatively small section of a union’s
membership that votes for union offi-
cials. Due to this, rather than to personal
superiority in intellect or ability, the
parliamentarian generally has to take a
broader view than the union official.
With access to larger information re-
sources he is often in a better position
to assess the wider implications in any
issue and has a shrewder because per-
sonal—assessment of overall reactions
within the electorate.
But under the present setup it is al-
most always the union viewpoint that
prevails. On many occasions Labor does
stupid and electorally disastrous things
simply because the stand Labor has
taken on some issue has been the one
forced upon the party by the weight of
trade union opinion which has been
formed in ignorance of factors evident
to the parliamentary wing and which if
there had been some machinery to get
the parliamentary viewpoint across to the
industrialists could have produced a dif-
ferent decision.
It lies within the potential of the ALP
Federal Secretariat which will start func-
tioning on July l next year to correct
this situation. Oddly, it was the Victorian
ALP which at last week’s Federal ALP
executive seemed to appreciate more
than anyone this gap in liaison between
Labor’s parliamentary and industrial
wings.
rpo everyone’s surprise the Victorian
delegates, usually bitterly anti-NSW,
suggested that the new secretariat should
be headquartered in Sydney, nerve
centre of Australia’s Trade Union Move-
ment as well as, during parliamentary re-
cesses in Canberra, the political capital
for Labor’s parliamentary activities. But
State jealousies proved too strong. The
smaller States argued that this was a
ganging up by the two larger States and
insisted upon adhering to the proposal
that the secretariat should be located in
Canberra.
Whoever gets the job as head of the
new Federal secretariat is not going to
have an easy job. With the limited amount
of money available all that the “new
look” Federal secretary can hope to
achieve for the first couple of years at
least is the creation of a favorable at-
mosphere within the Labor Movement
and the electorate generally.
But in the final analysis the worth of
the secretariat will depend on whether
the man who heads it sets out to serve
the Labor party or to dominate it. If
it is to serve the party the Federal ALP
executive member who last week thought
the party had made history with its de-
cision to establish the secretariat could
well be right. But if the secretariat is
used as a power base from which to
dominate the party and its internal work-
ings, the secretariat will merely be another
power point to be captured- in the in-
cessant struggle for personal power that
is always going on in Labor’s ranks.


UNITY TICKETS
VICTORIAS FIFTH-CHANCE
From MUGGA
“GUS” ALFORD
Not all ...
“Unity Ticket” situation in Vic-
toria grows more complex with each
union election. The emerging pattern is
of a pro-Communist ALP group, sup-
ported by the Victorian ALP Executive,
fighting against another ALP group with
somewhat ephemeral encouragement,
mainly from interstate. This has made
it virtually impossible to pin down the
“unity ticket teams”, or for the ALP
to do anything but look the other way.
This suits the Victorian Executive
down to the ground. At the last State
Conference the Assistant Secretary,
George Poyser, amended a resolution to
the effect that the next Federal Con-
fernce should reconsider its whole “unity
ticket” policy. Last week’s Federal ALP
Executive meeting in Melbourne could
only throw up its hands in horror at
the whole situation. “I am sick of hear-
ing about unity tickets,” Federal Sec-
retary Joe Chamberlain said. He spent
the week dodging Theo. Cochrane of the
ARU, Mick O’Neill of the WWF and
sundry other petitioners. All they had in
common was the belief that behind the
“non-intervention” policy of the Vic-
torian Party lay active support for ALP
members who had consistently voted
with the Communist minority in their
unions in the past.
While the Executive was meeting the
Melbourne branch of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation was holding its
biennial elections. Four tickets were
issued, and eleven ALP members issued
statutory declarations stating that their
names had not been authorised on two
of them. A “rank-and-file ticket” issued
by L. Hillier, included the Communist
officials, Charlie Young and Ted Bull,
along with the “old” unity ticket ALP
men, headed by Curly Rourke. Hastily
Rourke and his nine fellow ALP mem-
bers dissociated themselves. The In-
dustrial Croup ticket, headed by Branch
President Jim Cummings, included Jim
Beggs and Pete Schmidt, botn Labor
Parry members. They had been included,
as Group Secretary Gus Alford put it,
“because we did not run tor all
positions”. Rourke’s nine issued their
own ticket.
The most interesting ticket, and the
one which caused most heart-searching
at the Trades Hall, was issued by Mick
O’Neill. O’Neill was one of Charlie
Fitzgibbon’s strongest supporters when
he beat Communist T. Nelson for the
Secretaryship of the Waterside Workers’
Federation last year. It is believed that
Fitzgibbon supported O’Neill’s ticket in
this election and the clash between
NSW’s and Victoria’s attitudes to unity
tickets can be seen in this situation.
O’Neill’s ticket ran a full slate for all
positions, and was confined to ALP
members only (see Bulletin, June 23).
Not surprisingly Rourke and his com-
rades were very upset at this encroach-
ment on their territory. “If any Federa-
tion member had the right to use the
ALP name it would be the undersigned”,
runs a leaflet attacking the “so-called
ALP group” and authorised by Rourke.
This goes on to claim, obviously on the
basis of details supplied by the Victorian
Executive, that most of the ALP group
members had short records of member-
ship. Dodging around leader O'Neill, who
has been in the Party for many years,
the Rourkeites claim that four candidates
are not members of the ALP (which was
untrue), and that eight had been mem-
bers for less than a year (which was
true). Ignoring the somewhat patchy
records of some of their own candidates
THE SPECULATORS
bulletin
July 15, 1882
VjyE are apparently making money
” fast. We hear on every hand
exuberant felicitations respecting the
astounding prosperity which this
colony enjoys at the present time.
Money is plentiful, business was never
more brisk, profits were never more
easily made or more largely diffused.
Everyone is in good temper, and a
spirit of enterprise gives promise of
remarkable developments in the
immediate future. Every sort of pro-
perty, we might almost say every sort
of chattel, is worth more than it was
two or three years ago, and each
individual who had then “a stake in
the country,” on reckoning up to-day
finds that his property is, on a fair esti-
mate, worth a very great deal more
than it then was. Under such happy
conditions few persons feel any dis-
position to break off their mutual con-
gratulations and to chop logic.
But, to a certain degree of real
enchantment of values, a large pro-
portion of artificial inflation has been
added. We have been bitten with the
tulip mania which once misled the
stolid Dutch. By mutual excitement it
has been agreed to regard houses, land,
and other property as worth more than
their intrinsic value. So long as
nothing happens to disturb this com-
fortable agreement, we shall do well
enough. But depreciation inevitably
succeeds inflation. A trifle disturbs an
artificial arrangement, and “margins,”
which only exist in a general idea, dis-
appear on the instant when touched
by the wand of realism.
nation is fairly at war. Our
ironclad ships, floating batteries
of the most formidable type, have
battered down and blown up at Alex-
andria sundry land batteries which
were not in complete readiness for the
assault. Honest and liberty-loving
Englishmen may wish that our fleet
had more glorious enjoyment. But the
Rubicon has been passed, and lovers of
liberty—and sympathisers with the
aspirations of the Egyptian nationality
struggling to cast off the tyranny of
irresponsible rulers, and to escape from
the oppression of foreign usurers—can
but assume the attitude maintained by
Burke and Fox during the war of
American Independence.
1%/Ir Wilkins, the amiable Secretary
-*-*-*■ of the Education Department, will
no doubt be charmed to hear that there
lives, not far from Wollongong, a
public school teacher, who, in public
documents, writes “It’s is’n” for “it’s
his”; “don’t loss it” for “don’t lose it”;
spells vicinity “vaccinity”, and writes
forbear “forbare”. However, the
department which in its examination
papers gives as arithmetical questions
problems which, according to Pro-
fessor Garney, can only be done alge-
braically, can afford to overlook such
trifles.


(Vin McNamara for instance), the
Rourke team claims the true apostolic
succession of genuine, anti-Santamaria
ALP men.
By a coincidence the “Labor Speaks”
column in the Melbourne “Herald” of
Saturday, June 30, features precisely the
same information as Rourke’s leaflet.
The only unresolved question is whether
Rourke wrote the official Party column,
or whether the Party officials wrote his
leaflet.
The “non-interference” of the Ex-
ecutive was enough to ensure the return
of the old “unity team”, even if one
prominent Executive member had to
hand out cards on the wharf himself,
taking time off from his (non-WWF)
union duties to do so. The Trade Union
Defence Committee made plain its
allegiance with the June issue of
“Scope”, when it attacked the O’Neill
team. To cap the policy of non-inter-
ference, ALP Vice-President, J. B. Breb-
ner, castigated “Johnny Come-Latelys
on the wharf” at the Annual State Con-
ference. All this, added to the refusal
to readmit Les Stuart, suggests a heavy
commitment by the Victorian leaders to
one team of ALP unionists over another.
This process of “active non-inter-
vention” can be seen in its beginnings
in the Postal Workers’ Union elections
of last year. Then, retiring union
officials and ALP members led by Alan
Downard, fought against newcomers and
ALP members led by Victorian Executive
favorites George Slater and Bill O’Grady.
The newcomers won. In pursuit of the
“non-interference policy” they printed
pictures of State Leader Stoneham and
Federal Leader Calwell on their “How-to-
Vote” ticket. The Victorian Executive,
only too worried by O’Neill’s use of the
name ALP, was not so perturbed by the
Slater-O’Grady tactics. In fact they
ignored them.
Having wormed their way out of
Councillor Theo Cochrane’s complaints
on Bill O’Brien’s unity ticket in the
ARU and Frank Troja’s earlier petition
against a blatant Australian Meat In-
dustry Employees’ Union unity ticket
headed by Communist George Seelaf,
the Victorian Executive has been given
its fifth chance by the Federal Executive.
Who indeed could blame the interstate
delegates for staying out of Victorian
union elections? With the emerging
pattern of two “non-unity ticket” ALP
teams fighting each other bitterly, the
Party can do little under its present
rules.
The noticeable trend in the present
situation is that genuine ALP teams,
“unpolluted” by Communist or DLP
associations, are growing in a number
of unions. Their leaders, vilified and
isolated by leading figures in the Vic-
torian Party, are nevertheless getting
together to exchange experiences. They
have growing rank-and-file sympathy
within the ALP, encouragement from
interstate, and the passive approval of
some parliamentarians. Mick O’Neill
and his team have proved a lot to the
less well-organised groups in other
unions. They have proved that ALP
teams take votes away from the DLP,
thus saving the union’s affiliation to the
ALP. They have proved that even a
weak organisation can pull in a large
vote if it is “cleanskin”. And they have
proved that the ruling clique in the Vic-
torian ALP only believes in one-way
non-interference.
SAILING
"SEA FOX” RIDES AGAIN
BY KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
A delaide businessman Mr R. Carr
plans to rebuild what is left of the
famous “Sea Fox” and sail her in next
year’s Sydney to Hobart yacht race. He
has bought her off Darwin diver and
salvage expert Carl Atkinson for an
undisclosed sum, and he expects to
spend about another £lO,OOO putting
the once-luxurious 120-footer back into
shipshape condition.
“Sea Fox” has been idle at Doctor’s
Gully, where Mr Atkinson has his
Darwin marine business, for about three
years now. She hit the headlines nearly
four years ago when magician and show-
man John Calvert sailed her into Darwin
Harbor after a hair-raising voyage from
the Far East. On board with him were
Pilita, a glamorous Filipino singer (now
a TV star in the southern States), Jimmy,
an educated chimpanzee who lives in
comfort these days at Sydney’s Taronga
Park Zoo, and a nervous bunch of sea-
men.
The crew reckoned it had been a
horror voyage. Calvert had been savagely
jealous of Pilita, they said. Staple diet
on board was “small helpings of peanut
paste and beans, cooked together in a
pan”, and Jimmy the Chimp had
periodically got loose and chased several
of them overboard.
Calvert made a big impression in
Darwin a town which regards offbeat
characters with amiable respect. He
capped his reputation by driving through
the city streets at 20 m.p.h. blindfolded,
and later giving an exhibition of mental
telepathy in the Town Hall.
Darwin was just a stopping place on
a voyage which Calvert intended would
take him to new theatre triumphs in the
southern States. But “Sea Fox” sprang a
leak some miles out of port here and
days of drama followed. RAAF planes
and Navy ships searched the Arafura
Sea in vain because Calvert was unable
to work out his correct position (his
grasp of navigation can be gauged by
his own statement that when leaving
Asia he had “pointed the yacht at Aus-
tralia and fetched up in Darwin”). While
his crew sweated and strained at the
pumps Calvert according to contem-
porary report remained on the bridge,
from where he took movie films of the
“Sea Fox Saga”.
Finally the Navy towed her to Elcho
Island, off the Arnhem Land coast,
where “Sea Fox” rammed the beach,
stoving in her side. Pilita went south to
fame and fortune. Calvert went also —•
but failed to make any great mark in the
theatrical world. Sir Edward Hallstrom
came to Darwin in person to collect
Jimmy the Chimp and whisk him away
to that animals’ home-from-home,
Taronga Park Zoo.
“Sea Fox” was abandoned. Then Carl
Atkinson regarded by many as the
finest salvage man on the North Aus-
tralian coast —got her off Elcho beach
and sailed her to Darwin. He received
not a penny for his efforts but later ac-
quired ownership of the yacht.
Meanwhile Calvert had got himself
in a little strife. Finally he quit the
country, leaving behind a Tasmanian
film company which reckoned he had
taken with him a valuable movie film
which belonged to them. En route to
points north he took time off in Darwin
for a quick look at “Sea Fox” and a
(muttered) threat to reporters that he
would “sue that guy Atkinson”. Now
sixtyish. but lean, tough and cockv as
ever, he reappeared briefly in Hong
Kong late last year, announced he had
“had Australia”, then disappeared again.
“Sea Fox” had fallen on hard times.
She’d become so seedy that several
months ago Darwin Harbor authorities
warned Atkinson that unless he could re-
float her she would be cleared off the
foreshore. He got her off the beach,
worked on her. and now she seems ready
for a comeback. Mr Carr plans to have
the big repair job started soon. Some
sections are badly worm-eaten, ribs are
crushed and the frame is cracked and
twisted.
When “Sea Fox” is shipshape again
Mr Carr will ask Atkinson to sail her to
Sydney for the Sydney-Hobart yacht
race.


QUEENSLAND
LIBERALS WHO WANT
TO BE LIBERAL
FROM JOHN HIGGINS IN BRISBANE
A. FLETCHER
Against private enterprise?
nPHE annual convention of the Queens-
land Liberal Party held in Brisbane
recently saw influential delegates
“tossing” a bomb or two into the already
disturbed ranks of the coalition Nicklin-
Morris Government. The most signifi-
cant move for years was the Convention’s
adoption of a land policy based on the
almost heretical (to Queensland) idea of
letting private enterprise have a go for
a change—as suggested in Brisbane last
month by Federal Treasurer Harold
Holt.
Liberal Party delegate Professor John
Francis, of the Queensland University,
triggered off the debate with a blistering
attack on the State’s refusal to grant
security of tenure to big men and big
companies for developmental projects.
He bluntly accused Country Party Lands
Minister Alan Fletcher of being hostile
towards private enterprise. The State’s
system of terminable leases, he said,
definitely militated against development,
and must be replaced by freeholding,
with private enterprise being allowed to
do a job and make profits with a clear
conscience.
Delegates were with him almost to a
man when he said that Queensland had
the most socialistic land policies in the
Commonwealth; that Lands Minister
Fletcher’s concept of “owner drivers”
really meant “leasehold drivers”; that the
State Government was the “biggest ab-
sentee landlord outside the Iron Curtain”,
that “some people are quite out of touch
with public opinion on this matter” and
that “some people in official positions
think it would be almost wicked if com-
panies invested money in land develop-
ment in Queensland, and, after consider-
able risk and effort, made a profit pro-
viding a reasonable margin above six per
cent”.
The “some people” referred to, quite
obviously of course, were the senior
partners in the coalition, the Country
Party, The Liberal Party’s decision on
land seems certain to start a major
conflict within the coalition. Not one
word of comment was forthcoming on
the Convention’s decision from either
Mr Nicklin or Mr Fletcher, but Country
Party executives were reported to be
livid at the rebuke and at the fact that
the Liberals had “intruded” into what
was regarded as a closed Country Party
paddock. (Leasehold, of course!)
Newly-elected Liberal Party president
Alan Hulme, a former Federal Supply
Minister, is also understood to have told
the Convention that the inherited “socia-
list thinking” which had characterised
the coalition’s administrative policies up
to date had to be ended Liberal Party
Parliamentary leader and Deputy
Premier, Ken Morris, was down with
’flu for the Convention, but is understood
to be solidly behind the move for a
revision of the State’s obsolete and
restrictive land policies, and highly criti-
cal of general “socialist” and “anti-pri-
vate enterprise” thinking in the senior
ranks of the Country Party.
Outnumbered normally in the joint
Caucus meetings, the Liberal Party could
get unexpected backing from some
Country Party backbenchers who are
becoming increasingly restive with
Cabinet’s handling of key issues, parti-
cularly its obsession with the need to
protect at any price State-owned mono-
polies at the expense of private enter-
prise.
Certainly the Convention struck a
refreshing note after the Countrv Party’s
Gold Coast fiasco; and with Alan Hulme
at the head of the machine it is on the
cards that Queensland Liberals, this year
may see genuine attempts bein« made to
introduce Liberal Party nolicv and
principles to the State’s administration.
UNIONS
THE LYNCH TICKET
FROM A NEW SOUTH WALES CORRESPONDENT
NEVILLE L YNCH
Unbecoming the Labor Party?
battle for the control of the NSW
A branch of the Amalgamated Postal
Workers’ Union moved one further
stage last Friday night when the ex-
Secretary, Mr Neville Lynch, was sus-
pended from the Australian Labor Party
until he appears before the Party’s Dis-
putes Committee. Mr Lynch is charged
under the general heading of conduct un-
becoming to a member of the Labor
Party because of allegations he made
against 30 members of the ALP. Like
all similar suspensions it conceals a
bitter faction fight which has been going
on in that union since last September.
The current fight also reveals how impo-
tent the Labor Party is since it has sup-
posedly withdrawn from political partici-
pation in trade unions.
After the ALP withdrew recognition
of Industrial Groups the Amalgamated
Postal Workers was one of those unions
in which members of the ALP still con-
ducted their group and organised to run
and support candidates for office. In
NSW things went all right until last year
when Mr Lynch, who had his eye on the
Federal Secretary’s job, grew restive and
decided to speed things up a bit by
forming a separate ALP group. This
meant that there were two groups in the
union who espoused the Labor Party’s
“cause” and could run candidates for
office in the union. Things were appa-
rently patched up just before the union’s
Federal election last October and it was
believed by most members of the union
that there would be only one ALP ticket
run in that election to oppose the usual
unity ticket run by some ALP members
and the Communist party. But they were
mistaken.
It is now history how Mr Lynch
pulled one of the neatest moves in


union politics and ran three tickets —
each of them supporting different can-
didates and each of them suggesting that
Mr Lynch was supporting them.
The first round went to Mr Lynch
when the candidates he was supporting
romped home. Since then the fight has
been conducted in the Courts, on the
State Committee of Management, and
on the Federal Executive of the union.
The Court fights have been long, bitter,
and expensive. Lynch has won some of
them and Mr Neil Mayell, the Acting
Secretary, has won the others.
The ballot for the NSW Secretary’s
position is now being conducted by the
Commonwealth Electoral Officer and
closes at the end of July. There are three
candidates: Lynch, who is being sup-
ported by a dwindling number of ALP
supporters; Mayell, who now has the
support of the NSW Labor Party Exe-
cutive (of which he is a member) and the
Federal Secretary of the union, Mr
Chris McGrane; and a Communist can-
didate, Mr Charlie Miller. There is some
chance that if the vote between Mayell
and Lynch is sufficiently split then Mr
Miller may get up on the outside as
voting is not preferential but first-past-
the-post.
The 7,000 or so members, who will
eventually decide the outcome, are being
bombarded with all sorts of contradictory
literature exhorting them to vote for the
three candidates. One circular signed by
the Acting Secretary, Mr Mayell, says:
“Miller is a Communist. Lynch is a
thief and a liar. These are the facts. My
advice to members therefore is don't be
Lynched, vote Mayell. Keep your Union
free of Lynchism and Communism . .
the other hand Mr Lynch, in one
” of his circulars writes to members:
“. . . since Mr Mayell has been Assistant
Secretary he has had TWICE as many
cars as any other Branch Official. He
has wrecked almost every Union car
which he has driven. In fact I will go
so far as to state that —Mr Mayell has
killed more kangaroos in Union cars —
than BUFFALO BILL killed Buffaloes”.
But when it comes to how-to-vote
tickets, Mr Lynch has once again demon-
strated his ingenuity. On his ticket he
has placed the photographs of Mr
Calwell and prominent members of the
union. Among the officials whose photo-
graphs grace his how-to-vote are: F. J.
Waters, the Federal President and Secre-
tary of the Queensland branch; G. Slater,
Secretary of the Victorian branch; and
three other full-time officials including
the Assistant National Secretary, Mr W.
O'Grady. Accompanying Mr Slater’s
photograph is a 150-word statement of
support for Mr Lynch, which among
other things, says: “His opponents can-
not touch him for ability and are jealous
and frightened of him because of his
brilliance”.
When Mayell rang George Slater in
his Melbourne office last Friday Slater
emphatically denied he had written any
statement of support for Lynch and he
assured Mayell that he had his support.
But perhaps the oddest example of
Lynch’s “supporters” is that of the Fede-
ral President, Mr Waters. Mr Waters at
the moment is overseas attending an
International Labor Organisation meet-
ing. Before he left he left authority with
the Federal Secretary giving his support
to Mayell.
Five of Lynch’s reluctant “supporters”
have already prepared affidavits before
the ALP executive, charging Mr Lynch
again with “conduct unbecoming” an
ALP member. It is now a safe bet to
assume that if and when Mr Lynch
finally appears before the ALP executive
on the charges piling up, he will be ex-
pelled. Until he does, however, he is
suspended.
If Mayell wins the ballot now being
conducted for the position of Secretary
the fight is over. If Lynch wins the
Federal Executive of the union will then
proceed to carry out the resolution it
passed recently to carry out an investiga-
tion of the affairs of the branch during
Mr Lynch’s administration.
UNIVERSITIES
"PINK RACIALISM?"
FROM A CORRESPONDENT
R. WRIGHT
“Slavic touch”
T>rofessor R. (“Panzee”) Wright is well
known according to the Melbourne
student paper “Farrago” for “his vigor-
ous efforts to preserve the purity of our
milk supplies and for his struggle to
save Victorians from the breathalyser”.
He is also President of Melbourne Uni-
versity Staff Association. But at the
moment Australia’s Polish community
are denouncing him as a racialist a
serious matter among a people the Hit-
lerites tried to destroy.
The trouble began last April in a letter
Professor Wright wrote to a Sydney
magazine in which he attacked the Aus-
tralian Association for Cultural Freedom.
The Association was spying on student
and staff groups, he said. It was an alien
imported organisation, he said. And he
objected to “a slavic touch” in its opera-
tions.
After being challenged by Peter
Samuel in “Farrago”, which warned that
“if the University Staff Association
wants to preserve the respect of students
they should be more careful in their
choice of leaders,” Professor Wright
went on to explain what he meant by
the “slavic touch”. In the letters column
of the “Farrago” he stated that “by the
‘slavic touch’ in public affairs” he meant
“the technique of misrepresenting people
by stating that a right action was a wrong
one, also by telling half-truths about
them and sometimes even real falsehoods
and thus influencing the behavior of
target organisations”.
This was too much for the Poles and
Sydney’s “Wiadomosci Polskie” (“Polish
News”) remarked caustically that “it is
amazing how easily some ‘professional
leftwingers’ and ‘defenders of freedom’
make use of racialist terminology.” After
quoting Professor Wright’s definition of
the “slavic touch” in English (accom-
panied by a Polish translation) “Wiadom-
osci Polskie” said: “We now have an
honorable mention from an exalted
Australian academic dignitary and Presi-
dent of the University Staff Association.
He could not find a term more offensive
than ‘slavic’. It follows that all Slavs —
Poles, Russians, Czechs, Slovaks, Ukraini-
ans, White Ruthenians, etc., are ratbags,
scoundrels and people of the worst kind.
We remember the Hitlerites, who at-
tempted to wipe us out as a people, main-
taining that Slavs are an inferior race
which must be destroyed. Now Professor
Wright expresses rather similar opinions.
. . . We join in energetic protests . . .
Australia is a beautiful and tree country
and no one can be allowed to bring in
racialism here, even if its shade is pink .


OUT AND ABOUT
INSIDE TOORAK
Where a two-car family is a two-Rolls Royce family
By BATMAN
Several months ago a Victorian car
vas speeding through New South
Vales. In court it was alleged the
policeman said: "‘You bloody Victorians!
I suppose you drive like this in Toorak
too.” The policeman denied he ever said
it. The driver denied he was even a
Toorak man; he came from St Kilda.
Yet the little incident proved this much;
Toorak has a notable and most envied
reputation.
If a Victorian drives anything between
a Jaguar and a Rolls Royce, if the cut
of his waistcoat looks rather good, if he
can sign a good cheque, then surely he
must come from Toorak. It is one of the
few suburbs that always is remembered
by its postal district number, SE2, pro-
nounced with a certain nuance Esse
Too. And those of us who cannot make
the grade know that SEI or SE3 are
not quite good enough.
For over a century it has been the
best suburb in Melbourne and the best
suburb in Australia. Labor politicians,
journalists and gossip writers always
have loved to make merry of its snob
value. Only last Christmas a gossip
writer noticed in the early hours two
empty champagne bottles on the steps of
the Toorak Post Office. Now in Colling-
wood, Fitzroy or Richmond always it is
de rigueur to find empty port or metho
battles on post office steps, but in Toor-
ak it was different, there the plonkies
went in for champagne ... it figgered.
There are many reasons for Toorak's
remarkable prestige. The first reason is
terribly obvious. The best people always
have lived there. The second reason, it
is only four miles from the city and on
the south side of the Yarra. The third
reason, with its undulating hills, its tree-
lined, well-kept streets and its superb
houses, it’s a damned attractive suburb.
The fourth reason, it's so small, and it’s
impossible for too many people to live
there. It extends only from Williams
Road to Glenferrie Road and from Mal-
vern Road to the river. This in itself is
enough to keep land prices satisfactorily
high.
Two councils own a part of it. From
Williams Road to Kooyong Road belongs
to Prahran and from Kooyong Road to
Glenferrie Road belongs to Malvern.
The fifth reason, the worst people, ex-
cept in a few low-grade streets, do not
live there. One Toorakonian (please do
not call them Toorakites or Toorake-
teers) said that in his youth he could
remember no gangs of larries in the dis-
trict. After school the boys tended to
play Monopoly . . . that figgered too.
Because of the smallness of Toorak it
has been hard on those in neighboring
districts. Many a householder, just over
Malvern Road in Armadale, has helped
himself along, prestigewise. by putting
Toorak, SE2, on his letter-head. On the
other hand I have never known anyone
to be ashamed of the Toorak address,
except in his University days when it
was downright fashionable to belong to
a good Left wing organisation. It was
then that many a daughter of a Toorak
knight would claim truthfully, if not
honestly, that she lived in Prahran. They
were the same young ladies who asked
the chauffeur to drop and collect them
always two or three blocks away from
the University.
Members of the Melbourne Univer-
sity Labor Club could be unbearable
after they had seen you being collected
in a chauffeur-driven Rolls Rovce.
Are there many Rolls Royces in Toor-
ak? Yes, there are, certainly more than
anywhere else in Australia and in sev-
eral cases a two-car Tooruk family is a
two-Rolls Royce family It is fascinating
to see them drawing up in the morning
outside some of the better-known kinder-
gartens. Not so many of them are chauf-
feur driven now. In the thirties it was
common to see the chauffeur-driven
Rolls shopping in Toorak Village. The
lady of the house would do the ordering,
then the grey-uniformed chauffeur, with
two rows of buttons like a guardsman,
would carry out the groceries.
Mr Hamilton Sleigh has a chauffeur-
driven Rolls, but often he prefers to
drive himself and it is one of the sights
of Toorak to see him in action in the
morning. It is not true that the chauffeur
sits in the back reading the newspaper.
The heart of Toorak. of course, is
Toorak Village. In the nineteen-twenties
it really did look like a village. It had a
charm of its own and many of the shops
had little gardens out front. In the thir-
ties as it grew there was a desperate
attempt to retain this charm and to keep
the Village atmosphere. So it went all
Tudor and several blocks of shops were
built in pseudo Tudor style. Toorak, I
think, has the only example of Tudor
architecture with louvre-glass windows.
Then in the fifties and sixties Robin


Boyd’s great ugliness set in. Toorak, as
a shopping centre, was racing neck and
neck with South Yarra. Toorak went for
stone-work, lashings of glass, big banks
with cactus and monstera deliciosa
plants, espressos, rotisseries, concave
shop fronts. Meanwhile South Yarra
started to recapture the quaintness that
Toorak had lost with cast-iron painted
white shop fronts with slim columns
and one awfully elegant shop covered in
gold leaf.
Toorak is a good place for exquisite
chocolates, for pricy antique furniture,
for avocados, and costly tropical fruit
such as paw paws and mangoes in sea-
son. It is a hopeless place for the buying
of a chisel, a monkey wrench, or even
a good painting. There is no art gallery.
For the buying of fine clothes, ah, now
there you have something. For haute
couture there is nothing better in Aus-
tralia and there are at least five fine
houses, including the house of Magg.
Magg, of course, is Zara Holt, the wife
of Harold Holt, the Federal Treasurer.
Her prices are Toorak high and in 1961
she won the celebrated Gown of the
Year Contest.
No Wine, No Petrol
For those who are interested it was
“a magnificently beaded creation of
white lambswool and terylene. Altogeth-
er it was decorated with 5000 pearly
white-white beads and sequins.” The
contest took place during the campaign-
ing for the Federal elections. It was then
that Gough Whitlam came out with the
only great witticism of the campaign.
He said how curious it was that Aus-
tralia’s greatest designer was married to
Australia’s worst planner.
Yet the most remarkable thing about
Toorak Village is that there is no proper
wine-and-spirits store and there is no
petrol station. When you that
this is a country which provides a petrol
pump wherever two or three people are
gathered together in one place, then you
can imagine the possibilities. Don’t
imagine for a moment that the oil com-
panies have not thought of them either.
I know several oil company managers
who lay awake at night worrying over
Toorak Village, worrying whether some
other company might get in first.
In October, 1959, there were a series
of what the Americans would call “good
college tries”. British Petroleum acquired
an old hall at the corner of Grange Road
and Jackson Street, behind the Village.
BP said that they would build a large
block of flats which would include a
service station.
Vacuum Oil made an offer for the
closed down Village picture theatre and
offered to build a block of offices, which
would include a service station. The Vil-
lage Theatre since then has been bought
by the National Theatre and this year it
was destroyed by fire.
Yet the most spectacular and the most
hopeful offer came from Ampol. Ampol
bought a 17-room brick house at the
corner of Wallace Avenue and Toorak
Road. There were shops on the other
side of Toorak Road and shops on the
opposite corner of Wallace Avenue. It
was as near as dammit to being in the
shopping area. Ampol paid £62,750 for
the site, subject to a clearance from the
Prahran City Council.
There was an outcry among the local
residents, Mr F. Callaghan, who owns a
house over the road in Wallace Avenue,
said a service station there would lead
to an immediate deterioration in prop-
erty values. Mrs G. H. Jenkins, owner
of the house next-door, said: “It will
destroy the prestige of the street.”
The Prahran City Council knocked
back the bids by all three oil companies
in one hit. That night the Council gal-
lery was packed and Toorakonians, pres-
tige restored, applauded from their seats
as the vote was made.
So the property went unsold. Can you
imagine the agony of the owners? To
Ampol it was worth £62,750, but with-
out the oil concession it would be re-
markable if it fetched more than
£40,000. So Toorak’s prestige was saved
and over £20,000 in hard cash dis-
appeared overnight.
As for the purchase of one’s week-
end bottles, incredibly there is no prop-
er wine and spirits store. There is the
Toorak Hotel, better known as the Toc-
H, but Toorak ladies do not like to be
seen entering and leaving the bottle
department. Furthermore the choice of
wines is, well, like the choice ol wines in
most hotel bottle departments.
This situation has brought great joy
to Crittenden’s, the licensed grocer in
Malvern Road. Mr Crittenden claims
that he has the greatest choice of liquors,
wines, local and imported, of any grocer
in the world.
It should be possible to tell you that
Toorak means “luxurious upland” or
“noble outlook”, but regrettably this is
not the case. It is an aboriginal word
which means “reedy swamp”. It is U to
pronounce it Trak and terribly, terribly,
non-U to pronounce it TOO-rak. The
area first became really U when Sir
Charles Hotham, RN, KCB, the first
Governor of Victoria moved into Toorak
House, a beautiful large mansion in St
George’s Road. That was in 1854 and it
remained the Governor’s official resi-
dence until 1879.
It was good to live near the Gover-
nor, many a fine squatting family moved
into the district, and in those days most
of the estates went from Toorak Road,
right down to the river. The Armytages
bought Como, a vast estate with 100
acres of land, a sub-divider’s dream.
Toorak is divided into the Rich, the
New-Rich, the Poor and the New-Poor.
None of them is ever anxious to leave
the area. There is an attitude of “Is
there anywhere else one can live?”, so
there is a good deal of circulating in
the area. The young rich or the coming
rich, tend to live in the small villas east
of Canterbury Road. Then as they amass
their first £IOO,OOO. and as they amass
families, they tend to move into the
larger mansions around Albany and
Clendon Roads. The poor live in the
fringe areas and the new poor?
they’re a different class altogether.
Why Not Live in an OYO
They are the children of once great
families or elderly people on fixed in-
comes. Undoubtedly they would be
much better off in a suburb like Moor-
abbin or East Malvern yet they cling to
Toorak, because it is Toorak. So they
live in an OYO (Own Your Own flat)
or in the corner of a great estate that
the family has long since sub-divided.
But the important question is this
has Toorak slipped? Undoubtedly it has
taken some terrible knocks. The latest
terrible knock has been opening of the
South Eastern Freeway. At the moment
it starts in the city and finishes at
Grange Road bridge with the result that
it belches all the Malvern, Glen Waver-
ley, East Malvern traffic through Toor-
ak, and, in particular, along St George’s
Road.
Now St George’s Road is one of the
finest in the land, the heart ol Toorak.
Here live the Grimwades, the Knoxes,
Mrs G. I. Stevenson, Darren Baillieu,
Mrs Clive Baillieu, the Maurice Nath-
ans, Hal Rowden of Felt & Textiles,
Gordon Darling . . . All day long the
cars drum up and down and three For


Sale notices have gone up in the past
week. One lady was heard to say: “My
God, if this keeps up we’ll have pot
holes in St George's Road like Victoria
Parade.”
The other disaster which has hit Toor
ak is flat building. Toorak is thick wit!
OYOs. they seem to have cropped ur
on every corner. Two weeks ago there
was a cry of pain from a very well-
known Toorakonian, Mr Harold Holt.
The Holts also live in St George's Road.
Over a year ago the Prahran City Coun-
cil issued a permit for a 13-storey block
of 65 flats, worth £415,000. to go up on
the property next-door to the Holts. A
bulldozer moved in, then nothing was
done from that day to this. So Mr Holt
asked his lawyers to pay a call on the
Council.
Mr Holt and the Council
Later in Canberra Harold Holt made
a very tactful statement. He mentioned a
by-law brought in by the Council sev-
eral months ago which limited flats in
most areas to two storeys. He said he
wasn't objecting to the building of the
flats, but he and other residents in the
neighborhood wanted to have the un-
certainty affecting the properties in the
area removed. As it happened the flat
buildings had their permit before the by-
came into force, but the Council
seems to be on Mr Holt’s side. It has
sent an order to the flat builders ask-
ing them to show cause why their per-
mit should not be revoked.
But many a Reedy Swamp street has
suffered from big flats. Grange Road has
suffered. Orrong Road has suffered.
Orrong Road has a nine-storey pile call-
ed Orrong Towers. which is so modern
and glassy you would think it was put
up by an oil company. Over the road
there is Troon, three storeys, on the site
of the once great Troon estate. Then
there is Balhomen at the corner of
Struan and Hill Streets, once the home
of Mr M. L. Baillieu. Balhomen is now
a seven-storey block of flats. Earlier this
year Mrs Rose McGauran bought the
penthouse for £42,000. Mrs McGauran,
the wido' of Mr James McGauran, one
time was a dancer in the .1. C. William-
son’s chorus.
For years now the motto in Toorak
has been “If you want to thrive sub-
divide”, so that there are only six great
estates left. Some of them are very ob-
vious like the beautiful home of Dame
Merlyn Myer in Clendon Road, but it
would be an act of great inhumanity to
name all the others. Most of the owmers
are not young and it would let loose a
new wave of zealous estate men with
subdivisions in their eyes.
For example, there is one spinster
lady who has three glorious acres. She
can remember Toorak when it was very
stately indeed, and time has hardly
changed for her. Her house is still lit
by gas. Then there is a gentleman not
far from the river, who has an unbeliev-
able 12 acres, but the real estate men
need not worry there they have no
chance.
Perhaps the most fascinating of the
fig places was sold last year, Homeden
in Lansell Road, the home of the late
Mr G. R. Nicholas of Aspro fame. He
left an estate of £2.120,719/9/11. Mr
A. A. Lord, a financier, bought Home-
den for £91,000. It is on 2 acres, it has
22 rooms, a 6-car garage with a tiled
floor, an indoor heated swimming pool
complete with fernery and a tennis court.
The auction took place in August last
year and for those who wanted to see
how the other half lived it was like a
dream come true. The crowds poured in
as if they w'ere coming to see Graham
Kennedy. Indeed Homeden was some-
thing to see. The ballroom furnishings
alone were said to be worth £3OOO. But
I think the classic remark was made re-
garding the antique 180-piece silver
cutlery canteen: “It wouldn’t be any use
to us, dear, they've ‘N’ on everything.
You'd have to get that wiped off.”
1962 Solid Living
Toorak has slipped back in terms of
the expansive Edwardian era, but let us
talk of 1962 living. In this respect it is
still the same immensely solid Toorak
and it will remain so. It has to there
are too many millions invested there.
Take comparable suburbs in London or
New York and some real estate men will
tell you that land values are as high in
Toorak as they are anywhere else in the
world. At the moment you can buy
blocks for £1 a square foot, there are
some at £2 a square foot and they have
been known to reach £2/10/- a square
foot.
Just a few months ago two maison-
ettes were sold for £30,000 just so that
they could be pulled dowm for a small
villa. Again a block w'ent at Lansell and
St George’s roads for £34,000. Or take
Kenley Court. The blocks of land there
were very expensive. New houses have
been built on them, none worth less than
£20,000 and some worth more than
£40,000. It must be remembered that
this is unlike Sydney, there are no har-
bor views. The only equivalent, perhaps,
are those houses which front on to the
river. Here you would have no chance of
buying a house for less than £25,000 and
one recent price was £52,000.
There are prices just as high in other
parts of Melbourne, but only in isolated
pockets. There are such pockets in
Brighton near the waterfront, or that
lovely stretch of Mont Albert Road,
Canterbury heading West from Burke
Road. There are some spots in Balwyn
and around Studley Park, Kew. Kew is
making a noble bid to become another
Toorak. It is a hot bed of professors,
architects and professional men.
Kew An Eternity Behind Toorak
Yet Kew is an eternity behind Toorak.
Oddly enough there is only one place
like it, which is a small homogeneous
high-priced area, and that is. Portsea at
the end of the peninsular. 60 miles from
Melbourne. As I said when you make
your first £IOO,OOO you move up to
Albany or St George’s Road. When you
make your second £IOO.OOO you buy a
place at Portsea.
Social life? Oddly enough it is incred-
ibly dull compared with the social life in
Sydney. We have no real lions or lion-
esses. There is no cafe society life here
and we certainly do not have a Mrs
Marcel Dekyvere. There are clubs in the
city, but few in Toorak. You can be
very happy at the Royal South Yarra
Tennis Club without ever having to play
any tennis. It is, of course, known as
the ‘'Royal". Then there is the ‘ Heroes - ’.
This is the Toorak RSL which is in a
fine, old house in Clendon Road. The
story goes that one evening a member
returned at a late hour and his wife
said. “Where have you been with the
bloody heroes?”
The name stuck. The gentlemen of the
Toorak RSL have been the “Heroes”
ever since. They are so proud of this
that they have their own silk ties, made
in England. The insignia is an “H” sur-
rounded by a laurel wreath. Yet the
Toorak RSL is not quite like other
RSL’s and lately they have been called
the Exclusive Brethren.
The churches are fine and well-
endow'ed, particularly the St John's
Church of England and the Toorak
Presbyterian Church. St. John's is made
of blue stone with a superb, high,
needle-like spire. It is THE place to be
married in Melbourne, even better than
the Cathedral. It is intriguing to go
through the papers on Monday morning
and look for the young ladies who have
come all the way from Moorabbin and
Mentone just to get married at St John's
Toorak.
The schools are all good and well up
to the tone of the area. Daughters can
go to St Catherine’s, Lauriston or
Mandeville Hall. Sons can go to Glam-
organ one of the world’s most ex-
pensive boarding schools —or a little
further to Melbourne Grammar or
Xavier.
But as I said earlier it is a worthwhile
study to observe the cars that one sees
parked outside the Toorak schools, and
I always treasure a remark that once
was passed outside St Catherine’s in
Heyington Place, Toorak. One little
St Catherine’s girl said to another little
St Catherine’s girl, “I bet you the next
Jaguar that comes along is ours.”


MM.
Sliiliii
SS»B
m
mm h
% , 4
f VT
12
& §gg3®
v !
\\!
¥
mp
WITH
AUTOMATIC
INTERNAL
PHONE
SERVICE
Get action when you want it. An STC
PAX system is independent of your out-
side lines—designed to speed and simplify
contact between key people. Any number
of lines can be provided. There are special
features such as secretarial systems,
priority lines for executive use, loudspeak-
ing telephones, key-calling master stations,
centralised dictation, tele-credit, etc.
Call on STC their technical
representatives are at your service.
STC PAX
INTERNAL PHONE SYSTEMS
Standard Telephones and Cables Ptij. Ltd
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE CANBERRA
MX 0444 MY 1406 4-1771 91043
S.A.: Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 54 North Terrace West, Adelaide,
51-3731
W.A.: M. J. Bateman Pty. Ltd., 12 Milligan Street, Perth, 21-2951
TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty. Ltd., Launceston, Hobart, Burnie,
Devonport.
N 193 B


Newsletter from Newport, R.I.
PREPARING FOR THE CUP
Intense activity in a 323 years old American town
From GEORGE McGANN
Australians are beginning to arrive
in this ancient Rhode Island port
and a tingle of excitement is running
through the town, from the walled
mansions up on Bellevue Avenue to the
shipyards, marinas and bars along
Thames Street.
The vanguard of the invading crew
of Gretel, co-skippers Jock Sturrock of
Melbourne and Archie Robertson, caused
a noticeable stir when they walked on to
the dock at the Newport shipyard in
their official white jumpers, with the
magic name Gretel and the blue Aus-
tralian flag worn over their hearts.
The sight and sounds of these Aus-
tralians, who were accompanied by
Sydneyside sailmaker Joe Pearce,
brought home to the Yankee sailors the
actual fact of the Australian challenge.
Up until the moment the Australians
materialised in Newport no one quite
believed that a challenge boat and a score
or more of sailors were coming half
across the world to have a go at the
battered old America’s Cup.
But now they are here, for a look at
the trial races among Columbia,
Weatherly, Easterner and the new 12
metre Boston-built Nefertiti. One of
these sleek racing machines will emerge
from the summer’s racing as the defen-
der of the Cup against the daring Aus-
tralian challenge. Australia’s hope,
Gretel, is still at sea on the long journey
from Sydney and will not reach Newport
until next week,
Then a welter of races will make the
town the yachting capital of the world,
Not only will the Americans be seeking
the fastest boat to pit against Australia,
The Australians will be racing Gretel
hard against her trial horse, Vim, the
American yacht which very nearly beat
Columbia in the American trials four
years ago, when the British challenger
Sceptre was overwhelmed in four straight
Cup contests.
The Cup races off Newport will begin
this year on September 15 and they may
still develop into the best in the Ill-
year history of what has proved a dis-
mally one-sided contest,
The Yanks have never been beaten in
19 challenges, all from England, with
one Canadian and one Scottish exception,
Everyone here admits it’s time for a
change. But I doubt that they really
mean it. Certainly the crew that defends
will not want to be the crew that loses
the Cup. Gretel and her 11 sailors will
have a devil of a fight on their hands.
But the very look of Sturrock and
Robertson seems to inspire respect among
the locals. One yachting type noted
Sturrock’s muscular build and said “The
Aussies may lose the Cup but I think
they’ll win the fight afterwards”.
The history of the America’s Cup
competition is studded with controversy,
bad-tempered official bickering, and in-
ternational recrimination. British and
American yachtsmen have spent upwards
of $50,000,000 over the past century
in challenging and defending the Cup.
It often brought America and England
closer to war than at any time since the
British Fleet burned the White House
in 1812. There is not much reason to
think that an Australian-American cup
series won’t have its heated moments,
particularly if Gretel has the speed to
stay with the defender and make it a
battle of men as well as machines.
The scene of the America’s Cup com-
petition is one of the most fascinating
towns of the new world. Newport is 323
years old, a statistic which will impress
Australians. It has a rich and colorful
past, the evidences of which are still
very much to be seen in the form of
exquisite examples of Georgian archi-
tecture from its colonial days, as well
as egregiously ornate castles erected by
the robber barons of the late 19th
century.
Newport has always lived very much
by the sea and it was the cradle of the
United States Navy, which today main-
tains its War College and trains many
of its reserve officers there. Naval officers
and their ladies are a traditional part of
the lively summer social scene. Naval
ratings in summer whites fill the busy
bars dotting Thames (pronounced
Taymes) Street on the waterfront.
The advantages of Newport as a base
for warships were appreciated by the
British during the revolution. They cap-
tured it in December of 1776, blockaded
the harbor and quartered troops upon
the inhabitants for three years. They
ended the occupation when things got
desperate in 1779 and the French sent
a Fleet in to hold the port for the
Americans until the war ended in 1781.
The period of French occupation set a
high mark in lavish social activity, with
scented French nobles paying court to
wealthy New England maidens at Galas
and Balls, not to be equalled until the
great days of Newport society during the
nineties of the last century.
The “old town” of Newport, above
Thames Street on Narragansett Bay, con-
tains many gems of colonial architecture
in a fine state of preservation. I visited


Your TaX
REFUND
a &
v-e
&<£*• V ‘
*****
: >v.
w
X
Make it grow into REAL
—put it in the
I
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES
Hd tenant cA&att
Open an account at your nearest branch of
THE COMMERCIAL BANICING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES
Trinity Church, designed by Sir
Christopher Wren in 1726, and sat in
pew 81, occupied by George Washington
during his visits to Newport. This
building has been called the most beauti-
ful timber structure in America. Its
churchyard and gravestones are a
magnet for antiquarians.
Newport, from its earliest days, was a
haven for refugees from the religious
tyrannies of Massachusetts and over-
fundamentalist colonies. Many of its
early settlers fled from the witch-hunters
of Salem. The town boasts the oldest
synagogue in America, Touro Synagogue
and cemetery, established by Portuguese
Jews in 16?7.
A curious stone tower which has been
a source of controversy as well as an
inspiration to poets and painters stands
in the centre of Newport. Some antiqua-
rians believe it was built by a party of
Norsemen 900 years before Christopher
Columbus. Hov/ever other experts insist
the stones are the remains of a windmill
which around corn for the early colonists
in the 17th century.
Air Conditioning and Ice Cubes
Newport from its beginnings was a
much-favored summer resort for wealthy
folk, particularly from the Carolinas and
other Southern areas, who suffered
greatly during those days before air con-
ditioning and ice cubes.
But it came into its greatest era, as
America’s social capital, after the Civil
War, when the Vanderbilts, the Astors
and the Rockefellers were amassing
tremendous fortunes as the country
opened up westward to the Pacific and
its industries expanded a hundredfold.
The newly rich discovered the ocean
side of Newport and made it their own.
They bought all the land for miles
along the Atlantic shore, moving
hundreds of existing homes back into
the town to make room for the incred-
ible mansions they erected without
regard to cost and often without
regard to taste.
Here Cornelius Vanderbilt put up
The Breakers, his “summer cottage”, the
euphemism applied by the very rich to
their Newport homes, regardless of
their size and ornamentation.
The Breakers occupies a park-like
setting on the choicest part of the
ocean front, off Bellevue Avenue. It is
an Italian renaissance castle, containing
70 rooms on four floors. The main
ballroom, under its fabled collection of
chandeliers, often held more than a
thousand guests.
Further on along the drive are Bel-
court Castle, only slightly smaller than
The Breakers, which was built by O. H.
P. Belmont in the same era and filled with
rare stained glass windows from Europe
and a collection of antique furnishings,
paintings and armor which are the envy
of many a public museum.
The Breakers and Belcourt Castle
became too much even for the Vander-
bilts and Belmonts to keep up, in the
modern day of high taxes and high-
salaried servants. They have been
evacuated and established as tourist
attractions. Australia’s Ambassador to
Washington, Sir Howard Beale, will play
host in The Breakers to President and
Mrs Kennedy and others at an America’s
Cup dinner on the eve of the Cup races,
But many of the lesser mansions re-
main in use and in the summer season
Newport is the unquestioned Mecca of
high society. There is a jazz festival
which attracts a rowdy, beer-drinking
throng from other parts, but it is stead-
fastly ignored by Bellevue Avenue.
I took Sturrock, Robertson and Pearce
on a sightseeing tour by car along Ocean
Avenue one morning before race time.
They were properly impressed by each
fenced-in multi-storied mansion. As we
passed Belcourt Castle, Pearce observed:
“I reckon it’s easy to separate from your
wife in this place—all you have to do
is go upstairs.”


Kstab'ish»d 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
&hipping , Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Sr±
■JACKSON
-O'SUI.UVAA ff
t PTYL7U
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. I.td.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Pafet Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ■; PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
CHURCHILL IN RETIREMENT
He did what he damned well pleased
From PATRICK O'DONOVAN in London
HThe old age of the great and once
powerful can be a pathetic spectacle.
Lloyd George frittered away his last
long years in bitterness, in ignoble
controversy and in foolish attempts to
reassert himself. Ramsay MacDonald
grew senile and sad. The list could be
a long and melancholy one. There is
no need to add the name of Winston
Churchill to it.
His life, of course, has been full
beyond any ordinary human measure. It
has been crowded with the sort of
honour and international acclaim that
few living men in history have ever
received. And now that it is coming to
its inevitable end, he still seems to be
enjoying the last drops at the bottom of
the glass that other men have found so
bitter.
He is a very old man now. He moves
slowly and carefully. His face is pale
and swollen. He weeps easily. His
cigars today are seldom lit. He leaves
drinks barely sipped. He dozes off at the
table or in his library chair. And yet the
spark is still there.
A mildly distinguished don was inter-
viewing him recently in preparation for
a work of history. After some time he
decided that Churchill slept when he was
bored and pretended to sleep when he
was being cautious. And sometimes
when he was apparently asleep he was
watching the don and laughing at him.
And when once the don asked if he
could quote something the old man
said, there came the reply, “Boy, there
is nothing that you can write that will
make any difference to my place in
history”.
The volcano, he decided, was not
extinct.
Sir Winston Churchill resigned as
Prime Minister on April 5, 1955. He
virtually chose his successor, Sir Anthony
Eden, and played a major role in
choosing his successor, Mr Harold Mac-
millan. But he has carefully under-
played the role of elder statesman He
took no dukedom; he continued to sit
for his Woodford constituency Firmly
and happily he retired and enjoyed him-
self with the sort of gusto that has
almost gone out of the world. His last
real speech in Parliament was made just
before his retirement, when he proposed
the erection of a statue to Lloyd George.
He has visited Parliament only
occasionally. In January this year he
voted four times, leaning heavy on his
stick as he went slowly into the govern-
ment lobby. A month before he had
made his annual birthday visit to the
Commons.
To most members of Parliament,
Churchill’s massive figure is still the
embodiment of the years of greatness.
Even those who criticise him, maintain
a curious affection for him. His birth-
days regularly interrupt the business of
the House in a most unparliamentary
manner. When he walked slowly in at
three o’clock on that November after-
noon, the members cheered and clapped
and waved their order papers and—sin
upon sin—the public galleries joined in
and no one moved to still them.
Without asking the Speaker’s leave,
Sir David Eccles moved to the dispatch
box to wish him well. The Labour leader
of the Opposition, Mr Hugh Gaitskell,
who can play the courtier when it is
required, joined in. “May I ask the
right honourable gentleman the member
for Woodford,’* he said, “it he appreci-
ates the pride and pleasure we all feel
on his 87th birthday and on his presence
amongst us on this historic occasion?”
There was a pause while the question
was considered. Then Sir Winston rose
and the House cheered again and he
said in a low voice, “I am very grateful
to you all” And that was
his last word in Parliament which
was his special love, his profession and
his chosen stamping ground.
Compared with the packed years that
went before, the years of retirement have
been quiet and uneventful. They put up
a statue to him in Woodford Graham
Sutherland painted his portrait and
Parliament gave it to him in Westminster
Hall and he made it plain that he dis-
liked the picture very much.
They named a new college after him
in Cambridge. They exhibited his own
paintings in Burlington House and one
of them, called Bottlescape, became a
national private joke. He walked in the
traditional robe and preposterous hat
of the Order of the Garter with his
sovereign to church in Windsor Castle.
A painting of his was auctioned for
£.7400 at Sotheby’s.
He has a fine house in London at
Hyde Park Gate and a country house
in Kent. His books have made him a
wealthy man and he draws a pension of
£2OOO a year as an ex-Prime Minister.
He went back almost every year to the


SAVE TAX AND RETIRE
WITH"
£lO,OOO OR MORE...
You can now plan for a happy, secure retirement ... the A.F.T.
National Retirement Fund is designed to bring you rich rewards
in later years and can also take care of your dependants if you
should not live to retirement age.
A.F.T. National Retirement Fund is open to all, male or female,
self-employed or otherwise, irrespective of income or age. There
is no maximum limit and the sum payable on retirement is tax-free,
whether it be £lO,OOO, £26,000 or £90,000. Benefits vary accord-
ing to a member’s age and contribution payments. For example,
for an annual payment of £l5O, a member of 40 can expect a
tax-free lump sum of £8,725 on retirement; a member aged 30,
at least £17,725; while a member aged 50 would receive £3,770.
The contributions, of course, can be larger or smaller according
to income and requirements. Contributions up to £4OO are allow-
able deductions for income tax purposes in terms of Section 82H
of the Income Tax Assessment Act.
Full details of this comprehensive plan are contained in the free
and post-free booklet illustrated. Write for it today . . . you owe
it to yourself, to your future!
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS LIMITED
Registered Office:
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney. Phone 28-2741
ill
POST COUPON FOR FREE BOOKLET
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS LIMITED
Registered Office: 14/7/’62
16 O'Connell St., Sydney. 28-2741
Please send me, without obligation, your free booklet,
“A.F.T. National Retirement Fund.”
NAME
ADDRESS
5256/83
school where he had been an idle and
spectacularly unsuccessful pupil, to
Harrow where he wept happily and
publicly during the singing of the
traditional school songs. His horses
enjoyed a reasonable success on the
racetrack. He kept his privacy and he
went his own peculiar way.
Churchill is an aristocrat. The term
may be unfashionable today, even offen-
sive to some. It is a large part of the
truth about this man. He was born in
the colossal house that a grateful Queen
Anne decreed for his unpleasant
ancestor, the great Duke of Marl-
borough.
Blenheim Palace, set in a vast and
carefully designed park, in front of an
artificial lake spanned by a great bridge
that leads nowhere, is as grand as
grandeur can be. It is crammed with
the symbols of power and the trophies
of military triumph. It is so perfectly
contrived that in one great suite of
rooms, if you peer through the keyhole,
you can see the light through another
keyhole six closed doors away. He was
a Churchill to whom all doors, all
palaces, all pleasures, all privileges were
opened by the fact of his birth.
Even today in Britain for such people
there are no real rules. The twin
pursuits of power and pleasure is the
proper avocation of such an aristocrat.
Churchill perfectly fulfilled this role. It
is a curious fact that this small and
■defined group, the aristocracy of
England, as opposed to the Upper Class,
the Gentry and the Squirearchy, come
about almost a full circle to join
instinctively with the Working Class. At
their best, their gusto, their delight in
life, in horses, dogs, drinking, male
prowess and the pleasures of the body
come very close together. For both
classes pretence is no longer necessary.
They are the most liberated of the
classes. Between Churchill then and the
least privileged of the British there was
and is an instinctive understanding
even when they chose not to vote for
him.
His class origins asserted themselves
in his retirement. His friends have not
been fellow members of the British
Establishment, but men like the
Canadian - born newspaper proprietor
Lord Beaverbrook, the American Jewish
banker Bernard Baruch and the Greek
shipping magnate, Aristotle Onassis.
A couple of times a year he has gone
off for the sun to the Mediterranean or
the Caribbean. He has entertained
Presidents, Premiers and Kings on his
host’s yacht. He has had travelling
companions like Maria Callas, the
opera singer with the public private life.
All this was of a piece with his repu-
tation as a deep and discriminating
drinker which any other politician would
have been at pains to play down or
conceal.
In slightly unfashionable places like
Monte Carlo and Nice, he has frankly
relished the solid, even slightly vulgar
luxury of it all. He has sat for hours in
the sun on penthouse balconies, his
work done, his life rounded off, all
passion spent. He said nothing to the
Press. Only to his sovereign, The Queen,
he showed a traditional gentleness and
elaborate courtesy. He did, in fact, what
he damned well pleased.
In November, 1960, he fell in his
London house and broke a bone in his
back. Now he has fallen again. Old
men are brittle and he broke his thigh
in Monte Carlo. Every facility that exists
in Britain is now his for the asking.
People delight in his unconventional way
of savouring a life to the very end. He
has made his own rules and he has kept
them marvellously.


SPORTING NOTIONS
THE MARGARET SMITH FUSS
The Story of Beauty and the Beast as told
by the afternoon papers
By DISCUS
VlTell, Wimbledon is over for 1962,
and let’s hope we never see another
like that, as reflected in the afternoon
newspapers of June 27. In Australia,
Margaret Smith’s defeat rated more than
400 column inches of front page space,
with the headlines “Aced By Her Fans!”
(Sydney), “Tyrants Made It Tough For
Margaret” (Brisbane), “Nerves Beat Me
Says Marg.” (Melbourne), and a page
headed “And No One Could Be
Lonelier” in Perth.
But the Croix de Goo went to the
“Sun” in Sydney, with a full-page layout
that began:
The broken champion departs
SHAMEFUL!
The world blames us for Margaret’s
defeat.
In all, the stories and pictures that
went with this pot-pourri of bilge oc-
cupied the entire front pages of both
Sydney afternoon newspapers, and from
one-third to three-quarters of the front
pages of all the other afternoon news-
papers —with more on the sports pages.
You’d think war had been declared, or
Australia had joined the Common
Market.
But it was not war, really. It was the
final act of a grand old performance of
Beauty and the Beast which the after-
noon newspapers had been staging since
last February, when Beauty refused to
tour with the Australian women’s team
under Nell Hopman, and the LTAA
Beast had to allow her a private tour
but forbade her to associate or practise
with the official team.
That sounds Beastly, all right, if you
care to overlook certain other facts for
the sake of a story. Let's consider some
of these, beginning last year when an
18-year-old girl from Albury had a dash
of centre court nerves at Wimbledon and
came nowhere in the women’s champion-
ship. That was a pity because no genuine
new talent had appeared since Althea
Gibson gave the game back to the frilly
darlings of women’s tennis, and any
young woman with calico panties, no
nerves, and a power game could have
spilled the field. But our Miss Smith
failed and Angela Mortimer won.
Later it was suggested that tension
between herself and the team manager,
Nell Hopman, had been at least part of
the trouble. Margaret is supposed to
have indicated that she would tour with
the Australian women’s team in 1962
only if it had another manager. Mrs
Hopman was appointed.
Miss Smith then re-applied for permis-
sion to make a private tour, although
there was quite some doubt that a
women’s team would be sent abroad
without the Australian champion as its
drawcard. The LTAA decided to send
the team, but cut Miss Smith off without
a penny.
So this year a 19-year-old girl from
Albury set out for Wimbledon via the
European hardcourt tournaments, and
won all the big ones until she hit Man-
chester for the North of England
championships on grass, and then lost
for the first time in nine months—down
2-6, 7-5, 2-6 to Carole Caldwell, an
“unknown American junior”, in the
quarter-finals.
That was described as a shock defeat,
but in Paris against Lesley Turner she
had already had one close call, winning
6-3, 3-6, 7-5 after Miss Turner had held
a match point at 5-3 in the last set.
Turner double faulted and was so upset
that she lost the next four games. Well,
that’s women’s tennis.
In the West of England tournament,
Margaret Smith also beat Maria Bueno
6-1, 3-6, and 6-2 when the Brazilian’s
game went to pieces. None of this sug-
gested that Margaret Smith was an in-
vincible player, or that she was a moral
at Wimbledon. None ot it could have
prepared Australians for the explosions
in our afternoon newspapers when she
was beaten by another “unknown Ameri-
can’ in the first round at Wimbledon.
The stories were variations on an
Australian folk-tale. They were about a
poor, lone 19-year-old girl, defying the
bureaucrats of tennis and suffering as
much abuse, pin-pricking, ostracism and
general contumely as the “old men of
Kooyong” could heap on her in revenge,
and finally breaking under the strain.
If this was halfway true the story was a
good one and the fury valid. But even
at a glance it was as full of holes as the
country around Moonie, Queensland.
Margaret Smith is not a poor, lone
girl. She is employed and sponsored by
a Melbourne business man and tennis
enthusiast. Last year she had about four
months abroad at some expense to the
LTAA, on tour in Europe, England and
America. During that tour she appar-
ently found fault with Mrs Hopman’s
way of managing a team, although it
was not the first team Nell Hopman had
taken overseas and Miss Smith was the
first to declare her management insuf-
ferable.
It might also be noted in passing that
Mrs Hopman has since received an OBE
for services to women’s tennis, and that
one of her further aims is to gain wider
participation in Wightman Cup matches,
traditionally contested by Britain and
the USA. This could be of greater
benefit to women’s tennis generally than
any individual player’s success at Wim-
bledon.
So when a junior, champion or other-
wise, tried to dictate terms, the LTAA
dared to stand by Mrs Hopman and
reappoint her. That’s one story. An-
other is that Miss Smith was determined
to make a private tour to escape Mrs
Hopman, but was lulled by a promise
that there would be another manager,
and then double-crossed. But whatever
the truth, the LTAA could not be ex-
pected to regard her kindly. She had
endangered the other girls’ chances of a
tour so much that Queensland’s “Big
Bill” Edwards saw fit to appeal to her
to reconsider for their sakes, though he
was on her side and his wife is her
chaperon abroad. And if Australia’s
chances of entering Wightman Cup play


depended on a strong, unified team, she
had affected those too. The LTAA ex-
pressed its displeasure in the only way
open to it.
According to its critics, it should not
have done so. It should have dismissed
its women’s team manager because the
top player could not get along with her.
Or it should have let a disaffected, un-
controlled player mix and practise with
the team, free to clash with the manager
when displeased. The LTAA’s other sins
include questioning whether the men’s
team manager, Alf Chave, had assisted
and in particular advised Miss Smith
during the Rome finals, and questioning
the expenses she received during an-
other tournament. This, as far as anyone
has revealed, has been the full extent of
the “tyranny” and “persecution” of Miss
Kelly—sorry, Smith.
The more accurate fact is that ever
since the trouble between Mrs Hop-
man and Miss Smith became public,
certain pundits of the afternoons, parti-
cularly in Sydney, had been staging their
Big Show, a fine old extravaganza of
innuendo, half-truth,, slurs, and an oc-
casional accurate prediction. Early in
June, Sydney’s “Sun” had a story from
John Miles that began, “Margaret Smith
will win Wimbledon this year or bust.
If she doesn’t —her young heart could
overflow in a tearful flood of pity and
resentment”.
A less accurate prediction was made
by the Sydney “Mirror’s” Frank Browne,
who declared, “The LTAA is on the
verge of disintegration. NSW has shown
its disgust with what has happened by a
move to have the ban on Miss Smith
removed”. There was a motion to that
effect within the NSW Association, but
a subsequent meeting threw it out by 31
votes to 6, quashing Browne’s suggestion
that the whole affaire Smith is a Vic-
torian plot.
That voting by NSW was immediately
described by the sports editor of the
“Sun” as, “The latest chapter in a
sordid history of double-crossing and
duck-shoving.” He declared, “It was not
until the big double-cross came and Mrs
Hopman was made manageress that
Margaret refused to go. And with every
justification. Human relations are com-
plex. Two excellent people may not rub
along together. Margaret’s brilliant
tennis could well have deteriorated had
she gone under the command of Mrs
Hopman. But the LTAA is now acting
as though it were the wronged party.
One would think from this that the
manageress was more important than the
team —more important than a girl who
may be the best woman tennis player
in the world.”
Browne had much the same thought
with his “campaign of vindictiveness
against the girl who represents the only
chance we have of adding the Wimbledon
singles to our list of trophies”. The “win
at any cost” school in full cry.
One of the few balanced views at that
time was Ted Collingwood’s, in the
morning “West Australian”. “She owes
her rise as a champion to amateur tennis,
which gave her the experience and op-
portunity to go to the top. When she
became champion she sought to make
her own rules. On the other hand the
LTAA ban went off like a damp squib.
In no way did this ludicrous ruling inter-
fere with her ambitions and the likely
success of her private tour. The Associa-
tion . . . will have to revise its rules if
it is to have more control of tennis
players.”
There were many more reports between
Miss Smith’s resignation from the team
in February and her Wimbledon defeat
at the end of June. Evocative phrasing
—such as mounting strain, Cinderella,
Angry Young Ma’am, coterie of old
men, a kind of outcast, agony, anguish,
injustice, victimisation—were used until
there was no room for public doubt that
the Beast was giving Beauty a very
rough time.
But the really choice phrases were
poured red-hot on to the afternoon front
pages when Margaret had another dash
of centre court nerves —or for all I
know was defeated by the calendar. The
true phenomenon was the almost unani-
mous treatment of the incident as one
of the great news stories of the year,
with harps and violins.
Alan Trengove, at Wimbledon for the
Melbourne “Herald-Sun”, was quoted in
the Perth “Daily News” as saying that
when she lost her set point against Billie
Jean, “in a split second the tension built
up by a year’s preparation, her feud
with Nell Hopman and the LTAA, and
the knowledge that she carried the hopes
of a continent on her young shoulders,
burst deep inside Margaret Smith. The
roof fell in on her. She lost that game
and the next three as panic gripped
her.” The Dragnet theme, please maestro.
Oddly, Trengove’s story in his own
paper, the Melbourne “Herald”, was a
very straight account with no sign of
that particular prose gem. He reported
that Margaret Smith blamed centre court
jitters for her defeat, said her ground
strokes had let her down, doubted that
the wild Australian desire for her to
win had troubled her at all, and said
she did not feel that her differences with
the Beast had stopped her doing her best.
Trengove nominated a strong wind,
Miss Moffitt’s determined game, and
Miss Smith’s visible attack of nerves
when leading 5-2 in the decisive set as
the main reasons for her loss.
But the Brisbane “Telegraph” carried
yet another version of Trengove’s story,
with an italicised paragraph, “No, the
only people being condemned on this
unhappy day for Australian sport are
the ‘tyrants’ of the LTAA, who make
Margaret’s Wimbledon challenge as
tough as it could be”. I’m not sure what
“challenge” he meant.
In the Brisbane “Telegraph” sports
pages he had another story which began,
“Panic gripped Australian controversial
tennis star Margaret Smith in the crucial
stages of her first round Wimbledon
match which she lost in three sets”. And
if Trengove, whose sports writing I have
long admired, wrote that horrible in-
troduction may I be run down by a
speeding teleprinter. It was followed by
the prose gem quoted in Perth. I guess
the man sent one story for his own
paper, and then a color story for sub-
editors to mangle at will.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” did try for
sanity in its editorial column, suggesting
that, “The message for all concerned
may be that teamwork is best, even if
sometimes it irks”.
This, of course, was all very mild
compared with the furore in Sydney,
where the “Sun” front page was scored
for the organ with all stops out. The
“Sun” carefully shuffled Miss Smith’s
own views on her defeat to the back
page, and filled the front one with short
comments and more evocative cross-
headings, including sympathy, disgusting,
frozen out, meanness, etc. The newspaper
also evoked an image of Margaret, “eyes
red from crying,” telling the reporters,
“I feel so lonely—no one has been to
see me or sent me any messages—only
one Australian player has said she is
sorry”.
On the back page, however, “All the
controversy about me had nothing to do
with it. I was just beaten by a better
player.”
The Sydney “Mirror” claimed, front
page, that Australia had defeated her,
“by expecting nothing less than total
victory from her at Wimbledon”. Few
Australians, apart from the paper’s Frank
Browne, would be aware that they had
done this to the poor girl.
To prove that Sydney could produce
a more reasonable view than this, the
“Telegraph” commented next day, “All
fair-minded Australians will be sorry
that she lost —and they won’t look for
alibis by blaming the LTAA for it”.


OVERSEAS
RHINE ARMY SCANDAL
If war began tomorrow, Britain's Army of the Rhine
couldn't do its job
From RAWLE KNOX in Bonn
All is not well with Britain's Rhine
Army, and keeping unmarried
soldiers in barracks after mid-
n..yu is not the cure. The malaise goes
deep, deeper than the eyes of most visit-
ing MPs can penetrate. At base is the
knowledge, among the best of the senior
officers and NCOs, that if war began to-
morrow BAOR could not do its job. The
slowness with which modern equipment
is reaching Rhine Army is a scandal
a scandal infinitely greater than any
drunken soldier can cause in a German
pub.
If a British battalion is posted to the
Far or Middle East it knows it is highly
unlikely to engage in anything worse
than conventional war. Since that is
what it is equipped for, a battalion can
go ahead and train with confidence.
BAOR faces the prospect of a war
fought with tactical nuclear weapons.
It simply has not the proper tools for
the job. If a professional, through no
fault of his own, doubts his own effec-
tiveness, he cannot have the confidence
that alone breeds high morale.
The recent troubles that have received
so much publicity have not been con-
fined to any especially bad battalion.
The Cameronians have hardly got the
Scots a good name in Minden, but the
Argyll and Sutherland Flighlanders and
the Royal Scots Greys who have only
recently left Germany, had a perfectly
normal period of duty.
The Royal Ulster Rifles, who in some
of their foreign posts have a slightly
checkered record, are a first-class bat-
talion in Germany. It is worth noting
that for eight months they have been
the only battalion to receive the new
FV432 infantry carrier, with which
at some date in the distant future all
battalions are to be supplied.
Rhine Army is the poor cousin in
NATO. For a British soldier who has
served through World War 11, it is
galling to be stationed next door to,
say, a Danish unit (which through no
fault of its own had little wartime fight-
ing experience) and to find the Danes
fully equipped with modern American
weapons.
The British soldier himself is not badly
off financially. But he resents the War
Office rating Germany as a home post-
ing (especially if he happens to be
stationed alongside an RAF unit that
ranks as posted abroad.)
The War Office argues that certain
special allowances help to compensate
tne Rhine Army soldier, but it is a fact
that many units report a falling off in
recruiting when they are posted to Ger-
many, whereas enlistment rises when it
is known they are to be sent farther
afield.
One cannot generalise as to whether
the Germans are friendly or unfriendly.
A single incident can set a whole town
alight. One does find, however, that the
memory of the occupation, when the
British were bosses, as they certainly are
not now, is at the back of both British
and German minds.
That British troops are seldom invited
to German homes is not a relevant fac-
tor; they are rarely asked to middle-
class Chinese homes in Singapore or
Arab homes in Aden, and no one seems
to mind.
The present rumpus started over
courts-martial. The War Office is right
in saying that the record is not especially
bad. The British court-martial rate works
out at just under one per thousand sold-
iers per month. The American rate is
more than double nearly two-and-a-
half per thousand soldiers. It is true that
the Americans court-martial for certain
offences that would be dealt with by a
British CO. but against that they have
a system of summary fines where often
the British soldier would be court-
martialled.
Nevertheless the British record could
be better. Many officers and NCOs
think a thorough reform of Army Regu-
lations is needed to give COs greater
powers of summary punishment al-
ways, of course, allowing the accused
the right of appeal to court-martial.
A CO’s standard punishment is now
“restricted privileges”, which has taken
the place of the old “confined to bar-
racks”. It means that the offender is, in
fact, confined to barracks, but is not
given extra duties. The result too often
is that he drinks up his sorrows in the
canteen until he is in just the right
mood to commit another crime.
The sale of tax-free spirits in the
NAAFI canteen for the last 18 months
has undoubtedly increased drunkenness.
Men fill up on cheaply bought whisky
in the NAAFI and then go to a German
bar, where they often switch to wine with
disastrous results. After watching too
many soldiers pass this sort of evening,
one finds it hard to believe that the en-
tertainment programme provided by the
Army is an adequate substitute.
BAOPv is not a haunt of villains and
drunkards. It contains a great majority
of keen professionals. The British public
should not be shocked at what is going
on in Rhine Army, but at how little is
being done in London to make it an
effective force.


CUBA-IRREVOCABLY COMMUNIST?
Castro and the Marxists cannot do without each other
From GAVIN YOUNG in New York
“ A ll Cubans are Marxist-Leninist
/\ now, but some are more Fidelist
than others,” said the Western
Communist in Havana referring to the
relationship between the members of
Fidel Castro’s July 26 Movement (the
“New Communists”) who fought Ful-
gencio Batista, the deposed military dic-
tator in 1959, and carried the Cuban
Revolution on to Marxism-Leninism,
and the old Cuban Communist Party
stalwarts (the “Old Communists”) who
faithfully followed Moscow’s line
through the last few decades, collaborat-
ed with Batista and jumped nimbly on
the Castro victory bandwaggon at the
last moment.
There was a time when the Cuban
Communist Party dismissed Castro as
a mere “putschist”. Now the Party lead-
ers are collaborating with Castro with
cautious enthusiasm. Neither can do
without the other. The “Old Commun-
ists” have the trained minds and ex-
perience that Castro needs to run his
disorganised and impoverished island.
The July 26 Movement has little more
than a feverishly high revolutionary
morale with which to confront burgeon-
ing problems. But it has captured the
devotion of thousands of Cubans in a
way the “Old Communists” have never
done.
The Popular Socialist (Communist)
Party (PSP) was never a party of the
masses. It drew its strength from a
comparatively small section of Cuba’s in-
dustrial workers. Its actual membership
has been estimated at 100,000 of whom
20,000 are active, militant members.
But it has the disciplined organisation
and the political know-how. No visitor
to Cuba could doubt that he is in a
Communist country his eyes are
confronted with banners and neon-signs
telling him so.
But in spite of the constant reitera-
tions of Cuba’s political orientation
by radio, by the Press, by conversation,
the average Fidelista is hard put to ex-
plain quite what Marxism-Leninism
means. Time and again I was told by
eager young Cubans that they had be-
come Marxist-Leninists “because Fidel
led the way”.
That restless, apparently tireless per-
sonality, Castro himself, has said that
he couldn’t get far beyond page 300 of
Marx’s “Das Kapital”. Nevertheless, al-
though Fidel may not be ideologically
expert, the effect on social and foreign
policy is the same as if he had mastered
all the Communist text books. The
nation-wide Communist indoctrination
process, although basic, has probably
gone far enough to make it impossible,
even for Castro, to change Cuba’s ideo-
logical direction, even if he wanted to.
In spite of this, and partly because
of it, all has not been well between
Castro and his PSP allies. A major clash
between the July 26 Movement and the
PSP was narrowly averted thanks to
the flexibility of the PSP leaders
earlier this year. Last year it was decided
to unite the revolutionary parties in one
monolithic group the “Integrated
Revolutionary Organisations” (ORI)
which will eventually be succeeded by
a “United Party of the Socialist Revolu-
tion”.
The National Directorate of ORI be-
came the politbureau of the Revolution,
ORI committees were formed through-
out the island; there were (and are)
ORI representatives in every town, vil-
lage, factory and Government institution.
In order to control such a vital and
übiquitous political instrument, an “Old
Communist” faithful and member of the
national directorate, Anibal Escalante,
began to insinuate PSP proteges into
strategic administrative positions. As
July 26 men were ousted to make room
for them, there was not only administra-
tive dislocation but also bitter resent-
ment from the Fidelistas. PSP tactics
were brought to Castro’s attention. A
violent and public denunciation of
Escalante by Castro led to his exile in
March this year. Escalante is now con-
templating his failure in Moscow.
But the failure was not Escalante’s
alone: the very nature of all Communist
Party organisation means that other top
PSP leaders were aware of his back-
stairs manoeuvres and the risks that ac-
companied them. But only Escalante
suffered disgrace. And although Castro
informed the Cubans that there were
500 other Anibals in the island and
implied sweeping purges, only a hand-
ful seem to have lost their jobs since
March.
Escalante found himself alone before
Castro’s wrath. Bias Roca, his close col-
laborator, joined in the universal con-
demnation: so did all Cuba’s top Com-
munists. Roca told me recently: “Es-
calante took advantage of his position
in ORI to achieve power for his personal
benefit. We condemned him unani-
mously.” Roca is now editor of the
Communist newspaper “HOY” (Today).
Sitting in his office under a portrait of
Lenin, flanked by a bookcase contain-
ing volumes of Frank Harris’s Oscar
Wilde and Lytton Strachey’s “Eminent
Victorians” in English, Roca said, “there
will have to be other purges against
adventurers who took no part in the
Revolution”.
That phrase is echoed by young
Fidelistas who express relief that Es-
calante's tactics were unmasked. It has
been used in a different form by Castro
himself in public speeches. He has re-
ferred to, “those who were under the
bed” when he and his followers were
fighting in the mountains against Batis-
ta’s army. And everyone knows that
“those who were under the bed”, were
the “Old Communists” of the PSP.
It is reasonable to suppose that
Castro’s ruthless exposure of Escalante
had the secondary purpose of warning
other PSP leaders what would befall
if they misbehaved. Castro would have
preferred to avoid a complete break
with the Communists on whose admini-
strative capability he relies. He would
have preferred to avoid irritating the
Russians on whom Cuba’s economic sur-
vival now depends.
The Russians took Escalante’s dis-
missal with good grace. They no doubt
realise that Castro’s dominating figure is
far more important to them politically
than any “Old Communist” stalwart
whose popular appeal in Cuba or else-
where in Latin America is negligible.
The PSP traditionalists may not ap-
prove of the erratic pragmatism of their
“New Communist” leader. But at the
moment Castro personifies the Revolu-
tion; and the PSP has no alternative
but to string gamely along. After all,
the PSP leaders imply, we may not have
our hands on the steering wheel, but the
bus is going in the right direction.


CHINAMAN'S BLUFF?
China and Formosa Who's Bluffing Who?
From HEDLEY RHODES in Hong Kong
Ts the Chinese Communist leader Mao
Tse-tung about to carry out his oft-
repeated threat to “liberate” Formosa? Or
is Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek finally
going to carry out his equally vociferous
promise to deliver the China mainland
from “the yoke of Communist tyranny”?
Nobody outside the tight circles around
these two feuding leaders can possibly
answer these questions with absolute cer-
tainty. But there is no question that the
Chinese Communists are worried and
preparing for a fight: the Chinese
Nationalists, on the other hand, are talk-
ing tough and do seem to be preparing for
their long-heralded “counter-offensive”
soon.
For weeks Chinese Communist troops,
whole divisions of them, have been pour-
ing into the coastal Fukien province
opposite Formosa by foot, train and
truck. The Chinese Communist Air
Force, which boasts some 3000 aircraft,
perhaps 2000 of them jets, has been
increasingly active on bases several hun-
dred miles back from the coast. No
unusual movement, however, has been
spotted on the half-dozen strategic front
line bases in Fukien province. The
Chinese Navy, no great threat by Western
standards, but equipped with high-speed
torpedo boats which are difficult to spot,
has made no significant moves.
Western military experts for years have
estimated Chinese Communist military
and security force strength in Fukien at
from 350,000 to 400,000 troops—suffici-
ent not only to maintain public order
but also to repel any invasion. Why, then,
this sudden flurry of activity?
For one thing, this activity was not as
sudden as it first seemed. For some time
before the news of the troop movements
broke, Hong Kong observers noted that
freight cars coming into the Colony’s
marshalling yards from China were very
poorly maintained. Covers were off the
hot boxes, bearing lubrication was sub-
standard, and connection links were
badly worn or even missing. This meant
either that China’s railway stock was
degenerating even faster than most people
thought, or that the better rolling stock
was being held back for use elsewhere.
Secondly, the Chinese Communists
made no serious attempt to hide their
movements. They did prevent foreigners
from travelling by train on those lines
which feed into Fukien. But this served
to screen only the details of the type of
troops and equipment being moved, not
the moves themselves.
Why were the Communist troops
moved? The most logical answers are to
be found in a look at the situation in
China and in Chiang Kai-shek’s strong-
hold 100 miles across the Formosa Straits.
At the present time, mainland China is
facing its most serious economic crisis
since Mao Tse-tung’s armies swept into
control almost 13 years ago. Food
shortages are widespread, factories and
schools are being closed, disgruntled
workers and students are being sent to
till the village fields —where an always
recalcitrant peasantry has been having
difficulties enough to make ends meet.
There are increasing reports of corrup-
tion on the part of cadres and even Com-
munist officials, coupled with a general
eroding of public discipline. Refugees
flocking into Hong Kong report more
and more people listening to the “Voice of
America” and Radio Formosa.
Across from Fukien, 10 minutes away
by jet, Chiang Kai-shek has been making
very obvious preparations to invade the
mainland. For months he has been stock-
piling military supplies far in excess of
defensive needs, and American advisers
have complained that US-supplied equip-
ment has been disappearing at an alarm-
ing rate. For months Chiang’s troops
have been holding a series of large-scale
manoeuvres. Only recently Chiang’s
special forces units, secretly organised on
a provincial basis, spent a week jumping
from planes, carrying out operations
tailored to simulate raids in their home
provinces.
The Chinese Communists know there
is dissatisfaction, even limited overt resis-
tance, at home. They also know what
Chiang is doing. Are the Communists
going to move first to block Chiang? Or
is Chiang going to strike while he feels
the iron is hot? Considering the strong
defensive positions on both sides, the
logistical problems, and world-wide poli-
tical ramifications, Western observers
feel any attack by either side would be
foolhardy, and that the present moves are
for defensive and propaganda purposes.
But few observers flatly rule out the
possibility of some kind of action. For
who in the West has ever been able to
read the Chinese mind unerringly?
MALTA'S DECLINE
Malta new looks to Britain for economic salvation
From ARTHUR LEAVER in Malta
EThe visit to London recently of Dr Borg
Olivier, Prime Minister of Malta,
underlines the seriousness of the problems
now facing the island.
Since the end of World War 11,
with warfare now based on nuclear
strategy, the island’s importance
has dwindled. The British Mediterranean
Fleet has been reduced to a few mine-
sweepers and frigates, and the great
naval base will soon be no more or re-
duced to a negligible size. The loss of
around 5000 jobs through defence cuts
is a serious blow to an island with few
alternative industries.
The island does not grow enough
foodstuffs and has to import much of her
food from nearby countries.
The only natural resource is limestone,
though some degree of oil exploration is
being carried on. A five-year develop-
ment plan costing £36 million has been
drawn up, with Britain contributing £3O
million and the World Bank the
remainder. Efforts are being made to
attract foreign industrialists with favor-
able inducements in the form of grants
and low taxation.
Efforts are also being made to de-
velop the island’s tourist industry and
the Government is assisting with an
overseas tourist campaign. New holi-
day resorts are springing up with large
hotels and clubs to cater for those seek-
ing the Mediterranean sunshine. Last
year 34 cruise liners brought some 13,000
callers, and it is hoped that many will
return for a longer stay.
The Maltese are pinning a great deal
of hope on the economic talks in Lon-
don.


Around Sydney
FOR 1000 DAYS
Vf/Tra a Royal visit scheduled, one
might expect that a great deal
of thought should be given right
now to the selection of the men who
will act as hosts to the Queen of
England in Australia’s biggest city.
One might think that people of promi-
nence and influence would be anxious
that only the most dignified and res-
pected face of the city should be
ihown to the Royal visitors. One
might expect these things in most
Australian cities—but not, it seems
:!ear, in Sydney!
in this city, it seems, people of
prominence and influence are too busy
phasing the elusive quid to care about
such civic niceties. Certainly in clubs
and bars you can hear Big Business
complaining about Labor’s Tammany-
-1 ike domination of the Sydney City
Council. But ask almost any of them
to help change that situation and you
are met with a recital of “commit-
ments” —and a quick change of
subject
When the Queen last visited Syd-
ney in 1954, some of the city’s most
powerful forces—Church, State, busi-
ness and politics—combined to see to
it that Her Majesty had a presentable
host. Labor’s smooth, capable and
good looking Alderman Pat Hills, now
State Minister for Local Government
and Highways. This year, again, two
very capable candidates are vying for
Labor pre-selection at the December
municipal elections present Lord
Mayor Harry Jensen and newly-
retired-Senator John Armstrong.
But on the other side of the politi-
cal fence lies a sea of apathy. Ad-
mittedly Sydney’s Civic Reform As-
sociation doesn’t have a strong chance
of winning the Lord Mayoralty, or of
entirely unseating Labor from the
majority it has won from a gerry-
mandered electorate. But the CRA
could undoubtedly improve on its
present strength of five in a 21-man
Council.
Just how little help the Association
is getting in this task was brought into
the open at a dinner at Sydney’s Hotel
Australia one night last week. It was
to celebrate Civic Reform’s 41st an-
niversary. Some of the biggest names
of commerce, industry and the profes-
sions were along to pay tribute to the
Association’s reform ideals. But it
was soon clear that, for most, it was
only lip-service.
The evidence didn’t come from
some outsider, but from the CRA’s
candidate for Lord Mayor, Aid. W. J.
(Bill) Northam. Now it’s no secret
that Aid. Northam wasn’t breaking his
neck to stand for our top civic post.
But when, after an exhaustive can-
vass of the city, the CRA could find
no other candidate who would stand
a chance, Northam stepped into the
breach. He won’t win, of course, but
he’ll give Labor’s man (odds-on to be
Jensen) a run for his money.
And just what support will he get?
Northam made that clear at the dinner
last week. “A lot of Association mem-
bers could give a lot more help than
they are giving,” he told the diners.
To make his point crystal clear he
pointed out that gifts to the Associa-
tion last year totalled the grand sum
of £soo—probably less than that
dinner cost!
“How can we rock Labor with
that much?” Northam demanded.
Then there was the question of people
giving a bit of their time to help clean
up the Town Hall. “There are more
than 1000 days in three years (the
term of office)” Northam pointed out.
“We want only one of these 1000
days—polling day.” That crack was
directed at getting not only men to
man the CRA’s polling booths but
also getting thousands of city business
ratepayers to just take the trouble of
coming into town for a few minutes
on election day to vote. That’s all—
just vote!
The diners applauded enthusiastic-
ally, a few immediately made patriotic
pledges of cash, and one or two even
said they’d “consider” standing. And
down at the Town Hall, Harry Jensen
smiled for a moment —and went right
on talking about what he’ll do when
Labor is returned to the Council in
December.
YlThile the CRA’s troubles may have
" shown that there isn’t much
civic pride in the heart of Sydney, the
people of North Shore must have been
reassured last week to realise that they
have some staunch defenders of their
exalted position on the Kuring-gai
Municipal Council, which has its
headquarters up Gordon way.
Kuring-gai Council includes in its
district an area called Bradfield Park.
Acquired by the Commonwealth
Government during the war as a tem-
porary RAAF base, Bradfield Park
since the end of hostilities has been
used as a migrant reception centre,
the stepping-off point for many thous-
ands of English immigrants.
Last week, the Mayor of Kuring-
gai, Aid. R. N. Walker, got wind that
the Government was thinking of
building a more permanent £1 mil-
lion migrant hostel in place of the
existing hotch-potch of cottages and
communal halls. Immediately he sent
off a batch of telegrams to various
Commonwealth Ministers, protesting
against the Government undertaking
any such project without consulting
the Council.
Labor Minister Bill McMahon
replied that the Council hadn’t been
consulted because the Government
had reached no “firm proposal” on
the future of Bradfield Park. But Mr
McMahon did point out that the
Government considered the establish-
ment of a migrant hostel on the North
Shore as of “great importance” be-
cause 84 per cent, of the men and 96
per cent, of the women at Bradfield
Park worked on the northern side
of the Harbor.
All this back-talk raised little notice
in the rest of Sydney. Then into the
picture came Mr H. B. Turner,
MHR for Bradfield, which takes in
Bradfield Park. “The Government
can be sure that if they force these
hostels upon this area, migrants will
not only be met with indifference but
with cold hostility from local people,”
Mr Turner declared. “Migrants here
are not going to be assimilated in a
place like Bradfield Park because it
is not a working-class area,” the Hon.
Member added with conclusive logic.
But when one alderman moved that
Mr Turner be dropped from the
Council’s deputation to the Govern-
ment so that the Council wouldn't get
“fouled up with contemptuous ideas”
on migrants, the majority rallied to
the support of their local Member.
So Mr Turner will lead the deputa-
tion, and the people of Kuring-gai
can be certain that he’ll fight vigor-
ously for the retention of their non-
working-class area.
PHILLIP


m. .
■v;
" * 'W. ■: l
M: XM!"]
:
' ';•
rC<:-
r. ". 'u * > IXT r v * ?'*£**’■
A»-X
I, £
. c
sy j
3?
3
story
by
BRENDAN
BEHAN
Illustrated by Paul Hogarth
FOR WEEKS IT WAS NOTHING BUT SIMONY AND SACRILEGE, AND THE SINS CRYING TO HEAVEN
FOR VENGEANCE, THE BIG GREEN CATECHISM IN OUR HANDS, WALKING HOME ALONG THE NORTH CIRCULAR
ROAD. AND AFTER TEA, AT THE BACK OF THE BREWERY WALL, WITH A BUTT TOO, TO HELP OUR WITS,
WHAT IS A PURE SPIRIT, AND DON'T KILL THAT, BILLSER HAS TO GET A DRAG OUT OF IT YET, WHAT
DO I MEAN BY APOSTATE, AND HELL AND HEAVEN AND DESPAIR AND PRESUMPTION AND HOPE. THE
BIG FELLOWS, WHO WERE NOW THIRTEEN AND THE VETERANS OF LAST YEAR'S CONFIRMATION, FRIGHTENED
US, AND SAID THE BISHOP WOULD FIRE US OUT OF THE CHAPEL IF WE DID'T ANSWER HIS QUESTIONS,
AND WE'D SE LEFT WANDERING AROUND THE STREETS, IN A NEW SUIT AND TOP-COAT WITH NOTHING
TO SHOW FOR IT, ALL DRESSED UP AND NOWHERE TO GO. THE BIG PEOPLE SAID NOT TO MIND THEM;
THEY WERE ONLY GETTING IT UP FOR US, JEALOUS BECAUSE THEY WERE OVER THEIR CONFIRMATION, AND
COULD NEVER MAKE IT AGAIN. AT SCHOOL WE WERE IN A SPECIAL ROOM TO OURSELVES, FOR THE LAST
FEW DAYS, AND WENT ROUND, A SPECIAL CLASS OF PEOPLE. THERE WERE WORRYING TIMES TOO, THAT
THE BISHOP WOULD LIGHT ON YOU, AND YOU WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO ANSWER HIS QUESTIONS. OR YOU


might hear the women complaining about
the price of boys’ clothes.
“Twenty-two and sixpence for tweed,
I’d expect a share in the shop for that.
I’ve a good mind to let him go in jersey
and pants for that.”
“Quite right, ma'am”, says one to
another, backing one another up, “I
always say what matter if they are good
and pure”. What had that got to do with
it, if you had to go into the Chapel in a
jersey and pants, and every other kid in
a new suit, kid gloves and tan shoes and
a scoil* cap. The Cowan brothers were
terrified. They were twins, and twelve
years old, and every old one in the
street seemed to be wishing a jersey and
pants on them, and saying their poor
mother couldn't be expected to do for
two in the one year, and she ought to
go down to Sister Monica and tell her
to put one back. If it came to that, the
Cowans agreed to fight it out, at the
back of the brewery wall, whoever got
best, the other would be put back.
I wasn't so worried about this. My old
fellow was a tradesman, and made money
most of the time. Besides, my grand-
mother, who lived at the top of the next
house, was a lady of capernosity and
function. She had money and lay in bed
all day, drinking porter or malt, and
taking pinches of snuff, and talking to the
neighbors that would call up to tell her
the news of the day. She only left her bed
to go down one flight of stairs and visit
tlje lady in the back drawing room, Miss
McCann.
Miss McCann worked a sewing-
machine, making habits for the dead.
Sometimes girls from our quarter got her
to make dresses and costumes, but mostly
she stuck to the habits. They were a
steady line, she said, and you didn’t have
to be always buying patterns, for the
fashions didn’t change, not even from
summer to winter. They were like a
long brown shirt, and a hood attached,
that was closed over the person’s face
before the coffin lid was screwn down. A
sort of little banner hung out of one arm,
made of the same material, and four silk
rosettes in each corner, and in the middle,
the letters 1.H.5., which mean, Miss
McCann said: “I Have Suffered”.
My grandmother and Miss McCann
liked me more than any other kid they
knew. I liked being liked, and could
only admire their taste.
My Aunt Jack, who was my father’s
aunt as well as mine, sometimes came
down from where she lived, up near the
Basin, where the water came from before
they started getting it from Wicklow.
My Aunt Jack said it was much better
water, at that. Miss McCann said she
ought to be a good judge. For Aunt
Jack was funny. She didn’t drink porter
or malt, or take snuff, and my father
said she never thought much about men,
either. She was also very strict about
washing yourself very often. My grand-
mother took a bath every year, whether
she was dirty or not, but she was in no
way bigoted in the washing line in
between times.
Aunt jack made terrible raids on us
now and again, to stop snuff and
drink, and make my grandmother get up
in the morning, and wash herself, and
cook meals and take food with them. My
grandmother was a gilder by trade, and
served her time in one of the best shops
in the city, and was getting a man's wages
at sixteen. She liked stuff out of the pork
butchers, and out of cans, but didn’t like
boiling potatoes, for she said she was no
skivvy, and the chip man was better at
it. When she was left alone it was a
pleasure to eat with her. She always had
cans of lovely things and spicy meat and
brawn, and plenty of seasoning, fresh
out of the German man's shop up the
road. But after a visit from Aunt Jack,
she would have to get up and wash for
a week, and she would have to go and
make stews and boil cabbage and pig's
cheeks. Aunt Jack was very much up for
sheep’s heads too. They were so cheap
and nourishing.
But my grandmother only tried it once.
She had been a first-class gilder in Eustace
Street, but never had anything to do
with sheep's heads before. When she
took it out of the pot, and laid it on the
plate, she and I sat looking at it, in fear
and trembling. It was bad enough going
into the pot, but with the soup streaming
from its eyes, and its big teeth clenched in
a very bad temper, it would put the heart
crossways in you. My grandmother
asked me, in a whisper, if I ever thought
sheep could look so vindictive, but that it
was more like the head of an old man,
and would I for God’s sake take it up
and throw it out of the window. The
sheep kept glaring at us, but I came the
far side of it, and rushed over to the
window and threw it out in a flash. My
grandmother had to drink a Baby Power
whiskey, for she wasn’t the better of
herself.
Afterwards she kept what she called
her stock-pot on the gas. A heap of
bones, and as she said herself, any old
muck that would come in handy, to have
boiling there, night and day, on a glim-
mer. She and I ate happily of cooked
ham and California pineapple and sock-
eye salmon, and the pot of good nourish-
ing soup was always on the gas even if
Aunt Jack came down the chimney, like
the Holy Souls at midnight. My grand-
mother said she didn’t begrudge the
money for the gas. Not when she remem-
bered the looks that sheep’s head was
giving her. And all she had to do with
the stock-pot was to throw in another
sup of water, now and again, and a hand-
ful of old rubbish the pork butcher
would send over, in the way of lights or
bones. My Aunt Jack thought a lot
about barley, too, so we had a package
of that lying beside the gas, and threw
a sprinkle in any time her foot was heard
on the stairs. The stock-pot bubbled
away on the gas for years after, and only
when my grandmother was dead did
someone notice it. They tasted it. and
spat it out just as quick, and wondered
what it was. Some said it was paste, and
more that it was gold size, and there were
other people and they maintained that it
was glue. They all agreed on one thing,
that it was dangerous tack to leave lying
around, where there might be young
children, and in the heel of the reel, it
went out the same window as the sheep's
head.
Miss McCann told my grandmother
not to mind Aunt Jack but to sleep as
long as she liked in the morning. They
came to an arrangement that Miss
McCann would cover the landing and
keep an eye out. She would call Aunt
Jack in for a minute, and give the signal
by banging the grate, letting on to poke
the fire, and have a bit of a conversa-
tion with Aunt Jack about dresses and
costumes, and hats and habits. One of
these mornings, and Miss McCann delay-
ing a fighting action, to give my grand-
mother time to hurl herself out ot bed
and into her clothes and give her face
the rub of a towel, the chat between Miss
McCann and Aunt Jack came to my
Confirmation suit.
TlThen I made my first Communion, my
” grandmother dug deep under the
mattress, and myself and Aunt Jack were
sent round expensive shops, and I came
back with a rig that would take the sight
of your eye. This time, however, Miss
McCann said there wasn’t much stirring
in the habit line, on account of the mild
winter, and she would be delighted to
make the suit, if Aunt Jack would get
the material. I nearly wept, for terror
of what these old women would have me
got up in, but I had to let on to be
delighted, Miss McCann was so set on
it. She asked Aunt Jack did she remem-
ber my father’s Confirmation suit. He
did. He said he would never forget it.
They sent him out in a velvet suit, of
plum color, with a lace collar. My blood
ran cold when he told me.
The stuff they got for my suit was blue
serge, and that was not so bad. They
got as far as the pants, and that passed
off very civil. You can’t do much to a
boy’s pants, one pair is like the next,
though I had to ask them not to trouble
* School.


HELP
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM 2001. <=>
themselves putting three little buttons on
either side of the legs. The waistcoat was
all right, and anyway the coat would
cover it. But the coat itself, that was
where Aughrim* was lost.
The lapels were little we things, like
what you'd see in pictures like “Ring”
magazine of John L. Sullivan, or Gentle-
man Jim, and the buttons were the size
of saucers, or within the bawl of an ass
of it, and I nearly cried when I saw them
being put on, and ran down to my mother,
and begged her to get me any sort of a
suit, even a jersey and pants, than have
me set up before the people in this get-up.
My mother said it was very kind of Aunt
Jack and Miss McCann to go to all this
trouble and expense, and I was very un-
grateful not to appreciate it. My father
said that Miss McCann was such a good
tailor that people were dying to get into
her creations, and her handiwork was
to be found in all the best cemeteries. He
laughed himself sick at this, and said if
it was good enough for him to be sent
down to North William Street in plum-
colored velvet and lace, I needn't be get-
ting the needle over a couple of big
buttons and little lapels. He asked me
not to forget to get up early the morn-
ing of my Confirmation, and let him see
me, before he went to work: a bit of a
laugh started the day well. My mother
told him to give over and let me alone,
and said she was sure it would be a
lovely suit, and that Aunt Jack would
never buy poor material, but stuff that
would last forever. That nearly finished
me altogether, and 1 ran through the hall
up to the corner, fit to cry my eyes out,
only I wasn't much of a hand at crying.
I went more for cursing, and I cursed
all belonging to me, and was hard at it
on my father, and wondering why his lace
collar hadn't choked him, when I remem-
bered that it was a sin to go on like
that, and 1 going up for Confirmation,
and I had to simmer down, and live in
fear of the day I'd put on that jacket.
The days passed, and I was fitted and
refitted, and every old one in the house
came up to look at the suit, and took a
pinch of snuff, and a sup out of the jug,
and wished me long life and the health
to wear and tear it, and they spent that
much time viewing it round, back, belly
and sides, that Miss McCann hadn’t time
to make the overcoat, and like an answer
to a prayer. 1 was brought down to
Talbot Street, and dressed out in a dinging
overcoat, belted, like a grown-up man’s.
And my shoes and gloves were dear and
dandy, and I said to myself that there was
no need to let anyone see the suit with
its little lapels and big buttons. I could
keep the topcoat on all day, in the chapel,
and going round afterwards.
The night before Confirmation day,
Miss McCann handed over the suit to
my mother, and kissed me, and said not
to bother thanking her. She would do
more than that for me, and she and my
grandmother cried and had a drink on the
strength of my having grown to be a big
fellow, in the space of twelve years, which
they didn't seem to consider a great deal
of time. My father said to my mother,
and I getting bathed before the fire, that
since I was born Miss McCann thought
the world of me. When my mother was in
hospital, she took me into her place till
my mother came out, and it near broke
her heart to give me back.
In the morning I got up, and Mrs
Rooney in the next room shouted in to
my mother that her Liam was still stall-
ing, and not making any move to get out
of it, and she thought she was cursed;
Christmas or Easter, Communion or Con-
firmation, it would drive a body into
Riddleys, which is the mad part of
Grangegorman, and she wondered she
wasn’t driven out of her mind, and above
in the puzzle factory years ago. So she
shouted again at Liam to get up, and
washed and dressed. And my mother
shouted at me, though I was already knot-
ting my tie, but you might as well be out
of the world, as out of fashion, and they
kept it up like a pair of mad women,
until at last Liam and I were ready and
he came in to show mv mother his
clothes. She hanselled him a tanner,
which he put in his pocket and Mrs
Rooney called me in to show her my
clothes I just stood at her door, and
didn't open my coat, but just grabbed the
sixpence out of her hand, and ran up the
stairs like the hammers of hell. She
shouted at me to hold on a minute, she
hadn’t seen my suit, but I muttered some-
thing about it not being lucky to keep a
Bishop waiting, and ran on.
The Church was crowded, boys on one
side and the girls on the other, and the
altar ablaze with lights and flowers, and
a throne for the Bishop to sit on when he
wasn’t confirming. There was a cheering
crowd outside, drums rolled, trumpeters
from Jim Larkin's band sounded the
Salute. The Bishop came in and the doors
were shut. In short order I joined the
queue to the rails, knelt and was whis-
pered over, and touched on the cheek. I
had my overcoat on the whole time,
though it was warm, and I was in a
lather of sweat waiting for the hymns
and the sermon.
The lights grew brighter and I got
warmer, was carried out fainting. But
though I didn’t mind them loosening my
tie, I clenched firmly my overcoat, and
nobody saw the jacket with the big but-
tons and the little lapels. When I went
home, I got into bed, and my father said
1 went into a sickness just as the Bishop
was giving us the pledge. He said this
was a master stroke, and showed real
presence of mind.
Sunday after Sunday, my mother
fought over the suit. She said I was a
liar and a hypocrite, putting it on for a
few minutes every week, and running into
Miss McCann’s and out again, letting her
think I wore it every week-end. In a
passionate temper my mother said she
would show me up, and tell Miss
McCann, and up like a shot with her. for
my mother was always slim, and light on
her feet as a feather, and in next door.
When she came back she said nothing,
but sat at the fire looking into it. I
didn't really believe she would tell Miss
McCann. And I put on the suit and
thought I would go in and tell her I was
wearing it this week-night, because I was
going to the Queen’s with my brothers.
I ran next door and upstairs, and every
step was more certain and easy that my
mother hadn't told her. I ran, shoved in
the door, saying: “Miss Me., Miss Me.,
Rory and Sean and I are going to the
Queen’s. . . .” She was bent over the
sewing-machine and all I could see was
the top of her old grey head, and the
rest of her shaking with crying, and her
arms folded under her head, on a bit of
habit where she had been finishing the
I.H.S. I ran down the stairs and back
into our place, and my mother was sitting
at the fire, sad and sorry, but saying
nothing.
T needn’t have worried about the suit
■*- lasting forever. Miss McCann didn’t.
The next winter was not so mild, and she
was whipped before the year was out. At
her wake people said how she was in a
habit of her own making, and my father
said she would look queer in anything
else, seeing as she supplied the dead of
the whole quarter for forty years, with-
out one complaint from a customer.
At the funeral, I left my topcoat in the
carriage and got out and walked in the
spills of rain after her coffin. People said
I would get my end, but I went on till we
reached the graveside, and I stood in my
Confirmation suit drenched to the skin.
I thought this was the least I could do.
* A battle in 1689 where the Irish
were defeated.


forum
THE PENSIONS MONSTER
Social Services already cost £1,600,000 a day
By M. H. ELLIS
riV/E Old Age and Invalid Pensions system of the Commonwealth is fifty-
three years old this month. It has grown in such a way that its own mother
wouldn’t know it. Designed originally to relieve the aged poor without the stigma
of charity, it was recognised (vide the “Commonwealth Year Book”) that “the
difficulties surrounding a satisfactory solution of the question are numerous and
great”, the principal objections being “(a) its costliness, (b) its tendency to
induce thriftlessness.”
In the interval between birth and
jubilee in 1960, the age pension system
has grown into something which looks
very much like a devouring monster.
The pension is no longer a hand-out by
way of charity to the quavering old. In
its present form it is fast becoming the
proud guerdon of a race described as
“senior citizens’ , the terror of govern-
ment election campaigners, a compact
hunk of voting power when the in-
valid section is taken in representing
just on 700,000 ballots, or one-seventh
of the whole Commonwealth Electorate.
The million and a half paid out in
1910, by June 30, 1962, was touching a
sum just over 120 times as great—at that
date the entitlement was £185.5 mil-
lion—apart from the value of medical
and pharmaceutical benefits, funeral
benefits and numerous other appurten-
ances and still growing lustily, being
watered perennially by Oppositions in
every election campaign. And so are
other social services. The total expendi-
ture on them is now in the vicinity of
a million pounds per day, as against
about two millions per annum fifty
years ago. And this, of course, is out-
side unemployment benefits and such-
like trifles.
Maternity allowances, child endow-
ment, widows’ pensions, invalid pen-
sions, rehabilitation, homes for the aged,
pensioner medical services and free
medicine, tuberculosis allowances, all
mount up; but the age pension is the
hardiest grower.
It has grown continuously in size,
widened in ambit, come boom, burst,
depression, war or credit squeeze and it
shows no sign of stopping.
Almost every year, something hap-
pens that makes the pension more worth
while taking some relaxation in the
means test, increase in rate, easing of
taxation provisions, accretion of sub-
sidiary benefits in the way of medical or
travel concessions.
Once the age pension was the poorest
form of superannuation; now already,
a married couple if they “work things”
right may live in reasonable comfort in
their own home with their own car, es-
pecially if they have a compliant family
holding a bit of property or money for
them and paying for their clothes and
holidays and making them gifts to add
to their £2l a fortnight pensions and
£360 a year which they can earn
jointly, in addition to the pension, with-
out being debited on the maximum.
They can, before reaching pension
age discreetly dispose of their few
thousands in savings, set up a good
home with TV and all conveniences,
shout themselves a trip round the world
and have up to <£4500 jointly in the
sock, etc. and still get the full tax free
pension.
So that in addition to the pensioners
who really need the pension urgently
and live still in sub-standard conditions,
the pension world is being added to by
a sort of minor aristocracy among pen-
sioners who know their way round and
are not so badly off at all, especially as
modern medical and other standards of
living have produced a different and
more sprightly race of ancients than our
grandfathers.
HPhe situation has been complicated by
A the advance of the sciences of
hygiene and medicine and surgery. Not
only are more people living to old age,
but they are living longer in old age,
apart from the fact that a greater pro-
portion both of the population and of
eligible oldsters are demanding the pen-
sion.
A large proportion of the percentage
increase in the potential field of pen-
sioners is due to the fact that the average
life expectancy of a male in Australia
at birth in 1910 was 59 years and now is
not far off 70 years.
There are over 800,000 women and
450,000 men of pensionable age
women, of course, drawing their pen-
sions at 60, five years earlier than men.
When the pension system was intro-
duced roughly 4.2 per cent, of the whole
population was 65 or over. Now the
percentage is nearer 10; and that 10 per
cent, are, on the average, living much
longer. In 1911, the number of people
over 70 in a population of 4.25 million
was only 213,000; today in a popula-
tion of 10.5 million it is approaching a
million.
Thus it is assured that not only are
more people going on the pension but
that they may be expected to stay on it
for a cumulatively increasing period,
kept in good health by a sturdy free
medical and pharmaceutical benefits
system and, as the homes for the aged
movement develops momentum, better
living conditions and incentives to live
on as long as possible, for a large and
now still miserably homed and attended
proportion of them.
The conception that a pension is
something to keep body and soul to-
gether for the helpless old when they
are fit for nothing more has been lost
in limbo and replaced by the concep-
tion that age pensions are the hereditary
right of every self-respecting taxpayer
who can establish a claim.
Where lies salvation for the Treas-
urers ahead? Sectional pension schemes
are not a brilliant success from Treasury
points of view because, at a certain
stage, they will become capable of an
enormous financial pressure, of which
the effects on Governments and finance
in general will be at least as frightening
as the pressure of the Government’s
pensioners (or of their friends using
them as political instruments).
Public utility superannuation systems
now existing are a mixed bag and take
little or no burden off the Federal
Treasury. In fact, by way of example,
the NSW Railways Department is
moaning in the agony of its near bank-
ruptcy that it cannot persuade its em-
ployees to contribute a proper propor-
tion towards providing for their old age
and that it is faced with an outlay of
£lO million on superannuation in the


next five years, along with a steady line
of (probably increasing) overall operat-
ing deficits. When this situation arises
the Federal Treasury is usually at the
ultimate dishing-out end to save the
day.
Some optimists appear to believe that
overall security might be achieved with
the development of the recent new tech-
niques of the investment trusts and in-
surance superannuation cover which are
putting forward enthusiastically their
plans for accumulation funds for super-
annuation. The Bank of New South
Wales has pioneered this system, no
doubt with the substantial help of a
foundation consisting of its own immense
staff pension funds which is a business
as large in itself as a bank of consider-
able tonnage.
Its sample enterprise is operated as
a separate institution by a Board which
includes the Chief Manager of the
Bank’s Investment Division and two as-
sistant general managers of the Bank
and comprises two funds a Retire-
ment Fund for self employed persons
and an Employees’ Provident Fund, for
employees either privately or in con-
junction with their employers.
The objective of the plan is summed up
in the aim to enable a man (or woman)
to “ensure during his active working life
of 45 years ... by thrift ... a satisfac-
tory standard of comfort for himself
and his dependents after his retirement.”
In effect, it is a co-operative savings
and investment scheme under skilled
management and under conditions which
ensure (a) that investments are spread
for safety (b) have the benefits of nor-
mal investment development over a long
term of years (c) produce an income
which is free from taxation (d) at the
end of a specified number of investing
years, a lump sum for the investor, also
free of taxation (e) that against the
amount invested annually the investor
will be able to treat up to £4OO as a
deduction for income tax purposes, the
£4OO, of course, including deductions
allowable for life insurance premiums.
The system operated by a bank, it
is claimed, has advantages of conven-
ience in that on a banker’s order the
amount subscribed to the fund is “pain-
lessly” transferred to the fund in the
same way as income tax instalments are
paid by an employer, and without any
transfer charges.
The amount of contributions is
limited to £3OO per annum for persons
under 45 years old, to £5OO per annum
between 45 and 55 and £lOOO above 55;
but where incomes per annum fluctu-
ate it is possible to average the contribu-
tion between years.
Moreover contributions can be paid
annually, half yearly or quarterly and
postponed in the case of financial stress.
But, at the same time, the ultimate re-
sult obviouslv depends on the original in-
vestment schedule being maintained
strictly.
The fund’s pamphlet gives samples of
what it considers can be done by dif-
ferent types of superannuee. For in-
stance, a man 25 years old would expect
to have a working life of 40 years and,
starting with a reasonably normal in-
come of £l6OO a year, he might make
a total annual contribution of £73 p.a.
(from which he would receive tax de-
duction benefits of £l9, making his
annual outlay about £54 per annum.
In 40 years he would contribute
£2160 allowing for tax concessions—
and as his probable benefit at the end
of the term he would receive £lO,OOO,
tax free.
In addition to his actual investment
he would be expected to provide for an
annually reducing life insurance cover
for £lO,OOO and this would cost him
(with tax allowance accounted for) in the
order of another £l5 per annum.
A man of 45 with an income £2500,
would provide the same benefit for him-
self at 65 with a total annual payment
(allowing for tax deductions) of £222 pei
annum. The maximum benefit is £25,000
collectable at 60 for women and 65 for
men.
This obviously gives better provision
for twilight years than present Govern-
ment pensions and is subject to no
means test. But unfortunately the man
who contributes to this scheme also con-
tributes (for nothing to his own bene-
fit) to the social services tax.
The large part of the human race are
optimists and the thought of laying out
a fixed sum in addition to normal life
insurance, pay roll tax and instalments
on the car, refrigerator, TV, holiday at
Hayman Island, trip to Europe and
poodle is apt to be repugnant, especially
to SP patrons, investors in the Opera
House Lottery and poker machine ex-
perts.
If the Bank scheme could be made
universal like medical benefits and
vested in a national financial utility free
of political control, it would be magnifi-
cent in theory. But any financier who
contemplates the effect on the economy
and on the share market and any poli-
tician who contemplates the political
effects would suffer perennially from
nightmare. At the same time it seems
that the pension problem will have to
be attacked before we reach the stage
at which the whole budget will have to
be devoted to paying them which will not
be so long if the increase in pensions
liability mounts at the rate at wh ; ch it
has developed in the last 20 years, i.e.
tenfold. At that rate the bill would be
£1,850,000.000 in 1982.
ASIA—THE EMPTY CONTINENT
Some Asian countries have plenty of "lebensraum"
By EUGENE BAJKOWSKI
Qeventeen years after the end of the
war Asia still faces an evil if well-
known paradox. It is the home of some
of the world’s wealthiest individuals, the
cradle of ancient and magnificent civilisa-
tions but also the continent of teeming,
half-starving millions. It is economically
backward —with the exception of Japan
—and hopelessly short of investment
capital and technical skills.
But there is another, less understood
paradox about Asia. Although it is over-
crowded and its population growth
presents a tremendous challenge in terms
of sheer survival, it is also an empty
continent. Parts of Asia, such as the
Ganges Valley in India, the fertile
Yangtze Valley in China, almost all of
Japan, the rice-fields in the safer parts
of South Viet-Nam are heavily over-
populated. But there exist vast areas
which are virtually empty, and which
could be profitably farmed or used for
cattle raising.
China is a good example. Its eastern
and southern provinces have some of the
highest population densities in the world.
Yet Manchuria—beautiful, fertile and
fabulously rich in natural resources—is
still half-empty. China’s western and
north-western provinces are also capable
of supporting many more millions. The
problem is transport, capital and the
traditional reluctance to migrate in-
grained in the population of the over-
crowded territories. Lacking sufficient
capital, and incapable of offering ade-
quate personal incentives, the Chinese
Communists have so far relied mainly on
coercion. But the results of forced migra-
tion have been relatively meagre.
Russia has faced for years a similar
problem in many of its fertile Asian
lands. Siberia is not only a place of exile
but also a largely fertile country with
beautiful scenery. But apart from West-
ern Siberia and Maritime Provinces
large parts of it are almost completely
empty.
Of course, Siberia, Transbaikalia and
China are part of the Communist bloc.
But there are many empty patches on
the map of Asia this side of the Iron
Curtain as well. Our next door neighbor,
Indonesia, has almost 70 per cent, of its
population concentrated in Java, while


the much larger Sumatra is sparsely in-
habited, despite its fertility and very
considerable mineral wealth. The main
trouble is again the traditional reluctance
of Asian peasants to move from over-
populated areas and the lack of capital
and initiative to provide the necessary
incentives. Much the same story can be
told about the Philippines.
Internal migration could well be the
solution for some pressing economic and
population problems in several parts of
Asia. It would increase the level of
agricultural output, raise the standard of
living and help create a basis for faster
capital accumulation through a more
rational and efficient exploitation of
natural resources. But even to start off
such a project on any significant scale
would require a huge long-term invest-
ment capital and an army of trained in-
structors, teachers, agricultural experts,
mechanics, doctors, dentists, scientists.
Asia lacks not only capital. It is des-
perately short of people who can im-
mediately put that capital to good use.
It is no use moving peasant from over-
populated lava to underpopulated
Sumatra unless they can be provided with
a minimum of equipment, such as
schools and hospitals and training about
what, how and when to plant, harvest
and market. This is a gigantic task.
A ustralia cannot hope to offer the
necessary capital assistance. But we
can help greatly by helping to train
Asia’s professional men, technicians and
skilled workers, who are in such short
supply. We can even do this without
cramming more Asians into our univer-
sities and technical colleges. But first we
must change our approach to the pro-
blem.
So far most of Australia’s efforts have
been directed at educating and training
increasing numbers of Asians in Aus-
tralia. This has created considerable
goodwill towards Australia and has
produced an appreciable number of
graduates and diplomates. However, the
rate of progress has been much too slow
and time is working against us.
Education and technical training must
be brought within the immediate reach
of the Asian masses. This cannot be
done if we continue to rely solely on
training Asian undergraduates in Austra-
lian universities because there are just
not enough universities and because only
a small proportion of Asians can afford
to come here. In effect this means a
pretty automatic income bracket bar
which excludes some of the most promis-
ing talent in Asia.
A far better way would be to help
finance and staff universities, technical
colleges and other educational institu-
tions in Asia and provide scholarships for
the more promising students. Our main
efforts should be directed to increasing the
number of qualified men and women
who can play an active role in their
country’s economic drive as soon as
they complete their training. It will be far
more useful —and cheaper—to provide
opportunities for post-graduate work in
Australia for selected doctors, engineers,
teachers, accountants, administrators,
economists, agricultural experts, etc.,
after they have completed their under-
graduate training and have acquired
some experience. This would also help
to orientate their post-graduate studies
in Australia towards the more urgent
needs of their own countries.
In helping to set up new educational
institutions in Asia we could well look
back on the experience of the pre-war
missionary universities, technical colleges
and high schools. Roman Catholic and
Protestant missions from the United
States and Europe had set up a first rate
educational network in China, India,
Colombo, Malaya, Singapore, Hong
Kong, Indonesia, Pakistan, the Philip-
pines and Indo-China. There were
primary schools, high schools, universities
and technical colleges. Teaching stan-
dards were high, tuition cheap and train-
ing diversified and adapted to the specific
requirements of each country.
The days of these Mission schools and
universities are over. But there is no
reason why we should not profit by
their experience and spend our money
and efforts in helping to expand the
existing universities in Asia and setting
up new ones, instead of over-stretching
ourselves in trying to accomplish the
impossible.


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Friday, at 68, Professor John Anderson died. Fie
was, in every way, a remarkable man whose influence
spread well beyond the confines of the University where
he taught.
The letters published below were written before his
death and relate to the profile and letters which appeared
in THE BUFFETIN of June 30 which featured William
Dobell’s fine portrait of him on its cover.
We publish these further letters as a tribute to John
Anderson and in the tradition of enquiry and criticism
which he taught, upheld and exemplified. Ed.
SOME ANDERSONIANS
Sir,
As one symposiast to another, I would
like to disagree with Peter Coleman’s
(Bulletin, June 30), contentions that
“the Andersonian movement as a whole
has been a fairly philistine one” and
that “their interest and taste in literature,
music or painting has been poor. (The
only book they read was ‘Ulysses’).” Was
he confusing philistinism with “poor
taste"? What was his evidence for either?
I cannot think of much. It would be easy
to adduce a whole stack of names to show
strong interest, and “good taste”, in liter-
ature, painting and music. One also gets
a bit weary of the cliche, also hinted at
by James McAuiey, and asserted else-
where (in the last “Free Spirit”) by David
Stove, that Andersonians knew only
Joyce’s “Ulysses”. (What is wrong with
“Ulysses” anyway? As a single book it is
an education in itself.)
The majority of Andersonians I knew
and know were and are exceedingly well
read over the full range of standard and
modern literature in various languages,
and also in post-Ulysses literature. Pre-
cisely what is philistine or poor about
the taste of Ron Jackson (Professor of
French at Melbourne), Jim Nichols
(Latin), Peter Gibbons (painting and
literature), Peter Shrubb (the lot), et al.?
The cliche is a most inaccurate way of
making the point that Anderson did tend
to use “Ulysses” alone as an example of
points he wanted to make about art and
morality, or in his aesthetic. And is not
the contention about painting a funny
old backhanded swipe at The Bul-
letin’s own cover, which reproduced
Dobell’s portrait of Anderson as com-
missioned by the John Anderson Testi-
monial Fund with contributions from
hundreds of Anderson’s admirers and
former students?
D McCALLUM
Cammeray (NSW).
Sir,
The charge of “insipid gelatinous
amorphous conformist opportunism” is
a harsh enough one for anyone to level
against liberal humanists and “most
academics” but coming from the national
poet of the DLP it really is an insult
(Bulletin, June 30). But James Mc-
Auley only reaches the limit of his
enormous nerve when he feels entitled
to deride those who allegedly propound
philosophies leading to the conclusion
that the answer to all questions is No.
Surely the whole of Mr McAuley’s
extreme authoritarianism rests more
certainly and no less obviously on the
contention that no propositions are
themselves true, the accolade “true”
being reserved for the pronouncements,
permissive or mandatory, of selected
individuals. This even including, in fact
specifically including, the proposition
“Black is white”.
H. J. McNAMARA
Dee Why (NSW).
Sir,
Congratulations on your summing up
of Professor Anderson. For many years
people have believed that Anderson is a
subversive, a corrupter of the youth who
teaches that nothing is sacrosanct, that
morality and political ideologies (in-
cluding the democratic) are merely ways
of disguising particular interests. But as
you point out, he has made a significant
contribution to the common good by
revealing Communism as a murderous
hoax. You also note that his attacks on
religion and patriotism are the least
interesting of his opinions. This may
m"ke it easier for Andersonians to get
fobs.
Mr Coleman says Professor Anderson
has come the full circle from Bolshevism
to democracy. The truth of it is he has
come the full circle from iconoclasm to
respectability. The pity of it is he was
the most talented iconoclast this country
has ever seen.
L. R. HIATT
Dept, of Anthropology,
University of Sydney.
A REPLY TO THE SCOTS
Sir,
Perhaps the irony Mr R. F. Pritchard
mentions in his letter (Bulletin, July 7)
is not where he sees it, in my praise for
the former sporting writer whose “new”
approach, it is implied, led to the
abandonment of the annual Highland
Games in Sydney.
I suggest the true irony lies in the fact
that, from an attendance of 18,000 at
2s. a head in 1950, there was a gradual
decline to 2000 in 1960—and then a
climb to 5000 in 1961, despite rain, and
12,000 in 1962 with the “new” approach
which Mr Pritchard blames. The High-
land Games had been under threat of
abandonment for some years. There
certainly seems to be irony in the fact
that they were to be abandoned after the
highest attendance since 1953. The point
remains. Brighter sports meetings, bigger
attendances.
DISCUS
Sydney.
A NEW AUSTRALIA?
Sir,
1 presume that you were obliged to
publish a critical review of “Australian
Civilisation” (Bulletin, July 7) since
the editor of the book is a member of
The Bulletin staff. But surely it is
carrying liberalism too far to feel obliged
to publish such a monumentally mis-
leading one as Mr Henry Mayer's. It
is still almost impossible to get a sensible
discussion of Australian life, but this book
is the first to break through the cliches
and the myths; it examines Australians
as they really are—so much so that it
must strike the hacks and myth-mongers
as almost blasphemous. To me it has
two values: one, its “news value”, its
reporting of facts that are usually
ignored about Australians, their migrants,
businessmen, intellectuals, churchmen
and what-have you; second its examina-
tion and criticism of the changes that
Australian life has undergone in the last
thirty years which most people’s think-
ing has not caught up with yet. Faced
with an original book like this all that
poor Mr Mayer can do is make a few
familiar undergraduate points. Really, he
should stick to marking first vear essays.
JOHN COOPER
Altona (Victoria).
TEACHING ARTIST HOW
Sir,
The staff of the National Art School
welcome free comment by their students
but the value of that comment depends
on the presence of facts. Mr Shead
(Bulletin, June 30), a student of 18
months standing at North Sydney who
visits East Sydney once a week, seems
to ignore this. Firstly the Art library


was not the gaol administrative quarters
but its chapel. The lack of vision alleged
to be the possession of most students
could, of course, be due to things quite
outside the control of this institution.
We don’t like the rather nasty suggestion
that teachers borrow paintings in order
to get a job at “Tech”, this is extremely
untrue. In our experience, no so called
“important painter” has been refused a
position here, but they are after all
required to be teachers.
Nearly every artist of note in Aus-
tralia has depended at some time on
teaching. Dobell taught for some years.
Many of us indeed like teaching. Lyndon
Dadswell is indeed head of the sculpture
school; he incidentally is one of the
most senior and respected of teachers.
It comes as a surprise to learn of a
new policy at the “Tech” perhaps, we
too, like Mr Shead, need come but once
a week, ft may come as news to Mr
Shead to know that most teachers are
practising artists. In addition most
would be quite capable of keeping their
heads above water, if they chose to
leave.
The so-called major emphasis is
definitelv not Commercial Art. e.g., 2nd
year have about one-fifth of their num-
ber in Commercial Art—a few of the
graphic arts are taught, namely: serio-
granhv, lino cut, monotype, and process
engraving (theory). We would all like to
have film-making, creative literature,
ballet, opera, philosophy, architecture,
acrobatics, astrology, clairvoyance and
etiquette and a host of interesting things.
One can hardly expect vast sums of
money to be poured out from the public
purse for “Arty Wild Oat”. The Diploma
is the equivalent of a BA if one has the
leaving certificate; it is no substitute for
ignorance. Perhaps if Mr Shead works
he too may be graced with possession
of a diploma. He indicates the fact that
work is, after all, necessary. Hill End
h “s been the mecca for painters such as
fr'end Drvsdale etc. for the last 16 years
—the students came only last year.
John Coburn
DAVID STRACHAN
Sydney.
QUEENSLAND’S COMMUNISTS
Sir,
With reference to an article which
appeared in The Bulletin (May 26),
written by Mr John Higgins of Brisbane
under the heading of “A Report of
Queensland Communists”, we would like
to make the following comment.
In one part of his report he mentions
that there have been fraction meetings
of the Communist Party with various
groups, societies and leagues in Bris-
bane and in this report, he includes the
Greek community of Brisbane.
We strongly protest over these re-
marks, as published and state that we
have never at any time been associated
or affiliated with the Communist Party
or any other so called fractional groups.
This report is completely unfounded and
untrue. The Greek Orthodox com-
munity of St George, Brisbane, which
is the official Greek body in Brisbane
has never tolerated or subscribed to any
subversive organisation and does not
intend to do so —now, or at any future
time.
In conclusion, we would never
associate ourselves with anyone who
would harm this w'onderful country.
C. P. FREELEAGUS
(President, Greek Orthodox
Community of St George)
Brisbane.
“THE GONDOLIERS”
Sir,
I cannot understand, and must pro-
test against Kevon Kemp’s criticism of
the leading female parts in “The
Gondoliers” (Bulletin June 30), nor
his enthusiastic “wrap up” of the males
in toto.
My seat at the first matinee was
approximately that which he himself
filled (H row stalls) and, barring a little
slurred articulation of the chorus parts,
I heard an excellent rendering, which I
am quite sure must have been easily
understood further back.
The one and only disappointment I
experienced was John Larson’s singing
of “Take a Pair of Sparkling Eyes”
which resembled a gramophone needle
operating on a scratchy record instead
of the “flutey” tenor voices one is
accustomed to hear in that delightful
song, and he encored the last verse after
only a polite and mild round of
applause fin which l did not participate).
However, 1 suppose a critic has to
earn his living, but 1 hope Mr Kemp’s
other criticisms are not so biased.
H. CHAPERLIN
Coogee (NSW).
ALL THE QUEEN’S MEN
Sir,
Peter Boyce of the University of Tas-
mania (Bulletin, June 16) seems to
have neglected his own homework on
Australian Governors. In chiding Alli-
son Bowerman for inaccuracy, he writes:
“Sir Eric Woodward is not the second
but the third Australian-born Governor.
In fact, Sir Eric Woodward is neither
the second nor the third, but the fourth
Australian-born Governor. The others
were, in order, Sir John Northcott (NSW),
Sir John Lavarack (Qld.) and Sir James
Mitchell (WA).
N. G. FREUDENBERG
East Melbourne (Victoria).
COLONIALISM IN OUR
LITERATURE
Sir,
The ridiculous suggestion made by
T. H. Jones (Bulletin, June 30) that I
may be a “failed academic”—merely
because in a lecture 1 objected to too
much academic criticism of Australian
books—is typical of the sneering sort of
uninformed opinion to which my lecture
drew some attention.
My academic qualifications may be
found, on investigation, to be as good as
his own, or perhaps nearly so, but I have
never in my life applied for a university
teaching post. I have therefore neither
“failed” nor succeeded in that field, since
1 have never entered, or even attempted,
to enter it.
I can only hope that, if he remains in
Australia for another three years, he will
find it possible to relate his book-
reviewing activities to the actual life of
the 99.99 per cent, of Australian book-
buyers who have not taken an Honors
Degree in “English”. Unless he does that,
he will be a failed reviewer.
P. R. STEPHENSEN
Sydney.
ALL THE QUEEN'S MEN
Sir,
Peter J. Boyce errs in declaring
(Bulletin, June 16) that Sir Eric Wood-
ward is the third Australian-born State
Governor.
At least five State Governors were born
in Australia, namely Lord Huntingfield,
Sir John Northcott, Sir James Mitchell,
Sir John Lavarack and Sir Eric
Woodward.
N. EDGEWORTH SOMERS
Rose Bay (N.S.W.).
FILM CENSORSHIP
Sir,
A few comments on your very able
article on film censorship:
As well as the Appeals Board, Vic-
toria has another censorship institution
in the Chief Secretary’s Department,
which is empowered to sit in judgment
on films which have been passed by
the Federal Appeals Censor. In cases
of rejection, as happened recently with
William Castle’s “13 Ghosts”, there can
be no further appeal.
On the Federal sphere, if a movie is
rejected, the importer is always free to
re-submit the film “after reconstruction.”
Such films as “Terror in the Midnight
Sun”, “Dr Blood’s Coffin” and “Revolt
of the Slaves” were passed in this
manner.
Reconstruction, of course, is not al-
ways possible. The censor objected to
the principal character in Charles Laugh-
ton’s “Night of the Hunter” and the film
was banned in toto, despite the fact that
the novel on which it was based had
been serialised in the “Daily Telegraph”.
Surely the most ridiculous aspect of
Australian censorship is the outright
banning of all new horror films. Only
censors and neurotics find anything ob-
jectionable in these films. Any sane,
normal person regards them as “good
fun”. You would need to be abnormally
impressionable to be really frightened.
After all, it’s only a film! The position
is rendered more absurd by the fact that
a number of old horror films are still in
circulation.
J. H. REID (B.A.)
International Cinematographic
Association, Sydney


REVIEWS
ART
IN THE SHADOW OF DOBELL
The Helena Rubinstein Prize. Claude
Hotchin Gallery. Perth.
]V/|argaret Olley’s winning entry
ITJ. “p am B e n” j s ver y striking, and
has undeniable merits. At first glance it
is very much “school of Dobell”, but
on a closer look it resolves itself into
realistic-mannered, and gracefully bows
out of that big league. The face is well
painted, and has character; the hands
are well posed, but not well pained. The
figure in a check coat of a light, insistent
green, has solidity and presence, but the
details and the background of the canvas
are scrappy, and they upset the con-
sistency of tone which one expects to
find. The technique is electic rather than
systematic, and the haphazard texture of
the painting makes one long to send it
back with a request: “fine, please finish”.
Louis Kahan’s “Patrick White” again
is a No-Dobell—though it would clearly
love to be, and rashly invites the com-
parison. There is the classic lobster-
pose, head “skied”, and claws thrust well
under your nose, and a thick encrusted
surface of paint (or is it fibre-glass
cement?). The result alas, is not a
portrait of anyone, but something
dangerously close to a collage in kelp,
on the Idea of Boris Karloff.
The most consistently painted canvases
in the show are Kathleen O'Connor’s
“Sir Russell Dumas” and “Sketch of
Roger”, sober, but eminently painterly,
Sali Herman’s “Mawalan”, rather fine,
but hardly a portrait, and George
Voudouris’ “Portrait of Two”; this last
is a genre picture rather than a portrait,
but it is painted with a smooth illusion-
istic skill, and painted up all over. If all
the painters painted up it would be a
fine thing; and Miss O'Connor provides
a paradigm.
The finest drawing in the show is by
William and Rhoda Boissevain. Both
exhibit portaits of Pamela Geroff; Rhoda
Boissevain’s shows the most splendid,
crystalline clarity in the rendering of
the face, “a speaking likeness” full of
life and charm, but the torso and the
background are not worked up at all,
and the effect is exquisite but fragment-
ary. William Boissevain’s “Pamela” is
impressionistic in style, and more effect-
ive as a painting because it is consistently
conceived, though it is a shade less
strong in drawing. Both these paintings
rank a special commendation, which
they must get from the critics since this
year’s Rubinstein has one, and one only,
prize. And Rhoda Boissevain’s portrait
of her daughter is one of the most
charming, truthful and skilful things of
its kind that has been seen here for a
long time
Robert Juniper has two canvases in;
the panel of his wife and daughter,
painted in outline, softly tinted, against
a background of skilfully arranged
patches of accidental-seeming colour,
presents a calm, yet mobile and counter-
pointed effect which is both instantly
attractive and persistently satisfying. The
linear discipline of portraiture is, I think,
a most useful bridle to Juniper’s “Sweet
wayward muse”, and he does his repu-
tation no harm at all by reminding us
that he can, when he wants, draw a tight
sinuous line, defining spaces exactlv and
unequivocally.
The general standard of skill is up
on previous years, but there are no
Dobells (and two No-Dobells): some
splendid drawing is thrown away on
hasty paintings, and some painterly
brushwork lost in an excessive sober-
ness of tone.
PATRICK HUTCHINGS
BABYLONIAN ULYSSES
Various Painters. South Yarra Gallery.
Melbourne.
Tlalf the current exhibition at the
South Yarra Gallery is of paintings
and vitreous enamels by Joy Peck, of
Eltham. The other half is a stimulating
assortment of paintings by Don Laycock,
Robert Hughes, Clifton Pugh, John Per-
ceval, Bill Rose, Gil Jamieson and Trevor
Lahiff—which means by the way that
the figurative wins hands down.
Towering over them all is Don Lay-
cock’s “Gilgamesh”, a painting of monu-
mental dimensions and impact. Gilga-
mesh, I understand, was a Babylonian
Ulysses, who presumably had to perform
feats capable of attracting notice against
his massive surroundings. Laycock’s
image, then, is a block of solid verticals
in burning red from which emerges a
man’s heavy, symmetrically moulded
features— large circle eyes, full lips,
straight, noble nose. Across and around
the features the verticals take over, so
that the whole impression is of a vast
and ancient column, crumbling in places
to reveal the man trapped within his
work. It is in the same series and mood
as the Sphinx which he showed earlier
in the year, but even more impressive.
At this rate he will be a force to reckon
with.
Anothei who shows some develop-
ment, if not progress, is Clifton Pugh. It
is hard to come across the same faces
and think of change, but in his own very
introspective way, Pugh has branched
out. The three paintings here, connected
by titles drawn from the Orphean myth,
and loosely based on a theme of love
and estrangement, of duality of soul
within unity of flesh, make no reference
whatever to nature, but are instead
moody, perhaps over-dramatic, images
of a fantasy world.
I mention these because they show
some notable development. In fact the
whole group is happily selected, and
should be seen. The occasional small,
representative show is always welcome.
The main one-woman show, by Joy
Peck, is the work of a happy primitive.
Both paintings and enamels are attrac-
tive, the latter perhaps more so by virtue
of the material. Most of them are gay,
childlike pictures of children or bush.
Occasionally one senses a pretension to
psychology where there should only be
art —in, for example, a delightful bush
and child scene which is rendered un-
happily banal by the title “Private
World”. High faluting tags often rob the
obvious of its pleasure. But by and large
her work is charming.
BILL HANNAN


LOSE YOUR CATALOGUE
Stanislaus Rapotec. Terry Clune Gal-
leries. Sydney.
Russian Graphic Art. Art Gallery of
New South Wales.
fpHESE 13 studies on white masonite
-*■ panels, in black with occasional
browns, might be preparatory to more
large scale paintings. An immediacy of
drawing yearns for the fullness of the
big format. Once there was the hand-
writing of Rapotec, now the painter is
within a landscape, inseparable and, as
far as the studies are concerned, indistin-
guishable from it. The landscape is
somehow vaguely Australian though of
course the titles are specific, as “Expe-
riences in Rain, Cobar, Broken Hill,
Wilcannia, Murringo, Nowra” and so on.
Most interesting are the ways each
contrasts with the rest as it attempts to
explode the dichotomy of self and the
Outside. Whatever filters from without is
wrapped in a complex of linear swirls
and thrusts that means sea, rain, or the
kaleidoscopic aspect of the landscapes
named. Does it exhaust these experien-
ces? By no means.
More than ever is one aware of the
extraordinary difficulty abstract expres-
sionism faces in revealing the essence of
either artist or the old-fashioned subject.
The very denial of this duality in no
way obliterates the'wall separating both.
By an effort of muscle and will the artist
leaps over but what he finds is inextric-
ably woven into himself; only certain
aspects of either appear. Only time will
reveal the success of the movement with
this fascinating problem.
The sweeping off-circles are curiously
shared by many painters here and
abroad. In some it is a nervous wrist
twist, a safe form to enliven a dull patch,
with Rapotec it is a gesture of convic-
tion, most enjoyable, as in Hartung,
when there is no title. The fashion may
be pushing towards half-baked quasi-
mythology but Rapotec can’t be accused
of this. However, the sooner one loses the
catalogue in this show the better.
rPms exhibition was obviously chosen to
represent something of the quality
and aim of Soviet artists working in
graphic media. Had the organisers
wanted to please a sophisticated Western
audience we might have expected some-
thing quite different. That no attempt
was made to do this indicates the self-
sufficiency of the official attitude towards
aesthetic matters in Russia. Obviously a
great many artists are sincere in what
they do. Whether we accept it or not,
the forms their vision takes are remark-
ably and ironically similar to the official
bourgeoise art of fifty years ago and later,
especially of certain vintage Royal Aca-
demy years. Where today would one see
the old formulas for spacial recession
like tabs in a theatre running from dark
to light?
Some of the landscape is highly sug-
gestive of a fascinating country. The
striving after heroics in several of the
portraits and one or two propaganda
pieces are singularly hollow, yet beneath
the superstructure of illustrative intent
lurks real talent and craftsmanship.
J. HENSHAW
THEATRE
WITHOUT THE MYSTERY
The Wakefield Mystery Plays. Pro-
ducer James Lang. Cell Block
Theatre. Sydney.
The Skin of Our Teeth. Wilder.
National Institute of Dramatic Art.
Whafs New? Revue. Phillip Theatre.
T>eluctantly, I have to report that Mr
Lang's efforts ended in honorable fail-
ure The reasons why this most elaborate
production did not come through with
overwhelming power are many: casting,
which was so varied in levels of ex-
perience and attainment that the audience
was tossed into sea-sickness; staging,
which was too sophisticated for the
simple plays, and never attained a uni-
fied style; acting, which, with the one
wonderful exception of Mr Dennis
Glenny having an absolute field day as.
a Turkish-wicked Herod, was flat, self-
conscious, and lacking in purpose and
direction.
Father Genesius Jones, who prepared
the text for the production, and Mr
James Lang, both provide lengthy pro-
gramme justifications of their particular
attitudes to the plays and their staging.
Father Jones feels his mode of cut-
ting and editing is the only way; I dis-
agree completely. I am sure that a first-
class production of some of the plays of
the cycle, uncut, uncluttered, with their
language as far as possible preserved
(not put into sterile modern English as
with this production) would do far more
to recreate for modern audiences the
simple, universal beliefs and religious
comradeship of the Middle Ages than
the Lang-Jones attempt to slash the en-
tire cycle back to three hours or so.
As it stands, the effort has been
worthwhile only in some valiant histori-
cal way.
/\ut at the National Institute of
Dramatic Art, where we can with
some confidence expect either very good
or plain mediocre theatre, the visiting
American drama authority, Professor
Norman Philbrick, produced Thornton
Wilder’s “The Skin Of Our Teeth”.
Most of the acting came from second-
hand references, and so lacked ultimate
conviction. Mr Brian Harold as Mr
Antrobus, the essential man, the guy
who comes through . . . through the Ice
Age, through the Flood, through the
wars, showed talent, while Miss Sandra
Gleeson, as a flighty perennial “other
woman” in his life, and Miss Lynette
Coburn, as- Mrs Antrobus, made brave
efforts at the true style of comedy.
“What's New?”, the latest F'hillip
Theatre Revue, with eleven new
faces carrying the entire show, got off
to a nervous but promising start last
week.
Arlene Dorgan, with good looks and
verve; Barry Creyton, with presence and
professional competence (even if a few
voice mannerisms from East Lynne are
left over); Reg Gorman, with an excel-
lent gift for quick, sharp character (he
has an inspired bit of fooling when he
becomes entangled with a park seat just
as two lovers sitting in it are singing a
passioned farewell); and Earle Cross,
who gives out a true fire of enthusiasm,
. . . these appeal most obviously.
KEVON KEMP
AT THE WORKSHOP
The Bolshoi Ballet. His Majesty’s.
Perth.
HThis is less a night at the ballet than
a night at the ballet workshop. The
excerpts and divertissements are per-
formed without benefit of scenery and
under lighting so elementary and un-
inspired that it is often more hindrance
than help. For instance, in the excerpt
from “Swan Lake” the dancers move
around in a murky midnight blue haze;
the principals have the benefit of the
spotlights, but the corps de ballet are
frequently lost in the gloom. The pian-
ists, though competent, are uninspired
and, I suspect, what are usually describ-
ed as rehearsal pianists.
All of this affected both audience and
dancers. The programme (on the night
I saw it) was almost half completed
before any real rapport existed between
them. The dancers, probably in an


attempt to ignore the lack of support in
presentation, were rather too intellectual
in their approach.
Under these circumstances, the second
act of “Swan Lake” seems hardly a wise
choice for the opening. It is melancholy,
unspectacular—especially with a reduced
corps and inconclusive, though the
“Little Swans” were, as always, enchant-
ing. And Nina Chistova’s “Odette” was
exquisite.
Generally, the items seemed carelessly
chosen and assembled without any
thought to balance or design. The
“Memorial to Heroes”, performed to
some entirely unmemorable music by
Potapoff, depicts in a pseudo-realist way
(under blood-red spots) Russian men in
battle. It is dedicated to the heroes of
World War II who, had they the oppor-
tunity, might well have shot the choreo-
grapher for attempting to immortalise
them with such obvious, maudlin melo-
drama. It is sentimentally carried almost
to the point of idiocy.
Still, there are some wonderfully
exciting moments. The item modestly
described as “Acrobatic Dance” is well
worth the admission on its own.
An item aptly named in several senses
is “Spring Years”, an exercise for the
youthful, calling for impetuous interpreta-
tion and stunning vigor and fearlessness.
The performances of Ludmilla Bogo-
molova and Gennadi Ledvahk i.i this may
be (as they say) equalled but never
bettered.
MARY LORD
SUMMER WHEN IT SIZZLES
AH Summer Long. Robert Anderson.
Melbourne Little Theatre.
A ll summer long Mother and Dad,
Willy, Don and Ruth, snarl at each
other and worry about sex. Willy is
twelve years old, and this is his “im-
portant summer” (an expression used
throughout the play as though it were
a technical term in adolescent psychol-
ogy). His teacher has written to his
parents asking that they be especially
considerate but Dad, who didn’t want
Willy anyway, is a sour old boy with
a garden to protect and newspapers to
read, Mother is pious but ineffectual,
big brother Don is a smashed-up basket-
ball player with problems of his own,
and married sister Ruth is pregnant and
hates it.
So, Willy picks up his knowledge in
all the wrong ways, and Mr Anderson
makes his point. The trouble is that the
point has been obvious from the start,
and is as well made as it ever will be
by the time the main characters are
properly established that is, at a gen-
erous estimate, by about the end of scene
three. The remaining six scenes are a
dead loss.
Irene Mitchell gives the play a better
production than it deserves, and John
Truscott’s set is, as usual, very good
indeed. The best acting comes in two
of the least important parts from
Jeffrey Hodgson as Ruth’s poor fool
of a husband, and from Wendy Dunne
as Willy’s girl-friend from next door.
The others are all reasonably good.
JAMES MURPHY
ROOMS WITHOUT A VIEW
The Rooms. Rodney Ackland. Can-
berra Theatre Players.
“TTPhe Old Ladies,” from which this play
is taken, was routine Hugh Wal-
pole, if I remember rightly: strong on
suspense but weak on insight. This adap-
tation by Rodney Ackland is also
routine, dialogue and incidents straight
from the original placed without much
effort on to a stage divided into three
rooms side by side.
Here the three poor, lonely, elderly
women play out their claustrophobic
drama. This is not quite “the horror of
triviality and the triviality of horror”
that the programme claims. With three
such fine performances, with clever light-
ing and such conscientious but unobtru-
sive production, the play went far beyond
the limits implied by this neat antithesis.
The triviality of the “old ladies’ ” daily
lives was horrifying certainly, but it was
also pathetic. In the case of Miss Beren-
ger, it is even tragic, so completely con-
vincing was Valeska Stewart’s portrayal
of the defenceless, terror-ridden foreigner.
Nor was the horror of the play trivial.
It had small beginnings, in Miss Beren-
ger’s one valuable possession, the amber
whose beauty fired the unstable gypsy
blood of Mrs Pine, but it had grown to
something vast and monstrous by the
last act. Joyce Graham as Mrs Pine
dominated the stage as she dominated the
unhappy Miss Berenger.
The third old lady, Mrs Amorest,
played by Jessica Gibson, balances the
psychopathic condition of the other two.
With less to work on, yet she established
her particular role of common-sense,
kindliness and quiet courage to our com-
plete satisfaction, and also to our com-
fort in the mounting tension of the play.
The one place where this distinguished
performance broke down was, unfortu-
nately, at the very end. The fault, I sus-
pect, was Mr Ackland’s. Mrs Amorest
is our one stable factor: we must be
certain about her.
HOPE HEWITT
MUSIC
WELL-MANNERED
Leonid Kogan Recital. Melbourne.
T'here must have been a good many
people who went to hear Leonid
Kogan knowing, like myself, little more
about him than you can gather from
the spectacular recording of the Pag-
anini concerto which he made a couple
of years ago.
We were in for something of a sur-
prise, for there is nothing at all spec-
tacular about his playing, unless you
except the superlative command of
technique. It is in fact the reverse of
spectacular. It abjures all glitter and ex-
ternal display, takes no pride in a show
of strength. Bravura and ostentation are
quite foreign to its delicate style.
What Mr Kogan does cultivate is a
superb and very sweet grace. This does
not suit all music equally well. Some-
thing more rugged and fiery may have
been called fo~ in the Kreutzer Sonata,
which I have heard successfully played
with an edge even of roughness to the
bow.
This persuasive power rested, 1 think,
on something more than the impeccable
mastery of technique the smooth, light
and even bowing, the agility of figura-
tion, and the flawless intonation. If it is
true that every age sees great music in
a new way, in a light generated by the
current of thought of that age and re-
vealing the facts of the music in a way
that age can best assimilate then, I
would say, the central factor determin-
ing Mr Kogan’s style is that he shows us
the music through the eyes of a gentler
age than our own. His playing has a
suavity and charm very much akin to
those we find in the music of the second
generation of romantics, say Schumann
or Mendelssohn. This has an intensity
of its own, which is still profoundly dif-
ferent from the fervor of Chopin and
Berlioz; and I would not want to say
that Mr Kogan’s playing, though sweet,
is superficially sweet. But it does, over
a wide range of music, show a very re-
markable consistency of sentiment, and
this sentiment is not the one most typi-
cal of the music of our time, or even
the music of recent generations.
The Vivaldi sonata which opened one
of his programmes was in itself evidence
enough of this. Whatever was square
and muscular about Vivaldi became soft
and rounded in this performance. The
spiky line and rather jerky movement,
more or less common to all the Italian
fiddlers of the late baroque, were here
much subdued. In their place we had a
delicate smoothness of phrasing which
at times almost suggested a sigh, and a
lyrical continuity of tone which made
a song even of the fast movements.
KENNETTH HINCE


I Remember! I Remember! Sean
OTaolain. Hart-Davis. 22s. 6d.
THE RED PAGE
DEAR OLD NOSTALGIA
By PAUL SMITH
Tf an Irish writer may be permitted to
say of himself and his fellows that
our genius (when we've got any) is for
creation rather than analysis then let
me say it herewith. We can put together
a plot, a character or a simple yarn
quicker than we can break down any of
these things into its parts. Oh, we can
pull a thing to pieces with ease and joy,
and leave it a ruin; but Shaw is the only
notable Irish critic of the past who was
both destructive in this easy joyful way
and illuminating as well. In the past two
decades it is Sean O’Faoiain who has
been the exception. He has well proved
his talent for analysis, and two books
especially, one on the novel and one on
the short story, have not only clarified
the vision of today's Common Reader,
but have also illuminated today’s fiction.
This is what a critic should do, and this
is where Mr O’Faoiain is at home.
The Vanishing Hero, Studies in Novel-
ists of the Twenties, published in 1956,
sweeps tidy a number of stables that had
been cluttered by the droppings of the
Academic Critics and, instead of the
lead-weights of Leavis, lends wings or
anything else you’d care to mention that
lifts, elevates and lets soar.
In this book, O’Faoiain discusses Hux-
ley, Waugh, Greene, Faulkner, Hem-
ingway, Bowen, Woolf and Joyce; and
his examination of the “anti-hero” has
been, and should for some time remain
source-book and stimulus to younger
critics. I do not agree with a single
word that Mr O'Faoiain has to say about
Faulkner, but his percipient antagonism
has nevertheless enriched my under-
standing of that great writer. This is
something else a critic should do. And
we are so much the better off if he also
provides us with working definitions like
that of the novel:
“. . . a prose narrative dealing with a
number of characters whom the author
succeeds in making interesting and per-
suasive, and whom he deploys in a
manner that, within his view of life, he
considers fitting, and we with him.
“In a novel,” he concludes, “fitness
is all.”
And in a short story?
The answer to that question, Sean
O’Faoiain has given by example and by
precept. In The Short Story, published
in 1948, he wrote:
“There is still adventure; but it is now
an adventure of the mind. There is sus-
pense, but it is less a nervous suspense
than an emotional or intellectual sus-
pense. There is surprise, and plenty
of it; but it is no longer the surprise
of the man who opens a door and finds
that a corpse falls out, but the surprise
of a man who opens a cupboard and
finds that a skeleton falls out. There is
climax, but it is not the climax of the
woman who discovers her lost jewels in
the hat-box but the climax of the woman
who discovers her lost happiness in a
memory.”
And so on. I have come far enough
now to proceed to my own response to
Mr O’Faolain’s newly published collec-
tion of short stories, 1 Remember! 1 Re-
member!
First of all, the exclamation points are
a cheat. There is very little to exclaim
over in these stories neither in the
characters, nor what they say, nor the
situations in which they find themselves.
Hardly a character puts himself any-
where. Things happen: this is ‘Life’. And
Life, for Mr O’Faolain’s characters is
nostalgia. Dear Old Nostalgia, alma
mater to us all! But hardly all of life.
The eleven stories in the book range
from Ardagh in the Irish provinces to
Bari, just above Italy’s heel. But the
characters are mostly Irish provincial,
as is the vision of the artist. There is a
sameness, not only in the nostalgic mood
but in its repercussions: regret, even
remorse (usually for something not done,
rather than for something done), frus-
tration, futility. This may be Mr O’Fao-
lain’s view of the human condition, but
he must convince us that it is valid.
His characters are not always ‘persuas-
ive’, they are not even very ‘interesting’.
The writing is more ‘interesting’ by far.
T>lot is decidedly not of the essence in
Mr O’Faolain’s rule-book. Is charac-
ter then? Then character must be more
convincingly drawn. It is essential that a
reader’s response be something along the
admiring lines of: This man really knows
people! My own disbelief not wil-
lingly, but wilfully suspended earlier on—
came rushing back and would not hence-
forth depart when I read this thought of
a woman mocking herself in a mirror:
“Thirty-four, and still thinking of
Vamor?” This from a sensual and witty
Irishwoman who had enjoyed a small
success as an opera singer in Italy,
married an Italian nobleman, lived a
sophisticated and luxurious life for sev-
eral years and returned to Dublin after
her husband's death. Still thinking of
Vamor at thirty-four? I should bloody
well hope so! And at forty-four. It goes
with the package.
The story concerned is “One Night in
Turin” and is about a proposal of mar-
riage (to the opera singer) which is
rehearsed but never made. Another
story, “Love's Young Dream”, is about
a sixteen-year-old boy and a twenty-year-
old girl who spend a night in each other's
arms.
“. . . as harmless as doves, as innocent
as lambs, simply because I as I
thought then, but as I see now both of
us—had not known what else to do.”. . .
youthful passion never consummated.
Still another story, “A Touch of Autumn
in the Air'', seems to be about something
that almost happened and something else
that may have happened; but the pro-
tagonist, a man over eighty, isn’t sure.
What emerges in most of these stories
is the theme of What-Didn’t-Happen. Is
Mr O'Faoiain exploring outward from
Mr Huxley's ideas on Non-Existence
into an area that might be called the Non-
Event? The Non-Event springs from In-
action and, in O’Faolain's world, has
as much force, certainly as much reali-
ty, as events which spring from action.
This world can be a grandly comic world,
as in “Angels and Ministers of Grace”
where The Garden of Eden, the Apple,
Adam’s mouth and the angels' various
appurtenances are explained away as
‘figures of speech’. But the vagueness or
the simple fatuity of the Non-Event in
the more serious stories precludes ab-
sorbing interest in it, as does the elusive
characterisation. One asks: are all the
gentlemen Mr O'Faoiain himself at some
stage or other? For all the ladies seem
to be one beautiful lady with “corn-fair”
hair and, usually, cornflower eyes.
The patterns of character and theme
and all the Non-Events being much of a
muchness, one is persuaded to fit them
to a definition, the definition being Mr
O'Faolain’s quoted above. Here, there
is something we can call “adventure”,
not of the mind, however, but of ten-
uous and tenuously described feelings.
Here is a certain amount of surprise, but
the skeleton doesn't fall out of the cup-
board, it is sitting on the floor a pile of
dust. The climax is that of a woman or
man who discovers Non-Happiness in a
Non-Memory.
Sean O'Faoiain is a noted stylist. I
dislike the word, but it is at ieast a word
that says what it means: a man who
pays care and attention to style. And in
this collection such care is found, though
not to the same extent as in previous
fiction. The images are getting out of
control, they roam over sea and sky and
into bamboo groves, or they are trite.
Words escape “iike pigeons”, a young
lad is (by a more experienced girl)
crushed “like a moth”, a woman is like


“a peach ripened to the full point when
it ought to be picked and eaten at once.”
Emotional analysis is imprecise or dub-
ious:
“He felt that triple pain of emptiness,
inertia and frustration which man calls
loneliness.”
True for all men? Not true for me.
And, in any - case, the tone is ponti-
fical.
Sean O'Faolain in both style and mind
possesses a noted astringency. His essays
on his fellow-countrymen are wise, witty
and, I hope, have enraged thousands
from Donegal to Wexford. But his
power there, as in his literary criticism,
lies in his un-Irish knack for clear edify-
ing analysis. Perhaps astringency is im-
possible without that clarity of vision.
O'Faolain has it when he is writing about
words and national attitudes. He does
not have it when he creates situations
and characters. He once wrote:
“. . . if some reader says that all one
has to do in order to write short-stories
is, apparently, to feel something desper-
ately and to say it in the least possible
number of words, I agree to that also.”
I can, by no stretch of my not in-
considerable powers of credulity, believe
that Sean O’Faolain felt “desperately”
about the little world of I Remember!
I Remember!
PAUL SMITH
THEORY OF THE COUP D'ETAT
The Conspirators. A study of the Coup
d’etat by D. J. Goodspeed. Mac-
millan. 31s.
Tf you cannot stand your government,
why not try a coup d’etat? It is
superior to popular revolution because
it can be more easily controlled; it is
cheaper in both men and money than a
civil war; it is more reliable and less
laborious than the democratic process.
It is, furthermore, by no means a for-
tuitous manner of gaining power, but is
susceptible to a general theory which in
his book Major Goodspeed is at pains to
elaborate. As a Canadian he, of course,
prefers democratic methods to which in
a concluding paragraph he pays a slightly
artificial tribute. But as a military his-
torian he is clearly fascinated by the
coup d’etat. Thus he says of the Serbian
coup in 1903 “If one ignores the brutality
of the murders and concentrates instead
only on the precision and efficiency of
the operation, it is impossible to with-
hold admiration.”
A conflict between the democrat and
the soldier runs through the whole study.
It is in appearance a very military book.
Facts are ruthlessly marshalled and
theories rigorously tested. Six different
“coups” (three failures, three successes)
are drawn up on the parade ground for
our inspection. They are those of
Belgrade 1903, Dublin 1916, Petrograd
1917, Berlin 1920, Rome 1922 and
Rastenburg 1944 (better known as the
20th July plot against Hitler). Major
Goodspeed handles his knowledge easily
and the civilian reader is amazed at
seeing the wise men of all ages dutifully
marching in to the front line at his
command. Thus Plato: “Even in the
normal course of events (as Plato pointed
out), the kind of men most attracted to
political power are seldom the best fitted
to wield it.” This is slick but has a kind
of rough efficiency which characterises
the book as a whole. It is racily and
engagingly entertaining and Major Good-
speed, the democrat, emerges as a dis-
armingly sympathetic figure. He has a
flair for anecdote and in at least one of
the coups d’etat he decribes (Rastenburg)
the chief actor (Stauffenberg) attains a
kind of heroic grandeur.
Nevertheless there are some doubts
about his method. He appears to ex-
amine six different coups empirically and
then draw general conclusions from
them. At the same time his love of detail
makes him clothe his ideas in a dramatic
prose full of cheap thrills. Thus we are
told in one coup; “By ten the rain had
stopped, but the sky remained dark and
overcast and thunder still muttered about
the top of Avala Hill and in the Rudink
Mountains to the south”. Or when Hitler
describes the attempts to murder him to
Mussolini we learn that “Mussolini’s
eyes, large and protruding at the best of
times, seemed almost to pop out of his
head as he listened!” This taste for the
melodramatic does not destroy our faith
in his theories but it suggests that the
theory, which is contained in the last
chapter, is the substance of his book,
and that the historical narration, which
is at best unoriginal, has merely been
added for popular consumption. The
empirical appearance of the book is
quite delusive. Those who wish to be
entertained should read the historical
chapters; those who wish to find a theory
of the coup d’etat should read the con-
cluding analysis. For it is here, if at all,
that the author has a real contribution
to make.
He has certainly succeeded in present-
ing a scheme which future students of
the topic will be unable to ignore. He
has worked out the relative importance
of the forces opposing a coup (the armed
forces, public opinion, foreign powers);
he has distinguished three phases—
preparatory, attack and consolidation—
and within each one has assigned due
roles to tactical and strategic considera-
tions. It is very convincing and the only
objection I would raise is that he fails
to analyse the kind of society in which
a coup d’etat is feasible. In particular,
why were there not more analyses of
attempted coups in totalitarian states?
The only example quoted (Germany
1944) seems to contradict Goodspeed’s
belief that even such highly organised
states are exposed. For if the Hitler-
state drove men to revolt it also cowed
them sufficiently to make the attempt
ineffectual. This failing causes a feeling
of uneasiness but does not invalidate an
illuminating book.
RODNEY LIVINGSTONE
THE MAN ON THE CLAPHAM BUS
The Law as Literature. Selected by
Louis Blom-Cooper. Bodley Head.
375. 3d.
JJhe recent growth of legal journalism
in England has naturally been helped
along by the sudden occurrence of some
dramatic cases raising or challenging the
first principles of English social life —
for example the “Lady Chatterley’s
Lover” case and the Electrical Trades
Union case when some members of the
Union sued the Communist “leaders” of
the Union with conspiracy to rig ballots.
C. H. Rolph quickly produced a book
on each of these cases which by their
combination of legal knowledge and
journalistic skill set a standard for
modern legal journalism.
The most solid products of this revival
of general interest in legal fights is “The
Law as Literature” an anthology of
“great writing in and about the law”.
Under a title as loose as this the editor
Louis Blom-Cooper, the legal correspon-
dent of the London “Guardian” and
“Observer”, has been able to bring
together everything from Socrates’
“Apology’ to Gandhi’s refusal to apolo-
gise, from Carlyle’s blasphemy trial in
1819 to Laski’s libel case in 1945,
from Mencken on the Scopes trial in
1925, to James Morris on the Powers
trial in 1960.
It would be easy, and pointless, to
quibble over the range of the book.
Though all of it is “in and about the
law” much of it is not “great writing”
and one chapter is not writing at all in
any usual sense—that is “Sir Richard
Muir’s Notes for the Prosecution of Dr
Crippen” which were found among
Muir's papers after his death and are
(rightly) published for their scoop value


A BOOK SOCIETY RECOMMENDATION . . .
THE YOUNG WIFE
by
DAVID MARTIN
A powerful novel, rich in conflict,
of a Cypriot girl in /
"Perhaps the first Australian novel to deal truthfully with love."
—Alan Marshall.
Published today by MACMILLAN
Australian retail 22/6
and because they show how a great cri-
minal lawyer prepares himself for a
prosecution.
Since there is something for every-
body in the book —lives of great lawyers,
accounts of great cases, debates on the
death penalty—and they are all good,
one can do little more than recommend
the book and arbitrarily select one topi-
cal chapter for special mention
H. L. A. Hart’s article on Sir Patrick
Devlin’s oration on sin and crime. At-
tacking the popular liberal view that the
criminal law should not be concerned to
punish private immorality, for example,
fornication or homosexuality between
consenting adults, Sir Patrick Devlin
dismissed the usual conservative view
that the law is “rational” or divine, but
argued that its function is to preserve
“the integrity of society”, which in prac-
tice means the law should punish acts
which make the man on the Clapliam
omnibus feel sick with disgust. That a
particular man does not react like that to
fornication and the law does not make
fornication a crime; but if he does react
like that to homosexuality the law should
punish it and continue to do so until,
and if, the man on the Clapham bus
changes his mind. To which Hart replied
that this is democracy run mad, that
the law must not be based on the super-
stitions of the man in the street, that
the reactions of the Clapham man often
disgust other men, that criticism and
knowledge must guide the legislator as
well as public prejudice. In his turn no
doubt Devlin would reply that he has no
objection to people persuading the man
on the Clapham omnibus to change his
mind, but if there is too great a gap
between the law and the attitudes of the
man in the street, all laws, including the
reformed ones, will be treated with con-
tempt.
It is an unending debate but a central
one, and the great cases are often just
those ones where two irreconcilable
moral attitudes (or system of disgust)
compete for the law’s approval. It is a
pity that Australian cases of this type
are so rarely written up in books. Since
the war there has been Ken Inglis’s
brilliant book on the Stuart case,
W. H. C. Eddy’s book on the Orr case,
and earlier on Brian Penton’s “Censored”
about the suppression of newspapers in
1944. But in between there have been
several great cases that would have
made fascinating studies—Laurie Short’s
contest with Thornton, for example, or
the Petrov case. We suffer in this
country from a scarcity of legal journ-
alists.
PETER COLEMAN
A STONE OF LOVE
The Young Wife. David Martin. Mac-
millan. 225. 6d.
fjpms book is more than another good
novel, it is a landmark. Centred
about a Greek family living in Mel-
bourne, it concerns the fortunes of many
migrants whose paths cross and whose
lives come to interlock. Its structure,
indeed its whole approach is ramified,
and more complicated than a first, quick
reading suggests. One reads “The Young
Wife” fairly rapidly, impelled by the
interest of its plot and the fascination
of its characters. Yet it deserves and
indeed forces one’s thoughts to return
to its implications after the last page
is turned.
No doubt “The Young Wife” will be
only the first of an eventual spate of
novels which will (as good novels should),
tell us far more about the “New Aus-
tralians” in our midst than any number
of official statements by the Immigra-
tion Department, or sociological surveys
conducted by universities and other
bodies. I have called this book a land-
mark because I think it is the first in our
literature to consider what one might
term “non-refugee" migrants. To some
extent anyone who travels across the
world to begin a new life in a strange
land is a refugee from something, whether
himself, his family, want or dullness.
(What sends some Australians to live per-
manently in Europe?) But the refugees in,
for instance, “Riders in the Chariot” have
fled a defined oppression. David Martin's
Greeks and Italians are not refugees in
this sense.
This very versatile David Martin is
Hungarian by birth—“served the Spanish
Republic during the Civil War; lived in
India; worked with the 8.8. C., London
‘Daily Express’ and for three years as
literary editor of ‘Reynolds News’
London . . etc, etc. He has lived in
Australia (and now in Melbourne) since
1949.
Martin always writes well in English,
often felicitously and often very beauti-
fully. But I do not think he can be said
to have contributed anything very
flavorsome or surprising (in the sense of
a foreign or “outside” approach) to
English prose. In “The Young Wife” his
matter is always more important than his
manner.
The book opens with one of his poems
expressing man’s plea for understanding
of “how each is martyred by his bitter
longing,” for “all must carry their stone
of love, and carry it alone.”
From this we are introduced early to
Anna, the young wife whose day of
arrival by migrant ship is magnificently
described. Anna has been imported to
marry Yannis, a greengrocer—the less
successful of the two Joannides brothers.
Alexi, the successful one. is an entre-
preneur of so many things that even their
ancient, blind mother who is nearly as
farseeing as, though less impartial than,
Justice, cannot follow all the intricacies
of his business pursuits. By the same
ship as Anna a young Cypriot. Criton,
reaches Australia. Criton is a well-educa-
ted, artistically gifted youth who carries
a secret and intolerable burden of guilt
as a result of his schoolboy involvement
with EOKA.
Among the Joannides' Melbourne
acquaintances are Professor and Mrs
Barwing; he is a brilliant archaeologist
who feels his life has not fulfilled its
early promise. His women undergraduate
students nickname him “Koala" and have
composed a triolet beginning “He loves
the student body” in his honor. Mrs
Barwing shares her husband's interest in
Greek people, custom, art and drama.
She is a wealthy, proud, cold-looking
woman who, as the novel begins, has
reached a point of despair concerning
her failing marriage and deep un-
happiness.
Martin’s tragic story is set against a
background of rivalries: political, reli-
gious, sporting, racial and personal.
Ironically it is the Barwings (“innocently”
corrupt, pitiful couple) who so love
Greek people ancient and modern, who
really precipitate all the troubles. “They
picked you up” (says Criton to Anna)
“as they picked me up, but they don’t


respect what you are.” An Australian-
born girl who loves Criton says possibly
the most significant words in the book.
Criton, telling her about Cyprus has said
that in Australia “The people are the
same.” She replies: “Women are, per
haps, 1 am not so sure about men.'
. . . “I mean”, she went on, “havin
babies, cooking, getting the kids off tc
school. That’s *b» same most place:
But men . . . they do the things that are
not the same. Take all that trouble in
your country. I don’t say that our men
are better. But they’d tackle it differ-
ently.”
“One day,” he said, “I’ll be an Austra-
I an.”
“It’s not so easy, that.” She fell silent,
ollowing the trend of her thoughts. .
NANCY KEESP
FIELD GUIDE TO WESTERN BIRDS
Birds of Western Australia. D. L. Ser-
venty, H. M. Whittell, illustrated by
Olive Seymour, H. O. Webster, P.
Slater and G. E. Binsted. Paterson
Brokensha. 50s.
HThe third edition of “Birds of Western
A Australia” is a complete revision of
its predecessor but maintains the same
high standard and is enlarged by the
inclusion of two more plates.
The 369 species described in detail are
found south of the Kimberley Division
of Western Australia, but it should not
be inferred from this that the book is
purely parochial, for the discussions on
distribution, seasonal movements, migra-
don and nesting will interest every bir.J
over.
Readers may find it difficult to recon
cile references to the “extinct” Noisy
Scrub Bird in the earlier pages of the
book with later reports of its re-
discovery. This discrepancy is due to the
fact that the book was already with the
printer when the important find was
made.
The description is designed particu-
larly to help in field identification and
the bird order follows generally the
sequence given in “Peter Check List of
Birds of the World”, and conforms with
modern trends.
C. F. H. JENKINS
MIDDLE RUNG HEROES
A Pattern of Government Growth,
1800-1860; The Passenger Acts and
Their Enforcement. Oliver Mac-
donagh. Macgibbon and Kee. 355.
Tn the first three-quarters of the nine-
teenth century seven and a half
million people emigrated from Britain.
During the Irish potato famines of 1845-
51 this flow became a flood, one of the
largest movements of population in
modern times. Such an upheaval pre-
sented opportunities to the smart oper-
ator, the “fixer”, and it is with the abuses
which followed that Mr Macdonagh's
book is concerned. His thesis is that
major changes in administrative policy
are not always wrought by “master-
bureaucrats, philanthropists and re-
formers, ideologues and pressure groups,
newspapers and novelists”, but sometimes
by the man on the spot. His hero is “the
humdrum executive officer” on the
middle rung of the ladder.
Illiterate, near destitute, and desperate
to reach the new land, the migrants were
fleeced all the way from Liverpool to
New York. Some of them escaped their
ordeal by dying on the way. The rest
travelled for weeks in ships designed
only to carry cargo. Only the children
could stand upright in steerage. In fine
weather ventilation was through open
hatchwavs; in foul weather there was
none. There was no sanitary system and
no privacv, no food provided and no
cooking facilities for what they had
brought. Predictably, the six weeks'
voyage killed as many as 40 per cent, of
the passengers.
A year or so back the shipping of
horses from Ireland in similar conditions
raised a hullabaloo that was heard (and
heeded) across the Channel. But our
forefathers realised that state intervention
fed on itself, and brushed sentiment
aside. As “The Economist” commented
at the time:
“Shipping is one of the ordinary
businesses of individuals, and if Govern-
ments are to prevent negligence in carry-
ing it out, it ought to have boards to
watch over the business habits and
conduct of all tailors, shoemakers and
merchants in the kingdom.”
Nevertheless “supervision” of the
traffic was begun, and Macdonagh shows
how, once this first step had been taken,
full control eventually followed. Even
to supervise, a field executive was needed.
These officers—the “humdrum” heroes
o f the book —Dressed for further legisla-
tion, for a central executive and so on.
Thev became experts in the field. They
produced reports of conditions which
gave further fuel to reformers in and out
of Parliament. And bv 1860 they reaped
the reward of their persistence: a great
administrative machine.
The storv is concisely told and, given
the nature of the tonic, the book is not
so dull as it might have been. But it
seems unlikelv that the Macdonagh
thesis will sweep the world of public
administration. The initial impulse to
“supervise” came, we are told, from “a
Liverpool philanthropist, Rowland Ed-
wards”, from the report of the British
consul in New York, and from the mayor
and citizens of Liverpool. All three
would seem to fit comfortably enough
under the tag of “master-bureaucrats,
philanthropists and reformers”. And —at
the risk of seeing one under every file —
the emigrant executive officers sound
amazingly like a pressure group.
PETER WESTERWAY
THIRSTY WORK
irospero’s Cell. Lawrence Durrell.
Faber. 7s. 6d.
JT'veryone, they say, has a book in them
about Paris. The same might be
said of Greece, and Lawrence Durrell, on
the first page of this tribute to Corfu, has
an explanation for the phenomenon:
“Other countries may offer you discover-
ies in manners or lore or landscape:
Greece offers you something harder—the
discovery of yourself." The trouble with
“Prospero’s Cell" is that its following one
hundred and thirty pages pretty well
refute the proposition; they are concern-
ed almost entirely with manners, lore
and the interpretation of the island's rich
landscape.
Devotees of the “Quartet” will not be
disappointed. The moods of sea and sky
are evoked in passages as beautifully
over-written as anything in the series;
Durrell’s eye for the bizarre has never
been keener; the whole is seen through
the same rose-colored nostalgia for a pre-
war past.
As usual, the best things are the set
pieces: a fishing trip by torchlight, an
excursion into one of the great labyrin-
thine caves at Paleocastrizza, and into
the legend (equally labyrinthine) of the
island's patron, St Spiridion. Best of ail
is the hotch-potch account, written, as
Durrell says of another work, “in the
true Corcyrean spirit, gay, mendacious
and self-assured”, of the island's chang-
ing fortunes and of those figures, from
Odesseus to Edward Lear, who found
here “a landscape for resolutions and
partings... a landscape which precipi-
tates the inward crisis of lives as yet not
fully worked-out”.
All this is fine. But one wishes that
Durrell’s own characters had discovered
here something more than a stimulus to
endless discussion of the local folk-lore
and potted anecdotes about themselves
and one another. As one of them aptly
remarks: “It’s thirsty work talking like a
Norman Douglas character”.
DAVID MALOUF


The Wild
Cat Pages and
THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
CHANGE COMING IN
CHARGES ON CHEQUES
A ustralian trading banks have been
examining for several years charges
made on cheque accounts. Preliminary
discussions by the bankers resulted in
an “interim” doubling of the previous
ridiculous fee of £1 a year for cheque
accounts 18 months ago.
Now it is believed the outmoded and,
in part, iniquitous inland exchange
provision has come under very close
scrutiny—and it will be abolished.
Inland exchange was invented to
allow the banks to recoup handling
charges ot cheques (postage, etc.), and
interest lost during delayed processing,
as well as to allow for the obvious “risk”
element carried by the banks in long-
distance transactions.
The cost of inland exchange to the
customer varies considerably. Between
capital cities, for instance, it comes out
at 2s. 6d. p.c., with an upper maximum.
Within a State, such as NSW, the rate
could be assessed at 2s. p.c.
This rate jumps considerably to 17s.
6d. p.c. for a transaction between Sydney
and, say. Broome.
The “risk’ element has tapered off
considerably with the development of
modern communications; handling fees
are less of a burden. The loss of interest
in the delayed transmission, in fact, re-
mains the major factor in justification
for a special exchange fee. But there is
no real reference between the set fees
and the costs involved.
People living in “determined’ 1 ’ rural
areas are adversely affected—as indeed,
are people in outlying suburban groups.
For instance, the people of Penrith pay
an exchange on cheques; the people of
Blacktown some 10 miles away do not.
Thus, city accounts are favored.
This matter of wholesale change in
bank fees can revolve around an aboli-
tion of inland exchange. Overseas
methods place a charge on cheques
which covers all bank costs involved in
the transfer of funds.
At present, the actual cheque cost in
Australia is the Stamp Duty involved.
It would not surprise if the cost of
cheques was increased to cover the banks’
service charges inland exchange and
annual account fee. There is little likeli-
hood at this stage that the alterations
will mean any great change in the cost
to the average customer.
Clearing up of this matter could lead
to examination of the overdraft system,
its attributes and its disadvantages. Per-
haps we will see the day when undrawn
overdrafts attract a punitive fee.
One cannot deny the need for certain
borrowing areas, such as pastoral,
to have a flexible limit which may be
drawn on at peak periods. However,
that the overdraft system allows estab-
lished enterprise to hold a capital “re-
serve” in a bank—at the expense of new
or less creditworthy organisations—ap-
pears as an inefficient use of bank re-
sources, and certainly is in need of
correction.
City Diary
“It’s a mystery to me what an oil com-
pany has to do to please the investing
public,” Mr E. N. Avery, chairman of
the Associated Oil group, stated on top
of the Moonie No. 4 news last week.
We dimly know, we need not tell.
There are presumably periods in the
best conducted oil markets when the
subtleties of cross-leases, farmouts and
similar unproductive moves do not prove
satisfying enough for the “public”.
IVlany businessmen remain severely un-
-*■*-*■ impressed by the Federal Govern-
ment’s repeated and much trumpeted
consultations with industrial and com-
mercial interests. The Government sure-
ly has regular and less publicised meth-
ods of getting the required information,
they believe. Anyhow, its job is to
recognise and resolve pressures, not con-
vey a feeling of possibly yielding to
them.
T>arties concerned in Chevron Sydney’s
multi-fronted struggle for survival
may try to draw some hope from the
exact site of the latest Press conference
held of all places in the hotel’s
Troubadour Room. Do omens point to
a better fate than earlier versions of
hara-kiri which took place in the Mel-
bourne Chevron Bamboo Room?
Perhaps to many the most recent
financial plans look too much like
shreds and patches anyhow. And
directors harp on the same old songs.
Colin Street
INDEX
Sir Douglas Copland on
Growth 42
Whirl in Oil 43
Economics Anonymous . .... 44
Commonwealth Bank Jubilee 45
Investment Section 46
Talk on ’Change 46-49
Security 51
Behind the Balance Sheets 52-53
Speculator’s Diary 54
One to Buy 55
Share Market . 56
Big Building Projects .. 58-59
Man on the Land 60-61


SIR DOUGLAS COPLAND ON GROWTH RATE
Qtaunchest of all advocates of growth,
Sir Douglas Copland told the
Bankers’ Institute in Melbourne last week
that to provide for the required rise of
4 p.c. in employment in each of the
next two years to get full employment,
the economy would have to achieve a
growth rate of 6 p.c. a year com-
pared with the relatively high rate of
4.3 p.c. average growth a year in
recent years. In numbers, he said, we
would have to find work for an additional
170.000 in each of 1962-63 and 1963-64.
As well as finding work for 240,000
increase in the work force, it would be
necessary to accommodate the present
100,000 or so unemployed.
While not offering a precise prescrip-
tion for .achieving this, Sir Douglas dis-
cussed at length three major problems
involved in developing an overall plan to
meet the situation. Broadly speaking he
thought these problems were to get the
appropriate rate of investment, to main-
tain a sound balance of payments and to
restrain increases in the Australian cost
structure.
Government must lead.
To ensure the level of investment,
public and private, appropriate to estab-
lish and sustain the desired rate of growth
requires not only that the total amount of
investment should be at the right level,
but also that there should be balanced
development both of the overall services
and technical equipment of the economy
and of consumption goods output. He
thought in this matter Governments could
give a lead.
By stepping up their own development
programmes they should give the neces-
sary stimulus to private investment. At
the same time they would have to provide
the broader framework of education and
health facilities, power and fuel, water
and irrigation, transport and communica-
tion in which the private sector could
develop rapidly and effectively.
The level of investment would, more
than anything else, determine the rate of
expansion of the economy as a whole, and
the speed with which recovery from the
present situation was achieved, Sir
Douglas said. He thought one way of in-
creasing investment was to release more
of the banks’ special deposits at the
Reserve Bank and so increase the recently
created £55 million “term investment
fund”. He said, “It is in circumstances
like the present that these frozen assets
could he released for the purpose of
stepping up both public and private
investment. This would be a legitimate
expansion of credit to promote higher
rate of economic growth. It would also
enable the banks to play a more con-
structive part in promoting recovery.”
The other line of action he suggested
was to require hire-purchase companies
to invest a certain proportion of their
assets in Government securities. “A little
attention has been given to the impact of
hire purchase and the unit trust upon
the structure of the money market, but
it can be argued that it has reduced the
proportion of funds available for invest-
ment in Government loans, and has made
it necessary for Governments to finance
the public sector in investment from taxa-
tion. After all, the insurance companies
are now required to invest a certain pro-
portion of their assets in Government
securities, and this could be taken as a
precedent for imposing some such obli-
gation upon the hire purchase company
or the unit trust. Both of these institu-
tions stand to gain by a policy that will
step up total investment and the rate of
growth of the economy.”
Sir Douglas said he thought the public
sector investment expenditure fixed by
the Loan Council for this year fell rather
too far short of the goal of 6 p.c.
increase in economic growth he suggested
as being necessary in present circum-
stances. In the four years 1956-57 to
1960-61, the average annual increase in
expenditure on public works by all public
authorities was approximately 6 p.c. “If
this figure was appropriate to the condi-
tions prevailing in these years, it is much
more appropriate to present-day condi-
tions, when the economy is faced with
the task of absorbing the highest post-
war increase in the work force, and
needs also a stimulus to provide for the
unemployed. Unless the public sector
is able to step up its provision for the
essential needs of education and health,
power and fuel, transport and communi-
cations, water and irrigation, and some
of the housing, and thus to give a lead
to the private sector, the process of
recovery will be unduly protracted.”
“After all,” he said, “it was official
action that adopted a policy leading to a
check in the rate of growth and the
development of idle resources. Now it is
necessary for official action to move in
the opposite direction, and this can only
be done by a definite expansion of public
investment to provide the essential ser-
vices needed for growth and to inspire
confidence in the private sector to pro-
ceed actively with its own plans for
rapid economic development.” Sir
Douglas saw this as essential for a basic
policy for economic recovery.
The second problem was to see that
export income and capital inflow ensured
a sound balance of payments and a rising
average level of overseas reserves. The
Government had clear responsibilities to
promote, export trade and through fiscal
policy to control the level of imports at
times when export prices may be falling
or seasonal conditions adverse, causing a
fall in the volume of exports.
Considering the sharp fall in the terms
of trade (from 100 to 64 between 1952-53
and 1960-61), “it is little wonder,” he
said “that import restrictions were
necessary to ensure an appropriate
balance of payments and it is also surpris-
ing that in these circumstances the Aus-
tralian economy was able to expand at so
great a rate as it did.”
Looking ahead on this he thinks a
modest improvement in the terms of trade
may be in prospect but also that it is
obvious we will have to foster export
trade in the new markets where economic
growth offers the prospect of expanding
trade.
Keep cost down.
Sir Douglas thinks the third problem
lies in the necessity of restraining internal
cost rises. “Taking 1952-53 as a base at
100, the consumer price index had risen
to 124 by 1960-61, and the wholesale
index to 113. Meanwhile, the minimum
wage had risen to 131, but average weekly
earnings to 148. With a stable price
level, there would still have been a rise
in average wages due to improvements
in productivity, but these increases in
prices and wages occurred at a time when
the prices of exports had fallen.”
He said the cost problem involved get-
ting the right degree of co-operation
between employers and employed to
ensure increases in wages do not exceed
increases in productivity and therefore
increases in industrial costs. He thought,
too, it was equally important that the
same condition should pertain to profits.
“If the Government embarks upon a
course of rapid economic expansion in
consultation with representatives of indus-
try and labor, it may well be possible
for both the employers and the employed
to give due consideration to the impact of
the level of profits and wages upon the
cost structure. This again emphasises the
need for a more conscious overall plan
in the development of economic policy,
and much closer association between the
Government and its responsible officials
on the one hand, and the representatives
of industry and labor on the other,” Sir
Douglas maintained.


y
\ \ w
X. \J
. ?.j# ■
V? V *
Step out
confidently
on that
business
trip
with
the C’B A s
travel services behind you
Experienced officers will plan and provide complete
itineraries. They’ll arrange all travel and
accommodation bookings, passports, taxation
clearances and other necessary documents. C.B.A.
Travellers’ Cheques are accepted everywhere.
Letters of credit are available, or funds can be
forwarded to our Offices or Agents throughout the
world. Our Trade Introduction Service will put you
in touch with the overseas markets which apply
directly to your business. Contact your nearest
C.B.A. Manager for full details.
&stss.
THE COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
OVER 800 OFFICES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND & LONDON
OIL INTERESTS IN A WHIRL
There was nothing in the result from
Moonie No. 4 to change the ex-
pectation that this closed structure will
prove to be about four miles in length
and one mile wide. So there was really
no reason for the stock market to revise
its valuation of Australian Oil and Gas
shares, nor for other oil search shares
to move one way or the other on the
announced flow of 1575 barrels a day
from this particular well.
As the Union group apparently now
intends to drill a flank well to prove
the width of the oil reservoir, the
assumption is that they are satisfied that
the length of the structure is from 31 to
4 miles. If it proves to be one mile in
width, the reservoir would, on the
estimates of Dr Fisher, chief geologist of
the Bureau of Mineral resources, con-
tain about 36 million gallons of oil.
Such a gallonage alone would not
justify the present price of Australian
Oil and Gas shares or anything like it,
but that is not by any means the end
of their attraction. The assumption must
be that as oil exists in commercial
quantities in the Moonie structure, there
is a good chance of finding another
similar structure in the AOG permit
area.
However, for the time being this has
to be left to geophysical exploration,
because the group is intent naturally
upon fully defining the Moonie field
which will require another three or four
wells and employment for the presently
available drilling equipment and crews.
The by-play between Total Oil and
Kangaroo, in which the latter refused
Total the courtesy of an inspection of
its agreement with Shell for the supply
of petroleum products, was over-
shadowed by Santos’ announcement that
Total’s parent, the Compagnie Francaise
des Petroles has acquired a 10 p.c.
interest by taking up one million special
class ordinary shares in the company at
16s. each, subject to stockholders’ con-
sent.
The move will also probably mean
the French company will get a rep-
resentative on the board. Its buy into
this company is particularly interesting
not so much for Santos’ interests in
southern Australia, but because it has
a huge acreage under permit (some
jointly with Delhi) in the Great Artesian
Basin astride the Queensland and SA
borders. Its current well in this area
at Dullingari was down to 8276 ft. on
July 4. Presumably this is the area also
favored by the two Total geologists who
came over here from France in April
and have since been scouting out the
search possibilities country-wide.
Incidentally it is not the Australian
subsidiary but rather the French parent,
Compagnie Francaise des Petroles which
has been carrying out the negotiations
with Santos. Clearly this group is
desirous of penetrating the whole
petroleum business here to a much
deeper extent than has proved possible
so far. Doubtless if it discovered oil
through Santos or any other connection,
the erection of a refinery would become
more of a possibility than it is at present,
with Total’s gallonage representing less
than one p.c. of Australia’s motor spirit
consumption.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
FEDERAL ROAD POLICY
UNDER FIRE
Victoria’s Premier came home from
the Loan Council meetings as ir-
ritated as ever at the Federal Govern-
ment’s niggardliness on finance for roads.
Although the Commonwealth Aid Roads
Grant to the States for 1962-63 will be
£54 million or £4 million more than
last year, £54 million is the sum fixed
in advance in 1959 when there was full
employment. Even then the premiers
accepted it in a “better than nothing”
spirit.
Given the present level of unemploy-
ment, it is pitiful that the Victorian
Country Roads Board employs only
1,500 or so in its operations. Even adding
in additional labor employed by shires
and municipalities on road works and
also contractors (one-third of the CRB’s
works and three-quarters of councils’
works are carried out by contractors)
the numbers would be grossly inadequate.
Somebody has yet to explain why more
of the unemployed are not taken off the
relief rolls and given jobs improving
Australian roads. Even in the less econo-
mically enlightened days of the ’thirties
this was done to good effect to reduce
unemployment numbers hardly less than
we have today. It seems almost that the
Federal Government is not alert to the
opportunities offering in this direction.
It could hardly be blind to the need
for road improvement. The chairman
of the Country Roads Board stated
earlier this year that there would be a
gap of £19.4 million between the ex-
penditure required on Victorian roads in
1962-63 and the estimated revenue avail-
able. W. R. Blundell, Professor of
Traffic Engineering at the University of
New South Wales, said recently that
Australia’s inadequate roads system was
costing the country £1 million a day
and it would need expenditure of £lOO
million a year to eliminate the loss.
But with the Federal Government
refusing to make a special grant for
roads, even to relieve unemployment,
once again Victoria is putting up the
suggestion that the petrol tax be raised
by threepence to provide extra money
to be spent on roads, and all the old
arguments that the Federal Government
should pay over the full amount of the
present petrol tax are being given an
airing. It is even being said that motorists
would bear the £l7 million costs of the
additional tax on Australia’s current
1,350 million gallons a year petrol con-
sumption with a song in their hearts.
There’s not a thought in this for the
point that the most useful designation
for part of the big deficit looming for
this year would be road expenditure.
Additional spending on roads would
even be more useful economically
speaking than increased welfare benefits.
For not only would it be on all fours
with welfare benefits as a spending
stimulant, but in addition it would be
creating new and improving existing
national assets.
In advance of getting an increase in
petrol tax agreed to by the other States
and ultimately implemented by the Fed-
eral Government, argument is raging ab-
out where it will be spent. Victoria wants
it allocated in proportion to the amounts
raised by the tax in the various States.
This would put the clock back a long
time. The Federal Government gave up
the idea of relating road grants to this
basis many years ago and even the
premiers have accepted the idea that
the petrol tax and the road grants are
in no way to be related. The formula
for road grants agreed to in 1959 was an
apportionment from consolidated revenue
of fixed annual sums over a five-year
period on a basis giving equal weights
to area, population and motor vehicle
numbers in the several States.
Inside the State this issue is over-
shadowed by a provincial squabble which
reflects the sharp division between urban
and rural areas. The former complain
that too much road money is spent in
the country and the latter that it is
not enough. So one gets Melbourne’s
Lord Mayor, Cr Nathan, saying that
any additional money should be spent
at the : V .' “If twd-thirds of the
money raised came from the metropoli-
tan area, then this sum should be spent
in the metropolitan area”.
Against this there is the strong case
for flexibility in spending put earlier
this year by the chairman of the CRB
to the Commission of Enquiry into Local
Government in Victoria. He instanced
the fate of NSW country roads under
the old requirement that one half of the
motor taxes collected in the County of
Cumberland had to be spent within
the county. This was equivalent to 23
p.c. of the State’s total motor taxes.
“Rather late in the day,” he said, “the
proportion was reduced to 20 per cent.
But in the meantime the lack of early
development of rural roads in NSW was
notoriously a factor which influenced
the inclusion in Federal law of the
stipulation requiring a stated amount
(now 40 p.c.) of Federal aid funds
throughout Australia to be spent on rural
roads other than declared main roads,
trunk roads or State highways”.
“From this example,” the chairman
said, “there is a lesson to be learnt regard-
ing the degree of legal rigidity which is
appropriate in the earmarking of road
expenditure within some special area or
groups of areas”. The example of some
parochial shire finance policy by which
rates collected in each riding are rigidly
devoted to expenditure in the riding, a
policy which goes beyond the local
government law on the point, provides
in its results a further illustration of the
disadvantages of such a restriction Suf-
ficient administrative flexibility is indeed
essential if finance and the meeting of
needs are to be properly balanced At
the State level, if there are needs, the
central road authority is well aware of
them from area to area and period to
period and (subject to general govern-
mental and parliamentary approval) is
best able to adjust programmes of work
accordingly.
U.A.R. TRADE MISSIONS
SUCCESSFUL START
all accounts the United Arab Re-
x public’s trade mission in Australia is
achieving a fair measure of success. Led
by Dr. Ahmed Naymy, sub-governor of
the Central Bank of Egypt, the mis-
sion’s initial aim seems quite modest, it
is to bring Australian-Egyptian trade
more into balance.
Last year Australia sent goods valued
at nearly £3m. to the U.A.R. and took
a mere £55,000 back. Dr. Naymy wishes
to lift his country’s exports to £3m. or
so within a couple of years and pro-
gressively hold trade in balance with us
thereafter. Egypt is beset with acute bal-
ance-of-payments difficulties and its cur-
rency is perhaps not all it should be.
The mission has already started the
right way by reorganising a number of
its existing local agencies. Australian
textile manufacturers speak highly of
Egyptian cotton yarn, much of which
can be landed here more cheaply than
yarn from Britain and Japan. Some addi-
tional orders have been booked.
One particularly interesting new deal
concerns £Hm. of phosphate to be
sold to Australia in raw form and
bought back as superphosphate.
Experts believe both quantities and
kinds of Australia’s exports to Egypt
could improve if the payments position
eases. Conversations have taken place
between the mission and Government
and Reserve Bank representatives.


DO YOU LIKE
THE NEW LOOK
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521 G.P.0., Sydney
NAME
ADDRESS .
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick ( y) whichever method of
deliverv you prefer
For those desiring direct sub-
scription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/money
ordei for months subscription to
THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea): 1 year—
£2 125.; */2 year—£l 6s. Post free. British
Dominions: £3 6s. Other countries: £3 16s.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS (Remit to Box 965,
Wellington, N.Z.): 1 year—£2 12s. (N.Z.
currency): % year—£l 6s. (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
Perhaps this is the first issue ot THE BULLETIN Y ou
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? There are
two ways of doing it either through your newsagent
or by direct subscription. The form at left offers you
your choice of method of delivery. You may send us
your name and address and we will arrange for the
newsagent nearest you to deliver your copy of
THE BULLETIN each week and charge it to your account.
Or, if you prefer it, we will mail each week's copy
to your address by direct subscription.
Tine
Bulletin
Incorporating The Australian Financial Times
COMMONWEALTH BANK'S JUBILEE
Tpo salute and felicitate the Common-
wealth Bank on its golden jubilee
must be, for those financially and
historically inclined, a genuine pleasure.
In the present relatively quiescent state
of Australian banking, one can picture
erstwhile political critics and the
private-bank rivals joining sincerely in
the celebrations. The institution will be
50 years old on July 15.
It is, of course, no unreal paradox to
ask at the outset which institution. Fifty
years may sound brief in terms of the
lives of great English and European
banking houses, but over this period our
own Government-formed bank has as-
sumed protean and varied organisational
shapes. Do we celebrate, of its activities
apart from its names, the savings, the
trading or the central bank?
For the existing fabric was not born
fully armed and new mechanisms
have been added even in quite recent
times. Early founders could barely
have guessed at the supervision of the
short-term money market. To many,
the mere strengthening and dominance
of a central bank might also appear a
species of banking blasphemy.
There are naturally many separate
dates to chronicle as milestones. Estab-
lished only 11 years after Federation,
the Commonwealth Bank has ex-
perienced all the complete melee and
tumble of the most vivid Australian
politics. It does not seem possible for
a banking organisation to stay restful for
very long or to become divorced from
the political strains in a fast-growing
economy
In bare and brief outline, perhaps the
highlights after the beginning are the
1924 amendment of the initial Act to
strengthen central banking tendencies,
the years of the Great Depression and
recovery, the Banking Commission of
1935-37 (source of many subsequent
reforms), the Second World War, legisla-
tion of 1945, and Prime Minister
Chifley’s attempt to nationalise the
whole banking system in 1947.
The sophisticate seems most often
drawn to central banking functions and
here, if in few other activities, he is
catered for by a brilliant and compre-
hensive account by one of our outstand-
ing economists, the late Professor L. F.
Gibblin. “The Growth of a Central
Bank”, covering the period 1924-45,
will remain a classic, whatever details
remain to be amplified or re-examined.
One fitting memorial of the cele-
brations could certainly be a full history,
taking in trading and savings operations.
The boards of the Reserve and the Cor-
poration may soon consider this possi-
bility.
At least the jubilee year will focus
considerable public interest upon the
tremendous social benefits conferred by
the less dramatic, non-central functions.
The first Act, passed in 1911, did little
but confer these powers. The first
governor (Sir Denison Miller) envisaged
the long-term central status.
Through many vicissitudes the bank
(if we may call it one) has achieved an
enviable status. It is awe-inspiring to
see a 1912 balance sheet disclosing assets
of £616,071 and then think of an
organisation with assets now totalling,
when combined, some £2500 million.
The general public here might mostly
dwell upon housing loans and similar
services. The specialist might ponder
such technical characteristics as special
reserve deposits (flatteringly copied by
England) and whatnot. Both can join
in birthday congratulations.


INVEST NOW
2IIS
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
8#
6-10 YEARS
8% 5 YEARS
7Vz% 4 YEARS
7 % 3 YEARS
6n% 2 YEARS
Applications must be lodged on the
form attached to the prospectus.
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE NOTES
61
12 MONTHS
5% 6 MONTHS
4% 3 MONTHS
3Y 2 % at call
Applications must be made on the
form attached to the prospectus and
acknowledgement will be a Regis-
tered Redeemable Unsecured l\ote.
Trustee for the Debenture and Note
Holders: Burns Philp Trust Co. ltd.
Bankers:
National Bank of Australasia Limited
15235
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
HOW TO INVEST
Obtain your prospectus from
aiul lodge applications with:
• Any Stockbroker.
• Any branch of the National Bank
ot Australasia Limited.
• Any office of Burns Philp Trust
Co. Ltd.
• Any store or office of Waltons
Limited and Treadways Ltd.
• Waltons Credit Corporation Ltd.,
Box 3875, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
INVESTMENT
SECTION
RIGOROUS STANDARDS
DUE FOR BROKERS
Tn these days of tricky, half-hesitant
markets, liable to bounce in all direc-
tions, the non-professional investor can be
forgiven a sense of puzzlement. Not so
his mentor the sharebroker unless he
openly confesses to it.
The fraternity had it very well during
the palmy times, proliferating advice,
monthly newsletters and so on. A much
heavier responsibility and judgmnt must
surely obtain when difficulties abound
and clients may be in genuine doubt.
It therefore comes as an unpleasant
shock to read the latest meditations of
two really prominent. Sydney broking
houses. After rather perfunctory general
comment, one provides a list of 150
stocks, with full and commonplace statis-
tical appendages, as a guide to prevailing
opportunities.
The second trots out 62 companies
whose prices stand well below 1962
peaks. This helpful selection is supposed
to furnish “a means of observing their
price fluctuations”. In both cases the
information given is very easily found
elsewhere.
Much more rigorous standards could
well be demanded and no doubt many
brokers are properly fulfilling their pro-
fessional functions with scrupulous ability.
Lest false conclusions be drawn, a
worthwhile example also comec to hand.
This particular broker carefully exa-
mines Australian prices in the light of
overseas influences. He indicates a limited
number, 15, of “attractive buying oppor-
tunities . . . which do not seem exposed
to any further weakness in the share
market, nor affected by Common Market
uncertainties.”
The advice is mature and has the
further merit of selecting two or three
unobvious possibilities Allied Mills,
Optical Industries, and Sebels for
instance.
ITTtE exceedingly steep profit decline
A forced upon steel merchant and en-
gineer William Adams and Co. proceeds
logically enough from the company’s
1960-61 tribulations. Directors then
appeared so calm in the face of quite
massive stock and overdraft compli-
cations that emergence from those par-
ticular difficulties looked easier than it
has turned out to be.
Investors remain devotedly and prob-
ably justifiably unruffled in confronting
this 62 p.c. profit drop and a dividend
back from 15 to 10 p.c. What must en-
gage attention, however, is the possible
fate of others in the same line of terri-
tory fellow steel dealers William At-
kins and John Lysaght for example.
After all Adams did confess last Aug-
ust that “it is anyone’s guess as to how
long it will take for the stocks to be
worked off and for industry to get going
again in a normal way.” Here stands the
most crucial edge in any “squeezed” econ-
omy the recovery in heavy capital
material and equipment.
Not all Adams’ diverse range could
save it in this situation. Less responsible
directors, too, will repeatedly be seen to
writhe in the toils of similar stock situ-
ations. With B.H.P. cultivating a quieter
economy in its latest year, it will be
interesting to hear from Adams how its
imported steel stocks now fare.
T ocal tin producers have been wishing
to creep closer to filling a larger
portion of Australian demand for quite a
while. So Aberfoyle’s attempts at this
laudable operation by means of the
Ardlethan (NSW) deposits will be
watched keenly.
Too much should not be expected too
soon. For other interests have already-
rejected opportunities of working this
area. Nevertheless, Aberfoyle’s hopes
may be treated with respect.
It is understood that 1.6 m tons of low
grade ore have been proved. Aberfoyle
plans to treat, by open-cut mining, 1000
tons a day and expects an annual yield
of 600 tons metallic tin.
Joined in the effort are Northern
Australian Uranium Corporation and
South Alligator, fugitives from the
dubious uranium future, Metals Explora-
tion and the re-formed Paringa Mining.
Details of financing have yet to be
announced.
HTimber, at last, has been presented with
A a bright spot in the form of emer-
gency protection against imports. Before
investors rush in, however, the industry
will have to take some steps itself to
ensure profitability.
Rationalisation of the industry to
reduce overcapacity is essential before the
trade can get back on its feet, even if it
is protected.
With this in mind the more venture-
some investor could include some of the
weaker reeds in a gambling portfolio—•
but the investment should not be size-
able.
Perhaps using Vanderfield & Reid as a
base (it is a sound stock), the investor
could speculate on mergers and the like
between Duncans Holdings, George
Hudson Holdings, Kauri Timber, and
several of the others which currently do
not match up to “good buying”.


ms* l
L
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
©
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£A413,000,000
*
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
TALK AROUND CHANGE
llThen a sizeable parcel of three-month
” calls were taken out on Winns
Newcastle Ltd, curiosity was aroused.
Price of the ss. shares on the market had
risen Is. 3d. on the previous week’s
13s. 3d.
The story goes that Myers have been
looking at them for some time, and an
early offer could be worth up to 20s.
Asset backing in the books is 13s. 9d. and
properties were last revalued in 1955.
This could be Myers’ first provincial
venture in NSW.
Tm pressed with the Gordon and
Gotch dividend rise in May, the
market considers the company may do
even better next time up with a further
increase from 181 to a 20 p.c. annual
rate. The shares have had a steady
rise in recent weeks and at 20s. are
the highest they've been for nearly two
years. The company lifted its earnings
rate from 22.3 to 31 p.c. in the year to
March last.
Queensland trader Thomas Brown
and Sons Ltd tests our naivety
with the chairman’s statement that the
company has sponsored a “voluntary
group of independent grocery retailers”
in Queensland and the Northern Rivers
district of NSW to acquire their supplies
from company warehouses in Brisbane,
Rockhampton and Townsville.
Trading under the name “Foodland”,
already well known in other States, the
group will receive goods at competi-
tive prices, and participate in co-opera-
tive advertising and special promotions.
To date, the chairman says, the scheme
has received enthusiastic welcome.
The scheme obviates the necessity to
employ travellers over Queensland’s
vast areas. Low-cost warehouses are
essential to its success, so Thomas
Brown has secured a building eight miles
out of Brisbane.
Apart from the obvious reason of
economic recession, which was particu-
larly severe in Queensland, the bogy
of last year’s trading (year to January
31, 1962) was the erection of “an un-
precedented and unforeseeable number
of supermarkets” by the major national
chains. Although Thomas Brown’s self-
service stores increased their turnover,
margins were whittled. Most of the
stores deal solely in grocery and allied
products, but management now intends
belatedly to extend the range
Supermarkets and chain stores are
by-passing the wholesaler to buy direct
from manufacturers. “Whether and to
what extent this trend will continue it
is difficult to say," the chairman com-
plains.
One gets the impression from the
chairman that the company’s problems
are long-distance ones.
ITeavy recent selling of Reid Murray,
big development and retail trading
group, which pushed the ss. shares down
to 35., has now subsided and a more
hopeful view is being taken of the profits
outcome for the year ending August 31.
It is most unlikely, however, that the
Improvement in profits forecast in the
prospectus for the group’s Acceptance
company last month will come in time
to help very much the group’s results
for the current term. The Acceptance
company itself was still on profits for
the half year to last February.
Like the other big developers, Reid
Murray’s climb back is still proving
arduous and it seems a dividend for this
term can be ruled out. No interim was
paid for the first half. Current price of
the shares is a shade under 4s.
*JpHE fadeout of television sales and the
recession notwithstanding, Sydney
electrical retailer H. G. Palmer should
equal 1961 results in the year to June
30, 1962, judging from pre-tax figures
for the first three quarters.
Planned extension of the chain to
NSW, Victorian and SA country towns
is obviously to cater for the establish-
ment of country television stations.
It will be interesting to see if Eric
Anderson can improve on 1961 earning
rate of 13.8 p.c. on capital.
because of rather too
generous capitalisation of reserves
it didn’t look very exciting as a float
last year, Golden Poultry, Victorian
poultry producer, has been gaining
supporters recently as time looms for
results for its first year as a public com-
pany.
The ss. shares have managed to hold
a rise to 6s. 4d. on the expectation that
prospectus estimates of 16 p.c. earnings
and at least a 10 p.c. dividend will be
met. Last year’s earnings on post-
flotation capital came to 7.2 p.c.
always a good deal of atten-
tion drifting towards the listed box
and carton makers, since no one really
believes that the large overseas paper
interests, like Bowaters for instance,
have shed their enthusiasm for local
captures. Fibre Containers, which
successfully repelled one takeover
attempt, is again being joined with
Bowaters in rumor.
The impulse behind this particular bit
of market ferreting seems to be a Fibre
director’s London trip. In any case, the
shares at around 18s. 6d. remain quite
a good buy, though it must be remem-
bered that the future of the paper group
may not be as superlative as some of
the industry’s own fanciful projections
tried to make us believe.
One or two companies may even have
felt some tightening through the 1961-
62 year. McLaren Industries, of Mel-
bourne, already expects lower profits—
sales having been influenced by products
meeting “unrestricted competition from
overseas imports” as well as by a factory
shift. But shareholders don’t have to
worry yet. The'usual 123 p.c. dividend
remains more than covered on higher
capital.


seeking
«
ESANDA GAN PROVIDE THE MONEY YOU NEED
Hire Purchase
B Motor vehicles
(new or good used)
B Business equipment
B Agricultural plant
a Domestic equipment
Instalment Loans for
property improvement,
or any useful purpose
Developmental Projects
■ Capital equipment
■ Book Debt financing
B Mortgages
B Contracts of Sale
B Leasing
B Factoring
fl
ESANDA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
140 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Telephone 63 9261.
313 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telephone 2 3031.
316 Murray Street, Perth.
Telephone 21 5553, 23 2450.
273 Rundie Street, Adelaide.
Telephone 8-4913/4.
1 Criterion Street, Hobart.
Telephone 3-3679.
M.L.C. Building, London Circuit,
Canberra. Telephone J-4040.
Room 209, 2nd Floor, Caltex House,
167 Kent Street, Sydney, Telephone 27-5334, 27-5461.
ELFI
CHANGE GOSSIP
Thirst Australian company to return fig-
ures for the year to June 30, Custom
Credit Corporation provided a shock
last week. Profit of previous years had
been overstated by £1,145,770 because
of an inadequate provision for income
yet to mature on hire-purchase and other
contracts.
The sum of £687,462 was therefore
drawn from general reserve, and tax
provision was reduced by £458,308.
The company’s statement to share-
holders infers that the manual method
previously used to determine unearned
income was responsible. Electronic data
processing has been introduced.
But the trouble stemmed from the
long-term housing loans which the com-
pany made in the last four years, on
which there is greater scope for error
than in short-term hire-purchase and
personal loans.
The company is thankful for a return
to volume business in short-term hire
purchase in the last six months.
Trading result for 1961-62 was a
7 p.c. fall in profit from £1,367,418 to
£1,273,176, after providing £14,486 for
tax at £944,632. Dividend is unchanged
at 15 p.c. with a final payment of 7J
p.c. Earning rate eased from 19.5 to
18.2 p.c. on steady capital.
Custom Credit is not the first financier
to stumble on the calculation of un-
earned income. Myers had a similar ex-
perience in 1958 which should have
cautioned other financiers.
Tan Potter and Co’s model prospectus
for the debenture issue of Frigrite
Credits (£200,000 of first mortgage de-
benture stock at interest rates up to 8i
p.c.) gives some clues to the buoyancy
of the whole Frigrite group, whose main
interests are air-conditioning, commercial
refrigeration, bulk milk coolers and
agricultural machinery.
The group’s turnover for 1961-62 will
top £5 million. Most of Australia’s re-
cently constructed skyscrapers appear to
have been air-conditioned by Frigrite, in-
cluding the AMP' in Sydney, 1.C.1. in
Melbourne, and Pearl Assurance in
Adelaide.
Current contracts include the new
Southern Cross Hotel and National
Mutual centre in Melbourne, Reserve
Bank in Sydney and police headquarters
in Brisbane.
Frigrite Ftd ss. shares are currently
225. 6d. to yield 4.5 p.c. on last year’s
dividend of 10 p.c., the rate paid for
the last five years and one and a half
times covered last year.


REID MURRAY
ACCEPTANCE LIMITED
V
Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stock *
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
Applications accepted only on forms attached to th«
Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON &. CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William St., Adelaide 408 Collins St., Melb.
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
REID MURRAY
GUARANTEED
by Reid Murray Holdings Ltd.
RMA.26V.40
CHANGE GOSSIP
A utomobile Advance and Agency
Co. Ltd, which last year was the
subject of a heated takeover battle
between the Sydney-based B. White Pty
group, and Braybrook Holdings, sup-
ported by Melbourne’s Smorgan interests,
is expected to seek Stock Exchange list-
ing shortly.
The company is being reorganised,
following the acquisition of a majority
holding by Investment Corporation of
Australia Ltd (connected with the B.
White group) from the Melbourne inter-
ests which had previously controlled it.
On Automobile’s new board we find
Messrs B. Ganke (a director of the B.
White group), K. Paul and E. A. Baikov-
sky. Possibly the reorganised group will
make a placement of its shares to gain
sufficient spread of the capital for listing
purposes.
A fter its 20 p.c. net profit drop last
year, Turner Industries, Victorian
hardware and washing machine maker,
looks set for a better performance. The
group has recently started manufactur-
ing a new range of tools and accessories
at its Nunawading plant. It has also re-
cently expanded its appliances division
at Lilydale.
After paying a steady 10 p.c. from a
consistent double earnings cover for four
years to June 1960, the earnings dropped
to a bare 10.7 p.c. on higher capital in
1960- With the same capital, earnings
rate may not be glamorous for last year
but this year it could show a decided
improvement. The current price of the
ss. shares is around Bs. 6d. and the
yield a straight 5 p.c.
TTolden distributor John A. Gilbert
Holdings may take some while to
climb again to its 1960-61 earning rate
of 36.2 p.c. But shareholders, who knew
the drop was coming, need not be too
despondent over the 14.2 p.c. fall in
1961- profit. Earning rate is still a
handsome 31.6 p.c.
The market has kept its respect very
steadily over recent weeks. Present
prices around 14s. 3d. are near the year’s
top and convincingly above last year’s
high. It’s not difficult to look at a 17i
p.c. dividend preserved for eight years.
Not even a loss of Holden popularity
could dent this, for considerable pro-
tection is evident.
Group reserves now stand at
£619,649 against paid capital of
£561,044, of which £50,000 is prefer-
ence.


In r\J
LrTFO
D
tLJa
m
wmm*.
YOUR
MONEY
CAN EARN
TEN
PERCENT
WITH FIRST
MORTGAGE
SECURITY
RETURN OF CAPITAL. All interest is paid
quarterly and the first £lOO is available on demand.
Also, earlier redemption of your entire investment is
available under our emergency repayment provisions.
SECURITY. As a debenture bolder your money
is safeguarded by a mortgage over the assets and
business of the company. This means that your
security comes before that of shareholders and
.creditors.
NATURE OF BUSINESS. Testro Bros. Consolidated
Ltd. is the finance member of the world-wide Testro
Group.
HOW TO INVEST. Simply obtain prospectus and
application form by posting the coupon below.
TESTRO BROS! CONSOLIDATED LTD.
Testro House, 222 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Please send me prospectus and
application form.
NAME
ADDRESS
Fl/2
Applications for debentures will proceed only on the
printed form of application attached to prospectus.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the economic
growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
BIG BUSINESS
KEEPS FIT
fjpHE fictional picture of stockbrokers
the world over having more time
and money than they know what to do
with has never been quite apposite and is
certainly less so these days than ever,
even if a partner still finds it easier than
his clerks to snatch an afternoon for the
races or the golf course. Certainly
successful businessmen, stockbrokers in-
cluded, know that these days theirs is a
full-time occupation and unless they do
their homework and are on hand most
of the working day, business will start
sliding.
But like everybody else businessmen
have to look after their figures both inside
and outside the office. In fact keeping
fit is just as important to business health
as anything else.
Melbourne businessmen like to think
they have got this message clearer than
their fellows in other States and point to
the present boom in the gymnasium and
turkish bath business in their capital and
the absence of such in other States to
prove it.
For instance, two regular patrons of
the Oasis lying under the shadows of the
Consolidated Zinc building at the top end
of Collins Street are the Lord Mayor, Cr.
Nathan, chairman of Patersons furnish-
ing firm, and the patriarch of the stock-
broking fraternity, Staniforth Ricketson,
both bent on the health business.
The slump in the stock market business
and limping market for furniture in the
absence of clamoring migrant custom
must have struck these two City leaders
as being in marked contrast to the boom-
ing trade at the Oasis, a £200,000 capital
proprietary company now the glamor
spot in Melbourne’s keep-fit world.
People in this mushrooming industry
say that turnover has doubled in the last
two years and this rate of expansion
looks like continuing. In Melbourne
alone there are about twenty such
establishments, which they call “health
studios”.
They also point to a parallel growth in
sales of sporting equipment, but this is
more apparent than real according to
the statistics which show that last year
this business slumped along with most
others. Apart from golf balls, which
pretty well held their record 1960 out-
put last year, and cricket balls, which beat
all previous records, most sporting requi-
sites suffered considerably in 1961. The
country’s production of tennis balls for
instance dropped from 226,086 to
165,179 dozen and the number of
racquets from 17,463 to 12,670 dozen
(trends happily not reflected in this year’s
results at Wimbledon).


Security
IS McDONLD INDUSTRIES
AN OVER-PRICED STOCK?
TMTcDonald Industries Ltd, a major
Australian civil engineering and
construction company, is distinguished
by the amount of work it has done in
the past decade for BHP, and even in
the last annual report it was stated that
the company had three projects on hand
for BHP. Even so, in a business which
is subject to considerable fluctuations in
profits, many investors must wonder
whether the current price of around
155., which shows an immediate dividend
yield of 3.3 p.c. —admittedly covered
more than twice by the latest net profit
after tax —-is not just a little on the
high side.
Looking at the company's record since
1952. it would appear that there was a
most pronounced growth in earnings
over the period up to June 30. 1959,
and this record was marred only by a
loss in the year 1954. From 1951, when
the earning rate on capital was 21.6 p.c.,
it increased to 70.3 p.c. by June 30,
1959, after eliminating the bonus issue
which had been made in November,
1957.
As a result presumably of this re-
markable success story, the company
decided to make yet another bonus issue
in September, 1959. But over the whole
of the last 10 years, it has not ap-
parently found it necessary to call on
the shareholders for a further subscrip-
tion to the issued capital although, of
course, shares have been issued for the
acquisitions of Atlas Constructions Pty
Ltd, Stabilisers Ltd, and of E. A. Marr.
Downward
trend
From June, 1959, the trend of the per
share earnings has been downwards and
quite markedly, so the adjusted rate as
at June 30, 1961, would appear to be
40.1 p.c. as compared with the 70.3 p.c.
in 1959, but the dividends have been
raised by 50 p.c. during this period.
It is impossible to avoid making com-
parisons between the profits of this com-
pany and the expenditure on other new
building and constructions as disclosed
in the White Paper on National Income
and Expenditure. Over the period from
June, 1952, until June, 1959, ex-
penditure exactly doubled, or, in other
words, it was increasing at the average
annual compound rate of 9 p.c. per
annum. During this period McDonald
Industries’ earnings per share were in-
creasing at the rate of 1.6 p.c. per
annum. Since that time, expenditure of
this nature has continued to increase. In
fact over the two years 1959-60 and
1960-61 there was a 36 p.c. increase.
But the trend in McDonald's earnings
has been downwards.
It would seem that with the company's
good connections and in view of its
record in the past, it should be expected
to obtain its fair share of all future con-
struction contracts. It is common know-
ledge that BHP has some substantial
plans for expansion over the next 10
years, but mainly in SA and WA, and
Australian Paper Manufacturers, for
whom McDonald installed the latest
paper mill at Botany, also has plans for
expansion, again mainly outside NSW.
Expansion
expected
General expansion of industrial
capacity must be expected if only to
maintain a reasonable rate of growth for
the economy as a whole and to provide
sufficient employment for the expanding
workforce.
There is every possibility that the rate
of growth in other new building and
construction can continue for at least
the next 10 years and despite the decline
in earnings per share which have been
noticed for the last two years, it is not
unreasonable to assume that the dividend
payout could increase over the next ten
years at the same average annual rate
as it has done over the last ten. The
actual growth over the 10 years was at
a rate of approximately 8j p.c. per
annum.
In making this assumption the fall in
dividends which occurred in 1954 has
been ignored. After the next ten years
it is as well not to assume a continuance
of this high rate of growth, but to merely
assume the rate will increase at 3 p.c.
per annum, i.e., dividend income will
merely keep pace with present inflation-
ary trends.
On this basis the current price would
show a dividend return overall of about
8 p.c. per annum or slightly higher.
This is, of course, only 1 p.c. higher than
the return which is currently available
on, say, BHP debentures which can be
regarded as being secure for a period
of 25 years.
Current price
yet too high
In the circumstances it seems probable
that a higher return should be expected
in order to cope with the risks which
every equity investor must assume, and
in this particular case it is impossible
to overlook the loss which occurred
seven years ago with the marked reduc-
tion in the dividend and also the fact
that there has been a downturn in earn-
ings per share recently. This suggests
that the current price should probably be
of the order of about 13s. and conse-
quently the stock would appear to be at
least fully valued at the present time.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £ ’OSIO
Year to
June 30 1955 1956 1857 1958 1959 1960 1961
Current assets 375 459 485 387 551 962 1410
Lrs current
liabilities 321 440 401 312 417 728 913
Working capital 54 19 84 75 134 234 497
Fixed assets 237 292 279 349 483 732 1131
Investments 120 145 158 66 3 26 23
Total capital 411 456 521 490 620 992 1651
Represented by:
Loan capital 28 261
Minority
interests 100 100 100 24
Ordinary
capital 236 236 236 354 354 864 782
Reserves 75 120 185 136 266 300 684
411 456 521 490 620 992 1651
Contracts in
progress 270 315 337 147 202 422 537
Estimated
operating
income 94 190 233 215 306 351 512
Earnings 35 65 89 98 166 172 175
Ord. Dividends 24 24 24 30 35 64 73
Surplus 11 41 65 68 131 108 102
Dividend
per share (a) 80 80 80 120 120 180 180
Earnings
per share (a) 69- 128 174 192 325 228 185
(a) on basis 1952 = ICO.
Dividend
yield (b) 9.5 8.3 5.0 7.2 3.2 3.5 3.2
Frice/
Earnings »
ratio (-b) 7.4 4.4 5.3 5.0 9.9 11.4 14.4
lb) based on last sale, October.


The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
Telephone
HEAD
BL 5601
(Incorporated in Canberra, Australia)
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Iv. J. Hedley, General Manager
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
HERE'S TO THE MALTSTER
T>arrett Burston (Aust.) Ltd said
cheers to the shareholders on the
occasion of the 50th anniversary of the
union between Barrett and Burston,
with a dividend increase from 8 to 10
p.c.
This Melbourne company is reputed to
be the largest maltster in Australia,
supplying most breweries in the country.
It also supplies food processors, and
has a considerable export trade with
Asia.
Since the public placement at par of
496,570 10s. ordinary shares in May
1958, the company has produced annual
profit increments from steady capital,
all in ordinary shares. Earning rate has
strengthened from 15.0 to 15.5 to 15.8
and 18.9 p.c. in the year to April 30,
1962.
Net profit leapt from £197,613 to
£236,260, after providing £214,799 for
tax (1961 £125,390) and £59,396
(£50,080) for depreciation, plus an ad-
ditional £62,820 depreciation on factory
buildings. Directors reported that the
expected normal charge in future in
this connection would be £13,000. Re-
serves have more than trebled in four
years:
To Re- Re-
Jan. 31 Net profit Dividends serves, serves.
£ pc £ £ £
1959 185,814 8 = 99,727 86,087 135,037
Less tax underprovided 32 135,005
Less Preliminary exes.
written off 15.552 119,453
1960 194,138 8 = 99,727 94,411 213.864
Less loss sale assets 747 213 117
1961 197,613 8 = 99,727 97,886 311,003
Less loss sale assets 311 310.692
1962 236,260 10 = 124,659 111,601 422,293
Tangible asset backing per 10s. ordin-
ary share has improved from 10s. 1 Id.
to 13s. 4d.
Directors attributed the very satis-
factory results to a substantial additional
volume of exports, but they caution that
although this business should continue
in 1962, it may not necessarily there-
after.
Overdraft was reduced over the year,
but greater liabilities to creditors and
the tax department practically cancelled
this out: the working capital position is
substantially the same as at balance date
1961.
Outsiders’ equity in the business is
negligible, and the accounts impress as
those of a well-managed, efficient con-
cern.
The stock is often recommended as
a backdoor entry to the brewery indus-
try, and certainly at current price of
about 20s. 9d. to yield 4.8 p.c., Barrett
Burston shares compare more than fav-
orably with most brewing stocks as an
investment. Indeed, one day a brewer or
food processor like Mauri Brothers and
Thomson could see fit to annexe Bar-
rett Burston, if family interests would
allow.
PARENT AND SUBSIDIARIES
Paid capital 1,246,580 1,246,590 1,246,590
Reserves 213,864 311,003 422.293
Loan 10,816 9,241 7,666
Overdraft 629,660 463,233 169,144
Deposits 128,583 163,316 171,876
Creditors 341,576 201,790 289,543
Staff funds 3,302 3,651 5,339
Tax provision 182,084 196,804 293,163
Final dividend 49,864 49,864 74,796
£2,806,339 2,645,492 2,680.410
Freehold, leasehold 680,867 805,184 770,738
Plant etc. 439,563 589,811 624,395
Stocks 1,131,651 332.382 937,768
Debtors 493,669 317,408 346,732
Cash 137 253 237
Suspense 452 454 540
£2,806,339 2,645,492 2,680,410
UNIVERSAL PROVIDER OF THE WEST
A major department store in Perth
is Boans Ltd, incorporated in 1918
to take over Boans Brothers’ business.
Its chief rival is David Jones (Perth) Ltd,
which makes Boans interesting as a
suitable entree for the Myer Emporium
Ltd of Melbourne. So let’s look at
Boans.
Stock exchange listing in Perth was
achieved in 1954 when Boan family in-
terests offered 240,000 10s. units to the
public. A one-for-four issue was made
in January 1955 at 50 p.c. premium,
and in November 1957 the company
issued registered unsecured notes with
separate options, which will increase paid
capital by £99,000 on November 30,
1962.
An issue of “B” preference shares was
made in December 1960, which was
heavily oversubscribed.
The city store is located on valuable
freehold at Murray and Wellington
Streets, with a bulk store, furniture fac-
tory, service station and garage. Land
and buildings were revalued by about
£670,000 in 1957, and the surplus
credited to asset revaluation account.
A branch store was established at Wav-
erley, 10 miles east of Perth, in 1959,
and its success encouraged directors to
open another store a complete shop-
ping centre —at Morley in November,
1961.
Far from concentrating on suburban
development, directors are modernising
the front of the Wellington Street store,
and constructing a mezzanine floor to
cater especially for men’s fashions.
Representation was achieved in the
south-west of the State by the purchase
of a majority interest in Thos. Hayward
Pty Ltd of Bunbury, during 1960-61.
Although trading was adversely af-
fected by credit restrictions, profit for
the year to March 1, 1962’ was com-
parable with that of the preceding year.
The net result was a profit of £145,650
(formerly £144,204), after providing
£106,309 (£101,811) for tax and £67,262
(£63,439) for depreciation:
Net , Dividends N To Re- Re-
Feb. 28 Profit Pref. Ordinary serves serves
£ £ p.e. £ £ £
1957 20,500 10=43,907 36,693 494 540
Tax overprovided 4,499 499’039
Asset revaluation 673,123 1,172,162
1958 — 119,281 20,500 11 = 48,298 50,483 1,222,645
Less tax underprovided 318 1,222,327
1959 20,500 10=43,907 44,259 1,286,586
Profit sale shares 5,114 1,271,700
Overprovision shares 518 1,272 218
1960 20,500 10=43,907 57,154 1 329 372
Share premium 15,833 1,345,205
Less tax underprovided 4,608 1,340,597
Less difference between cost
of shares in subsidiary
and net assets 681 1,339,916
1961 25,708 10=44,907 66,589 1,406,505
Less tax underprovided 994 1,405,511
1962 30,417 10=44,906 66,327 1,471,838
Earning rate since 1957 has been 18.4
p.c., 22.5, 22.4, 23.0, 26.4 and 26.1


CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on B<h March.
1950.
0
PER ANNUM
4YEARS
FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN IN A PERSONAL EMERGENCY
APPLICATIONS MUST BE MADE ON THE FORM ATTACHED
TO THE PROSPECTUS, WHICH IS NOW AVAILABLE FROM:
All Branches of the Company's Bankers
THE BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company's Offices,
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Bayliss Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
BROKERS:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
COWRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
TRUSTEES FOR THE NOTEHOLDERS:
Bankers & Traders Insurance Company Limited
CC.137A8
WE SUPPLY
EXPLOSIVES Log-splitting and
post-hole guns Powder and fuse
for same. Blasting mats. Tamping
rods Magazines. Carrying boxes
Exploders and all accessories.
STEAM VALVES Everlasting
valve. Particularly suitable for
boiler blow-off or full on.
WATER FILTERS For farm,
household and industrial use.
TUYERES Hot air for forges.
MINING Curvilinear tables for
ore concentration Classifiers. Rapid
magnetting machines.
TOOLS Barrows, pinch and other
bars. Jumpers, mattocks, picks,
handles, shovels, quarry tools, road-
lamps, etc.
enquiries to—
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.,.
78 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
p.c. on virtually unchanged ordinary
capital. A 10 p.c. ordinary dividend has
been paid annually since listing, with the
exception of 1958, when 11 p.c. was
paid out. The £434,521 preference capi-
tal requires £30,417 yearly, and the
£449,073 ordinary capital £44,906.
The £420,000 increase in land and
buildings, and the £160,000 increase in
plant in the latest year presumably rep-
resents the investment at Morley. Stocks
and debtors are consequently higher, but
liquidity was considerably affected by
the company’s expansion programme.
Indebtedness to the bank was reduced by
about £lBO.OOO, but trade creditors were
extended from £451,832 to £1,001,280,
and other creditors from £280.692 to
£421,827:
1960 1961 lg 62
£ £ £
Paid capital:
Pref. 800,000 434,521 434,521
Ord. 439,073 449.073 449,073
Reserves 1,329,372 1,406,505 1,471,838
Outside shareholders 42,806 42,403
Loans 698.500 747,452 985,731
Notes 330,000 330,000 330,000
Deposits 183,900 305,435 472,185
Overdraft 415,832 429.045 247,471
Creditors 724,913 732.524 1,423,107
Tax provision 71,886 162,890 106,309
Staff funds 23,636 28,680 37,929
Final div. 64,407 71,500 76 208
£4,581,519 5.140,431 6,076,775
Property 1,967.339 2,078,352 2,509,494
Plant 422,322 440,577 597,634
. Investments 11,609 12,452 12,711
Stocks 1,244.369 1.363,862 1.509,352
Debtors 912,936 1,221,237 1.434,173
Cash, bonds 21,219 22.226 - 11 686
Goodwill 1,725 1,725 L 725
£4,581,519 5,140,431 ' 6,076,775
The £99,000 to be raised by the
exercising of options next November
will make a very small dent in these
liabilities, and as the company already
has long term liabilities totalling £1,787,-
916, further finance must come from
ordinary shareholders in the near
future.
Western Australia is how awakening
from its slumbers work has begun
on industrial projects which will cost
£l5O million and its local companies
will receive more attention from eastern
companies and investors. The 425. 3d.
worth of assets (at conservative valua-
tion) backing each 10s. ordinary share
should be attractive to the Myer organi-
sation, which no longer worries about
poaching in David Jones’ territory. The
two companies are happily coexisting in
other States.
A move from Myer could well come
via Myer (SA) Ltd whose ss. shares
sell around 295. Bd. to yield 2.0 p.c. The.
Boans 10s. shares last sold around 395.
to yield 2.6 p.c., but the options, with
10s. to pay in November, were last
available at 265. 6d., yet there would be
only a 9d. dividend difference between
the old and the new shares. These
options, though scarce, are the better
buy. Independent or otherwise, this
company has potential.


STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
11th Floor, Pearl Assurance Building
151 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Phone 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
Sydney: 383 George Street, 29-7865
Adelaide: 61 Gawler Place, 7-8407
Brisbane: 334 Queen Street. 31-1621
Canberra: 8.M.1. Alinga St., 4-3334
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
All Offices: “Options”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
Speculator's Diary
Tt has been a more than usually active
week. First, we in the bakery
business received a trade circular from
Mauri Bros and Thomson, announcing
in effect, the takeover of the only two
other yeast manufacturers in NSW.
Mauri Bros now has a monopoly in
bakers’ yeast in NSW and, I understand,
throughout the rest of Australia as well.
Not, of course, that Mauri Bros has
bothered to mention this to the Stock
Exchange but I suppose the annual re-
port will contain some enlightening
reference to the fact that further shares
were issued during the year “for the
acquisition of assets”. But, as a satisfied
shareholder, why should I complain?
While I missed my chance a fortnight
ago to buy more Mauri Bros, I did
change my mind about O'Donnell
Griffin when one broker came up with
a small placement at 17s. a share. 1 took
200 to add to the 400 bought nearly
a year ago at 11s. Bd. My renewed
enthusiasm for O’Donnell Griffin has
been prompted largely by its decision to
form a new company in Victoria with
Fischbach and Moore, the largest firm
of electrical contractors in the US.
Furthermore, my fetish for tax pro-
visions should make next month’s
annual accounts of more than routine
interest.
Last week also presented some good
selling opportunities. This was both
fortunate and necessary as I began the
week owing brokers £4OO. First to
come to the aid of my liquidity crisis
was Western Mining whose shares
suddenly took off on one of their
periodic rises. I was able to sell my 600
contribs. at 15s. to make a profit of
just on £5O. Western Mining is proving
something of a gold mine (sic) for me
as I made £l4O in a previous encounter
earlier in the year.
Next day, Independence Day, I
managed to sever my ties with Philip
Morris without loss. These I bought at
265. back in March in a moment of
bravado during the brouhaha about lung
cancer. I sold my 100 at 275.; the price
did hit 295. in Melbourne at one stage.
I had hopes of improving my cash
position still further when the MLC’s
shares finally emerged from the “un-
listed list” to take their place in the
official insurance section. Initially, how-
ever, the price was weaker if anything.
But elsewhere Beau Monde and Peter
Lloyd were both coming along nicely
and looking just about ripe for selling.
However, I decided to give them a day
or two more.
Meanwhile, I was applying myself to
a market which was being more bizarre
than usual. While AOG shares were
falling on the strength of oil in Moonie
No. 4, William Adams shares actually
rose sixpence on the news of its 62 p.c.
fall in profit. The daring thing to do
seemed to be to buy AOG and sell
William Adams short.
The latter 1 did on Thursday when
I sold 200 William Adams at 48s. How
a company that earned 8 p.c. on capital
last year can warrant a share price of
nearly two and a half times par I don’t
know. To me, buyers at that price are
paying what the shares just might be
worth in twelve months time if profit
doubles (as it could) in the current year.
The reaction to the AOG news was
perhaps more rational than it seemed.
Certainly, if the shares were worth £5
or £6 after one or two wells had
proved to be productive, they should be
worth more than 555. now that four
wells have “come in”. But were the
shares worth £5 or £6 earlier this
year? Nobody knows. The price is still
purely relative without any absolute
basis for valuation. What the market is
now admitting is that emotion, ignorance
and optimism do not form a very sound
basis for valuing shares. Even if the
Moonie field can be developed com-
mercially, the shares might still be
grossly overvalued. Until the size of the
field is determined, nobody can tell. But
in the meantime it seemed to me that
the all important psychological factor
should put the price back up again in
the next day or two, so on Friday after-
noon I bought just 100 with the idea of
selling again early this week.
BOUGHT
200 O’Donnell Griffin at 17/- £174
100 A.O.G. at 55/6 £282
SOLD
600 Western Mining at 15/- .... £440
100 Philip Morris at 27/- .... £144
200 William Adams at 48/- .... £234
These few tricks left me in debt, as
usual, to the extent of £323 and with
the need to buy back 200 William
Adams shares this week. Shares now
held are:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date per rent
shares company bought share price
600 O’Donnell Griffin 28/8/61 13/6 17/6
1,600 United Motels 20/11.61 3/9 4/3
300 Beau Monde 8/12/61 26/6 32/-
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2,62 19/9 23/9
500 Mauri Bros. 16/2/62 22/9 23/9
400 Anderson Meat 2/3/62 12/- 14/-
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 6/-
500 Peter Lloyd 21/3/62 5/6 7/6
500 Ready Mixed 6/4/62 17/9 17/3
75 M.L.C. 27/4 62 130/- 150/-
200 Malleys 3/5/62 20/3 21/9
500 Merica 10/5/62 7/- 7/3
500 Swan Brewery 17 5/62 19/6 18/6
1.0/0 Hanimex 23'5/62 4/11 5/9
3"0 National Consol. 30/5 62 26/1 26/-
800 Discount Fa-cilit. 30/5/62 5/9 5/9
300 Marcus Clark notes 22/6/62 27/6 28/6
200 Barrett Burston 28/6/62 21/- 22 6
100 James Hardie 29/6/62 98/- 105/-
100 A.O.G. 6/7/62 55/6 55/6
LETTER TO THE FINANCE EDITOR
McKINNEY-NOT FORGOTTEN
Sir,
The Bulletin’s article (23/6/62)
headed “McKinney Forgotten Gen-
ius” by Mr Cliff Calder, stated that
at the Leeton Irrigana Festival in March
last, the ceremony on July 13, 1912, of
the turning on of the first water supply
to the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Areas
had been re-enacted and that “in mark-
ing the great event of half a century ago
there was no mentioa of Hugh Mc-
Kinney”.
Unfortunately the re-enactment cere-
mony, well organized by an enthusiastic
committee, was disrupted by heavy rain,
which, combined with the fact that the
loud speaker system was struck by light-
ning and rendered inoperative, result-
ed in the dispersion of the large crowd.
The actors, although soaked, carried out
the re-enactment ceremony itself, but
an address on the Establishment and
Development of the Murrumbidgee Ir-
rigation Areas, which I had been invited
to give at the conclusion of the cere-
mony, had to be abondoned.
I can assure Mr Calder that Hugh Mc-
Kinney is far from forgotten by those
associated with irrigation in NSW,
and it had been my intention to pay
due tribute to him in my address in
fact I did so in a talk I recorded for
Station 2WG, Wagga, and subsequently
broadcast.
W. D. MEIKLE
Chairman, Water Con-
servation and Irrigation
Commission


ONE TO, BUY
THIS TNT SPELLS
SAFETY
JlJhomas Nationwide Transport Ltd
■*- is reported to be doing excellent busi-
ness, and is worthy of consideration in
any growth portfolio at current price
around Bs. 6d. to yield 5.9 p.c.
Mr K. W. Thomas began as a carrier
with one truck 15 years ago. Today the
business is the largest interstate trans-
port operator, by road and rail, in Aus-
tralia. It has a large fleet of semi-trailers,
supplemented by a permanent owner-
driver fleet.
The company joined Sydney, Ade-
laide, Brisbane and Melbourne lists last
November on placement of 640,000 ss.
ordinary shares at ss. 9d. plus charges.
Paid capital was £BOO,OOO.
The advent of the standard gauge be-
tween Sydney and Melbourne in Janu-
ary has brought an unprecedented vol-
ume of business to TNT. This is indica-
tive of TNT’s potential when other rail
lines are standardised.
In February all the share capital of
Scarfs Central Warehousing Pty Ltd and
certain assets and goodwill of Scarfs
Expressways Pty Ltd and Rice Cartage
Pty Ltd were acquired for the issue of
£196,875 in TNT shares. This added a
major competitor to the TNT organis-
ation.
The main asset obtained was a new
70,000 sq. ft central distribution ware-
house and office block for clients on a
private rail siding at Chullora in Syd-
ney. Also Scarfs Expressways had facil-
ities in Queensland, NSW, Victoria and
South Australia. TNT has integrated
these as quickly as possible and been
able to make more frequent scheduling
of services.
TNT is thus well-equipped to handle
the growing volume of freight being
forwarded interstate by road and rail.
In recent months takeover of some
smaller operators has brought a certain
amount of rationalisation to the trans-
port industry, and the six or seven re-
maining businesses will not embark on
uneconomical competition.
Interim dividend was paid in Feb-
ruary at the forecast rate of 10 p.c., and
indications are that earnings will slight-
ly exceed the 15 p.c. on capital estim-
ated at the time of the placement.
Consideration to the vendors brought
paid capital to just under £1 million.
The ss. shares, which previously reached
a peak price of 10s., have dipped as low
as 7s. 6d. a couple of weeks ago under
die influence of unloading by the ven-
dors, and have since recovered a shilling
or so. There is scope for further appreci-
ation.
REALISTIC BUTTER PRICE
np'HE decision of the Australian dairy
industry not to lift the domestic
prices of butter and cheese showed a
realistic appreciation of the position. It
was also an indication that the industry
may be~ expected to use its newly-
acquired power to fix these prices with
a fair amount of discretion.
The industry, beset with a variety of
problems on its overseas markets, is
well aware that it dare not jeopardise
its only profitable selling ground
Australia. It is aware that housewives
already regard the price of butter
up to ss. a lb. as too high and that
any further price rise would be instantly
offset by further drops in consumption.
Australian domestic retail butter
prices have risen 150 per cent in the
last 14 years and this, allied with a
world-wide trend away from butter, has
helped push Australian consumption
down from 32.6 lb. a head in 1938-39 to
a mere 25.1 lb. in 1960-61. This is the
second successive year in which butter
and cheese prices have not changed
giving the Australian Dairy Produce
Board a chance to show how effectively
it is spending hundreds of thousands of
pounds of industry promotion funds.
The effect of promotion can never
be judged exactly, but it appears the
board’s efforts are barely holding butter
sales at their present level if that.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
BILLS OF EXCHANGE ACT
REVIEW COMMITTEE
The Committee appointed to review the Bills of
Exchange Act 1909-1958 proposes to hold an
inquiry based on the following Terms of Reference
from the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth,
the Hon. Sir Garfield Barwick, Q.C.:
“1. To consider the provisions of the Bills of
Exchange Act, 1909-1958, and to recom-
mend any alterations to that Act that may
be thought desirable.
2. In particular to consider whether any of the
changes effected in the British law by the
Cheques Act, 1957, should be adopted in
A ustralia.
3. For the purposes of the foregoing, to seek
and consider expressions of opinion from
relevant bodies and members of the public.
4. To report to the Government the conclu-
sions of the Committee with regard to 1
and 2 above.”
The Committee, comprising Mr. Justice J. K. Man-
ning of the Supreme Court of New South Wales as
Chairman and Mr. L. B. Evans, Mr. D. Farquhar-
son, Professor H. A. J. Ford and Mr. J. W. Peden as
members, has decided to proceed, in the first
instance, upon written submissions.
Persons and organisations wishing to make submis-
sions to the Committee are required to forward
detailed written statements (six copies) to the
Secretary as soon as possible, but not later than 15th
September, 1962.
Persons and organisations submitting material are
requested to state the interests or organisations
represented and to advise whether the material is
confidential.
Public sittings will be held later at dates and places
to be notified. The primary purpose of such sittings
will be to permit elucidation of written statements.
Those desiring to be heard are requested so to
advise when forwarding such statements.
The Committee wishes to avoid unnecessary oral
repetition of substantially identical material, and
accordingly may take steps to arrange that persons
and organisations whose written submissions are to
the same effect and who desire to be heard shall
join together.
R. T. KENNY.
Secretary.
Bills of Exchange Act Review Committee,
Commonwealth Crown Solicitor’s Office,
119 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.


Par
Last
Prices —
A
Div.
Div.
Earn.
Earn.
Company
Value
Sale
1961
2/7/62
9/7/62
Rate
p.c
Yield
p.c.
Rate
p.c.
Yield
p.c.
Amalgamated Chemicals .. 5/
14/3
18/
17/11
121/2
3.5
21.4
5.9
A.W.A. . . .
.... 5/
20/414
20/9
21/
14
3.3
22
5.2
Ampol
11/4
12/1
12/4
14
5.7
19
7.7
A.R.C
10/
46/3
47/t
48/61
15
3.1
29.7
6.1
.Associated Pulp ..
.. . 20/
29/3
30/6
30/9
—
—
13.6
8.9
Aust. Chemicals
.. .. 10/
30/414
24/5
25/
12%
5.0
21.5
8.6
A.C.I
20/
72/6
68/6
67/6
8-1/3
2.5
19.3
5.7
Aust. Guarantee
.... 5/
14/
12/6
12/9
15
5.9
20.3
8.0
Aust. Gypsum ..
.... 3/
14/3
14/4141
14/9
10
3.4
15.9
5.4
A.P.M
... 20/
25/3
23/6f xB
23/
8
7.0
10
8.7
Bank N.S.W. . , ..
£20
£34
£40141
£40
9
4.5
12.2
6.1
Bitumen and Oil
.... 5/
24/
24/1
24/11
171/2
3.5
35.4
7.2
Blue Metal Ind.
.. .. 5/
22/714
23/2
23/5
15
3.2
27.6
6.1
Bradford Cotton
.... 5/
7/6
7/1
6/8
10
7.4
11.2
8.2
British Tobacco
20/
25/
24/3
24/9
9
7.3
9.7
7.9
B.H.P. . . .
.. .. 20
69/
59/
58/
6‘A
2.2
15.5
6.6
Burns Philp
20/
91/
£5/4/
£5
10
2.0
12.4
2.5
C.S.R
£20
£ 5914
£ 58/2/6
£ 59%
91/2
3.2
14.8
5.0
C.A.G.A. . . .. ,
.. .. 5/
11/3
10/9
11/
10
4.5
12.2
5.5
C.I.G.
.. .. 20/
£5
95/
95/
11
2.3
25.2
5.3
Commercial Union ..
.... 5/
19/3
20/9fxR
23/
6V2
1.4
18.4
4.0
Concrete Ind.
.. .. 5/
15/11/ 2
14/5
14/5
10
3.5
16.6
5.8
Consolidated Zinc ..
.. .. 25/
62/6
56/6B
57/9B
15
6.5
11.6
5.0
Cox Bros
7/6
7/4
7/5
10
6.7
11.8
8.2
Custom Credit ..
5/
13/
11/8
11/81
15
6.4
18.2
7.8
Cyclone ....
,. .. 10/
26/
21/4V2
21/9
10
4.6
17.7
8.1
Dalgety-N.Z. Loan ..
.. 25/
—
35/
37/61
8
5.3
13.9
9.3
David Jones
.. .. 5/
18/9
18/3
17/11
121/2
3.5
28.7
6.7
Drug Houses .. ..
.. .. 20/
69/
67/1141
67/3
II1/4
3.3
17.7
5.3
Dunlop Rubber
20/
35/
39/
39/6
10
5.1
16
8.1
Elder Smith
.. .. 12/
23/9
24/6S
24/3
10
4.9
12,6
6.3
Electronic “B”
.. .. 10/
13/3
15/9
17/
121/2
7.4
—
—
Email
7/6
7/9
7/9
10
6.4
11
6.0
E.Z. Ind.
.. .. 10/
12/11
12/6
12/7
10
8.0
12.4
9.8
Pelt and Textiles ..
.. .. 5/
6/11
7/9
7/10
10
6.4
13.9
8.9
G. J. Coles .. ..
13/6
13/2
13/
11
4.2
14.8
5.7
Goldsbrcugh
20/
28/6
30/9
29/91
8
5.4
12.6
8.4
H. C. Sleigh .. ..
.. .. 5/
11/
13/
12/3
121/a
5.1
13.4
5.4
Henry Jones
20/
80/
80/
76/
10
2.6
28.6
7.5
H. G. Palmer ..
15/6
17/3
17/9
121/2
3.5
33.4
9.4
Howard Smith ..
.. .. 20/
54/
46/714
48/9
10
4.1
13.6
5.2
Humes
. 20/
70/6
72/
72/3
14
3.9
24.6
6.9
I.A.C.
13/4
13/8
13/iy 2
16-2/3
6.3
20.6
7.7
I.C.I.A.N.Z. .. .
20/
38/
40/6
40/9
7
3.4
9.7
4.2
J. Gadsden
.. .. 10/
15/3
17/11
17/6
8
4.6
10.4
6.0
Kandos Cement
.... 5/
—
22/6
21/9
121/a
3.0
13.5
3.1
Kelvinator
5/
18/3
18/414
19/5
15
3.9
28.6
7.5
Lend Lease
.... 5/
20/
18/714
17/9
10
2.8
21.4
6.0
L. J. Hooker
.. .. 5/
7/
5/1
5/
—
1.1*
1.1
Mercantile Credits ..
.... 5/
8'8
8/6
8/IOI/2
10
5.6
16.6
9.3
McPhersons
. . .. 20/
47/
41/
41/3
8-1/3
4.1
12.4
5 5
Minster
62/
71/61
74/9
16-2/3
2.2
28.3
3.8
Moulded Products ..
.... 5/
13/2
13/6
13/2
14
5.4
7.8
2.8
Mt. Isa Mines . .
.... 5/
71/6
68/9
68/6
25
1.8
62.8
4 6
Mutual Acceptance
.... 5/
8/10
9/8
IO/II/2
15
7.4
22.3
10.9
Myer
29/
30/6
30/4
16-2/3
2.7
28.3
4.8
National Consolidated
5/
27/
26/3
26/
20
3.8
35.3
6.8
Olympic Industries
.. .. 5/
7/7
9/6
9/11
9
4.5
16.2
8.1
Peters (Vic.» . ,
.... 2/
8/6
7/11
7/10
15
3.8
18.9
4.8
Petrochemical
.. .. 20/
26/
25/3
27/6
6
4.4
5.9
4.3
R. M. Concrete
.... 5/
17/414
17/4
17/3
121/a
3.5
22.9
6.5
Reid Murray . .
5/3
3/11
4/
9.4
11.8
Repco
.... 5/
12/5
13/6
13/7
10
3.7
17.8
6.6
Rio Tinto
.. .. 5/
15/9
18/3
18/
10
2.8
71.7
19.9
Rothmans ..
.. .. 20/
87/6
72/61
73/6
171/2
4.8
47.7
13.0
Thiess . .
13/
11/3
H/71/2
121/a
5.4
14.4
4.7
Tooth ...
.. .. 20/
60/
68/6
69/
13'/ 2
3.9
15.9
4.6
Union Carbide ..
.. .. 20/
80/
66/61
66/31
10
3.0
15.9
4.8
Waltons
.. .. 5/
13/8
13/6
13/5
12%
4.6
19.7
7.3
Woolworths
15/4
15/10
16/1
12
3.7
15.4
4.7
Wormald
.. .. 5/
11/10
11/6
11/8
10
4.3
14.2
6.8
W. R. Carpenter .... 5/
* Estimated on last half-year’s profit.
xR Ex rights,
t Mid-price.
30/
33/6 33/6
xD Ex dividend.
S Seller.
B Buyer.
15
2.2
35.1
5.4
Banks,
Other
Base
Ail
etc.
Finance
Pastoral
Retailers
Metals
Ords.*
Industrials
December 22, 1961 ..
137.37
541.02
182.31
389.35
604.15
299.07
318.74
July 2,
1962 .. ..
158.45
559.12
175.53
368.77
548.74
294.23
309.28
July 3,
1962 ..
158.88
562.25
171.72
367.59
542.76
294.36
309.69
July 4,
1962 . .
158.21
562.08
171.69
370.68
536.52
294.23
309.09
July 5,
1962 .. ..
158.16
561.35
170.81
370.05
549.02
294.38
309.46
July 6,
1962 .. ..
157.73
557.48
169.75
366.72
551.93
294.47
310.24
July 9,
1962 .. ..
158.42
552.24
170.09
366.72
550.27
294.38
310.31
* Peak
348.46 September 16, 1960
December 22, 1961
50 Leading Stocks
Djv. Yield Earn. Yield
Other Stocks—Random—,
*> Sample
Div. Yield Earn. Yield
July 2, 1962
.. 4.38
6.25
5 27
2^28
July 3, 1962
.. 4.36
6.25
5.24
July 4, 1962
6.21
5.23
July 5, 1962
4.36
6.28
5 22
2.13
July 6, 1962
6.29
5.20
July 9, 1962
6.31
5.13
2.08
MALAISE LINGERS
IN MARKETS
Toothing especially positive has yet
occurred to change the deciduous
atmosphere on Australian sharemarkets.
Nor do quotations give much sign of a
possible sudden response to any fore-
seeable stimulus. A mid-year malaise has
imposed its rigors with a vengeance.
Much of the present mood can be con-
veyed by examining the reception of last
week’s Moonie news and the later siting
of a No. 5 hole. A quick, half-hearted
spurt did not take too long to re-
verse itself. It may be maintained, thank
goodness, that oil dabblers are calmly
learning a lesson. But their mood stands
pat with the rest of the market.
If any further general illustration
were needed, it might be found in the
drooping of trading ranges and a more
clearly apparent loss of turnover. These
two features were common all last week
and received confirmation from a slug-
gish Monday opening. They extend
through all principal investment sec-
tions.
Whatever leader guidance it seemed
possible to descry earlier has virtually
disappeared. C.S.R. certainly began
higher in its cat-and-mouse game and
B.H.P. gave every evidence of not losing
ground. But the rest of the pack looked
uniformly uncertain.
Under all these circumstances, the
end of June rally presents only an in-
dication of a minor calling to order. It
still seems that the second liners among
industrials could be first to bear the
burden of a small overall advance
through selection and an acute examina-
tion of forthcoming profit chances.
Curiously enough, investors kept their
aplomb despite William Adams’ profit
and dividend retreat, though there must
be a number of companies equally vul-
nerable to deleterious stock movements.
Perhaps the market considers it has fin-
ally discounted most of 1961-62 and will
soon start a scrutiny for genuine growth.
If so it will place itself squarely in
accord with overseas trends, and this
time quite rightly. Both New York and
London are now talking a lot about
profit rates and attempting a more dis-
creet evaluation of actual earnings.
Dr A. R. Hall, of the Australian
National University, speaks for one
Sydney broker and no doubt echoes the
thoughts of many other observers. “Re-
covery is under way and undoubtedly
will continue,” he writes. But the quali-
fication comes: “With one or two excep-
tions, however, the signs still point to
a sluggish recovery. For the time being
the strength of consumer spending must
be subject to some doubt.”
LEADING SHARE PRICES
SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE INDICES
MELBOURNE STOCK EXCHANGE
AVERAGE YIELD ON 100 ORDINARY SHARES


ENGINES
RECONDITIONED
WHILE-YOU-DRIVE
Super Nu Metal Pat. expands up to 30%,
eliminating slackness and lack of power
caused by WORN engine parts Replates
Worn upper Cylinders, main bearings,
diffs, gears, SAVES rebore, ends piston
slap, rattles, oil, petrol waste RESTORES:
New compression Power, top speed zip.
ADDS £ s. d resale value. GUARANTEED:
Up to 25,000 miles according to engine
wear. SIMPLY add Re-Nu expanding liquid,
Nu Metal or in tablet form to oil, petrol,
plug holes. 4. 6, 8 cylinders, 60/-, 70/-. 80/-.
Manufactured since 1934. Harmless to Finest
Engines Oven Saturday. Sold only by
RE-NU CO. (ESTAB. 1932).
(Scientific Colleges & Plastic Ind. Co. Pty. Ltd.)
58 Swan St. (Op. Richmond Stn.)
Phone: J 81755.
I enclose £ for Super Nu Metal, or send
copy of testimonials, engineers’ reports and
free folder describing action of Nu Metal.
NAME
ADDRESS BUL.
FINANCE
CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in South Australia under
rhe Companies Act 1934/52)
The Bank of Adelaide owns 40% of the
Ordinary Capital of the Company
FULLY SECURED REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
PER ANNUM 10 YEARS
5f%
PER ANNUM 2 YEARS
Stock Registers are maintained in each
Capital City. Prospectuses should be
obtained from and applications made to: —
JOINT BANKERS TO THE ISSUE
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, Perth
Applications for Debenture Stock can be accepted only
on the printed form attached to the prospectus.
Q 523
Near enough is
not good enough
]|/|embeh of the CSIRO executive and
distinguished scientist, Dr O. H.
Frankel, wasn’t being quite so super-
ficial as it may have appeared the other
day when he complained about the lack
of “zing” in Australian potatoes, apples
and garden peas.
Dr Frankel was hitting at something
much more important than a temporary
lack of flavor in vegetables. He was
talking about the good old Australian
attitude of “near enough's good enough”.
And undoubtedly the warning was
well-timed, for today probably more
than ever before—Australia is going to
have to sell her products on a highly
competitive market.
On this new market it will be quality
rather than quantity which will decide
the price. And quality is something
many Australian industries have paid
scant attention to in recent years.
It is a strange fact that Australia, one
of the world's major wheat exporters,
does not grade her export wheat. It is
just “fair average quality” and we get
a fair average price for it.
Dr Frankel was right when he com-
mented: “Some day we may pay dearly
for this”. He added that Australia had
to face the prospect that agriculture all
over the world was likely to be raised
to a high pitch of efficiency. This
would inevitably affect Australia’s export
prospects, both old and new.
He said Australia must seek high
technical efficiency if it was to produce
with minimum costs, maximum output
and to the high quality standards which
a highly competitive world would
necessitate.
In other words . . . near enough is
NOT good enough.
U.S. SEEKS MARKETS FOR NEW PRODUCTS
"Donne Bell of Cleveland, Ohio, is
marketing a new medicated lipstick
which contains an antiseptic ingredient
and a healing agent to help solve such
lippy problems as chapping, splitting and
peeling.
Navan Products, Inc., of El Segundo,
California, has a new air acetylene torch,
the flame of which triggers on or off
automatically. When the trigger is
pressed a battery-operated device lights
the torch instantly; releasing the trigger
shuts the gas off and the flame goes out.
The “Prest-O-Matic” torch is recom-
mended for silver brazing, soldering, and
for tempering of light gauge metals.
Colgate-Palmolive has developed a
toothpaste substitute in the form of a
dentifrice tablet, Bite ’n Brush, which
users chew before brushing their teeth.
Further information about these pro-
ducts may be obtained from the US
Consulate-General, Sydney.


REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
?ij
p.a. for 7 years
5£% p.a. for 12 months
Other rates and terms available see
Prospectus for full details. Your copy
available from all Members of Stock
Exchanges, over 750 branches of the
A.N.Z. Bank Limited and I.A.C.
Branches.
Applications for stock will proceed
only on one of the forms of application
referred to and attached to a printed
copy of the Prospectus.
Underwriting Brokers: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney,
Adelaide and Brisbane.
8140 N
HOW THE BIG BUILDING PROJECT
COMPANIES ARE FARING
vanguard of any economic reces-
sion is occupied by builders, engi-
neers and manufacturers of consumer
durables. Yet in the last 18 months our
still youthful project builders have shown
relatively few signs of strain.
Casualty rates amongst smaller build-
ers have been heavy, though five old-
established Victorian businesses failed in
the last six months, as did the builder of
the NSW Government flats at Camper-
down.
Without long-term contracts, the pro-
ject builders would certainly have
proved more vulnerable. But the larger
contracts take about 2} years to com-
plete, so that around next March is
viewed as the critical time for the build-
er-cum-developer.
With every city block featuring scaf-
folding, steel skeletons and the concrete
mixer, Sydney citizens are very much
aware of the activities of Lend Lease
Corporation Ltd, James Wallace (Hold-
ings) Ltd, and Project Development
Corporation Ltd, the big three in this
field. These are project companies with
building subsidiaries.
Lend Lease, the only fully integrated
company in the industry, was most pro-
tected from recessional winds, yet its
monolithic home unit block at Blues
Point is now labelled The Folly. Like
many another home unit builder, it has
ended up as landlord, rather than ven-
dor, for two-thirds of the units. The
rents do provide an adequate return on
capital and the company believes their
value will appreciate 5 p.c. in a couple
of years.
Several Projects
Other Sydney projects still under con-
struction by Lend Lease include stage
one of the Sydney Opera House which
will be completed about August (and on
rumor does not appear to be very profit-
able), the oil refinery at Kurnell, the
Consolidated Press office extensions, and
the Commercial Union Assurance build-
ing in Pitt Street.
The group owns land for subdivision
at Carlingford and St Ives, and a separate
company is concerned with the Mac-
quarie Heights housing estate at Camp-
belltown, a fairly recent departure from
previously stated policy, since the group
initially decided not to concern itself
with housing.
It is waiting on council approval for
a projected £8 million shopping centre
at Bankstown. Two home unit projects
in Melbourne, suspended because finan-
cial arrangements had not been made
before the squeeze, are now under con-
struction.
Lend Lease has access to overseas
funds by virtue of its Dutch parentage.
Managing director G. J. Dusseldorp re-
cently returned with international finan-
cial arrangements for the £l2 million
Australia Square project, which will be
constructed by the subsidiary, Civil and
Civic Pty Ltd.
The lease-back arrangements made by


A. L. NEVITT. DRAPER & CO.
A. L NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
'Members o] Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street, Phone 6089
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members ol the Sydney Stock Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building,
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale”. Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone; BW 5721,
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
: Members of Sydney Stock Exchange
W. KEITH YUILL—KEITH C. PHILLIPS
lAN C. WALTON —GORDON G. KING
WALTER 1. SUMMONS
WILLIAM S. SHUGU
(non-member partner)
33 BLIGH STREET. 2-0137
84 William Street, Melbourne. 67-5089
340 Queen Street, Brisbane. 31-2191
Telegrams and Cables: “Ralphking”
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Grafton
and Tamworth
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. W. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road,
Melbourne
Telephone: 51-6243
Est. 1939
the development division for the £2i
million shopping centre in Canberra and
Lend Lease House at Circular Quay
mean no capital outlay is involved, yet
an income interest is retained through
sub-letting.
Its high market status enabled Lend
Lease to raise debenture money (at a
price) and also to make share place-
ments (tied with loan funds) to institu-
tions even when money was tightest.
Placement prices were pretty close to
market prices, too. Earning rate is ex-
pected to be lower in the year to June
just ended, but a 50 p.c. capital increase
is a formidable hoist to cope with.
James Wallace appears to have ridden
through virtually unscathed. Although it
has withdrawn from a £2.5 million job
on the University of NSW Medical
School, it is proceeding with a £1.4 mil-
lion chemical school there, a £1.2 mil-
lion building for Abbott Laboratories at
Kurnell, a £700,000 office block for
Australian Guarantee Corporation and a
£2 million building for the ANZ Bank.
A subsidiary company is developing
Smiggins Hole in the Snowy Mountains
with hotel and ski lodges.
Funds were reported to have been
obtained from the US early this year.
Group earning rate actually improved
in the December half-year over the 1960
half-term.
Wynyard Plans
Throughout the recent critical months,
Project Development has appeared the
most likely candidate for financial prob-
lems. Redevelopment of the Wynyard
station area, at an estimated cost of £4.5
million, embraces shopping arcades, a
car park, an office block, and a hotel
to be known as Menzies Sydney and
managed by Federal Hotels.
Project Development attempts to
isolate the risk of large projects by carv-
ing off separate companies. Finance was
arranged by forming a subsidiary, Wyn-
yard Holdings Ltd, which obtained
overseas loan funds, local debenture
money and share capital. Construction
is up to schedule, progress costs well
within estimates, and the final part of
the scheme is due to be completed by
October 1963.
Stocks and Holdings Ltd is primarily
engaged in cottage housing and suburban
shopping centres. A 21-storey Edgecliff
home unit project was deferred until
December 1961, and is now going up
according to schedule. Other shopping
centres and motels are being built in
conjunction with Stocks and Realty Cor-
poration, which it formed.
The most ambitious Stocks and Hold-
ings project is the erection of a 27-storey
building on the Imperial Arcade site at a
cost of £4 million. The company is go-
ing to the public for debenture money
for initial finance. Its profits increased
by almost 50 p.c. in the six months to
December, and a one-for-three bonus
was made.
Perhaps most in the public (and Treas-
ury) eye throughout the squeeze was L.
J. Hooker Investment Corporation.
Housing construction for the corporation
is done by subsidiary G. H. Thomas Pty
Ltd which obviously operated unprofit-
ably for some time. Although priding
itself on the “development” side of its
activities, Hooker quickly pulled out of
mass construction projects like the Syd-
ney Exchange building until the drain in
funds interest charges on idle assets
could be plugged. London and
American funds have been obtained and
many a saleable asset was disposed of to
keep the pot boiling.
L. J. Hooker of course omitted in-
terim dividend in April, and the shares
subsequently slid to about one-sixth
their boom peak price.
The Rocks Scheme
NSW Cabinet will decide soon on the
best of ten schemes submitted by the
project tribe for redevelopment of The
Rocks at the southern approach to the
Harbour Bridge, ranging in cost from
£3O to £5O million. Lend Lease submit-
ted five entries, James Wallace two and
Hooker Projects one, in competition
with two outside entries. The successful
applicant would be fully occupied with
its plan’s execution for about ten years.
Westfield Development Corporation
Ltd specialises in shopping centre con-
struction. Its major investment project,
Westfield Plaza shopping centre at
Hornsby, was completed in August 1961,
and immediately revalued. A separate
planning and building subsidiary is en-
gaged in projects for outside retailers.
Work on hand will keep the company
busy until the end of 1963, and direc-
tors forecast in February a very success-
ful year ended last June 30.
A highly regarded private builder,
Concrete Constructions Pty Ltd, takes a
goodly share of Sydney contracts, but it
was rumored to have strained its re-
sources on the £6 million AMP build-
ing at Circular Quay.
The seven months from November
15, 1960, to June 30, 1961, were the
hardest and those who survived those
desperate days are inherently stronger
for the experience. Expensive lessons
have been learned.
The biggest folly of all, the Chevron
Sydney hotel, failed primarily because of
bad estimating and poor organisation of
labour and materials. The financial diffi-
culties were a natural consequence, not
the root cause.
The city commercial building boom
will continue as long as valuable land is
underoccupied.


THE MAN
ON THE
LAND
WHEAT BOARD CHAIRMANSHIP
AND CHINA CREDITS
HThe sudden death of Wheat Board
A chairman Sir John Teasdale makes
it virtually certain that the board will now
enter into some form of long-term credit
wheat deal with Red China.
Sir John had long been the leader of a
Wheat Board faction opposed to credit
sales to China. His opposition was on
two grounds. Firstly, having always
viewed himself as a trustee responsible
to Australian wheatgrowers, the 81-year-
old marketing authority believed he did
not have the right to gamble with the
growers’ property. And, on business
grounds, he regarded credit deals with
China as a gamble.
He said often that Australia had
always sold her wheat for cash and it
was setting a dangerous precedent to enter
into credit arrangements. It would only
lead to a spate of requests for credit from
countries able to pay cash. In the case
of China there was also the impossibility
of collecting if ever she decided to renege
on the deal. (So far China has met every
payment on the due date.)
Sir John's second ground of opposition
was a purely personal one. A staunch
Country Party man in WA during his
pre-chairmanship days, he was a lifelong
anti-Communist. As such he just didn't
trust the Communist Chinese.
With Sir John’s influence removed, it is
thought likely that the board will accept
Chinese feelers for a long-term credit
deal. A deal of this kind has been on
the cards for more than a year. Currently
there is talk of a deal with 12-months
terms (similar to those applying to sales
already made to China) and providing for
the shipment of 100 million bushels in
the first year.
With the possibility of a record 300
million bushel crop this year (Australia
consumes about 56 million bushels) such
a deal would be very attractive to many
Wheat Board members.
Much could depend on the new chair-
man of the board. Sir John had been
due to retire in October and there has
already been much speculation as to his
successor. Half a dozen names have
been freely mentioned, including that
of the board's present general manager
Mr Chris Perrett, who himself is due to
retire about that time.
Mr Perrett is being backed by the
powerful Australian Wheatgrowers’
Federation. He undoubtedly has greater
knowledge of wheat marketing and the
wheat industry than any other likely
candidate.
Other possibilities include several lead-
ing wheatgrowers including some
present board members of long standing
—and a handful of men outside the
industry.
One school of thought that is receiving
some usually-well-informed backing
suggests that a non-wheatgrower may get
the job because the Federal Government
—faced with greater financial responsi-
bilities in the wheat industry—may want
to exercise greater influence on the
board’s decisions and make sure that it is
run on businesslike lines.
The chairmanship of the Wheat Board
has long been a semi-political appoint-
ment, however, and the final say on who
gets the job is expected to rest with Mr
Menzies himself.
RECORD HARVEST OF 350 MILLION
BUSHELS POSSIBLE
A record Australian wheat harvest of
more than 300 million bushels is
likely this season, and might even reach
350 million bushels.
With most of the crop sown, all States
have reported increased acreages and
good growing conditions. Biggest acreage
increase—of about i million acres —is
reported from Western Australia, but
several other States are estimating in-
creases of } million acres. A total Aus-
tralian acreage of 16 million acres is
being tipped.
This would be 1.9 million acres more
than last year and 2.6 million acres
above the record year of 1960-61, And
■—as a striking example of the swing
back to wheat—it would be double the
acreage of 1956-57.
For a 16 million acre crop to produce
a 300 million bushel harvest, a yield of 19
bushels to the acre would be necessary
—not unlikely, for the 1960-61 yield
was 20.4 bushels and in 1958-59 it was
20.7 bushels. Last year, however, in
spite of a higher acreage than in the
record harvest year of 1960-61, yield
dropped back to 17.2 bushels.
This season wheatmen who should
know their subject are saying the ground
is in excellent condition. All States have
had good rains before sowing and most
have had reasonable follow-up rains. In
fact, in a few areas sowing has been
temporarily delayed because the ground
has been too wet. Given good conditions
from now until harvest time there is no
reason why a yield of about 20 bushels
should not be attained.
Two or three years ago the Australian
Wheat Board would have been appalled
at the thought of a 300 million bushel
crop—with the inevitability of having to
sell about 240 million bushels of it on
surplus-burdened world markets. But
with Communist China virtually certain
to be a substantial customer again in the
coming season, the board has no serious
worries—even though prospects are for
better crops in Europe and North Ame-
rica than last year, when the board was
in the pleasant position of having more
potential customers than wheat.
Wheat can therefore be expected to
be a substantial contributor to Australia’s
overseas funds again in 1962-63, even
though bigger harvests mean bigger sub-
sidies for the Federal Government to
pay under its guaranteed wheat price.
This price covers all wheat sold in
Australia for domestic consumption and
up to 100 million bushels of export
wheat.
Under the cost of production formula
used to assess this guaranteed price
farmers have found wheat more profit-
able than wool hence the big swing
to wheat in recent years.


GOODS AND
1" 'l'"1
illli'
A
f
m
©l®
-. >• B
Wi\ iWJ
a* Si
a ' m
WHEREVER
YOUR INTERESTS LIE
THE MANY SERVICES
AND FACILITIES OF
THIS BANK CAN HELP
YOU
Ask the manager of your
nearest branch for particulars
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
C.B.C. SAYINGS BANK LIMITED
THE AWFUL THINGS THAT
RABBITS DO
FROM A LAUNCESTON CORRESPONDENT
A LEXANDER CHARLES ATKINS, TaS-
mania's Minister for Agriculture, has
only to freeze his present pose to make
good his recent promise that “I will not
b~ stampeded into hasty action.” Farmers
who have been trying to shake him into
banning commercial rabbit farming pessi-
mistically believe he'll keep his word.
When nine Ministers have to be selected
from a parliamentary party with a bare
majority in a House of 35 members, the
field of selection is so narrow that minis-
terial talent wears pretty thin. Alex
Atkins is one of those physically and
verbally active Ministers who lack the
knack of administrative effectiveness.
No farm in the mountainous island is
far from tracts of rough, wild country
which is the reservoir of rabbits. Before
myxomatosis was introduced there were
areas over which the foragers moved like
a grey blanket at nightfall and dawn.
The ALP State conference, bemused
by blatherskites into believing that cheap
rabbits alone stood between the Tas-
manian working man and starvation,
prodded the Government into banning the
importation of myxomatosis virus, but
some still undiscovered lawbreakers
brought in infected rabbits, and the
disease spread rapidly. It was more effec-
tive than experts had anticipated, and
reinforced by poisoning it devastated the
rabbit population.
However, while the threat from the
hills existed landowners remained jittery.
They unitedly protested against the
suggestion that commercial rabbit farms
should be licensed. But far more danger-
ous still, they claimed, was the fibroma
virus with which commercial growers pro-
posed to vaccinate their breeders against
myxomatosis infection.
Mr G. B. Edgell, president of the
Farmers, Stockowners and Orchardists 5
Association, quoted the American viro-
logist, Dr Richard Shope, who reported
to the Victorian and NSW Governments
and the CSIRO that there was a risk in
employing fibroma to protect commercial
rabbits. It would, said Mr Edgell, be
difficult to prevent fibroma virus from
spreading to the wild rabbits and giving
them immunity to myxomatosis.
Mr Atkins last week replied that Tas-
mania had probably been the first State
to ban importation of the virus. Vaccin-
ated breeders were allowed into the
c . , Ct . .
State only after the active stage of f.broma
had passed, ft is true, he said, that
Dr Shope expressed a number of opinions
on the possible behavior of fibroma virus
should it escape, hut these are not shared
by workers experienced in Australian con-
ditions.' 5 The risk of its escape was
“almost non-existent' 5 .
He was, he said, waiting for a “suit-
able Australian authority 55 to examine the
Tasmanian situation. Two requests for
the services of such a man had been made
to the CSIRO. Meanwhile, he added, he
would not allow Dr Shope, with “his
short experience of the Australian rabbit
problem 5 ' to precipitate any action on
his part.


MR. E. A. BAJKOWSKI
11/1 R E. A. Bajkowski has resigned from
The Bulletin after three years as
Finance Editor. Mr Bajkowski will enter
private business.
Consolidated Press finance editor, Mr
D. G. Henderson, becomes acting-finance
editor of The Bulletin.
t u.
HI
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street Sydney. BM2OOI.
CHRIST CHURCH GRAMMAR SCHOOL, CLAREMONT, WEST AUST.
Masters are required for 1963 to assist with the teaching of the following subjects
to Matriculation level:—
1. PHYSICS
2. MATHEMATICS
3. ENGLISH AND MODERN LANGUAGES.
Applicants should apply in writing to the Headmaster giving age, qualification,
teaching experience, names of referees.
There is a superannuation scheme and residence for a single man. Basic Salary
Scale £lOB4 —£1993.
Legal Notices
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO: MADELINE JOYCE UPS ALL late of 23
Miles Street, Surry Hills in the State of New
South Wales. TAKE NOTICE that NEVILLE
WILFRED UPSALL has filed a Petition for
Divorce No.' 1159 of 1962 on the grounds of
desertion, and separation. If you wish to
defend this suit, you may enter an Answer in
the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street Sydney, on or before the 31st August
1962, and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS, A. J. F. ROFE & N. A.
MOFFIT.T Solicitors. 79-81 Pitt Street, Sydney.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
(• ' - IN' THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO: LAURENCE EDWARD STARKEY late of
the Royal Australian Navy, Nowra in the State
of New South Wales. TAKE NOTICE that
VALMA DAWN STARKEY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1599 of 1962 on the ground of
separation If you wish to defend this suit, you
may enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street Sydney on or
before the 23rd August 1962 and obtain a cony
of the Petition without charge from MESSRS.
A. J. F. ROFE & N. A. MOFFITT Solicitors,
79-81 Pitt Street. Sydney.— C A. H. HARMS,
Registrar
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO: SIDNEY HENRY WILLIAM ROBEY late
of 33 Chelsea Street Redfern in the State of
New South Wales. TAKE NOTICE that HAZEL
LILIAN MARY ROBEY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1614 of 1962 on the ground of
desertion If you wish to defend this suit, you
mav enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building. Macquarie Street Sidney on or
before the 31st August, 1962 and obtain a cnuy
of the Petition without charge from MESSRS.
A. J. F. ROPE Az N. A. MOYPTTT SoU^u— s .
79-81 Pitt Street. Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: HENRY MARCEL CHAMBON, late of 149
Ferny Avenue Surfers’ Paradise i n the State of
Queensland.—TAKE NOTICE that JEANNE MARIE
AMBROTSINE CHAMBON has filed a petition for
divorce No. 279 of 1962 on the grounds of adultery.
If you wish to defend you may enter an Answer
in the Divorce Registry. Supreme Court, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, by the st.h September, 1962. and
obtain a copy of the Petß'on without, charge from
MARSHALL. MARKS. DEZARNAULDS & JONES,
Solicitors 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO- CONRAD KEIRAN IVAN DAVISON, late of
Enfield.—TAKE NOTICE that HIZEL DAVISON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2977 of 1961
on the ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for two years and upwards. If you wish
to defend you may enter an Answer in the Divorce
Registry. Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney,
by the 7th day of September, 1962 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
GEOFFREY SEE GILLIS & CO.. Solicitors 28
Martin Place, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: GEORGE PALMER, late of Abermain.—TAKE
NOTICE that JANET PALMER has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 186 of 1962 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for two
years and upwards and separation. If you wish
to defend you may enter an Answer in the Divorce
Registry. Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney
by the 31st day of August, 1962 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
GEOFFREY SEE GILLIS & CO., Solicitors, 28
Martin Place, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Missing Friend
WILL any descendants of Thos. Henderson,
born at Lauder, Scotland, 29th December,
1789, and believed to have settled in Aus-
tralia please communicate with J. A. Loy,
c/o Society of Australian Geneologists, 148
Phillip Street, Sydney N.S.W.
BOOST TO OLIVE OIL
INDUSTRY
A ustralia s oiive oil production may
quadruple in the next five years
and jump to 20 times its present level
within a decade. This is one likely result
of the special tariff protection recently
granted to the Australian olive oil
industry by the Special Advisory
Authority, Sir Frank Meere.
Sir Frank’s recommendation, accepted
by the Commonwealth Government, was
for buyers of locally produced olive
oil to be allowed to import, free of duty,
four gallons of oil for every gallon they
buy in Australia. Our olive oil pro-
duction at present is only 30,000 gallons
a year—or about 2i p.c. of demand. But
when existing plantations reach full pro-
duction (an olive tree takes 10 to 15
years to reach full commercial produc-
tion) local output should nudge 550,000
gallons a year.
Even this greatly increased figure is
less than half the present quantity of
oil imported from Spain and Italy. These
imports have doubled in the last four or
five years.
Australian olive oil producers will
have to improve their processing and
the quality and uniformity of their
product if they are to get the full benefit
of the protection granted them. Many
merchants say Australian oil is below
standard at present. They also complain
that it has a strong flavor and is only
popular with Australia’s Greek com-
munity and may have to be blended to
find popularity with Italians and
oil-using sections of the community.
Major Australian olive-growing areas
are Renmark in South Australia, Leeton
on the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area,
and Horsham, Edenhope, Mildura and
Robinvale in Victoria.
SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW
REVOLUTIONARY CHANGE
Drom 1964 the Sydney Sheep Show
will be held in the summer instead
of the winter. It will begin on January
22. The changed date is the result of
a decision of the NSW Sheepbreeders’
Association, subsequently ratified by the
council.
President of the association, Mr J. F.
Litchfield, explained that in most years
in future the show would probably begin
early in February. The change of date
was a revolutionary step.
Mr Litchfield said that several factors
had prompted the alteration. It would
enable purchasers to take rams from the
sales to their properties and have them
shorn ready for autumn matings; the
sale could be held before the country
regional sales, which had assumed much
importance over recent years; and at
recent Sydney sales an increasing per-
centage of sheep had been passed in at
auction.
The council has adopted March 1 as
the shearing date for the new show and
sales, because it would enable breeders
to arrange the one inspection for sheep
to be offered in Sydney, the autumn
regional sales in the country and also
for the Brisbane annual sales in March.


FeifTer
h euo, 15 this luauc 7 wtu,
/u|tf fJAME 16 BERIOARP M
AMP W CWT KMOUi
ME OUf A Mi/Tl/Ai. FRIEMP
SWS-6KTEP THAT l CML °IOU
MJ9- WHAT 00 WU MEAM MHO 7
JUS T A MUTUAL FRiEW. IT‘6 REALM
m That IMPORTANT AW WOU), I
WA$ THIMKNO6 - WO If OJAAM'T HEW-
I THIWKItJ6 WHP poUT I- HO
IT WA6DT APWIO - ttW fIjUT I
OROPOm-AHO' MO, IT WASWT
pAULIE -
wo, m iftk, mot evvie, wot ph/u, mot
MIITOW, MOT U) ALTAR MOT ST£W£, MOT
ROT, WOT CAP/., MOT LARPT, MOT
V,m, Mot morrat, mot jtrrt-
AMTHOW I WAS JOST THIMMIMS-
waM I wou) if wee
66TTIM6 (MARM* 7
All RI6HT, IF ‘'(OVMUt'T IT Utf6
HUfy. MO, I'M NOT MIPPI/06.
PO W MFAM C?IP HF
AWT W 7 DO, HF P/PNT 4M THAT-
mo-that 15 not rue im
CAM. ID 6'
MO HE' WHAT VO W MfAM HOW 0O&
Wt LOOK ? HE LOOKS Uti A H UtYt MO,
RE HADN'T 60ff£N THIMMER. HE
DOESN'T Lor W/«RIER MO HE
bCfrN'T TALK ABOUT HOU. AMMfW
1 WAS JVBT TH IVKIK6 -DO, HE PIWIT
SAM HE EWEP
MOO -
I*m, OF COURSE 1 HAVE m MUMOFe
TfEA I KNOW' HF CHAN6FP IT. KF6>'
|f'4 - \Aiea, WHY SHOULP I 6IVF IT TO
OH OTHERS W WOM'T SEE
\K. mo, I WT THIMK tMAT^
VERM (TOE. mi, ITS CkMUZ-
AIOMHOU) HOW AWT TOI0I6HT? WELL,
- TOMORROW THEM ?
WELL, THE PAM AFT ER- Hold COUll?
MOP BE WASHIM6 MOOR HAIR WEE
(JI6HTS Ik) A ROW r WELL, HOW
ABOUT NEXT WEEK 7 mil THE N,
THE WEEK AFTER 7 OH SURE,I
UMPERSTAMP- MU HAIR &ETS Vim
-TOO. HSAH-SORC SPUE"
w M HSm YOU'
t em you the
WRON6 NUMBER/
The Bulletin" Crossword No. 701
ACROSS
I—Flower girl is first showing his manuscript full
of Paddy’s idioms. (9)
6—Ascent which makes the middle note Bobby.
(5)
9 —May’s back in the pavilion? (6, 3)
10— Hell! It’s in the shade. (5)
11— Number you chaps bowling the unknowable
substance of anything. (8)
12— It may fasten an order to a goat not to cease
its agression. (6)
14— It can put one under there for a change. (5)
15— Recent hat is remodelled for a ballet step. (9)
17—A source of ill-feeling be-
tween Australia and N.Z.?
(6, 3)
19—Device for duplicating one
in the middle. (5)
21— Fed on tea submitted to
friction. (6)
22 Behaving fraudulently when
giving it change incorrectly.
(8)
24 — Quotes the setback by 101.
(5)
25 Consequently the umpire
gets unrefined metal. (9)
26 — A small department is skil-
ful. (5)
27 Contents the short Saturday
Island defiance. (9)
DOWN
1— Touching spirit has presum-
ably been consumed by a
polite little man. (9)
2 Batting well out of bounds
in Rugby. (2, 5)
3 Stockmen who obtain
revenge for bankrupted
punters? (5-8)
4■ —Cease bowling pauses in an
air journey. (9)
s—Had an old-fashioned seat
to satisfy. (4)
7 Unpopular rhyme for 2-
down translated into an-
other tongue. (2, 5)
8 — Seaman locating daylight
under the box-office. (5)
10—Crooks dwelling near the
surf have much in common
with 3-down. (5-8)
13—A tent match, (anagram)
(10)
16 —Diphthong lesson is too
much without little strips of
leather at the whip head.
(9)
!8 —Settle around a fair city.
(7)
20— An inversion with which 1
behave like a thief to one
African capital. (7)
21— Firms needing a beverage.
(5)
23 —Liftman with whom none
sit up. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 700


$
mmm
▲
m
m
r
■\ -V \\
■
mm HI
VJNR VA«S* 1
BKvZ-USMhr
miMm&Wr
IP?;-: .
- ■
c.-0 -w ■
Plj. „
.. <y e.rr" '
f <&** \
. SELECTED
BOTTLING
, J CAWARRA
CLARET
UNDEMAN LT?
SYDNE'.
IS* -
*
»et fount n
IPT. 4 > t O* *
■R
5 ■ .
':«
r_ >
’^ssassft
RLE- slJ 'r—
selected v i ht A fc mbs** «
hock:
£!Han ltd. ~ <4 "
CONTENTS IPT 6EL 023
|A fNOOueT Of UNififiU-
L HUNTER RIVER VtNET
CAW A RR
A noble wine for a noble roast! Cawarra Claret, the most
popular red table wine in Australia, was selected exclusively
by the French Olympic Team on their visit to Melbourne.
When you choose white wine order Cawarra Riesling,
dry, delicate and delightful in every way.
/mde
marts
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
