

The Bulletin
egistered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
APRIL 21
ONE SHILLING
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
THE MAN
FROM THE
EAST
invades
W.A.
SALTER LIPPMANN—.
e Trump®f that Always
Sounds Retreat
JANE RUSSELL —
"God is a Living Doll. "
DAVID MeNICOLL —
Rome Report.
THE JEWS IN SOUTH
AFRICA —
Evasion and Self-
destruction.
20-PAGE FINANCE
SECTION


NOW! ‘O53X3= [PISH
SUPERANNUATION
from
for all SELF-EMPLOYED PERSONS
professional men, businessmen, farmers, graziers
and ALL EMPLOYERS and their STAFFS
ji&j
Commonwealth legislation now enables the A.M.P.
Society, Australia’s No. 1 Life Office, to offer you
tax-free superannuation which can provide for:
• RETIREMENT with adequate
cash resources.
• PROTECTION for your family
against death duties and against
sickness and accident.
CAPITAL APPRECIATION
through A.M.P.’s large holdings
of equity shares and real estate.
GUARANTEED by £550 million
of A.M.P. assets.
For all information,
contact your A.M.P. man or The Superannuation Manager,
A.M.P SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE
A purely mutual society largest underwriter of superannuation in Australia
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by funds of
£.550,000,000 which the Society seeks tc invest to the
greatest benefit to members.


RUSSELL .. .. page
Big Jane
Tltue Mam From The East .. 12
Roman Holiday .. .. .. 16
Oliver! .. .. .. ..
The lews in South Africa .. 21
The Shirtless Owes Return .. 24
Another Pasternak? .. .. 25
Those Kenya Settlers .. .. 26
The Curious Walter Lippmann . . 27
-The Gay Governor .. .. 32
Speculator’s Diary .. .. 51
That Certain Book (KyJie
Tennant) .. .. .. . .57
Down With The N.oble Savage .. 58!
•
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
AROUND MELBOURNE 20
OVERSEAS 24
FORUM 27
LETTERS 30
WILD CAT 34
MAN ON THE LAND •• 52
REVIEWS ■■ •• -• 54
FEIFFER - 55
RED PAGE •• •; •• 57
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol. 83
No. 4288
THE WONG CASE
WHICHEVER way you look at it the Wong case is a blunder. Through-
out the controversies over earlier Immigration blunders the
Malayans and the Portuguese there has always been the belief that
had they been from a communist country we would never be so inhuman
as to deport them back behind the Iron or Bamboo curtains; so, the
argument ran, why not stretch a point for the others ? Now we are not
even left with this touch of humanity to make our Immigration decisions
more tolerable.
We speak publicly as a country committed to fighting the communist
evil on all fronts a stance on which we can in fact take some.pride
and then suddenly we show ourselves so contemptuous of human rights
as to send back to the Red Chinese a man who has taken sg>me trouble
and risk to escape from them. To make matters worse we learn, accord-
ing to Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes, that nine or ten other Chinese escapees
have already been deported back to Red China. It is all the more sicken-
ing when we read the Immigration statement on the case it was signed
by Immigration Minister Downer; one must charitably assume he did not
write it: It is natural for reasons of family and religion that deportees
should return to their former homes.” So, in the interests of religion and
family we send a man back to a country which uses all techniques of
terrorism and enslavement to destroy religion and the family!
Since it still remains true that we would almost certainly not deport
a European deserter, escaper, refugee or what-have-you from a communist
State, the moral of this story is that since Wong is Chinese it does not
matter. We are back in the days of Mr Cal well’s ghoulish “quip” that
Two Wongs don’t make a White.” Those who still have the job of
defending our Immigration policies in Asia are welcome to the task.
The crazy thing is that the Wong case could have so easily been
handled without blackening our reputation in Asia in this way. Some
commentators have used the case as a reason for condemning the basic
principle, as distinct from the bumbling administration, of our restrictive
immigration policy. The basic principle, that we have the right enjoyed
by all other countries of pursuing an Immigration policy that will preserve
our traditional way of life, is still sound. But without going into the
particular question whether or not Wong should have been deported
somewhere, we could at least have had the elementary decency to have
offered to send him to Formosa—assuming, as is likely, that Formosa would
have had him. The Chinese or Formosan Ambassador, Dr Chen, however,
has stated that he was not even asked. The only consoling feature in the
whole affair is that apparently in future Chinese deportees will be offered
this choice.
One other disturbing aspect is that although a great variety of organi-
sations and individuals have expressed indignation over the case, a notable
absentee, at the time of going to Press, is the RSL. Many people have
recently been pleased at the RSL’s announcement that it was planning
an exhaustive campaign against the communist party. Here was an
excellent opportunity to show the doubters that its opposition to commu-
nism is based on respect for human life and dignity. Why the silence?


National
Notebook
Storm in a Teapot
JYTative leaders in New Guinea hold
cosy tea-parties—with beer in the
teapot. Native ex-servicemen, who want
their Rabaul clubhouse licensed, for beer
only, made this claim when the Federal
president of the RSL, A. J. Lee, visited
their Rabaul clubhouse recently.
But Lee was too wily a campaigner to
commit himself. He left it to his listeners
to determine whether his sympathies lay
with prohibition or drink for all. Absolute
prohibition applies at present to all
natives in Papua and New Guinea, but
there is extensive bootlegging and a
growing call for reforms.
During Lee's visit to the clubhouse one
of the native ex-servicemen. Military
Medal winner Tapioli. tallked about the
Government-sponsored native council
system, and said that the native council-
lors were supposed to be the leaders of
the community.
“The native councillors sneer at us,'’
he said. "They know we obey the law
and don't drink here. They sneer at us
and then they go up to their council
house. There they put beer in a teapot
and pour it out into teacups.’’
Mitchell the Artist
/"vur man in London who attended
Southeby's sale of Australian histori-
cal documents last week said that bidding
was quite keen. The whole lot, together
with a large collection of the pape: t of
Sir Thomas Livingstone Mitchell, in-
cluding maps, letters and drawings, went
under the hammer for £stgsol3. They
were the property of Sir Thomas’ great
grand-daughter, Mrs M. Syme.
No one has yet said who the buyers
were, since bidding was carried out by
two London agents, but the Mitchell
Library is thought to be the main bidder.
Included in the letters to Sir Thomas
was one from Kensington Palace record-
ing Queen Victoria's "deep appreciation”
of the maps and sketches of early NSW
he had forwarded her.
A letter from his brother John, in
Leith, Scotland, tells him to treat his
convict servants well because those who
won't be good servants by kind treatment
will never be good servants by harsh
usage.
His paintings, which Sotheby’s cata-
logue described as “exquisite,” fetched
good prices at the auction. Sotheby’s
manuscript expert said. "Mitchell had
great skill as an artist ... his coloring is
delicate.”
A Cheerful Frame of Mind
\\?alking along King's Cross Road on
a wet morning w ; e were stopped
by someone with a hard-luck story about
a teenage idol, who is no longer a teen-
ager, and, hence, no longer an idol.
"His career’s bust,’’ said the sympathiser.
It needed 15 minutes with Dame Sybil
Thorndike, nearly 80, and her husband,
Sir Lewis Casson, 87 soon, at their
Hampton Court suite to get us back into
a cheerful frame of mind.
Dame Sybil and Sir Lewis are no
longer teenagers but their careers are
certainly not bust. Two days after they
arrive back in England, after a series of
recitals here, they begin rehearsing for
"Uncle Vanya”, which is to be presented
by Sir Laurence Olivier at a new theatre
in Chicester in July. “Chicester will
become a dramatic Glyndebourne—we
hope,” Sir Lewis said. Dame Sybil
played in “Uncle Vanya” with Sir
Laurence at the Old Vic in 1946 but it is
Sir Lewis's first time in Chekhov.
"Do you have trouble learning new
parts?” we asked, forbearing to add the
wholly unnecessary “at your age.” "Oh,
I have a photographic memory,” Dame
Sybil said cheerfully. "My husband has
some wonderful scientific system—you
know what men are —and he has a good
deal of trouble."’ "I learn by word
associations and rhythms and 1 have an
awful job,"’ Sir Lewis admitted ruefully.
Sir Lewis said his part in “Uncle
Vanya" was short, but he had had a lot of
trouble with his role of the Father-
General of the Carmelites in Hugh Ross
Williamson’s "Teresa of Avila.'' in which
Dame Sybil played the title role in
London a few months ago.
Dame Sybil has one souvenir of this
play which she intends to keep. It is a
Carmelite habit which the nuns at the
convent at Ware, Hampshire, gave her.
“We did a reading of the play for them
through the grille,” she said, “and they
gave me the habit to wear on stage. It
is a terribly prickly serge and I simply
couldn't wear the undershirt at all.”
Dame Sybil said she thought of
Teresa as an “older St Joan.” (Dame
Sybil was the first St Joan in Shaw's
play). “Teresa had the same force, going
ahead like a thunderbolt,” she said, “but
people don't understand how gay she was,
too. There is one episode in the play
when the convent was given some part-
ridges, but it was a fast day. Teresa
tucked in and when one of the nuns
remonstrated, she retorted, ‘Partridges
are partridges, and fastings are fastings.
Today it is partridges.’ And, of course,
there is the famous time, which comes
into a soliloquy in the play, when she was
half-drowned during a winter journey.
Jn the middle of the flooded road she had
a vision of God. ‘Look what I do for
You and look how You treat me,’ she
cried. ‘But this is how 1 treat my friends,’
Our Lord said. Then,’ said Teresa, ‘it
is no wonder You have so few friends.’ ”
"f am That Boy”
Tn Launceston's City Park the other day,
someone wrenched the head oft' a
swan and beat two small kangaroos to
death. About the same time a newsboy
saw ; three youths in the park. When the
news was reported, there was talk of the
merits of birching and the need to put
some teeth into the Children's Court,
which is closed to the Press.
The Independent member for Denison,
W. G. Wedd, argued that the law should
be amended so that all details of pro-
ceedings except names may be published.
Police privately claimed that the Child-
len's Court was much too "matey"’ and
the Justices were too often naive.
Following proddings from the Liberals,
the Government in 1960 passed a huge
Child Welfare Act but say that “technical
difficulties" have held up its proclamation.
During the current controversy a
correspondent wrote to the “Examiner”:
“Fifty years ago this month a small boy
who was not old enough to spell his own
name found a few coins w'hile searching
in a ruined manse at Evandale. He was
promptly handed over to the police, and
without any ado was sentenced to three
years in the Boys' Training School where
he was placed in the company of hard-
ened criminals twice his own age and
taught how to become a real criminal.
"For the merest default he was
ruthlessly flogged with the birch. He
carries marks that will last as long as life.
"I am not advocating cruel floggings
for children, but I am advocating that
the parents of such offenders should
suffer the ignominy of having their names
published. The boy referred to had his
name not only mentioned in the Press, but
recorded in the criminal register for life.
This boy did not ruthlessly slay a dumb
animal or even damage anyone's pro-
perty. All this happened in Tasmania,
so what is the difference?” The letter was
signed “I am that boy.”


A Strong Feeling
for Tradition
A ustralia is a great country for tradi-
tions, most of them started only
just the other day by someone who
thought they could make a few bob out
of them.
This year it is the simnel cake for
Easter. Old-style-parchment posters in
cake-shops throughout the Common-
wealth give the history of the simnel cake,
pointing out that in earlier centuries sons
and daughters visiting their parents on
Mothering Sunday, the third Sunday of
Lent, took with them a rich cake contain-
ing fruit and marzipan.
The simnel cake goes back to the 13th
century in England, and according to
the historical researches of the Master
Pastrycooks’ Association, may have been
named to honor two servants, Simon and
Nell, who whipped up the first batch.
If it wasn’t Simon and Nell, it was a Lord
Simnel, who had some association with
Oliver Cromwell.
The history of the simnel cake in Aus-
tralia is roughly that about a year ago
some of the pastrycooks got together,
after the Christmas-cake rush was over,
and went through the history books to
see what could take up the slack at
Easter-time.
Of course, hot cross buns were still
selling like hot cakes, even at ss. 6d. a
dozen. But that wasn’t quite enough.
The pastrycooks discovered that most
European countries had some sort of
Easter custom which had some bearing
on the trade. Some had pretzels, but
these, unfortunately, were too closely
tied up with the bar trade to be much
use.
So the simnel cake tradition was
launched, with the blessing of the Master
Pastrycooks’ Association, and with the
help of the dried fruits and egg marketing
people, who see in it some hope of raising
local consumption to counter dwindling
overseas markets.
Last Easter David Jones were in
Sydney the only people selling simnel
cakes, but their experiment was enough of
a success for the idea to spread. This
Easter it is expected that 140 tons of
simnel cakes will be sold at about 12s. a
two-pound cake.
By Aurora's Light
A friend of ours in New Zealand
writes: “You may be interested to
know where the two southernmost readers
of The Bulletin live. I think I have
found them. They both live on Stewart
Island, latitude 47 degrees south, NZ’s
third and southernmost island—
“ About 400 people live there. The
storm-swept 665 square mile island is the
world’s largest bird sanctuary.
“Two copies of every issue of The
Bulletin arrive when the 750-ton NZ
Government ship Wairua comes in from
the South Island port of Bluff. Sometime
during the day the island’s two subscribers
wander down a bush track to pick up
their copies.
“In midsummer on Stewart Island
people read outdoors well into the night
by the light of the Aurora Australis. In
fact Maoris call the island Rakiura —
island of glowing skies.”
THE GREAT WALL OF DOWNER


This Australia
IMMIGRATION
FAST BOAT TO CHINA
From MUGGA
A. R. DOWNER
Too late
TT was not until Saturday afternoon
that the news of the Immigration
Department’s blunder on Willie Wong
sunk into Melbourne’s late risers. Then
it started. Members of the Victorian
Association for Immigration Reform
started phoning each other trying to piece
together the scattered newspaper reports
and wondering what appropriate action
could be taken. The phone ran hot be-
tween Melbourne, Sydney and Canberra
as various organisations prepared state-
ments for the Press.
Melbourne University lecturers, who,
along with a group of Western Australian
University Academics, had just sent off
a protest to Mr Downer about the
Portuguese sailors’ affair, were still a
NEXT WEEK'S ISSUE
9 STEEL IN AUSTRALIA
Cover Story
9 J. D. PRINGLE London
Newsletter
9 ALAN REID —As I See It
• STUDENT ACTlON—Against
White Australia
9 THAT CERTAIN BOOK
Hal Porter on Mansfield and
Others
® M. H. ELLIS Marjorie Bar-
nard’s History of Australia
9 20 PAGES FINANCE —Plus
8-page Insurance Survey
little confused over yet another Immigra-
tion Department scandal. Mr Newman
Rosenthal, of the Visual Aids Depart-
ment of the Melbourne University and
a vice-president of the Australian-Asian
Association, Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes,
anybody who even faintly had Govern-
ment “connections” was contacted by
the Press and different pressure groups
asking for information and demanding
action.
Possibly the last to hear but the first
off the mark with something big were the
Melbourne members of the now famous
Student Action organisation, an under-
graduate non-party political body formed
mainly to protest about local and inter-
national affairs considered to be in-
human. Protests to date have been made
by Student Action about South Africa’s
apartheid, the case of the Malayan pearl
divers and the Portuguese sailors. On
late Saturday afternoon, two of the more
prominent members, Mr Peter Samuel
and Mr W. Thomas, met to consider
what they could do. Lean and lanky
undergraduate Thomas strode around his
room anxiously chewing his nails and
presumably dreaming revolutionary
dreams of hordes of students converging
on—where? Posters, petitions, stencils,
the Press, all the paraphernalia of poli-
tical warfare were considered. The only
person who didn’t seem to rate a mention
was Willie Wong, who was doubtless at
this time locked up in gaol in communist
China. “It’s outrageous,” Mr Samuel told
us, “and this stupid action of Mr Dow-
ner’s will certainly anger the whole
student body at Melbourne University.”
On Sunday, more students met at each
other’s houses, different organisations
were contacted asking for their support
and Thomas’s nails grew shorter and
shorter. By 6.30 p.m. Sunday night it
was all arranged. The students, under
the joint sponsorship, not of Student
Action, but of the Melbourne University
ALP and Liberal Clubs, would organise
a protest march. Students from Monash
University, the Royal Melbourne Tech-
nical College and Melbourne University
would picket the Department of Immi-
gration’s Melbourne offices on Monday.
Posters, newspaper reports, roneoed leaf-
lets would be distributed early Monday
morning at the three student centres in
preparation for the expected demonstra-
tion of, at the very least, 500 students.
But by the time the students had
done all their organising, other bodies
already had their statements in Monday
morning’s papers. Two statements
seemed to sum the whole affair up: the
Australian-Asian vice-president, Mr
Rosenthal, said: ‘The deportation is one
of the most shameful administrative acts
in Australia for years.” The other was
made by Dr Lloyd Ross in his capacity
as President of the Australian Associa-
tion for Cultural Freedom: “Common-
wealth administrators in recent weeks
have made two serious mistakes in
ignoring issues of humanity and concen-
trating on a narrowly legal view of their
responsibilities in regard to immigration.
The two examples are: their attitude
towards the three Portuguese sailors and
towards the Chinese who has been re-
turned to China. In both cases the narrow
letter of the law was interpreted in such
a way that the people concerned were
in serious danger of losing their liberty.”
W/ONG entered Australia illegally from
vv communist China sometime in
1954, and worked as a market gardener
in Sydney until this year. He was law-
abiding and even paid income tax. Last
December, Mr Wong contacted a Sydney
barrister, Mr W. J. Lee, and asked his
advice regarding the illegality of his
residence in Australia. Mr Lee, after
investigation, was convinced of Mr
Wong’s bona fuies and he was preparing
a further case for submission to the
authorities on Wong's behalf when the
unfortunate Chinese was accidentally dis-
covered by immigration authorities when
they were checking on someone else. He
was arrested. His barrister approached
Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes last month and
asked if he would make representations
to Mr Downer on Wong’s behalf.
Mr Downer, in a letter to the Vic-
torian MP dated March 23, said that
the matter would be “fully investigated.”
The day after Mr Downer wrote that
letter Wong’s solicitor received a report


from the Immigration Department saying
Wong was already on his way to Hong
Kong aboard the Anshun. By the time
the two rebel Parliamentarians, Sir Wil-
frid and Mr Wentworth, got into action
in Parliament it was too late. Their threat
to vote with the Labor Opposition against
Parliament’s adjournment for Easter
forced Mr Downer to cable Hong Kong
to ask the authorities to hold Wong
pending an inquiry, but by the time it
arrived Wong was already in China,
probably in gaol.
But perhaps the most curious state-
ment of all the actors in the Wong
drama was that of Sir Wilfrid Kent
Hughes himself. It strangely conflicts
with that of Immigration Minister
Downer. After mentioning that nine, or
possibly ten, Chinese had been deported
before Mr Wong, Sir Wilfrid, in an
attempt to defend his colleague, said: “I
don’t think Mr Downer could have
known that Wong was being deported.”
Mr Downer, according to the Sydney
“Sunday Telegraph” of April 15, said:
“I ordered Wong’s deportation on
February 22 after considering all the facts
and the representations on his behalf by
a Sydney barrister after his arrest.”
PROSPERITY
ENGLAND —LAND OF OPPORTUNITY
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
HTwo young English migrants who are
A returning to England and were inter-
viewed in Melbourne on their way home
from Sydney caused a ripple on Aus-
tralian complacency by their assertion
that they could do better in England or
Germany than they could in Australia.
Their family had preceded them in the
return to England. Their father is a
builder who migrated to Australia last
year with two other sons and a daughter,
but stayed in Sydney only six months,
chiefly because of high costs but also
because of the credit squeeze. When he
left, Robin Martin, 25, and his brother,
Anthony, 24, remained, one working as
a bricklayer and the other as a building
quantity surveyor.
Australian thinking on Australian
development does not rise much beyond
the Australian scene, and even the
authoritative Institute of Public Affairs
(Victoria) Review in its current issue
gives us a picture of wonderful Aus-
tralia by contrasting the figures for the
1950 s with those of the 19305. What
would be more convincing would be
similar contrasts between those decades
in Germany, England and the US.
The institute’s figures are impressive,
of course. Throughout the 1930 s
unemployment fell below 9 per cent, only
once and in the 1950 s never rose above
2 per cent. In 1932 it was 29 per cent,
and in 1952 1.5 per cent, and in 1955 0.6
per cent. Variations in income from
exports, which have a strong impact on
internal economic activity, were not
greater in the 1930 s than in the 1950 s
but employment was maintained at a
high level, and in the 1950 s real wages
of male factory employees rose by about
30 per cent.
Comparable figures would be interest-
ing, and also migration figures relating
to the callings of the migrants leaving
Australia. According to Australians
returning from Europe, the number of
skilled migrants who have gone back to
their homelands is surprisingly high, not
because they were dissatisfied with Aus-
tralia but because the opportunities at
home in the last few years seem better.
Other of the institute’s points are that
20 years ago there were, for every 100
Australians, eight cars, 10 telephones, 17
radios, and today there are 20, 22 and 60
respectively. Standard hours of work
have fallen from 44 to 40, paid annual
holidays increased greatly, long-service
leave widely introduced, working condi-
tions, particularly the range and quality
of factory amenities, have advanced
spectacularly, and the Australian is able
to save more. Even when allowance is
made for price changes, savings bank
deposits increased at the rate of about
£6 a person a year compared with £2 a
person a year in the 19305.
In the earlier decade real gross national
produce, the total output of goods and
services, rose by 20 per cent, and in the
1950 s by 50 per cent. This is due to a
yearly increase in population, averag-
ing nearly 24 per cent, against 1 per cent.
Migration is responsible for about 1 per
cent, of the 1950 s higher rate. Migra-
tion, on the institute’s figures, therefore
assumes a high significance, and our
progress is dependent substantially on
our ability to absorb, and keep absorbed,
such skilled young migrants as the
Martins, but the Martins say it takes the
average Australian, working hard, at least
five to eight years before he owns his
own home with a refrigerator, TV and
car, and that it can be done quicker in
England and Germany.
EDUCATION
"FILTHY"
TEXTBOOKS
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
A top-level literary row has resulted
from the advice the WA Education
Department gave its English teachers
that Maxwell Anderson’s “Winterset”
was not a suitable text for teaching to
mixed classes of Leaving English students
because it contained some “rough
passages.”
The ban on “Winterset” has been on
for some months, but leaked out in a
newspaper story early this month. It
arose after the play had been passed as
a suitable text by an advisory committee
on Leaving English textbooks, set up
after the Director-General of Education,
Dr T. L. Robertson, protested earlier to
the Public Examinations Board about
the inclusion of C. S. Forester’s “The
Ship’’ for the same reasons.
The department’s attitude, as expressed
by Dr Robertson, seemed to be that
books containing “filthy sections” should
not be put before “children” for their
study and certainly not to give a cloak
of respectability to lewdness, even though
it made its appearance in otherwise good
literature.
Three members of the English Depart-
ment of the University of WA com-
mented on Dr Robertson’s views in
derogatory terms. Lecturer George
Seddon, also chief examiner in Leaving
English, pointed out that it had already
been used in 1961, that the committee
which recommended it had included two
senior representatives of the department,
that it was currently set in Victoria and
in his view was thoroughly suitable for
Leaving students. Professor Allan
Edwards said that when Dr Robertson
protested to the Public Examinations
Board about “The Ship” he did not
appear to have read it. With the gentle-
ness for which he is noted, English reader
Alec King pointed out that the presence
of crudity in literature could, in the hands
of a good teacher, help the young not
only to cope with life’s crudity but with
their own. Teachers who could not cope
with crudity in literature in front of those
they were teaching had always an al-
ternative text.
Dr Robertson did not reply to these
points, nobody consulted the Leaving
students for their views and Mr
Anderson’s poetic dip into slum fife
and the Sacco-Vanzetti case has pre-
sumably been removed from the eyes
and ears of the tender-minded 16 and
17-year-olds of the WA Government
High schools.


RAILWAYS
ON THE TRACK
FROM DESMOND O'GRADY IN SYDNEY
MRS WENTWORTH
Where’s hubby?
Tn a certain sense the Sydney-Melbourne
express line seemed 60 years out of
date. At the dinner held, before the
train’s departure, at the Trocadero,
Sydney, the decor, the red curtains
behind the main guests, the compere’s
“pray silence,” the speaker’s remi-
niscences, all gave the impression
of an historical tableau. But for
the tape recorder boys holding their
microphones up to catch the speakers’
words, it could have taken its place along-
side such scenes as the opening of Parlia-
ment House, Canberra, in the prints my
grandfather kept in his workroom. Just
how up-to-date the whole event was be-
came clear only with the sight of the
gleaming train and the experience of the
trip; just how far ahead of the exist-
ing service, only with a return by the old
change-gauge way where the rudeness
of the Victorian dining-room staff was
in strong contrast to the splendid service
on the “straight through” run.
Although the “Aurora” was quickly
dubbed either “the horror” or “the
roarer”, neither is accurate: the express
is as noiseless as a 630-ton train can be
and the only horror occurred in the dining
car on leaving Sydney when the menu
was announced as meat balls and sausage
rolls. Compensation was made next
morning with a comprehensive menu.
The roomettes are models of compact
and pleasing design, and there is a par-
ticular pleasure for those who have
lugged luggage along cold Albury station
in lying abed while crossing the State
line. There were those who forsook this
luxury to see the “Aurora” break through
the waratah and hea h strung across the
line where the new standard track to
Melbourne starts. But t.ys strung paper
across the line so that the VIP train
broke this before splitting the official
garland.
This was the second incident of the
trip: Mrs Wentworth parading Sydney
station with a “Where’s Wentworth????”
sign was the other. Mr Wentworth,
chairman of the Federal Government’s
rail standardisation committee, whose
recommendations were the basis for the
standardised gauge, had been peevishly
refused a pair by the Opposition, was
on his way in a self-paid taxi from Can-
berra to Goulburn where he joined the
Aurora. Mrs. Wentworth and the
Albury boys supplied needed color: the
trip was a triumph of efficiency and
public relations, despite Lord de L’lsle
saying it was his first Australian train
trip and Mr Menzies admitting it was 15
years since his last one, but a band
would have made the departure more
exciting.
The express arrived in Melbourne on
time, having averaged a little less than
50 miles per hour, and havirj been
passed by another train a few hours out
of Albury, and in drizzling rain there
was another set of speeches before
the VIPs and journalists were taken
to the Lower Town Hall. for a
magnificent buffet lunch of cold
chicken, ham and cooked pineapple, lob-
ster, cassata . . . next stop was a garden
party behind Parliament House which lor
some at least had a comical-sad dreariness
under a grey sky, with a Navy band
playing selections from “My Fair Lady’’,
with Mr. Bolte’s baggy breeches getting
a laugh, and with the marquees, which
displayed food of railway refreshment
room quality, refusing to serve anyone
before 4.15.
ON THE NOSE
APRIL 22, 1882
r T'HE army of attendance-officers
A under the Department of Public
Instruction don’t hunt out those who
never go to school and make them
attend. They merely wait upon a
teacher, get from him a lot of absen-
tees, and confine themselves to the
children the names of which are thus
given. Of course, by this means, the
regularity of attendance may be
increased, but the number of children
attending school will hardly be
augmented.
AT Young, a jury in a sheep-stealing
case couldn't agree, after delibera-
ting five hours. Judge said they would
be locked up for the night. Then, in
ten minutes, they found prisoner guilty.
“Wretches hang, that jurymen may
dine.”
HThe Queanbeyan boys had a high
old time on Sunday. In spite of
the new Hact the local bobby was
hocussed and his face treated to an
artistic process in burnt cork. It was
only because some of the boys were
more sober than the rest that the peeler
wasn’t tied up in a sack and pitched
into the river.
Come northern settlers keep two or
three black boys, provide them
with rifles and ammunition, and give
them a bottle of rum for each abori-
ginal’s nose they bring in.
MENTAL HEALTH
WHY DID
MOYNAGH RESIGN?
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
'T'he resignation of Dr Digby Moynagh
as Inspector-General of Mental
Health Services in WA may not have the
same scandalous implications as the
recent inquiry into the administration of
the Callan Park Mental Hospital in
Sydney, but it has alarming implications
of its own.
Dr Moynagh, an Englishman who has
held his present post for about four
years, has given no reason for his resigna-
tion. His only published statement has
been that he would observe public service
regulations and make no public state-
ment. Nor have any of his staff made
any public statements for the same
reason.
But the rumblings behind the scenes
have been enough to suggest that Dr
Moynagh did not resign for personal
reasons. A letter has been circulated
among the professional staff of the
Mental Health Services and signed by
most of them, expressing their regret at
his resignation and assuring him of the
support of most of his staff. Another


letter from a social worker not in the
department but said to represent the
views of the staff has also been published
in a Perth newspaper. This letter asks if
Dr Moynagh finally resigned because one
of his decisions was over-ridden by
Health Minister Hutchinson, whether his
authority as inspector-general had been
gradually usurped by senior public service
administrators, whether it was true that
senior psychiatrists in the department
had fostered this situation as a means of
opposing Dr Moynagh’s policies and
whether they had deliberately set out to
discredit him in the eyes of the Minister.
It also asked if Dr Moynagh was provided
with an administrative assistant by the
department in view of his onerous policy-
making duties. Mr Hutchinson gave a
curt no in answer to the first four ques-
tions. To the last, he said there had been
capable administrative officers readily
available to assist him.
That is all that is on the record, but
what is behind it? Since Dr Moynagh
took up his post, WA’s mental health
services have been radically changed in
line with current practices in the UK.
Outpatient clinics and day hospitals have
been opened, rehabilitation courses for
mental patients in institutions organised
to fit them for a return to normal life and
a clinic opened for mental defectives as
well as a child guidance clinic. Bed
occupancy at all mental hospitals has
declined considerably. Most important,
the Government has introduced legisla-
tion on the advice of Dr Moynagh which
would change the whole community atti-
tude towards mental illness. A Bill intro-
duced at the end of last session provided
for the abolition of the need for certifi-
cation, wrote in safeguards against im-
proper admissions to mental hospitals
and specified that compulsory powers
should only be used where they were
essential in the interests of the patient or
the public.
This legislation was on the lines of the
recommendations of the British Royal
Commission into mental illness. It was
first mooted in 1960, but not introduced
until 1961 and even then only as an
adjourned second reading to give inter-
ested parties the chance to study it.
In this delay may lie the reason for
Dr Moynagh’s resignation. Public service
officers have privately criticised him for
lack of administrative efficiency and some
have gone so far as to blame him for the
delay in the legislation. Obviously, there
has been some bitter misunderstanding
between the professional staff who are
directly responsible for the treatment of
mental illness and the administrators who
have to make their ideas work in the
framework of public finance. The ques-
tion seems to be whether it is more
important to cure sick minds or to have
tidy administration.
Around Sydney
FOR WHOM WILL THE BELLS TOLL?
T>ossißLY the greatest insult you can
A hurl at a true Sydneyite is to
accuse him of civic pride. Such senti-
ments are far too small-town, too un-
sophisticated for h' .1. It is with back-
handed compliments like “orderly”,
“friendly”, “clean” and “civic-minded”
that he condescendingly speaks of
those other “towns” Melbourne,
Adelaide and Perth.
S~> you can imagine the stunned
shock of many Sydney people when
they read last week that no less a
personage than Robert Gordon
Menzies himself had virtually bowed
to their civic pride and announced
that the Federal Government would
restore the clock tower which was re-
moved from the Sydney GPO in 1942
as a war-time pre;aution against its
tumbling down into Martin Place in
the event of an air raid.
C f course, a few people have been
campaigning for the restoration of the
clock for years, reciting nostalgic
praise for its beautiful chimes, its
lovely lines. But these have mostly
been professional beautifiers like 81-
year-old Bertram Ford, president of
the Town Planning Association of
NSW. The city’s populace in general
smiled tolerantly on such outbursts.
But the reality of a Government
actually spending £130,000 to restore
the clock is something different.
After the first stunned shock at the
PM’s announcement came the pre-
dictable greeting of this fine, civic-
minded gesture by the Government.
One or two papers ran half-hearted
editorials saying hnw nice it would
be to have the old girl back up there
again to save people the embarrass-
ment of having to check their watches
by that other Martin Place clock
which adorns the men’s convenience
in the centre of the road.
The Historic Society was in there
jumping for joy, and Mr Ford even
wrote a verse: “Let us now be up and
doing, And demand our rights full-
blast, Tower and clock and bells to
follow, GPO complete at last.”
Then out came the cynics and phili-
stines. “Why?” demanded a feature
writer for one afternoon paper. “Apart
from a dwindling number of fanatics,
who wants it (The Clock)? Architec-
turally, it is tawdry; aesthetically, it is
uncouth; historically, it is unremark-
able; politically, it is a football.”
The “Sydney Morning Herald”
quickly seized the chance to further
her vendetta with Mr Menzies. “A
Sop to Cerberus” the SMH called its
leader on the subject, sneering:
“Clearly the decision to put the clock
back means that the Federal Govern-
ment is now satisfied that Australia
is unlikely to be invaded!”
One of the Sunday papers ran
another line in a sub-leader: “We are
as sentimental as most about the eld
clock but we can’t help thinking of the
Migrant Medical Centre at Kings
Cross. The Centre needs only £lO,OOO
to survive. Migrants should come be-
fore monuments.”
The true Sydney attitude to this
momentous civic decision was best
shown in the comment of Mr John
Laver, of Mosman, who asked:
“How much will it cost?”
HThe sort of news that really gets
A the Sydneysider in is the first-
class row that is now looming among
the local Liberal party hierarchy.
Although the Press has said nothing
about it, the NSW Liberals have been
seething with discontent since their
drubbing in last month’s State elec-
tions. After all they are still the only
Liberal party in the country that has
never won an election. Who is to
blame?
Ash Street has been muttering
darkly about Parliamentary leader
Robin Askin’s “foolishness” in press-
ing such election pledges as rent re-
form a threat which put the fear
of God into the rent-paying voters
of Drummoyne, Coogee and Bligh
and resulted in them tossing out sitting
Liberals Messrs. Lawrence, Ellis and
Treatt in favor of “unreforming”
Labor candidates. In the name of
these sins, the headquarters head-
hunters would like to see Askin re-
placed by his Deputy, Eric Willis.
Mr Askin’s Parliamentary suppor-
ters, on the other hand, are cursing
the back-room boys of the Party for
being “out of touch with public
feeling” at election time. The sugges-
tion is they were in touch! Some of
them would even like to get rid of
Party secretary, John Carrick.
But in the first place Eric Willis
hasn’t the numbers to replace Askin;
and in the second event the Party has
no one to succeed John Carrick.
So both men are keeping their jobs
for the moment and, as a nice
compromise, the scapegoat is to be
the appointment of a Staff Reorganisa-
tion Committee to reorganise and
recruit headquarters staff.
PHILLIP


EWS
COHEN TRIES AGAIN
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
A. A. CALWELL
Ardent ally
T'wo recent events have stirred up the
Melbourne Jewish community. The
first was news from World Jewish Con-
gress sources that a number of Jewish
leaders in the Soviet Union have been
arrested and sentenced to death. The
other, though less drastic, centres around
Victorian Labor Senator-elect, Mr Sam
Cohen, QC. Despite his coming into
Senatorial glory, Mr Cohen is still presi-
dent of the communist-front organisa-
tion, the Jewish Council to Combat
Fascism and anti-Semitism as proved
in the pre-election fuss surrounding
Mr Cohen, Opposition Leader A. A.
Calwell was, and presumably still is, an
ardent ally of Mr. Cohen’s.
This communist-front was unanimously
expelled from affiliation to the Victorian
Jewish Board of Deputies in March,
1952. Despite numerous attempts since
to re-enter the Jewish community and
thus regain respectability, Mr Cohen’s
organisation remains disowned by the
vast majority of Melbourne’s Jews, and
is still disaffiliated from the board.
Some readers will recall an interview Mr
I. Leibler, the chairman of the Jewish
public relations committee, granted
Mugga in October last year. Mr. Leib-
ler said: “The poiltical reason why the
Jewish Council has proved unaccep-
table to the organised Jewish com-
munity is due to the fact that it has
never significantly deviated from official
Soviet and communist policy.” In fact,
he said that the council had “defended”
and “excused” persecution and massacre
of Jews behind the Iron Curtain.
At the moment, several members of
the Board of Deputies, in particular its
former president, successful and wealthy
businessman, Mr Nathan Jacobson,
have been so impressed by Mr Cohen’s
accession to Senatorial glory that they
have initiated a number of moves to
bring him and the discredited com-
munist-front back into the Jewish com-
munity.
The obstacle hitherto has been Mr
Cohen’s steadfast refusal to come out
and condemn the brutal forms which
Soviet anti-Semitism has taken. Another
obstacle has been the persistence of Mr
M. Ashkanasy, QC, in fighting against the
communist-front’s readmission. It is nor/
history that had Mr Ashkanasy played
ball with the pro-communist Victorian
ALP and agreed to initiate moves for the
re-admission of Mr Cohen's organisa-
tion to the Jewish community, he, and
not Mr Cohen, would have received
Senate endorsement from the Victorian
ALP.
About a fortnight ago three of Mr.
Nathan Jacobson's friends, including
Rabbi C. Gutnik, visited Mr Cohen
again and begged him to associate
himself with a recent resolution of the
Victorian Jewish Board of Deputies in
which the persecution and shootings of
Soviet Jews was strongly condemned.
The purpose, of course, was to make
their job of bringing him and his
organisation buck to the Jewish fold
easier.
It does seem that a formula was, at
last, found: The “Australian J - vish
News” of April 13 carried a statement
signed by Mr. Cohen in which he criti-
cised the Soviet Government for not al-
lowing the baking of unleavened bread
(mazzoth) to elebrate the Jewish Pass-
over. Not oae word was included about
the Soviet killings.
This gimmick has aroused a wave of
indignation among Melbourne Jews. One
prominent Melbourne Jew suggested that
perhaps Soviet leaders, W'ho have in the
past tolerated the spread of anti-Semitism
in the USSR, might consider baking un-
leavened bread with the blood of executed
Jewish leaders, to please their allies in
Victoria.
UNIONS
WHEN REDS MOVE IN
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
'T'he communists wasted no time in
establishing themselves in the B.H.P.’s
new plant at Bell Bay, Tasmania, and
the amiable Labor and union politicians
of the State clearly still do not know
what they are up against.
Barely had the first ferro-manganese
begun to flow from the furnace at the
£1,500,000 plant just completed by
B. subsidiary, Tasmanian Electro-
Metallurgical Co., than a curious group
of visitors descended on Bell Bay. They
were C. Clapham (Tasmanian organiser
of the Amalgamated Engineering Union),
C. Morgan (Builders’ Laborers), J. Mil-
ler (Boilermakers’) and J. Currie (Build-
ing Workers’ Industrial Union). In no
time they were cutting through the union
structure and organising a pan-union
workshop committee on the standard
lines of the new communist technique
to counter their party’s setbacks in union
elections.
Their line was that the workers should
press for revision of the wages and con-
ditions at the plant and to “demand
nothing less than the Federal Award” —
although this is reported to be what they
already get. They also urged them not
to be “bullied” into joining the Federated
Ironworkers’ Association. Questioned
about his politics, Mr Clapham said:
“Whether I am a communist or not is
irrelevant.”
But Mr J. Grubb of the Australian
Railways Union, pointed out that “being
a communist is being a servant of a
foreign power,” and the Ironworkers’
State Secretary, B. W. Wood, said that
by using influence in shop committees at
a low union level, pro-communists were
undermining the authority of unions and
Labor councils which refused to accept
communist domination. "These com-
munist-controlled committees are usurp-
ing the functions and constitutions of
anti-communist unions in Tasmania as
they have on the mainland.”
However, a delegation from Temco
did urge the Chief Secretary, Mr Con-
nolly, to have Temco wages and con-
ditions reviewed. Mr Connolly after-
wards was reported to have said that
agreement had been reached, but next
day he explained that he had no power
to vary Wages Board determinations. He
had, he said, merely agreed to arrange
procedural machinery. The Launceston
Trades Hall Council secretary, former
Senator Charlie Lamp, said that the
council had asked Mr Connolly to re-
constitute the Ferro-Alloys Wages Board
to hear claims. Reports that communist-
type tactics were employed, he said, were
“poppycock.”
His view, however, was no less naive
than the Premier’s. Mr Eric Reece (a
union official while in his teens) said:
“It has been my experience that Tas-
manian unions have strength in numbers
to deal with any communist influences.”
Mr Reece may learn in time, but mean-
while Mr Clapham is doing very well.


As I see it
JAPAN-OUR NEW BRITAIN?
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
Tf the number of times he has been
quoted approvingly in the Parlia-
ment since Britain announced its
intention of entering the European
Common Market is an indication of
his influence in quarters where it
counts, Sir John Crawford is still a
very powerful figure in Australian
affairs.
Short, not much over five feet,
moustached, very unassuming, Craw-
ford, 52, was permanent Head of the
Trade Department until he pulled out
some time ago to become Director of
Pacific Studies at the Australian
National University. Before he re-
signed, Crawford did a magnificent
job of re-education on Trade Minister
John McEwen. When McEwen and
Crawford started their Minister-
permanent Head association in 1956,
McEwen was an astute politician but
was a near illiterate economically. He
could not see much beyond the
fences enclosing a wheat paddock. He
was a Country party politician par
excellence. But under Crawford's
tutelage he learned fast.
Now that McEwen is returning
home from his European and United
States filibuster, the ideas that Craw-
ford had been peddling for quite a
while on this subject are certain to
come up for further re-examination.
The implications in some of them
are revolutionary. They represent a
complete break in Australia’s histori-
cal attitudes on trade. And if they are
accepted Japan is going to be the
beneficiary as far as Australia is con-
cerned. It is to Japan that Crawford
looks for a cushioning of the impact
of European Common Market upon
the Australian market, and he is
sufficiently realistic to recognise that
a trade is a two-way movement.
My impression is that Crawford’s
thinking throughout has been con-
ditioned by his belief that McEwen
had very little prospect of success in
getting any significant consideration
for Australia when Britain entered the
Common Market. In July last year,
even before McEwen set out on his
commercial odyssey, Crawford wrote:
“We are dependent on Japan to
make up ground being lost (or not
won) in Europe.” In the same article,
he said “Japan is fast becoming the
Britain of the East,” and in that
assertion and the overtones it
carries is the shape of things to
come as he sees them and he seems
to have already successfully persuaded
a significant number of people in
key positions to see them.
Basic to Crawford’s approach is
that Japan (already Australia’s num-
ber three customer ranking only after
the United Kingdom and Western
Europe) is like Britain in that it has
no prospects of self-sufficiency, being
dependent on external sources for
foodstuffs, many minerals, industrial
raw materials and semi-finished and
finished capital goods.
Tapan plans a completely Western
style economy, organising to double
its living standard by 1970, even if it
means higher costs, and to give its
people by that year an average income
of 579 dollars a year, which would be
better than Italy in 1957 and
approaching the West German
standard in the same year.
But as Crawford sees it, if there
are to be closer economic links be-
tween Japan and Australia Japan will
present problems similar to those Aus-
tralia had in the past with the United
Kingdom. Japan has to be persuaded
(a task already attempted in the
Trade Treaty between Australia and
Japan) into acceptance of the fact
that Australia proposes to develop its
own manufactures and resources.
Not in so many words but in effect
he is a gradualist Crawford
seems to be preaching the doctrine
that if it is to escape an adverse long-
term consequence from the ECM
Australia must integrate its economy
with Japan on rather similar lines to
what occurred with UK in the past.
In his role as permanent Head of
the Trade Department, Crawford
was also probably the prime mover
in getting McEwen to break away
from a long-standing tradition that
when British goods were not in com-
petition with Australian manufactures,
nobody should challenge the proposi-
tion that these goods were entitled to
an advantage in the Australian market
over goods of non-British origin. But
in May, 1959, McEwen announced
that he was referring to ' Tariff
Board for inquiry over 250 items which
came into Australia on favorable
terms to the UK. These goods did not
compete with Australian manufac-
tures. McEwen pointed out that if
these pro-British tariffs were lowered
Australian industry would get the
benefit of lower costs.
Cabinet has had the Tariff Board
report on these items for several
months. Obviously the recommenda-
tions are being kept “on ice,” possibly
as a card to play in the ECM ne-
gotiations. Japan, whose adverse
balance of payments with Australia
was up to £98,400,000 in 1961, must
be the beneficiary at Britain’s expense
from such a tariff relaxation.
Just as significant as these moves
is Crawford’s cryptic reference re-
cently to the necessity for Australia if
it is to increase its exports to Asia and
the Pacific area (already taking 48.8
per cent, of its exports compared with
23.5 per cent, prewar) to “study
shipping freights costly freight is a
bugbear to Australia.” Crawford has
not amplified this statement yet.
But some Commonwealth Public Ser-
vants have taken it as an invitation to
examine critically the item “invisibles”
(in which freights are included) in the
balance-of-payments accounts.
Public Servants doing the exam-
ination claim that now Australian
exports to the UK have fallen so
drastically in both volume and value
and as they are likely once Britain
joins ECM to fall further there is no
longer the same case for depending
so overwhelmingly upon British ship-
ping as has been the case in the past.
Such dependence, they point out, adds
to Australia’s Jnilance-of-payments
difficulties, already a problem and
likely to grow more so when the UK
enters ECM.
Japan is a maritime nation. The
balance of payments with Japan is
heavily in Australia’s favor. Provided
Japan supplies shipping services at an
equitable rate, why not allow Japan a
larger share in this service industry?


THE MAN FROM THE EAST
Western Australia can never he the same again
By VICTOR NAUGHTON
ONE of the sorest sights of Sydney
is the Chevron Hilton Hotel:
you may be able to tolerate the
front view, which looks appropri-
ately expensive, but from one side there
is a slum-like display of pipes across
unfaced brick and on the other, where the
tower which would overlook the Harbor
bridge was to rise, a weed-thick vacant
allotment with a waterhole in the centre.
Sydney did not get half of what Mr
Korman offered, but Perth did even worse
for there his development project got no
further than a waterhole in a vacant
allotment.
Doubtless other ambitious projects in
the west will end up as mere “water-
holes”, and doubtless the west will gain
experience in discriminating among the
men from the east who are flocking there
already and will do so in increasing
numbers during the next decade. Of
course not all of them will be carpet-
baggers for whatever is the right word
for the 8.H.P., for instance, it is not that,
but they are sure to bring changes both
painful and pleasant to the Western Aus-
tralian way of life. Let us hope that they
travel to the west by train for the long
journey, even in air-conditioned comfort,
is a lesson in itself. At the end of the trip,
the traveller appreciates what he formerly
knew only as an odd fact: that Perth is
the most isolated city of its size in the
world. He will have retraced the tracks
of the gold seekers who flocked to
Kalgoorlie in the 1890 s and later did so
much to affect the ethos of the west.
They embodied many of the altitudes
which went to shape the Australian
legend and, isolated by the desert wastes,
preserved much of the egalitarian and
utopian vision, which inspired Australians
between the 1850 s and the 1890 s.
The men from the east may not give
a fig for all this but they would be unwise
to ignore it. The men of the west are
proud of their traditions and somewhat
suspicious of slick operators from the
east but they know they can no longer
ignore them.
TTntil recent years, there was little
financial control from the east for
although Western Australia had few large
industries or businesses of its own, eastern
States operated there mainly through
managers. The gathering boom in recent
years has changed that. Korman, Hooker,
hire-purchase have all moved in. bring-
ing the taint of the east. When television
was introduced in 1955, to give an
example, shipload after shipload of sets
came in from the east and there w ; as r ich
cut-throat business that many local re-
tailers ended up battered and bruised. The
Perth building boom in the last five or six
years has been the signs of the expanding
economy and the big stores, such as Boans
and David Jones, are becoming more
like Aeir eastern States’ co’mterparts
and less like good-natured overgrown
country stores. Even now the Perth
policeman is like the friendly village
bobby of a few years ago and in the not
too distant future he will probably adopt
the distressing Chicago cop style favored
by his Sydney counterpart. There is no
longer any need for westerners to
migrate to the eastern seaboard in search
of bright lights and big city life. Even
though its commercial centre is currently
confined to the small space between the
Swan River and Kings Park, the city will
soon be testing the Stevenson plan which
has laid a fine basis for expansion with
its fast freeways along the river which are
integrated with the graceful Narrows
Bridge.
A man f rom Brisbane would spend
over £125 in air fares if he wanted to pass
a holic T ay in Perth ]f three Sydney
people wan ted to holiday in Perth it
would cost them more than £3OO to fly
there. It is no more expensive for a
Perth ian to holiday in Ceylon than it is
* n Sydney. The isolation of the city is
such a real thing there has always been
a possibility that its links with Asia and
England would be almost as strong as
those with other Australian States. Their
feeling for England as ''home'" is stronger
than it has been for a couple of genera-
tions in eastern Australia but the current
developments of the west will really
claim for Australia a State which is so
often felt in a mood of secession. The
effects ol the new influence by the east
9 an be seen in Perth but the developments
are taking place a long.way from the
capital city. Those vast spaces which
appeal to so many romantic Australian
writers are bearing down on the city
again, but this time because of the wealth
that is being drawn from them,
There are a number of imaginative
schemes of vast potential but perhaps the
greatest of them is the one fur i t from
Perth, and its importance for the whole of
Australia is immediately apparent. There
has been such an amount of talk about


the Kimberleys that people are inclined
to think it is only talk but development
is really under way at last and its
urgency needs no stressing when one
realises that it is often impossible to pick
up Australian radio programmes in the
Kimberleys because programmes from
Indonesia, only 300 miles away at its
nearest point, come in so strongly.
Those who imagine the Kimberleys is
still a wilderness are nearly right. This
area of 100,000 square miles,
bigger than Victoria or the United King-
dom, has only 4500 people, 500 of them
white. But places such as Kununurra
promise well for the Kimberleys’ future.
Here there are attractive new homes,
air-conditioning and a hostel-club with a
constant supply of cold beer. The old
towns of the Kimberleys such as Broome
would depress anybody with their air of
decay, but Kununurra is a town of the
new Kimberleys, a prototype of future
communities which will provide city
amenities such as schools, hospitals and
remove some of the physical hardships
from small-time farming. It was built
to house workmen engaged on the diver-
sion dam at Bandicoot Bar which is a
pilot scheme in the Ord River irrigation
project. A new road is under construction
from Kununurra to Wyndham, and there
is a 5500 foot air strip that takes D.C.3s
and Fokker-Friendships. Kununurra
will expand even after the dam has
finished because farmers shall move in-
to the houses now occupied by the work-
men and commute to work. This dam is
only the first £4m. stage of a scheme
which will cost £2om. altogether and
challenge the Snowy River scheme as a
source of energy and wealth. The main
dam will hold more water than the
Sydney Harbor, bringing the total irriga-
tion area up to 200,000 acres and provid-
ing for the instalment of hydroelectric
plant generators to produce 200,000 kilo-
watts.
The Kimberleys are drenched regularly
by cyclonic rain so that experimental
farms have been established in the area to
find which are the best crops to grow in
the rainy and dry seasons. Cotton, rice,
safflower and linseed can be profitably
grown. Safflower will be a useful crop
for after oil has been extracted, the pro-
cessed seed makes a splendid protein food
for cattle which are the Kimberleys’ main
product. With development of better
roads, the elimination of pests and more
ports, the cattle industry could develop
as far as markets could be found for
meat in Asia and Europe. At the moment
the Wyndham meatworks handles
80,000 beasts per season and rarely
works at full capacity.
Three other schemes are worth noting :
(1) Apart from the Ord River scheme,
the Western Australian Government will
also dam the Fitzroy River to provide
irrigation for the Camballin rice growing
scheme.
(2) Western Australia plans to put in
good order 1300 miles of Kimberley roads
for the cattle-growing district to double
the present beef turnover to 120,000
beasts. The cost will be £8,000,000.
(3) The Government will expand
Wyndham port facilities which serve
the West Kimberleys and develop another
port to serve the East Kimberleys.
Wyndham, it is worth noting, is closer
to Singapore than it is to Perth, and closer
to Rangoon, Hong Kong and Manila than
to Melbourne, so it is obvious that a large
market could be developed in countries
ranging from Pakistan to Japan. There is
no need to emphasise the urgency of the
scheme as far as defence goes, but the
rising costs alone are an argument for
speeding it: in 1946 the estimated cost
was £4,300,000 but in 1955 this rose to
£10,650,000; now sights are set on £2om.
and this figure is sure to rise before the
scheme is completed.
Desolate, Windblown?
TAan Farson in his TV series on Austra-
lia made Kalgoolie seem a desolate,
wind-blown town but gold is still the
most lucrative of Western Australian
mining industry, and coal comes next. The
Collie field can supply all the coal
required by the State for many years but
these two traditional minerals are now
supplemented by many others. Western
Australia is one of the most highly
mineralised areas in the world and its
deposits offer magnificent development
prospects in the metallic and chemical
fields. Blue asbestos (probably the world's
biggest deposit), manganese (Australia’s
major source), bauxite, copper, rare
minerals like tantalite, beryl and titanium,
pyrites, lead, tin, chrome, gypsum, felspar,
clays, ochre, glauconite, glass sands,
bentonite, talc, phosphatic guano and
tanto-columbite are all found in the
west. The hope for a second load of
mineral wealth equal to that of Kalgoolie
in the nineties is centred on the Pilbara
where the deposits are calculated to be so
great as to represent five times the present
known reserve in Australia. The end of
the long-standing Commonwealth ban on
the export of iron ore has prompted the
recent discoveries of the metal which
should bring Western Australia £6om.
in the next ten to fifteen years.
What this will mean ki ancillary
development can be seen by glancing at
the comparatively small £l2m. project
at Mt Goldsworthy, some sixty miles east
of Port Hedland. The companies who
have been giving the lead to development
of this field will:
(1) Build a £4,500,000 deep-water port
“This is my last will and testament. Being of sound mind and body , I..."


WORLD-WIDE
Table Lamp
TLI2O
100% British Made
light
in every
corner...
Abundant light throughout the
house with the Tilley Table
Lamp. Practical and elegant, en-
tirely safe and self-contained, it
burns for 12 hours on only 1£
pints of ordinary kerosene.
For economical lighting wherever
and whenever it’s needed, you can
put your trust in TILLEY.
m
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores. In case of
difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to :•»
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD.
1092 Mt. Alexander Road,
Essendon, WS. Australia.
for 40UU-ton ore carriers at Depuch
Island, sixty miles south-west of Port
Hedland.
(2) Construct a £lm. three-mile cause-
way from the mainland to the island.
(3) Build a 120-mile standard gauge
railway between the island and the Mt
Goldsworthy deposits.
(4) Build townships complete with
schools, water supplies, electricity,
streets, at Depuch and Mt Goldsworthy.
In all these projects there is to be no
cost to the State apart from the provision
of school-teachers and, possibly, police-
men. The interested parties in this
scheme are Consolidated Goldfields,
(Australia) Pty Ltd, of Sydney and two
companies so far east as to be west, one
the Cyprus Mining Corporation of Los
Angeles, and the other Utah Construc-
tion and Mining Co. of San Francisco.
Iron is the gold of the west’s latter-day
boom and money from the east is needed
to mine it.
Possibly the greatest impetus of all
towards the recent industrial revolution
in the west has been the Kwinana oil
refinery. Until it was launched in 1953
Western Australia seemed condemned to
dependence on primary industry. The
uniform Commonwealth tariff obliged it
to buy relatively expensive manufactured
articles from the eastern States so its
external trade was characterised by
favorable balances with overseas coun-
tries and adverse balances with the rest
of Australia so that the West complained
that it was subsidising manufacturing.
But the industry attracted to Kwinana
and the provision of a deep-water
channel to Cockburn Sound have drawn
sufficient investment to change all that.
If the west is playing an ever-increas-
ing role in national development it can
be attributed to an effective promotion
campaign, for the State's own capital
resources are insufficient to finance
more than a small part of the works that
are under way. However, outside in-
terests have been sold on the State;
typical is the comment of a group of
British industrialists : “We believe
that Western Australia can look
forward to rapid and extensive devel-
opment and a prosperous future . . . we
feel satisfied that Western Australia has
laid the foundations for a vast expansion
of her economy that may at some time
evoke comparison with California.”
The Men at the Top
T ed by the Hon. David Brand, the
Western Australian Liberal-Country
Party coalition Government, in office
these past three years, has pressed on
with its programme of expansion and
consolidation of industry a programme
stepped up after the defeat of the Labor
Government in March, 1959. Both
Governments have recognised the need
to attract overseas and interstate capi-
tal if a speedy realisation of the State's
natural assets is to be achieved. And
already, in recent years, the growth of
secondary industry has been such that
the value of industrial production is now
camparable with that of primary pro-
duction, despite rapid rural expansion.
Mr Brand has outlined six major
fields for growth a greatly increased
industrial development and agricultural
expansion, development of the tropical
north-west and the tourist trade, a
wholesale exploitation of mineral re-
sources and a stepped-up programme of
developmental public works. An Indus-
trial Development Department has been
in existence for some time and a newly
constituted Industrial Development
Authority is speeding up the pursuit of
new investment and strengthening and
developing private enterprise.
This dry account gives no account of
the smooth handling of promotion by
51-year-old deputy leader, Charles Court,
who heads three key ministries. Indus-
trial Development, the North-West and
Railways.
This tall accountant was born in
England but brought up at public
schools in WA. His abundant energy
and mental capacity have brought him
to the top of his profession and raised
him from private to lieutenant-colonel
in World War IT.
Perhaps his best attribute in attract-
ing capital and capitalists is his per-
sonality, which has more in common with
the corporation executive than the
political visionary.
His attitude to industrial develop-
ment has been strict and businesslike.
One of his first acts w ; as to tour Europe
to test the investment climate for WA.
On the basis of his experience he decided
to reverse the normal trend of trade
missions, inviting overseas industrialists
to WA to see for themselves rather than
trying to go to them and convince them
about the potential of a State they had
never seen.
Charles Court has concentrated his in-
dustrial courtship on the growth indus-
tries, those basic manufacturers who


attract satellite industries. In this field
he has met with considerable success,
helped by the healthy investment climate
which preceded the credit squeeze. He
talked Australian Paper Manufacturers
into establishing a paper mill at Spear-
wood within six years by agreeing to
lend them two-thirds of the cost of
establishment. This agreement drew fire
from many critics, all of them questioning
the wisdom of a Government loan to a
firm which already had assets of
£23,000,000. Charles Court answered this
criticism with typical pugnacity. “By
lending them money we have enabled
them to give us a much higher priority,”
he said. “By methods such as these we can
and must force the pace of economic
development in Western Australia.”
To demonstrate the success of his
method he went on to sign up the La-
porte Chemical Company for a £4,000,000
titanium oxide plant at Bunbury and to
reach a tentative agreement with an Aus-
tralian company to establish a £10,000,000
sponge iron industry near Augusta in the
far South-West.
But his biggest achievement has been
the agreement with Broken Hill Pty Ltd
to establish an integrated iron and steel
industry in the State, based on the 100,-
000,000 tons deposits at Koolyanobbing,
west of Kalgoorlie. The linking of the
scheme with a standard railway gauge
from Kalgoorlie to Fremantle made the
agreement doubly valuable to the State,
for it assured WA of a cheaper freight
outlet to the eastern States as well as
providing the only economic means of
transporting iron ore out of Koolyanob-
tung.
Court’s alertness and ability to strike
the right level with prospective investors
as ma de him the first WA Minister to
beat the heavyweight States at their
favorite game of screwing development
money out of the Commonwealth but the
business community looks at him a little
askance for they dislike his get-up-and-go
for it means cutting down on two-hour
lunches and foregoing Wednesday after-
noon golf.
Court represents the
managerial revo-
lution, he embodies the ideas of the east
even if he is not a man from the east.
jj e awa j ces b o th admiration and distrust
f or westerners sense that he marks the
beginning of a new era. For the pastor-
alists who have always wielded economic
and social influence, he spells the end of
their political sway. They will still hold
their place in social life but the fi
is not with them. Court also means sc^ie-
thing to the businessmen and workers
for he embodies the Perth virtues they
admire but has linked them with an in-
tensity and drive which they know they
will have to emulate in some degree or
go under. For the State is undergoing a
decisive change this time: it has had its
previous moments of golden promise with
Thomas Peel who wanted to start the
Swan River colony with 10,000 free im-
migrants, with Claude de Bernales who
built his fortune on imaginary gold mines,
Even the real gold mines of Kalgoorlie
have infected the west with a soit of
pastoral fairytale outlook which went
with the bucolic spirit of the place, a
belief in the happy valley where the good
fairy would reveal a treasure chest which
would solve all worries,
All that is gone: the “good fairies”
have turned out to be new style business-
men from the east and overseas, high
pressure, scientific management men who
will oust the grass cattle aristocrats from
their accepted places without so much as
a beg pardon. That is the reason that
the west looks towards the men from
the east these days with a strange medley
of feelings.
" But I Wouldn't Want one of them to marry my sister."


La Dolce Vita
ROMAN HOLIDAY
By DAVID McNICOLL
f T'HE Romans will tell you that some-
A thing strange happens to the city in
March. The Ides, of course. But it is
more than the Ides. An unrest, almost
an unwholesomeness, seems to creep over
the place. Magistrates and Judges are,
I understand, more lenient in March
when confronted with cases of assault;
police take a more tolerant view of out-
rageous traffic infringements they be-
lieve that, in March, the people of Rome
are not quite normal and that allowances
must be made.
It is a shock to discover that a city
like Rome, a holy city, is a restless
city, with more than its quota of vice,
and spite, and unholiness. That is, it
would be a shock, were it not for the
image projected in “La Dolce Vita ” and
for the annual scandals which fill the
pages of the Italian and foreign Press and
which cause such concern to the Vatican.
I have a feeling, after a few weeks in
Rome, that the fault does not lie
altogether with the Romans. Sure, there
is degeneracy this is inevitable in
a society where wealth, idleness and
decay are married. But it seems to me
that the influx of the outsider the
expatriate English, the film-making
American, and the wealthy fun-seeker
has stirred the Roman pot and brought
La Dolce Vita bubbling to the surface.
One point is beyond dispute. While
the Roman men may play their full
roles in the hectic fun-seeking, their
female counterparts are not necessarily
Italian. For Rome today contains a fan-
tastic number of international female
play-girls and play-women from
America, England, and most of the
countries of the Continent.
Perhaps the biggest current impact on
Roman life is being made by the film
fraternity. Rome today is almost as big
a film city as Hollywood. And its hotels
pulse with stars, would-be stars, pro-
ducers, directors, cameramen, script
writers and here and there, being
treated with the deference they merit,
“angels.” These bemused characters,
generally closeted with Italian lawyers
and poring over fine print, become more
ragged round the edges as the days pass
and the estimates mount.
Scene: a March night in the Residence
Palace Hotel bar.
Cast of characters: Table 1 film
actor Jack Palance and wife, moodily
sipping Scotch and talking monosyllabi-
cally to one another.
Table 2 George Sherman, producer
of “Panic Button” (shooting to start in
May), deep in conversation with his
cameraman, Enzo, and his “angel” Ron
Gordon.
Table 3 film actor Guy Madison
talking to a black poodle.
Table 4 Pamela Danova, executive
assistant to Joe Mankiewicz, discussing
the next day’s shooting with the “Cleo-
patra” mob.
Scattered round the bar : film actor
Dewey Martin, just in from working in
“The Longest Day,” TV actor Dan
Stirkees (working on dubbing Italian
pictures) and his wife Carole; Corky
Hale, the American harpist, pianist, and
dress-shop owner, who just likes living
in Rome; Eddie Samuels and Bob
Abrahams, Eddie Fisher’s writer and
manager; two German film directors;
a dusky dancer from “Cleopatra”; a rich
American divorcee who lives in Rome
with her dogs and her children; two
attractive and unidentified young ladies
drinking alone but not paying for their
drinks; a group of French people; a
bespectacled piano player strumming
softly; and Salvatore and his merry men
busy with the bottles.
Roman Divorce
A lively, but limited mob. The talk was
of films made, being made, or
to be made. The cast for “Panic Button”
was being gathered, and Ron Gordon
was jubilant that he had been able to
gather, in addition to Maurice Chevalier,
Jayne Mansfield and Eleanor Parker, the
noted Italian star Rossano Brazzi. At
the next table “Fanny,” which was
showing in Rome, was universally de-
clared a “turkey” while the Italian film
“Roman Divorce” was declared a master-
piece. Roman Divorce, incidentally, is
murder, the only method of separation
in a country where there is no divorce.)
As 8 p.m. drew near thoughts started
to turn to food. The destitute kept
ploughing into the peanuts and potato
chips, the careful ordered a sandwich or
a hamburger at their table and the
affluent and the expense account set
went off to change and seek out good
food.
(One of the worst features of Rome,
and undoubtedly a major reason why
vice flourishes, is that there is practically
nothing to do at night no theatre, no
concerts, no ballet. It is a cultureless
desert, except for a couple of odd
occasions during the year. I exclude
Gregorian chants, which are available,
but which have a somewhat fleeting
appeal.)


Scene: Party at apartment of Rose-
mary Matthews, one of the production
staff of “Cleopatra.” Guest of honor—her
parents, an English archdeacon and his
doctor wife. Nothing dolce vita about
this: as elegant and well-mannered as a
cocktail party in Sloane Square.
Cast: All the “Cleopatra” brass —Walter
Wanger, the producer, husband of Joan
Bennett; Sid Rogell, the figure man;
Joe Mankiewicz, the director, wearing
the cuff-links Anne Baxter gave him after
he directed her in “All About Eve”;
Richard Burton and his wife, Sybil; Rex
Harrison and his next-day bride, Rachel
Roberts; Hume Cronyn ; Roddy Mc-
Dowall; no Liz that night. Guilio
Marconi, son of the great dit-da-dit man,
and his dazzlingly beautiful half-sister,
Flaminia.
At this party, a conscious effort not to
talk about “Cleopatra” to the exclusion of
all other subjects. A subject was found:
sausages. Mankiewicz and Wanger love
sausages, and Italian sausages are revolt-
ing. So they get sausages from England
—Wall’s, I think, is the brand—airmailed
to them in Rome. A plebian taste, and
one I heartily share. Was it Pitt on his
death bed who called for another of
Bellamy’s pork pies? I can visualise the
scene and hear the dialogue when
Mankiewicz breathes his last...
A sedate, a studied party. But there
were undercurrents. One American whis-
pered to me, “I must get out of here
before I flatten that son of a bitch
Harrison.” And pale, befreckled Roddy
McDowall (Octavian of “Cleopatra”)
sidled up to Harrison and asked softly
why Harrison gave the impression of not
liking him. “Because,” replied Harrison
simply, “you are a silly twit. You go
round with your ridiculous cameras,
taking pictures of me in all the worst
positions. That’s why you are a silly
twit.” A placid party but bubbles
fairly close below the surface. Nothing
like an archdeacon to keep things on the
up and up.
Scene: George’s, Rome’s best restaur-
ant.
This was my favorite place in Rome.
Elegant, intimate, friendly—and fabulous
food. Mine host is an Englishman,
Vernon Jarrett, moustachioed, button-
holed ; a snuff-taker and sharer ; a most
expensively colored face set round be-
nign and twinkling eyes ; given to drink-
ing pure turtle soup mixed with various
alcohols as a pick-me-up ; a champion
exponent of the ancient and honorable
game of Cardinal Puff; a man of dis-
cretion and taste —quite a fellow, Jarrett.
The guitarist at George’s is an ancient
called Alfredo. He has all the wisdom
of his years scratched round his eyes,
and he sings with the enthusiasm and
verve of a boy of 15. The quiet early
morning hours slip by quickly when you
recline relaxed, head resting against the
back of a sofa, ears soaking in the sad
and the gay songs of Southern Italy.
The House Mussolini Built
T single out George’s but this is not to
imply that other restaurants of Rome
are not rewarding. Palazzi, the lush hill-
top set-up, in the house Mussolini built
for his mistress, Petacci (their bedroom
is sealed off, by order of the Govern-
ment); Nino’s and Tuscana with their
excellent Florentine steaks ; the superb
Hostaria dell ’Orso (which has La Cabala
nightclub upstairs); and particularly fond
memories of El Turcutto, at Anzio, just
along the beach front from the yards
where Cleopatra’s barge and Caesar’s
galleons are building; a restaurant of
warm sunshine and fish not an hour from
the sea.
And what about the “joints”? Well,
there are plenty. II Pipistrello and the
Jicky Club for two. Crowded, smoky,
noisy, full of flashing eyes and “twisting”
bodies. The female patrons may be any-
thing—respectable locals looking at life;
tourists looking at embryonic vice ; and
hordes of what tennis followers might
call “shamateurs”—alleged amateurs who
actually are professionals. These succu-
lent harpies dance with vigor, eat with
gusto, drink with enthusiasm, and seem
to regard their means of livelihood merely
as an adjunct to fun—or perhaps as
additional fun.
Cars seem to influence Italians more
than they do the inhabitants of other
countries. Whereas a car of spectacular
appeal will draw admiring glances in
America and England—even a whistle or
an intake of breath —in Italy the effect
can be devastating. Girls stop in mid-
stride, then cry “Bella bella” amid un-
restrained shrieks of delight. Men shout
and run after the car.
For a few days I drove through North-
ern Italy with Andrew Keir, the Scottish
actor (bearded and delightful, he plays
Agrippa, the Roman admiral, in “Cleo-
patra”). We travelled in Keir’s new E-type
Jag.—you know, the sort that looks like
a guided missile. There were, as far as
we could gather, very few similar cars
in Italy, and the effect of the machine in
the Italian villages was, to say the least,
dramatic. Keir contends that Italian girls
get a sexual thrill from cars—like being
squeezed or pinched—and he could be
right. From Pisa to Perugia we saw and
heard girls react to the low, blue car just
as they might to an advance by a lover.
With men, the admiration was rather
more restrained. The first thing Italian
men look at is the speedometer. What
speed will it do? That is the important
point. Their eyes glazed over when they
saw the speedo went to 160 m.p.h., and
you could see them working that out in
kilometres per hour.
There are serpents in all Edens, and
the papparazzi, or unprincipled freelance
photographers, are the serpents of Rome.
As a newspaperman I deplore their tac-
tics. Certainly they get some great shots,
but their methods are loathsome. They
work, as a rule, in pairs and they are ex-
pert at provoking scenes. They would
think nothing, for instance, of approach-
ing some prominent figure and asking a
question or making a suggestion which
could not fail to infuriate the victim. The
result could be anything—an aggressive
step forward by the victim, a raised fi:t, a
mouth contorted in fury. While the f.rst
papparazzi ducks, his accomplice snaps
the picture. There it is—“Mr Alexander
Penwiper, the famous oil millionaire and
escort of Jane Mansfield, in Rome
brawl.” What could be easier? What
could be more damaging? After all,
photographs, they say, never lie.
I have watched these gentry at their
work during night and day in Rome.
By night, haunting the bar of Bricktops,
waiting on the footpaths, concealed in
the back seats of cars, “dwelling on”
Liz; dancing at high speed backwards
down Via Veneto (I envy them this
acrobatic agility and balance) their
cameras focussed on a near-running Rex
Harrison and Rachel Roberts. They sell
their wares to the highest bidder, and
the bidding is brisk these days when
Rome is the second biggest film-making
centre in the world, with a glamorous
background to the shenanigans which
seem an inevitable adjunct to life on the
silver screen. These days they have a
permanent outpost at the Taylor villa,
and a scout or two at the Burtons. Their
intelligence from the airports and rail-
way stations is uncanny. They know if
Sybil Burton is leaving Rome, if Eddie
Fisher is coming in from New York,
if Anita Ekberg is going out with a
new man they are always on the
spot with their little cameras, their tight
suits and their elevated heels.
Feeling the Breeze
Tt is perhaps only natural that the
A nobility of Rome should become in-
tertwined with the film invaders from
America. After all, the visitors represent
excitement, and a relief from boredom.
They also represent money to many aris-
tocrats who are feeling the breeze. This
category does not include the Borgheses
who are, to put it mildly, not in any
want. One of the Borghese princes has
lent one of his seaside shooting estates
for the “Cleopatra” Alexandria sets
acres and acres of palace and pyramids,
jetties and junk. His pheasant-filled
woods do not echo to the sound of the
12-gauge, but to the hammer of car-
penters, the roar of the bulldozers and
the whirr of the concrete mixers. An
ancient and broken-down watch tower
on his headland has become the Pharos


light, and his hunting louge has founa.
itself entirely enveloped in the immensity
of the Alexandria palace on whose steps,
any day now, Elizabeth Taylor will greet
Rex Harrison. 1 had a chance of observ-
ing the noble Romans at supper at
Cinecitta the night Caesar’s bier was
burnt before the Forum. The nobility
were a gay and elegant crowd there
are few women more dazzlingly lovely
than the Italian and Spanish. Outstand-
ing among them was the Princess Mar-
cella Borghese, the cosmetics queen, her
eyes flashing as brightly as her diamonds,
as she swept round among the carnation-
button-holed elegants. Amongst the
Roman upper-crust I noticed Lady
Diana Duff Cooper, dark glasses, her
beauty, even in age, still magnificent in
its perfection of bone structure.
After a week or two in Rome you
could be excused for thinking that the
’Cleopatra” film was the most important
thing on earth. Khrushchev’s name is
seldom heard; Jackie Kennedy’s only
occasionally (when the resident Ameri-
can ladies unleash their claws to deal
with her “absurd short skirts; ghastly
hair; horrible hats; bandy legs”); even
the Pope seems to have taken a back
seat to Taylor and Burton.
I was in Rome 16 days. I did not
see the Coliseum, the Trevi Fountain,
the Catacombs, the Circus Maximus, or
any of the other tourist “musts.” For-
tunately I had seen them on a previous
visit.
If you asked me just how I filled in
my 16 days and whether it was all re-
warding I would have difficulty in
answering. I could only say that I have
never enjoyed a holiday more, and if this
is The Sweet Life then I am not against
it.
BIG JANE
"I guess I said 'God is a Living Doll.'"
By PATRICIA ROLFE
“T was just a product. For ‘The Outlaw,’
that notorious first film of mine,
they planned me, canned me, stuck a
label on me and put me on the market,”
Miss Jane Russell said. “But I never felt
that the finished product had anything
to do with me.”
Miss Russell, however, managed to re-
trieve enough of herself from the Holly-
wood planning, canning and selling to
survive as a film actress for more than
15 years and to establish herself as a
night-club singer. Her night-club work
has taken her in the past few years to
South America, England, Italy, and
Korea, and now has brought her to
Chequers in Sydney.
Historically, if not histrionically, Miss
Russell was important to Hollywood.
She was the first of what came to be
known as the bosoms-or-bust school of
acting. Before her, back in pre-history,
it was Betty Grable and legs. After her,
it was open slather.
It seems rather ridiculous to come
away from talking to someone who is
billed around Sydney as “mean, moody,
magnificent, provocative” (some of the
inspired publicity left over from “The
Outlaw”) and say she appears to be a
nice woman, but there you are.
Today Jane Russell seems uncompli-
cated and untroubled. She is very hand-
some with a good skin and pretty hands.
She went straight into rehearsal after
her plane trip across the Pacific and
does three shows a night. She is value
for money with no notion that people
will pay just to see her. She has a
thoroughly professional act and a fine
night-club voice.
On stage, she was Big Jane (“They
told me that Australia I would certainly
dig, because everything Down Under is
mighty big, and I’m Big Jane”), poured
into the regulation sequin-studded slender
dress. Away from it, she was a quiet,
pleasant woman in a black wool dress,
her only prop a skinny grey cat which
belongs to the club, and which she has
adopted, or which has adopted her.
Miss Russell doesn’t see much point
at this stage in explaining away the
lurid reputation which her films gained,
or the fact that she was banned in Bos-
ton.
“The films were innocuous enough if
anybody ever bothered to take a good
look at them,” she said. “Again, they
were a product which got into the hands
of the publicity department. The most
exciting thing about them were the
billboards and advertisements, and I
didn't even pose for some of them.”
Miss Russell said she considered that
she was entirely a “made” star, but that
the day for that had now gone in
Hollywood. “Hollywood is still a very
busy place, but nowadays it is mainly
small groups making TV films,” she
said. “In my day, it was the big studio
with the big boss. Nobody under him
dared to have an idea or an opinion. You
all belonged to the one ‘family’ and some-
times you worked for the same people
for years. These days a young actress
would have to have something before she
began, because nobody has the time or
money to build her into a star.”
Miss Russell is at present under con-
tract, but not exclusively, to Howard
Hughes, the man who first launched her.
This is her third contract with him and
it has another 15 years to run, which
will take her into her mid-fifties. “The
long contract actually is a tax dodge,”
she said. “I am committed to six films
in that time, and have already made
three of them, but my salary will be
spread over the 20 years.
“These days unless I get a story which
interests me I don’t make a film. In my
early films I was the girl in the piece. I
just floated across the screen and had
nothing essential to do with the plot.
Unless I can be something more than a
girl in the piece I am not interested.”
Miss Russell said it was true that her
contract with Howard Hughes barred
domestic shots. “Hughes felt that nobody
wanted to see a glamorous film-star bent
over a stove,” she said.
Was it true, then, that her husband
said once that he didn’t want his wife
bent over a stove and perhaps singeing
his livelihood? “I think that one was
thought up by a clever publicist,” she
said.
Miss Russell also feels with some
exasperation that her interest in religion
is often dismissed as just something
thought up by a clever publicist. “I was
brought up as a Methodist in a Metho-
dist household,” she said. “I was not
suddenly converted to belief in God.
“I do object to the idea that I am a sort
of female Billy Graham. I am just a
member of the congregation, not an
active campaigner. My mother is a
minister of religion and spends her time
travelling and lecturing. As a matter of
fact, her work takes her away from home
far more often than my night-club work
takes me.
“By a happy coincidence she is in
Australia at the same time as I am, and
I might get a chance to see something of
her. Generally, I almost have to make
an appointment to see her.”
Miss Russell, who has three adopted
children, said her own welfare work was
the establishment of the Women’s
Adoption International Fund which
since its foundation in 1953 had arranged
the adoption of 10,000 children. She
will be in Melbourne on Good Friday
to launch the tc 1 . phon in aid of the
Children’s Hospital.
It was easy to understand that Miss
Russell’s attitude to religion had been
misrepresented. But was the statement,
attributed to her, that “God is a living
doll” also the work of a clever publicist?
“No,’’ she said after a moment’s
thought, “I guess I said that.”


Oliver!
Taking the nastiness out of Fagin
FAGIN
WE dropped in the other day at
the Theatre Royal in Sydney to
see Oliver (Malcolm Shield) and
the Artful Dodger (Brendon
Lunney) and found them both waiting in
a rather bleak and forbidding lounge-
room backstage. Oliver looked suitably
peaky, we thought, and the Dodger as
if he were up to something, which expect-
ably he was. He informed us crisply
that he had a dentist’s appointment and
while he didn’t want to hurry us, if we
could get a move on it might help as
he also had to have some dinner and
get back to the theatre for the night
performance. The Dodger is a tall boy
of 13 with a ready smile who lives at
Epping. He is the alternate Dodger. He
and 12-year-old Rory O’Donoghue swap
the roles alternate nights.
“I go home from Epping High every
afternoon, do my homework, grab some
dinner and get in here about seven.
But on matinee afternoons I have a bit
of time on my hands between shows.”
What did he do? “Oh, we can do any-
thing,” Oliver interposed. “It’s quite a lot
of fun. The time is ours. When you’ve
finished with us I’m going off to a
friend’s place where they’re making a
film about kid gangs.” A real film, we
asked, with goodies and baddies? “That’s
right. The kids are all young but it
should be a beaut film.” What about
school?
“Well, I go to Oakleigh Tech, in Mel-
bourne. I’m studying to be a draughts-
man, design engineering and all that.
Up here I’m staying at Beverly Hills
and I have to go to Narwee High.” He
said it without much relish. We watched
a man walk through the connecting door
with a dog, a lugubrious-faced animal
who looked as if his Munchies didn’t
agree with him. “That’s Bill Sikes’ dog
Toby,” said Oliver. “A nice dog. Goes
on every night without any fuss. No
nerves.” Had Oliver any?
“No. Adult actors tell us that if
you start acting as a kid you never get
nervous. The Dodger and me are never
nervous but we get excited. Gee, was I
excited during opening night in Mel-
bourne.” The Dodger cut in. “And you
should have seen the party they put on
for the kids. Crates and crates of soft
drink, tons of food. Some of the kids
were too excited to eat.”
Did any of the kids try anything but
soft drink? “A few of them,” said
Oliver. “They couldn’t walk a straight
line afterwards. None of that for me.”
He added inconsequentially, “Another
thing about kid actors is they never
forget their lines.
“The thing is not to become over-confi-
dent. Acting is a funny thing. Sometimes,
though, you can get over-excited. Like
when all the songs and words keep flash-
ing across your mind and you can hear
them all the time.” What were his fav-
orite songs? “I like them all—‘Who Will
Buy,’ ‘l’d Do Anything,’ ‘Consider
OLIVER
THE DODGER
Yourself.’ The hardest one, though, is
‘Where Is Love?’ The orchestra plays
against you and you’ve got to remember
the tune” How did he become Oliver?
“My mother works in a delicatessen in
Melbourne and a neighbor heard about
them auditioning for ‘Oliver.’ I had a
voice, you see, and I tried it out and got
it. Here I am.”
There was a pause and Fagin (Johnny
Lockwood) walked in. “Finished with
those kids yet? If you have, we can talk.”
The kids raced off and we went into
Lockwood’s dressing-room.
He is a short, nuggety man with a
marvellously husky voice, strong, hooked
nose and enormous eyes which he uses
in the role of Fagin with tremendous
effect. He is one of Britain’s top vaude-
ville performers and regards the Fagin
role as a piece of cake. “One of the
problems, you see, is what they pay you.
A top vaudeville performer gets a lot of
money, far more money than most top
musical-comedy stars. It’s a very skilled
business, vaudeville. They set up the
scenery for you but the rest is up to you.
You are a one-man show. In musicals
it’s different. Every vaudeville star
wants to go into musical comedy or play
straight dramatic roles. It’s not that easy.
I’ve always wanted to do it but never
thought a role would come my way. I’d
like to get another one later on but
you’ve got to be careful. Lots of vaude-
villians get musical or straight roles and
think they’re made. When the role runs
out they find they've run out of jobs,
too. You’ve got to watch the quids. I
look at it this way —if the money’s there
I’ll be in it. I'll take a cut to do something
I really like but not much of a cut if
you see what I mean.
“Anyway, I always wanted a stage role
and I've got Fagin, and it’s a beauty.
I was leaving this country last year when
John McCallum dropped in and said,
‘l’d like to see you. I’ve got something
you'd be interested in.’ It’s a funny
world.
“Now I’m hoping to go back to Lon-
don to replace the Fagin who replaced
Ron Moodie. The present Fagin is going
to New York to play Fagin there. I wish
I was doing it. It’s a very risky business
taking ‘Oliver’ to New York. All that
Jewish feeling is organised politically and
they can make things difficult. They had
to take the film off in New York, so I
wonder about the musical. Here in Syd-
ney it’s more like London. I’ve been
overwhelmed by invitations to Jewish
homes even though I’m playing Fagin.
“But, of course, Lionel Bart, who wrote
the music, lyrics and ‘book’, took all the
sting out of Fagin. He’s now just a love-
able old character. But then Bart’s Jewish
himself. Dickens, of course, was
anti-Semitic. If there was a crook, a
scoundrel, a villain, anywhere, Dickens
made him a Jew. Well, it’s not like that
now.”—P.D.H.


Around Melbourne
TO THE SPENCER STREET STATION
Tt is difficult to describe to you just how
A full of pride we are this week, for on
the significant date, Friday the 13th of
April, a railway train named The South-
ern Aurora arrived at Spencer Street
station. You see, this was the first rail-
way train to travel all the way from
the parent colony right through to Port
Phillip settlement.
Celebrations, of course, were in rrder
but one couldn’t help but wonder how
the Radio Australia reporters on the train
explained to the outside world why we
had waited until 1962 to achieve this
marvellous technical advance. Actually,
we did the celebrations rather better
when the two railway lines met at Albury
in 1883.
On June 14, 1883, three special trains
travelled up from Melbourne and two
from Sydney. All the prominent men in
the country were there and it was de-
scribed as the greatest intercolonial
gathering in history. Albury, “very likely
the future capital of Australia,” was
decorated from end to end with bunting.
The band of the NSW Permanent
Artillery provided the entertainment and
the commodious new engine shed was
turned into a magnificent banquet hall.
Over 1000 guests sat down to dinner, and
200 Sydney and Melbourne waiters
attended to their wishes.
At Sydney’s Trocadero on February
12, 1962, there were only 600-odd guests
and a mere four eight-minute speeches.
Even our Mr Bolte had to remain silent.
Dear reader, at the Albury Engine Hall
on June 14, 1883, there were 15 meaty
speeches—for example, “the difficulties
which at present operate to keep the
Colonies apart will melt like snow on the
Australian Alps, and be carried away as
the Murray carries the snow to the
ocean.”
There was this advantage, each speech
involved a toast in champagne. The last
toast, the toast to the Press, came from
the celebrated Mr Justice Higginbotham
of Victoria and the gracious reply came
from Mr William Curnow of the “Sydney
Morning Herald.”
The Melbourne “Argus” commented
that some of the enthusiasm was sham
and some of the sentiment spurious, but
making allowance for all the platitudes,
there undoubtedly remained some good
union feeling. Indeed, in a few years it
might be possible for Australians living
on opposite banks of the river not to
regard each other as foes.
We don’t know whether any of the
sentiment over the Southern Aurora was
sham or spurious but there was genuine
excitement among the gentry who
travelled, and many gave the impression
that a ride on a railway train was both
novel and exciting. Viscount de L’lsle
said he had been in four Australian
States, but this would be his first ride in
an Australian train. Mr Menzies said he
hadn’t used his gold pass for 15 years,
but he had it in his pocket now. Even
Mr. J. J. Brown, Victorian secretary of
the Australian Railways Union, seemed
to like the idea.
In 1883, in the little dog boxes lit by
oil lamps, some of which perhaps are
still running today, a journey from
capital to capital took 19 hours. The
Southern Aurora took 13 hours. Although
the train was described as comparable
with any in the world, many wondered if
this was such a great improvement over
1883.
If the Southern Aurora sticks to its
schedule this will mean an average speed
of 43 m.p.h. Many of the road coaches
are doing better than that even now. But
to be fair your pioneer must admit that
the Southern Aurora is a vast improve-
ment on all 1883-type trains.
It is comfortable, it sways little, the
service is good and to lie there on a
sponge-rubber mattress taking your
breakfast in bed while the ulcer brigade
beat it up and down on the Hume High-
way outside, is a downright satisfying
experience. Yet the decor is often
amateurish. If you were feeling slightly
ill, would you enjoy a twinette in which
the colors were pea green and orange?
The furnishings in the club car are
what Barry Humphries might describe
as Moonee Ponds contemporary or
maples modern. One car has brolga and
lyre birds painted on glass. The ether
has kangaroos and koala bears. Both
look like illustrations for the Gumnut
Babies. A skilled interior decorator
would shudder at the effect, but accord-
ing to one railways official no skilled in-
terior decorator was involved. Some of
the colors and furnishings were chosen by
the stenographer-secretary to the NSW
Railways Commissioner.
The name Southern Aurora was chosen
after an intercolonial conference between
the NSW and Victorian Railways Com-
missioners. The Melbourne “Sun”
promptly shortened it to “The Roarer”
and nine out of 10 people disapproved of
full title. Some said it sounded like the
name of a dangerous Australian animal.
It was reported, too, that radio actors
were giving away “Rhubarb, rhubarb” for
background conversation effects and
using “Southern Aurora.”
However, Mr Basil Atkinson of the
Australian National Travel Association
thought it most euphonious—speed with
a touch of aura about it. Whether the
new trains, named after the Roman god-
dess of Dawn, will cause a frightening
dawn for the airways and the road
coaches is hard to guess. Reg Ansett was
a notable absentee from the guest list
on the train.
Yet, there’s no doubt that if the Rail-
ways had their choice they would dis-
pense with passengers altogether. The
Victorian Railways, after less than three
months, has doubled its freight business
on the standard gauge. Last week, in one
day, the railways shipped the equivalent
of 570 semi-trailer loads. That’s the true
aurora.
The celebrations ended with the ex-
pedition of the Australian Railways His-
torical Society. The members travelled
on the last Spirit of Progress to run on
the broad gauge. For their benefit, over
the last haul from Seymour to Mel-
bourne, the train was drawn by two lovely
old A 2 steam engines. The members,
though, particularly took note of one
thing. They witnessed the last change-
over of passengers at Albury. That,
indeed, was a moment full of sentiment.
Tf you’re under 18 in Victoria you must
now remain a cleanskin. The Govern-
ment has just passed a bill that minors
must not be tattooed with or without
their parent’s consent. It all started with
the Leader of the State Opposition, Mr.
Stoneham, who said he had received
complaints from parents. He knew of
one boy, aged 13, who came home with
tattoos on both arms. The tattoos in-
cluded a naked girl with a snake around
he middle, and the word “mother.” In
New Guinea it is the custom for Papuan
girls to use tattoos as a beauty aid in
their search for husbands. The reverse
applies in Melbourne, and the new bill
caused a stir around the tattoo studios.
One young man said: “Tattoos are a
dead giveaway if you’re in trouble with
the police. It’s the first thing they take
down. But some sheilas won’t go with
you unless you’re tattooed. If you have
a row with them the only way to get
sweet is get the sheila’s name put on your
chest.”
The best moment in the Legislative
Council debate came when Doug. Elliot
(Labor, Melbourne), known to thousands
of children on television as Uncle Doug.,
said that his son, when 18, had wanted to
get tattooed. “I managed to talk him out
of it —and only two months ago he came
to me and thanked me,” he said.
No doubt thousands of 18-year-olds
now will be thanking the Government.
BATMAN


THE JEWS IN SOUTH AFRICA
The Union's "Israelis" are cutting their own throats
By C. M. TATZ
who has recently migrated from South Africa
South Africa’s Jewish community of
125,000 people considered by
many as the most vigorous Jewish
community outside Israel—is facing
the most serious crisis in its unhappy
history. That National Socialism, and its
accompanying racial myths and hatreds,
should revive and thrive in the land of
Hendrik Verwoerd is not surprising:
that the Jewish community should con-
nive at, and in a sense be a party to, its
imminent downfall is tragic.
When the present Nationalist Govern-
ment was in opposition during the last
war, it openly prayed for a Nazi victory.
It patronised three avowedly Nazi organi-
sations : the Ossewa-Brandwag (Watchers
of the Ox-Wagon), the Grey Shirts and
the New Order. It allowed its members
to join these groups which were estab-
lished primarily to sabotage the Union’s
(or Smuts’s) war effort. Dr D. F. Malan’s
chief propagandist on the “Jewish prob-
lem,” Eric Louw (now Minister for
Foreign Affairs), proposed a bill restrict-
ing Jewish refugee immigration (this bill
was later adopted by Smut’s Cabinet in
his absence abroad ; on his return Smuts
threatened to resign if the bill was not
stopped). Louw proposed another bill
which would introduce a Jewish quota
system in schools, universities, profes-
sions and trades. Dr Verwoerd, then
editor of a leading Nationalist newspaper,
was indicted in the Supreme Court,
prohibited from publishing “Nazi pro-
paganda of the racist type” and was
branded by the Judge as “a tool of
the Nazis.” Raids on Jewish stores,
desecration of synagogues and daubing
of swastikas were common activities of
the Malan-Verwoerd supported organi-
sations.
When the State of Israel was estab-
lished in 1948, Smuts gave it immediate
recognition. When, shortly afterwards,
Dr Malan came to power, he announced
an official policy of friendship towards
Israel and South African Jewry, for the
time being. From 1948 to 1952 Afrikaner
Nationalists indulged in much pro-Israel
and pro-Jewish sentiment. This positive
attitude stemmed from two fictitious
similarities between the two groups : first,
Jews are the Chosen People, just as God
has chosen the Afrikaner volk to preserve
white civilisation on the African con-
tinent ; secondly, the Jews of Palestine
had evicted the hated British, just as
Afrikanerdom was attempting to do in
South Africa. At this point most Jews
felt that they had misjudged the ex-Nazis,
that their wartime Nazism was a mere
political platform and not a genuine be-
lief, in short, that they’d never had it so
good. There was even talk of lifting the
ban on Jewish membership of the Trans-
vaal Nationalist Party: when this ban
was lifted later, the Jewish Press hailed
it as a clear sign that the Nationalists
were not anti-Semitic.
Tn 1954, Johannes Strydom succeeded Dr
Malan as Prime Minister. The Jewish
community was distressed because the
most notorious Jew-hater of them all
was at the helm. But Strydom, too, found
it politic to “befriend” the Jews and
Israel. (It should be noted that for Jews
and Afrikaners alike the terms South
African Jews and State of Israel were
synonymous and inter-changeable. The
Zionist community in South Africa had
always identified itself with Israel —even
to the extent of holding “Israeli” elec-
tions in the Union annually. Mapai,
Mapam, Mizrachi and other “Israeli”
parties put up candidates for South Afri-
can Zionist Federation elections. There
was, of course, no connection whatever
between Israeli and South African
“Israeli” elections: South African “re-
sults” were meaningless.) At this stage
Israel was behaving itself because it was
trading with South Africa and it was at
least abstaining on all South African
racial matters at the UN: ergo, South
African Jewry was behaving. Malan and
Strydom allowed vast sums of Jewish-
contributed money to go to Israel (South
African Jews have contributed more per
capita to Israel than Jews of any other
community). The only disturbing feature
of Strydom’s rule was his differing atti-
tude to anti-Semitism in Parliament.
Whereas Malan ensured apologies for
vicious statements in the Assembly, Stry-


dom sat silent. With each Parliamentary
session anti-Jewish sentiment increased.
This was partly because of resentment at
so-called Jewish commercial dominance
(the leading Transvaal Nationalist paper
consistently runs a stock cartoon charac-
ter, Hoggenheimer, the bloated Jewish
capitalist, based on the late mining mag-
nate Sir Ernest Oppenheimer). This an-
tipathy was, and still is, based on the
fact that a great deal of the very little
“liberalism” on color questions expressed
in Parliament came from Jewish opposi-
tion members. The Jewish Press bent
over backwards to deny anti-Semitism in
Parliament: it was left to the non-Jewish
Press to represent the truth of the matter.
The advent of Hendrik Verwoerd in
1958 caused further panic: here was the
branded Nazi in power. Verwoerd im-
mediately announced his policy of friend-
ship, also for the time being. The Jewish
Board of Deputies and the South African
Zionist Federation thrilled to this state-
ment : the Jews would continue to have
it so good. The phrase “official policy of
friendship for the time being” troubled
only a few. It troubled Rabbi Ungar of
the Reform Temple in Port Elizabeth. His
sermons and communal work earned him
deportation by the Nationalist Govern-
ment. His article in “Africa South,” “Ab-
dication of a Community,” earned him
the undying derision and contempt of the
Jewish Board of Deputies.
Perhaps the first real blow to the smug-
ness of South African Jewry came from
the least expected quarter. After Sharpe-
ville the African National Congress and
the Pan-African Congress issued state-
ments that Jews should not feel safer
than any other section of the white com-
munity on the basis of their fallacious
belief that they were traditionally more
liberal towards Africans than any other
group. The Congresses declared that
there was nothing to distinguish Jewry
in general from the rest of the country’s
white supremacists: nor is or was there.
As with all black statements, however,
the whites at the receiving end blotted
them from memory.
Stabbed in the Back
At the UN last October, Israel voted
against South Africa when that body
debated whether or not to impose
economic sanctions on South Africa.
Verwoerd was enraged: he claimed that
Israel and therefore South African
Jewry—had stabbed him in the back. He
warned the community that this kind of
behavior had to stop. He threatened
to stop the outflow of capital raised by
local charities ; he threatened a few un-
named reprisals if Jews began “to let the
(white) side down” and acted “against
the philosophy of the State.”
Reaction was hysterical: how great a
miscalculation, albeit unforeseen, had
been South African Jewry’s indentifica-
tion with Israel. What could be more in-
vidious than that local Jews should be
held responsible for the actions of a
Government of a foreign State. Some few
souls, including only three Rabbis, had
the courage to endorse Israel’s action and
praise an attitude in keeping with Jewish
ethics and historical experience on ques-
tions of racial discrimination. The
majority, including the Board of Deputies
and the Zionist Federation, turned
furiously anti-Israel and blasted that
country for stabbing them —and beloved
South Africa —in the back. Many Jews
decided to stop their regular contributions
to Israel as a form of retribution. To listen
to this community backing Verwoerd
against Israel is sickening—and very sad.
In February this year the Zionist Fed-
eration was informed that it could no
longer channel moneys from local chari-
ties to Israel. This decision is “subject
to revision according to circumstances,”
that is, subject to Israel changing her
voting policy on South Africa at the
United Nations.
Jewish activities for Israel will now
come to a stop. Attacks on Jews as
“communist agitators” will increase. Jews
are shortly to face restrictions in the
universities and professions. The Dutch
Reformed Church, that all-powerful body
which has been instrumental in formu-
lating so many of the Government’s
policies, is urging the Government to
repeal the “conscience clause” in all
university constitutions: this clause lays
down that a university shall not refuse
admission to a student or a staff member
on the ground of religious belief. A bill
is before Parliament this session which
aims at giving the Minister of Justice —
he was interned during the war as a lead-
ing light in the Ossewa-Brandwag —the
right to screen all applicants for law
schools: the Government has declared
that too many lawyers are communists,
The Ku Klux Klan, tacitly supported by
the Government, is increasing its anti*
Jewish activities: it continues to plague
the handful of liberal Rabbis with the
usual poison letters and threats of
violence. Pathetically, these Rabbis have
to put up with similar treatment from
some of their congregants because they
dare to preach against racial discrimina-
tion. The majority of Rabbis, with what
the Midrash calls “the grasshopper
mentality,” continue to spout their
apologies for the white pigmentocracy.
In their dilemma more and more Jews
are ranging themselves behind Verwoerd
on the rationalisation that active anti-
Semitism will disappear if they join his
ranks. Their only rationalisation of any
substance is that they are white and that
Verwoerd has enough color material on
his plate to keep him occupied for some
time. Some, wisely, have not relied on
this “safeguard” and have left the coun-
try : others, the majority, are staying
behind, trusting, hoping, preferring to
cling to their material possessions and a
physical standard of living unequalled
in the world. The great reminder of what
happened in Germany—to a community
more assimilated, more loyal, more Ger-
man perhaps than Germans —is met with
the old rationalisation that it can’t, it just
can’t, happen to us.
“Well now We've established that you're all sinners..."


IS GOOD
REASONS WHY
I ALWAYS USE
PIPE
ON MY
V
m
I
V.
anr
&
H
354
!'4r?H :
m
I
m
.f. \
:
. „
• No other pipe ha* greater strength. Steel pipe is not
fragile or susceptible to damage by stock or fire, so can be
laid above ground, saving cost of trenching. It also with-
stands far greater pressures and that's important, too.
• Steel pipe lasts longer. Steel pipe doesn't deteriorate in
sunlight or with exposure, is not damaged by termites or
rodents. Its inherent strength enables it to withstand all
sorts of external impacts undamaged.
• Steel pipe costs less. On account of its much longer life
and comparatively low initial cost, I have found steel pipe a
far more economical buy than any other type of pipe-and
I've tried them all.
• Steel pipe is easy to instal, handle or store. Steel pipe,
being so sturdy can be surface-laid, then dismantled and
relaid in a new location or stored without risk of damage
in handling.
• Steel pipe has so many uses. Its inbuilt strength and rigidity permit a wide
variety of uses, not practical for other fragile or flexible types of pipe, such
as vertical and overhead installations. That's why I say, "Give me steel pipe
every time."
FOR GREATER STRENGTH . . . LONGER LIFE . . . EXTRA VALUE - INSIST ON STEEL PIPE
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
*SA.3.6*


THE RETURN OF THE
SHIRTLESS ONES
Peron sits silently in Madrid and Evita is dead
By J. HALCRO FERGUSON
EX-PRESIDENT FRONDIZI
“I intervened”
Whatever the eventual outcome of
the Argentine crisis, it has taught
one disquieting lesson with
implications far beyond Argen-
tina’s —or even South America’s —boun-
daries. It is that seven years after the
removal of a dictator whose continued
presence would have been disastrous, his
mystique can still survive without any of
the emotional atmosphere which charac-
terised his rise and his rule.
Since 1955, there have been no banners
or broadcasts, no rallies or slogans or
symbols or übiquitous portraits of Juan
and Evita Peron ; the ex-dictator himself
sits silently in Madrid and Evita is dead.
Yet millions of well-fed and by no means
uneducated citizens, without benefit of
ballyhoo or danger of coercion, chose to
vote on March 18 for Peronismo a
hodge-podge of socialist, fascist and
nationalist ideas without the slightest
intellectual or doctrinal foundation.
Argentina prides itself on being a
European nation, and is so far more
truly than South Africa or Algerie Fran-
caise, for there are almost no “natives”
left. It is relatively prosperous by any
standards and potentially more so. The
gulf between rich and poor is less marked
than in Spain or Italy, and there is no
race problem. It is a far cry from Cuba.
But it was not always so. Until the
19405, though Argentina was institution-
ally democratic, with universal male
adult suffrage and regular elections, in
fact it was controlled by a tight “oli-
garchy” (Peron’s word) of wealthy land-
owners and powerful foreign interests.
The rural peones on the estancias were
bound by debt to their employers and
liable to eviction if they proved trouble-
some. The urban workers were freer,
but few were unionised and the unions—
mostly anarchists and syndicalist—were
largely led by European immigrants and
had not taken root in Argentine soil.
It was to this urban and rural prole-
tariat that Peron appealed in his electoral
campaign of 1945, and he could point to
his efforts as Minister of Labor on theii
behalf in building up a powerful trade
union movement over the previous three
years. The descamisados (shirtless ones,
a fanciful description) were at last to
come into their own: they cared little
that opposition was stifled, the Press
muzzled, the national economy ruined to
provide their wage-increases and their
jamborees. At the same time Peron
appealed to the irritable chauvinism of
the kind of people who in Britain write
to the papers about foreigners having
illegitimate babies on the National
Health. Finally, he had the support of a
large number of lesser white - collar
workers booking clerks, town hall
officials, bus inspectors —who under his
regime became men of authority.
It is a combination of all these who to-
day continue to support Peron, and it has
raised for more thinking Argentines a
problem which could apply elsewhere:
what does a democratic Government do
when a large portion of the electorate
freely choose a totalitarian party? What
President Frondizi did was to “inter-
vene’' in five of the Provinces which
had voted Peronista—i.e., to put them
under direct Federal authority, as the
constitution entitled him to do. But this
was obviously a stop-gap solution since
there will be other elections, including a
Presidential one, in 1964.
Army Can’t and Won’t Govern
r T' I HE obvious solution was for the demo-
A cratic parties to form a coalition to
fight the common enemy: together they
would command a majority. Unfortu-
nately these parties, as happened else-
where, have been too small-minded to
adopt this obvious course. Dr Ricardo
Balbin, of the Popular Radicals, has
refused to co-operate with the Intran-
sigent Radicals of President Frondizi,
and this strangled the coalition at birth.
In these circumstances the armed forces,
traditionally the keepers of the nation’s
conscience, have stepped in. But though
they can keep order ad interim, they
have proved more than once that they
cannot govern—nor, to give them their
due —have they any wish to.
Does this Argentine dilemma have any
lessons for less developed countries in
Latin America and elsewhere? It does,
for Peronismo, though personalised and
peculiar to Argentina, is part of a far
wider movement of feeling. Ironically it
is the fact that Argentina is a compara-
tively highly-developed country which is
partly responsible for Peronismo: most
citizens are educated enough to be respon-
sive to propaganda suggesting they are
unjustly treated, but not educated enough
to see the fallacies in the remedies Peron
proposes.
In other areas, such as the Andean
highlands of Peru, the grievances or the
great mass of the people are far g r eater ;
they are immeasurably poorer and more
exploited and potentially far more ex-
plosive. But they are only just beginning
to wake up to the fact that their plight
is remediable. There is still time for the
Governments of these unhapp\ lands to
take steps to prevent an explosion—but
there is not much time. It was to instil
a sense of urgency that President Ken-
nedy created the Alianza para Progreso
(Alliance for Progress) to help Latin
America to help itself, but the Alianza
has several drawbacks.
One is that it can be seen, or presented,
as a merely selfish step by the United
States to preserve its own security against
the Soviet Union, using Latin America
as a pawn in the cold chess-match. A
second is that however much Latin
Americans are urged to co-operate, it
still places them in the position of being
grateful to Big Brother. This may seem


as frivolous an objection as Dr Balbfn’s
refusal to work with Frondizi, but it has
strong historical foundations and cannot
be ignored. It is noteworthy that the
threat to withdraw US aid to Argentina
if democratic processes were not adhered
to has not worried the Peronistas and
has only modified the attitude of the
military, if that.
The other Latin American nations can
draw only one conclusion from events in
Argentina: that they must take their
own steps to end social injustice and
economic inequality if they are not to be
faced with Castroism, communism or
chaos. If the memory of such injustice
and inequality can bring crisis to pros-
perous Argentina, it could bring worse
to countries where these things are a
living reality, and where the “austerity”
Argentines complain about would seem
like paradise.
ANOTHER PASTERNAK?
Why the Secret Police Declare a Man Insane
By ROBERT CONQUEST
This is a moving story of the Soviet
sculptor Mikhail Naritsa, who was
arrested during the purges in 1935
and exiled to the Arctic, as were his
wife and child. They spent years in
prison and labor camps, and were
rehabilitated in 1954 as having been
falsely imprisoned. Then Naritsa
wrote a novel about his experiences,
and knowing it could not be published
in his own country, sent it out of the
country. When he knew that it had
arrived safely abroad, he sent a copy
of the manuscript, with a letter, to
Mr Khrushchev, and applied to leave
the Soviet Union. When last heard
of, he had been imprisoned again,
while the authorities were trying to
have him declared insane.
The Leningrad sculptor and writer
Mikhail Naritsa was arrested by
the KGB (secret police) on October
13, 1961, and he is still in their
hands. His offence was that he had a
copy of his novel “The Unpractised
Song” sent out of Russia, without per-
mission from the authorities, and pub-
lished in the emigre literary journal
“Grani.” This magazine, long associated
with the old literary emigration around
such figures as the Nobel Prizewinner
Ivan Bunin, has lately printed, anony-
mously, a number of works which have
come out of the Soviet Union. It gave
Naritsa’s book under the pseudonym
Narymov. But he later declared his
authorship freely in a forthright letter
to Khrushchev. In it he asserted a writer’s
right and duty to declare his principles
and publish his work regardless of
political authority. Since this could not
be done in Russia, he maintained com-
plete moral freedom to have it done
elsewhere.
He started writing his novel in 1952
and finished it in 1960. It then, as he
said, became his main purpose in life
to get it published. He first tried to
hand it to a Frenchwoman in the
Hermitage Art Gallery. She dropped it,
and they were both taken to the militia,
where she protected him by denying that
he was the man who handed it to her.
He later succeeded in giving the packet
to a West German who handed it to
Dr Klaus Mehnert when he returned
to the West. This was in the autumn
of 1960.
As soon as it had been accomplished,
Naritsa sent another copy of the manu-
script, together with a letter stating his
point of view, to Mr Khrushchev. Re-
ceiving no answer at this time (the novel
had not yet been printed in the West,
where “Grani” published it at the end
of July, 1961) Naritsa and his family
then applied to the Supreme Soviet for
permission to leave the country, on the
grounds (common to earlier generations
of Russian writers and political thinkers)
that they wished to work where there
was freedom of thought. It is not illegal
to make such an application, but every
approach was rebuffed on technical
bureaucratic grounds up to the time of
his arrest.
As Naritsa said in his letter to Mr
Khrushchev : “My family fully shares my
point of view and has helped me in my
work not only materially but also in
taking a substantial part in the creative
side.” On his arrest, his wife and son
were pulled in for interrogation but later
released. His son Peter had worked as
a model in the Sculpture Section of the
Academy of Arts, but was now dismissed.
Students at the Academy protested at
this persecution and finally an individual
artist gave him work. However, de-
pressed by his father's arrest, he
attempted suicide and was for some time
in hospital.
TVTaritsa’s novel has been described as
a fine piece of realistic satire by
those who have read it. His letter to Mr
Khrushchev is a firm declaration of the
rights of the artist and of free men in
general. He begins by regretting that he
had, when first arrested by the militia,
denied authorship of “The Unpractised
Song” and explains that until he had got
a copy safely out of the country he
was constrained to deceive the police.
Now, reassured about this, he felt able
to speak freely. He added : “I regard
capitalism as an immoral and corrupt
system, but the one you call socialism
is just another sort of capitalism.”
Nevertheless, if his book can be printed
abroad and not in Russia “it is because
there there is some freedom of cultural
activity . . . with us, artists are not
permitted to think independently. They
are allowed only to use prefabricated
formulae of so-called thought.” This
results in “the disappearance of ideas,
emptiness and superficial journalism”
taking the place of art.
Naritsa addresses Mr Khrushchev
directly, in these terms : “It is often said
by you that we have need of our own
Shchedrins and Gogols. That’s empty
talk . . . You even consider yourself
(or party) the intelligence, the conscience,
and the honor of our epoch, but a firm
intelligence is not frightened of contact
with other intelligences. In an at-
mosphere of honest struggle and honest
mutual exchange of the healthy elements
of alien points of view, progressive ideas
can develop. And a firm conscience! . . .
Can an idea of mutual understanding use
such strong weapons as blackmail and
cheating?”
Naritsa concludes by saying that if the
Soviet authorities cannot even now grant
the essential liberties, then he and his
family would prefer to leave the USSR :
“I don’t know how difficult it would be
for you to part with us, but we would
deprive ourselves without any regrets
of all the pleasures of socialism, although
we do not expect to find paradise in
other countries.”
When last heard of, in December,
1961, Naritsa was being held in the
prison hospital while the investigative
authorities tried to have him declared
insane. This tactic is one that has been
used recently against other heterodox
writers, such as the poet Yessenin-Volpin
(son of the famous Soviet poet of an
earlier generation, Sergei Yessenin). Per-
haps the secret police are really capable
of persuading themselves that for a
man openly to challenge the power of
the Party-State apparatus, and to pro-
claim the principles of liberty of thought,
is to show a lack of the desirable mental
qualities.


c *ab ish°d 1868
Contactors to Government Municipal,
flipping, Banking and Commercial
institution', throughout Australia
i
JACKSON
OSULUVAjN
: pTYLTD ..
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Pape? Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS •: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
UNCERTAINTY
OVER KENYA
Where can the white settlers go?
By GORDON MACLEAN
a Ashing UN official was
\V / asking, “are all Kenya’s white
VV settlers just sitting on their
suitcases?” As he asked the
question the answer came, just by
chance, from the next table in the open-
air cafe which stands almost in the
shadow of Lord Delamere’s statue,
around which Nairobi's traffic revolves.
Crouched in that confidential huddle
which many matrons adopt when they
sit around a teapot, one white woman
was telling her friend : “It’s only because
of the children we're leaving. As for
me, I’d stay and take a chance, so would
Robert.” This very genuine fear is one
that is shared by most European parents
as Kenya approaches self-government
and the inevitable sequel of indepen-
dence.
It is not based on the hysteria that
accompanies so many disputes about
school integration, but rather on un-
certainty. Hardly any Europeans remain-
ing in Kenya now bother about whether
their children have black class-mates or
rub shoulders with brown skins in the
passages. That, they know, has come
and will be accepted, just as it has been
on the playing fields for a number of
years. What many are not prepared to
accept is such a drastic lowering of edu-
cational standards that their children
may have to be taught by teachers just
a few rungs above them on the educa-
tional ladder. This could well be the
result of implementing a “crash” pro-
gramme of universal education for all
the African children who are clamoring
for it, especially with the slender
financial resources left in a country like
Kenya.
There are also the prospects of em-
ployment for European youth. This,
with Africanisation well in its stride
both in the Government and private em-
ployment, means that few jobs will be
available for Europeans at least at
the existing rates of pay which they
enjoy. Gone will be the days when a
boy could walk into a firm straight
from school to draw a monthly salary
of £5O, or a capable, but inexperienced
17-year-old find a £45-a-month steno-
grapher’s post.
But the complete answer to the UN
questioner must be sought further
afield up in the rolling grainlands of
the erstwhile “White Highlands,” now
“the scheduled areas.” “Months of
drought, Army worm, then the floods
all that and uhuru (freedom) too.
Not me, chum, I’m off.” And with suit-
cases already in his car, another farmer
was off with his wife on the road south
to seek a new life in South Africa. His
unsold farm had been left in the care
of a neighbor and the money collected
as an advance on his crops was sufficient
to tide him over.
Most of his neighbors envy him. He
was able to pull out, while debts and
mortgages still tie them to their proper-
ties. Others are patiently waiting for
the Government to buy them out and
turn their carefully-cultivated acres into
small holdings for landless African
peasants. In the meantime they discuss
among themselves where they will go.
Australia, now that its immigrant scheme
is to be extended to include assistance
to East African farmers, is a hot
favorite, and letters from those who have
already settled in Western Australia are
well featured in the Nairobi newspapers.
Others hope for a future in South
Africa or Rhodesia, but have their doubts
about how long “things will last'’ down
south. Brazil's wide open spaces have
attracted some to journey across the
Atlantic, while the latest “fad” is settling
in Southern Spain. Those with stronger
ties in England settle for the Channel
Islands or the Isle of Man. But most white
settlers who could not face the prospect
of African rule have quit Kenya already.
Those “sitting on their suitcases,” in the
phrase of the UN visitor, are the whites
with strong attachments to Kenya, its
perfect climate and excellent farmlands.
Usually their roots go down 30 or 40
years and they would never think of
moving if only they could be sure there
would be no “second Congo.”
nrms “second Congo” phrase crops up
again and again in conversation,
and although it is never exactly defined,
it does not have to be. Every time an
African politician makes a speech his
words are carefully weighed up and
when, as recently, an African city
councillor and Nairobi trade union
boss was quoted as saying, “Let the
babies die, it’s the city council's fault,
not ours,” after forcing African nurses
out on strike from a maternity hospital,
people shook their heads and rang up
the travel agent.
One might expect the largest exodus
from Eldoret, centre of the Afrikaans’
farming community in Kenya. But it is
not so, and while many have left in
convoys of cars and lorries on the long
trek back to the Eastern Transvaal, others
are determined to remain. “All that is
needed is just one word of encouragement
from the African leaders - like Julius
Nyerere did in Tanganyika and we'd
be quite happy to stay put,” was how
one settler put it, and this remark was
echoed by one of his near-neighbors.
But in the packed meeting halls of
the Nairobi, Kisumu, and Nakuru loca-
tions, the leaders who raise the cheers
and the uhuru yells are those who
talk about driving the white man
and the brown into the sea. The Afri-
can politician who talks about economics
and the need for immigrant enterprise
is too often heard in stony silence.


FORUM
THE CURIOUS CASE
OF WALTER LIPPMANN
The Trumpet that Always Sounds Retreat
By WILLIAM HENRY CHAMBERLAIN
APPEASEMENT of Soviet or Chinese communist imperialism has never
been a popular political position in America. Yet for many years Walter
Lippmann, whose column is frequently syndicated in “The Sydney Morning
Herald” and Melbourne “Age,” has been advocating attitudes and measures
which add up to defeatism and appeasement in the face of communism
with a consistency worthy of a better cause and without apparently diminish-
ing the high prestige which he enjoys as a commentator on international
affairs. Consistency, to be sure, has not been his most characteristic quality.
He has been \nown to oscillate between absolute extremes of optimism and
pessimism after his trips to Europe. One Washington hostess gave him the
private nic\name, “Operation Crosseyed.”
But on never being beastly to the
Kremlin, on taking a very dim view of
the idea that there ought to be fighting
spirit, even in a cold war, on failing
to face up to the irreconcilable challenge
of communism and to foresee what this
challenge would mean for the post-
war world, Lippmann s ideological hne
has been stiaight and undeviating. One
need only look up the record set forth
in his own numerous books and news-
paper columns.
By 1944 the defeat of the Axis powers
was assured. A farsighted student of
international affairs might have been
,°. „ ,
expected to consider realistically the
Tin-—,
piospect of the postwar world, the like-
lihood that the ally of to-day might be
the enemy of to-morrow, and vice
• T • i
versa. But in this year Lippmann pub-
fished a book (“US War Aims”), amazing
in its miscalculation of the shape of
„ , A j.
things to come, lampacked with predic-
lions that were confounded by the course
of events and with policy recommends-
.. ... ~ , , , , .
tions that would have made a bad situa-
~ -r u , , o n , . ,
tion worse if they had been fully adopted.
The conclusive defeat of Japan,
Lippmann confidently assured his readers,
will make the United States and the
whole Atlantic Community invulnerably
secuie in the Pacific; the conclusive
defeat of Geimany will make Western
Europe and the Americas secure. ’
The assumption, that all the world’s
ills and dangers would be exorcised by
the defeat of Germany and Japan might
have been pardoned in a speaker before
the Elks Club of Wichita, Kansas ; it was
scarcely worthy of a man with long
experience in international affairs and,
presumably, with some knowledge of
history.
Unsatisfactory as the present state of
the W orld is, it would be appallingly
worse if two of Lippmann > s po i icy
suggestions in “US War Aims” had been
t into ti .
“The Chinese should be the judges of
SSVIL IS'oi
the length and character of the occupation
? nd llley should be the principals in carry-
mg out what is decided;”
We shall be wise if we let the European
peoples-, who are the victims of Germany,
and must yet live next to Germany, settle
the J”? 1-31 and political accounts. They
must live next to the Germans. Let Ger-
many be tried by her peers. We are too
far away to judge wisely and well.”
„. , ... .
Catastrophic is not too strong a word
.., . °
*° use fo , r the of abdicating
A P e ; ica 5 respons.b.lmes m Europe to
what is now a communist China, and
A . .
America s responsibilities in Europe to
. , , . , .
its European neighbors, including the
Soviet Union. Had such a course been
followed, both Europe and East Asia
would now be part of a vast communist
empire capable of strangling the United
States in a gigantic pincers movement.
Lippmann likes to pin the label of
“irresponsible” on those who disagree
with him. But it is hard to imagine a
loftier peak of irresponsibility than this
proposal to turn over Japan to China
and Germany to the Soviet Union, the
only strong military power among its
neighbors.
The Yalta Betrayal
'T'HE most dishonorable document to
which the head of the American Gov-
ernment ever set his signature was the
Yalta Agreement between Roosevelt,
Stalin and Churchhill in February,
1945. Without the presence of a single
Pole at the conference Poland’s inde-
pendence and territorial integrity were
sacrificed on the altar of appeasing
Stalin. Yalta sanctioned the territorial
mutilation of Germany by assigning
large areas that had been ethnically
German for centuries to Poland and the
Soviet Union. The Nationalist Govern-
ment of China was also thrown to the
wolves of appeasement.
It is no reason for surprise, in view
of the general attitude developed in his
daily columns and in “US War Aims”
that Lippmann has always been one of
the most ardent apologists for Yalta.
In the book he takes for granted that
the enormously powerful Soviet Union
must be protected against a Germany
shattered, sundered, and bled white by
the war. “If the Soviet Union is to check
Germany from the East,” he writes, “the
military system of the central and eastern
European States must be co-ordinated
not with Germany, but with Russia.”
Here he gives an advance blessing to
the Warsaw Pact, an alliance obviously
directed against the United States. He
shows no apprehension of the possibility
that one hundred million East Europeans
might prefer independence to domination
either by Germany or by the Soviet
Union, no concern over the outrageous
moral cynicism of turning over to com-
munist tyranny the Poles who were
fighting Nazism at the time when Molo-
tov and Ribbentrop were exchanging
messages of congratulation over the
German capture of Paris.
Lippmann did not go so far as to
make the Soviet Union a present of
Germany, as well as of Eastern Europe,
although his proposal to leave Germany
to the “judgment” of its European
neighbors would most probably have
led to this result. But he expressed strong
opposition to trying to win Germany and
Japan as allies against the Soviet Union.
Stalin, and Khrushchev, could have been
well satisfied with Lippmann’s blueprint


for the postwar world a Soviet em-
pire stretching from the Baltic to the
Pacific and a helpless, neutralised Ger-
many and Japan. Perhaps this, along with
the general tone of his writing since the
war, explains the two long deluxe inter-
views which Soviet Premier Nikita
Khrushchev granted to Lippmann, the
latter amid the cozy amenities of the
Premier’s Black Sea villa. Even cursory
acquaintance with the Soviet Press con-
veys the impression that Lippmann is
the Soviet editor’s favorite “Voice of
America.”
The Lessons of Cowardice
Tyro doubt there were other commen-
tators who were just as shortsighted
as Lippmann in foreseeing an indefinite
continuation of the wartime American-
Soviet alliance. Where Lippmann is
unique, among widely read and highly
esteemed columnists, is in continuing
to plug the line of appeasement, of
yielding anything from an inch to an
ell on all disputed points with com-
munist powers long after hostility to the
United States was being shouted from
the housetops of Moscow and Peking.
Roosevelt’s policy of trying to talk,
charm, soothe, and appease Stalin into
good international behavior was soon
revealed as bankrupt by the course of
postwar international developments. The
Soviet Government created a huge
satellite empire in eastern and central
Europe, stirred up civil war in Greece,
blockaded West Berlin, launched an in-
vasion of South Korea by moving across
the frontier a North Korean army fitted
out to the last detail with Soviet muni-
tions and supplies.
The United States reaction was to
adopt the so-called policy of contain-
ment, closely associated with the name
of the Russian expert, George F. Kennan.
Lippmann launched a bitter, sustained
attack on this policy in a small book
entitled “The Cold War : A Study in
US Foreign Policy” (1947). And the
policy of containment is open to criticism,
on the ground that it left the initiative
in the hands of the enemy and con-
demned the United States to the
numerous disadvantages, moral, political
and military, of being continually on
the defensive.
But Lippmann’s attack was for exactly
the wrong reasons, not because it
attempted too little, but because it
attempted too much. The thesis of “The
Cold War” is that the policy of contain-
ment must fail, not because it represents a
provocation which the Soviet Government
is certain to frustrate. With the heavy at-
mosphere of Cassandra gloom which is
his routine reaction to any practical
scheme for stopping communist expan-
sion, Lippmann saw us losing Europe,
losing our natural allies, losing almost
everything if we set up a “No Trespass-
ing” sign against further communist
aggressive expansion.
Fortunately Lippmann’s pessimism was
not justified by the subsequent course of
events. For, just as cowardice in a natural
leader inspires panic and fear in the
weaker nations which are looking for a
leader, so courage inspires courage and
co-operation. American resistance to
Soviet and Chinese communist aggression
had its full share of limitations and weak-
nesses. And yet, even the imperfect con-
tainment policy led by the natural logic
of events to things which Lippmann, in
his defeatist mood, would never have
dreamed possible to things like NATO,
American air bases in Great Britain,
France, Greece, Turkey, and other
powers fighting in Korea.
Sonorous Retreat
VUherever the struggle has been joined
between communism and freedom
Lippmann’s sonorous trumpet can be
heard, sounding the call to retreat, lest
something worse befall. Characteristic
is his designation (in his column of De-
cember 1, 1955) as “mistakes” of these
steps in American policy :
“The premature attempt to rearm Ger-
many in 1950 . . . The irreparable mistake
of crossing the 38th Parallel in Korea . . .
The over-militarisation of the containment
policy which has jeopardised our relations
with India and several other uncommitted
nations.”
It is doubtful whether any military
authority believes that Western Europe
can be safeguarded without a sub-
stantial German contribution. How
strange, then, to call premature an attempt
which began in 1950 to enlist Germany
as an ally long after the face of a hostile
aggressive Soviet Union was clear to all
but the wilfully blind, which was bogged
down for years in French obstruction
and for months in petty politics in the
German Bundestag, which took more
than five years to put a single German
division in the field!
The mistake in Korea was not in try-
ing to unify the country, but in failing
to try to win the war by the means
cogently recommended by General Mac-
Arthur. And, as for “over-militarisation”
of the containment policy, is there a
single contact area where communist
military forces do not heavily outnumber
the forces of resistance?
When the Chinese communists, with a
threatening diplomatic assist from Soviet
dictator Khrushchev, tried to bluff the
United States into pulling the rug from
under Chiang Kai-shek by launching an
intensive bombardment of the Nationalist-
held off-shore island groups of Quemoy
and Matsu, Lippmann ran true to form
again. He was the intellectual cheerleader
of a small but noisy group of advocates
of a scuttle-and-run policy which made
the welkin ring with anguished cries that
the whole world would go up in a
nuclear holocaust if Mao Tse-tung were
not properly and promptly appeased.
Lippmann's column of October 2, 1958,
is worth quoting:
“A withdrawal from Quemoy to Formosa
will liquidate a dangerous liability and will
consolidate the strategic position of For-
mosa .
“Were we disengaged from Quemoy and
disentangled from Chiang’s ambitions,
there would be time to consider calmly
what in the long run is truly important to
us in Formosa. We know that in the
long run our interest in Formosa cannot
be tied up with Chiang’s Government.
For that Government is manifestly living
on borrowed time . . .
“Our true interest in Formosa, having
done our duty to see that Chiang’s people
have a safe asylum somewhere, is that the
island should not be militarised for an ad-
vanced Chinese base against the Phillip-
pines . . .
“So we should disengage in Quemoy. We
should stand at Formosa for the purpose
of negotiation. We should prepare for the
passing of Chiang’s regime.”
Three years have passed since Lipp-
mann delivered this typical defeatist
counsel. The Chinese Nationalist Govern-
ment of Chiang Kai-shek is still in
power. Quemoy, far from being inde-
fensible, the favorite word of Lippmann
and other amateur strategists who
followed their fears rather than the
military realities, is still flying the
Nationalist flag.
Lippmann plays no favorites between
Europe and Asia. He is just as ready to
negotiate a compromise (in a situation
where compromise means humiliating
retreat for the West) on Berlin as he
was to toss Quemoy to the Red Chinese
wolves and prepare comfortably for
“the passing of the Chiang regime.”
Here again his reasoning is both peculiar
and interesting. In his column of October
10, 1961, he asserts that the raising of
the wall in Berlin on August 13 radically
changed the status quo in West Berlin
and adds :
“The truth is that West Berlin to-day
is a stricken city without a future and to
negotiate is not to surrender what we
have, but to bargain for much that is
necessary and that we do not have. What
we do not have is a visible future for West
Berlin.”
In other words, our response to an
act of outrageous communist violence
and illegality, carried out in violation
of a four-power agreement which stipu-
lates freedom of movement within the
whole city of Berlin, East and West,
should not be to demand, as the first
condition of negotiation, that the wall
should come down and the principle of
German reunification by means of free
elections should be accepted. No, we are
to accept the unilateral communist
violence as irrevocable and to “negotiate
a contractual agreement with the Soviet
Union,” which has just contemptuously
torn up its last contractual agreement.
No wonder Lippmann is so frequently
quoted in the Soviet Press.


V,
V
V
\ »
A
°
&»
-~
m
«r
7^?
+•
S»
rnt
t:
v .*
3WS
!r*
DOWN TO
IN
TRAINS
Wi
&
4/,
■sr.
q:
GO
Cj
V
SA
j 5
yHE New South Wales Department of Railways doesn't own or
operate ships. But it plays a vitally important part in trade
with foreign countries and the other Australian States.
Freight goes down to the sea in trains at Sydney, Newcastle,
Port K’embla and Coff's Harbour and across the Queensland,
South Australian, and Victorian borders.
Millions of tons of import and export freight a year move
through efficient railway terminals at these ports and borders.
From the ports ... to the ports . . . across the borders ... in
endless liaison between pasture, factory and market, the
New South Wales Government Railways assists commerce and
industry to promote the State's prosperity and progress.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT


LETTERS
A TOWN LIKE ELLIOTT
Sir,
Many Australians will be disappointed
to see Xavier Herbert turning away
from the human and objective viewpoint
that he expressed in his fine book “Capri-
cornia,” particularly as his article sup-
porting segregation in your issue of
March 31 does not present anything new,
either in the way of facts or analysis of
facts. Having met Mr Herbert I know
what an interesting and likeable person
he is, but it needs to be pointed out that
the two basic points made in his article
are both well known to students of
anthropology.
First we have the fact that when an
invading race takes the land from an
original race of hunters and food
gatherers, the Originals are put in a
position where their former mode of life
has become impossible, and they experi-
ence a crisis in which it is extremely
difficult for them to maintain their human
dignity (though in fact many of them do
maintain it). The old way of life has
been made impossible, but they are
unable immediately to adopt the Invaders’
way of life —this for a number of reasons,
including lack of training, prejudices on
the part of the Invaders, and lack of desire
of the Originals to participate in a way
of life that to them seems evil.
The inevitable result is that in many
areas the Originals die out ; in other
areas they adapt themselves to a life of
“intelligent parasitism” (as anthropolo-
gists have called it), not because they have
any inherent liking or tendency for
parasitism, but because this is in fact the
only way to survive ; while in such areas
as Central and Northern Australia there
can be something of an uneven truce in
which the Originals live partly in their
own world and partly in that of the
Invaders. In the latter two cases, the
highly organised tribal organisation and
moral code of the Originals tend to be
broken up, the older men looking back
to the “good old days” when their people
were happy, the younger ones being
attracted to some of the elements of
the civilisation of the Invaders.
If, as is usual, the Invaders impose
a liquor prohibition on the Originals, then
the effects are the same as they were in
the United States under liquor prohibition
—an intensification of drinking, with the
accent on rapid consumption of low-
quality and even poisonous liquor, leading
to an increase in crime and in prison
sentences. All this happens with a
certain inevitability, and it was because
“Capricornia” gave a sense of this xnevit-
ability without spoiling the picture by
moralising that it was, and remains, such
a great book.
The second point made by Mr Herbert
is that the mess described above is not
easily cleaned up by the Invaders offering
the Originals “assimilation'’ along the
lines that the Invaders think fit. “Assimi-
lation” is a word with many different
meanings ; as offered by most Invaders’
Governments it has been a step forward
from the old “Protection” policies which
didn’t protect, but it has been an incom-
plete, one-sided, often forced assimilation.
The child is taken from its family ; the
family is taken from the group ; the lad
is allowed to be a stockman or laborer,
or missionary of a religion he despises,
but other avenues are closed to him, and
if he personally is given an “exemption
certificate” he knows that the bulk of his
people (I refer now to the Territory and
Queensland) have few citizenship rights.
Mr Herbert is right in saying there is no
solution in this variety of “assimilation” ;
this is well known to students of
anthropology.
But is it logical to deduce that because
this unequal and unreal “assimilation”
fails, then we must return to segregation?
Experience in other countries, including
Canada and the United States, has in
fact shown that the position is not
hopeless. Adaptation of the Originals to
the new situation can be achieved if the
concentration is on lifting the group as
a whole rather than a few individuals,
if the Originals are treated as equals and
not as inferiors, if there is a real attempt
to solve the difficult problems of encoura-
ging a pride in the Original racial heri-
tage, and of providing employment and
training for employment at skilled levels.
This involves a change from older con-
cepts of “assimilation” to a newer con-
cept in which “assimilation*’ becomes
“integration” ; it also involves more time
and money (and thinking) on the part of
the Invaders. But anthropology tells us
that there is a solution this way, and that
this is the only solution. And if Mr
Herbert cannot see a dignity and strength
in people like Namatjira and Tudawali
that point to a solution in spite of all
the tragedy and all the problems (and I
agree with Mr Herbert that these are
very real), then quite a few of us can.
Darlinghurst (NSW)
L. P. FOX
THE DLP CRIES WOLF
Sir,
In his reply to Mr Kane (Bulletin,
March 31) Mr J. Mulvihill asserts that
Charlie Fitzgibbon won the WWF ballot
because of his known industrial record.
That may be true in NSW where Mr
Fitzgibbon would be well known, but it
cannot be said of his big majority in
WA, where it was due mainly to anti-
communist rank-and-file organisation.
Powerful forces in the Fremantle ALP,
including members of the State executive,
were against Fitzgibbon and published a
pamphlet urging support for communist
T. Nelson.
In the vital Amalgamated Engineering
Union ballot for Commonwealth
Councillor, February, 1962, members of
the ALP openly backed communist G.
Hennesey. Three prominent ALP mem-
bers, J. McMullen, J. Mutton and J. Cole-
man, published a pamphlet urging mem-
bers “to retain tried and trusted officials,”
namely, communist G. Hennesey.
ALP rules state clearly, “under no cir-
cumstances must any branch or member
of the party be associated with members
of the communist party in holding of
joint meetings or any other matter and
any branch of the ALP which contravenes
this instruction shall be declared bogus,
and any member offending will auto-
matically expel himself or herself from
the movement.” The above-mentioned
ALP members should have been expelled
automatically. They weren’t.
It cannot be expected that an NSW
State secretary (Mr Mulvihill) should
explain why breaches of the rules take
place in another State. However, it is
fair to ask him whether he would turn a
blind eye to the rule book, and so assist
pro-communist elements in the ALP in
NSW, as State and Federal secretary
Mr F. E. Chamberlain apparently does in
Western Australia?
N. MUNDIE
East Perth (WA)
THE TWO WHITE KNIGHTS
Sir,
Your account of “The White Knights”
(Bulletin, March 10) left me with the
impression of a wet taking the easy way
out and a blustering bull-dog of the
“Imperialist” school—a remaining
staunchion to white supremacy. I know
little of Sir John Moffat for he has not a
“big name” in African politics. But in the
morass of political discussion, bandied
solutions to “the problem”, arguments,
bickerings, and resigned confusion
amongst the so-called settlers, I have
heard time and time again “Sir Roy
Welensky is worth listening to.”
“Welensky is the only man who seems to
be able to see the facts as they are,” and
numerous other expressions of confidence
in his views. These sentiments do not
only come from Rhodesians but also the
more liberal elements in South Africa —-
those who voted progressive.
Surely one of the most hopeful experi-
ments at present in Africa is the new
Southern Rhodesian Constitution upon
which hangs so much the feasibility of a
truly multi-racial nation being created in
Africa. Sir Edgar’s experiment is “that
great experiment” which Sir Roy refers
to but I hardly think that he would need
any prompting from Public Relations
men to show his concern for its success.
Sir Roy has a problem that has never
been solved. He is proceeding with
caution but is it any wonder that he
becomes annoyed when the British Gov-
ernment, for political expediency, shows
signs of disrupting the Federation. It is
unwise to judge him a Verwoerd for his


determined stand —politically expedient
moves are not necessarily the right ones.
Sir Roy’s open attacks on Britain come
after years of restrained patience.
FRANK TENNANT
Cockburn (SA)
HOW CHAMBERLAIN MISSED
THE BUS
Sir,
Enid Armstrong (Bulletin, April 7)
does not attempt to be impartial. She
evidently has an enormous contempt for
Conservatives, and an almost pathological
hatred of Neville Chamberlain.
“It was partly his fault that defences
were so weak in 1938, and almost wholly
his fault that they were still so weak
twelve months later.” One who attempts
to review an historical book should at
least know something of history.
The weakness of Britain’s defences were
due to the blind belief in the League of
Nations, held not only by Parliament
but by the people. H. V. Morton, in one
of his books, tells of the Fleet in Moth-
balls, as it was called. It’s a chilling
picture—the great ships lying side by side,
silent and rusting, acres of them (if you
talk of acres of sea).
Rearmament did not only begin in
1939—it began in 1936, when Neville
Chamberlain was Chancellor of the
Exchequer, and he was execrated from
one end of England to the other because
of it.
If someone is to be blamed for lack of
armaments, it is not Neville Chamberlain.
For all Mr Churchill’s “rolling phrase”
about Honor and Duty, England had no
mutual defence pact with Czechoslovakia.
France and Russia did, and neither moved
a man to help her—France was torn with
internal strife, and Russia was only con-
cerned in not offending Hitler, with whom
she later concluded an alliance which set
the world aflame.
We did declare war on Germany on
Poland’s behalf, and what good did that
do Poland? As much as we could have
helped Czechoslovakia in 1938.
F. H. WILSON
North Adelaide (SA)
THE DELINQUENTS
Sir,
I would like to comment upon the
review of Miss Rohan’s novel —“The
Delinquents”. Mr Jones appears rather
inaccurate in his criticisms of the dia-
logue. Due to my experience of delin-
quents (I was considered to be one a
few years ago), I think that I am quite
capable of judging Miss Rohan’s dialogue
and I find it quite accurate, the only fault
is that it is toned down due to the fact
of censorship. If Mr Jones had had any
contact with delinquents he would have
found that delinquents do talk as Miss
Rohan’s characters.
As for his remarks about the impossi-
bility of Lola discovering that Conrad
was her favorite author while living on
and off the streets, let me say this, that I
discovered literature while in jail. The
only other point I wish to stress is the
reviewer's remarks about the crudity of
the writing—let me remind Mr Jones
that some subjects cannot be treated “in
a nice way” and if Mr Jones cannot
stomach the nature of the writing he
should cease reading modern literature.
C. T. JOHNSON
South Yarra (Vic)
ADVERTISING—TOO MUCH OR
NOT ENOUGH
Sir,
In The Bulletin of March 31 I am
reported to have made certain statements
in an article in your Wild Cat pages. The
reporter presumably was quoting (or mis-
quoting) extracts from an address I
recently gave to the Australian Institute
of Sales Management. Unfortunately, he
has in places quoted me quite inaccura-
tely, and in other places has lifted
certain words completely out of context.
On reading these passages it would
appear that I have deliberately attacked
Advertising Agencies and Agency
Management. This was not so, and I
venture to suggest that the audience
would never have received any such
impression. This is the type of inaccurate
reporting which discourages businessmen
from accepting speaking assignments at
industry gatherings where they know
reporters will be present.
J. H. BOWDEN
(Director Australian Association
of Advertising)
Sydney
CUT IT OUT!
Sir,
My how the clientele of The Bulletin
must have changed during the past year
or so. A few years ago the article Cut-
ting Out (Bulletin, March 3) would
have brought a dozen quick criticisms
from men experienced in working cattle
on open camps in the Gulf or Back
Country of Queensland. It might appear
that the Bush Reader has given The
Bulletin away — too much book and
play reviews, too much politics, too much
Hal Porter and Patricia Rolfe and little
of the Australiana on which The
Bulletin found its niche as The National
Australian Newspaper.
“Nothing that would throw the great
mob into a welter of confusion or dis-
order” —stone the crows, Mr Moncrieff!
(Bulletin, March 3)—-stone the blinking
crows! ! —what on earth do you think an
apparition, attired in a “white shirt” (on a
cattle camp on Carpentaria Downs, mind
you) walking about on foot would do to
a mob of bush cattle on an open camp.
Be assured your Broncho Rail —usually
about two panels long—your waterhole
and 20 ringers wouldn’t hold them. As
for your apparition walking up to a fat
bullock on an open camp grabbing his
tail — well it isn’t just done, Mr Mon-
crieff.
If the apparition did fluke a hold on
the bullock’s tail he’d have to throw him
there and then —if he could —otherwise
he’d have about as much control over
the bullock as a yapping fox-terrier might
have hanging on to the end of the same
tail. One man on the tail of a big fat
bullock out in the open would be air-
borne in a very few seconds.
It’s a common enough sight to see a
man on horseback throw a cow or recal-
citrant heifer or steer that breaks from a
mob and two or three men—one on the
horns and one or two on the tail—bring
the beast back to the mob.
I’d suggest that you submit articles to
Henry G. Lamond, Michael Sawtell or
even Bill Harney at the Olgas, if the
articles have a theme situated further
from Sydney’s George Street than the
Green Belt, before you publish them—
that is, unless you aim to start up the old
Aboliars Column again.
K. GLEESON
Crow’s Nest (Qld)
A PLAIN MAN’S GUIDE TO THE
SENATE
Sir,
In his article (Bulletin, March 31)
M. H. Ellis, after noting the failure of
the Senate “to live up to the expectations
of its devisers” and picturing it as a
continuing “brake on responsible govern-
ment” surely fizzles out with his rather
lame conclusion that “its whole position
seems to need consideration and reform.”
The statement that the Senate has
failed “largely because there have been
so many developments in the past 60
years which were quite unpredictable by
the starry-eyed planners of Federation
at the Conventions of 1891 and 1897” is
true enough, but misleading in that it
makes no recognition of those who inside
the Conventions and outside clearly pre-
dicted the ultimate failure of the Senate
as a State House. The statement by im-
plication seems to adopt the false history
surrounding Federation that the smaller
States demanded a Senate to protect them
from the larger ones as their price to
enter Federation.
“The discussions of 1890, of 1891 and
of 1897, show that until the meeting in
Adelaide (1897) the leaders of public
thought in Australia assumed that the
American system and no other was ‘true
federation.’ When the error was pointed
out, it was too late. They had committed
themselves to that system, and they began
to excuse themselves by asserting that
without such a system the smaller colonies
would not agree to federation. This
assertion I dispute. The experiment has
never been tried. The colonies have not
had the choice of any other system.”
(H. B. Higgins in “Contemporary
Review,” April, 1900, in reply to “London
Times” which had referred to opponents
of the Senate as “little Australians.”)
Perhaps we should not be critical of
Mr Ellis’s inconclusive article. Having
demonstrated that the Senate is a total
failure will Mr Ellis now indicate what
reforms he considers would rehabilitate
it from being the farce and the fraud it
is now?
FRANK BRENNAN
Canberra


GOVERNOR FITZROY
The Gay Federalist
By M. H. ELLIS
Concluding the series of early Australian Governors
CHIP OFF THE OLD BLOCK
"tunius” wrote that on the family
I of the Fitzroys, Dukes of Grafton,
I product of the Royal department
of the “miscellaneous amours” of
Barbara Villiers, nature had entailed an
“hereditary baseness of disposition,” each
son “improving on the vices of his father
and taking care to transmit them pure
and undiminished into the bosom of his
successor.”
“Junius,” however, wrote with con-
siderable spleen in that era in which
the third Duke of Grafton was proving
his evil temperament by visiting Wilkes
in the Tower and seeking, against the
fruitful opposition of his own Cabinet, to
avoid Boston tea parties by the repeal
of the American tea duties.
Grafton’s grandson, Sir Charles Fitz-
roy, Governor of New South Wales,
was unlucky enough to face a less scru-
pulous “Junius” (if such a type could
exist) in Dr John Dunmore Lang, cham-
pion of all political libellers in Australian
history, the father of nearly every myth
based on groundless or exaggerated
slander which modern Leftist historians
have ardently perpetuated.
Real moralists like Dr Lang, dowered
with the armor of Parliamentary privi-
lege, joined with Henry Parkes in moving
amendments to a Legislative Council s
valedictory address to record that the
moral influence that had emanated from
Fitzroy’s Government House had been
“deleterious and baneful in the highest
degree to the best interests of the com-
munity.”
But one forms the impression that the
last autocratic Governor of New South
Wales and first Governor-General of
Australia was not much worse than the
average nobleman of his day.
Fitzroy was the grandson of a Duke.
His wife, Lady Mary, was the
daughter of a Duke of Richmond,
who had given the famous ball at Brus-
sels on the eve of Waterloo and on whose
map Wellington had scratched the plan
for h:s stand on that immortal day.
The son of a general, Fitzroy had
been at Waterloo, a lieutenant of the
Horse Guards on the staff of Sir Hussey
Vivian. He had risen to the rank of
lieutenant-colonel, had been Deputy
Adjutant General at the Cape of Good
Hope. He had sat in Parliament for
Bury St Edmunds and was the first
former MP to govern in Australia.
Following the tradition of his family
he had voted for the Reform Bill of 1832
and in the year of Queen Victoria’s acces-
sion he had been knighted, and then was
appointed successively to the governor-
ships of Prince Edward Island and the
Leeward Islands. He was called home to
succeed Sir George Gipps in 1845 and to
receive a commission as Governor of a
newly constituted colony of North Aus-
tralia, an abortive entity.
An Eye for the Girls
TTe arrived in the warship Carysfoot
early in August, 1846. Members of
his family came with him. One son was
his private secretary, another his aide-de-
camp and both were chips off the old
block with an eye for the girls.
He had been in the colony just over fif-
teen months, when tragedy struck him a
heavy blow. He had started out to drive
his carriage and four from Parramatta to
Sydney on December 7, 1847, with Lieu-
tenant Masters on the box beside him
and his wife inside the carriage. Ap-
proaching the gates of the Parramatta
Government House grounds his four-in-
hand bolted and crashed into the gate
posts. Lady Mary suffered a fractured
skull and died almost at once after being
taken back to Government House. Lieu-
tenant Masters died some hours later.
Fitzroy himself suffered a severe injury
to one knee which plagued him through-
out his governorship and hampered his
movements.
After the death of his wife the san-
dals began to accumulate both against
himself and his two sons. But there is
no doubt that he was an industrious
governor in a time of busy progress and
that he contributed a great deal more
than some historians like to imagine to
the moulding of the pristine constitution
of the Australian colonies and towards
responsible government at a time of
rowdy ferment when it was difficult to
interpret a very uneven public opinion
marked by complete apathy in some
classes and violence in others.
His main claim to personal fame is
that he was almost without doubt the
father of the first practical move towards
a constitution for the Australian conti-
nent as a federated whole and also of
the principles behind Section 92 of the
Commonwealth Constitution which have
kept so many members of the Australian
Bar out of the poorhouse.
About six weeks after he had assumed
office the Legislative Council presented
him with an address asking him to move
the Queen to disallow an Act of the
Legislative Council of Tasmania which
imposed an ad valorem duty of 15 per
cent, on imports of produce from New
South Wales.
Fitzroy recommended the address to
the “favorable attention” of the Home
Government since he conceived it “ex-
tremely desirable that the Colonies in this
portion of HM’s Dominions should not
be permitted to pass hostile or retalia-
tory measures, calculated not only to
interrupt their commercial intercourse
with each other, but to create feelings
of jealousy and ill-will among them,
which, if not checked, may lead to mis-
chievous results.”
Thanks to the House of Lords
TJe declared that he felt some diffidence
in offering an opinion so soon after
his arrival in this part of the world, but
that it appeared to him that, because of
the distance of Australia from home and
the time that must elapse before Royal
Assent could be obtained for Acts passed
by the legislatures of Australian colonies,
“it would be very advantageous to their
interests if some superior functionary
were to be appointed, to whom all mea-
sures adopted by the local legislatures,
affecting the general interests of the
Mother Country, the Australian colonies,
or their intercolonial trade, should be
submitted by the officers administering
the several governments, before their own
assent is given to them.”
This despatch contains the first prac-
tical move towards concerted action by
a federation of the Australian colonies.


It was as the result of it that an Im-
perial Bill for the better government
of the colonies of Australia, which sep-
arated the colonies of New South Wales,
Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania
and provided for the separation of
Queensland at a future date, contained
clauses to create a Federal House of
Delegates with a constitution embodying
the basic features of the existing Com-
monwealth Constitution, including charge
of the Post Office, inter-colony highways
and railways, customs, imposition of
court charges, weights and measures and
a High Court of appeal. Australia had
to thank the House of Lords for the
fact that these clauses were deleted from
the Australian Colonies Government Bill
and that the country had to wait an-
other 50 years for any form of Federa-
tion.
However, there was recognition of the
need for some form of federal control
when, in 1851, Fitzroy was appointed
first Governor-General of Australia, with
powers of supervision over the lieutenant-
governors who ruled in the other
colonies. The Commissions and Instruc-
tions of these were altered to assure that
they would defer to the judgment of the
Governor-General as to whether legisla-
tion introduced in their territories was
calculated to affect the interests of other
colonies. And since New South Wales and
Victoria were closer together, and their
interests interlocked more vitally than
those of the rest, it was decreed that no
legislation to alter import duties should
be passed by either, save after communi-
cation with the other colony.
Fitzroy was empowered to assume the
government of any of the colonies,
save Western Australia, which were
being immediately brought into existence,
when present in them, and to retain it
during the whole of his residence there
if he thought fit.
The eight years of Fitzroy’s rule during
which, according to the dominant his-
torians, Government House was plunged
in futility and boundless immorality were
remarkable as the greatest formative
period in the first century ci Australian
history.
Exploration was being pushed by Eyre,
Kennedy, Mitchell and A. C. Gregory
through the heart of the continent along
the rib-routes of a vast fan of territory
which opened across the country from
the Great Australian Bight to the Vic-
toria River and Cape York Peninsula,
which was penetrated for the first time.
In Fitzroy’s years, gold was discovered
and the whole direction of the economy
changed, so that, when he left for home
in January, 1855, both the cattle and the
sheep populations had declined since the
first year of his taking office. The
number of sheep had almost doubled and
had reached 13 million the year before
the discovery of gold. But it had fallen
to under seven and a half million in the
year of Ophir (1851) and was only slowly
increasing four years later. Also, land
under cultivation, just on 200,000 acres
in 1850, had fallen one third. At the
same time, even with the loss of wool
production, export values in general had
doubled and reached £4 million.
The population of New South Wales,
too, at the end of the period was less by
15,000 than in 1850, five years before,
when it had passed a quarter of a million
for the first time. Tens of thousands
had gone helter-skelter to Ballarat and
Bendigo, and separation had fenced off
thousands of southerners formerly in
New South Wales.
“White Australia”
Tn Fitzroy’s years came the first railways,
A born of the encouragement of W. E.
Gladstone, who sent out plans for them as
early as 1843, and of Mitchell and Went-
worth who were thinking of roads built
to meet the needs of steam transport even
in the middle 1830 s. In his years of rule
was born the National Education system
—the State schools of which the first was
established in the old military hospital
on Bunker Hill in 1849 (it still serves
the girls of Fort Street); Sydney Grammar
School, Sydney University, the organised
country school system. In that eight
years was born, too, the Volunteers
movement, on a statutory basis, along
with the construction of such defence
works as Pinchgut in Sydney Harbor to
fend off the naughty Russians who were
giving so much trouble in the Crimea, and
who alarmists expected to see arrive off
the Heads any day armed to the teeth
and thirsting to add empty Australia to
their own vast emptiness.
During Fitzroy’s period of rule the
preliminary moves towards a white Aus-
tralia w'ere conceived when Henry Parkes’
Select Committee of the Legislative
Council meditated that if Chinese immi-
gration were again resorted to it would be
needful to establish a “colonial protec-
torate for the Orientals.” The real yellow
tidal wave had not yet begun to flow with
full force.
Immigration was regulated to improve
its quality, to the rage of those like Mr
J. D. Lang who made a fetish of :t But
above all the years 1846-54 embraced a
period of tooth-and-claw battles on basic
issues—battles against the monopoly of
coal by the Australian Agricultural Com-
pany, battle for steam communication
with all the world, battle to establish
trades unionism embracing the years of
the first industrial strikes ; battle to estab-
lish the basis of the alienation of Crown
Lands ; battle for separation which split
the New South Wales of the Autocratic
Age into prepotent fragments. These in
time became great States with capitals
that vied in populations and civic
resources with the great cities of Europe
and Asia and outstripped those of long
settled European colonies in Africa.
The Convict Taint
A bove all, Fitzroy’s period was that of
the campaign which turned Austra-
lia into a series of self-governing, self-
financing entities free of the convict
taint on the Eastern slopes. The demon-
strations following the arrival of the ship
Hashemy to renew transportation in
1849, settled the hash of the convict as
an ingredient in the Australian polity
for ever.
The welter of Select Committees, the
remonstrances, the political strikes, the
Addresses to the Crown and to the
British Parliament, the defeats, the
triumphs, the victory of the embryo con-
ception of Australia as a nation all belong
in decision to the naughty governorship
of Sir Charles Fitzroy, descendant of my
Lady Castlemaine. He carried away
with him, along with his romantic
memories, the knowledge that the colony
he had come to when it was a shepherd
kingdom with declining wealth had
turned during his eight years in it into
a territory holding several Golcondas or
potential Golcondas, and peopled by
chartered optimists who were already up
to their necks in the hopeful task of
importing three pounds’ worth of goods
(apart from investment capital) for every
pound’s worth they exported, while gaily
trusting to the future to right the trade
balance.
They were not even worrying about
Government finance, for though both
Consolidated Revenue collections and
Government Expenditure had passed the
million pound mark for the first time and
the national debt of New South Wales
was five years old and £234,000 high in
the year in which Fitzroy departed,
budgets were still balanced.
Poor Fitzroy, like Gipps who had pre-
ceded him, did not live long to ponder
on the ingratitude with which at least
six members of the Legislative Council,
including two future Prime Ministers.
Parkes and Cowper. had farewelled him
in their acid amendment to the Legisla-
tive Council’s valedictory address in
which they reflected on his moral
character.
He had worked hard, if he had played
hard. He had been the first governor to
tour the rough squatter outback.
While in the Colony he had suffered
dreadful bereavement and physical
injury which marked him for life. Like
Gipps he was worn out when he reached
England, having sailed from Sydney in
the ship Madras in January, 1855.
Before Christmas that year he married
Margaret Gordon. He died suddenly in
February, 1858.


The Wild
Cat Pages and
THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
BANKING REFORM
GREEN LIGHT FOR TRADING BANKS
'T'he trading banks are understandably
A delighted at the new banking re-
forms which include setting up a special
£ssm. term-lending fund with the Reserve
Bank. What group of commercial con-
cerns wouldn’t be pleased at gifts and
new opportunities, conservatively calcu-
lated to lift its net income by a fifth. The
more so when the author of the new
arrangements is the Government, whose
sympathy for the private banks has been
notoriously lukewarm these many years,
and when the beneficiaries are the
trading banks, long considered to have
been withering on the vine as other
purveyors of money snatched at tradi-
tional private banking fields and reaped
most of the rewards from the new.
The community can also applaud the
reforms in that they give the banks a
much fairer chance vis-a-vis their many
unfettered rivals in the lending business.
But most people will long be puzzled
why 18 months ago, without any con-
sultations with bankers, the Government
rushed headlong into the tax-on-interest
banking systems. And they will now feel
somewhat uneasy in that it has taken
that unorthodox experiment and the
resulting malaise in the economy to get
the authorities down to some positive
and practical measures in this direction,
forgetting perhaps that through additional
Treasury handouts involved in higher
interest payments to the banks, a sub-
stantial part of the cost of the latter’s
salvation is to be borne by the tax-
payer.
T'he reforms which pave the way for
' L the banks to vie for the sort of
lending more appropriate to other
financial institutions, such as the insurance
companies, and now increasingly being
undertaken by the Development Bank, at
least hold implicit dangers associated
with borrowing short and lending long.
The banks have many examples of disas-
trous development company lending here
in the last few years to keep them alive
to the pitfalls in this direction. Being
essentially British and not Continental
in character, the trading banks will be
cautious of long-term lending and in any
case only a relatively small proportion
of bank deposits will be available for
this.
Perhaps for similar reasons, in their
talks with the Government preceding the
reforms, the banks did not press the
case for their direct entry into hire
purchase. With their wide dispersion of
branches, highly geared facilities for
lending and conservative personnel, the
trading banks could possibly do this sort
of financing more cheaply, and there-
fore at lower cost to the public than
the established hire-purchase companies.
This would be all to the good. How-
ever it must be remembered that the
trading banks themselves all have sub-
stantial equity interest in leading hire-
purchase companies, derive a substantial
part of their net income from them and
are moving more and more into a con-
trolling role at the board-room level.
TV/Tost people will judge the reforms
on what sort of a reception they
will now get from their bank managers.
Do the reforms promise any reduction
in the cost and availability of credit?
Let us face it. The abolition of the
average rate on advances could in fact
work the other way at a time when a
cheapening and broadening of credit,
including hire purchase, would do more
than anything else to speed economic
recovery. The banks doubtless see the
way open to get their profits up and put
their shareholders in line for capital
benefits, and it is all to the good that
their shareholders should be on all fours
with those in the other companies in
these respects.
Nonetheless, in the public interest
the banks will be expected to resist
the temptation of moving rates towards
the officially permitted 7 p.c. maximum.
Given their new scope for flexibility
in deciding rates, they have a duty to
make bank borrowing more attractive
and to widen their range of lending at
the short end as well as the long.
J. C. Horsfall
INDEX
Banking Reform .. .. 34 Management .. .. .. 39 I.A.C. (Holdings) Ltd .. 46
Zinc —Lead Confusion .. 35 Steel Mills .. .-.39 Company Notes .. r . 48
Stock Exchange .. .. 35 Wheat - Credit Sales to Red Sharemarket Summary .. 49
Wool .. .. .. .. 35 China .. .. 40 Oil .. .. .. .. 50
Employment .. 35 Malaysia .. .. ..41 One to Buy ... .. .. 50
Economics Anonymous .. 37 Company Reviews: Speculator’s Diary .. 51
Marketing .. .. .. 37 British Tobacco Co. Ltd .. 42 Statistics .. . .. 45, 53
The Common Market .. .. 38 Rio Tinto Mining Co. of Capital Issues Pending .. .. 44
Japan’s Import Cuts .. .. 38 Aust. Ltd .. .. .. 43 Man on the Land:
Shipping .. .. .. 38 Chrysler Australia Ltd . . 45 Meat, Wool .. .. 52, 53


METALS
ZINC-LEAD CONFUSION
■JYTorth Broken Hill's prospective 41
per cent, profit drop for the year
ending lune 30, clearly illustrates the
confused state of world lead-zinc markets.
Until April, Australian producers not
only had to endure lower metal prices,
but also abided by the curtailment of
outputs imposed by international agree-
ment.
They have now set the world Lead-
Zinc Study Group by the heels in de-
ciding to resume full production. A
cool 70 per cent, of world producers
still wish for international control.
Australia has been extremely co-
operative in enforcing earlier agree-
ments. Yet our lead-zinc companies
begin to see little wisdom in overseas
offers to cut smelter output (previous
control was effected through mine pro-
duction) when other countries have a
record of breaking the rules.
The Study Group re-convenes on
May 28 in a further attempt to thrash
out the differences, which have not been
lessened by disclosure of a huge Ameri-
can lead-zinc stockpile. Meanwhile,
prices are showing some improvement.
This cannot continue if the May meeting
fails to reach agreement.
North’s directors had to confess tr a
small mining loss for the first half of
the year, to December 31. Then they
turned immediately to add that mining
activities in the second half should
produce a small surplus a combina-
tion of better tariffs for zinc concentrates,
the economy of working the North
Mine only, and the higher rate of pro-
duction started this month.
On the basis of trends to March,
Norths forecast a 1961-62 profit of
around £603,000 a £417,000 decline.
A dividend announcement will be made
on May 3. Last year’s payment was Is.
a share, or 10 per cent.
Of the profit, some £545,000 derives
from investment income. Even this will
be £32,000 below 1960-61 levels. About
£150,000 from that year’s plant and de-
velopment appropriation will not be
spent. The company also gets shares
valued at £266,000 (subject to tax) for
its sale of the British function leases to
Broken Hill South, though this is not
brought into the above profit figure.
Tax payments depend on the 1962-63
appropriations for plant and develop-
ment. No royalty is payable in the
current year.
Directors advise completion of the
No. 3 shaft, at a cost of £6.8 million. The
new shaft, for main haulage and service,
will begin cage haulage of ore in August.
It allows operation on high-grade ore,
yielding greater production at reduced
costs.
STOCK EXCHANGE
QUALMS ON TURNOVER
'T'he Sydney Stock Exchange’s annual
report never seems to achieve the
glamorous look attained by its Mel-
bourne sister. Detail for detail, too,
the Sydney committee apparently still
possesses qualms about publicising turn-
overs. In all conscience, these figures
have been collected long enough to ex-
hibit accurate trends.
Perhaps the vital revelation may be
allowed to crown the 1962 report.
This aside, Sydney turns in a particu-
larly thorough survey of 1961. Great
benefit can be derived from linking the
general account of market and official
list with the range of statistics covered.
M e all, to our detriment, suffered the
“markedly different atmosphere in 1961.”
Now comes its effect on the securities
industry.
Withal, the list’s face value showed a
fairly handsome overall addition —from
£4757.8 million to £5030.6 million. Yet
the rate of increase of new ordinary
capital slowed. A gain of £133.7 million
to £1275.15 million meant an 11.72 per
cent, advance, against 14.11 per cent, for
1960.
Of this rise in ordinaries, some £22
million (1960, £6.2 million) came from
calls on contributing shares. Issues for
assets and in takeovers went up from
£20.18 million to £34.24 million. A com-
ment wisely points to the advantageous
bargaining position of those companies
not so much affected by the generally
tight liquid conditions prevailing.
Only 53 new companies reached the
list during 1961, compared with 90 in
1960. Their ordinary capital totalled
£35.6 million, but of this three admissions
(existing companies with English parents)
accounted for £19.5 million.
With 48 removals (including three
liquidations), the net gain of five com-
panies brought the official list to 928 —
830 investment companies and 98 mining.
The Exchange’s sampling of some 700
listed companies disclosed the following
dividend movements (compared with
1960): Increase, 85; reduction, 175; 94
omitting altogether ; steady, 362. Forty-
two companies passed the dividend both
in 1960 and 1961.
A rather larger sample of 789 com-
panies earned 1961 profits of £164.27
million, from which £111.99 million was
paid in dividends. The year actually pro-
duced £3.1 million more in dividends,
though profits had fallen by £18.54
million.
WOOL
EXPORT EARNINGS RISE £34m.
TlfooL sales for nine months to March
31, 1962, showed an encouraging
rise of £34.5m. to £273.7m. Higher
average prices paid for greasy and
scoured wool, and an increase in the
number of bales sold, contributed to the
lift in wool earnings. The average price
of greasy wool rose from 51.52 d. a lb
in 1960-61 to 54.94 d. a lb in 1961-62. A
total of 3,896,693 bales was sold in the
nine months 218,576 more than in the
preceding July-March period. The wool
price index gained 13.7 points, rising to
211.3 points.
The National Council of Wool Selling
Brokers of Australia said early this week
that wool earned 36 p.c. of the total value
of Australian exports (£709m.) in the
nine months to March, compared with
38 p.c. of overall export sales (£570m.)
in the preceding corresponding period.
EMPLOYMENT
FURTHER IMPROVEMENT
r T'HE number of registered unemployed
J during March, 1962, dropped by
11,157 to 101,093. New South Wales
registered the biggest fall in jobless—
-4315 to 36,668. Figures for March
show a 23 p.c. fall in unemployment since
February 2, 1962.
Although seasonal trends had contri-
buted significantly to the pick-up, the
rise in overall civilian employment
indicates that improvement in the general
business situation is continuing.
EXCHANGE RATES (T/T)
AUSTRALIA ON
LONDON
£ A to £stgl00 .. .. 125
NEW ZEALAND
£ A to £NZ100 .. .. 124
USA
$1 to £ Al 2.2535
BELGIUM
Francs to £A1 .. .. 112.88
FRANCE
New Francs to £A1 .. .. 11.085
IT A I. V
Lire to £A1 .. .. .. 1406
JAPAN
Yen to £A1 .. .. .. 819
WEST GERMANY
DM to £A1 .. .. .. 9.047
SWITZERLAND
Francs to £A1 .. .. 9.811
HONG KONG
Pence Australian to $HK .. 18 17/32


FINANCE CORPORATION
of AUSTRALIA LIMITED
OFFERS A SPECIALISED FINANCE SERVICE
We have finance available for : —
LENDING
▼
Developmental Projects
T
Capital Equipment
▼
Commercial and Industrial Properties
▼
Business Expansion
DISCOUNTING AND PURCHASE
Mortgages
▼
Contracts of Sale
▼
Leases
▼
Hire Purchase Contracts
FINANCE CORPORATION of AUSTRALIA LIMITED
ADELAIDE
F.C.A. Building,
IS Franklin Street
Telephone 513781
MELBOURNE
Union House,
SI Queen Street,
Telephone 613051
SYDNEY
Anchor House,
Cnr. George and
Bridge Streets,
Telephone 27 7003
BRISBANE
Mercantile House,
262 Adelaide St.,
Telet)hone3l 2861
PERTH
M.L.C. Building,
171-177 St. George’s Tee,
Telephoned 6892


Cl
FOR YOUR NEXT CONVENTION
SURFERS PARADISE
.... and of course
SURFERS PARADISE, GOED COAST,
QUEENSLAND.
“Where Rusiness Is a Pleasure.”
The ideal climate of Surfers Paradise and the complete
facilities of CHEVRON HILTON combine to provide the
perfect, location for your Convention.
The Superb Accommodation and specially planned
MEETING ROOMS leave nothing to be desired.
Moderate tariffs, ease of access from all Capital Ciliew
and the undoubted popularity of Surfers will make
certain of maximum attendance for every type of Group
activity.
Write today for FREE Colour Brochure, giving layout and full
details to help you plan a bigger and better Convention.
CHEVRON HILTON HOTEL, SURFERS PARADISE, GOLD COAST, QUEENSLAND
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Speaking in Melbourne the other day,
Mr Albert L. Nickerson, head of
Socony Mobil, the US parent of the
recently re-named Mobil Oil Co. here,
referred feelingly to the £l5 million or
more his group has spent on oil search
in Australian territory—a lot of money
without discovering oil.
How much of this money was found
from profits retained in Australia by the
group from its other activities, such as
refining and distribution of petroleum
products, is not clear. But some idea of
it can be gauged from what Mr W. G.
Lehman, a high executive of the old
Standard Vacuum Oil Company (USA)
had to say at the opening of the group’s
Altona petrochemical company last
November.
Mr Lehman said that since 1950, the
group had invested more than £67 mil-
lion here, or about one-fifth of new US
private investment in Australia over the
11-year period. Most of this £67 million
came from new funds from overseas, and
re-invested earnings made up the lesser
share, said Mr Lehman. He also made
the significant point that since 1950 all
the group’s earnings in Australia had been
ploughed back into its enterprises in this
country, no remittance of dividends hav-
ing taken place.
Although there is certainly room for
cynicism on the matter of international
oil company book-keeping, it is still true
that this particular group has made an
invaluable contribution to the inflow of
overseas capital, and, pro tanto, to econ-
omic development and the maintenance
of full employment here since the war.
This is often forgotten by those who
say we are selling our birthright and so
on to overseas interests, a popular theme
just now following the discovery of oil
at Moonie by what is predominantly an
overseas group.
Whether it be US enterprise or capi-
tal, we don’t want to get into the position
of looking a gift horse in the mouth and
thinking of vigorous US enterprise here
as a sort of Trojan horse bent on taking
over the place. Maybe the US as a
country is pretty thick-skinned about the
trials and tribulations of its overseas in-
vestment, and even about the sort of
things Mr McEwen has been saying re-
cently on the score of US overseas trade
practices, but individual Americans who
motivate private investment in foreign
parts can also be sensitive.
Quite apart from most US enter-
prises here ploughing back profits on a
huge scale being virtually Australian in
character, personnel and so on, the US
can point to a mighty overall achieve-
ment in assisting the Australian balance
of payments through new direct invest-
ment in the last few years. Its trend com-
pares very favorably with similar direct
new private investment from Britain and.
given a year or two, it could pass the
UK’s in relative importance now that the
latter is heading for union with the
Common Market
For three years, 1959-61 (years ending
June), direct new investment coming
into Australia from the US and Canada
increased from £14.1 to £24.8 million then
to £59.6 million, whereas from Britain
the figures run £38.6, £72.8 to £82.4
million. Moreover, the figures for re-
tained earnings show that though last
year these were lower from both UK
and American enterprises here, the latter
dropped by the lesser amount and at
£31.8 million were considerably higher
than the £24 million for UK concerns.
MARKETING
TEACHING DIRECTORS TO DIRECT
r T''HE visit to Australia of Sir Richard
Powell, director-general of the British
Institute of Directors, seems to have made
quite an impact upon Australian business-
men.
Sir Richard is endeavoring to extend the
scope of the institute by establishing
branches in all Australian States.
The Institute of Directors, which oper-
ates in the UK under Royal Charter,
aims to recruit members from the boards
of directors of all companies in free
enterprise countries.
Although the UK membership of the
Institute includes 107 members of the
House of Commons and 182 members of
the House of Lords, Sir Richard said his
organisation was not a pressure group.
Sir Richard said the Institute could
prove of great assistance to Australian
manufacturers m providing them vith
‘‘know-how" in the matter of exports.
“In Britain,” he said, “we have had
780 cases in which large companies have
helped small companies with the ‘know-
how’ on export trading. And we can do
the same thing in Australia, especially in
view of your need to go after markets in
the Far East to compensate for any loss
of trade resulting from the UK joining
the Common Market.”
Sir Richard believes that Britain has
no option but to join the European
members in order to preserve British
trade. Certainly, Australia would be
adversely affected “for a while” he
stressed —but in the long run she
would derive the benefit of havirj a
strong Britain to trade with instead of a
weak one.
“Australia will not be the only Com-
monwealth country with troubles in this
direction,” he said. “We in Britain, too,
will have our troubles, but I am confi-
dent we shall get over them, and that
eventually Britain will be the lead:r of
the group. It might take up to ten years
for Australia to overcome her Common
Market troubles. But meanwhile, your
wool trade represents 48 p.c. of your
exports, and that goes free. Only about
15 p.c. of your total exports will be
affected by Common Market restrictions.
While even 15 p.c. is a tidy sum, the
difficulties resulting will be only tem-
porary.
“It should be remembered, too, that
Britain has invested £7OO million in Aus-
tralia —62 p.c. of foreign investment.
That money has been invested for no
other reason than that it has been profit-
able. It will continue to be profitable
for Britain to invest in Australia and the
flow of capital in future—provided Brit-
ain retains its economic strength—will
aid Australia’s development enormously.
But I emphasise that a weak Britain is
not much use to Australia.”


GUNTOM, STEEL & HILL
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS.
Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange.
Kindersley House, 20 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.
Box 1632, G.P.O.
Telephone:
28-3641 (6 lines)
Telegrams:
“Gunot,” Sydney
Telex: Syd. 3£3
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721.
Telegrams and Gables:
“LAGKAM,” Sydney.
THE COMMON MARKET
"ON THE EDGE OF A PRECIPICE?"
/"\ne wouldn’t class either Sir John
Crawford or Mr John McEwen
as panic-mongers but judging by their
remarks on the Common Market last
week, these trade experts rate the
dangers to Austral! ' exports, implicit
in Britain's application to join the
Common Market, as rather higher
than, say, Dr Harold Bell in his Arthur
Capper Moore lecture and Eugene
Bajkowski in The Bulletin.
Speaking in Hobart, Sir John made
no bones about his fears or the way
the Australian public is glossing over
the dangers. “Let us have no nonsense
that our exports will not be seriously
affected,” he said. “It is too early to say
conclusively, but that word is not too
strong if some modifications to the
common agricultural policy is not made.”
While he was saying this, some
12,000 miles away in Europe his former-
chief, the Minister for Trade, was re-
ported to have stated that Australian
trade was on the edge of a precipice.
Later the same week Dr Bell, while
admitting that £l7O million of our export
trade was in jeopardy and that we would
have to make strident efforts in several
directions to save it, said that “in some
degree our concern for the loss or diminu-
tion of existing export markets is
merely an acceleration of trends already
evident, to such an extent that they have
induced us to make vigorous trading
forays into new markets, offering at the
same time products additional to our
traditional exports.”
Dr Bell went on to say that these
trends could in fact worsen if Britain
were to lose further ground through not
joining the Common Market. “Also,” he
stated, “to the extent that if she does
join we may be released from existing
trade agreements with the United King-
dom, the expansion of other markets may
be facilitated through our greater free-
dom to undertake bilateral agreements
with our newly significant customers.”
Generally, Dr Bell thinks that although
the prospects do not provide much
solace for such as the dairy farmers and
dried fruit growers, one may look at
the future with some hope and optimism
based on long-term considerations.
For his part Mr Bajkowski is not very
alarmed at all, believing the whole prob-
lem to be a marginal one. He deplores
the undertone of hysteria and ignorance
on the basic issues involved. He places
great faith in satisfactory transitional
arrangements which could result from
McEwen’s talks, and “this should be
sufficient in the long run.”
With such a wide area of disagreement
among these experts, ordinary laymen
may be excused for being rather con-
fused and even panicky, to pray for
elucidation and above all await events
rather in the same spirit as they do with
the Bomb.
JUTaybe now that Mr McEwen has com-
pleted his peregrinations around the
Common Market countries and had a
sympathetic hearing nearly everywhere,
particularly in France and Italy, he may
think that the prospects aren’t so bleak
as his first impressions gave one to
believe. On the other hand, for all Mr
Macmillan’s recent statements, Mr
MeEwen’s main task seems to be in
London, that is, to push the UK very
much further down the road towards a
solid Commonwealth front on the ques-
tion of holding an appreciable share of
the British market. At the moment the
British attitude looks uncommonly like
going it alone, paying only lipservice to
McEwen’s series of constructive propo-
sals. And the general line of the
Common Market Six is stiffening again.
J.C.H.
SHIPPING
THE "EXECUTIVE" TICKET
'T'he “Executive Ticket,” an air and
A sea method of travel, is becoming
increasingly popular among businessmen
wishing to combine speed with relaxation
on their trips to Britain.
To retain the advantages of a sea
voyage for the overworked executive and
at the same time cut down on travelling
time, the P. & 0.-Orient Line instituted
a scheme by which one may travel to
Perth by air from Sydney, Melbourne
or Adelaide, paying only the normal
first-class steamer fare from his home
port to the UK. Special arrangements,
may be made for passengers from
Brisbane and Tasmania.
At Perth a passenger is taken to a
hotel for the night. Next day he
rejoins the ship to Naples, from which
he may fly to London, Berlin, Copen-
hagen, Paris or any other European
capital. And if he stays aboard ship until
Marseilles is reached, he may go by
rail to Nice, have a night there, and then
fly to his final destination —all expenses
being part of the cost of the “Executive
Ticket.” The whole trip from Australia
to any European capital takes about
two and a half weeks.
JAPAN
BUDGET CUTS IMPORTS
Tapan’s largest post-war budget (about
£2963. lm.) for the financial year to
March 31, 1963,. reflects the Japanese
Government’s attempts to rectify the
adverse balance-of-payments position.
Although the new budget envisages an
overall domestic tax reduction of £127.1-
m., and increases spending on social wel-
fare, it brings in several import cuts. The
half-yearly national foreign exchange
budget appropriates USs3ll4m. for
imports during April-September, 1962,
representing a decrease of USs44om.
compared with the previous half-year.
This means a sharp decrease of about
13.4 p.c., but the outlook is made some-
what brighter by the allocation of
USs2oom. to a special imports reserve
fund. Effective drop in import spending
may therefore be about USs2oom.
Import liberalisation will continue,
although the rate of releasing import
items to the free list is being trimmed
from 75 p.c. to 73 p.c.
Japan will reduce imports of machinery
(down USSIOOm. at USs3som. for the six
months), raw coal (down 543,000 tons
at 5,612,000 tons) and crude and heavy
oil. Wheat imports will be cut by 71,000
tons. Foreign exchange quota for over-
seas trips by Japanese tourists is being
trimmed by USs39m.
Canned pineapple imports will not be
freed, due to a request by the Ryukyu
Government. Japan now levies a 25 p.c.
GATT tariff plus a 30 p.c. price
“differential fee” on foreign pineapples.
However, imports of sugar into Japan
during the April-September period will
rise by some 165,000 tons.


CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
(ASSETS EXCEED £10,000,000.)
FUNDS MAY BE
WITHDRAWN
IN A PERSONAL
EMERGENCY
PER ANNUM
4 YEARS
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
Applications for debenture stock and redeemable unsecured deposit
notes accepted only on form of application attached to prospectus,
obtainable from
Principal Offices of the Bank of N.S.W.
in all capital cities
OR
The Company's Offices:
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Floor, Empire House, Corner Wharf and
Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
NEWCASTLE: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street,
Newcastle West.
OR
Any Member of a Stock Exchange
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melb.)
CC.130/AB
MANAGEMENT
EXPERIENCE SHARING
'T'oday, the driving force in the business
A world is the desire to accelerate
experience-sharing in management. This
was said in Sydney by Mr Albrecht M.
Lederer, president of CIOS —the world
association of private management —to
members of the Australian Institute of
Management.
Mr Lederer spoke with a background
of experience gained in the 70 countries
he visited since elected to his world
office in Melbourne in 1960. Highlight-
ing some of the contributions CIOS is
now making in some of the not so
frequently visited countries, Mr Lederer
said that their Geneva Headquarters
would shortly release a Management
library list of some 500 to 600 English
and French book titles on the subject.
He said that in many countries this would
be the only collection of Western
managerial thought.
At a special new University in Iraq,
run by Jesuit Fathers from Boston, USA,
a four-year scholarship course in Busi-
ness Management has been created. In
Korea a Productivity Council was estab-
lished recently. Clear in their minds
that the council operates as a body of
private management thought, and not as a
part of the Government-controlled sys-
tem, the Koreans have asked for consult-
ants from West Germany, Holland,
Sweden, Japan and USA to advise them
on marketing, economics, human rela-
tions, management and production.
Kenya recently received valuable assis-
tance from the CIOS headquarters on the
fundamentals of marketing and selling
as they apply to cottage type industries.
“Above everything else,” Mr Lederer
concluded “we must believe that it is
necessary to contribute private thought
to solving economic problems in some
countries before those problems become
political ones.”
B.H.C.
STEEL MILLS
JAPAN CUTS INVESTMENT
leading Japanese steel mills, in-
■*“' eluding Fuji and Yawata, are cutting
down their capital investment in the
1962-63 financial year. Japanese financial
Press points out that a reduction in
capital expenditure by steel mills would
have serious repercussions on such in-
dustries as oil, motor vehicles and
machinery.
Japanese steel mill boards say they are
reducing capital investment in line with
the Japanese Government's efforts to slow
down Japan's economic growth rate in
the financial year to March 31, 1963.
Meanwhile, labor agitation for higher
wages is continuing. Late last month
some 3,700,000 public servants and pri-
vate employees, including about 60,000
stevedores in 32 Japanese ports, staged
mass walkouts throughout the country.
Railway unions are demanding a “bonus”
equivalent to a fortnightly pay, in ad-
dition to substantial rises in wages. The
Japanese Government and industry are
opposing pay rises, which could seriously
affect the economy’s overall cost struc-
ture and jeopardise Japan’s export drive
in capital goods.
The renewal of claims for wage rises
may be partly due to a marked im-
provement in the employment position
in the second half of 1961. Official
figures show that Japan had an average
work force of 44,900,000 (including tem-
porary workers) at the end of 1961 —a
rise of 560,000 compared with December,
1960.


AUSTRALIAN GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Phone: BWIOII, BWIOI2, 8W4991
DIRECTORS:
STEUAN ROUE RST ON (Chairman!, S. E. A. STIRLING
JAMES H. STEPHENSON, R. G. GALE. RAYMOND S GOWAED. C.P..E.
A. C. MAITLAND
(Managing Director)
Branches and Agencies in all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION MERITS YOUR
SUPPORT
WHEAT
SHOULD WE GIVE RED CHINA CREDIT?
By E. J. DONATH
Assistant Lecturer in Econ. Geogr., University of Melbourne
'T'HE recent gaoling of 13 British
x marine officers and seamen for
deserting the freighter Hamilton Court
in Sydney, on the grounds of their
opposing trade with Red China, has once
again focused public attention on wheat
sales on credit to Peking.
There will always be people who
oppose trading with communist China
on ideological grounds, but recent
public discussions on Australia’s two
credit sales of wheat to communist China
revealed a certain amount of ignorance
of important features of current inter-
national trade.
There were also some strange mis-
interpretations of the implications of
these two wheat sales —and this criticism
refers both to the opponents and pro-
tagonists.
Pre-war, China used to be a regular
buyer of Australian wheat, especially
flour, taking annually, on an average,
well over ten per cent, of our total flour
export. So, it was not altogether sur-
prising that in December, 1960, the Aus-
tralian Wheat Board sold 45m. bushels
through China Resources Ltd, of Hong
Kong, a buying organisation for the
Chinese Communist Government.
As it was a cash sale, and as it was
claimed that millions of Chinese were
starving, this deal was generally approved.
Also, at that time the Wheat Board
faced the unique and rather formidable
task of having to dispose of a record
market supply of well over 300 m. bushels.
This rather frightening supply situation
was brought about by the all-time record
harvest of 1960-61, and a considerable
carry-over from the average 15. -60
crop.
Mainly influenced by the desire to
avoid the difficulties and dangers of
having to store large amounts of wheat,
a second deal was concluded a few
months later ; 41m. bushels were sold,
but on credit terms. The conditions of
this £27,500,000 agreement were: 10 p.c.
on shipment, 40 p.c. plus interest in six
months, and 50 p.c. plus interest in 12
months from the date of the shipment.
Shipments were completed last February,
and China has met all payments as they
have fallen due. More than £Bm. has
been received, including the 10 p.c. cash
and about half of the 40 p.c. The first
of the 50 p.c. payments, on which about
£l3m. is owed, is not due for some weeks
yet.
These two deals, amounting to 86m.
bushels, represent a unique event in the
history of Australian wheat marketing
under peace-time conditions ; it is our
largest wheat transaction since the
Hughes Government sold three million
tons to Great Britain during World
War I.
Last February, just when the final ship-
ments of the first credit sale left Aus-
tralia, a second credit sale was con-
tracted ; it covers 24 million bushels for
about £l7m., and the terms are the same
as those of the May, 1961, agreement.
The wheat is to be shipped by the end
of May. About 60 p.c. of it is off-grade
wheat from New South Wales which
proved to be difficult to sell on a cash
basis (nearly 30 p.c. of all wheat har-
vested in NSW was off-grade, due mainly
to rain during harvesting time).
The Commonwealth Government must
have approved of the second credit sale
because the Wheat Board was instructed
recently that Government approval must
be obtained for credit sales extending for
more than six months. This runs con-
trary to the 1961 ruling of the Federal
Cabinet that exports on credit terms are
solely a matter for the Wheat Board.
Switch From Wool
The current large switch from wool to
wheatgrowing must have been the main
factor in influencing the Wheat Board
to conclude a second credit agreement.
Considerable doubts have been raised
about the successful marketing of the
coming 1962-63 season’s crop, should it
be another huge one. Some people have
forecast the first Australian 300 m. bushel
crop, should the weather for the rest of
1962 remain favorable.
Now, all our exportable surplus has
been sold and there will not be a lack of
storage space should we be blessed with
favorable weather during the critical
periods of the coming months. It might
not be fully realised that the coming
harvest might be taken from an acreage
of 15 million, as compared with 12 mil-
lion acres under wheat during most of the
post-war period.
Some critics of credit sales to com-
munist China should take into considera-
tion that Australia does not hold a
monopoly on wheat exports Canada,
Argentina, France and West Germany
have sold wheat and flour to communist
China on credit terms. Several American
firms have lodged applications with the
US Department of Commerce for per-
mission to export wheat and barley to
communist China and communist North
Korea. The quantities involved are more
than four times as large as our sales, and
are supposed to amount to nearly £2oom.
Very strong efforts were made by Aus-
tralian flour millers to secure further
business with China, but European
millers successfully competed at prices
and on terms that Australian millers
could not match.
If we refuse to compete with com-
munist China, other countries are only
waiting for their opportunity, and, what
is even more significant, their Govern-
ments, not the growers, take the possible
financial risk.
Unlike the Canadian Government,
which is still “pushing” further wheat
and barley sales, our Government refused
to underwrite the credit sales, and the
Government Exports Payments Insur-
ance Commission (EPIC) refused to in-
sure the sales.
Critics of our credit sales of wheat to
communist China might not realise that
mainland China most likely is not so
short of foreign exchange as is usually
assumed ; annual remittances of Chinese
abroad amount to about £150m., and
there is always the expediency of selling
silver, apart from China's regular export
income even in drought or flood or other
“catastrophic” years.
In any case, the size of grain imports
has been exaggerated. In 1961, they
might have totalled six million tons,
which is less than five per cent, of China’s
production, even in a “catastrophic”
year. Total food imports in 1961 might
have cost China only about £lBom. This
is surely a very small amount of money
in a national economy of 700 million
people. On the other hand, the more
than £3om. we earned last year through
selling wheat and barley to China was a
worth - while addition to our export
income.
Critics might overlook that a large part
of international trade is carried out on
terms and on barter conditions. Aus-
tralia’s foreign trade will suffer unless
we accept these new conditions, not only
for wheat, but also for other com-
modities, and irrespective of political
differences with our customer countries.


H&I
ii ■■ i iii i inn i Biiiitthi
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
Financier . . Established 1882
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Interest payable quarterly through the Bank of N.S.W. Free of Exchange.
THIS ISSUE HAS BEEN FULLY SUBSCRIBED . . .
OVER SUBSCRIPTIONS NOW BEING ACCEPTED
Application Forms (and Prospectuses)
will be Forwarded on Request
Applications will be accepted only on one of the forms
of application attached to the printed copy of the Pros-
pectus which may be obtained from:
• All branches of the Bank of New South Wales in New
South Wales, Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 4521-2-3.
AND BRANCHES
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O’Connell Street, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne. 340 Queen Street, Brisbane
BROKERS IN VICTORIA
Clarke & Co., 450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS IN QUEENSLAND
Charles Elliott & Son, 356 Queen St., Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BROKERS IN CANBERRA
T. J. Thompson & Sons, C.B.C. Chambers,
Petrie St., Canberra.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
I.
7
2
MALAYSIA
ROUGH PASSAGE FOR AN IDEAL
FROM OUR CORRESPONDENT IN SINGAPORE
■Economic blocs and Common Markets
are not so much the result of logical
thinking and complementing conditions,
as the fulfilment of dreams by far-
sighted, devoted men. The ardent
“Europeans” in the countries of the
European Economic Community forged
nations together against the doubts,
suspicions and resistance of industrialists
and economists.
For the formation of Asian Common
Markets, men of this type do not seem
to exist in sufficient numbers, nor are
there enough trained specialists to work
out the mechanics of such treaties.
The only serious attempt to arrive at
an economic understanding between
Malaya, Thailand and the Philippines
has had a rough passage so far. The
first agreed name abbreviated a rude
meaning in one language, and the second
suffered the same fate in another country.
Today ASA Association of South
Asian States—is in a sort of suspension.
After hesitating, even opposing a
merger between Malaya and Singapore
for some time, the Malayan Prime
Minister, Tengku Abdul Rahman, is now
fighting hard for the amalgamation of
all States. In many speeches he has
stressed that without the merger, there
is a danger of some countries falling
victim to communism, and in this
he has been supported by the Chief
Minister of Malacca and many others.
These statements and their own actions
have crystallised the communists as the
main opponents to Greater Malaysia,
although it would be quite wrong to
regard all those against the merger as
Reds or even fellow travellers.
Many Chinese in Singapore would
hate to see their dominant position of
75 per cent, of the island population
being diluted to a very much smaller
slice in the new federation. Indians, and
to a lesser extent Pakistanis, already
jumpy and leaving Singapore, fear that
they would be squeezed out officially.
There is also a section of diehard
Britons who, for various reasons, some
of them purely emotional, reject any
new development.
The Malayan Chinese leaders —maybe
to have a little bet each way, maybe to
pull a red herring across the trail —have
come out with a statement demanding
a merger of Malaya and Singapore
before the wider federation of all five
States.
European banking and commerce
circles are generally in favor of Malaysia,
and this is specially true of firms in
Singapore who believe that most of those
who harass them today will find them-
selves in the gaols of the new federation.
Predictions about timing range from
“this year” to “not later than 1963”,
and the fact that all these countries use
already the same money as legal tender
must help towards this feeling.
The proposed merger is based theoreti-
cally on the report of the “Consultative
Committee”, already published, and a
survey conducted in Borneo by a com-
mission led by Lord Cobbold.
Opinions obtained range from flat
refusal over conditioned acceptance to
enthusiastic confirmation of a merger.
Two points have emerged from the
A welter of opinions. The' first is that all
members of Greater Malaysia must be
allowed to retain their identity and enjoy
a great degree of local autonomy ; the
second stresses the need for a strong
central Government with special con-
sideration for North Borneo.
The Tengku, and to a lesser extent the
Prime Minister of Singapore, Lee Kuan
Yew, have been accused of trying to
railroad the merger through, but this
claim is denied by the responsible Press
and outside observers.
As a referendum will decide the final
outcome, the intensity of pressure will be
confined to electioneering talks. The
outcome is anybody’s guess and it is not
even clear whether time would work for
or against the acceptance of a merger.
Should, however, Greater Malaysia
become a reality, it will have an interest-
ing result for Australia. Recently a
Singapore editorial said: “Malaysia can
begin to seek markets for manufactured
goods in Australasia”, and added that
Australasia has “not yet made tempera-
mental contract with Asia, but has main-
tained sympathetic political relations.
Now . . . the time has come to acknow-
ledge that the nations of Australasia are
in an important sense a part of Asia.”


COMPANY REVIEWS: AND NOTES
BRITISH TOBACCO CO. (AUSTRALIA) LTD
FASHION IS A FICKLE MISTRESS
\\7 hoever had first thought up the idea
of introducing the great lung cancer
scare to capitalise on the swing to filter-
tipped cigarettes may now be regretting
it, for a new great campaign against
smoking, or at least against “heavy”
smoking, on medical grounds is well
under way.
Now that the Australian Medical
Association has largely endorsed the
views of their British colleagues and
Senator W. H. Wade, the Commonwealth
Minister for Health, has urged “a general
discouragement” of smoking, particularly
by young people, Australian tobacco
manufacturers are pretty well all in the
same boat facing what may become a
major, if not unexpected, psychological
threat to their expansion.
A director of the British Tobacco Com-
pany (Australia) Ltd told The Bulletin
that there is nothing new in the recent
“smokers’ scare” except a trend to
“milder cigarettes.” However, the pos-
sible long-run effects of this new wave
of lung cancer scare on all cigarette pro-
ducers must be taken into account.
But even without such medical digres-
sions the cigarette industry is one in
which only the fittest, capable of weather-
ing severe temporary setbacks, can
survive.
For fashion, ever a fickle mistress, has
shown on many occasions in the past
that it is no respecter of persons —and
in the case of the British Tobacco group
has proved that even the mighty are
vulnerable. From a dominant and
apparently unassailable position in the
market about five years ago, the com-
pany last year dropped to second place
and was forced to make its first dividend
cut for seven years.
But the full cause of the setback goes
much deeper than just a change in smok-
ing fashions and is partly the result of
historical factors. The company began
operations in this country in 1904, being
then a wholly English company. How-
ever, in 1927, it was reorganised and
changed its domicile to Australia. Growth
was moderate until the early months of
1940, when it acquired its principal com-
petitor, Carreras Ltd, and obtained a
virtual monopoly of the Australian
market —and therein lay the germ of
future troubles.
The company was practically unchal-
lenged and unchallengeable for the next
15 years. During the war most produc-
tion was earmarked for the armed ser-
vices, and then for the next ten years,
due to dollar restrictions, it was almost
impossible to meet demand. Although
its share of the market during this period
was never officially disclosed, at one stage
it touched 90 p.c. The very size of this
share, coupled with the rapid growth of
the Australian market (about 6 p.c. an-
nually) was an open invitation to strong
competition. But it still took a combina-
tion of factors to break the group’s hold
on the market. These included: the
easing of dollar restrictions, making it
easier to obtain tobacco leaf; the de-
cision of the world-wide Rothmans group
to produce in Australia ; the lung cancer
controversy ; and the development of a
“healthy - ’ cigarette.
Rothmans’ development was at first
slow and early lines were not successful.
However, the change came with the intro-
duction of a new fashion in cigarettes
(king-sized filters) which immediately
proved popular with consumers. How-
ever, because of the expanding market,
the initial growth of filter cigarettes had
little impact on total non-filter sales.
"Out inevitably the swing began to make
serious inroads into the non-filter
market. British Tobacco was understand-
ably reluctant to make a change, for at
that stage non-filters were still the best
seller and any move to promote filter
cigarettes could only be at the expense of
the non-filter. However, after one dis-
appointment, the company swung its re-
sources into the filter field and converted
its top-selling non-filter brands into filter
cigarettes late in 1960.
Directors claim that some of the delay
in implementing the move was due to
the denial of official assistance in obtain-
ing the machinery import licences which
the main competitor had. Rothmans’
reply is that the machinery was unavail-
able anyway as it held the world-wide
rights to it. Be that as it may, the slow
start was accentuated by an apparent
miscalculation in the public’s acceptance
of the “healthy” cigarette. This swing in
preference eventually culminated in a
profit setback in 1959-60 —the first in
eight years, although the dividend was
maintained. Last year economic con-
ditions also entered the field and profit
fell 22 p.c., from £2,480,738 to £1,924,331.
This was the lowest for seven years and
caused the dividend to be cut from 10
p.c. to 8 p.c.
Earning rate has declined slowly from
1955 when it was 14.9 p.c. to 9.7 p.c.
last year. This did not give a very wide
margin over the dividend requirement of
£1,498,938. The usual 6y p.c. preference
dividend absorbed another £111,188:
British Tobacco and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends. ,
Pref. Ke-
Oct., Profit. 6?> p.c. r Ordinary. , serves.!
£ £ £ £
1955.. 576.551 111,188 10 p.c.=1,873,672 9,374,551
1959. 111,188 10 „ „ 1,873,672 10,135,982
1960. 111,188 10 „ ~1,873,672 10,631,860
1961.. 331 111,188 8 „ „ 1,498,938 10,946,005
* After deducting outsiders’ interests. f Subject to
intangibles of £4,532,999 at 31/10/61.
The profit was earned after providing
£667,725 for depreciation (down £15,610)
and £1,216,493 for tax (down £234.'03).
Reserves benefited by £314,205, rising to
£10,946,065, including £950,000 for in-
creased cost of plant replacement, sub-
ject to intangibles of £4,532,999.
Paid-up capital has remained un-
changed since 1957 at £20,447,308 in
1,710,588 6| p.c. 20s. cum. prefs, 18,117,-
983 20s. ords and 618,737 20s. B ords.
The Bs carry the same dividend rights
as the ords but have restricted voting
powers. The company will probably re-
quire more funds sometime during the
current year. It will have to find £4m.
for the 6 p.c. unsecured loan stock due
for redemption soon.
During the year a loan of £175,395
was raised on mortgage but bank over-
draft was cut from £1,759,415 to £481,380.
Trade creditors showed a rise of over
300 p.c. from £2,508,529 to £8,164,182 —
nearly double what it was in any previous
year. This increase was due mainly to
the use of short-term funds lodged with
the company on deposit in the latter part
of the year and credits negotiated from
overseas associates for purchase of leaf
and equipment. In both cases the effec-
tive interest cost was below bank over-
draft rates: —
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref. .. £1,710,588 £1,710,588 £1,710,588
Ord. . . 18,736,720 18,736,720 18,736,720
Reserves . . 10,135,982 10,631,860 10,946,065
Outside interests 75,675 96,822 109,902
Notes . . . . 7,700,000 7,700,000 7,700,000
Mortgage .. 175,395
Overdraft .. 3,154,753 1,759,415 481,380
Creditors . . 4,297,333 2,508,529 8,164,182
Tax provision,
etc 2,209,282 1,809,075 1,687,297
Final divs. . . 374,734 374,734 187,367
£48,395,067 £45,327,743 £49,898,896
Freeholds . . 2,296,843 2,390,361 3,025,742
Plant, etc. . . 3,687,395 4,200,017 5,436,083
Shares other cos. 887,773 1,273,511 1,494,565
Stock, etc. . . 32,667,715 27,648.703 27,918,591
Debtors . . 4,807,258 5,745,171 7,419,019
Cash, bonds .. 52,074 32.100 71,597
Goodwill, etc... 3,996,009 4,037,880 4,532,999
£48,395,067 £45,327,743 £49,898,896
Stocks of leaf tobacco, manufactured
goods and materials (at or below cost)
were virtually unchanged at £27,918,591
after three years around the £33 million
mark. Debtors reflected the tighter
financial state of the community and rose
from £5,745,171 to £7,419,019.
Freehold and leasehold at £4,364,288
less depreciation of £1,338,546 is well up
on the previous year’s £3,679.295 less
£1,288,934 depreciation. Plant and
machinery is also well up. Directors
admit that book values are conservative.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
C lncorporated by Royal Charier A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the economic
growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
The balance sheet shows quite a hefty
investment portfolio, mostly in unlisted
companies, reflecting diversification. Two
years ago, a subsidiary, Naroo Pastoral
Co., acquired a property near Scone and
late in 1961 bought another property
near Forbes. This has not yet paid a
dividend to the parent, but last year
operated profitably. The company intends
to continue diversification “within its
capital structure.” Virtually admitting
that total investment in cigarettes manu-
facture is somewhat overcapitalised, a
director opined that the overall funds
were well employed and that the group
as a whole was in no danger of over-
capitalisation. The printing and packag-
ing subsidiary, S. T. Leigh and Co. Pty,
this year absorbed the Melbourne litho-
graphic printer, P. C. Grosser and Co.
Late last year it acquired McFarlane and
Burns Pty in a deal worth over £1 mil-
lion. The move of “greatest immediate
interest” is the holding in A.M.F. Tenpin
Bowling (A’asia) Pty. This company
makes machinery, primarily for tenpin
bowling centres in association with
American Machine and Foundry Co. of
New York. Well over 30 centres are
expected to be using the equipment be-
fore the end of the year. The company
also produces automatic dispensing
machines for the sale of cigarettes.
The company faces a number of prob-
lems in the future, not the least of which
is the state of the Australian tobacco
industry. Production has got almost out
of hand in the past few years and has
seen output rise from 13.9 million lb.
in 1959 to 20.3 million lb. in 1960 and
about 30 million lb. last year.
Due to the large portion of leaf being
unsuitable a high percentage of last
year’s crop was rejected by the manufac-
turers, as was indicated by the recent
Mareeba auctions. Unless this is checked,
it could provide more trouble in the
current year for a board battling with
the task of reducing costs. Manufac-
turers are obliged to use a certain per-
centage of Australian leaf or risk the
penalty of extra imposts on imported
leaf. By adhering to its policy of taking
only higher grade leaf, British Tobacco
could find itself paying too high a price
or faced with the extra duty.
TVespite interests in other directions the
company’s principal activity is still
the manufacture and sale of cigarettes
and tobacco. It markets nearly 20 dif-
ferent types of cigarettes under the brand
names of Capstan, Ardath. Craven A,
Turf, Garrick, Gold Crest, Temple Bar,
Kool, Hallmark, Ascot and Lucky £ trike
and State Express 333. It also produces
most of the locally made “roll-your-own”
tobacco, a wide range of pipe tobacco
and cigars.
The exact state of the cigarette
market has always been so hazed over
with a fog of claim and counter-claim,
comparison of percentage sales and vol-
ume increases, that it would require an
electronic computer to work out accurate
percentage tables. But it seems that
British Tobacco’s share of the total
market has slipped from the peak of
about 90 p.c. to somewhere about 40 p.c.
However, the low-point appears to
have been reached and its proportion of
the total market appears to be increasing
slowly. The rate of decline of the non-
filter brands has diminished while the
sales of Craven A, Capstan and Turf
filters are all showing substantial in-
creases in volume and percentage of
filter sales. And it must not be forgotten
that the company still holds a major
share of the reduced non-filter market
and is the largest supplier of fine-cut
and ready rubbed tobacco, which
although dwindling—still accounts for
about 30 p.c. of total tobacco sales.
The company is spending considerable
sums on market research, particularly on
the effectiveness of brand advertising.
Alterations have been made to the method
of delivery which has resulted in greater
efficiency. The development of new
brands has been proceeded with. Another
brand may be released shortly.
British Tobacco has always been con-
sidered a market leader and although the
glitter has been dulled over the past two
years, the outlook is by no means dis-
couraging. The company is slowly gam-
ing a greater share of the total market,
and directors, all men of no mean ability,
have demonstrated that they are not
prepared to accept “the market structure
as it now exists.” With a new drive on
the executive level, a close control of
quality, and a more assiduous courting
of Dame Fortune, there is every indi-
cation that market leadership could be
regained.
The last sales in Sydney were at about
225. 6d. for each 20s. ord. to show a
dividend yield of 7.2 p.c. and an earning
yield of 7.5 p.c. The prefs sold at 19s. 6d.
Net tangible assets backing of the 20s.
ords was 265. 6d. and the prefs £l5 3s.
RIO TINTO MINING CO. OF AUST. LTD
WHERE DOES RAINBOW END?
TO quote the chairman, the activities
A of Rio Tinto Mining Co. of Australia
Ltd cover all the hues of the rainbow
—the black and yellows of uranium, the
reds and white of aluminium, the reds
and black of iron and coal, the blues of
road metal, the greys of zinc and of
lead, the greens and blues of copper and
“who knows what besides?”
And it could well be that in the
enigmatic “who knows what besides?”
that the future potential of the company
lies.
The U.K. parent, Rio Tinto Co. Ltd
of London, dates back to 1872 when it
acquired ancient copper mines in Spain,
which had been worked first by the
Phoenicians and later by the Romans.
From there it expanded to the Rhodesian
copper belt and in the past eight years
has spread its activities to the UK,
Canada, the US, the- Caribbean and South
Africa, as well as Australia.
These cover a wide range of minerals,
including copper, emeralds, gold, iron, oil
and natural gas, thorium, uranium and
vermiculite.
Rio Tinto’s interest in Australian
mining began in 1954, when a subsidiary
started exploration in the Common-
wealth. In the same year the Walton-
McConachy syndicate found the uranium
deposit at Mary Kathleen.
In 1955 Rio Tinto acquired a control-
ling interest in Mary Kathleen Uranium
Ltd which produced its first oxide in
1958.
In December 1959, Rio Tinto Mining
Co. cf Australia Ltd was formed to
acquire all the local interests of the
UK parent, which in turn held all the
13,440,000 ss. issued shares.
These interests included 100 p.c. hold-
ings in Rio Tinto Management Services
(Australia) Pty and Rio Tinto Southern
Pty, a 51 p.c. interest in Mary Kathleen


Uranium Ltd, and a 75 p.c. holding in
Fitzpatrick Industries Pty Ltd, a quarry-
ing and road contracting group.
In January, 1961, the Australian public
was invited to subscribe for one million
ss. shares (just under a 7 p.c. holding)
at a premium of 2s. a share. The under-
writers were rushed.
Profit for the latest financial year,
which closed on December 31 last, was
£2,658,580, 50 p.c. greater than the
£1,769,641 earned in 1960. The result
was after providing £65,370 (up £37,514)
for tax and £110,641 (up £46,756) for
depreciation. The profit was equal to
over 77 p.c. on capital. The 10 p.c.
dividend absorbed only £370,901.
It is obvious, however, that the
group’s other activities contributed little
if anything to the result for 1961. With
Mary Kathleen Uranium turning in a
profit of £5,626,262, Rio Tinto could
claim at least £2,869,393 of this for its
own profit.
Before arriving at the profit, £50,922
was written off intangibles. An amount
of £21,249 was written off the cost of
an investment in an associated company.
In addition, £126,182 was written off for
unsuccessful exploration, and a provision
of £163,930 was made to cover similar
results from current exploration.
An amount of £95,523 was transferred
to the capital redemption reserve fund,
and £1,226,907 was transferred to a
special reserve both representing the
portion attributable to Rio Tir to of trans-
fers to reserves made by M.K.U. and
£965,249 was carried forward as surplus
profits.
Total reserves of £6,238,182, including
£77,302 of share premiums arising from
the public issue, are nearly twice the
paid capital of £3,610,000, all in ss.
shares.
Total assets of the group at December
31 last were £19,023,709. But this included
the full £15,307,509 valuation of M.K.U.
leaving £3,716,200 for the parent and its
other subsidiaries. After deducting the
interest of minority shareholders, net
assets of the group work out at
£13,547,870.
A year earlier, total assets appeared
at £16,069,956, including the full assets
of M.K.U. at £13,759,399. Net assets of
the group totalled £12,191,949.
Fixed assets of the group showed
little change at £11,424,861 (£11,171,069
in 1960), and included £10,450,142
(£10,429,942) attributable to M.K.U.
Investments appeared at £472,103
(£186,258) and included £101,719 shares
in other companies.
Cash items at £2,655,436 (£410,889 in
1960) represented nearly half the
£5,524,738 (£2,950,139) of current assets.
They consisted of £1,251,983 in the books
of M.K.U. and £1,403,453 with the
parent and other subsidiaries. Uranium
stocks represented £1,930,601 (£1,617,8t0).
Current liabilities of £3,699,688 (down
£1,259,060) included £2,899,330 long-
term loan to M.K.U. from the UK
Atomic Energy Authority.
But although the company rules off its
books on December 31, these figures are
only of historical interest, and, because
of the huge amount of development in
the current year, bear little relationship
to the present position.
In recent months the company has
expanded its blue metal activities and has
entered the coal, brick, and iron ore
fields. Copper and silver are also still well
within its sights.
Despite the credit squeeze, Fitzpat-
rick Industries obtained some worthwhile
orders, but the major part of the effort
in this section was confined to proving
the reserves which turned out to be much
more extensive than at first thought.
A move was made into the ready-
mixed concrete field through a 51 p.c.
holding in Atlas Ready Mixed Concrete
Pty, and further extended with a 50 p.c.
interest in Jaywoth Asphalts Pty with
Jaywoth Industries Ltd. Substantial
gravel deposits were also acquired near
Penrith, NSW. Just recently, however, all
these activities were co-ordinated with
those of a dynamic new group, Pioneer
Concrete Services Ltd.
Future growth of Pioneer had been
inhibited by the need to draw its raw
materials from one of its major com-
petitors. But under the new arrangement
it now has an independent source of
supply and Rio Tinto has a ready-made
market for most of its quarry products.
A new jointly-owned company, Rio-
Pioneer Gravel Co., has been formed to
supply gravel from the Penrith deposits
to Pioneer, which has also agreed to take
blue metal from the Fitzpatrick quarries.
But Rio has surrendered its interest in
Atlas and the interest in the asphalt
venture. Future development outside the
Sydney area provides for close co-
operation between Rio Tinto and Pioneer.
The manufacture of bricks appears to
be a lucrative outlet for the group’s
energies and a large modern brick-
making plant, with a potential capacity
CAPITAL ISSUES PENDING
r~ —Shares Terms of Books Terms of
Company Class Number Issue Close Payment Remarks
Aust. and International
Insurances .. .. 10s. 310,000 1 for 1 at April 2 In full May 9
par
Aust. Paper Manufacturers 20s. 4,383,750 1 for 4 June 30
bonus
Bonds Industries .. 20s. 250,000 1 for sat April 16 15s. on appli- 15s. in call
a premium cation by on Nov. 28
of 10s. May 30
Burns Consolidated .. ss. 90,680 1 for 2 at March 2 In full on
par April 30
Capel Court Investment
Co. (Aust.) .. . . ss. 320,000 1 for 6 at March S In full on
par April 30
Clarke Bros. Holdings . . ss. 391,506 1 for 2 at April 4 In full on
par May 22
Huttons .. .. .. ss. 1,325,500 1 for 4at March 30 2s. 6d. on ,3s. 9d.
premium of application (including
Is. 3d. by May 31 Is. 3d.
premium) in
call on
Sep. 30
Indoor Bowling .. .. ss. 240,000 1 for 6at n/a June 30 To share-and
par noteholders
Lords Holdings . . .. 10s. 80,000 1 for 4 at n/a n/a
a premium
of 2s. 6d.
McDowells .. .. 20s. 113,999 1 for 6 April 30
bonus
„ 20s. 170,000 1 for 4 at April 30 In full on
a premium May 31
of jOs.
Milton Investments .. 20s. n/a 1 for 10 at April 16 10s. on May 10s. in call
par 31 on Aug. 31
Queensland Press .. 10s. 2,369,500 1 for 2 at July 31 In full on
par October 1
Stocks and Holdings .. ss. def. 574,666 1 for 3 May 11 To ord. and
bonus deferred
shareholders
Stanger and Co. .. .. 10s. 100,000 1 for 3 at April 6 In full on
par May 1
Tarax Drinks .. ..ss. n/a 1 for 4 at April 26 In full on
a premium June 15
of ss.
Townson and Mercer .. ss. 220,000 1 for 4 at March 21 In full April
par 30
Woolworths Ltd .. .. ss. 12,406,650 1 for sat Aug. 15 January 24, To share-and
par 1963 noteholders
Woolworths (N.Z.) .. ss. 2,097,074 2 for 5 at March 22 In full June
par 30
Yates Seeds .. .. 20s. 51,603 1 for 5 April 17
bonus
Mining —
Interstate Oil .. .. ss. 4,000,000 2 for 3 April 30 n/a 1,913,467
offered to
public bal-
ance to Con-
solidated
Zinc
Longreach Oil .. .. 2s. 6d. 4,607,084 2 for 1 April 13 In full May
11


REGISTRATION OF NEW MOTOR VEHICLES
(EXCLUDING MOTOR CYCLES)
STATES AND TERRITORIES
* Preliminary.
of. 50 million bricks a year, is being
built in Victoria. Production is expected
to begin by the middle of next year.
Exploration work is continuing in a
number of fields. In Tasmania, work is
being done in conjunction with Electro-
lytic Zinc Co. WT: on an asbestos
field was unsuccessful.
In Queensland, important work is be-
ing done on a number of copper pros-
pects, one of which, about 20 miles from
Mt Isa, has shown host rock similar to
that at the Mt Isa mines.
The expansion of most immediate
value, however, is the recent move into
the coal fields. The Clinton group of
collieries, with mines in the Burragorang
Valley and Lithgow, were acquired by
an issue of 689,655 ss. ord. shares, a
cash payment. Another 102,456 ords and
1,400,000 ss. 7 p.c. redeemable prefs
were issued to acquire Nattai-Bulli Coal
Co. Pty, which held the mining tenements
operated by the Burragorang collieries.
The southern collieries were supplying
medium coking coal at the rate of
650,000 tons yearly when acquired, but
this will be stepped up to a million tons.
Contracts are held for the sale of 1.9
million tons of this coal to Japan, 1.075
million tons for Noumea, and consider-
able tonnage is being produced for the
Australian market.
This expansion will involve large-scale
development of coal production, and a
complete modernisa ion of the coal
screening and washing plant. The Mitsui
Co. of Japan will participate in the
financing of this, but details of the
arrangement have yet to be released.
Despite all these interests, the group’s
long-term development may lie in an
entirely different field —steel. The com-
pany has been granted the right to
develop substantial deposits of iron ore
in the Pilbara area of Western Australia.
Despite problems associated with such
an isolated area, considerable further
expenditure is planned to prove whether
economic development is feasible.
Associated in the venture are two
other huge groups —Consolidated Zinc
Pty Ltd (by virtue of the merger of the
two UK parent companies) and Kaiser
Steel Corporation of America. And with
this partner lies the germ of a new steel
venture for Australia.
The three groups are examining the
economics of both an iron ore export
business and a “domestic industrial de-
velopment.” Although the latter could be
interpreted in many ways, it is generally
accepted to mean a new steel-making
plant.
The iron ore export business speaks
for itself, with Japanese interests ready
to take large quantities, but the econ-
omics of steel have many problems.
Politically speaking, the steel-making
plant would probably have to be estab-
lished in WA. Limestone is available
there in quantity, but whether the coal
from the Collie field is suitable for
steel making is doubtful. It then becomes
a question of whether it is economically
advantageous to ship the coal from the
eastern States to the west (although the
answer to this may be that it is possible
to ship coal to Japan).
Whether there is a big enough market
for the finished product in the west is
debatable, but in this case the supply
could create the demand.
In any case, this development lies some
considerable time in the future, and the
principal problem at the moment is to
make up the difference in profit when
the present contract of M.K.U. with the
UK Atomic Energy Authority runs out
about the end of next year.
No pickup in the demand for uranium
is expected much before the 19705, so
that profitability in the short term will
have to depend on the bricks, coal and
blue metal. In the longer term this
could well be stiffened with the iron
ore and steel.
The merger of the two UK parents,
Rio Tinto Co. Ltd and Consolidated
Zinc Corporation Ltd, is unlikely to have
any immediate effect on the operations
of Rio Tinto. But when the scheme is
approved, steps will be taken to co-
ordinate the activities of the two Aus-
tralian groups.
A journey to the end of the Rio Tinto
rainbow through the black, yellows
greens, reds, white and blues could be
of long duration, but the pot of gold
at the end in that “who knows what
besides” could be well worth the wait.
At 19s. 3d. the immediate future
appears well discounted, for the dividend
yield (all tax free) is 2.6 p.c.
CHRYSLER AUST. LTD
STRUGGLE FOR A MARKET
T ast week Chrysler Corporation got
into the news again when Leyland
Motors Ltd, of U.K., made a spirited
denial of a reported takeover bid by
Chrysler. In Sydney Mr A. T. Webster,
Australian manager for Leyland Motors
Ltd and an alternate director of Aus-
tralian Motor Industries Ltd, confirmed
denial of the takeover rumors.
Because in the year to November 30,
1961, Chrysler Australia Ltd had to con-
tend with a full 12 months of retarded
automotive activity, it was no surprise
that trading of the group —including the
subsidiary companies Steel Pressings Ltd
and Chrysler Australia (Sales) Ltd,
resulted in a loss.
The Commonwealth Government’s
economic restrictions, imposed in Nov-
ember, 1960, induced a fall in total new
motor vehicle registrations from 309,789
in the 1960 calendar year to 237,611 in
1961. Chrysler had to make heavy
retrenchments. The company nevertheless
pursued its long-range plans vigorously
throughout the 1960-61 year, as
evidenced by the additional investment
in plant and equipment and tolling from
£1,019,624 to £1,424,552.
Registrations of Chrysler products
picked up in the final two months of the
accounting period. The Simca Aronde
sedan was introduced in October,. 1961,
and the Aronde station-wagon in
November. Simca Aronde sales increased
by more than 50 per cent, over the
average monthly registrations achieved
in the first nine months of the year.
Directors said in their review that the
new Simca vehicles established a solid
foundation for the launching of the
Valiant in mid-January, 1962. Through
the Valiant, Chrysler enters the six-
cylinder medium-size, medium-price car
market, which represents 64 p.c. of the
total car and station-wagon market.
The company’s products range now
embraces Dodge Phoenix, Chrysler
Royal, Valiant and Simca cars and
station-wagons, allowing it to compete
in more than 80 p.c. of rhe Australian
car and station - wagon market, as
against 37 p.c. previously.
The Valiant has focussed attention on
all the Chrysler franchises; production
schedules have been materially increased
and forward plans provide for a rising
tempo of production.
The profit of £348,088 in the 1960
year gave way to a dramatic loss of
£598,750 in the latest term. Six and
seven years ago the company made profits
in excess cf £BOO,OOO. Reserves were


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you properly
covered? Now is the time to
review your insurances. Serious
financial losses can result on private
and business premises that are
improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80*82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
73 YEARS OF SERVICE
10 THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
eroded by a total £643,542, reducing
them to £2,862,329.
Parent and Subsidiaries.
/—Dividends—, To Re- Re-
June, Profit Pref. Ord. serves. serves.
£ 6 p.c. £ £
1955.. 858,888 41,832 816,556 2,494,094
Add tax written back, £2752 .. 2,496,846
1956.. 819,310 41,832 777,478 3,274,324
Less underprovision for tax, £20,542 3,253,782
1957.. 205,310 41,832 163,478 3,417,260
Add tax written back, £31,526 .. 3,448,756
1958.. 6,221 41,832 —35,611 3,413,175
Less underprovision for tax, £8394 3,404,781
Novem-
ber,
1959.. 145,195 62,748 —207,943 3,196,83 S
Add tax written back, £2778 .. 3,199,616
1960.. 348,088 41,833 306,255 3,505,871
1961.. —598,750 41,832 —640,582 2,865,289
Less underprovision for tax, £2960 2,862,329
The American parent, owning the whole
of the issued ordinary capital, again
receives no ordinary dividend. Holders
of the 6 p.c. redeemable preference
shares, however, received their customary
cheque involving £41,832. The pub-
lished accounts omit any comparative
figures for the previous year, apparently
determined to give the minimum of
information, not even the depreciation
charge for the year is shown.
The following is our summary of the
last three balance sheets:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Capital— 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref. .. £697,205 £697,205 £697,205
Ord. .. 1,267,233 1,267,233 1,267,233
Reserves .. 3,199,615 3,505,871 2,862,329
Creditors .. 3,056,356 4,486,307 5,674,653
Tax provision.. 69,000 150,780
£8,289,409 £10,107,396 £10,501,420
Freehold property 606,543 601,291 585,264
Plant, equipment 1,080,463 1,049,624 1,424,552
Investment .. 74,993 74,993 74,993
Stocks .. 4,944,809 6,729,076 7,503,083
Debtors .. 983,560 1,294,187 755,286
Cash, etc. .. 599,041 358,225 158,242
£8,289,409 £10,107,396 £10,501,420
The decline in cash resources from
£358,225 to £158,242, the accumulation
of stocks from £6,729,076 to £7,503,083
and the formidable decline in debtors
from £1,294,187 to £755,286, all indicate
the trading difficulties experienced by the
company in 1960-61.
The revival measures announced by
the Government on February 7 give
reason for confidence in the motor
vehicle industry. An immediate and
direct influence on registrations was the
reduction in sales tax on cars from 30 p.c.
to 224 p.c. and on commercial units from
16f p.c. to 124 p.c.
The current performance of the
company is largely of academic interest
to the Australian investor, as only prefer-
ence shares are held locally.
Chrysler has direct distribution in
Victoria and New South Wales, and a
private company holds the franchises in
Tasmania.
However, shareholders in the distribut-
ing companies, Harden and Johnston
Ltd in NSW, Austral Motors Holding
Ltd in Qld., and Winterbottom Motors
Co. Ltd in WA, have a vested interest in
Chrysler’s struggle for a market.
I.A.C. (HOLDINGS) LTD
EXPANSION DESPITE "SQUEEZE"
Tn 1945 the hire-purchase outstandings
in Australia totalled less than £6m.
By mid-1952 they had reached £loom.,
by 1956 £213m., by 1959 £355m., and
by December, 1960, £4som.
Then, through the credit squeeze of
November, 1960, the industry’s rapid
expansion was arrested. Quarterly
changes over 1961 were £42Bm. in March,
£4oBm. in June, £392m. in September,
and £3B9m. in December. The Common-
wealth Statistician’s provisional estimates
for January and February, 1962, were
£3B3m. and £3Bom. respectively.
But even before the credit squeeze
the hire-purchase leaders had retreated
from profit peaks of 1958. Factors con-
tributing to this included the end of the
TV boom, the trend for large retail houses
to finance their own h.-p. sales, and
increases in stamp duties.
I.A.C. (Holdings) Ltd, formerly
Industrial Acceptance Corporation Ltd,
is an undisputed leader of the Australian
h.-p. industry. The A.N.Z. Bank is its
trading bank associate, with a modest
14 p.c. capital interest. The company
finances sales of motor vehicles, farm
equipment, machinery, furniture and
domestic appliances. As the squeeze was
directed at the motor and building indus-
tries, the hire-purchase volume and net
profit of the operating co., Industrial
Acceptance Corporation Ltd, and sub-
sidiary finance cos., was lower in the year
ended December 31, 1961, although the
co. maintained its proportion of the
market.
Greater volume and net profit from
mortgage loan business more or less
compensated for this fall in earnings
from £1,560,626 to £1,535,698.
The I.A.C. organisation operates two
insurance subsidiaries, The Ajax Insur-
ance Co. Ltd and the Surrey Insurance
Co. Ltd, serving both the group’s
h.-p. customers and outside clients, and
writing fire, accident and general policies.
The earned premium income rose by
£33,000 to £4,231,000. Claims in the
motor vehicle d partment continued to
be a source of concern although this
bu-den was somewhat eased by the
increase in premiums charged from
January 1, 1961.
A subsidiary of Ajax is the Union
Building Society, taken over in 1959 and
said to be the third largest buildng
society in Victoria. The net profit of the
Ajax group, which had been £299,866 in
1959 and £137,617 in 1960 recovered
strongly to £366,402.
The 1961 I.A.C. Holdings Group profit
steadied at £1,754,819 after reaching a
low of £1,714,782 in 1960. These results
compare unfavorably with all profits back
to 1954. Earning rate in 1961 firmed from
20.2 to 21.4 p.c. on ord. capital. In 1957
it was 34.8 p.c.
Finance companies’ profits are
determined by the difference between
charges made to customers and expenses
which include the cost of collect-
ing instalments from the hire purchasers,
bad debts arising by default of borrow-
ers, and the interest paid on borrowed
funds.
During the credit restricticr.s last year,
1.A.C., along with all finance houses,
had to bid higher for funds. Whereas
it was able to attract note subscriptions
in June, 1960, with interest rates of 5£
p.c. for 12 months, 64 p.c. for three
years, and 7 p.c. for four years and
over, by June, 1961, the respective rates
were lifted to 64 p.c., 74 p.c. and a
maximum 8 p.c.
Directors have pitched interest rates
for the latest note and debenture issue,
launched in December, 1961, more closely
to the rates prevailing in June, 1960.
Notes issued for 12 months carry a rate
of 54 p.c., for three years 64 p.c., and
for seven to ten years 74 p.c.
Gross profits from trading (including
earned insurance premiums) eased by
£240,579 to £13,231,700; income from
general investments, up £127,462 at
£225,805, partly compensated. Operating
expenses were considerably lower (down
£640,343 to £6,881,603), but interest
charges increased by £376,549 to
£3,542,524. The provisions for income
tax rose slightly from £1,116,698 to
£1,191,506.
All in all consolidated net profit for


CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(PAID UP CAPITAL £7,000,000)
100 New South Head Road, Edgecliff, Sydney
Tel.: 32-0111. Secretary-General: KEITH LOVE
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
Rate ol Interest Currency of Issue
7% ... 4 years and over
6% ... 12 months' notice
5% ... 6 months' notice
4% ... 3 months' notice
Interest is paid in Equal Quarterly Instalments,
Free of Exchange, on the last days of June,
September, December and March,
TRUSTEES
FOR THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS:
The Perpetual Trustee Company (ltd.)
This is not a Prospectus. A copy of the Prospectus
covering this issue of Registered Debentures has been
lodged with the Registrar of Companies, Sydney.
Application must be made on the Forms enclosed
in the Prospectus, which is now available fiom
All Members of
The Stock Exchange
All Branches of
The National Bank
All Branches of
Custom Credit Corporation
limited
R.D.40.362
the year ended December 31, 1961, was
£40,037 higher at £1,754,819:
I.A.C. (Holdings) Ltd
r— —Dividends— To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref.Ord. Total. serves. serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £, £, £
1959.. 1,808,030 V 16§'=1,426,666 381,364 6,918,155
Capital profit, £342 6,918,497
Loss sale assets, £1415 .. .. 6,917,082
Tax overprovided, £6404 . . . . 6,923,486
1960.. 782 6 16f=1,426,666 288,116 7,211,602
Loss sale assets, £2844 . . . . 7,208,758
Tax overprovided, £5146 . . . . 7,213,904
Tax adjustment on insurance,
£31,290 7,182,614
Unexplained addition, £l9 .. .. 7,182,633
1961.. 754.819 6 163=1,426,666 328,153 7,510,786
* Subject to intangibles, written out of the accounts
in 1957.
General reserve received a transfer of
£281,871. The net addition to reserves,
after minor adjustments for tax, etc., was
£299,184, bringing them to £7,510,786.
Major changes in the consolidated
balance sheet included the increase in
unlisted investments from £56,389 to
£2,690,989.
In October, 1961, the co. took
over Glasgow Investments Pty Ltd, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of York Motors
Holdings Ltd. All moneys borrowed by
York Motors under the terms of its
registered unsecured notes deed had been
employed in Glasgow. I.A.C. offered in
substitution for the York Motors notes,
I.A.C. notes having the same interest rates
and maturity date. Subsidiary co.
advances, due to a difference in balancing
dates, have swung from a debit item of
£668,021 to a credit item of £333.506.
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref. .. £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Ord. . . 8,200,000 8,200,000 8,200,000
Reserves .. 6,918,155 7,211,602 7,510,786
Unearned income 9,748,393 13,462,747 12,602,621
Minority interest 4,519 580 362
Debentures, etc. 46,875,708 53,209,235 52,286,367
Creditois, etc. 3,201,933 3,627,688 3,816,797
Reserve unex-
pircd risks . 2,960,690 3,241,456 2.778,599
Staff funds .. 267,490 327,519 350,870
Subsidiary co.
advances .. 333,506
Tax provision 1,127,224 1,117,129 1,194,334
Final dividends 713,797 714,044 714,863
£81,017,909 £92,112,000 £90,789,105
Freeholds .. 1,279,537 1,319,280 1,390,516
Office equip-
ment . . 320,827 383,924 358,309
Investments .. 177,518 239,243 2,846,503
Home-unit
projects . . 99,988 236,101
H.-p. contracts 75,336,224 87,819,566 84,474.947
Cash, prepay-
ments .. 3,613,403 1,581,978 1,482,729
Subs co-advances 290,400 668,021
£81,017,909 £92,112,000 £90,789,105
Amounts due and to mature under
current contracts, book debts and stock
(less provision for losses) declined from
£87,819,566 to £84,474,947. The secured
borrowings (debentures, etc.) break down
into £7,440,401 maturing within one year,
£5.310,378 maturing between one and
two years hence, and £26,425,755 there-
after, and £279,484 representing other
secured borrowings.
The unsecured borrowings comprised
£7,494,390 maturing within a year,
£2,987,595 between one and two years
hence, and £2,348,364 thereafter. These
are all in the form of notes.
The group has avoided deposit money,
and the preponderance of its borrowings
is in long-term debentures, so that it has
little to fear in the way of a “run” on its
liquid resources.
Outstandings represented 93 p.c. of
total group assets, compared with 95 3
p.c. in 1960. 93 p.c., 93.4 p.c and 94 1 p c
back to 1957. The ratio of borrowings to
shareholders' funds was 3.1 to 1 (3 2 to 1
and 2.9 to 1 in the two preceding years).
The ratio of outstandings to paid capital
finished up at 9.2 to 1 (9.5 to 1 in 1960
and 8 1 to 1 in 1959)
As the traditional fields of h.-p. activity
have lost some, of their bloom, the pro-
gressive companies are exploring more
lucrative avenues. Diversion from
familiar paths could be richly rewarding,
but will be a critical test of the quality
of management of each company,
One such I.A.C. venture is the success-
ful takeove L jointly with fellow financier
Commercial and General Acceptance Ltd,
of the ailin § hotel business of Chevron
Queensland Ltd. The new section of the
Chevron Hotel at Surfers’ Paradise, now
under construction, should be operating
so ° n ‘ . .
Later m Feb 'uary, 1962, I.A.C. became
associated with L. J. Hooker Investment
Corporation Ltd and Hooker Finance
Co. Ltd, in the creation of H. F. Holdings
Pty Ltd, to purchase the old Melbourne
real estate business of T. M. Burke Pty
Ltd. I.A.C. was to provide half of the


•mge
£
.
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using “ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-water systems,
and household requirements. Easy to install. Inexpensive
to operate and will last a lifetime. Large quantities in
use throughout Australasia. Other types for different
conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
Agents and Manufacturers of “Everlasting” Boiler Blow
off Valves, “Curvilinear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines, Ellison Switch Gear, Blasting Mats, Explosives,
Log Splitting Guns, etc.
£lOO,OOO share capital and about £1.7
million in advances secured by debentures.
The chairman, Mr F. E. Bunny, said
at last week’s annual meeting that the
hire-purchase side of the business had
fallen over a period of time, but I.A.C.
had compensated for this by moving into
other fields in which an element of
finance was present. Volume of business
handled in the first quarter of this
year exceeded that of its 1961 counter-
part. More favorable economic condi-
tions gave hope of a successful year.
The ss. ord. shares at around 14s.
yield 6 p.c. on a 16f p.c. div. basis, and
are each backed by 9s. 7d. net tangible
assets.
The 6 p.c. cum pref shares at about
18s. yield 6.6 p.c. Net tangible asset
backing is £l6 14s. 3d. a unit.
WATERS HOLDINGS
TRADING AT ITS WORST
VX/'aters Holdings Ltd, Sydney spice
miller, rice merchant and furnisher,
experienced during the year to March 31,
1962, the most difficult conditions in its
history. Group profit dropped by
£36,303, or 70 p.c., to £15,596, and
directors say the company was fortunate
that all subsidiaries escaped losses.
Provision for tax in the latest term was
cut by £22,562 to £4338, and depreciation
by £BlO to £3632. The 1961 profit of
£51,899 was £52,387 below the 1960
figure.
Dividend, which had been 9 p.c., was
trimmed to 7 p.c. in 1960-61 and in
1961-62, after omitting an interim pay-
ment, directors have recommended a first
and final 2\ p.c. This will absorb
£17,952.
Because world values had been
depressed little profit was earned in the
seed and grain section, but floor coverings
and furnishings managed to return satis-
factory profits.
Sydney city properties will be dis-
posed of in favor of suburban locations,
to reduce costs. Operating expenses and
administrative costs were cut during
the year.
OSTI HOLDINGS
PROFIT RISE EXPECTED
/~\sti Holdings Ltd, Sydney lingerie
maker, had orders in hand of more
than £1 million at the beginning of the
final quarter of the year. This exceeds
the order position at the same time last
year.
Profit after tax is expected to substan-
tially exceed that of the preceding year,
because of the tax benefits deriving from
the takeover of a loss company, Jones
Bros Pty Ltd.
Full benefits of £135,000 additional
funds raised by the recent premium allot-
ment of shares will not accrue until
1962-63, although these funds were
employed immediately to extend manu-
facturing and trading capacity.
Trading for the third quarter was
satisfactory compared with that of 1961,
directors said in their quarterly report.
THIESS HOLDINGS
PROFIT LIFTED 10.3 p.c.
engineer and coal supplier Thiess
Holdings Ltd is bettering last year’s
results. Operations to date show improve-
ment over the corresponding period of
1960-61. This is despite “the more diffi-
cult conditions which the industry experi-
enced,” directors report.
In the year to June 30 last, profit was
lifted by 10.3 per cent, to £206,459,
though this represented a reduction of
earning rate (from 17.7 to 13.7 per cent.)
on higher average capital used.
The present interim dividend has been
held at 6| per cent, to continue the \2\
per cent, rate paid since 1960. More
encouraging still, directors draw atten-
tion to a favorable order book, “in addi-
tion to the large Snowy Mountains
contracts.”
Kianga-Moura coal operations have
now been effectively merged into Thiess
Peabody Coal Pty Ltd, of which Thiess
controls a 50 per cent, capital interest in
present paid capital of £2 million.
This week is to see three trainloads a
day moving from their fields instead of
two. The coal goes to Gladstone for ship-
ment to Japan.
A.G.C. LTD
DEBENTURE RATE PARED
“Oecause of prevailing money market
conditions, Australian Guarantee
Corporation Ltd is able to whittle down
the interest rates offering on its latest
issue of debenture stock.
The top rate for six years is now
6| p.c. (previously 7 p.c.). Rates for other
currencies down to a 12 months period
have been reduced by a similar \ p.c.,
and for the 9 months period by \ p.c.
The new rates are: three months, 4
p.c. ; six months, 4 \ p.c. ; nine months,
4\ p.c. ; 12 months, 4i p.c. ; two years,
5} p.c. ; three years, p.c. ; four years,
6 p.c. ; five years, 67 p.c.; six years,
p.c. Registered unsecured notes carry
interest \ p.c. higher in each bracket.
C.B.A.
NEW SAYINGS OFFSHOOT
"O ight on the verge of Mr Holt’s
liberalisation plan, the Commercial
Bank of Australia Ltd decided to
establish a savings bank offshoot. Of the
seven major trading banks, only the
Bank of Adelaide now lacks savings
services ; its entry into this field looks
improbable, with a flourishing South
Australian State Savings Bank in exist-
ence.
C.B.A. plans to form a new wholly-
owned company to operate the savings
bank and will guarantee repayment of
deposits. Nominal capital is £5 million,
initial paid capital £1 million. Control
stays vested in C.B.A.’s present board and
general manager.
C.B.A.’s current liquid position stands
particularly strong—it is in a fine posi-
tion to commence the new project. Febru-
ary showed the L.G.S. ratio at 29.8 per
cent., with a further 2 per cent, of
deposits at short call. The bank has
increased its share of r!l trading bank
deposits and has gained more fixed
deposits.


RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of Sydney Stock Exchange
W. Keith Yuill Keith C. Phillips
lan C. Walton—Gordon G. King
Walter I. Summons
William S. Shugg
( non-member partner )
33 BLIGH STREET. 2 0137
84 William St., Melb. 67 5089
340 Queen St., Brisbane. 31 2191
Telegrams and Cables “Ralpliking”
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane
Grafton, Tamworth and Armidale
Company
Par
Value
Last
Sale,
1901
—Prices
9/4/62
>
16/4/62
Div.
Rate
p.c.
Div.
Yield
p.c.
Earn.
Rate
p.c.
Earn.
Yield
p.c.
Amalgamated Chemicals
5/-
11/3
17/9
18/3
124
3.5
21.4
5.8
A.W.A.
5/-
20/41
20/9
21/-
14
3.3
22
5.2
Ampol
. ,
5/-
11/4
12/-
12/0
14
5.6
19
7.6
A.R.C. Ilids.
, .
10/-
46/3
51/6
51/6
15
2.9
29.7
5.9
Assoc. Pulp
20/-
29/3
32/3
32/104
—
—
13.6
8.2
Aust. Chemicals
10/-
30/4 J
31/-
30/6
124
4.2
21.5
7.0
A.C.I
, .
20/-
72/6
71/9
71/6
2.3
19.3
5.4
Aust. Guarantee
.
5/-
14/-
12/4
12/1
15
6.2
20.3
8.5
Aust. Gypsum
. .
5/-
14/3
14/6
14/9
10
3.3
14.9
5.1
A.P.M
. ,
20/-
25/3
27/3
26/9
8
6.0
10
7.5
Bank N.S.W. . .
. ,
£20
£34
£38
£39$
9
4.5
12.2
6.1
Bitumen and Oil
5/-
24/-
26/6
25/74
174
3.4
32.4
6.3
Blue Metal Indus.
5/-
22/74
23/74
23/3
15
3.2
27.6
5.9
Bradford Cotton
5/—
7/6
7/3
7/-
10
7.1
11.2
8.0
British Tobacco
20/-
25/-
21/-
22/3
8
7.2
9.7
8.7
B.IT.P
20/-
69/-
04/3
62/-
6J
2.2
15.5
5.0
Burns Philp
20/-
91/-
95/3
95/3
10
2.1
12.4
2.6
Clyde Inds
5/-
10/8
10/1
10/8
15
7.0
15.3
7.2
C.S.R
£20
£59/10/-
£55
£ 53$
9
3.3
12.4
4.6
C.A.G.A.
5/-
11/3
11/8
11/8
10
4.3
12.3
5.3
Clth. Iiid. Gas
20/-
£5
£5/2/6
£.5
11
2.2
9:i.9
5.0
Commercial Union
Ins.
5/—
19/3
22/-
22/6
64
1.4
18.4
4.1
Concrete Inds
5/-
15/14
15/104
15/104
10
3.1
16.6
5.2
Consolidated Zinc
25/-
62/6
61/9
66/6
7-. 1 *
2.8
20.5
7.7
Cox Bros.
.
5/-
7/6
7/6
7/7
10
6.6
11.8
7.9
Custom Credit
5/-
13/-
12/8
12/6
15
6.0
19.5
7.8
Cyclone
10/-
26/-
22/104
21/104
10
4.6
17.7
8.0
Dalgety—N.Z. Loan
20/-
—
44/6
44/-
8
3.6
13.9
6.3
David Jones
. .
5/—
18/9
19/14
19/14
124
3.3
28.7
7.5
Drug Houses
20/-
69/-
69/-
68/-
HI
3.3
17.7
5.2
Dunlop Rubber
20/-
35/-
41/14
41/6
10
4.8
16
7.7
Elder Smith
12/-
23/9
26/3
26/-
10
4.6
12.6
5.8
Electronic Inds “B”
10/-
13/3
13/3
13/6
124
9.3
—
—
Email
5/-
7/6
8/-
7/9
10
6.4
11
7.1
E.Z Inds
10/-
12/11
14/3
13/104
10
7.2
12.4
8.9
Felt and Textiles
5/-
6/11
7/9
7/104
10
6.3
13.9
8.7
General Inds
20/-
14/6
10/3
11/3
5
8.9
9.9
17.6
G. .1. Coles
5/-
13/6
13/7
13/9
11
4.0
14.8
5.4
Goldsbrough
20/-
28/6
32/3
32/6
8
4.9
11.7
7.2
11. C. Sleigh
5/-
11/-
13/-
12/8
124
4.9
13.4
5.3
Henry Jones
. .
20/-
80/-
85/6
84/0
10
2.4
28.6
0.8
H. G. Pa.mer
5/-
15/6
16/104
16/9
124
3.7
34.5
10.3
Howard Smith
20/-
54/-
50/-
51/-
10
3.9
13.6
5.3
Humes
20/-
70/6
77/-
75/9
14
3.7
24.6
6.5
I.A.C. (Holdings)
. .
5/-
13/4
14/3
14/-
6.0
20.6
7.4
I.C.l.A.N.Z.
. ,
, .
20/-
38/-
42/-
42/-
7
3.3
9.7
4.6
J. Gadsden
. .
, .
10/-
15/3
18/9
19/3
8
4.1
10.4
5.4
John Lvsaght
20/-
64/6
60/-
67/-
8
2.4
12.3
3.7
Kandos Cement
5/-
—
22/104
22/6
124
2.8
13.5
3.0
Kelvinator
5/-
18/3
19/-
18/6
15
4.1
33.4
9.0
Lend Lease
5/-
20/-
22/3
22/44
10
9,9,
21.4
4.8
L. J. Hook°r . .
. .
5/-
7/-
5/2
5/2
15
14.6
21.1
20.5
Mercantile Credits
. .
. .
5/-
8/8
9/2
8/6
10
5.9
16.6
9.8
McPhersons
. .
20/-
47/-
42/3
41/6
4.0
12.4
6.0
Minster
10/-
62/-
80/-
79/-
20
2.5
34.8
4.4
Moulded Products
5/-
13/2
14/1
14/3
14
4.9
3.7
1.3
Mt. Isa Mines
. .
5/-
71/6
72/9
73/6
25
1.7
62.3
4.2
Mutual Acceptance
57-
8/10
10/2
10/4
15
7.2
22.3
10.7
Myer Emporium
• .
5/-
29/-
32/104
32/9
16g
2.5
2S.3
4.3
National Consol.
5/-
27/-
27/9
27/9
20
3.6
35.3
6.4
Olvmpic Industries
5/-
7/7
9/1
9/3
9
4.9
16.2
8.8
Peters (Vic.)
. .
2/-
8/6
8/6
8/3
15
3.6
18.9
4.6
Petrochemical
. .
20/-
26/-
31/-
31/-
6
3.9
5.9
3.8
Pioneer Concrete
, .
. .
5/-
18/9
21/104
21/6
124
2.9
30.7
7.2
R.M. Concrete
# .
5/-
17/44
17/9
17/9
124
3.5
22.9
6.5
Reid Murray
. .
. .
5/-
5/3
4/3
4/74
—
—
9.4
10.2
Repco
« •
. .
5/-
12/5
13/10
13/10
10
3.6
17.8
6.4
Rio Tinto
. .
. .
5/-
15/9
19/74
19/3
10
2.6
71.7
18.5
Rothmans
20/-
87/6
71/-
74/-
174
4.7
47.7
12.9
Thiess
5/-
13/-
11/3
12/-
124
5.2
14.4
6.0
Tooth
. .
. .
20/-
. 60/-
63/6
65/—
134
4.1
15.9
4.9
Union Carbide
20/-
80/-
79/-
79/-
10
2.5
15.9
4.0
Waltons
5/-
13/S
14/-
13/10
124
4.5
19.7
7.1
Wool worths
5/-
15/4
16/9
16/74
12
3.6
15.4
4.6
Wormald
• .
5/—
11/10
12/-
12/3
10
4.1
14.2
5.8
W. R. Carpenter
* *
5/-
30/- 32/9
* Nominal.
32/-
15
2.3
35.1
5.5
Banks,
etc.
Other
Finance
Pastoral
Retailers
Base
Metals
All
Ords.*
Industrials
December 22, 1961 ..
137.37
541.02
182.31
389.15
604.15
299.07
318.74
April 9, 1902
148.24
580.50
190.12
390.63
595.15
304.67
322.15
„ 10, 1962
149.23
575.62
189.93
395.12
594.20
305.49
322.78
„ 11, 1962
150.21
575.22
190.12
393.50
591.53
304.77
321.81
„ 12, 1962
151.28
572.46
190.39
395.35
593.60
304.30
320.70
„ 13, 1962
151.90
575.49
190.39
394.91
597.69
304.41
320.70
„ 16, 1962
152.04
573.53
190.31
396.61
600.02
303.55
319.25
* Peak
348.46 September 16, 1900.
December 22,
AVERAGE YIELD ON 100 ORDINARY SHARES
(- 50 Leading Stocks , —50 Other Stocks—Random-^
Sample
Div. Yield Earn. Yield Div. Yield Earn. Yield
1961 .. 4.49 6.89 5.30 7.46
April 9, 1962
. • . .
4.26
6.28
4.01
3.29
„ 10, 1962
• • • •
4.26
6.27
4.99
3.28
11, 1902
4.25
6.22
5.01
3.10
„ 12. 1962
, f . #
4.27
6.21
5.02
3.31
„ 13, 1902
. .
4.27
0 26
5.03
3.30
SHAREMARKET SUMMARY
TV/larkets on Monday faced the week
fairly equably at Friday’s closing
levels. Some irregular tremors, however,
threatened a fair number of better indus-
trials. Buyers appeared to gain a slight
advantage in predominantly selective
dealings.
A still quite broad range manages to
keep turnovers extensive. But a host of
sellers are finding it very difficult to lift
buying pressure much.
Blue-ribbons in particular exemplified
the mild drift, which could grow a little
more obvious in the next week or two.
C.S.R. again hit its lowest price for two
years, £53 155., and even 8.H.P., ex
dividend, retreated under the impulse of
large debenture oversubscriptions. In-
vestors here remain a trifle apprehensive
on share-issue policy.
Yet while other leaders such as A.C.I.
and Burns Philp held ground, British
Tobacco has continued to climb from the
previous week’s depression. Rothmans
also benefited from smokers’ lessened
disturbance on health risks.
Trading up to last Friday had been
lightly stimulated by hopeful activity
among bank stocks, on and after the
Treasurer's moderate gift of improved
profit-earning capacity. This move was
led by the Bank of N.S.W., though it had
largely spent its force by Monday.
Otherwise the main investment groups
had barely been able to illustrate their
recently acquired steadiness. Retailers
overcame a measure of hesitation and
brewers were better, especially in Mel-
bourne, where members of the Carlton
and United assembly await capital moves
based on possible official listing of the
notorious “Z” shares.
Lead-zincs continued to take a small
advantage from Broken Hill’s full pro-
duction programme and higher world
prices. This trend has not been reversed
by North B.H.’s poor result for 1961.
Oil shares revealed considerable fluc-
tuation last week. Monday brought
A.O.G. back into favor, with early deal-
ings adding Is. to the shares and Is. 6d.
to the rights.
LEADING SHARE PRICES
SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE INDICES
MELBOURNE STOCK EXCHANGE


LEONARD G. MAY & SON
Incorporating J. E. MARTIN, HEAD
& CO.
Partners: L. G. MAY, J. G. MAY,
V. T. HAUSER, E. W. HEAD.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Ground Floor, 99 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
Telephones: MU2638, MU5746-7, MU2SG9.
Telegrams: “lENNMAY,” Melbourne.
CONSTABLE & COMPANY
BW 0781
Member of the
SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE
25 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY
CC2
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building,
150 Queen St., Melbourne,
67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court, 423 Little Collins St.,
Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
HELP
all the year round.
Donations.* 169 Elizabeth St:
Sydney. BM 2GOI.
OIL
PROGRESS REPORT
A fter all the fanfare accompanying the
spudding in of the Woodside (Lakes
Entrance) Wellington No. 1 well in Gipps-
land last December, the abandonment of
the hole at just over 12,000 ft may seem
to be a bitter anti-climax. But though
the well has been stopped short of what
are thought to be original source rocks
below the jurassic, it was never intended
to put the well down to more than 12,000
ft.
While it must have been tempting to
proceed a little further, even if not to
basement, Woodside and its American
partners think it better to site another
well in the area in the hope of striking
an oil sands zone somewhat nearer the
surface. However, there could be a con-
siderable interval before the company
drills again in Gippsland because since
Wellington No. 1 was planned the strikes
at Moonie have diverted attention from
the area. Indeed, following the later
event, Woodside has hived off permit
areas adjacent to Moonie for its offshoot,
Mid Eastern, whose juxtaposition to
Moonie puts its chances of finding oil
higher than any of the Group’s other
areas.
Again, Woodside has now confirmed
that its next drilling operation will be in
the Murray Basin near Moulamein
(NSW). It will drill a stratigraphic test
well to 6000 ft there, on a fifty-fifty share
basis with the newly-floated Planet Oil
Company. The well will be known as
Bundy No. 1.
As for Mid Eastern itself, drilling has
to await the results of seismic work
which is expected to take the crews —•
now in the Coonamble area (Surat Basin)
—at least three months. Applications for
the flotation issue of shares by this com-
pany closed last Monday (15th April)
heavily oversubscribed.
A signal has been awaited for some
months from Oil Search Ltd about its
future exploration intentions in Papua-
New Guinea. Something is moving with
this company, which now has about
£l.sm. in its kitty and has taken its in-
heritance of the bulk of BP’s and Mobil
Oil’s interest in the group’s two oper-
ating companies, Australasian Petroleum
and Island Exploration, bringing its hold-
ing up to four-fifths of the equity in
these companies. Obviously Oil Search
is anxious to get back to drilling, but it
is still worried about the high cost of
drilling another well in Papua - New
Guinea, especially without the full back-
ing of BP and Mobil.
Depending on the evaluation of new
information on the Fly River, Oriomo
and Paibuna areas, it could be that the
next well will be drilled in these, and not
in the more forbidding country around
the high gas-yielding wells in the north
of the company’s permit areas whose
commercial possibilities are apparently
still under consideration by the com-
pany’s associates, Burmal-Murphy.
ONE TO BUY
THIESS HOLDINGS LTD
I\Tews that the Mt Isa railway recon-
” struction project could finish six
months ahead of schedule and be £5 mil-
lion cheaper than the expected £3om.,
focuses attention on one of the contrac-
tors, Thiess Holdings Ltd. “Dry” rainy
seasons have meant a minimum of delays,
and Thiess was able to save four months
by rushing in the piles of a £l.2m. bridge
before the wet came.
The story of how the Thiess brothers
built up this Queensland contracting
business into a group of about 20 com-
panies, from humble beginnings in 1934,
is well known to the investing public.
Major works have been undertaken all
over Australia, building roads, dams,
pipelines, bridges, tunnels, factories, air-
fields, railroads and open-cut mining.
In January, 1962, Thiess won £l9m.
worth of contracts from the Snowy
Mountains Authority for dams and tun-
nels. The market had been anticipating
this for some time, but was a little
nervous at the disclosure that the Thiess
tender was £l.3m. less than the estimated
price. Thiess later divulged that it had
the Australian licence and patent rights
for an American method of tunnelling
which would reduce costs on this large
item of expenditure.
In March a company was formed
jointly with Peabody Coal Co. of the US
to develop the Moura-Kianga coalfields
in Central Queensland. Paid-up capital,
subscribed equally, was £2m. Japanese
steel mills have placed £l4m. orders with
the joint company to supply 3.4 m. tons
of coal over the next seven years. Railings
from the coalfield have already been
stepped up 50 per cent., to speed the
shipments from the port of Gladstone.
The 12y p.c. ordinary dividend rate of
the last two years has been continued
with an interim p.c. for the half-term
to December 31. Directors reported that
results were an improvement on the com-
parative period of last year, and there
was a satisfactory amount of work in
hand apart from the Snowy contracts.
Top price for the ss. shares in 1961
and the year to date has been about
15s. 3d. At current price of around 12s.
to give an income yield of 5.2 p.c. and
an earnings yield of 6 p.c., Thiess shares
look fair value.


WALTER P. HAM & CO,
WALTER PERRY HAM and WILLIAM
JOH JO BAKER
Members o] The Stock Exchange ol Melbourne
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
INVESTMENT HOUSE,
116 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Telephone: CO-0221 (30 lines)
Telegrams: HAM WAT,, Melbourne
GILBERT HARRIMAN & CO.
STOCK AND SHAREBROKER
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
KINDERSLEY HOUSE,
7th Floor,
20 O’Connell St.,
33 Bligh St., Sydney
Telegrams:
HARRISHA, SYDNEY.
Tels: 28-8398, 28-8399
LINDSAY MILDRED & CO.
Lindsay Mildred, Alfred Campbell
SHAREBROKERS
Members of the Stock Exchange
of Melbourne
56 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE
62-1601
Telegraphic and Cable Address:
MILDRED MELBOURNE
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L NEVITT. A. C. DRAPER,
N. \V. C. DRAPER
{Members 0] Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761
(4 lines)
MI the
family
will love
B only
Everybody's
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Monday, April 16
TICtHiLE the Sydney Stock Exchange
bulls are handing over the arena to
their four-footed country namesakes this
week, I thought it would be a suitable
time (as they say in the courts) to follow
Fagin’s example and review the market’s
progress since Christmas. It has certainly
put on an extraordinary performance so
far this year. We began the year with the
Sydney Stock Exchange’s ordinary index
at 299. By mid-February it had moved
up nicely to 325. Now we are practically
back where we started from at 304. There
is no single or obvious explanation for
this gracefully symmetrical movement in
the graph. Taxation payments and
B.H.P.’s debenture issue have both
drained vast sums off the market,
while some bad company reports
and all the Common Market talk
have contributed to a generally uneasy
atmosphere. Will the market throw
off this lethargy after Easter? On the
available evidence, the answer should be
Yes. The market is supposed to be a
reflection of economic prospects which,
by and large, are encouraging. “Our
overall conclusion is that 1962-63 w:T be
a particularly good year for business,”
says W. D. Scott’s Economic Advisory
Service. If we accept this forecast, we
should see some general improvement in
share prices as the year goes on.
In keeping with the racing season, your
Speculator now presents a potted form
guide to the 20 stocks which make up his
Easter portfolio.
HORNIBROOK: The only Queens-
lander in the field, but its record has been
disappointingly erratic. Now up for sale.
O’DONNELL GRIFFIN: Has been
racing well for several seasons and looks
likely to retain that good form.
SOUTHGATE: Currently doing badly
on its home course (the Hotel Sydney)
but showing good form on suburban and
country tracks. May also have to be sold.
UNITED MOTELS: Races mainly in
Banjo Paterson’s country, so far with-
out much success, but could improve.
HARRIS HOLDINGS: Little-raced
provincial (Campbelltown) galloper that
appears to have a promising career.
BEAU MONDE: Veteran Victorian
mare now making a strong comeback
after a poor season last year.
FIBRE CONTAINERS: Ran well
when challenged by Bowater and Reed
Paper, but now looks fully-priced.
W. J. MANUFACTURING: Has
moved up from the novice to the en-
courage class and should improve further.
AUTO & GENERAL: High-priced
colt with a near-record earnings rate.
MAURI BROS: Grand old stayer
whose true racing colors might finally be
brought into the open by the new Com-
panies’ Act
F. W. WILLIAMS: Well bred (by
Sisalkraft and Bates) and half-brother of
American champion, St Regis. Should
go on to big things.
MID EASTERN: Has yet to race.
PENFOLDS: Also about to race in
public for the first time. Record sug-
gests it may have difficulty living up to
old reputation.
ANDERSON MEAT: Strictly an out-
sider but seems favorably handicapped
at 12s. or 13s.
KANDOS: Solid performer from the
cement districts and should continue to
reward its backers well.
PETERS: Dashing sprinter from Vic-
toria but may have trouble coping with
the longer distances it has taken on
recently.
PHILIP MORRIS: Promising career
may be checked by lung cancer.
GOODWINS: Lightly-weighted ap-
pliance dealer that should return to form
. this year.
PETER LLOYD: Could put on a
good turn of speed now that it has a
Holden franchise.
READY MIXED CONCRETE: Has
won some big prizes in recent years (in-
cluding Australian Blue Metal) and cur-
rently may be underestimated.
All in all, a pretty varied field. Some
old friends will doubtless have to be sold
and some new candidates found. In the
process I hope we’ll continue to make a
pound or two.
B.H.P. DEBENTURES
HOW MUCH EXTRA FUNDS?
npoTAL raisings from the B.H.P. deben-
A ture issue are expected to be disclosed
very soon. This figure will prove of wide-
spread interest, especially when viewed
in the light of directors’ intention to tap
overseas fixed-interest capital later this
year. Shareholders also, with future
share issues to them in the melting pot,
will be keenly apprehensive of the
debenture results.
Early last week the company announced
- substantial oversubscription of the orig-
inally requested £l2 million. However,
the lists were to be left open until Friday,
April 13.
A total round about £2O million would
not startle anybody—such is B.H.P. This
would provide a fine and flexible basis
for later Stock Exchange trading.


STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Suite 1, Sixth Floor, Temple Court
422 Collins Street, Melbourne
Phone 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
SYDNEY: 383 George Street, 29-7865
ADELAIDE: 61 Gawler PI., 7-8407
BRISBANE: 334 Queen Street, 31-1621
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS
ALL OFFICES —“OPTIONS”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
MEAT IN THE MELTING POT
By M. H. ELLIS
'T'he world’s meat markets are in the
melting pot and will be for some
time.
Meat output of the world continues
to rise, to improve in quality and con-
sequently in cost of production. The
standards become every year more com-
petitive; the average killing age younger.
The outputs of countries which not
so long ago were more or less regularly
importing countries, have risen, too. In
the United States, for example, produc-
tion for last year was about three
million tons above that of the year be-
fore. In Canada, despite the falling off
in pig meat production, the overall
figure is rising. The year in Britain
showed an increase of well over 10 per
cent. The same tendency is obvious in
Europe, including Poland.
In the American continent the re-
striction of grain areas to cut down un-
workable wheat surpluses has naturally
resulted in large usage of grain for
feeding and in turning wheatfields into
grazing lands with obvious results.
Though the bulk of sales overseas of
countries with meat surpluses has not yet
been crucially affected, the tendency for
overseas meat trade to dry up is evident
in most exporting areas. In Australia it
has not been felt to the full, because
of the drought conditions, but the menace
is thickly in the air.
Apart from this, there is the influence
in change in the nature of wholesale
demand. In most meat-eating countries,
standards of living have improved with
high wages and prosperity. Habits of
eating have also changed with the con-
ditions that make motor transport
available to every family. These have
altered ways of living by reason of
the fact that, especially in English-speak-
In next week’s BULLETIN Mr M.
H. Ellis will take a critical look
at Sydney’s Royal Easter Show.
ing lands, everybody above the age of
ten seems to use a home only to sleep in.
The results of this have been a revolu-
tion in providoring of the home. The
delicatessen has taken the place of old
Mother Hubbard’s cupboard; the ham-
burger, in all too many menages, has
replaced the cold joint.
Mr John Cumber, a well-known English
meat judge we have had him at
Melbourne Show gave an interesting
picture of domestic change in Britain
and of its likely effects on conformation
of cattle in a recent talk reported in the
English Meat Trades Journal.
He said that the old concept of an ideal
beef animal a perfect rectangle with
a leg at each corner was out-of-date
due to the revolution in Britain of meat-
eating habits during the past 20 years.
Before World War 11, he said, the normal
regimen in the English family was as
follows : Sunday was the great day
when everybody was at home; so for the
Sabbath the housewife wanted a joint to
roast. The remains were then eaten cold
on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday;
and perhaps on Thursday the last frag-
ments went into stew or some other
made-up dish. Friday was a fish day.
Saturday, an outdoor day, called largely
for bread and cheese in the average
family.
Now, said Mr Cumber who should
know because he is one of the best
known butchers in Middle England
Sunday was still a “joint day.” But the
butcher had to cater for smaller families
with more fastidious tastes; womenfolk
especially, who looked to their figures,
and men who, in the average, did not
have to do the same heavy physical work
as their fathers. So, the demand now
was for a lean, tender, small joint which
could be demolished at a single meal
on Sunday, “leaving only enough for the
dog’s supper.”
Housewives, he said, were no longer
interested in flavor : “Taste in beef has
become almost non-existent, more’s the
pity.” Less meat per head was eaten, but
it was higher-priced meat.
The demand for the lower-priced cuts
off a beast had diminished; that for
piece cuts for consumption during the
week, meat ready to throw into a pan
and be cooked quickly by the housewife
home from the office and factory, had
increased. Weekday eating consisted of
chops, liver, frying, grilling and stewing
steaks, poultry, or something out of a
tin. The parts of a beast that required
more cooking than the high-quality
hind-cuts to make them palatable, were
increasingly less called for.
Indeed, tendencies in household needs
had so far altered that the speaker felt
the ideal in beef would soon become
a kangaroo-shaped animal, “all back
end and no front end,” with a minimum
of bone, no fat and the “straight through
gut of a snipe.”
It seems that the old legend of the
bullock driver who crossed his leader
with a Selwyn Range boomer and made
fences obsolete in Australia and em-
barrassed Lysaghts may still come
true.
The tendencies outlined by Mr Cum-
ber may certainly be accentuated in the
near future; apart from the fact that
the British butchering trade and farm
producers are already rolling up their
sleeves to do battle with the standardised
and packaged chicken which is only in
its infancy as a comestible.
The possibilities of the chicken trade
increase in direct ratio to the increase
of population in already closely peopled
countries. Young people today are able
to afford chicken from early youth up-
wards, and are able to buy it straight off
the broiler, kept hot in foil and plastic
packages. Furthermore, as meat breeding


space becomes more and more conges-
ted in countries like UK and freights
and land values become higher, and the
agreements incidental to international
trading problems more complicated and
universal, the advantages of the bird
whether turkey, chicken, or something
on two legs yet to be developed will
increase.
It is possible to breed poultry for kill-
ing away from farm land—indeed, it is
already being done in some United States
cities in ten-storey buildings on an
assembly line system, the birds never
seeing a tree or feeling the good earth
under their feet from birth to block.
For packaging, which soon will be-
come a revolutionary factor in both sea
and land transport, the fowl, of whatever
variety, has it all over the beast —until
the package becomes the universal form
in which beef and mutton and pork are
carried to market. This may not be very
far away.
When the time comes in which it has
grown to be standard, Australia, with its
cheap back-country, should see a market
and transport revolution. But here again
the packaging technique will tend to call
for new types of animal, and for new
markets to absorb the cuts which British
and American buyers will not eat.
Before a full market for these in the
countries of which one naturally thinks
as the areas of probable salvation for
the cattle and sheep export industries
can be realised, the religious scruples of
their peoples about meat killed by un-
believers will need to be liquidated. But
there is at least a substantial potential
for export of cheaper forequarter cuts
to Asia, even though age-old prejudices
still have to be broken down among a
few hundred million of them who look
like future buyers if their living standards
can be raised.
A final complication, which promises to
cause alarming repercussions and give
advantage to the poultry industry and
increase the incentive in the UK to pro-
duce beef, mutton and pork locally, will
arise without doubt if the United King-
dom enters the Common Market.
Its entry must increase the price of
beef in Britain by a substantial sum. Mr
J. B. Whalley, General Secretary of the
British Meat Trade Federation, has
pointed this out forcibly within'the past
few weeks, indicating that while the price
of sirloin in Britain is only ss. sd. a lb.
(sterling) it ranges on the Continent from
7s. 3d. in France to Bs. lid. in Sweden.
It seems, therefore, that in a common
market, something must be done to pro-
duce a common level
What the effects on the Australian
trade may be, remains to be seen. There
are too many factors involved to even
guess, more especially since the whole
meat raising and marketing policy of the
British Government is in the melting pot.
Recently, the UK Government has had
to take urgent action to stop a riot
among British meat and agricultural pro-
ducers. This has involved increasing the
subsidy fund allocation by a supplemen-
tary £7B million sterling.
The present system of Government
support for British agriculture and stock-
raising is admitted, even in Government
circles, to have outworn its usefulness.
And the Ministry of Agriculture is set-
t'ng up a committee to inquire into the
organisation for marketing and distribu-
ting meat in the United Kingdom with a
view to adapting the present system to
circumstances and making it more flex-
ible, or changing it altogether if need be,
to meet the conditions developed by the
Common Market, the changing nature of
demand, the changing bulk and nature
of production and local factors due to
alterations in land values and avail-
ability.
In whatever happens in European and
American countries, Australia is vitally
interested. The Australian Meat Board
has been very active in the past few
months both in promotion schemes to
meet the immediate situation and in
designing a long-term policy for export.
WOOL IS ON THE WAY UP
TThe size of wool stocks in consumer
A countries is usually regarded as a
fairly accurate yardstick of the health of
Australia's wool industry.
So it was good news for scores of
thousands of woolgrowers the other day
when Sir William Gunn, chairman of
the Australian Wool Bureau and the
International Wool Secretariat, told them
that practically no wool stocks existed
in the world today.
Sir William, not long back from a
survey of the world wool position, sum-
med up: “The situation is now a healthy
one for wool.” But he stressed that
wool’s chief opposition, the makers of
synthetic fibres, were gathering strength
for an attack on wool’s markets.
Wool would have to be actively pro-
moted during the next few years as more
and more synthetic fibre plants came into
production in Europe and Japan, Aus-
tralia’s two big wool markets, he said.
So far, synthetics had made only minor
inroads into wool usage in Europe and
virtually no impact at all in Japan. And
in the United States, Sir William reported,
an 8 per cent, rise in wool consumption
had occurred in the past 12 months.
During this same period consumption
of other clothing fibres had fallen by
more than 30 per cent.
The American pattern was being re-
peated elsewhere. Where wool was losing
to synthetics, it was because of the better
pleat and crease retention of synthetic
cloths, their shrink-resistance, machine-
washability and other easy-care features.
But now wool had these things, too,
and it was only a matter of making them
known. For this purpose the Inter-
national Wool Secretariat was building a
garment finishing plant in Japan and
would have to build four or five such
plants in Europe.
The recent run-down in world stocks
had been responsible for the price im-
provement of wool at Australian auctions
since January. Sir William added.
This price improvement had already
added some £3O million to t e value of
the Australian wool clip.
PRICE INDICES
BASE: 1952/52 = 100
, Wholesale Price— N Government
Consumer Prices-, Index (a) Import Export Security Share
Index Goods Princi- Price Index Price Index Price Index Price Index
Total pally Home Total (b) (e) (d)
Compiled Food All Groups Produced AH Groups Sydney Stock
by f —Commonwealth Statistician N Reserve Bank v Exchange
1958/59 115 116 108 . 105 106 68 96 163
1959/60 120 119 114 109 107 76 96 221
1960/61 128 124 119 113 109 70 93 219
(e) (e)
1961/62
July 114 109 109 72 92 219
August 112 107 109 72 92 216
September 128 125 111 106 109 71 92 214
October 108 1 04 1 09s 70 94 213
November 107 103 109 s 69 95 213
December 125 124 108 s 104 s 109 s 70s 95 211
January 109 105 109 s 71s 96 218
February n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 96 229
(a) Wholesale Price (Basic Materials and Foodstuffs) Index. (b) Index of f.o.b. price of goods leaving
country of origin in period shown, (c) Since July, 1959, net price of current yield of a theoretical 15-year
bond whose price on 1952/53 average long-term bond yields is 100. Income from bonds is subject to current
Federal taxation less a rebate of 2s. in the pound, (d) Shares of companies listed on Sydney Stock Exchange.
(e) Quarter ended, (s) Subject to revision.
Source: Reserve Bank of Australia.


REVIEWS
THEATRE
NOBLE ROMANS
Coriolanus. Shakespeare. Sydney Uni-
versity Players. Union Theatre.
lona Passion Play. Prod., Peter Sum-
merton. Sydney Sports Ground.
Qydney University Players presented
“Coriolanus” in a highly uneven yet
somehow highly interesting and memor-
able production by Kenneth Horler. Mr
Horler is a young producer with many
ideas but, like his actors, as yet without
the technical knowledge and experience
to give assurance and theatrical impact
to them.
Handling a big mob with real bravura,
Mr Horler was let down repeatedly by
incompetent acting but this, after all,
is a University theatre condition. Plenty
of intellect, plenty of heart, brisk attack
and guts but short on training, short
on voice, short on movement.
In the lead as Coriolanus, Mr John
Bell gave a performance which, though
it was not without distinction, once more
showed the melancholy truth that has
thrust itself forward before with this
naturally endowed young actor, that he
must learn some of the fundamentals of
his craft if he wishes to go further. The
physical strain on his vocal apparatus at
the moment is distressing to watch, and
unless he quickly gets himself into the
hands of a fine teacher, Mr Bell is he:.ded
for trouble.
At the head of the cast for merit stood
very clearly the playing of Mr John
Caden, as Coriolanus’s shrewd and testy
friend, Menenius Agrippa. Here w:.s a
true craftsman’s job of work —an oldish
man without any of the cliches of age,
every movement backed by sound mean-
ing, mt one syllable thrown away.
'T'he lona Passion Play was notable not
as an exercise in faith nor even as a
complete spectacle, but rather for the
exciting spurs it gave to the theatrically
minded imagination. The magnificent
setting that designer Michelle achieved
with her producer, Peter Summerton, and
the wonderfully evolved mass groupings,
the stern entrances of troops of soldiers
and hordes of townsfolk, rode triumph-
antly over the script’s fearsome short-
comings wihout disguising them.
There are so many nativity and miracle
and morality plays of the first order that
there can be little excuse for using this
tired script which is described as the lona
Passion Play. The Coventry cycle, or the
York, for instance, would be a magnifi-
cent vehicle for these fine talents of ours
and in place of the unsuitable Sports
Ground, how about the fine amphitheatre
of Cooper Park, Woollahra?
KEVON KEMP
SUPERB SNIPPETS
Royal Ballet. Palais Theatre. St Kilda.
As the publicity scrupulously points
out, this is a season by “Margot
Fonteyn and David Blair and (six) other
brilliant stars of the Royal Ballet.” It
is a season of superb dancing, but. in the
nature of the case, the full art of ballet is
only occasionally exhibited. Five of the
nine short pieces which comprised the
opening programme in Melbourne are
snippets from longer works. It was all
rather like a symphony concert in a
country town: three overtures and half-
a-dozen concert waltzes.
Nevertheless, this company must be
seen. Margot Fonteyn, as no one needs
to be told, is a very great artist, but she
does not dominate the company in any
uncomfortable way. All eight of these
dancers are in the first class, and one
other of them, Bryan Shaw, is among
the dancers of the century.
People who can afford to see only one
programme are advised to choose care-
fully. The only substantial work in the
programme I saw was Frederick Ash-
ton’s “Birthday Offering”. This is a
splendid display piece, but is hardly big
enough in scope to form a satisfying
high-point. Other complete works to be
presented at various times during the
season are Fokine’s “Le Spectre de la
Rose,” and “Ballabile” by Roland Petit.
Perhaps the best bet of all would be
Frederick Ashton’s much praised “Sym-
phonic Variations,” which is designed for
six soloists-—two of the originals, Fon-
teyn and Shaw, being in this company.
JAMES MURPHY
TOO PRIVATE
Separate Tables. Terence Rattigan.
Canberra Repertory Society.
'T'erence Rattigan’s play is technically
A skilful and psychologically interest-
ing. It consists of two separate self-
contained plays, which are linked by
being set in the same second-rate private
hotel, and by the presence of some of
the residents who are still around after
the four years or so between the plays.
Both plays turn on the problem of loneli-
ness, in a man and a woman, though
with sufficient variation to stimulate the
actors who “double” these parts. Both
end similarly with the hope that the
two lonely souls will help each other
through.
The merits of a script are no guarantee
of a successful production, as the Can-
berra Repertory Society demonstrated.
Potentially that public room set provides
a wonderful pretext for constant changes
of mood and frequent re-groupings ot
characters. In practice, it conceals a
danger which the producer (Douglas
Skinner) did not overcome. Many of
these groups are self-contained, as sep-
arate from each other as their own meal
tables; yet they should all strike us as
belonging to the same world; they should
all act within the same convention. They
did not: praiseworthy and even excel-
lent as all the performances were in
isolation, they did not agree to form a
whole.
All this was regrettable, for the in-
dividual standard of acting was high;
the set, ingenious; many scenes, highly
effective; and Elizabeth Webb as
Manageress was a splendid stabilising
influence in a part consistently sustained
in the two plays.
HOPE HEWITT


FILMS
BRUTALISED SPONGER
Rocco and His Brothers. Savoy. Syd-
ney.
TO occo is one of four brothers who, after
their father's death, leave their im-
poverished Lucanian village for Milan to
join their eldest brother who works there.
One of them, Simone, becomes a cham-
pion boxer but then falls in love with a
prostitute who rejects him. His form
declines until he becomes a brutalised
sponger. In the meantime, the prostitute,
after a spell in prison, meets the younger
brother, Rocco, while he is on military
service. His trust restores her belief in
herself, they fall in love and the relation-
ship continues when they return to Milan
where Rocco takes his brother’s place as
a boxing champion. One evening Simone,
who cannot believe that his brother has
taken up with his former girlfriend, hears
that they are walking together in an allot-
ment near the railway tracks. With a
group of toughs he goes there, beats up
Rocco, then rapes the girl in front of
Rocco while the others hold him. So far
so bad. But in his next scene with the
girl, Rocco’s comment is that he did not
know his brother loved her so much and
that she should return to him! From that
point onwards I watched “Rocco and His
Brothers” with the sort of idle curiosity
one would view a story about the South
American Dangs with whose behavior
one has nothing in common.
The story has its own consistency, the
prostitute does go with Simone and pur-
posely completes his degradation until he
murders her, and Rocco continues to
wrong-headedly sacrifice himself for his
brother. Yet another brother sees the
uselessness of continual forgiveness,
hands Simone over to the police and
points a moral to the youngest brother.
Luchino Visconti directs all this with
force, and Annie Giradot (the prostitute),
Katina Paxinou (the mother) and Paolo
Stoppa (the boxing manager) give fine
support to Renato Salvator who, as
Simone, is outstanding. The 175-mi;iute
film is in the powerful tradition of
naturalism which Verga started in the
novel but despite its many excellencies,
“Rocco and His Brothers” remains the
story of a too particular case without any
wider application.
DESMOND O'GRADY
MUSIC
PLAYERS AND PERFORMERS
Gina Bachauer Piano Recital. Town
Hall. Sydney.
Tf one wanted a rough-and-ready way
of characterising the difference be-
tween the music of the late eighteenth
century and that of the late nineteenth
century, one could perhaps start from the
executant’s point of view and say that
classical music must be played, whereas
late romantic, post-romantic and im-
pressionist music must be performed.
Players serve the music they play; per-
formers make the music serve them.
Gina Bachauer, judging by her second
Sydney recital, is a performer rather than
a player. The highlight of this recital was
her performance of Moussorgsky’s
“Pictures at an Exhibition.” Miss
Bachauer plays with enormous virtuosity
and power, and complements this with
a strong sense of drama and a flair for
vivid characterisation. “Pictures at an
Feiffer
YEAH-wen,. If m THINK
mcmm&t the
W* BETTER THAN W
you CAM
WAIT A
tf Witff'
HUIO'W AH T m 16 UUR-760-
VJHO ? LONG DISTANCE ? H£AH ■
THIS IS MARI/IN CAMPS - WHO?
mother? how are you
MOTHER ?
UJHO'4
ov
THf
PHOO
/
IWT "THAT iOHAT l CALL A
COmVMCE. I IfJROTE you
jusr wwm'A-Fm,
ijJEte ALL FIRE. WELL, HOU
EHOU LPM'T
HAVE
WORO£P./h
f/IAWAI,
vim'
OM
w
/
vjell, its a urne harp to
TALK RI6HT NOW M OTHEK.
RUTH AMP I APf
OMF OF OUR UJHAT l CALL
PIFF6RBUCES,
OF PPIMIOK). 1
MA?VIN).
W HO
1 HAVf
mo
m
K>
IT?
/
WO,MOTHER - MOTH/M6 TO
vMRM ABOUT. I KNOW
qOU TOLP ME IVHAT TO
EXPECT. I KNOW
M£Eos FIRM,
HAWPLIM6.
MR.
/
HONEST, MOTHER ffc BEST
LfOU PONT TALK TO HER.
iTOU KNOW HOW POU TWO
60 AT EACH OTHER'SURE,
MOTHER. 1 REALIZE SHE
STARTS IT-/'" T>\
%
W
time
-
/
6COP TO HEAR WZ VOIC£
TOO, MOWER. ILL WRITE
A6AIM AT THE EVP OF THE
W EEK. LISTED, THAWXS FOR
THE PRESENTS FOR THE
KIPS-
WHO
lr/A-6
IT?
YOUR
MOTHER.
©m-
im
fciffsK


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
•
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Exhibition” was an ideal vehicle for her.
She was equally at home with the brood-
ing romanticism of “The Old Castle”, the
flurry of “The Market Place”, and the
grandiose monumental picture drawn by
The Great Gate at Kiev.”
Just as good on a rather different plane
was Miss Bachauer’s performance of a
fantastically ingenious transcription by
Busoni of Bach’s Toccata Air and Fugue
in C major, originally written for organ.
This is no easy task, but Miss Bachauer
was more than equal to it. (I liked Miss
Bachauer’s performance more than I
liked the music.)
Miss Bachauer’s limitations with re-
spect to Mozart are the obverse of
her natural affinity for Moussorgsky,
of whom she is undoubtedly a great in-
terpreter. I would have been glad to hear
Miss Bachauer play some music by Liszt
or by her teacher, Rachmaninoff two
composers who deserve to be “per-
formed” if ever any composer did; and I
hope that we have this opportunity when,
and if, Miss Bachauer returns to Sydney.
JOHN SMALL
ART
WELCOME VIGOR
Contemporary Art Society. Queensland
Branch. Hardy Bros. Gallery. Bris-
bane.
'"This newly-formed group is having its
first annual autumn show ; 63 mem-
bers exhibit 76 works of painting, sculp-
ture and ceramics. The Society has made
a very good start and is welcome for
its youthful vigor and fresh, earnest
work. The show is a mixture of represen-
tational work of wide individual vari-
ation and abstraction. The latter is
totally lacking in style and quite un-
intelligible. It is obviously painted for
initiates only and is simply status symbols
for snobs who cannot have the remotest
idea of what it is all about.
There is some really good representa-
tional art shown, imaginative, original
and technically sound, obviously done
with feeling and enjoyment. Andrew
Sibley has a glorious painting of a
“Queensland Homestead” in a kind of
fairy-tale, fantasy mood. Henry Bell’s
“Rocky Outcrop” is clever and beautiful.
The various facets of the rock surface
are at all sorts of angles to each other
and Bell has clearly and deliberately
overdone his color which is exuberant
and glowing over a wide spectrum
from blue to orange. Joy Roggenkamp’s
“Nightscape,” Irene Amos’s “Jetty,”
Petra Krepel’s firmly drawn, unfussed,
portrait head are fine. As a piece of
pure pattern for, say, a carpet, Lilian
Gunthorpe’s “Painting” is admirable, an
intricate design like the serpentine con-
tortions in the Laocoon in light brown
and pale blue.
A very striking feature was the sculp-
ture: four heads gracefully handled by
the young French-Jugoslav, Jean Likic ;
lan Still’s “Sentient Figures” in unf.red
clay, an appealing pair of human figures ;
and lan Moon’s ceramics, as good as
anything in the show.
J. V. DUHIG.
INNER TENSIONS
Andrew Sibley. South Yarra Gallery.
Warwick Armstrong. Isabel Hunting-
ton. Argus Gallery. Melbourne.
'"There is every reason to applaud the
A rapid rise of the young Queensland
painter, Andrew Sibley. The present show
is his first exhibition in Melbourne, and
has proved a resounding success with a
large public and with buyers, who no
doubt appreciate the very modest prices
as well as the high quality of the work.
He is a lively and thoughtful painter.
Most of the paintings in this exhibition
are of figures in landscapes, the one
merging into the other in strikingly
vivid patterns of transparent color.
About the easiest comparison of their
general effect would be with stained glass.
The surfaces are brilliantly colored, and
the obliteration of sharp edges, without
any loss of clarity, is cleverly contrived.
Although some are repetitive, and
hence fail to elucidate their particular
subjects, the greater number of the works
evoke a strong and haunting sense of
loneliness and inner tension, a sense that
the fleeting people are being lost in their
overpowering surroundings or divided by
the different personalities within them.
It is interesting to see, too, that Sibley
is by no means committed to a single
style. “Creek” is a finely controlled
abstracted landscape, of a kind we are
becoming accustomed to from our best
painters ; while “Beach,” for all its revolt-
ing cajor and its apparent uneasiness
amidst ipMnore beautiful companions, is
an acidulous piece of deliberate vulgarity
which shocks only because it dares to
cut close to reality. If he intends pursu-
ing that line, he must keep reminding
himself, to guard against disappointment,
that even in painting, people are more
interested in the world they want than
in the world they know.
AV/Hile there is nothing surprising in the
double exhibition at the Argus Gal-
lery, there is a good deal of polished,
agreeable painting. Warwick Armstrong,
the distinguished theatre designer, re-
minds one forcibly of Paul Klee in some
of his drawings, but it is a style rather
than ideas which has been imitated, with
the result that the artist’s own comic and
whimsical view still comes through
strongly. His ships, steam buses, carts
and old buildings are most enjoyable. A
series of abstract oils are more his own,
and display a finely balanced sense of
construction in line coupled with a gift
for drawing the full effect from a
restrained use of color.
Isabel Huntington’s landscapes and
flower pieces suffer somewhat from their
profusion. One is likely to pass over the
best because of the minimal differences
in subject and approach. Overall, the
effect is very pleasant, and the occasional
introduction into the gardens and land-
scapes of a figure or a face lifts the
paintings to a level of tranquil lyricism,
which, though present in most of the
>vork, is not always immediately striking.
BILL HANNAN


THE RED PAGE
THAT CERTAIN BOOK
TOUCHING SUBTLE NERVES
By KYLIE TENNANT
Tohn Cowper Powys is 90 years old
" this year. It is not only by living so
long that he has won the veneration
which Somerset Maugham cynically de-
clared made a very old novelist's work
esteemed by the English. For thirty
years his admirers have regarded him as
the great master of English prose. Each
decade young men and women have dis-
covered him for themselves, throwing
open his books like a crusted pirates’
chest on a lonely shore.
The devotees of Powys will argue
whether “A Glastonbury Romance " or
the “Autobiography” is his greatest book.
They have private preferences for
“Jobber Skald” or “Wolf Solent” or
even “Owen Glendower” ; but what they
are savoring without perhaps being con-
sciously aware of is John Cowper
Powys the man. Many people have this
attitude towards an author they have
adopted in a special relationship. They
are content with even a poor book pro-
vided it is written by one unique author
who touches some nerve, as Powys him-
self would say, too subtle and deep for
any other to pluck it.
By the time the “Autobiography” came
out in 1934 John Cowper Powys was al-
ready a literary landmark of the same
sort that Joyce Cary later became, one
towering figure on whom you fixed your
sights, a reassuring familiar presence in
the literary landscape. I made my dis-
covery of Powys in “A Glastonbury Ro-
mance” but it was the “Autobiography”
that clinched it. I am afraid that for
all my profound admiration for the
sweep of Powys’s imagination, that extra-
ordinary vocabulary hurtling like
molten lead over some invisible battle-
ment, and his remarkable evocation of
landscape and how he loved to de-
scribe streams with a wet evening closing
in, fields with one old deserted hut,
ponds or folds of hills, and such tremen-
dous and numinous ruins as Stonehenge
and Maiden Castle —however much I
appreciated, admired, savored, almost
nestled down cosily in his feathers, I
could only chuckle with indulgent amuse-
ment at those extraordinary love-scenes
with which “A Glastonbury Romance”
is so lavishly provided.
His “autobiography” will remain one
of the great autobiographies because
from it emerges a man so many-sided
that he is the human race in a con-
glomerate of foibles, superstitions, sim-
plicities, nonsense and sound wisdom. In
the best of his novels he tried to write like
Homer, Dostoevsky and Wordsworth at
once and sometimes you feel he succeeds.
Even his failures are more startling and
interesting than other men’s mediocre
triumphs. But in the “Autobiography”
the extraordinary person, glimpsed at in
the novels under so many masks, so many
hundreds of aspects, talks at last in his
own tones:
To write a majestic epic you must be
ugly or distorted, you have to be blind
like Homer, or be tormented by your
daughters and blind too, like Milton.
Even to write a great Prose-Epic you have
to spend ten years of your life with con-
victs and live in exile and see your child
die of under-nourishment like Dostoevsky
or be in perpetual danger of actual
insanity like Neitsche. It is useless to
remind me how sane and well balanced
we are taught to regard Shakespeare as
being. It’s not true!
John Cowper Powys has seen himself
from boyhood as a prophet, a Welsh
bard, a “Messenger of the Gods”, rather
than a novelist or essayist. In his fifteen
years of lecturing in the United States (so
that he could support his son through the
education of an English gentleman) he
must have poured out thousands of hours
of extempore eloquence that held his
audiences spellbound.
“Before long I found that I could
summon up in my lectures something that
resembled that Druidic hypnotism of
speech which in my ‘Glastonbury
Romance’ I have attributed to Mr Geard.”
In the “Autobiography” you have
magnificent tirades on everything—
“fashionable Herods”, vivisectionists,
materialists, “Broad Church stupidity.”
“Damn them, they ought never to have
been allowed to cheapen the subtle
Christian religion, that only idiots and
poets and saints and angels and devils
understood, to their own level of com-
monplace morality.”
Why is it I no longer seek the company
of one whom I had long taken for
granted, not only as an author of out-
standing merit, but as a favorite stretched
out on the hearth rug of my mind?
Just as after long absorption of some
drug your bloodstream rejects what once
was of advantage, so can a reader’s mind
become so imbued in an admired author
that the time comes when he rejects,
unwillingly, what was before pleasant
and wholesome for him. I open that book
of brave and admirable essays, “The Art
of Growing Old”, and find the same
tantalising hue-and-cry of ideas going off
across country that would once have
roused me to pursuit. To call the race-
worship of the Germans and Japanese
“a squid-like totem” is fair enough, but
“it is essentially a sex-phenomenon, with
an element approximating to, though
never quite reaching homosexual incest.”
Once I would have wanted to know
why he thought so ; now I quietly close
the book.
T think it was the element of intensity
A in the later books that robbed me of his
company. No matter how good a man’s
conversation, vehemence will in the end
cause you to avoid him. Powys is not,
as one correspondent to the “Times”
pointed out, a writer of fiction. Like
Lawrence and Hardy, fiction is only a
convenience to him. In the novels you
find perverts, lunatics, idiots, while even
the normal have all kinds of psychic
twists. But in spite of hints that they are
due to dig up corpses or practise unmen-
tionable rites, you seldom meet them save
at afternoon tea exchanging common-
places charged with undermeanings that
thicken the air with a vague nameless
terror.
For years I pressed the works of John
Cowper Powys on persons who did not
know them. Then I was asked to review
one of the later novels. The heavy apathy
with which I opened it, the lack-lustre
indifference of my response surprised me.
I clung to the belief that his work must,
to the end, meet with my approval.
But it didn't.
I prefer to think that it was not his
fault, that the old originality, eloquence
and descriptive power were all there, but
that now for me he labored in vain.
I grieve over this a little. Are the later
books trivial and fatuous, drowned in
the flood of words? I can no longer
even read the early books, so I know
the fault is mine. Is it, as Powys would
say, the evil of primal matter, the First
Cause, or viciousness of soul?
Not a bit of it. You can take just
so much of an author. Then you stop.
Suppose you are looking at a beautiful
view. The time comes when just to go
on looking becomes boring and weari-
some because it is still there. I had
read Powys until I had a surfeit of the
very virtues which aroused my enthusiasm
in the first place.


DOWN WITH THE NOBLE SAVAGE
By LEONIE KRAMER
T'Vebates as to the real nature of man
are as old as philosophy, and as
inconclusive. Is he a rational animal, or
is he at the mercy of instinctive forces
which are part of his evolutionary in-
heritance? Is he made in the image of
God, and hence capable of recognising
and a*piring to a state of being higher
than the mundane level of his physical
existence? Or is it a fact (and Marek
reminds us of Feuerbach’s remark) “that
it was not God who made men, but men
who made themselves a God”? Is man
born innocent and noble, only to be cor-
rupted by the artificiality of civilisation?
Or has he evolved from a primitive
savage into a creature capable of pro-
ducing and enjoying the refinements,
artistic and social, of civilised life?
The history of ideas demonstrates that
on these questions people will arrive at
the answers they want. Selection of evi-
dence is not the monopoly of politicians.
Temperament supplies even the thinker
who seems most rational with a belief
which he will then proceed to “prove”;
and where conviction motivates, appro-
priate evidence will easily be found.
“Man, God and Magic”* and “African
Genesis”! are striking illustrations of this
thesis. Robert Ardrey is a playwright
turned archaeologist-paleontologist. His
sense of the drama of life past, present
and future is colorful rather than subtle.
Excitement, conflict and discovery inspire
him. His prose is declamatory—a strident
commentary upon some of the significant
archaeological and zoological discoveries
of the present century. Not that Lissner
is a soft-voiced recorder of history ; but
his are the solemn impressive tones of
what T. S. Eliot in a very different con-
text has called “the supernatural music
from behind the wings.”
Oscar Wilde once unkindly, but with
some justification, remarked of Words-
worth that “he found in stones the
sermons he had already hidden there.” I
can think of no better way of sum-
marising the attitudes of Ardrey and
Lissner. In justice, however, it must be
said that Ardrey at least gives the im-
pression of approaching his subject with
fewer preconceptions. This is to a degree
a misleading impression, for with the
dramatist’s skill and instinct for suspense
and disguise he places his key chapter
in the centre of the book and not, as
would have been more honest but less
“dramatic,” at the beginning. Rousseau
is his villain ; Raymond Dart his hero ;
and “Down with the noble savage” is his
battle cry.
When Dart unearthed the Taungs skull
in the Transvaal in 1924 he can hardly
have imagined that nearly 40 years later
it would be used as an anti-romantic
memento mori. Ardrey’s thesis briefly
is that man never was a noble savage.
Accepting Dart’s later speculations about
Australopithecus africanus as a weapon-
bearing man-ape, he asserts that man by
origin, inheritance and thus by nature
(his most important logical slide), is a
predatory animal; that territorial claims
and not sex are paramount with him ;
and that civilisation does not, as Rous-
seau supposed, destroy the natural in-
nocence of primitive man. On the con-
trary, man has to be disciplined to control
his killer instincts in the interests of
society. It follows (according to Ardrey)
that juvenile delinquents are not delin-
quent, but merely natural. (“West Side
Story” is not only honest and exciting
but anthropologically accurate); Freud is
misguided in allowing sex the centre of
the stage (a father is not a problem to
his sons but only to his political con-
temporaries); Marxian socialism, assert-
ing that man’s nature is peaceable and
good, “represents the most stunning and
cataclysmic triumph of the romantic fal-
lacy over the minds of rational men.”
Marx, he asserts, has persuaded his dis-
ciples that man’s social environment is
the root of all evil, and so today Marxism
is “the opium of the masses.” Mr
Ardrey’s conclusion is that man is acting
in accordance with ineradicable instinc-
tive urges in engaging in the arms race.
His moral might be phrased “Know thy-
self as arm-bearing predator.” It has the
uncomfortable consequence that while
nuclear warfare might lead to man’s
destruction, the destruction of warfare
might lead to his complete disorientation.
Ardrey’s arguments are supported by
zoological and anthropological evidence
of considerable interest. Some of the
same evidence is produced by Lissner as
proof of the existence of God. In Liss-
ner, Rousseau has a champion. The
savage is more noble than wild. Man is,
and always has been, a religious being. To
accept the anthropological significance
of the Taungs skull is not to accept the
thesis that man is an ape with a bigger
brain. At the moment when homo be-
came sapiens he also acquired a soul;
with it he acquired monotheism. Lissner
turns to the American Indians and primi-
tive Siberian tribes for evidence that
polytheism was never a characteristic of
early societies. As soon as man stood
upright he lifted his eyes to the hills and
saw one God. Remarkably, Lissner has
no difficulties about pre-Christian con-
ceptions of divinity. There is apparently
no limbo in his divine comedy.
So in these two ideologically opposed
books is yet another demonstration that
agreement about evidence is no barrier
to disagreement about conclusions. Of
the two books, Ardrey’s is both noisier
and less doctrinaire. Lissner exhibits the
logic of a man who lives happily with
untested assumptions, and to whom
petitio principii is second nature. Both
produce evidence which without neces-
sarily supporting their arguments, renders
them supportable.
Ultimately, of course, one is involved
here in the old argument about causality.
Ardrey with his anthropological and
archaeological evidence, and Lissner with
his accounts of primitive rituals, are
asking the past to supply answers to and
reasons for the present. So it would not
be inappropriate to end with a quotation
from Kurt Marek’s series of notes, reflec-
tions and aphorisms. “For many years,”
he writes, “zoologists answered the ques-
tion as to why the giraffe had so long a
neck by saying: ‘So that it can reach the
leaves on the trees.’ . . . The mixture of
teleology and causality in everyday
language is indicated by a sign that I
saw in 1959 outside the cage of the
striped hyena in the Frankfurt Zoo: ‘The
slanting line of the back is the conse-
quence of an overdeveloped forequarter’.”
*Man, God and Magic. Ivar Lissner.
Jonathan Cape. 51s. 6d.
f African Genesis. Robert Ardrey. Col-
lins. 44s. 9d.
*Yestermorrow. Kurt W. Marek.
Andre Deutsch. 22s. 6d.
THE PROSPECT BEFORE US
Prospect. Vol. 5, No. 1. 2s. 6d.
“OROSPECt” is a Radical Catholic Re-
view, radical in the nineteenth-
century sense, taking its stand on moral
principles and criticising fiercely what-
ever fails to measure up to them. This
is admirable. We need a gadfly, and it
comes as a surprise to notice that we
have had “Prospect” with us for five years
now.
Australia in the 60s is a Utilitarian
society, but we enjoy the benefits of this
old-fashioned Radical ideal without
spending a penn’wth of our passion for
it; we have inherited the Earthly Paradise
of the nineteenth-century reformers, but
we don’t do much about improving the
estate. Perhaps the success of our grand-
fathers’ ideals has killed our divine dis-
content, and even taken the edge off our
prudence?
As Radicals, the Prospect Group refuse


to be content with anything less than a
perfect implementation of humanistic
principles in society. As Christians, they
know very well that even this would not
make us all happy. It would relieve dis-
tress, but nothing in this life can ever
make us entirely happy, and that is a
joke on us. A Christian radical has a
special kind of disinterestedness, since
he works for a millenium that he wouldn’t
believe in, even if he lived to see it. But
this doesn’t make him a whit less tough
he can be tough right to the point of
intransigence.
'T'he latest issue of “Prospect” is de-
voted largely to a discussion of “The
Education Empire,” and in one of the
longest contributions, “Reinstating Orr,”
William Ginnane takes a moral line too
strong to be popular. He is replying to
criticisms of an earlier article of his
made by Mr A. Porteous in “Prospect”
and by lessrs Donald Horne and Peter
Coleman in The Bulletin, and Ginnane
flatly restates his original case; if you
believe that Orr was unjustly accused,
then you must believe that he ought to
be cleared, and if cleared, given his chair
back. Any other view is in Ginnane's
book sheer evasion of the moral issue.
And this point cannot be dodged. Cer-
tainly we live by compromises, and in
the event of a new inquiry finding him
innocent, Orr might not insist on his full
moral rights, and he would probably
accept some amende honorable less than
reinstatement. But no one could expect
this from him as their due. If he has
been unjustly deprived of what is his
then he must have it again, and Ginnane
is scornful of condescending talk about
“rehabilitating Orr,” “one uses that
language with reference to released con-
victs.” The stand that Ginnane takes is
intransigent and it will not appeal to
easy men, but we would like to see an
argument good enough to budge him
from it. Ginnane believes in the sanctity
neither of Establishments nor of Com-
promises; and compromises of principle
he will not tolerate at all. A harsh
preacher in the Church of the Laodicians.
“Prospect's” concern for education is
by no means entirely taken up with
university scandals (though there is an
editorial demand that the findings in
“the Sharp case” be made public), and
three substantial contributions draw
attention to important issues in University
and Secondary education in Australia.
An editorial article on “The Preven-
tion of Universities” raises the whole
question of the concept of a university,
and suggests that the traditional ideal
of an intellectual community in which
teachers and pupils come at the truth in
a personal dialogue, is being replaced
bit by bit by the concept of a university
as a mere collection of professional train-
ing schools, where the technologists of
our society can be machined off to fit
into their slots.
Nor are the editors “crying wolf” if
their account of the views of Professor
Broadbent (University of New South
Wales) is accurate. Professor Broadbent
seems to rush upon the doubtfully in-
evitable, and embrace it with uncritical
affection ; the university teacher as we
have known him is to be replaced by the
patent pabulum (pigswill) pump, a man
who prepares notes for his students, and
feeds them out by way of the wireless
and the TV. “You too can have a uni-
versity in your own lounge room.”
Fiddle faddle? Of course it is! But the
moral is, as “Prospect” points out, that
we should re-consider the notion, that we
have facilely accepted, of a university
as no more than “a collection of social
functions,” a kind of posh Polytechnic
for the affluent society, teaching you all
you need to know in your job at no
great expense to your intellect or spirit.
If everything else comes pre-packed these
days, why can't the University Intellec-
tual Supermart fall into line too? “Pros-
pect” promises to spend the rest of the
year telling us exactly how silly that
question is : and obviously some people
need to be told.
’T'here is a brace of articles on Secon-
dary education ; the first, “Teach-
ing in the Dark” by Grantley Adams,
draws attention to the structure of the
new Trained Secondary Teachers’ Cer-
tificate proposed ’ y the Victorian De-
partment of Education. If the facts are
as they are represented, it is indeed a
sorry business. For all their faults (and as
a university man I know some of them),
our universities are better places to
educate teachers in than claustrophobic
training colleges, moulded to the hearts’
desires of educationalists and officials.
Our pupils can tall: back at us, they are
not going to have to work f-r is when
they are through.
The second of the articles is on
“Equality in Education.” In it Kathleen
Woolf examines critically Fr Kevin
O’Sullivan’s pamphlet “Equality in Edu-
cation,” in which he argues for certain
forms of financial assistance for inde-
pendent religious schools. Miss Woolf
disagrees both with Fr O'Sullivan’s argu-
ments, and with his proposals, not be-
cause they would take some of the cud
from the sacred cow of State Education,
but because they are not radical enough.
She wants to see public money used to
support all kinds of independent schools.
The radical note is softer in the rest
of the matter in this “Prospect,” though
Bruce Dawe’s five poems are brilliantly
caustic, Wal Cherry’s “Notes on Aus-
tralian Dramatists” unflattering, and some
reviews of some poets no more than they
deserve, and that richly.
It is important to notice the genuine
constructiveness and charity which are
the other side of the tough critical atti-
tude; there is a promise of some sensible
discussion in the future about The Bomb,
and an excellent and heartfelt article on
“The Cause of Christian Reunion” by
Fr W. G. Smith S.J. His concern is
genuinely with Christian reunion, and
not with the settling of old sectarian
scores. We cannot overestimate the im-
portance of this climate of opinion.
I shall close this review with a mildly
sectarian joke, charitably intended. Some-
one asked me the other day what had
become of the old Non-conformist con-
science that wrecked such havoc on the
nineteenth-century Establishments, “Oh,
didn't you know, it went over to Rome,
and got a job on ‘Prospect.’ ”
PATRICK HUTCHINGS
WITHERED EVENING
The Collected Poems of Ronald Bot-
trall. Sidgwick & Jackson. 255.
Poems in English. Samuel Beckett.
John Calder. 20s. 6d.
Poems. Sheila Cudahy. Collins. 15s. 6d.
Here In The Grass. Irene Gough.
Edwards & Shaw. 15s.
iven these four books to deal with in
a few words, a disgruntled reviewer
might feel justified in saying he would
willingly exchange the lot for a new poem
by A. D. Hope.
Ronald Bottrall was annunciated by F.
R. Leavis three nostalgic decades ago ;
Samuel Beckett was once secretary to
James Joyce ; Sheila Cudahy and Irene
Gough are unknown to me apart from
the books under review.
The key word in Bottrall, no doubt,
is nostalgia. Offered to us originally by
Leavis as one of the two young poets
(the other was Auden) who might be
expected to carry on the good work of
Eliot; ushered in here with a reprinted
and characteristically fulsome preface by
Edith Sitwell and a sub-Leavisian intro-
duction by Charles Tomlinson, Bottrall
in collection is a crashing disappoint-
ment.
The trouble with Bottrall is disclosed
in his own naive statement that, when he
first read Pound’s “Hugh Selwyn
Mauberley”, “the scales fell from my
eyes and I saw, or thought I saw, how
contemporary verse should be written.”
(Tomlinson, with equal naivete and less
excuse, quotes this with approval). For
thirty years Bottrall has been trying to
write contemporary verse, with the
emphasis alas on contemporary. Leavis
(Continued on page 61)


POEMS
Fog at Midnight
Walking in the mountain’s breath,
The milky medium that sprawls
Quilting paddocks dank as death,
We slope and straggle. Muffled air
Before, between, behind, recalls
Separation to a mind
That moves in company too much;
Heavy vapor draws a blind
On the play of quip and glance.
What is here that I can touch?
What is here that I might reach
Except the prickling drops that blow
Onto my brow? The fronds of speech
Have become irrelevant
To what we are and where we go.
Gates, wet road, oracular trees
Guide us forward, circumscribe
The play of shifting sympathies
In whose toils we all are caught,
Doomed to recognise our tribe.
All afternoon I punned and smiled
Wearing a dishonest face;
Perfectly unreconciled
To my colleagues and their clack,
I bore them with the worst of grace.
Now the fog insists upon
Mutual needs and common ways;
Yellow lights of home are gone.
Draw together; recognise
This is where we spend our days.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE
Early Walk
Well loved, well dressed, well housed, well
nourished,
I walked from where the town has flourished
Foursquare on money and the raw
Neutrality of solid brick.
Spirit, you heartloose scavenger,
Bring me those mornings when I saw
These tangling weeds and grasses quick
To color sunshine, when clear air
Sustained the swallows’ prophecy.
Collage will tear. The citizenry
Slap on insecticided shops:
“Civility and Cleanliness”
Which the wind rips away to places
Where the old live on crusts and slops;
Under the fringe of loneliness
Death sweeps too many names and faces.
I was a child believing all
Were loved as I was loved. The fall
Of sparrows was my text of pity.
An old man combs the Council tip
For comforts, comfort’s refugee.
His bleak wind scours my charming city.
His hunger puckers my firm lip.
Christ, keep my anger sharp in me!
MIRIAM STONE
Car Trip at Dusk
I
The Virgin Mary dressed in blue
Stood high above the pious sea,
But could not move her stony head.
Or was she light upon the stones
Along this coast of razor light?
I am deceived so easily.
1 know that visions are a trick
But I am made to look for forms
Where rocks comply as light grows black.
II
If she constructs the rising blue,
The mountains, dusk above the sea,
I almost know thoughts in her head.
The car moves close to trees and stones,
Uncertain as time blunts the light.
The road now moves so easily
Until I feel roads are a trick—
The only certainty, the forms
In cloud, those legends almost black.
111
The town, three miles away in blue,
Perhaps is lost beneath the sea,
Or only drowned within my head.
At dusk, emotions are like stones
Stacked high above the road in light
That makes me fear so easily.
But in myself I play a trick;
I look for certainty, those forms
That are not there. My thought grows black.
IV
The town is real, not merely blue
And almost lost beneath the sea:
So life returns within my head.
At night, emotions melt though stones
Remain complacent, calm in light
That soon will die so easily.
Such thoughts at dusk are just a trick;
The bumpkin streets are all the forms
I apprehend as cliffs grow black.
R. A. SIMPSON
After Tasman
Chartered your coast without once touching land,
Spinning on shore tides. Land would have me
drowned,
Earth-drenched, tree-weed tangled, hills in waves
Mounting until the seventh seized me. Found
Sea to be safer, sea between the islands
Running white with gulls, gull-lonely, green—
Sea-scaped along your earth-whims. And I saw—
Guessed at, rather, dune-hidden, still unseen—
The inland gentleness beyond the peaks
Scaled at a first assault, the tender miles
Grass-warm with summer, and my thin white
feet
Exploratory and tentative as smiles.
THEA ASTLEY


EARN A
SPARE-TIME INCOME
BY YOUR PEN!
Learn Story Writing, Freelance Journa-
lism, Radio/TV Scriptwriting, etc., by
excellent correspondence training
through STOTT’S, and learn in your
spare time as a writer.
Write today for free Prospectus.
in “New Bearings” praised “The Thyrsus
Retipped” here is one stanza :
Microscopic anatomy of ephemerides,
Power-house stacks, girder-ribs,
provide a crude base
But man is what he eats, and they
are not bred
Flesh of our flesh, being unrelated
Experientially, fused in no emotive
furnace.
The dead hand of Pound lies equally
heavy on poems written in the 19505:
A cindery and withered evening.
Dilapidated like my soul ;
It is the old anguish,
Tenant of my customary melancholy.
All this is a pity, because Bottrall can
write w'ell when he is not desperately
trying to be modern after Proud’s
fashion.
If Bottrall’s poems take us back to the
days of “New Verse” and the young
Auden and the first welcome dose of
Leavis’s astringency, Beckett’s take us
back even further, to the days of
transition and the earliest bits of “Work
in Progress”. Beckett is an original and
profoundly interesting prose writer; his
poems seem the sort of pretentious
nonsense that passed for avant-garde
more than forty years ago.
Above the mansions the algum-trees
the mountains
my skull suddenly
clot of anger
skewered aloft strangled in the cang
of the wind
bites like a dog against its
chastisement
(The example is both more comprehen-
sible and more like poetry than most of
the book).
Sheila Cudahy is more difficult to write
about than Bottrall or Beckett. In a way
she is like Bottrall in that she tries too
hard. An inordinately long and uncon-
vincing blurb lays emphasis on her
philosophical intentions. These are pre-
sumably responsible for such lines as:
A middle-aged fool, a messianic
incompetent
devoted to drubbing abstract
dichotomies
which she coolly noted meet in life ;
in fact, their couplings produce a
supple breed
of possible alternatives and viable
accidents.
In fact, like Bottrall, Sheila Cudahy can
write quite well when she is not being
wrong-headedly ambitious:
While with a gelded glittering delight
The proud dark angel walks on the
marine
Where rising tides reflect the carnal
splendor
Of the world and suck the falling
light
Of stars into their deep subaqueous
green.
Sheila Cudahy is American. Irene
Gough is Australian, and the simplest of
these four poets. Her voice is not, as her
publishers claim, “taut, mellow and con-
trolled”—it is slack, a little shrill, and
uncertain. Her strength is a feeling for
the Australian landscape ; but she
clutters her verse w'ith properties: mulga
boughs, saltbush, cassia, cat-birds, jewel
beetles, eremophila . . .Also, she is some-
times bathetic in a late 19th century
way:
And I who watch here know they
who are gone
And had no name for beauty needed
none.
But if she sheds her excrescences and her
stale romanticisms, and learns from
Robert Frost how to tell the sort of stories
she tells in “Inheritance” and “Yootcho-
wonda”, Irene Gough may become an
interesting poet.
If this review' seems sour. 1 hope it is
only because I find too little in these
four books of that fusion of rhythm,
imagery, and emotion that characterises
one of Bottrall’s earlier and best poems,
“To A Chinese Girl”:
But piercing through the envelope
I defined
Clarity when your hair ran streaming
jet
Irradiated by a luminous wind.
It is the luminous wind I miss.
T. H. JONES
PRIVATE CONVERSATIONS
Frieda Lawrence: The Memoirs and
Correspondence. Edited bv E. W.
Tedlock. Heinemann. 51s. 6d.
A fter publishing “Not I But The
Wind"’ in 1934, Frieda Lawrence
started to write what she intended to be
a complete autobiography. She seems to
have worked at it intermittently far a
number of years, but it remained a frag-
ment. It is mostly told in the third per-
son, and though it has been carefully
edited by Professor Tedlock of the Uni-
versity of New Mexico, it would, I think,
lack coherence and continuity for anyone
who came to it without some previous
knowledge of Frieda’s life with D. H.
Lawrence. Except for a vivid account
of her trip to Buenos Aires in the autumn
and spring of 1933-34 to visit her third
husband’s brother and sister, and some
of the sections devoted to her childhood
memories, the memoir tends to be broken
and scattered and one could not make the
claims for it as an independent work that
could be made for “Not I But The
Wind.” This fragment show's Frieda as
an intelligent, vigorous and sympathetic
woman, but it does not reveal her as a
creative writer in her own right.
The letters and essays which form the
bulk of the book are valuable and mov-
ing. The comments on various w'orks
that have appeared on Lawrence are im-
portant correctives to any simplified
image one might have of him as a man ;
“the popular figure of a crucified failure
is not the Lawrence 1 knew for eighteen
years,” she declares in one essay. Her
letters to F. R. Leavis, Witter Bynner,
Edw'ard Garnett, and those to Harry T.
Moore rectifying some of the stories and
facts in his biography, “The Intelligent
Heart,” are a gift to literary historians
and biographers. Together with her
letters to other friends and relatives, they
show 7 her great lv~ - ty and candor,
generosity and vitality.
The letters to Frieda's parents from
Ernest Weekely are perhaps the most
painful and disturbing in the book: they
fill in the other side of the picture and


Q UADRANT
Tlie Autumn issue contains stories by PAT-
KICK WHITE and JOHN HETHERING-
TO,\. A large part of a narrative poem by
EVAN JONES is given. ANN WENTZ EL
writes on early Composers of Music in Aus-
tralia. and ELIZABETH FELTIIAM com-
pares Francis Webb with tlie U.S. poet
Robert Lovell. E. L. WHEELWRIGHT
discusses “Wliat is' to be done” in economic
policy. NAN CHATJNCY writes on children's
books. Porteus’s handling of the Lawrencc-
Leavis issue is discussed by JENNIFER
GRIBBLE.
On sale at booksellers or leading
newsagents, or at
G.P.O. Box 4714, Sydney.
For Sale
BONDI JUNCTION, Business Board estab., fully fur.,
1 minute- to shops, 5 b’rooms, 8 guests. A home and
business in one. Low rental, phone. Would sell on
W.1.W.0. basis or arrange. Schools, churches, beaches
within walking distance. Full particulars, GRAHAM,
38 Grosvenor St., Woollahra, N.S.W. Phone:
38-4645. No agents.
Missing Friend
KENSINGTON, Estates of LOUISA M., OLIVIA I
Will_ any descendants of WILLIAM CHARLES
KENSINGTON, former New Zealand Under-Secretary
for Lands and Immigration, who died on August 20,
1922, at Marton, please write as soon as possible to
CHRISTENSON & STANFORD, Solicitors, P.O. Box
23, Marton, NEW ZEALAND.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. — lx Divorce.
TO VIVIENNE HETTY COOK.—TAKE NOTICE that
WILLIAM JOHN COOK has ' filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1906 of 1961 on the ground of actual
desertion. If you wish to defend you may file an
answer in the Divorce Registrv Supreme Court Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the Ist dav of June 1962 ml
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
MCDONALD 1- McDONALI), Solicitor,, 17 Bolton
Street. Newcastle, or JOHN CORCORAN & CO..
Solicitors, 2 York Street, Sydnev.—C. A. 11. HARMS;
Registrar.
reveal just what suffering and agony of
mind the 1912 separation caused. But
some of the letters from John Middleton
Muriy ought not, in my opinion, to have
been made public. They may make clear
th>- nature of the aflair between Frieda
and Murry in 1923 and help to explain
Lawrence’s stories, “The Last Laugh”
and “The Border Line,” but what right
have we to overhear these most private
and intimate conversations?
VIVIAN SMITH
INSIDE THE FOREST
The Forest People. Colin M. Turnbull.
Chatto & Windus. 375. 3d.
“Tn the north-east corner of the Congo
lies the Ituri Forest, a vast expanse
of dense, damp and inhospitable dark-
ness”: so Mr Turnbull opens his book.
Then he describes “the damp air, the
gigantic, water-laden trees that are con-
stantly dripping, never quite drying out
between the violent storms that come
with monotonous regularity . . . the seem-
ing silence and age-old remoteness of it
all.” To the tribes of negro farmers
whose villages and plantations surround
it, the forest is “a fearful place, full of
malevolent spirits and not fit for anyone
to live in except animals .. . and pygmies.”
But to the BaMbuti, the little forest
people, the leafy darkness is friendly,
safe, home. To those who know the
forest, its gloom becomes subtle grada-
tions of half-light, its brooding silence
gives way to the whisper of a teeming
life.
Between the two races, negro and
pygmy, village and forest, a curious situ-
ation has arisen: the pygmies supply the
negroes with meat and honey, receiving
in return garden produce and trade
goods. But this is not a simple trading
relationship, for the negroes claim an
almost feudal suzerainty over the
pygmies, and indeed, each negro house-
holder speaks of pygmy families that he
''owns.”
Mr Turnbull lived with the Ituri
pygmies for about three years, learned
their language, and apparently came to
know them very well. His is not the first
account of these people, but it is the
first told from the pygmy side of the
relationship: from, as it were, “inside the
forest.” In this unique vantage point lies
much of the book’s special fascination.
It seems that, although the negro vil-
lagers see themselves as a “master-race”
and the pygmies as not quite human, they
have in fact no real control at all over
“their” pygmies. The latter humor their
“masters,” beg or steal anything they
can, and play along with them just as far
as it suits them ; then, when they tire
of the game, they disappear into the
forest, the “real world,” where they
resume their own life . . . and there is
nothing their “masters” can do about it
until they choose to return. The Ituri
pygmies and their negro neighbors are
the classic example of what anthro-
pologists call “social symbiosis”; but the
author reveals subtleties in the relation-
ship which make it much more real and
convincing.
Quite apart from its sound factual
basis, the book is a delightful and per-
sonal account of life in a completely
exotic culture for which the author had
obviously both sympathy and affection.
And what is the fascination of the
forest? Well, read the book.
D’ARCY RYAN
PRIVATE-EYE
The Big H. Bryan Peters. Boardman.
15s. 6d.
First class plot, a James Bond type
hero and a set of James Bond type
villains in a setting far more credible
than most of those which confront the
lan Fleming character. After some
violent adventures, a Russian spy is
stopped in mid-air only seconds before
he can complete a frightening mission.
All of this could easily happen—except
perhaps for the bit where the beautiful
blonde steps dripping from the shower.
Worthwhile.
Mexican Slayride. Thomas B. Dewey.
Boardman. 15s. 6d.
Stars a very likeable private-eye, a
much better than average set of damsels
(one, don’t laugh, called Bonnie Dundee)
and a fair dab of violence. Moves at
express speed from the discovery of the
first body to the unmasking of the drug-
runners and their beautiful beatnik leader
whose husband lives in a bath, wearing
nothing but a bowler hat, a big guitar
and a marihuana-induced smile. All
good fun.
Invitation To Vengeance. Kathleen
Moore Knight. Hammond. 15s. 6d.
In her 25th published thriller, Miss
Knight rather wastes her professional
touch on a mediocre plot concerning an
innocent American girl married un-
wittingly to a gangster who dies in the
electric chair. With that over quickly
everybody rushes off to Sicily, hubby’s
birthplace, where our heroine is
threatened with all kinds of perils unless
she owns up to the whereabouts of the
loot hubby stashed away. There’s some
vague suspense, a stabbing, a whipping,
and some slight romance before all
turns out well for the girl, but rather
tamely for the reader. Just makes it.
The Green Scarf. Pete Fry. Boardman.
15s. 6d.
Wins hands down the title of worst
book of the year. Too amateurish
even to be funny, it vaguely concerns a
young and amazingly innocent British
version of the private-eye, looking for a
missing dancer in Italy and finally getting
her out of the clutches of the villainous
diamond smugglers and back to her Dad.
The crooks end up all frustrated and so
does the reader. Misses by miles.
FRANK MARGAN


FNGXNES
RECONDITIONED
WHILE-YOU-DRIVE
Super Xu Metal Pat. expands up to 30%,
eliminating slackness and lack of power
caused by WORN engine parts. Replates
Worn upper Cylinders, main bearings,
diffs, gears, SAVES rebore, ends piston
slap, rattles, oil, petrol waste. RESTORES:
New compression Power, top speed zip.
ADDS £ s. d. resale value. GUARANTEED:
Up to 25.000 miles according to engine
wear. SIMPLY add Re-Nu expanding liquid,
Nu Metal or in tablet form to oil, petrol,
plug holes. 4,6, 8 cylinders, 60/-, 70/-, SO/-.
Manufactured since 1934. Harmless to Finest
Engines. Open Saturday. Sold only by
RE-NU CO. (ESTAB. 1932).
Scientific Colleges k Plastic (lnd. Co. Pty. Ltd.)
58 Swan Street. (Opp. Richmond Stn.) J 81755.
I enclose £..... for Super Nu Metal, or send copy
of testimonials, engineers reports and free folder
describing action of Nu Metal.
NAME
ADDRESS
Bul
IT'S ONLY
rind there's
more to
read for
the whole
family in
Everybody's
DENTURES
FIT-RITE
One application of this new semi-clear pliable
plastic discovery takes up slack, loose dentures
caused by gum shrinkage or worn dentures.
Dentures fit tight for life. FIT-RITE, developed
from the same material as your dentures,
ADHERES, SETS, MOULDS, HARDENS on to
dentures to the exact shape of the mouth AS
YOU WEAR. ENDS permanently daily use of
powders. DROPPING, WOBBLY DENTURES.
ENDS EMBARRASSMENT. RESTORES perfect
tight suction fit. Use with CONFIDENCE,
GUARANTEED Harmless! FIT-RITE also
IMPROVES facial beauty, pushes out hollow
cheeks and receding lips. Simply apply FIT-
RITE to side or front ridge of dentures. NO
RESULTS —NO CHARGE! So simple—
anyone can use. Sold only by DENTURE
PERFECT FIT-RITE CO. (Scientific
Colleges and Plastics Ind. Co. P./E.). 58
SWAN STREET (Opp. Richmond Station),
VICTORIA. J 81755.
I enclose 40/- for FIT-RITE, and/or send me
free particulars.
NAME
ADDRESS
BUL.
Ezra Pound’s Essays On Ignorance
Edited with an introduction by Australian
writer Noel Stock, IMPACT presents clearly
the complete Pound; his views on educa-
tion, history, money, literature and cul-
ture. PRICE 47/6, POSTED.
THE HERITAGE BOOKSHOP,
273 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes vour
fancy write to the Manager, who will
quote you a price for the original.
Tiie
Bulletin
Incorporating The Australian Financial Times
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SUB./RENEWAL
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order
for months’ subscription to Thb
Bulletin.
NAME:
ADDRESS:
RATES (Australia and New Guinea) : 1 year
£2 125.; i year—£l 6s. Post free. British
Dominions : £3 6s. Other countries :
£3 16s.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS (Remit to Box 965,
Wellington, N.Z.) : 1 year—£2 12s. (N.Z.
currency); i year—£l 6s. (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 689
Across
I—Many may be suited with this beaten. (7)
s—Referring5—Referring to some snake business with salty water. (7)
9—Quite conspicuous but unsettled. (11)
10 — It helps to make many a road sailor. (3)
11— The enemy turned back when let out. (4)
12 — Eruptions dismissed by spin bowling. (9)
16 —Lincoln tree and I associated with an elementary student
who has learnt the alphabet. (11)
20—Stuck up the piscatorial pavilion.
(H)
22 —Be most outspoken? (9)
25—One modified old object of
worship. (4)
28 — The French kiss a law. (3)
29 Flora includes this request to
keep me jn mind. (6-2-3)
31 — An ancestress introducing King
George to the gun-getter. (7)
32 — Plant some bereavement among
the insects. (7)
Down
1 — A seller who changed into a
warehouseman. (10)
2 Whale role's adapted, as in one
down, for him who supplies this
merchant about fish. (8)
3 An influential Yugoslav bird gets
nothing. (4)
4 Bradman is put on. (3)
5 See an entertainer named Bobby
ascend. (5)
6 An insect with the French wind
instrument. (5)
7 Kate is thus what the system
consumes. (6)
8— What is designed to hear fifty
according to the Latin count. (4)
13 — You managed a shire in NSW.
(5)
14 — The rainy seasons’ course turned
up. (4)
15— Friday specials of snack-bar items
in the permanent way. (10)
17— Try to leave industry in the
river. (5)
18 — German stage and film actress
in the north-east fortissimo. (4)
19 —Psyche has an article to love
in one of the Philippines. (8)
21 —A cab with a disease. (6)
23 — Fairy fish balancer seen under
electric light. (5)
24 — Rome’s affected by this code. (5)
26 — Administer the cat game back-
wards. (4)
27 Sticks up the complacent. (4)
30—Recede. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 688


'V '•
: 'W
w
HOW WILL THEY MEASURE UP
AGAINST THE KIDS NEXT DOOR?
Uncomfortable as the idea is, this is the time to face it.
Everyone wants more for his children. And your children will
have to compete just as you’re competing now in the adult
world.
That’s one of the biggest single reasons why so many
families have Encyclopaedia Britannica in their home. The
Britannica is an easy source of reference the whole family
can use. It is the world’s most complete collection of facts
and knowledge excitingly explained by leading authorities.
Everyone wants more for his children. And your children will
In it, you can learn about sports, find a hobby, increase your
appreciation of art, learn about gardening, missiles, philosophy,
science . . . just about any subject you’ve ever heard of . . .
and thousands you haven’t.
The Britannica is more than words—and more than its
brilliant illustrations. It is a seeking of the mind for truth
and fact. It is priceless for your children. It can be equally
invaluable to you.
New edition
ENCYCLOPAEDIA'* f
BRITANNIC^
now available direct from the publisher on
Book a Month
Payment Plan t
you get all 24 volumes now—pay later 1
'* ® f $ $
The latest edition of Britanmca the greatest
treasure of knowledge ever published is the
greatest in our almost 200-year publishing his-
tory. All 24 handsome volumes of this world-
renowned reference library will be delivered to
your home NOW direct from the publisher. You
pay later at a cost so low it is as easy as buying
a book a month!
Equivalent to a library of 1,000 books
The Encyclopaedia Britannica is the most valu-
able gift you can give yourself and your family
the priceless gift of knowledge. Information
on every subject significant to mankind is con-
tained in its new edition. It is equivalent to a
library of 1,000 books, bringing you the know-
ledge and authority of world-recognised leaders
in every field.
Just think of a subject and you'll find it in
the Encyclopaedia Britannica whether it is
information on the rules of a sport, the back-
ground of a religion, how to build a brick arch
in a fireplace, or the science of launching a
guided missile.
The new Britannica almost “televises" informa-
tion to you, with 25,042 magnificent photo-
graphs, maps, and drawings. In every respect,
Britannica is the largest and most complete
reference set containing 27,357 pages and over
38.000,000 words.
Symbol of a good home
Encyclopaedia Britannica cannot help but have
a lasting effect on you as well as on the growth
and development of your children in school and
in later life. Benjamin Franklin said: “An
investment in knowledge pays the best interest."
and Britannica gives you the accumulated
knowledge of the world in clear, easy-to-rcad
language and superb illustrations. It is essential
in every home where education is valued and
respected.
Preview Booklet Offered FREE
Simply fill in and mail the coupon today, and
we will send you . . . without cost or obligation
... a copy of our beautiful, new booklet which
contains an exciting preview of the latest edition
of Encyclopaedia Britannica. Send no money.
It's yours, absolutely free! However, to avoid
disappointment, please mail the coupon today,
before it slips your mind.
p*Yt\o*** W*-
ifn]
II
ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA, DEPARTMENT E.B. 33
257 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, free and without obligation, your colourful Preview Booklet which
pictures and describes the latest edition of ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA—
and also complete information on how I may obtain this magnificent set, direct
from the publisher, on the Book a Month Payment Plan.
Name
A ddress.
(please print)
City Zone State
In New Zealand, write E. 8., Post Office Box 464, Wellington.
