

The Bulletin
PRICE 1/-
AIRMAILED OVERSEAS 2/6.
AUGUST 18
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES.
• Watson Forgotten Prime Minister
• Thoughts On Rugby
League
• Dutchman's Europe
the
country
party
today


EXPORTERS: this will interest you even if you’ve
4iiEi£&w
pressing
problem
overcome!
The packaging for
this Qantas cargo
was tailored to fit!
The exporter’s problem was to ship a consignment of men’s
suits from Sydney to New York . . . urgently and without
their being crumpled or in need of pressing on arrival. The
Qantas Export Consultant decided to cut the cloth according
to the coat. So—a special system of travelling wardrobes
was made-to-measure for the job. Folding and packing were
completely dispensed with. The suits, on hangers and in the
specially designed dust-proof packs, arrived at the show-
rooms of one of America’s most famous stores ready for
immediate display and sale—within 48 hours of despatch.
As one top tailor put it, “Qantas has the game sewn up!”
QANTAi AIR CARGO
41 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
HOW THIS EXPORTER BENEFITED:
1. His suits arrived in perfect condition and were
on sale within 48 hours.
2. Labour costs were cut to a minimum.
3. Weighty and costly packaging was eliminated.
4. His capital was turned over quickly, rapidly
released for other new enterprises.
HOW THE GANTAS EXPORT
CONSULTANT SERVICE CAN HELP YOU
Qantas puts at your disposal one of the most
comprehensive transport systems in the world.
Qantas analyses each export/import problem indi-
vidually and offers you this Qantas six-point
service—FßEE.
1. Distribution time and static time analysis gives
you a time and motion plot on your goods from
despatch to arrival.
2. Costing breakdown on your complete shipping
operation.
3. Systematic appraisal of packaging with sugges-
ted modifications for the lighter, more econo-
mical handling and packaging of your freight.
4. Advice on alternative routings, accelerated car-
tage, taxation and insurance reductions.
5. Advice on current world markets as well as
quarantine, import, currency and customs regu-
lations.
6. A business venue in many overseas countries in
Qantas offices in Europe, America, Asia, the
Orient, New Zealand and Africa
EXPORT it by GANTAS if it’s
IMPORTant to you!
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in association with Air India, 8.0.A.C., S./A./\. and TEAL.
QAC29.95.7?


MARILYN
MONR[?]
THE AWFUL PRESS page 20
The Death of Marilyn Monroe
- •
Victoria Hanging State 6
West New Guinea by the late
General Gordon Bennett 8
The Country Party Today 12
Opera Selling High Quality Soap 17
Downswing in Uplift—The Religious
Book Business 19
Holland in Europe Indonesian
trauma? 22
Island In The Sun Calypso future? 23
Nuclear Stupidity in Europe by
John Strachey 25
End of the Footbrawl Season .... 26
Watson Forgotten Prime Minister 28
Music Joan at the Stake 33
Hearst Four kinds of a Monster 37
A Responsible Budget? 42
Pulling The Wool Over Whose Eyes? 60
•
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
TANNER 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 8
AROUND MELBOURNE 11
OUT AND ABOUT 17
OVERSEAS ...... 22
SPORTING NOTIONS _.. 26
LETTERS ..... 32
REVIEWS ..... ..... 33
RED PAGE 37
WILD CAT .. ... 41
MAN ON THE LAND .... 60
FEIFFER 63
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone 27-5971
Melbourne: Phone MF 3341. Brisbane: Phene
B 2691. Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3
Vol. 84
No. 4305
KILLERS AND HANGERS...
THE arguments advanced by both sides in the controversy over the
impending hanging of Robert Peter Tait in Melbourne are based
more on prejudice than on reason. The hangers have again put forward
the ideas that capital punishment is a deterrent to would-be murderers
and that there is no better way for society to protect itself against the
possible future crimes of a known killer.
Yet there is no evidence that hanging is a deterrent to murder: it
is true that Queensland which abolished capital punishment over 50
years ago has proportionately more murders than the national average,
but so does Western Australia, which is a hanging State. These two
States, taken along with the Northern Territory which also has a high
murder rate, contain most of the country’s aborigines and the murders
there may be due more to the tensions resulting from mixing two races
of such different levels of development than to the state of the law
of homicide.
As for society’s self-protection against known killers, this purpose
is obviously as well served by imprisonment as by hanging. There may
be an argument along such lines for keeping murderers in gaol for longer
than the usual 10 to 13 years, but even then only if it is established
that all released murderers go on murdering, a view for which there is
no evidence whatsoever. Unlike other kinds of criminals nearly all
murderers commit their crime once only.
On the other hand the anti-hangers usually take the view that
murderers are psychologically sick people and that one would do better
to treat them than to hang them. One trouble with this sort of approach
is that its tendency is to undermine the sound public instinct that
certain crimes simply are revolting and vicious: too often what begins
as the attempt to explain a crime psychologically ends up explaining
it away. One might feel that it is better to keep intact the simple com-
munity feeling of repugnance to certain forms of evil than to run this
risk, particularly nowadays when the vast majority of murderers are
not hanged.
It is this moral argument rather than the deterrence or self-
protection arguments that is the strongest case for capital punishment.
But in fact can this sound public revulsion from evil only be
preserved by the use of capital punishment? Does anyone seriously
suggest that the people of Queensland or any country where capital
punishment has been abolished have consequently become more indif-
ferent to killing? Indeed if preservation of the feeling of revulsion
against killing were the only aim of capital punishment, then the official
killing by Government hangmen seems a fantastic way to go about it.
It may even be that the passions aroused by executions actually
encourage bloodlust.
In the end the only relevant argument concerns the value we put
on human life—even that of vicious killers. The punishment for mon-
strous crimes should be severe enough to satisfy public horror of
them without taking a further life. At this point if one wants a more
utilitarian argument, then society would do itself more good to invest
in a searching study of murderers in their prisons than to hang them.
One might then find a way of controlling and limiting murder. At the
very least there are questions which the Victorian Government should
settle for itself without passing the buck to the Privy Council


National
Notebook
Dobell's “Bondi Beach“
YUilliam Dobell’s most recently
” finished painting, “Bondi Beach,”
has been bought by Esso-Standard Oil for
2000 guineas to add to the company's
collection of Australian art. The painting
will hang in the board-room.
The painting is one which Mr Dobell
began soon after he received a commis-
sion for two pictures from the Duke of
Edinburgh. However, the artist developed
an artistic block and put the canvas
aside. After the two pictures were de-
livered to the Duke of Edinburgh, Mr
Dobell returned to his Bondi Beach can-
vas. As soon as it was finished, Esso-
Standard Oil snapped it up.
The painting is big for a Dobell land-
scape and appears at first to be an
abstract in Maria Laurencin pastels.
However, in the right-hand corner are
two figures lying on the sand and resting
on their elbow's. The whole appears to
be something of a new' technique for Mr
Dobell.
A batter of opposed opinion
Tl/f elbourne newspaper-readers have
been bathing in a turgid sea of
anticipatory blood; the case of Robert
Tait, murderer of a clergyman’s aged
mother, sentenced to be hanged and re-
prieved until September 24, fills every
paper, and this goes for the letter-
columns, too.
Apart from an odd letter from wander-
ers W'ho wish to discuss London’s Coal
Exchange, or the Wattle Day Jubilee, or
the exhibition proposed in honor of
Dame Nellie Melba, Melbourne news-
paper letter-writers are taken up wdth
Tait’s future.
The letter-columns of “The Age,”
churned up a batter of opposed opinion.
Stanley W. Johnson of Melbourne Uni-
versity’s Criminology Department, w'rote:
“Is Tait’s death the minimum violence
that W'ill be effective in our culture?”
Four university professors, supported by
51 university signatures, said: “The evi-
dence in this case indicates that Tait is
not mentally normal . . . The State
should see that he is treated for his ill-
ness rather than executed.”
The Rev. Mr W. R. McEwan, of the
Reformed Presbyterian Church wrote:
“it is true that capital punishment is
primitive. So is marriage. May we never
get beyond these primitive simplicities on
which civilised society is built.” The
reverend roamed on to “No one but a
sadist delights in taking life. To take a
human life is terrible. That is what it
shorC naid for bv the extreme penalty
of death.”
Mr Wal Cherry, little theatre director,
contributed a few succinct sentences:
“Capital punishment does not deter . . .
We have no justification to seek revenge.”
M. N. Lewis, of Fitzroy, a pillar of
“The Age's” letter-columns, was right-
eous: “. . . murder calls for expiation
with the life of the murderer . . . This
inability to face the facts of life extends
to all corners of society from universities
to cathedrals and is symptomatic of a
lack of moral judgment and fibre—the
blind leading the blind.”
Hi-Diddle-Diddle
Jn all the hi-diddle-diddle about the Cat
and Fiddle Arcade newly opened in
Hobart, one cow had to be a nark Using
the pen-name of Hagen, he wrote to the
“Mercury” to reprimand the amiable
Lord Mayor Basil Osborne for asserting
that the city’s expensive new arcade and
its little square were without parallel in
the world.
Mr Osborne's comment wasn't just a
pleasantry tossed in among the out-
pouring of civic pride at the official open-
ing of the new arcade. He was, he said,
quoting the opinion of world travellers.
But Hagen chose to regard it as parochial
and ignorant. Europe, said Hagen, had
many such arcades. Berne was full of
them, and Rotterdam's Lynbaan w ; as not
only similar, but had been created
similarly, as a co-operative enterprise on
the part of shopkeepers through whose
property it passed.
"Unusual perhaps, but for goodness’
sake let us keep our perspective,” he
wrote. Taswegian led a group who
immediately assailed Hagen. Their
statements were more noteworthy for
local patriotism than for geographical
knowledge.
Hippocrates, however, supported
Hagen. Fie pointed to the lesson of the
controversy: “In recent years similar
claims were made about Tasmanian .
fication. We now know there is room
considerable improvement; in fact,
could be struggling not far above
minimal standards.”
Prettying up Darwin
F|arwin, with some suburbs still a
dreary stretch of tin shanties, and
gardening by no means a universal
hobby, is going to pretty up for the
Royal Visit next year. At least, that's
the Government intention.
First shot in the "brighter Darwin 5 '
campaign was fired by—of all people—
Mr Justice Bridge in the Supreme
Court. While hearing a "test case” in
which a Public Servant had challenged
the City Council's right to levy garbage
rates on Government tenants, the judge
spoke out. He "shuddered to anticipate,”
he said, how Darwin would appear to
the Queen, and criticised the “shocking
neglect of the grounds of many houses
all over town.' Many people did not
appear to know such objects as lawn
mowers, brooms, or even matches ex-
isted. he said.
Commenting on the judge’s blast.
Mayor Harry Cooper agreed: “Some of
our gardens certainly need a haircut.”
The Administrator, Mr Roger Nott.
warned thai as far as Government
homes were concerned he had power
to send in gangs to clean up grounds and
then bill the tenant.
Darwin is not a pretty place. It has a
large and lovelv harbor, but the rubble
MURDERERS SHOULD BE TAUGHT


of war still litters many of its beaches.
There is row on row of Government
houses, each exactly like its neighbor.
In the city a few new buildings have
gone up—including a Post Office, a
couple of banks and a massive block of
air-conditioned offices for Government
clerks, but most business premises still
have an impermanent air.
Just after the war a visiting dignitary
paraphrased John Batman by saying of
Darwin: “This is the place for a bottle
dump.” Of course many things have
changed since then. With the glaring
exception of Winnellie, most of the
shanty slums have gone. Some of the
homes at Myilly Point and fronting the
Fannie Bay Esplanade look—and are —
luxurious by any standard.
When the Queen arrives it will be late
in the wet season. The weather will be
hot, humid. But it is then that those who
garden reap their dividend in green
lawns and brilliant tropical flowers.
Those—regrettably many—who do not,
are often obscured from public view by
10-feet-high speargrass.
There are difficulties, not least of
which is the well-known northern lassi-
tude. But Government officials are de-
termined that, come what may, the
Royal party will leave with pleasant
memories of Darwin.
Opera's swan-song
TP he swan-song to this year’s opera
season by the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust was the Arts Council sending
“La Traviata” on tour, minus Urugua-
yan soprano Ana-Raquel Satre, but
otherwise intact. The tour covers
Queensland and New South Wales, and
covers such frontier towns as Julia
Creek and Mary Kathleen.
However, the great problem with
opera on tour is that, obviously, a full
orchestra cannot go. The trust proposed
at first to find an ensemble of five
players. However, at present there is so
much theatre work in the cities that
five musicians could not be found to
face up to the rigors of a three-month
country tour. The trust then thought
about putting the music on tape. This
would involve the singers in a new and
possibly difficult technique, but it is
something which is being done, and, ap-
parently, successfully, in Europe and
South America.
However, the Musicians’ Union
squashed the idea very quickly, so “La
Traviata” is on tour with only one
piano to replace the orchestra. The
piano will be played by one of the
trust’s conductors, who, because of his
position, is not required to belong to
the Musicians’ Union, so the banning
of tape did not ensure more work for
even one member of the union.
"The Problem of Sport"
TFhe Tasmanian Education Department
is investigating what the Director of
Education, Mr V. R. Long, terms “the
problem of sport in schools.” The private
schools, which originally set the pattern
and pace of highly organised inter-school
contests in a dozen different sports, have
led the move against too much play and
too little work in lesson time. Their teams
now meet mostly on Saturday mornings.
State secondary schools also compete at
week-ends, but state-wide inter-school
meetings are conducted during the week.
Mr R. S. Collins, the president of the
Tasmanian State Schools Sports Council,
which controls these contests, said last
week that reports of an impending ban
on sport during school hours were “with-
out foundation.” Were primary schools
not to play during the week their demand
for grounds on Saturdays would cause
chaos.
“School sport is now big business,” Mr
Collins said, “and its administration may
have to be completely rethought.” His
words strengthen a belief that some
teachers consider the demands of Satur-
day sport an imposition.
This suggests an area of friction with
the department as Mr Long’s thoughts
seem distinctly directed towards exten-
sion of after-school and Saturday morn-
ing sport. Four special committees were
investigating “the problem,” Mr Long
said. He added that he was opposed to
devoting an excessive part of the school
day to games, though he was all for active
participation in games by the children,
and scornful of any suggestion of whole-
sale banning. School sport, he concluded,
would have to develop without too much
interruption to study.
Tanner
THAT LIFE IS SACRED
SO 1 SAY HANG 'EM


Th is Australia
THE HANGING
DEATH-AT 8 A.M., SEPT. 24?
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
PREMIER BOLTE
Unanimous
Tn recent years Victoria has not looked
-*■ up;n itself as a Hanging State. The
news that Robert Peter Tait, a 37-year-
old miner, would be executed at Pent-
ridge Gaol, Coburg on August 22, came
as a shock. There were protests from all
sections of the community. Even the
local Mayor objected. He felt a hanging
in Coburg would have a bad effect on
children. There are many education in-
stitutions nearby.
As of Friday August 10 Tait had one
hope. Through the Public Solicitor, Mr
Alan Douglas, he asked for leave to
appeal to the Privy Council against the
Government’s decision that he should
hang. It was all a matter of money, as
to whether the Chief Secretary, Mr
Rylah, was prepared or not to use State
funds for the appeal. If the State refused
then Tait would have to raise the money
himself.
The last time the death penalty was
carried out in Victoria was 11 years ago.
And that was hardly a pleasant affair:
It was a triple execution Jean Lee, 31,
Norman Andrews, 38, and Robert Clay-
ton, 31, were hanged for murdering an
SP bookmaker. Jean Lee’s face was com-
pletely covered and she was carried hand-
cuffed to the scaffold on a stretcher by
the hangman and his assistants. She
appeared to be unconscious and she was
still in that condition when she was
NEXT WEEK'S ISSUE
• THE POWER BEQUEST
What Now?
• BOADICEA Holden, Ford
and Wolseley
• “MITUNG LONG SOUTH
PACIFIC” Fifth SPC Con-
ference in Samoa
• LONDON NEWSLETTER
John Pringle
• BUYINGA WINE?— a New
and Occasional Column
hanged. Some of the newspaper repor-
ters who were there said she had been so
hysterical the prison officials had drugged
her.
An official statement pointed out that
Lee was given a mild sleeping draught the
night before, but she had no drugs that
morning. Her condition was probably
due to a last-minute collapse.
Clayton and Andrews were hooded
and their wrists were handcuffed behind.
Their departure was quiet enough. They
made no statement. A few minutes
before they were executed one called out
“good-by Charlie”, and the other replied
“good-by Robert.”
For a hangman we had to go to South
Australia. He was described as being 40,
a short stocky man of about 5 ft. 7 in.
He wore khaki overalls and dark glasses.
When Victoria had its own hangman he
was paid an annuity of £iso and £75
for each execution.
Mr Bolte said it was a unanimous
decision of the State Cabinet that Tait
should hang. Why this sudden change
of policy? It was one of the ugliest
murders that the homicide detectives
could remember. Mr Justice Dean when
summing up at the trial said: “This mur-
der was brutal, callous and horrible
so shocking we are apt to be hot with
anger that such an outrageous crime
would be committed in our community.”
Tait murdered Mrs Ada Ethel Hall, an
81-year-old widow in the vicarage of All
Saints Church of England, Hawthorn.
He ripped her clothes and while she was
lying on the floor he either kicked or
punched her to death. When he was
arrested in Port Augusta, South Austra-
lia, he was wearing three pairs of ladies’
panties. Tait had a long history as an
alcoholic and although there was some
disagreement at the trial Dr Guy Spring-
thorpe said that he was an excessive
drinker and a sexual psychopath with
sadistic and masochistic tendencies.
Immediately after the news that Tait
would hang, the Rev. Mr George Hall,
the son of the murdered woman, said:
“I will do everything I can to prevent
Robert Tait from being hanged. As a
Christian Minister I must act to save this
man’s life My conscience tells me that
I must try to help him. 1 would not feel
worthy of facing my congregation unless
I tried to influence the Government to
change its decision.”
The strongest reaction came from the
Churches, the Labor Party and the trade
unions. The Coadjutor Bishop of Mel-
bourne, the Rt. Rev. G. T. Sambell said:
“I am ashamed to be part of a commu-
nity that stands by at a hanging. Could
the Cabinet appoint one of its members
to carry out the task in the presence of
the full Cabinet?”
Most of the comment was based on
the argument that there had been many
shocking murders in the past 11 years,
why hang a man now? If this was a
particularly horrible crime and it was
carried out by a dangerous psychopath,
then surely for this very reason he should
not hang. He should be given mental
treatment and put in an institution.
Nine out of ten letters o the news-
papers were against hanging, but some of
the street polls were rather different. Here
the ratio in some cases was two to one
for hanging. A gentleman of Alma Rd.,
Camberwell said: “Yes, I think so. He’s
a burden on the public like a lot of
others who commit crimes of violence.
It could be a bit of a lesson to other
fellows bodgies and widgies who
carry on.”
The “Herald” recently printed a
Gallup Poll which was taken in last May.
The question was: “If someone is con-
victed for murder, what should be the
penalty?” 53 per cent, said “Death”.
Although opinion is changing. In 1947
67 per cent, wanted “Death”; it was again
67 per cent, in 1955, 62 in 1959 and 60
per cent, in 1960. The Howard League
for Penal Reforms has been the most


active body in seeking an end to the
death penalty. This year Stanley John-
son, the Senior Lecturer in Criminology
at the University of Melbourne, brought
out a most interesting pamphlet. It
carried a list of all Australia’s hangings
for this century. Queensland abolished
Capital Punishment in 1922 and in NSW
it has been limited to treason and piracy
since 1955. But here are the figures:
From 1901 to 1961 Western Australia
came out first as the hanging State with
25, NSW was second with 23, Victoria
20, Queensland 18, South Australia 17,
Tasmania 5, and N.T. 2. From 1950 to
1961 the score was WA 4, SA 3, Victoria
3 and NT 2.
From his figures he put the interesting
question: In States where the death
penalty still exists are juries more
reluctant to bring in murder convictions?
He said that in these States manslaughter
convictions were more than double those
of murder convictions. Yet in Queens-
land where there had been no death
penalty for 40 years murder convictions
exceeded manslaughter convictions.
And he had something special to say
about Western Australia, the top hanging
State. He said that already Western Aus-
tralia’s homicidal rate was higher than
the Australian average. Possibly it would
be higher without the death sentence,
but equally possible it could contribute
by its example to crimes of aggression.
Meanwhile Tait was in the Death Cell
at Pentridge under a 24 hour guard. It
was reported that he was eating and
sleeping well, although the Public Solici-
tor, Mr Alan Douglas, said that his
mental condition has become worse since
the passing of the death sentence. He
could have anything he wanted within
reason. He could write and receive
letters. He was said to be an orderly
prisoner.
On Monday he was reprieved for one
month and leave given to the Public
Solicitor to appeal to the Privy Council
on his behalf. Legal aid and a Q.C.’s
services were arranged. If the appeal
is not upheld he will hang at 8 a.m.
September 24.
WHITLAM COMES OUT
OF HIS SHELL
As I see it
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
GOUGH WHITLAM
Tough enough?
VI/' hen De-
puty Labor
Leader Gough
Whitlam, 46, tall, good looking, and well
tailored, rose to speak in the House of
Representatives last week it was to
a crowded floor and galleries. More than
the intrinsic importance of the subject
under debate the European Common
Market attracted the audience. It was
Whitlam’s debut as acting Labor Leader,
and the spectators mostly specialists
with a highly vested interest in politics
and the shape they take in Australia
were anxious to see how he went.
He went very well. It was not the
easiest subject to handle. The Australian
Labor Party, like its British counterpart,
has not finally declared its policy on the
issue. It is sitting on the fence, taking
mild pot shots at the Menzies Govern-
ment over its methods of handling the
issue and its dilatoriness in looking after
Australia’s interests. But from Whitlam’s
viewpoint the fact that the Labor Party
was neutral had its disadvantages. He
had to show off his capacity while walk-
ing a tightrope.
Whitlam shrewdly sacrificed cleverness
to soundness. He knew that his chances
of one day being Labor Leader depended
to some extent on what kind of a par-
liamentary showing he could make first
time up. He went diligently through the
commodities Australia had at stake in the
negotiations, gave very pertinently the
views and impressions he had gathered
during his recent trip abroad to study first
hand ECM implications for Australia,
criticised mildly the Government’s
“unimaginative” approach and by and
large gave the impression of being an
extremely worthwhile front man for the
Labor Party for electoral purposes.
He did not assist Labor’s election pros-
pects in country seats very notably. Trade
Minister McEwen has insisted that Aus-
tralia has some £160,000,000 worth of
trade at stake if Britain goes into ECM
on terms that do not sufficiently protect
Australian products after the cutoff
period ending in 1970. Former Air
Minister and assistant to the Treasurer
Leslie Bury took the line that this figure
was exaggerated and without stating a
figure suggested that he supported the
lower figure of £40,000,000 which some
Cabinet Ministers believe is the most
Australia is likely to lose even if Britain
enters ECM on terms extremely unfavor-
able to Australia.
Whitlam came down neatly between
the two. He was neither as high as Mc-
Ewen nor as low as the Bury school. He
fixed on the figure of £135,000,000
which evoked from the Country Party
cross benches the interjection “You’d
sabotage Australia’s case if you were run-
ning the negotiations.” Nevertheless it
was an impressive performance and Whit-
lam was congratulated by many Labor
members, particularly those newcomers
to the Parliament at the 1961 elections.
One of those who watched the per-
formance closely was Mr Ned Ward, of
Sydney, who has himself aspirations to
lead the Labor Party. Propped at the end
of the Labor front bench, like an old,
battle-scarred wolf, Ward fixed his fierce
eyes on his young rival and never shifted
them. You could almost see the thoughts
running through his mind, as Whitlam
smoothly and ably went on with his long
analysis which had about it some of the
lawyer’s detachment.
As I see it, Whitlam with some weeks
of acting Leadership still ahead of him as
his Leader, Mr Arthur Calwell, recovers
from the operation which confines him to
a Melbourne hospital, passed his first test
very successfully. As a man around
whom the Labor Party can build a
public image he was quite impressive.
But as Ward and others who sat behind
Whitlam last week well knew there is
much more to leading the Labor Party
than the ability to make impressive
speeches with smoothness and capacity in
the Parliament. The Labor Party is like
a wolf pack. Its Leader does not have
much trouble so long as the pack is in
full cry on the trail of its opposition. But
the Leader also has to keep discipline
within the Pack, to separate those who
are rending each other to pieces, and see
to it that he in turn is not torn to pieces.
Whitlam’s one earlier attempt at this
sort of leadership when he joined with
Senators McKenna (Tas) and Kennedy
(Vic) in an abortive attempt to persuade
the Federal ALP Executive into forcing
the Victorian ALP into observing the
Federal ban on unity tickets failed
when his Leader Mr Calwell asked that
no action be taken against Victoria.
Whitlam then retired into a shell from
which he has not since emerged as far
as moves within the Party are con-
cerned.
It will be interesting to see if a crisis
of any kind emerges during the period
of Calwell’s absence. Whitlam then
having passed the Parliamentary test will
have an opportunity of showing whether
he has the capacity to pass the much
tougher test.


AUSTRALIA AND INDONESIA
WAR IN NEW GUINEA?
By Lieutenant-General Henry Gordon Bennett,
C.B., C.M.G., D.S.O., V.D.
H. G. BENNETT
Forget and Forgive?
There is nothing to he gained by fighting for West New Guinea
Tf war were to break out in Dutch
New Guinea tomorrow, it would
not be a nuclear war. It would be jungle
fighting—guerrilla warfare such as there
was in the last war. (Nuclear weapons
are only at their best—or worst —in
thickly populated districts.)
If Australians were involved, there
would be no doubt of the outcome.
Australians are very good at guerrilla
warfare. It would be a repetition of the
fighting last time, with the exception that
the Indonesians have not the fighting
qualities and morale of the Japanese.
I do not wish to ridicule the Indone-
sians, but they do not make good sol-
diers. When they were mobilised in Java,
their men insisted on taking their wives
and children with them. I saw them
going off in buses. They would not leave
their families behind.
But in no circumstances should Aus-
tralia use Australian troops to assist
This comment on West New Guinea
was written by the late Lieutenant-
General Bennett some time before
his death.
either the Dutch or the Indonesians or
even the United Nations, in a war over
West New Guinea. We cannot afford to
waste good Australian lives.
The Indonesians have already infil-
trated troops into Dutch New Guinea.
And in the event of the fight beginning
in earnest between Indo lesia and Hol-
land over West New Guinea, there is no
doubt that the Indonesians would do
what a big number of other new nations
have done earlier. It would go to Com-
munist Russia for military help especi-
ally in the form of equipment. Russia
would only give the help as a quid pro
quo for the introduction of Communism
into Indonesia, if it is not there already.
There is nothing to be gained by
fighting for West New Guinea. It is an
impoverished country, with miles and
miles of malarial-infected, economically-
starved swamps, rife with disease. There
are no cities and no industries—only
scattered native villages populated by
small tribes whose sole idea of life is to
provide themselves with sufficient food
to keep themselves alive.
Unless oil is discovered, the country
is of no use whatever to Holland or to
anybody else. And Holland would quite
possibly walk out before the fight was
finished. The real danger to Australia
is that the Dutch may create a foreign
legion. I sincerely trust that this is never
done, because I feel quite sure that large
numbers of Australians would volunteer
for service in that foreign legion, and
this would immediately start an uncom-
fortable and dangerous state of affairs
which peaceloving people like we are
do not desire. It is essential, I believe, in
the interest of peace that Australia
should make clear its view at once to the
Indonesians that it would treat as an
unfriendly and even as a hostile act any
invasion of West New Guinea.
Part of the cause of the present
trouble, I am sure, is that the Indone-
sians need to draw a red herring across
the track of the inefficient administra-
tion of their own country. The red
herring would take the attention of the
people away from the failure of their
own rulers.
There is as much justification for the
existing Australian control to be spread
from Papua and the Mandate of the
United Nations to cover the whole
island as there is for the Indonesians to
start afresh in an endeavor to civilise,
educate and inspire the natives of West
New Guinea.
Australia has very little reason to love
the Indonesians. We cannot forget that
during the war many of their people
sold for cash Australian soldiers who
were trying to escape from their Japa-
nese captors. Many escapees lost their
lives to bring the natives a few gilders.
Nevertheless Australia is willing to forget
and forgive, and is sincere in its desire
to help Indonesians over their hurdle.
PARKES IN NEW YORK
Jiulletin
August 19, 1382
A New York reporter interviewed
the Czar of All Australia. “Do
you ever interest yourself in the
political or social questions of other
empires beside your own?” Sir ’Enry
Parkes: “Oh, certainly. For instance,
I devote two hours’ thought a day to
the Hegyptian crisis. It was I who
advocated the bombardment of Alex-
andria, and what was the result? The
henemy lost about 55,000 men, whilst
the British didn’t lose any more than
we kill in one day on our tram-lines.
Then again, I warned Gladstone if
Cavendish was sent to Ireland,
assassination would surely follow. I
have had experience. I was assassin-
ated myself once up Kiama way;
you’ve heard of that before, no
doubt. Hirish affairs occupy me
sometimes as late as dinner time,
Your own little country I find also
requires the sage counsel of an ex-
perienced leader —of what Carlyle
would call a ‘master mind’. I will
see wha t 1 can d o f or America when
finish with the Boer troubles.”
Reporter. Thanks. And now one
other 0 W ,>l at m / ak “ y° ur
dose so at. ir nry (wit great
dignity): Well, I presume it was so
made in order that j might not be
able to poke it into oth^r people > s
business.” That closed the inter-
view, as the New Yorker suddenly
remembered he had to meet a man
just round the corner.


JUVENILE DELINQUENCY
"THE TRAGEDY
OF UNBROKEN HOMES"
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
PREMIER HAWKE
“... Proper parenthood”
rpHE West Australian report on juvenile
A delinquency has been four years in
the making, but when it finally emerged
into print it was worth waiting for.
The report is intriguing for two
reasons: it leans heavily on the views of
laymen, and its main emphasis has turned
out to be quite different from its original
intention.
When Labor Premier Hawke convened
a committee to compile the report in
1958, he was acti g on a resolution from
a discussion group on juvenile delin-
quency held by the Adult Education
Board, which asked for a committee “to
inquire into the prevention of juvenile
delinquency and associated problems,
with particular reference to the parent-
child relationship.”
It was the last part of the resolution
which produced the most challenging
sections. After sending out a circular
letter requesting the views of about 700
bodies and individuals from the Chief
Justice to the Volunteer Fire Brigades
Association, it found parents were mostly
frequently blamed for the misbehavior
of their children by those who sent in
replies. This was in spite of the fact that
it had not suggested parental causes as
one of the general factors leading to
delinquency in the circular.
“If we were to name not only the most
frequently but also the most vehemently
expressed opinion of all those given to us,
it would be that ‘the parents are respon-
sible,’ ” the report stated.
The most frequently held views on the
parent-child relationship in the delin-
quency set-up were:
q that many parents fail to convey
to their children the sincerity and depth
of their love, leaving them in doubt as to
their real affection and making them
vulnerable to temptation because they
lack inner security.
$ that broken homes, both in the
usual sense that the parents have separa-
ted and in the more indirect sense that
there is continual discord between the
parents, are contributing factors. The
second of these —what Ross Campbell
has called “the tragedy of unbroken
homes”—is one of the most destructive
forms of parental inadequacy.
9 that parental mismanagement of
family finances, which may take the form
of mortgaging the family income to
~• , •
luxury hire purchase items or allowing
the children too much spending money,
~, / J
presents a bad example to children.
r r
• that many parents of delinquent
children did not know their children had
got into trouble until they appeared in
court. It was allowed that parents might
take up a permissive attitude because
;hey trusted their children, but that the
coercive pressure of the teen-age crowd
might lead the children to deceive them
about their real activities. The com-
mittee felt this group pressure was one of
the most significant factors in delin-
quency, making children participate in
group activities against their will and
separating them from the understanding
and help of their parents.
In view of the overwhelming popular
feeling that parents were responsible for
their children’s misdemeanours, it is not
surprising that the committee’s first
recommendation was that the Child Wel-
fare Department should set up a wide-
spread programme for education in what
it called “proper parentcraft.”
Its other recommendations were more
conventional: the establishment of
specialist clinical services for disturbed
children, a city youth centre for young-
sters congregating in the city streets at
night, a separate home for the treatment
of disturbed children coming from the
Children’s Court or the Child Welfare
Department, and the general strengthening
of professional and honorary staff hand-
ling delinquents.
THE STOCK EXCHANGE
KEEPING UP WITH THE KOWALSKIS
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
HThe first Polish migrants to arrive in
Australia had little time for the
Stock Exchange—or even for banks. All
their former experience of aribitrary ex-
propriation of savings during the long
and bitter war years of forced nationalisa-
tion by “socialist” satellite regimes after
the “liberation”, and of hectic, cut-throat
speculation in essential goods in devastat-
ed post-war Europe made them more
than suspicious. Moreover, early arrivals
in this country had experienced the full
impact of Australia’s runaway inflation
in the late ’forties and early ’fifties. Few
of them had much confidence in Aus-
tralia’s traditional financial set-up.
And, of course, a migrant coming to
Australia in the early post-war years
generally had to work off a two year
compulsory contract —more often than
not as a manual laborer—before he could
think of building up a bank balance.
Then came a period of saving up for
a house, the first refrigerator, washing
machine, a car, a radiogram, and soon a
TV set and all the other essentials of
the great rat-race to keep up with the
Joneses or the Kowalskis.
Whatever savings were accumulated
after paying off the “essentials” were
either invested in a block of land—the
East Europeans have a passion for real
estate, which often used to be an impor-
tant status symbol in the old country—•
or tucked away in an old sock or under
the mattress.
As the years went by and the younger
generation of Polish migrants was gradu-
ating from Australian universities and
beginning to influence their parents’
thinking, views began to change and
savings accounts became popular. But
the Stock Exchange was still regarded
with a good deal of suspicion.
About two years ago both the Sydney-
based “Wiadomosci Polskie” (“Polish
News”) and the Melbourne “Tygodnik
Katolicki” (“Polish Catholic Weekly”)
introduced well written articles on econ-
omic and financial topics as a regular
feature. To the surprise of the two
editors, the response was unexpectedly
good. Migrants with a bit of money to
invest were asking for more stories about
the investment market. The “Polish
News” then ran its first big story on the
share market, under the heading “Every-
body Can Invest”. Poles learned that a
hundred pounds or so was enough to start
building up a little portfolio. The ball
started rolling. The first financial ads
appeared.
Last Tuesday the 12-page weekly
“Polish News”, read by an estimated
25,000 Polish-speaking migrants through-
out Australia and New Zealand, appeared


on the newsstands with a newly-introduc-
ed financial page (“Economic Problems’ )
and a front-page leader on the Budget.
The paper carried an article on Austra-
lia's Common Market worries, a weekly
share market summary, stories on the
GM-H-Ford price war, the hire-purchase
companies and oil shares and brief invest-
ment notes.
The Editor of “The Polish News”, Mr
J. Dunin-Karwicki, told “The Bulletin”
that the financial page will be a perman-
ent feature of his paper. He added:
“The best way to assimilate Poles may
be through the Stock Exchange.”
INTO THE SILENCE
AUBREY ARIA
By M. H. ELLIS
A übrey Aria, who died last week, had
a connection with the Bulletin
that dated back to the depression. He
was on the staff when I joined it in June,
1933 and 1 came to know him as an
artist of versatile ability whose diffidence
aoout his capacity w'as his own worst
enemy. He was a patient and conscien-
tious worker and his tasks ranged from
illustration and decoration in the
“Women’s Mirror” to caricatures and
“joke blocks” for the Bulletin. (One of
the first jobs he did for me was the
designing of a jacket for a book and he
also showed a distinct flair for that type
of work, unfortunately in an age when
there was little scope for it in Australia.)
At one stage we trained him as a relief
cartoonist for Scorfield and Lindsay who
then “owned” the opening page between
them, but his temperament was against
him: he did one front page cartoon in
agony —agony because he could not
bring himself to attack anybody, not
even J. T. Lang, who at that time was
fair game for attack with anything short
of a broadaxe. Though abstemious, he
was a popular member of the Bulletin’s
group of artists and poets who, in that
day, used to pursue their discussions
every afternoon over the ale bar of their
favorite hostelry, of which they were so
much a part that it was known as the
Bulletin Club. And there, and in the
office, he was the inevitable prey of
hungry and thirsty poets, since the word
“No” seemed to have been left out of
his vocabulary. I have known him to peer
round many a door to shyly borrow the
wherewithal to relieve the penury of a
fellow artist. As his experience progressed
his work became more and more versa-
tile, his line loosened up and everything
became grist to his artistic mill. Gentle,
kindly, admiring the work of others ex-
travagantly and assessing his own too
modestly, he never perhaps quite made
the place for himself to which his great
talents entitled him.
CATHOLICS
WOOLF AT THE DOOR
From MUGGA
CARDINAL GILROY
Grown up altar , boys
Catholic Archdiocese of Sydney
A has long had the reputation among
Australian Catholics of being a diocese
tightly controlled by clerics with lay
members of the Church treated more or
less as grown-up altar boys. The recent
Goulburn Catholic schools "lock-out”
(lay - inspired) could never have hap-
pened in Sydney diocese mainly because
organisations such as the Parents and
Friends Association, the Knights of the
Southern Cross (a “Catholic Masonic”
organisation) are used solely to carry out
the wishes of Cardinal Gilroy and his
three bishops.
“Catholic” influence in the ALP has
seemed to lie more in a “fixer mentality”
than in direct or open Catholic influence.
Those who run the Sydney diocese
naively believe that each time a Catholic
is appointed head of a government de-
partment or attains Ministerial rank
—that Catholic influence is somehow' in-
creased.
Late last year a Mrs Kathleen Woolf
and her husband approached Bishop
Carroll suggesting Catholic lay groups
be set up to go fully into the education
question. They were politely told that
this was “too precipitate” and the Bishop
and the Woolfs parted company on the
understanding that “views would be ex-
changed” on the schools question.
On February 12 and February 14
the Woolfs sent by registered post a long,
manuscript of their thoughts on the in-
dependent schools question. Sometime
in May, when they had received no
acknowledgment, they sent their copy
off to the Australian Catholic Truth
Society in Melbourne and it was duly
accepted for publication. The pamphlet
was advertised in the Melbourne Catholic
“Advocate” of June 24. It was subse-
quently reviewed by that paper. On July
29, Cardinal Gilroy announced that a
pamphlet on the schools issue would be
available soon: “I suggest that everybody
obtain a copy of the pamphlet and be
apprised of what is Catholic education
and what is the request made by Catho-
lic parents on behalf of their children.”
The pamphlet was written by Bishop
Carroll.
When no mention was made in the
“Catholic Weekly” of Mrs Woolf's
pamphlet the Woolfs wired the manager
of the Catholic Truth Society, Mr M. F.
Canavan, asking his permission lor them
to place an advertisement in the
“Catholic Weekly” at their own expense.
When permission was granted Mrs
Woolf saw the editor of the "Catholic
Weekly”, Mr J. Kelleher, with the in-
tention of placing the ad in the following
issue of the “Catholic Weekly”. Mr
Kelleher pointed out the high cost of
placing the ad (about £l5). that some
publicity could be given to the pamphlet
in other ways and that he did not nor-
mally review ACTS pamphlets. Mrs
Woolf told The Bulletin that on several
occasions she steered the conversation
back to the ad but Mr Kelleher seemed
reluctant to advertise it. After Mr Cana-
van rang Mr Kelleher the ad appeared
in August 9.
On receiving a telephone cal] from
Mr Kelleher he told us quite categoric-
ally that: “Mrs Woolf never asked
directly for an ad” and that all Mrs
Woolf said was: “We have been thinking
of putting an ad in the ‘Catholic
Weekly’. When it was suggested to Mr
Kelleher that there may have been some
intention of delaying the advertisement
of Mrs Woolfs pamphlet to give Bishop
Carroll’s pamphlet preference he laughed.
In the meantime, a circular has been
sent around to branches of the Knights
of the Southern Cross from their head-
quarters, instructing them to hand
around to “important people (doctors,
dentists, etc.)” Bishop Carroll’s pamphlet.
Cardinal Gilroy emphasised that the
schools aid question was one between
citizens and State at the time of the
Goulburn lock-out: “. . . this has nothing
to do with the Church. It is a matter
between the citizens of the State and the
Government of the State.” But in the
Woolf case it seems that some Catholic
authorities have done their best to pre-
vent one Catholic citizen’s views receiv-
ing as much attention as a Bishop’s.
(Kathleen Woolf’s pamphlet “Freedom of
Choice” and a Current Affairs Bulletin
“State Aid for Independent Schools?” will
be reviewed in next week’s Bulletin.)


COONAWARRA ESTATE*
CLARET
ml/
*3
-4m
i- : 5
r
At wine tastings through-
out the Commonwealth,
this claret stands out as
being the most enjoyable,
distinctive and authentic
in style.
* “Estate" (as the word “Chateau" in France)
Is used to distinguish this claret as being the
genuine product of the winegrower s own
vineyard.
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD.
Around Melbourne
THE COAL EXCHANGE ROTUNDA
T>oy Grounds is a marvellous extro-
vert. He is one of the few
characters in this town who make life
entertaining and agreeable. We have
loved all his controversies. We liked
his zig-zag house, his triangle house,
his butter-box house, his round house,
his plum pudding in Canberra and even
his Cultural Centre, but this is a little
beauty. Roy Grounds, arch-priest of
the uncluttered modern, wants to
erect London’s prize piece of Vic-
toriana in the grounds of the Cultural
Centre. In one magnificent sweep as
a Victoriana lover, he has made John
Betjeman look like a junior appren-
tice.
The piece ot Victoriana he wants
is the rotunda of London’s Coal
Exchange, a building erected in 1849
and one of the world’s first cast-iron
buildings. Some say that it was de-
signed by an ancestor of Ronald Searle.
Right now, to the horror of Victoriana
lovers, it is being pulled down to make
way for a road. Roy Grounds cabled
the editors of the Architect’s Review
and a firm of quantity surveyors,
Ryder Hunt Ltd for help. He said
that he would pay out of his own
pocket the cost of finding out just how
much it would be to have the building
dismantled, packed and shipped to St
Kilda Road.
Who then would pay the cost of
bringing it to Melbourne? —the Cul-
tural Centre appeal? No, said Mr
Grounds, but delicate negotiations
were going on, the cost of shipping it
could be £50,000.
To be honest, until last week many
humble people like myself had never
heard of the Rotunda, so we are de-
pending on the good faith of our
informants. Roy Grounds described
it as a unique building, one that was
internationally regarded as a work of
art. Mr Betjeman himself says it is:
“A bird-cage in cast-iron, an airy, top-
lit galleried building, a masterpiece.”
Mr D. G. Mills, chairman of the
Streets Committee of London des-
cribed it as “this dingy, brown-painted
miserable place. The committee
wouldn’t accept it as a public lava-
tory.” The London correspondent of
the Melbourne Herald also thought it
looked depressing and under the 300
tons ot cast iron he noticed a slight
smell of decay.
But in these days when we are be-
coming so utterly devoted to old cast-
iron obviously the Rotunda has every-
thing. The “bird-cage” is 70 feet
high, 60 feet in diameter and topped by
a glazed dome. It has three galleries,
and the iron work is covered with
fiddly bits symbolising the origins of
coal and its working—ropes, mines,
fossils, shells, snakes, lizards.
On the ground floor there are a
series of tiled panels, which depict
the beautiful moral tone which should
attend the selling of coal—wisdom,
vigilance, humanity, temperance, per-
serverance and fortitude.
The pro and anti Rotunda forces are
already dividing. Eric Westbrook, the
Gallery director thinks it is a wonder-
ful idea. So does the President of the
Institute of Architects, Mr Best
Overend, and the Chairman of the
Cultural Centre Building Committee,
Dr Leonard Cox, thinks it would be an
interesting acquisition.
But the Lord Mayor, Cr. Nathan,
is dead against. He said: “Let’s not
clutter our beautiful new Cultural
Centre with such paraphernalia.”
Letters to editors also have been sur-
prisingly anti: Mr Morris of Bourke
Street said: “I’m willing to bet Mr
Roy Grounds a bottle of Macassar
oil and a second-hand set of anti-
macassars to a what-not that Mel-
bourne will—l hope—have nothing to
do with the Rotunda, an ostentatious
piece of Victorian junk.”
Peter Martin of Armidale said: “My
own suggestions for the use of this
atrocity are as follows:
£ Let it be placed over the Sydney
Opera House or,
£ Let it be dismantled and used on
the King Street Bridge, or
q Let it be stripped of its plaster
hide, weighted with bluestone (faith-
fully reproduced) and lowered into
Port Phillip Bay.”
Mr Chas. Davies of Toorak said:
“It is noteworthy that London is re-
moving the Exchange to make way
for a road and the civic fathers there
are doubtless cock-a-hoop over the
prospect of its glorious transmission
over 12,000 miles from Billingsgate
Fish Market to our new Cultural
Centre near the focal point of one of
the world’s most magnificent traffic
jams.”
Unquestionably, when the Coal
Exchange is opened in Melbourne
certain traditions will need to bc
observed. After all, Prince Albert first
did the job in London on October 30,
1849. There was a superb pageant on
the River Thames. There was the
Royal Barge, in beautifully carved
gold, there was the Queen’s State
Barge with oarsmen in scarlet and
gold with black velvet caps, the Lord
Mayor’s Barge, crew in scarlet and
silver, the six-oared galley ot the
Water Bailiff, the twelve-oared barge
of Admiral Elliot, four Admiralty
barges and Trinity House barges
Imagine all that on the Yarra!
BATMAN


THE COUNTRY PARTY TODAY
The writing is on the wall in "Hillbilly Corner"
From ALAN REID in Canberra
TPederal Labor Parliamentarians refer
to that section of the House of
Representatives where the Australian
Country Party representatives sit as
“Hillbilly Corner”. Some Liberals
describe the Party and those who carry
its political label in both the Federal and
State Parliaments in less printable terms.
The Party (with 17 members in the
House of Representatives’ total of 124
and five Ministers in the Menzies
Ministry of 22) has an influence and
power that far exceeds the relative
insignificance of its Parliamentary
numbers.
The Party insists that it stand for the
“country man” and exploits with the
agility of long practice the primary pro-
ducers’ belief that city dwellers neither
understand nor are interested in solving
their problems, and that unless they
band together they will be sacrificed to
shrewd city sharpies who fleece the
farmer as efficiently as shearers fleece
their sheep. In times of rural prosperity
it preaches the gospel of rugged
individualism and the right of the grower
to get the full market price from the
eagerly competing market. But in times
of adversity it becomes more socialist
than the Socialists. It demands from
the State assistance, protection and the
backing of the public Treasury to pull
those whom is represents out of the
hole of bad times.
It was once described as “the tail that
wags the non-Labor dog”. It has
always been a minority Party with no
prospect, nationally, of ever being able
to take over a Government in its own
right. But due to its position of power
because it supplied non-Labor adminis-
trations with the Parliamentary majority
without which they could not survive
against a Labor challenge, it has more
than once been the real, as distinct
from the official, Government of Aus-
tralia. It boasts that during the 43 years
it has been a Parliamentary group in
the Commonwealth Parliament it has
never once overthrown a non-Labor
Government. But it has overthrown two
non-Labour Prime Ministers the late
Mr W. M. Hughes in 1923 and Mr
R. G. Menzies in 1941 —and when led
by that consummate master of tactics and
infighting, the late Sir Earle Page, it was
undoubtedly the de facto senior partner
in the Bruce-Page administration of
1923/29 and at times in the Lyons
Government of 1932/39.
Nowadays, it is not as powerful as it
was. It provides the majority group
and the Premier—Frank Nicklin—in the
Queensland non-Labor State Govern-
ment. It retains a tight grip upon its
northern and north-western strongholds
in NSW centreing around New England
and buttressed by the New State move-
ment, though—and this could be the
writing on the wall —it lost to Labor
at the 1961 Federal elections the seat
of Cowper held by Sir Earle Page
continuously in the Country Party
interest since 1919. In Victoria, in which
it was once the dominant party and
which by deft playing off the Liberals
against the Labor Party it ruled for
years, it is a shadow of its former self,
its former greatness being represented
by an Upper House group which
querulously demonstrates its negative
power of veto. In Western Australia,
it is, federally, a declining factor and if
the present electoral redistribution goes
through unmodified its last surviving
supporter in the House of Repre-
sentatives—Hugh Leslie, from Moore —
could be wiped out. It has already
vanished from South Australia and
does not exist on the Tasmania scene.
In part its decline is due to demo-
graphical factors. With agriculture in-
creasingly mechanised, the drain of
people from the rural areas in the cities
has accelerated. Where population has
remained static, it has been largely
because of the build up in inland towns
of some type of industry and the con-
servative elements associated with such
industries have tended to show a perfer-
ence for the type of Parliamentary
representation provided by the Liberals
rather than by the Country Party. But
personality has also played a part in
producing the Country Party decline.
As must invariably be the case with
a minority party that has no prospect
ever of becoming a majority party
operating, the Country Party leadership
and the skill and capacity with which
the leadership is backed by the CP’s
Parliamentary representatives determines
to a considerable extent the Party’s


standing and influence. It gets its way
and hence retains or enhances its
electoral prestige by its ability to
exercise pressures upon the larger parties
in the right manner and at the correct
time. This calls for considerable shrewd-
ness, a flair for timing, ruthlessness, and
a flexible ability to assess correctly at
any given moment the possibilities
inherent in a constantly changing
political situation.
McEwen —gift for patience
John McEwen, the present Federal
” Leader of the Country Party, has
many of the qualities necessary for a
successful minority group leader. He is
one of the shrewdest men in the Federal
Parliament. He has one of the rarest
and most valuable gifts in politics
patience. If he judges the time is not
ripe to move, he will sit stolidly on his
heels, waiting, like a dingo hunter on a
dog pad for his prey to walk into his
gun sights. He is ruthlessly prepared to
cut his losses if things are not working
out the way he planned them and to try
a new tack. Once he knocks a political
opponent off his feet, he kicks him
mercilessly, probably working on the
quite sound political theory that the
longer you keep an opponent off his
feet the longer it is before he can throw
a political punch in your direction.
McEwen has his limitations. Now 62
and wealthy, he was a rawboned rather
impoverished farmer of 37 when he was
elected to the House of Representatives
25 years ago on a platform of which the
largest plank amusing in the light of
subsequent events was probably his
attitude of “I’m agin the Federal Country
Party”. A Victorian, McEwen was
deeply involved in the Country Party’s
internecine wars in that State, where the
Country Party had strange overtones of
Douglas Credit, socialistically inclined
segments, and a power-seeking elite
prepared to make deals of remarkable
cynicism and astuteness in return for
State power. Against this type of a
background it is not surprising that
though McEwen opened his Parlia-
mentary career supporting the Victorian
Country Party against the Federal
Country Party he was later expelled
from the Victorian Country Party by
the Victorian Country Party Central
Council for co-operating too closely with
the United Australia Party, the pre-
World War II forerunners of the present
Liberals.
In those days McEwen was a much
narrower man than the chuckling tee-
heeing ex-army surgeon, farmer and
highly competent professional politician,
Sir Earle (“Doc”) Page, who was then
running the Federal Country Party and
with whom McEwen was to clash in
later years. Though he might see them
through the slitted eyes of Country
Party interests, Page could always see
Australia’s problems as a whole.
McEwen could see only the problems of
the farmers he represented and those
only within an Australian context and
from the limited viewpoint of im-
mediate price factors rather than long-
term results.
A Parliamentary education and close
association with planners as sophisti-
cated, broadminded, and effective as
Sir John Crawford (for years McEwen’s
main adviser in the Trade Department
and now with the Australian National
University), widened McEwen so that
nowadays he is almost unrecognisable
from the blackbrowed, metaphorically
one-eyed young farmer with views about
wheat that did not extend noticeably
beyond the fences of his own home
paddock. McEwen now sees the Aus-
tralian economy as a whole, and under-
stands as he did not seem to do in his
younger days that if one major sector
of the economy is depressed its depres-
sive effects inevitably extend to other
sectors. It is quite a tribute to his
ability that though he is Country Party
there have been very few beefs against
the policies of the Trade Department
for which he has ministerial responsi-
bility from the Australian manufacturers.
He seems to have achieved the feat of
keeping a balance between the often
superficially opposed interests of primary
and secondary producers.
But in the Parliamentary sense Mc-
Ewen is in a much weaker position than
either Page, who was Country Party
Leader from 1921 to 1939, or Sir Arthur
Fadden, who after the late Mr Archie
Cameron had filled the Leadership from
1939 to 1940, took over the Party’s
Leadership until he retired from the
Treasury and the Parliament in 1958.
Though the Labor members sneer at
the Country Party as “hillbillies”, they
tend to be closer personally to the
Country Party members than to the
Liberals. By and large, the Country
Party members, like the Labor mem-
bers, come up the hard way. They serve
an apprenticeship in local government,
on the boards of co-operative factories
and the like before they enter the Parlia-
ment. They do not come into the Parlia-
ment without practical political experi-
ence, as do so many Liberals. The
result is usually that they know the score
on political infighting and are tough,
seasoned exponents in the art of looking
after themselves and dealing effectively
with political opponents. They can
understand and appreciate the worth of
a political manoeuvre, pass a shrewd
judgment on its likely effectiveness, and
usually contribute something towards
bringing it to a successful conclusion.
When Page and Fadden were leading
the Country Party, they had some pretty
effective lieutenants. They had McEwen
himself. They had the late Mr Larry
Anthony, whose son, Doug Anthony,
now holds his father’s old seat of Rich-
mond for the Country Party. There
were others not quite as good but still
quite effective, capable of giving able
advice themselves and of ably following
the shrewd advice of others.
But when you take McEwen out
of the present Country Party it falls
away abruptly. Charley Davidson, 64,
the Postmaster - General and McEwen’s
Deputy, is a dogged, earnest ad-
ministrator, without great flexibility as
he showed in (1) his handling of the case
in which he denied improper use by a
Departmental officer of Post Office
transport in Queensland only to find
later he had been misled by his official
advisers and (2) his brush with the Vic-
torian police department over Victorian
claims that insufficient co-operation was
coming from the Post Office for Vic-
torian police attempts to deal with the
illegal activities of starting price book-
makers. Davidson is the type that must
contribute strength to any political party
fortunate enough to have his support —■
loyal, conscientious, straightforward, and
honest. But to imagine him making any
contribution towards the working out of
a subtle plan to exploit the CP’s position
as the balance of power, similar to the
plans worked out by Page to keep Page
—and through him the Country Party —
a dominant factor in Australian political
affairs for years, is beyond my capacity.
Adcrmann —peanut grower
Charley Adermann 66, a peanut
grower from Queensland, and No. 3
in the CP’s Federal Parliamentary hier-
archy, is a similar type. Though he has
responsibility for the administration of
the Primary Production Department, a
prickly one to handle, there has been
no trouble for the Menzies’ Govern-
ment as a result of his decisions. He is
the kind of solid, dependable, sensible
person who keeps a Party from getting
into trouble. But it is hard to see him
evolving some brilliant plan to get the
Party out of trouble once it landed in


it or thinking through some scheme to
exert a series of indirect pressures upon
the Liberals so that the Country Party
will get its way without an open and
possibly destructive clash.
Hugh Roberton, 61, Social Services
Minister, whose Scots burr at times
would justify the provision of a kilted
interpreter in the House of Repre-
sentatives, is the son of the Scots com-
poser, Sir Hugh Roberton, and the
author under the pen name of “Peter
Snodgrass” of numerous writings on
political and economic subjects. He is a
kindly, mild-mannered man, whom you
can visualise in the role of clansman but
not clan chieftain in other than the most
serene of circumstances.
Turnbull’s native shrewdness
11/'inton Turnbull, 62, an ex-POW
who became MHR for the Mallee
before he received his army discharge in
1946, is, they tell me, an extraordinary
electorate man. Down in the Mallee many
are rather regretful that it is Robert
Gordon Menzies and not Turnbull who
as Prime Minister is the political head of
the Commonwealth. Turnbull has a native
shrewdness. He is the only one in the
CP who seems to connect the CP’s slow
decline with the shift of population from
the country. Prior to the recent electoral
redistribution, he advocated in the Parlia-
ment that country electorates should
have 20 per cent, fewer voters than city
electorates. He did not get much
support for his suggestion. Liberal Jeff
Bate, who also represents a rural con-
stituency. backed him up. But Turn-
bull was seeing the shape of things to
come that must ultimately weaken the
CP. If he had got approval for his
proposition, the CP would be assured of
a much longer term of effectual life.
It may be argued that it is unjust to
expect Davidson, Adermann, Rober-
ton, or Turnbull or any other members
of the CP to measure up evenly
approximately to McEwen in political
stature and ability. They all lack Mc-
Ewen’s length of Parliamentary ex-
perience. Adermann entered the Federal
Parliament in 1943 when McEwen was
already recognised as being in the front
rank of Federal Parliamentarians. David-
son, Roberton and Turnbull came in in
1946. But the significance for the CP
is that while they are immensely junior
to McEwen in stature and political
capacity they are equal and in some
cases senior to McEwen in years.
There are younger men in the Party’s
rank and file which reveals the truth of
the old adage that you do not have to
be a farmer to represent farmers. Phil
Lucock, 46, MHR for Lyne, is in private
life a Presbyterian parson. lan Allan, a
lanky 6 feet 6 inches and also 46, was
a radio announcer before he won
Gwydir as the CP banner bearer. It is
not unusual for the CP to draw its
representatives from non-farming ranks.
Page, though a member of a family that
has held land in Australia for three
generations, was a surgeon with wide
interests that extended beyond the
agrarian field. Fadden was and still
is an accountant. Turnbull is an
auctioneer.
rpHE Country Party is a loosely knit
organisation. This is another factor
that makes the personalities of its leaders
so important. Though paying lipservice
to common objectives, each State Party
retains complete local autonomy, col-
lecting its own finance, conducting its
own propaganda, and enunciating its
own policies. In theory, the State parties
act as the principal agents for the
Federal Party within their respective
State territories, though, at times, par-
ticularly in Victoria, the State Party has
behaved as the enemy rather than the
agent of the Federal body.
An instance of how independent each
State grouping is and the dependency
of the CP upon the political sagacity
and guile of its leaders shows up in the
quite remarkable career of Sir Albert
(“Artful Alby”) Dunstan, CP, who
dominated the Victorian State scene
during the period Page was still a major
factor Federally.
Though the Leader of a minority
group, Dunstan was conscious that he
was in the position to make and un-
make Victorian State Governments as
his predecessors had done for years
before his advent to the top job. He took
their achievements a step further. He
did not leave even the nominal power in
the hands on his political associates
while he rested content as the CP power
behind the non-Labor throne. He took
over the crown for himself Through a
series of manoeuvres probably un-
matched in boldness he exploited the
CP’s position as the balance in power
in Victoria to keep the Victorian
Premiership in his own hands for the
record breaking term of 10 years
between 1935/45, except for a four-day
period between September 14 and Sep-
tember 18, 1943, when Labor was in
office.
A bare recital of the various alliances
he made speaks for itself and reveals
why he earned his nickname of “Artful
Albert”. In 1932 Dunstan was a Minister
in the Argyle composite State Govern-
ment, representing the Country Pro-
gressive Party which was an independent
wing of the Country Party. By 1935
Dunstan had achieved a merger between
the Country Progressive Party and the
Country Party and had emerged as
leader of the fused team. He then quit
the Argyle Government followed by his
supporters. The Argyle Government was
as a consequence defeated on the floor
of the Victorian Parliament. Dunstan
promptly formed his own all-CP govern-
ment, in a series of rather squalid deals
secured Labor Party, and proceeded to
hold the supreme power in Victoria
until 1943.
In 1943 there was a falling out
between the Country Party and Labor,
and Dunstan in his turn was defeated
on the floor of the Parliament.
Triumphant Labor, the largest Party in
the Victorian Legislative Assembly, was
commissioned to form a government,
which it did. But “Artful Alby” was
far from finished. The Labor administra-
tion lasted precisely four days. Then it
was defeated on the floor of the House
by Dunstan who had engineered an
alliance with the UAP, which soon was
to make way for the Liberals as the
major non-Labor political force.
Dunstan stepped back into the
Premier’s job and continued the rule until
in October, 1945, when a group of anti-
Country Party members of the UAP (of
which the present Liberal Federal MHR
for Isaacs, Mr W. Haworth, was one),
with grievances that even Dunstan
could not talk his way out of deserted
the government in a division. Dunstan
resigned, and the CP started on its long,
downhill slide in Victoria from which
it seems unlikely to recover.
An active party
HPhough opportunist which as a
minority Party it has had to be—
the Country Party has left considerable
monuments behind it to testify to its
effectiveness in both Federal and State
spheres. Federally, it takes credit for
such achievements as the Financial
Agreement (a Page idea) which places
the management of national borrowing
within the province of the Loan Coun-
cil, the National Debt Sinking Fund, the
conversion of the Commonwealth Bank
to a central banking institution, the
establishment of a rural credits depart-
ment and a National Development Bank,
the organising of export marketing on a
co-ordinated basis, the establishment of
the principle of a home consumption


® LYSAGHT
3 RB
EL SHE
T
jumps into first place for contemporary home construction
m A
ggggll
: :
Lysaght galvanized
CORRUGATED
if you prefer the clean modern look of
today’s low-pitched rooflines, then get
the facts about Lysaght Galvanized
Corrugated Steel Sheet. It’s the roofing
material with the advantages you want.
Strength the toughness of Red Orb
quality steel sheet, made specially
rigid for roofing purposes. Good looks
blends happily with every type of
modern roofline. Economy first cost
is moderate, while maintenance costs
are next to nothing for many yeais.
#
sssgS
S&S
•S~
-■.•-■
S*s
WfS.
SQf
Lysaght
KLIP-LOK*
Sixteen
One of today’s most talked-about
building materials, Klip-Lok Sixteen
offers an attractive ribbed appearance
that enhances most modern homes.
Suitable for any pitch of roof down
to I°. Continuous side-locking action
—no sealers needed. Because it is fixed
to roof members with concealed straps,
puncturing of the deck surface is elim-
inated. The long lengths overcome end
laps . . . speeds installation and helps
keep costs down.
* A list. Pat. No. 222046 (other Aust. & Overseas
Pat. Nos. granted and pending)
Illustrated above are two homes, LIG3 (top), LlO4
(bottom), selected from the 1962 Lysaght Home Plans
Portfolio. This Portfolio is available to all home builders
without charge. Simply fill in and mail the coupon at
right. As an additional service complete working drawings
and specifications for any Lysaght home illustrated are
also available through the “Australian Women’s
Weekly” Home Plans Service for as little as £lO/10/-,
which includes help by qualified architects in altering
the selected plan to fit in with your wishes and to suit
your site.
For full information, ’phone or call at your local
“Australian Women’s Weekly” Home Plans Service.
JOHN LYSAGHT
(AUSTRAUA) LIMITED
Offices at Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and Fremantle.
m
M
i
.t
M
SEND FOR FREE HOME PLANS
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited,
50 Young Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, free and post free, your new 1962
Lysaght Home Plans Portfolio, comprising a series
oj' architect-planned homes styled in the modern
manner and designed to be built at moderate cost.
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE.
L2XCC


price for primary products, the Federal
Aids Road scheme which provides Com-
monwealth money for the States, and a
long list of measures designed to help
country dwellers.
One of the Country Party’s best
propaganda points is that its very
presence exercises a compulsion upon
other larger parties to take country
interests into account. While CP
Ministers undoubtedly contributed much
towards decentralisation during the
period the CP was actively associated
with State Administrations, it believes
that it has also enforced some degree
of recognition of rural interests upon
even its opponents and while the CP has
sat upon either the cross or opposi-
tion benches the CP belief is that
without the CP, Liberals and Labor
alike, both urbanised, would spend
Treasury money in the spot w'here the
most votes are. the city. But neither
Party can completely ignore the rural
areas while CP is in existence. Other-
wise the CP will take over an increasing
number of country electorates and climb
back to its former eminence as the
balance of pow'er on the Australian
political scene. That is the CP line of
argument and it has a certain validity.
Along with its other achievements, the
CP must be given credit for having intro-
duced—amusingly using pressure tactics
of a kind to become the hallmark that
were of the CP modus operandi—the
preferential voting system which has
enabled it to survive as a minority Party
and not to be squeezed out between the
millstones of the larger Liberal and Labor
Parties. In 1918, Mr Stanley Bruce, just
returned from war service and within a
few years to become Australian Prime
Minister, secured the Nationalist nomina-
tion for the Federal seat of Flinders.
Bruce was desperately anxious to get
into Parliament. At that time the “first
past the post” system of voting was in
use. If the CP put in a candidate against
Bruce and split the non-Labor vote, Bruce
was likely to be defeated. Bruce knew
this. So did the CP. The CP offered to
refrain from participating in the election
—at a price. The price was that the
Nationalists introduce the preferential
system of voting. After Bruce was
elected, the Nationalists honored the
bargain. Preferential voting was intro-
duced and has operated ever since.
Dominated by the squatters
/Originally, the movements which gave
birth to the CP were dominated by
the larger squatter types who manipulated
the smaller farmers and landowners to
their advantage. But over the years—•
due partly to the fact that in times of
stress the smaller primary producers,
patricularly wheat growers, were liable
to turn the the Labor Party and conse-
quently their views had to be respected—
the F’arty took on a wider aspect. Primary
producers organisations which originally
provided its finances continued to be an
influence, but they in their turn found it
in the interests of their survival to cater
for the less wealthy but much more
numerous small farmers and producers.
Today it is accepted that the bulk of the
larger squatters have drifted politically
to the Liberals and that the CP by and
large tends to attract the smaller man,
and the townsfolk, trading and profes-
sional, who believe that their prosperity
is intimately bound up with the prosperity
of their rural neighbors.
Loyalty to the CP now seems to be
based upon geographic rather than class
factors. Though the CP claims to be a
national party, its strength is concentra-
ted in special areas, such as in the New
England district in NSW and the out-
back of Queensland.
The association with the soil gives it
a social rather than an economic conser-
vatism exceeding that of other non-Labor
groups. As a group understandably
jealous of the predominance of the
urbanite who in its eyes has merely a
cleverness that does not compensate
for the fact that it is the countryman
that produces the wool and other
products from which Australia earns
most of its external income, the CP
still tends to be anti-union. It is not
without significance that on the few
occasions strike-breaking action has been
taken in Australia it is usually those with
CP associations who have volunteered to
carry through the physical tasks involved
in such an operation. Though its present
leader, McEwen, appreciates the impor-
tance to the primary producer of a pros-
perous home market and implements a
policy in his Trade Department aimed at
sustaining a high level of domestic de-
mand among city workers, elements of
the CP's onetime yearning for free trade
are still present.
Mechanical factors have contributed
to the CP's dowmhill slide. In addition to
the movement of population from rural
areas to the city, the enlargement of the
Federal Parliament in 1949 was quite a
blow. With the Parliament numbering
only 75, CP representation varied from
10 to 16 and represented a significant
section of the whole. While the Parlia-
ment in 1949 went to 120-odd members,
CP representation did not increase pro-
portionately. The Liberals took over
many of the rural areas formerly repre-
sented by a CP MHR. At present the
CP has 17 members in a House of Repre-
sentatives numbering 124 and its pros-
pects of expanding greatly that number
are not the brightest.
Chances rather remote
A s the following table of representation
in the various States shows the CP's
hopes of capturing or even being a very
dominant element in a State Government,
apart from Queensland, are growing
rather remote, and what happened in
Victoria with Dunstan ruling from 1935
to 1945 is not likely to be repeated. Here
is the position in each State Parliament—
NSW (94 members)
ALP: 54; Liberal: 25; CP: 14; Indepen-
dent 1.
VICTORIA (66 members)
LCP: 38; ALP: 18; CP: 9; Independent 1.
QUEENSLAND (78 members)
CP: 25; Liberal: 21; ALP: 25; Indepen-
dent: 3; QLP: 4.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA (78 members)
ALP: 19; LCP: 18; CP: Nil; Indepen-
dent: 2.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA (50 members)
ALP: 24; Liberal: 17; CP: 8; vacant 1.
TASMANIA (35 members)
ALP: 18; Liberal: 14; CP: nil; Indepen-
dent: 3.
While preferential voting exists, it is
unlikely that the geographical loyalties
which sustain the CP strongholds in
northern NSW, sections of Victoria
(which returns five members to the House
of Representatives in Canberra), and in
outback Queensland will disappear for a
long time to come.
But while abnormal political situations
may give the Party a temporary political
importance matching old time days, it
would seem that the CP has passed the
zenith of its power in Australia and must
ultimately decline to a much more junior
partner of the Liberals than it was before
the Federal Parliament was enlarged and
the movement of population to the cities
eroded the number of country voters,
elongating the country electorates and
pulling them ever closer to the city W'hose
numerical superiority must in the long
run engulf all but a few immensely
sprawling areas protected from urbanity
by sheer distance.


OUT AND ABOUT
OPERA: POST-MORTEMS AND PROSPECTS
Selling opera as a high-quality product , like high-quality soap
Staff artist John Endean, went to a rehearsal of the Saddler’s Wells production of Offenbach’s “Orpheus in the Underworld” at
the Tivoli Theatre, Sydney. The operetta will be presented in Sydney and Melbourne.
By PATRICIA ROLFE
A few days ago, Mr Stefan Haag,
artistic director of the Elizabe-
than Theatre Trust’s opera com-
pany, finished arrangements for putting
“La Traviata” on the road for a 12 weeks’
tour of New South Wales and Queens-
land, and was able to wash his hands
finally of the 1962 opera season. Back
in Sydney he was in good health and
spirits, apart from the residue of an
attack of influenza, and ready to plan for
the future. But what future?
Mr Haag, sitting, ready to plan, in his
office in Dowling Street, serves to em-
phasise the question marks which hang
over Australia’s opera prospects at the
moment. Will we be able to manage an
annual opera season? Will the trust get
more money from the Federal Govern-
ment so that an annual season can be
planned over a number of years, the only
real way to do it? If we have an opera
season next year, will we have another in
1964? Will we have Joan Sutherland at
the opening of the Sydney Opera House
in 1964? Or is that opening 1965,
some time, never? Will the Sydney
Opera House become the permanent
home for an opera company? Will Mel-
bourne’s Cultural Centre be suitable for
opera, or be used for it? Will the trust
decide on a national opera company or
on regional ones?
The whole business is as complex and
fascinating as a soap-opera plot, but, un-
fortunately, it cannot go on indefinitely,
as soap-operas apparently can.
At the moment Mr Haag is thinking
along the lines of a season of opera for
1963, using this goal more or less as a
blank wall to screen off the indefinite
future. “We are working more with good
will than good sense,” he said, “and in
the hope that before the season is on we
shall have news of a review of grants to
the trust which will enable us to say
there will be annual seasons of opera for,
say, five years at least.”
Mr Haag hopes that next year the trust
will undertake a more active form of
promotion to persuade business and in-
dustry to underwrite the 1963 season.
“We hope we shall be able to go out and
sell opera as a high-quality product,
like high-quality soap,” he said. “Every-
one in business knows there is such a
thing as prestige advertising, and what
can have more prestige than opera?”
What is Mr Haag planning for, if the
trust can finance opera next year? “We
will probably do a revival of ‘The Marri-
age of Figaro’,” he said. “Last season we
revived ‘The Magic Flute’ and this year
‘Don Giovanni,’ both very successfully.
We would like to do ‘La Boheme’ and,
once more, ‘Fidelio.’ We would like to
try ‘Die Fledermaus,’ which would enable
us to see whether an excursion into
operetta would be as successful here as
‘The Merry Widow’ and ‘Orpheus in the
Underworld’ have been for Sadler’s Wells.
But there will be no experimentals.”
This plan means the discarding of Mr
Haag’s hopes for a season of 20th cen-
tury opera, which would have included
“Porgy and Bess” and “The Saint of
Bleeker Street”. He undoubtedly regrets
this, but is philosophic. Mr Haag’s
motive for putting on 20th century
works is not simply to shed lustre on
the trust. It is that he feels operas
written today or in this century can be
more readily understood by audiences.
“The older operas are written to con-
form to certain conventions and without
foreknowledge the average person can-
not follow them,” he said. “But you
should be able to put on opera that 90
per cent, of people can walk off the
street into the theatre and understand,
there and then.”
In the meantime, Mr Haag will carry
on and wait for revised subsidies. He


said that the 1962 opera season had not
lost more money than the 1960 season,
“But,” he added, “I hate to think what
we would have lost if we had not made
some more economies.”
Mr Haag is rather proud of his
economies, in that he feels that the
pinching and scraping were not imme-
diately evident. “This year we did four
operas instead of five last time,” he
said, “yet many people were not aware
that we were one short. And we did the
four operas with 30 singers and only one
dancer. 1 hat is considerably fewer
singers and, of course, many fewer
dancers than are used in the average size
musical.”
The chief single economy that Mr
Haag can effect is with people; saving
salaries and saving air fares. He can
do this only by choosing operas which
have a small chorus, or none, and
possibly even a small cast But there
are limits.
“Several people have said to me why
are you doing ‘Ariadne’ when you have
never done ‘Rosenkavalier.’ But in
‘Ariadne’ we can get away with one im-
ported or world-standard and experienced
yoice, while ‘Rosenkavalier’ needs four.
The Brisbane and Adelaide orchestras at
present could not manage ‘Rosenkavalier’
and we cannot put on a production for
Melbourne and Sydney only. ‘Rosen-
kavalier’ would certainly be better box-
office, but there you are.”
“The Don” in Sydney
-|ncidentally, Mr Haag said that “La
Traviata had done the best business
of the four operas, “Ariadne auf Naxos,”
“Falstaff,” “La Traviata” and “Don
Giovanni” in all cities except Sydney,
where “Don Giovanni” had been most
successful. “I don’t think it proves any-
thing,” he said, “certainly not that Syd-
ney audiences are more sophisticated or
something, I think it was simply that
there were two imported sopranos in
‘Don Giovanni’ and only one in ‘La
Traviata’ and Sydney people thought they
could get two for the price of one.”
Finding theatres remains the trust’s
chief headache—apart from money—in
planning an opera season ahead. This is
something of a problem with commercial
managements and elaborate games have
to be played, moving companies from
one State to another.
However, the trust with only the
Elizabethan in Sydney (“And that is en-
tirely unsuitable for opera,” Mr Haag
says) has to go through a nerve-wracking
will-we? won't-we? before the opera
company is sure of a hearing in each
capital city.
“This year we didn’t know when we
were in Melbourne whether we would
be able to play Brisbane,” Mr Haag said.
“And in 1958 we only got to Brisbane
on condition that we paid air fares to
transport the entire ‘The Pyjama Game’
company from Brisbane to Adelaide. It
cost us £2OOO in fares just to move into
the Brisbane theatre where ‘The Pyjama
Game’ had been playing.”
Mr Haag said that a decision which
must be made at some time—and which
concerns him more closely than the fu-
ture of the Sydney Opera House and
Melbourne’s Cultural Centre, although
it is possibly tied up vvith both is
whether the trust, when it does have
something like permanent opera, will
base it on one national company or on
several regional ones.
One national company would follow
much the present pattern. The regional
ones would mean that there would be
a chorus and orchestra, both probably
small, in each capital city, or, at least,
in several capital cities. Principals only
Miss Iris Kells as Eurydice in
“Orpheus in the Underworld.”
would move from State to State. Each
city’s repertory need not be the same,
seasons could be longer than at present,
enabling the trust to take financial ad-
vantage of the fact that audiences at
present are often only building to capac-
ity when the season ends.
Although the idea of regional com-
panies sounds more elaborate, Mr Haag
thinks that in some ways it would be
more economical that way. At present,
when overseas artists come for several
months they can ask special fees as
compensation for being away from their
normal working base for so long. If
they came only for a month or so, it
might work out cheaper.
Among all these imponderables Mr
Haag himself seems the only constant
factor. Mr Norman Foster, the American
singer who lives and works in Vienna
and who was the trust’s “Falstaff”, said
that Mr Haag was “one of the bright
spots” of his visit here. Mr Foster said
he believed half a dozen European opera
houses would snap Mr Haag up if they
could get him.
However, Mr Haag says he intends to
stay in Australia. “Life’s a battle,” he
said, “and it’s only a question of choosing
your battleground. 1 would have to
battle over there, just as I do here, and
perhaps, for a variety of reasons, I
prefer the battleground here. I went to
Europe for 18 months about five years
ago and it was then that I decided where
I would live.
Resting on his laurels
llThile Mr Stefan Haag sits and plans in
” Dowling Street, half a mile away,
at the Belvedere Hotel, Mr Norman
Tucker, the director of the Sadler's Wells
Theatre, London, can figuratively sit
back and enjoy the fruits of his 15 years
of hard planning in opera at the Wells.
Only figuratively, because Mr Tucker is
too energetic and brisk a man to rest for
long, even on his laurels.
Mr Tucker is in Australia for his
theatre's presentation of “Orpheus in the
Underw'orld”, brought here by Garnet
Carroll which will open at the Tivoli
Theatre, Sydney, on August 17, for five
weeks and will later go to the Princess
Theatre, Melbourne, for nine weeks.
However, Mr Tucker is leaving most of
the work in the hands of the producer,
Robert Blake, and the musical director,
Alexander Faris, and regards his stay in
Australia as something of a holiday.
Two years ago Mr Tucker came here
with his theatre’s production of “The
Merry Widow.” This time he went to
Brisbane to see the end of the Elizabe-
than’s opera season. He liked what he
saw; he thought they had done very well
“considering the difficulties.”
Probably no one in theatre in England
has closer acquaintance of “the difficul-
ties,” of producing opera than Mr Tucker.
He went to Sadler’s Wells 15 years ago,
and although he very quickly and gener-
ously points out that the Wells has a long
history and that he was in no sense the
pioneer of opera there, it is certain that
during his time the Wells achieved new


strength, new reputation and new audi-
ences.
Mr Tucker now has more than 400
people on the pay-roll; two orchestras of
56 people, two choruses of 48, two ballet
groups of 12, and 30 to 40 singers (per-
haps 10 of these Australians). Sadler’s
Wells does eight new productions a year.
Of these two may be operettas.
Mr Tucker said that he worked under
a trust and that the theatre received an
annual subsidy of £400,000 sterling from
the Arts Council.
“The council doesn’t say how the
money shall be spent,” he said. “Perhaps
if we decided to put on an eccentric
series of little-known operas it might
come down on us.”
However, although the subsidy enables
Sadler’s Wells to maintain two complete
opera companies, the theatre’s charter
demands that the operas be done in Eng-
land and the members of the company
have British passports.
The subsidy covers production only in
England and Scotland. “We would not
be able to bring ‘The Merry Widow’ and
‘Orpheus’ here if we had not been very
sure that we were going to make some
money, or at least break even.”
Mr Tucker said that one or other of the
Sadler’s Wells companies was on tour for
about 40 weeks of the year, but, even so,
most of the towns and cities on the
circuit in England and Scotland were
visited for only one week, and this was
all the opera which the provinces see year
long.
Although Sadler’s Wells has had great
artistic and financial successes in the past
few years, it is faced with the fact that
its theatre at the Angel is inadequate for
opera in almost every department. The
London County Council has offered the
Wells free a site on the South Bank near
the Festival Hall and adjoining the site
where the proposed National Theatre will
go.
With the offer of the free site goes a
grant from the London County Council
of £1,300,000, to be split between the
proposed new opera house and the
national theatre. The British Government
has offered £1,000,000, also to be split
between the two projects. Sadler’s Wells
owns its present theatre, which it can sell
to help finance the new opera house.
Mr Tucker said that the first meeting
of interested people to discuss the two
projects was held in London on August
13. “However, I couldn’t fly back to
England for just one meeting,” he said.
“Anyway, there’ll be plenty more.”
With £2,300,000 to spread over two
theatre buildings and not a lottery in
sight. Why, yes, Mr Tucker, there’ll be
plenty more meetings. Anyone in Sydney
could assure you of that.
THE DOWNSWING IN UPLIFT
" My writing is a ministry"
By KATHERINE RANDERSON
The 1960 s may be lean years for the
writers of religious best-sellers.
Mrs. Catherine Marshall, author
of “A Man Called Peter”, believes that
the 1950 s were a peak period in sales of
religious books. “I think you’ll find there
haven’t been many religious books on the
best-selling lists in the last couple of
years,” she said. “I believe that the people
who had only a superficial interest in
Christianity are no longer keeping up
that interest, while the few who really
are sincere are still with us.
“However”, she added, “my books
have always sold just as well in depart-
ment stores and secular shops as in re-
ligious bookshops. And I am still the
bset-selling author of my publisher, Mc-
Graw Hill.”
Mrs Marshall said that she did not
regard herself as entirely a religious
writer. “You can’t put things in water-
tight compartments,” she said “but I
couldn’t write anything without a
Christian flavor. Christianity is the most
important thing in the world to me and
I do regard my writing as a ministry.”
Mrs Marshall was in Australia last
week on a promotion tour for her latest
book, an autobiography called “Beyond
Ourselves”. The tour involved television,
radio and bookshop appearances and
signing, according to Mrs Marshall,
“hundreds of copies” of the book. Mrs
Marshall said she did not often undertake
promotion tours. “Some writers do” she
said. “Irving Stone and John O’Hara are
nearly always on the road but I find it
more rewarding to get back home and
get on with my writing.”
Mrs Marshall began her writing career
with ready-made materials —the sermons
of her husband, the late Dr Peter
Marshall, who was chaplain to the US
Senate. She has edited four collections
of these sermons. “A Man Called Peter,”
was a biography of her husband. Mrs
Marshall now regards herself as a
professional writer.
“I think after nine books I’m entitled
to, don’t you?” she said with a smile.
Mrs Marshall said that writing was a
“great joy” to her, although she felt it
was “desperately hard work.”
“Once I have finished a book it is just
as if I had given birth to a baby,” she
said. “I feel I can never go through with
it again. But, of course, I do. Even if
there were no one to read my books I
would go on writing them.”
Mrs Marshall is now working on her
first novel. It is to be called “Christie”
and is the story of a young girl living in
the Smoky Mountains of North Caro-
lina where Mrs Marshall was born. “I
hope that it will be reviewed by the
critics on its merits, just as any other
novel is,” she said. “I wouldn’t want it
any other way.”
Mrs Marshall said that she had never
used a ghost-writer.
“But I do have a very good editor,”
she said. “He is Mr Edward Kuhn, of
McGraw Hill. He offers me real criticism
and I think any book can profit by that.
I discuss my books at length with him
before I begin writing, but although I
don’t believe every word of them is
sacred I have had some real tussles with
him when he has wanted to change a
few sentences.”
Mrs Marshall said that, unlike most
authors, she has never had an agent.
“After my husband died I was approached
by three publishers,” she said. “So many
people thought that my husband’s words
should be given permanent life. I chose
one publisher, McGraw Hill, and I am
still with them. I must say that my
relations with them have been quite
personal, which is rather remarkable in
such a high-pressure, cut-throat field as
publishing.
“But sometimes when I hear of strug-
gling writers who cannot find a publisher
at all, I feel that it has been made almost
too easy for me.”
Mrs Marshall said it was difficult to
think of writers whom she admired. “I
do wish that Daphne du Maurier could
put together another book as good as
‘Rebecca’,” she said. “I really enjoyed
that. Its structure is so good. A recent
book I enjoyed was ‘To Kill a Mocking-
bird’ by Mary Lee Settle. That was on
the best-selling lists in America for some
time. It was about the South, a part
of the country I know well.
“But in recent years I feel there has
been a dearth of really fine writers in
America and publishers tell me it is the
same in England. Of the older writers
I admire Hemingway. Technically he is
so brilliant, but there is a lack of inner
meaning. He could write so well, but,
really, he had nothing to say, had he?”


THE AWFUL PRESS
THE DEATH OF MARILYN MONROE
On the Monday 1400 inches on the unexpected
By CRITIC
Tn the early hours of Monday, August
6, Australian Associated Press in Mel-
bourne punched out a warning “flash”
on its master teleprinter, and unleashed
an avalanche of fact, supposition, pure
fiction, honest and tawdry comment, re-
collection, innuendo, and pure and simple
necrophilia, which some Australian
metropolitan newspapers resisted and
some felt they had to accept and others
obviously relished to the last morbid
detail.
Dead, as Time once would have put it,
was Marilyn Monroe—“the only blonde
in the world”, as Time's Pacific edition
described her later in the week, in Time’s
new international English.
“She was swept by panics,” the ac-
count began, “smothered by doubts and
fears, and her death had been long in
coming. Twenty years ago when she was
a warmly shopworn 16, she had first tried
to kill herself.”
This was the blunt, brutal way to write
an obit; an American way, because the
defamation laws in parts of Australia
would prevent such valediction for a local
citizen. There were other possible ap-
proaches, suited to various editorial con-
ceptions of the way the story should run,
and for how long. In truth, there was
some variety, though not a great deal of
absolute truth, from the moment of the
AAP flash until the end of last week,
when satiety finally set in.
On the Monday morning every metro-
politan daily had a version of the basic
AAP story on its front page, with any
available pictures from the block room,
and most had at least one staff-written
review of M.M.’s life on an inside page.
In total, these stories occupied about 300
column inches, roughly equivalent to li
broadsheet or 21 tabloid pages—fair
coverage for the death of almost any
celebrity, and certainly more than Jean
Harlow's sudden demise had rated 30
years before.
But it was only the beginning of the
week, and everyone had been caught flat-
footed by the unexpected. Even as
harried morning sub-editors in Australia
were tapping out hasty “specials” based
on cuttings files, and other subs were
trying to decide v/here to end the cable
story, how to head it, and how to shape
the opening paragraph, correspondents
in America were dashing towards Holly-
wood for the “color” stories which must
follow such an event.
Considering the hour the story broke,
Monday’s morning newspapers handled
it sensibly and competently. Headlines
ranged from the Brisbane Courier-Mail’s:
MARILYN MONROE DEAD, OVER-
DOSE OF PILLS, down to the Adelaide
Advertiser’s watery: FILM STAR DIES.
Most used the AAP lead paragraph,
“Actress Marilyn Monroe, her hand
clutching a telephone, was found dead in
her bed yesterday from an apparent over-
dose of barbiturates, coroner’s deputies
reported.”
The Courier-Mail’s late city edition
story began, “Marilyn Monroe, screen
heart throb of millions, died today from
an overdose of sleeping pills.” And the
Courier put all of its story on the front
page, in a 36 inch summary of the known
facts of Marilyn’s life and death.
Among all the inside-page stories that
morning, the only small pointer to things
to come was in, of all places, The Sydney
Morning Herald, where a page 3 story
began, “With an empty pill bottle beside
her bed and a telephone in her hand—-
a final enigmatic gesture—Marilyn Mon-
roe died in circumstances as melodram-
atically cinematic as anything in her
career.” But after that fullblown start
the story petered out into a reasonable
essay by someone not guilty of that lead-
in.
By Monday afternoon, AAP and the
newspapers’ staff men in America had
sent enough words and radio pictures to
fill about 1100 inches, or the equivalent
of five broadsheet pages i Australia’s six
metropolitan afternoon newspapers.
About 650 of the 1100 inches were
used in stories in Sydney’s two afternoon
tabloids, “The Sun” and the “Daily
Mirror,” both with entire front pages
devoted to pictures of the actress’ body
being removed, and the untidy bedroom
where she had died.
“The Sun’s” bold headline was
MONROE: THE END, and the
“Mirror’s” was: MARILYN’S LAST
SCENE.
In contrast, the “Daily News” in Perth
ran 40 inches on page 3, headed HOLLY-
WOOD GRIEVES FOR MARILYN.
The Melbourne “Herald” ran an un-
sensational front page story mder MARI-
LYN MOURNED, spilling to page 5
where other reminiscence stories and
pictures were grouped. The Brisbane
“Telegraph’s” angle was: FILM STAR
HAD “LONG BEEN ILL”, SUICIDE
SQUAD PROBE.
The special prize for written slop that
afternoon went without question to a
Hollywood special used in the Sydney
“Daily Mirror” and “The News” in Ade-
laide. Purporting to be “the terrible truth
that haunted a movie queen”, it began
“The Great Lie is over. And so is the
torment, the heartbreak, the loneliness
and the depression.
“In her great white house overlooking
the blue Pacific, Marilyn Monroe early
this morning enacted the last —and the
most sublime—drama known to man.
The girl they called ‘the Goddess of Love’
died of an overdose of barbiturates.”
The “Mirror” embellished this with
pictures, and such captions as “Her name
spelt perfume and pink champagne, red
velvet and spiked heels —but she died as
she lived, in fantasy and terror . . .” The
author, Raymond Kerrison, stated that


EARN THE RESPECT OF OTHERS!!
AND RECEIVE
More Recognition More
Happiness More Money
Astound your friends with your improved
Memory.
Impress your dub with your Effective and
Public Speaking.
Handle people easily with the use of Human
Relations.
Make more friends and influence others with your
increased Confidence.
Please mark items of special interest.
Please send me Free literature explaining
how I can do these things.
MR.
ADDRESS -
STATE TEL..
Manhattan Australia Pty. Ltd.,
583 George Street. Sydney.
Tel. 61-7463.
Marilyn Monroe had died “by her own
hand”.
According to the news service stories
used in most of the Tuesday morhlng
newspapers, 24 hours after her death, Bits
was far from established. Doctors were
seeking possible motivations. Three of
the newspapers ran HOLLYWOOD
MOURNS stories.
There was nothing new. “The Age”
used 8 inches, “The Mercury” in Hobart
39 inches, the “West Australian” 11
inches. And the “Sydney Morning
Herald” ran 26 inches of story and 12
inches of editorial labelling the affair AN
AMERICAN TRAGEDY.
“The death of Norma Jean Baker,”
said the SMH writer, “apparently by
suicide, is a tragedy with disturbing im-
plications for all . . . the story of the
exploitation of this child, as she grew
up to be a remarkably beautiful woman,
by irresponsible commercialism which
used her body as a commodity . . . hers
is not a story of which our civilisation
can be proud.”
The same Tuesday afternoon the
SMH’s dizzy sister, “The Sun”, headed its
front page MARILYN THE MISFIT,
LIVED ON 20 PILLS A DAY—some
two years ago, as it was admitted later.
Quoting Earl Wilson, “one of the best
informed Hollywood reporters”, it re-
vealed that the actress had been “dete-
riorating from the excessive use of sleep-
ing pills and alcohol.” In 42 inches of
front page space, the story managed to
imply many things, none of them credit-
able. For example, Earl Wilson men-
tioned rumors that M. M. used narcotics
(which narcotics?) and said the County
Coroner had been asked whether there
were any marks on her arms, and had
replied, “Definitely not”.
“It Had To Happen , . ”
|An page 3, again headed MISFIT, “The
Sun” ran another 60 inches of
probing under the deceased woman’s
skin. It quoted Arthur Miller as having
said to someone in his family, “It had
to happen.” It quoted Isvestia and
Vatican Radio as agreeing with the SMH
editorial writer that monstrous Holly-
wood was to blame.
The “Daily Mirror” Y)und a different
angle for its Tuesday story, which
covered the front page: PITY HER,
CRY GOES UP FOR DEAD FILM
ACTRESS. A mysterious phone call was
mentioned. Page 13 was filled with an-
other Kerrison “color” story, headed
THE TRAGIC CINDERELLA, with
such cross-headings as Fell Into The
Abyss, Pills and Alcohol, There Were
No Tomorrows.
Even thj “Mirror” ’s cheerful colum-
nist, Jim Macdougall, commented, “Poor
Marilyn Monroe, she made the world
brighter for everyone but herself, It is
jiM li years this week since an unknown
Marilyn Monroe, bursting with life and
vplupluousness, was crowned Miss
Cheesecake of the United States 1951.”
Beyond Sydney, the M. M. epic sur-
vived on the front page of only one other
newspaper that afternoon. The Mel-
bourne “Herald” gave it 3 inches. The
two Sydney papers, 124 inches. In Perth,
Isvestia’s opinions were given 15 inches.
Total column inches for the Tuesday
afternoon had fallen to about 430.
On Wednesday, eight morning news-
papers managed only about 150 column
inches among them, mostly straight cable
page stories about the handful invited to
the funeral. M.M. received the dignity of
Miss for the first time, in “The Age”,
which noted Only 15 For Miss Monroe’s
Funeral.
Ode To A Telephone
A Sydney “Telegraph 44 columnist re-
marked that he had “been fascinated
with the reaction locally to Marilyn
Monroe’s suicide”, and reproduced a
reader’s ode to her telephone.
Wednesday also brought the “Austra-
lian Women’s Weekly” into the epic, with
a hurriedly dropped-in page of text and
pictures, headed FAREWELL TO
MARILYN MONROE.
“People everywhere felt a pang when
Marilyn Monroe died this week at the
age of 36,” it said. “Something joyous,
and at the same time poignantly wayward
had gone.” And at that stage, the words
seemed wonderfully fresh.
The Wednesday afternoon newspapers
managed 340 column inches in which
M.M. was at least mentioned, thanks to
a similar death in England (CARBON
COPY SUICIDE), more from Kerrison,
a picture of M.M.’s furs, and a news
story of a search for an escort of hers.
“The Sun” in Sydney had a half-page
survey of possible successors as MOVIE
QUEEN AND GOLDEN GIRL.
The English actress’ death, also called
SYMPATHY SUICIDE, made two front
pages in competition with the Budget and
the discovery that phenacetin could be
dangerous.
The Melbourne “Herald’s” report for
the day was in keeping with its more
responsible approach to the whole affair.
It had a London story from Alan Tren-
gove, quoting Arthur Miller, who sug-
gested that “people who cannot get to
sleep become confused after taking a
normal dose and continue to take the
tablets.” It was better than hearsay that
he’d said it had to happen.
The M.M. epic returned to several front
pages on Thursday. In Sydney the morn-
ing “Telegraph” ran 20 inches on page
1, beginning, “Marilyn Monroe, who
earned more than =£B9 million in the 12-
year film career, died with about £2150
in the bank.” At least it was hard news,
the first in days.
By Thursday afternoon, giving its en-
tire front page to the funeral, the Sydney
“Sun” had dizzily turned M.M. from
the Misfit of its Tuesday edition to
MONROE, A LEGEND. Lee Strasberg’s
eulogy at the graveside was quoted at
length, including, “I hope that her death
will stir sympathy and understanding for
a sensitive artist and woman who brought
joy and pleasure to the world.”
The “Daily Mirror”, oddly enough,
gave the funeral a mere 50 inches on
page 3, only a little more than twice the
space it allowed for the death of Arch-
bishop Halse, recorded on the same page.
But in another place, a Q.C. had shown
Mr Murdoch copies of the “Mirror” and
had asked whether this was the type of
journalism he would favor if granted the
third television licence in Sydney.
Marilyn Monroe’s funeral did not
mark the end of Press interest. Time was
on the newstands on the Thursday, with
its own peculiar eulogy. Other magazines
were preparing stories. The Sunday news-
papers had some new slants on old
material.
There would be further echoes in the
daily news, including an inquest. And
perhaps, with more facts, someone would
make a reasonably accurate assessment of
the life and death of the “only blonde in
the world”.
Meanwhile, some of those made at top
speed early on Monday morning, August
6, stand up very well as a higher grade
of Press work than the hundred thousand
wild words that followed.


OVERSEAS
HOLLAND
IN
EUROPE?
Indonesian trauma?
From NEIL McINNES in
The Hague
Dutch and the Belgians, as is well
A known, are responsible for the fail-
ure to draft a constitution for European
political unity in the last two years. Con-
fronted with the French President’s
scheme for a six-nation political union
that would extend the process of unifica-
tion already well begun in the Common
Market, the Dutch began (later joined by
the Belgians) by opposing it as insuffici-
ently unitary, as resembling less a real
federation than a mere international
alliance.
When the project was modified—
—several times, and on some points
profoundly to meet Dutch objections,
The Hague found other grounds for re-
jecting it. When the French, and then the
West Germans and Italians too, lost
patience with successive and contradic-
tory Dutch criticisms, The Hague came
right out and said that it would not
discuss any sort of political project that
came from de Gaulle’s pen.
The British application for admission
to the Common Market had by that time
provided a useful pretext, and the Dutch
stand today is that nothing should be
decided—or even seriously discussed—
until Britain is a full member of the
European association.
Holland’s attitude has caused consider-
able irritation in the major Continental
capitals because it seems founded on no
consistent policy; the Dutch seem to have
become systematically obstructionist in
an enterprise for whose launching they
could claim a good part of the credit.
Not surprisingly, plans for “Fralit”
(France-Allemagne-Italie) were revived
and even brandished publicly by Dr
Adenauer: the three bigger powers would
go ahead without Benelux (Belgium-
Netherlands-Luxembourg).
This was not merely (though it was
partly) blackmail; Fralit might yet see
the light of day in the sense that the Six
will sign a treaty of union that only the
three big nations would implement right
away; the Benelux nations would not be
required to implement it, although signa-
tories, until Britain had also become a
member.
While the Dutch were irritating their
neighbors, they were not comforting
London because The Hague's sudden
solicitude for Britain concerned precisely
the wrong affair. It is notorious that
London sought a Trojan horse in Holland
in order to break the solidarity of the Six
in economic matters, and to lower the
price she should pay for admission to
the Common Market. But the Dutch
stand on that point has been no different
to the French and, worse, it is a former
Dutch Minister of Agriculture, Professor
Mansholt, who is responsible for the Six’s
farm policy which is the main single
stumbling block to British admission. On
the question of political union, British
ideas are much nearer Paris’s than The
Hague's, and London has been embar-
rassed by Dutch stone-walling, fearing
that this unwanted and misguided support
might complicate an economic settlement.
The Dutch policy on European integra-
tion, which seems so irrational from
Paris, does not, I confess, seem much
clearer after patient explanation from
some of its authors here; at most, the
illusions on which its various transforma-
tions are based stand out more plainly.
Their position, they readily admit, must
seem absurd at first glance: they oppose
the Gaullist constitution as inadequately
unitary but insist on British participation
when it is evident that Britain is even less
interested in European political unity
than Gaullist France.
They claim to seek integration with
Germany, France and Italy in one big
European nation, and yet they so much
dread co-operation with those same
nations that they want British presence
and protection before they face it.
The explanation lies in the extent of
the integrationist illusion here in Holland
throughout the early years of the Euro-
pean unity movement. When the Dutch
speak of integration they have federalist
ideas in mind, which remind one of
Proudhon: the existing European nation-
states would wither away before a supra-
national authority that would rule over
various “natural'’ regions. To exaggerate,
they had in view a Europe composed of
Dutchmen, Basques, Bavarian, Nicois,
Sicilians and so on.
In such a union, Holland had nothing
to fear from her big neighbors, Germany
and France, whose power as nation-
states would decline. (The point is never
mentioned but it is obvious that she had
even something to gain: the first fruit of
such a development would be the dis-
integration of Belgium into its Dutch-
speaking and French-speaking halves that
hang together so precariously today).
On the other hand, if the integrationist
ideal is abandoned and unification is
brought back, as by de Gaulle, to a
matter of co-operation—however “inti-
mate” and sincere between existing
nation-states, then the Dutch re-discover
their historical role: “the dinghv behind
the British schooner”.
The Dutch can contemplate integra-
tion but not co-operation, because the
disproportion between national forces in
the second case is so great. The tiny
States of the Lowlands cannot co-operate
with France and Germany without British
protection, or more frankly without the
only arm of the weak: the occasion to
play off one big State against another.
Thus, on the issue of political union in
Europe their position must be “all or
nothing”, however irrational or obstruc-
tionist others may find this. It is willingly
admitted here that genuine integration
would have been the work of generations;
no one expected France and Germany
suddenly to acquiesce in the effacement
of their national sovereignty before a
prefabricated super-state where a Dutch-
man was as good as a Breton.
But unification undertaken in the
integrationist spirit, with a supra-national
ideal or myth, would have been safe,
whereas unification in a merely interna-
tionalist spirit is dangerous without tradi-
tional British backing for the indepen-
dence of the Lowlands.
From the integrationist illusion the
Dutch have passed to another scarcely
less unrealistic: the notion that Britain
will enter the European union at the cost
of cutting, gradually perhaps but irrevoc-
ably, all her Commonwealth ties. It is
evident in discussing with them the role
of the protector they are now clamoring
for that they envisage Britain entering


the Common Market virtually without
conditions.
That is why the Dutch have not par-
ticularised themselves during the Brussels
negotiations by making any accommodat-
ing concessions. It is they who defend
most rigidly the common agricultural
policy of the Six, which would make life
difficult for Australia and New Zealand.
It is they who openly oppose the least
concession to the European neutrals
(Switzerland, Sweden, Austria) whom
Britain wants safeguarded. It is they too
who show the greatest parsimony when
France asks for European aid for African
development, and they will take the
same stand when it is Britain asking for
European help for her ex-colonies still
struggling with development problems.
They want Britain inside the Common
Market, but they want that economic as-
sociation to be neat around the edges:
no favors for any outsider, no special
arrangements on sentimental (i.e politi-
cal) grounds, and no costly efforts to help
anybody less favorably placed.
I suspect, with no evidence saving the
tone conversation takes on this subject,
that the traumatic Indonesian experience
lies underneath this Dutch indifference to
everything that does not concern Euro-
pean prosperity. When they lost their
empire, they came back to Europe with
a bang and wrote the rest of the world
off. Haunted at first by the fear of be-
coming “another Denmark”, as they say
(the French say, “another Portugal”)
meaning a sleepy hole of no importance,
they discovered in their own industrial
revival and in the European unity move-
ment a field for their energies that fully
satisfies them—as well it might, for their
achievements have been magnificent.
They find it difficult to conceive that
the bigger imperial powers, Britain and
France, do not react the same way, and
speak with open contempt of money
wasted helping Algerians and Ghanians
who are “no better than the Indonesians”.
Having failed to get the one big Euro-
pean nation they dreamed of, they want
a European alliance where Britain pro-
tects Holland’s interests on the Continent
and wheie Britain, France and the others
take a Dutch attitude to the rest of the
world, an attitude represented in the cur-
rent commercial policies of Royal Dutch,
Unilever, Philips and the other no-non-
sense global operators that make this
country rich.
They are as unlikely to get the one as
the other, for Europe can as little be in-
tegrationist as she can be neat around
the edges. Unlike a tidy Dutch garden,
a Europe that includes Britain and
France is bound to trail off somewhat
scrappily into a complex of special
arrangements with the Commonwealth,
with French Africa, with Scandinavia
and with the developing world in general.
ISLAND IN THE SUN
Bustamante: "Dirty, stinking cad!"
Manley: "Offensive, insolent person!"
[Exchange in the Jamaican House of Representatives ]
From J. HALCRO FERGUSON
Tamaica, the largest of the British
Caribbean islands, last week achieved
its independence within the Common-
wealth. It was the first wholly English-
speaking country to do so since Aus-
tralia and New Zealand were granted
Dominion status in 1901 and 1907.
Jamaica was discovered by Chris-
topher Columbus in 1494 and called by
him Santiago, or St. James, but later
reverted to its aboriginal name of
Xaymaxa, or land of wood and water,
though the Arawak Indians who named
it and who still figure as supporters on
its coat-of-arms were wiped out during
a century and a half of Spanish rule. In
1655 it was cap-
tured by the English
Admiral Venables
and has remained
British ever since.
The island is only
144 miles long and
less than 50 miles
wide, but it has a
population of 1,500-
000 a very high
density in view of
the mountainous
character of much
of its area and the
comparative lack of
employment other
than agriculture.
Sixty per cent, of
the people are of
African origin, des-
cendants of the
Negro slaves
brought in by the
Spanish and later
the British to work
the sugar plantations before slavery was
abolished in 1834.
The next largest section of the popula-
tion is made up of brown - skinned
people of mixed European and African
blood, who form the bulk of the middle
class. There are also a number of
Indians, descended from indentured
labourers brought in to work the
canefields after the abolition of slavery,
as well as Chinese, Sephardic Jews,
Syrio - Lebanese, and so - called White
Jamaicans whose ancestors once owned
most of the island. These last four
communities are most prominent in
business; educated browns and Negroes
T YING close to politically convulsed
Cuba in the Caribbean is the
tiny, mountainous, impoverished
island of Jamaica which has achieved
full independence as a member
country of the British Common-
wealth. Trinidad will soon follow
suit.
Jamaica’s independence was a
doubtful political expedient following
the failure of the Caribbean Federa-
tion which had at least tried to give
some semblance of political and
economic cohesion to the tiny British
possessions dotting the Spanish Main.
All that remains of the Federation
dream is “The Little Eight” the
string of islands comprising the
Windwards, Leewards and Barbados
which must somehow limp along
on its own with the assistance of
British handouts. . . .
tend to go in for politics and the pro-
fessions; Indians (locally called East
Indians) are found in all walks of life.
The working class and the rural
peasantry (the “quashies”) are almost
entirely Negro.
At the bottom of the social scale there
are the so-called Ras Tatari, mostly un-
employed Negroes living in the shanty-
town slum of West Kingston; they have
named their sect after the Emperor of
Ethiopia, want to go back to Africa,
wear beards and refuse to work for a
community which seems to have no
place for them.
Theirs is a twentieth century protest
against poverty and a lack of oppor-
tunity. An earlier
protest, against op-
pression, led a num-
ber of escaped slaves
to take refuge in the
mountainous Cock-
pit Country and fend
off all attempts at
recapture, so that
the British Govern-
ment was finally
forced to sign a
treaty and to leave
them alone. The
treaty still holds
good, and the
Maroons, as they
are called, run their
own affairs in their
isolated district with
its picturesque place-
names like the Land
of Look Behind.
Most Jamaicans
at one time or an-
other have had rea-
son to be discontented with their lot, but
they have not gone to the extremes of
the Ras Tafari or the Maroons. Their
solution has been emigration, usually
with the idea of returning rich. In the
words of the Jamaican poet H. D. Car-
berry:
And so I leave this island —
This island that I have loved,
This people that I have loved.
But I shall remember always
The beauty of my people
And the beauty of my land.
Originally the emigrants went to
nearby countries or to the United States,


many nevci to return. There are still
thousands of Jamaicans in Panama
whose parents and grandparents went to
build the Panama Canal and they
remain black Britons in a Latin nation.
When Queen Elizabeth passed through
Panama on her round-the-world tour in
1954 the Panamanian authorities were
caught unprepared for the size of the
crowds: they had forgotten about their
Jamaican minority.
Of recent years most of the immigrant
countries, having a population problem
of their own, have banned the entry of
Jamaicans, and the United States closed
the last nearby door when it took West
Indians off the unfilled United Kingdom
immigration quota and put them on a
much smaller quota of their own. As
a result, since World War Two Jamai-
cans have been pouring into Britain at
the rate of several thousands a year.
On July 1 this year the Commonwealth
Immigrants Act confined immigration to
those holding work permits: the results
of this on the nascent nation have yet
to be seen.
Despite their racial mixture the Jamai-
cans have a recognisable national
character, independent and extrovert,
which tends to irritate other West
Indians from w'hat Jamaicans patron-
isingly refer to as the Small Islands. For
many years now there has been no
colour bar in Jamaica, though black
Jamaicans still complain that they are
never given jobs in certain businesses,
e.g. banks (which are British- and
Canadian-owned).
Straight Hair—Better Than Kinky
npHERE is a distinct shade-consciousness,
which feels that light skin is “better”
than black and straight hair “better”
than kinky, a hangover from slavery
days which still makes light-skinned
people more eligible as marriage part-
ners. Among the middle class, particu-
larly the intellectuals, this prejudice is
beginning to disappear, but it still
operates in reverse among the under-
privileged Negroes who form the
maioritv. As a result, under universal
suffrage, it is rather a disadvantage to
a politician not to be black.
Universal suffrage was introduced
with the Constitution of 1944, which
also gave the island internal self-govern-
ment, with a Ministerial system and an
elected Legislature. Two parties have
dominated the Jamaican political scene,
the Jamaica Labour Party and the
People’s National Partv. The JLP, at
present in power, is led by the flam-
bovant Sir Alexander Bustamante, a
white-maned spellbinder whose party’s
name is misleading: it once went into an
election campaign with the slogan
“Socialism is Slavery”.
The PNP, which is Socialist, is led by
the sophisticated Mr Norman Washing-
ton Manley, QC. a former Rhodes
scholar who scorns “Busta’s” demagogu-
ery and appeals to middle-class liberals
and the urban working-class. The dif-
ference between the two parties can be
summed up in their respective party
songs: the FNP’s is “Jamaica Arise”, the
JLP’s “We will foller Bustamante till
we die”.
The two men, distant cousins, have
alternated in office since 1944, and both
were originally protagonists of the West
Indian Federation (Jamaica, Trinidad,
Barbados and the Leeward and Wind-
ward Islands) which came into being
in 1958 Once the' Federation was
established, however, “Busta” lost en-
thusiasm and began to play on the
natural parochialism of the quashies,
using simplified arguments not unlike
those of some of the less sophisticated
British opponents of the European Com-
mon Market. At the end of last year Mr
Manley, as Premier, risked a referendum
on the subject, and lost. Jamaica with-
drew, and the Federation coliapseed.
Now Jamaica must go it alone.
Politically, there is no reason why she
shouldn’t. The parliamentary two-
party system is well established, though
exchanges in the House are rather more
lively and personal than is currently
common in Westminster For instance
(admittedly unrepresentative):
Sir A. BUSTAMANTE (to Mr Manley):
You are like a peacock without
feathers.
Mr MANLEY: If I may paraphrase the
Bible—the chatter of fools.
Sir A. BUSTAMANTE: Bible? Bible?
He doesn’t believe in God.
Mr MANLEY: If the Member is drunk,
he had better get out of the House.
Sir A. BUSTAMANTE: Dirty, stinking
cad.
Mr MANLEY: Offensive, insolent per-
son.
Sir A. BUSTAMANTE: You say God is
a myth.
Mr CLARKE You are common. You
are rude.
Sir A. BUSTAMANTE: I am not what
you are, dirty and stink. You smell
like an owl. Frowzy! . . .
Rev. CYRIL MORGAN: Remember
you are a Knight.
Sir A. BUSTAMANTE: You are a Par-
son.
Mr NEWLAND: You are all a lot of
blasted idol-worshippers. You believe
that Manley is any God here? You
believe he is any blasted Caesar?
Mr CLARKE: The most common dis-
play I have ever seen.
Mr Clarke’s view was shared by most
“respectable” Jamaicans, and on the day
following a similar exchange the King-
ston “Daily Gleaner” printed a cartoon
showing two working-class women talk-
ing over the fence. Said one: “Me don’t
talk dat way in me yard”.
“Me don’t talk dat way . .
A ll the same, when Jamaica joins the
United Nations, “Busta” (who has
pledged his country’s allegiance to the
West) should prove a lively addition to
the scene.
But even if, politically, Jamaica can
stand up to Mr Khrushchev or anyone
else, economically she is still in a dis-
advantageous position. Despite emigra-
tion, the island is still overcrowded, a
situation exacerbated bv the old African
belief still extant among the more
ignorant that a woman’s status depends
on the number of children she bears,
however come bv (70 per cent of the
population is technicallv illegitimate).
The country is still largely dependent
on its old basic products, sugar, bananas
and Blue Mountain coffee. Now there
are new light industries, as well as
bauxite, which fills the coffers of the
Treasurv but provides little extra em-
ployment There is the tourist trade on
the north coast, geared to tbn ITS tourists
—who see a Jamaica quite different from
that known to most of its inhabitants.
And. taking the long-term view, there is
the University College of the West
Indies, which should produce graduates
capable of coping witf the country’s
problems
These problems are still great, but
there is little doubt that the Jamaicans
will face up to them, for thev have great
pride and a great love for their country.
And in strange cities
Among unaccustomed people
Who move palefaced with tired staring
eyes
I shall remember
The warmth and gaiety of my people
The polyglot colour and variety of
their faces
The happy fusion of our myriad races
In the common love that unites and
binds us to this land.


[ft
HELP
NUCLEAR STUPIDITY IN EUROPE
U.S. caution —European recklessness
By JOHN STRACHEY, Defence Minister in the Attlee Government
rrHEßE is nothing like a good, fixed
*- prejudice for strength and dura-
bility. Mere reality bounces off it like
a tennis ball off armour plate. And
what prejudice is more fixed, on the
side of the Atlantic, than the notion
that, compared with the Americans, who
are supposed to be harsh, crude, dan-
gerous nuclear warriors, we Europeans
are reasonable, cautious, peace-loving
and intelligent? And yet the facts are
almost precisely contrary to the notion.
In the nuclear defence controversy
within the Western Alliance, it is the
Americans who are now preaching, and
practising, a cautious, complicated,
highly intellectual military doctrine.
It is the Europeans who are pressing
for maximum, immediate, massive
nuclear retaliation “at times and places
of their own choosing.”
This paradoxical alignment was
sharply articulated at an international
conference which I recently attended in
the heart of Europe. Of course there was
some “cross voting”: not all the Euro-
peans, for example, were for the immedi-
ate use of tactical nuclear weapons if a
Russian patrol crossed the border into
the West.
T'he German Social Democrats and a
A good many of the British, irrespective
of their political opinions, were not,
for example. But it is not much of an
exaggeration to say that the rest of the
Europeans were.
And there was only one American
dissenting voice to what is now official
American doctrine on the vital impor-
tance of an adequate conventional
capability.
This alignment is all the more para-
doxical in that whoever might be saved
from obliteration if the exchange of even
tactical nuclears were initiated by the
West, in reply to some Russian move
carried out with conventional forces, the
fair lands of Western Europe, with all
their peoples, must be utterly destroyed.
And yet there were the Americans
arguing, almost pleading, with us for
caution in starting the nuclear exchange,
for building up that conventional capacity
which alone can make such caution pos-
sible.
Moreover they were pleading for con-
sideration, not only of the consequences
of the use of tactical nuclear weapons,
hut also for consideration of the pos-
sibility that, in the absence of con-
ventional strength, such consequences
might, when the time actually came,
make us do nothing in the face of even
considerable Russian conventional ag-
gressions; that, in a word, reliance on
the first use of tactical nuclears was a
policy which, for all its heroic sound,
might actually lead to disastrous appease-
ments.
And there were the Europeans re-
torting that such views amounted to the
concealed abandonment of Euiope, if
not to betrayed and defeatism: that
nothing would do but tactical nuclears de-
ployed in the front line, inevitably to be
let off, in practice, by any battalion, or
even platoon, commander who found
that his unit was being overrun.
I am not here concerned to argue out
the merits of this issue. (Though I, for
one, can see but a poor prospect of
human survival in the northern hemis-
phere unless something at least broadly
approximately to the American doctrine
comes to be accepted.)
What I am here concerned with are
the reasons for this strange reversal
of roles. Why is it that the relatively
weak and exposed Europeans are reck-
less and irrational, while the relatively
strong and secure Americans are cautious
and rational?
There are, I suppose, two reasons.
The first is simply that the Americans
have thought far more carefully and
seriously about war in the nuclear age
than have the Europeans. For every
minute’s sustained attention which has
been given in Europe to what would
actually happen in a nuclear exchange,
the Americans have given an hour, if
not a day, of organised study to the
subject.
Not only and not even principally, in
the Defence Department and in the war
colleges, but also and above all in their
special institutions, such as the Rand
Corporation, nuclear war has been
studied.
And, exactly contrary to some foolish
opinion in this country, the more you
study nuclear war the more cautious
and responsible your defence policy
will become.
npHE second reason is that it is, pre-
cisely, relative American strength and
security which make for caution and
responsibility, and relative European
weakness and exposure which make for
recklessness.
The worst, most unthinking, sort of
European view—and it has important
adherents in this country also is
founded, at bottom, on a now un-
justified sense of impotence in face of
Russian strength.
Nothing, it is felt, but a readiness on
the part of the Americans to fire off the
nuclears if a Russian sentry stirs—or
worse still a readiness on our part to
fire nuclears which we own and con-
trol, in order to “trigger off” the
American nuclears —can hold the Rus-
sians.
It is humiliating, suicidal nonsense.
And the only cure for it is sustained
European thinking about the real issues
of nuclear war and a steady building up
of European conventional strength.
Then Europe will feel strong and con-
fident enough to be cautious and even
to make reciprocal concessions.
It is the weak who in their panic
are apt to commit suicide. It all reminds
me of the story of one of the war-time
altercations between Churchill and de
Gaulle, of which the final interchange
was said to be as follows: “ Churchill:
Well, then, General, will you make
me no concessions? De Gaulle: No,
none, Prime Minister. I am too weak.”


SPORTING NOTIONS
END OF THE FOOTBRAWL SEASON
"An opponent calmly wandered up, kicked him in the middle of the hack"
By DISCUS
footbrawl season now ending has
been the greatest in Australian
sporting history. In all codes the
incidence of cut eyes, split lips and
dented noses has surpassed anything
previously recorded in the dull old days
when mere football was played and the
worst a player expected was some broken
bones, collected in honest endeavour to
kick or place a ball between the goal
posts.
In modern footbrawl, the ball tends to
become a minor consideration as one of
Australia's best Rugby Union players,
fcen Catchpole, gathered during the
season when play moved on, leaving him
reclining on the turf, and an opponent
calmly wandered up and kicked him in
the middle of the back. For the rest of
the game, in Sydney, it was on for
young and old and Union is the
amateur side of Rugby, supposedly
played for love of the game.
Among the professionals, the Rugby
code had some of its finest moments in
years during the recent matches and
Tests against an England team which set
the pace in a match against NSW in
Sydney on June 2. England went the
knuckle so violently and effectively that
its first two Tests against Australia were
almost walkovers.
Subsequently an unimpressed New
Zealand side dumped England in a First
Test, which should prove something,
particularly as NZ is more a Rugby
Union country than a Rugby League
one.
During the season frequent brawling
led the NSW Rugby League Referees’
Association to a strong protest. In
Rugby the single field referee has
absolute control of the game, and, un-
like his brothers in the Australian code,
can send players off the field during a
match. But like them, he then has to
depend on the League management com-
mittee for further punitive action, and
this is usually handed out weakly in the
form of cautions and two-game sus-
pensions, which the NSW Referees con-
sider merely “a licence to carry on”.
The referees, and umpires in the Aus-
tralian code, only get strong support
when one of them is struck, and then
disqualification for life is almost auto-
matic. As this usually happens only in
‘junior’ football, it is no help in con-
trolling the big games.
In the Australian code, the several
umpires have no power to send off,
and have to report breaches after the
game. This is fine in Melbourne, but
not so good, in the three other States
where the code is king.
In Adelaide last month it resulted in
a farcical situation when a West versus
Port match became a complete brawl
during the third quarter of the game,
with all 36 players involved and the
four umpires completely impotent.
Later the umpires reported three play-
ers for striking opponents in the face
with clenched fists during play, and one
for charging. The Subsequent penalties
were hardly calculated to deter.
These are representative and not
scattered incidents of deliberate knuck-
ling and booting this season, and do not
include the commonplace “hard knocks”
of Australian code rucking and marking,
which frequently lead to such laconic
reports as “Don Marinko, who had
played brilliantly, ran off the ground
with blood streaming down his face”.
Such normal results of hard football
have to be taken casually, especially in
Australian League where the breezy,
stab-passing game has gone, and there
are more melees. But with the going
rate for good Stadium fighters at roughly
£IOO a round, the players who prefer
football must love the game—though I
note that Collingwood’s captain, Mur-
ray Weideman plans to give rassling a
try soon.
In addition to the players’ efforts,
spectators have suddenly become wildly
aggressive towards players, umpires, and
one another. In Hobart recently police
charged four spectators taken from a
free-for-all at North Hobart oval, in WA
police had to pluck spectators from a
brawl at Fremantle oval, and in Mel-
bourne additional police had to be
assigned to various grounds where
similar trouble had occurred.
This development towards bigger and
better footbrawl seems to have spread
from Soccer, where it is commonplace.
But Soccer is a world apart.
No other code has so few spectators,
so much internal dissension, so many
player and spectator brawls, so many
violent attacks on its referees, and so
much publicity including several news-
papers devoted entirely to Soccer.
A recent issue of “Soccer World”
noted an Australia-wide first division
attendance of about 50,000 for the
previous weekend, with about 17,000
spectators at all matches in Sydney,
about 18,000 in Melbourne (12,000 at
a Polonia-Hellas game), and about
15,000 in the other States. Around the
same time, one of the interstate Soccer
matches in Sydney drew only 7000
spectators.
These figures are much higher than
the handful Soccer drew 10 years ago,
but 7000 in Sydney compares poorly
with the 40,000 who saw a recent SA-
Victoria match in Adelaide, and despite
new and more vigorous Federation con-
trol, it’s likely to be many years before
club Soccer can draw 20,000 anywhere
in Australia.
Footbrawl is the trouble. The Aus-
tralian code’s strength lies in its attrac-
tion for women and children as well as
men. How will Soccer draw more
supporters when these incidents are
normal features of its matches:
Melbourne: JUST - Melbourne match
abandoned when spectators rioted . . .
police to arrest spectators at
Juventas-Wiihelmina match.
Adelaide: Linesman struck by spec-
tators at Woodville during SA-Victoria
match, two players reported for striking
. . . Austria official barred for the season
for striking a player.
Sydney: Spectators chase referee off
the field . . . Apia official and Canter-
bury player come to blows . . . three sent
off after brawl . . . player threatens to
punch linesman and referee . . . spec-
tators and players brawl.
None of these things should happen
at first grade sporting fixtures, and while
they do they will keep people away from
the code which does little to prevent
them. Soccer’s normal “punishment” for


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
■jackson &
,O'SUEUVav
fTY LTD ,
»«< BOl'2?
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Hf*
mm
Always ask for
AINSLIE’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd., Sydney
Naiioran Manton Pty. Ltd.
HELP
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.
Sydney. BM 2001. =
footbrawlers consists of a week or two
0 f suspension. Club officials seem more
prone to lose their heads and attack
players on the field than to police their
spectators.
Soccer Federation officials who are
expecting much for the sport from this
month’s visit by international FIFA
officials are aware that there will be
discussions about migrant players who
are engaged here without clearances,
and payment of transfer fees to their
former clubs. They seem unaware that
the FIFA might also consider attend-
ances, control, and the Australian per-
centage in an Australian team.
Soccer’s problem in stopping foot-
brawl is greater than the other codes
because so much more depends on it,
but another season like the one now
ending could disgust followers of all
codes, most of whom go along, and pay
their money, to see sport other than
bare knuckle bruising.
The exceptions should be noted as
well as the offences. The Victoria Foot-
ball League stamps on footbrawl, and
in Queensland all codes are played in
a hard, clean manner. And there is a
moral. An early season match between
Melbourne and Essendon, featuring
hard, fast football, drew 86,000 to the
Melbourne Cricket Ground.
But elsewhere, on present trends, it
could come to this:
“At Bleak Oval today, West’s heavy-
weights and North’s giants met in the
most sensational bout of footbrawl ever
seen here.
“Before the last notes of March of the
Gladiators had died away, the umpires
blew a fanfare of whistles and 36 men
charged downfield, to clash in mid-oval.
“Under the new rule which forbids
any player to be hit on the ground, we
had the fantastic spectacle of all 36
going up for the mark, and connecting.
“And the next moment all 36 lay
on the ground, out cold. So ended the
first round, a scoreless draw. But there
were 14 rounds to go, if any of the
players could come up for the next
whistle.
“We spectators crowded the fence and
waited anxiously, as the skilled umpires
tried to revive the players, and the cold
wind whistled through the empty grand-
stands”.
■k ★ ★
When the Australian Amateur Athletic
" Union accepted Indonesia’s invita-
tion to send a team to Djakarta this
month, there were some rumbles of
opposition. It was considered a bad
move for our athletes, in the midst of
condition training for the Common-
wealth Games. The AAAU had received
the idea coldly at first, but had been
warmed by suggestions from the Depart-
ment of External Affairs. When the
team of 20 left by air on August 2,
there was little interest in its departure.
I would class it as one of the most
important sporting moves in our history,
dwarfing the impact of the Common-
wealth Games which are here today
and gone to the other side of the world
tomorrow, for another four years.
We have everything in our favor at
the Games. Australia is sending a team
of more than 200 compared with, for
instance, Scotland’s 50 and some of the
10s and 20s from the little countries.
South Africa is out. We may even win
the bowls. Certainly with numbers and
acclimatisation entirely in our favor,
Australia should reap gold medals.
But let’s not go overboard about the
Games in Perth. The Commonwealth,
formerly the Empire, does not offer
much sporting competition. The crux of
the Games will be Australia versus
England, with matricide in prospect.
A much bigger, and in terms of Aus-
tralia’s location, more vital Games is
the Fourth Asian in Djakarta this month.
We are not invited. We may never be.
Our touring athletes went to Djakarta to
help Indonesia’s prepare for the con-
tests against other Asians. Next year
or the year after citizens of West New
Guinea will very likely be invited to
compete in Asia and take part in the
Fifth Asian Games when they occur.
Then there may lopicallv be an invita-
tion to athletes from Eastern New
Guinea.
Meanwhile, Australian athletes will be
competine in Tokio, on a World Games
basis, and. to readmit the Department of
External Affairs to the sportinq scene,
teams from this country are likely to be
welcome in, and likelv to visit, other
Asian countries in 1964, to help with
their preparations.
Suddenly Australia mav find itself
verv much a part of the erowinq Asian
trend to sport, with opportunities to
build our prestipe as a helping-hand
nation, or lose face as a nation with
second-rate performers.
The Federal Government mav then
realise that sport could be as vital to
Australia’s future in everv direction as,
say, the Colombo Plan. We mav see
sudden Federal encouraaement for a
Pacific Games series in Australia, and
some Federal millions directed to better
facilities for amateur sport in this
country.
These may be pipe dreams. The de-
parture of a team of 20 Australian
athletes for Diakarta mav have been of
as little importance as it was made to
seem. But T see it as a pointer to a
future in which we will have to do more
than reassure ourselves that we are a
classy sportinq nation. We may have to
prove it. and prove the sportsmanship
bit to various races whose members
regard it as a new and possibly interest-
ing discovery.


Australian Prime Ministers -IV
WATSON The Forgotten Man
He didn't want to be PM; he didn't even want to lead his Party
By M. H. ELLIS
John Christian Watson was Aus-
tralia’s most extraordinary Prime
Minister. He was, in the first place,
its youngest: he was exactly 37 years old
when he took office. Yet he had served
in nine Parliaments in ten years and was
a veteran by Labor Party standards of
his day. He did not want to be Prime
Minister. He did not even want to be
leader of the Party. Yet he had done
more than anybody in the initial stages
to stabilise the Party. He did not believe
in all its policy and technique or in its
strategy. He resigned from parliamen-
tary leadership at 41 without regret and
as he said to me once, “returned to work
his own plough.”
He continued in the Party for some
years and helped to mould its policy—•
unlike most Australian Prime Ministers
he was not broken by jealousies and
rivalries. When eventually he was expel-
led for his attitude to Conscription, the
expulsion was without rancor on the part
of those who cast him out.
At 37 he was a national figure, head
and front of the Commonwealth,
esteemed as an able drinker and speaker,
a major formative influence with politi-
cal Labor. At 42 he was right off the
stage save in the inner councils of the
Party. At 43 the man who had been
Prime Minister of Australia was a pros-
pector and organiser of gold mining for
the Tewkesbury interests in South Africa.
Anybody seeing the photograph of the
tall, beardless athletic figure in leggings
photographed between two naked little
black Africans beside a kraal at Rhon-
darval in the Transvaal in 1910 w'ould
have been hard put to it to recognise the
bearded, open-faced Prime Minister of
1904. He had receded into another world
without regrets and without any ambition
to return.
He was tall, slim and handsome, six
feet of sound manhood, obviously full of
life. Honesty was written all over him.
He was well dressed and very neat as he
always was. His beard was well trimmed
and exhibited his strong, broad-cheek-
boned face to perfection. His eyes had a
glint and he had the habit of giving you
a flashing, upward glance as something
you said caught his interest. He was
lighter haired as a young man than in
maturity. He had no noticeable man-
nerisms, no historic tricks. His voice was
clear, like his English which was simple
and straightforward. He gave the impres-
sion of disinterested common sense.
“Hop’s” Watson
There was a faint resemblance to
Deakin about him, though they were pro-
ducts of different environments and
different opportunities and standards of
education and tastes.
Boy from Valparaiso
A mong other distinctions Watson was
the first Australian Prime Minister
who was not Australian born. He is also
probably the only Australian Prime
Minister who was, or is ever likely to be,
born in South America.
His father, George Thomas Watson, is
generally described as a sailor. Chris
Watson was a little off-hand about it when
I asked him; but no meaning could be
written into this since he was a stickler
for the old fashioned convention that an
Australian’s home was his castle and his
private life private. But it seems that the
father was an immigrant seaman work-
ing his passage to New Zealand and that
Chris was bom on April 9, 1867, on the
ship in the harbor of Valparaiso, then a
centre of the Newcastle-South American
coal trade.
As a very small boy, in the seventies
he found himself in the same cradle that
nurtured more than one Australian of
note including Robert Heffron, Premier
of New South Wales, namely, the wild
fermenting coasts of the South Island of
New Zealand, and eventually Oamaru
where he went to the public school and
left to become at ten years old a nipper
on railway construction works; that is,
a boy who looked after the workers’ tools.
As soon as he was old enough he was
apprenticed to the printing trade on an
Oamaru paper and became a composi-
tor —and, be it said, a very handy and
fast manipulator of a composing stick,
even in his latter days when asked to “try
his hand.”
Hard times hit New Zealand in the
middle eighties of last century and he
came to Australia at nineteen looking for
work, which was hard to find, taking
any odd job that came his way. One day
I happened to mention Lord Carrington
to him and he said pensively: “He was
a good little man. I worked in his garden
a bit. One day he spoke to me as I
was going off and asked me about myself.
He gave me sixpence for a beer and I
spent it on a book.”
However, work for which he was
more suited than laboring in Govern-
ment House Garden came to him. W. H.
Traill who had built the Bulletins
political influence more than any other
man, left it to found the “Australian
Star”. Watson was soon setting type in
the office and under the influence of the
bearded Traill, whom he pronounced the
greatest journalist of his time, he became
interested in the Land Nationalisation
Society (of which Traill was president),
though not enthusiastically and went
into the Labor movement via the chapel
of the “Star” at a time at which Labor
had a youthful sound and fury, was
backed by the Bulletin then in a revolu-
tionary mood. All round him the historic
Labor figures of the future were moving
into their places on the stage —Cook,
Hughes, Holman, big Jim McGowen,


Black, Webster, Beeby, W. G. Higgs, and
the rest.
All these formed a melting pot of
careerists boiling angrily against the more
solid background of the trade union
movement and giving birth every now
and then to a new variety of extremist
organisation, such as the Social Demo-
cratic Federation which met in a building
of which the evil-looking Butler, the
Blue Mountains murderer, who fright-
ened even W. M. Hughes, was the
menacing caretaker.
Tooth and Claw
rpHE name of Watson does not appear
among the pioneer careerists of these
long-haired bodies. He was working
away quietly, got married in 1889 and
confined himself to routine membership
of his union until the great strike of
1890 and other events connected with
that black, revolutionary time of depres-
sion led to the passage of a motion by
the NSW Trades and Labor Council
in October 1890 the effect that the
Council deemed it advisable to
establish Labor Electoral Leagues in
every electorate where practicable,
throughout the colony of New South
Wales.
The resolution produced a three-day
Conference held at the Trades Hall,
Dixon Street, Sydney, which ended on
March 31, 1891. This and the sub-
sequent proceedings were exclusively—
or nearly so —confined to the officialdom
of unionism and Watson’s name appeared
on the propaganda committee, and was
honorary secretary of one of the first
three Labor Leagues formed in April
1891—Balmain was the pioneer, West
Sydney and Redfern came next.
When Henry Parkes dissolved Parlia-
ment in the following June (1891) J. C.
Watson was the name of the League’s
honorary secretary in West Sydney,
strenuously supporting the candidature
of inter alia the Bulletin’s red-
headed poet, E. J. Brady. . . . The
electorate returned four Labor men in-
cluding G. Black and J. D. Fitzgerald,
and as the leading representative and
men’s Union.
Throughout the two stormy years for
Labor which followed he is suddenly
found, however, very high up on the
Labor tree. At the first Annual Confer-
ence of the Labor political organisation
for the colony on November 8-9, 1893,
he was present as the 26-year-old Presi-
dent of the Trades and Labor Council
and as the leading representative and
presiding as ex-officio chairman of the
Central Committee of the NSW Labor
League. The conference included a
regular galaxy of future ministers and
members of the State and Federal Parlia-
ment, all using tooth and claw in the
quarrels which had developed after Labor
had burst into the Legislative Assembly
35 strong at the election of 1891.
It was an amusing conference which
debated such proposals as a hopeful
resolution that all surpluses of income
above £3OO throughout the community
should be commandeered by the State.
One brave fellow even moved that Parlia-
ment should meet at 10 am and that
members should be paid a shilling an
hour. This being 1893 he was neither
lynched nor committed to an asylum;
and neither was the hardy wight who
proposed that all goods should be carried
free on the railways. Indeed, practically
everything proposed was adopted. The
isolated exception was a plan to compel
Labor members to contribute £1 a week
to the Central Propaganda Fund of the
Party. They were human even then.
The curious fact was that scarcely any
of the (later) great statesmen opposed
any of these wild schemes; but among
those who were was Watson who later
declared that this was the only political
occasion on which he acquired a sore
throat, which became the sorer as he
helped to argue through acceptance of a
pledge which would compel Labor
members to vote solidly with the Party
on all questions affecting the Labor
Platform, or calculated to establish a
monopoly, or to confer further privileges
on the already privileged classes. He was
never in the van of leadership, however,
but always the man who came in to per-
suade, to negotiate, to try to instil com-
mon sense in situations in which youth
and revolutionary wildness started aiming
for the millennium on “Tuesday next, if
not tomorrow”.
The adoption of the solidarity pledge
was a landmark in the history of the
Labor Party; indeed the Party’s birth-
day as a solidified organisation working
under party, and in those days, particu-
larly under trades union discipline. It
marked Watson’s emergence in a wider
sphere—President of the Australian
Labor Federation.
Wild Lines
Tt marked another advance due to the
installation of the Reid Government
of NSW into power at the 1894 elec-
tions at which Watson entered the House
as member for Young and gave the
Labor members, even though they were
reduced considerably in numbers, from
their original 35, the first chance to
demonstrate the technique of “support
in return for concessions” which was
their basic parliamentary policy. This
was one of which Watson was partly the
author and perhaps the firmest and most
constant supporter throughout his life.
Labor had failed in the previous
Parliament through lack of solidity and
the tendency of members of the Party to
take their own, often wild lines. But with
the “solid” pledge in its hands and a
Premier whose policy ran on the general
lines of its own it was able to establish
the most successful Labor-Liberal alliance
ever consummated in Australian political
history. Reid took Joseph Cook, the
bearded secretary of the coalminers, a
self - but - well - educated Methodist and
member for Hartley and the Labor
Parliamentary free-trade leader into the
Cabinet as Postmaster General. He later
made Watson a member of the Standing
Committee on Public Works, a position
in which he was able to exhibit for the
first time his innate business ability.
In the most fruitful season of ripening
Labor legislation, 1894-98, Watson was
a steady and strengthening influence,
though never pushed forward, never
showing any ambition to really come to
the top if somehow always there. Behind
the scenes, he helped to sway the Party at
a moment in 1894 when many of its
members were inclined to turn timidly
opportunist as Reid boldly decided to go
to the country to secure a mandate for
the mutual plans of himself and the
Labor bloc, and defeated the opposition
of the Legislative Council which was
making mince meat of the legislation sent
up to it.
“God’s Good Air”
TJe was associated with the drafting of
Reid’s comprehensive Factories’ Act.
He backed his taxation measures, especi-
ally his land tax and superlatively his
legislation dealing with child and women
labor and the eight-hour day. As in
1893, when the solidarity pledge had
been adopted, he had a curious commu-
nity of thought with W. M. Hughes
whom he admired but personally disliked
as an opportunist and a fly-away vision-
ary. But with Hughes more than any-
body he was responsible for the eight-
hour day pleading in Parliament for the
thousands “kept in workshops from
seven in the morning until sometimes
twelve at night in Sydney. Even young
girls are treated in this way.”
He fought with less success for the
restriction of Sunday trading, which
“precluded workers from enjoying God’s
good air on the Sabbath Day,” a matter
in which he had McGowen, the Party
leader, and Cook behind him but Hughes,
with ant-like vigor, on the other side.
On that issue there was no solidarity—
only eight Labor members voted against
the Bill to abolish the age-old laws for
the respect of the Sabbath.
He campaigned for the abolition of the
foul slums which disgraced Sydney, some
of them only a few yards from the Town
Hall, from the moment he entered Parlia-
ment and his support of the lodger
franchise in City Council elections which
was forced through, again in conjunction


with Hughes, was one of the results of
his quiet but firm advocacy, always
marked even in his warmest moments by
a frank and compelling reasonableness.
For Federation, Watson cared relative-
ly little and less for the issue of free-
trade v. protection. These were matters
which he regarded as distractions from
the main issues, leading away from the
vital necessities of the moment to which
bore the overall label of “amelioration of
the lot of the working man and woman,
the more even distribution of the rewards
of labor.”
The Three Elevens
TTe believed in live-and-let-live, but on
an equitable basis as between classes.
He had a deadly hatred of the sweater and
the slum landlord but none for the
capitalist system or the reasonable capi-
talist. He was a devout socialist, but he
believed that socialism belonged to the
future age of the millennium and that
there was a lot of foundation to be laid
even before the first sticks of timber to
build it went up.
He, in fact, looked on the Labor Party
as a sectional party more concerned with
obtaining concessions of immediate use
to the worker than as one seeking power.
He was prepared to support anybody
who would carry out vital and immediate
plans. He had a clear idea of priorities.
He insisted that on those there be solida-
rity, but in national matters he assumed
the right of the individual to take his
own stand and make his own decisions.
Thus, though he was a wholehearted sup-
porter of White Australia, his primary
reason was more concerned with racial
contamination than with the industrial
angle of cheap labor competition through
the introduction of inferior colored races.
When the elections for the Federal
Convention of 1897 took place, Labor
ran ten candidates, the quota for the
State, against the will of the more sober
members, Watson among them. Some
people among the unlucky ten nominated
helped to dish Labor chances by advice
to electors to vote for Labor as a bloc.
Hughes was the head of this mischief.
None was elected. Against the voting
for the successful candidates—9B,4so for
Barton, 53,325 for Wise, the lowest of
the ten chosen, McGowen, the Labor
leader, polled only 41,000 odd and
Watson came sixth down the Labor list
with 16,708 and was in only five places
from the bottom of the poll as a whole.
However, when Labor went into the
Federal House in 1901 with 23 mem-
bers, including six from NSW, Watson
won the Bland seat by an absolute
majority—4l32 against 3063 polled by
two other candidates together. He was
chosen as leader, as a matter of course,
being the most acceptable and senior
man from the senior State. Hughes did
not even have a look-in for the deputy-
leadership which he contested with
Fisher, a fact somewhat fortunate for
Watson.
In the House, Watson was from the
first, very close to Deakin and it was the
friendship and trust which existed be-
tween the pair which probably made the
pristine House of Representatives with
its “three elevens in the field” workable
at all.
It was a paradox that while Watson
steadily lost ground behind the scenes
with the more impatient and ambitious
members, and was sustained in office as
leader by a solid but dwindling phalanx
of old-time moderates and the realisation
that any attempt to change the leader-
ship might result in the blowing up of
the machine, the esteem in which he was
held by other parties and the public in-
creased steadily. He was fortunate,
again, that Hughes was behind (though
quite anxious to appropriate) Deakin’s
defence policies, and acted as cement in
a period when defence was a paramount
issue.
The ground on which Watson was
losing and gradually receding in principle
from the Party, was the old one of “first
things first” immediate concessions
urgently needed to alleviate the lot of the
working man rather than visionary ob-
jectives of the socialist objective as yet far
out of reach.
This was fought out at every Federal
Labor Conference till well the edge of
World War 11, with Watson in the van
as the Federal platform was moulded
primarily along the lines set out in his
resolution at the 1902 conference
national sentiment based upon the main-
tenance of racial purity and the develop-
ment in Australia of an enlightened and
self-reliant community . . . not over-
bearing or arrogant, but cultivated in the
true spirit of national pride.
Through his obvious lack of thirst for
office as a primary objective and anxiety
for achievements before Party power
gradually created a gulf between him
and the members of the Hughes type,
he nevertheless still was the inevitable
leader when office fell into the un-
prepared lap of the Party which had
never held office before, which had not
a single man in its ranks who had ever
sat in a cabinet or knew anything of
departmental administration other than
that gained on parliamentary committees.
With the exception of that of poor
Dawson who had been Premier of
Queensland for a few miserable days,
there had never been a Labor ministry
anywhere.
Office rather intensified the breach.
Watson was no rough moleskin politician
flaunting his rags in the face of the
capitalist. Hughes has described his first
cabinet meeting in the old mansion of
the corner of Spring Street in Melbourne
where the ghosts of magnates lingered
on that day “marked with a white stone”
in Labor annals, on which Party took
office, the day which was to be “for
down-trodden humanity the greatest in
all history.”
Watson, unplagued by the chains
which Caucus later put round the necks
of its premiers, was able to choose his
own ministry. He very modestly realised
his limitations. He saw nothing wrong
in inviting a Liberal in Henry Bourne
Higgins to help instruct them by joining
the ministry as Attorney General. He
saw nothing wrong, either, in adopting
the sartorial splendid then comme il faut
with Prime Ministers: Let Hughes, again,
describe him:
Mr Watson, the new Prime Minister
entered the room and seated himself at
the head of the table. All eyes were riveted
on him; he was worth going miles to see.
He had dressed for the part; his Vandyke
beard was exquisitely groomed, his abun-
dant brown hair smoothly brushed. His
raiment was a veritable poem—a superb
morning coat and vest, set off by dark
striped trousers, beautifully creased and
shyly revealing the kind of socks that
young men dream about; and shoes to
match. He was the perfect picture of the
statesman, the leader . . .
Watson’s own account was that he saw
no reason to make himself look differ-
ent from the men of business and the
senior civil servants with whom he would
have to deal. So he wore the raiment
common at that time to all Prime Minis-
ters. In any case, Billy’s story was, as
ever with him, flamboyant and perhaps
envious. When he later patterned him-
self sartorially on his senior, as he ad-
mitted he did, Frank Anstey (mordantly
sick of conscriptionitis) dismissed his
glory with the remark that he looked like
a rodent in a pall!
“Yes, Mr Watson”
Office did not make Watson see visions
of an imminent millennium. A year
later, his brief period of office —April 27
to August 17, 1904 was over. He returned
uncomplaining to the position of inde-
pendent cross-bench power which he held
as leader of the Labor Party in the
Federal Parliament throughout his period
of office —the position in which it was
said that whoever was in office had only
one attitude, which was expressed in the
three words, “Yes, Mr Watson”. This
despite the fact that during his own
tenuous term of office, achieved on the
issue of including State servants under
the provisions of Deakin’s Arbitration
Bill.
Nevertheless, it was a staunch perfor-
mance, marked by commonsense. He did
much to reconcile the Japanese, hated
and feared by his followers of the White
Australia policy. He stuck to his guns on
Labor’s policy. He was forced into only
one wild mistake by the extremists of his
ministry—an attempt to milk the banks
of 40 per cent, of their holdings of coin
in exchange for Treasury certificates, not


bearing interest, the loot to be devoted
to building the Federal capital and “otfier
national undertakings”.
He shaped up for nationalisation of
monopolies under the thunderous attacks
of two masters of attack, Reid, and
Deakin who (for all their friendship)
accused him of “destroying the life of the
tree of constitutional liberty”. For once
his opponents were getting their own
back after years of saying “Yes” to him
and he fell by two votes over the same
issue on which he had risen—Arbitration.
The Lesson of Peru
A year later he helped to preside over
** the political funeral of Reid’s minis-
try, still the same essentially unspoiled
Watson. And three days after he had
joined with Deakin in ending Reid’s
political career he was heard illuminating
to the Federal Conference of the Labor
Party his unpopular theme that the
Party “had much more tc do for the
people than the mere looking out for a
seventh heaven for them.” He told them
that the leaders of the movement “had
to direct their faces in such a way as to
obtain every possible and reasonable and
immediate result”. The whole history of
Labor in Australia had been “built not on
the attitude of crying for the moon but
on accepting what was practical and im-
mediate” The whole success of the Party
had “not been due to following theoretic
ideas, but to recognising that this or that
measure advocated by them was some-
thing immediately tangible”. While every-
body in the leadership seemed to be
vote-catching on the bandwaggon of
protection, so as to secure the support
of the “Age” and the ANA, he was
averring that “protection was an expe-
dient rather than a principle”, while
favoring a referendum to decide the
national fiscal policy after a report from
the new Tariff Commission should have
been completed.
He relinquished the official leadership
of the Party, though he was chairman of
the Agenda Committee and leader of the
1908 Federal Conference, at which he
was heard “looking forward to the day
when every child attending school would
be periodically medically examined and
protected against the ravages of disease,
and, if need be, properly clothed and fed
as well.”
The conference showed clearly the
widening gap between himself and his
colleagues in an era of great strikes
and ill-conceived and disastrous conflict
with the “coalvend” which was then
beginning and in which Hughes, among
others, was soon to become deeply in-
volved.
He declared that there were two ways
open for Labor to gain its industrial ends
the universal strikes or through
court arbitration and he was implicitly
for the latter.
PREMIER WATSON: “But we’ve no experience.”
COMMONWEALTH (pointing to fearful examples, Reid and Bent); “Just the man
we want. We’re about tired of the man with ‘experience’."
One of his last acts of moment in the
Labor movement was to move that the
“Conference approves of the principle of
compulsory military training for all males
irrespective of class or condition, as the
only method of giving effect to the
plank providing for a citizen defence
force.” He declared that the new citizen
force was intended to be the antithesis
of militarism, which involved a body of
janissaries, or soldiers who lived alto-
gether apart from the people and were
ready to crush them when wanted. And
he ended by reverting back to the conti-
nent of his birth and its fate to provide
an awful example.
When Pizarro descended on Peru, he
said, it was an ideal socialistic country,
peace-loving and carrying out some of
the reforms aimed at in Australia today.
But with a mere handful of armed men
Pizarro was able to subjugate the whole
nation.
Though he retired to the capitalist
world and was overseas on the South
African goldfields in 1910 he took an
active part in Labor affairs and Federal
Conferences right up to the war. Ht left
the Party only when it ejected him with
others on the conscription issue.
He receded further and further from
the public memory. Few in the years
round the beginning of World War II
remembered. One met him in the motor-
ing world as one of the great pioneer
moulders of the National Roads and
Motor Association —his association with
Tewkesbury a motoring pioneer had
started him on this course. Or he was
encountered as a keen, persuasive mem-
ber of Boards of Directors.
Few who met him realised that he was
the same Chris Watson who had been
Prime Minister.
He died in 1941 and they gave him a
State Funeral. The Memorial Service in
St Andrew’s in Sydney presented a
curious scene.
Many old, forgotten paladins of the
early days of Labor whom one thought
long dead appeared to see him off.
Old Joseph Cook, 81 years old, who
had been his colleague in the days of the
foundation of the NSW Labor Party
was there, beginning to quaver a little.
He took my arm to steady himself as we
walked out into the street afterwards.
He remarked as one venerable col-
league after another of the early days,
now remote from the movement, came
up to greet him: “It looks like the Day
of Resurrection.”


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
A SCOTCHMAN IN CHINA
Sir,
I refer to your article “An Australian,
In Peking”, Bulletin, July 28.
From this article I learnt little about
China, but was left with the rewarding
impression that the author is a scotch
drinker. Congratulations.
DAVID BRIANT
Potts Point (NSW).
A BLIND MAN SPEAKS
Sir,
With reference to the letter by Mr
P. R. Emerton (Bulletin, July 7) I
would like to say that I do not entirely
agree with all that Mr Emerton said.
I, as a blind person, have been
employed as a stenographer for six and
a half years. For the first two years of
this particular part of my employment
history I was dependent, mainly, on rela-
tives to bring me to and from the city
each day, but sometimes had to travel by
train. I could never really enjoy train
travel and the walk to the office, as the
concentration required was too great; also
I was dependent on people to take me
across roads. However, for the last four
and a half years I have been privileged
and blessed to have the companionship
and guidance of a Guide Dog. No longer
do I have to concentrate on where I am
going, nor do I have to seek people’s
assistance in crossing roads, etc. Now I
can really enjoy my walk to the office, go
shopping at lunch time, and really have
complete independence.
I would like to add here that Guide
Dogs are given to the blind free of
charge, so that the poorest of us can
enjoy this friendship and freedom. Mr
Emerton considers, and no doubt many
other people, that £5OO is exorbitant for
a Guide Dog. On an average a Guide
Dog has a working life of eight to ten
years, and if you spread this £5OO over
that period of time you would find it
works out at no more than £1 a week.
Needless to say it would be impossible to
have a human guide at that price.
A number of blind people have obtain-
ed a Guide Dog to assist them in finding
employment. All who have Guide Dogs
would never go back to the white stick,
as not only does a Guide Dog give you
independence, but somehow or other
makes more friends for you: you seem to
be more acceptable as a normal person.
In regard to the subject of employ-
ment of the blind, I feel there are two
factors contributing to the difficulty blind
people experience in this direction First,
it depends on the type of person concer
ned and how strenuous an effort is being
made, and secondly, a lot of employers
are unaware of the type of work blind
people are capable of doing. There are
many different types of occupation a
blind person can undertake, process work;
carpentry; switchboard operator, steno
grapher; radio mechanic; tape recorder
technician and physiotherapy, as well as
many others.
I agree with Mr Emerton that not
enough is done in helping the blind
obtain employment. About ten weeks ago
the Commonwealth Public Service did
make an announcement that blind people
in their employ could be accepted as
permanent members of their staff, and
thus enjoy the same benefits as their work
mates.
I, for one, am glad to know that a
garden, such as “The Fragrance Garden”
is at present in construction, the money
for which has been donated.
(Miss) J. PENFOLD
Sydney.
POPULATION EXPLOSION
Sir,
Why do we take the population of Aus-
tralia at ten million? I make it at least
20 million.
NORMAN KINGSBURY
Turramurra (NSW).
THE ENGLISH AND EDUCATION
Sir,
Mr Santamaria’s references to English
treatment of Church schools (Bulletin,
July 21) overlooks the fact that in Eng-
land the Church Schools were the first
and only means of mass education up to
1870. They were then supplemented by
Board schools financed out of public
money while the church schools retained
traditional subsidies from public funds.
In 1902 the Church schools were put on
to the same footing as the Board schools,
that is full maintenance from public
funds; they had, however, to provide their
own buildings. Under the 1944 Educa-
tion Act their position was further im-
proved by provision of 75 per cent, cost
of secondary schools’ buildings and 50
per cent, of the primary schools’; later
in 1959 primary schools were lifted to
75 per cent. Always the object has been
to keep the traditional church schools in
the picture.
Spiritual, moral, mental and physical
well-being is written into the 1944 Act
as a code of education. Agreed Syllabus
religious teaching is provided in what
correspond to our State schools, with
denominational education in Church
schools.
The charter of Church schools is
guarded by the clause “In so far as is
compatible with due economy and effi-
ciency in education and the avoidance of
unreasonable expenditure children shall
be educated in accordance with the wishes
of their parents”.
English Education preserves unity
under the guidance of a national Ministry
which advises by expert reports and main
tains standards by inspection and part
finance. Variety and local control are
ensured by County Authority adminis-
tration providing residual finance out ol
local rates. The break up is about 55
per cent, national finance and 45 per
cent, local.
The English hierarchy of education
administration is the exact answer to the
query raised in your editorial (Bulletin,
July 21) on how a Federal Minister of
Education would work in with State
administration. The answer is. on the
English pattern, perfectly.
PAUL DONNELLY
Claremont (WA).
AFTER THE BREAK-DOWN, WHAT?
Sir,
The article which appeared under the
above title in your issue of August 4,
“By an ex-mental patient”, has been read
with interest. However, there are some
statements in this article which need to
be corrected.
Mr J. B. Kingsmill, though a tireless
voluntary worker and a Vice-President
of the Psychiatric Rehabilitation Associa-
tion, is not our Chief Organiser.
Former mental patients have diverse
needs and experience in most countries
has shown the value of a diversity of
organisations to meet these needs. There
is room for groups other than PRA in
NSW. This is far from implying opposi-
tion, we willingly co-operate over all
points of common interest. It is possible
that some people attend PRA Social
Clubs, PRA Work Training Centres, and
Recovery Groups; they may derive bene-
fit in a different way from each.
Those who work in this field are in
great need of public sympathy and sup-
port, it is regrettable that their numbers
are not greater because the community
need is far from being met. Rehabilita-
tion starts when treatment does. It does
not come as a last stage of therapy.
Need for expert supervision is to deter-
mine what is needed for the patient,
either by Psychiatrist, Social Worker,
Occupational Therapist; all have their
roles, but the people with whom the
patient mixes are the important group.
The community is involved from the
beginning—the community includes rela-
tives, friends, employers, and the com-
munity at large.
R. J. LEISHMAN
Administrator, Psychiatric
Rehabilitation Association.
Sydney.


REVIEWS
MUSIC
SOMETHING FOR EVERYBODY
Joan of Arc at the Stake. Honegger.
Melbourne Town Hall.
Tn all his music Honegger kept apart
■ from the collective ethos of the
Paris ‘group of six’, chiefly because of
the assertive seriousness of his art. This
seriousness involved, among other things,
a disciplined respect for craft and tech-
nique, a respect which would hardly
have allowed him to gamble it, uncal-
culatingly, against the chance of bring-
ing off a major coup through some
momentary freak.
But “Joan of Arc” finds him, perhaps
through the influence of the Claudel text,
at least to a degree in sympathy with the
notion of “painting with brooms ’. It is a
work of many parts, and the parts belong
to several worlds. It is capable of being
presented as a dramatic spectacle, a
costume oratorio, or a concert piece, or
maybe in an intermediate state. It has
something for everybody: drama, melo-
drama, sentiment and passion, musical
excitement, satire, and even a kind of
muffled bitter rage against the people
who could always belong (if the word
were not, for Honegger, anachronistic)
to the establishment.
Furthermore, the work is consistently
easy to approach and to appreciate. In
this respect I thought that the manage-
ment of microphones, to cater for the
platoon of speakers and singers, was in
principle very sensible, even if Beverly
Dunn (as Joan) was at times too coarsely
amplified. It ensured that everyone could
follow the progress of the text, in a
pleasant and free-running English trans-
lation; and this in turn helped the music
to make all its points, which could cer-
tainly not have happened if the director
had observed the usual convention,
assuming that the work and all its details
are intimately familiar to the audience.
A special reason for gratitude on this
count was the fact that a parsimonious
organizer had ordered too few program-
mes, so that the foyer was filled at inter-
val by anxious spirits in quest of illlu-
mination and a copy of the words.
The other readers (Roly Barlee, John
Morgan, Keith Eden) turned in polished,
expert and altogether pleasant perform-
ances. Miss Dunn herself used a wide
range of emotional and histrionic effect,
and made an impact which was corres-
ponding harder and more profound. Her
occasional shrillness was probably the
fault of the microphones. She has every
reason to feel pleased with herself for a
tight and capable reading under condi-
tions which must have been as trying as
they were unusual, even for an actress.
The choir of the Royal Melbourne Phil-
harmonic Society sang considerably less
lethargically than usual, and the orches-
tra responded splendidly to the magnifi-
cent direction of Georges Tzipine.
His conducting was clearly the strength
of the performance; and it is now just as
clear that he must be welcomed as the
best resident conductor our orchestra has
ever had, and that every effort must be
made to keep him here. He has shown
many of the qualities we most need in a
conductor; his range of sympathy is very
wide, he is an exacting and meticulous
technician, and he radiates a zest for
fine music-making and for the highest
attainable mark of each performance he
directs.
Within a week of “Joan of Arc”, itself
an arduous undertaking, he conducted
four performances of Stravinsky’s “Rite
of Spring” (to be reviewed next week).
No conductor afraid of work, or unable
to recover quickly from the enervating
effects of bringing major music to concert
pitch, could sustain this kind of pro-
gramme. Tzipine is the first we have
found who is willing to subject himself
to it, and it will be our loss if we let him
take his capable energy elsewhere.
KENNETH HINCE
FILMS
FAR FROM BED AND BASH
The Lady with the Little Dog.
Seryozha. Gala Theatre. Sydney.
Oussian films are restful these days.
** The films from Sovexport that come
our way seldom have the iconoclastic
fervor of the silent Russian classics or
the awesome pageantry of Eisenstein’s
late historical pieces; they are still further
from the bed-and-bash formulas of cur-
rent Western film-making (the West, for
this purpose, starts at the Russian fron-
tier; films from the satellite countries
seem much closer in style to Paris or
Cinecitta than to Moscow).
On view here is an outstanding double
bill of Russian films, unalike in theme
and setting but alike in their restrained
sensitivity. “The Lady with the Little
Dog” is a typically devoted, infinitely
painstaking transcription from Russian
literature; “Seryozha” (“A Summer to
Remember”) is an open-air lyric about
a seven-year-old boy.
“The Lady with the Little Dog” begins
just where Tchehov’s short story begins
(“It was reported that a new face had
been seen on the quay”) and thenceward
takes the story (only a dozen or so pages
long) almost line by line, pausing to
amplify the background or set the mood,
but adding almost nothing that is not at
least hinted at in the text. (There is only
one scene that is not so derived, and I
don’t think I am being wise after the
event in saying that it seems foreign.)
Tchehov being Tchehov, the original
story is not exactly packed with incident:
bored Moscow husband and bored pro-
vincial wife, holidaying away from their
families, meet at the seaside and have
an affair; they part, both thinking that
the incident is satisfactorily closed, but
find themselves drawn back into a furtive
liaison. Director I. Heifitz catches the
Tchehovian mood of boredom and frus-
tration to perfection, but the dramatic
material is almost excessively thin, even
for a film of such taste and skill.
Every shot is beautifully composed,
and dozens of them haunt the memory:
the seafront and its fashionable saun-
terers, the ornate Moscow drawing
rooms, like DuMaurier sketches from an
old “Punch”, an old minstrel at twilight
playing a melancholy clarinet in the
snow. In fact the period, the mood and


the background come through more
vividly than the characters themselves,
partly because of the extreme economy
of the dialogue, which is almost limited
to the few passages of direct and indirect
speech in the original story. Curiously,
too, the film, hitherto so literal, seems to
falsify the ending. On the evidence of
the English sub-titles one gets the im-
pression that the last parting of the two
lovers is the end of the liaison; Tchehov’s
point is that it is only beginning of its
most difficult stage.
In “Seryozha” the characters are less
subtle than this but more sharply real.
It is a tale of everyday events in the
life of a seven-year-old boy on a farm:
his widowed mother’s remarriage, the
arrival of a baby brother, a bout of sick-
ness, a family move to another district.
The co-directors (Georgy Daniela and
Igor Talankin) show a rare gift for hand-
ling children and for capturing their view
of the adult world rather than a senti-
mental adult view of the child’s world.
Here again the essential dramatic
material is almost non-existent; the film
consists of independent episodes,
shrewdly observed, beautifully photo-
graphed and interpreted though the
unity of mood and style. The screenplay
(by Vera Panova and the directors, from
her own story) may not probe very
deeply into the harsher problems of
childhood, and its outlook is cosily opti-
mistic. But within its simple framework
the film is balanced and consistent.
MARTIN LONG
ART
REBELS WITH A CAUSE
Rebels & Precursors. National Gallery.
Melbourne.
latest National Gallery survey
exhibition, which is to go also to
Sydney in September, is a large collec-
tion of work done in Melbourne between
1937 and 1947 by six painters—Sidney
Nolan, John Perceval, Arthur Boyd,
Albert Tucker, Yosl Bergner and Danila
Vassilieff. It provides, particularly
through the work of the first four men-
tioned, an invaluable documentation of
the period of experiment and turmoil
which brought the Australian spirit to
grips with contemporary European paint-
ing and ultimately led to the establish-
ment of some international reputations
among our painters.
Although we still suffer occasionally
from the hangover of the wrangling and
dogmatism of the period, time and a deal
of cool, informed writing are steadily
clearing our perspectives. The earlier
Post-Impressionist contribution of Bell,
Frater and Shore, which for a while was
underestimated in the aftermath of CAS
ruptures, is now accorded its due impor-
tance (although Shore, reviewing the cata-
logue, still managed to point to discrep-
ancies, but this time in dates rather than
in values); while the recent ascendance of
non-figurative painters has quietened, at
least outside the columns of “The Age”,
most attempts to establish the Image as
the only acceptable subject for painting.
So these painters represented here, who
probably survived more controversy and
vilification than any in our history, have
now graduated from rebels to leaders.
The point that this exhibition makes
most forcibly is that their work, especi-
ally that of Nolan, was unequivocally
original. No doubt a mountain of influ-
ences can be compiled and, in the case of
Tucker’s surrealism, with some validity.
Boyd and Perceval abound in references
to both primitive and modern Expres-
sionism. But essentially all bring to their
work a vigor of experiment and a deter-
mination to understand their own world
which cannot be attributed in any great
measure to their eclectic and enthusias-
tic explorations of European painting.
The pertinent fact of the period—as the
excellent catalogue introduction points
out—is that not only did they have the
stimulus of a shaken world and of new
artistic discoveries, chiefly through the
“Herald” exhibition, along with the sup-
port of a distinguished critic, Basil
Burdett, but there were also artists of
great talent and integrity, who made,
rather than took advantage of, history
At the same time, for all the obvious
talent and enthusiasm that leaps in this
work, it must be acknowledged that very
little of it is first class. Nolan’s bright
primitivism stands head and shoulders
above the others, and it alone disarms by
its honesty a charge that can be made
against the other Australians: that often
the work is mere rebellion, crudely
executed on the basis of strong but way-
ward ideas. With the exception of the
Kelly series, which impresses me more
by its dramatic and landscape qualities
than by its commonly acclaimed “mythic”
qualities, I have never had much sym-
pathy with attempts to create Australian
myths, which perhaps mistakenly became
these painters’ doctrine in the Antipodean
Manifesto of a few years ago Their
fusion of man with his landscape has been
their most notable contribution to art,
and the quality which marks them out as
national painters, but we should baulk
at any effort to make this seem the
capturing of some elusive national spirit.
The early works of these painters already
show the ways they were to take; but
they reveal too that their footing was
slippery.
In Boyd's horror pieces, and Perceval’s,
and in Tucker's surrealist and expression-
ist protests, there is frequently more
mystery than depth. The symbols are very
obvious; but they often stand for little but
themselves. The central figure of the
painting is too often the painter’s own
image of himself. Immaturity, and the
impetus of rebellion, can of course
account for such defects. It is nonethe-
less interesting to observe in these
painters that despite their tremendous
gains since the forties, the same enthu-
siasm for grand sweeping statements so
characteristic of those brought up on
ecletic, doctrinaire artistic movements,
still permeates and often obscures their
most mature work.
Unfortunately this notice will appear
after the closing of an exhibition of
French color lithographs at the Joshua
McClelland Print Room. It was a
thoroughly delightful little exhibition,
including Picasso, Chagal, Dufy,
Cocteau, and Braque among others
equally illustrious. Any repetition or
addition would be most welcome.
BILL HANNAN
THE EXCLUSIVE BROTHERHOOD
The Helena Rubinstein Travelling Art
Scholarship. Art Gallery of NSW
Sydney.
most exclusive brotherhood of
Helena Rubinsteiners may be 70 per
cent, abstract expressionist in any year
but one is assured of a pretty lively ex-
hibition. However, there seems to be a
legitimate need for a more balanced
selection of artists working in a wider
variety of idioms. If painters following
some form of figurative expression
refuse to be caught up in the manhunt
for myths set as the fashion since the
Nolan bonanza or if they do not paint
abstracts their names are not likely to
appear in the selection. In all fairness,
however, as some painters prefer to
withdraw from competition when invited,
we can assume that this middle group
if it exists is the most reticent. As far
as the myths are concerned, we haven’t
any, the Aborigines are several civiliza-
tions away and so far we have had been
spared the Djunkao sisters hotted up in
PVA’s but as someone suggested we can
always invent a character and call him
Billabong Jack.
Most of the entrants in this year’s
competition have felt the need to keep
their expression to a grand dimension.


Winner Eric Smith has worked some
solidly constructed (by comparison with
recent painting) brightly-colored ventures
into New Testament themes. “Pieta” with
its old greens, ochres and duns seems
the most unified of the five, with heavy
texture overlaid by singing chromatics,
which in the two crucifixions gaily under-
mine the seriousness of the subject. John
Coburn infuses well-trained forms with
added freedom of handling to make a
notable advance on last year’s efforts.
As a group they fall only a little
short of Smith’s. Leonard Hessing savors
his juicy repertoire of painterly texture
in turgid-hued, two-toned paintings full
of a searching calligraphy which is so
different to that of Daryl Hill, whose
feathery masses of richly subdued color
enlivened with reds or oranges advance
linear swirls out of misty depths. Ross
Morrow has pulled his looser brush into
the service of more simplified sweeps
which add up to definite suggestions of
landscape.
Laycock’s neo-Assyrian gargantuan
red heads burn with the infernal heat of
persons possessed. The scale is over-
powering in the smaller room and the
few hot colors too strident to save the
effect from teetering dangerously close to
a Cecil B. de Mille epic rather than the
sublimities of Gilgamesh or Oedipus.
Dickerson has ruptured the gloom of his
previous work with an excursion into
the luscious greens of the Queensland
canefields. “Cane Cutters” and “Children
in the Cane” hardly touch the old mise-
ries in a sweet, positively charming
melancholy. Rapotec adds little except
assurance to the sweep of his previous
years’ entries in this more modest panel
while William Rose attempts a fairly
dynamic arrangement of blade-like planes
on a rich brown by courtesy of the Maso-
nite Corporation. Clifton Pugh handles
the spectacle of Orpheus and Eurydice
in a personal fashion without touching
the kernel of the idea. His Eurydice
poses self-consciously, her movements
follow mundane calisthenics rather than
divine gestures. “A piece of my world”
seems much more convincing.
J. HENSHAW
ART
COMING OF AGE
14 Queensland Painters. Johnstone
Gallery. Brisbane.
HThis is the first mixed show by Queens-
land artists in 40 years which could
compare with a similar group in Sydney
or Melbourne. Queensland art always has
been backward, due partly to almost total
Government lack of interest in Art gen-
erally, and in the National Gallery in
particular, and partly to poor teaching
over the last 30 years. Even now the
blight of Pizzeycal Culture has saddled
us with as poor a lot of Gallery trustees
as it would be possible to imagine with
the result that the feeling for Art in
Brisbane is far less than one finds in a
little French burg a quarter the size, and
the only State art school is far below
the standard, of, say, East Sydney Tech,
and the Gallery School in Melbourne.
And the oldest Art Society’s annual ex-
hibition is terribly sad but funny, com-
parable to the Fine Art section of a far
back country one-day show. For the last
five years there have been signs of better
things and I think it due to the rise of
two new private Art schools, not only
to the tuition given in them but to the
intelligent, well-informed, penetrating talk
that goes on as well. Our young artists
travel more and listen more and look on
Art as something more than “a nice
weekend hobby, don’t you think so?”
which it was in the past. Also something
is due to better informed patrons with a
bit of money to spend; Art never flour-
ished but in an opulent society.
The painters in this show do not all
exhibit first-rate work but they do show
thought, imagination and an honest
attempt to do something original and
significant; they will listen to informed
criticism and loathe the colored photog-
raphy that so frequently passes for Art.
And sometimes they have striking
success; at least the work is interesting to
look at and it has an aesthetic and in-
tellectual significance. Queensland Art
has at least grown up.
The only way to describe the show is
alphabetically. John Aland is a young
painter of great promise and occasional
distinction. His “Blind Musician” is poig-
nant without sentimentality, deeply
thoughtful, expressed with a genuine
emotion and great simplicity. Two of
Henry Bell’s landscapes are soundly
drawn and pleasant but he and Arthur
Gunthorpe are, in a distinguished group,
the weakest; they seem to lack experi-
ence. Ray Crooke, now almost an old
master, and a purely objective realist,
shows a lovely interior, looking on to the
sea, with three figures in chiaroscuro giv-
ing a striking balance of dark and bright
color. Neville Matthews’s big work in
resin, is almost a total failure. The
medium is too refractory and will not
take what he wants to put into it. Unless
he has more experience of a successful
and flexible kind it would pay him to
give it up. Mervyn Moriarty has gone
abstract in which style his “Nocturne”
does, for once, live up to the label with
a lovely broad band of deep blue and
black, a pigment of which he seems over
fond. Margaret Olley’s life size, “Still
Life with Melon” is Margaret happily at
her old best; this thing would hang any-
where with distinction, well drawn and
strong in color. John Rigby’s “Falling
Night” is for me the picture of the show,
a trailing mob of cattle going to water at
sunset. It is a little vague and abstract
in treatment generally but the atmos-
phere and sky are treated in high tones
done in a series of small rectangles which
gives the whole surface a very lively
appearance; an enchanting picture.
Arthur Evan Read’s “Pyramid Moun-
tain” is rich in color; a straggling black
tree against a mountain slope reaching
to a crimson sky, for Read a most un-
usual and satisfying picture and a great
success. Andrew Sibley, an accomplished
artist, has two abstracts and a semi-
abstract “Crucifixion”, an expression of
sorrow and pain in the form of a vaguely
drawn human crucified, very simple in
drawing and compositior. but a thing
which compels sympathy. The unusual
pale orange tone of the composition gives
it a magic sort of light.
J. V. DUHIG
RAISED ROUGH SURFACES
Geoffrey Brown. RSASA Gallery.
Asher Bilu. Bonython Gallery.
Adelaide.
fT'wo young men who like to raise or
roughen the surfaces on which they
paint are showing their work in Adelaide.
Geoffrey Brown is a local boy. Asher
Bilu, born in Israel, has brought his pic-
tures to us from Melbourne and so he
bears an exotic ready-made aura which
the local Mr Brown has not.
Mr Bilu’s paintings feature a central
disc or focus around which there are
mysterious swirlings of color, raised or
burnt surfaces, and a few strewn threads.
Some are on velvet. Another is on a
scroll. There are only dates in the cata-
logue; no titles, no prices. One gets the
impression that here is a ycung man in-
nocently searching for new effects, and
finding some which are beautiful, but that
really there was more pleasure in creating
these works than there is now in looking
at them. In so far as they are “about”
anything they are reminiscent of celestial
objects and fiery galactic disturbances
evolving out of chaos. The prices, on
enquiry, turned out to be appropriately
astronomical.
In contrast, Mr Brown’s subjects be-
long to this world. He uses high hori-
zons, shimmering boundaries, and tenta-
tive vertical lines which give some of
his works a suggestion of being seen
through a wet windowpane or reflected
on water. Each painting is in a differ-
ent predominant color. Under the parts


he wants to stress he builds up the sur-
face with woven hessian or grit until
certain pictures are almost cameo-like.
At the same time the irregularities and
roughnesses cause further mellowing of
outlines already painted to merge with
their surroundings. The results are most
satisfying. Looking at them, one has no
difficulty in recognising the generalities
of a field, a tree, a nude, or a group of
people, and so on, but uncertainty about
just where they begin and end, and about
the details of face or structure which they
include, leads to a variety of personal
interpretations of the particulars.
The best Brown is “Seated Nude” in
green and pink; after a second’s hesita-
tion she shimmers out of the paint. “The
Meeting” is a group of peopb, very care-
fully composed and rhythmic, as in a
classic painting; but are they gleaning in
a cornfield, or panning for gold, or
squatting at a kerbside? “The Queue”
shows a calm ghostly procession of
yachts, or people, or islands. “Upward
Flight” is what it says; but is it birds,
or bits of paper in the wind, or the souls
of the dead shrieking as they rise from
a graveyard? The prices asked are very
low. Here one feels is pure new living
talent from South Australia, well worth
recommending to the rest of you.
EARLE HACKETT
THEATRE
NOT CROSSING ANY MOUNTAINS
The Torrents. Oriel Gray. Pocket
Playhouse.
Tudged the equal of Ray Lawler’s Sum-
" mer of the Seventeenth Doll in the
now-famous competition which brought
both plays to light, this work by Oriel
Gray has had nothing like the production
success of the Doll. Nor. one may make
bold to say, will it.
The reasons are interesting. Apart
from the fact that Lawler’s play under-
went the most extensive reworking and
rewriting so much so that the judge
who placed it first in the competition
hardly recognised the play when he saw
The Doll produced, there is a difference
in theme that is vital.
At the least, The Doll had a central
notion that was at the same time topical
and universal: the notion that illusions
are pretty important in living, even on
the level of the tough guy who works
with his hands. “The Torrents”, how-
ever, is by and large an old-fashioned
play. It has little in the way of a funda-
mental idea except the statement that
men with money sometimes tend to
oppose moves that will deprive them of
their money.
It has an excellent, strong story line
about the fortunes of a country town
newspaper editor, his son, his son’s
fiancee, a family friend who has an
irrigation scheme to prosper the town
when its goldmines run out, and a Sylvia
Pankhurst type female reporter.
This group fights for the irrigation
scheme against the entrenched gold-min-
ing interests. Since nobody seems to
have strong feelings one way or the
other even the arch-villain’s economic
reasons for fighting are destroyed by the
playwright when she has him announce
that he has taken all his money out of
gold years ago (an extraordinary an-
nouncement that makes nonsense of one
of the play’s main drives) we are not
driven on to any sharp ridge of opinion.
We are not forced to make decisions or
climb any rugged peaks.
If ever a case for rewriting existed,
The Torrents provides it. There is much
native humor, some excellent charac-
terisation, many genuinely theatrical and
actable scenes. But also there are patches
of trite “Blue Hills” type exposition and
personal opinion; unnecessary solution
of all plot details. Robert Findlay’s pro-
duction for the Pocket had all the hall-
marks of care and devotion, and John
Cooper, Eric Thorne, Hugh Johnston,
and Cindy Russell lent acting talent that
went well below the surface. Beverley
Harte and Lionel Mann, in major roles
could find more range to add to their
competence. Admittedly, the range is
not always there for them in the writing,
but this is a challenge actors have con-
tinually to face. The Pocket can take
great credit in the production.
KEVON KEMP
TELEVISION
AN AUSTRALIAN NEAR PARIS
She’ll Be Right. ABN-2.
F. Kerr has taken one of the
everyday phrases Australians use,
like, and quite unintentionally he has
written one of the jolliest spoofs around
it, guying incoherent Englishmen, casual
Australians, international tourists, and the
French Maquis. Produced, again un-
intentionally, as a farce by Christopher
Muir, it proved one of the better tele-
vision comedies of the yean
When the Australian here of the play
strolled into Resistance territory, carry-
ing a haversack slung on a pole, he found
the local Maquis very easy to contact.
One of its girls, Annette, stood waiting
in the open for him, let him bump into
the business end of her .303, and then
marched him to her leader, “English
Pierre”.
The Aussie said he was Nugget Wilson
and wanted to join. Pierre indicated
that one could not walk in and be ac-
cepted without proof. With devilish cun-
ning he asked Nugget to name some New
South Wales plants. “Hibiscus,” said
Nugget, “jacaranda, waratah, and the
flamin’ flame tree.” And for good
measure Nugget said he knew Pierre
was a Pommy.
That really clinched it, of course.
Pierre shot out a hand, shook Nugget’s,
and fished out a revolver and handed
it to him. Nugget was in. He went
on sabotage jobs with Annette, fired cap
pistols at Nazis, helped Pierre shoot a
Colonel and his driver who strolled out
of the staff car with “a silly smile on
his face” after his boss had been deaded.
At every opportunity, and particularly
in the face of danger, Nugget would roll
a smoke and say, “She’s jake. She'll be
right.” Just as we all do, setting out to
cross a city street in peak traffic. No
wonder visiting Englishmen find it hard
to understand us. It is, as Pierre dis-
covered and explained, our way of say-
ing we “believe in the life everlasting”.
Finally Nugget and 17 others includ-
ing Annette were caught and lined up to
be shot. Pierre was hiding in the bracken
with Annette’s and Nugget’s baby Dede.
(I guess she was named after her father
This man Kerr has a sharp sense of
humor.)
When the officer commanding the
German firing squad asked Nugget if
he had anything to say, Pierre did not
think he’d answer. But, dramatically,
Nugget Wilson said:
“She’ll be right.”
And the Germans shot him.
It was a gas play, as they say in
Swingsville.
Actually it was even gassier than it
sounds, because most of the foregoing
occurred in flashbacks, motivated by the
reminiscences of English Pierre, who had
returned to the scene 20 Years After. He
was suffering a mild guilt complex and,
as played by Frederick 'arslow, a severe
case of strangulated hernia of the larynx.
The various other actors helped the
fun along with portrayals of a comedy
American, Britisher, German and so on.
I particularly liked John Royle’s guilt-
haunted German, and the little scene
where he said, “Not ten miles from
here, cave paintings of 9000 years ago
-—9 OOO years concentrating themselves
on this little group.” At times Kerr says
less even more economically than Beckett.
But Ido fear for his safety. Some of
those hot-blooded former Maquis would
not take kindly the spoof that they were
ever led by dills like Guthrie, alias Eng-
lish Pierre, or that any red-blooded
French woman would have fancied an
Australian with the wits of a kookaburra.
FRANK ROBERTS


THE RED PAGE
FOUR KINDS OF A MONSTER
By DONALD HORNE
There is no doubt that William
Randolph Hearst* was a mon-
ster, but it shows a lack
of understanding of both monsters
and newspaper proprietors to talk
of him as if he were typical of news-
paper proprietors. He was four different
kinds of monster; two of them had
nothing in particular to do with being a
newspaper proprietor and of the two
that had, one was a-typical and one is
now old-hat.
In fact the total old-hatness of Hearst
is perhaps the main reason why people
still remember him and thereby imagine
that he is an archetypal figure. He lived
a damned sight too long. As a monster
he is something that was generated in the
ooze of American society in the late
nineteenth century. If he had died in
1920, or even 1930, (and that would
have given him a good innings) he would
have been tucked away as one of the
curiosities of history. His continued
living was an affront to modern society;
his dreadful newspapers and his personal
absurdities got on everybody’s nerves; he
haunted us. But it is unfair to newspaper
proprietors to saddle them with this
extraordinary relic.
One of his forms of monstrosity was
that he was the greatest of all West Coast
fantasists. In fact it is unfair to saddle
the West Coast with him. He was one
of the great fantasists of history. At a
cost of 50,000,000 dollars he built him-
self a string of dream worlds (of which
San Simeon was the costliest and most
famous) and stocked them (and two five-
storey warehouses) with works of art
and antiques (for which he paid twice as
much as he need have paid). Behind
these walls he organised entertainments
for himself and the people he bought to
sit at his table with all the detail and
expense that French monarchs employed
at Versailles.
However, it is unfair to French mon-
archs to saddle them with him. What
they did wms the kind of thing that
monarchs did at the time. What Hearst
did was to patch up a dream world in
which he put into practice adolescent
fantasies that had begun when his
parents bought him history books and
took him through the castles and art
galleries of Europe. He was engaged
in make-believe. He was playing the
game of being a king. In a conventional
social sense he was nuts.
Another of his forms of monstrosity
was that he wanted to be President of the
United States and he made a fool of him-
self for 20 years (until A 1 Smith irrevo-
cably did him over in 1922) directing all
of his activities to that end.
This apparently harmless and conven-
tional ambition was monstrous in Hearst
because it embodied fantastic dreams of
an unscrupulously whimsical use of power
that no presidential candidate has ever
come within cooee of harboring. At the
time of one of his campaigns for the
presidency Hearst’s men in Chicago were
shooting dead their rivals in a circulation
battle; his lying campaign on Cuba had
caused the United States to declare war
on Spain; he had an appalling history of
completely unprincipled pleasure in the
use of power that makes it likely that
beneath his apparently reserved manner
festered the unpredictable malignities of
a Hitler or a Stalin.
Even if his presidential ambitions had
been conceived in the power terms of a
democratic statesman they were eccen-
tric in a newspaper proprietor. Many
newspaper proprietors wish to influence
the course of politics through their news-
papers; some (like Lord Beaverbrook)
have been politicians. But with the
exception of Northcliffe it is hard to
think of a newspaper proprietor who has
wanted to govern his country.
TTearst’s other two monstrosities—his
unscrupulousness as an editor-in-
chief and his appalling incompetence as a
chief executive—are relevant to his being
a newspaper proprietor but in both of
them he was so monstrously way-out that
they become irrelevant to modern pro-
prietors.
There were two sides to his unscrupu-
lousness as an editor, one worse than
the other. The main formula that made
his papers sell was that they were simply
entertainment sheets: they amused people
with stunts and drivel. It is not particu-
larly immoral to use the printed word
purely for entertainment, but a case
might be made out for suggesting that
it is best confined to magazines, that
while for commercial reasons newspapers
entertain their readers with some light-
hearted or escapist stuff, it has bad
effects if they are purely entertainment,
if all the news content of them is also
outrageously stunted as part of the game.
However that may be, in this respect
Hearst was not altogether a-typical;
some newspapers in Great Britain, for
example, play such games with the news
that they are mainly entertainment
sheets. (Anyone who compares them with
Australian newspapers can’t read.)
But Hearst went far beyond that. His
wretched newspaper deliberately and re-
peatedly lied on many of the most impor-
tant issues of the day. In the beginning
it came partly from his adolescent’s sense
of fun and partly from the invention of
news to gain sales. But after his success
in causing the war with Spain and when
his itch to become President afflicted
him, the campaign of lies fed on his
megalomania; instructions went out to
his 22 newspapers, his 15 Sunday papers,
his seven magazines, his news service and
his radio stations to rig the news to suit
the Chief’s own dreams. The rigging was
so flagrant that it finally helped to send
most of the papers broke. Nothing on
this scale is ever likely to be seen again
in a parliamentary democracy. Although
it was less than the Stalin or the Goeb-
bels kind of rigging, that was only be-
cause social pressures made it so.
This kind of thing is now old-hat. In
fact there is something almost pathetic in
old Hearst living on into an age he did
not understand, still using the unscrupu-
lous methods of 50 years before, losing
sales, despised by his own readers who
bought his papers only for the strips and
other light features. All that apparatus
of telephones and teletypes, hirings and
firings, bank overdrafts, newsprint,
30,000 employees and so forth saved an
outmoded old chap from realising that
he was already in the ash-can of history.
Hearst’s incompetence as a chief
executive —in which he was first sus-
tained by his mother’s fortune, then by
luck, then by the sheer size of his ruin,
which made it necessary for his credi-
tors to prop him up —is, fortunately, not
a usual characteristic of newspaper pro-
prietors who, to survive, must be better
businessmen than that. In an ordinary
sense of the word, Hearst was not a busi-
nessman at all. He lived on excitement
and power, and ran his business to those
ends. Money leaked out and he lapped
it up, always managing to lap up more
money than leaked out. He happened to
hit onto something that for a time made
money so that even when he had spent
his mother’s fortune there was still
money around. When the formula stop-
ped producing money he floated a
60,000,000 dollar bond issue, then a
50,000,000 dollar stock issue. It was
only in 1937, when he failed to float a
35,000,000 dollar debenture issue that
his creditors took over —and then he was
saved by the Second World War.
It was a case of a man fluking a for-
mula that for a while printed money for
him. He did not run his business; he
* Citizen Hearst. W. A. Swanberg.
Longmans. 51s. 6d.


simply tyrannised it as another expres-
sion of his power-drive; there was no
delegation (as there now' is in the modern
newspaper chains); the Chief inflicted on
everybody a set of formulas that were
eventually about 30 years out of date. He
worked on his initial momentum, and
this, in publishing, is always fatal.
Nothing new came up in his own
organisation of overpaid yes-men. It was
only when rivals got into a new field first
and dominated it that he would try inno-
vation—and inevitably score second best.
His heirs are still unsuccessfully trying to
sort out what is left of the mess.
In a book that provided more than
enough facts to prompt the above gen-
eralisations, W. A. Swanberg several
times tries to solve the puzzle of the man
he has chosen to write about. Here was
Hearst marked on the one hand by gen-
erosity, personal reserve, shyness and real
sympathy for the underdog; on the other
hand he was power hungry, money-mad,
sadistic and incapable of resisting any
whim. Swanberg does not really provide
an answer; he comes nearest to it when
he suggests simply that Hearst never
grew up. He had no sense of conduct or
self-definition or conscience. He re-
mained a baby. It is fortunate for par-
liamentary democracies that on the
whole this kind of baby now achieves
esteem only in the film industry.
MATES AND EXILES
23 Stories. John Morrison. Austra-
lasian Book Society. 21s.
The Admiral and the Nuns. Frank
Tuohy. Macmillan. 225. 6d.
Tf one were asked what is the basic
theme running through John Morri-
son’s short stories in this collection, one
would say “togetherness”. Yet John
Morrison gives to this mushy American
term a force and reality missing in its
original conception. Also, his is a to-
getherness of “men only”.
“It Opens Your Eyes” and “A Man’s
World” treat the sharing of a winning
lottery ticket from two different angles. I
prefer “A Man's World” because of the
skill with which a moral battle is waged
almost entirely in dialogue between a
husband and wife. It is a taut, clear,
well-shaped story. Curious that in both
treatments, a woman generates the dis-
sension between her husband and his
mate, who do not define as rigidly as she
does the line of demarcation between
“what’s your's” and “what’s mine”.
Woman, ago-o!d saboteur of mateship!
The splendid story, “Morning Glory”
throws a long shadow. Here, Mr Morri-
son divides, like Justice herself, the
burdens of owner and non-owner, and
apportions them equally on the scales.
There is the fine, vibrating tension of a
balance that a hair's weight might tip.
He achieves this equilibrium by a
masterly detachment and unbiased com-
passion.
His is a technique—deceptively plain
and simple—of quietness, even casual-
ness, as in “ 1 he Hold-up”, where the
denouement suddenly crystallises the
seemingly loose components of the story
into a deadly pattern; almost like a trap
snapping shut on the unwary reader who
thinks he has not been “pulled in”. The
dialogue, always easy and natural, with-
out straining after dialect, nor the over-
emphasis of multitudinous “bloodys”
gives his characters a rough-hewn grace
and stern dignity. No “stage Aussies”
for him!
One does not pity John Morrison’s
characters, perhaps because one is not
asked to, perhaps because they are locked
safe in the molecular security of mate-
ship. The people in the stories of Eng-
lish writer, Frank Tuohy, do arouse sad-
ness, sometimes compassion, because, in
contrast to John Morrison’s, they are
exiles, often poor, always lonely, some-
times fugitive from society’s laws, from
themselves, or from some form of loving.
In Frank Tuohy we have the cos-
mopolite, whose “area of surveillance” is
geographically wider than John Morri-
son’s. His discoveries about people are
presented with a deceptive lightness of
touch which has its sinister underside.
His is the livelier mind, the more grace-
ful style. He is a “man of the world”,
and his tone fashionably sophisticated.
The numbing effects of indifference is
his main theme, the indifference of
strange cities, of people towards expatri-
ates, the indifference of a man to some
woman, and, in an oblique study of
lesbianism, of a woman to a man.
The first and last stories in the volume
are impressive. The title story is a superb
study of varying elements in a relation-
ship—exile, mixed marriage, class con-
flict added to a vivid evocation of
place. The final story, “A Survivor in
Salvador”, awakes echoes of Thomas
Mann’s “Death in Venice”, which one
suspects may have been its model. Chris-
tophe, another of Mr Tuohy's expatriates,
drawn with the powerful appeal of a
major character, wanders in a strange
city, caught in the net of dope-traffickers
and by the love of a street-girl. Perhaps
nothing suggests Europe more vividly, (or
the stay-at-home's conception of it), than
the young boy who appears and re-
appears across Christophe's path, with his
worldliness, and his almost-natural
corruptness, conveying an atmosphere in
which children can be bought for any
purpose the buyer fancies, in which sensi-
tive and delightful girls can be whores,
and never an eyebrow twitches. You
could walk for miles and never find a
moralist in Mr Tuohy’s world. If he
stresses anything at all, it is the effects
of men’s indifference to each other. This,
to Frank Tuohy, is the cardinal sin, and
you might say that in this viewpoint, he
joins forces with John Morrison, who
portrays the reverse side, the almost-
happy side of the struggle, which is mate-
ship.
THELMA FORSHAW
QUEST FOR CURIOSA
Island of Passion (Ra’ivavae). Donald
Marshall. George Allen & Unwin.
41s. 6d.
A lthough this edition says “first pub-
lished 1962”, this book appeared
in New York more than a year ago
under the title, “Ra’ivavae: An Ex-
pedition to the Most Fascinating and
Mysterious Island in Polynesia”. The
English title is cruder and even less
apt than the American, but titles are
said to sell books; this work is rather
better than either title would suggest.
Briefly, the book is an account of an
anthropological expedition to the island
of Ra’ivavae in the Austral group, 400
miles south of Tahiti. This place had
been the subject of an earlier, unpub-
lished study by J. Frank Stimson whose
devoted absorption in the more lurid
forms of eroticism had caused wide-
spread doubts about the validity of
his material. According to Stimson,
Ra’ivavae had developed a unique
variant of the general Polynesian culture,
which included, among other things, a
rip-roaring fertility religion with such
interesting concomitants as public ritual
copulation, a wealth of phallic art, and
(of particular interest, for some reason,
to both Stimson and Marshall) the
artificial deforming of the female
genitals.
With the express intention of checking
this suspect information, the author
“accepted the responsibility of becoming
scientific Boswell to Stimson”: “had he
forged a mythical culture?” “had his
evaluation of early Ra’ivavaean sexual
behaviour been warped by his own
personal interests?” The flaw in this very
respectable purpose is that Marshall
had established his own unshakeable faith
in Stimson before he ever reached
Ra’ivavae , . . and his aim, therefore,
was not to check but to vindicate. And
so the great Curiosa Quest began.
Polynesian islands are not, by and
large, “passionate”, “fascinating”, or
“mysterious”, and Ra’ivavae is even less


WRITE STORIES
SUCCESSFULLY
Stott's can train YOU
Many Stott students pay for their Course be-
fore completing it.
Stott students are taught how to write stories
that sell and are advised by the College of
the names and addresses of reputable Literary
Agents in various countries who may be trusted
to handle Students' MSS to the best advan-
tage. If YOU have a story to tell, learn how
to tell it. The lucrative field of Authorship is
waiting to pay well for good work.
mm
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane;
21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; 22 Howard Street,
Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
NAME
ADDRESS
AGE B 1662
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D”. Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
so than most; it would be hard to a
less promising site for any reconstruction
of “the dark splendours of ancient Poly-
nesia”. After 50 years of occasional
European visitors, the island was
annexed in 1819 by Pomare 11, the
recently converted King of Tahiti. Seven
years later, in 1826, came the great
epidemics of European diseases, and
within four years, the island’s population
was reduced from 3000 to 130, and
Ra’ivavaean culture, whatever it may
have been, died in those four years.
What Marshall found in 1957 was some
700 scruffy Polynesian peasants, puritan-
ically Christian, apathetic, and culturally
bankrupt. They were not unacquainted
with anthropologists, but even Thor
Heyerdal had failed to extract anything
sensational from them.
Now, the study of such a community
could be of considerable academic and
even popular interest, and indeed, the
book does convey some of this. But
Marshall never forgets his primary aim:
to peel off the dreary present and lay
bare the exotic pagan past. His
enthusiasm leads him to deductions of
a highly dubious nature. For example,
Stimson had stated that nubile girls,
after years of genital enlargement, were
subjected to an inspection at special
temples. In some temple ruins, Marshall
found a flat stone on which the girls (or
somebody) might conceivably have sat
on some occasion; the site is hence-
forth referred to firmly as “the inspec-
tion temple”, and the fact is considered
proved. The temples, moreover, were
surrounded in the usual Polynesian style
by a palisade of elongated stones which
Marshall doggedly describes as “phallic”.
These are not shown in any of the book’s
photographs, but are illustrated in two
crude sketches by James Scott who is
described as “the exhibition’s artist”.
The sketches indicate nothing more than
elongated stones. No evidence more con-
vincing than this of an Erotic Past is
offered until the penultimate chapter.
The day before the expedition was
due to leave, they found an old woman
who claimed to have some knowledge of
the kind they were seeking. Marshall
set off to visit her on what one member
of the party (and a former companion
of Stimson) described as a “clitoris-
hunting expedition”; one can only feel
that the description is apt. The old
woman did have some erotic informa-
tion pieced together from scraps of
memory, but Marshall was so committed
to his quest that it is impossible to
evaluate the interview. And they left
next day.
The book is well written, but, unless
Marshall is cynically pulling our legs,
it has a curious schizoid quality; its
scientifically trained author carefully
defines the traps for young field-
workers (emotional involvement, leading
qufstlons, jumping to conclusions, etc),
and then himself steps blithely into most
of them!
In summarising, Marshall expresses
his surprise and disappointment that so
little of the old culture had survived;
nevertheless, despite an almost complete
lack of evidence, his faith in Stimson’s
reliability remained untarnished: “Clear-
est was the confirmation that Ra’ivavae
had been as grand, as erotic, and as
fierce as Stimson had depicted” (p. 283).
What really surprises me is that the
Ra’ivavaeans have not had the wits to
meet the demand by providing them-
selves with complete histories of the
Dark and Splendid Past to be recited in
lurid detail at the drop of a hundred
franc note. This, surely, is the true
measure of their cultural degeneration.
D’ARCY RYAN
GOING NATIVE
Mexico Unknown. Lorna Whishaw
Hammond, Hammond. 18s.
''kTou cross the frontier at Tijuana,
leaving behind a sleek, silver Grey-
hound bus from San Diego and the
express highway that borders the Pacific
up through San Francisco, Oregon and
the Canadian line. An American guard
smartly waves you by, you pass along a
bridge over a dried-up river bed, and on
the Mexican side cabbies croak out
their offers of rides and whores. Up
ahead are divorce offices and the signs
of the main stem, parading strip-tease
acts and bars for the hard-drinking men.
“You wan’ my seester?” you hear on
a street corner. “Verry cheep.” “Hey
meester, you wan’ the peekshurs? We got
plenny, what you wan'?” At a bus stop
in town, people with wrinkled faces and
sombre eyes wait patiently; blocks away
at the Cathedral, women, young and old,
all dressed in black and veiled, drop to
their knees and you hear them whisper-
ing, “Maria, Maria, Santa Maria.”
“In my years of living in Mexico, my
total separation from the Mexicans has
been a source of real anguish,” writes
Lorna Whishaw, author of “Mexico
Unknown.” This is certainly understand-
able, for she is the typical Anglo-Saxon
housewife-turned-adventuress. In her
attempt to “go native”, she ends bewild-
ered. “When I sit down to write about
Mexico, I am overwhelmed by helpless-
ness,” she confesses. The result is a
hodge-podge of confused narrations,
frustrated gropings, superficial observa-
tions, and desperate attempts at comedy.
Characters out of stock are trotted out
in chapter after chapter. We are treated
to cliche upon cliche, the usual assort-
ment of greedy, mean North American
businessmen from the Big Town and
enchanting rustic personalities. Playing
the role to the letter, her geologist hus-
band is always the hero and her teenage
daughter the naughty, charming wit.
Shrill attempts at informality are sup-
posed to nudge us over the pages with
fewer misgivings. Such unfortunate
imagery as “thundering unbelievable heat
of noon,” “swimming in our pelts,” and
“squirming into unwilling being” are
scattered liberally over the pages.
At this moment we do not need
another dilettante skipping through
Mexica and Guatemala to expose an
alleged “unknown.” The last years have
seen enough of American housewives in
Australia, globe-trotters in Tahiti, and
sophomoric seekers after truth in India.
Our view of the dilemmas of life in
Latin America can best come from the
people themselves, unrefined by the pro-
cesses of the North American mind,
unsifted by an outlook that holds the
starched collar, stereophonic sound, and
tiled bathroom as essentials of life. The


warring factions within the Mexican
mind, the society where the machete has
so often resolved political controversy
and where the dagger settles the love
match, the social system where the
female is brutalised and the male driven
into rabid defence of his “manliness”—
these should be revealed by those wha
live it in minute-by-minute agony, and
not by quaint catch-phrases and shallow
thumbnail sketches. An experiment in
this direction has been recently com-
pleted in a beautiful and moving way in
Oscar Lewis’ “The Children of Sanchez.”
“Mexico Unknown” is successful
neither as tourist guide nor as serious
study. With all her good intentions, the
author regrettably does not possess the
stuff to carry through her portrayal of a
Mexico known or unknown. Her only
meaningful character is a drunken doc-
tor, exiled from Mexico City, who
refuses to heal: “As it is, I do not choose
to work at prolonging the suffering. They
were born to rot. I was born to rot . . .
You silly gringos think us at best quaint
and dirty. Why should our immorality
seem quaint?.... How is your con-
science, gringo? How do you feel as a
representative of your fine way of life
when you pay your maids two dollars a
week, and watch her family starve?” A
bearded wild man seizes factories and
plantations, and knees start to knock in
New York and Toronto. He comes to
East 46th Street and he and his cohorts
pluck chickens in the deluxe suite of a
swank hotel. The rash breaks out, but
we are afraid to learn the real disease.
We live in the land of the “hot dog stand,
the atom bomb, and the Good Humor
man.” Starlets in Hollywood take milk
baths, dogs wear diamond-studded
collars, cornea lenses match the color of
mademoiselle’s dress, a Manhattan lift
whizzes up and down playing “Begin the
Beguine.” But the world closes in,
whether from Hong Kong, New Guinea,
Algeria, or Mexico. Certainly there is a
campaign to be waged south of the
border, but the author of this book
simply does not wear the armour to enter
the fray.
ALEX SAYRF
A GRIM LAND
The Rainbow Serpent and other poems.
Ernest G. Moll. Angus & Robertson.
20s.
Lightlf.ss Ferry” is the most suc-
cessful poem in this collection,
although there are certain aspects I find
quite unfortunate which mar the whole.
It records, comments on and responds to
a primitive aboriginal death ceremony
with its elaborate sex and fertility rites,
and the strange and remarkable nature
of the ritual has been caught and heigh-
tened by the poet’s treatment. The theme
is stark and strong and we can both
understand the ancient logic and find our
own symbols. For this the poet is to be
applauded.
He has presented the ceremonies
in dramatic form, with interspersed
passages for a Narrator and a Com-
mentator. The quality and truth of
the dialogue here is secure and honest.
(Old men speaking) Ist: But do they
blow their breath into his mouth?
2nd: His mouth is a wide cave in a
grim land,
Hollow and filled with darkness.
Ist: He must die?
2nd.: Must die.
Even the metaphor heightens the
speech; we believe it. And as the action
becomes more involved, so do we. The
development of the events is excitingly
and concisely heightened in the verse.
The Narrator, after an uncomfortable
start, settles down to a limited explana-
tory role, and the Commentator, who at
first threatens to be a frightful bore,
suddenly becomes a genuine illuminator,
notably in the wonderfully placed song
beginning ‘For this marriage now begun
sing a prothalamion”. However, he can-
not maintain this level.
The biggest fault of the poem is in the
opening and closing framework which
seeks to relate the themes to standard
European references: Charon on the Styx,
Prospero, Names from Art or Lit., even
a stray “lion in the desert”. It’s all quite
out of keeping with the body of the
poem: there a European Lullaby has good
ironic effect, because it heightens the
drama; here a stodgy image from second-
hand sources (jazzed up with a few
tricks) only looks like a rococo frame
on, say, a Clifton Pugh painting of
Black Crows After Bushfire.
“The Rainbow Serpent” treats an
aboriginal theme in dramatic form, so we
are presented with two lubras conversing
in heroic couplets. The rest of the book
consists of a ten page poem, based
apparently on Thucydides, that skips
along as if it were a page and
a half; an interminable monologue
that persists a whole five pages,
two Elegies that I shall not re-read, and
a handful of tiny things that might con-
ceivably fill in a corner of a School
Reader. “The Lightless Ferry” (and that’s
a poor title) is supported by some quick
illustrations at the end of the book. The
artist doesn’t waste time on shallow refer-
ences but gets on to the job in hand.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT
TERSE
CALLIGRAPHY
19 Drawings by Godfrey Miller. Fore-
I word by John Henshaw. Edwards &
1 Shaw. 635.
\ s Godfrey Miller is probably the most
important artist Australia has pro-
duced so far, the publication of this book
is of the greatest significance. Here is a
painter who has worked steadily and
quietly in Sydney, who has hardly ever
bothered to bring his work to the
attention of the general public, and
whose name has been known to relatively
few, as he has exhibited but rarely. It
did not even create much of a stir in
Sydney when one of his larger canvasses
was purchased by the Tate Gallery, Lon-
don. Owing to Godfrey Miller’s lack of
interest in public recognition his work is
not as much in the public eye as that of
many lesser artists.
He has decided to make his work
known to a wider circle but it is charac-
teristic that he has chosen some of his
drawings for this purpose. Drawings are,
of course, always particularly personal
statements but, in Godfrey Miller’s case,
so personal as to require a fair amount
of effort to be fully appreciated. This is
not a fault, quite the contrary: any work
of art which does not require such an
effort immediately becomes suspect.
The book is arranged helpfully: It
starts with some meticulous, almost aca-
demic drawings and from there leads on
to a “middle period” where the artist’s
conscious restriction to essentials can be
seen. The main part of the book is
devoted to recent drawings.
Their difficulty is not insurmountable
when they are considered as a natural
consequence of the artist’s development:
he is pre-occupied with the creation of
masses in space and the most economic
statement about them. His drawings be-
come, consequently, more and more pre-
cise and terse, until they arrive at some-
thing akin to calligraphy which yet does
not neglect the spatial form of the object.
John Henshaw’s sympathetic introduc-
tion reflects his admiration and under-
standing for Godfrey Miller’s work; it
shows clearly the respect which Godfrey
Miller engenders in those young artists
fortunate enough to come in contact with
him.
The book has been produced with the
loving care one has come to expect from
Edwards and Shaw; the reproductions are
of excellent quality and the lay-out of the
book is worthy of its contents.
H. G. KAPLAN


The Wild
Cat Pages and
THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
BETTER FACE ON THE DOLLAR
Tn so far as the uneasy American eco-
nomic situation is connected with
international evaluation of the dollar,
some light has begun to pierce the clouds
in very recent weeks. The uncertainty
and indecision only too visible latterly
have given some signs of vanishing by
firm handling, both inside and outside
America. It is profoundly to be hoped
that the sense of relief is more than
temporary.
At any rate there has been a surcease
in widespread and feverish speculation
against the dollar. One further concom-
itant, of course, follows the ardour
for gold, and the relatively hectic dem-
and for its urgent revaluation, cools.
Official US financial sources had
earlier made it quite clear that no lifting
of the gold price was in the bounds
of possibility. Other methods were plan-
ned to deal with the “minor” internal
slump and the more or less acute nag-
ging of an adverse balance of trade, with
its accompanying gold outflow.
A measure of scepticism continued to
greet these golden protestations. But
then President Kennedy himself stepped
into the battle and made his policy ex-
cruciatingly clear. There simply existed
no intention or need to devalue the dol-
lar.
It sounds rather ludicrous when some
commentators attribute the currency
calm that now breathes o’er Europe
to the fact that the President’s state-
ment reached the world by means of
Telstar. Hardheaded Zurich and Amster-
dam bankers, not to speak of the more
apprehensive British, are not likely to be
shaken by a mere TV imag .
Yet President Kennedy created an
evident effect of firmness and, better
still, of a clear understanding of the in-
ternational implications of American
policy. At the same time, previous panic
examinations of the US balance of pay-
ments were being replaced by calmer
and more optimistic appraisals.
Fortunately, as well, -wen more expert
opinion became available for world con-
sideration. Dr R. Reierson, senior vice-
president and chief economist of the
Bankers’ Trust Company, laid down the
new line in a lecture at Cambridge (Eng-
land). He is absolutely convinced that
the dollar, in present terms, is not over-
valued.
But the healthier attitude, which may
now prevail for a while, hangs very
much on Dr Reierson’s main line of
argument. This pointed out the strength
of the US balance of payments on cur-
rent account displaying a continuous
and sizeable surplus. America goes into
deficit only by its tremendous foreign
military expenditure and its many plans
for outside economic aid.
Further benefit may be conferred
upon the American payments position
as European costs and prices move up-
ward a tendency observed by Dr
Reierson and competitively advantageous
to the US. And, too, a large outflow of
private capital has been provoked by
higher interest rates ruling outside Amer-
ica, a situation susceptible of purely in-
ternal correction.
The Americans still have a great deal
to do to repair economic confidence
within their own country. Stimulatory
tax benefits, for example, are still
being argued. But international devices
have performed a good service in shor-
ing-up the dollar. One can only trust
the relief is long-lived.
City Diary
I>udget speeches these days do little
** to conjure up the great and dramatic
clashes between Gladstone and Disraeli,
at least in Australia. The national stock-
taking and programming now wears a
flat, prosaic and thoroughly modern air.
Mr Holt’s only emotional resources
seemed to be confined to a bulldog lift-
ing of his voice when interruptions were
afoot.
Incidentally, the frequency of these
loud and tactless interjections made a
decidedly poor impression on radio
listeners.
“Thirst catch your oil” is probably the
A prime requisite in most prospect-
ing companies’ recipes. The Australasian
Institute of Mining and Metallurgy has
decided to make sure that, once caught,
the elusive fluid will not burn away too
easily.
One of the institute’s principal
speakers at its Surfers’ Paradise con-
ference was Mr Myron M. Kinley, “the
world famous oil fire fighter” and
teacher of the renowned Mr Paul “Red”
Adair, whose exploits were publicised
throughout the world in May.
Mr Kinley presented a paper and
showed a special film. Thanks to these
farsighted steps, our coy oilfields should
at least be safe. Perhaps we’ll get some
more oil to practise on!
Oir William Gunn will lead a three-
man delegation of Australian Meat
Board producer members to confer with
American meat producers and marketers
in the US next October. Regular meet-
ings are planned after these first talks.
New Zealand also intends to join the
discussions,
INDEX
Better Face on the Dollar .... 41
City Diary .... 41
Editorial .... 42
ABC of Industrial Relations .... 43
Economics Anonymous .... 44
National Bank on the Budget 45
How to Get Into Export
Markets 46
Oil and the Budget .... ... 47
Investment Section .... 48, 49
Talk Around ’Change 50, 51, 52
“Security’s” Company Analysis 53
Behind the Balance Sheets .... 54, 55
Share Market Summary .... 56
One to Buy .... 57
Speculator’s Diary 58
Marketing .... .... 59
Man on the Land .... 60, 61, 62


Editorial
A RESPONSIBLE BUDGET
IDudget critics who damn Mr Holt’s
latest effort as a “deep freeze”
affair need their heads seeing to. But
perhaps their heads are so deep in a
political freeze of their own that they
can be excused for being purblind to
the sound economic reasoning behind
the Budget. Not that this is any
excuse for grossly misleading the
public as to the essential soundness
of the Budget or for beguiling the
business world into thinking that
without further concessions to bolster
its profits the present strong impetus
towards recovery will hang fire.
In his honest, responsible Budget,
Mr Holt could well have read the
economic portents correctly and, with
an obviously strong political tempta-
tion to follow the lights of inflation,
he proceeded to hold as fast as re-
covery and ordered growth demand
to the hardly won prize of stability,
which his critics see as stagnation.
His critics appear to ' ave conveni-
ently forgotten that in the February
measures, all of which have been
given a further run by the Budget,
the Treasurer went as far as he reason-
ably could in the direction of stimu-
lating spending power without courting
price inflation, though he certainly
could have taken such action much
earlier and have financed the measures
to better effect by using a bigger
element of Reserve Bank credit in
place of too heavy a reliance on loan
raisings, as The Bulletin argued last
week.
In his Budget speech the Treasurer
was at some pains to answer the latter
criticism by drawing attention to the
heavy subscriptions of the banks to
loan raisings and other purchases of
bonds last year, which he claimed
had the same effect on the flow of
money into the system as the creation
of Reserve Bank credit. There is
some force in his argument, because,
compared with the previous year, bank
holdings of bonds at their peak in
March were £22.4 million higher,
though how much of the increase was
attributable directly to loan subscrip-
tions is problematical.
At any rate, even if one may not be
completely satisfied with this claim,
there can be no mistake about the
method of financing the deficit of
£118.3 million budgeted for this
year. It will entail creation of a sub-
stantially higher amount of Reserve
Bank credit supplemented by drawings
on the Federal Government’s bank
balances. Furthermore this year Mr
Holt again expects the trading banks
to contribute heavily, if not on the
same scale as last year, to the Gov-
ernment’s loan raisings. The net
economic impact of the deficit this
year should, therefore, be many times
greater than that of last year’s deficit
of £27 million and even greater than
the £118.3 deficit named in the
Budget.
Thus those who claim this is a
“deep freeze” Budget should look
again at the relevant passage in the
Budget speech. This says: “The
1961-62 Budget was a lot more ex-
pansionary than the cash result on
an accounting basis made it seem.
On that result, there was a deficiency
of £27,010,000, which was financed
by Treasury Bills and a reduction of
cash balances with the Reserve Bank.
But, in economic terms, the impact
was a great deal larger than that —
mainly for the reason that a very con-
siderable amount of Government
spending was financed by the proceeds
of loan subscriptions from trading
bank sources, from money market
dealers and possibly from other
sources which could not be said to
represent a subtraction from funds
which would otherwise have been
used to finance private spending. On
the same grounds, the economic im-
pact of this Budget will be greater
than the estimated accounting deficit
of £118,328,000 might indicate. This
is because the estimated loan raisings
included in total receipts allow for
some trading ba k and similar sub-
scriptions to loans, even though not
on the same scale as last year.”
Critics have also disputed Mr
Holt’s claim that “the expansionary
effect of the Budget will be fairly
heavily concentrated in the next six
to eight months and for that reason
it can be assumed to provide the
greatest stimulus to demand through
a time in which it is most likely to
be needed”. This is not “dubious”
ground, as has been claimed, at all.
True, the first half of the year is one
when the Government is in any case
financing much of its outlay from
credit pending the big flow of tax
money into its coffers later in the year.
But it must be remembered that this
year it will be spending so much more,
taking less out of pay packets than
it did in the same period last year
and receiving much less in sales tax.
Turning now to the failure of the
Budget to impress the business world,
there is solid ground for criticism
that more Federal money has not
been made available for housing. The
Treasurer has not attempted to excuse
himself for this, though goodness only
knows the case for much more vigor-
ous effort in the housing field has
been put cogently enough. The
Government’s view is that there is
plenty of steam in the economy to
lift housing activity in due course
and to court a sharp revival in house
building in a few months time could
put undue pressure on resources.
If there was any doubt about the
importance of fixed investment on the
general level of activity in the econ-
omy last year it is underlined in the
national income and expenditure White
Paper issued with the Budget. After
rising from £ 1260 million in 1959-60
to £.1338 million in 1960-61, gross
private investment dropped by £lO7
million, or by about 8 p.c. last year.
In terms of income impact, this re-
duced spending power by roughly
£320 million, or three times the £lO7
million last year.
While one would think the
Treasurer would take steps to
reverse the decline in investment in
dwelling construction (£29 million
last year), there was a limit to what
he could do to prompt industry to
step up its capital investment in plant
and equipment to a higher rate with
so much industrial capacity still under-
employed. Clearly he could not risk
a higher investment allowance, though
he could have usefully brought a
wider range of fixed capital equip-
ment within the range cf the allow-
ance, notably new buildings. He
could also have reduced company tax
by 6d. in the £. This would have
cost the revenue about £l7i million
in 1962-63, putting the deficit up to
£136 million, not a greatly frighten-
ing figure. All things considered, this
might have been the thing to do in
view of the reluctance of private in-
dustry to increase its investment and
the paramount need to get industry in
a better mood. His failure to give
some sort of lift to industry and busi-
ness confidence looks to be a blot on
the budget.
When this is said, Mr Holt may
still be right in his interpretation of
the economic portents. Bearing in
mind the Government’s predilection
for stability and previous criticism of
its effects on policy he is certainly
justified in not pushing re-flationary
policies further than he has done at
this juncture.


Another “Wales” Service
iportumties
Oversea markets, like gold, are where you find
them, but it is easier to find them with the
help of the “Wales”. There you can obtain
information on new markets or be put in
touch with businessmen overseas. Exporting
is made easier for you, too, with assistance in
many ways ask for copies of the booklets
“An Australian Exporter’s Guide” and “Plan-
ning a Business Trip Overseas”.
You can bank on the “ Wales” .
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
ABC OF INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
Industrial relations in Australia, especi-
ally the detail concerning awards and
the province of the various authorities,
are certainly far more complicated than
theoretically need be. Here again, as
in so many political and economic mat-
ters, we are cursed, not blessed, by Fed-
eral-State differentiations. A plain man’s
guide through the jungle could prove a
considerable help.
Mr Lee Freestone, “an independent
industrial relations consultant”, has essay-
ed such an elementary and basic guide.
He has just published “Industrial Rela-
tions from the Inside” (Angus and
Robertson, 255.). It is difficult to imagine
a simpler approach to the subject
For Mr Freestone aims to get right
down to the grass roots. After a some-
what cursory glance at the general legal
framework, the bulk of the book dives
into the day-to-day job situations as they
impinge upon management, trade unions
and employees.
Our author heartily disdains the “so-
called ‘sophisticated’ writing and talking
about industrial relations”. This appar-
ently “all adds up to different jargons,
completely dedicated to making the sub-
ject intelligible only to the experts”. The
book is, therefore, aimed at a mixed bag
of “executives, trainee executives, super-
visors, union officials, delegates and every
worker”.
Before getting down to tin tacks, Mr
Freestone is sent on his way by prefaces
of praise from Mr S. C. Taylor (presi-
dent, Industrial Commission of NSW),
Mr Tom Dougherty (Australian Workers’
Union), Mr D. G. Fowler (Australian
Metal Industries Association) and Mr
Laurie Short (Federated Ironworkers’
Association). Sir Richard Kirby speaks
judiciously on the back cover. Most of
the contents cover topics this band of
redoubtable gentlemen probably took in
at their mothers’ knees.
So it would be, we hope, with a goodly
proportion of the proposed audience. By
and large, over recent years, the mere
mechanics of industrial relations appear
to be better understood and deployed
throughout Australia. Exceptions per-
haps exist, but the times when employers
and, say, union officials were monsters
to each other have surely almost van-
ished.
Such a climate of tolerance Mr Free-
stone, of course, pleads for and sets out
the framework wherein it must be
operated. Given the proximate achieve-
ment of the framework, it becomes vitally
necessary to urge much more funda-
mental and widespread discussion of
principles. The days, for instance, are
rapidly approaching when a national
w ages policy must not be just a dirty
word.
The unions are even now preparing
for another margins case and the claims
will also embrace white-collar workers.
Within the prevailing range of our in-
dustrial future, more thorough discussion
of the economic and legal determinants
is surely called for. The background of
these matters, particularly as they involve
the use o f economic criteria, has already
been examined by Mr John Kerr in this
journal (May 26).
Many of the questions raised in this
book need ampler and more considered
treatment. The note of brief dogmatism
often looks too simple for the subject,
occasionally leading to harsh judgments.
It is unpleasant and evasive to be told
that “the non-unionist or conscientious
objector is an industrial pest who invari-
ably causes considerable production
losses and is responsible for stirring up
political or religious hatreds on the job”.


SO
a
happier choice for every occasion . . •
ArGOVGS wine
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’s
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT,
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course!
ANGOVE’S LTD., REN MARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
YOUR FAVOURITE BRANDY . . ST. AGNES BRANDY*
Economics Anonymous
IMAGE OF THE RED SHOES
HThe recent increase in imports of Chin-
ese-made boots and shoes —which,
incidentally, none of the big retailers
seems to think very extraordinary—has
brought a strong reaction from the foot-
wear industry, especially its labor force.
Never more than a marginal industry,
thanks to the shelter of protection and
the use of much cheaper labor, it has
managed with a minimum of imports to
satisfy the local market in recent years.
Now it is confronted not only with an
increase in imports but cheap imports at
that.
If these are increased to a flood in the
interest, say, of selling wheat to China,
the industry would find it difficult to
survive on its present scale.
One can easily see why the industry
is touchy. In recent years it has lost
labor consistently, despite impressive
increases in output. It took 23,785
workers to produce 27i million pairs of
boots, shoes, sandles and slippers in
1950-51 and they were paid £10.2
million to do it. Ten years later only
20,201 workers were required to make
35i million pairs for which they got
£16.1 million in wages and salaries.
(These figures exclude footwear repairs
and accessories).
Technological improvements coupled
with the introduction of new materials,
have revolutionised bootmaking in this
country, but employees still seem to have
the thin end of the rising productivity
stick because their average wage still has
few rivals for the wooden spoon for
wage earnings in Australian industry.
Over the general range of Australian
manufacturing industry, the average
wage is nearer £lOOO a year compared
with only £770 or so a year average for
footwear makers. Sticking to their lasts
has still not paid off for them.
Their soul-mates as the very much
under-average paid workers of industry
include tailoring and ready-made cloth-
ing (the worst off of all the bigger in-
dustries with an average wage of around
£7OO a year), tallow, bread and biscuit,
textile, canning and confectionery
makers. Not for them the average wage
heights of industries like cement and
electricity (both in the £1250 a year
range), and most of the heavy industries
whose wage averages generally exceed
£lOOO a year.
Equally, fixed capital investment in
the footwear industry since the war has
been small and it continues to be one of
the most under-nourished industries in
this respect, with an average of only
£790 of fixed capital investment per
worker in the industry.
This is not as low as the £540 for
each clothing worker, but is one of the
very few manufacturing industries which
has less than £lOOO of fixed capital in-
vestment backing each employee. Its
£790 of fixed capital investment per
head, compares with £35,000 a head in
electricity, £21,000 in petroleum, £5300
in iron and steel, £5OOO in heavy
chemicals, £3750 in cement, £l5OO in
motor vehicles and accessories and
£1275 per worker in electrical
appliances and apparatus.
Nonetheless, by volume footwear is
still a good employment industry, if not
one of expanding employment. The
question is whether it can stop losing
labor, rather than of it making a rising
contribution to the labor absorption
tasks facing this country. It is one of
the new factory industries employing
more women than men, though the pre-
ponderance (1.1 to one) of women is
not as pronounced, say, as in tailoring
and ready-made clothing, where the
ratio is about 3.9 women to every man,
or in textiles where it is 1.4 to one.
Only on the repair and accessories
sides do men outnumber women in the
footwear industry. Between them repairs
and accessories employ about 4700 (of
which only 710 are women), or less than
one-fifth of the work force of 20,782 on
the manufacturing side.
While the industry pays out about £l6
million (1960) in wages and as such is a
useful source of spending power, its
relatively low annual additions to plant,
machinery, land and buildings (the com-
ponents of fixed investment), limits its
usefulness as a source of primary income
generation.
Its additions to fixed investment fell
just short of £ 1 million, even in its
best year (1959-60) and have usually
been more like half that amount, being
as low as £420,000 in 1957-58.
Equivalent figures (1959-60) for new
fixed investment in the three best in-
dustries from this viewpoint were metal
fabricating £54.9 million, basic metal
industries £35.7 million and motor
vehicles and accessories £26.4 million.
Getting back to the matter of the
relative importance of imports of foot-
wear, imports last year were valued at
about £950,000 (the highest for many
years) or less than one-fiftieth of the sell-
ing value of local factory output (that is
exclusive of delivery costs and excise
duties). So clearly the importance of
imports is very marginal and if it in-
creases significantly there are several
protective devices that could be brought
into play to safeguard the industry’s
future.


REID MURRAY
Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stock *
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
Applications accepted only on forms attached to the
Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON &. CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William St., Adelaide 408 Collins St., Melb.
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
REID MURRAY
GUARANTEED
by Reid Murray Holdings Ltd.
NATIONAL BANK
VIEW
OF THE BUDGET
Moderate support for the view that a
measure of Budget concessions
could have been justified under prevail-
ing circumstances comes from the
National Bank of Australasia. But the
bank’s latest monthly summary also has-
tens to defend the retention of our “hard-
won price stability”. This latter should
not be lightly thrown aside and big de-
ficits calling for speedy corrective action
are “merely irresponsible”, the bank
says.
Boldness may be lacking in the Bud-
get, the summary declares. Yet it con-
forms to the recent pattern “whereby the
main measures taken to induce change
in the economy have not been brought
down in the Budget, but at some other
time during the course of a financial
year”. Under such design, February’s tax
benefits are continued, together with
various steps towards recovery taken
during 1961-62.
The envisaged cash deficit, at £llBm.,
is described as “comparatively large”. It
follows from increased expenditure of
£lOl m. to a record £209 lm. against total
Government receipts of £ 1973 m., which
show a lift of only £ 10m. on 1961-62
What is most needed at the precise mo-
ment is genuine stimulus to consumer
spending and to private investment.
The Budget’s emphasis, though, still
rests upon substantially higher Govern-
ment expenditure. Assuredly the injec-
tion of some £l2om. into the economy
appears reasonable. Doubts do arise,
however, as to whether direct private
concessions would have been wiser than
the absorption of practically all this
amount into higher Government outlays.
Some difficulty appears in isolating the
components of the £lolm. expenditure
advance. The sectional increases appear
to be made up of: Payments to States,
£33m.; social services, £22m.; depart-
mental and territories, £l4m.; loan
redemptions, film.; defence, £7m.; war
and repatriation, £7m.; capital works,
£6m.; business undertaking, £6m. The
net £lolm. is thrown down after minor
decreases of £sm.
It can be noticed that about half of
this increase is “outside adjustments that
might be regarded as recovery measures”.
Most of the remaining stimulant derives
from pre-Budget commitments. A prime
and desirable effect of the Common-
wealth spending must be the quick low-
ering of unemployment, thus enhancing
the hope of a “snowball” into business
and industry.


TOOTHBRUSHES TO BULLDOZERS
How to get into the export markets
TI/|r Warren McDonald told the
Bankers’ Institute of Australasia in
Melbourne last week that, based on his
own experience as head of the Middle
East Trade Mission early this year, Aus-
tralia could boost its trade with the
Middle East Mediterranean area from
our present £l4 million (out of a total
of £l2OO million a year) to £75
million a year in the near future,
if our manufacturers went in and sold
with marketing skill and determination.
He said the Middle East countries were
booming, standards of living were rising
and “they wanted everything from tooth-
brushes to bulldozers”.
Moreover, he said that according to
the members of this year’s Trade Mission
exactly the same remarks applied to
South American trade in which we had
only £1 million out of the area’s total
trade of £3,500 million a year. He
said that “even a quick estimate by our
South American Trade Mission suggests
we could boost our trade with that area
to £5 to £6 million a year in a short
time and to much more than that in the
long run.”
Mr McDonald said that in the Middle
East “we were astonished at the numbers
of openings we found, not only for
primary' produce and manufactured
goods, but also for capital equipment
and services. Middle Easterners, from
their side, were equally surprised at the
extent of our industrialisation and at our
ability to produce so many things they
imagined could not possibly come from
what they thought was a sheep economy.
“One of the jobs of trade missions,
and of manufacturers and traders, is to
break down this old conception of Aus-
tralia as a primary producer at the
bottom of the world, and to erect a new
image of a dynamic industrial society
capable of making and marketing almost
anything. But we must be quick about
it. There is no time to waste.”
However, Mr McDonald warned that
although trade missions could do some
of the spade work, to get into a foreign
market one must become a specialist on
that market and to become a specialist
he must study it on the spot and learn
everything there is to know about it.
He must also be an expert on modern
marketing and all that involves.
Mr McDonald saw an expansion of
manufacturing exports as a must for
Australia. “Previously the manufacturer
did not have to export, but now he
must,” he said. “But to do this success-
fully much will depend on costs —that
real Australian problem.
“Our labor is expensive, our working
hours short, our internal transport and
distances a burden compared with many
other countries. And, because costs
reduce our opportunities for some
products—though by no means all —on
foreign markets, they must be the first
target if we hope to compete in a big
way overseas.”
rphough not professing to be a cost
expert, Mr McDonald said he under-
stood that many manufacturers interested
or directly active in the export field still
lacked clear understanding of the most
modern techniques in costing for export.
Many were not fully aware of their own
export potential and this was where the
cost accountant and refresher courses
for management came in.
“The general rule, though there are
exceptions, is that the exporter must sell
at competitive prices to win a place in
foreign markets and, because our costs
are above average, our home prices are
too high for those markets,” Mr Mc-
Donald continued.
“But and this is the point sales
overseas at prices below home prices
can be profitable, and tax concessions
for export sales, plus deductions for
research, design and things like that, can
still further increase that profit.
“Because our factories don’t work all-
out, they have unused production
capacity hidden capacity which, if
harnessed efficiently, can make exports a
business that pays.
“It is not fully realised that, in making
use of hidden capacity, the increase in
costs is not proportionate to the increase
in output. In most cases it is much less.
The reason for this is that increased out-
put can be achieved without any increase
in the fixed costs of manufacturing or
selling and, where the expenses of other
items do vary, often the increase will
not be in proportion to the increase in
output.
“In other words, if only additional
costs are charged against additional
production, a much lower unit cost can
be achieved. And this means that the
lower prices for the additional sales can
be very profitable.
“An example is a manufacturer who
uses this system which is, as you
probably know, known as ‘differential
costing’. He has a good home market
for his goods, but his factory does not
work at full capacity. He enters the
export field. His export sales are
‘additional sales’.
“Differential costing, which can be a
first-class aid to management if properly
understood and competently handled, is
used in many parts of the world by
export-experienced companies who sell
their goods on foreign markets for less
than on the local market —and sell them
at a comfortable profit.”
Mr McDonald told the assembled
bankers that he believed Australian
manufacturers should pool their re-
sources and expertise for exporting. As
an example, he quoted a joint venture
or consortium of companies which
handle a project beyond the scope of
any one company—a group of engineer-
ing or construction firms working to-
gether to submit a joint tender for some
big civil engineering job.
Another was a group of companies
which individually produce a separate
component to be assembled into one
complete unit —a number of companies
combining to produce and sell all the
equipment for a hospital or a power
station. Again you could have a group
of companies, producing the same or
similar goods, which combine to promote
and sell their goods overseas.
A dmitting that joint ventures have
and liabilities and are not simple
to organise, Mr McDonald thought
there were numerous advantages of this
selling-type of joint venture, ranging
from the ability to offer a wide range of
complementary goods to the lowering
of export costs by the elimination of
expensive separate export marketing
organisations, from the use of one or
two sales representatives instead of
many to the reduction in advertising and
other selling costs. But they have
attractive features which deserve close
study today when we can’t afford to
ignore anything which will help us to
find new openings for our goods and
boost our export income.
Mr McDonald believes that true
understanding of modern marketing
techniques, through the use of advanced
research, will sweep away much of our
present ignorance towards a funda-
mental industrial problem. “We are
backward in research and do not yet
seem to realise that the ideas which go
into the marketing of a product are
probably more important than the
product itself,” he said. “All this not
only applies to national markets, but
to the markets we must fight for in the
Middle East, India, South-East Asia, and
South America. How a manufacturer
sells in Lima or Singapore or Bombay
or Beirut is just as vital to us today as
how he sells in Townsville or Bathurst
or Perth.”


55
z
XNva
ii
m
■
■
iS
■
A NETWORK OF SERVICE
in Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and New Guinea
The skill and experience of A.N.Z. Managers and staff
are concentrated on the prime objective of conducting an
efficient, progressive bank. In that way we best serve our
customers. Service to the community has always been our
aim. In addition to cheque and savings accounts now being
used by thousands of people in every walk of life, we provide
comprehensive business facilities, including import and export
transactions, trade and economic services, and a modern travel
department.
A call or enquiry from you will be welcomed.
A-N-Z
w
BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
NZ, 327.35
DOES BUDGET
AFFECT
OIL SEARCH?
TN)R a moment during the Budget
speech when Mr Holt was talking
about “the greatness of the prize to be
won” in oil search, and announcing a
doubling from to £5 million in
subsidy payments to private oil search
ventures for 1962-63, it seemed at long
last the Government was grasping the
nettle of opportunity in oil search, the
more so because it was giving the Bureau
of Mineral Resources more to spend, too.
But Senator Spooner soon crabbed all
that by announcing a cut from 50 to 30
per cent in the proportion of subsidy to
total drilling costs to be made available
for individual wells, though perhaps the
outcry this raised at the meeting of the
Australian Petroleum Exploration Asso-
ciation in Brisbane on the morrow of the
budget was a little overdone.
The BMR's idea is apparently to spread
the Government jam more thinly over
a greatly increased number of wells this
year, but the companies say that the
subsidy cut will oblige them to cut down
their drilling programmes; even force
some of them out of existence and leave
the field more and more open to overseas
capital.
Furthermore the companies are most
incensed that the reduction in subsidies
will prejudice agreements they already
have with overseas concerns to particip-
ate in drilling, as well as probably deter
some from finalising agreements in pros-
pect.
If all this happens, the reduction in
subsidies per well will defeat the Govern-
ment’s purpose in speeding the search for
oil and it could find, as has happened
before, that it will have some difficulty
in distributing its budgeted-for subsidy.
While the companies are obviously
going to press the Minister very hard to
change his mind, it is probable also that
most drilling programmes will go ahead
as planned, at least those for the re-
mainder of 1962. In fact, a more liberal
interpretation of qualifications for sub-
sidies by the BMR could ease the present
pain of the companies quite a bit in due
course. The latter seem to have forgot-
ten in their protests that there will be
twice the amount available for subsidies
this year. So there is really no reason for
investors in oil search to get depressed.
At any rate, there is no depression in
the Union-Kern-AOG camp, which row
thinks it is sitting on enough oil at
Moonie field, and there cannot be much
doubt, now that Moonie No. 5 has turned
up trumps, that construction of the pipe-
line will begin.
Incidentally the opinion was expressed
at the meeting of the Australian Institute
of Mining and Metallurgy at Surfers’
Paradise last week, that this group may
well go back to Cabawin, where the
No. 1 well, which showed oil late in
1960, is still equipped for production.
For the moment it has been by-passed.
It was similarly suggested that Puri, in
Papua, which flowed oil in 1958, would
eventually prove to be a commercial
field, even if a most inaccessible one.
The latter suggestion has given a some-
what brighter glow to ihe shares of Oil
Seach Limited, which commands the area
on its own now that BP and Mobil have
departed the scene.
Nor does the chairman of AAO (Mr
E, N. Avery) seem disconsolate about
the prospects for early success, but he
was speaking before the budget when he
said that the oil search market has
“paused for the moment” and would rise
significantly as soon as there was a new
discovery, which he thinks could be im-
minent.


CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
D
PER ANNUM
4,Sor6YEARS
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT
NOTES
9 % P.A. 4,5 or 6 years
8V2% ;P.A. 3 years
8% P.A. 2 years
7Vz°/o P.A. 12 mths.
0% P.A. I. 6 mths.
FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN IN A PERSONAL EMERGENCY
APPLICATIONS MUST BE MADE ON THE FORM ATTACHED
TO THE PROSPECTUS, WHICH IS NOW AVAILABLE FROM:
AH Branches of the Company's Bankers
THE BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company's Offices,
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Bayliss Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
BROKERS:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
TRUSTEES FOR THE NOTEHOLDERS:
Bankers & Traders Insurance Company Limited CCI4/lAB
WHAT BURNS DIDN'T TELL PHILP
INVESTMENT
SECTION
T)urely as a spectacle and as a long-
A delayed pleasure, investors no doubt
enjoyed the unveiling of Burns, Philp.
The first consolidated accounts really con-
veyed no startling shocks, once examined,
but they plainly displayed a four-square
and massive set of assets. Indeed, direc-
tors actually went further than the
austere demands of the Companies Act.
This may have surprised many. Only
Burns and Philp, in past years, had been
secretly in the know. Yet one vividly
recalls Mr James Burns, a year or two
ago, claiming “real pleasure” at produc-
ing these accounts, “when the law re-
quires it”. He has been better than his
word.
Investors, as we said, were most likely
pleased, but they manifestly were not
overawed and kept their heads. An
immediate flurry sent share prices up-
wards. However, towards the end of
last week, they began to creep back. The
motions were almost certainly correct.
For it cannot, at this moment, be main-
tained that Burns, Philp looks any great
shakes as a trading group, extensive as it
is and with all those scheduled 54 sub-
sidiaries. Directors do not mince many
bright words about the trading future and
stay traditionally glum on shipping in
particular. Even among wholesale and
retail sales “reasonable profit margins
are difficult of attainment as many as-
pects of merchandising have become
extremely competitive and costs associ-
ated with selling continue to increase”.
Very well, let’s fall back upon that
dazzling investment portfolio, you say.
Assuredly it is quite fantastic to observe
(in bulk, of necessity)—for instance,
listed shares at book value £8.7 million
possessing a market value on March 31
of £lB.B million. And similarly with
other group investments.
Bonus issues could most likely emerge
from these hidden reserves at a rate based
only on directors’ discretion and a due
sense of the fitness of .hings. It is still
too early, though, to view the group
almost entirely as a great investment
company, since such an attitude must
consider a possibly deflationary atmos-
phere in the markets for some time to
come.
Again, with all the brilliance, we are
met with a position not unlike CSR’s—
a possible erosion of earnings against
total shareholders’ funds. This, of
course, can be a short-term situation
only. The strength and capacity for
movement are patent. Tet, in the in-
terim, the market was quite right to play
hard. Perhaps it has still 'o puzzle out
the chances of takeover!
HThese are critical times for most of
the principal world commodities,
though until lately tin looked fairly well
out of the ruck. But it, too, has just had
to face a moment of doubt.
Overhanging a moderately equable
supply-demand climate there’s a large
US stockpile, some 50,009 tons of which
is due for disposal. The bulk of expert
authority agreed in thinking that America
did not wish to depress prices through
the sales and would adopt specific safe-
guards at the behest of the International
Tin Council.
In the event, America decided to throw
the tin upon the market and prices had to
be shored up by Buffer Stock purchases.
Buffer Stock thus obtained its first size-


;/-7
// y
x
WORLDS
LARGEST GOLD
PRODUCER
are you getting your share?
South Africa is, indeed, the world's
largest gold producer one reason for
her prosperity and purchasing power.
Many Australian companies are already
finding lucrative markets in South Africa
(the highly condensed list below indi-
cates the potential). To the export-
conscious, this surely merits 'on the spot'
investigation—particularly as you can be
there overnight, in the superb comfort of S.A.A.'s Springbok service, at a cost of
about £4o* as part of a trip to or from Europe. So here's an item for your next
sales meeting.
A £4o* sidetrip to SOUTH AFRICA
on your next overseas trip could
earn a new EXPORT MARKET!
THESE ARE SOME OF THE ITEMS
AUST. EXPORTS TO STH. AFRICA
Foodstuffs—Paints —Hardware
Electrical Goods Motor
Vehicles Kitchenware
Machinery, all types—Rubber,
Plastic and Leather Goods—
Timber Sporting Goods
Chemicals, Oils—Piece Goods
—Synthetic Yarns
is your product here?
me
Take your camera, too . . . Once in South
Africa, enjoy the richest sightseeing the world
has to offer. See Kruger National Park, tha
diamond mines at Kimberley, Victoria Falls.
Shop for curios in quaint native villages,
explore great cities such as Johannesburg,
Durban and Cape Town. See your travel agent.
* There is a slight fare variation from
the different Australian capital cities.
Fly wOUTH
IRWAYS
Choice of daylight or overnight flights
by magnificent Boeing 707 Stratojets
between Johannesburg and London
with choice of stop-overs at no
extra air fare, or non-stop to Athens
and again onward to London.
£M ASSOCIATION WITH QANTAS, 8.0.A.C., C.A A. AND E.A.A.
BAAOO/20.©
able quantities since last year’s new tin
agreement lifted production control en-
tirely. But both prices and share levels
were steadied thereby. Some uncertainty
may remain for a while.
The chairman of the London Tin Cor-
poration (Mr Douglas Waring) last
week pleaded for a firm resolution of the
stockpile situation. He asked for an
agreed formula, “because the whole econ-
omy of some of the producing countries
is at stake”.
A crisis such as this is worth more
than cursory interest here, for at present
by far the greater proportion of our tin
needs is imported. Local companies,
Aberfoyle, Renison and Tableland, are
itching to fill more of the Australian
market.
COMING EVENTS?
HThe post-contractual situation of
Australian uranium received the
latest of several recent scrutinies from
the Minister for National Develop-
ment (Senator W. H. Spooner) Lst
week. He was hardly able to put
any favorable gloss upon disposal of
Canadian oxide at less than agreement
price. “Our next six or seven years
are not encouraging,” he said.
This position has understandably
been given quite severe consideration
by local companies, especially the
the giant Mary Kathleen under Con-
zinc-Riotinto control. All kinds of
diversification are being sought. In
these circumstances ;he move of a
Canadian relation appears of particu-
lar interest domestically. It is into
steel!
Rio Alcorn Mines, uranium sub-
sidiary of the newly merged English
Rio Tinto-Zinc Corporation group, has
bid <£stg 17 million to acquire Atlas
Steels. Atlas possesses offshoots in
England, Switzerland, Italy and—Aus-
tralia. It makes tool and specialty
steels. A plant is now under construc-
tion to produce stainless steel sheet
and strip for Canadian and export
markets.
The bid seems rather quaintly de-
scribed as “strictly an industrial ven-
ture”. But its main impulsion is un-
concealed. The group’s Canadian
uranium contract finishes in 1966,
“after which it could be in a difficult
position unless it diversified its activi-
ties”.
So copper, quarries, bricks, coal and
iron ore may not remain the only
local steps by Conzinc - Riotinto of
Australia. After all, the WA partner,
Kaiser Steel, is well within cooee for
consultation.


i
REGISTERED
UNSECURED NOTES
8 %
p.a. for 7 years
y
5?% P a
for 12 Months
for
W Other rates and terms avail-
f able see Prospectus for full
details. Your copy available from
all Members of Stock Exchanges,
over 750 branches of the A.N.Z.
Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches.
•
Applications for stock will proceed
only on one of the forms of appli-
cation referred to and attached to
a printed copy of the Prospectus.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Registered 19th December, 1929)
Brokers to the Issue: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney [
Adelaide and Brisbane.
8163 N
TALK AROUND 'CHANGE
/Ponfidence in the metalware industry
is expressed by the old-established
Stokes (Australasia) Ltd, of Melbourne,
in its proposal to go public with a share
issue through a broker.
Best known for its metal badges,
medals and buttons, its major business
is really in supplying metal stampings
and pressings to the automotive and
refrigeration industries. It also has a
non-ferrous foundry and an electrical
subsidiary.
It is significant that the latest Trade
Department Survey of Manufacturing
Industries reports that finished stocks
of domestic refrigerators are still mat-
erially above normal. On the other hand,
stocks of motor vehicles were slightly
less than normal, and that industry was
confident of a good year ahead.
Stokes’ main plant is at Brunswick,
but the company plans to move all
operations eventually to Ringwood,
where it is erecting a £i million factory
on a 26 acre site.
Paid capital of the company will be
about £500,000 after the public share
issue. Annual turnover is currently in
excess of £1 million. It already has an
export trade with New Zealand, Singa-
pore and the Arabian Gulf, and is now
negotiating contracts with about ten
other countries. This seems a promising
pointer to its manufacturing efficiency
and' selling ability.
jVJoRTLocK Bros. Ltd, Perth distribu-
tor of cycles, cars, lawn mowers and
tractors, earns a tiny return on share-
holders’ funds.
Although profit doubled in the year to
May 31, 1962, it was only £23,752 on
funds of £732,258 (of which £470,011
was surplus profits.)
The balance sheet includes £414,413
for freehold properties at 1950 valua-
tions plus additions at cost. These are
believed to include properties at West
Perth, Wembley, and Murray Street. One
property in Hay Street was leased and
another sold since last balance date.
Since January 1 the company has
exercised a metropolitan franchise for
Ford cars and commercials. This should
breathe new life into an ailing body.
Otherwise the benefits of past conser-
vatism remain practically worthless as
far as shareholders are concerned.
ITWery dog has his day some time, as
witness the revival in share interest
in beach sand and tin ventures. Latest
of the latter to show a promising hand
is Renison, a Tasmania producer, which
lifted its profit from £2237 to £59,109
in the latest year to June.
The 6d. dividend (which is taxable)
should make directors of Mt Lyell
Mining and Railway Co. happy. It is
the first they’ve received from Renison
since acquiring a 49 p.c interest in the
company as far back as 1958.
VTot a very big jewel, but a fairly
bright one nonetheless, Lustre
Jewellery, Melbourne jewellers, is to be
commended on deciding to shine its
lights in quarterly progress reports, that
for the last quarter of 1961-62 saying
that there was more glitter in trading
than in both the previous quarters and
the corresponding quarter of the
previous year.
Presumably this is meant to prove that
though, as previously announced, the
profit shaded from £15,140 to £14,376
in 1961-62, the rise from 15 to 174 p.c.
in dividend for the year was fully
justified on the recovery in trading over
the last few months, which hoisted the
company’s sales by 6.1 p.c. over the
previous year.
If this sort of result can be continued
or improved upon, the ss. shares look
well worth the money at around 12s. at
which they yield a handy 74 p.c.


k
What is Will revision .. ?
It’s simply a matter of keeping your Will up to date with changes
in personal circumstances and current economic conditions.
The value of money and property varies, you may acquire new
assets and, perhaps, additional family responsibilities. These factors
could mean the Will you made some years ago is now out of date and
would not satisfactorily dispose of your assets. This could cause
unnecessary difficulties, and even hardship, for your beneficiaries.
If your Will has not been reviewed for some years, take an early
opportunity to examine it thoroughly with a senior officer of Perpetual
Trustee to give you expert assistance and advice. It’s a free service,
of course!
For more detailed information on Perpetual’s many services contact
the Company today for a fact-filled booklet.
PERPETUAL,
i
TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney. Telephone 2 0377
OFFICES AT NEWCASTLE, WOLLONGONG, ORANGE AND TAMWORTH
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (CANBERRA) LIMITED
M.L.C. BUILDING, PETRIE STREET, CANBERRA, A.C.T.
“PUT YOUR TRUST IN PERPETUAL ’’
TALK AROUND 'CHANGE-Cont.
rpuRNOVER of the three main brands
-*■ produced by Philip Morris (Aust.)
Ltd Philip Morris, Marlboro and Al-
pine is reported as 33 p.c. higher in
the latest year to June than in the pre-
vious year.
Rothmans claim better sales; British
Tobacco report striking gains by its
Craven A filters and other new lines in-
troduced. Yet overall cigarette consump-
tion has been fairly static.
The true picture of relative market
shares becomes hazier and hazier.
fFhtE charter of Dominion Breweries
Ltd, New Zealand, reads: “It is
the constant purpose of this company,
regardless of profit, to develop the art
of beer making to the greatest degree
of perfection. ... It is our sincere
desire that our brewery, our products
and our hotels will always stand out as
models ol high and conscientious art”.
These noble sentiments did not,
happily for the shareholders, preclude
the company from turning in a profit of
£NZ461,915 for the year ended March
31, 1962.
New Zealand shareholders (the stock
is not listed on Australian exchanges)
receive frequent bonuses interspersed
with premium share issues. The ss.
shares lately sold at 16s. 9d. (NZ cur-
rency) to yield 3.0 p.c. which is rather
lower than most Australian brewery
stock, but Dominion’s dividend was
much better covered.
Holdings, the general invest-
™ ment offshoot of stockbrokers A. C.
Goode and Co., has been remarkably
quick on the draw. The company was
floated only five months ago and is now
measuring up to its prospectus forecast
by paying a dividend at the annual rate
of 8 p.c. to cover the four months to
June 30. Grouped Holdings’ 2s. shares
have come back a few pence from their
peak of 3s. lOd. a few weeks ago and
have obvious appeal on a 4.8 p.c. yield
basis.
Interest should now be revived in
Oil Development following its de-
cision to start its first well in the Surat
Basin before the end of the month. The
3s. 6d. paid shares have had an un-
wanted look at around 4s. 6d. lately.
Like the company’s joint well with
Planet at Anglesea (Vic.) this well, to
be called Maranda No. 1, will be drilled
by Reading and Bates, which has
brought in a new national 75 rig from
Canada to drill a series of new wells for
Oil Development with which it has a
close tie-up.
There is no such good news for Mid-
Eastern shareholders, however, because
though this company reports that it is
continuing seismic surveys in the Surat
Basin and is studying results with Caltex,
its partner in this exploration, no drill-
ing sites have yet been selected. The
company’s next move when its Stock-
yard Mountain well is completed will
be to the Clarence Basin area, where it
is intended to drill on the Grevillia
anticline in October.


Full interest every 6 months
Full repayment at maturity —
THE
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
£51716%
LOAN
Unconditionally Guaranteed by
the New South Wales Government
CHOICE OF THREE TERMS: 7, 15 or 25 years
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT in N.S.W.,
Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania.
TAX CONCESSIONS. An approved investment for
Trustees of Pension and Superannuation Funds wishing
to qualify for taxation concessions.
CASH INVESTMENTS may be made in full, or by
paying 10% deposit on application, and the balance
by 30th November next.
CONVERSION, Holders of securities in Loan No. 84
(£4/10/-%, maturing Ist September) are invited to
convert to the new loan and gain HIGHER interest
without interruption.
INVEST OR CONVERT at any office of the Common-
wealth Trading Bank; Australia and New Zealand
Bank Limited; Bank of New South Wales; Commercial
Banking Company of Sydney Limited; English, Scottish
and Australian Bank Limited; Rural Bank of New South
Wales; OR through a recognised Stockbroker; OR at
the Board's offices.
Underwritten by J. B. Were & Son, Members of The
Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
'CHANGE GOSSIP
/Yne notes that a leading Melbourne
” broker is singling out Felt and
Textiles as an attractive buying prospect
at around the current price of 7s. 6d.,
at which the dividend yield is as much
as 6.7 p.c. on the 10 p.c. dividend, which
has been unchanged for many years and
also nicely covered by earnings in all of
them.
The argument is being advanced that
if Minster could have done so well and
made record profits last year, Felt and
Textiles, which is largely in the same
line of business, must also have had a
good year.
It is reasonable to expect F. and T. to
improve on its dividend cover of 14
p.c. in 1960-61, which was the worst
for some years largely owing to the lift-
ing of import controls. With 37 factories
and 5500 on its payroll in this country,
Felt and Textiles is a power in the tex-
tile world here and also in South Africa
and New Zealand, where it has sub-
sidiaries.
rpHE first results from the banks for
1961-62 show that, despite poor
advances, business profits carried on
their upward trend of the previous year.
Prices of bank shares have certainly
been discounting the better deal given
them by the Government since February,
but brokers are saying that the move-
ment could go a good deal further. They
believe that the banks are planning basic
alterations to their charges structure.
A move to abolish exchange on
cheques is already afoot and service
charges related to the number of trans-
actions may be introduced on current
account business.
good broker references,
-*■ buyers have been a little more
generous in bidding for Moulded
Products’ ss. shares in the last few
weeks, but the price of 13s. 6d. still
looks to be attractive in view of the
much better results expected for 1962
(year to December).
Last year was the worst the company
has had since the war. Profit slumped
from £406,821 to £167,000 and earn-
ings were down from 26.2 to 8.3 p.c.
But this year the company is enjoying
a marked revival in the demand for its
wide range of plastics products and in
particular in its trade with the motor
industry since February.
In the light of the consistent 14 p.c.
dividend (admittedly not covered last
year but very well covered in previous
years), the current yield of around 5 p.c.
is very acceptable.


HUTTON'S POLICY IS BEARING FRUIT
By “SECURITY”
FFhe decision of Huttons (then
-*■ United Provisions Limited) direc-
tors five years ago to attempt to im-
prove the company’s earnings in
relation to assets, seems in recent
years to have been bearing fruit. In
the year to June 30, 1956, the com-
pany earned a mere 9.1 p.c. on
ordinary capital, but two years later
this had been improved to 19.5 p.c.
and a 10 p.c. dividend, which was to
set the standard for future years, was
paid.
Subsequent issues of one-for-four at
par in February, 1959, and the take-
over in the 1960 financial year of A.
& R. Smallgoods Pty Ltd. a manufac-
turer of continental smallgoods, bacon
and hams, which involved the issue of
135,000 20s. ordinary shares, have
resulted in the earning rate moving
down to around the 15 p.c. level.
However, it seems probable that
when the directors’ plan of converting
certain assets into assets of a greater
earning capacity are completed, much
better results may eventuate.
Although this programme com-
menced five years ago, it is still far
from complete. The directors realise
that this policy involves continuing
capital expenditure (as evidenced by
the 1959 par issue and the May, 1962,
one-for-four issue at 1/3 premium),
but they point out that it is in the
company’s interest to bring about re-
ductions in operating costs. This is
because costs can only be passed on
to consumers in the home market to a
limited extent and in the export trade
it is essential that the ompany’s prices
remain competitive.
From the informative accounts
which the company produces it can
be seen that over the past four finan-
cial years, labor costs have increased
by 37 p.c. while material costs rose
by 21 p.c. and sales increased by 22
p.c. (All these figures are based on
money values.)
On the expenditure side it can be
seen that labor costs have increased
far more proportionately than material
costs, and this may be the motive be-
hind the company’s policy of installing
additional equipment in its operating
units.
On the revenue side, although part
of the increased value of turnover is
probably due to the passing on of
increased costs to the consumer in
the form of higher selling prices, it
seems likely that the company’s share
of both the local and export markets
has increased.
Another major step in the com-
pany’s programme to reduce costs of
production is the converting of the
company’s land at Zillmere (Bris-
bane) into cash (which could realise
£450,000) for subsequent expendi-
ture on the establishment of a new
factory on the Oxley (Brisbane) land
(covering approximately 300 acres),
which will amalgamate the present
cattle killing and canning works exist-
ing at Oxley with the bacon-curing
operations now carried out at Zillmere
into one centrally controlled works.
Over the past ten years an investor
who had originally held 100 shares
would have seen his dividend income
increase from £5 to £ll/7/6 or at
an average annual compound rate of
6.6 p.c. However, whilst ten years
ago the company paid a 5 p.c. divid-
end, the 10 p.c. dividend which has
been paid now for the past five years
seems to be the standard, as in the
case of Mayfair Hams. Whilst in
previous years the profits of Huttons
were subject to market fluctuations,
recent concentration on the home
market and increasing emphasis on
manufactured lines to the relative ex-
clusion of low profit agency lines
(particularly dairy produce items) has
led to much greater stability.
In an interim report in February
this year, directors announced that
during the half-year, trading and
turnover had been satisfactory, en-
abling the company to show an in-
crease in profits as compared with the
same period in the previous financial
year. This should result in yet an-
other profit increase, providing ample
cover for the 10 p.c. dividend, includ-
ing the dividend on the new shares
which will receive only 1 / 12th of the
full year’s dividend in the current fin-
ancial year.
It is interesting to compare Huttons
with Mayfair, particularly as on a
yield basis Mayfair’s price is nearly
double that of Huttons. The explana-
tion clearly rests in the greater cover
for dividend which exists so far as
Mayfair is concerned and the more
rapid growth in per share earnings.
However, it could well be that not
enough attention is being paid to
yields in these two cases, particularly
when the dividend income from Hut-
tons over the period 1957 to 1962
has been growing at a slightly better
rate than Mayfair, despite the fact
that Mayfair has made two one-for-
four bonus issues during this period.
With Huttons shares priced at
around 11s. they would seem to be
underpriced relative to those of May-
fair Hams.
Balance Sheet Profit Statement
Summaries
1957 1958 1959 1960 1961
£’ooo
Current Assets 2101 1931 1962 2364 2689
less Current liabilities .. .. 1715 1478 1208 1591 1940
Working Capital 386 453 754 773 749
Fixed Assets . 1959 1981 2052 2333 2632
Investments .. ........ 12 11 6 7 7
Total Capital .. .. 2357 2445 2812 3113 3388
represented by:
Loan Capital 77 74 128 155 128
Preference Capital .. .. .. 450 450 450 .450 450
Ordinary Capital .. 950 950 1189 1325 1326
Reserves .. 780 971 1045 1183 1484
Sales 10700 10459 10867 12082 13042
Estimated Operating Income .. 304 408 452 467 496
Earnings .. 100 186 189 192 209
Ord. Dividends 76 95 107 132 133
Dividend Yield (a) 8.9 7.7 5.9 6.4 5.9
Price/Earnings Ratio (a) .. 8.6 6.6 10.7 10.8 11.9
(a) based on last sale month accounts presented.


LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721.
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAG RAM,” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
Prudential Building.
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables;
“Uosdale” Sydney. Melbourne
or Wollongong.
A. L NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L NEVITT. A C. DRAPER,
N W C. DRAPER
(Members oi Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street. Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street, Phone 6089
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
PERMEWAN WRIGHT LTD
GONE ARE THE HAYSEEDS
llJithin the last twelve months a new
” power has emerged in retailing—
Permewan Wright Ltd, the erstwhile
carrying and forwarding agent, then
produce and general merchant serving
the rural areas of Victoria and NSW.
Incorporated in 1884, the company
was last year serving its country cus-
tomers from 26 stores in Victoria, 16
in NSW and one in South Australia,
with farm and station supplies, hard-
ware, machinery, fuels, stock food,
electrical appliances, fertilisers veterinary
supplies, seeds, grain and fodder.
Its earnings naturally fluctuated with
that of the man on the land, and the
company could be said to have made no
real headway in recent years. A tentative
step was made towards diversification in
1958 by acquiring Davis Bros, Furniture
Warehouse Pty and its associate Davis
Acceptance Pty, both of Melbourne. The
following year it bought T. Lambert Pty
of Armidale NSW, and a retail store in
South Melbourne.
The furniture and carpet retailing busi-
ness, known then as Permewan Davis
Pty Ltd was not successful within the
last trading period—l 4 months to
March 31, 1962. Economic factors con-
tributed to the losses, and despite a
change of management, the losses con-
tinued. The company wisely withdrew,
incurring a loss of £48,791 on realisa-
tion and after writing off known bad
debts. A further £16,000 has been pro-
vided for doubtful debts.
The event which promoted the change
of face for Permewan Wright was the
carving up of assets of Grocery and
General Merchants Ltd. Peters Ice Cream
(Vic.) Ltd took over G. and G’s Tasman-
ian assets, and Permewan Wright secured
the NSW asset. These comprised self-
service retail grocery outlets, mainly in
Sydney, NSW country stores, self-service
wholesale units, and two food manufac-
turing and processing factories, at
Botany and Newcastle.
Happily, all the G. and G. stores were
located in different towns to the existing
Permewan stores, except for Hay, where
the two businesses were amalgamated.
The group now consists of W. J. Gor-
man F'ty Ltd, Permewan’s Acceptance
Pty Ltd, Permewan Davis Pty Ltd,
Permewan’s (Traralgon) Pty Ltd and
P. W. Proprietary Ltd, incorporated in
Victoria, and Grocery and General
Merchants Ltd, Bussell Bros Pty Ltd,
F. R. Hayes Pty Ltd, Leaheys Pty Ltd,
Factory Holdings Pty Ltd, Grocery and
General (Overseas) Pty Ltd, Prescott Pty
Ltd, Vita Foods Supply Co. Pty Ltd,
Burge Bros and Co. Pty Ltd and T.
Lambert Pty Ltd incorporated in NSW.
The chain of 154 units breaks down
into 57 country stores in three States, 78
self-service retail grocery stores and 17
self-service wholesale grocery stores in
NSW, and the two food processors. To
achieve uniformity, balance date was
altered from January 31 to March 31.
Directors reported that turnover, which
was almost £7i million last year, is now
in excess of £l7 million a year, of which
£9 million is in groceries. The group has
thus acquired a much broader base with
a more even earning capacity.
Since balance date, 15 Sydney grocery
units of United Groceries Pty Ltd were
acquired from G. J. Coles and Co. Ltd,
for an undisclosed price.
The purchase price of the G. and G.
assets acquired was reputed to be ap-
proximately £1 million, although their
value was substantially greater. Perme-
wan Wright paid cash for them, and to
finance this, made a two-for-three issue
of 20s. shares at 6s. premium. Other
issues made since the 1961, balance date
were a 15 for 100 issue at ss. premium
in February 1961 to finance increased
business, 50,000 shares for the acquisi-
tion of W. J. Gorman Pty Ltd, a Jarra-
wanga retailer, and 21,334 shares to
employees at a premium. These moves
brought paid capital from £700,000 to
£1,413,000, and augmented share
premium reserve by £206,374.
A reserve on consolidation of
£347,982, representing the difference
between the book value of net tangible
assets acquired and the cost also emerged
as a result of the G. and G. and Gorman
takeovers. The asset backing per 20s.
ordinary share is 465. 3d.
Profit for the 14 months to March was
£156,013, after providing £11,984 for
tax and £121,179 for depreciation.
Compared with £111,041 for the
previous 12 months, after £81,516 tax
and £42,164, earnings were perhaps a
little disappointing, but earning rate was
held at over 15 p.c. on average capital
employed, and the usual 12i p.c. divi-
dend was handled quite comfortably.
(The operations of the parent company
were affected by economic conditions:
turnover was slightly up, but operating
costs —especially a higher rate of interest
on bank accommodation —put net profit a
little lower than the previous year.)
There would have been extraordinary
expense associated with the merger
the chairman specifically mentions the
substantial amount of interest paid for
temporary bridging finance, in his report
to shareholders.
The £65,000 or so lost on the furni-
ture business is of a non-recurring nature,
as the stock has been disposed of and
leases retired. This is a distinct advantage
for the current year. The company has
valuable assets, and if management can
weld the G. and G. business to the
original Permewan Wright organisation,
it will be a formidable complex.
The relatively modest capital of
£1.4 million could well be increased by
another premium issue. (The group has


The peaceful old world charm
of a paddle steamer cruising
lazily past lovely farmlands,
citrus groves, and tree-hung
river reaches is just one of
the unique experiences of a
Murray River holiday. With
its many places of historical
interest, modern shopping
centre and sporting facilities,
sunny Mildura on the Murray
is the ideal starting point.
For further Information about
these Victorian Holiday Resorts
post this coupon.
cnstEina
THE VICTORIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAUX
276 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
221 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
28 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
32 KING WILLIAM ST., ADELAIDE
:
1
Please send me detailed information
about
NAME
3011 B
ADDRESS
made seven post-war share issues, all at
a premium.)
The latest grocery purchase from
Coles indicates the confidence of manage-
ment in its ability to make the food
business pay. As it is concerned with
the manufacturing, wholesaling and
retailing of food, Permewan Wright has
a foot in every camp.
The market is aware of the consider-
able equity outsiders have in the busi-
ness. Buying into the organisation at this
stage would be done largely on trust
rather than performance. But a purchase
of the 20s. shares at about 365. will
produce a comfortable return of 6.9 p.c.
and should appeal to the more adventu-
rous investor who can afford to wait for
the company to digest its new additions.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £’o6o
January 31 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
(March 31,)
Current assets 2381 2382 2597 2745 4624
Less current
liabilities 1724 1754 1904 1457 3114
Working capital 657 628 693 1288 1510
Investments 1 1 1 1 16
Fixed assets 1490 1489 1589 1641 3015
Total capital 2148 2118 2283 2930 4541
Represented by:
Loan capital 300 270 340 960 1276
Ordinary capital 700 700 700 700 1413
Reserves 1148 1148 1243 1270 1852
2148 2118 2283 2930 4541
14 months
Depreciation 37 34 44 48 121
Taxation 87 34 50 82 112
Net Trading profit 125 79 101 111 156
Ordinary dividends 88 88 88 88 129
Surplus 37 —9 13 23 27
Earning p.c. 17.9 11.3 14.4 15.9 15.2
Dividend p.c. 12% 12% 12% 12% 12%
Dividend yield (a) 8.2 7.1 6.2 7.6 6.7
High price (b) 32/6 34/9 41/9 45/0
Low price (b) 26/3 30/0 31/0 32/6
(a) May 31; (b) Previous calendar year
DENNYS LASCELLES LTD,
IDLE FUNDS AFFECT EARNING RATE
A s one smaller member of the thriver-
ing ranks of woolbrokers and stocks
and station agents, Dennys Lascelles
Ltd attracts no less invest ent attention,
even when its dividend has been heavily
clipped.
Headquartered in Geelong, often
called the Bradford of Australia be-
cause of its ten woollen mills which
purchase one-third of their requirements
from the local wool auctions, Dennys
has been handling the wool and livestock
of clients in the rich Western District,
the Wimmera and good rainfall areas of
the Central and North-Eastern areas of
Victoria plus the Riverina, since 1857.
It handles approximately 2.6 p.c.
of the Australian wool clip. The prices
obtained by the company are consistently
above average Australian prices.
The number of bales sold by the
company have increased from 86,788 in
1950-51 to 107,243 in 1955-56 and 125,-
142 in 1961-62. This last figure was
only slightly below the record turnover
of the year before. Average wool values
were slightly better.
Net operating profit for the year was
substantially unchanged at £lll,BBl,
after providing £Bl,OOO (1961 £87,500)
for income tax, and £27,019 (£36,032)
for depreciation. In the previous two
years new mechanical plant had been
heavily depreciated, and now normal
rates apply. A capital profit of £8,067
(1961 £9,508) was made on the sale
of fixed assets.
Working capital was boosted by the
two-for-five par issue of July 1961, which
raised paid capital from £546,000 to
£764,400. The dividend rate, previously
lowered from 17i to 16 p.c. had to be
further reduced to 12i p.c., including
2| p.c. bonus, when earning rate on the
higher capital shrank from 20.4 to 14.6
p.c.
The presence of £200,000 in interest-
bearing short term deposits at balance
date suggests management was a little
precipitate in making the share issue.
Perhaps it could have been made in a
lower ratio, or with progressive calls.
These near idle funds obviously dragged
down the earning rate.
Nominal capital will be raised from
£1 to £2 million but it is not the
directors’ present intention to issue
further shares.
The company could eventually suc-
cumb to bids from more canny pastoral
firms, but otherwise at 495. 6d. the 20s.
shares do not appeal for long-term in-
vestment. The income yield is 5.0 p.c.,
and net tangible asset backing 41s. Id.
per share.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £’ooo
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Cur"ent assets 807 769 970 915 982
Less curent
liabilities 311 314 507 449 294
Working capital 496 455 463 466 688
Investment 51 51 52 54 56
Fixed assets 565 642 698 719 741
Goodwill 83 83 83 83 83
1195 1231 1296 1322 1568
Represented by
Ord. capital 546 546 546 546 764
Reserves 649 685 750 776 804
1195 1231 1296 1322 1568
Depreciation 31 35 38 36 27
Taxation 72 71 101 88 81
Net earnings 119 105 153 112 112
Capital profit 10 10 4 10 8
Dividends 82 82 96 87 96
Surplus 47 33 61 35 24
Earning rate 21.8 19.2 28.0 20.4 14.6
Dividend rate 15 15 17% 16 12%
Dividend yield la) 5.5 4.4 6.4
High price (6) 57/3 56/6 60/ 62/ 58/6
Low price (b) 46/ 44/ 46/ 49/ 42/
(a) End of August, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.


Company
Par
Value
Last
Sale
1961
Prices—
3/8/62
10/8/62
Div.
Rate
p.c.
Div.
Yield
p.c.
Earn.
Rate
p.c.
Earn.
Yield
p.c.
Amalgamated Chemicals
5/
14/3
17/9
18/
12%
3.5
21.4
5.9
A.W.A
5/
20/41/2
20/3
20/
14
3.5
22
5.5
Ampol
5/
11/4
12/4
12/2
14
5.8
19
7.8
A.R.C
• .
10/
46/3
46/3
47/3
15
3.2
29.7
6.4
Associated Pulp
20/
29/3
30/3
29/6
13.6
9.2
Aust. Chemicals ..
• .
• .
10/
30/4V2
23/3
23/10
12%
5.2
21.5
9
A.C.I
20/
72/6
65/9
64/9
8-1/3
2.5
14.5
4.5
Aust. Guarantee ..
5/
14/
14/
14/4
15
5.2
19
6.6
Aust. Gypsum .,
5/
14/3
14/3
14/6
10
3.4
15.9
5.1
A.P.M.
20/
25/3
24/3
23/3
8-1/3
7
11/9
10.2
Bank N.S.W
£20
£34
£40%
£41%
9
4.4
12.2
6
Bitumen and Oil ..
5/
24/
23/6
23/3
17%
3.8
35.4
7.7
Blue Metal Ind. ..
5/
22/71/2
22/11
22/4
15
3.3
27/6
6.2
Bradford Cotton ..
5/
7/6
6/9
6/6
10
7.5
11.2
8.4
British Tobacco ..
20/
25/
24/9
24/10
9
7.3
9.7
7.8
B.H.P
20/
69/
56/9
55/3
6/4
2.3
13.7
6.9
Burns Philp
20/
91/
£51/4
£5
10
2
18.6
3.7
C.S.R
20/
£ 591/2 a
49/3XR
48/3
9%
3.9
14.8
6.1
C.A.G.A,
. •
5/
11/3
11/1
10/7
10
4.3
12.4
5.4
C.I.G. . .. ..
20/
£5
97/
95/
11
2.3
25.3
5.3
Commercial Union
5/
19/3
20/
20/
6%
1.6
18.4
4.6
Concrete Ind.
. .
5/
I5/IV2
14/3
14/
10
3.6
16.6
5.9
Cox Bros.
5/
7/6
7/3
7/2
10
7
11.8
8.7
C.R.A.
5/
—
18/6
18/6
12
3.2
Custom Credit
. .
5/
13/
10/11
11/5
15
5.6
18.2
8
Cyclone
10/
26/
20/6
20/9
10
4.8
17.7
8.5
Dalgety-N.Z. Loan
, .
25/
—
36/
36/
8
5.4
13.9
9
David Jones ..
# .
5/
18/9
17/6
17/6
12%
3.5
28.7
6.9
Drug Houses
20/
60/
69/9
69, 9
11/4
3.3
17.7
5.1
Dunlop Rubber
, ,
20/
35/
42/
41/6
10
4.7
16
7.6
Elder Smith
12/
23/9
25/6
25 6
10
4.7
12.6
6
Electronic “B”
10/
13/3
16/2
16/3
12%
7.7
—
—
Email
5/
7/6
7/9
8/1
10
8.2
11
5.8
E.Z. Ind
10/
12/11
12/3
12/9
10
7.8
12.4
9.8
Felt and Textiles . .
5/
6/11
7/10
7/7
10
6.6
13.9
9.3
G. J. Coles . ..
5/
13/6
13/7
13/3
11
4.1
15.1
5.7
Goldsbrough
20/
28/6
32/
32/
8
5
12.6
7.8
H. C. Sleigh .. ..
5/
11/
11, 11
11/11
12%
5.2
13.4
5.6
Henry Jones .. ..
. ,
20/
80/
76/
77/6
10
2.7
28.6
7.9
H. G. Palmer .. ..
5/
15/6
17/
17/
12%
3.3
33.4
9.8
Howard Smith
20/
54/
48/9
48/6
10
4.1
13.6
5.6
Humes
20/
70/6
75/6
76/
14
3.3
24.6
6.4
I.A.C. .. .
. ,
5/
13/4
13/7
13/6
11-2/3
6.1
20.6
7.6
I.C.I.A.N.Z
. ,
20/
38/
39/6
39/9
7
3.5
9.7
4.2
J. Gadsden
10/
15/3
18/
18/
8
4.4
10.4
5.7
Kandos Cement
5/
—
19/5
20/6
12 %
3
13.5
3.2
Kelvinator
, ,
5/
18/3
19/1
19/1
15
3.9
28.6
7.5
Lend Lease
5/
20/
16/7
16/9
10
2.9
21.5
6.4
L. J. Hooker ..
5/
7/
4/3
4 1
1.1*
1.3
Mercantile Credits
5/
8/8
9/3
9/10
10
5.1
16.6
8.5
McPhersons
, ,
20/
47/
40/
39/
8-1/3
4.2
12.4
5.8
Minster
. .
10/
62/
75/
15/
20
2.7
40.4
5.4
Moulded Products ..
5/
13/2
13/8
13/11
14
5
7.8
2.8
Mt. Isa Mines
5/
71/6
69/6
69/9
25
1.8
62.8
4.5
Mutual Acceptance
5/
8/10
10/8
10/11
15
6.9
22.3
10.1
Myer ...
. .
• .
5/
29/
29/9
31/
16-2/3
2.7
28.3
4.7
National Consolidated
5/
27/
26/6
26 9
20
3.7
35.3
6.5
Olympic Industries
5/
7/7
9/9
10/1
10
4.9
16.2
8
Peters (Vic.) ..
, .
2/
8/6
8/
8/1
15
3.7
18.9
4 7
Petrochemical
20/
26/
27/3
27/6
6
4.3
5.9
4.2
R.M. Concrete
, .
5/
17/41/2
16/9
16/9
12%
3.7
22.9
6.8
Reid Murray .. ..
5/
8/3
3/4
3/1
9.4
15.1
Reoco ..
5/
12/5
13/8
14/
10
3.5
17.8
6.3
Rothmans
20/
87/G
72/
71/6
17%
4.9
33.1
9.3
Thiess
5/
13/
10/9
11/
12%
5.6
14.4
4.8
Tooth .. ..
20/
69/
68/3
69/
13%
3.9
15.9
4 3
Union Carbide
20/
80/
57/6
59/6
10
3.3
15.9
5.3
Waltons
5/
13/8
13/10
14/1
12%
4.4
19.7
7
Woolworths
5/
15/4
15/11
15/9
12
3.8
15.4
4.8
Wormald
5/
11/10
11/9
11/9
10
4.2
14.2
6.7
w. K. carpenter
* Estimated on last half-year’s
xR Ex rights,
t Mid price,
a Before share split.
5/
profit.
30/
35/ 33/6
xD Ex dividend,
s Seller,
b Buyer.
15
2.2
35.1
5.4
Banks.
etc
Other
Finance
Pastoral
Retailers
Base
Metals
All
Ords.»
Industrials
December
22, 1961 ,
, 137.37
541.02
182.31
389.15
604.15
299.07
318 74
August
o,
1962
158.44
567.10
176.38
368.41
552.69
292.26
305 66
6,
1962
BANK HOLIDAY
August
7,
1962 . ..
159.58
566.14
176.43
369.77
557.28
294.63
308 73
August
8,
1962 .
. 160.62
576.01
176.55
367.33
556.78
293 87
307 2fi
August
9,
1962 . ..
160.99
576.66
176.53
364.98
293.01
306 50
August
10,
1962
160.06
572.74
177.25
364.47
556.12
291.68
305.16
*Peak
348.46 September 16, 1960.
AVERAGE YIELD ON 100 ORDINARY SHARES
>—50 Other
Stocks—Random-^
Div. Yield Earn Yield
Div yield Earn
Yield
uecemoer
August 3,
August 6,
August 7,
August 8,
August 9,
August 10,
22, 1962 ..
1962 .
1962 .
1962 .
1962 .
1962 .
1962
• • • • • • 4.42
4.40
4.39
6.13
6.37
6.36
6.32
6.32
6.34
6.35
5.30
5.22
5.21
5.20
5.20
5.21
5.19
7.46
2.50
2.13
2.03
2.03
1.65
1.62
LEADING SHARE PRICES
SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE INDICES
MELBOURNE STOCK EXCHANGE
MARKETS SLOW
TO TAKE BAITS
A clamor of pundits has loudly
lamented the ill-effect, or indeed nil-
effect, of the Budget on the share-
markets. Surely it looked fairly obvious
beforehand that Mr Holt had other fish
to fry. We earlier hazarded the opinion
that no conceivable Budget could budge
share prices upwards overnight. The
ground for this view stays firm.
Investors, if they are sensible, are
not actually looking for any sudden ex-
citing moment of truth. A fine explor-
atory market lies at hand, with plenty
of good industrials ready to surface from
the trough. It may at the most be con-
ceded that opportunities are being too
slowly and hesitantly taken.
For the seeds of general recovery have
pressed beyond their germination stage.
What the Budget tried to make clear was
a non-violent extension of the Govern-
ment’s February concessions. This can
only, in market terms, suggest a wide
and steady improvement along a largish
range.
Such an argument is only to maitain
that the kind of market now ruling does
not afford many opportunities for the
quick and nervy speculator. But (the
blessed word again) selective buying
might just at present forestall an ex-
pected forward move.
Hence it is probably necessary to
turn some eyes away from the con-
ventional and temporarily safe attrac-
tions of the fixed interest securities. One
broker at least is trying to keep his
clients’ attentions pinned onto equities.
“Those with funds to invest may find
themselves missing favourable prices if
they defer purchases of ordinary shares
or follow the crowd into fixed interest
securities in sympathy with the current
mood,” he roundly asserts.
This type of advice may not too long
fall upon deaf ears. But the ears are
clearly listening, for conversion, to the
language of performance. There have
been nearly enough favourable and for-
ward-looking comments to satisfy— for
instance, William Adams looks on the
up once more, while Cleckheaton and H.
B. Dickie must have done something to
outweigh La Mode. Even Courtaulds
may last a little longer than its tariff aid.
In the meantime, only banks and
hire-purchase preserve a genuinely equ-
able countenance. Evidence of last
week’s leader ascendancy vanished more
quickly than we thought. Not Burns
Philp in all its glory could stem the tide.


INVEST NOW
i *»■
/ Af.l T t
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
(^2/0
6-10 YEARS
8% 5 YEARS
7*4% 4 YEARS
7 % 3 YEARS
6¥i% 2 YEARS
Applications must be lodged on the
form attached to the prospectus.
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE NOTES
HA.
12 MONTHS
5% 6 MONTHS
4% 3 MONTHS
3V2%at call
Applications must be made on the
form attached to the prospectus and
acknowledgement will be. a Regis-
tered Redeemable Unsecured Note.
Trustee for the Debenture and Note
Holders: Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd.
Bankers:
National Bank of Australasia Limited
lEEffiECg
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITER
HOW TO INVEST
Obtain your prospectus from
and lodge applications with:
• Any Stockbroker.
• Any branch of the National Bank
of Australasia Limited.
• Any office of Burns Pliilp Trust
Co. Ltd.
® Any store or office of Waltons
Limited and Treadways Ltd.
© Waltons Credit Corporation Ltd.,
Box 3875, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
ONE TO BUY
EVANS DEAKIN INDUSTRIES LTD
A stock with first-class performance
and potential is Evans Deakin In-
dustries Ltd which may not come any
cheaper than its current price of about
19s. 3d.
Queensland born and bred, it is now
making determined excursions in NSW,
and is therefore likely to be more closely
followed by market analysts from the
south.
For 51 years this firm has been en-
gaged in shipbuilding and engineering
construction. It omitted dividends to
ordinary shareholders in three depression
years—although trading was always pro-
fitable but dividends were consistent
thereafter and bolstered to a 20 p.c. rate
by 1957.
The 20s. shares reached the £lO
bracket on the market, and management
very sensibly reconstructed the company
by formation of a holding company.
Shareholders received 12 ss. shares for
each old 20s. share—in effect a two-for-
one bonus, and preference and employee
shareholders were also generously treated.
During 1960-61 Evans Deakin took
over Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd,
power plant specialists, engineers and
general merchants, for the issue of
£81,575 capital.
In June of this year Evans Deakin
made an offer for the ailing engineer
Thirlwell and McKenzie Ltd. Before
this they had arranged to buy 40 acres
of land at Unanderra, so their intention
to enter the NSW market was no mere
impulse.
Thirlwell had found the going tough,
and had only managed to pay ordinary
shareholders twice in the previous eight
years. Its engineering division at Port
Kembla had nice plant, which apparently
was not used to advantage. Its property
should be sufficient for Evans Deakin’s
needs.
The takeover would involve the issue
of £186,500 capital, if all Thirlwell
shareholders took shares rather than cash,
bringing Evan’s Deakin’r; paid capital to
over £1.2 million.
Thirlwell directors unanimously recom-
mended the offer because economic con-
ditions and keen tendering had made it
difficult to reach the volume of output
which the capital structure (£746,000
in ordinaries, and £lO,OOO in prefer-
ences) demanded.
Thirlwell had in September, 1960,
taken over a pipe installation and plant
engineer, IPI Pty Ltd, of Caringbah,
which provides extra breadth for Evans
Deakin activities.
Evans Deakin has a shipyard and fit-
ting-out basin at Kangaroo Point, works
at Rocklea, machine fitting, forging and
pipe-bending works at South Brisbane,
steel fabrication works at Geebung, and
general engineering works and a foundry
at Townsville which handles work for
Mt Isa.
The ship-building division, of course,
derives a constant flow of orders, but
this is dependent on more Common-
wealth Government assistance. The com-
pany anticipates that harbor improve-
ments throughout Australia will enable
larger ships to be used, and is prepar-
ing its shipyard and workshops to cope
with that demand.
The structural engineering activities
supplement the shipbuilding, and are
of growing importance. Recent jobs
included power-station work in Queens-
land.
Evans Deakin has a cross-sharehold-
ing in Barker and Co. Ltd, the operating
company of Barker Holdings Ltd, which
supplies the building trade.
The company has high hopes for a
marketing association arranged last year
with Link-Belt Co. Pty Ltd of Marrick-
ville, which makes materials handling
equipment under licence from the US.
Despite the severity of the “squeeze”
on engineering businesses, Evans Deakin
was able to report last year that liquidity
had improved, and hinted at the expan-
sion which has taken place this year with
“the time is now approaching when some
of these funds will be used in the exten-
sion of our activities”.
In June directors reported that sales
would be down for the year just ended,
but overall profits should not be sub-
stantially below that of previous years.
Earning rate, then, will be down on the
1961 figure of 20 p.c., but should leave
plenty of margin for the 12i p.c. divid-
end.
Away from the gentle Brisbane atmos-
phere, Evans Deakin will have to exert
itself, but its efforts will not be half-
hearted, and entry now through the old
or new shares (giving a return of 3.2
p.c.) is recommended.
For the heavily-taxed, or others who
do not require income immediately, a
lookout could be kept for the ss. shares
of E. D. Holdings Ltd (listed only in
Brisbane). Its sole purpose is to invest
in Evans Deakin shares, and pay divid-
ends only when decided in general meet-
ing. At last November their theoretical
value was three-fifths of the market value
of each Evans Deakin share. They are
currently being traded at around 9s. 6d.


STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
11th Floor, Pearl Assurance Building
151 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Phone 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
Sydney: 383 George Street, 29-7865
Adelaide: 61 Gawler Place, 8-7407
Brisbane: 334 Queen Street. 31-1621
Canberra: 8.M.l Alinga St., 4-3334
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
All Offices: “Options”
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIONS
Speculator's Diary
11/ell, everyone ran true to form. The
Government did nothing in the
Budget, the “Sydney Morning Herald”
let off more steam and the share market
slipped back again. At least the SMffs
reaction was not as violent as in
November, 1960, when it exploded with
that memorable front page headline, “In-
competence Piled Upon Incompetence”.
To those of us not of the SMH’s econ-
omic persuasion, it was heartening to see
the Government sticking to the cause of
stability and refusing to be stampeded
into creating another boom which would
only mean another round of the very
“Stop-Go” policy which the SMH so de-
plores.
What is lacking, we are told, is con-
fidence. And who, pray, has done more
to sabotage economic confidence in this
country in the last couple of years than
the “Sydney Morning Herald” and the
“Financial Review”? Anyway John Fair-
fax’s coming profit figure, as mentioned
last week, should give us a more honest
guide to how the proprietors of the SMH,
“Pix”, etc., really find the state of the
economy.
Now that the anti-Budget campaign is
waning, confidence should begin to re-
appear and the share market should be
able to resume its course of quiet re-
covery. The next hazards for the market
to negotiate will probably be the dis-
astrous results of such companies as
Latec, L. J. Hooker and Reid Murray.
Once we have those results behind lis,
the decks should be well cleared for
steady progress.
The highlight of last week’s annual
report was, of course, Burns Philp’s first
set of consolidated accounts. Once again,
anticipation had proved to be better than
realisation. Consequently I lost no time
in putting my 100 shares up for sale. I
got an average price of £5 ss. so that
I came out almost exactly even on the
deal. It’s time I learnt that blind specu-
lation rarely pays off. Experience has
shown me that it is much more profit-
able to follow commonsense reasoning
than to gamble.
The question this raises, then, is what
to do with my Mauri Bros. The market
apparently expected too much of CSR
and Burns Philp. Is it also expecting
too much of Mauri Bros.? It could be,
remembering that it is profits, not assets,
that largely determine share prices. How-
ever, I have a feeling that Mauri Bros.’
accounts —assuming they are as complete
as they should be—will fully justify the
present price of 235. a share.
Another company that will be forced
into a fuller disclosure this year is AWA.
The way AWA’s profits have fluctu-
ated in the past suggests that profits
have, in fact, been pretty fully stated.
But the tax provision has always
been missing which could indicate some
understatement. What attracts me to
AWA just now is not so much the pros-
pect of fuller accounts as its progress in
appliances and electronics. With tele-
vision set production rising strongly
again, the appliance division should be
doing well. But AWA doesn’t only make
the sets that receive the television picture;
it also supplies the equipment that pro-
duces and transmits the picture. And
it is in this field that AWA should be
doing particularly good business just now
with so many country television stations
being established. AWA is also respon-
sible for the growing number of traffic
lights we see about the city and suburbs.
All in all, it should have had a good
year. With the share price back near
its low point of the year I bought 400
on Friday at 20s. Let’s hope they can
do as well as Malleys did last week.
One that wasn’t doing too well last
week was MLC. I bought another 25
at £6 2s. 6d. But as the price con-
tinued to slip further it began to look as
though I should have sold my original
75 instead of buying more.
SOLD
100 Burns, Philp at 105/- £528
BOUGHT
400 AWA at 20/- £4lO
25 MLC at 122/6 £155
Even these transactions meant I still
owed my broker £534 as the Burns,
Philp sale did little more than cover
last week's debts. There were other
shares I would like to have bought—
more United Motels and National Con-
solidated, and also some Steggles. But
obviously I was in no position to go
buying anything more until 1 did a bit
of selling. That I must do this week.
Meanwhile the net value of my portfolio
remains steady at about £7,100 and
consists of these shares:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
#0 O’Donnell Griffin 28/8/61 13/6 19/-
1,600 United Motels 20/11/61 3/9 4/-
200 Beau Monde 8/12/61 25/- 36/6
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 26/6
500 Mauri Bros. 16/2/62 22/9 23/3
800 Goodwins 21/3/62 5/9 6/4
500 Ready Mixed 6/4/62 17/9 16/9
100 MLC 27/4/62 130/- 120/-
400 Malleys 3/5/62 20/9 24/-
500 Merica 10/5/62 7/- 7/6
1,000 Hanimex 23/5/62 4/11 6/1
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 26/9
300 Marcus Clark notes 22/6/62 27/6 30/-
200 Barrett Burston 28/6/62 21/- 23/-
100 James Hardie 29/6/62 98/- 102/6
100 John Lysaght 18/7/62 64/- 65/6
400 Courtaulds 24/7/62 11/9 12/3
100 CSR 1/8/61 49/- 48/3
200 FCA 2/8/62 22/6 22/6
400 AWA 10/8/62 20/- 20/-
POLICY ON
LOANS
FOR HOMES
Quite a few doubting eyebrows are
frequently raised at the Common-
wealth Savings Bank’s £3OOO limit on
housing loans. Its social efficiency has
been questioned in the light of building
costs and the apparently small en-
couragement given to young married
people desiring to own homes.
The still relatively high price of land,
ownership of which necessarily provides
the bank’s first essential collateral, also
seems to demand a fair amount of per-
haps struggling saving before building
can even be contemplated.
Yet the bank is readily prepared to
justify the loan limitation on per-
formance. Even on principle, many
managers will tell you that the discipline
of saving to buy land possesses valuable
social merits.
The bank’s London office will shortly
receive a collection of coloured slides
illustrating homes financed throughout
all Australian States and costing (land
included) between £3750 and about
£5OOO. These are intended to display
the possibilities of moderately priced
housing to largely skilled-worker types
of British migrants.
A view of the collection certainly
shows what may be attractively accom-
plished both in the price range and
with, in terms of other loan agencies,
a relatively low lending limit.
The overall programme almost speaks
for itself. Since the end of the war,
some 130,000 families have been assisted
to acquire homes, all of their own
design. What should surprise critics is
the fact that the age groups lie mostly
between 30 and 35 years.
And the majority of these prospective
home owners earn less than £22 10s.
a week, a significant proportion less
than £2O.


CUSTOM
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
; * Wm P WtTAI £7,080,800)
REGISTERED FIRST
■ DEBENTURE STOCK
7%... 4 years and over
. . 12 months’ notice
S% . . 6 months’ notice
4. . 3 months’ notice
Interest is paid in Equal Quarterly Instalments, Free of Exchange, on the
lest days of June, September, December and March.
TRUSTEES
FOR THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS:
THE PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LTD.)
DIRECTORS
lAN M. JACOBY (Chairman & Managing Director) L. W. COPPLESON
G. T. HARTIGAN R. E. ASH C. S. GITTOES
This, is not a Prospectus. A copy of the Prospectus covering this issue °*
Registered Debentures has been lodged with the Registrar of Companies. Sydney.
Apptitotlon must!be -.made on ihe forms enclosed in
the Prospectus, which is now available from
' ' ALL MEMBERS OF ' '
THE STOCK EXCHANGE
| X ‘ BRANCHES OF
THE NATIONAL BANK
CUSTOM CREDIT - ’* - J
RD43.662
100 New South Head Rd., Edgeciiff, Sydney. Sec.-General: KEITH LOVE. Tel.: 32-0111
MARKETING
3-DAY SEMINAR TO PROMOTE
AUSTRALIAN EXPORTS
The Australian Institute of Management
and the Australian Institute of Cost
Accountants are organising a three-day
Orientation Seminar on how to find and
develop profitable export markets, to be
held at the Chevron-Hilton Hotel, Syd-
ney, from August 28 to 30.
The seminar, a really ambitious move,
is for general managers and executives in
all fields of business, from large and small
companies, existing and potential export-
ers, service organisations such as account-
ants, advertising agencies, architects,
bankers, consulting engineers, export and
shipping agents, management consultants,
etc.
The organisers point out that there
has been much publicity on export from
the national point of view, but little from
the point of view of individual firms.
This orientation seminar is aimed not at
telling businessmen WHY to export, but
HOW to export. It will show how in-
dividual manufacturers can place their
products on a market many times the
size of the Australian market.
Executives experienced in export will
explain their methods of exporting by
presenting actual case histories.
The speakers at the seminar represent
companies having an outstanding variety
of export achievement. The committee
says it has “planned a quality event to
provide the most recent and practical
knowledge available on this exciting
method of increasing sales potential”.
Although an increasing number of
Australian firms are reaping the benefits
of exporting, many others have not yet
realised that they have excellent export
potential, and that export ales, even at
prices well below domestic prices, can
still be highly profitable.
Export advertising and packaging will
be featured in a display organised by
the AANA. Japanese and Chinese girls
in national costumes will lend color to
the display and radio jingles will be
played between speeches to give back-
ground to the talks.
★ ★ ★
The proper protection of registered
trade marks is of great interest to
manufacturers since many marks repre-
sent quite considerable investments in
advertising and promotion and their loss
could well be a severe blow to the
owners of the marks.
Existing legislation makes no provision
for a prescribed method of showing that
a mark is registered and it is frequently
necessary to include a rather long state-
ment of ownership in advertisements, etc.
In the USA this identification is
simply made by the “R in a circle”
symbol which has official recognition.
It is felt that the adoption of such an
arrangement in Australia would be of
considerable assistance in identifying
trade marks in advertisements, on pack-
ages and other material.
Following joint discussions between
the Australian Manufacturers’ Patents,
Industrial Designs, Copyright and Trade
Mark Association (AMPICTA) and the
National Advertisers (AANA),
AMPICTA has drafted suggested legis-
lative amendments for this purpose.
These have now been submitted to the
Commonwealth Attorney-General for his
consideration.


THE MAN
ON THE
LAND
WHO’S PULLING THE WOOL
OVER WHOSE EYES?
HThis question was asked last week by
a prominent woolgrower member of
the Australian Primary Producers’
Union —the Cinderella national farmers’
organisation which has repeatedly just
missed breaking into the “big time”.
He was commenting on the strange
haste of the “Big Two” woolgrower
organisations to hustle through a plan
for a new national wool authority and
the surprising readiness of the Federal
Government to agree to their suggestions.
Together with other APPU leaders he
was furious over the failure of the two
wool organisations or the Government
to listen to the APPU’s views on the
proposed supreme authority . . . which
the APPU claims was its idea in the first
place.
The APPU is in a strange position.
It claims a membership of more than
50,000, but has never been recognised
by the Federal Government as a major
organisation to be consulted on vital
wool, wheat and meat matters.
Other, often smaller, organisations are
consulted frequently and their whims
deferred to. But not the APPU.
The APPU is a catch-all organisa-
tion, with both State and Federal
divisions for each sector of primary
industry ranging from wheat, meat
and wool down to linseed and tomatoes.
Perhaps it is because of this diversity
(and the shortage of funds which plagues
most farmers’ organisations) that the
APPU has never made its presence felt
in the Federal sphere.
Other organisations especially the
specialist ones—have been quick to dis-
count the APPU’s big membership by
claiming that the national body’s mem-
bership merely duplicates that of the
specialist organisations.
And the APPU’s own officials have not
always been renowned for their timely
and sagacious pronouncements on
national matters.
This, then, is the background to the
current wool row which has led to every
member of Federal Parliament receiving
a seven-page protest from the APPU.
The APPU was the first organisation
to suggest the formation of a national
wool authority to the Wool Committee
of Inquiry appointed by the Federal
Government. The Inquiry was impressed
by the idea and asked all other organisa-
tions if they would care to comment on
it. And when the Committee tabled its
report it included a strong recommenda-
tion for a supreme authority.
One of the major objects of the new
authority is to break the present impasse
in the Australian Wool Bureau caused by
the fact that the bureau is made up of
three direct representatives of each of the
two major woolgrower organisations (the
Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers
Council and the Australian Wool and
Meat Producers’ Federation), plus a
Government appointee.
The key to the new authority—now
expected to be called the Australian Wool
Board—is an electoral college to be
called the Australian Wool Industry Con-
ference, which will elect the board.
For months the wool organisations and
the APPU mulled over the composition
of this conference and the method of its
selection. The Woolgrowers and Graziers’
Council wanted breed society representa-
tives to provide a third group between the
two major organisations. The APPU
wanted to be included, but suggested
that a ballot of all woolgrowers would be
the fairest way to select the members of
the conference—then the men would re-
present all woolgrowers, not a particular
organisation.
That was how matter rested a few
weeks ago when, out of the blue, came
an announcement that the Council and
the Federation had got together and had
agreed to a plan to put to the Minister
for Primary Industry, Mr Adermann.
Within a few days the organisations
had met Mr Adermann and revealed that
their plans provided for a 51-man con-
ference with 25 men from each of the
two organisations and an independent
chairman. Not a mention of the APPU.
And Mr Adermann, instead of non-
commitally referring the suggestion to
Cabinet, indicated that it had his blessing
and he would push it through as quickly
as possible.
Now it has been announced that legis-
lation is being drafted and is expected to
be before Parliament during the present
Budget session. And the poor APPU,
left out in the cold again, has nothing
it can do but scream loudly.
In a last-minute effort to win recogni-
tion it has sent letters of protest to Mr
Adermann and all Federal Parliamen-
tarians, together with its claims for
recognition and its suggestions for the
wool authority.
In their protest the APPU quotes three
telling paragraphs from the report of the
Federal Government’s own Committee of
Inquiry:
• “The Council and the Federation
suggest that fundamentally this body,
which they refer to as the conference,
should be composed of 40 members, 20
appointed by each organisation.
• “The obvious danger in this sug-
gestion is that the conference may be
split into factions on an organisation
basis and perpetuate the unhappy situa-
tion which has obtained in the Wool
Bureau.
• “In order to meet the danger it
was suggested that representatives of
other organisations should be added to
the 40, but the Federation and the
Council could not reach agreement on
this point.”
The APPU quotes the membership of
the three organisations as being:
Woolgrowers and Graziers,
Council 25,000
Wool and Meat Federation 43,000
APPU (woolgrowers only) 25,000
Altogether there are in Australia ap-
proximately 100,000 woolgrowers pro-
ducing 10 bales of wool or more. Not all
are represented in the three big organisa-
tions —in fact, the AWGC includes many
cattlemen, the AWMPF many wheat-
growers and the APPU quite a number
of woolmen who produce less than 10
bales a year.
On membership alone, therefore, the
APPU can make out a strong case for
inclusion in any plans to form a Wool
Industry Conference.
The reasons why the two big wool-
grower groups have ignored the APPU
are obvious. Less plain is the Federal
Government’s reason —unless it is that
Mr Adermann was so glad to get a
unanimous decision from the “Big Two”
for once that he snatched at it and wants
to whip it through Parliament as quickly
as possible, thus disposing of a potentially
controversial issue.


BEEF EXPORTERS MUST
PULL UP THEIR SOCKS
rpHE beef industry puts on a brave front,
but it will take more than that to
stabilise the export markets in the next
few years, with cattle populations in-
creasing at a great rate and even coun-
tries like Yugoslavia competing with our
meat in the United Kingdom and getting
top prices because they send forward
the lean, young cuts that the market now
likes.
Australia seems always to be trailing
in the rear of beef market developments.
That cannot go on for ever. The cattle
population of the globe has passed the
thousand million mark, according to the
estimates of the United States Depart-
ment of Agriculture, and adding 20 p.c.
to its numbers every year, a percentage
easily increasable with the advancing
techniques of artificial insemination.
Moreover, with the building of the
table poultry industry and the suitabil-
ity of the chicken for the package meals
that are so popular with all types of
family, a new element is coming into
both the export and the domestic markets.
Australia, in a sense, is living in its
own fairyland just now Its beef and
lamb exports went up considerably last
year over the year before, but the whole
was accounted for by the United States
buying of manufacturing beef. And
manufacturing meat is coming into over-
supply in a way that is reducing prices.
There is little chance of increasing
Australian meat sales for domestic use in
the United States where only approxi-
mately 7 lb per head of the domestic
meat supply of 161 lb per head of
population is imported. Internal cattle
numbers in the US are increasing and
the industry is every year more devel-
oped along factory lines for economic
purposes wholesale feeding by con-
tractors who handle huge numbers of
stock which they do not own but only
feed on a tendered price.
Our exports to the United Kingdom
actually fell by 3400 tons last year. Aus-
tralian beef production is well down
against the record figure of 906,000 tons
in 1958-9, though beef cattle numbers are
up to a record of 12.4 million. The
domestic consumption of beef in Austra-
lia is only 87.71 b per head and falling—it
is now lower than since the days of
rationing. Higher retail price increases
are tending to push it further down.
The hopes for increased trade in Asia
seem to be bleak as in the UK
quantities sent to Malaya last year fell
off.
A research plan to increase beef sales
for which £323,000 is being provided
for a beginning by the Commonwealth
and meat producers on a £ for £ basis
is being organised none too soon.
As Mr J. L. Shute, chairman of the
Australian Meat Board, said on his recent
return from overseas, the meat situation
on world markets is changing appre-
ciably (if more stable than he antici-
pated), so that it is “a major respon-
sibility of leaders to keep abreast of the
changing trends and be able to adapt the
industry accordingly”.
It will need a lot of adjustment, the
key to which lies in the changing nature
of taste and needs in markets every-
where. Australia is, on Mr Shute's ad-
mission, losing sales in Britain for beef
cuts and boneless beef. This apparently
is because in many cases it is following
the practice of telling the trade what it
ought to buy instead of meeting its stated
needs.
The trade needs to take out its tele-
scope, look far ahead and then lend its
spyglass to the cattle breeders and the
Government. For a whole bundle of
influences are going very shortly to
revolutionise not only the shape of ani-
mals, but the shape of meat cuts in
general, the balance of values in a beast
and the manner in which meat is
shipped both at home and abroad.
Higher freights will force more com-
pact packing. There will be more waste
in carcass beef and a different scale of
values, a different set of specifications in
determining quality demand. More of
the beast will be of use only for canning.
To meet the demands of housewives
for economy in size and prime appear-
ance, meat is even now being recon-
structed, in various ways, such as arti-
ficial marbling which provides, it is said,
attractively marbled beef but without the
unwanted exterior fat present where there
is natural marbling. This kind of thing
goes with the increasing demand for
young beef which is more tender cut, has
less marbling and a less attractive appear-
ance than older beef. Marbling done by
injection under a new process at the
prototype stage opens up all sorts of
other possibilities. For instance, if one
were on an animal-fat-free diet, it would
be possible to marble lean beef without
fat at all with vegetable oils. The tech-
nique also opens the way to specially
flavored meats wine flavored or sauce
flavored, or for tough steak to be treated
with a tenderiser. The idea is past the
laboratory stage, with the products of the
methods being sold in England at a meat
market and a cafe.
Australian meat men bad better pull up
their socks and not live in any dreamland
created by the extra temporary American
demand tor manufacturing types. The
Argentine has long ago come out of its
dream. Before World War I it was ship-
ping 650,000 tons of beef to the UK.
Before World War 11, the amount had
fallen nearly to half. Last year it had
fallen nearly in half again and is now
down to 150,000 tons. Great studs and
herds are being broken up.
Even now the UK is producing 70
p.c. of its domestic beef needs and 37
p.c. and 34 p.c. respectively of the
mutton and pork its people eat.
As with the United States, increase in
cattle numbers, improvement in produc-
tion methods, changes in cattle types and
artificial methods of beef feeding and
beef improvement are likely to force on
European governments the usage of
domestic supplies, or supplies from near-
at-hand, even if for external trade pur-
poses they desire to import. Last year
Australian beef exports to the UK fell
about 9 p.c.
And it is difficult to pick up a British
farm journal without reading ‘more meat
from Eire”, “S. African plan to improve
meat and capture British market”,
“Yugoslavia supplies one twenty-seventh
of meat foods”, “Plentiful supplies of
chilled beef are offering from Argentine,
Brazil, Uruguay, Southern Rhodesia,
South Africa, Hungary, Yugoslavia.
Extreme leanness and soft, nicely chilled
condition of the Yugoslavian beef con-
tributed to its ready sale.”
Or still again: "Very keen competition
is being experienced for boneless beef
homegrown and from Yugoslavia,
Southern Rhodesia, Bechuanaland, and
South Africa which lots are generally
considered leaner and less wasteful than
Australian boneless . . . Prices for Aus-
tralian boneless ox and cow crops . . .
showed weaker tendency due to poor
demand.”
That is a sampling of reports for the
month of April. They are typical. In
May, Australia’s contribution of chilled
beef mostly Queensland hindquarters
and a few crops, was “good in quality
but dull in surface condition reflecting
the protracted period of about 50 days
the beef was under refrigeration.” Yugo-
slavian beef continued to gain popularity,
and eclipsed Argentine beef. The hind-
quarters sold at 2s. Id. to 2s. 9d. per lb
against Is. tOd. to 2s. 3d. paid for Aus-
tralian hindquarters. Yugoslav boneless
crops made 2s. Id. to 2s. 2d. per lb com-
pared” with Is. 9d. to Is. lOd. for Austra-
lian ox crops.
fn June, Yugoslavian chilled beef
“dominated the market” and sold for
2s. to 2s. lOd. per lb (hindquarters)
against Australian prices 2d. to 7d lower.
It is about time this “great cattle
country” pulled up its socks.


MOTOR OVERHAUL
WmiE-U-DRIVE
REFLATES WORN upper cylds.. main bear-
ings, diffs., gears. SAVE: Rebore. ENDS:
Piston slap, rattles, oil, petrol waste.
RESTORES: New compression, power, top
speed, zip. SAVES: Adds LSD to re-sale value.
GUARANTEED: Up to 25,000 miles. Harmless
finest engine, liquid Nu-Metal or in Tablet
form. SIMPLY: Add Re-Nu expanding liquid
Nu-Metal, or in Tablet form to oil. petrol, or
plug holes, 4,6, 8 cylds., 60/, 70/, 80, . Testi-
monials, engineers’ reports, free advice avail-
able. Open Saturday. Distributors required
RE-NL'-CO (estab. 1932), 58 Swann St. op.
Richmond Stn., Vic. JB 1755.
I enclose £ for Super Nu-Metal.
NAME
ADDRESS
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES *'
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: EDWARD DAVIES, late of Eldorado Flats,
Hibbard, near Port Macquarie.—TAKE NOTICE
that EDNA MILLIE DAVIES has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2177 of 1962 on the ground
of desertion. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by 2nd
October, 1962, and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from EDGLEY BROWN
& SANDERSON, Solicitors, 6 Wynyard Street,
Sydney—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce
TO GLEN JENSEN formerly of Harrison Street,
Marrickville in the State of New South Wales
—TAKE NOTICE that DELILAH MARY HAN-
SEN has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1509
of 1962 on the ground of adultery and has
named you as the person with whom she
alleges that her husband Robert James Han-
sen has committed adultery. If you GLEN
JENSEN wish to defend you may file an
Answer for service in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney within one month of the date
of publication of this notice and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
E. H TEBBUTT & SONS, 28 Martin Place,
Sydney—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Positions Vacant
Teachers, 1963, for
Cranbrook School Sydney
Head of‘Mathematics Department required for
Ist Term. A good opportunity for promising
yoGng > man, aged '3O to ! 35.
.Master to teach French to Certificate
required in 2nd Term, though .if available,
applicant would be appointed for Ist Term.
Flat for married couple. Also single'residential
accommodation.
.Repjy, in writing, stating age, qualifications,
experience, - with copies of 1 testimonials to
The Headmaster,
Cranbrook School, Bellevue Hill
UNIVERSITY APPOINTMENTS
UNIVERSITY OF MELBOURNE
WARDEN OF THE MELBOURNE UNIVERSITY
UNION
Applications are invited for the position of
Warden of the Melbourne University Union. A Univer-
sity graduate, in the age range of 30 to 40 years,
and with industrial, commercial or administrative
experience, is sought for this position.
Initial salary will be determined according to
qualifications and experience and will be in the
range of £2,500 per annum to £3,000 per annum.
Annua! increments of £lOO are payable. Super-
annuation, similar to F,S.S.U. in Great Britain, is
provided. The Warden will be expected to live in the
house provided in the University grounds.
Applications, in triplicate, should be addressed to
the Registrar, Universi'v of Melbourne, Parkville,
N. 2. and should be r eived not later than 31st
October, 1962. Conditions of Appointment may be
ob'ained from the Registrar.
F. H. JOHNSTON
Registrar.
19/7/62.
DO YOU LIKE
THE "NEW LOOK"
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick ( y) whichever method of
delivery you prefer
For those desiring direct sub-
scription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/money
order for months subscription to
THE BULLETIN
RATES (Australia and New Guinea) 1 year
£2 125.; y 2 year £1 6s. Post free British
Dominions £3 6s. Other countries
£3 16s.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS Remit to Box 965
Wellington, N.Z. 1 year £2 12s. N.Z.
currency, y 2 year—£l 6s. (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
BULLETIN?
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN Y® u
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUB copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? There are
two ways of doing it either through your newsagent
or fey direct subscription. The form at left offers you
your choice of method of delivery. You may send us
your name and address and we will arrange for the
newsagent nearest you to deliver your copy off
THE BULLETIN each week and charge it to your account.
Or, if you prefer it, we will mail each week's copy
to your address by direct subscription.
The
Bulletin
Incorporating The Australian Financial Times
ALL-OUT WAR ON SIREX WASP
A dead pine tree in your backyard can
cost you £lOO in Victoria today.
This is one of the more drastic and
personal results of the determined battle
the Victorian Forest Commission, back-
ed by the National Sirex Fund, is waging
against that destructive migrant, the
sirex wood wasp.
The commission’s search teams have
found sirex on more than 200 Victorian
properties—all in five counties in an
arc to the east of Melbourne.
Every landholder and occupier in the
five sirex-infested counties must now
fell and destroy by burning any dead
pine trees on his property. Penalty for
failure is up to £lOO.
So commission teams are now out
scouring the five counties for yellowing
or dying pines.


Feiffer
WHEN I bo ovTSICE ARP
LOOK UP AT A CLEAR
blue skl r want to
tHJov that clear
3LU6 SNM -
OPT r ALA)A4S KMjJ
mm mteif Mr if
I catch mmsflp
EM7AHM6 IT-THAT
CLEAR B m snh
WILL SUPPEMIM
RAW ON MF.
IF IM HAVIMO A WONP eRFUI
TIME WITH A &X/AWP SEMSE
THAT I'M BEOIMMIN 6 TO FML
IM LOVE, I KNOW THAT |F I
CATCH MMSELF EML&HINO THE
TEA OF FALLIMS IN LOFE
Heu MFI/ffS CALC AGAIN-
IF 1 EMTOM ANYTHING -
MM m OR ANYTHING) -
A W If I CATCH MMSELF
EM3MIU6 IT- IU
ALWAMS EITHER MARE
A MISTAkf OR 6ET piRFP.
1 WARM AT MOT MOTKIM6
WHAT'S AROUMP ME AMP
IF I SUPPEMLM FINE
MdSFIF EM&9IM6 SOME'
THIM6 - BEFORE IT CAM 60
LOROM6 I RNOCT ON WOOP
AMP THINK OF THE
WORLP'S TROUBLES.
THERE'S OULM ONE
Time its safe
TO EMOOM AlO
EXPERIENCE -
after
IT?
over.
The Bulletin" Crossword No. 706
ACROSS
I —She has the mind for a nortraitist’s small problem?
(4-6)
6—Rang back to growl (4)
10— Working as a 1-across giving the top lead in
planning. (6-7)
11— Advised to get a bag, so sacked 1-across. (7. 1,6)
13—A current Indian court matter with regard to factory
activity etc. (10)
17—Lassie and such oiled clogs badly (6, 4)
19—A Schubert term’s enough for these tradesmen. (6,8)
23—A thousand I Germanised
with the Spanish beginning of
10-across in part of the uni-
versity year. (9, 4)
25 Look inside and kiss Lind-
wall. (4)
26 Tipped off a course warning
before conflict with Kelly.
(10)
DOWN
1 — Knock against the bowdler-
ised Australian adjective and
umpteen less ten. (4)
2 The outstanding feat of
horsemanship, being right in
the saddle. (8)
3 She is “hep", rotten though,
and very meek. (8)
4 Sydney suburb is temperate
when untaxed. (5)
5 One changed in a consider-
able time. (3)
7 The dark thing is different. (5)
8— Setbacks are always Sarah’s.
(9)
9 Fifty-one given sixpence be-
came furious! (5)
12—Help Miss Gardner with the
Italian. (5)
17—A source of revenue in a
heavenly phenomenon cutter.
(6, 3)
14— Geometrical figure. (5)
15 — Wager he’s an American pro-
secutor in one of the pools of
Jerusalem. (8)
16—Our driving point gives heart
to this figure. (8)
18 —Craft sauce drops up. (5)
20— The American uncle is a uni-
versity man in a dance. (5)
21— Meets with a sieve which has
much in common with 4-
down. (s)'
22 Disorderly maid amongst a
dim rising. (4)
24—1. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 705


r
IS
V
►
,4
;■ : ' '. :
**
m
■
y
r
gas
g
LUXURIOUS APPOINTMENTS INCLUDE INDIVIDUAL FRONT SEATS AND LEATHER UPHOLSTERV
•“■u
Announcing a the Holden range
THE
NEW
•HA
If you take pleasure in the possession of fine things, and if
you like driving for its own sake, then the Holden Premier
Sedan is for you. It is a completely new luxury addition to
the Holden rang.e ... an exciting ne^ r concept in personal
motoring. This car gives you a special pride of ownership
with its elegant touches of distinction outside, its exception-
ally fine-styled interior, and its extra equipment for greater
driving satisfaction.
Wsssesiw
jfUSSSSSSS
■ WHIUU|UIP pF
Holden Premier incorporates many luxury features as
standard equipment, including: Hydra-Matic* automatic
transmission; heater-demister; centrally mounted front seat
console; individual front seats; genuine top-grained leather up-
holstery, floor carpeting; centre arm rest for rear seat; Magic-
Mirror finish in new exclusive metallic colours; dual horns;
two-speed electric windshield wipers and windshield washer.
Ownership of the Holden* Premier Sedan is an experience
you should not deny yourself. It offers satisfaction and
pleasures far beyond mere transportation. So see your
Holden Dealer soon and accept his invitation to drive the
new Holden Premier Sedan.
*REGD.
PRICE PLUS TAX
YOU’RE ALWAYS FURTHER AHEAD WITH HOLDEN
AUSTRALIA’S OWN CAR
