

The Bulletin
ONE SHILLING
APRIL 28
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
Steel in Australia
Registered in Australia for tran
-mission by post as a newspapt


{
✓ v
NOWllSS&I^ISIl
SUPERANNUATION
from
mm
Ms :
for all SELF-EMPLOYED PERSONS
professional men, businessmen, farmers, graziers
and ALL EMPLOYERS and their STAFFS
I A
Commonwealth legislation now enables the A.M.P.
Society, Australia’s No. 1 Life Office, to offer you
tax-free superannuation which can provide for:
• RETIREMENT with adequate
cash resources.
• PROTECTION for your family
against death duties and against
sickness and accident.
• CAPITAL APPRECIATION
through A.M.P.'s large holdings
of equity shares and real estate.
• GUARANTEED by £550 million
of A.M.P. assets.
B mt
imsmmsssmm
For all information,
contact your A.M.P. man or The Superannuation Manager,
A.M.P SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE
A purely mutual society largest underwriter of superannuation in Australia
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by funds of
£ 550,000,000 which the Society seeks tc invest to the
greatest benefit to members


A imM LUKE BIMGIW/AM page 18
New Directions
.
Steel in Australia .. - .. 12:
London Newsletter ... .. 16
Narayan .y. 21
Basutoland Flashpoint .. ... 23
War in the Villages .. .. 24
Preposterous Armada .. .. ■25
Student Action and White Aus-
■ traiia . ... y. ... •• 26
Alan Reid’s As I See It .. y ~ 32
BjH.P.’s lan McLennan .. .. 4®
Critical Look at The Royal Show 52
That Certain Book (Hal Porter) . - 66
•
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 4
THIS AUSTRALIA • • 6
AROUND SYDNEY •• 11
AROUND MELBOURNE 22
OVERSEAS •• 23
FORUM 2©
LETTERS 29
WILD CAT plus 8-page
Insurance Survey • ■ 32
MAN ON THE LAND •• 52
REVIEWS 62
RED PAGE •• 65
FEIFFER •• 67
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Bax 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol 83
No. 4289
THE COVER
'T'HIS week’s four-color cover —an abstract of a steel mill to illustrate our
A cover story “Steel in Australia”—is a painting by John Olsen.
The painting was commissioned by The Bulletin, and the framed
original may be bought on application to the Komon Art Gallery, 124
Jersey Rd, Woollahra, Sydney.
Widely regarded as one of Australia’s leading abstract painters, John
Olsen has exhibited frequently in Australia and has two paintings in the
Tate Gallery Exhibition of Australian artists—“ From Colonial to Con-
temporary” —to open shortly in London.
In its 82 years’ history The Bulletin has played a leading role as a
magazine interested in art in Australia in all its forms. It was The
Bulletin, for example, which featured much of the early work of Will
Dyson, Norman Lindsay and David Low, whose names became famous not
only in this country but abroad.
Some think that the great days of Australian black-and-white art are
now over, although that may be a matter for argument.
-But there can be no doubt that the great days of Australian painting
are just beginning. Australia in the past has had its fair share of great
painters, but never before have so many top-grade painters found not only
their inspiration but their livelihood in the country of their birth or
adoption.
Certainly never before have so many Australian painters reached such
a wide public or commanded, on the whole, such prices. The Australian art
boom is quite spectacular, as the article “Investment in Art —A Sound
New Business” in the April 14 Bulletin shows.
The Bulletin is pleased to feature a John Olsen painting on its cover
and to take a lead in stimulating art in this country.
From time to time in the future it will feature other cover paintings by
well known Australian artists.
ON WHICH THE SUN . . .
YY/ITH Britain’s entry into the Common Market looming larger every
week, the timing of the Commonwealth Immigrants Act’s passage
through the United Kingdom Parliament is unfortunate. So is the Act itself.
Under this Act Canadians, New Zealanders and Australians will face
galling restrictions in travelling to the United Kingdom after July i. They
must apply to the United Kingdom High Commissioner in their respective
countries for employment vouchers or entry certificates. Without one or
both an Australian travelling to England, for example, may not be “sure
of entry.”
Everyone understands that Britain had to limit the economically damag-
ing influx of migrants from Jamaica, West Africa and even from India and
Pakistan. Everyone understands that the British were anxious to avoid
accusations of color discrimination, and therefore decided on a policy of one
out, all out. But surely New Zealanders, Canadians and Australians deserved
better than this? Surely the common efforts of two world wars, not to
mention the common links of Crown, institutions and language, should have
prevailed over this discriminatory conception. The Act is all the more
unpalatable because it has become law —although it was hotly debated in
Commons —just before Britain makes her final plunge into the Common
Market. The Common Market itself has ominous political overtones for the
Commonwealth. The Immigrants Act confirms them.


National
Notebook
Story With a Twist
A piece of random intelligence about
L British dancer. Miss Margot Fonteyn,
is that while in Australia she has
developed a taste for beer. “Not too
much of it, of course.*’ the publicity
officer for Miss Fonteyn, Australian Bill
Beresford, told us, "but it is something
she never drank in her life before."’
Miss Fonteyn is in Sydney for the last
week of her national tour. Mr Beres-
ford said he was delighted with the pub-
licity which a chance question by a Perth
reporter had brought. The question was:
“Do you do the Twist. Miss Fonteyn?” “I
had phone calls from all over Australia
and from the London ‘Daily Mail' and
‘Daily Mirror’ when the story got back
there.” Mr Beresford said. “Miss Fon-
teyn said to me afterwards. "If we had
thought for six months we couldn't have
got a better gimmick.’ The fact is that she
does do the Twist, which is still a rather
chic, night-club thing in London.”
Mr Beresford said that through the
length and breadth of Australia he had
to face up to two questions—“ And what
is Miss Fonteyn’s favorite role?” and
“What does she think of Sydney?” (Or
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth).
“And there is an insatiable appetite for
anecdotes.” Mr Beresford said “1 pretty
soon exhausted my supply, but the
reporters were so anxious and so inter-
ested, that I began to invent variations,
you know, changing the locale or the cir-
cumstances of some incident. After a
while, you begin to believe your own
variations and I don't know how long it
will take me after I leave Australia to
get Miss Fonteyn's life-story straight
again.”
The Sunburnt Country
A MEMBER of THE BULLETIN Staff’, ie-
cently in the Centre, stood on Salt
Bore Plain where the parched ground
around a dried-out bore was littered with
dead cattle; at the same time, the grass
was “waving over the boundary-fence”
of adjoining properties. Salt Bore Plain
is part of a 1300-square-mile property,
so the owner, Mr Harry Bloomfield,
doesn't often see the good grass on his
neighbors’ properties—not that that is
much consolation.
There is now good feed to the w'est
of the Alice around the Hermannsburg
mission, but in the east, towards the
Simpson Desert, there are only tongues of
land where good rain has fallen. The
landholders here, where the last good
rain fell in 1949-50, and where the
drought has made itself felt for at least
seven years, can only hope and pray. If
rain falls before the winter, it will bring
good feed, but winter rains mostly bring
growth to the herbage (for which the
cattle would in these times be grateful)
and the beautiful, but practically useless,
desert flowers.
At present, the landholders in the
drought country are trying merely to
keep their breeders alive. Some say they
are paying £50,000 a year for agistment
and other expenses connected with keep-
ing their herds moving to where there
v. grass. They say it will be 10 years
after the drought breaks before the herds
can be built up again. Some think the
big he-ns may never come back in this
area.
What about people who haven't got
£50,000 to spend on keeping their herds
going? “Young couples might just as
well walk off their places now and leave
everything they have left behind,” said
a local. “It will take them a lifetime to
pay off their debts.”
Living off the Country
Tasmanians, we are delighted to hear,
A are learning to live off the country
and at the same time to live like epicures.
The Launceston Wine and Food Society
recently descended on the East Coast
resort of St Helens for a weekend. They
lunched in the open on chops and steak,
washed down with new' red wine, and in
the evening addressed themselves to an
entirely East Coast dinner.
Hors d'oeuvres included prawns, oysters
and mussels from the bay and crayfish
from outside the heads. A superb 251 b.
deep-sea trumpeter was brought whole
and g nished to the table after kangaroo-
tail soup. Rainbow trout from a nearby
stream followed the trumpeter. The main
dish was venison (the deer - shooting
season opened in Tasmania some weeks
ago) and ham from a farm smoke-house.
A little later in the year, black swan
from neighboring lagoons could replace
the venison. Baked local apples, whisky-
soaked. and Pyengana cheeses completed
the meal.
For wines, the diners had to lean on
the Hunter, Barossa, O'Hailoran Hill and
Tahbilk, as Tasmania grows no wines.
However, it is believed that South Aus-
tralia's first wines were grown from cut-
tings taken from a vineyard in what is
now a suburb of Launceston.
A Thriving Industry
A memorial to aboriginal painter Albert
Namatjira, near the main gate to the
Hermannsburg mission, outside Alice
Springs, is almost finished. It is a simple
stone column and was paid for by public
subscription by the people of The Alice.
The tablet merely gives his name, his
dates —1902-1959—and says that this was
the country where he painted. Because
Namatjira had lived all his ,: fe near or
on the mission, which is more than 80
years old, the date of his birth could be
placed.
Landscape painting is still a thriving
industry with the aborigines at the Her-
mannsburg mission. Pictures are sold to
tourists in Alice Springs. Artistic merits
aside, those signed Namatjira, and done
by any of Namatjira's five sons, fetch
slightly higher prices than those by other
Arandas. It now seems as if Namatjira's
talent may survive to the third generation.
A grand daughter at the mission school
is showing talent. “Most of the girls
paint flowers, and not very well, but she
is mad about landscapes,” said her
teacher.
Staff at the mission said that Namat-
jira's widow, Rubina. had moved out of
the two-room cottage which she went to
live in shortly after her husband's death.
The cottage was paid for by the sale of
prints of Namatjira's paintings and with
the help of well-wishers. The mission says
that Mrs Namatjira is now back living in
a native shack. “Tt is kept very clean as
are most of the native shacks.” a mem-
ber of the staff said. "She prefers it to life
in a cottage.”
Keeping an Eye on Things
A report in The Bulletin about Mel-
bourne's “Forbidden City” of strip-
tease artists prompted a question from a
Country party member in the Victorian
Legislative Assembly.
Mr T. VV. Mitchell, of Benambra. asked
the Government if they were aware of the
situation as drawn in The Bulletin. He
quoted the report that Melbourne people
“have followed the downward path of
Sydney and are putting in our evenings
gazing at strippers,” then “Miss Abandon
with her milk-bottle tops studded with


rhinestones” and “Commissioner Porter’s
men are keeping an eye on things.”
Mr Mitchell asked the Chief Secretary,
Mr Rylah, what the police were keeping
their eyes on.
“Is it to see Miss Abandon has bottle-
tops embedded with rhinestones, or
whether she dances quite delightfully.”
he said.
Mr Rylah said that The Bulletin and
the honorable member had an advantage
over him as he had not seen the per-
formances.
“I shall ask the Chief Commissioner of
Police to have the shows surveyed
carefully,” he said.
Out of Tune
~piVE times last week Miss Halina
Czerny-Stefanska, one of the world’s
leading Chopin pianists, gave magnifi-
cent performances in a virtually empty
Sydney Town Hall. On the first night
about a third of the hall was filled,
the paying public being supplemented
by scores of invited official guests,
critics and hangers-on. Despite excel-
lent reviews in Sydney papers, the
audiences at her next three recitals—
two of them with her husband, Pro-
fessor Ludwik Stefanski of the Cracow
Conservatorium —were barely a hundred
people.
The hall was chilly and the grand piano
out of tune. But calm and composed
Miss Czerny-Stefanska went expertly
through her programme predomin-
antly Chopin, with a few pieces by Scar-
latti, Liszt, Mozart, Clementi, Szyman-
owski, Schumann and Rachmaninoff.
Born in Cracow, Poland, the attrac-
tive young-looking pianist is a descend-
ant of Karl Czerny, who was a pupil of
Beethoven and teacher of Franz Liszt.
Sydney was her first setback. Al-
though she did not show it on the stage,
Miss Czerny-Stefanska was bitterly dis-
appointed with the paltry audiences, poor
organisation and the Town Hall grand
piano—which has often been the target
of complaints by visiting pianists.
Particularly surprising was the luke-
warm reception by Sydney's large Polish
community, which usually turns out in
force to support visiting Polish artists.
Malcuzynski, Niedzielski, Fogg, even the
local choir “Echo” were all box-office
successes, while Miss Czerny-Stefanska’s
recitals brought her Polish-born Sydney
agent, Mr. Natan Sc’heinwald, a loss of
some £2OOO in the first two days.
“A tragedy, a real tragedy,” lamented
the hapless Mr. Scheinwald, standing
desolately on the Town Hall steps. “The
worst-organised tour I have ever had,”
Miss Czerny-Stefanska told us. She added
that this was the first time she had been
booked to play during Holy Week. “In
Poland, and elsewhere in Europe, such
a thing would have been unthinkable,”
she added. Polish Consular officials in
Sydney agreed that the timing was bad,
and blamed the agent. The agent blamed
Pagard, the Warsaw organisation which
looks after overseas tours by Polish
artists, for being too late finalising
arrangements. Sydney Poles, almost all
Catholics, were riled by what they felt
was a deliberate affront to their religion.
Whoever is to blame, and it is cer-
tainly not Miss Czerny-Stefanska or her
husband who both gave superb perform-
ances during their recitals, the fiasco is
an object lesson in how not to promote
splendid artists who are virtually un-
known in Australia, despite their over-
seas fame. And a costly lesson at that.
"WHAT DO YOU MEAN THE LINE'S ENGAGED?"
Tanner s comment on President Kennedy’s suggestion there should be a direct Kremlin-White House telephone link to avoid accidental nuclear war.


This Australia
ALP
VICTORIA'S ARTFUL DODGERS
FROM BILL THOMAS
ALBERT McNOLTY
Breaking away?
VT/hile Bill Colbourne led the Federal
Executive officers back from their
recent 10-hour talks with the Victorian
ALP Executive, Press releases announcing
peace and unity appeared in dailies
throughout Australia. There was to be
no Federal action in Victoria. The reason
given was that the Victorians had again
promised to toe the line and implement
federal decisions. The real reason, how-
ever, was simply that the Victorians have
made no bones about their preparedness
to break away and form a scab “Indus-
trial Labor Party” if the present Federal
ALP Executive intervenes in the “internal
affairs” of the Victorian ALP.
What Colbourne, Dunstan and other
Federal Executive members have not yet
realised, is that this is an empty threat,
not because Albert (“Peace Medal”)
McNolty of the Sheet Metal Workers’
Union and his merry men would not do
such a thing, but because they have
already embarked on just this plan of
action. Within the Melbourne Trades
Hall has emerged the nucleus of the new
party executive —the “Trade Union De-
fence Committee.” This committee is
already competing with the existing party
structure.
Arthur Calwell fought the last Federal
election partly by reversing Dr Evatt’s
fatal mistake of engaging in public con-
troversy with the DLP. Calwell’s instruc-
tions to all party branches and candidates
were —ignore the DLP. In Victoria, Cal-
well’s rule was kept by the official party,
but grossly ignored by unofficial groups,
almost solely made up of much the same
personnel as the official party. The Union
Defence Committee ran a series of 15-
minute TV panel discussions called
“Trade Union Point of View.” These
usually followed an official ALP panel
discussion and had the same chairman as
the official programmes, well-known
lemonade salesman Doug Elliott.
The panel members were always mem-
bers of the Central Executive: MacSween,
Doyle, and Brown, “We do not speak
as ALP representatives,” they explained
to viewers, “BUT, ‘Santamaria,’ ‘DLP,’
‘Catholics,’ ‘Conspiracy,’ ‘Trade Union
Defence,’ etc., etc.,” it was the same old
line. Presumably these TV shows, which
were as frequent as the official ones,
came from money that should have been
in official funds.
In addition, a special election pamphlet
called “The Black Hand of Santamaria”
was issued by the Defence Committee.
As usual, the Victorian Trades Hall
Council appointed an election organiser
on full pay, whose traditional task it is to
issue and distribute election pamphlets
on industrial issues, wage claims, work-
ers’ compensation and so on, for use by
ALP branches in the Federal election.
This time the organiser was Mr Percy
Johnston, who strangely enough is the
secretary of the Trade Union Defence
Committee. Thus the “Industrial Labor
Party” had a full-time secretary who dis-
tributed through branches of the ALP a
special pamphlet, which, like the special
TV shows, all directions from the
ALP and Opposition Leader Calwell.
Many ALP branches understandably
refused to accept the pamphlet, and
others, severely short of manpower, re-
fused the offers of help from the unions
because they feared a repetition of what
had happened in previous campaigns,
when union volunteers (some of whom
belonged to the “other working class
party”) had distributed unofficial propa-
ganda which had a communist or sec-
tarian slant. As a result, many polling
booths went unmanned in vital elec-
torates. The Defence Committee, to
overcome this branch opposition, decided
to form an electorate “flying squad.” (To
ask why they weren’t all working in their
local ALP branches, is to ask the key
question about the Victorian ALP.) They
“adopted” the key electorate of Mari-
byrnong and made a point of distributing
leaflets—surprinted with a “Black Hand”
—to every home in the district. Naturally,
the DLP preferences stayed tighter there
than in the rest of Australia and the
Menzies Government was returned.
Undaunted by this great victory (no
one can say they did not affect the des-
tiny of Australia for at least another
three years), they then set out to establish
a rival to the official ALP paper “Fact.”
“Fact” has been struggling for some
months, under the control of a non-
political and very competent professional
journalist, Mr. Bond. It has certainly been
improving and more commercial news-
agents have begun displaying it. It is on
the point of bankruptcy, however, be-
cause the traditional economic base of
any ALP journal—union sales —has been
suddenly withdrawn from it.
The Australian Railways Union, run
by communist Jack Brown and ALP
executive member Bill O’Brien, purchases
exactly 50 copies of “Fact.” It does,
however, purchase 4000 copies of a new
journal called “Scope.” The AEU, which
in Victoria is under communist leader-
ship, thanks to the great work done last
year by the Union Defence Committee
for communist “Cup” Southwell in the
elections (ALP Executive member Wally
Butler was campaign director), purchases
300 “Facts” and 3000 copies of “Scope.”
“Scope” attacks ALP candidates in
union elections (“hidden groupers”) and
as a result is widely distributed by
“unity” supporters on the Melbourne
waterfront where it is used to attack
Fitzgibbon and his followers. Its concerns
are Lumumba, Peace, Berlin. Fascism and
colonialism. It occasionally fits small
pieces of industrial news in between anti-
Catholic tirades. Yet “Scope,” which is
produced by Don MacSween. at first bore
no printer’s or publisher’s name. Now it
claims that it does not seek to compete
with “Fact" and publishes under the
name of the “Union Publicity Council.”
On another front, the “Industrial Labor
Party” leaders seemed dissatisfied with the
existing New Australian Committee, even
NEXT WEEK'S ISSUE
• ABC SINNER No. 4—Official
ABC Reply.
• SEX OFFENDERS—Professor
Maddison on popular illusions.
• SCIENCE AT WORK—Auto-
mation Revolution.
• THAT CERTAIN BOOK
Gavin Casey on Ernest Heming-
way.
• SLOW BOAT TO RED
CHINA Trip to Shanghai.


though they themselves set it up as an
appointed body to replace the anti-com-
munist elective New Australian Council.
(The council leader, a Jewish socialist,
Bono Weiner, was expelled.) Now a man
by the name of Captain Da Silvo is seen
operating from the offices of Albert
McNolty’s Sheet Metal Workers’ Union.
He produces an expensive 16-page news-
paper in Italian and distributes a pro-
communist Greek paper. He has the
function of organising New Australians
for “a group of unions.” Presumably his
adequate salary and printing costs come
out of yet another mysterious fund.
All in all, the Victorian executive is
alienating every possible segment of the
party outside of its own limited circle.
The Federal officers, however, have now
given their blessing (as did Calwell six
months ago) to this incredible mess. On
Queen’s Birthday weekend, the inevitable
50 delegates from the branches will
straggle timidly into the Trades Hall
Chamber and sit at the rear, or more
likely, stand in the public gallery while
the 300 union delegates (some on full pay
and time and a half on Sunday) cheer
and applaud their self-appointed cham-
pions who harangue them on Peace,
Unity, Berlin, Lumumba, Santamaria,
and everything else except the vital infor-
mation of how to win government. The
lesson of the Victorian tragedy is that
when you play with communists you must
realise that you are playing with fire, and
if the men who are playing with the fire
are men of straw, then they should realise
that although they think they are making
the “light glow brighter,” they are merely
destroying themselves.
SPORT
THE BOXING BUSINESS
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
JT seems only yesterday that boxing was
booming in Sydney, with Messrs Gat-
tellari, Prior and Cowburn making
weekly headlines. But that was several
weeks ago, and since then interest has
been centred on promised fights which
have fallen through. Our literate fly-
weight champion, “Rocky” Gattellari,
hurt a hand, our laconic welter champion
had some teeth out after his fight with
J. D. Ellis and also felt that he was in
a dangerously high income bracket.
T , ~ , .... , . j ,
These were the only title-holders who
,
fought at Sydney Stadium during the
first four months of the year. Of our six
present Australian champions, from fly-
weight to middle, the heaviest four had
seven Melbourne fights in the same
period. Peter Read, middleweight, fought
Keith Lewis twice, Cowburn went south
to k.o. lightweight George Bracken, who
then lost his title to Aldo Pravisani.
Wally Taylor, featherweight, fought a
dr&w with Don Johnson (U.S.A.) cind
dropped a decision to Love Allottey
Ghana). Most of these names are en-
tirely unfamiliar to Sydney and Brisbane
clients of Stadiums Ltd.
In addition to the foregoing talent,
Melbourne fans saw two Johnson-Al-
lottey matches. If you’re really interested
in boxing it is best to live in Melbourne.
The same naturally applies to boxers
interested in title matches. As three of
the six current title-holders live in Mel-
bourne and seem reluctant to travel,
local contenders have preference. Pravi-
sani could do no better than a draw with
Charlie Smith of Sydney, but when
George Bracken defended his title at last,
Pravisani got the nod from Stadiums
Ltd’s headquarters—in Melbourne.
Although Bracken’s loss was still Mel-
bourne’s gain, it did at least even out
the racial representation. Three of the
champions are from Melbourne, two
from Brisbane, and one from Sydney;
but they include two Italians, two abor-
igines, and two white blokes. The pro-
portions may be altered when Jarrett
defends his title in Brisbane against
Treschman, but no other title fights
seem likely before the end of June. Even
Jimmy Carruthers has halted his contri-
butions to the Treasury till then.
Stadiums Ltd may feel that Carru-
thers has lost his drawing power. During
recent spells as a referee, he has had
to take Yabba-like cries of “Canvas-
back!” But Australian fight crowds are
more than generous towards anyone who
tries, and any one fight could restore
Carruthers’s old popularity, and this in
turn could make the featherweight divi-
sion very interesting.
Then, of course, there is “Rocky.”
Unfortunately there is only “Rocky” in
the flyweight division. He will fight an
importation soon if his hand improves,
and then he will have to decide whether
to fight abroad or go out of his weight
locally. Down around 8 stone, the men
in the next division at 8.6 can be built
like battleships in comparison to a fly-
weight, and “Rocky” is tough but not
rugged. The best thing anyone can hope
for “Rocky” is that he is not allowed
to go in with an improved Carruthers
who, on form against Jarrett, would be
a dangerous opponent in the worst sense
of the word.
SALARIES
MIDNIGHT PAYOLA
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
AT embers of the Tasmanian Parlia-
ment, Australia’s political Cinder-
ellas when it comes to salaries, should
have remembered what happened to
Cindy after midnight when they em-
barked on two early-morning sessions
to grant themselves pay rises of £5OO
upward. “This is a disgrace to Parlia-
ment,” said Opposition Leader Angus
Bethune when the bill reached the
House of Assembly. “Why the unseemly,
undignified haste to rush this through?
Encouraged by the recent ALP State
Conference decision that Labor mem-
bers were released from the Premier’s
pre-election promise that no salary
increases would be sought during the
five-year life of the Parliament, Caucus
prevailed on Premier Reece to introduce
legislation to raise salaries by £5OO-
- Opposition members had been
quietly sounded out to assure a majority
on a non-party division, despite the
pledge given by the Liberal Leader
before the election. (His promise ante-
dated the Premier’s). Probably because
Mr Reece remained adamant that
members were held by their promise,
the Government brought down the bill
in the Upper House, where the indepen-
dent members were not committed by
party promises. At 12.35 a.m., when
the public gallery was deserted except
for two Labor members of the Assembly,
Messrs Britton and Fraser, Government
Leader Tommy D’Alton introduced the
legislation. “I feel that too much notice
is being taken of what we may call
public opinion,” he said. The bill was
through, without dissentient, by 2 a.m.
Later that day Pressmen waited
expectantly for the bill to come before
the Assembly, but again it got after-
midnight treatment. Both Mr Reece and
Mr Bethune opposed it strongly in a
non-party debate, but Deputy Premier
R. F. Fagan supported it. Members in
the heat of an election campaign had
given a “rash undertaking,” he said, and
they had since been suffering financial
strain. For some the situation had become
desperate as bank balances were dis-
sipated. Government Whip Ray
McDonald, who has been very frank
about his financial embarrassment,
spoke out against the bill. Mr Mac Le
Fevre (Lab.) who also has been in
straitened circumstances since relinquish-
ing a teacher’s salary to enter Parliament,
joined McDonald in promising to pay
over the increase to charities.
The measure was passed without undue
delay on a division, 19 to 12.


B. A. SANTAMARIA
Modern Machiavelli?
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
"fa/TR B. A. Santamaria is rarely out of
the news in Victoria, but even
those who see him as Melbourne’s
modern Machiavelli were surprised
when his name loomed up during the
eighth week of the Government inquiry
into the conduct of the Healesville and
District Hospital. The inquiry, which
has provided a number of entertaining
glimpses into the affairs of the little
country hospital, arose from a bitter
feud which developed in the mountain
township of Healesville, 39 miles north
of Melbourne, early last year.
It crystallised around the dismissal as
a hospital honorary of Hungarian-Lorn
Dr Arthur Deery, a popular practitioner
in the district. A hospital reform move-
ment was born and soon the district
echoed with the charges and counter-
charges between it and the hospital’s
Management Committee. The Reform
Movement launched a news-sheet to pub-
licise its views and the writer, Mr lan
Lasry, became editor. On a blazing
summer’s day a group of mothers, many
of them wheeling infants, paraded with
banners and slogans in support of Dr
Deery.
Both sides fixed their sights on the
annual meeting of hospital contributors
held on August 30 last, and both busily
signed up new contributors who could
be counted on to vote their way. At the
big showdown, the Reform Movement
put up two resolutions. The first asked
for the reinstatement of Dr Deery, and
the other asked for an inquiry into the
conduct of the hospital. Both were
narrowly defeated in a poll of nearly
1,500 votes. Some 450 of these weie
cas * a * the packed meeting, while the
remainder were postal votes,
The issues had been raised in Parlia-
ment and on the recommendation of the
Solicitor - General, the Government
decided to conduct an inquiry. The
task was handed to former Chief
Stipendiary Magistrate Mr. D. M.
Addison. His terms of reference were
to report upon and make recommenda-
tions concerning the hospital's admini-
stration and management, including the
care and treatment of patients. He was
also instructed to inquire into the dis-
missal of Dr Deery, the conduct of
elections to the Management Committee
and the appointment, control and super-
vision of the medical, nursing and other
staff.
The inquiry got fully under way in
mid-February with the Management
Committee represented by Mr J. Starke
Q.C. The Reform Movement also engaged
a barrister, but after five weeks of the
hearing could no longer afford to retain
him. It claimed to have spent £3OOO. The
Government refused its request for
financial help and thereafter the Reform
Movement had to be content with its
solicitor, Mr J. F. Hill, representing it.
In evidence for the Reform Committee
a leading surgeon alleged that he was
forced to abandon an operation because
the hospital's oxygen supply ran out.
Other witnesses claimed that the hospital’s
food was inadequate. Matron Judith
Wellington, 34, giving evidence for the
Management, told how she had once
found the night sister and the switch-
board operator both asleep while on
duty.
However, she denied that patients were
poorly fed. Dr. Deery, she thought, was
unco-operative and given to unpredict-
able fads. He had once ripped an over-
head light from its socket in an operating
theatre, she alleged.
As the inquiry ran on into April, there
was a sensation when Mr I. W. Horman,
chairman of the hospital board, admitted
that he had obtained help from Mr
Santamaria to have the Reform Move-
ment’s resolutions defeated at the August
meeting. He described how he had visited
Mr Santamaria, explained the situation,
and showed him a list of names of
recently enrolled hospital subscribers. Mr
Santamaria commented to him .that there
were “a number of very significant
names” on the list. Next day, Mr Horman
said, some “satisfactory arrangements
were made.” Mr Santamaria supplied the
committee with a list of prospective sub-
scribers to counterbalance those recruited
by the Reform Movement.
Mr Horman later told the inquiry that
Dr Deery"s wife, in the course of a main-
tenance action, had testified in court that
her husband had visited communist
meetings. He also believed that Mr
Lasry and another prominent Reform
Movement figure, Mr J. Harsant, were
pro-communist, Mr Horman said. Mr
Harsant had connections with the Aus-
tralasian Book Society and did legal
VICTORIA
THE HEALESVILLE HEARINGS
PROGRESS
APRIL 29. 1882
A Melbourne alderman, “while
aesthetically opposed to tramways,
accepts the march of improvement.”
Melbourne still “has the bulge” on us.
Imagine a Sydney alderman being
“aesthetically opposed” to anything.
A public meeting was held in the
Masonic Hall on Monday evening
last, for the purpose of presenting a
statement of accounts in connection
with The Bulletin Libel Fund. Aider-
man G. Wallace (of Newcastle) moved
the following resolution: — “That this
meeting desires to welcome back to
public life Messrs Haynes and Archi-
bald, and is of opinion that any
balance of subscriptions that may
remain after all outstanding claims are
met, and proper provision made to
meet the necessary expenses of obtain-
ing an alteration of the libel law,
should be handed over to Messrs
Haynes and Archibald as a token of
appreciation of their conduct in refer-
ence to the Clontarf case.” (Applause).
The proposition was carried nem.
dis.
A young local preacher diddled some
monumental masons up the line
the other day. It was a land sale, and
competition was brisk. At last, how-
ever, the masons agreed to let the holy
man have the choicest allotment to
himself, because his pale, earnest face,
and his reverend aspect seemed to
make competition a sacrilege, and they
refrained. You could have knocked
’em all down with a tombstone next
day, when they discovered that the
pious one had been bidding as agent
for a rival mason.
Tohn Ferguson, of Parramatta, says
** that we have “pandered to the vilest
tastes of the community.” This is
absurd. We never consulted his tastes.


work for the Amalgamated Engineering
Union. In Mr Lasry’s case, his belief was
based on “what he wrote” and on his
association with Dr. Deery.
Mr Lasry (who is president of the
Healesville branch of the A.L.P.) and Dr
Deery then both obtained permission
from Mr Addison to go into the box
to refute the pro-communism allegations
against them. Those who turned to Mr
Santamaria’s weekly TV programme or
to “News Weekly” to see his reaction
were disappointed. The inquiry has
judicial status and it is not in order to
comment on it outside the hearing. So
far Mr Santamaria has made no move to
appear before it to give any further
elucidation of his reasons for what he
did. With or without him, the inquiry is
already a marathon task for the retired
Stipendiary Magistrate who presides over
it daily at Healesville.
MT ISA
"DON'T MEET ME AT THE FAIR"
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
'T'he latest hang-over from the abortive
Mt Isa margins strike early this
year has been a trades union proposal
to boycott the Mt Isa trade fair next
month because the organisers, Mt Isa
Apex Club, have invited Deputy Premier
and Labor and Industry Minister Ken
Morris to open the fair. Many unions
blame Mr Morris’s industrial legislation
for the discontent leading up to the
seven-weeks Mt Isa strike. Among other
things, the legislation allowed the
company to approach the Court for a
reduction in margins, but prevented the
Court from agreeing to any increase in
the margin claimed by unions.
The boycott move was initiated by
the AWU, which controls the majority
of the mines’ 3000 workers. It was
supported by the Federated Engine
Drivers and Firemen’s Association, the
second largest group in the Combined
Unions. Delegates from the Combined
Unions, however, are reported to have
voted against the boycott, but to have
decided to ask Mr Morris to gazette
the Fair as a show day holiday under
the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitra-
tion Act.
Mr Morris has shown the unusual
restraint that has marked his public
announcements in recent months
generally believed to be the result of a
top level Party clamp-down in an en-
deavor to put an end to the string of
embarrassing solecisms that have marked
his term in office. He has, however, said
he will be there . . . that is, of course,
if the Fair is still on. (Apexians who
had arranged for the demonstration of
equipment valued at more than £250,000,
with marquee space totalling 36,000 sq.
feet are reported to be in some doubt
on the matter and have arranged to
confer with exhibitors.)
The whole set-up reflects, of course,
the “toey” political climate in Queens-
land, with only 12 months to go for the
next election. The pro - Government
“Courier-Mail” in a recent analysis de-
clared the coalition would lose an
immediate election . . . but that it still
had time in the next 12 months to
recoup its fortunes. Apart from a dra-
matic improvement in the State’s un-
employment situation, the Government
would need some equally dramatic policy
changes to win back support it has lost
in the last two years. The coalition has
shown an evil genius for turning the most
innocuous legislation into acutely con-
troversial situations, leaving itself in the
process without a friend in court. Its
betting legislation, for instance, has
alienated race clubs, bookmakers, owners
and trainers, punters . . . and the
wowseristic anti-gambling element. In its
liquor legislation it has succeeded in one
fell blow in angering hotel keepers,
clubs, drinkers and the temperance
groups. For the Country party, land
administration and country road trans-
port remain white-hot issues, and the
Party’s annual convention in Southport
at the end of May is expected to see
some particularly straight talking from
delegates irritated beyond measure at the
Government’s many and varied de-
partures from policy and platform.
A lot is at stake in the next election.
Oil royalties could well be flowing for
the new Government which could mean
that the 1963 winner will be in for a
long while.
IMMIGRATION
THE A.L.P. AND REV. KEITH DOWDING
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
T>erth’s controversial clergyman, the
Reverend Mr Keith Dowding, will
almost certainly sever a long association
with the Australian Labor Party next
week when he takes up his new appoint-
ment as moderator of the Presbyterian
Church in WA. Oddly enough, his de-
parture from Labor politics after more
than 20 years is not directly connected
with his church activities. The cause will
be the Immigration Reform Council, of
which he is a member in WA. The Fed-
eral A.L.P. executive has decreed that
all party members must leave the council
after April 30 or face expulsion, and
Keith Dowding is one of many members
throughout Australia who will have to
choose between the two. He has left little
doubt what his choice will be.
Ever since he joined the A.L.P. in the
1930 s while he was still at Melbourne
University he has been a controversial
figure in the party. A handsome, broad-
shouldered man with a keen mind, he
has always claimed that church and poli-
tics are indivisible and has lived up to
that claim.
Coming from Sydney to Perth he be-
came minister at the fashionable Ross
Memorial Church in West Perth where he
continued his participation in A.L.P.
affairs. He became a member of the State
executive, a delegate to Federal confer-
ence and a deputy for Federal secretary
F. E. Chamberlain on the Federal execu-
tive. He contested the Swan seat for the
Federal House in 1958 and was narrowly
defeated on D.L.P. preferences. He stood
for pre-selection against Kim Beazley in
the Fremantle seat in 1960, but was de-
cisively beaten by the wily Student
Prince. He was close to Joe Chamber-
lain during his political career in WA
but his membership of the Immigration
Reform Council has caused a political
clash between them.
Dowding resigned his senior vice-presi-
dency of the State A.L.P. in an attempt
at compromise, but the decision of the
Federal executive has put him on the
spot with other prominent State members
like blind lawyer John Henshaw who
contested the Nedlands seat against In-
dustrial Development Minister Charlie
Court at the recent State elections.
For Keith Dowding the decision will
be easier than for other members who
are connected with immigration reform.
He is a member of a church which is not
opposed to political activity and he can
state his views on a religious platform.
For others who have only the A.L.P.
as an avenue of political expression the
decision will be more agonising. The
council stands for reform of the White
Australia policy, the A.L.P. for its re-
tention. Will they consider party mem-
bership more important than immigration
reform?


N.T. LEGCO
"NO" TO REFORM
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
ROGER NOTT
Started a fuss
TPhe recently concluded session of the
Northern Territory Legislative Coun-
cil was eventful, even by the standards
of that fiery chamber. The public servant
bloc, aided by the votes of nominated
non-official members Kilgariff and
Mathieson, and the absence through
illness of the elected member for Larra-
keyah (Mr Watts), only just managed
to defeat a motion of censure against
the Federal Government. “Those bods
in Canberra” were lambasted for “fla-
grant disregard of the democratic aspira-
tions of the people of the Northern Ter-
ritory.”
The fuss started when the Adminis-
trator, Mr Nott, read out to the House
a letter from the Minister for Territories,
Mr Hasluck. This announced the Fede-
ral Government’s rejection of constitu-
tional reforms which a council delega-
tion had sought during a conference with
Mr Hasluck last October. The Govern-
ment had knocked back requests for:
• The Administrator’s assent only to
make ordinances on purely local
matters.
• Failing this, an arrangement for dis-
allowed ordinances to be referred
back to the council with written
reasons for their rejection.
9 Granting of a lump sum by the
Federal Government for the Terri-
tory’s Budget, with the council em-
powered to decide how it should be
spent.
9 An Executive Council of elected
members with executive authority on
local affairs.
9 Full voting rights for the Territory’s
Federal Member.
9 Senate representation for the Terri-
tory.
In the Legislative Council the mem-
bers were the same, a little older, per-
haps a little more weary. So were the
issues involved. Nevertheless, proceedings
had lost none of the customary fire and
bluster. The Member for Barkly, Mr
Len Purkiss, accused the Federal Govern-
ment of imposing “white apartheid,” in
making Territorians second-class citizens
“like the South African natives, who have
no vote . . . The only difference is that
we don’t have to carry a registration
card." The Member for Alice Springs,
Mr Neal Hargrave, accused Mr Hasluck
of breaking a promise, made in 1958,
of “a greater measure of financial inde-
pendence” for the Territory. Mr Har-
grave said: “1 fear the Labor Party Bill
to give a full vote to the Territory
member in the House of Representatives
will never again go on to the floor of
the House . . . The Government treats
us like children.” The Member for Elsey,
Mr “Tiger” Brennan, took an even
stronger line. “W.e should have a go at
secession from the Commonwealth,” he
roared. “And I’ll be one of the first in it.”
JF defeat of their censure motion was
a setback, elected members more
than made up for it with unexpected
victory on the hated supply law. Out
of the blue, the Federal Government
forwarded to the Council a suggested
amendment to the Licensing Ordinance
which goes even further than the cele-
brated “boomerang” bill, passed three
times in Darwin, but refused assent in
Canberra.
The suggested amendment, quickly
passed through the Council and consid-
ered certain of acceptance in Canberra,
restores to magistrates discretionary
powers on penalties for persons sup-
plying aboriginal wards with liquor. The
previous minimum of six months’ gaol
for a first offence and 12 months for a
second will still stand where liquor is
supplied for “gain or immoral pur-
poses.” But the amendment \. ill make it
a defence if a person can prove the
liquor was supplied for medicinal pur-
poses, or if he did not know the native
was a ward. The amendment also widens
the provisions for appeal. Under the
present ordinance a supplier can appeal
to the Supreme Court against severity
of sentence for a first offence. But for
a second offence he could appeal only
against conviction.
Even where the Supreme Court finds
liquor was supplied for “gain or immoral
purposes” it will still be able to reduce
sentence or impose a fine of not less
than £3O in certain circumstances. These
are met if it is a first offence and there
are extenuating factors, such as youth.
The maximum penalties still stand at one
year for a first offence and two years for
any later offence.
5-DAY WEEK
THE MILITANT BANK CLERKS
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
Qpilling into the gardens adjoining the
State Parliament House 6000 Victorian
bank clerks turned themselves from
lambs into raging militant lions last
week. Amidst booing, cheering and cat-
calls, and a unanimous show of hands,
they voted to strike if they were refused
a 5-day week. Stirred by speeches from
Mr C. Stoneham, the Leader of the
Opposition and union officials, the clerks
booed and cheered their way into a “mili-
tant stand to show the Government.”
Assembling at different points, they
marched to Parliament House where they
massed until the police shifted them into
the adjoining gardens.
After stirring speeches on their rights
to a 5-day week —because every other
State has it —the 6000 clerks poured out
of the gardens and made their way home;
that is, down to Flinders St station, pass-
ing the “Flerald” and “Sun” office on
their way. Here, possibly inflamed by the
speeches of their union officials, various
groups booed and cried *‘down with the
‘Herald’ ” as they passed. This went on
for about 10 minutes as each new group
took their cue from the other demon-
strators who preceded them.
Events moved quickly in the next
couple of days: Mr Stoneham said he
would introduce a Private Members’ Bill
during the spring session to force a full
debate with an eye to the possibility that
the Government would change its mind.
Mr J. H. Quirk, the Chairman of the Vic-
torian combined bank officers’ 5-day
week committee, made the clerks' position
clear. They intended to strike unless
legislation was introduced in the present
session.


Around Sydney
JOBS FOR THE BOYS
Lord Mayor Jensen
“Damned accurate”
T'|Uring the last few weeks, “Head-
line” Harry Jensen, Sydney’s
benign Lord Mayor, has been pre-
occupied with dirt. The dirt Harry is
worried about is that which has been
appearing in the Sydney papers re-
cently about a faction fight among the
Labor rulers of the Sydney City Coun-
cil.
Week after week, reports of the
latest blows in the fight have been
faithfully reported from “secret”
Caucus meetings to various political
roundsmen. Anyone with fivepence
for a daily paper could keep right up
to date on how the two faction leaders,
Aid. Con Wallace and Aid. Reg
Murphy, were slugging it out verbally
behind locked doors.
Jensen matted several aldermen and
demanded to know where the papers
were getting their information. “It’s
not just that there are leaks,” he told
one Pressman, “but they’re so damned
accurate.” In final frustration, Aid.
Wallace hauled Aid. Murphy before
the State ALP officers and openly
charged him with being the newspaper
tip-off. Murphy denied it. The officers
dished out some harsh words about
Party morale and the capitalist Press,
and sent both aldermen packing. The
moral in the story is that next day
the details of the entire interview went
the rounds of the papers and not
from either Wallace or Murphy!
People just can’t resist telling a good
story.
And, in case Aid. Jensen is reading
this dispatch. I can assure him that
neither Messrs Murphy nor Wallace
had any hand in leaking to me the
information that some of the Labor
boys on the City Council have a nice
scheme in hand at the moment.
It seems that as they apparently
have a mortgage on aldermanic con-
trol of the council, these two reckon
it’s only right that pro-Fabor men
should occupy the big-paid jobs in the
Town Hall, as well.
Now it so happens that two of the
top Sydney City Council officers are
retiring this year —Chief Clerk, R. W.
Hawkins, who finished up recently,
and Town Clerk, E. W. Adams, who
leaves in a month or so.
To fill the most senior council jobs
with ALP supporters would be a bit
close to the knuckle, even for Sydney.
So deputy Town Clerk J. Luscombe
has been chosen for the Town Clerk’s
job, and Committees Clerk B. Thomas
is pretty certain to become Deputy.
And that will leave just two insignifi-
cant —but very important—vacancies
for a Committees Clerk and a Chief
Clerk. So insignificant that the papers
would never notice if they slipped in a
couple of sympathetic chaps.
So right now the Labor manipu-
lators are looking around for a couple
of good Labor men for these posts.
They probably had another name for
it in Tammany Hall, but we call it
“Jobs for the Boys.”
And the frustrating thing is that
most of the general public of Sydney
couldn’t care less.
TYTo one is ever quite so righteous as
the people of Sydney when they
start talking about protecting the har-
bor foreshores. Righteous, however,
is used very flexibly; thus no one seems
to mind very much when vandalistic
builders throw up grotesque “man-
sions” or home-unit blocks right down
to the harbor’s high - water level.
That’s just free enterprise at work.
But let some public body suggest a
harbor-side structure that will impair
just one view of the blue waters and
there is a horrified cry of “filching.”
Such a cry went up from a strange
quarter of the city last week when the
Royal Prince Edward Yacht Club
applied to Woollahra Council for per-
mission to build a clubhouse, restaur-
ant, carpark and yacht anchorage over
the water at Rushcutter Bay. The club
pointed out that its scheme would use
only unnavigable harbor shallows and
would not eat into the nearby park in
any way. The single-storey structure
would not block anyone’s views.
The cry of “vandalism” was raised
loud and clear. The protest didn’t take
long to start shaking the Woollahra
Council chambers (which, incidentally,
has long since filched one of the pick
harbor-side positions for its ugly
premises next door to Redleaf Pool).
Although the Council’s Works Com-
mittee has already given its blessing
to the Yacht Club’s scheme, the cry
from New Beach Road had some of
the aldermen thinking twice.
“This development should be stopped
outright,” declared Alderman Hugh
Foster. “It would deprive many resi-
dents of harbor views, block off the
waterfront of a public park, and cause
considerable traffic congestion and
much noise in a residential area.” Un-
necessarily, Alderman Foster added:
“There will be a furore over this.”
And so there was. The National
Trust announced the formation of a
Foreshores Protection Committee; the
Parks and Playgrounds Movement
protested to the Council; some of the
newspapers ran editorials about this
being just another example of “the
depressing regularity with which sec-
tional interests plan their assaults on
our harbor foreshores.”
Two of the most telling objections
came from two well known Sydney
people. Mrs Marcel Dekyvere,
for instance, who lives next
door to the proposed development
area, was quoted as saying: “Rush-
cutter Bay Park belongs to the people.
It is a spot much favored by the chil-
dren of Paddington, who go there for
picnics and to fish over the sea wall.”
Mr. John R. Walton, another well-
known resident of New Beach Road,
also threw his sixpence worth into the
ring. “Many residents,” Mr. Walton
explained, “have swimming pools
which would be polluted by refuse
thrown from 150 yachts moored at the
yacht club.”
BLIGH


STEEL IN AUSTRALIA
Determining our steel needs for the future is a difficult, tricky business
By J. C. HORSFALL
Perhaps the trickiest job industry
faces in a booming country like
Australia is predicting future steel
needs. What makes the job so tricky
is that Australian notions of development
are often far greater than probable Aus-
tralian capacity for development. In short,
like a greedy child, our eyes are bigger
than our stomach.
The steel problem is further compli-
cated by the fact that it takes so long
to bring developmental plans to frui-
tion. In a recession, for example, steel
makers have to think about putting in
new plant to meet the peak demands
of the next boom. And when the boom
arrives they have to resist the natural
temptation to expand even more be-
cause, if they do, they may find that
they have managed to install a lot of
highly expensive new plant just to find
there is a slump on.
When the economy is buoyant and
things are going well a great many people
are apt to forget that there are still
halts, pauses and downward plunges in
various industries although the general
tendency of the economy is upward.
So quite apart from the extremely
difficult task of trying to forecast the
future growth rate of the national
economy as a whole a job requiring
a crystal ball at the best of times
steel planners have an additional prob-
lem in thinking ahead. The problem—
just how far should they ignore ordinary
fluctuations in the economy’s growth
rate?
There are two main factors to be
considered in trying to work out this
problem. One is just how much steel
Australia can afford to import without
straining the balance of payments when
Australia’s demands for steel outrun its
capacity to produce. This happens in
boom times. The other factor is the
flexibility of export markets for Aus-
tralian steel when we have a surplus of
the stuff during one of our recessions.
The two most important things to
remember in trying to fix targets for
future steel output are, simply, what is
likely to happen to gross fir ed capital
investment in Australia and the availa-
bility of export markets. There seems
little doubt that the long term direction
of fixed capital investment in Australia
is well and truly upwards but at what
rate? The rate of increase depends, for
example, on what sort of development
rate is set for the whole economy and
on availability of resources other than
steel which will permit the rate being
maintained. One of the problems in-
volved is labor. Will our immigration
programme hold up for instance? Will we
get migrants with the necessary skills in
sufficient numbers?
And yet even though the steel indus-
try has to consider all these complicat-
ed factors in considering the future there
is no doubt of one thing Australian
demands for steel are voracious.
After B.H.P.’s massive achievement
in more than doubling the nation's
steel output in the 1950 s (Canada
managed only to double hers)
it was galling to find at the end
of the decade that Australia had run
into a steel shortage. Late in 1959, after
three years of rising exports of steel,
overseas sales had to be sacrificed to the
growing local appetite. For the same
reason, imports of steel began to grow.
By April, 1960, Australia had become a
net importer of steel. This being part
and parcel of the general difficulty in
the balance of payments, strong steps
had to be taken to correct the position.
For many months before April, 1960,
imports of steel were rising at such a
pace and exports were slipping back so
ominously that it was obvious —with the
internal boom accelerating—that we
were heading for trouble. By the Sep-
tember quarter of 1960 imports were
running at an annual rate of around
£6O million, compared with only £l6|
million a year in the same quarter of
the previous year, and with £22 million
for the full year 1959.
But because the signal which came in
April or earlier in the year was not
heeded, by November tougher measures
were necessary. Moderate braking, if
applied earlier, might well have done the
trick, but there now had to be a harsh
assault on the country’s main steel-users,
coupled with ruthless fiscal and monetary
restraints, planned to choke off internal
demand in general and, in particular, the


demand for steel by the non-basic indus-
tries.
The main reason why the motor
industry got specially hard treatment in
the credit squeeze of 1960 was its insati-
able demand for steel. Having the handy
and flexible sales tax ready to apply to
motor vehicles, the Government was able
in one bold but painful stroke to influ-
ence the demand for steel over the
country’s biggest industrial sector.
Almost immediately the increase in sales
tax cut back vehicle sales. In a matter
of weeks the car manufacturers had
begun to reduce their output and,
naturally, their purchases of steel and
steel-content components.
It was not so easy to reduce the
demand for steel in the building and
construction industries, the boom in
which was equally straining steel-making
capacity and forcing users to get increas-
ing supplies from overseas. The tax-on-
interest was a very clumsy and inappro-
priate way of reducing building’s de-
mand for steel by making the cost of
new borrowing dearer.
No Blame for 8.H.P.?
It did eventually succeed. This has
been made plain enough by the eventual
run-down in building and construction
and the subsequent coaxing to get it
moving up again.
It would be ungenerous to put the
blame for the economic confusion result-
ing from all this on 8.H.P., although the
company had been caught napping by
the boom-demand for steel. Basically,
the cause was the four-year-long build-
up of a boom in fixed-capital investment.
This boom was following the pattern of
old-fashioned investment cycles, and
would have burst even if the Govern-
ment had taken no action in November.
Probably the Government could have
made the recoil from the investment
boom less if it had taken action at the
beginning of 1960 (when it was getting
a lot of sound advice on what would
happen if no restraints were applied).
Now few economists dispute that by
November when the Government did
act, the recoil from the boom had already
begun.
One point that is often overlooked is
that B.H.P.'s own capital expenditure,
which is currently running at the rate
of £SO million a year, is in itself the
hard core of fixed capital investment in
Australia No other company plays such
a key role in determining economic
fluctuations. Because B.H.P. is virtually
synonymous with steel-making in this
country, the company’s capital outlay on
extensions and replacements of capacity
is continually being stepped up.
This is in contrast to other companies,
such as the petroleum refining, petro-
chemicals, metal fabricating and motor
industries, which together have
accounted for a high proportion of new
capital investment in Australia in recent
years. These tend to carry out big pro-
jects only intermittently.
It is just as well that over the last year
or so, when fixed capital investment has
been languishing in this country as a
whole, B.H.P. has been keeping its eyes
firmly on Australia’s long-term require-
ments of steel. Otherwise unemploy-
ment would have been much higher. The
company has shown a high degree of
public responsibility in sticking to expan-
sion plans, conceived in boom days, be-
cause since 1960 there has been a size-
able reduction in demand for some steel
products (although this reduction has to
a large extent fallen on imports). B.H.P.
has also compensated for lower home
demand by exporting more. But exports
cannot be turned on and off like a tap.
Success in export markets largely
depends on the ability to supply on a
long-term basis, and not only when Aus-
tralia happens to have a surplus of a
product.
B.H.P. cannot ignore price factors in
exports. The company is still probably
the lowest cost producer of crude steel,
at least on f.o.b. basis, in the world. But
this is not the case at all with our semi-
finished and finished steel products. The
costs of these reflect more closely the
relatively high wage and transport costs
in Australia, compared with most other
big steel-exporting countries, notably the
UK, Belgium, Western Germany and
France. Also, Australian exports of all
steel types carry much higher freight
rates than the big European exporters.
For instance, freight on a ton of steel
from Europe to Singapore is only 1205.,
while from Sydney to Singapore, only
half the distance, it is 170 s.
Also, any price advantage remaining
to Australian steel exports from its pre-
sent cheap high-grade ore supplies from
Iron Knob in South Australia, will tend
to grow less as this source is worked out
and greater reliance is placed on ores
with lower iron content from Yampi and
other deposits in Western and South Aus-
tralia. Although Australia is a good
way from the position yet, it could be
that in the not-too-distant future, subsi-
dies will be needed to expand exports of
steel products. Certainly, we cannot
expect a big expansion in steel exports
without the development of export
credits, such as are available to our over-
seas competitors, and also better assur-
ances of regular supplies for overseas
customers.
Because of the present slow economic
recovery (especially in fixed investment)
and the stiff competition for steel exports,
B.H.P. might have decided to put off
its drive for higher and more efficient
steel-making capacity. Rightly, it has
not decided to slow down. Since Sep-
tember, 1959, it has increased its annual
nominal steel-making capacity from 3.3
to 4.5 million tons a year, that is by
about 36 per cent. Equally, output has
continued to hit new peaks in most direc-
tions, notably for pig-iron and crude steel.
However, the company is in one sense
recession-proof. This is because, as
mentioned above, the fall in demand hits
the importers first. This has to be remem-
bered when considering the increases in
output achieved, say in the six months to
last November, compared with the same
period of 1960, when the economy was
booming. In these six months last year
outputs rose by about nine per cent, for
both steel ingots and pig-iron, over the
same six months of 1960.
Even so, B.H.P. recently showed some
concern at certain aspects of the demand-
supply picture, for instance, in the com-
pany’s excess capacity for the produc-
tion of merchant bars and semi-finished
products. Also, the company admits that
it has been inconvenienced because con-
sumers have let their stocks run down,
which magnifies the real reduction in con-
sumption. (This is very different from
the position when the economy is
buoyant. Then consumers scramble to
build up their stocks, B.H.P.’s capacity is
fully extended and additional supplies
have to be imported with consequent
strain on overseas reserves. In a recession
the major stress is on B.H.P. ; in a boom
on the balance of payments).
While the B.H.P.’s sustained activity
during the credit squeeze can be put down
partly to its own huge expansion pro-
gramme, it is still remarkable that when
most of the rest of the economy was
reeling and employers all over the country
were putting off workers last year, B.H.P.
was busy recruiting as many skilled steel
workers as it could find in Britain.
In February this year it could report
that, since the thunderbolts of November,
1960, its work force had been increased
by 4000. Although some of this addit-
ional labor made its B.H.P. home in such
activities as ironstone and coal-mining,
shipbuilding, metal trades, and other
ancillaries, there was also a big increase
in steel-makers.
In the past 11 years (that is since
1949-50), B.H.P. has increased its annual
output of steel ingots by an average of


slightly more than 250,000 long tons a
year. In some years the increase has been
much bigger, and in others much less
than that. For instance, output rose by
432,000 tons in 1956-57, the best year of
the fifties, and by only 67,000 tons in
1954-55, which was the worst. But the
important thing is that it has risen every
year, and that if the performance of the
six months to last November is an indica-
tion the increase of output for the current
year, ending May, will be the best yet.
Current crude steel capacity is now at
4.5-million tons a year. Where does
B.H.P. go from here?
B.H.P. itself is very close about its
targets for increased steel-making capacity
after, say, 1965 when most of its current
projects should be completed. But the
completion of these current projects
should by 1965 lift capacity up to 54-
million tons of crude steel a year, as well
as greatly improving efficiency and adding
substantially to facilities for producing
semi-finished and finished products.
The emphasis in current plans is on
the introduction of the basic oxygen steel-
making process, which is scheduled to
take place at Newcastle this year.
(Oxygen is being increasingly used in
open-hearth steelmaking, first, in flame
enrichment which accelerates heating and
melting, second in the direct oxidation of
steel baths by a jet of oxygen penetrar
ting the molten metal which accelerates
carbon removal ; the most effective results
are obtained when other methods are
used together).
The introduction of this process entails
erecting two new steel-making furnaces,
as well as the oxygen plant. Construction
of these is well under way. This process
also requires a fourth blast furnace with
a 600,000 tons a year capacity. This
should be ready by the middle of next
year. The rebuilding of a battery of coke
ovens to supply this furnace is about
half-completed.
Current work at Newcastle also in-
cludes the installation of a high-capacity
rod-mill on land reclaimed by the B.H.P.
from a channel of the Hunter River.
This mill will be ready early next year.
Later this year the company expects to
finish the rehabilitation of its Newcastle
bloom and 28in. mills, designed to cater
for increased production of steel ingots.
At Whyalla preparations are well in
hand for the basic steel-making shop
and associated soaking pits, a bloom
mill and structural mill. The structural
mill is expected to begin operation in
June, 1964. Other projects include exten-
sions to machine shops, conversion of
the works’ railway system to standard
gauge, house building and completion
of the direct metal-foundry building. The
hull of a second 16,000-ton bulk-ore
carrier was also recently laid down at
the company’s shipbuilding yards there.
At Port Kembla the main construc-
tional activity is work on the new 140 in.
plate mill, which is expected to be
finished early in 1964. New facilities for
the flat-production division have been
completed there in the past few months.
These will make possible significant
increases in the output from the piate-
and the hot-strip mill.
The electrolytic-tinning line at Port
Kembla was recently brought into opera-
tion, following earlier commissioning of
the new five-stand cold-rolling mill
which provides feed for the tinplate
plant, also being expanded, and cold-
rolled strip for the market. Other de-
velopments pending at Port Kembla
include the 35 open-hearth furnace, a
tonnage oxygen plant and the new
colliery, which is at Appin.
Steel Still Up
From these fairly close horizons it is
a considerable distance to the expected
completion of the first stage of the mas-
sive scheme for establishing a fully inte-
grated steel industry in Western Aus-
tralia, based on the Koolyanobbing-
Bungalbin ironstone deposits. B.H.P.’s
commitment for this is £40.000,000.
B.H.P. has begun preliminary work on
the development of these deposits and
also on planning a blast furnace and
shipping facilities at Kwinana. An
integral part of this project is the con-
struction of a standard-gauge railway
linking Kalgoorlie, which is near the
iron-ore deposits, with Fremantle.
B.H.P.’s first target in this project is to
install a blast furnace with at least
450.000 tons a year of basic iron capacity
by 1968, or later, if the completion of
the railway is delayed.
The second stage of the Kwinana pro-
ject is timed for completion in 1978.
This provides for steel-making plant and
ancillary equipment, together with a
second rolling mill to bring overall mill-
capacity to at least 330,000 tons of
marketable steel products. Apart from
the immense importance of the scheme
to Western Australian development, it
is regarded by the company as a logical
extension of its own expansion plans,
and also as a supplementary source of
pig-iron, ironstone and merchant bars
for the whole group.
Despite the present cool economic
weather and despite doubts about the
country’s ability to sustain high-growth
rates, there is good reason to believe that
all B.H.P. projects at present planned or
in progress, up to 1965, will be carried
through. And although the company
may feel at the moment that it has
enough on its plate, other projects could
be undertaken. The process of expan-
sion is under constant scrutiny by the
company's executives, with the idea of
erring on the side of too much rather
than too little.
Beyond 1965 there is the target at
Kwinana to be met by 1968. Before that
date there could conceivably be some
retreat from present rates of capital
expenditure.
In its letter of offer for its recent
debenture issue, B.H.P. itself was
cautious on its future capital needs. The
letter said that “the board has not com-
mitted itself to a continuing expenditure
of this magnitude (£50,000,000 a year),
but completion of present developments
alone will involve substantial expendi-.
ture for some time.”
Leaving aside for the moment any
possibility of a second steel group start-
ing up in Australia, there is both a com-
pany and a national problem involved
in the provision of the huge capital sums
needed for the expansion of the industry.
For the company the problem is not so
much whether it can find the amounts
required, but rather from which source
—that is, from retained earnings, from
shareholders or from borrowing, the
three broad avenues selected by the board
—it will get its funds.
- The national problem involves con-
siderations. such as whether the pool of
capital is adequate to provide these sums
required by 8.H.P.. to what extent over-
seas capital should supplement local
capital in providing them . . . and so on.
The national and company aspects are
inter-related
B.H.P. has long been adept at pricing
its products to retain huge surpluses of
earnings after paying the dividends
needed to get a quick response from
shareholders when they are asked to sub-
scribe for new issues. Indeed, the B.H.P.
is so attractive as a growth stock to
hold for capital appreciation, that divi-
dends have become a secondary consider-
ation. Whereas in 1954 the company
chose to pay out 464 per cent, of earn-
ings as dividends, in the past three years it
has got away with dividends eating up
only 264, 264 and 26 per cent, of earnings.
Mr Michael Gleeson-White, a Sydney
stockbroker, recently demonstrated that
over the eight years from 1954 to 1961
B.H.P.‘s market appreciation was 350 per
cent, for a holder of the shares, who
kept the bonus issues and sold sufficient


P 7
T&ljj
A ' Jtt i t Sjs
i
WORLDS 1
LARGEST GOLD
PRODUCER
are you getting your share?
South Africa is, indeed, the world's
largest gold producer one reason for
her prosperity and purchasing power.
Many Australian companies are already
finding lucrative markets in South Africa
(the highly condensed list below indi-
cates the potential). To the export-
conscious, this surely merits 'on the spot'
investigation—particularly as you can be
there overnight, in the superb comfort of S.A.A.'s Springbok service, at a cost of
about £4o* as part of a trip to or from Europe. So here's an item for your next
sales meeting.
A £4o* sidetrip to SOUTH AFRICA
on your next overseas trip could
earn a new EXPORT MARKET!
THESE ARE SOME OF THE ITEMS
AUST. EXPORTS TO STH. AFRICA
Foodstuffs—Paints—Hardware
Electrical Goods Motor
Vehicles Kitchenware
Machinery, all types—Rubber,
Plastic and Leather Goods—
Timber Sporting Goods
Chemicals, Oils—Piece Goods
—Synthetic Yarns
is your product here?
* There is a slight fare variation from
the different Australian capital cities.
*8
m
Take your camera, too . . . Once in South
Africa, enjoy the richest sightseeing the world
has to offer. See Kruger National Park, the
diamond mines at Kimberley, Victoria Falls.
Shop for curios in quaint native villages,
explore great cities such as Johannesburg,
Durban and Cape Town. See your travel agent.
Fly muTH African mirwa yi
Choice of daylight or overnight flights
by magnificent Boeing 707 Stratojets
between Johannesburg and London
with choice of stop-overs at no
extra air fare, or non-stop to Athens
and again onward to London,
IN ASSOCIATION WITH QANTAS, 8.0.A.C., C.A A. AND E.A.A.
BAASO/20.8
numbers of rights to finance the remain-
der of his entitlement in each of the cash
issues during the period.
Doubtless, the main emphasis of
B.H.P.’s capital financing will continue
to be on retained earnings. Over the
past five years these have provided about
84 per cent, of the company’s capital
requirements. On the other hand, B.H.P.
is still bound to look to shareholders for
a good slice of its capital needs. In the
current year, it has gained £16.1-million
from them in what could be its last cash
issue at par to shareholders for some time.
Shareholders have also recently been
invited to subscribe for part of a £l2-
million per cent, debenture issue. This is
only the third debenture issue made by
the company. Debentures, the third
avenue of capital raising, are now coming
more into B.H.P.’s calculations, because
the company has also intimated that
debenture issues will be made overseas.
Moreover, as oversubscriptions have been
accepted, it could be that, following the
huge response to the latest debenture,
issues of new share capital will from now
on be few and far between.
If this is correct, it could well make
B.H.P. look less attractive as a growth
stock to hold for capital appreciation.
This might inhibit overseas buying of
the shares. However, it would be inves-
tors who would lose, not the company.
B.H.P. could conceivably gain more on
the swings of its debenture issue that it
would lose on the less certain round-
abouts of portfolio investment in its
shares.
From the national viewpoint, there is
much to be said for B.H.P. making
debenture issues overseas, because these
would provide a much-needed supplement
to present direct private capital inflow,
and not necessarily to the prejudice of
overseas portfolio investment in the com-
pany’s shares. By this route B.H.P. would
also be adding to the general pool of
capital available here, and so dispel
some of the criticism that the company’s
huge calls on the market drain away too
much capital for the comfort of other
borrowers.
It must also be admitted that whatever
the grounds for thinking that the Rio
Tinto-Zinc Corporation group has inter-
ested Kaiser Steel Corporation in the
possibility of developing a rival to B.H.P.
on the basis of the rich Pilbara ironstone
deposits, such a rival would also prob-
ably involve a substantial infusion of
valuable private capital. While it might
also ensure that the country had enough
steel in good times and bad, it could
also make the task of future planning
of steel-making capacity and output very
much more difficult than it is when there
is only one company involved.
# Profile of B.H.P. General Manager
/. M. McLennan —page 40


LONDON NEWSLETTER
THE END OF PURITANISM
A Dramatic Change in Britain's Sexual Morals
From JOHN DOUGLAS PRINGLE
"NTational images quickly become out of
date. Australians often complain
that most Englishmen still think of Aus-
tralia as a kind of New Frontier where
tall, sunburnt men, looking rather like
Chips Rafferty, ride over the boundless
plains after kangaroos. But I suspect that
the common Australian idea of Britain
is equally misleading. Almost every Aus-
tralian who visits London for the first
time is convinced that he is coming to a
country that is still essentially Puritan,
whereas today Britain is about as Puri-
tanical as Ghana.
In fact, of course, Britain was never
quite so Puritanical as foreigners be-
lieved. From the 17th century to the
20th, Puritanism was the hallmark of the
middle class. The aristocracy at one end
of the social scale and the working classes
at the other remained remarkably un-
affected, though at times the aristocracy
pretended to conform and the working
classes were nagged and bullied into
semblance of respectability. But even in
the Victorian Age (as Cyril Pearl has
pointed out) there was always far more
sexual immorality, gaiety and drunken-
ness than appeared on the surface.
Stilj, the surface was stiff enough, and
Puritanism had a powerful influence on
manners, morals and pastimes until very
recently. The middle classes were still
brought up to believe that physical
pleasure was morally suspect and that
comfort was a sign of decadence. Their
food was dull, their houses cold, their
clothes sober and their morals austere.
Foreigners never tired of discussing the
dowdiness of English women and the
sexual inhibitions of English men. As
for Sundays, they were so terrible that I
knew a Russian who, when he first came
to London in the ’2os, travelled to Paris
every Saturday in order to escape them.
All this is familiar enough and is still
a kind of stock joke in many countries.
But it is no longer remotely true. Since
the war, Britain —or perhaps I should say
England, for Wales and Scotland still
have some way to go—has undergone a
social revolution of surprising sudden-
ness. If England is Puritanical today,
then the word has no meaning.
Far the most dramatic change is in the
sphere of sexual morals. This has not
affected the institution of marriage, for
though the divorce rate is increasing
slowly, it is not really high—only 2 per
thousand married couples last year—and
this simply means that there are fewer
separated couples without a divorce than
there used to be. The divorce rate is
likely to rise still higher in future as
young couples rush into marriage earlier
and earlier. Twenty-one is now the
favorite age for brides, and in 1960 more
than 5000 were 16.
But sexual experience before marriage
is also so common as to be regarded as
normal. Ministers still condemn it from
the pulpit and woman columnists de-
plore it half-heartedly in the popular
papers, but the young people do not pay
the slightest notice. This month, even
authority seemed to be giving up the
struggle when the National Marriage
Guidance Council published a booklet by
its educational officer which seemed to
suggest that if a boy and girl really
wanted to go to bed together, then they
had better go ahead and do it.
Evidence for this behavior can partly
be found in statistics. In 1960 there were
42,707 illegitimate births or 5.4 per cent,
of all births registered. (This is actually
less than in 1851-60 but that was before
contraceptives.) More significant, perhaps,
a Catholic priest wrote in a Catholic
paper that 2 out of 5 Catholic girls were
pregnant when married and claimed—
almost certainly correctly—that th's is
less than the national average. But statis-
tics are not really necessary. Every school-
teacher and social worker, everyone in
fact who keeps his eyes and ears open,
knows that a high proportion of teen-
agers have some sexual experience and
most of them are perfectly ready to
admit it.
I dole class girls may seem ei.her
more virtuous or more closely pro-
tected, but this, too, is largely an illusion.
Very few of them, perhaps, lose their
\irginity in their teens when most of
them are still at school, but, since they
marry later than working class girls, they
have more time to do it. Girl students at
Oxford and Cambridge frequently com-
plain that they are treated like school-
girls and have to be in by 12 o’clock,
but since they are entitled to entertain
young men in their rooms up to 7 p.m.
or, in some cases, 10 p.m., this is not a
serious handicap. As the Warden of
Wadham once told some undergraduates
who were pleading for an extension, “If
you can’t get what you want by 7 p.m.,
another hour or two won't make any
difference.”
In the holidays, middle class girls,
whether students or not, enjoy an inde-
pendence which would horrify a French
or Italian mother, and wander round
Europe alone or with other girls and boys
with exactly the same freedom as Aus-
tralian girls.
The new sexual freedom is evident in
many other ways —in the enormous
spread of strip-tease clubs in all the big
cities, in the readiness to accept nudity
and bedroom scenes, both on the stage
and in films, in the outspokenness of
books and newspapers. The Lady Chat-
terley decision was a remarkable victory
for tolerance and if, as is now suggested,
the twelve honest men and women of the
jury really understood what Lawrence
was driving at as well as the Warden of
All Souls, it is more remarkable still. It
is hard to imagine, in fact, what could
now be considered obscene provided it
was presented with some show of artistic
integrity.


But the anti-Puritan revolution is not
simply a matter of sex. It is equally
obvious in other ways. The English are
no longer proud to be uncomfortable or
dowdy. They are demanding electric
blankets instead of clammy beds and
central heating instead of chilly houses.
This, perhaps, is still a middle class trend,
though new council flats are giving the
working classes a taste for comfort, too;
but the passion for clothes is even more
marked among the working class than
the middle class. The typists and shop
girls of London are now as smart as
those in Sydney and Melbourne. Young
working class boys spend an incredible
amount on “sharp” clothes and the wish
to buy these is often given as an excuse
for crime.
On the whole they - show excellent
taste. The bizarre fashions of the Teddy
Boys and the Beats have given way to
a taste for colorful, elegant clothes in
the Italian style both sexes tend to
wear very tight trousers that are deliber-
ately provocative and many of the
boys and girls look very attractive.
Middle class boys are catching on fast,
and the glossy magazines now regularly
show photographs of male models. The
sale of perfume for men is soaring.
pooD is also improving but rather more
slowly. So far this is almost entirely
a middle class trend and is particularly
strong among young marrieds who drink
wine regularly, cook elaborate meals and
spend their evenings happily discussing
food with the knowledge and enthusiasm
of Frenchmen. The cheaper public res-
taurants and cafes are still abysmally bad
but since so many can now afford the
more expensive little restaurants this
does net matter quite so much.
It would be possible to go on extend-
ing this list almost indefinitely. The
licensing laws, always more liberal than
in Australia, have recently been extended
again. (Even Wales has got local option.)
This summer for the first time landladies
at the seaside may serve alcoholic drinks
to the customers without a licence. Army
canteens sell whisky and gin to soldiers
as well as beer. Football grounds are
providing seats for all spectators. Some
gambling is now legal. There is no
longer even a pretence that Sundays are
intended for church-going and rest, al-
though Sunday theatres (but not cinemas)
and organised games (but not amateur
football and cricket, etc.) are still for-
bidden by law. Attendance at churches
and Sunday schools has declined steadily.
To most people Sunday is now the day
when you go for a drive in the country
in the car.
But all these things are simply facts
which, however significant, do not con-
Ve Y the immense change in atmosphere.
To appreciate that you must come to
London and see for yourself. Walk
through the parks and bee the most
shameless public love-making in Europe.
Stroll through Soho which is now a
sleasy replica of Montmartre. Go to a
dance hall and watch hundreds of teen-
age boys and girls dancing the twist with
a mixture of skill and eroticism which
would not surprise you in Rio de Janeiro.
TX/alk down the King’s Road, Chelsea,
on a summer evening and watch the
sons and daughters of the well-to-do en-
joying themselves in pubs and coffee bars.
Or watch the same boys and girls at
Easter marching from Aldermaston to
London with the Nuclear Disarmers,
mocking their own grim slogans by their
evident gaiety and enjoyment. (When I
remember the political marches of the
’3os I can hardly believe it is the same
country.)
I realise, of course, that a great many
of these changes are also taking place in
other Western countries and that they are
chiefly the result of a material revolu-
tion which began in America 50 years
ago. Yet I cannot help thinking that the
change has been more rapid and more
dramatic in Britain than anywhere else.
For this was the country of Puritanism,
where the Puritan religion first took root
and from which it spread across the world
to America, Australia and New Zealand.
For 300 years it dominated British cul-
ture, and even now most middle-aged
Englishmen know in their hearts that,
however much they resist and resent it,
they are stamped with it for life. Yet
today, quite suddenly, it has gone
though, of course, there are large areas
of British life where it still clings on
and it is difficult to believe that the young
people, twisting cheerfully in their tight
trousers, will ever revert to it.
As in all revolutions, there are ex-
cesses. It is painfuly obvious that many
young people do not quite know what to
do with their new freedom. It is also
'possible to detect a kind of neo-Puritan
reaction among young intellectuals of the
Left a Puritanism which has little to
do with sexual morals but a good deal
to do with a rejection jf materialism and
the affluent society. Yet on the whole I
find th changes good. Britain may not
be a greater nation or a better nation
than in the past: it will certainly be more
fun to live in.


INGHAM: A TOWN IN A HURRY
The North was built on sugar . Now it is moving in new directions
By L. J. ROBERTS
QEfEENSLAND’S sugar towns are
communities in a hurry, but not at
all sure where they are going. They have
boomed for 10 solid years and, settling
now into reluctant maturity, they remain
brash and anxious for development.
Always lively, in spite of being geared
to a seasonal economy, they come to
frantic excitement when their cane crops
are put to the torch as a preliminary to
harvesting. Then, for six months of the
year, they have their populations in-
creased by many hundreds of young,
lusty migrant cane-cutters, and their
yards and streets littered with black snow
—a fine trash carried by the wind from
the burning cane paddocks.
The sugar towns are like no other
Australian communities. Long before
planned mass migration policies were
conceived they had begun to produce a
new type of Australian. They made
their migrants Australians and their Aus-
tralians Europeans. Without knowing it
they effected the first assimilation pro-
gramme.
Sugar cane is grown in coastal sections
from the Northern Rivers of New South
Wales through to Mossman north of
Cairns. However, the true sugar belt—
where cane is the basis of economic life
—commences in the Mackay area. Apart
from gaps around Bowen and Towns-
ville cane is grown from there solidly
through to Mossman. Providing the
geographical centre of this sugar belt is
the Ingham district.
Only some 70 miles from the rapidly
growing industrial centre of Townsville,
which it manages to ignore without any
great difficulty, Ingham is typical of a
true sugar town.
Settlement in the Ingham area is not
yet 100 years old. First brief interest
was pastoral, but by 1872 areas of land
■ —some larger than the Duchy of Kent —
had been taken up for plantations on the
general pattern of the American south,
but using first indentured Melanesian,
then Japanese, Chinese and Malay labor.
Fortunes even by today’s standards were
lost regularly in plantation investment,
but still money kept coming forward.
Only one of the original half dozen or
so plantations managed to survive, and
eventually made the transition to the
system of small-farm supply of cane,
grown and harvested by European
labor. This was Macknade, launched as
a full plantation in 1872 by two English
brothers (with a brewery fortune back-
ing) and their partner. Macknade mill
now is one of the district’s two —both
owned and operated by the Colonial
Sugar Refinery Company Ltd. The other
is Victoria, the largest mill in the South-
ern Hemisphere.
Twin towns sprang up to serve the
district in the early 1880’s —Ingham 15
miles and Halifax nine miles from the
coast. Neither was planned. Ingham
evolved from the establishment of an
overland telegraph station and a hotel,
and Halifax from the decision of a land-
owner to subdivide a section of his
property.
Ingham gradually assumed supremacy,
and its position was clinched by its selec-
tion for the route of both north-south
highway and railway. Today, Ingham
has a population of just on 5000 people,
with another 7000 to 8000 in the district.
The whole economy centres on sugar
cane. More than one million tons are
harvested annually, giving the 700 to 800
farmers a gross return of more than
£5,000,000 a year. From that amount,
growers pay approximately 1200 migrat-
ory cutters from £BOO,OOO to £1,000,000
over the six months’ cutting season. Both
mills also employ hundreds of men.
The cutting force is almost entirely
migrants and to a large extent changes
from year to year—“ Summer of the
Seventeenth Doll” notwithstanding. The
day of the cane-cutter also appears to
be passing, with an increasing use of
special machines for the work.
The Ingham district has had a cos-
mopolitan background from its earliest
days. Apart from the Melanesian, Jap-
anese, Chinese and Malay laborers
brought for plantation work, settlers of
the 1880’s included many Scandinavians,
as well as Germans, Frenchmen and a
few Italians. Italian migration to the
sugar belt dates back to the 1890’s.
At the height of the controversy as to
whether or not Europeans would be
able to work in the tropics, an Italian
businessman living in Townsville sug-
gested that his countrymen would be best
fitted to take over the field work. He
selected several hundred men in Italy and
brought them to North Queensland.
Most were from Piedmont and from
that experiment can be traced the whole
pattern of continuing migration from
Italy to North Queensland.
There are villages and towns in Pied-
mont where virtually every family has
some connection, even if distant, with
Ingham. Today, more than half the
names on the Ingham area roll are
Italian. With many, however, nothing
Italian remains but the name. Piedmont-
ese and Sicilian names predominate, but
there also are Mantuan, Brescian, Vene-
tian, Calabrian, Sardinian, Lombard and
the rest.
Despite the influx, and sensational


newspaper reports to the contrary, Ing-
ham never could be said to have had an
Italian community. Among the original
migrants of the 1890 s through to the
1920 s and 30s there were too many
prejudices. To understand this it helps
to realise that Italy has been unified for
only 100 years. Major division was
between mainlander and Sicilian, but
there were divisions among the main-
landers also first on a North-South
basis, and then among the Northerners
on a provincial basis.
Each group spoke its own dialect, and
these have survived. Most first, second
or third generation offspring of migrants
speak only dialect and not Italian. Many
have difficulty reading the language.
Italian films are not popular, most young
people have to read the English sub-titles.
Concurrently with the Italian migrants
came Spaniards (mainly Basques) and'
Finns, though not in the same numbers.
Degree of inter-marriage between the
various national-origin sections of the
district always has been high. The re-
sult has been a levelling out of the div-
isions, not only between the main groups
but also among the sub groups.
Slight Divisions
If there are any divisions in the dis-
trict, they are between “old” migrant and
the Australian-born on the one hand
and the New Australians on the other.
Though even this is slight, there still are
few marriages between Australian-born
and the New Australian
Who are the people who typify a sugar
town? Possibly the most logical choice,
as in any other town, is the Shire chair-
man or mayor. In Ingham’s case, the
chairman of the Shire Council is W. O.
Garbutt who is so highly regarded that,
despite the strong political consciousness
of the district, he has had no opposition
from the main opposing group, the
A.L.P., in the last two elections.
His background is essentially pastoral.
There have been Garbutts in North
Queensland grazing and meat industries
for close to 100 years. Bill Garbutt and
his brother “Tonti” came to the Ingham
district in the 1930 s after Bill had spent
the depression years walking through then
uncontrolled sections of New Guinea in
the gold hunt.
With his brother, Tonti, and the former
Liberal Member for Herbert, John Mur-
ray, Bill Garbutt has been the driving
force behind the campaign to persuade
the Queensland Government to commit
itself to a scheme to use the vacant lands
of the tropic coastal strip for the fatten-
ing of Western and Gulf cattle. His plans,
and the plans of a committee of cattle-
men with which he was associated, call
for a scheme of Government finance for
the establishment of 500-acre fattening
farms which would turn off sufficient
cattle to provide for year-round opera-
tions by the North Queensland meat-
works, and thus eliminate part of the
Northern seasonal unemployment
problem.
A statement by Bill Garbutt, critical
of Government apathy, which was read
into the Parliamentary record, led to the
creation of a Government committee to
investigate the availability of land for
coastal fattening purposes. The Queens-
land Government eventually committed
itself to a scheme of construction of
“beef roads” to improve delivery to the
meatworks and markets from the West
and the Gulf, but the last has not been
heard from Bill Garbutt on the subject
of cattle fattening.
Bill Garbutt’s council has provided the
farming areas with the best rural roads in
the North, and has bitumen-surfaced all
but one or two of the newest residential
streets in the town of Ingham. He and his
councillors are pursuing a full town-
drainage scheme, and this year they will
open a new Shire Hall (probably air-
conditioned) and an Olympic standard
swimming pool.
With a big proportion of townspeople
coming from farms, or with relatives on
farms, there are no town-country div-
isions or barriers. The district is some 40
miles deep from the coast to the moun-
tains, and some 30 miles wide, but is
treated as one area for local authority
purposes. There are no divisions for
voting or rate collection and expenditure.
A sugar town like Ingham can attract
and hold men of outstanding capabilities
from all parts of the country. The Shire
Clerk, F. T. Lehane, came from Brisbane
some 25 years ago, and stayed. He has
one of the most commanding reputations
for administrative ability and knowledge
in Queensland Local Government.
Part-time Superintendent of the 50-
patient District Hospital, Gordon Mor-
risey, came to Ingham from Melbourne
as a young doctor, and has stayed to pass
the Government Service retiring age.
School-mate and friend still of the Prime
Minister, Mr. Menzies, he stayed to be-
come an outstanding figure in tropical
medicine, and the community’s best-
known figure.
Social life throughout the district is
informal in the extreme, and is com-
pletely devoid of any class structure.
There are no club facilities apart from
those of the R.S.L. and the bowling and
golf associations, and none is “social” in
the sense that applies in other towns. In
pre-war days, the staff members of the
two C.S.R. mills had tended to form a
group, but even that has changed now.
Once a year there are mild social pangs
for a relatively few of the Ingham district
young marrieds. The event is the invita-
tion-only Amateur Race Ball held in
Townsville. It is the only Townsville
social function which attracts any Ingham
interest, and most, if not all, of those in
Ingham who want to go usually manage
it.
The strongest and most successful of
the Ingham clubs and organisations are
those without barriers to membership by
way of religion. There are no exclusively
British, Italian, Spanish or Finnish clubs
or organisations. Anglican, Catholic and
Methodist churches are established in the
district, while a Lutheran pastor (with
only a hall to serve as a church) caters
mainly for the needs of the Finnish-
origin families.
The overriding district passion is fish-
ing. Most people play one or other of
the various sports, but everybody fishes.
People fish in hundreds from a sugar
loading jetty at the beach resort of
Lucinda. They fish in creeks and rivers,
at the reef and in the 20 miles long
channel between the mainland and huge,
rugged Hinchinbrook Island. They fish
from shore, and from dinghies, speed-
boats and launches. A thirty pound barra-
mundi is the universal aim, and a sur-
prisingly large number, at least near that
size, are caught.
Surprisingly, there is no organised fish-
ing activity, but there is a seemingly
never-ending stream of other organised
sport —bowls, tennis, golf, rugby league,
soccer, hockey, water ski-ing, skin diving,
rifle and gun shooting, surf lifesaving,
cycling, midget car racing and even rough
riding.
District is Mobile
The district is mobile in the extreme.
There is at least one vehicle for every
three people —giving the highest percen-
tage of relative ownership in Queensland,
and possibly in Australia.
The sugar harvest and crushing end
in December at the latest, and for the
four wet season months to April there
is little or no work to be done on the
farms. Consequently it is an ideal time
for a honeymoon. An Ingham wedding
with under 200 guests at the reception
is small. The range is up to 500-odd with
catering and drink charges up to 30s. to
£2 a head. Both sets of parents usually
share the charge. With a four to six
course “breakfast” and a following party
which can last to early morning, the gift
standard is outstanding. Their aggregate
outstrips the reception cost.
You tend to marry young in Ingham
because you grow up quickly. The pace


is set by farmers’ sons. They are put into
the farm ownership as early as possible
for income tax purposes, and have the
use of the family car, or more likely
have one of their own, as soon as they
have a licence. The farmer’s son or town
boy who can manage to own a cane
loading machine can earn up to £BO a
week for the six months’ harvest season.
After 80 years of strictly seasonal ac-
tivity, Ingham, like the other North
Queensland communities, suddenly is
aware of its economic disadvantages.
Some four voluntary groups, as well as
the Shire Council, are endeavoring to
find avenues for new expansion and
additional employment. One group is
pursuing secondary industry. Cases have
been advanced for a fertiliser factory, a
glass factory and a cigarette factory.
Scope is seen for the utilisation of a
secondary and waste timber for rough
paper or hardboard production. Another
group is pinning its faith in tourism,
while a third sees scope for relatively
large-scale cattle-fattening. A fourth
advocate utilisation of vacant lands for
tobacco-growing, and is seeking Govern-
ment action in the provision of weirs and
dams to enable large-scale irrigation.
Development is the magic word at
the moment, but no one knows quite how
to go about achieving it. Tobacco offers
probably the best prospects. Without any
Government schemes or finance, high
quality leaf worth about £IOO,OOO a year
already is being produced. The timber
milling industry brings in about the same
amount, while the cattle industry, con-
centrating on the stud development of
special tropical breeds, with some turn-
off of fats, is worth probably slightly
less. There are expansion problems with
both.
Tourism, however, seems to offer good
development prospects. The Shire Coun-
cil has provided gardens, lawns and parks
throughout the town. In the residential
sections there is barely a footpath and
road edge not mowed to lawn finish.
In rural areas farmers voluntarily
plant flowering trees on their road boun-
daries, and mow or disk the road-side
strips. With a natural garden setting be-
ing vastly enhanced, with magnificent
island, sea and range scenery, with three
caravan parks already established and
two motels on the way, an organised drive
is in progress for “development” by tour-
ist spending. The campaign is being dir-
ected primarily at the caravan or car
tourist.
At the moment, Ingham’s council,
community service organisations and
commercial interests are busily engaged
in the publication of what will be Queens-
land’s most lavish and expensive give-
away tourist brochure. It is to be dis-
tributed throughout Australia in an en-
deavor to boost the volume of tourist
business.
Over the past five years, Ingham has
been provided with a high hotel standard.
Two are in the luxury class, and a third is
near that rating. Air conditioning in
lounges and bedrooms, self-contained
rooms and suites, carpets, ceramics
and tiling provide a general standard
not to be found anywhere else in
rural Queensland. All of the best hotels
have been provided by purely Ingham
money and enterprise. Company-chain
hotels continue to be of what best can be
described as the “old-fashioned family
standard.”
Politically, the district is Liberal and/
or Country party —but until three years
ago had A.L.P. representation in State
and Federal Parliaments as a matter of
course. In Federal politics, Ingham
forms part of the Herbert electorate which
extends from Tully in the north down to
the Burdekin delta in the south, and which
is dominated in voting by the strong
A.L.P. majority in Townsville.
Almost traditionally, however, Ingham
has provided the candidates of the main
parties for the Federal seat. Until the
A.L.P.-Q.L.P. split, Herbert had been
held for many years for the A.L.P. by
W. F. Edmonds who had gained selec-
tion while an employee at Ingham’s
Macknade Mill. With the vote split,
Edmonds was defeated by Liberal John
Murray, an Ingham stud-cattle breeder,
who in one term gained national prom-
inence with his strong advocacy of the
scheme of coastal fattening of cattle on
improved pastures.
Successive Local Government and State
elections, however, have shown the
Q.L.P. to be a rapidly diminishing force,
and, with a small vote for the Ingham-
resident Q.L.P. candidate last December,
Murray was defeated narrowly by the
A.L.P. candidate, a Townsville furniture
dealer, Ernie Harding. It is unlikely that
Murray would have been defeated by any
other A.L.P. candidate—the Q.L.P. de-
cline notwithstanding. Harding was an
.inspired choice, and that he did stand
was due to the efforts of the Ingham
Party “strength.”
In the State political field, Ingham,
until two years ago, had been tied to a
portion of Townsville, under Labor appor-
tionment, to provide the Hinchinbrook
seat. While the Ingham section had
produced a Liberal-Country party
majority regularly, the Townsville sec-
tion vote had been sufficient to allow the
late C. G. Jesson to hold the seat for
the A.L.P. for some 20 years. With the
Liberal-Country party redistribution of
electoral boundaries two years ago, the
Townsville section was excluded from
Hinchinbrook.
“Nugget” Jesson, who at his death
early this year was described as one of
the most picturesque personalities in State
politics, did not bother to contest the
seat after redistribution, and it was won
comfortably by farmer and councillor,
John Row, for the Liberal-Country party.
The Liberal-Country party majority
recorded by Ingham voters in the Fed-
eral election indicates that despite the
Q.L.P. collapse Row will have no diffi-
culty in holding the seat next year.
A local product, Row is one of the
most popular men in the district. Before
standing for Parliament he served on
virtually every organisation in the Ing-
ham district—from school committees to
cane growers’ district executive. As
Council representative on the Towns-
ville Regional Electricity Board his efforts
have been largely responsible for the
almost complete electrification of the
rural sections of the district. By still liv-
ing in his electorate and shuttling back
and forth between Ingham and Parlia-
ment, Row has retained his position on
the Council and on the Regional Elec-
tricity Board.
Row’s thinking typifies the sugar area’s
approach to its problems. He sees the


sugar industry entering a period of stabil-
isation and consolidation, in which its
efficiency will take it over the problems
arising from the coil-apse of the Interna-
tional Sugar agreement and from
Britain’s entry into the European Com-
mon Market.
While the days of sugar industry ex-
pansion may have passed for an area like
Ingham, he sees no reason why the days
of overall primary industry expansion in
North Queensland should have passed.
Already he has advocated a new ap-
proach to crop investigation. His scheme
is for a system of localised crop experi-
ment under Department of Agriculture
supervision, using the resources of estab-
lished farmers so that when the results
are obtained they are of prac-
tical tests. At the same time he strongly
supports the coastal cattle fattening
scheme proposals.
In the most recent address-in-reply
debate, however, he pointed squarely to
the fact that the greatest problem of the
sugar industry area lies not in under-
development, but in determining means
of using all existing resources. In the
first instance, the factory potential of
sugar mills, each representing a capital
investment of up to a million or so
pounds, is wasted for the six months slack
season of each year.
He pointed out, too, that the lack of
employment in the North for sugar indus-
try workers from January to June causes
a further wastage of millions of pounds.
In the Ingham district, alone, the 1200
cane cutters employed each season earn
a gross of from £BOO,OOO to £1,000,000.
They spend probably less than half of
that in the area. The rest goes with them
when they rush back to the South as soon
as they finish cutting—and it never comes
back. This loss is duplicated in every
sugar area, and especially in those to the
north of Townsville which are most de-
pendent on migratory labor.
A swing to mechanisation could reduce
the dependence of the areas on migratory
labor and also reduce the loss of money
to Sydney and Melbourne—but by the
same token it also will mean less men
to spend the money saved.
It is the kind of problem that only a
sugar town could produce.
MONSOON
WEATHER
Sacred Cows and Platypus
By DESMOND O'GRADY
T am sure R. K. iNitictyan derived plenty
of amusement from his Australian
trip, arranged by the Department of Ex-
ternal Affairs in exchange for last
year’s visit to India by James McAuley
and John Thompson, for he views
“cultural exchange” with the same gently
ironic eye for incongruities which shapes
'his novels. “Writers are usually dumb
when they get together,” says Narayan.
At times on his visit the incongruities
have been such that he has beaten a
hurried retreat from local literati but he
is convinced that increased cultural con-
tact between India and Australia would
be mutually beneficial. He says that
Australian books should be sent to Indian
papers for review, and believes that of
the 2000 Indian libraries, 500 at least
would buy Australian books and sub-
scribe to the better Australian magazines.
There is a market in India but it is a
small one. Mr Narayan is probably the
most successful Indian novelist writing
in English, but his books sell only about
2000 copies at home. He has published
eight novels since he began in 1935 with
“Swami: and Friends”, but he could not
afford to stop writing for a Madras
newspaper a regular light Sunday column,
which he began on leaving Mysore
University, until four years ago. Nowa-
days he lives from his novels and very
occasional articles, mainly for American
magazines.
He takes about six months on a novel,
writing it once in shorthand then pruning
it with a blue pencil; he sees the entire
subject before he starts but his con-
ception changes as the characters grow.
As a man with a vested interest in the
colorful, he deplores the standardisation
which makes modern life barren. This
brought us where we had been headed
all along: what did he think . . .?
“I couldn’t make any comment at this
stage about Australians.” Mr Narayan is
very polite. Still, he had his eyes and ears
open, he could not help noticing that
“Australians talk as if they are saying
oyster all the time.”
Squalls were driving rain against the
window of his Bondi seafront hotel as he
looked out on a dark grey sea stretching
back to the mist grey horizon. No, he
didn’t think Bondi was the end, he liked
to walk along the beach. What fascinated
him were the men who stood on the
footpath outside the pub, staring. He
contrasted them to Englishmen who pre-
fer to have a newspaper in front of
their faces, not liking to observe or be
observed. The men outside the Bondi
pub reminded him of the Indians who
buy betel nut from roadside kiosks, and
stand and stare as they chew. Mr
Narayan finds such contemplation, be it
of sacred cows or of surfboard riders,
likeable, but he probably sized-up those
gazers with a fleeting glance. Short,
reserved, courteous, he is adept at grasp-
ing situations swiftly.
He had summed up the situation at
Circular Quay the previous day when his
companion had asked a series of questions
about ferry schedules and the official
had answered with a combination of
aggression and mime which meant they
should find out themselves from the
timetables. Narayan found it one of the
funniest incidents of the trip: for him it
was not an example of Australian rude-
ness but of a disinclination to work,
common to both Indians and Australians.
If there must be a generalisation, he
found Australians informal and spon-
taneous, but really he was more con-
cerned with the particular.
The platypus, for instance. He is keenly
interested in animals and delighted with
Taronga Park zoo, with the Australian
collection, and the views of the harbor
from the grounds. Animals are his
passion—animals and walking. At home
in Madras he walks to a certain point
and has his driver pick him up ; here
he had been walking about Bondi but
was somewhat depressed by it: “The
houses are so jammed up.”
Now he was confined to the hotel,
not even able to walk the curving beach,
because the grey rain was billowing
across the seafront. It seemed such a
long way from Madras, all in the cause
of cultural exchange.
“It was muggy like this when I was
in Bombay.” It was a little far-fetched
but Narayan picked it up immediately
and answered “Monsoon weather it’s
much the same everywhere.”


Around Melbourne
FOOTBALL AND M.F.L.
/'Vur cup indeed runneth over. Last
Saturday, April 21, on the one
day, we had the opening of the football
season and the opening night of the
second season of “My Fair Lady.”
But let us first talk about football.
Footballers, after all, are eminent
people in Melbourne. They are highly
sought after as licensees for hotels, as
TV commentators, and this season
they have taken to modelling over-
coats, shirts and cardigans in the best
fashion spots.
But to give you some idea how
Melburnians feel about football 1
would like to direct your attention to
the black and white dinner that took
place for 200 magpies at the Colling-
wood Football Club on Tuesday,
April 17. Now there is a special
mystique, a special dedication about
Collingwood Football Club members
and it is the object of all red-blooded
Melburnian boys to play for the club
team.
The dinner was a black tie affair,
chianti, turkey, brandy in balloons —
only L:? best. The climax came when
two trumpeters from the band played
a fanfare. Then from the end of the
hall, lo! a Boy Scout entered bearing
high an embroidered cushion. And
what was on this cushion? Nothing
else but the sacred No. 1 black and
white Collingwood guernsey.
And with the exciting blare of the
trumpets as accompaniment out
stepped the Collingwood captain,
Murray Weideman, no less, to receive
his sweater from the Collingwood
president, Mr Syd Coventry. In came
another Scout bearing high another
cushion, this time bearing the No. 2
guernsey, for Ray Gabelich, the ruck-
man. Some ruckman, Ray Gabelich.
When he had a small altercation with
four policemen in December last year
a spectator called out: “Don’t
struggle Ray, you could do two of
’em but not four!”
A fter Mr Gabelich’s sweater was
borne in on a cushion so came all
the other sweaters on embroidered
cushions right down to No. 39 on their
senior training list. Each man received
his fanfare, each man received his
guernsey from the club president.
Purists in the audience felt that to
give the occasion its due solemnity
it might have been better to have had
a priest present. Then there could
have been a proper blessing of the
regimental colors, so to speak.
Down for the toast to the senior
players was Mr Frank Galbally, QC,
ex-playc and distinguished criminal
lawyer. Against his name was the
quotation “Speak fair words or else
be mute” —“Venus and Adonis.”
Mr Galbally said: “Those colors
have been worn by people who have
been called great-great names, McHale,
Coventry, Collier, Rose . . . These
men never counted the cost when it
meant bringing honor and glory to
Collingwood ... It takes sacrifices
to make footballers. It takes not only
sacrifice but self-discipline and we
believe that you people are going to
follow in their footsteps. We want
YOU to bring honor and glory to
Collingwood.”
"Dut to return to the other tremen-
dous occasion as pointed out
earlier. “My Fair Lady” has reopened
in Melbourne. Never before has J. C.
Williamsons been so happy. This
show —hereafter designated as MFL—
has had 2160 performances in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand. Only on rare
occasions has it shown to empty seats.
For the last days in Brisbane the
management was almost in tears over
the opportunities that were being lost.
The customers were sitting in aisles.
All in all, nigh on 3,000,000 people
have seen the first and second com-
panies.
Please excuse the use of that word
second. JCW’s frowns on the
word “second” because it seems to
denote second-best. When referring to
No. two company one should always
call it the “new” company. The New
company is now in Christchurch
and from all reports it is turning in
just as much money as the old com-
pany. You are asking how much
money JCW’s has made? That’s a
very rude thought but at a conserva-
tive estimate the turnover would have
been more than £3,000,000.
Things have been so good that MFL
was the cause of air-conditioning
being put into Her Majesty’s Theatre
and many of us remember that far
distant day back on January 24, 1959,
when MFL opened in Melbourne. The
night was a scorcher and unheard of
things happened. Melburnian gentle-
men took off their jackets and some
were seen even to undo their collars
and loosen their white ties. Within a
year air-conditioning came to Her
Majesty’s and MFL paid for it.
1>lease don’t think I have anything
against MFL. It is a splendid show.
A certain Mr and Mrs Patrick of
Canterbury booked seats D22-23 in
the front stalls once every fortnight
while MFL was showing here on the
first occasion and they saw it 52 times.
The 53rd time came up on Saturday
night. It’s just that, after all, we have
had 73G performances in Melbourne
already, and that MFL is tying up
the best theatre in town ad infinitum.
I mean, MFL is destined to become
another permanent money-spinner
like “Maid Of The Mountains” or
MOM.
MOM was revived for Our Glad, it
seems, almost every month for 30
years, and it’s sure to come back
again in a week or two. This new
session of MFL has all the signs of
permanence. Michael Denison of
“Boyd QC” fame is playing Professor
Higgins, a huge stack of special MFL
tickets have been printed and the box
office painted in MFL colors.
John McCallum, JCW’s Managing
Director, recently went on a tour of
the theatres in the US, London and
Paris. In 11 weeks he saw just on 100
shows, which must have been one of
the finest theatre-thons ever endured
by a theatre man. To fit it all in he
didn’t miss a night show or a matinee
in any town in any one week, and he
has admitted since that he was cross-
eyed when it was all over.
But if we are to have MFL, and who
knows even MOM again, what chance
is there for us to see these 100 shows?
But perhaps we should be more grate-
ful. Take Perth. Perth hasn’t seen
MFL at all and Perth won’t see it
until the show has finished its second
run in Melbourne. 3o the western
capital waits patiently. Although it is
rumored that some of the tunes have
been played there and the citizens
found them quite catchy.
BATMAN


OVERSEAS
BASUTOLAND FLASHPOINT
The Communist party is established under UK protection in
the very heart of Dr Verwoerd's South Africa
From JACK HALPEIN in Basutoland
'T'he British colony of Basutoland, which
is totally surrounded by South
Africa, is on the verge of constitutional
changes leading to internal self-govern-
ment. But criticism is gathering around
Mr Ntsu Mokhehele, leader of Basuto-
land’s Congress Party. The Congress
Party is Basutoland’s strongest and best
organised party, and Mr Mokhehele has
put the tiny and impoverished enclave
(11,716 square miles) “on the map” in
Pan-Africanist circles by gaining a place
on the steering committee of the All-
African People’s Conference in Accra.
Until now he seemed destined to be
Basutoland’s first Prime Minister when it
gains responsible Government from
Britain, and had been emphatic in
denouncing violence, anti-whiteism, and
communism.
But this image of Mr Mokhehele and
his party has been flatly contradicted
during the past two months by the leader
in person or by his top lieutenants, and
this has not gone unremarked by the
Basuto, by the British administration,
nor, presumably, by Accra, from whence
he is known to receive much of his
financial and other support.
Last month Mr Jack Mosiane and 14
other members of the party were given
stiff sentences for organising public
violence. Mr Mosiane, who got ten years’
hard labor, is one of Mr Mokhehele’s
top aides. The Crown alleged that the
accused, acting as members of the
Basutoland Congress Party, had planned
“public and indiscriminate violence” with
the object of causing the whites to flee
the country and overthrowing the
Government.
The trial put Mr Mokhehele, as presi-
dent of the Congress Party, in an embar-
rassing position, not least because when
he was called as a defence witness to
testify to his movement’s principle of
non-violence, the prosecution sought to
destroy his testimony by quoting ver-
batim from speeches he had made in
other parts of Africa, notably in Ghana.
Basutoland has no “white settlers” and
only Basuto can own land here. Traders
hold their land at the pleasure of the
Paramount Chief, and inter-racial rela-
tions, though by no means ideal, present
no real problem in what is recognised to
be an African territory heading for
African rule. But when Mr Mokhehele
was invited to be the guest speaker at a
public meeting in multi-racial Swaziland,
he greatly embarrassed his hosts by
making a bitterly anti-white speech.
But perhaps the most important
element in the crisis now brewing around
Mr Mokhehele is connected with com-
munism. This is a very live issue in
Basutoland, where an official communist
party has recently been established —
under British protection—in the very
heart of Dr Verwoerd’s South Africa.
The Catholic Church considers the com-
bating of communism in the country as
one of its major tasks, and until now it
seemed that it had as a strange bedfellow
the anti-clerical and especially anti-
Catholic president of the Congress Party.
Mr Mokhehele has been carrying on a
verbal offensive against communism, and
his markedly unfriendly attitude towards
some South African refugees in Basuto-
land has ostensibly been based on his
fear that some of them had communist
sympathies. Last year he denounced Mr
Nelson Mandela, the underground leader
of the banned African National Congress
in South Africa, saying: “I hate these
so-called freedom fighters who are mostly
communist-inspired and who are
interested in crippling nationalist move-
ments by their tricks and infiltration ”
Yet, the local Anti-Communist League, a
McCarthy-type organisation, has infor-
mation which suggests that while Mr
Mokhehele’s Congress Party is opposed to
local communists, some of its members
are at least friendly to Russia.
T'he French publication “East and
West” recently reprinted an inter-
view given to “Pravda” by the Con-
gress Party’s official Cairo representative.
Asked tj comment on the recently pub-
lished programme of the communist party
of Basutoland, Mr Mokhehele’s represen-
tative said: “This is a document of great
force. I agree with its thesis.” He went
on to say that his people recognised the
unprecedented success of the Soviet
Union, and that he believed that the pro-
gramme of the communist party of the
Soviet Union provided a guide and source
of strength to Basutoland Africans in
their struggle against hated colonialism.
Despite the slump in Mr Mokhehele’s
prestige, there is no doubt his party, com-
mitted to carbon-copying Ghana, remains
the best organised in the territory.
His “loyal” critics are moreover
reassured by the thought that there is at
least one younger man capable of taking
over the leadership should Mr Mokhe-
hele’s autocratic hold on the party
machine be broken. Among his party’s
opponents is the Basutoland National
Party under Chief Jonathan Leabua, who
is universally liked. This party, which
now strongly disclaims the pro-Catholic
sympathies with which its opponents have
tarred it, is improving its organisation
and gaining in membership.
Chief Jonathan now plans to petition
the United Nations to put Basutoland
under some form of special relation with
the UN Trusteeship Council, thus replac-
ing British rule and protection against
South Africa. British colonial servants
could remain if they wished and were
wanted as part of the UN personnel. Any
physical move by Dr Verwoerd would
then involve him in a direct clash with
the UN, who would at the same time have
a foothold in the heart of South Africa.
Tn the present constitutional i ncertainty,
the future of the Paramount Chief
Moshoeshoe 11, otherwise known as
Prince Bereng, is surrounded with par-
ticularly thorny problems. Only 23,
Prince Bereng has had a good Western
education. Paradoxically, it is this educa-
tion and his intens desire !o see Basuto-
land become a modern and viable
Western-style State which complicates his
position. For he wishes to take a direct
and active part in his country’s affairs.
He has made it clear that he does not wish
to be merely a constitutional monarch.
In this he has the backing of one small
political party, the Marema Tlou. Of


the other parties, not even the recently
formed communist party dares to speak
directly against the Paramount, and
probably only the communists would
wish to do so. The Paramount Chief is
accepted and endorsed by most of these
intensely proud and nationalistic moun-
tain people. But abuses of the arbitrary
rights by chiefs to allocate or revoke
land holdings have caused much
bitterness.
Prince Bereng’s “negotiations” for
financial aid in the United States and
Canada during his visit this year have
pleased the Basuto, who are almost uni-
versally under the impression that the
world is queueing up to give or lend them
money.
WAR IN THE VILLAGES
The peasants are frightened and dissatisfied
From DENNIS BLOOD WORTH in Singapore
Tn South Vietnam, more than 20,000
communist guerrillas the Viet-
cong are fighting a strike-by-night war
of the villages to take control of the
countryside from President Ngo Dinh
Diem’s Administration, and ultimately
to overthrow its “pro-Western” regime
altogether.
The Vietnamese Army sweeps through
the countryside, but the Vietcong dis-
perse, and reassemble only when the
troops have gone.
The real struggle is for permanent con-
trol of the villages. Terrorists depend on
intimidated or sympathetic peasants for
information, food and auxiliary forces,
and the Government calculates that it
can isolate the Vietcong if it gains the
confidence and loyalty of the country
people. So Saigon has ordered an ex-
panding network of fortified hamlets, in
which peasants will be defended by a
section of the volunteer Self-Defence
Corps, and their “hearts and minds” con-
ditioned by a flow of technical assistance,
social services and propaganda.
A typical “strategic hamlet” on the
waterlogged fringes of the Mekong Delta
had a maternity hut with a midwife on
duty, an infirmary in which a young
woman, trained in the rudiments of nurs-
ing, presided over a first-aid box, and an
information booth whose walls were
decorated not only with uninspiring
photographs of Ministers in Saigon, but
with instructive posters on chicken-rais-
ing and the use of fertilisers. There was
an office for the hamlet chief and his
three administrative assistants, and a
communal hall in which young men re-
ceived military training and political
indoctrination.
The earth-floored houses of palm
thatch and plaited reed, to whose door-
lintels were nailed census boards enumer-
ating their legitimate occupants, were
dominated by a high watch-tower from
which sentries peered out over the low-
lying, stubbly rice-fields. The hamlet was
When the Indo-China war ended in
an armistice in 1954 it left Vietnam
divided between a communist State
under Ho Chi-minh in the north and
a non-communist State in the south
now ruled by President Ngo Dinh
Diem and heavily backed by Ameri-
can military and economic aid. Provi-
sions in the armistice for the political
reunification of Vietnam have re-
mained a dead letter, but during the
past year communist guerrillas, sup-
ported from the north, have begun
to operate in increasing strength in
the rural areas of the south. Seeing
this as a communist attempt at
conquest by subversion, President
Kennedy has tried to counter it by
applying his new ideas of “uncon-
ventional warfare.” Thousands of
American troops, specially trained in
guerrilla warfare, have been sent to
help the South Vietnam Army as
instructors and advisers in operations
against the communist Vietcong.
surrounded by a palisade of high, pointed
bamboo stakes, and its periphery and
some of its narrow internal paths were
strewn with planks studded with eight-
inch nails.
It was also defended by 10 black-
uniformed village guards of the Self-
Defence Corps, assisted by the most re-
liable local members of the Government’s
mass “Revolutionary Youth” movement.
The entire population had been organised
into groups of five families, and disci-
plined to respond to a code of drumbeats
from a tocsin hung in the communal
hall, whether it issued a general alarm
in case of a Vietcong attack, or merely
summoned young women of the hamlet
to a hygiene class.
The security situation has improved,
and the strategic-hamlet idea is a quali-
fied success. But the peasants remain
frightened, dissatisfied and unconvinced.
The easiest way to raise a laugh in any
of the seven villages and hamlets I visited
in the Delta region was to ask how much
aid had filtered down to them from
Saigon.
The Self-Defence section was armed
with long, antiquated “Indo-China” and
French MAS 36 rifles, for which ammu-
nition was desperately short. The “Revo-
lutionary Youth” volunteers had bamboo
staves, only a few of them steel-tipped.
There were six hand-grenades.
In the capital, large sums are devoted
to flashy projects such as the four-lane
highway from Saigon to Bien Hoa. The
village Self-Defence guard, who risks
his life daily, is paid £1 a week, and his
wife and children receive nothing
whether he is alive or dead. A hamlet
chief may be paid 30s. a month, or noth-
ing. A village chief, responsible for a
community of 4000 to 5000 people, is
lucky if he receives £lO a month.
The price of loyalty is higher than this.
In a hamlet of 1700 peasants it had been
possible to find only 25 reliable defence
volunteers among the “Republican
Youth.” Ten village chiefs were killed
by the Vietcong in this area during the
last year.


THE PREPOSTEROUS
ARMADA
Gradual strangulation replaces the knock-out blow as US
policy on Cuba
From NORA BELOFF in Washington
It is just a year since the Americans
launched their ill-fated armada
against the Cuban beaches, a year
in which they have been seeking other
and less hamfisted ways of destroying
Dr Fidel Castro. A communist blot in
the Western Hemisphere is almost as dis-
turbing to the Americans as a capitalist
West Berlin to Eastern Europe. And as
Secretary of State Dean Rusk recently
said: “The Cuban story is not yet over.”
The first round of the struggle is now
the subject of a lively and perceptive
book, “The Cuban Invasion, The
Chronicle of a Disaster” (Ballantine
Books, New York), by two American
journalists, Tad Szulc of the “New York
Times” and Karl Meyer of the “Wash-
ington Post.”
The train of events they describe is
both poignant and preposterous. In
Washington there are still too many red
faces and sealed lips to be able to get the
whole story, but the book has added sub-
stantially to what was already on public
record.
Even more to the authors’ credit,
addressing an American public to whom
white is white and red is black, they have
made a serious effort to be dispassionate.
They recall that the people shouting
loudest against Castro’s totalitarianism
were “stoically indifferent” about the
atrocities of the Batista regime.
The book opens with the revolution:
Castro is shown needing “a predatory
foreign foe” to sustain patriotic enthusi-
asm —a role filled with alacrity by an
American Government hostile to his
economic upheavals.
The authors, who met Castro before
and after the events, still seem uncertain
whether, as he subsequently claimed, he
was a communist all along or whether
his doctrines developed in the process of
his anti-American struggle.
They recall that the communists
originally refused to support his rebellion
and took over leading posts only after
he was well installed. They tell a curious
story of a night during his 1959 visit to
Washington when, after dining with the
then Vice-President Richard Nixon, he
returned to the Cuban Embassy and
woke up his aides.
“He showed himself excited and vol-
uble. According to those present he said
he was worried about two threats to the
Cuban revolution: that it would be dis-
credited by mass executions or by com-
munist infiltration.” The authors com-
ment: “possibly his concern was
genuine.”
It is certainly in keeping with his
much more recent public utterances
against “the idiocies” and “criminal
errors” of communist party bosses, who,
he now complains, are trying to impose
their will on all Cuban activity.
Yet the book does not uphold the
view sometimes expressed that the
Kennedy Administration simply in-
herited the invasion plan from its
reactionary predecessors. The writers
point out that when President Eisen-
hower first authorised the formation of
exile cadres in March, 1960, “no one
contemplated a massive one-shot inva-
sion.”
As late as October of that year emigre
officers told the authors of plans for
using the exile forces to support multiple
guerrilla actions which would start inside
Cuba. In fact, no evidence is adduced to
show that the former President would
have authorised the invasion at all.
All the new President did inherit was
what came to be known as “the disposal
problem”—what to do with the 1500
soldiers being trained in Guatemala and
whom the Guatemalans wanted to get
rid of.
The authors seem to think that the
disaster might have been averted if the
agency had leant on Left-wing anti-
communist Cubans instead of mixing
in Right-wing pro-Batista elements,
although it is difficult to see how this
would have overcome the basic defect
of mounting what would inevitably have
looked like a foreign assault on a smaller
neighbor.
They reveal last-minute interference
by Kennedy’s aids to “democratise” the
Cuban leadership, but describe how, all
through the action, the Cubans were
treated as stooges.
The attack was launched in the name
of a “revolutionary council” which was
kept behind locked doors while it took
place. Their war bulletins were issued
by a Madison Avenue advertising
agency. If the invading force had estab-
lished itself apparently the idea was to
fly in the council, recognise it as legal
Government and have it call in American
aid. To the outside world it would have
looked very much like Kadar calling in
the Russians in the 1956 Hungarian
uprising.
In the final stages President Kennedy
obviously exercised only remote control.
He nonetheless overruled CIA and mili-
tary proposals for giving American air
cover to the invading force, and he was
still hesitating about the whole venture
at a meeting of his principal advisers ten
days before D-Day.
The final debacle in the Bay of Pigs
coincided, as the authors say, “by cruel
circumstances” with a glittering White
House ball. They give a graphic descrip-
tion of how the President was summoned
from the dance floor to reject a final
appeal by the CIA for aerial reinforce-
ments to save their little army from
disaster.
Tn refraining from using brute force —
A which would certainly have been
applauded by most of the American pub-
lic —the President showed wisdom and
restraint. Victory would have been easy,
but the sequel would have been indefi-
nite enmity of the growing forces of
nationalism throughout Latin America.
The authors say the new Administra-
tion has learnt its lessons: last year’s
mistakes will certainly not be repeated.
The President has overhauled the deci-
sion-making processes to ensure proper
exercise of authority: the CIA has been
diminished in size and power.
There have been radical changes in
the personnel directing Latin American
policies, and these have shifted from
being primarily against Castro to being
actively for non-communist reformers
in the other Republics. Washington
hopes that through the “Alliance for
Progress” Latin Americans will see for
themselves the advantages of choosing
American-aided evolution rather than
communist-aided revolution.
The policy of gradual strangulation
has replaced the policy of the knock-out
blow: but Castro can still blame his
troubles on “the predatory foreign foe”
—just as when the story began.


FORUM
STUDENT ACTION AGAINST
WHITE AUSTRALIA
We need to break with our traditional immigration policy
By PETER SAMUEL
r | 'HE deportation of Willie Wong to Communist China has focused atten-
tion on Australia’s immigration policy and its administration once again.
Students from Melbourne and Monash Universities, and the Royal Melbourne
Institute of Technology, marched last wee\ to the Immigration Department
in protest against the deportation. Melbourne has long been the centre for
the attac\ on the policy and in this article a Melbourne student, a member
of the “Reform” group and of Student Action, advances his arguments
against it.
A Recent incident in South Africa illus-
trated the farcical nature of racial
discrimination. The Pretoria Council
banned a team of Japanese swimmers
from its “white baths.” This action
caused severe embarrassment to the
South African Government which has
been trying desperately to improve rela-
tions with Japan, mainly to promote
trade between the two countries. Only a
few months ago, Dr Verwoerd declared
Japanese to be “White,” thereby giving
them the privileges previously reserved
for Europeans. The Pretoria Council
were now in trouble and were forced to
compromise. They did this, dubbing the
Japanese “honorary whites” for the pur-
poses of swimming galas.
What has this to do with the Australian
immigration policy? It shows the diffi-
culties that a country gets into by regard-
ing non-Europeans as being in some way
unique and therefore requiring special
treatment. Thus the latest statement of
our policy is that “in general, persons not
of European descent are not eligible to
enter Australia for permanent residence.”
(Hon. A. R. Downer, 10/5/60, Hansard,
p.1563ff). The problem immediately
arises of defining who is European and
therefore allowed to apply to migrate to
Australia. An officer at a recruitment
centre has described the actual procedures
of the Australian immigration authorities
in Southern Europe as follows:
“A criterion for initial acceptance was
that the applicant had to appear not more
than 25 per cent. non-European in appear-
ance and this the selection officer neces-
sarily judged on facial characteristics,
mainly skin color and to a lesser extent,
bone structure, eyes, etc. Skin color was
not infrequently given as a reason for low
assimilation potential even if the appli-
cant appeared less than 25 per cent. non-
European, and common in the selection
reports were comments such as ‘Far too
dark,’ ‘Obvious Moorish blood,’ ‘Could
be taken for Asian,’ ‘Fuzzy-wuzzy hair-
looks like South Sea Islander,’ ‘Less than
50 per cent, (or whatever per cent.) Euro-
pean in appearance’.” He then go°s on to
describ the medical test saying that “the
doctor could make a different estimation
of the percentage of ‘non-Europeans’ if
he saw that the exposed parts of the body
had a deeper coloration from tanning.”
Such racist tests are inherent in the
present immigration policy. How else
could one decide who was “European”
and who not? Those given the task of
implementing the policy must draw a line
somehow. As for the deportations which
constantly recur, the reason was stated
frankly in one case at least, in the case
of Thomas Palmer, educated in Lanca-
shire, with an English father and Cey-
lonese mother. Senator Henty (for the
Minister) said on May 15 last year that
Palmer was unacceptable because he was
“predominantly non-European in appear-
ance.” The Senator went on: “This is in
line with immigration policy since Feder-
ation.”
Despite this, Government spokesmen
have at various times claimed that the
policy is now more liberal than once,
and no longer deserves the traditional
title “White Australia.” They like to
refer to it as our “restrictive immigration
policy.” It is pointed out that the policy
is not one of rigid exclusion of Asians.
Over the last 20 years it seems that about
1800 Asians have been granted permanent
residence. (Some of these might have
come here before Federation.) Three
types of “non-Europeans” are admitted
at present: spouses of Australians (but
not the spouses of Dutchmen or French-
men), any who manage to stay 15 years,
and “distinguished and highly qualified.”
A defender of the present policy sug-
gested that many more Asians could be
admitted without any change in the
present wording. This could be done
through the last category, simply by
lowering the standards of distinction and
qualification required. Thus “liberalisa-
tion” might be achieved without attract-
ing the attention of the diehards.
Modification by Stealth
""There are two reasons why this sort of
modification by stealth would be in-
adequate. One is that the basic form of
discrimination between “European” and
“non-European,” between white-skinned
and not so white, would continue. How-
ever, being less rigorous, it would be
correspondingly less objectionable. The
second and more important reason why
it would be inadequate is that it would
involve no break with a bad tradition.
There may once have been rational argu-
ments for a White Australia Policy. But
it was not these which gave it its motive
force and made it part of Australian
tradition. It was hysterical and grossly
prejudiced beliefs in racial inequality,
expressed in colorful, forceful and un-
inhibited language. The Bulletin of 70
years ago was full of the stuff! Such
theories have since been shown to be
without scientific basis and few respon-
sible people still support them. Even the
staunchest protagonists of White Aus-
tralia profess no illusions about racial
superiority. But the only convincing evi-
dence of a changed doctrine will involve
a bold break with the tradition of White
Australia. Until the fundamental change
of dropping the discriminatory (as be-
tween “European” and “non-European”)
clause is made, the policy will continue to
be basically illiberal. Until past policy
is renounced, our answers to the charge
of racialism will be unconvincing. Exactly
these steps have just be taken in Canada
(Melbourne “Herald,” 6/2/62).
The proposal is that stringent selection
standards apply, but to all aspiring


migrants regardless of racial character-
istics, control would be on the basis of
factors such as educational standards,
health, age, kinship with people already
resident, skills, perhaps security rating as
well as housing conditions and employ-
ment opportunities available in Australia.
“Capacity to absorb” would be the basic
principle.
Tilting at Windmills
'T'here are criticisms which deserve con-
sideration. The first is fear of racial
strife, usually expressed by reciting a long
list of places where there has been friction.
Some say such friction is “inevitable”
when different peoples mix. This is a com-
placent and fatalistic attitude. For friction
can always be traced back to the particu-
lar conditions involving inequality, to
problems of employment, housing, dis-
proportionate economic power, political
subjugation or historical inferiority of
status. Of course, there is antipathy to
people who take one’s job, create slums,
depress wages, or who oppress and ex-
ploit. But these conditions need not arise
under a planned system involving the
controls proposed. Prejudice may arise
also through failure to grasp the fact of
inherent equality. This is engendered by
lack of contact with other peoples on a
personal level. Hence the W.A.P., by
isolating all but the student community
from Asians, perpetuates the small
amount of prejudice that still exists due
to ignorance.
A related criticism of policy change is
that it would damage our “cultural
homogeneity.” It is undeniable that a
degree of cultural homogeneity (it’s a
very vague concept) is desirable and that
moves to widen the scope of our immi-
gration intake will always involve risks
of disharmony. But we’ve always been a
mixed mob, the Irish having formed an
important and lively minority group of
differing religious and often political
attac 1 nen'. The oft heard phrase “98 per
cent. British stock” as a description of our
homogeneity is misleading. Risks of dis-
harmony were faced in 1947 when a
planned programme of immigation from
outside Britain and Ireland was initiated.
This programme seems to be generally
regarded as successful in that it has bene-
fitted us economically (some would say
militarily, too) and provided social diver-
sity not significantly offset by undesir-
able tensions.
One can argue for the maintenance of
the existing degree of homogeneity and
yet denounce the White Australia Policy.
For skin color is no test of culture. There
are Asians who have more in common
with us than many Europeans we admit
at present. It might once have been
logical to argue that white skins equalled
literacy, health, Christianity and high-
living standards. But it isn’t any longer.
White-skinned people still have a pre-
ponderance but not a monopoly of these
things. They don’t even have a monopoly
of Westernisation if we require this of
our migrants. Especially in countries
once British colonies, are people who live
much as we do. The British-educated
Malayan or American negro doctor is
likely to assimilate more easily than the
Spanish peasant or the Greek fisherman.
Some have condemned change because
they feel it would be robbing Asian coun-
tries of skilled people who are needed in
their own countries. This is a subject on
which Asian countries themselves are
best informed. They may decide that they
need to restrict the exit of skilled people
and require this in migration agreements
with us. But there are Asian countries
(e.g., Malaya, Hong Kong and Japan)
more economically advanced and less in
need of skilled people than some Euro-
pean countries (e.g., Portugal and Greece).
Even in some of the poorer Asian coun-
tries there are surpluses of skilled people
in some fields (e.g., Indian lawyers and
arts graduates). Our altruism in this
respect is unnecessarily prejudiced in
favor of Asians.
A Prejudice in favour of Asians
A nother subject of controversy is the
precise method of operation of con-
trol. Some have suggested quotas, perhaps
to allay fears that the “gates were being
opened.” Quotas are certainly workable.
They apply in the United States and in
New Zealand. But they would seem
rather inflexible and a system more along
the lines of the latest British and Can-
adian practice might be better.
Some have said that what we propose
is the “thin end of the wedge.” This im-
plies that we propose at some stage that
controls be lifted. This would be foolish
and w e do not propose it. Because of
the uncertainties involved, for a start at
least only rather few Asians should be
admitted, say between one and two
thousand each year.
“Our immigration laws are no different
from theirs.” This is true but it is not
the Australian law but the policy to which
objection is taken. Asian countries apply
their laws severely because they are in no
need of more people and do not, like us,
pursue an active immigration policy.
Anyway, since when were they our model
of virtue?
When arguments fail some defenders
of White Australia cast aspersions on the
motives of people who attack it. It is
attacked because it is felt to be wrong
and bad for Australia. Objection is taken
to it firstly on moral grounds, dislike of
racial discrimination. A color bar is felt
to be a particularly pernicious form of
discrimination because it is impassable.
It is an affront to our scientific know-
ledge and to our democratic and humani-
tarian pretentions. It also involves un-
necessary injustice to individuals.
In our international relations the
W.A.P. is a running sore. The deporta-
tions and the public outcry which they
raise get us plenty of bad publicity. In
a world rightly intolerant of racial dis-
crimination, White Australia is a ready-
made piece of anti-Australian propa-
ganda for those who wish to discredit this
country.
What of the likelihood of public accept-
ance of change? The indications on this
score are very hopeful. In the several
public opinion polls which have been held
in the past few years there has been an
absolute majority in favor of Australia
admitting skilled Asians as migrants fe.g.,
that reported in Melbourne “Herald.”
4/11/61, 57 per cent, said “Yes,” 32 per
cent. “No” and 11 per cent, were unde-
cided).
THE SENATE
REPLIES . . .
A check against the danger of dictatorship
SIR ALISTER McMULLIN, President of the Senate, answers “The Bulletin”
Tn the Bulletin of the 31st March
A appeared an article entitled “A plain
man’s guide to the Senate,” in which the
writer, having declared that the Senate
was designed primarily as the watchdog
of federalism, proceeds to argue, not only
that the watchdog has failed to do its
job, but that the purpose for which the
watchdog was constituted has disap-
peared.
To argue that the Senate has failed as
a watchdog, the Bulletin writer likens
himself to the man who would argue
that the fire brigade is a failure because
it has not put out any fires. First of all
there has to be a fire. And for the


Senate, first of all it has to have sent to
it by the House of Representatives (in
effect, the Federal Government) legisla-
tive proposals harmful to certain State
interests. But the very existence of the
Senate, in which the States have equal
representation, must always exert a re-
straining influence on any Government
which might be tempted to propose
measures inimical to the welfare of the
States, particularly the less populated
States. The power of the Senate to
assume its role as the protector of State
interests is ever present, and the fact
that the Senate, in recent years, has not
had to invoke it is a tribute to wise gov-
ernment rather than a criticism that the
Senate does not fulfil its function as a
States House. Without a States House to
reckon with, Governments may not be so
wise.
As a matter of fact, Governments have
not always been so wise, and when the
need has been there the Senate has in-
deed functioned as a States House. For
example, during the first 30 odd years
of federation the Senate was very active
piotecting State interests in the very
important tariff field, and on numerous
occasions State interest triumphed over
Party interest. In more recent years, there
has been little amendment by the
Senate of tariff proposals, due no doubt
to the early work done by the Senate and
the subsequent satisfactory operation of
the Tariff Board. Circumstances could
arise, however, such as new States, which
could again make tariff questions a vitai
matter for the Senate.
On other issues, too, there is evidence
that, when the need arises, the Senate
discharges its function as the watchdog
of the States, and Party interest is
subordinated. For example, in 1939 a
Gold Tax Bill was introduced by the
Menzies Government to impose a tax on
gold equal to 75 per cent of the price
in excess of £A.9 an oz. That Bill was
negatived in the Senate on the second
reading on the 20th September, 1939.
Western Australian Senators objected to
the measure on the ground that the pro-
posal would retard the expansion of the
goldmining industry in Western Austra-
lia. The voting was 16 Ayes and 16 Noes,
two of the three Government Senators
from Western Australia voting with the
Labor Opposition. (The third Govern-
ment member from Western Australia
was a Minister and perhaps considered
himself bound to support the Ministry.)
A second Gold Tax Bill was introduced,
which passed into law. Under this second
Bill the tax was reduced from 75 to 50
per cent.
On another occasion, in June, 1952,
there was the spectacle of all ten Sena-
tors from one State voting on the one
side in a division. The incident occurred
during the consideration of the Land
Tax Assessment Bill 1952, when a Tas-
manian Senator moved an amendment
that land tax assessments should not be
based on a value of more than double
the previously pegged value of land on
which previous assessments had been
based. The ten Senators from Tasmania,
who comprised five Liberals and five
Labor Senators, voted solidly for the
amendment, and the Government was de-
feated by two votes. The point to be made
from this is that political survival
amongst Senators is a factor in the
operation of the Senate as a States
House. It only needs one Senator from
a State to argue his or her State’s cause
in some matter of popular concern to
find the other nine Senators, irrespec-
tive of Party, joining forces in the com-
m n cause. Recent debates in the Senate
in connection with the proposed C’how-
illa dam on the River Murray again
prove this point.
Other examples of the Senate exer-
cising its watchdog function could be
given, but let us now have a look at the
statement by the Bulletin writer that
the very purpose for which the Senate
was constituted has disappeared.
A Check and A Balance
TTe notes that the whole character of
federation has changed and instances,
amongst other things, the change in the
financial structure of the Common-
wealth. But he reaches the wrong con-
clusion from his facts. The introduction
of uniform taxation in 1942 made the
States dependent on reimbursement
giants by Acts of the Federal Parliament,
and the Senate has now a particular
watchdog responsibility to prevent unfair
distribution of revenue. Another factor
has emerged in this era of economic
theories and the Commonwealth’s as-
sumption of economic responsibility.
Attention was drawn to this in the Parlia-
ment recently, when it was pointed out
that uniform credit policies are applied
right throughout the Commonwealth.
That is to say, the same credit policy is
applied to those States experiencing boom
cond,lions as to those areas suffering
drought and recession. These two mat-
ters the Commonwealth’s monopoly
of the taxation field and the application
of uniform economic policies throughout
Australia are prime examples of issues
which were not present at the beginning
of federation but which today demand
the close exercise by the Senate of its
watchdog function.
Political writers forget these things
and join in the common exercise of de-
riding the Senate. Would they vote for
the abolition of the Senate? If they did,
they would be voting for Parliamentary
government of the Federal Common-
wealth vested in one House whose mem-
bers are elected in proportion to popu-
lation. In a House of Representatives
of 122 members, the three States of
South Australia, Western Australia and
Tasmania command only 25 votes,
whereas the three more populated States
of New South Wales, Victoria and
Queensland command 97 votes. Small
State interests could be completely
swamped That no doubt is why the
major parties themselves, the Liberal
party and the Labor party, provide in
their constitutions that there shall be
equal State representation in their Fed-
eral councils. Thus, if States must, by
equal representation, be fully protected
in the Party councils, is it less important
that they should be so protected in the
National Parliament? No, the Senate has
a job to do, it does it conscientiously
and well, and it represents what the
Americans term “checks and balances”
agamst the concentration of power. Sir
Winston Churchill in 1947 addressed
himself to this business of concentrating
power in one House. He spoke of the
need for checks and balances against
the danger of dictatorship. He said —
“All this idea of a handful of men
getting hold of the State machine, having
the right to make the people do what
suits their Party and personal interests
or doctrines, is completely contrary to
every conception of surviving Western
democracy.
All this idea of a group of supermen
and superplanners, such as we see before
us, ‘playing the angel' as the French call
it, and making the masses of the people
do what they think is good for them,
without any check or correction, is a
violation of democracy.”
It is inconceivable that the people of
Australia, particularly the people of the
smaller States, would ever agree to amend
the Constitution in such a way as to
abolish or enfeeble the Senate an in-
stitution conceived, in the main, for their
express benefit and protection.
In terms of cost, the Senate is good
value for the money. It costs about one
shilling per annum per head of the popu-
lation.
In conclusion, may you be reminded
of an article entitled “Senate Revival”
and published in the Bulletin of the
30th September, 1959 —
“. . . It (the Senate) has no Menzies
to set its standards of oratory, but its
debates are far superior to those of the
House of Representatives, which have
been reduced, in the main, to dreary
Ministerial expositions followed by de-
plorable exhibitions of backbiting and
spleen.”


LETTERS
THE QUICK AND THE DEAD
Sir,
A former Sydney resident and regular
reader for many years of The Bulletin,
I have, as a ringsider at the tragic Paret-
Griffith welterweight championship fight
in New York on March 24, these
comments to offer your columns.
It appeared that referee Ruby Gold-
stein was not working in as close to the
boxers as the final situation demanded.
It could have been that he became more
immersed in Griffith’s action-fighting
than in the sudden cumulative effect
on Paret. In my opinion (my experience
as a boxing writer and referee goes back
27 years) the referee was slow to act.
He should at least have held up action
momentarily to take a quick look at
Paret in the middle of the battery of
28 consecutive blows that Griffith de-
livered. After the fifth blow Paret’s
hands came down and he ceased to
retaliate, and by the twelfth or four-
teenth he was virtually unconscious on
his feet against the ropes.
One extraordinary omission the
Paret-Griftith aftermath revealed is that
at fights in the United States a seat at
the ring apron is not provided for the
official ring physician. Indeed, at the
gory Moore-Lavorante heavyweight fight
which 1 covered in Los Angeles just a
week after the Paret-Griffith meeting,
towards the end of which Lavorante
collapsed, the doctor was seated in the
nineteenth row and had literally to barge
his way through to the ringside.
Not only should the seating of the
doctor at the ringside be mandatory, but
he should also be given the kind of
decisive function which I was successful
in having introduced in Burma in 1935
after a Rangoon ring fatality. Thereafter
the doctor at ringside was equipped with a
whistle with which he was empowered,
with two sharp blasts, to stop a fight
at any time so as quickly to examine a
boxer and decide w'hether he was in a
fit state to continue.
Boxing is a fine sport. Simple measures
of the kind suggested will safeguard its
future not only in the United States,
but in Australia and elsewhere.
D. Howard Ady
Los Angeles (USA)
STRZELECK'S LOLITA
Sir,
I am glad that The Bulletin,
(March 17) drew attention of the
readers to the “counter-attack” launched
by “Tygodnik Katolicki” (“The Polish
Catholic Weekly”) against several in-
accuracies and the biased judgment of
Sir Paul Strzelecki, shown in Miss H.
Heney’s book “In a Dark Glass.”
Nevertheless, your writer is very much
mistaken in assuming that “one thing
no one seems to want to discuss is the
only thing that matters — the value of
his (Strzelecki’s) exploring.”
This is not so. We took interest in
Miss Heney's publication precisely in
this respect, because she not only
denies Strzelecki all credit in exploring
new parts of Australia but at the same
time presents him as a liar and an un-
scrupulous adventurer.
I have read almost all reviews of Miss
Heney’s book which appeared in the Aus-
tralian Press and heard those broadcast
by the radio. With real regret 1 got the
impression that not even one of the
reviewers of this book had an opportunity
to read any serious biographies of
Strzelecki, such as those written by G.
Rawson, W. Slabczynski and W. L.
Havard. If they did, they most probably
would not take all Miss Heney’s doubtful
assertions for granted.
R. Gronowski
(Editor of "The Polish
Catholic Weekly”)
Melbourne
Sir,
As a permanent reader of your
Bulletin 1 was very surprised and disap-
pointed by your article entitled
“Strzelecki's Lolita” (Bulletin, March
17).
The contents of it throw a false light
on Strzelecki as a fellow human being.
Strzelecki was honored by his contem-
poraries, and yet you try to blacken his
character for no reason at all.
The main reason, I think, to publish
your statement was the fact that he was
not of English origin and yet accepted
and esteemed by English.
T, CWIERTNIA
Mt Waverley (Vic)
THE DLP CRIES WOLF
Sir,
In replying to Mr Mulvihill (Bulletin,
March 31) 1 will deal only with the real
points at issue, ignoring his personal jibes
and flights of fancy. Certain ALP policies
favor the foreign policies of Russia and
communist China abroad, and the plans
of the Australian Communist Party at
home. They include :
(1) Recognition of Red China, which in
view of that country’s stated terms means
the handing over of Formosa with her
10 million people, to communism, and the
exclusion of American power from this
island which is the pivot of American
military strength in the Pacific.
(2) Reversing Australia’s vote on the
issue of communist China’s admission to
the United Nations, despite her record of
aggression in Korea, India and in South
East Asia.
(3) Withdrawal of Australian troops
from Malaya where they form part of
the SEATO strategic reserve and reduc-
ing SEATO from a military to a cultural
organisation.
(4) Hostility to the expansion of
trading and political relations with Japan
which is not only an essential trading
partner with Australia in view of Britain’s
inevitable entry into the European Com-
mon Market, but the most powerful link
in the defence line in East Asia.
(5) Abolition of the 1951 Clean Ballot
Legislation the effectiveness of which was
proven not only in the Ironworkers’ union
and others, but also in the recent AEU
elections.
(6) Repeal of the penal clauses of the
Arbitration Act and those of the Crimes
Act under which the Chifley Govern-
ment gaoled communists in the 1949
coal strike.
(7) Non-enforcement of ALP rules
against collaboration with communists in
union elections and no ALP endorsement
for those prepared to fight communism in
the unions.
This pattern of policy can have but one
conclusion —to make communist policy
and organisation dominant in the political
life of this country. All these policies
were originated by the communist party,
and that party’s official organ “The Com-
munist Review” of February, 1962,
declares they were “impacted on the
official ALP policy.”
Mr Mulvihill claims that Mr Fitzgibbon
“won the waterside workers’ ballot
because of his known industrial record.”
Surely Mr Fitzgibbon’s industrial record
would be better known in NSW than else-
where. Yet in the main ports in this, his
home State, the communist candidate
polled two to one against him. In the
ports of Melbourne and Geelong where
DLP member Gus Alford withdrew from
the ballot and supported Mr Fitzgibbon,
he polled three to one against the com-
munist candidate. This margin gave him
the victory.
Likewise, the change of leadership in
the Hospital Employees Union had
nothing whatever to do with Mr
Stephen’s industrial record or the ALP. It
was brought about by a split in the com-
munist camp.
J. T. KANE
(DLP General Secretary)
Sydney
DON WHITE, GO HOME!
Sir,
As an Australian who spent one never-
to-be-forgotten week in Kashmir I wish
to reply to Miss Breslin’s reply to Don
White (Bulletin, March 24), re his
article “Amy Woodford Finden, Go
Home!”
L I agree wholeheartedly that Kashmir
is IN the Himalayas even if they
do seem the teeniest bit low after
Nepal and Tibet. Nevertheless, they are
very pretty and made me most nostalgic
for a weekend I once had at Medlow
Bath.
2. What is the difference between a
pleasure garden and a botanical garden?
I always thought any garden was for
pleasure. And if people didn’t take their
pleasure there it just showed they had


something on their mind or thought they
were being followed.
3. Of course the Moguls designed and
built the Shalimar Gardens 400 years
ago. They were always doing things like
that. But are you sure they ballyhooed
it quite so much as the Indian Tourist
Bureau is doing now? I was always
under the impression that the gardens of
the Mogul Kings were sort of private
hidev-holes kept for His Majesty’s
pleasure. But maybe you were in a better
position to tell than I.
4. It is stupid to say Kashmir is a per-
fectly ordinary valley and any geologist
worth his pick and shovel would be
fascinated by the phenomenon of such a
lot of thick beige dust when there is so
much water around.
5. I envy you your host of Kashmiri
friends but do you think you should
tell people? I found the people of
Kashmir most charming myself and I
can’t understand why so many Indians
warned me to keep everything under
lock and key there. It seemed that the
Srinagar shopkeepers had also been taken
in by this slander as I noticed they had
all their displays in padlocked show-
cases.
6. Were there such things as high-
powered publicity campaigns in the days
of the Mogul empire (“You Always Do
Better With Akbar”)? If so this never
really reached the Western world and
deprived many people of the natural
beauties of Kashmir, except, perhaps Mr
Polo.
7. I, 100. think Mr White is an utter
bounder. People who can't afford the best
should stay at home and not lower the
prestige of the British empire by travel-
ling third-class and spoiling it for others.
Just imagine. Miss Breslin, if everyone
was like him we would have hard times
finding bearers for our palanquins!
There are many questions that came to
my mind reading Miss (Mrs?) Breslin’s
letter. Who is she really? What is she
doing in Dehra Dun, UP India. Consort-
ing with Kashmiris who keep spontan-
eously saying how much they like India?
Is she in the pay of the Indian Tourist
Bureau or PM Nehru? Whereabouts in
Australia did she come from? Has she
any near-and-dear to her there? I would
be worried about her if I were they.
(Miss) LEONTYNE SCHOFIELD
London
AMERICAN FASCISM?
Sir,
It came to me as a shock to find
articles by Leftist writers in your, what I
considered, conservative, publication. I
am referring to the two articles, “The
Yahoos” by John P. Roche and
“Unpersons. USA’" by Murray Kempton
(Bulletin, March 17). While John P.
Roche takes a more subtle line in his
smear of the John Birch Society and other
patriotic actions by pretending that they
are really of no consequence, the second
article by Murray Kempton is and
amounts to nothing less than undiluted
communist propaganda. The author
obviously hopes to arouse his readers to
anger and pity by claiming that the com-
munists in America have been put “below
the level of human beings.” Mr Kempton
sheds tears of blood over legislation dis-
criminating against known communists,
which makes it hard for them to agitate
successfully. He tells us that as a result
of this legislation the communist party’s
membership has been decreased from
10,000 to 2000. But he does not tell us
that, in the event of the communists
ascending to power, there would be no
other party but the communist and that
the bourgeois opposition would be liqui-
dated as was the case in Soviet Russia
and other countries behind the Iron
Curtain.
It was for the defence of the existing
order that the John Birch Society was
founded. That there was a need for this
can be seen by the inroads the com-
munists have made in the field of sub-
version and espionage. You surely recall
the cases of Harry Dexter, White, Alger
Hiss, the Rosenbergs and, of more recent
date, Mitchell and Martin, to name just
a few.
That the sympathies of a Leftist writer
are with the communists should surprise
no one. After all, Leftists have done
more towards the spread of communism
than the communists themselves. Whether
“I always say. If you cant beat ’em, join 'em!”
they will, in the event of communist
victory, receive any more thanks than a
bullet in the neck from their comrades is
a debatable point. To the free world
however they are a danger.
In conclusion I would suggest that you
obtain a statement of policy from the
John Birch Society and publish that as an
antidote.
K. MOELLER
Horsham (Victoria)
(Mr Moeller should read George McGann’s
New York Newsletter in The Bulletin, April
14, in which he points out that the Birchites
and other US extreme Right-wing groups talk
chiefly to themselves — Ed.)
THE BREATH OF SCANDAL
Sir,
In The Bulletin of April 14, you
refer to “the fatuity of the breathalyser”
in connection with the trial of an
allegedly drunk-driver, a naval officer. If
there were any fatuity it was on the part
of the Magistrate who dismissed the
charge. The instrument showed that the
seafaring gentleman had drunk 18 beers
and this would be the minimum. Accord-
ing to whether the word “beer” as a
measure, 7, 8 or 10 ounces is meant,
the blood alcohol would be at least 0.25
per cent. In every country in the world
where blood alcohol tests are accepted
by the courts, there is absolutely no
defence to a charge of drunken driving
with a blood alcohol content of 0.15 per
cent, or over.
The naval gentleman was incapable of
driving a car safely and the Preston
Magistrate was in error in dismissing the
charge. The naval man’s skite about his
capacity for liquor without getting
drunk was twaddle. The Navy is no more
exempt from the weaknesses of the flesh
than ordinary citizens.
J. V. DUHIG
St Lucia (Queensland)
A TOWN LIKE ELLIOTT
Sir,
Mr Herbert’s article (Bulletin,
March 31) was both interesting and
instructive. One cannot help feeling,
however, that his condemnation of the
aborigines has behind it, to a certain


extent, the spitefulness of the jilted lover.
After all, what would Moses have had to
say about the Children of Israel had they
turned down his kind offer to lead them
to the Promised Land?
The article, looked at with objectivity,
is no more than a description of that
class of people labelled by Karl Marx —
who liked them no more than does Mr
Herbert —the lumpen proletariat. The
mores of this class are conditioned by
climate, geographical locality and pig-
mentation, but basically, whether in the
Deep South, the Liverpool (England)
slums or any Australian boongville, it is
composed of no-hopen. Removed from
boongville at an early age and subjected
to a good education, without disturbing
interruptions, the aboriginal would soon
become a useful and respected citizen.
A. Bertram Chandler
Woollahra (NSW)
Sir,
I write to congratulate and to support
everything that Mr Xavier Herbert said
in a recent article about aborigines in
Forum (Bulletin, March 31). I know as
much about aborigines as most men in
Australia. I am now one of the last few
men who knew the old bush and the
blacks away back in 1901. I grew up with
aboriginal boys on the edge of the Simp-
son Desert, and boys are boys, black or
white, all the world over, for they will
tell other boys what they would not tell
adults.
I have been all over the North and
the Inland working with aborigines. I
think that I have visited every large cattle
station in Australia when I was a drover.
In 1904 I was probably the youngest
pioneer in Australia, in the wildest part.
I was a “Poddy Dodger” in the wild
Obagooma country at the back of Yampi
Sound surrounded by wild tribal “mun-
jong” aborigines, who finally drove me
out of the country.
In 1910, I helped to abolish the chain-
gangs in Kimberley ; but when you are
dealing with cattle-spearing and murder-
ing wild blacks, there must be a bit of
rough justice. Twenty years ago I helped
to form the present Aborigines Welfare
Board of NSW. I have now resigned
from the board as it has now become too
bureaucratic. You do not need any ex-
perience among aborigines to be a mem-
ber of the Welfare Board. You just
represent a Government department. The
chairman has never seen a “dinkum abo.”
The policy of assimilation is just a
high-sounding jargon word, which means
nothing, for many aborigines do not want
to be assimilated. I wish to be fair. The
board has done a good work, but there
are still blacks’ camps in NSW, just as
sordid and primitive as they were fifty
years ago and now the board wishes to
give those aborigines “open go” into the
hotels. The aborigines in NSW owe the
board £62,000 back rent on their 17s. 6d.
a week houses. That amount is going
up every week. It all went in drink and
extravagant taxi rides and the board will
never collect a penny of it. There is
no solution, it is rather an opportunity
for selfless social service.
Sydney
MICHAEL SAWTELL
NEW GUINEA —THE RIGHT TO
RIOT
Sir,
Safely entrenched in Woollahra, Mr
Gus O’Donnel (Bulletin, April 7) calls
the move by the New Guinea Legisla-
tive Council to place the activities of
future native trade unions in New
Guinea under the newly created Labor
Department a tragedy. Far more tragic,
perhaps, could be the consequences if
the unions were not organised and
directed by officials of the Labor
Department.
Looking at the situation, perhaps
somewhat cynically, whatever action this
country takes in New Guinea will be
attacked at times by countries in which
the minorities are still not out of the
trees politically. So why not proceed
cautiously if it’s only to safeguard our
own nationals while we are still there
(re strikes and riots)? Perhaps the
Indonesians will know how to handle the
situation more “democratically”—like
they handled the people in the Celebes.
JOHN HAY
Yass (NSW)
GROWERS’ PLIGHT
Sir,
The recent tobacco sales at Brandon.
North Queensland, warranted only a
par. in local newspapers or a vague
mention on the ABC State news, but
were a personal tragedy for some dozens
of Australian families.
Tobacco growing is at once both a
science and an art; there are good
growers and others who would never be
successful on the land ; there is certainly
soil' that may be unsuitable for this very
particular plant ; but there is very much
that needs to be explained with regard
to the plight of many farmers in the
lower Burdekin district of Northern
Queensland.
To lay full blame either on the buying
companies or on the more unfortunate
growers is an over - simplification
of the question. This complex problem
will not be solved either by piecemeal
monetary grants or by the pitifully inade-
quate assistance rendered by Govern-
mental agricultural agencies. In fact the
story of the area — potentially one of
the richest in underdeveloped Northern
Australia ; — reflects no credit on any
Government concerned, particularly
when a solution is possible.
This district’s development was
Government - sponsored — selected as
suitable for tobacco. It was originally
a soldier settlement, though many of these
have since got out, one way or another.
Of those who followed only a few are
“afloat,” and they describe themselves
as being lucky! The rest would get out
if they could for none feel that they
have any security.
JOHN SMALL
Clare (Queensland).
COMMONPLACE AS HESSIAN
Sir,
I hope someone else may by now
have asked where Mr Frank Roberts, in
his review (Bulletin, April 14) found
the information about Barcroft Boake’s
output that his review implies. Mr
Roberts says that Stuart Lee’s descrip-
tion of Boake as a “bush narrative
writer” is “hardly true even of the last
few of Boake’s 27 years, when his
vision shifted from England to Australia
and the harsh reality overcame him.”
This implies either that Boake was
influenced unduly by English writers, or
that he was himself English. Neither is
the case. Boake was born in Sydney and,
except for a voyage in the South Seas
as a young boy, never left Australia. It
was the popularity of Gordon’s “Bush-
verses,” “The Sick Stockrider” and
“How We Beat the Favorite” in par-
ticular, that apparently influenced him
to begin writing, together with his own
years as a boundary-rider, drover and
surveyor’s assistant. According to
Stephens’s introduction to the volume of
verses published a few years after Boake’s
death (at the age of 26, not 27), these
verses were in the main written during
the eighteen months from late 1890 to
May, 1892, when Boake hanged him-
self. Of the verses Stephens printed in
this volume, a very large proportion can
only be classified as “bush-narratives”—
the best of them, apart from the title-
poem, “Where the Dead Men Lie,” are
perhaps “Fogarty’s Gin,” “Twixt the
Wings of the Yard,” “Jack Corrigan”
and “Down the River”, and “Fogarty’s
Gin” contains unmistakable pointers to
Paterson’s “Man from Snowy River,”
published in The Bulletin a little later.
If Mr Roberts knows of earlier poems
written by Boake under some English
influence, or if he has some other classi-
fication for those in the published volume
than “bush-narrative,” I hope he will
clarify his statements for us.
JUDITH WRIGHT
North Tamborine (Queensland).
THE DELINQUENTS
Sir,
1 have just read Criena Rohan's “The
Delinquents” and feel it deserves its
success (Bulletin, April 7). I believe
though that a large section of the
10,000 copies must have been in pre-
publication orders from Australia. Here
the trade would have been influenced not
so much by the English critics as by the
astute move of the publisher (Gollancz)
in distributing well in advance of publi-
cation a generous commendation by
Kylie Tennant.
The “literary” critics don’t realise they
can kill the goose that lays the egg. Evan
Jones broke the first rule of good review-
ing when he told the whole plot and
denouement of “The Delinquents” in
detail. The good reviewer admits that
time may modify his opinion. The
“critic” believes he is making the final
judgment, a very hard thing to do.
G. HALES
Belmont (NSW)


The Wild
Cat Pages and
THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
LOW PRICE FOR BEST OF TWO WORLDS
As I see it
T>ritain can-
not have
the best of two
worlds the new world of the Euro-
pean Common Market and the old
world of a highly preferred access to the
Australian market at the low price
she is prepared to pay. That approach
is implicit in statements made last week
by Prime Minister Menzies, in Canberra,
and Trade Minister John McEwen
in London.
The statements seem to mark a turn-
ing point in the European Common
Market negotiations as far as Aus-
tralia is concerned. In them you can see
Menzies’ and McEwen’s belief that
Britain has weighed the advantages it
may get from the Common Market
against the possible disadvantages it
may suffer if an aggrieved Australia takes
retaliatory action and has decided to
accept the latter risk.
For if these two statements are
examined closely it will be seen that
there is a distinct change in tone from
earlier supplication to subtle warning.
“The British stake in our reciprocal
trade is bigger than ours ... in total our
buying from the United Kingdom over
the last forty years has been greater
than her sales to any other country . . .
Australian buying has provided more
jobs for British workers than any other
country in the world .. . our buying from
Britain is overwhelmingly the outcome
of our reciprocal trade arrangements ...
a year ago we were the biggest importer
in the world of British machinery, iron
and steel and other metal manufactures
and petrochemical products ... we will
not be ‘tranquilised’ by a transitional
period.”
So McEwen. The same note of pessi-
mism the suggestion that Britain has
already accepted the proposition that it
must enter the Common Market even
if Australian industries suffer and, in
McEwen’s words, the Australian producer
is turned into “a grievously hurt inferior
supplier” is in Menzies’ statement.
“We are well aware of the difficulties
in the way of securing safeguards for
Australian trade interests which we would
regard as acceptable,” Menzies states.
Then comes the threat, less directly ex-
pressed than in McEwen’s statement, but
just as real. Menzies does not say that
he himself will be going to the meeting
of Commonwealth Prime Ministers con-
vened for London on September 10 to
discuss the Common Market-. He will
see that Australia has “effective repre-
sentation.” But that is as far as he is
prepared to go at this stage.
But, comments Menzies acidly, “the
essential thing about the Prime Minis-
ters’ Conference on the Common Market
is that it should not occur after minds
have been made up but sh_ ’d present
the Prime Ministers with an effective
opportunity of influencing the ultimate
decision.”
Note the use of that word “should”
instead of “will.” It reveals that Menzies
has no guarantee that he is not being
asked to go to London on April 10 to
put his imprimatur on a fait accompli.
As I see it, Menzies is politely telling
British Prime Minister Harold Macmillan
to go dive in a lake. If by Septem, -;r
Britain had made a firm decision to enter
the European Common Market irres-
pective of the effect of that entry upon
Australia’s products, Menzies will not
be there to pat him on the back. He
will be looking elsewhere for outlets to
compensate Australia for its losses.
As I see it, the Government’s despatch
overseas of representatives of a wide
range of Australian industries, nominally
to assist the Secretary of the Trade De-
partment (Dr. W. A. Westerman) in the
compilation of a case for the protection
of Australian industries against the
effect of Britain entering the Comm, jn
Market, has a political rather than a
negotiating significance.
T'.e fact that representatives of Aus-
tralian industry are going to be on the
spot is not going to help the Australian
case. The case for each industry was pre-
pared months ago. Westerman at Brussels
is surrounded by a corps of expert ad-
visers and it is difficult to see how the
irregulars now being summoned from
Australia can really assist. Several of the
Common Mar’, et countries have already
inc’Lated their hostility to the presence
of these “unofficial” advisers. They
have made it clear that they do not want
them.
But their presence there is explicable
on political grounds. Menzies and
McEwen will have eye-witnesses who are
INDEX
“As I See It” Alan Reid on
the Common Market .. 32
Italian Import Restrictions
Eased .. .. 33
Developer’s Richest Prize .. 34
Advertising .. ... .. 34
Revolution in the Railways .. 35
Economics Anonymous .. 36
World Bank 36
Western Europe .. .. 38
Dairy Exports— Butter Oil .. 39
Personal Profile:
B.H.P.’s McLennan .. 40
Company Reviews:
Moulded Products (A’sia) Ltd 42
Woolworths Ltd .. .. 43
John Lysaght (Aust.) Ltd .. 44
Company Notes .. .. 46
Sharemarket Summary .. 49
Oil 50
Man on the Land:
Royal Show Needs, Sugar,
Greasy Wool Futures .. 52
Statistics .. 35, 53
Supplement —Special Insurance
Survey .. .. 54 —61


When you travel—
use the
waits
DEPARTMENT
FOR
• ITINERARIES
• TRANSPORT AND HOTEL BOOKINGS
• LOCAL AND OVERSEA TOURS
AND ADVICE ON
• PASSPORTS, VISAS, AND
TAXATION CLEARANCES
There is no extra charge for these services
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WAI FS
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
P.S. If you are going to the British Commonwealth and Empire
Games in Perth in November, the “Wales” can make all
the arrangements for you. Enquire at any branch.
A6218G
influential men within their groups that
Australia fought to the last ditch to save
the threatened Australian industries.
If there has to be enforced change in
the traditional pattern of trade between
Australia and the United Kingdom and
the Government feels itself impelled to
withdraw preferences now granted Britain
and give these preferences elsewhere in
some trade deal that will keep threatened
Australian industries in existence, there
will be somebody in each industry with
first-hand knowledge of the Government’s
reasons for the change.
Nearly every industry likely to be af-
fected by Britain’s entry into the Euro-
pean Common Market and some only
remotely involved are being included
among the “advisers.” There will be
representatives from the wheat industry,
men representing other varieties of
graingrowing, the fresh, canned and
dried fruit producers, dairy products
experts, meat, sugar, wine, eggs, metals
and leather. Even the secondary indus-
tries are getting a jersey, even chough
their representatives are advocating the
exclusion of overseas goods from Aus-
tralia rather than the admission of Aus-
tralian manufacturers into Europe.
It does seem as though the Government
is preparing the political atmosphere in
case it has to direct Australian trade more
firmly into channels markedly dissimilar
from the traditional ones. For example,
if Britain’s entry into the European
Common Market forces Australia into
closer economic association with Japan—
as a growing number of trade experts be-
lieve it must then the Australian Gov-
ernment must see to it that the industries
involved know the reason.
The outstanding note in Menzies’ and
McEwen’s statements is pessimism. “We
shall continue to press our claims and
to make our views known (to Britain and
the six nations which now comprise the
Common Market)” says Menzies. “But,”
he adds, sombrely “it must be remem-
bered that no conclusions on the terms
and conditions of British entry to the
Common Market can be arrived at with-
out the agreement of the six nations.”
It does seem that Australia has
reached a turning point in its approach
to the Common Market problem, and is
now prepared, in McEwen’s words, to
“raise awkward issues” the issues of
to whom does Australia turn if British
entry into the Common Market reduces
Australia’s producers to the role of a
“grievously hurt inferior supplier.”
ALAN REID
ITALY
IMPORT RESTRICTIONS EASED
Ttaly has eased import restrictions on
71 Japanese products following
bilaterial negotiations in Rome. Items
placed by the Italian Government on the
free list include textiles, felt products,
electrical appliances, machinery and
metal processing equipment, computers,
records, glass and plastic insulators and
cameras valued over US$3O. This is a
significant move, apparently directed at
allaying Japanese fears that further
economic integration of the Common
Market countries will jeopardise an
important section of Japanese exports to
Western Europe.
However, reports in the Japanese
Press indicate that Tokyo still feels that
the latest easing of import controls by
Italy does not go far enough. Japan is
again pressing Italy to reduce import con-
trols on Japanese goods to the level of
dollar countries. A mixed Japanese-
Italian economic commission is con-
tinuing negotiations.


*o over
** OF ****
Oloroso Crf^
i. *>r,
jgife*-35g£§3E
>.Va
smoothly
satisfying
ZLngootfa
OLOROSO
CREAM
SHERRY
ASK ALSO FOR ST. AGNES BRANDY
THE ROCKS
DEVELOPER'S RICHEST PRIZE
At the southern end of the Sydney
Harbor Bridge there are 19 acres
which have become the scene for a great
challenge to Australian private enterprise.
. Commonly referred to as “The Rocks”
it has deep historical roots because it was
here, beside the Tank Stream, that Gov-
ernor Phillip landed 174 years ago to
found the settlement. However, along
with many other areas around Sydney,
it has gone to seed.
To preserve this historical link the
NSW Government invited tenders to re-
develop the area in one integrated pro-
posal and has appointed an Assessment
Committee to select one of the projects.
Five composite groups have accepted
the challenge. Combining strengths and
skills as never before in this country, their
ten proposals cannot but stir our pride.
Their criteria is to provide re-develop-
ment of the district as a residential area,
with provision for shops, offices, hotels
and restaurants. As alternative accom-
modation must be provided for those
presently living there, the State Govern-
ment has agreed to co-operate in this part
of the venture.
It is fortunate that the area has a
specific size. Not only does it permit
total re-development, but also an archi-
tecturally planned perspective within it-
self. To the front is Sydney Cove with
the modern Overseas Shipping Terminal,
to the rear is the Sydney Harbor Bridge
and the Cahill Highway curves round to
cradle the remaining side.
The financial vision of those who have
planned proposals for this small, self-
contained city is considerable. They are
speaking to the order of between £3om.
and £som. to finance their schemes.
James Wallace Pty Ltd, if awarded the
scheme, for example, would be supported
by one of the largest underwriting firms
in Australia.
The proposals have many signs of new
levels of compatibility—perhaps unsur-
passed in the architectural history of this
country.
Three Australian firms have combined
to submit one proposal. They are Con-
crete Industries (Australia) Limited, Am-
pol Petroleum Ltd, and P.G.H. Industries
Ltd. Their combined ordinary capital
is £!4m. without allowing for convertible
notes. Their consultant architects are
two Sydney firms, Sidney E. Smith and
Associates and Kevin Curtin and Part-
ners.
To provide additional architectural
background Sidney E. Smith also draws
on the strength of being the local partner
of one of Britain's leading architectural
firms, Sir John Burnett, Tait, Wilson and
Partners.
Another architectural group which is
planning the Hawker-Siddeley Australia
Pty Ltd proposal, H. Stossell and Associ-
ates of Sydney, work in co-ordination
with Victor Gruen and Associates of the
USA.
On the other hand, Lend Lease Cor-
poration has drawn on the architectural
skills of four leading Australian firms—
Harry Seidler, Hely and Bell, Gruzman,
McKay, Rickard and Gordon and
Grounds, Romberg and Boyd.
An 18-floor hotel of international
standing is the cornerstone of the pro-
posal presented by L. J. Hooker Invest-
ment Corporation Ltd. They propose
two parking stations, a shopping centre,
police stations, kindergartens, a public
library and an Olympic swimming pool.
Additionally, 12 blocks of flats (two of
them tower blocks of up to 33 floors)
which would house 3150 people. Car
parking has received detailed attention.
Both the Concrete Industries and Hawker-
Siddeley proposals provide for covered-
in facilities for 4000 vehicles.
So that the historic value of the site is
not lost amid all this modern architecture,
the small stone cottage which John Cad-
man built in 1816 will be moved to one
of the newly-planned parks.
Those who have presented proposals
expect to spend some 15 years completing
them.
A 40-storey office tower will dominate
the proposal submitted by Hawker-
Siddeley.
The consortium proposal of Concrete
Industries, Ampol and P.G.H. has been
planned with tidiness so as not to com-
pete against the Harbor Bridge and the
Sydney Opera House.
The land itself has a natural rise to the
south of 90 feet. For that reason their
proposal has been stepped back, : : an
amphitheatre, so that the main block of
the project is planned for the highest
point on the site. Thirty-eight storeys
and 480 feet high, it will be the tallest
building in Australia.
Should The Rocks Project Assessment
Committee select one of the proposals
we can look forward to seeing the Sydney
Opera House having an architectual twin.
B. H. CLAPCOTT
ADVERTISING
A.A.N.A. ACTS ON A RACKET
An advertising racket yielding hundreds
1 of thousands of pounds a year to its
practitioners has caused the Australian
Association of National Advertisers to
take action for the protection of its
members.
Recently a large Sydney company
sent to the A.A.N.A. letters received from
five different organisations, each one
thanking the company for agreeing to
buy space in various journals. The com-
pany, however, denies ever having booked
space in any of the journals concerned.
In three of the five cases, the letters,
although bearing different signatures,
carried the same P.O. box number, and
appeared to be typed on the same type-
writer.


Director of the A.A.N.A., Mr John
Bowden, says that the selling technique
adopted by a certain type of unscrupu-
lous publisher has previously followed a
fairly regular pattern. The caller is gen-
erally a woman with an engaging and
persuasive manner, who attempts to
obtain the prospect’s agreement to take
space with the implied or stated objective
of supporting some worthy charity or
organisation.
In point of fact, the money which the
advertiser pays does not go to the charity
or organisation mentioned, but to the
publisher, who has previously agreed to
print, at no cost, the organisation’s
journal, sporting programme or other
publication.
“While these cases are bad enough,”
said Mr Bowden, “more recent instances
brought to the association’s notice are
even worse. This racket has become so
widespread that it can be classed as big
business, and hundreds of thousands of
pounds are being thrown away on worth-
less propositions.”
The A.A.N.A. has now sent a warning
to its members not to buy advertising
space over the ’phone, unless they know
the publication concerned, and even then
always to confirm the booking in writing.
Members have also been asked to refer
doubtful propositions to the association,
so that steps may be taken to stamp out
these doubtful practices.
DIESEL LOCOMOTIVES
REVOLUTION IN THE RAILWAYS
'T'en years ago, the Railways Commis-
A sioners of Australia decided to con-
vert the whole of the railway systems of
the continent, over a period of years,
from steam to diesel and electric traction.
It was a courageous decision, because
of its inevitable effect upon the coal-
mining industry ; but the advantages of
diesel over steam locomotion were so
overwhelming from the standpoint of the
national economy that continued adher-
ence to steam could not be justified.
As it turned out, however, the coal
industry was equal to the challenge; it
re-exerted itself when it was faced with
falling consumption of coal, and, find-
ing overseas markets for its production,
was able to stave off its threatened
eclipse.
Australia thus derived a twofold bene-
fit from the Commissioners’ decision —
the enormous economic advantages of
diesel traction and the establishment of
a valuable export trade in coal. And the
latest production statistics indicate that
the coal industry has more than recovered
any sales losses and may look to the
future with confidence.
Great economies result from replacing
steam by diesel-electric locomotives
savings of up to ten shillings a mile in
some cases. And a diesel-electric loco-
motive operates about 120,000 miles a
year. The length of time out of service
for maintenance, etc., is a major
factor, too. Whereas a steam locomo-
tive has an availability of only 55 p.c.
to 60 p.c., a diesel-electric locomotive
has an availability of 85 p.c. to 90 p.c.
With steam locomotives it is necessary
to have watering and ash-disposal facili-
ties at many points short distances apart.
Staff are also required to operate and
maintain these facilities. Steam loco-
motives also waste valuable time in fire
raising and getting up steam before they
can be used, but diesel-electric loco-
motives are constantly ready for service.
Moreover, diesel-electric locomotives
are suitable for multiple-unit operation,
enabling two or more locomotives to be
worked in multiple to haul heavier
trains at higher speeds with a single-
crew.
Many mainline diesel-electric loco-
motives are also equipped with electric
dynamic braking which prolongs the life
of the brake shoes and wheels on both
locomotive and rolling stock. Diesel-
electric locomotives reduce air pollution
caused by the smoke of steam loco-
motives.
TV/Tr T. Edgar, managing director of
the £6im. A. G. Healing group,
which includes A. E. Goodwin Ltd, a
leading producer of diesel-electric
locomotives and rolling stock, pointed
out recently that the first two “Alco”
diesel-electric locomotives first ran
in NSW in November, 1951. They
were designed for multiple-unit opera-
tion, so that as many as four units
could be coupled together and con-
trolled by one crew. On June 15, 1952,
two “Alco” diesel-electric locomotives
hauled the Brisbane Limited express on
a trial run. They left Sydney at the
usual time of 6.30 p.m. and arrived in
South Brisbane at 10.25 a.m. next day,
three hours earlier than the usual time.
On the return journey these loco-
motives hauled a 1,100-ton perishables
express of 24 bogie vehicles in 12 hours
less time than normal.
Goodwins has already built 150
diesels, and is building more. In a
few years the transformation of the
Australian railway systems will be com-
pleted. In New South Wales, already
30 p.c. of all passenger trains outside
the electrified zone and 35 p.c. of the
heavy express freight trains are being
drawn by diesel locomotives. Every year
the programme of replacement is being
continued; and in another six to eight
years there will be scarcely a steam
engine in service.
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
£ Million
✓ Year Ended , Six Months Ended
Current Account * June, June, Dec., June, Dec.
Credits — 1960 1961 1960 1961 1961
Exports 937 937 418 519 532
Transportation ........ 86 95 50 45 47
Travel ............ 10 13 6 7 8
Investment income ........ 27 29 16 13 19
Government .......... 26 25 8 17 9
Other ............ 57 63 32 31 33
Debits —
Imports .. .. ;. .. .. —946 —lOB4 —560 —524 —421
Transportation .. .. .. .. —l4B —173 —B6 —B7 —74
Travel .. .. —36 —42 —l7 —25 —l6
Investment income .. .. .. .. —l5O -—l4B —7O —7B —72
Government .. . . .. .. .. —4B —52 —24 —2B —3l
Other .. .. .. —67 —66 —35 —3l —35
Import valuation adjustment .... 30 35 18 17 14
Balance on current account .. .. .. —222 —368 —244 —124 13
Capital Items*
Official (net) loans ........ 35 12 3 9 18
I.M.F. drawings ........ 78 78
Other .. .. .. .. .. .. —6 —8 —4 —4 1
29 82 —1 83 19
Private —
Overseas investment in Australian companies
undistributed .. .. .. .. 69 62 n/a n/a n/a
Other direct .. .. .. .. .. 86 119 n/a n/a n/a
Portfolio .. .. .. .. .. 35 47 n/a n/a n/a
Total .. .. .. .. .. 190 228 n/a n/a n/a
Australian investment in overseas companies —4 —1 n/a n/a n/a
Other private capital movements (net) .. —6 —4 n/a n/a n/a
Total private capital (net) .. .. 180 223 ) lno
Balancing item 9 102 j IUJ 19
Change in international reserves .. .. —4 39 —136 175 51
* For current items minus sign denotes debits; for capital items minus sign denotes outflow.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
'T'he plight of the developers, most
recently evidenced by L. J. Hooker’s
profit slump and dividend omission, has
long since passed the stage of being
merely a domestic matter for the half-
a-dozen or so leading public companies
concerned. Their troubles are a canker
in the economy as a whole and are
holding back the general recovery.
As a matter of hard business, the
expansion of these companies was pushed
to the over-extended lengths of 1960,
on the assumption that there would be
no check to the rate of economic de-
velopment. At the same time, the pro-
motions of these companies, backed
largely by public money, credit and in
some cases ingenious option techniques,
not to speak of avid expectations of
capital gains, were the main cause of the
dangerous boom conditions which made
such a check inevitable.
While the going was good for these
companies, the money employed in their
promotions was in very active employ-
ment and breeding new incomes as it
went along. Now a large part of it is
for all present practical purposes dead
as mutton. Whereas once its highly active
employment gave a dangerous bloom to
the economy, now much of it is im-
prisoned in unprofitable enterprises and
depressed real estate, and very little
enters the country’s money stream ; its
income-creating function is virtually at
a standstill.
Moreover, having left a long trail
of share market losses and unfulfilled
expectation of capital gains in its wake,
the fall of the development companies
has changed many investor’s mood from
gay abandon to one of extreme caution
and this finds expression in wariness in
spending as well as in tasting pie in the
investment sky.
ipuT this is not the end of the depressing
influence the development companies
are at present exerting on the economy.
Their attempts to realise assets on a
buyer’s market are also having a dampen-
ing effect on recovery. It is not that
these attempts have been invariably
successf.il, but rather because buyers
know that if they are patient much
potentially valuable real estate will have
to be sacrificed by the big development
companies, just as much of it has been
sold cheaply by them in the effort to get
and keep liquid over the last eighteen
months or so.
Things have come to such a pass with
the Korman group and L. J. Hooker, for
instance, that they admit that large
sectors of their swollen empires are up
for sale, though in these cases such
intentions have been gilded. They have
stated that their divestment of assets
is not only to repay expensive loan
finance and maintain liquidity, but also
to consolidate and concentrate on employ-
ing released funds on the resumption of
deferred projects and the earlier com-
pletion of others.
So while the development companies
continue, or even increase (as most of
them have had to do lately) their efforts
to pull in their horns, they retard the
general process of recovery without any
expectations— except in the event of re-
covery itself proceeding much beyond its
present stage —of their depressing
influence being lifted.
One can only hazard a guess at the rela-
tive importance of future influence of the
development companies on general re-
covery. Much could depend on to what
extent the banks are prepared to help
to get them out of their mess. It might
be a poor start to medium and long-
term trading bank lending from their
new £55 million fund at the Reserve
Bank if any of it went the way of sorely
pressed development companies.
On the other hand, if the four worst
hit development companies could together
find, say, £l5 million on long or even
medium-term loan at reasonable interest
rates from somewhere, there seems no
doubt that the general process of recovery
would be accelerated.
WORLD BANK
RECORD LENDING ASSURED
r T''HE World Bank is the largest single
source of multilateral development
aid. Its own lending by 1950 amounted
to USs7som. (of which two-thirds was
lent not for development but for post-
war construction) and now stands at
USs6| billion, financing carefully planned
and economically productive projects in
60 countries.
This has been achieved without further
calls on the bank’s member-countries
beyond their original paid-up subscrip-
tion, the balance being obtained by
borrowing in the capital markets of the
world, by selling portions of the bank’s
loans, and from the bank’s own earn-
ings.
The bank and its affiliates. Inter-
national Finance Corporation and In-
ternational Development Association,
made loans totalling USs7l7m. during
the 12 months to June 30, 1961. This
was a little below the previous year’s
level. Since then the bank and its
affiliates have lent more than USSI.I
billion.
With only two months of the current
fiscal year to go. the bank and its
affiliates have already lent more than
USs7B2m., and it is clear that this year's
total lending will be higher than in any
previous twelve months.
T ending money is only one ingredient
in the process of economic develop-
ment. The current rate of lending is
matched by a rapid growth in technical
assistance.
There have been two major innova-
tions, both very much in keeping with
the proposals put forward at the UN
General Assembly.
The first is the bank’s new Develop-
ment Advisory Service, inaugurated last
November. Its aim is to establish a new
career service for highly qualified persons
willing to undertake repeated assign-
ments in the developing countries a
pool of experienced talent upon which
the bank will be able to draw to meet
requests when they are received.
The second innovation lies in the
greatly increased opportunities that the
bank is finding to help members bring
promising projects to the stage at which
their financing can be considered. The
chief obstacle to increased lending by
the bank has been the dearth of properly
prepared and economically justified pro-
jects.
The bank has helped in formulating
a number of the proposals for pre-invest-
ment surveys subsequently financed by
the Special Fund, and has acted on its
behalf as the executing agency for many
more.
Although both the Special Fund and
the bank have always tried to help in-
vestment proposals, many good projects
have never been carried out because the
countries concerned lacked the experience
necessary for engineering and other pre-
paratory work required. For this reason
the bank is helping its members to find
qualified consultants to prepare pre-
liminary studies for development projects.
The I.F.C. was reorganised in the
past year. Among the most important
changes was the amendment of I.F.C.’s
Charter to permit it to make equity in-
vestments. This change should greatly
enlarge I.F.C.’s opportunities for en-
couraging private industry in the de-
veloping countries.
Another possibility opened by this
amendment is helping to underwrite
stock issues in many countries where
the capital market is underdeveloped.


LYSAGHT
SHEET
leads the way in low-pitched roof line beauty
1
ipl IiHH
mmm
tsm
■
|
... -:0 : '
L K ;
102
'o>m
w
mmm-,
Lysaght
KLIP-LOK*
SIXTEEN
Unique interlocking sheet com-
bines a highly attractive ribbed
finish with the unequalled struc-
tural strength of steel. Suitable for
roofs of any pitch down to I°, it is
fixed to roof members with
concealed straps. There are no end
laps...no puncturing of the deck.
Speeds construction and cuts costs
. . . delivered to the site in
unbroken lengths up to 50 ft. Your
architect and builder know Klip-
Lok ask them before you decide
on any roofing material!
*Aast. Patent No. 222046 (other Aust. and Overseas
Pat. Nos. granted and pending).
mem
mm
M
mm
»
v» -
sv:
llllll*
iabbWf":
Lysaght galvanized
CORRUGATED
If you are planning a modern home,
your obvious choice is a low-
pitched roof-line and for strength,
style and economy, you will specify
LysaghtGalvanizedCorrugatedSteel
Sheet. This most versatile of roofing
materials has dozens of practical
advantages. It is shatter-proof, fire-
proof and storm-proof; it goes up
faster and needs minimum main-
tenance once erected; and it suits
every modern roof, whether skill ion
or butterfly, flat or low gable.
Available prepainted, if desired, and
in all wanted lengths and gauges.
Full working drawings and specifications are available
for both Plan LIO2 (top) and Plan LlOl (bottom) as well as
for t he other homes included in the new Lysaght Home Plans
Portfolio, which you may obtain by posting coupon at
right. These drawings and specifications are supplied
through the “Australian Women’s Weekly” Home Plans
Service for as little as £lO/10/-, which includes help by
qualified architects in altering the selected plan to fit in
with your wishes and to suit your site.
For full information, phone or call at your local “Aus-
tralian Women’s Weekly” Home Plans Service.
JOHN LYSAGHT
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Offices at Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne , Brisbane „
Adelaide and Fremantle.
■
m
SEND FOR FREE HOME PLANS
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited
50 Young St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, free and post free, your new 1962
Lysaght Home Plans Portfolio, comprising a series of
architect-planned homes styled in the modern manner
and designed to be built at moderate cost.
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE !
.
LICC


WESTERN EUROPE
FERMENTATION PLUS
FROM OUR CORRESPONDENT IN TURIN
Any orthodox English-German dic-
tionary will define the word
“Gaerung” as fermentation, but today the
term has taken on a far wider meaning,
indicating that some violent, in places
contradictory, forces are at work try-
ing to find a clear solution. There are not
a few who think that such a solution will
remain wishful thinking, and the oppon-
ents of Britain’s entry into the Common
Market rub their hands gleefully together.
More and more people are asking
whether the “miraculous” success of
Western Germany and the less publicised
but not less evident developments in the
other member States were really due to
the advent of the Common Market or
rather to some psychological climate pro-
duced through the shock of war and its
bitter end. There can be no doubt that
at present too many plans and schemes
are in the stage of preparation on a
national, Common Market or inter-
national basis, many of which overlap
one another, and some of which cannot be
reconciled with each other or previous
schemes already in existence.
The West German boom has been over
for some time but recent speeches,
especially by the Minister for Economic
Affairs, Prof. Erhard —incidentally made
while his boss, Dr Adenauer, was
holidaying at Lake Como—have suddenly
shocked the world and the majority of
Germans by the fact that this could be
so bluntly admitted.
'T'he West German Bundesbank thinks
A that after a time of embarrassingly
high balance-of-payments surpluses,
followed by a sharp reduction in reserves,
a healthy balance can now be established.
However, little will be left for capital
export even if internal investments can
be held back artificially.
It is the building industry, which here
as in the other countries—and even in
Switzerland —is singled out to take the
blame. Quite wrongly, of course, because
it is not an industry which can run away
on its own accord, as for instance the
motor industry might. The fantastic
boom in constructional work is caused by
the evergrowing number of prestige
buildings in which governments, cities,
corporations and industrial concerns try
to outdo each other. The result is very
pleasing to the eye of the visitor, particu-
larly from Australia, but it has created
dangerous bottlenecks, not so much in
materials, as in the rarest commodity in
today’s Europe: labor.
West German industrialists have man-
fully shouldered and absorbed one wage
rise after another —10 p.c. in 1960,
10 p.c. in 1961 and about the same in
1962. But now profit margins can provide
no further cushion and industrial prices,
which had risen only by 1.2 and 1.8 per
cent, respectively for 1960 and 1961,
begin to climb faster. Soon the point
must be reached where German goods
will price themselves out of the market
particularly in Africa and Asia. This in
turn suits some other European countries,
which so far have been able to contain
their costs better.
The Basle Fair
Switzerland, the traditional home of
quality, is enjoying an unprecedented
export boom, but prices are also begin-
ning to rise faster than productivity.
Most factories are modernising machinery
and methods in order to stay competitive.
The greatest asset next to the reputa-
tion for honest quality is the Swiss ability
of adapting themselves quickly to latest
trends. The recently held Swiss Trade
Fair in Basle, which for more than 46
years has been the shop window for the
Swiss industry, proved this flexibility.
Automation and mechanisation are
wanted and needed everywhere, particu-
larly in countries where industry or
population is not quite big enough to
warrant costly and complicated
machinery. To forego modernisation al-
together would mean vacating the field
to the giants; consequently a compromise
has to be found. While America might
turn out the biggest and most automatic
machines, Switzerland adapts a bit from
here, something from there, invents the
linking part and finally presents a com-
bination which will give comparative
results for medium organisations. For
many Australian manufacturers a visit
to the Basle Fair would prove highly
remunerative.
The Basle Fair has more to show than
machinery and goods. It could teach
Australia how to organise a successful
exhibition on a much wider basis than
so far attempted. The Swiss Federal Gov-
ernment, the Canton Government and the
City of Basle have founded the fair on
a sort of co-operative basis with in-
dividual industries as the main, and
commerce and services as the smaller,
shareholders. If a profit is made all
participants benefit, but the rule for
many years has been to plough back
every penny for further improvements
and wider promotion.
It is the sum of little things which
give the Swiss Fair its special flavor.
Directions are painted in different
languages on the floors ; the police do
not mind saluting people who ask silly-
questions ; one wall of every kitchen is
of glass so that everybody can observe
how his food is prepared ; an open-air
kindergarten takes care of the youngsters
free of charge.
Italy
'T'he end of the boom in Germany
has meant easier times for France
and Austria. But the real winner is Italy,
where things are moving ahead very
fast indeed without, as yet, showing
the negative aspects of over-heated con-
ditions. The Italians never had it so good,
and if it would not be for the dreadful
heritage of feudah neglect in the south,
Italy would now enjoy a high standard
of living, even compared with Australia.
The problems of the “Mezzogiorni,”
the south of the peninsula, is that 40
per cent, of the area and population
of Italy are producing barely 20 per
cent, of the Gross National Product.
Every figure for Italy is and should be
immediately dissected. There is, for
instance, one motor car today for every 26
inhabitants in Italy, but this only means
that in the North the per capita figure
is 12 or 15, bringing the figures for
Calabria or Sicily, not to speak of
Sardinia, well above the true average.
Contrary to popular belief outside
Italy, the Government has not stopped
at speeches. In 1950 a special organisa-
tion was formed and given 1000 billion
lire (£720 million) to spend on a 10-year
plan. By the end of June, 1960, not less
than 1350 billion lire (£970 million) had
actually been paid out for 154,354
projects ranging from the constructions
of dams for irrigation and the draining of
swampland to the resumption of vast
“latefundiae” held by absentee landlords.
The plan has now been extended for a
further five years and the budget in-
creased to 2000 billion lire (£1440
million).
In 1959 areas had been set aside for
industrial development and a special
institute is now being formed to attract
foreign investors. Apart from plenti-
ful and willing labor, investors are en-
joying a tax holiday for ten years, are
able to import machinery duty free, can
draw on 6 billion lire (£4.3 million) of 3
p.c. loan money and may apply for a
subsidy of up to 20 p.c. of their invest-
ments. French glass and electronic
manufacturers, Remington and Rheem,
the chemical concern Pfizer and Union
Carbide to name just a few have
taken advantage of these concessions.
More Italian industrial concerns are
moving South. Social conditions, particu-
larly in the field of family welfare and
medical attention, are well ahead of what
Australia considers above average, with


i.
You’ll get a
secure
P.A. for 8 and 10 years
SUE ED MURRAY
REG. FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
.. and you’ll
save 10% on
purchases at any
Reid Murray Store
Ail told there are 174 Retail Stores in
the Reid Murray Group throughout
Australia, where you can save 10%.
And your investment which can be
surprisingly modest can return you
up to 9% p.a. and will be guaranteed
by Reid Murray Holdings Limited.
Applications accepted only on forms at-
tached to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
Members of Stock Exch. of Adelaide Ltd.
PAID UP CAPITAL £7.000,000
RMA.IONAT
FIXED LONG TERM STOCK
9°fo
310
7Vzlo
P.A. 8 & 10 years
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
Tk%
P.A. on 12
months' notice
6%
P.A. on 6
months' notice
5%
P.A. on 3
months' notice
4%
P.A. at call
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
libraries and practically free meals
thrown in for good measure.
Very soon Australia may feel the
effect of these developments, when
another source of immigrants may dry
up because conditions at home will be
good enough to discourage emigration.
J. G. H.
DAIRY EXPORTS
BUTTER OIL FOR ASIA
TThe languishing £7OO million Australian
A dairy industry may soon come into
the open and announce plans for recon-
stitution factories in South-East Asia.
New Zealand has already snapped up an
important share of the available market
by establishing several of these factories
in Asia.
Reconstitution plants re-combine
powdered milk, butter oil and sugar to
make sweetened condensed milk; or the
sugar may be omitted to produce whole
milk. Another possible product is ice-
cream.
The idea, of course, is to link with
local industry. Asian Governments wel-
come schemes involving the use of local
labor, as do these plants. Often the
promoting country provides most of the
capital cost of the venture, and in re-
turn has a guarantee that the plant will
only use that country’s butter oil and
powdered milk.
The Australian dairy industry has
been dragging its feet in establishing
these plants, but rumor says that an
announcement may soon be forthcoming.
There have been several pointers in-
cluding announcements by Tasmanian
and Victorian dairy co-operatives, that
they are installing new, highly-efficient
butter oil plants.
Butter oil is virtually butter with the
salt and water removed. It is 99.9 per
cent butter fat.
Technically a high-quality product,
butter oil is made only from cream or
the choicest butter. A related product,
ghee, is a slurry of coarse crystals in
liquid oil. Butter oil itself is usually
exported in a solid form.
In 1960-61 Australia exported 460
tons of butter oil and various butter con-
centrates, plus 1250 tons of ghee and
547 tons of butter mixtures. Ghee is
used for cooking in Asia and sometimes
as a spread on hot bread.
Most of these exports went to Asia
•—chiefly Malaya, Burma, Hong Kong,
and the Philippines.
The new plants, designed in part by
CSIRO, will make butter oil from cream
■— a less costly method than the present
Australian production from butter. It
would not be surprising to see much of
their production going to reconstitution
plants in Singapore or Malaya.


PERSONAL PROFILE
B.H.P's MCLENNAN
'T'he one man who knows more than
anyone else about the vast opera-
tions of the Broken Hill Proprietary
Co. Ltd is lan Munro McLennan, its
Chief General Manager.
His entire life has been bound up with
B.H.P. a life not of easy progress and
preferment in a rapidly expanding or-
ganisation, but one in which physical en-
durance and indomitable spirit have been
essential forces.
lan McLennan, a third-generation Aus-
tralian, was born of a Scottish farming
family in 1909 at Stawell, Victoria,
in the fertile Goulburn valley. Educated
at Scotch College and later at Ormond
College, Melbourne University, he was
a brilliant student, but without any of
the flamboyance usually associated with
youthful cleverness.
His university education coincided with
the early days of the Depression. They
were vintage years for the university;
only the best students stayed the course,
because of economic stresses.
McLennan graduated in 1931 as a
bachelor of electrical engineering. He
chose such a specialised course because
he wanted to be in a new, exciting field.
And electrical engineering in those days
was just that something like' electronics
and aeronautics today.
The Depression did affect him, how-
ever, when he went looking for a job. For
some time, he says, he’d had his eye on
B.H.P. as a likely employer, but, like
many others, B.H.P. was having its prob-
lems.
Unable to find a suitable job, Mc-
Lennan returned to the university for
post-graduate work in mechanical en-
gineering and commerce.
“I was Lucky”
Little more than a year later he landed
a job with B.H.P. as an engineering cadet
at the company’s Whyalla and Iron
Knob works at a salary of three guineas
a week.
Those first couple of years with B.H.P.
were tough. “A lot of it was pick and
shovel work; no running around with
notebooks and pencils,” he says.
McLennan had some fine men behind
him at 8.H.P., but they only allowed the
cream to rise to the top. Today, McLen-
nan modestly says : “I was lucky.”
But his first boss at 8.H.P., Mr F. R.
Hockey, now deputy chairman of United
Uranium N.L., says : “He proved he had
guts. We sent him out with a prospecting
team into the Middleback Range. It was
a harsh, rugged life, especially for a
young man straight out of college. He
was lucky if he had a camp stretcher
and heaven knows what he ate. But he
took it all.”
The year 1935 was a special one for
McLennan. With three other cadets he
was chosen for special training, covering
the company’s entire operations. The
four young men weren’t told that one
of them nobody knew which one
was earmarked to become Chief General
Manager one day.
“McLennan was an exceptional young
man with a physical toughness and keen
brain that quite amazed me at times,”
Mr Hockey says. “He seemed a likely
candidate for one of the highest positions
in 8.H.P.”
In the next five years, McLennan’s
work ranged across most of the com-
pany’s operations. From the limestone
quarry in Tasmania he went goldmining
in Kalgoorlie. Then he did a stint of
administrative work at head office in
Melbourne. From there he went to the
Newcastle steelworks, and finally to the
Port Kembla works. He married in 1937.
Quick Promotion
In 1940, he was made Executive Officer
at Newcastle steelworks. He had cut
his teeth. Various promotions followed
in relatively rapid succession. In 1941,
he became Production Superintendant at
Newcastle, in 1943 Assistant Works
Manager. Then in 1947 he transferred to
Melbourne as Assistant General Manager
and three years later, at the age of 40,
he was promoted to his present position.
Since then, a formidable list of jobs
with various B.H.P. subsidiaries has been
added : Director and Chief General
Manager of Australian Iron & Steel Pty
Ltd (B.H.P.’s largest subsidiary); Deputy
Managing Director of Australian Wire
Industries; Managing Director of B.H.P.
Collieries; Chairman of Associated Air-
lines; Director of Titan Manufacturing
Co; and Managing Director of Haeme-
tite Explorations.
A first impression of McLennan is of
diffidence and quiet cordiality. The
modesty proves to be quite genuine, and
the friendliness becomes sharpened with
a little gentle humor.
He believes B.H.P. should keep closely
in touch with the world’s steel centres.
Consequently, his travels overseas have
included the United States, United King-
dom, Russia, Japan, India, and Malaya.
Through the years his outside appoint-
ments have reflected the business he’s in.
After World War II he was appointed
a member of the National Security Re-
sources Board (now defunct). He has
been active in the CSIRO, and was a
founding member of the Materials In-
dustry Advisory Committee. As Deputy
Chairman of the National Safety Ad-
visory Committee, he is a strong cam-
paigner for safety in industry.
McLennan has two very special in-
terests outside of his work edu-
cation and immigration. He is a member
of the Melbourne University Faculty of
Engineering, the Ormond College Coun-
cil, and the Scotch College Council, and
a deputy Chairman of the Immigration
Planning Council.
B.H.P. has made large donations to
various educational centres, including
those at Wollongong, Newcastle and
Whyalla.
“It’s not enough to have engineering
colleges in the large cities;„colleges should
be brought to the industrial centres
where the students live' and will eventually
work,” he says.
“Companies like ourselves benefit
enormously from this.”
Immigration is a subject very close
to his heart, and he welcomes the new
emphasis to be placed on immigration by
the Federal Government. His work in the
field of immigration helped earn him
the Order of Commander of the British
Empire in 1956.
■pjOß all the great things McLennan has
done in immigration, education and
safety, his greatest work has been in
helping to build the Australian steel in-
dustry to its present position. In 1960
when he was awarded the Australasian In-
stitute of Mining & Metallurgy Medal, the
citation said : “From the latter part of
1939, under the impetus of urgent wartime
needs and after the war ended, the ex-
traordinary increase in the demand for
steel brought forth a series of major
developments in the Australian steel in-
dustry, in all of which Mr McLennan, by
reason of his initiative, energy and en-
terprise, played a major part. The list
of these developments constitutes most
of the history of steel in Australia from
1940 to the present time.”
Besides being active in the Institute
itself, McLennan is affiliated with
management and engineering organisa-
tions in Britain and America.
All these activities leave him little time
for much else. He has three relaxations
his family, golf, and tennis, in that
order.
He has four children two boys and
two girls ranging from nine years to
21. His eldest son is in his second year
of engineering at Melbourne University.
Which branch of engineering his son has
chosen is a secret, even from the family.
“I think I know what he’s decided upon,”
McLennan says with a chuckle, “but I
haven’t been told officially yet.”


THE RIO TINTO MINING COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in the State of Victoria)
The Chairman’s address to shareholders at the Third Annual General Meeting
held in the Conference Room, Messrs. Cooper Brothers & Co., 4th Floor, 360 Collins
Street, Melbourne, on Thursday, 29th March, 1962, at 11 a.m.
In moving the adoption of the Reports and Accounts, the Chairman, Mr.
Blake Pelly, said: —
PUBLIC COMPANY
On 13th February, 1961, The Rio Tinto Mining
Company of Australia Limited became a public
listed company on the issue of 1,000,000 ordinary
shares of 5/-d. each at 7/-d. per share. The issue
was heavily and immediately oversubscribed.
It is a source of great pride to us and a matter
of the greatest credit to our English parent company
that, apart from the repayment of certain loans, not
one penny of the dividends from the operations of
Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd. has yet been repatriated
to the United Kingdom. All surplus funds have
been re-employed in Australia to support our diversi-
fication programme.
MERGER
In January, 1962, an announcement was made in
London that the Rio Tinto Company Limited and
Consolidated Zinc Corporation Limited proposed a
complete merger of the two Companies. Your Direc-
tors believe that although this proposal will not
immediately affect the operations of this Company,
when the scheme has been approved and put into
effect steps will be taken to co-ordinate our activities
with those of Consolidated Zinc Pty. Limited, which
is Consolidated Zinc Corporation’s Australian sub-
sidiary.
MARY KATHLEEN URANIUM LTD.
Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd. is owned as to 51 p.c.
by this Company and 49 p.c. directly or indirectly
by the Australian public.
The very satisfactory results achieved by Mary
Kathleen Uranium Ltd. during the year are shown
in the Annual Report of that company. The profit-
ability of this subsidiary is, however, entirely de-
pendent upon a contract with The United Kingdom
Atomic Energy Authority for the supply of uranium
concentrates. On present estimates, if the present high
rate of production is maintained, this contract will
be completed at the end of 1963. Beyond this date
the immediate outlook for further sales of uranium
oxide is not a good one, and it is unlikely that ye
shall be able to sell commercial quantities of our
product for some years. Although every effort is
being made to find alternative activities to occupy
Mary Kathleen until the uranium market picks up
again, it is important that shareholders are fully
aware of the position.
With regard to possible alternative activities after
the conclusion of the present uranium contract, your
Directors have given much thought to this problem.
Particular attention has been given to the possi-
bility of mounting a copper operation at Mary Kath-
leen or nearby, and several copper prospects in the
neighbourhood have been examined and are being
explored.
Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd. has made an arrange-
ment whereby it may take over the exploration
interests of Rio Tinto Southern Pty Limited (an
exploration subsidiary of Rio Tinto) and its over-
seas associates in the Silver Phantom, Trekelano,
Kuridala and Mt. Elliott areas, all in the vicinity of
Mary Kathleen. In addition, options over other
properties in the Mary Kathleen region are held by
Rio Tinto Southern Pty. Limited on behalf of Mary
Kathleen Uranium Ltd.
The two most interesting are the Trekelano copper
mine and the Blockade mine. These are receiving
first attention.
The Trekelano has been dewatered and under-
ground diamond drilling, crosscutting and driving on
ore and mineral intersections are now in hand.
On the surface of Trekelano and approximately
1,500 feet from the old mine geophysical anomalies
occurred.
These revealed oxidised copper ore in trenches of
low grade over considerable widths. The exposures
are now being diamond drilled.
Another prospect, The Blockade Mine, only 14
miles from Mary Kathleen, is held under option and
work is in hand on a somewhat similar plan of
exploration.
Other activities in this programme consist of
deep drilling of the Mt. Elliott Copper Mine and the
exploration by underground development of a silver
prospect known as the Silver Phantom which, some
years ago, produced one or two hundred thousand
ounces of silver before being closed down.
It is important that shareholders appreciate that it
is quite possible that none of these prospects will
reveal an economic orebody and that all these explora-
tion activities may prove abortive.
In any case, it is important to realize that it is
most improbable that we shall be able to show the
same scale of profits in the years to come as we
have been able to do during the currency of the
existing contract with The United Kingdom Atomic
Energy Authority.
FITZPATRICK INDUSTRIES PTY. LIMITED
This subsidiary is owned as to 75.51 p.c. by The
Rio Tinto Mining Company of Australia Limited. The
production of blue metal from the quarry at Wall-
grove has increased rapidly and with the existing
equipment further increased production is difficult to
achieve.
Plans have been prepared, therefore, for re-equip-
ping the quarry with a modern plant and layout
capable of a production figure which will meet our
anticipated markets. This work is now proceeding.
A first dividend of 6 p.c. has been declared by this
company.
Fitzpatrick Industries Pty. Limited and Jaywoth
Industries Limited have together formed a new com-
pany, Jaywoth Asphalts Pty. Limited, in which each
has a 50 p.c. interest. Jaywoth Industries Limited
manages this operation. The purpose of the com-
pany is the manufacture, supply and laying of hot-
and cold-mix asphalt.
A modern plant has been erected on land adjacent
to Fitzpatrick Industries Pty. Limited’s quarry at
Wallgrove.
Results to date are considered to be satisfactory,
and Jaywoth Asphalts has contracted with Fitzpatrick
Industries Pty. Limited for the supply of the neces-
sary materials from its quarry.
RIO-PIONEER GRAVEL COMPANY PTY,
LIMITED
I am pleased to announce that another new com-
pany, Rio-Pioneer Gravel Company Pty. Limited,
will be the vehicle for the development of the gravel-
bearing lands purchased by Fitzpatrick Industries
Pty. Limited near Penrith. A modern gravel plant is
now being erected on this site, and production will
commence this year. Fitzpatrick Industries Pty.
Limited will hold 50 p.c. of the shares in this com-
pany and Pioneer Concrete Services Limited 50 p.c.
The new company is to have a management agree-
ment with Rio Tinto Management Services (Aus-
tralia) Pty. Limited and it will enter into a fifteen
year contract for the supply of gravel to Pioneer
Concrete Services Limited. In addition, Pioneer
Concrete Services Limited will contract to purchase
certain tonnages of blue metal and sand from Fitz-
patrick Industries Pty. Limited. This close associa-
tion with Pioneer Concrete Services Limited is one
from which your Directors derive great satisfaction
and should ensure the rapid development of Fitz-
patrick Industries Pty. Limited and of the new
company. Part of the terms of the agreement to
form the new company involves the sale to Pioneer
Concrete Services Limited of Fitzpatrick Industries
Pty. Limited’s 51 p.c. interest, in Atlas Ready Mixed
Concrete Pty. Limited, for 108,S00 shares in Pioneer
Concrete Services Limited. This arrangement does
not preclude Fitzpatrick Industries Pty. Limited from
re-entering the ready-mixed concrete business outside
the Sydney metropolitan area, if it so desires.
In order to benefit the Penrith gravel operation,
an offer has been made to acquire all the 1,067,008
shares in Territory Rice Limited (a company which
has a tax loss position) for the sum of 2/6d. per
share. The offer, which was unanimously recom-
mended to their shareholders by' the Directors of
Territory Rice Limited, has now been accepted by
the holders of more than 90 p.c. of the shares.
The shares are being acquired .by us upon payment
of l/-d. per share. Statisfaetion in full of the bal-
ance of l/6d. per share is subject to receipt of
notices of adjustment of assessment from the Deputy
Commissioner of Taxation, showing losses amounting
to not less than a further £700,000 for the year or
years subsequent to the year ended 30th .Tune, 1958,
and capable of being carried forward in the accounts
of Territory Rice Limited for income tax purposes.
This company will as soon as possible be renamed
Rio-Pioneer Gravel Company Pty. Limited.
RIO TINTO COLLIERIES PTY. LIMITED
During the year this company purchased all the
issued shares in the Clinton group of colliery com-
panies and associated service companies. These com-
panies’ mines are situated in tire Burragorang Valley
in New South Wales near Camden, and also near
Lithgow. Rio Tinto Collieries Pty. Limited has
been formed as a holding company for these activities.
The consideration for this purchase included
689,655 ordinary shares in The Rio Tinto Mining
Company of Australia Limited and in this way the
public holding in Rio Tinto has been substantially
increased.
The Bulli seam, which is the principal seam of
this group of collieries, contains a medium coking
coal of excellent quality. Contracts now exist for
the sale of 1.9 million tons of this coal to Japan, of
1.075 million tons to Noumea, and a considerable
tonnage is being produced for the Australian
domestic market.
The Mitsui Company of Japan is to be given an
opportunity of participating in the financing of this
project which involves a large-scale development of
coal production and a complete modernisation of the
coal screening and washing plant. This coal is
exported from Balmain in the port of Sydney, and
your Company has received assurances from the New
South Wales Government that immediate improve-
ments are to be put in hand to raise the present
unsatisfactory loading rate at Balmain from 250 to
1,000 tons per hour.
Coincident with the purchase of the Clinton group
of collieries, your Company purchased all the issued
shares of the Nattai-Bulli Coal Company Pty.
Limited for a consideration of 102,456 fully paid
ordinary shares of 5/-d. each in The Rio Tinto Min-
ing Company of Australia Limited. The Nattai-
Bulli Coal Company holds certain of the mining
tenements operated by Clinton’s Burragorang Valley
Collieries. The holding of these important mining
tenements by an interposed company not under the
control of the Clinton group was considered to be
an unsatisfactory situation.
MELBOURNE BRICKWORKS
During the year, clay deposits having been already
acquired at C'ampbellfield, Id miles north of Mel-
bourne, a decision was made to erect a modern
brickworks on this site, incorporating the best avail-
able practices in use throughout the world. Con-
siderable research in America, England, Germany
and elsewhere was carried out by your Company’s
officers before designs were decided upon.
Messrs. Swindell-Dressier Corporation, of Pitts-
burgh, U.S.A., the leading ceramic engineering con-
sultants in the world, are playing a most important
part in the detailed design and erection of this plant.
The commissioning of the plant will take place under
their direct supervision.
Initially, 25 million bricks per annum will be pro-
duced but an eventual production figure of 50 million
bricks is to lie achieved. Production is aimed to com-
mence in mid-i9G3.
EX PLO RATION P ROGRAMME
A large mining exploration programme has been
continued during the year and concentration of effort
has been in Queensland, Western Australia and
Tasmania.
Of particular interest is the work being carried
out 20 miles north of Mount Isa, and that being
carried out in the Pilbara district of Western Aus-
tralia.
Our associates in the North Mount Isa programme
are Tanganyika Holdings Limited, Siamese Tin
Limited, Le Nickel S.A., and Rio Tinto London, the
last two companies having residual interests. One
of our Australian subsidiaries has the right to
acquire the whole or part'of the Rio Tinto, London,
residual interest.
In Western Australia in the Pilbara area some
very interesting iron ore deposits have been dis-
covered in conjunction with Messrs. Hancock and
Wright. Drilling has been commenced.
Ten Temporary Reserves of 50 square miles each
have been granted to your Company.and twenty-four
further Reserves have been applied for as a result of
our work in this area.
Large deposits of iron ore have been located and
although great problems exist in the development of
this very isolated area, considerable further expendi-
ture is considered justified in an effort to prove that
an economic development is feasible.
As a natural development arising from Rio Tinto’s
proposed merger with Consolidated Zinc Corporation
Limited, we have invited Consolidated Zinc Pty. Ltd.
and Kaiser Steel Corporation to be associated with
us in the exploration and development of these iron
ore deposits.
An examination of the economics of both an iron
ore export business and also of a domestic industrial
development will be made as and when the quantities
and grades of the ore are established.
On our invitation, Mr. Thomas Price, Vice-President
of Kaiser Steel Corporation, recently visited these
deposits in the company of our own officers, together
with Mr. Haddon King of Consolidated Zinc Pty.
Limited. Both Mr. Price and Mr. King share our
views of the potential of these deposits.
DIRECTORS AND STAFF
In July, 1961, Sir Rupert Clarke accepted an invi-
tation to* join the Board. The Company is fortunate
in obtaining the services and advice of Sir Rupert
in view of his very wide business experience.
THE FUTURE
Without taking into account the benefits which will
accrue to this Company’s projects as a result of the
London merger by The Rio Tinto Company Ltd. with
Consolidated Zinc Corporation, I can only look to the
future with confidence and with a deep sense of the
responsibility which we all share to develop this great
country.
BLAKE PELLY, Chairman.


COMPANY REVIEWS AND NOTES
MOULDED PRODUCTS
YEAR OF COLD DRAUGHTS
V/Toulded Products (Australasia) Ltd
might well be the largest manufac-
turer of plastic articles in the Southern
Hemisphere, but mere size did not pro-
tect it from cold draughts blowing on all
sides in the financial year to December
31, 1961. Steady growth in markets,
turnover and profit over almost a decade
was suddenly interrupted by the events
of February and November, 1960.
The abolition of import controls ex-
posed the company to heavy competition
from overseas, and imposition of the
squeeze—particularly on the motor and
building industries —aggravated the com-
pany’s position. Pre-tax profit of £197,069
in 1961, compared with £670,571 in 1960,
illustrates the seriousness of its pre-
dicament in the latest 12 months.
The chairman, Mr F. L. Fitzpatrick,
said in his annual review that prices were
forced down sharply, profit margins
reduced and in some cases eliminated.
Revision of policies and procedures, how-
ever, would have lasting benefit. The
range of products had been completely
overhauled, and a number of items on
which profit was insufficient, had been
dropped.
Five operating subsidiaries in Victoria,
NSW and Western Australia turn out a
large variety of plastic and plastic-coated
goods, including agricultural and indus-
trial piping, insulated wires and cables,
vinyl-coated fabrics, laminated sheet and
tubing, polythene film, rainwear, toys,
floor tiles, domestic utensils, plastic-
laminated decorative hardboard, poly-
thene-coated papers and styrene foam.
P.V.C. moulding powder is produced for
use by other plastics manufacturers.
These are distributed through seven sub-
sidiaries operating in all mainland States.
A/Tajor events of 1961 included the com-
A pletion of the plan to centralise NSW
distribution and storage facilities at
Yennora, at a cost of over £200,000; the
acquisition as a wholly-owned subsidiary
of Fluid Pak Pty Ltd which makes Tetra
Pak equipment for the milk and soft-
drink industries ; the ordering of £400,000
worth of machinery to expand the plastic
film and sheeting capacity and range for
the Mentone factory ; and completion of
a £400,000 project to enlarge the plastic
insulated cable range at Lilydale. This
latter installation produces heavy cables
not made previously by the company,
and is expected to be a major contributor
to future sales and profits.
Cast acrylic sheet, used in the building
and illuminated sign industries, will for
the first time be made in Australia by
Moulded Products in association with a
Swiss firm:
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends—
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit 6i p.c. 14 p.c. serves serves
£>£>£, £ £
1956. .268,910 26,528 130,517 111,865 1,012,987
Profit sale assets, £1337 .. .. 1,014,324
Share premiums, £70,084 .. .. 1,084,408
Added to surplus, par over cost,
shares in subsidiaries, £765 . . 1,085,173
1957. .316,641 26,528 135,825 154,288 1,239,461
Note issue expenses, £10,352 .. 1,229,109
Profit sale assets, £11,675 .. .. 1,240,784
Less reduction in surplus of par over
cost of shares in subsids. share
premiums, £125,844 .. .. 1,359,869
1958. .327,878 26,528 156,299 145,051 1,504,920
Profit sale assets, £13,900 .. .. 1,518,820
Less reduction in surplus of par over
cost of shares in subsid. share
premiums, £176,362 . . . . 1,589,953
Unexplained addition, £1561 .. 1,591,514
1959. .388,697 26,528 184,488 177,681 1,769,195
Profit sale assets, £1847 .. .. 1,771,042
Less reduction in surplus of par over
cost of shares in subsid. share
premiums, £510,575 . . . . 2,269,146
Tax overprovided, £28,982 .. .. 2,298,128
Less share and note issue expenses
w/off, £24,160 2,273,968
Intangibles w/off, £2261 .. .. 2,271,707
1960. .406,821 26,528 202,858 177,435 2,449,142
Share premiums, £415,812 .. . . 2,864,954
1961. .159,934 26,528 238,722 —105,316 2,759,638
* After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
Profit fell from £406,821 to £159,934
in 196 1 , after providing only £29,688
(previously £261,250) for taxation.
This charge was abnormally low be-
cause of substantial losses in prior years
of an acquired subsidiary. The deprecia-
tion charge was again generous at £381,-
149 (£382,554 in 1960) because of the
need to provide for rapid obsolescence,
so that the company can adopt new plant
and methods.
The company had to dip into reserves
to maintain the 14 p.c. ordinary dividend,
but directors considered the unusual and
emergent conditions justified the subsi-
dising of current profits from reserves
which were accumulated for this and
similar purposes.
Reserves, however, had been fortified
by £415,812 in June 1961 on payment of
the final call of 7s. (4s. 6d. premium)
on 1,848,056 ss. shares issued in the
prior year.
Completion of this share issue and
receipt of the final ss. on 1,478,444 7 p.c.
convertible notes provided £1,016,430 in
working capital in June, 1961, and
allowed the company to reduce over-
draft by £652,391 to £150,383 :
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1959 19G0 1961
Pref £408,125 £408,125 £408,125
Ord 1,317,774 1,587,593 1,820,662
Reserves .. 1,769,195 2,449,142 2,759,638
Outside interests.. 101,250
Mortgage .. .. 281,588 270,538 291,411
Debentures .. 250,000 250,000 250,000
Unsecured notes . . 745,358 1.114,969 1,484,580
Overdraft . . 548,085 802,774 150,383
Deposits .. .. 179,535 180,147 123,492
Creditors . . .. - 1,086,690 989,434 853,490
Tax provision .. 451,274 439,597 189,068
Final divs. .. 118,686 134,727 149,677
£7,257,560 £8,627,046 £8,480,525
Freeholds, etc. . . 1,239,865 1,496,247 1,740,257
Plant, etc. . . 1,942,625 2,475,259 2,627,737
Shares in subsid.* 45,131 45,131 45,131
Stocks .. . . 2,278,282 2,522,609 2,221,005
Debtors .. .. 1,726,022 2,059,986 1,813,750
Loan, etc. .. 25,635 27,814 26,563
Goodwill .. 8,083
£7,257,560 £8,627,046 £8,480,526
* Not included in consolidation.
Total expenditure on fixed assets during
the year was £777,637. A £75,000 stocks
reserve was created from accumulated
profits, in case revaluation of stocks
should become necessary, due to the
highly competitive raw material supply
situation.
The chairman observed that the com-
pany’s financial position at the end of
1961 was such that the planned pro-
gramme of development, new products
and new plant could be pursued steadily.
From an investment viewpoint, how-
ever, 1962 looks a dull year for Moulded
Products. Though the dividend record of
steady 14 p.c. payments on growing capi-
tal has been preserved intact, the stock
has lost status, and a strong earnings
recovery will be required this year to
lestore market confidence.
The ss. ordinary shares can be bought
currently for around 14s. 2d. to yield 4.9
p.c. Net asset backing is 12s. 6d. The
20s. 6j p.c. preference shares at around
19s. 6d. yield 6.4 p.c., and the asset back-
ing is £l2 4s. Id.
WOOLWORTHS LTD
THIRTY-EIGHT YEARS OF EXPANSION
'T'he first Woolworths store opened in
A Sydney’s Imperial Arcade “bargain
basement” 38 years ago. Today, the
Australia-wide chain of around 700 stores
is an impressive monument to the labors
of its directors, who have been associated
with the company since its inception.
The chain has become more diversified
since the purchase of the B.C.C. food
chain in Queensland during 1958-59, for
as well as the traditional variety stores,
from which the company made its name,
there are now self-service food-fairs,
supermarkets, “budget-priced” clothing
stores, and lingerie salons.
In 1957 management foresaw that taxes
and costs outside the company’s control
were rising to such an extent that profit
could be increased only by producing a
much larger turnover. This was to be


achieved by large-scale expansion, con-
structing new stores and remodelling and
relocating existing stores.
Steps were made to include food,
where practicable, as standard merchan-
dise in existing stores throughout the
Commonwealth, and provision was made
for the handling of food in the designing
of new stores.
The B.C.C. takeover had given Wool-
worths ready-made entry to food retailing
in Queensland, and similar opportunities
were grasped in other States. John Wills
Holdings Pty Ltd of WA; Broadhead
and Barcham Holdings Pty Ltd, the
Safeways chain, Flemings Food Stores
Pty Ltd, Mcllrath Holdings Ltd, and
Gordon’s stores of NSW ; the Coffeys
chain in North Queensland, and Phillip
Griff (SA) Ltd, widened the Woolworths
network. (The only major gap is in
Victoria, the home-State of rival G. J.
Coles and Co. Ltd, where Woolworths
is not strongly represented.)
As these acquisitions were all going-
concerns, establishment expenses were
avoided. They were acquired economi-
cally by the use of the market premium
on Woolworths shares. Thereby Wool-
worths became the largest food retailers
in the Commonwealth within four years.
Consolidated net earnings of the
company (after excluding minority in-
terests) have risen strongly from the
doldrums period in 1958 and 1959. Profit
disclosed for the year ended January 31,
1962, was £1,917,971, compared with
£1,810,667 and £1,432,401 in 1961 and
1960 respectively:
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
r Dividends ,
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord. Re-
Jan., Profit 10 p.c. 7 p.c. 12 p.c. servesf
1959- 7,500 14,000 1,146,275 6,266,074
Tax underprovided, £460 . . 6,265,614
From development reserve, £131,501 6,134,113
1960- 7,500 14,000 1,153,089 6,391,925
General reserve, £BB2 .. .. 6,392,807
Assets revaluation, £313,970 .. 6,706,777
Share premiums, £2,194,349 .. 8,901,126
Overprovision for tax, £21,774 .. 8,922,900
Increase in development reserve,
£451,396 9,374,296
Less intangibles written off,
£1,516,647 7,857,649
1961- 7,500 14,000 1,287,044 8,359,772
From development reserve, £311,175 8,048,597
Add share pr-emium, £2,577,628 .. 10,626,225
Add adjustment to subs, reserves,
£1.917 10,628,142
Tax overprovided, £92,600 . . 10,720,742
1962- 7,500 14,000 1,541,228 11,075,985
* Excluding Woolworths N.Z., Ltd. t After
deducting intangibles.
The 1962 result was after providing
£1,014,748 (1961 £1,043,685) for tax, and
writing off £623,299 (£583,499) for amor-
tisation of leases and depreciation.
The earning rate recovered from the
point in 1959 where it just failed to
cover the ordinary dividend requirement,
reduced from 15 to 12 p.c. in 1958,
to 14.61 p.c. in 1960, 16.95 p.c. in 1961
with a slight relaxation to 15.44 p.c. on
average capital employed in 1962. The
latest earning rate was partly affected
by the decision to accelerate the com-
pany’s development programme to stimu-
late the national economy.
Comparison of the balance-sheet as at
January 31, 1958 and 1962 shows the
investment in fixed assets more than
doubled from £17,197,617 to £35,277,823,
while inventories carried rose from
£5,812,505 to £14,805,936. This gives an
indication of the demands made on the
group's financial resources.
The £4,771,977 raised in share
premiums in the last two years were
used to write out intangibles. Goodwill
is an inner reserve. Consolidated reserves
now comprise £2,027,928 asset revalua-
tion, £4,585,277 share premium,
£1,089,449 general, £1,760,110 profit and
loss carry-forward, and £1,613,221 reserve
for development. (This latter has been
created recently by profit appropriations,
to offset the cost of acquiring vacant
possession of properties etc.)
Book value of freeholds at January
31, 1962, was £22.015,343:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1960 1901 1962
Pref. .. £275,000 £275,000 £275,000
Ofd. .. 9,703,153 11,405,048 13,451,511
Reserves .. 7,058,866 8,359,772 11,075,985
Minority
interests .. 1,747,010 1,750,000 1,750,000
Convertible
notes . . 220,584 1,921,814 1,921,814
Mortgages, etc. 5.348,647 5,823,950 7,035,111
Notes . . . . 4,563,500 4,555,000 4,480,000
Overdraft . . 1,077,447 2.814,4 i.S 1,491,756
Creditors, etc. 2,393,531 6,069,384 9,052,278
Tax provision 1.400,407 1,730,617 1,731,501
Final divs. .. 683,385 809,104 952,356
Suspense . . 183,040 312,732 94,509
£34,654,570 £45,826,869 £53,311,821
Fixed assets . . 22,757,539 28,230,334 35,277,823
Investments .. 1,824,669 1,793,069 1,796,019
Stock .. .. 8,430,443 14,077,684 14,805,936
Loans .. . . 49,319 23,378 2,264
Debtors .. 305,754 078,820 1,302,484
Cash, etc. 583,575 423,584 127,295
Intangibles .. 666,941 -
£34,654,570 £45,826,809 £53,311,821
Woolworths has recently sold some
properties to institutions and then leased
them back, thus releasing funds for
further expansion.
Additional warehouse space has been
constructed in Sydney, Adelaide, Bris-
bane and Melbourne to cater for the
chain’s growing requirements. A new
meat processing factory has been es-
tablished at Auburn in Sydney similar
to the one in Brisbane.
'T'he purchase of the Rockman chain
A of 74 clothing stores added a new
feature to Woolworths’ operations in the
form of budget credit.
When taken over in August, 1961, they
were trading at an annual rate of nearly
£lO million, but incurring a substantial
loss. The annual report dated March 2,
1962, announced that the Rockmans
chain was trading profitably, indicating
that Woolworths’ trading techniques can
be rapidly applied to other types of
merchandise.
A further venture in the direction of
apparel was made with the £1.25 million
takeover of the Chic Salon stores and
its manufacturing supplier L. O. Bailey
Pty Ltd as from February 1, 1962.
By 1961 it seemed that the heavy
capital outlay of the preceding years
was at last producing profits commensu-
rate with a reasonable earning rate.
From 1930 to 1957 shareholders had
been showered with five bonuses and eight
cash issues. An issue of convertible notes
(in the ratio of one-for-five) provided
almost £2 million in funds, which cost
only 6 p.c. to service (as well as being
deductible for tax purposes). These con-
vert to ordinary shares at par on March
31, 1965. A par issue is now being made
to share and noteholders as at August
15, payable in January. 1963. This will
raise £3.3 million, and bring paid capital
to £16.75 million.
Group turnover in 1961-62 showed a
substantial increase over the preceding
year but the bulk of this came from
stores taken over and from the 69 stores
opened during the year. The turnover of
some existing stores, particularly in areas
seriously hit by unemployment, was con-
siderably affected by the difficult trading
conditions.
The rapid growth of the Woolworths
empire has imposed strains not only
on management, but more pointedly on
earning rates. The forthcoming par issue
could . endanger the current 12y p.c.
dividend, and the shares at about 16s. 7d.
cum. the issue to yield 3.6 p.c., don't
look such an attractive investment as if
the issue had been made at a premium.
In any case there is no need to hurry
into the stock, as bargains may appear
during rights trading.


FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS, £893,331.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,075,026.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
3 months . . . . 5V2% p. a .
6 months .... 6% p.a.
9 months . . . . 6V2 /0 p.a.
12 months .... 7% p.a.
18 months . . . . 71/2% p.a.
• FIXED DEPOSITS
2 years 8% p . a .
3 years p.a.
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OP A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
fI.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
YEAR ENDED
30-6-61
£12.857.865
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/11/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME I
ADDRESS
H DB2 i I
8.28/4
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) LTD
HOPES ONLY DEFERRED
/YNE of the surprise results of the
” credit squeeze was the effect on the
giant John Lysaght (Australia) Ltd
group whose profit in its first year of
public listing was slashed by half.
When a large parcel of shares was
issued to the public in mid-1961 it was
hailed as the float of the year, with a
particularly bright outlook but the
picture changed almost overnight.
John Lysaght Ltd was founded in
Bristol, England, in 1857, to manu-
facture and market the “Orb” brand of
galvanised corrugated iron. Following
the visit of the founder to Australia, a
sales organisation was established in
this country in 1880.
About the same time Mr Lysaght
formed a separate company, Lysaght
Bros and Co. Ltd, to make wire net-
ting. In later years this was sold to the
Broken Hill Proprietary Co. and is now
no longer connected with John Lysaght
(Australia).
The UK parent was acquired by
Guest, Keen and Nettlefolds Ltd in
1920. This company at present operates
two other groups in Australia Nettle-
folds Pty Ltd, bolt and screw maker,
and G.K.N.-Lysaght Pty, maker of build-
ing equipment.
John Lysaght (Australia) began the
local manufacture of galvanised iron and
black steel sheets at Newcastle in 1921.
From then on the importing business was
gradually eliminated in favor of the dis-
tribution of the locally-made product.
In 1936 John Lysaght (Aust.) spread its
activities to Port Kembla and acquired
the rolling mills and galvanising plant
of Australian Iron and Steel Pty. By
1939 plant capacity had been doubled
and another rolling venture undertaken
through a 50 p.c. interest in Common-
wealth Rolling Mills Pty. in 1947 the
other 50 p.c. was acquired, making it a
wholly-owned subsidiary. The group has
continued to grow with the expansion of
Australia, and in the five years to 1960
nearly doubled production.
The company can now supply the
entire needs of Australia in coated and
uncoated steel sheets within its current
range. In addition it holds a major share
of the New Zealand market.
Tn April, 1961, the UK parent invited
A the Australian public to take up
a share interest—and the underwriting
brokers were swamped.
Three million 20s. ordinary shares
with an assets backing of 325. Id. were
offered in minimum parcels of 50 shares
at 40s. a share. This issue raised paid
up capital to £l5l million and gave
the Australian public a holding of just
under 20 p.c.
The months immediately after the
float were not exactly fortuitous and
some doubts were raised as reports were
published of the laying off of staff due
to the lack of demand for sheet steel.
However, confidence was restored and
the market hardly moved on the
announcement of an interim dividend at
the annual rate of 8 p.c. compared with
a prospectus forecast of “not less than
10 p.c.” Most observers attributed this
to a conservative approach by the board
to the credit squeeze.
So the 50 p.c. fall in profit for the
full year ended December 31, 1961. came
as quite a blow in some quarters.


m
sac**:
ML
How are your
TRANSPORT COSTS?
Are they absorbing your profit margin?
Unless you’re using rail transport as extensively as
possible, the debit side of your Profit and Loss Account is
overweight. The Railways, per ton mile, is the most
economical form of land transport.
Cut down on transport costs and avail yourself of these
specialised rail services:—
• BULK LOADING Next-day delivery to most
large towns within 300 miles of Sydney.
• L.C.L. CONTAINERS Load in your own fac-
tory in these weather-proof, pilfer-proof steel containers
.—delivery right to consignee's door in Melbourne and
Adelaide.
• INTERSTATE DELIVERIES Less than 36 hours to
Melbourne or Brisbane.
Ring MA 7861 to have a Commercial Agent call and
discuss your freight problem or write Commercial
Manager (Special Services Section), Dept, of Railways,
Sydney Station.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
Profit for the year worked out at
£1,725,589 —£1,687,881 less than that
earned in 1960. It was arrived at after
charging £1,332,555 (up £234,024) for
depreciation and £1,258,000 (down
£1,411,000) for taxation. Earning rate
on average capital employed was 11.8
p.c., compared with 27.3 p.c. in 1960.
To Re- Re-
Dec. Profit. f~ —Dividend— N serves. serves.
31, £ p.c. £ £ £
1960.-3,453,480 16 = 2,000,000 1,453,486 6,562,083
Surplus tax, £81,977 .. 6,644,060
Depreciation reserve, £189,571 .. 6,833,631
Share premium, £2,801,337 .. 9,634,968
Unexplained addition, £83,704 .. 9,718,672
1961..1,641,885 8 = 1,167,312 474,573 10,193,245
The dividend absorbed £1,167,312 (£2
million in 1960) and left £474,573 for
transfer to reserves. Reserves also
benefited during the year by £81,977
surplus tax provisions written back,
£189,571 extra depreciation over and
above that allowed on book values, and
an unexplained addition of £83,704.
The share issue, after allowing for
expenses, raised a net £2,801,337 in
premiums. Total reserves at December
were £10,193,245 as against a capital
of £15,500,000.
Tn retrospect, the real setback during
the latest term did not occur until the
third quarter. When the prospectus was
issued, although orders were down
slightly, they were still at a comfortable
level and firm orders for the second
quarter were satisfactory. But when the
heat of the credit squeeze was on, many
of these “firm” orders melted away.
Overall demand fell from a 600,000
tons annual rate at the beginning of the
year to 324,000 tons in the last quarter.
Actual sales were 543,000 tons, com-
pared with 702,000 tons in 1960; they
were the lowest for four years.
Despite the setback, the company has
shown no misgivings about the long-
term prospects and continues to pour
funds into capital equipment. Total ex-
penditure on these during the year was
£1.68 million.
Principal item in this expenditure was
the continuous annealing and galvanising
line at Port Kembla, completed at a cost
of £3.5 million. The building is
capable of housing two additional lines
and already plans are being prepared for
installation of a second line. Total cost
of latest development project was £7.2
million.
During the year two hot rolling mills
were closed down (leaving two in opera-
tion) when production commitments
were eut following the commissioning by
B.H.P. of a continuous cold reduction
mill.
The company is not confining its
activities to NSW, and has acquired
land in most other capital cities and
northern Queensland for the production
of new walling and decking shapes.
Production has already begun in Mel-
bourne.
Despite the huge influx of funds
during the year, actual growth of total
assets employed was only small. A
secured loan for £3 million was repaid
during the year and creditor.; were almost
halved, from £4,160,649 to £2,170,083.
19G0. 1961.
Paid capital .. ..£12,500,000 £15,500,000
.Reserves .. .. 6,562,083 10,193,215
Secured loan .. .. 3,000,000
Deferred tax .. .. 88,600 116,600
Overdraft .. .. 324,397 406,27 S
Creditors .. .. 4,160,649 2,170,083
Long-service leave, etc. .. 1,395,525 1,125,803
Taxation .. .. 4,465,750 3,854,934
Pinal dividend . . .. 500,000 620,000
£32,997,004 £33,987,003
Freehold .. .. 3,558,088 4,100,216
Plant, etc. . . . . 9,465,496 12,734.921
Incomplete development.. 3,387,045 —•
Stock—
Raw materials . . 4,024,734 4,968,499
Finished stock ... 1,621,878 1,810,551
Consumable equipment 2,925,808 1,822,980
Debtors . . . . 6,981,191 3,851,337
Government bonds .. 3,234,788
Short-term loans .. 250,000 1,250,000
Cash 152.164 153,705
£32,997,004 £33,987,003
Freehold showed only a comparatively
small rise, from £3,558,088 to
£4,160,216. However, the value of
plant, etc., rose by 35 p.c. from
£9,465,496 to £12,734,921.
Stocks of raw materials and finished
products showed little alteration, but
stocks of “consumable equipment” was
cut from £2,925,808 to £1,822,986.
Debtors reflected the state of business
and were almost halved, from
£6,981,191 to £3,851,337.
The company is in a highly liquid
state, current assets exceeding current
liabilities by more than the desired 2:1
ratio. Total stocks alone exceed current
liabilities by a small margin.
The company has £.3,234,788 (more
than half the amount raised by the public
issue) invested in Government bonds at
cost, £1,250,000 in short-call loans and
£153,705 in cash. But in an industry
where new capital projects are usually
reckoned in seven figures, this might not
last long with any upsurge in demand.
A nd what of the future? Like most
other basic industries, the company
has had to wait for stocks held by con-
sumers to be used up and the increasing
demand to filter down the line. This
increase is now becoming evident, with
each quarter showing a substantial
increase in orders.
A return to the boom market con-
ditions of 1959 and 1960 is most un-
likely before the second half of 1962,
but any improvement at all must have a
substantial influence on results.
Not too much expectation should be
placed on exports, for world over-
supply of sheet steel will keep profit
from this source to a minimum for some
years. Perhaps the best guide to the
future lies in the company’s determina-
tion to proceed with plans to extend
capacity by replacement and extensions
in order to keep pace with anticipated
growth.
At 675. 6d. the 20s. ords appear to


CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
(ASSETS EXCEED £10,000,000.)
FUNDS MAY BE
WITHDRAWN
IN A PERSONAL
EMERGENCY
PER ANNUM
4 YEARS
INTEREST PERIOD
9% P.A 4 years
BVa% P.A._— .. 3 years
8% P.A 2 years
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
INTEREST PERIOD
9% P.A ....3 years
BVa% P.A. 2 years
8% P.A...—..12 months
7% P.A ..6 months
Applications for debenture stock and redeemable unsecured deposit
notes accepted only on form of application attached to prospectus,
obtainable from
Principal Offices of the Bank of N.S.W.
in all capital cities
OR
The Company's Offices:
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Floor, Empire House, Corner Wharf and
Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
NEWCASTLE: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street,
Newcastle West.
OR
Any Member of a Stock Exchange
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melb.)
5C.130/AB
have the immediate and short-term pros-
pects discounted. But with a com-
pany whose growth is so tied to Aus-
tralia’s future, the prospects must be
assessed on the long-term basis and at
current prices they could still be cheap.
Dividend yield at the present price is
2.4 p.c. and earnings yield is 3.6 p.c.
Should the dividend be increased to the
prospectus estimate of 10 p.c., dividend
yield would be 3.1 p.c. Net tangible
assets backing of the 20s. ords is 325. 2d.
CONCRETE AND BLUE METAL
A SOLID FRONT
C'olid foundations are being laid in
the NSW concrete and blue metal
industry.
Pioneer Concrete Services Ltd has
secured supplies of gravel and sand for
its Sydney operations for the next
15 years by an arrangement with
Rio Tinto Mining Co. of Australia Ltd.
Some such tie-up between Pioneer and
Rio had been widely discussed in busi-
ness circles.
Otherwise Pioneer would have found
it difficult to remain independent of its
direct competitor, Ready Mixed Concrete
Ltd and of a supplier, Blue Metal indus-
tries.
Pioneer has also eliminated some of
its competition in the ready-mixed con-
crete field by arranging to take over
Rio’s 51 p.c. holding in Atlas Ready-
Mixed Concrete Pty Ltd for a con-
sideration of 108,000 ss. Pioneer shares.
Rio-Pioneer will develop certain gravel
deposits acquired recently by a sub-
sidiary of Rio Tinto, Fitzpatrick Indus-
tries Ltd. These are located at Penrith,
30 miles west of Sydney. Rio-Pioneer is
already erecting a gravel plant on the
site.
The existing company structure of
Territory Rice Ltd has been taken over
and re-named Rio-Pioneer Gravel Co.
Ltd, which will be jointly owned by
Pioneer Concrete and Rio Tinto. Territory
Rice brings to the venture tax benefits
in the form of about £1.2 million ac-
cumulated losses.
Pioneer has contracted to purchase
certain tonnages of blue metal and sand
from a Fitzpatrick Industries subsidiary.
Rio has agreed to stay out of the
ready-mixed concrete industry within the
bounds of the County of Cumberland
and certain defined areas.
The two allies, Rio and Pioneer, will
present a united front in future expansion
of activities in the blue metal, gravel,
ready-mixed concrete and associated
fields. Wherever “practicable and expedi-
ent” the two will work in co-operation.
The industry in Victoria, which has
not been subject to rationalisation so far,
will have to look to its supply lines if
Rio and Pioneer cast roving eyes on
southern markets.
EMAIL LTD
EARNINGS RETREAT
/Consolidated net profit of Email Ltd
to December 31, 1961, showed a 19.2
p.c. retreat—by £124,390 to £520,746.
Ordinary dividend is manfully held at 10
per cent., taking £548,583. With 6 per
cent, preference charge of £6OOO, full
dividend requirement needs £33,837 more
than the profit.
Earning rate, after allowing for prefer-
ences, droops from 11.7 to 9.3 per cent.
Actual trading profit received a fillip
from a £711,132 surplus, “derived from
sales of investments and other sources.”
This amount would include a profit on
sale of the company’s holding in TV
station ATN.
The result is after depreciation
£419,236 (down £68,717) and tax
£223,607 (down £270,472). Tax has


CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(PAID UP CAPITAL £7,000,000)
100 New South Head Road, Edgecliff, Sydney
Tel.: 32-0111. Secretary-General: KEITH LOVE
PTeSHKeT ' 1
FIRST MORTGAGE
JBiiiMTtlßi STOCK j
Rate of Interest Currency of Issue
7% ... 4 years and over
6% • • • 12 months' notice
5% •• • 6 months' notice
4% .. . 3 months' notice
Interest is paid in Equal Quarterly Instalments,
Free of Exchange, on the last days of June,
September, December and March.
TRUSTEES
FOR THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS:
The Perpetual Trustee Company (ltd.)
This is not a Prospectus. A copy of the Prospectus
covering this issue of Registered Debentures has been
lodged with the Registrar of Companies, Sydney.
Application must be made on the Forms enclosed
in the Prospectus, which is now available from
All Members of
The Stock Exchange
All Branches of
The National Bank
All Branches of
Custom Credit Corporation
limited
R. 0.40.362
allowed “for losses incurred by certain
subsidiaries in past years.” A £66,000
tax provision, no longer necessary, has
been written back.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
RECORD £21 m. SURPLUS
HThe Australian Mutual Provident
Society will be able to lift its bonuses
to policyholders for the sixth successive
year. In 1961 it achieved a record
divisible surplus of almost £2lm. (up more
than £2.5m.) giving policyholders addi-
tional free insurance of about £4om. A
higher bonus rate is applied to all partici-
pating policies, including the separate
superannuation section established after
recent Federal tax changes. The super-
annuation section also benefits from the
now non-taxable “superannuation
income.”
A.M.P. policies in force assure some
£2338 million, with the 1961 bonuses
added. Superannuation comprises about
one-fifth of all Australian business.
TENNYSON TEXTILES
TRADE IMPROVING
Tmproved results in the first quarter
of 1962 by Tennysc i Textiles (Hold-
ings) Ltd have more than made up
for the decline r c les and profit for
the half-year to December 31, 1961.
Directors say that results for the full
year were expected to be satisfactory.
Orders in hand now exceeded those at
the same time last year.
Interim dividend of 4 p.c. follows
last year’s first and final payment of
8 p.c. An application for reduction of
capital from ss. to 3s. 6d. a share will
be heard on May 7. Additions to the
mill and plant have been completed.
BORG-WARNER (AUST.) LTD
GEARED FOR RECOVERY
tiorg-Warner (Australia) Ltd,
Sydney automotive engineer and
maker of gears and transmission units,
has converted a loss of £1,051,932 into
a profit of £118,204 within three years.
Profit for 1961 was £353,001, after
providing £216,625 for depreciation—
a 43 p.c. slide from the 1960 profit of
£615,730. But directors feel this was
satisfactory, considering the adverse
economic conditions.
Ordinary dividends have not been
paid since the predecessor, Coote and
Jorgensen Ltd, made a distribution in
1952. Preference dividends are in arrears
to the extent of £262,833, but it is
proposed to pay the dividends in arrears
up to December 1957, involving £59,252.
The balance in the profit and loss
appropriation account will then be
reduced to £58,952.
No provision for tax was necessary
again last year because of accumulated
losses. Otherwise tax would have taken
about £141,000, leaving only £212,000
for shareholders. The earning rate on
ordinary and participating preference
capital would have worked out at about
8 p.c.
The £884,375 participating preference
capital ranks first for a 6 p.c. dividend,
and equally with ordinary shareholders
when they receive more than 6 p.c.
Liquidity has been markedly improved.
Purchase of £351,466 machinery and
equipment was partly offset by the sale
of forge shop equipment tc Australian
National Industries Ltd. giving a net
increase of £224,206 for the year.
Recent forecasts of turnover ana profit
for 1962 indicate a substantial increase
compared with 1961.
HOWARD SMITH LTD
PROFIT RISES BY 53 p.c.
A fter all its troubles with shareholders.
Howard Smith Ltd, shipowner and
investor, has staged something of a re-
covery. In the year to December 31, 1961,
net profit improved from £203,721 to
£312,359 (53 p.c.), including one month’s
earnings from Melbourne Steamships
Ltd.


LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721.
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM," Sydney.
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court, 423 Little Collins St.,
Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
GILBERT HARRIMAN & CO.
STOCK AND SHAREBROKER
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
KINDERSLEY HOUSE,
7th Floor,
20 O’Connell St.,
33 Bligh St., Sydney
Telegrams:
HAKRISHA, SYDNEY.
Tels: 28-8398, 28-8399
Tax provision was up £19,890 at
£58,743. Depreciation was £8,581 higher
at £219,914. Trading profit was £372,468
(up £195,648). Investment income de-
creased by £46,098 to £291,553.
The company also made £169,304
profit “on the sale of shares and the sale
of a portion of the rights to shares
issued by a company in which shares
are held as an investment.”
Loss on sale of fixed assets was up
£14,259 to £53,259. Minority interests
were £6,481 higher at £26,165, leaving
£455,498 available for Howard Smith
Ltd.
Ord. dividend (4 p.c. interim and 6
p.c. final) absorbed £324,075. Preference
shareholders got a steady £15,000. For
the previous eight years the ordinary
dividend rate had been 8 p.c. Earning
rate on average ordinary capital was 13.6
p.c.
Paid ordinary capital was increased
to £3,401,250 by the i:sue of 328,114
shares as part consideration for the
takeover of Melbourne Steamships Co.
Ltd and of 73,136 shares to acquire the
minority shareholding in Australian
Sugar Co. Pty Ltd, which thus became
a wholly-owned subsidiary.
A partly-owned subsidiary L Invin-
cible Colliery Ltd. Howard Smith has
substantial shareholdings in Southern
Portland Cement and Mt Isa fines Ltd,
Coal and Allied Industries Ltd, A.
Goninan and Co. Ltd and Broken Hill
Proprietary Ltd.
Investments shown in the consolidated
balance sheet covered £247,206 Com-
monvealtfi and semi-Government loans,
£3,431,936 shares in listed companies at
cost or valuation less amount written
off, and £563,869 shares and deben-
tures i.i non-listed companies. These
represented a total increase of £496,182
on the 1960 figures.
Fixed assets showed an increase of
£343,480 to £4,119,439, comprising
£565,792 freehold and leasehold land and
buildings and £3,553,647 for vessels, col-
liery, mill, plant and equipment.
Surpluses and reserves of £3,809,110
support paid capital of £3,651,250 in-
cluding £250,000 preference capital.
A. J. CHOWN
OUTLOOK PROMISING
A - J- Chown Holdings Ltd, Sydney
plywood and timber merchant, had a
rather lower turnover in the six months to
December, 1961, but sales in the current
half-year could be higher than for the
second half of 1960-61. Interim dividend
is steady at 5 p.c. This was followed last
year by a final 7} p.c.
Directors expect net profit for the full
year to be higher, but earning rate on
average capital employed will probably
be lower. Prospects for 1962-63 seem
good.
Chown has acquired for cash Cecil
Gordon and Sons Pty Ltd and an associ-
ate company acting as art jewellery
wholesalers.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
REAL ESTATE LINK
CWdney-based financier Cambridge
Credit Corporation Ltd has forma-
lised an earlier informal relationship and
confirmed a valuable outlet for funds. Its
occasional relationship with the G. B.
Eggers real-estate agency group now
moves into a definite financial interest,
through the acquisition of a minority
holding in G. B. Eggers Pty Ltd, of
Sydney. It is also taking a 50 p.c. interest
in the Victorian, Queensland and South
Australian offshoots.
Both partners remain unrestricted in
normal business connections with other
organisations. They expect mutual
advantage from the link between top
management in finance and real estate.
Eggers sold £2.Bm. of suburban home
properties in NSW during 1961. Opera-
tions began in Victoria early this year,
in Brisbane early in April and are due
to start in Adelaide very soon. Cambridge
has just opened a full trading branch in
Brisbane.
GEO. WESTON (AUST.) PTY
WHAT'S COOKING IN BREAD?
Weston (Aust.) Pty Ltd, the
party which was outbidden by Gil-
lespie Bros Holdings for Sydney caterer
and pastrycook, Sargents Ltd, has again
stepped into the takeover field.
This time the objective is N. B. Love
Industries Ltd, fiourmiller and baker.
Love’s issued capital is 3,161,808 ss.
ordinary shares, for which Weston is
offering 13s. 2d. cash each, making the
total value of the bid about £2,081,000.
At the beginning of this year, Love
shares were 7s. 6d. on the market. The
net tangible assets backing of the shares
was 7s. 3d. at last balance date. Love
has £lOO,OOO in 7 p.c. pref. capital which
is held by the M.L.C. Assurance Co. Ltd.
Weston is a baking group controlled
from London, and makes Tip Top
bread. If it succeeds in its bid for Love
(and Love directors recommend accept-
ance of the offer), Weston will acquire
one of the largest bakeries in NSW.
As the Love-Weston takeover arose
within a few weeks of Allied Mills Ltd
of Sydney taking merger steps with John
Darling and Son (Aust.) Ltd, and was
swiftly followed by Dalton Bros Holdings
Ltd offering to purchase all the capital
of the unlisted Homebush Flour Mills
Ltd, one might well ask “What else is
cooking in bakeries?”
PACIFIC ACCEPTANCE
SLOW-UP IN LOSSES
TJacific Acceptance Corporation Ltd,
* Sydney, which tarnished its record in
1961 by omitting dividends after paying
12} p.c. regularly for many years, does
not expect to pay shareholders anything
in the year ended June, 1962. The interim
has been passed, and no final is likely.
Directors believe the company’s
position has been stabilised; it is now
losing at a slower rate. Economies
effected in the six months to December,
1961, were not fully reflected in results for
that period, which also included some
non-recurring losses on the sale of
properties. Sales of land in the March
quarter improved, directors say in their
half-yearly report.
Substantial repayments of deposits were
necessary, but the company’s liquid posi-
tion is said to have improved.


SHAREMARKET SUMMARY
Oharemarkets finally approached the
Easter holidays in a reasonably sound
state. Dealings early last week had been
rather lackadaisical and confined. So
much of the late improvement hinged on
special company circumstances that a
short return to irregularity on re-opening
would not surprise.
For by far the greatest fillip on Thurs-
day was contributed by the top-liners—
Burns, Philp and C.S.R. especially.
Thus it became leaders, leaders all the
way. Only British Tobacco retreated on
the week, losing 9d. to hit 21s. 6d. Apart
from the two abovementioned blue-
ribbons, 8.H.P., Henry Jones and Tooth
all exhibited handy rises.
The two specials appeared really glam-
orous under the market’s present drab
light. Burns, Philp, on the bonus issue,
finished ss. 9d. higher at £5 Is., Friday’s
actual net gain having been 6s. 6d. C.S.R.,
with the share split accompanying a
premium issue, advanced £4 10s. to £5B
ss.—the previous week had seen it in the
low doldrums of £53 15s.
Most other good industrials experienced
a very choosey atmosphere, though rises
did outnumber falls in the end. Yet the
industrial share index met Easter one full
point below the year’s opening on Janu-
ary 2. The all-ordinaries index has added
2.63 points since then, yet has tended to
drift back after this year’s peak on
February 21.
Turnovers remain moderately exten-
sive and most adjustments are small. It
is proving really difficult to work up
genuine buying pressure.
LEADING SHARE PRICES
, Prices
Last Div. Div. Earn. Earn.
Par Sale, Rate Yield Rate Yield
Company Value 1961 16/4/62 19/4/62 p.e. p.c. p.c. p.e.
Amalgamated Chemicals .. 5/- 14/3 18/3 18/74 124 3.4 21.4 5.7
A.W.A. 5/- 20/44 21/- 20/6 14 3.4 22 5.3
Ampol 5/- 11/4 12/6 12/6 14 5.6 19 7.6
A.R.C. Inds 10/- 46/3 51/6 51/- 15 2.9 29.7 5.8
Assoc. Pulp 20/- 29/3 32/104 32/6 — — 13.6 8.3
Aust. Chemicals .. .. 10/- 30/44 30/6 30/3 124 4.1 21.5 7.1
A.C.1 20/- 72/6 71/6 71/- 8$ 2.3 19.3 5.4
Aust. Guarantee .. .. 5/- 14/- 12/1 12/5 15 6 20.3 8.2
Aust. Gypsum .. 5/- 14/3 14/9 15/3 10 3.3 14.9 4.9
A.P.M 20/- 25/3 26/9 26/6 8 6 10 7.5
Bank N.S.W £20 £34 £39} £39J 9 4.6 12.2 6 2
Bitumen and Oil .. .. 5/- 24/- 25/74 25/- 174 3.5 32.4 6.5
Blue Metal Indus 5/- 22/74 23/3 22/9 15' 3.3 27.6 6.1
Bradford Cotton .. .. 5/- 7/6 7/- 7/3 io 6.9 11 2 7 7
British Tobacco .. 20/- 25/- 22/3 21/6 8 7.4 9.7 9
B-H.P 20/- 69/- 62/- 63/- 6J 2 15.5 4.9
Burns Philp 20/- 91/- 95/3 £5/1/- 10 2 12.4 2 5
Clyde Inds 5/- 10/8 10/8 10/2 15 7.4 15.3 7.5
C.S.R £20 £59/10/- £53} £58J 9 3.1 12.4 4.2
C.A.G.A. 5/- 11/3 11/8 11/6 10 4.4 12.3 5.3
Clth. Ind. Gas .. .. 20/- £5 £5 £5 11 2.2 25.2 5.0
Commercial Union Ins. .. 5/- 19/3 22/6 22/9 64 1 4 18 4 4 0
Concrete Inds .. .. 5/- 15/14 15/104 15/104 10 3.1 16.6 5 2
Consolidated Zinc .. 25/- 62/6 66/6 65/- * 15 5.7 11.6 4.5
Cox Bros. 5/- 7/6 7/7 7/6 io 6.7 11.8 7.9
Custom Credit .. .. 5/- 13/- 12/6 12/- 15 6.2 19.5 8.1
Cyclone 10/- 26/- 21/104 22/3 10 4.5 17.7 7.9
Dalgety—N.Z. Loan .. .. 20/- — 44/- 47/6 8 4.2 13.9 5.8
David Jones 5/- 18/9 19/14 19/3 124 3.2 28.7 7.4
Drug Houses 20/- 69/- 68/- 67/6 ll| 3.3 17.7 5.2
Dunlop Rubber .. 20/- 35/- 41/6 42/3 10 4.7 16 7.6
Elder Smith 12/- 23/9 26/- 25/9 10 4 7 12 6 5 9
Electronic Inds “B” .. .. 10/- 13/3 13/6 13/6 124 9.3 — —
Email 5/- 7/6 7/9 8/- 10* 6.3 11 6.9
E.Z. Inds 10/- 12/11 13/104 13/11 10 7.2 12.4 8.9
Felt and Textiles .. .. 5/- 6/11 7/104 7/9 10 6.5 13.9 9.0
General Inds .. .. .. 20/- 14/6 11/3 11/3 — — — —•
G. J. Coles 5/- 13/6 13/9 13/8 11 4 14.8 5.4
Goldsbrough .. .. .. 20/- 28/6 32/6 32/6 8 4.9 11.7 7.2
H. C. Sleigh .. .. 5/- 11/- 12/8 12/9 124 4.9 13.4 5.3
Henry Jones 20/- 80/- 84/6 86/- 10 .2.3 28.6 6.7
H. G. Palmer .. 5/- 15/6 16/9 16/9 124 3.7 34.5 10.3
Howard Smith .. 20/- 54/- 51/- 51/- 10' 3.9 13.6 5.3
Humes 20/- 70/6 75/9 76/6 14 3.7 24.6 6.4
I. (Holdings) .. .. 5/- 13/4 14/- 13/7 16f 6.1 20.6 7.6
I. 20/- 38/- 42/- 42/3 7 3.3 9.7 4.6
J. Gadsden 10/- 15/3 19/3 19/- 8 4.2 10.4 5.5
John Lysaght .. .. 20/- 64/6 67/- 67/6 8 2.4 12.3 3.6
Kandos Cement .. .. 5/- — 22/6 22/74 124 2.8 13.5 2.9
Kelvinator 5/- 18/3 1S/6 18/6 15 4.1 33.4 9.0
Lend Lease 5/- 20/- 22/44 21/44 10 2.3 21.4 5.0
L. J. Hooker 5/- 7/- 5/2 5/1 — — 1.1* 1.1
Mercantile Credits .. .. 5/- 8/8 8/6 8/9 10 5.7 16.6 9.5
McPhersons 20/- 47/- 41/6 41/9 8J 4 12.4 5.9
Minster 10/- 62/- 79/- 79/- 20 2.5 34.8 4.4
Moulded Products .. .. 5/- 13/2 14/3 14/1 14 5 7,8 2.8
Mt. Isa Mines .. .. 5/- 71/6 73/6 74/6 25 1.6 62.3 4.2
Mutual Acceptance .. .. 5/- 8/10 10/4 10/6 15 7.1 22.3 10.6
Myer Emporium .. .. 5/- 29/- 32/9 33/- 16} 2.5 28.3 4.3
National Consol. .. .. 5/- 27/- 27/9 27/6 20 3.6 35.3 6.4
Olympic Industries .. .. 5/- 7/7 9/3 9/2 9 4.9 16.2 8.8
Peters (Vic.) .. .. 2/- 8/6 8/3 8/5 15 3.6 18.9 4.5
Petrochemical .. .. 20/- 26/- 31/-*- 31/- 6 3.9 ,5.9 3.8
Pioneer Concrete .. .. 5/- 18/9 21/6 21/1J 124 3 30.7 7.3
R.M. Concrete .. .. 5/- 17/44 17/9 18/3 124 3.4 22.9 6.3
Reid Murray .. .. .. 5/- 5/3 4/74 4/6 -— — 9.4 10.4
Repco 5/- 12/5 13/10 13/8 10 3.7 17.8 6.5
Rio Tinto 5/- 15/9 19/3 19/6 10 2.5 71.7 18.4
Rothmans 20/- 87/6 74/- 74/6 174 4.7 47.7 12.8
Thiess 5/- 13/- 12/- 12/- 124 5.2 14.4 6.0
Tooth 20/- 60/- 65/- 66/- 13 J 4.1 15.9 4.8
Union Carbide .. .. 20/- 80/- 79/- 78/- 10 2.6 15.9 4.1
Waltons 5/- 13/8 13/10 13/9 124 4.5 19.7 7.1
Woolworths 5/- 15/4 16/74 16/74 12' 3.6 15.4 4.6
Wormald 5/- 11/10 12/3 12/- 10 4.2 14.2 5.9
W. R. Carpenter .. .. 5/- 30/- 32/- 32/9 15 2.3 35.1 5.5
* Estimated on last half-year’s profit.
SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE INDICES
Banks, Other Base All
etc. Finance Pastoral Retailers Metals Ords.* Industrials
December 22, 1961 .. 137.37 541.02 182.31 389.15 604.15 299.07 318.74
April 16, 1962 . . 152.04 573.53 190.31 396.61 600.02 303.55 319.25
April 17, 1962 .. 151.39 570.32 190.44 393.44 602.18 302.64 318.61
April 18, 1962 .. 151.33 564.90 189.87 392.77 605.85 302.77 319.15
April 19, 1962 .. 151.68 564.67 189.87 393.55 602.46 304.45 321.12
* Peak 348.46 September 16, 1960.
MELBOURNE STOCK EXCHANGE
AVERAGE YIELD ON 100 ORDINARY SHARES
( —To Other Stocks—Random-S
t 50 Leading Stocks — N Sample
Div. Yield Earn. Yield Div. Yield Earn. Yield
December 22. 1901 4.49 6.89 5.30 7.46
April 16, 1962 4.28 6.27 5.03 3.19
April 17, 1962 4.26 6.26 5.06 3.23
April 18, 1962 4.27 6.29 5.04 2.77
April 19, 1962 4.27 6.27 5.03 3.02
CONS. ZINC; NEW B.H.
BARRIER MINES 7 LOSSES
'T'he two London-based Barrier miners,
“ L Consolidated Zinc Corporation Ltd
and New Broken Hill Consolidated Ltd,
report severe profit declines for the year
ended December 31, 1962. Both com-
panies have cut their dividends. These
results follow quickly upon North
Broken Hill’s forecast of lower earnings
for its year ending June 30, next. Con-
solidated Zinc’s profit goes back by
33 per cent. —from £5tg.2,295,660 to
£stg. 1,526,403 —the lowest result since
1953. The dividend moves down from 4s.
to 3s. stg. a share (less UK tax) and
requires £stg. 1,144,772 (previous year
£stg. 1,247,748). Income from trading
and investments retreated from
£5tg.5,164,531 to £5tg.3,454,250.
New B.H.’s profit slumped from
£5tg.1,137,385 to £5tg.571,012, a 49 p.c.
drop. Dividend was halved at Is. 6d. stg.
a share, taking £5tg.366,160 (previously
£5tg.732,319). North B.H. will announce
its dividend on May 3.


WALTER P. HAM & CO
WALTER PERRY HAM and WILLIAM
JOHN BAKER
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
INVESTMENT HOUSE,
116 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Telephone: GO-0221 (30 lines)
Telegrams: HAMWAL, Melbourne
LEONARD G. MAY & SON
Incorporating J. E. MARTIN, HEAR
& CO,
Partners: L. G. MAY, J. G. MAY,
V. T. HAUSER, E. W. HEAD.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Ground Floor, 99 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
Telephones: MU2638, MU5746-7, MU2569.
Telegrams: “LENNMAY,” Melbourne.
LINDSAY MILDRED & CO.
Lindsay Mildred, Alfred Campbell
SHAREBROKERS
Members of the Stock Exchange
of Melbourne
56 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE
62-1601
Telegraphic and Cable Address:
MILDRED MELBOURNE
CONSTABLE & COMPANY
BW 0781
Member of the
SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE
25 O'Connell Street,
SYDNEY
CC2
All the
family
will love
I
4
Everybody's
L. J. HOOKER INV. CORP.
ON THE WAY BACK?
r J7HE proud and hitherto flamboyantly
successful L. J. Hooker Investment
Corporation Ltd has bent before the op-
pressive reality of the credit squeeze.
Having said that, one must hasten to add
that directors are at last facing this
reality squarely.
It still remains a little regrettable that
shareholders and a rumor-laden market
are let into the interim picture five weeks
later than usual; though some scrupulo-
sity has even prevailed here. Over such
large and diverse assets, the profit margin
is so slight that the board preferred to
wait upon properly audited subsidiary
accounts.
The corporation’s consolidated net
profit for the half-year to December 31
reached only £29,748, in crashing con-
trast with £360,236 reported for the
corresponding 1960-61 period. As widely
believed, no interim dividend is justified.
“Current indications are that no dividend
will be recommended to stockholders out
of results for the year ending June 30
next.”
Dividend is thereby omitted for the
first time since public status was achieved
in 1947. A reduced 15 per cent, in
1960-61 had been preceded by four years
at 20 per cent.
Throughout the time of troubles,
shareholders’ funds, unlike those of
certain other developers, have been kept
intact. They stand at about £lO million,
with reserves accounting for £5 million.
Hotel, pastoral and estate agency divi-
sions operated profitably. Subsidiaries
“engaged in real - estate development”
bore the brunt of the losses.
Much of the directors’ sternly em-
braced rehabilitation programme rests
upon the quick development of smaller
estates, but the liquidity battle is being
fought at all levels. Best of all, the
borrowing rate and the assets fertilised
by expensive borrowing are receiving
rigid scrutiny.
Enterprises not earning their keep
may be pruned or, in a process of ration-
alisation, disposed of. First fruits of this
policy were the sale of Rex Motels and
the presently proceeding sale of remain-
ing motel and hotel sites, which may
sometimes occur at a loss.
A keen and newly appointed acting
general manager, Mr K. Campbell, has
all these moves in train, together with
an alerted board. Some elevated execu-
tives are “back on the beat,” selling
again in fields of their previous brilliance.
B.H.P., C.S.R., B.P.
THREE LEADERS DOMINANT
T ast week’s company news was fittingly
dominated by three long-respected
industrial leaders —8.H.P., the Colonial
Sugar Refining Co. Ltd and Burns, Philp
and Co. Ltd.
Not surprisingly, B.H.P. has been able
to disclose remarkably striking over-
subscription of its £l2m. 7 p.c. debenture
issue. Total raisings reached about £21.5-
m., easily an Australian record. Some
63 per cent, of subscribers took the 15-
year term, 9 per cent, the 20-year term
and 28 p.c. the 25-year term. London and
US issues are still expected to follow
later this year.
C.S.R. came to light with its widely
awaited share split, to be executed im-
mediately prior to a premium issue. The
£2O shares subdivide into £1 units and
shareholders will then be offered one new
share for every seven held at July 31,
the premium being 10s. a share. The
prevailing 9 p.c. dividend should be main-
tained.
Directors of C.S.R. mention that the
programme follows a review of capital
requirements. They have particularly in
mind £7 million of debentures repayable
during the next 18 months £4m. on
September 30 this year and £3m. on
September 30, 1963. The new issue will
involve 3,023,717 £1 shares, bringing
paid capital to £24,189,737. Premium
totals £1,511,858.
On the eve of producing its first con-
solidated accounts (also widely awaited),
Burns, Philp surprisingly announces a
one-for-five bonus issue to shareholders
at October 31. The issue, the third in
four years, comes from asset revaluation
reserve and will lift capital from £6m. to
£7.2m.
The group accounts for the year ended
March 31, 1962, are taking extra time to
compile. So the usual May annual meet-
ing is postponed until the end of July
or early August. Meanwhile, directors
are to pay a 5 per cent, final dividend,
in accord with the 10 p.c. annual rate
now held for 10 years.
ESTIMATION OF RECOVERABLE RESERVES
A part from the importance of reliable
and representative values for the
porosity and permeability of an oil
reservoir other factors which affect re-
serve estimation include:
• The percentage of the pore space
occupied by the so-called interstitial
water. This is water which is always
present even above the oil water interface,
• The ratio between the volume of


PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of tlie Sydney Stock
Exchange
Delfin House,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building,
150 Queen St., Melbourne,
67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables:
‘Rosdale,-” Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
A. L. NiVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. JL. NEVITT. A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members o] Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761
(4 lines)
P.O. BOX
No. 1887 XV
GUNIQN, STEEL & HILL
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS.
Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange.
Kindersley House, 20 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.
Box 1632, C.P.O.
Telephone:
28-2641 (6 lines)
Telegrams:
“Gunot,” Sydney
Telex: Syd. 242
STOCK OPTIONS
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Suite 1, Sixth Floor, Temple Court
422 Collins Street, Melbourne
Phone 67-8011
BRANCH OFFICES
SYDNEY: 383 George Street, 29-7865
ADELAIDE: 61 Gawler PI., 7-8407
BRISBANE: 334 Queen Street, 31-1621
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS
ALL OFFICES—“OPTIONS"
Write or Phone for Free Brochure
and Current Price Schedule.
FOR CALL OPTIONS
CALL STOCK OPTIOxNS
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your
fancy write to the Manager, who will
quote you a price for the original.
oil as it exists under reservoir conditions
to its volume at the surface.
And finally, most important and most
difficult to gauge accurately,
© The recovery factor which can vary
enormously from about 20 p.c. of the oil
in place to about 80 p.c.
The factors listed above relate to the
reserves, but in oil production and econ-
omics more practical importance is
attached to the rate of production possible
from the oil reservoir. Here, rather dif-
ferent considerations such as the per-
meability of the reservoir, the degree of
continuity and uniformity of the oil
sands, and the physical ' aracteristics of
the crude oil, including par ' vularly its
viscosity, play the most important roles.
Assuming that the oil reservoir has
reasonable permeability and lateral con-
tinuity, an estimation of the recoverable
reserves can be made.
The equation normally used foi esti-
mating o" reserves on a volumetric basis
is
R = 7758 x A x T x P x (1-1) x S x F
Where R is the recoverable oil in barrels
7758 is the numb:: of barrels in one
acre foot;
A is the area of the field in acres;
T is the thickness (in feet) of the
producing sands;
P is the percentage porosity;
I is the percentage of the porosity
occupied by interstitial water;
S is the shrinkage factor;
F is the recovery factor.
Let us assume also the following values
for the variables and make a hypotheti-
cal computation for purposes of illustra-
tion :
A = 6 square miles or 3840 acres
T = 40 feet
P = 10%
I = 20%, hence 1-1 = 0.8
S = 0.7
F = 50%.
From these data R, our recoverable oil,
is computed as approximately 33,000,000
barrels.
The area A is in reality not known till
the field is drilled up, though, of course,
an approximation can be made at an
early stage from the seismic picture of
the structure.
The sand thickness T is estimated from
electric and other logs. Here a difficulty
may arise—how to distinguish between
effective “pay” and sand that is too
“tight” to produce effectively?
The porosity P can be determined by
log interpretation and confirmed by core
analysis and will obviously vary from
well to well. It should still be possible,
however, to estimate a fair average
porosity for the field as a whole.
The determination of the shrinkage
factor S requires elaborate equipment to
simulate the pressure and temperature
conditions in the reservoir.
The recovery factor F is the most
nebulous factor of the lot to assess, and
in reality may never be known with any
degree of certainty till the field is depleted.
However, from an analysis of production
statistics, the pressure behavior of the
wells and the observation of specially
sited wells, together with the experience
gained from similar situations, it is pos-
sible usually to assume a fairly realistic
value for this factor.
JOHN C. CAMERON
PROGRESS REPORT
Chnce getting a gas flow of 7.15 million
cubic ft a day gas flow from Glen-
tulloch No. 1 last December (this well
yielded about half this volume on a sub-
sequent test over 83 hours in January),
the A.A.O. group has drilled a series of
virtually dry holes around Roma
(Queensland).
First Meeleebee (60 miles south-east
of Glentulloch) was completed at 5076
ft on February 24. Then last week drill-
ing ceased at two other holes. One of
these, at Westgrove (20 miles north of
Glentulloch) stopped at the rig's capacity
of 6442 ft., presumably short of basement,
after only a small show of gas at about
3550 ft. The other one, at Killoran (10
miles south of Glentulloch) struck base-
ment at the very shallow depth of 2350
ft. The group is now planning another
hole at Westgrove to start early in May.
The T. 32 rig is being moved from Kil-
loran to a site about 40 miles n.-w. of
Longreach (Q.), where drilling will also
commence fairly soon on the Penrith
structure.
The results of this well should give
further clues to the possibilities of Long-
reach oil.
Beach Petroleum has made a rather
unpromising start, having got down to
less than 2000 ft in its structural test bore
in the Grange Beach area near Adelaide.
It is now moving further afield to part-
ner Oil Development and Santos in a
drilling venture at Mt Salt, also in SA.
TAX ALLOWANCE PLEA
A/fR E. N. Avery, chairman of A.A.0.,
is continuing his efforts (o persuade
the Federal Government to amend the
tax legislation to allow oil search com-
panies which merge to co-ordinate their
search efforts, to offset previous losses for
tax purposes if they found oil. If this
comes off, a substantial company could be
formed amalgamating companies in the
Associated Freney orbit, including Freney
Kimberley which in the past has done
a lot of costly and unproductive drilling
in the Nerrima Dome area in the Fitz-
roy basin. In the meantime A.A.O. itself
is making a Is. call on its present 7s. 6d.
paid shares on May 9.


m
m
M
SEND IT
MAD
FOR SPEED SAFETY SERVICE
aftfaiSjA W MEMBER OF THE MAYNE NICKLESS GROUP
O
DAILY SCHEDULED ROAD SERVICES
To ALL Capital Cities
Throughout Australia
RADIO PICK-UP TRUCKS.
THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
THE SHOW: COULD BE BETTER
By M. H. ELLIS
CJydney Royal Show may be the greatest
show on earth, bigger than Toronto
and vastly more comprehensive than the
peripatetic British Royal Show, which
remains truly rural and specialist and
moves from city to city. At the same
time, there are those who are becoming
a little tired of its turgid variety, its
crowds, its dust and heat and mud in the
wet, and who are beginning to wonder
whether it is not losing its clear-cut pur-
pose and focus.
In an earlier day it was an agricultural
and pastoral show similar to that held
in rural districts, but on a grander scale
and comprehensive of the State rather
than of the district. It served to bring
together all the best of the cattle and
horses and agricultural production of the
State. It still does.
It served as a distribution centre both
for stud stock and progressive ideas in
the rural sphere. It encouraged com-
petition between districts. It allowed
sporting horsemen and proud owners of
vehicles to show off their possessions and
their prowess. It linked the city to its
country background. And it was a meet-
ing ground on which men who lived
hundreds of miles and weeks of travel
away from each other might gather once
a year, to renew acquaintanceship, to
exchange ideas and stock. It still does —
on its rural side.
There were, of course, sideshows. There
was some exhibition of shop goods
mainly those of rural interest. There
were balloons and samples for the chil-
dren dispensed free and not yet com-
mercialised.
The rural nature of the exhibition was
explicit. The aim was to make the show
available to everybody at least cost.
Annual season tickets were to be had for
the asking and for a guinea. Now they
cost ten and there is a long waiting list.
Cheap tramfares and abundant trams
took care of transport in days when atten-
dances were limited. Relatively to the
present, there was more stand accom-
modation and better and more numerous
vantage points from which to see the ring
events, which were neither so numerous
nor so organised or subject to dressage
as today.
Primarily the Royal was an exhibition
aimed to aid the improvement and de-
velopment of the rural industries —rela-
tively cheap to run, and on ground which,
save for sporting events, was rarely used
during the year between shows. There
was no stunt advertising, no bally-hoo. It
presented itself as an annual picture of
progress. And basically it was a market
place for stock.
HPOday one would be hard put to it to
know exactly what it represents. It is
much bigger as an agricultural and cattle
and animal show in general than it was,
but at the same time it has lost all the
elements of surprise.
The men who saw some of each other’s
animals once a year at the Show because
distance and economic reasons prevented
regular and frequent contact, now have
as likely as not seen them all before in
this day of air travel and regular associ-
ation between farmers and graziers in
marketing conferences and the routine
movement associated now with the highly
commercialised profession of farming in
its wider sense.
The entries in the cattle rings have had
to be limited, so that no class has a
“tail” and the striving embryo stud
breeder has not the advantage of learning
his lessons through being able to see his
poor-average cattle side by side with the
Commonwealth’s best.
Transport has made the Show more of
an interstate and even international event
than it once was, for judges now quite
commonly come from overseas.
Overseas breeders find it worth their
while to visit it. The conflict between
breeds has intensified. The sales are
more for the specialist with big money
and less for the average stud breeder.
With something like £3 million worth of
stock on exhibit it is a dazzling and ex-
pensive display. Sales prices are at last
reaching out for world standards, though
far from reaching their peaks—as much
as a generation ago, the Argentine
breeders were paying five figures for
Scottish bulls as a matter of course. One
limit was resolved this year at £BOOO odd
for a Polled Hereford.
In spite of restrictions on numbers and
qualities in classes, however, the accom-
modation of the Show Ground is less
adequate for increasing crowds each year
and the stock is being more and more
squeezed out. Even now, all horse ex-
hibits cannot be accommodated on the
showground and many are distributed
all round the surrounding suburbs.
Lastly, while the crowds and the num-
bers and the congestion of industrial dis-
plays make it impossible to see the stock
sections outside the ring save in a blurred
sort of way, the Press has ceased to report
the details of the judging in the manner
once de rigueur and the element of sur-
prise has gone out of the judging. Journal-
istic expeditions are conducted to see
exhibits on the farms in advance before
they are brought to be shown. The iale is
told before the event. No longer is it an


essential service for the great newspapers
to describe the judging of cattle classes,
for instance, in detail —the writer 40 years
ago had a standing commission from six
great Australian newspapers and two
stock journals, one in Australia and one
overseas, to describe the judy'.ig of the
Shorthorns, class by class, and the win-
ners, animal by animal. This sort of
thing has become superfluous when the
would-be buyer of stud stock in Western
Australia can reach almost all studs in
the Commonwealth in anything from two
or three hours to a day.
/~\ne of the influences having the heaviest
impact on the show ground man-
agement has been the industrialisation of
Australia. The ground is not now used
for one show in the year, but for a num-
ber of trade exhibitions which are in the
hands of promoters, who organise and
manage them. There are now, apart from
the rash of periodic motor and other ex-
hibitions, really two annual shows in one
at Easter—the agricultural show, which
is well organised in technique, and the
disparate industrial show which has
almost engulfed the basic sections for
which the Show was created.
In the matter of industrial exhibition
accommodation, Australia is far behind
the rest of the world and has not yet
realised the need for buildings in the
main capitals like, say, the Coliseum in
New York which caters for vast fairs
and is booked up the year round.
We have not realised that, more par-
ticularly in Europe and increasingly in
the United States, the bulk of foreign
export orders are obtained at trade fairs;
and that these have proved so successful
that huge sums have been spent on pro-
viding concentrated accommodation for
them under weatherproof single roofs.
As an example of their scale the British
last year moved nearly £3om. worth of
art treasures and commercial exhibits to
New York at a cost of £sm., drew an
attendance of 320,000 at nearly two dol-
lars a person and went home with 27,000
commercial orders.
Sydney’s Agricultural Show may be the
greatest show on earth, but its industrial
shows and trade fairs are not. The Royal
Show needs reorganising to concentrate
its commercial displays and give them a
more modern and more weather-proof
and sheltered setting in a multi-storeyed
building. This would allow the Agricul-
tural and Stock sections more breathing
space and the crowds more room and
better ringside vantage points.
It is a project which should interest
both the Department of Trade and the
State Government. The latter could
justifiably switch the funds from large-
scale lotteries to the provision of Trade
Fair accommodation when the Opera
House is nearer to being paid for.
NSW SUGAR
RECORD CROP EXPECTED
■Estimates made by the NSW Cane
Growers’ Association forecast a
harvest of 620,000 tons of cane this
season. Sugar output is expected to
reach 77,600 tons 94 n.t., compared with
an estimated production of 67,591 tons
in 1961, 62,978 tons in 1960 and 70,527
tons in 1959.
Meanwhile the sugar industry has been
encouraged by the Commonwealth
Government's agreement to renew the
Australian Sugar Agreement for a further
six years from September 1, 1961, despite
some earlier misgivings about the Com-
mittee of Inquiry’s majority recommen-
dation on the method of determining the
home consumption sugar price. Whole-
sale domestic price of refined sugar will
remain at £9O ss. 2d a ton. This will mean
a retail price of lid. a lb in all State
capital cities. Prices to manufacturers
will remain steady.
SYDNEY GREASY WOOL FUTURES
Australia’s first commodity futures
market, Sydney Greasy Wool Futures
Exchange Ltd, commenced operations
in May, 1960. The Exchange consists of
16 floor members and 101 associate
members, who represent practically all
the world’s wool consuming countries.
Trading is carried out in units of con-
tract which are the greasy equivalent of
3000 lb clean weight of wool (about i 5
bales of greasy wool).
The market is quoted in pence and
fractions of a penny. A one-penny move-
ment on the market is the equivalent of
3000 d. or £l2 10s. per contract. The cost
of operating is a fraction under one penny
a lb.
During its period of operation the
market price has fluctuated between
94d and 117 d. The turnover has averaged
over 120 contracts a day, the highe r
day’s trading being 443 contracts in May
1961. Trading is conducted daily between
11.30 a.m. and 1 p.m. and 3.30 p.m. ant
5 p.m. Market quotations extend up to
18 months ahead. It has been clainx
that by using this market woolgrower
can assess their income as far as 1.
months ahead to within two pence a !
greasy. As commodity markets function
with the support of speculators, there
have been many opportunities for specula-
tive use of the greasy wool futures
exchange.
Commencing this week The Bulletin
will publish the Sydney Greasy Wool
Futures Exchange's official weekly
statistics.
SYDNEY GREASY WOOL FUTURES EXCHANGE SUMMARY
WEEK ENDED APRIL 1!), 1962
Basis Greasy Equivalent 30001 b. Clean Weight C'.W.C. Type 78.
r— Highest/Lowest Price Paid
(Pence per lb.) r- Turnover >
r~ —April 19 ■, Week Week
Closing 19/4/02 , To Date— ■, Ended To
Month Seller Buyer High Low High Low 19/4/62 Date
May, 1962 .« 114 J 114 J 116 1144 116 J 994 47 4,824
July, 1962 .. 1134 113 114 112 f 116 f 101 73 6,123
September, 1962.. 110 J 110 111 110 1162 103£ 35 1,409
October, 1962 .. 109 108 f 110 108 f 116 f 104 86 4,239
December, 1962 .. 108-J 1084 109 J 1084 113 1032 104 2,999
January, 1963 .. 108 f 1084 1082 1081 1124 1032 38 473
March, 1963 .. 1082 1084 109 108 J 1102 104 55 853
May, 1963 .. 1082 10SJ 109 1084 110 104 11 599
July. 1963 .. 10SJ 10Sf 109 J 1081 HO 105 43 309
September. 1963 .. 1084 108 J 1084 108 J 109 f 108 7 29
October, 1963 .. 1084 108 1082 108 J 1094 108 34 89
Total Number of Contracts 533 60,241


SPECIAL INSURANCE SUPPLEMENT
SAFE IVESTMENT STOCKS
Tnsurance offers the patient investor a
safe stock with growth potential
Americans call insurance stocks bond
substitutes. Yet, the yield on insurance
shares is considerably less than that from
Government bonds.
This is, however, compensated for by
the growth prospects of insurance stocks,
since most insurance companies plough
back a considerable part of their profits
—almost half in some cases —eventually
bringing handsome benefits to share-
holders.
There might also be opportunities for
shareholders to participate in new issues
as insurance companies raise money for
expansion.
As a rule, insurance companies don’t
take undue chances with their funds. One
of their basic principles is that of spread-
ing the risk, not only among other com-
panies in Australia, but throughout the
world.
Not many companies publish
their re-insurance figures but from those
that are available it would seem that
anything up to half a company’s gross
premiums go in re-insurance.
If a policy is written for a valuable
asset —say a building worth £1 million —
it is almost certain that the insurance
company underwriting this will re-insure
anything up to 90 per cent, of the
lability.
Again, if an excessive number of small
risks —say houses in a potential bush fire
area —are insured with one company,
that company will, at relatively small
cost, take out a policy itself against ex-
cessive loss.
Still, there have been failures of insur-
ance companies, though only rarely. One
notable failure was that of the Standard
Insurance Co. of New Zealand Ltd. In
this case, the Sydney office of the Stan-
dard Co. underwrote very risky business,
guaranteeing the performance of a group
of companies. Having done this, the
head office in New Zealand was not noti-
fied so that re-insurance could be
arranged. Consequently, when the
borrowing group failed and the policy
was presented for payment, Standard
could not meet its obligation.
The other major disappointment of
post-war Australian insurance was Van-
guard Insurance Co. Ltd, but a slightly
different set of circumstances caused its
troubles.
Vanguard entered a highly competitive
market from scratch and in order to do
so took a lot of the more risky business.
It was connected with car hire-purchase
firms and wrote a substantial amount of
motor car insurance for periods of up to
three years.
This was at a time when costs were
rapidly rising and the original p iium,
paid for hree years in advan.e, was not
high enough to later expenses. Nor
was this premium spread over three years
in the company’s accounts —it was all in-
cluded in the first year’s gross premiums.
Again the company tried to pay divi-
dends out of premium surplus, when
most insurance companies realised that
dividends should be paid only out of
investment income.
TTowever, with these two exceptions,
Australian insurance companies have
proved profitable investments in the past
and should continue so in the future.
Profits will come mainly from the
returns insurance companies get from
their investments. Investment income, in
proportion to total income, has been in-
creasing substantially over recent years.
The composition of investments has
been changing, too. The tendency is for
investment in shares, debentures and un-
secured notes in other companies to in-
crease and for holdings of Government
and semi-Government loans to decrease.
Consequently any upturn generally in
economic activity should be reflected in
a larger investment income for insurance
companies ; and any general rise in share
prices should increase the value of insur-
ance company assets.
One other feature of the investment
policy is the greater readiness to lend
money on mortgages, especially to busi-
nesses. By doing this they attract insur-
ance business to themselves. The British
companies, with mighty insurance em-
pires to back them, are in a better posi-
tion to lend money on mortgage in this
way than are Australian companies.
Although Australian insurance com-
panies as a group offer fairly low yields
compared with other sectors of the
market, their yields are not out of line
wi:’- those from over.:~as insurance com-
panies. Below is a table comparing yiffds
on insurance companies’ shares listed on
Australian Stock Exchanges with some
insurance companies listed on the Lon-
don Stock Exchange.
Australian Companies Yield p.c.
Bankers and Traders .. .. 2.4
Commercial Union Assurance Co. of
Australia .. .. .. 1.3
Mercantile Mutual .. .. .. 2.1
New Zealand .. .. .. .. 3.9
Queensland .. .. .. .. 2.3
South British .. .. .. .. 3.0
Southern Pacific .. .. ... 1.6
Victoria .. .. .. .. 2.3
U.K. Companies
Commercial Union .. .. .. 3.7
Eagle Star .. 2.2
General Accident .. .. .. 1.6
London .. .. .. .. 2.5
Legal and General .. .. .. 1.1
Phoenix .. .. .. .. 3.7
Royal Exchange .. .. .. 3.4
In looking at the financial results of
insurance companies, one important
factor is often overlooked —that 40 per
cent, of total premiums, less re-insur-
ances, must be set aside each year to
cover unexpired risks. The Commissioner
of Taxation recognises this figure of 40
per cent. In some cases, unexpired risk
reserves must be considerably higher.
One insurance company connected
with a large hire-purchase company, be-
cause of the nature of its business, has
an unexpired risk reserve of more than
80 per cent. Many insurance companies
have unexpired risk reserves of about 50
per cent.
"GENTLEMAN S AGREEMENT ENDS
ZANE of the most important develop-
ments in Australian insurance has
been the recent entry of general insu-
rance companies into life assurance, and
of life assurance offices into general
insurance. With this the seeds have been
sown for what, on overseas experience,
is an inevitable change in Australian in-
surance.
For years there was a “gentleman’s
agreement” between the life offices and
the general insurance offices that neither
would encroach on the other's ground.
The Prudential Assurance Company was
the exception to this, but as it kept both
branches of its business separate this
was tolerated.
In 1957, however, a British giant,


Legal and General, decided to enter the
life assurance field in Australia. Its
venture proved very successful, which is
not surprising for life assurance
premiums in Australia were considerably
higher than those in most overseas
countries.
the “gentleman’s agreement”
broken, life offices in Australia retali-
ated by opening their own general insur-
ance departments. And as the life offices
already had numerous branches in all
parts of the country, they had a ready-
made agency organisation for the hand-
ling of general insurance business. They
were also in a position to ask those people
or businesses to whom they had lent
money on real estate mortgages to
place with them their general insurance
business.
Because of the great number of people
who borrow from the life offices to buy
real estate, there has been a very rapid
growth in their general insurance.
The A.M.P. Society, for example,
after only three years of operation, is
writing more than £1 million worth of
fire and accident insurance a year. But
while there will undoubtedly be a further
rise in the life offices’ general insurance,
it will not be at the same fast rate of
the past year or two, because the ready-
made market of mortgagees will soon
be exhausted.
Most general insurance companies
have shown concern at the life offices’
entry into general insurance. In some
cases they have retaliated by acquiring
their own life assurance organisations.
For example:
• Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
Ltd took over the Australian Metropo-
litan Life and Intercolonial Investment
Company, in 1960;
• The Queensland Insurance Com-
pany Ltd and Bankers and Traders
Insurance Ltd each have acquired a 40
per cent, interest in the Equitable Probate
and General Insurance Co. Ltd —Burns
Philp and Co. Ltd owns the other 20
per cent.
• Among the British companies in
Australia, the London, the Alliance, the
Phoenix and the London and Lancashire
have united together in the life assurance
company, Unity Life.
These assurance companies have been
established by insurance companies
mainly in the hope that they will also
enjoy the power that comes with control
of large investible funds.
But it will be a long time before these
assurance companies generate enough
funds to in any way challeng: such in-
stitutions as the A.M.P. Society.
FIERCE COMPETITION
insurance, like many
other sectors of business, is entering
upon an era of fierce competition. The
position is arising where soon only the
big companies will be able to keep up
the pace.
In insurance there are great economies
of scale that can be turned to advantage
by the large concerns; and their very size
gives them greater power with which to
compete with rivals.
As competition has increased there has
been a notable narrowing of surpluses
from underwriting. The following table
shows how underwriting surpluses have
fallen and how profits from investments,
as a percentage of total net profits, have
risen over the last ten years:
1952 195 S 1954 1955 1956 1957 1958 1959 3960 1961
p.c. p.c. p.e. p.e. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p,c, p,c,
Underwriting surplus .. 43 57 44 43 37 41 40 37 32 28
Profits from investments .. 57 43 56 57 63 59 60 63 68 72
These figures are taken from the
results of four Australian insurance
companies as being fairly representative
of the overall position, results of all in-
surance companies in Australia not being
available. The companies are Bankers
and Traders’ Insurance Company Ltd,
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Company
Ltd, Queensland Insurance Company
Ltd, and the Victoria Insurance Co. Ltd.
The table below shows the way the
totals of net premiums, underwriting
surpluses, net interest and net profit have
risen over past six years:
BANKERS AND TRADERS
1956 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961
Net premiums .. £1,420,260 £1,548,775 £1,592,281 £1,676,913 £1,959,280 £2,044,110
Underwriting surplus .. 27,397 10,325 31,872 42,059 53,065 41,781
Net interest, etc. .. 42,702 46,149 55,079 66,098 78,995 88,821
Net profit or (loss) .. 70,099 56,474 86,951 108,157 132,060 130,602
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
1956 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961
Net premiums .. £2,503,655 £2,678,415 £3,147.961 £3,788,011 £4,703,908 £5,358,154
Underwriting surplus .. 136,918 205,084 214,772 166,761 158.675 185,655
Net interest .. .. 129,112 140,025 168,104 203,060 249,556 327,423
Net profit .. .. 266,030 345,119 382,876 369,821 438,231 513,078
QUEENSLAND
1956 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961
Net premiums .. £3,898,890 £4,195,695 £4,457,815 £4,635,408 £5,015,419 £5,650,504
Underwriting surplus .. 95,172 139,064 140,641 198,388 150,434 148,615
Net interest .. .. 331,464 362,262 385,866 417,334 482,934 500,884
Net profit .. .. 426,636 501,326 526,507 615,722 633,368 649,499
VICTORIA
1956 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961
Net premiums .. .. 1.793,248 2,055,979 2,247,932 2,521,710 2,588,584 2,880,742
Underwriting surplus .. 64,753 55,616 63,805 42,678 40,301 19,625
Net interest .. .. 53,575 64.646 89,216 102,402 117,014 140,446
Net profit .. .. 118,328 120,262 153,021 145,080 157,315 160,071
Underwriting surplus is expected to
narrow even further in the future. Al-
though this is causing some concern, it
is not treated as a major problem in the
Australian insurance world. Underwriting
surpluses have been whittled away even
more in some overseas countries —in fact
even a small loss is sometimes accepted
on underwriting and written off against
investment income.
But good profits are still available from
investment income, and some of the
older companies have built up vast invest-
ment portfolios over the years. It is
investment income that in future will
supply the cream, if not the whole, of
insurance company profits.
In the past, insurance in Australia has
been dominated by the giant British
companies, and this situation will almost
certainly continue. But this is no reason
for concern, for insurance is an inter-
national business. Furthermore, the
British have a peculiar flair for the
insurance business.
This is evident from the fact that
British insurance companies are virtually
the only ones established in most parts
of the world. For example, they are
able to compete for business in North
America, while North American com-
panies are not able to enter the British
market to any appreciable extent.
It was a natural and reasonable thing
that British firms should have entered
the insurance business in Australia in
the early days. And having done this
they now have built up tremendous busi-
nesses and have enormous asset backing.
They probably account for some 75
per cent or more of the whole Australian
insurance business. Nor is their share
of the market likely to diminish. Much
of Australia’s secondary industry—where
the majority of insurance is written —is
in the hands of, or connected with,
parent companies in Britain.
Furthermore, there is a tendency
among insurance brokers, who handle
about half the city business, to arrange
policies with British companies.
Australian firms, in their turn, feel


iu
HELP
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
resentment when they see “all Australian”
organisations changing to British in-
surers. And in recent years there have
been several examples of this. They feel
the policy of “buy Australian” should
also extend to insurance.
A misconception is creeping into the
picture that Australian firms are getting
a larger share of the insurance market.
This has mainly been prompted by the
rapid rise of the life offices in the general
insurance field (see separate story) but,
despite their rapid growth, they account
for little of the total market as yet.
Growth of life offices in the general
insurance field will undoubtedly continue,
and in doing so will make competition
in insurance even stronger.
The fact that the Australian compa-
nies’ share of the insurance market is
not increasing is illustrated by the
figures of five of the major Australian-
owned companies listed on Australian
Stock Exchanges Bankers and
Traders, Mercantile Mutual, Queensland,
Victoria and the United Insurance Corn-
start a price-cutting war.
The total premiums of these compa-
nies, the total Australian premiums of all
insurers and the percentage that the first
is to the second are given in the table
below.
1956 1957 1958 1959 1960
£m £m £m £m £m
A. —Total premiums of five Australian companies .. 12.2 13,3 14.5 15.8 14.3
B. —Total Australian premiums .. .. .. 123.9 138.1 154.5 165.2 180.9
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Per cent, of A to B 9.83 9.61 9.36 9.55 7.89
On these figures it is seen that Austra-
lia’s share of the market dropped by
1.94 per cent between 1956 and 1960.
However, in 1959 the United was
taken over by the mainly New Zealand
owned South British Insurance Company
Ltd.
If the United is excluded the table
reads as follows:
1956 1957 1958 1959 1960
£m £m £m £m £m
A. —Total premiums of four Australian Companies .. 9.6 10.5 11.4 12.6 14.3
B. —Total Australian premiums .. .. .. 123.9 138.1 154.5 162.3 180.9
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Per cent, of A to B 7.76 7.59 7.41 7.64 7.89
In this case the percentage change
from year to year is very slight indeed
and certainly could not be said to be
growing.
VIRTUES OF TARIFF AND NON-TARIFF
HTHERE are arguments for both tariff
and non-tariff insurance.
The tariff companies, which include
the majority of Australian companies,
belong to the Fire and Accident Under-
writers’ Association and the Marine
Underwriters’ Association. Main object
of these two associations is to achieve
stability in the insurance business.
This is done by:
• The adoption of uniform rates.
All tariff companies pool their statistics
with the underwriters’ associations.
They claim that no company operat-
ing in any territory can itself gather
sufficient experience upon which to base
rates.
A number of companies can, however,
by comparing their experience with simi-
lar types of risks, establish a basis upon
which rates may be predicted.
Tariff companies, through their associ-
ations, co-operate in this manner. Their
rates are fixed by the underwriters’
association and they must not be deviated
from.
• The adoption of uniform contracts.
All policies issued by tariff companies
follow a pattern rigidly set by the tariff
associations. This leads to a greater
understanding of insurance policies by
the general public.
Facilities for the exchange of business
are provided by the tariff associations.
Reinsurances by tariff companies can
easily be obtained with a world-wide
spread of liability in any particular risk.
In addition to these activities the Fire
and Accident Underwriters’ Association
maintains departments for inspecting and
classifying risks. They inspect towns,
water works, fire appliances, electrical
fittings and other fire hazards.
Towns are classified according to their
risk. A town in an area highly prone to
bushfire or flood, for example, would
have higher insurance rates than safer
towns.
(Incidentally, insurance companies
pay the majority of the cost of Australian
fire brigade services.)
The association encourages improved
building construction, and the use of
safety devices, methods and practices
for the safeguarding of life and property.
If fire and accident preventive measures
are taken, a lower premium is usually
applicable.
The association will make available
technical information on these subjects.
The Marine Underwriters’ Associa-
tion in its turn maintains a marine sal-
vage plant for use in disasters at sea.
Undoubtedly some form of tariff as-
sociation is needed by a large section
of the insurance business. Failures among
insurance companies in Australia were
common during the last century, when
there were either no tariff associations
or weak associations that constantly
broke down.
Now, partly because of the tariff as-
sociations, Australian insurance stands on
very firm feet.
However, tariff associations take away
any semblance of a free insurance
market, and this might be a bad thing
for the general public at large. This is
where non-tariff companies provide a
service.
The existence of these companies that
are able to charge any rate they want
must aid the competitiveness of insu-
rance rates. If any tariff rates become too
expensive a non-tariff company will soon
be undercutting the tariff companies.
This in turn is a good thing for tariff
companies. If rates were excessively
high it is almost certain that some tariff
company would leave the association and
start a price-cutting war.
In most cases in Australia the non-
tariff companies have been prepared to
follow the lead of the tariff companies.
They have not established anything
like the sophisticated free market that
exists in London, with Lloyd’s the most
famous free insurance in the world.
Many Australian non-tariff companies
would probably join the tariff associations
if they could satisfy all the associations’
requirements.
For example, an insurance company,
if affiliated with a hire-purchase com-
pany which has, say, 20 motor dealers in
one town acting as its agents, is precluded
from being a member of the tariff as-
sociation.
Certainly a good deal of the tariff
associations’ energies have been concerned
with a fairly strenuous policing of the
ring. There are always odd whispers of
rate cutting playing around with com-
missions and so on. Competition is
hectically three-why: between the
English-based, the purely Australian and
the non-tariff groups. All the time our
insurance market is growing up.


z
KfZ
v-4>A*
s>l*V
*
m
*
■
Q
s*v
FOUR times each year A.N.Z. Bank
issue and distribute their informative
booklet "Quarterly Survey", which
contains a wealth of information
gathered by the Bank's Economics
and Statistical Department.
Ask the Manager of any A.N.Z.
Branch to place your name
on mailing list, or write direct to:
Economics and Statistical
Department, General
Manager's Office, Box 537 E,
G.P.0., Melbourne.
A*N*Z BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
Over 900 Branches and Agencies of Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited
throughout Australia and New Zealand, in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, and
in London. Agents throughout the World.
ANZ .415 .19601
BANKERS AND TRADERS
INSURANCE CO. LTD
~Q ankers and Traders Insurance
u Company Ltd an associate of
Burns Philp and Co. Ltd —pays a well-
covered dividend, but profits have fluctu-
ated considerably in recent years. Still,
the company has maintained its 12y per
cent, dividend rate ever since 1949.
At the moment the dividend is covered
by an earnings rate of 43.9 per cent.
The fluctuation in profits can be attri-
buted mainly to fluctuations in under-
writing surplus—or, as it was in 1952,
underwriting deficit. Blame for this, the
company says, lies partly on unprofitable
motor vehicle and workers’ compensa-
tion insurance.
In recent years this company has tried
to eliminate the unprofitable areas of its
business.
It is a smaller company than its sister,
the Queensland Insurance Co. Ltd, and
also does not quite hold its elevated
position as an investment.
QUEENSLAND INSURANCE CO. LTD
'T'he 75-year-old Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd —another associate of Burns
Philp and Co. Ltd —has to extent
been ignored by the stockmarket in recent
years.
Perhaps this is because the company,
like Burns Philp, has not been disposed
to reveal all of its operations as fully as
most others. But it looks now as though
its policy is changing. Last year the
company presented consolidated accounts
for the first time.
It has been a tradition for Queensland
Insurance to surprise its shareholders
with such things as new issues. It is six
years since it last had a new issue—in
1956 there was a bonus and then a cash
issue both in the ratio of one-to-three.
The time may not be far distant when
another “surprise'’ new issue is made.
Profits have been consistently rising
year after year, invariably twice covering
dividends paid. It has rationalised some
of its overseas activities withdrawing
from operations in Iraq, French Indo-
China and Indonesia.
Even so operations are still carried on
through branches or agencies in 39
different countries.
The Queensland has entered the life
assurance field as is the vogue among
insurance companies at present —by
becoming partners with Bankers and
Traders Insurance Company Ltd and
Burns Philp in the Equitable Probate
and General Insurance Co. Ltd. All in
all the Queensland Insurance Co. looks
a very solid proposition.
Below is a table worked out on the
“Value Line Survey” method showing
the growth in earnings and dividends of
a hypothetical share bought in 1953.
In this system new share issues are
adjusted by assuming that enough rights
are sold to enable shares to be taken up
without any further cash outlay. The
bottom line shows how the price of the
shares has moved during the same period.
3 9.53 3 954 1955 1956 1957 1958 1959 1960
E’s/Share .. .. 41.2 38.3 41.3 44.0 49.3 50.4 59.0 60.7
Di vs./Share .. .. 19.4 19.4 19.4 19.4 28.4 30.0 30.0 30.0
Price Index .. .. 100 101 101 131 147 162 223 220
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE CO. LTD
'~J”HE South British Insurance Co. Ltd
is another mainly New Zealand
company and regarded as one of the
best insurance investments on Australian
Stock Exchanges. New Zealanders own


k
ms
mii
M
‘Why can’t I play with Jenny
today?”
This little girl may never see her playmates again. For suddenly she is
fatherless and she must move... and the security and comforts she once
knew can no longer be hers.
Her father believed his protection was enough. He could not visualise the
heartbreak and financial burden that would exist if, suddenly, he were
not there.
Losing a parent is tragedy enough for children. But need there be added
the loss of home friends and playmates the happy progress at school?
An M.L.C. policy not only provides for the future it’s a definite saving
and you also benefit from regular bonuses and valuable tax concessions.
Can your family face the future alone? Plan now for your children’s
continued prosperity. The M.L.C. can guide and advise you providing
an Insurance Policy which gives more than adequate coverage.
Jl
EEHOKa
THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS 1
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
and for fire and general insurance
THE M.L.C. FIRE AND GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY PTY. LT?* .
MLC693
90 per cent, of the shares in this
company.
In 1959 it came in for some criticism
in Australia over its one-for-one bonus
issue. This was becau:e the bonus issue
was taxable in the hands of Australian
shareholders (being a capitalisation of
general reserve) although free of tax for
home country New Zealanders.
In reply to the criticism chairman of
South British (Mr Kenneth Myers) was
reported to have said in an Auckland
newspaper that Australians buying shares
in the company presumably would do so
with the knowledge that the company
was subject to the laws of New Zealand
in the same way as New Zealanders
buying shares in an Australian company.
South British, in 1960, successfully
merged with the then 98-year-old United
Insurance Co. Ltd, and there was some
resentment in Australian insurance
circles that United had sold out to an
overseas-control! ~d concern.
South British at the moment offers
investors a relatively attractive yield of
3.1 per cent.
COMMERCIAL UNION
ASSURANCE CO. LTD
r J''HE giant Commercial Union Assur-
ance Co. of London set an example
in 1960 that may be followed by other
overseas companies operating in Aus-
tralia floating a separate Australian
company.
This has two advantages for overseas
companies: it gives the company the
semblance of an Australian company and
makes it easier to take over Australian
companies through share exchanges.
Both these motives influenced Com-
mercial Union’s move.
When the Australian company was
formed it was called the Commercial
Union Assurance Co. of Australia. Aus-
tralians were offered about one-third of
the capital in this company. The general
public took up 1.8 million ss. shares at
2s. 6d. premium. And a number of lead-
ing woolbroking and pastoral agency
houses between them took up a further
2.2 million ss. shares.
These firms were: Dalgety and Co.
Ltd, Elder Smith and Co. Ltd, N.Z. Loan
and Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd, Queens-
land Primary Producers’ Co-operative
Association Ltd, and Roberts Stewart
and Co. Ltd, of Tasmania.
Included in the deal was the Australian
business of the following companies:
British General Insurance Company Ltd,
Edinburgh Assurance Company Ltd,
Palatine Insurance Company Ltd. The
Ocean Accident and Guarantee Corpor-
ation Ltd, and Union Assurance Society
Ltd.
At the moment the shares in Com-
mercial Union stand at 235. and at
1.4 per cent, offer the lowest yield of
any listed insurance company in Aus-
tralia —this probably reflects a shortage
of scrip. This compares with a yield of
3.7 on the parent company’s shares in
the United Kingdom.
Commercial Union has shown its Land
—it wants to expand in Australia. Last
year it was negotiating for the purchase
of the Australian interests of North
British and Mercantile Insurance Co.
Ltd. It was also at one stage rumored
to be after the Victoria Insurance Com-
pany Ltd. Undoubtedly any takeover
would use to advantage the large pre-
mium now on the shares.


For all
your
family
banking
see the ES&A Bank
Think of the advantages, the time-saving convenience, of one-stop
banking for all your family needs. At any E.S. & A. Office you enjoy
every modern banking service including • Savings Bank facilities
• Cheque Accounts • Interest-bearing Term Deposits • Hire
Purchase finance through Esanda Ltd. • Complete travel service
both in Australia and abroad • Unit Trust investment through
E.S. &A. Managed Investments and many others. For further infor-
mation, call, on the Manager of your nearest E.S. &A. Bank. He’ll
be glad to give you details of the many friendly services the E.S. & A.
can offer you.
Savings Accounts —Cheque Accounts
s
Established 1852
THE ENGLISH SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
Save for tomorrow, today Bank ES.&A.
SOUTHERN PACIFIC INSURANCE
GOUTHERN Pacific Insurance Co. Ltd
bears the brand of success associated
with W. R. Carpenter Holdings Ltd, of
which it is an offshoot.
This non-tariff company also has the
very low yield associated with W. R.
Carpenter. The fully paid shares yield
only 1.6 per cent, but they are covered
more than three times by earnings.
A better yield of 2.2 per cent, is
available on the ss. contributing shares
paid to Is. Earnings yield on these con-
tributing shares is 6.2 per cent.
At 285.3 d. the contributing shares look
the cheaper way into this company. But
it might be an entirely different matter
when the buying bid is put in these
shares are very tightly held and seldom
dealt in on ’change.
VICTORIA INSURANCE CO. LTD
HTHE Victoria Insurance Company Ltd,
which has been established for 113
years, is a highly regarded company.
Over recent years it has enjoyed steady,
if not spectacular, rises in profits, and it
operates in eight overseas countries.
Recently the Victoria built a £500,000
building in Hunter Street, Sydney.
Its dividend has been at a constant
10 per cent, since 1958 following a
one-for-one bonus issue. Before that a
steady 20 per cent had been paid since
1952.
Lately the Victoria has come in for
its share of takeover rumors. Last May
the shares jumped Bs. when it was
thought the Commercial Union was
after it.
N.Z. INSURANCE CO.
tOR some reason New Zealand is a
A country that, for its size, supports a
large and solid insurance business.
(This is, of course, with the exception
of Standard.)
And the New Zealand Insurance Co.
Ltd is one company that does New
Zealand proud.
Since 1955 it has had two bonus issues
—a one-for-one in 1955 and a one-for
three in 1959.
At the moment the shares offer an
attractive, well-covered yield of 3.8 per
cent.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD
AyfERCANTILE MUTUAL INSURANCE Co.
Ltd is considered one of the glamor
stocks of the Australian stock market,
substantial profit rises having been
recorded in each of the last four years.
The company's disclosed net profit
last year advanced by 17 per cent.
(£74,847) to an earning rate of 21.7 per
cent. This, however, includes only the
dividend received from Australian Metro-
politan Life and Intercolonial Investment,
which Mercantile took over in 1960.
Australian Metropolitan Life had been
making payouts of only £17,500 on profits
of £285,000, and if these earnings had
been included in consolidated accounts,
the earning rate of Mercantile could well
be over 30 p.c. Profits in 1960 rose
by £68,410 and in 1959 by £43,383.
The Mercantile Mutual has chosen to
go it alone in retaliation to the life
offices’ entrance into general insurance.
By acquiring the whole of the capital of
Australian Metropolitan Life—it already
owned about half —Mercantile avoided
the large preliminary costs of establishing
a new life assurance company.
Below is a table, worked out on the
“Value Line Survey” method, showing


the growth in earnings and dividends of
a hypothetical share bought in 1953. In
this system new share issues are adjusted
by assuming that enough rights are sold
to enable shares to be taken up without
any further cash outlay.
The bottom line shows how the price
of the shares has moved during the same
period.
„, 3 953 1954 1955 1956 1957 1958 1959 1960
B.s/Share .. .. 41.9 40.6 40.6 38.7 41.6 52.7 53.8 55.1
Diys/Share .. 21.8 18.2 18.2 18.2 18.2 22.7 22.7 26.1
Price Index .. .. 100 107 100 99 129 129 183 230
The earnings growth figure here would
be depressed by the fact that only parent
company earnings are made public.
UNITED HOLDINGS
Holdings Ltd, the Sydney
general insurance and development
group, is a stock worth noting. Its large,
undisclosed reserve enabled it to announce
last year a one-for-eight bonus issue
with plenty to spare.
Among United Holdings subsidiaries
are The Producers and Citizens’ Co-
operative Assurance Company Ltd, P.
and C. Insurance and Investment Ltd,
Hudson’s United Developments Pty Ltd,
and Lyndhurst Pty Ltd.
Directors intend to issue bonus shares
rather than to lift the prevailing 8 per
cent, dividend. By this means they will
build up share capital, now brought by
the last bonus to £394,869.
Last year a placement of 85 000 shares
was made at a 20s. premium to acquire
the Lyndhurst subsidiary, which controls
an excellent share portfolio. Lyndhurst
continues to function as a share trading
company.
The various subsidiaries listed above
suggest a fair measure of diversification.
Yet they mostly fit quite comfortably into
the insurance ambit. The holding com-
pany had been primarily formed to obtain
the life company, Producers and Citizens’
Co-operative Assurance, and also to
establish a fire and general offshoot,
P. and C. Insurance and Investment.
For 1960-61, the life company wrote
record new ordinary business. The general
company had its third and most success-
ful year.
Hudson’s United, the development
subsidiary, holds sufficient project land to
enable an uninterrupted building pro-
gramme of four houses a week for the
next three years.
All in all, a most variegated collection
of activities, on which the share market
bestows considerable esteem. The 10s.
shares are priced around 465., to yield
1.7 per cent.
COMPANY DETAILS
TTere is a table listing the insurance
companies mentioned in this survey,
their par value, dividend rate, earning
rate, latest price, dividend yield and
earning yield:
Company and Par Value Div. p.c. Earn, rate p.c. Last Sale Div. Yield Earn. Yield
Bankers and traders 15s. .. .. 12.5 43 9 82/ 2 3 8
New Zealand 255. .. .. .. 12.5 23.1 81/ 3*B 7 1
New Zealand “B” 255. .. .. 12.5 23 1 80/ 3 9 7 9
Queensland 20s. 12.5 25.0 £SX 2 1 4 2
South British 12s. 6d. .. .. 15 28.5 60/6 3 1 5 9
South British “B” 12s. 6d. .. 15 28.5 60/6 3.1 5 9
Southern Pacific 5s 12.5 39.9 40/ 1 6 5
Southern Pacific ctg Is. .. .. 12.5 39.9 28/3 2 2 6 ’
United Holdings 10s. .. .. 8 13.9 46/ 1 7 3 1
TOTAL REVENUE BY CLASS OF BUSINESS, 1960-61
PREMIUMS (LESS RETURNS, REBATES AND BONUSES)
(£’000)
D . New South Queens- South Western
Class of Business Wales Victoria land Australia Australia Tasmania Total
HOTsehold'e'n’ " " 5 ' 676 *-’•* >•*»* «M«*
comprehensive .. 4,446 3,708 547 1,320 542 252 10 815
Sprinkler leakage .. 25 28 5 5 9 ! g 6
Loss of profits .. .. 1,232 1,272 349 263 95 87 3 998
Hailstone .. .. 1,018 392 65 160 602 a b 2,237
a f lne •• •• 3,720 3,044 759 613 484 219 5,539
Motor vehicle (other than
motor cycles) .. 20,938 15,484 6,386 4,986 3,116 1 542 52 452
Motor cycles .... 59 29 43 32 45 2 ’2lO
Compulsory Third Party
(motor vehicles) .. 10,818 6,482 2 631 1.891 959 284 23 095
Employers’ liabilities
and Workers’
Compensation .. e 17,260 15,315 5,516 2,274 2,517 943 43 825
Personal accident .. 2,495 2,089 785 772 547 187 6 875
Public Risk Third Party 1,355 899 277 242 124 54 2 951
General property .. 139 147 31 35 15 13 “’3BO
Plate glass .. .. 287 249 58 48 36 22 700
Boiler 297 31 7 5 4 4 348
Livestock .. .. 177 77 88 40 47 8 437
Burglary .. .. 1,073 967 142 197 88 40 2 507
Guarantee .. .. 147 141 53 35 18 9 ’403
Pluvius 57 29 11 12 4 9 122
Aviation .. .. 214 75 55 22 48 2 416
All risks .. .. 626 510 112 86 57 26 1 417
Television .. .. 732 758 311 110 51 29 1’991
Other 618 647 110 127 89 91 1 682
Total .. .. 79,773 62,424 24,017 15,979 11,792 4,923 198,908
INTEREST, DIVIDENDS, RENTS, ETC. (NET OP EXPENSES)
Investments .. . . 5,742 2,871 959 203 366 72 10,213
TOTAL REVENUE
Grand Total . . 85,515 65,295 24,976 16,182 12,158 4,995 209,121
a Included with other. b Incomplete, c Excludes Workers’ Compensation Insurance in coalmining industry.
INSURANCE SURVEY
Tl/fORE than 200 separate companies are
registered to conduct fire, marine and
general insurance throughout Australia.
It may thus be imagined that the com-
petitive race is quite swift. Jhe great
merger wave of recent years, sparked off
in England, has subsumed many of these
single companies into enlarged and
powerful groups.
Their headquarters, for Australian
purposes, mostly reside in Sydney and
Melbourne, which cities tend to dominate
the insurance world. Though the Com-
monwealth Government possesses legisla-
tive powers, insurance companies operate
largely under State laws.
However, it is the Federal Insurance
Act that requires the companies to lodge
deposits with the Treasurer against lia-
bilities to policyholders. Non-life deposits
so made to June 30, 1960, totalled some
£6.5 million. They are invested in bonds,
semi-Government securities, debentures
and equities. All interest goes to
depositors.
The wide-ranging statistics (see next
page) are assembled by the Common-
wealth Statistician from statutory returns
made by the companies. They cover the
individual financial years ending during
the 1960-61 period.
But the premiums and claims tables
cannot be set against each other to yield
an overall, accurate view of profit and
loss. Items are too selective. Yet general
trends over the years become clearly
apparent
Earlier articles in this survey have
suggested an erosion of profitability in
non-life insurance, particularly arising
from a narrowing underwriting surplus.
Much of this becomes visible in actual
company results. The wider picture
receives confirmation from the statistics.
Three crucial risk-points determine the
balance of Australian insurance. Indeed
they are also critical in Britain, Europe
and USA. These dubious, frequently
unprofitable classes are motor vehicles,
compulsory third party motor insurance,
and workers’ compensation.
As we shall see, the loss ratios (net
claims as a percentage of net premiums)
have here reached fantastic and worrying
proportions. A cursory glimpse at total
1960-61 premiums and claims sets the
stage.
Certainly premiums continued to pro-
gress, adding £lB million to reach £198.9
million. And the principal increases
came from motor vehicles, £7 million, and
workers’ compensation £4.9 million.
Now put up against that £lB million,
however, the jump in claims £21.3
million (bringing all claims to £129.3
million). Look again where the biggest
and disproportionate claim rises occurred


motor vehicles £10.3 million and
workers’ compensation £2.7 million.
Forsaking the summary situation, now
look at the respective loss ratios. In
1960-61 they became, with the previous
year’s figure in parenthesis: motor
vehicle 73.8 per cent. (66.2); third party
98.3 per cent. (94.4); workers’ compensa-
tion 72.7 per cent. (75).
A comparison shows much more
favorable experience among some other
fairly equable major classes: fire 35.4
per cent. (31.6) and marine 47.5 per
cent. (41.2).
Incidentally, it seems that slightly more
than half of all Australian marine
business is effected by the non-tariff
companies. A specially active group of
Lloyds’ brokers, outside the tariff, offer
the facilities of this historic, prestige
policy.
While in the region of poor claims
experience, the loss ratio of the fairly
new class of television insurance might
be observed —86.4 per cent. Quite a few
companies went quickly beyond the
bounds here.
Fire, of course, has proved the most
basically profitable branch over the
years and does not suffer undui distur-
bance even from periodic bush-fires.
Some worsening will occur for 1961-62
as a result of the disastrous summer fires
in Victoria.
One returns to the deleterious third-
party section, as being currently the
most intractable to all normal insurance
principles. The widely adverse motor-
car result is the more readily explicable
in terms of sheer accident rate, popula-
tion growth and increasing cost of re-
pairs.
Third-party insurance from year to
year defies all normal predictive pos-
sibilities. In NSW, for instance, 1960-61
saw claims demand more than all
premiums collected.
Many private companies prefer to
avoid this class of business, leaving most
of it to the Government Insurance Office
and the N.R.M.A. Insurance Co.
Further legislative action seems im-
minent, since the mere skyrocketing of
premiums makes little impression upon
an enormity of claims.
Premiums for both workers’ compen-
sation and third party insurance are
established by State Government
legislation. At the prevailing high levels,
any increase almost becomes a direct
political issue. Recent third-party
additions provoked considerable public
outcry.
Two almost equally provoking
suggestions are at present being
canvassed. One would demand that all
accident companies take their “proper”
proportion of third party; the other that
negligent motorists meet a proportion of
claims against them.
TOTAL EXPENDITURE BY CLASS OF BUSINESS, 1960-61
CLAIMS (LESS AMOUNTS RECOVERABLE)
(£’000)
New South South Western
Class of Business Wales Victoria Queensland Australia Australia Tasmania Total
Fire 4,225 4,005 1,641 674 954 50S 12,007
Householders’
comprehensive .. .. 1,031 782 66 240 113 53 2,285
Sprinkler leakage ..6 14 1 1 1 • 23
Loss of profits .. .. 250 301 121 4 21 50 753
Hailstone 1,035 253 21 41 152 a 51,502
Marine 1,539 1,534 511 206 295 119 4,204
Motor vehicle (other than
motor cycles) . . . . 15,725 12,036 4,591 3,075 2,250 1,020 38,727
Motor cycles .... 53 21 27 17 28 2 148
Compulsory Third Party
(motor vehicles) .. 11,062 5,716 3,157 1,750 cB5O ISI 22,716
Employers’ liabilities
and Workers’
Compensation . . <212,788 10,340 4,581 1,620 2,062 480 31.571
Personal accident . . 1,311 923 487 327 261 SI 3,390
Public Risk Third Party 62S 406 122 75 36 63 1,330
General property .. 59 73 20 15 10 11 ISB
Plate glass .. .. 156 174 32 28 20 16 426
Boiler 53 16 1 70
Livestock .78 39 34 22 29 5 207
Burglary .. ~ 802 550 53 84 34 25 1,548
Guarantee .. .. 3,805 37 25 2 9 10 3,SSB
Pluvius 27 43 2 13 2 5 92
Aviation .. .. 100 1,22 15 8 10 2 257
All risks 422 343 66 42 21 13 907
Television .. 905 614 133 53 14 2 1,721
Other 453 338 72 44 33 108 1,048
Total 56,513 38.650 15,778 5,342 7,235 2,760 129,308
OTHER EXPENDITURE
Contributions to Fire
Brigades . . . . 2,290 1,416 832 255 282 75 5,150
Commission and agents’
charges .. .. .. 7,319 6,154 1,298 1,903 963 637 18,274
Expenses of management 13,113 9,831 4,411 3,152 2,336 1,014 33,857
Taxation (e) .. .. 2,801 2,693 656 552 245 274 7,221
Total 25,523 20,094 7,197 5.562 3,826 2,000 64,502
TOTAL EXPENDITURE
Grand Total .. 52.036 58,774 22,975 14,204 11,061 4,760 193,810
a Included with Other, b Incomplete, c Includes an estimate for claims net notified on policies issued during
the year. d Excludes Workers’ Compensation Insurance in coal mining industry. e Includes Income Tax,
Pay-roll Tax, Licence Fees, Stamp Duty (paid by the companies), etc.
PREMIUMS AND CLAIMS, BY STATES
(£1000)
PREMIUMS (LESS RETURNS, REBATES AND BONUSES)
New South South Western
Year Wales Victoria Queensland Australia Australia Tasmania Total
1956- .. .. 53,050 45,583 16,702 11,836 7,585 3,355 138,111
1957- .. .. 59,875 50,764 19,106 12,209 8,532 3,989 154,475
1958- .. .. 65,371 53.961 19,291 12,990 9,340 4,292 165,246
1959- .. 73,419 58,119 22,154 13,836 10,785 4,567 180,880
1960- .. .. 79,773 62,424 24,017 10,979 11,792 4,923 198,908
CLAIMS (LESS AMOUNTS RECOVERABLE)
1956- .. .. 32,753 26,542 10,707 6,208 4,678 1,644 82,532
1957- .. .. 35,390 25,603 11,110 5,898 4,618 2,017 87,630
1958- .. .. 39,753 30,854 12,381 6,639 5,489 2,113 97,229
1959- .. .. 44,088 33,417 13,3 02 7,127 r 6.327 2,701 r 107,962
1960- .. .. 56,513 38,680 15,778 8,342 7,235 2,760 129,308
PREMIUMS AND CLAIMS, PRINCIPAL CLASSES OF BUSINESS
(£’000)
PREMIUMS (LESS RETURNS, REBATES AND BONUSES)
Class of Business 19.j6-57 1957-58 1958-59 1959-60 1960-61
Fire .. .. 27,919 29,854 30,642 31,850 33,842
Householder's’ comprehensive .. .. 6,321 7,246 8,270 9,410 10,815
Loss of profits .. .. 2,460 2,548 2,857 3,027 3,298
Hailstone 810 696 1,832 1,658 2,237
Workers’ Compensation (a) .. •• 28,976 33,772 34,805 38,876 43,825
Motor vehicle—
Compulsory Third Party .. .. 14,772 16,064 17 166 19,S31 23,095
Other 37,851 42,127 43.327 48,939 52,662
Marine 6,910 7,292 7,646 8,033 S,839
Personal accident 3,990 4,733 5,563 6,151 6,875
Burglary 1.109 2,011 2.145 2,291 2,507
All other risks 6,387 8,132 10,492 10,814 10,913
Total .. .. •• 138,111 154,475 165,245 180,880 198,908
CLAIMS (LESS AMOUNTS RECOVERABLE)
Fire 9,037 9,406 9,370 10,106 12,007
Householders’ comprehensive .. .. 1,233 1,710 1,668 1,927 2,285
Loss of profits . . . . .. .. 504 333 425 553 753
Hailstone .. .. .. .. •• 796 334 1,372 1,144 1,502
Workers’ Compensation (a) .. 23,515 24,473 27,391 29,154 31,871
Motor vehicle—
Compulsory Third Party .. .. 13,710 14,105 17,342 rl8,848 22,(16
Other 25,452 27,459 28,405 32,416 38,875
Marine 3,130 3,258 2.999 3,311 4,204
Personal accident .. .. .. 1,700 2,120 2,427 2,831 3,390
Burglary .. .. .. .. .. 756 836 966 1,267 1,548
All other risks .. .. .. •• 2,639 3,602 4,864 6,405 10,157
Total 82,532 87,636 97,229 rl07,962 129,308
a Excludes Workers’ Compensation Insurance in coal-mining industry in New South Wales, r Revised.
Source: Commonwealth Statistician.


REVIEWS
THEATRE
SUBSIDIES AND SENSE
By REID DOUGLAS
"Oecause Australia is new to the game
of subsidising theatres there has been
a certain amount of fumbling. Close up,
our achievements appear modest and a
bit expensive. In fact, compared with the
rest of the English-speaking world, we’ve
not done so badly. It is only by this sort
of direct comparison that we can avoid
both overlooking our own achievements
and making the same mistakes as others.
We might do a little stocktaking: in
hand we have some experience, a repu-
table drama school, the continuance of
country tours, a successful three-weekly
repertory in Melbourne and the individual
Trust productions. Score one for us
already—last year England and New Zea-
land abandoned subsidised country tours.
The remaining sizeable asset is the
Australian audience. Professional theatre
never died here as it did during the
’thirties in most of the United States and
all of Canada. These days cities like
Chicago and San Francisco may have
one, very occasionally two, touring com-
panies playing, but the standard is very
much lower than Australian productions
and the season seldom more than a fort-
night. Beyond this, summer stock—
usually a euphemism for the worst sort
of weekly rep—and the occasional semi-
professional venture totals what the pro-
vincial American audience will support.
In English-speaking Canada, with the
exception of the remarkable Stratford
Festival Theatre, the response is equally
hesitant. And, outside London, neither
is the English audience for professional,
live theatre particularly clamorous.
In the Bible Belt of America —an
area which begins at New York city
limits and stretches across to Long Beach,
California—serious, fully professional
theatre is not so much suspect as non-exis-
tent. For the moment, beyond New
York’s civic-sponsored City Centre there
are less public funds used for serious,
professional theatre in the United States
than in even New Zealand, which these
days spends hardly any.
Like Australia, New Zealand has a sur-
prisingly large audience for live theatre.
The contrast with Canada is again inter-
esting: audiences there may be small
but theatre subsidy is in a potentially
much stronger position than anywhere.
If Canada had little regard for theatre
it had an even better asset: Governor-
General Massey. It was this most
remarkable of men who established and
designed the Canadian Royal Commis-
sion on Culture. He insisted that it was to
be something more than a token gesture
at the problem, something more than an
official smoke-screen to cover the real
gaps and deficiences. Himself a Canadian,
his concern was more personal than
benevolently official. Because he took
responsibility to ensure that the Com-
mission was made up of something other
than political family friends and well-
meaning amateurs, the final report is now
a model of perception and experience.
HThe Government found a large sum, in-
A vested it, and with the interest created
the Canada Council. The grants which
can be annually allocated to the theatre
arts are not large—there are many other
urgent calls on the council’s resources.
But it does provide sustenance for a small
touring opera company, a drama school —■
now probably the best in North
America —and the Stratford Festival
Theatre. What makes the council’s work
worth a second look is the efficiency and
the success of what they accomplish—
something which can be underlined very
clearly by contrasting its administration
costs of 3 per cent, with that of the
British Arts Council’s 12 per cent.
The central difficulty of public subsidy
of theatre anywhere is that too easily
State assistance has been allowed to
develop in the pattern of the old private
patronage. If the 19th century gentlemen
and the 18th century nobles were benevo-
lent, they were also haphazard, com-
fortably snobbish and quite sure that the
more money involved the more com-
mendable were their schemes.
Because of the costs involved, opera
and ballet —more especially the older,
bigger and drearier Grand Operas and
Grand Ballets —can assume too easily an
importance far beyond their actual
worth. The huge companies have a dis-
turbing habit of absorbing such a pro-
portion of the available moneys that
there’s little more than token amounts left
for anything else. This has happened
with England’s Covent Garden (75 per
cent.) and in New York’s City Centre
(100 per cent.). It could happen here.
The significance of any theatre subsidy
lies not in the amount allocated (see New
Zealand) but in the wisdom with which
it is used (see Canada). The English con-
fusion of the old snobby ideal that
Theatre meaning Shakespeare and
Covent Garden—no matter how tatty or
extravagant, is necessarily a Good Thing
is something we’ve largely avoided:
largely, but perhaps not quite.
Another direct comparison where we
score rather well: Public sponsorship in
both England and Australia has to date
established a single repertory company
in each country: the Belgrade in
Coventry and the Union in Melbourne.
So far nothing like this has been accom-
plished in either New Zealand or Canada.
Of the two theatres, the Union has a
rather better quality programme. The
Coventry theatre seats 900 and runs
each production for two weeks, frequently
less ; in Melbourne, the Union seats 400
and runs for three, sometimes more. Both
establishment and administration costs
are much lower at the Melbourne theatre.
Even in Canada the subsidised Strat-
ford Festival Theatre has grown in its
first 10 seasons from three weeks to just
under four months —and it never plays
to less than 77 per cent, capacity. It’s
this sort of continuity which warrants
hefty and well managed subsidisation,
not the propping of dated comedies
which should either (if still commercial)
be given to the commercial manage-
ments or (if not) be left firmly to the
amateurs.
This is something which we have yet
to fully accept. Meantime, with a worth-
while programme and standards, theatres
like the Stratford Festival in Canada, the
Coventry Belgrade and our own Trust
repertory in Melbourne set the pace and
lead a rather muddled field.


Fstab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
OSUI.UVAAr
: *>_ PTYLTD A
tra
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Pape? Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
Systems &?. office equipment
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
HOGWASH VERSION
The lona Passion Play. Olympic Swim-
ming Stadium. Melbourne.
The Public Prosecutor. Fritz Hoch-
walder. Little Theatre. Melbourne.
r T''HE very great technical problems
posed by a cast of something like
three hundred and a vast stage area
(the entire floor-space of the stadium)
were largely overcome in this produc-
tion by Ronald Conway. What emerged
can hardly be called successful, either
as a play or as a piece of liturgy, but
at least it was coherent and dignified.
A dozen or so semi-realistic sets were
permanently in position around the edges
of the area, and each was lit as the
action demanded. In processional
scenes, the whole central area was used,
and this made possible some genuinely
exciting moments, with people milling
all over the place in haphazard and
life-like fashion. All dialogue was pre-
recorded and all action mimed and
though it was sometimes difficult to
discover who was supposed to be speak-
ing, on the whole the technique worked
well, particularly in the simpler scenes
like that of the Last Supper.
Nevertheless the play as a whole re-
mains an anomalous and unsatisfactory
thing, even from a specifically Christian
point of view. Re-enactment is a very
clumsy method of narration, and those
of us who can read have no need of it.
'T'His is what the theatrical half-world
calls a “strong” play—that is, a pre-
tentious melodrama. It presents a hog-
wash version of the fall of Fourquier-
Tinville, who was public prosecutor for
the French Revolutionary Tribunal. It
reaches utter absurdity in two scenes in
which the executioner, Sanson, demands
fair play for the slaughtering classes and
there are many other scenes scarcely less
ridiculous. The dialogue is the most
stilted heard for years. Nothing here bears
any relation to either art or life.
Norman Kaye is visually impressive in
the lead, and Ray Angell and Bill de
Goode glimmer faintly. The rest of the
acting is frankly amateurish. John
Truscott’s set is good. What a vc-y elab-
orate way this is to waste time and
talent!
JAMES MURPHY
MUSIC
KINGS AND PREACHERS
Downbeat Concert. Melbourne Town
Hall.
concerts provide an excel-
lent opportunity to gauge the current
state of jazz and this concert was better
than most because of the inclusion of
Sydney blues singer Kate Dunbar. Jazz
is undergoing a considerable revival in
Melbourne, but it is refreshing to find
that high standards are also being main-
tained in the Sydney Jazz Club.
The remaining line-up featured a num-
ber of well-established local traditional
groups, an excellent modern quartet led
by Johnny Pochee and Dave McCrea,
and the newly re-formed Graeme Bell
band. The predominance of traditional
groups shows Melbourne tastes and high-
lights the main difference between the
two cities, Sydney favoring contemporary
groups.
The Bell band, embarking on a new
professional career, played with great
polish. But there is a note of commercial-
ism in Mr Bell’s present conception of
jazz which was not present in the late
’forties and early ’fifties when the honest
ruggedness of his style earned him de-
servedly high praise from English critics
and assured his place in jazz history.
In the hands of inspired creators the
practice of making jazz out of popular
ballads can be rewarding, but the arti-
ficial escapist sentiment of a tune like
“Paper Doll” (whose lyrics must be s.me
of the most grotesque in the repertoire)
goes sharply against the vital and essen-
tially realistic tradition of jazz expression.
The best jazz, in fact, did not come
from the Bell band but from two of the
oldest established Melbourne groups:
Max Collie’s lazz Kings and Frank
Trainor’s Jazz Preachers. Both leaders
are veterans of the first convention in
1946, but while Collie uses the best of the
younger musicians, Trainor sticks to his
contemporaries. Collie’s band works a
shade better as an ensemble and is a little
fresher, but the other band allows fine
solo work, particularly from Roger Bell
and Ade Monsbourgh. It was noticeable
that their playing in this group was fresher
than in the Bell band ; and their accom-
paniment of Mrs Dunbar was masterly.
The only disappointing thing about the
concert was, as ever, the audience re-
action. It was patently obvious that the
enthusiasm of the large numbers of new
“converts” has little to do with aesthetics,
even jazz-aesthetics. Still, the fact that
jazz has been accepted by a whole social
group is promising, for the best teacher
is still regular listening.
ADRIAN RAWLINS
FILMS
ON THE DULL SIDE
Walk on the Wild Side. Victory.
Sydney.
A black cat, lean and wary, treads its
way through shabby back alleys and
across pavements decoratively littered. In
close-up it fills the cinema screen ; there
is nightmarish unreality about its slow-
motion gait. Wailing jazz music deepens
the atmosphere of sinister decay. In a
sudden, brief flurry of violence the black
cat meets and puts to flight another
marauding stray, then pads on in its pur-
poseful way.
All this is background to the discreet
unrolling of the credit titles to “Walk on
the Wild Side,” described as “a tale of
strange, forbidden passions in the streets


and parlor houses of wicked New
Orleans.” The black cat’s ambulations
finally dissolve into a scene of desert road
at sunrise, with the title “Texas in the
early thirties.” At this point you can go
home.
“Walk on the Wild Side” is an ex-
ample of the uncanny ability Hollywood
shows from time to time for getting
everything right but the essentials, and it
is typical that the most effective thing in
it should also be the most irrelevant —
the titles, created specially by the bril-
liant Saul Bass, whose other credit credits
include “The Man with the Golden Arm”
and “Round the World in Eighty Days.”
The film has one of Hollywood’s best
directors, Edward Dmytryk; it has a
generally strong cast; technically, it is
always smooth and once in a while it is
striking. But when it gets down to the
main business of the plot it is seldom
even remotely credible.
The weakness as usual lies in the script.
It is adapted from a novel by Nelson
Algren which has not been on my reading
list; it is said that the screenplay does
not do the novel justice, and this may be
true. For what appears on the screen is
just a souped-up version of a battered
vintage plot the story of the noble
prostitute who seeks redemption through
a good man’s love.
The rescuer in this case is an honest
Texas farmer, the Camille is a fallen
sculptress immured in a New Orleans
brothel as the personal favorite of a
Lesbian proprietress who resists, by a
variety of foul means, the farmer’s at-
tempts to take the girl back to Texas
and domesticity.
When Dumas saw this sort of situation
through a romantic haze the result was
just plausible. But modern conventions
demand a generous helping of seamy
realism, and when the heroine’s life and
background are shown so specifically it
is a little hard to believe in her undamaged
spirituality. Indeed, it is hard to believe
in the heroine at all as she is portrayed
by Capucine, an elegantly exotic lay-
figure who is assuredly no Bernhardt. The
best that can be said for her that the lost,
what-am-I-doing-here? air that she car-
ries through the film is fairly appropriate
to the character she plays.
The rest of the cast is admirable. It is
hard to see why an English actor had to
be recruited to play the hero, but Laur-
ence Harvey, with a convincing Texas
drawl, adds to his considerable stature in
doing so. Barbara Stanwyck is in her
element as the chilling bawdy-house
keeper. Jane Fonda and Anne Baxter
give forceful performances.
These assets and consistent technical
craftsmanship keep the film from being
actively boring. Bu on the whole I prefer
my “Traviata” with music, and without
the psychiatric decorations.
MARTIN LONG
ART
EMPORIUM OF STYLES
The Royal Easter Show Art Com-
petition. Sydney.
HThe Royal Easter show art exhibition
presents a slightly beleagured appear-
ance walled up as it were in the Arts and
Crafts pavilion by craftsmanlike iced
cakes and sponges and almost speared in
two by a wedge of pickles and preserves.
To amplify this confusion the various
sections, “Traditional” and “Modern”,
offer an emporium of styles so clashing
that their cumulative effect can easily
depress.
Paintings become something different
by their being placed in close proximity
to other paintings and all tend to lose
unless redeemed by skilful hanging. For
this space is needed which the RAS can-
not spare. Instead there is an unwhole-
some crowding even though over half
the entries were rejected. As the RAS
does not put up rich (£5OO and down)
prizes is it fair on the rejected artists to
keep their entrance fee to the competition.
The Traditional section paintings range
very widely from a kind of academic im-
pressionism to phases of realism variously
flavored by more recent movements:
neither of the winning entries were by
any means the best, they provided obvious
solutions to the terrors of judging. The
Phillips (Industrial section) winning
entry seems curiously spaceless within
an illustrative idiom, and S. Long’s rural
prize leans too heavily on over-worked
colour formulae. Lloyd Rees, Herman
Raglass and Salmon relieve the pedestrian
if not dull level of these two groups.
Competitors in the Modern section
tend to induce a kind of numbness, the
result of an excess of nervous and
muscular tension. Like musicians trum-
peting an unceasing forte, these paintings
through both size and treatment strive
after the same shouting mood. As time
goes by one can imagine a greater in-
crease in scale and the handling will have
to become more belligerent in order to
shake jaded viewers. Art for Art’s sake
long ago became art for exhibition’s
sake. In ten years time will we want to
look at any of them? This is not to deny
technical excellence, invention, even vital-
ity within the froth of textural excite-
ment.
The judges have conveniently dropped
the pretence of subject matter, recog-
nising perhaps the fact of an abstract art
making intelligent, talented responses to
an international mode, a city centred
activity drawing little or none of its in-
spiration from its rural hinterland. Most
paintings could well appear in either of
the two sections and one or two of the
exhibitors have realised this. In fact,
one could say, these paintings belong not
to a subject outside their authors, but
are part of an unfolding process of self-
expression and a realisation of self in a
world of chaotic experience. As such,
the two winners, Eric Smith (Industrial),
Leonard Hessing (Rural) as well as Carl
Plate, John Olsen, Daryl Hill, Strom
Gould represent a core of abstract
linearism which has become character-
istic of the Sydney school. Len French,
Grey-Smith, Margo Lewers, Roy Fluke
in their various ways provide, not in the
least unworthily, alternatives to this
movement. Others working in concrete
textures provide more uncompromising
elements of materiality with linear
scratchings.
J. HENSHAW
RICH, OLD NOSTALGIA
Drawings, Watercolors and Etchings.
Moreton Galleries. Brisbane.
At the Moreton Galleries is a col-
lection of works by old Aus-
tralian masters including a pencil draw-
ing of a landscape by Lloyd Rees, who
in this genre has had no equal. The
skill with which Lloyd can encompass a
vast range of country in fine detail and
with a perfect sense of values with a
pencil is equal to that of Streeton or
Gruner in oils. The picture in the show
is the “Old Road to Berry’s Bay,” now
gone for ever in “development”, done
with the old skill, evocative and nostal-
gic. Santry has a lovely nude in pencil,
Kenneth Macqueen and Robert Camp-
bell show characteristic watercolors
soundly painted, Hans Heysen two gum
forests in blue and black crayon, and
Lionel Lindsay a number of watercolors
and etchings. Wigley, the only young
contemporary, holds his good promise
with figures in an outback setting.
It is a great pity that these masters
of our recent past are nearly forgotten
in the craze for subconscious aesthetic
ventriloquism.
J. V. DUHIG


THE RED PAGE
OBSESSED WITH THE AUTOCRATS
By M. H. ELLIS
f ~|~'HERE is no law against lady novelists
A writing history and no one would
wish to prevent them, qualified or not;
but one sometimes has a yearning for a
law which will prevent publishers from
writing certificates for the lady novelists’
work, as they have done in the case of
Miss Marjorie Barnard’s “A History of
Australia,”* praised in the “blurb” as
“soundly based on extensive research and
careful analysis of the many complex fac-
tors of the nation’s growth ; these give it
substance and authority, but never weigh
it down.” And the blurb-writer recom-
mends the book as “comprehensive and
well balanced . . . admirably suited to
senior classes as well as to advanced
students.”
Supported by a bibliography which sug-
gests that the author has read every piece
of writing good and bad about the whole
range of history, the work which, with the
index, is over 700 pages, certainly has the
appearance of authority. Parts of it are
attractive reading ; but it is not balanced,
and it is certainly not orderly in its
arrangement of facts, or even factual in
some important phases, or accurate in
detail.
Australian history naturally divides it-
self into two phases. The first carries it
to the point at which the country was
established as a convict settlement in the
middle 1820 s, when it seemed that it
would become the stamping ground of
chartered adventurer companies served
by convict labor which would overflow
into a subsidiary emancipist peasant and
shopkeeper economy. At the end of this
period, in 1825, the mainland continent
held about 26,000 people, more than half
of whom were convicts, 2000 of the rest
being military, and the great majority of
the civilian part of convict origin.
The second phase begins in the late
1820 s when the first substantial inflow of
free immigrants began and the convict
system went into the preliminary pro-
cesses of liquidation.
As with most Australian writers on
h'Story, the first autocratic period, the
history of the little settlement at Botany
Bay and its outposts, dominates Miss
■Barnard’s story. Its characters, baddies
and goodies, sadly reminiscent of the
heroes and villains of “westerns,” persist
through her pages and keep cropping out
almost to the last chapter. All the old
hates are brought to the surface ; all the
old libels and quarrels are given one-
sided airings.
The legend of the “Rum Corps mon-
opoly” which has no real foundation in
fact, is done to death. The “Historical
Records of Australia,” which consist of
the unminuted correspondence of Gov-
ernors with the Home Government, with
all their attacks on their enemies, and
without the defences of their victims, are
dredged. Judgments are passed freely
according to the doctrines of the school
of Dr Evatt, Mr Brian Fitzpatrick and the
Left pro-convict retailers of supposed
early chicaneries and rapacities.
Miss Barnard's pet hate is the New
South Wales Corps. She sees nothing but
turpitude in everything the Corps’ officers
did, nothing but “robbery” in their com-
mercial and other transactions and “dis-
aster” for the unfortunate colonists in
the interregnum after Governor Phillip
left the Colony during which Majors
Grose and Paterson were successively
acting-Governors and the Corps was in
control.
Tt seems a peculiar kind of disaster.
During that period dozens of land
grants—small and large—were made, the
fertile Hawkesbury IHver country was
opened up. In the last year Phillip ruled
there were an average of about 3000
people in the Colony. The sick-list towards
its end was over 600, the deaths during
the year, 482.
Grose at the outset of his rule, at the
end of 1792, was forced to buy food from
rapacious ships’ captains on their own
terms or face ruin through starvation.
But in his first year of government the
deaths fell to 158. The next year they
were only 59 and, in the final year of the
military interregnum, the mortality was
only 24 adults. The danger of starvation,
as opposed to shortages, had disappeared.
Governor Hunter, arriving two years
and nine months after Grose began to
rule, found “not the smallest appearance
of distress,” “plenty in every form of
food save animal food” and the indus-
trious with a little livestock enjoying
“abundance on their tables every day.”
To Miss Barnard, however, the New
South Wales Corps was “made up of the
riff-raff of the Army, men who had been
in trouble, even mutineers, who were
misfits or so useless that their regiments
wanted to be rid of them; the officers
were either as unsuccessful as those they
commanded or were anxious to leave
England for some personal reason, such
as debt.”
Most of them, in fact, came from good
regiments in good standing, tempted by
promotion or land. The rank and file
were a go» d average of the British Army,
with a few black sheep. You can scarcely
call an officer corps which produced
the founder of the wool industry and
scientific farming, the expert surveyor
who knew how to cross mountains, an art
which had baffled civilians and the Navy,
the builder of the road across the Blue
Mountains and the greatest town build-
er, the great farmer and humanitarian
author of “Cox’s liberty,” an FRS like
Paterson, noted as an explorer and botan-
ist. and men such as Foveaux and Grose
(who became lieutenant-generals) as “riff-
raff.”
Most of Miss Barnard’s accounts of
the principal events of the periods of
Governors King, Bligh, Macquarie are
inaccurate, imperfect or chronologically
garbled, including her sketchy story of
the rebellion against Bligh, of which her
finale is the statement that apparently
after Macquarie’s arrival in the colony—-
“only two men went home for court
martial . . . Johnston and Macarthur.”
Both had gone home of their own
free will nine months earlier. Johnston,
on arrival in England, was returned to
the command of his regiment and there
was no attempt to try him until he
forced a court martial two years after he
sailed from New South Wales. Macarthur,
as a civilian, was not susceptible to
court martial and no attempt was made
to try him.
However, one of the most unsatisfac-
tory sections of the early part of the
book is the authoress’s chapter on Mac-
quarie whom she seems to dislike and
abo"t whose reign she has obviously no
intimate or very accurate knowledge. Her
dictum that there was a “curious likeness”
between the courteous Western Isles-man
and the Cornish Governor King, who
was a broken and dishonest ruin, half-
mad with gout and anxiety and the
effects of the alcoholic panacea to which
he resorted while he governed New
South Wales, is somewhat bewildering;
more especially as she believes that
Macquarie’s policies were derivative
from King’s. They certainly were not,
especially as they affected the emanci-
pists: some of those whom Macquarie
described as “meritorious men'’ King
thought pirates and ruffians.
More than a third of the book in all
its phases is devoted to the petty tur-
bulences of this autocratic period. The
remaining century and a half, during
which the real freedoms, prosperities and
national characteri ics of 'he Australian
scene were generated, are cramped into
a series of chapter compartments in which
*A History of Australia. Marjorie Bar-
nard. Angus & Robertson. 635.


the writer summarises various eras nd
movements, political, rural, industrial,
legal, literary and social within inade-
qua!; contes ts and space.
The book, therefore, gives a very un-
balanced view of history. That of the
beginnings of States other than New
South Wales is only cursorily sketched
in.
The effects of t!.e different social bases
of the various colonies, the effects of
the different natures of land problems in
different colonies, and a hundred more
matters which have to be discussed if
history is presented as a judicious whole,
are ignored or barely mentioned. The
great significance of drown ownership
of nearly all land in Queensland, for in-
stance, and the unique history of its ad-
ministration in that State are not dealt
with.
These things would not matter if the
boo!: nevertheless congealed the history
of the Commonwealth into a dynamic
unity in which the interaction of various
conditions, influences and personalities
was cone: trated so that it be even
dimly perceived. But no such effc;t is
achieved.
The reader fails to find in Miss Bar-
nard’s pedantic and sometimes q”erulous
pags anything that will give h m a picture
of the gigantic and explosive surge of
Aurtrali n progress durmg the century
and a half of history which succeeded
the “autocratic” era with which she, like
most other Australian historians, seems
to fi;- herself obsessed.
THAT CERTAIN BOOK
BEYOND WHIPPED CREAM AND BLOOD
By HAL PORTER
T doubt that my style is really influenced
A by one writer more than another. Any
resemblance to any other literary style,
living or dead is, I honestly believe,
strictly coincidental.
One short story by another writer did,
however, jolt me into a realisation that
writing is hardly the gay lark I imagined
it to be at dewey-eyed 17. At that age,
although not too eclectic, I was and had
been eclectic enough to be waterlogged
with enthusiasms for many writers. I
was, God help me, as busy as a murderer
transforming these enthusiasms into
stories with plots as gaudy as “Pericles,
Prince of Tyre” written, apparently, in
whipped cream and blood.
At 13 I was reading Daudet and Paul
Bourget: at 15 I was, such is the nature
of puberty, a Maupassant fan and a
yearner over Galsworthy’s “The Red
Flower.’’ Book by book —Dickens’s “A
Tale of Two Cities” (still my favorite
novel), everything of Conrad’s, Herges-
heimer’s, Chekhov and Ibanez’s —I got
to Olive Schreiner’s “Story of an African
Farm.” Something went “Zing!” and
when, at the age of 19, I read Barrie’s
“Sentimental Tommy” and “Tommy and
Grizel,” once again something went
“ZING!” I was on to something. Here,
said the brilliant novice, here be people!
Tommy’s deliberate spraining of his
ankle, Tommy’s death, made me vibrate.
I was still vibrating when, a little later,
I read Katherine Mansfield’s “Je ne parle
pas Franpais.” It cut with a sword-flash
into the core of my mind. All the
baroque and word-clotted short stories
I was, at that time, showering on such
ill-assorted public figures as Norman
Lindsay, Louis Lavater, Furnley Maurice
and Katharine Susannah Prichard, who
were writing back charming evasions of
the truth, were, I saw, hollow as Faberge
Easter eggs.
“Je ne parle pas Franpais” showed me
that writing was a difficult art, that I had
been wasting ink and that I must start
all over again. With that story, Katherine
Mansfield soared so far above her usual
petit-maitre- ship that my other gods and
goddesses cannot get near her —Elizabeth
Bowen, Eudora Welty, V. S. Pritchett,
Joseph Conrad, Sylvia Townsend Warner,
Paul Bowles, Jean Stafford and Vladimir
Nabakov.
“Je ne parle pas Franfais” I am happy
to have pinned on me as an influence.
At least it stopped me prancing off be-
hind James Joyce and “Anna Livia
Plurabelle.”
The dazzling impact of this work of
art was accompanied by the impacts of
books with the same incandescence, the
same technique permitting one to see the
breath-taking surface texture and, simul-
taneously, what the X-ray showed. These
two novels, James Gould Cozzens's “S.S.
San Pedro” and F. Scott Fitzgerald’s
“The Great Gatsby,” also sliced into my
mind like lightning but, as an influence
of direction and aim, Mansfield’s short
story was first.
I have, indeed, to be wary that the
devices of revelation and communication
in these three works are not being plagi-
arised by me, but I think that my many
readings of them have innoculated me
against this danger. By the way, I hold
little brief for other Mansfield, Cozzens
and Fitzgerald works.
Influences today? I think it is too late,
even though I still have far to go. It has
been easy to avoid being a sentimental
hospital matron like Hemingway or a
little boy imagining what he didn’t see
behind the thorn-bushes like Lawrence
(David Herbert).
Australian writers like Henry Lawson
were not on the shelves of the Mechanics’
Institutes I read in. Anyway, I don’t
know what he is talking about any more
than he would know what I am.
I used to think I’d like to have written
“A Passage to India”; now, if Mephisto
would offer me the opportunity, at what-
ever price, to out-write Nabakov in
“Lolita,” I’d be in it.
This not being probable, I shall
follow, painfully and slowly, cursing the
steepness, but glad of the clearer air, the
path pointed out by the light from “Je ne
parle pas Franpais.”
This is another contribution to the
series in which writers take a
second look at the books which
made an impact on them in their
early years. So far Ross Campbell,
Donald Home, Max Harris and
Kylie Tennant have contributed.
Other contributors will be A. D.
Hope, Kenneth Slessor, David
McNicoll, Gavin Casey, Sydney
Deamer, Peter Hastings, James
McAuley, Peter Coleman, Alex-
ander MacDonald, Harry Messel,
W. C. Wentworth and Alan Reid.
A SUGARED PILL
Daily Life in Russia Under the Last
Tsar. Henri Troyat. Allen and
Unwin. 465. 6d.
Russia Forty Years On. M. Philips
Price. Allen and Unwin. 295. 9d.
People and Life. Ilya Ehrenburg.
Macgibbon and Kee. 21s.
every dozen books explaining the
distinctive features of modem
Russia in terms of communist ideology
there is another dozen exposing the roots
of these features in the Tsarist past. The
problem is, of course, not confined to
Russia: Is Eng" society today
“essentially” what it was in Edwardian
times? Despite the daunting methodo-
logical difficulties raised by posing the
question in this way, a few writers on the
Soviet Union restrain themselves from
doing so (if only implicitly). For most
of us, communist claims to be remaking
every .Tig anew prove an irresistible
provocation.
The three books reviewed here will
not solve this problem. But in bringing
out something of the complexity of the
continuity—innovation dichotomy they
may encourage us to ask more promising
questions.
Henri Troyat, a Franco-Russian


Feiffer
WE ALL HEARP Of THE RW\CM R IGHT
AK'P THE RAPICAI LEFT. IAiITH US UII&HT
14 A of A 6ROUP 1/VHObE
vieia/9 ia/e'vf heasp VERM little
: the RADICAL MDU.
6 OOP MORMIN6.
GOOP AFTERNOON-
' 600 P EVENIK) 6.
WE OPPOSE CONCESSIONS TO THE SOVIETS.
HOIVEVFR WE FAVOR NEGOTIATIONS AMP
STRONGER SUPPORT THE U-N-, WHILE WE
REJECT ITS INTERFERENCE WITH OUR BASIC
INTERESTS .
Them, sir,
SUMMIN)6 UP
IA USE. WO
SM WOR
PHILOSUPHP
\S - f
BO LP TIMES CML FOR BOLD
ANSWER'S. WITHIN! ReTASONJ-
IM A MAhJMf R. OF 6PE/\Kltt6.
MORE OR LESS.
WOULD you
DESCRIBE
THE VIEWS
OF POUR
ORGANIZ-
ATION, "
SIR?
ttoßWm. the radical hippie
THINKS ITS TIME WE TOOK THE
INITIATIVE IN world affairs
WHILE DEPLORING THE IDEA OF
CHANGE FOR
M ERE CHANGES
SAKE-
WE FAVOR ARMB CONTROL AMP A
CONTINUED BUILDUP. A STRON6
CIVIL RIGHTS PROGRAM WITHOUT
THE UNDUE HASTE WHICH CREATES
PEEP SCARS, v
THANK Mop
3IR
ON THC
OTHER
HAKJP-


scholar known for his stimulating works
of literary biography and criticism, has
tackled conscientiously the more
pedestrian task of contributing to
Hatchette’s “La Vie Quotidienne” series
which Allen and Unwin are publishing
in English translation. True, he departs
sufficiently from the solid traditions of
the series to hang his innumerable and
variegated pieces of information along a
fictional narrative centring round a young
English businessman, on his first visit to
Russia in 1903, who duly marries the
daughter of his Russian host on the
last page. Do adult readers really need
their pills sugared all that much?
Unfortunately, Edward Russell is a pain
in the neck, though one or two of the
Russians came to life. Be that as it may,
Troyat covers an amazing amount of
ground-—from a night-shelter for
Moscow down-and-outs to the Imperial
Court, from the Nizhny-Novgorod fair
to an elite military school, from a village
wedding to a Moscow cabaret. He evokes
some convincing and memorable scenes
—the Dostoevskian squalor of a factory
dormitory, the frenzied pleasures of a
Moscow bath-house —and there are some
instructive photographs. No less inter-
esting is his revelation of contemporary
bourgeois attitudes in Russia to such
things as political satire, anti-semitism,
the living conditions of “the masses” —
exasperatingly similar to attitudes
expressed by Soviet representatives of
the “new class.”
“Russia Forty Years On” is an irritating
but not unrewarding book. M. Philips
Price, an old Harrovian timber merchant
and liberal journalist, has visited Russia
five times since 1908, and the present
book, although provoked by his latest
visit in 1959, draws on his intermittent
experience of the country over a long
period. Mr Price describes his observa-
tions, interviews and excursions in
Leningrad, Moscow, Kiev and a
Ukrainian collective farm: all good,
factual stuff. That most of it has been
seen and described by many others in
recent years would not matter if it were
not for certain peculiarities of presenta-
tion: the author’s style, though direct
enough, constantly betrays his class and
generation, and this subtly hampers com-
munication ; and his inflated idea of the
originality and importance of his obser-
vations and comments (“I feel I must
make some contribution now in view of
the tension over Russia”), amusing at
first, ends up by annoying. Price is a
strong believer in the fundamental
continuity of pre-1917 and post-1917,
Russia, a theme which is developed
sketchily in the preface and supported
by quotations from de Custine, Marx,
Berdaev and others in an appendix.
Unfortunately he does not attempt to
relate his observations and reminiscences
to this point of view in any consistent
way, and his gestures at interpretation
therefore hang in the air.
Two things redeem the book. The
first is the occasional perceptive comment
on the contemporary scene, for example
his remark that the drabness and shabbi-
ness of Soviet dress is only partly due
to low living standards ; in part it results
from a widespread and entrenched
Russian carelessness about outward
appearances. Recent visitors to certain
non-Russian areas of the Soviet Union
would be able to bear him out here.
Secondly, certain scenes from the past,
especially episodes witnessed in 1917 and
1918 and obviously experienced more
intensely than his recent J.ntourist jaunt,
are described with a vividness which for a
time brings the book to life. I can
commend, too, the two brief chapters on
Berlin and East Germany. There is
also a contribution by the author’s wife,
an interesting document, if only for
showing how worthless is an orthodox
Marxist education for understanding the
Soviet Union. Mrs Price, Berlin-born
and a lifelong socialist, who confesses
that it was not till 1956 that she seriously
questioned anything that came out of
Russia, was obviously deeply shocked by
what she saw. Yet I could detect nothing
in the quality of her remarks that one
would not expect from a sensitive and
intelligent bourgeois tourist whose prior
knowledge of Russia was precisely nil.
“t>eople and Life,” the first volume of
Ilya Ehrenburg’s memoirs, is the
best written and most significant of the
books reviewed here. After sixty pages
covering his childhood and schooling in
middle-class Moscow, and the youthful
revolutionary activity which led to his
flight from Russia at the age of 17, the
book deals with Ehrenburg’s nine
years in bohemian Paris the
great formative influence in his life —and
ends with his return to Russia between
the February and October revolutions.
In the West “People and Life” is
likely to be most valued for its picture of
the Rotonde and of some of its habitues
—Picasso, Modigliani, Diego Rivera and
many others—who turned this scruffy
Montparnasse cafe into the seedbed of
twentieth century art. There are also
sharply drawn portraits of such Russian
figures as Lenin, Alexei Tolstoi and the
poet Balmont. Readers who know
Ehrenburg from his political novels of
the Stalin era will be surprised and
delighted by the style. Gone are the
longwindedness and cliches; the prose
is fluent, vivid and tangy. At the begin-
ning it is close to the responsible-pro-
vocative avuncular style which Ehrenburg
has assumed in his literary journalism
and criticism in recent years; but as the
book progresses the narrative passages
develop an urgency, almost an
apocalyptic quality, which harks right
back to the author’s one pre-Soviet novel
—“Julio Jurenito” —a novel which,
incidentally, would well be worth re-
reading along with these memoirs.
More important than the impact of
this book abroad are its effects in the
Soviet Union itself. The published
sections of Ehrenburg’s memoirs have
provoked considerable excitement in
Russia although it would seem that
neither the party nor the “progressive”
reading public have adopted a definite
attitude towards them. Ehrenburg’s
most important audience is the younger
literary public, to whose education he
has contributed more than any other
individual in the post-Stalin era. The
“general line” of his memoirs, as of his
other recent writings, is strongly affirm-
ative of the revolution and the party,
but sharply critical of bureaucratic busy-
bodies who cripple the arts by a simplistic
imposition of party doctrines.
There is much in “People and Life” to
scandalise the dogmatists. Take this
side-swipe at the muddled guardians of
“socialist realism”: “I find it difficult to
say a good word for the painters of the
Bolognese school. I have my own
accounts to settle with them, although
that is not, of course, their fault;
it was Bolognese painting that
laid down for three hundred years
ahead the canons of that conventional
eclectic art which, out of misunder-
standing or habit, many people still call
realism” (p. 110). The “decadent” poet
Balmont is defended against official
Soviet neglect, and such O.K. judges as
Gorky and Chekhov invoked in his sup-
port. And then there is the intellectual
atmosphere of Paris; despite all the
author’s hostility towards “bourgeois”
society, a sense of freedom illumines the
Parisian sections of his book —that free-
dom which could be as puzzling to the
subject of Tsar Nicholas II as to the
Soviet Russian of today, and as intoxi-
cating.
Ilya Ehrenburg is not the greatest of
his Russian contemporaries to survive into
the Khrushchev era. Others might give
a different, perhaps profounder account
of the period he covers. Ehrenburg might
be charged with exhibitionism, with
cashing in on the milder controls and the
ignorance of the young, with frivolously
squandering that all too slight capital of
the Soviet artistic community —the good-
will of the party. Yet the platform from
which he speaks he has won for himself
by years of intelligent, realistic, constant,
and at times courageous, campaigning for
artistic values.
T. H. RIGBY


BOOKHUNTER
Dept "D." ISox '2671, G.P ()., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
ONE OR TWO POETS
The Dogman and other Poems. Robert
Clark. Cheshire. 17s. 6d.
Poems. J. J. Bray. Cheshire. 17s. 6d.
•“These two books of poems are both
A by Adelaide lawyers, and at first
sight might seem to confirm some of the
more extravagant claims made in recent
weeks for the City of Light as the cultural
capital of Australia. It is always good
to find a poet who is not petulantly
afraid of the world's business: after
all, Chaucer and Marvell were competent
civil servants during all the years they
wrote their great poetry. But, in Dr
Bray’s case at least, a reading of the
poems soon diminishes one’s enthusiasm.
His book is the traditional “slim
volume" : 44 pages of text, not quite
20 poems, beautifully printed and
bound. It is dedicated (in Latin) to C. R.
Jury, who “made me a poet, if a poet.”
The reservation is wise. Dr Bray is
not a poet but an occasionally accom-
plished amateur of verse. The most serious
part of the book is, 1 suppose, that
which consists of a chorus from "Papin-
ian,” a verse play on Roman themes which
was performed in Adelaide some years
ago, and choruses from another untitled
verse play. These demonstrate the two
key characteristics of Dr Bray’s verse
a conscious, if sometimes frivolous,
classicism; and the insensitivity to tone
in English which the classicising poet
often betrays. The heavy apparatus of
classical learning cannot prevent the
poet from being at once arch and tire-
some.
The rest of the book, apart from
translations of Villon and Charles
d'Orleans, is made up of occasional
verse which, to me, hardly seems worth
reprinting most of it is in the vein
of a verse jeu d’ esprit contributed to
an undergraduate magazine. “Prelude to
a Modern Epic” is embarrassing rather
than funny, with its references to a
“post-Marxo-Freudian shandy” (rhyming
with locus standi) and such lines as :
While of all choices Virgil is the
crassest,
A dilettante palaeo-crypto Fascist.
And there are parodies of Pope and
Wordsworth which, although clever
enough in their way, reveal as most
of the other poems also do a dis-
turbingly adolescent attitude to literature.
There are some good lines in the book,
but one cannot read far without encoun-
tering some jarring instance of the
writer's insensitivity to language.
We must distinguish, then, between
Dr Bray and Mr Clark, for the latter is
a genuine poet, the composer of neat,
thoughtful pieces which add something
individual to our poetry today. In a
w'ay, his title is unfortunate, because
although “The Dogman” won a prize
for Mr Clark some years ago, it is not,
I think, the best poem in the book by
a long chalk, and the idiom in which it
is written a mild reflection, for instance,
of Hope:
Beneath his feet the city falls
In patterns of great blocks and
spires,
A sumptuous Gulliver who sprawls
In bond to man's minute desires
is not that which is used in the best
poems. In these, the outline is simple,
not to say sparse, but Mr Clark has a
depth of reflection and an acuteness of
observation which makes his poems
matter.
Not that all of them are substantial :
in this regard, “From the Train” is
instructive, for its six lines cannot en-
compass much more than an impression
and a reflection, but its economy and
control make it worthwhile. Most of
Mr Clark's poems are short, and within
their span I find them always enjoyable,
sometimes impressive. The longer ones,
such as “To My Son,” are not so success-
ful. and the poet is not, 1 think, at home
in the discursive mode.
What I like most of all about Mr
Clark as a poet is his handling of the
language it almost never lapses in
taste, but is clear, controlled and sinewy.
1 confess that before the appearance of
this book I had never given him much
attention among contemporary Aus-
tralian poets; but I now feel pretty sure
that he deserves it. His poetry is not of
the kind that suggests a future great-
ness; but it is cheering evidence of the
increasing maturity of our culture.
GRAHAME JOHNSTON
WHAT MAKES RABBIT RUN
‘‘Rabbit, Run.” John Updike. Andre
Deutsch. 16s.
'T'his novel is a curious mixture of
derivativeness allied to a bold and
masterly grasp of what it takes to make
a novelist of the front rank. John Updike
has that rare thing, vision, though it
takes him half a book to reach it.
In the opening chapters of his story
of Harry Angstrom, the Rabbit, who
cuts and runs from his sleazy suburban
life and its problems, it seems we are
going to be taken through the old paces
of the angst-ridden American and his
escape into (usually sexual) adventures.
There is the national "toey" style, nervous,
strident, hairy-chested, as of an end-
less “limbering-up” before a race that
never gets under way, which one feels
with many modern American novelists.
Jn the listing of streets, the detailed
manipulation of the car in which Rabbit
is escaping, the sights and sounds that
assail him, we get echoes of the Thomas
Wolfe inventory. The “piece of broken
glass in which a whole forest is
mirrored” is all too obviously absent in
this rampaging unselectiveness, and we
quite literally cannot see the wood for
the trees. The writer tires us with his
alertness. In it all goes: Lamp-posts,
street-names, the lot.
We get the picture of a grubby,
materialistic world, and the author hurl-
ing his vocabulary against it, trying to
break through, trying to register through
his five senses something only the geiger-
counter sixth can contact. One realises
that this author desperately wants his
four beans of reality to make five in
some mystical, unmathematical w'orld he
is striving to reach. The striving of the
Rabbit to escape that relentless 2+2 = 4
of the material world interweaves itself
with the artistic struggle of the author.
Then we see his aim set nakedly forth in
the passage: "There is only the church
across the way. gray, sombre, confident.
Lights behind its rose window are left
burning, and this circle of red and purple
and gold seems in the city night a hole
punched in reality to show the abstract
brilliance burning underneath." (italics
mine.)
Rabbit is tired of his alcoholic wife,
his kid. his relatives, his job as a demon-
strator of the Magipeel Vegetable Peeler.
Yet, he is something more than the
average man, unless it is true that every-
one has known some moment of Truth.
“It's that!" cries the Rabbit, after a
perfect golf-stroke, when his pastor asks
what his marriage lacks. Rabbit is an
Ecstasy Seeker. In the words of his
countrywoman, Emily Dickinson :
“Since a god has touched me and
departed,
I run through every temple, broken-
hearted.”
Rabbit is one of the tragic ones,
touched once with glory, when he played
inspired basketball for his school, and
he seeks this lost sense of glory every-
where, in hours of aimless driving, in
sex, in contact with his old coach,
Tothero. Mr Updike foxily anticipates


THE WORKERS’ EDUCATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SYDNEY PHILOSOPHY CHUB
John Anderson Lecture to be delivered by Prof. John Passmore.
Institute of Advanced Studies. Department of Philosophy. Australian National University,
on
THE PHILOSOPHER S TASK
WEDNESDAY, 2nd MAY, 1002
at the
Teachers’ Federation, Conference Hall, 100 Phillip Street, Sydney, at 8 p.m.
MOUSE FOR SALE
w
Meditcuaiio.au villa style home, garden, by the
sea. - Marvellous-view framed by palms. Handy
ferry and-beaches. Sun verandah, 2/3 bedrooms,
large dining,"living room's, £9,950.
SIII IbS, (ifi Bower Street, .Manly, Sydney.
97-132 G,
Positions Vacant
STAFF SURVEYORS
AND LAND OFFICERS
(SARAWAK)
There are vacancies for professionally quali-
fied Staff Surveyors and Land Officers in the
Land and Survey Department of Sarawak. The
age limit in each case is 50. Details of the
appointments are available on application to
Professor Zelrhan Covven, University of Mel-
bourne, Parkville, N. 2.
THE KING’S SCHOOL
PARRAMATTA
Applications are invited to fill several vacancies
on the Teaching Staff of The King's School
in First Term, 1963.
Special consideration will be given to appli-
cants well qualified to teach Science and/or
Maths, but Masters to teach English, History,
Geography and Economics are also required.
Masters joining the staff will be expected
to make a full contribution - to the general-
life of the school outside as well as inside
the classroom.
All classrooms, Science Labs and Masters'
Common Room now in use (opened First
Term 1962) are modern.
Applicants in the first place should send
full statement of qualifications, copies of two
testimonials and names and addresses of two
referees to the Headmaster: H. D. Hake,
M.A. (Cantab).
Divorce Notices
Matrimonial Causks Act, 1059.
IX THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
.Matrimonial Caisks Jurisdiction.
TO JOVCE EILEEN BARNETT late of Crovdon.—
TAKE NOTICE that FRANCIS JOHN BARNETT has
filed a Petition for dissolution of marriage No. 809
of 1962 on the ground of your desertion If you wish
to defend you may file an answer in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney bv the Btli day of June 1962 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. ROY F. TURNER, JONES & CO., Solici-
tors, of 350 George Street, Sydney.—C. A. 11.
HARMS, Registrar.
Missing Friends
TO ROBERT STUART CLARK of address unknown.
—TAKE NOTICE that your wife MARGARET ROSE
CLARK has instituted divorce proceedings against
you in the Supreme Court of Victoria for a dissolu-
tion of her marriage to you on the ground of
desertion and FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that unless
you file an answer herein in the office of the Registrar
Supreme Court Melbourne in the State of Victoria
on or before the 31st day of May 1962 the case may
proceed in your absence. H. J. L. HALL, 554 Sydney
Road, Brunswick, Victoria, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner.
KENSINGTON, Estates of LOUISA M.. OLIVIA I.—
Will any descendants of WILLIAM CHARLES
KENSINGTON, former New Zealand Under-Secretary
for Lands and Immigration, who died on August 20,
1922, at Marton, please write as soon as possible to
CHRISTENSON & STANFORD, Solicitors, P.O. Box
23, Marton, NEW ZEALAND.
Would ELIZABETH MAY FLETCHER, wife of
HERBERT EDWIN FLETCHER, formerly of 125
Jenner Parade, Hamilton, or anyone knowing the
whereabouts of her or her next of kin please com-
municate with W. G. CANNINGTON & SON. Solici-
tors, Box 11. Post Office. Hamilton.
Have you heard the one about the subjunctive clause in Anglo-Saxon P”
his reviewers by twice having another
character refer to Rabbit as “imma-
ture.” You could call him a male Madame
Bovary, bored to death with the domes-
tic treadmill, and heading blindly into
disaster, leaving a wake of chaos behind
him in his flight from reality, or, maybe
to reality, depending which side you’re
on.
Towards the last half of the book, in
a scene of unbearable portent, the author
forgetfully drops the Voice of America
to carry us quietly, in now hushed and
race-less prose, to the heart of a situa-
tion, where Rabbit’s wife, abandoned for
the second time, with her child and
newborn baby, gets slowly, despairingly
drunk on whisky. From then on to the
end we have an artist confidently in
command of his medium.
His descriptions of people are those
of a man who has studied art, as the
dustcover testifies. He sees the “planes”
of faces; the sinews and ligaments be-
neath the skin are noted by the trained
eye of the draughtsman. This anatomical
probing often reduces characters to
“specimens.” Still, the cold, cruel, yet
impassioned eye of the artist is his al-
ready, and may sharpen in time to probe
with cleaner direction, finding the right
spot without so much dissection-room
mess and needless savagery.
What lives in the reader when the book
has been closed is not so much the
Rabbit, nor, indeed, any particular
character, though Tothero the coach,
and Eccles the pastor, are excellent crea-
tions, but a picture embodying the novel’s
theme, which is, fundamentally, the
failure of human beings to really com-
municate, and the extremities to which
this drives them. A novel'that leaves one
with such a graphic afterglow, with a
vision of life, if you like, is an important
one.
“Rabbit, Run” somehow triumphs over
the author’s Star-spangled manner, over
his derivativeness (the Marian Bloom
monologue, the Thomas Wolfe Inven-
tory). Although he is not yet 30, he has
observed acutely and with a veteran’s
maturity a segment of modern life. It is
exciting to speculate on what he may
yet bring forth. He will, one hopes, shed
altogether the modish, strident Voice of
America to develop his own.
THELMA FORSHAW


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO COLIN CAMPBELL MACDONALD address
unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that FAY SHIRLEY
MACDONALD has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3506 of 1960 on the ground of desertion If you
wish to defend you may enter an answer in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street on or before the 25th May 1962 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
J. H. WOLFF, Solicitor, of 52 Phillip Street, Sydney.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
DENTURES
FIT-RITE
One application of this new semi-clear pliable
plastic discovery takes up slack, loose dentures
caused by gum shrinkage or worn dentures.
Dentures fit tight for life. FIT-RITE, developed
from the same material as your dentures,
ADHERES, SETS, MOULDS, HARDENS on to
dentures to the exact shape of the mouth AS
YOU WEAR. ENDS permanently daily use of
powders. DROPPING, WOBBLY DENTURES.
ENDS EMBARRASSMENT. RESTORES perfect
tight suction fit. Use with CONFIDENCE,
GUARANTEED Harmless! FIT-RITE also
IMPROVES facial beauty, pushes out hollow
cheeks and receding lips. Simply apply FIT-
RITE to side or front ridge of dentures. NO
RESULTS—NO CHARGE! So simple-
anyone can use. Sold only by DENTURE
PERFECT FIT-RITE CO. (Scientific
Colleges and Plastics Ind. Co. P./E.). 58
SWAN STREET (Opp. Richmond Station),
VICTORIA. J 81755.
I enclose 40/- for FIT-RITE, and/or send me
free particulars.
NAME
ADDRESS
BUL.
ENGINES
RECONDITIONED
WHILE-YOU-DRIVE
Super Nu Metal Pat. expands up to 30%,
eliminating slackness and lack of power
caused by WORN engine parts. Replates
Worn upper Cylinders, main bearings,
diffs, gears, SAVES rebore, ends piston
slap, rattles, oil, petrol waste. RESTORES:
New compression Power, top speed zip.
ADDS £ s. d. resale value. GUARANTEED:
Up to 25.000 miles according to engine
wear. SIMPLY add Re-Nu expanding liquid,
Nu Metal or in tablet form to oil, petrol,
plug holes. 4,6, 8 cylinders, 60/-, 70/-, 80/-.
Manufactured since 1934. Harmless to Finest
Engines. Open Saturday. Sold only by
RE-NU CO. (ESTAB. 1932).
Scientific Colleges & Plastic (lnd. Co. Pty. Ltd.)
58 Swan Street. (Opp. Richmond Stn.) J 81755.
I enclose £. ... for Super Nu Metal, or send copy
of testimonials, engineers reports and free folder
describing action of Nu Metal.
NAME
ADDRESS Bul
/
AINO S,ll
nnd there's
more to
read for
the whole
family in
Everybody’s
Tb.e
ulletin
Incorporating The Australian Financial Times
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SUB./RENEWAL
(Please cross out one")
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order
for months’ subscription to Thb
Bulletin.
NAME:
ADDRESS:
RATES (Australia and New Guinea) : 1 year—
£2 125.; i year—£l 6s. Post free. British
Dominions : £3 6s. Other countries :
£3 16s.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS (Remit to Box 965,
Wellington, N.Z.) : 1 year—£2 12s. (N.Z.
currency); £ year—£l 6s. (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 690
Across
I—Sneakiness with seven fruits. (11)
7 —A steamship useful for land transport? (3)
9 —Controller of the fire game. (5)
10— Teaching which has some N.Z. bird turning it on. (7)
11 — Tops a small piano with expenses. (6)
12 — Top brass spoils an old master. (8)
15— Wrath for the kings in Italy. (3)
16 — A famous Sydney race who is to chuck Bradman? (9)
19 —Tying up the Maori with Wagner’s tetralogy. (9)
20 —Tin half of a dance. (3)
22 —Poor chap of an electorate in
Victoria. (8)
24 —A crazy one to love the name of
a family of famous Australian
woodwind players. (6)
27—Spinners lubricate the upper
earth. (7)
29 — Potentate backing an Australian
P.M. (5)
30 — It may hold back the water
parent. (3)
31 — Civic function may get the al-
ternative to a pound and every-
thing. (7, 4)
Down
1— A cleaner and antiseptic for
Mother Lindsey. (8)
2 Fabric isn’t at all welcomed as
shown. (11)
3 Have a hint of a kind of broad
linen tape as the French write
the writing fluid first. (5)
4 Count some listener over fifty. (4)
5 Mercy-killing youth misspelt a
continent. (10)
6 They field in petticoats. (5)
7 Moslem seen here to be within a
mile in China. (3)
8 — The most rational South Aus-
tralian bird family lives in it. (6)
13 — A garment to cover a heel with
a garment incantation of a
magician. (11)
14 — Not out with some seabird con-
federate in a way appropriate to
the inside. (10)
16 — Do come to tea, girl! (3)
17— Stomach is upset by this craft. (3)
18 —Tell Jolson this isn’t ceremonial
arrangements of 1-down. (8)
21—Metallic boy is coloured. (6)
23 —Stable hand with room for the
key of Beethoven’s fourth piano
concerto. (5)
25 — Blame wrongly given by this girl.
(5)
26 — Rang up to growl. (4)
28 —A limey dog. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 689


SHOWA DENKO K.K.
Main Products
Ferrochrome, other ferroalloys, electrolytic iron;
Aluminium ingots, alloys, wire bars;
Artificial graphite electrodes, other carbonaceous
products;
Fused alumina, silicon carbide, other abrasive grains;
Petrochemicals, other organic and inorganic chemicals;
Ammonium sulphate, urea and other chemical
fertilizers;
Reactor materials, including graphite and heavy water.
Products for progress
Serving industry and agriculture
around the world
I
&
*• v '
*3
/,,..._ r i,,!
", i^'
' V
'‘■s'
r-7
PI
-y
s y<-
Si?
Write for further information; general catalogue will be sent upon request.
SHOWA DENKO K.K.
34, Shiba Miyamoto-cho, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
Cable Address: SECIC TOKYO
