

The Bulletin
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF - EST. 1880
THE WATERFRONT
i| Mih: TsUiWi§f£


ALUMINIUM
finds more and more
outlets in Australia
Aluminium is all around you on
roofs and windows and walls of
houses and towering city office build-
ings. It brings the clean, modern
look to appliances, big road trans-
port vehicles, Venetian blinds, air-
craft, germ-free milk bottle caps.
Strong, light, corrosion resistant,
constantly pleasing to look at (and a
superb conductor of heat and elec-
tricity) aluminium plays an extra-
ordinarily versatile part in modern
living. Chocolates and cigarettes
always come in aluminium foil!
BELL BAY
meets the demand
with record expansion
Comalco’s aluminium smelter at Bell
Bay, Tasmania, has been expanded
spectacularly. The first molten metal
has been poured from new facilities
that have trebled capacity to 35,000
tons a year.
In the short space of 15 months,
Comalco Aluminium (Bell Bay) Ltd.
alone has largely eliminated Aus-
tralian dependence on overseas
sources of aluminium. And it is only
a beginning. Next year the Bell Bay
plant’s capacity will rise to 52,000
tons of aluminium a year.
COMALCO
Australia’s only primary
producer of aluminium
Comalco is now using Australia’s
own great resources of bauxite at
Weipa in the far north of Queensland
as its raw material for aluminium
production.
By expanding Bell Bay to keep pace
with the ever-widening scope for
aluminium applications, Comalco is
guaranteeing supplies from Aus-
tralia’s own shores. This means a
sure continuity of metal, close liaison
with customer firms on technical re-
quirements and short notice orders.
run
rrr
ii i
faVBtQl
[©]
m
n
S 3
■
H
coMALcoMmmom
AUSTRALIA’S OWN ALUMINIUM


National Notebook
Long-range view
T)erth is still working out the debits
A and credits of staging the Common-
wealth Games. One thing she has got
out of it is Beatty Park Swimming
Stadium, possibly the best of its kind in
the world. It should even be able to
pay its way in the future because until
now Perth has never had a swimming
stadium. It has never had a proper swim-
ming pool. Even back in the thirties
Kalgoorlie had a pool, the water for
which was pumped more than 300 miles
from pool-less Perth.
However, the million-pound Perry
Lakes Athletic Stadium is a different
matter. This was built clearly for the
Games alone. It has all the facilities
just for the occasion. The facilities for
the Press are unequalled with special
rooms for the big agencies, special rooms
and stands for TV, bars and large work
rooms for hundreds of newspapermen,
cafeterias, and quite honestly the best
lavatories in town. There’s the track
inside and the training track of equal
size outside. It will take
12 men the year round
just to keep them in nick.
That’s £lO,OOO a year.
What will happen now?
It could be used for foot-
ball, but there is obvious
friction between football
and athletic authorities in Perth. It
would need extensive changes to make
it Perth’s leading football arena, both
to the stands and the ground itself.
Yet athletic sports, not even in 20 years,
could make this stadium pay its way.
There’s talk of using it for Asian Games
lovely Perth free of all international
rivalries but this would be a oncer
and who would go to see them?
Up in the big money
l4lO computor, just installed in
the AMP building in Farm Cove,
Sydney, has been briskly proving its
worth by playing, and winning, at
noughts and crosses with anyone fool-
ish enough to try to beat a machine.
The machine represents a cash sale of
about £275,000, which, if the salesman
were on commission, might represent
early retirement to Surfers’ Paradise.
Selling computors might seem like
heaven to the man who is on the road
each morning, selling life assurance, but
the computor salesman is hampered by
the fact that so few people want or need
a computor, and most of the machines
are hired rather than sold.
The 1410, made in France, is not the
largest IBM machine here. That\ is a
7090, worth £1,250,000, at Woomera.
The largest made by IBM is called
Stretch, which makes it sound more
human, somehow, than a machine that
just, goes by numbers. About six or
seven of these have been sold at
£10,000,000, give or take a few hundred
thousand, and IBM themselves can’t
afford, or don’t need, one.
The 1410 must be kept in even tem-
perature conditions and no smoking is
allowed. Even a small speck of cigarette
ash on the magnetic tapes could thrqw
the' machine’s calculations out by
millions, which, if it were dealing with
claims, might mean early retirement to
Surfers’ Paradise for some lucky client
of the AMP.
Home was never like this
rp H E opening of the new N.S.W.
■*" Women’s Reformatory at Malabar
was a gala affair, as these things go.
Flags hung over the red brick buildings.
The police band played. Afternoon tea
was served by white-over-
ailed “trusty” male priso-
ners, with all the aplomb
of high-class waiters, to
guests including the Pre-
mier, Mr. -Heffron, the
Minister of Justice, Mr.
Mannix, bishops and
judges, policemen and politicians.
The reformatory has been likened to
a “ first-class hotel” although it’s hardly
what most of us have in mind when we
think of a first-class hotel. The cells are
painted pastel pinks and yellow, the con-
crete floor is cork-lined for warmth. Only
the high, barred window (bars painted
white, a warder said, to make it easier
to spot if they’re being tampered with)
and the heavy wooden door remind you
that it is a cell.
Prisoners now eat in communal dining-
rooms and not alone in their cells. There
are sports facilities and opportunities to
take classes in academic subjects, music,
art, dressmaking and hairdressing on a
wider scale than before.
The State’s 80-odd women prisoners
moved from the old prison inside Long
Bay into their new home this week.
Penal experts and social workers will
be watching the women’s long-term reac-
tions. Will the glamor prison have an
uplifting effect on the prisoners, and so
pay the taxpayer dividends for his out-
lay by cutting down on the number
of re-entries? Or, as the cynics have
suggested, might the prisoners be only
too willing to get back into the home-
was-never-like-this atmosphere?
BY-ELECTION IN DORSET Page 16
Nothing lovely in Maude’s Garden
•
Melbourne’s Jewish Spilt 6
Alf Foster —■ The Rationalist
Judge 10
The Wharfies In The Red .... 12
The Man From Caroline St. .... 18
A Page of Rataj 19
W. M. Hughes No. 6 in Prime
Ministers Series 20
Lee Kuan Yew and India’s War 26
The End of Nixon 29
Anatomy Of A Fellow Traveller 30
In The Steps of Segovia 34
Leonie Kramer on Randolph Stow 38
Bursting Reid Murray’s Balloon 41
Spending £l4m. On A Dam? .... 56
•
TANNER ... ..... 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA . ... 6
80 YEARS AGO ..... .. . 7
AROUND
MELBOURNE ... 10
OUT AND ABOUT _ 16
OVERSEAS ..... ... 26
FORUM .... 30
LETTERS _ 32
AROUND PERTH .... 33
REVIEWS .... 34
RED PAGE 38
WORLD OF BUSINESS 41
MAN ON THE LAND 56
FEIFFER _ 57
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney.
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone
27-5971. Melbourne: Phone MF 3341. Bris-
bane: Phone B 2691. Adelaide: Phone
W 4121-3.
Vol. 85
No. 4320


Fairy Tates
\JU E have been saddened to find that
some film comedies of the ’forties,
screened now on TV, seem singularly
unfunny. In compensation, some of the
most dramatic pieces can now raise a
merry laugh.
A case in point was “Mission to
Moscow,” screened last Saturday. Made
by Warner Brothers during the last war,
it was based, roughly, on the book which
Joseph E. Davies wrote, covering his
time as ambassador to Moscow shortly
before the w'ar. Davies (played by Walter
Huston) is briefed by Roosevelt (back-
view only) to find out what is really
going on in Russia. Davies goes forth, is
snubbed by Hitler, but in Russia every-
thing is hearts and flowers. He is greeted
by a jovial Molotov (Gene Lockhart),
visits factories where operatives, in per-
fect English, can tell him that Roose-
velt’s plan for world disarmament has
“the simplicity of genius.”
He attends the Moscow trials and
while other diplomats are cynical about
the honesty of the proceedings, Davies
can go back to America to tell Roose-
velt that the Russians’ hearts are in the
right place.
Just before he goes back, there is a
little scene when another jovial character,
this time with a pipe, comes through a
doorway. “I know you are a terribly
busy man,” Davies tells Stalin, but pshaw
to that! Stalin pulls him into his office
and they settle down to a cosy chat.
Davies come home. War breaks out,
but Davies can tour the United States,
assuring the Americans that the Russians
are all right. The film ends with a typical
Warner Brothers finale. Davies is ad-
dressing a bond rally. “I know you may
think you are not your brother’s keeper,
but you are your brother’s keeper,” is
the text for the day, as the peoples of
the world, march side by side into the
future.
Ondine in aluminium
Tt was all very well for Sydney yachts-
men to put on the greatest welcome
since the visit of the Queen for the visit-
ing American racing yawl, Ondine, but
such was the excitement that no one
thought to tell the Americans about the
dangerous reef that runs across Sydney
harbor.
Local sailors know its whereabouts by
instinct, but the American yachtsmen
came within feet of losing their 150,000-
dollar all-aluminium 57-footer at the end
of their 12,000-mile trip from New York.
Skipper “Huey” Long tells us that when
the crowd cried “Look out for the Sow
and Pigs,” he thought at first they must be
joking
Ondine, perhaps the most modern and
beautiful ocean-racing yacht to visit Aus-
tralia, is all aluminium from her natty 3
ft. trim board let into the keel to the truck
of her 69 ft. extruded aluminium main-
mast, including an unusual all-aluminium
deck.
She is the first all-American yacht and
crew to compete in the Sydney-riobart
race and will be after line honors in which
her main rival will be all-steel 57-ft yawl
Solo.
And if we think Vic Meyer, skipper of
Solo, is a Captain Bligh of the blue
water boys, we are told that 41-year-old
New York shipping magnate “Huey;’
Long and his sailing master, Sven Joffs,
are slave-drivers too. And just for those
taking a bet—Ondine likes the weather
light to medium and Solo prefers it to
blow, blow, blow.
Turnabout
HPHE time was when we looked upon:
A TAA as a species of Socialism and
Mr Ansett’s airline as the very prototype
of rugged private enterprise. It now looks
as if the two airlines are tired of living
out these roles and have decided to swap
parts.
Recently TAA took a full-page in the
Melbourne “Herald” to proclaim that
“TAA is a business enterprise.” It repor-
ted that for the 10th year in succession
it had made a profit and “like any other
successful commercial enterprise in Aus-
tralia, TAA must pay its way by earning
profits.” Readers were reminded that
“supporters of competitive enterprise
who place business with TAA help pre-
serve the competition vital to a healthy
airline industry.” All that was missing
was an announcement of the annual
shareholders’ meeting.
Meanwhile, Mr Ansett had accom-
plished an equally adept switch of econ-
omic philosophy. His' shareholders were
"The time is long gone since
England was significant to us
"What with the Common Markst,
the Empire Games, we're beginning
to look further afield."


told that under the recent Civil Aviation
Act, the company was assured of reason-
able profits from its airline activities for
another 15 years. This assured Ansett-
ANA of revenues of about £36m.
annually and was an extremely valuable
franchise. Nowhere in the world was
there such an arrangement which en-
sured civil aviation economic stability
for such a period. With this good news,
Ansett shares rose from ss. 2d. to ss.
lid. during the-week.
Harry's last word
T'he dispute between management and
A printers, which led to curtailment of
Sydney papers, gave readers smaller
papers, but, perhaps, higher amusement
value. The most notable of the series
of misprints was on page 1 of the
“Sydney Morning Herald” on Monday.
. Lord Mayor Harry Jensen, re-elected
for his third term on Saturday, was
talking about his “vision splendid” of an
Olympic sports arena to rise on the brick
pits of St. Peters. Mr. Jensen was an-
xious to reassure the electors, who had
shown such confidence in him, that the
scheme would not go into the Limbo to
which most of his previous large plans
have been consigned.
“I will call together all sporting organ-
isations in Sydney in February or early
March to help prepare the worst suit-
able plan for the development of St.
Peters site,” the ‘Herald” reported him
as saying. Uh, huh, reflected the electors,
with a knowing shake of the head.
Tanmar
"I didn't think much of Princess
Alexandra's ring, did you?"
PLAIN ENGLISH
DR WYNDHAM'S RETREAT
Jt often turns out that “progressive reformers” are unable to mess things
up as badly as they want to even when they seem to have the power to
do so. There is some hope anyhow that this is happening in the case of the
plans of Dr H. S. Wyndham to “reform” (i.e. destroy) educational
standards in NSW—plans of national importance since educationists in
other States commonly hold up the NSW Wyndham Report as the model
for their own plans.
The policy of the NSW Education Department—in keeping with the
advanced ideas of about 40 years ago, which have since been abandoned
in any country which espoused them—is to get away from such unpleasant
matters as high standards and hard work and to turn schools into instru-
ments for making children happy and socially adjusted personalities.
Happy mediocrity is now the ideal, and ability is something to be rather
ashamed of. In accordance with this policy, selective high schools are
being abolished while differing standards of study and teaching were to
be eliminated and the first year of high school devoted not to high
school work in languages, mathematics, history, science or any other
subject, but to the “consolidation” of primary school work.
In response, however, to opposition from headmasters, teachers, the
public and even from students themselves, the “reformers” have had to
make some concessions. According to the latest announcement students
will, for example, be allowed to study foreign languages in first year.
Even so the concession is made grudgingly: there can only be three
lessons a week, they will only begin in second term, they will be at the
expense of English, and they will still be vague introductory lessons,
not hard work.
Another concession is to review the first year mathematics syllabus
which at the moment is not concerned with mathematics but with some
wishy-washy philosophising about mathematics intended to soften the
rigors of real mathematical study.
The third and most important concession is that there will no longer
be only one general high school syllabus of a fairly low level, but two
different syllabuses—an “advanced” one for the ablest pupils in any
subject and an “ordinary” one for the rest—apart, that is, from the special
curriculum for slow learners. This is a real concession and a belated ad-
mission that high standards do matter in education.
Again it is important to realise that these are only concessions and
that the basic policy of the NSW Education remains unchanged. This
is seen most clearly in the determination to continue the policy of post-
poning real study as much as possible until second year and to keep
first year as a happy waste of time. Further the syllabuses for the later
years of high school have not yet been drawn up and since it seems
probable that they will be prepared in the same spirit as the time-
wasting first year syllabuses, there is still ground for grave concern, par-
ticularly since the Universities’ representation 01 the Secondary Schools
Board is kept to a minimum.
Although responsible educationists generally, and rightly, discuss this
matter in terms of high standards for their own sakes, the general public
is also entitled to make a more utilitarian point that in the current world
with so many threats to Australia’s prosperity and survival it is dangerous
to the point of lunacy when the leading State continues to fiddle around
undermining standards while the rest of the world raises standards and
O
leaves us behind. y


THIS AUSTRALIA
RED CHINA
THE ALP's FOREIGN
SYMBOLS
A tew ill-chosen words, then an explosion
As I see it
DR J. CAIRNS
“If the cap fits ..."
\ RIPPLE Of
uneasiness
goes through
the Opposition benches whenever
foreign affairs comes up for discussion
in the Federal Parliament. Foreign
affairs are the things most likely nowa-
days to provoke a public brawl between
Labor’s two wings on the floor of Par-
liament and to draw the voters’ attention
to a split quite fundamental in nature.
The split came dangerously close to a
public airing last week when the Parlia-
ment discussed Cuba
Speaking in the clipped, detached cold
manner which is his hallmark, Dr Cairns
(Lab. Vic.) said that some of his collea-
gues were in this debate discussing the
subject with “hatred and bitterness”.
“I was very pleased to hear the first
two speakers on the Government side
(the Government Whip, Mr Chaney,
WA, and Mr Barnes, CP, Q) discuss
this subject without any overtones of
hatred or bitterness,” he said.
“I am sorry that members on this side
of the House in this debate have not al-
ways approached the matter in the same
way.”
Outside the House, Dr Cairns refused
to elaborate his criticism to a “Daily
Telegraph” reporter. “If anyone feels
that the cap fits, let him wear it,” Dr
Cairns said.
As, at the stage Dr Cairns rose to his
feet, there had been only three Labor
speakers on this subject it does not
require radar equipment to identify the
target of his criticism. The three Labor
men who had spoken by then were Mr
Whitlam, Acting Opposition Leader, and
two Federal Parliamentary Labor Party
Executive members, Messrs Allan Fraser
NSW and Kim Beazley, WA.
Beazley, who represents a strongly
pro-American viewpoint which is sup-
ported almost to a man by Labor right-
wingers who resent the sympathetic
justification of the actions of Communist
count" ies by Labor spokesman who criti-
cise mercilessly every move of the
United States, significantly drew a paral-
lel between Cuba and Red China. It is
around Red China that the Labor ideo-
logical war is being waged, and if
Cairns was critical of Beazley’s attitudes,
Beazley, though perhaps more indirect,
was equally critical of the attitude of
some of his Labor colleagues.
Said Beazley (and he was obviously
tilting at various members within his own
Party, including Dr Cairns himself, Mr
Tom Uren, NSW, Mr Haylen, NSW,
and others) “Plenty of people in this
country are prepared to guarantee that
China will not be aggressive.
“I do not see how they can do so in
the face of the plain statement of Mao
Tse-tung that political power grows out
of the barrel of a gun.
“We are in much the same position as
we were back in 1935 when there was a
re-orientation of Japanese policy which
sooner or later was bound to control
South-East Asia and perhaps beyond it.
The thing which so far has prevented
China from expanding in South-East
Asia is not a lack of intention but some-
thing which is bound to tend to disap-
pear. That is the non-possession by
Communist China of nuclear weapons
and ballistic missiles.”
Interestingly, Cairns and Beazley were
expressing as yet temperately and
indirectly a clash of viewpoint which
emerged in the Federal Parliamentary
Labor Party Executive meeting on the
previous Wednesday and which was the
reason for the meeting of the full caucus
starting so late that day.
At the Labor Parliamentary Executive
meeting, Whitlam who in his role of
Acting Opposition Leader was to set the
broad line Labor should follow in the
Cuban debate was under pressure to be
critical of the United States for its
handling of that crisis. At first Whitlam
refused to do this. But later he agreed
to do it “in the most friendly manner.”
But it took a long discussion during
which some feeling and a fundamental
divergence of viewpoint emerged to bring
him to this point of compromise.
The US and Red China rather than
the Soviet are the symbols of this
clash in Labor viewpoint.
Labor is in a delicate position now-
adays whenever foreign affairs are under
under discussion in Parliament. It only
needs a hothead to toss into the powder
keg the lighted match of a few ill-chosen
words to touch off an explosion that
could affect Labor's electoral prospects
adversely.
Flashpoints came very close with the
Beazley-Cairns exchange last week. It
will be interesting to see how long Labor
can continue to avoid a public explosion.
ALAN REID
JEWRY
A DEFEAT FOR SOVIET ANTI-SEMITISM
From Melbourne to Moscow
T'he conference of the Executive Coun-
cil of Australian Jewry (ECAJ) held .
in Sydney during the weekend 24-25
November was one of the stormiest in
the history of Australian Jewry.
On November 10 MUGGA reported
on the efforts of the Jewish community
in Victoria which led to the Australian
intervention in the UN on behalf of per-
secuted Soviet Jewry. It has since be-
come evident that the Australian inter-
vention is very likely to bear fruit, for
the Russians were obviously touched on
the raw. The Soviet Embassy engaged in
intensive lobbying both inside and out-
side Parliament. Their personnel approa-
ched The Bulletin whose exposures ini-
tiated the successful campaign on behalf
of Soviet Jewry in the daily Press. They
also got in touch with Jewish newspapers
and with prominent individuals in the
Jewish community. Radio Moscow
beamed three broadcasts addressed speci-
fically to Australians on the position of


Jews in the USSR which consisted of a
rehash of familiar articles by the principal
Jewish quisling in the USSR Aaron Ver-
gilis. The Communist Press in Australia
supported by the usual crowd of hangers-
on intensified its campaign of defamation
against Messrs M. Ashkanasy, Isi Leib-
ler, Frank Knopfelmacher and Bono
Wiener, who are held to be responsible
for what is seen as an “anti-Soviet cam-
paign” and for a “personal vendetta”
against Senator S. Cohen.
Yet the most vigorous effort to dis-
credit the campaign on behalf of Soviet
Jewry did not come from the Soviet
Embassy directly, but from the Com-
munist-influenced Central Executive of
the ALP in Victoria. Following the inter-
vention of Mr Calwell on behalf of Sena-
tor Cohen (see MUGGA Nov. 10) the
“Australian Jewish Herald” (Now. 2)
published an editorial in which Mr Cal-
well’s overtures were politely but firmly
rejected. The Central Executive of the
ALP in Melbourne then swung into
action. It issued a 19 page “confidential”
circular to Executive members which it
leaked to the daily Press and to Jews both
in Sydney and in Melbourne. The circu-
lar is mainly an attack on Messrs Leibler,
Knopfelmacher, and the Jewish Labor
Party Bund, of which Wiener is Secre-
tary. It contains a number of more or
less obscurely menacing exhortions
against Victorian Jews to mend their
ways, to depose the present leadership of
the Victorian Jewish Board of Deputies
and replace it by “responsible” leaders,
and a demagogic appeal to the Jewish
rank and file to repudiate the legitimacy
of the Board. The Executive’s attacks on
Leibler, Ashkanasy and the others were
an almost verbatim replica of attacks
made during the past few weeks by the
Communist Press. The circular also tried
to play up various differences between
Jewish factions on matters such as reli-
gious ritual and Zionism, quite uncon-
nected with the contentious issues of
Soviet Jewry on which the community
is united—in the hope of splitting the
community. The circular does not con-
tain a word of condemnation against
Soviet anti-Semitism. It was written
jointly by Mr Cyril Wyndham, Secre-
tary of the ALP in Victoria and Mr R. W.
Holt, the Victorian President and a spec-
ialist in sectarian trouble-making. The
material was prepared by Mr Ernest
Platz, Secretary of the Communist Front,
the Jewish Council to Combat Fascism
and Anti-Semitism, who has recently re-
turned to Australia from a visit to the
Soviet Union. Abbreviated versions of
the circular were released to the daily
Press, reprinted in the Labor column of
the “Sun” (Nov. 21) and in the official
ALP newspaper “Fact.”
The identity of what Messrs. Wyndham
and Holt chose to call “responsible”
leaders became soon apparent from infor-
mal moves made by Wyndham and Holt
at the same time. Mr Nathan Jacobson,
a businessman-lawyer and member of the
Board executive known for his past un-
successful attempts to bring Sam Cohen
back into the fold, entered into negotia-
tions with the Victorian Central Execu-
tive. He proposed to engineer the re-
moval of Mr Leibler from Public Rela-
tions, weaken or destroy the influence of
Wiener’s toughly anti-Communist Bund,
arid curb the power of the President Mr
Ashkanasy, in return for the renewed
love of the Victorian Central Executive
of the ALP—a commodity of rather
doubtful value. Approaches were also
made to the Chairman of the Board, Mr
Arnold Bloch, a patrician, Cambridge-
educated, religious English Jew, and no
friend of the East European Bund. Yet
on the two issues that really matter,
Soviet Jewry and the institutional inte-
grity of the Board against outside pres-
sure and Sam Cohen, Bloch unlike
Jacobson, remained firm.
The man, however, expected above all
others to “restore order” in the Jewish
community was Mr Sydney Einfeld,
MHR, President of the ECAJ, and a per-
sonal friend of Mr Calwell to whose direct
influence he owes his pre-selection for the
seat of Phillips. In ALP politics Einfeld
is not clearly associated with either wing,
but his record in Jewish matters has been
good. If left alone, his position on Soviet
Jewry would approximate the loyal stand
of Ashkanasy as against the Cohen line.
Yet an ALP politician cannot be left
alone. Even since he threw in his sup-
port for W. C. Haworth and W. C.
Wentworth in the House of Represen-
tatives, Mr Einfeld has come under fire
from several quarters at once. The pro-
Communist wing of the ALP blamed him
for getting himself involved in an “anti-
Soviet” campaign, the ALP “right-wing”
for not having brought the ALP into the
matter first, thereby leaving all the local
and international kudos for the Austra-
lian intervention to the Menzies Govern-
ment. Finally, members of the Victorian
Jewish Board of Deputies blamed him for
not using his influence to curb ALP
attacks on them and for failing to take the
matter up with Sir Garfield Barwick.
Matters came to a head at the ECAJ
conference in Einfeld’s bailiwick in Syd-
ney. To “restore peace” with the ALP,
Einfeld and his predominantly NSW
supporters, including, however, Nathan
Jacobson from Melbourne, developed the
following order of battle: Get the num-
bers against Victoria by canvassing in
the smaller States, move a vote of cen-
sure against the Victorian Board for con-
stitutionally improper actions and “sen-
sational” Press-publicity in The Bulle-
THE FALL OF HENRY PARKES
ffij&utletin
December 9, 1882
Tt is a time for all lovers of honour
and honesty, for all haters of
cant, hypocrisy, and humbug, for all
free men and white men, and good
men and true, to make a joyful noise
together, to sing and to shout, to
take each others hands, and say:
“Let us go to the temple or down to
the pub, and render .thanks or drink
good luck over a great deliverance.”
Jubilate! We are free. We have
shaken the grave-clothes from us; we
have kicked aside the shrouds: we
have broken open the coffin, and es-
caped from the sepulchre. We look
down on the charnel-house. Faugh!
how it stinks.
There lies Sir Henry Parkes,
K.C.M.G. —a political hulk. There,
mark him! The man who, six months
ago, robed in Australia’s strength and
youth and greatness, let his own bad
manners and ridiculous vanity leak
through, and made us a laughing-
stock in all the Courts of Europe. The
man who, returning, added contempt
to insolence, and impudence to chic-
anery; who flung his political reputa-
tion and miserable self-assertion as a
gauntlet in the teeth of five thousand
electors, and said “I will represent
you, you shall not escape me,” he
creeps out like a disgraced kitchen-
man, and goes skulking, cap in hand,
to the meanest suburb and the outer-
most electorate of all the colony, to
endeavour by some means to get back
to the purgatory of Parliament. The
battle in which the nation’s honour
was involved was fought at East
Sydney. There, for the first time for
many years, the manhood of the
country asserted itself; there, for the
first time, the horrid, nauseous, indi-
gestible mess was felt as some poison-
ous mess in the national stomach;
there it was thrown out upon the face
of the earth, in the eyes of the world.
An old proverb tells us of the dog
returning to his vomit. That proverb
will be applied to, and will be merited
by, New South Wales, if after the pro-
nouncement of Thursday last, her
neck is ever again placed beneath the
heel of the man Parkes and his servile
following.


tin, replace the militant and sophisticated
Leibler (Leibler holds a First Class
Honors degree in Political Science) by
Mr Jacobson as the leading force in
public relations, and, if possible, defer
the transfer of the ECAJ from Sydney
to Melbourne. (The ECAJ changes its
residence biennially, it is now due for
Melbourne and keeping it in Sydney
would have been an extraordinary and
humiliating act of no confidence in the
Victorian leader Ashkansay.)
With Ashkansay humiliated, Leibler
dismissed and Soviet Jewry forgotten,
peace and friendship with the ALP could
again be restored by Einfeld as peace-
maker. Yet Einfeld’s plan was doomed
from the start. When conference met,
the delegates knew that the Soviet Gov-
ernment has shown its concern at Aus-
tralia’s action in the UN in special radio
broadcasts, their local agents, both Soviet
Embassy personnel and Communists
were trying frantically to restore Soviet
reputation, the world Press, particularly
in the USA, reported the Australian UN
move prominently, and the President of
the World Bnai Brith, Mr Label Katz,
sent a cable congratulating Leibler on his
success. In brief, world opinion, includ-
ing Jewish opinion, was visibly impressed
by what Leibler had achieved.
Under these circumstances Einfeld and
his supporters had to associate themselves
fully with the UN action and with the
Victorian condemnation of Soviet anti-
semitism. The intended vote of censure
was reduced to an inoccuous and general
plea to keep the rules. Under the impact
of Ashkanasy’s powerful oratory Mr
Leibler’s incisive Public Relations report,
Conference adopted a vote of thanks to
the Australian Government for raising
the matter of Soviet Jewry in the UN,
and it issued a strongly worded remon-
strance against the Soviet Government.
A last minute attempt by Mr Hoff-
man from the ACT to defer the ECAJ
transfer to Melbourne was frustrated by
Mr Ashkanasy who announced that if
that were to happen the Victorians would
leave the ECAJ. Ashkanasy was elected
President and Leibler, General-Secretary
of the ECAJ, a very considerable rise
in status for both. Leibler also continues
to hold his function as Chairman of
Public Relations in Victoria. Mr Nathan
Beller, a close supporter of Mr Ashkanasy
was elected Federal Chairman of Public
Relations, succeeding Einfeld’s friend Mr
Goldstein. A move to replace Goldstein
by Nathan Jacobson was defeated.
The upshot is that the very people
whom the Victorian ALP Executive
wished to destroy in the Jewish com-
munity, the militant anti-Communists,
are now in control on a Federal level.
As most Labor people now realise, in
Jewish affairs as anything else, you can-
not win with the Victorian ALP.
POLICE
COMMISSIONER BISCHOF'S
WRIT FOR DEFAMATION
First a departmental inquiry, then a law case
COMMISSIONER
BISCHOF
“To clear the air”
Tt takes a lot to shake the Queenslanders
but Queensland's Parliament and the
police hierarchy have been rocked to
their foundations recently by threats of
sensational charges, and the stage has
been set for one of the biggest blow-ups
in the State's history.
The leading roles are played by the
Member for South Brisbane, barrister
Colin Bennett, MLA; Police Commis-
sioner Frank Bischof, and Criminal In-
vestigation Branch’s third in charge, In-
spector Bernard (Ben) McNicholl.
A couple of weeks ago Mr Bennett
foreshadowed in Parliament that he
would make “sensational charges” during
the Education and Police departments’
estimates debate against certain members
of the police force “including a senior
police officer.”
Last Thursday week it was alleged that
Mr Bennett had been denied the right
to carry out his threat when, in the last
40 minutes of the debate, the Acting Min-
ister for Education and Police, Mr
Richer, had received the call ahead of the
barrister, and had spoken for the full 40
minutes. Opposition members accused
the Government of having “conspired to
prevent Mr Bennett from speaking.” This
was described as “all nonsense” by the
Premier, Mr Nicklin.
Mr Bennett subsequently accepted the
challenge of Justice Minister J. Munro
to speak out openly on the matter the
following Tuesday, November 27 How-
ever, on November 25, a local Sunday
newspaper produced a bombshell state-
ment reportedly from Police Chief
Bischof in which he stated he “believed
himself to be the senior police officer re-
ferred to by Mr Bennett.”
Mr Bischoff is alleged to have said:
“There is not one scrap of truth in the
suggestions that have been made by a
woman whom I once was able to help in
a personal problem when I was chief of
the Brisbane CIB five or six years ago. I
have been pestered for years by telephone
calls from this woman who has now
made a three-page v mischievous state-
ment to Mr Bennett. I have decided in
the interests of every member of the
Police Force to clear the air in this
matter/’
Mr Bischof, who had just returned
from the Interpol world conference in
Madrid, refused to name the woman
“mainly in the interests of her family.”
But the following day, Monday, Novem-
ber 26, Police Commissioner Francis
Erich Bischof, of Mareeba Road, Ash-
grove, issued, a writ claiming unspecified
damages for alleged defamation against
Mrs Mary Margaret Fels, of Underwood
Road, Eight Mile Plains. Mrs Fels,
mother of six children, has entered an
appearance to the writ.
Monday’s morning Press, in the mean-
time, carried a story that, the previous
Saturday night, November 24, the Police
Commissioner had suspended Inspector
McNicholl from duty on a charge of a
breach of Police Department regulations.
Mr Bischof said later the charge against
McNicholl was “unfitness.” Inspector
McNicholl has denied this charge which
is now subject of a future “departmental
inquiry.”
The anti-climax came in State Parlia-
ment on Tuesday when Mr Bennett
challenged Police Minister J. Pizzey, who
was winding up the debate on the Edu-
cation and police departments’ estimates
resolutions, “to indicate whether or not
he had received certain correspondence
from the judiciary itself in connection
with police administration.” Mr Pizzey
said the Government had no prior know-
ledge that a writ would be issued by the
Police Commissioner against Mrs Mary
Magaret Fels. Mr Pizzey said Mr Bis-
chof had “acted personally as a citizen
and individual within his rights. The
Government was in no way respon-
sible.” Mr Pizzey added that he had re-
ceived no communication from the judi-
ciary about the administration of the
Police Force.
When Mr Bennett rose to speak on the
Education Department Supply resolution,
the Speaker, Mr Nicholson, said he
wished to speak first. Mr Nicholson said
he had been officially advised by counsel
to Parliament that a search made in the
Supreme Court Registry showecT that, on


■j*r
F»l,-VK
* Am F'AOt^r
Pink
for
girls
If she says "gorgeous", "delightful", "heavenly”,
chances are it’s.Romalo Pink Champagne. A gay,
scintillating wine for joyous times ... for parties,
weddings and ever-so-special dinners for two.
All over the world sophisticates celebrate with Pink
Champagne. Australia’s finest is Romalo.
Trade Enquiries: S. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd.
348 St. Kilda Road, Melbourne
Monday, a writ was isued on behalf of
Frank Erich Bischof as plaintiff against
Mary Margaret Fels. “Any subject matter
pertaining to the writ is sub judice,” Mr
Nicholson warned.
Mr Bennett said that Mr Nicholson’s
ruling had deprived him of the oppor-
tunity of bringing before the House cer-
tain most important material which he
had tried to bring into the House from
time to time. “I hope that a charge
against CIB Inspector B. McNicholl and
a writ isued by the Police Commissioner
were not brought into litigious circum-
stances for the base purpose of prevent-
ing a fair and free discussion in this Par-
liament,” Mr Bennett said. “I feel that
the charge against McNicholl and Mr
Bischof’s writ might be inter-related. It
is only fair that the circumstances relat-
ing to the charge against Inspector
McNicholl should not be ventilated at
this stage because it is also and will be
the subject of certain litigation.”
And there the matter rests. Next step
will probably be the departmental inquiry
into the defended charge against Inspec-
tor McNicholl, followed by the defama-
tion action by Mr Bischof asainst Mrs
Fels.
PENMANSHIP
FROM THE BAT RACE TO THE RAT RACE
Next time six months
At 3 p.m. on Saturday week cave-sitter
Bill Penman gave up his record
attempt after 63 days 16 hours under-
ground. He quit his camp, deep in a net-
work of limestone caverns 16 miles south
of Katherine, and felt his way carefully
to the top, blinking at the unaccustomed
sunlight. Hardly able to see, he was bath-
ing his eyes in a billabong while contem-
plating the long tramp to Katherine,
when he heard a car.
Minutes later, his surface manager Mr
Percy Burton and a Red Cross worker,
who were just entering the caves, were
shocked to see Penman materialise from
the bush behind them. “I'd just had it,”
Penman explained. “I'm nearly blind I
couldn't even find my way to the water
supply. If the monsoons had broken and
flooded the caves while I was in this con-
dition it might have finished me.”
Penman's emergence took everyone by
surprise. As late as Wednesday visitors
reported him in good health and spirits.
On Friday Mr Burton said Penman was
certain to last the 17 more days he needed
to break the world's solo cave-sitting
record. Newspapermen, who had planned
to give the surfacing world-wide coverage,
were caught napping in Darwin, 220 miles
away.
Penman attained his primary object of
beating the 62 days underground claimed
by Frenchman Michel Siffre earlier this
year as a world record. However inter-
national speleologists have accepted
American evidence that a Doctor Croghan
and a group of TB patients lived for 5-|
months continuously in the Mammoth
Cave of Kentucky during a medical ex-
periment back in 1843.
Penman descended into the Katherine
caves at 11.15 p.m. on September 21
with three companions—a man and two
girls. The others gave up. His last com-
panion, Maxine Argent, 21, called quits
after 17 days, leaving Penman alone.
He spent his waking hours reading by
the light of carbide lamps, exploring the
many side passages of the system, trap-
ping bats and bandy-bandy snakes, and
collecting and classifying bones, fossils,
insects and the small eyeless shrimps
which live in rock pools deep within the
caves.
Penman stripped to a breechclout and
sprouted luxuriant five-inch whiskers. To
minimise health worries he built a “thun-
derbox” out of a fuel drum and burned
body wastes with carbide. For some days
he occupied himself by planting potatoes
and onions, which grew furiously for a
few days, then expired from lack of sun-
light.
He drew his water from an under-
ground stream on another level 100 feet
below his camp. It was a tough, ex-
hausting climb. He lived on a spartan
diet of tinned food and water, livened
up during the last fortnight with occa-
sional bottles of beer donated by a Dar-
win brewery.
At first he camped at Tucker Point,
1400 feet in from the entrance, where
fierce tropical heat and near-century
humidity had caused Australian Speleolo-
gical Federation president Warren Peck
to describe it as “among the most hostile
cave conditions in the world.”
After a few weeks Penman moved out
of Tucker Point to a cooler chamber,
nearer the surface. He tried to live as
regular a life as possible, timing his meals
by the clock. He told night from morn-
ing by the movement of the bats, which
leave the caves about 7 p.m. and return
at 3 a.m. each day.
As the weeks wore on the harsh car-
bide light began to affect Bill's eyes. He
could no longer read much, gave up ex-
ploring, and slept for up to 16 hours at
a stretch. As the wet seasons approached,
his apprehensions grew. A week earlier
when a sudden storm hit Katherine it
sent a three-foot wall of water coursing
through the caves. That time the depar-
ture of the bats warned Bill, who took
refuge on a high cleft where he had
cached water and “iron rations” for just
such an emergency. “I could hardly see
at the end,” he said.
The attempt has sparked a minor
tourist boom in Katherine. Bill plans a
bigger and better-equipped expedition for
next year, when he is determined to stay
underground for six months, thus be-
coming undisputed champion cave-sitter
of the world. With two other Territory
groups considering staydown attempts,
Penman appears to have founded a
strange new sport. One day it may rival
pole-sitting in popularity.
KEITH WILLEYY


The Australian Institute
of Political Science
wiH hold a
SUMMER SCHOOL
at the Albert Hall, Canberra, 26th/
28th January, 1963, on the subject
Forces in Australian Politics.
Speakers will be:
THE LIBERAL AND COUNTRY
PARTIES: PLATFORMS, POLICIES
AND PERFORMANCE, by Peter
Coleman.
Discussion Opener: R. C. Wheeler.
THE LABOR PARTIES: PLAT-
FORMS, POLICIES AND PERFOR-
MANCE, by James Jupp.
Discussion Opener: K. E. Beazley.
PARLIAMENTARY GOVERN-
MENT IN AUSTRALIA, by H. B.
Gullett.
Discussion Opener: R. S. Parker.
PRESSURE GROUPS, by P. B.
Westerway
Discussion Opener: J. F. Blaxland.
THE ELECTORATE, by Joan Rydon
Discussion Opener: A. D. Fraser.
This is the 29th Summer School
conducted by the Institute.
Enrolment is open to all who are
interested in serious study and dis-
cussion of Australian affairs. Those
attending include professional men,
businessmen, politicians, trade
unionists and teachers and prim-
ary producers.
The school is conducted so as to
encourage discussion both at the
sessions and afterwards, in an in-
formal atmosphere. Many of those
attending are accompanied by their
wives, for whom there is no enrol-
ment fee.
Post this coupon for information to:
The Secretary,
Australian Institute of Political Science,
34 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
OBITUARY
THE CONTROVERSIAL
JUDGE
Alfred Foster's life and times
JUDGE FOSTER
Rebel in an Old cause
Touring 54 years as barrister and judge,
Alfred Foster was at most times a
controversial figure, and the pattern was
not destroyed when he died in Mel-
bourne last week, age 76. Along with the
tributes to him from his colleagues on
the Arbitration bench, from national and
state political figures and from spokes-
men for trade unionists and employers,
was the discordant comment of Mr Bert
Nolan, secretary of the Victorian Branch
of the Seamen’s Union: the late judge
Foster, said Mr Nolan, did not live up to
his early promise in the labour movement
and seamen considered he had drifted
away from principles which he said he
supported in early life.
These principles caused young Foster
to become an active socialist and anti-
conscriptionist and in 1916 brought him
to a prisoner’s dock, charged with “hav-
ing at Melbourne on July 29 encouraged
the taking of human life and the des-
truction of property.” Foster, conducting
his own defence, described himself as a
“Revolutionary and a rebel” and told
the court that “socialism stood for the
overturning of the present economic
system.” He was acquitted.
Born (like Sir Isaac Isaacs and Sir
David Rivett) in Beechworth, he gradu-
ated in law at Melbourne University and
was admitted to the bar in 1908. He was
twice an unsuccessful ALP candidate for
Parliament and for some years was presi-
dent of the Jam, Pickle and Sauce
Makers’ Union. His practice was divided
between county court and arbitration
court work.
A Labor Government put him on the
county court bench in 1927, and w'hile
he resigned his ALP and trade union
positions, his tongue was not stilled
where his beliefs were concerned. A
variety of causes interested him, notably
the League of Nations Union and the
Rationalist Society, and he was a frequent
speaker for both. One of the most famous
furores he created arose from remarks
he made while on the bench. A young
boy had been presented as a witness and
in accordance with his duties as a judge,
Foster set about making sure that he
understood the nature of the oath. “What
will happen to you if you tell an un-
truth in this court?” The boy replied:
“1 will go to hell.” The judge then said:
“Don't believe it, sonny. There is no
hell. It is a shame that children should
be taught such a thing.”
In the ensuing storm in church circles,
the Catholic “Advocate” urged he be
deported to Mexico, but from E. C.
Dyason he received the succinct Christ-
mas telegram: "No-el No-el”.
International affairs interested him
greatly in this period and his statement
that “Christianity is a lost force in the
cause of world peace” again provoked the
pulpits. His rejection of religion was
uncompromising and it was at his own
request that the only ceremony at his
funeral last week was an address by his
lifelong friend and fellow rationalist,
J. V. (now Sir John) Barry.
He was too conscientious and serious
ever to shine as a court room wit and
the storms which followed some of his
remarks and judgments did nothing to
shake his humanist, secular beliefs. He
was outspoken in his attacks on the
treatment of sexual offenders in the
’3os and on the traditional approach to
the problem of crime. There was often
something of the dramatic and flam-
boyant in his methods: he sentenced a sex
offender to 10 years’ gaol to show his
disapproval of the fact that Victoria had
no institution to treat such cases. He
released on a bond a laborer who had
spent 18 of the previous 20 years in
prison for repeated crimes, so the poor
fellow could “have a chance of seeing
the outside world.”
Many of his judgments were upset
by the superior courts. Late in his career
on the County Court Bench he refused
bail to an accused man or even to
try him while he continued to appear
in court in military uniform. The man
claimed he had no other clothes, while
the judge ruled that absolute justice
could not be done while he wore a
uniform. The Chief Justice of the day
did not share Foster's view.
In 1944 he joined the bench of the
Arbitration Court, where his greatest
work was done. He himself once said
that his judgment granting the 40-hour
week in 1947 was the peak of his career.


The case lasted almost two years and
Foster, as he later explained, went into
it as the Junior Judge on the bench. “In
the course of the hearing, Chief Judge
Piper resigned, Mr Justice O’Mara died,
and Mr Justice Kelly became ill and
could not continue. The court then com-
prised Mr Justice Drake-Brockman, who
was a very sick man, Mr Justice Suger-
man and myself. From junior judge I
became Senior Puisne Judge in 22
months.” One of the greatest moments of
his life, he said, was to deliver the
judgment.
The employers were aghast at the
decision as they were in 1950 when the
court handed down a £ 1 general wage
rise. Foster supported a £ 1 rise, but
did not think the other two judges did.
He therefore wrote a dissenting judgment
favouring the rise, “but I found then
Mr Justice Dunphy had decided upon
the same increase.” Thus Mr Chief Judge
Kelly’s judgment became the dissenting
one, and Foster was able to announce
the rise.
He was less happy in 1949 in sentenc-
ing the miners’ leaders to gaol in con-
nection with the big strike of that year:
“My task is a terrible one for a man in
my position, but I have to do it.”
Later in 1952 he was appointed as a
single judge in charge of the maritime
industry. He found seamen’s conditions
deplorable and was not apparently im-
pressed with the type of worker engaged
in the industry. Relations between Labor
and the ship-owners were well-nigh
poisonous. He set about achieving
changes on all three counts. As a re-
sult of his work, there was a spectacular
improvement in seamen’s conditions.
He regretted the 1956 changes in the
arbitration system which he saw as
ending his long-term plan to transform
the maritime industry. Back in court, he
continued to specialise in maritime af-
fairs, but without the same powers, nor
the same happy results as before.
There were organised demonstrations
against him in Sydney and Melbourne,
both occurring when he visited ships at
the union’s request. Inspecting the
freighter “Culcairn” in Melbourne in
1961, he was hooted and jeered. Placards
dubbed him a “labor renegade” and the
demonstrators denied him a hearing.
“It had all the ear-marks of a Commu-
nist-organised show,” he said. The
union’s officials not very convincingly,
denied responsibility. He was also the
first to focus attention on the secret
indemnity payments in the industry
under which ship-owners “bought” im-
munity from award provision relating to
the employment of Australian crews. He
also charged that applicants for jobs
were— “affronted and assaulted” in the
union’s office.
Hence no doubt Mr Nolan’s obituary.
Around Melbourne
WHO SAID MELBOURNE'S WET?
TT'or a city with a damp reputation,
Melbourne gets unfairly little rain.
So little, in fact, that hard on the
dusty heels of Spring there are predic-
tions of early summer water rationing
that would make gardens the first
casualty.
Water rationing last summer began
on December 13, was tightened, and
was not abandoned until the begin-
ning of June. Since then, there has
not been enough winter and spring
rain to fill the storages. So long
stretches of hose-holding or worse may
be ahead, with sprinklers banned and
car-washing required to be done with
a bucket. The CSIRO rain-making
aircraft brought to Melbourne last
autumn with tantalisingly inconclusive
results may be sent for again.
The average Melbourne rainfall is
spread over 156 days of the year, a
wet day being defined as one on which
at least a point of rain falls. But it
yields an average of only 25.89
inches per annum. This leaves Mel-
bourne much drier than Sydney, with
an average 44.8 inches on 143 days,
Brisbane with 40.09 inches, and Perth
with 35.99.
As the Victorian Year Book says
with pain, “the relatively high number
of wet days in winter gives a super-
ficial impression of a wet winter in
Melbourne which is not borne out by
an examination of total rainfall.”
Plans to catch more of the rain that
is needed can, however, be viewed
with more confidence than comes from
the tentative moves to take some of
the dryness out of the State’s liquor
laws.
The Chief Secretary and Attorney-
General, Arthur Rylah, has been
speaking out, with more candor than
is usual in a politician on this sub-
ject, about some of the fatuous
features of the Licensing Act. But
even Mr. Rylah, who is much the
most venturesome member of the
Cabinet in dealing with what used to
be labelled “political dynamite”, is
not pressing for any break away
from the 6 o'clock closing that was
brought in as a temporary emergency
measure of World War I.
On the form down here, the 10 o’-
clock closing privileges now enjoyed
by the natives of Papua are still
thought to be too risky in Victoria.
Political thinking on the liquor laws
moves in a closed circuit. The 1956
referendum, during which politicians
preserved the most careful silence for
fear that anyone might have thought
they were taking sides on a public
question, rejected 10 o’clock closing.
Now, there is no suggestion of another
referendum to undo the verdict of
1956. Nor is there an early prospect
that the Government will act. Nor
that the Labor Party or the Country
Party will do anything but oppose
whatever the Government might do.
So, while the Victorian Branch of
the Australian Hotels Association
cautiously advocates 7 o’clock closing,
the Government is obliquely prepar-
ing the way for changes which won’t
affect the bar trade but which will
be welcomed on the more expensive
circuits.
In some of the utterances about
what later drinking with meals could
do for gracious living, refined hos-
pitality, and the new social trend, it
is sometimes hard to know whether
it is Mr Rylah speaking or the in-
genious Mr Oliver C. Shaul, of Fed-
eral Hotels, the chairman of the Resi-
dential Division of the Australian
Hotels Association.
Changes made in 1960, and which
barely scraped through the Upper
House against Labor and Country
Party opposition, reduced somewhat
the former scope for glass-snatching.
But drinking still isn’t allowed in hotel
dining rooms after 10.30, or in licens-
ed restaurants after 10.
Mr Rylah and Mr Shaul want it
to be made permissible to bat on
much later, Mr Rylah of course ad-
ding “under proper conditions super-
vised by the Licensing Court.” Hotels,
but not restaurants, may get “supper
permits” to serve drinks between 10.30
and 11.30 p.m., and hotels cannot get
permits to serve liquor to “special
parties” after midnight. Mr. Rylah
wants more generous provision for
liquor with entertainment, and this
of course suits Mr Shaul.
Mr Rylah’s police have produced
figures showing that sly-grogging in
Melbourne in the first nine months
of this year is on the largest scale
since the thirsty black-marketing years
of the war. And both Mr Rylah and
Mr Shaul dislike the practice of il-
legal sales in cafes, espresso bars, and
cabarets.
Victoria, he has said, is on a par
with South Australia as the worst
State in Australia for a hotel-keeper.
FAWKNER


THE WATERFRONT
Fighting its way out of the Red?
By PETER KELLY
■m-JEW methods of handling cargo, ships
\ specially designed and built to suit
-L cargo, new wharves designed to
facilitate the loading and unloading of
ships and to eliminate wharfside-hand-
ling, new containers, the introduction of
door-to-door service by shipowners to try
and recapture the trade lost to interstate
road transport companies all these
are intensifying the pressures in the most
troublesome industry in Australia. In the
red, both economically and politically,
the maritime industry at last shows some
healthy signs of facing up to facts.
The story of Urangan illustrates, what
is happening. Urangan, a North
Queensland port, used to handle bag-
ged sugar but this is now handled at
the new bulk installation at New Bunda-
berg. Bulk handling of sugar, instead of
the old bagged method, has been respon-
sible for the closing of other ports in
Queensland: Lucinda Point, Port Douglas
and Innisfail. At Mackay, Bowen, Bun-
daberg and Townsville bulk handling of
sugar has further eaten into the employ-
ment opportunities for waterside work-
ers. Early next year Cairns will join
them.
On November 9 this year, the Secre-
tary of the Australian Stevedoring In-
dustry Authority, Mr T. J. Bellew, wrote
to the Urangan branch of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation: “. . . that as steve-
doring operations within the meaning of
the Stevedoring Industry Act 1956-1961
are no longer performed at Urangan, the
Authority intends closing the registers of
waterside workers and employees at the
port on December 31, 1962.”
This simple administrative letter means
that at least half of the 66 waterside
workers working the North Queensland
sugar port will have to move to Mary-
borough if they wish to continue work-
ing on wharves. If they are lucky they
will get jobs. The other half will be
forced to leave the industry.
The effect of mechanisation and the
change to bulk-handling of cargoes can
be seen clearly from the Waterside
Workers’ Federation. In 1957, for in-
stance, there were 25,622 wharfies em-
ployed in the unloading of ships on the
Australian waterfront. In June,. 1962, this
had dwindled to 20,414. The Port of
Sydney, which handles the greatest
volume of cargo, both for export and
import, has dropped from 5930 in 1957
to 4830 in June this year. While this
represents a drop of about 25 per cent,
other ports have suffered worse. In
Mackay, Queensland, the 1959 figure was
224 wharfies working an average time
of 33.9 hours for a wage of £23.165.5d.
This year the picture has changed
dramatically to 95 members working 9.8
hours for a wage of £B.2s.
The story of the decline in labor
needed for the maritime industry is the
same in all unions. The Seamen’s Union,
has now only about 2000 members, a
drop of about half in the last decade,
the Marine Stewards with 3950 mem-
bers in 1957 has only 1200 members.
Mr C. H. Fitzgibbon, the Labor man
who took over from Jim Healy as Gen-
eral Secretary of the Waterside Work-
ers’ Federation more than a year ago is
himself an example of the change in
the maritime industry. With a spotless
white shirt and dark tie, he sat at his
glass-topped desk, on top of which were
three phones, and told me of the changes
i n the industry: “Jobs on the wharf
started disappearing with the introduc-
tion of the fork-lift truck and the tow-
motor (a small tractor). The building of
s P ecial shi P\ new loading methods, and
installations have all affected us”,
Mr Eitzgibbon then reeled off the
cargoes, previously handled by wharfies,
which are now carried in bulk. Sugar,
wheat, barley ores, tallow, wine, cement
and , s 0 on - , A “° u ß h there is not that
much wine handled in Australia it was
Dre viouslv carried in casks and bottles
previously carried in casks and bottles
and is now pumped into the ship by road
“A couple of years ago this would have
been loaded by the normal slmg method
ceding about 19 men to handle it.
Even the Waterside Workers Federa-
tion’s paper, the “Maritime Worker”, in
.. XT u . ~ ’•
its November 21 issue reflects the in-
• , ■ , ~ ,
creasing pre-occupation w'hich the Fed-
eration and others have with the accel-
erating changes in the industry,
In its eight-page issue it has articles
on pensions, a report from the Assistant
General Secretary, Mr E. Roach, on the
National Waterfront Accident Prevention
Committee, an analysis of the tonnage
handled in different ports, mechanisa-
tion, and the changes in the industry
brought about by the bulk-handling of


sugar. Even the Cuba blockade is not
allowed to dominate the front page.
Undoubtedly some of the increasing
emphasis on the industrial aspects of the
industry within the Federation are the
result of Fitzgibbon’s own interest. Even
before he won the post of General Sec-
retary, Fitzgibbon maintained that his
first job was the union’s industrial prob-
lems not the politics of the Federation.
“Good on you, Peeper”
Out in a union like the Federation,
which is still very much in the red,
this is a slow method of hara-kiri. When
Fitzgibbon took over the Federation just
before the last Federal election the Labor
Party made great capital of the fact that
“they” had at last won a position in the
union from a member of the Communist
Party. Some trade union circles and the
more optimistic of the shipowners
thought that this would solve most of
their problems.
For the first half of 1961/62 fewer
stoppages seemed to justify this optimism
but an outbreak of stoppages during the
last quarter of that period sent up the
figures to a total of 358,124 hours lost
through unauthorised stoppages. Despite
this the 1961/62 figure was the second
lowest recorded since 1946/47.
Besides the early post-war failure of
the shipping companies to adopt their
techniques to meet the increasing com-
petition from road and rail transport,
strikes by seamen and waterside workers
is said, by most people in the industry,
to be the greatest reason for the loss of
cargo from shipping companies. Talking
to ASIA personnel, union leaders from
other maritime unions (other than the
Federation and the Seamen’s Union) it
was surprising how unanimous the
opinion was that nearly all of the strikes
on the waterfront are manufactured.
Some verification of this can be found
in the number of 24-hour “spontaneous”
and unauthorised stoppages. In the last
year 24-hour stoppages accounted for 33
per cent of man-hours lost.
The largely unrealised fact about
sudden port stoppages is that the majority
of waterside workers initially have no
say in a stoppage. What generally
happens is that there will be a dispute on
one ship and if the union officials have
decided to make it “an issue” within half
an hour the whole port, involving two
to three thousand men and extending
over a large geographical area (such as
Sydney), is “out”.
In a matter-of-fact tone one port
officer told me that they “just walk off
like sheep. Often they have come up to
me and asked me ‘why are we out?’ Only
the really keen respond to the call ‘to go
up to the union rooms’ to discuss the
issue. More often than not they say
‘ —it. I’m going home. It’s too hot any-
way’.”
The wharfies remain one of the few
races unstudied by anthropologists. More
generous than most people, they usually
kick-in generously to the innumerable
hat-rounds, especially if it involves a
member of their own community.
Although over much is made of
mateship in the Federation it certainly
exists and the gang system (most water-
front labor works in gangs of 11) en-
courages some sort of togetherness.
A gang leader assumes responsibility
on popular approval. He is responsible
for getting the gang organised and on
to the job, deciding who will work on
deck, who will go on the wharf, and who
will work in the hold. Often the gangs
“kick in a quid” a week and the members
of the gang take it in turns to invest the
money on a horse, a dog, a football
match or in a poker machine.
The wharfies have their own tactics
of wearing down a foreman, or anyone
else who annoys them. “They keep
yapping at your heels with all forms of
abuse much of it personally directed
at some personal failing or an unattrac-
tive physical characteristic. They get on
top of most foremen, especially the en-
thusiastic ones, and over a period of
time they can eventually do what they
like with them. Even with their ‘mates’
they can be tough. At one stop-work
meeting one wharfie got up to speak and
he’d just got started when someone
yelled out ‘Good on you, Peeper’. The
poor fellow, who had been pinched for
peeping years ago, just never got going.”
But for all the idiosyncrasies of the
waterside workers, as a race, and despite
Mr Fitzgibbon’s “no politics” plea, water-
side workers’ stoppages will probably in-
crease next year. And the reasons, as
usual, will have an industrial reason but
will be used for Communist Party poli-
tics. According to inside information
from the Federation, the Communist
Party plans to have a “no stoppages”
policy until after Christmas. Sometime
towards the end of January and early
February, stoppages in most ports,
especially Sydney and Melbourne, are
almost certain to take place over the
penal clauses in the Stevedoring Industry
Act. (“This will also coincide with at-
tempts to arrange stoppages in other
sections of industry on the three weeks
leave issue, the 35-hour week campaign,
and the penal clauses in the Arbitration
Act.)
If the stoppages were pulled on now
“the troops would revolt”, as one union
official said. “Even the party men realise
that the boys have got to have money
over the Christmas period. Pulling a blue
now would be suicide.”
While some Labor men hoped that
Fitzgibbon would clean up the union, he
remains a hard-working captive. At the
annual Federal Council meeting held
last month he suffered a humiliating blow
when he failed to gain election to re*
present the union at the Asia-Pacific
Dockworkers’ Conference to be held in
Tokyo in the middle of next year. In-
stead his Assistant General Secretary E.
Roach, and Federal Vice-President R.
Hughes won the positions. This humilia-
tion is indicative of the way in which
“Fitzie’s” Federal Council doesn’t sup-
port him. The men in the ALP think
now that unless he shows some signs of
fighting and organising against the op-
position surrounding him in his job, it
may not even be necessary for the Com-
munists to oppose him when he next
comes up for election.
But the other side in the “class war,”
the shipowners, who in the past were
just as “bloody-minded” as the wharfies,
show some encouraging signs of new
thinking about the future.
In 1958 the Australian shipping com-
panies, realising that the standardised
gauge between Melbourne and Sydney
would take some of their interstate
cargoes, sent a cargo expert overseas “to
observe and evaluate the container
systems”. The “Seatainers” (reinforced
steel boxes with hinged double doors
with cubic capacity of 120 cu. ft. and
able to carry up to 2 ton 12 cwt of
cargo) have developed into a fast door-
to-door service provided by the shipping
companies. They claim rightly that the
“Seatainer Service” cuts down the hand-
ling, storing, perishing and risk of pilfer-
ing previously encountered by consignees
who used ships.
The “POT” and others
VlTith the new methods of delivery and
handling have come the new ships.
The “William Holyman” trading be-
tween Melbourne and Launceston was
completed in July 1961. Essentially a
container ship the “William Holyman”
has now made it possible for a merchant
in Launceston to telephone Melbourne
up till Wednesday or Thursday and he
will have the goods delivered to him the
following Monday. The ship carries four
10/14-ton cranes and 220 8/12-ton
containers. The other type of ship which
is altering the pattern of trade on the
Australian coast is the vehicular ferry.
The first of these, the much-publicised
“Princess of Tasmania” (generally
called the POT), came into operation in
October, 1959 between Melbourne and
Devonport and was built at a cost of
£2m. at the Newcastle State Dockyard.
It carries 334 passengers and 100 cars.
Its main effect was obviously to boost
the tourist industry between the main-
land and the island State.
The “Bass Trader” also built by the
Australian National Shipping Line
followed the POT in April, 1961, but
was designed both as a container vessel
and a vehicular ferry. Serving Mel-
bourne and the three northern Tasma-


ESANDA
LIMITED
The main business of Esanda Limited is to conduct hire purchase
and finance operations as a wholly owned subsidiary of the
E.S.&A. BANK
through the Australia-wide branch system of the Bank
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
EG
ISSUED AT PAR
Applications can be accepted only on one of the forms of application
attached to a printed copy of the prospectus which are available from
Members of Stock Exchanges and at any office of The English Scottish
and Australian Bank Limited.
II
ESANDA LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
Registered Office: 3G5 George Street, Sydney
nian ports of Bell Bay, Burnie and
Devonport the “Bass Trader” immedia-
tely made inroads into the cargoes
carried by orthodox vessels.
Its description given in the Australian
Stevedoring Industry Authority’s 1961
report gives a clear picture of shipown-
ers’ changed thinking: “The vessel is pro-
vided with three cargo carrying spaces:
the vehicle deck, on to which vehicles
and trailers are driven; the lower hold,
in which containers and trays are stowed;
and the upper deck, on which containers,
trays, pallets, timber packs and trailers
can be loaded by the cranes installed at
each terminal. Special fittings and lash-
ings on the vessel are designed to mini-
mise the possibility of damage to cargo
under the most adverse weather condi-
tions. These precautions are assisted by
the ship’s stabilisers which tend to re-
duce the vessel’s rolling. Power outlets
are provided for mobile refrigerated con-
tainers carrying perishable cargoes.”
Besides these two vessels a ship like
the vehicular passenger ferry “Trou-
bridge” indicates new attempts on the
part of shipping companies to climb out
of the red. The “Troubridge” commenced
running in November, 1961 between Port
Adelaide, Kangaroo Island and Port
Lincoln. Making two round trips a week
and fitted with stabilisers, “Troubridge”
has two cargo carrying areas. The main
one is the vehicular deck which can
carry 26 trailers of up to 34 feet long.
(It can also carry six trailers in an open
deck space.)
The belated if accelerating evolution
of the ship-building industry received a
necessary lift this year when the Aus-
tralian National Line placed an order
with the Cockatoo Dock and Engineer-
ing Company Pty Ltd in Sydney to build
a new vehicular deck passenger and cargo
vessel to operate between Sydney and
Tasmania. The new ship is expected to
be in operation in time for the Summer
tourist season in 1964. The new ship
will be nearly three times bigger than the
POT (9850 gross tons as opposed to
3981 tons), and will operate between
Sydney and Tasmania. It will carry 250
passengers and will have a vehicle deck
space of about 19,000 sq. ft.
But for all the changes in the industry
traditional attitudes of shipowenrs and
wharfies die slowly. One overseas ship-
owner this week in conversation was as
bad as the captains-of-industry image
prevailing in the 1930’5. He clearly
thought that wharfies and other em-
ployees had no other purpose in life
but to cause trouble for him. This
attitude is partly reflected in the lack of
maintenance of ships and their equip-
ment.
Politics aside, the basic cause of
trouble on the waterfront is still the
uncertainty and insecurity arising from
the casual nature of the industry. Ship-
owners show insufficient signs of thinking
seriously or sensibly about a guaranteed
wage. They make no gestures to pro-
vide pensions for waterside workers who
could be retired, /f-.llowing the slack to be
taken up by increased mechanisation.
Shipowners steadfastly maintain that
mechanisation has not increased their
profits but has resulted in placing them
in a more competitive position in the
freight battle with their road and rail
rivals.
They also maintain, with some truth,
that the new bulk terminals being built
by sugar and other companies are reap-
ing the profits. The unions on the other
hand take a slightly more extreme atti-
tude and paint an unrealistic picture of
“more profits for the shipping combines.”
But with all the changes, everyone in
the industry, except the Communist
Party and their supporters in the ALP,
especially in Melbourne, maintain that
the waterfront can never get out of the
red economically until it gets itself out
of the Red politically.


m
m
m
m
m
mu
If
**
£
'V!
-s?.--
%
*lSv
i*\*
-a-••••••• %% "’
630 new shareholders every day
Ten little fingers, ten little toes, but not nearly enough to count the
new citizens who became A.N.L. Shareholders today. Australia's
population increases by 630 each day and every one of them
automatically becomes a Shareholder in A.N.L., the largest ship-
ping company in the country. During A.N.L.'s six years of oper-
ations 1,285,260 Australians have been added to its share
register, making a total of 10,660,750 very important people.
A.N.L. operates a fleet of 44 vessels ranging in size from 14,000-
ton ore carriers to 600-ton coastal freighters serving a total of 45
Australian Ports and has financed all its undertakings from its
own resources.
A.N.L. is controlled by a Commission, appointed by the Common-
wealth Government to provide a shipping service to the nation.
Look at the record and see how well it has carried out this task:—
IN SIX YEARS The Australian National
Line has:
• Declared dividends
totalling £5,350,968
— Mila \H_
N/_
• Invested £13,284,852
in new tonnage
• Carried 29,322,784
tons of cargo
• Paid £5,688,482 in
income Tax
.A-KT-Xj
THE
AUSTRALIAN
NATIONAL
LINE
73 RIVERSIDE AVENUE, SOUTH MELBOURNE, VICTORIA


OUT AND ABOUT
NOTHING’S LOVELY IN
MAUDE'S GARDEN
How to lose a safe seat for the Tories
From LARRY BOYS in London
When Maude refused to come in-
to the garden because it was
raining, the BBC photographers
were not surprised. The man was rattled.
The Tory Central Office had confidently
expected a sweeping victory in the South
Dorset by-election for former Sydney
Morning Herald editor, Mr Angus
Maude. So had Maude.
South Dorset is one of the few surviv-
ing bits of feudal England. A placid
backwater where the landed gentry still
squire it over a largely agrarian com-
munity. So traditionally Tory you’d
never get any sort of bet on a Labor
win. And Labor won.
It won because Sir Piers Debenham,
an anti-Common-Market Tory, carved
off nearly a third of the total Tory vote.
Maude himself steered a lot of these
votes Debenham’s way by using elec-
tioneering rhetoric more suited to Surry
Hills than to genteel Dorset. He called
Sir Piers a “megalomaniac moron” and
“a scatty stooge set up by the Earl of
Sandwich.”
Now Lord Sandwich, as Viscount
Hinchinbrooke, held the South Dorset
seat for the Tories for 21 years, man
and boy. Maude only got a shot at the
seat because “Hinch” became a reluctant
peer on the death of his father. The
locals didn’t like the tone of Maude’s
remarks.
Lord Sandwich is anti-Common
Market and his protege, Sir Piers, fought
the election on that issue. As official
Tory candidate, Maude chose to ignore
the Market issue completely. Days be-
fore polling he declared: “The Common
Market is not an issue. The main issue
is whether the people want to be go-
verned by the Conservatives or by the
Labor Party.”
We must assume from the counting
that they don’t want to be governed by
the Tory Party. Maude polled 13,079
votes. Candidates against the Govern-
ment collected between them 28,058, a
clear two to one vote against the
Government.
There are no preference votes in
British elections, so first past the post
winner was Guy Barnett, Labor, with
13,783. Barnett did himself no harm in
this olde worlde constituency by deplor-
ing Angus Maude’s vilification of Sir
Piers and Lord Sandwich.
He commented: “Sir Piers represents
very genuinely a large section of Con-
servative opinion in this constituency.
“It is partly because he has been
aware of this that Maude has indulged in
personal abuse which I myself deplore.”
And as the first snowfall of winter
turned to sleet and then to rain, the
BBC Panorama team approached Mr
Maude and asked him to come outside
and be photographed addressing a crowd
on the green. He refused. The point he
made was that the team had already
photographed Sir Piers Debenham and
Lord Sandwich addressing a large meet-
ing in a comfortable public hall. Juxta-
posed in the same programme he would
appear a rain-bedraggled outsider.
“Shown,” protested Maude, “in isolation,
as if no one loves me.”
If that had been the Panorama team’s
intention they were gifted with rare
prescience. For the result so shocked
the Tories they are doing their biggest
rethink since Suez.
It is now clear the Government can
lose the next election with great ease
if the anti-Common-Market Tories
provide sufficient hamstringers to split
the Conservative vote, even in “safe”
seats. For no seat was safer than South
Dorset.
After his defeat Maude came into the
garden to make the year’s most unneces-
sary pronouncement: “I have not the
least doubt that had it not been for
Lord Sandwich and Sir Piers Debenham
I would have won this seat.” Then he
went into smoke.
In South Dorset, at his home, and at
the Tory Central Office in London, they
say Mr Maude is unavailable for further
comment. But his wife, Barbara, told
the Evening Standard diarist: “It is in-
conceivable that h 3 should not return to
Parliament.”
THE MAN FROM CAROLINE
STREET, REDFERN
"We're on the march already
By E. G. DOCKER
Ken Brindle is an Australian abor-
igine, although you might not im-
mediately know that from his ap-
pearance. His lips are full, his nose is
flat and inclined to spread, but his olive
complexion is probably lighter in tone
than that of most Sydney lifesavers.
His habits are those of the average
Australian. Walk down his street any time
during the weekend and you’re likely to
find him outside his home washing down
a powder-blue Holden, or plunged in
concentration beneath the bonnet. Very
often he looks up to lift a hand in
greeting or exchange a piece of banter
with a friend. Scarcely a soul, young or
old, passes without some sign of recog-
nition, which is not really surprising be-
cause Brindle is coach of the local foot-
ball club and a prominent figure in
almost every neighborhood activity.
Brindle with his frank, breezy manner,
his burly athletic figure, could easily be
an ordinary “good cove” Australian, the
kind you expect to find leaning on the
bar down at the Leagues’ Club. Meeting
him as the blue-suited representative of
an irrigation supply company, you might
put him down as the average, ambitious
young man, keen on his job and living
in a respectable suburb.
But Brindle doesn’t fulfil any of these
expectations. The first thing you learn
is that what matters to him most is
being an aborigine and that being
accepted as one of the aboriginal people
in Sydney makes him intensely proud.
That is why he lives in a tenement in
Caroline St., Redfern. He is the kind of
a leader who doesn’t set himself up in
posh headquarters.


AS DEMONSTRATED ON TV!
-1
So beautiful H gSo easy to maintain
CSR VINYLFLEX
FLOOR AND WALL TILES
SAVE MONEY
It’s easy
to Lay Your Own
Vinylf lex Tiles
The free CSR Pattern Planning Service will help
you select your design. Special, easy-to-follow
laying instructions are packed with your tiles.
tjM \)mU (jelfeA
i%n
VI.IOIB
BUILDING
MATERIALS
Sold by
GOOD STORES EVERYWHERE
If you are inclined to doubt his
aboriginal ancestry at a first encounter,
you won't when he starts talking on the
subject of the ‘dark people.’ The blue
eyes kindle, the table is thumped in
passionate indignation, words are blurted
out with emotional intensity.
Ken’s father was a quarter-caste
aborigine, his mother, a half-caste, but
he was abandoned when very young and
brought up, first by the United Abor-
igines’ missioners at Bomaderry, then by
the State at Kinchela Aborigine Boys’
Home near Kempsey. It was during this
sjage of his boyhood, at about 12 or 13,
that he first became aware that there are
two classes of citizens in Australia.
“Coming into Kempsey in the bus”,
he said, “I used to see a lot of dirty,
down-at-heel aborigines stumbling about
in back lanes. Some of them would be
waving bottles and shouting, others would
be just looking sick and unhappy. Some-
body told me of a law which said people
with dark skins couldn’t go into hotels
like other people but had to drink at the
back where nobody could see them. It
was then I realised that the difference
between black and white wasn’t just like
the difference between tall and short, be- ’
tween fat people and thin people. It was
a most significant difference.
“I began to notice another thing. The
atmosphere at the home. We were all
darkies, the people running the home
were white, and you could sense, though
nobody actually said anything, that being
dark was regarded as a terrible social
misfortune. If you behaved and showed
proper respect, the fact might be over-
looked but people were still doing you
a great favor looking after you. What
I resented most was the fact that al-
though I’d done very well at the white
school at Bomaderry I wasn’t allowed
to go to high school at Kempsey. It
might be' different now, but in those
days nobody seemed to think a darkie
could learn anything unless it was spelt
out slowly and distinctly or written up"
on a blackboard in big block capitals.
“At 15 instead of going to High
School I was apprenticed to a cocky
farmer near Tamworth. He wasn't really
a bad bloke but he thought he was a
hell of a virtuous citizen giving an abo
a chance, and he made up for it by
keeping me at it for about 80 hours a
week. I ate all my meals on the
verandah.
“I didn’t think I was too badly off at
the time, but later on I got to wondering
about these cows who are so willing to
help the poor abo. Once I was ring-
barking with a gang of aborigines from
Boggabilla. The contract was for so
much per acre with rations, supplied by
the boss, deducted. We really got stuck
into it for a couple of weeks, we were
all dead keen, and we finished up owing
the boss £l3. We were all hungry for
work, no one knew how much the job
should have been worth and we went
into it blind-eyed like a pack of sheep
into the shearing yards.”
“We’re going to see to it.” Here he
spoke slowly and deliberately and a large
first crashed down on the table as he
made the point. “That the dark people
in Sydney get an education and a train-
ing so that nobody is going to be able
fo work aborigines like a pack of dogs
and then throw them a bone at the end
of it.
“Another thing I learnt,” he went on,
“was the necessity of sticking together.
When you’re bumming around from
place to place looking for work and
mostly not finding it, it’s wonderful to
know, when you’re only 15 or 16, that
there are people all over the country
ready to take you in and give you a feed
when your belly’s starting to growl.”
“I remember after I’d given the cocky
at Tamworth the slip, I met a dark chap
in a milk-bar in Quirindi and he took
me to live in his-home on the aboriginal
station at Caroona for 10 months. If
the station manager hadn’t found out in
the end I was a bound ward of the State
and booted me out, I could probably
have stayed forever. That’s how I lived
for the next two or three years.
“It’s the same in Sydney today. When
a country chap arrives in a big city he’s
among friends right away. We give him
a bed, lend him dough, help him find
a job. In this business of helping one
another along we reckon we’ve got some-
thing pretty valuable that the white
feller hasn’t got and we want to hang
on to it.”
As usual Brindle was beginning to
get a bit carried away and I gently re-
minded him he was supposed to be
telling me about himself. “Was 1? Yeah,
well where were we? On the dole in
Dubbo, eh? Having no money was no
worry. The worst thing was having noth-
ing to do. The best place to find work
in the country is around the bar in the
pub but being dark, of course, pubs were
out of bounds to me. Once I spent a
week in Kempsey picking spuds for a
feller who couldn’t afford to pay me
just for the pleasure of doing some-
thing.


“About this stage I decided to join
the Army. For no particular reason. Just
an impulse, and it turned out the most
important decision I ever made. It was
just as if a gate had opened and I was
being let out of a small back-paddock
into civilisation. For the first time in my
life white people were treating me as
an equal. It made me realise that abor-
igines don’t have to be inferior, they just
get used to the idea and it never occurs
to them that anything can be done about
it. I always remember walking down
the street in Kure, Japan, beside a white
mate and thinking this is not just a white
chap and a dark chap together, it’s two
Aussies.
“Then after the war I was discharged
from the Army, the gate closed behind
me again and I was back in the paddock.
But it wasn’t just like before. I knew
those pastures on the other side of the
fence were really green. I wasn’t going
to stay on the barren side with an exemp-
tion certificate around my neck saying
I was a friendly dog and wouldn’t bite
if given a beer. It was quite obvious that
aborigines would never get anywhere if
they sneaked in through the gate one at
a time. They’ve got to go marching
through it together shoulder to shoulder
like we were in Korea.
“Our main trouble has been we’ve
lacked any real faith in ourselves. It’s
been made so plain to us that we’re not
fit to live in decent society that we’ve
half come to believe it. Perhaps we
haven't got any brains. Perhaps we
aren’t as clean as we should be. Nobody
wants to live in a world where he has to
prove he’s as good as the next man all
the time.
“This Government policy of handing
out a little bit here and there is no good
to us. We don’t want six aboriginals a
year like we get in NSW, we want 100,
and if we can’t have 100 we’d rather
have none. You can see for yourself
here in Redfern what it’s like when
people are united. There are 2000 of us
in this part of Sydney and nowhere else
in the State will you see aborigines walk-
ing the streets as if they had a perfect
right to be there. They don’t have to
skulk around the back of pubs to
scrounge a drink; they don’t have to
crawl out of sight if they see a police
uniform, because they know if they run
into any trouble they’ve got 2000 friends
behind them ready to dub in and bail
them out. That’s why I shoot my mouth
off the way I do.
We’re going to get hold of every
young aborigine who’s willing to come
to the city, put him in a hostel, one
for boys, one for girls, run by aboriginal
welfare officers and teach them among
other things the meaning of self-confi-
dence and self-respect. We’re on the
march already.”
WITH AUSTRALIA IN MIND
Local film-making gets a lift
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Nineteen Sixty-Three promises to
be a boom year for film-making in
Australia. Following on Karel
Reisz’s “Ned Kelly’ and Michael Powell’s
“They’re a Weird Mob,” both for
shooting next autumn, two more intrigu-
ing projects, are now being prepared. The
first is “Something for Nothing,” a
shark-fishing story based on a book by
Dick Wordley, to be made on location
in Kangaroo Island, off the South Aus-
tralian coast. The producer will be
Albert Zugsmith, for several years with
Universal-International (Orson Welles’s
“Touch of Evil”) and MGM (the
memorable “High School Confidential”).
Leading players are to be Clint Wal-
ker, of “Cheyenne” fame, and Nina
Foch, a much neglected actress of con-
siderable skill and charm. Plan is for half
the capital to be raised by an Australian
company headed by South Australian
businessman Graham Bond; Australian
Ralph Henderson is to write the script,
and Bobby Limb and Chips Rafferty have
agreed to star with the Americans.
Also planning to co-produce and
script a film set in Australia is Ted
Willis, a former protege of J. B. Priest-
ley, who doesn't share his patron’s atti-
tude to this country. An ardent Australo-
phile, Willis here for the Melbourne
world premiere of his play, “Woman in
a Dressing Gown,” has also been
preparing groundwork for his script
based on “The Skedule”, a short story by
West Australian radio writer Helen
Wilson. The film will be made late next
year on location in Adelaide, Alice
Springs, and the country between, and
at the Hotel Australia in Sydney last
week, Willis a brisk, forthright man
in his forties talked about himself
and his plans.
“I’ve been fascinated with Australia
since childhood,” he said over a middy.
“Can’t say why.”
Stubbing out a cigarette, he lit an-
other. “But it’s always haunted me.
When I began film-making in the army
•—things like ‘How to Handle a Bren
Gun’ I was dreaming about an Aus-
tralian film. Then I became rather
successful after the war, writing the
story for Ealing’s ‘The Blue Lamp,’ then
the play ‘Hot Summer Night’ which Guy
Green filmed as ‘Flame in the Streets’
and ‘Woman in a Dressing Gown,’
originally written for the screen.
“But I still had Australia in, mind.
About five years ago, I came here on a
migrant ship, pretending to be a bus
driver who was going to a job in Mel-
bourne. That way, I learned about
British migrants for a film I was plan-
ning, ‘The Wide, Wide Land,’ which
would show how various people adjusted
themselves.
“There were the wingers, the people
who couldn’t stand the bloody English
weather, the people who’d got stuck in
a rut and wanted to get out. By the time
we reached Fremantle, my secret was
out. And just as well, because I called
on most of the people later to see how
they were settling in. The wingers were
still wingeing, but the others, they were
happy. Unfortunately, the film didn’t
come off.
Willis went on to say that he would
eventually make a film of the story,
which he was turning into a novel early
in 1963 under the same title. But now
he was busy with plans for “The Ske-
dule,” about which he was quietly but
firmly enthusiastic.
“I came across the story years ago
in a book called ‘Australian Signpost,’
edited by Tom . . . Tom . . . Hunger-
ford? Yes, that’s right. Hadn’t heard of
the author before, but here was a fine
story. It’s about a young Italian mail-
order bride who comes to Australia to
marry a man in Alice Springs she has
never seen.
“On the bus-journey from Adelaide
you get an assortment of people, and
they’re all fascinated by the silent girl
who speaks no English. Gradually they
get to learn what she's coming for and
this reveals different aspects of their per-
sonalities as they react to the discovery.
“Finally, at Alice Springs, the future
husband isn’t there. The bus's occupants
insist on finding the missing man, and
there are some funny incidents while
they go in search for him. The film, of
course, ends with the wedding, attended
by driver and busload!”
Plans are to produce the film with J.
Arthur Rank and “an interested film
company set up in Australia,” details of
which Willis would not specify. Asked
who would direct, he was unwilling to
say, but local industry people believe he
has been thinking of John Heyer, who
made “The Back of Beyond,” Shell’s
magnificent prize-winning documentary
about truck-drivers on the Birdsville
Track. If Heyer is chosen, it will be his
first feature film, but it would be charac-
teristic of Willis to want an Australian
to do an Australian story. And Willis,
of course, is very nearly an Australian
himself.


THE POULTRY PEN
OF HANNS RATAJ
THE SEDUCTION OF HELEN
ZEUS AND LEDA
ORPHEUS
ODYSSEUS
THESEUS ATTACKS
THE GIANT
JUDGMENT lOF PARIS
NARCISSUS


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Hanking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON £
O'SULLIVAN
rjV rrcm
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Ma nufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Always ask for
AINSLIE’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Pitt, Son & Badgary Ltd., Sydney
HaKcran Manton Pty. Ltd.
“CRICKET HUMOUR”
“SKETCHES AND STORIES”
by Ar hur Mailey; 2/6
Send Postal Note or Money Order to: —
SHIRE PICTORIAL,
Box 60, Caringbah, SYDNEY.
Australian Prime Ministers VI
W M. HUGHES
"Not very likeable, or grateful to anybody, a far better hater than a
lover. Not an efficient administrator. But he had greatness in him."
By M. H. ELLIS
When William Morris Hughes died
on October 28, 1952, he was 88
years and one month old and at
that time he had been 58 years in Parlia-
ment, seven in the New South Wales
House and 51 in the Federal Parliament.
It was 48 years since he had first be-
come a Minister of the Crown.
His father seems to have been a
master builder in a small way in London.
His mother was a Morris. Their native
earth was Llansantffraid-ym-Mechain, in
Montgomeryshire.
Billy, however, was born in West-
minster and christened in St. Margaret’s
by Dean Stanley. His mother died when
he was about four years old and he was
sent to live in his parents’ native town
with an aunt and then to Llandudno
Grammar School.
When he was ten years old he was
taken back to London to attend the
Townshend School in Rochester Row, a
Burdett-Coutts foundation.
Billy’s story of his schooldays varied
from time to time. The one stable fea-
ture of it was his tale of a prize pre-
sented to him in person by Matthew
Arnold, that modern reviver of the doc-
trine of “sweetness and light”. When
Billy was in a sentimental mood he was
apt to enlarge on the subject of Matthew
Arnold, who, it appeared, had grasped
his hand as he gave him possession of a
volume of Shakespeare's plays and ad-
jured him “Read that, boy! Read it!” in
a voice as harsh with emotion as that of
any Arnold could be.
I have heard Billy’s many and varied
reminiscences about his early days in
Australia which he reached in 1884.
According to his own tale he went West
by the railway 500 miles inland to Ada-
vale (Queensland) during the great 1885
drought.
I heard him dwell on wild blacks and
other horrors as we rambled across the
Western Downs forty years after the
event and one’s hair might have stood on
end if one had not known that in 1884-5
the countryside was as safe as a bank
for the traveller, that a railway ran over
almost the whole distance and that the
only blacks along the route which Billy
allegedly followed were on the station
woodheaps. He packed—according to
his own story vast wanderings into a
year.
He got married in 1887 at the ripe
old age of 23. Then he settled down as
a locksmith, bookseller and umbrella
mender at Balmain.
The Billy legend about his entry into
politics is about as suspect as the rest
of the early Hughes legend. Prophetic
in his shop in Balmain, his heart bleed-
ing for the underdog, the legend sug-
gests, Billy sat, while suppliant toilers
came to him and said pleadingly: “You’ll
have to help us with our union, Mr
Hughes.”
But having heard the personal nar-
ratives of Hughes himself, George
Black, Cook, Holman, and some cynical
old Pressmen of the time the legend of
the forthright and fearless Billy, trailed
by admiring unionists muttering, “We
are with you, Mr Hughes, but we gotter
be careful!” becomes a little tarnished.
However, he turned up among the
candidates at the NSW State elections in
1894 and succeeded in ousting no less
a candidate than J. D. Fitzgerald from
the Lang division of West Sydney.
On July 17, 1894, he took his seat in a
Parliament of which it was no joke to
be a member, along with a lot of others
who were to make their names in Fede-
ral politics later on —Reid, Cook, Syd-
ney Smith, Austin Chapman, Watson,
Jupp Gardiner, F. E. McLean, Ted
Milien, Chanter, Ewing, Sir Albert
Gould and some more.
rr H ERE was a wealth of histrionic talent
A and a greater one of uproarious
obstructionists, without any guillotine to
keep them in order. In his first session,
August-December, Hughes spoke on 45
different topics in eleven sittings
flying foxes, was one of them and
voted in over 400 divisions. And being
30 years old and a ball of political
muscle, paced by W. A. Holman, he
showed himself such a whale for politics
that he described a House which sat at
4 p.m. in the afternoon as “a relic of the
days when Parliament was a refuge for
self-seeking gentlemen” and demanded
earlier sittings on the engaging theory
that the earlier the hour of the day,
the better the condition of the brain.
He did not really begin to come into
his own until the Federation campaigns
of the late nineties began.
The New Order
I>y the time these came along he was
a different Hughes from the wild man
who, with Holman and others, had


w
■ * j
w
J§|§t mM
H
***
*| £
■. Jf V
Ifilfcl
-
••• ■'" '
[Sr ',%
■■■■
,V' - ** .
/':■: ' .."HV. :
g|| j gjpyi^S
iSfe & r
;
lit r
111111
it
EM
iHI
■HI
*” ,V"|
“''W
a
f *.-._
wf l * \ t
* , , i
' dl v I
: ■ : :
•• > v i: V •• v-- ■• V " ■ i ' i
11 msßSMaS^am
?fk .%?
pfe
1
G>.
know how
THAT COUNTS IN MANUFACTURING
MERCHANDISING AND EXPORTING
3900
Repco is an enterprise wholly conceived, developed and controlled in Australia. The largest
manufacturer of automotive components in the Southern Hemisphere, Repco successfully
exports to 63 nations.
Repco Limited, Manufacturers, Merchandisers and Exporters of automotive compo-
nents, service equipment and machine tools for transport, industry and agriculture.


written for the New Order, the Leftist
rival of the Worker which was not far
from being Marxist-Communist in its
policy.
He was one of the ten Labor candi-
dates who went up for the plebiscite to
elect the 1898 Federal Convention and
many believed that he was responsible
for the blanket defeat of the Party’s
nominees through his advice to the
electors not to vote for Labor except on
a solid bloc basis.
The platform which he espoused was
scarcely likely to appeal to voters —it
would certainly not have appealed to
him a few years later. Labor proposed
a one chamber Federal Parliament, an
elected ministry curbed by Initiative and
Referendum. States were to retain con-
trol of Crown Lands, irrigation, banking,
factory laws, mining, education and
public health. The Labor Ten only
polled about as many votes as Barton
and Reid put together and Billy was only
fifth in the Labor list with 17,000 votes
and this no doubt had its influence in
making him a vehement opponent of the
Federal Constitution of 1898.
He was in fact considerably more in-
terested in State politics at the moment
and he was one of the most vociferous
of the bloc (“Solid Six”) which was
throwing its weight around and intrigu-
ing to strike an unholy bargain with
Lyne for the overthrow of Reid. Holman
was at his side in that manoeuvre and
by threatening to break away from the
Party they forced the exit of Reid on a
censure motion by Lyne and then set out
on the congenial task of forcing the
hand of “Oom Paul”, a Premier whose
political principles were not exactly lily
white.
He sarcastically opposed the South
African War, which he declared was
being undertaken “in the interest of a
powerful clique in Africa whose only
desire appears to be to press on and
on ... by fair means or foul (to) put
their hands on the best lands and the
best property in Africa.”
Soon he was a member of a troika
Holman, Davy Hall and himself all
studying for the Bar, to which he was
eventually admitted in 1903, by which
time he had been two years in the new
Federal Parliament.
I once asked Holman, during one of
the pleasant sessions we used to have
looking out over Macquarie Street,
whether it was true that he had tossed
Billy for the right to stand at the first
Commonwealth election, it having be-
come patent that the State House was
too small to hold the ambitions of both
of them. Holman replied: “I would have
had to manufacture my own penny to
toss with Billy.”
Billy was early in the field. His whar-
fies rolled up to a man some sug-
gested more than to a man and in
the most hotly seething electorate on the
continent 6652 electors voted for him
out of a total poll of 9300, even though
he was opposed by a Goliath with the
popular name of Beer.
He made his first speech in the new
House of Representatives on May 23,
1901, when he was heard announcing
that he was “bound to confess I con-
sider the Government program a com-
prehensive, and on the whole, a satisfac-
tory document.” Which must have
startled the natives who knew him con-
siderably.
Within a month, however, he had
found his metier: defence, the issue
which made him famous and by which
his name will live.
Defence
TJis first speech on the subject had a
quaint ring in the light of his basic
Labor principles. It was made in the
House on July 31, 1901, by which time
the mafficking spirit had to some extent
taken possession of him. He “laid it
down as a basic principle that it is the
first duty of every man to defend his
country, and if he is not willing to do
so he should . . . pay for the mainten-
ance of someone to serve in his place.”
He pushed consistently for a defence
system based on compulsory training
from then onwards and he soon found
himself in the strangest company in
process of his advocacy of the ideal
which had a double advantage, since it
neutralised the opposition of a good
many capitalists. He moved in the
House for compulsory training as early
as 1903. He became a member of the
National Defence League and part of its
spearhead and was the seconder of the
motion moved by Sir Julian Salomons
at a meeting held on September 5, 1905,
for an “adequate and effective system of
national defence . . . universal compul-
sory training, military or naval, for the
boyhood and manhood of Australia for
the purpose of national defence, the
military training to be on the lines of
the British Royal Naval Reserve, modi-
fied to meet local circumstances.”
In the short-lived Watson Ministry he
was Minister for External Affairs and
assumed his rightful place as Deputy-
Leader. He left no doubt about his am-
bition to achieve de facto leadership of
the Government.
The Chairmanship of the Royal Com-
mission on the Iron Bonus Bill, the
germ from which the modern iron and
steel industry was born, had brought him
into some prominence in a secondary
sphere and he capitalised his advantage
as Secretary of the Wharflaborers’
Union —then with 3000 members—and
President of the Carters’ Union—to get
himself appointed chairman of another
Royal Commission on the Navigation
Bill drafted by Charles Cameron King-
ston in 1903.
This took him to many ports in com-
pany with so strange a companion as
Littleton Groom, after he had finished
his first brief experience as a Minister and
had been, in Deakin’s later-regretted
words, removed from office “like the ill-
bred urchin one sees dragged from a tart
shop, kicking and screaming as he goes.”
It had two other effects: It led him
into violent contention with shipping in-
terests; and it sent him to England in
'1907 with the result that he was brought
into contact with Lord Roberts’ National
Service League which he told that “con-
scription produces militarism; universal
training destroys it. Conscription pro-
duces a caste; universal training deals
with the nation and places all men on
a level.” Lord Roberts in person thanked
him for his address.
That was a good year for Billy. Alfred
Deakin openly accepted the compulsory
training principle. T. T. Ewing, a fellow
member with Hughes of the National
Service League, became Minister for
Defence. Colonel Bridges made his
report on the successes of the Swiss
universal training system.
became Attorney-General at last
in the first and very unstable Fisher
Ministry which came into office on
November 13, 1908. It lasted a stormy
six months when it was ejected in a
sort of 'parliamentary tornado the
famous or notorious fourteen hours of
uproar during which Billy made a speech
which has keen, with justice, described
as one of the most vitriolic and vitupe-
rative ever heard in an Australian Par-
liament.
And when Deakin essayed to move on
compulsory service he did not find Billy
enthusiastic. Indeed, he and Fisher set
out to obstruct the passage of Deakin's
Naval Defence Bill on the strange
argument (for them) that Deakin had
no mandate from the people to “put
the Commonwealth’s credit in pawn.”
They were both anxious to do the
pawning themselves and they succeeded.
For though it was Deakin who sum-
moned Kitchener to Australia, Labor
came back into power with a smashing
majority over the Fusion on April 29,
1910 and had the pleasure of accepting
and taking credit for his report and in-
troducing the compulsory training
scheme which laid the basis for the first
AIF.
Billy got most of the credit for this
and paid dearly for it later. The Leftists
of the Party never forgave him. Indeed,
so strong were the pressures that it
might be forgivable to believe that this
caused his entry into the 1909-10 Coal
Strike.
In that strike Hughes at first incited
the unfortunate Peter Bowling to fan
the flames arid it was very obviously
hoped, when the strike broke out in
November 1909 on a trivial pretext, that


A
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
REGISTERED
UNSECURED NOTES
2 /O p.a.
for 6 years
5 i% P- a -
for 12 Months
Other rates and terms avail-
able see Prospectus for full
details. Your copy available from
all Members of Stock Exchanges,
over 750 branches of the A.N.Z.
Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches.
Applications for stock will proceed
only on one of the forms of appli-
cation referred to and attached to
a printed copy of the Prospectus.
)
Branches at
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE —ADELAIDE PERTH
3222 N
it would be developed into an Australia-
wide general strike which would destroy
the Fusion Government at the Federal
poll in April. Before long, however,
Billy had taken command of a State
Strike Congress, and was assuring the
world that “I am not in this struggle to
make war on Society . . . and ruin my
union.” His invective against everybody
—coal owners, Bowling, the IWW (in
the words of one reporter) “almost made
the window panes burst outw'ards.” And
presently he had the satisfaction of
seeing poor Bowling and his lieutenants
dragged off to Goulburn Gaol in chains,
while he was left in command of the
strike in a blacked-out and wretched
New South Wales, while our 100 ships
that had come to carry coal sailed
empty, never to return. The export trade
died amid his stentorian shouts that if
coal were imported to keep industry
going his own w'harfies would “not
handle a pound of it.”
It was at this stage he suddenly ap-
peared in a fresh role: that of Jack the
Giant Killer out to destroy the “Shipping
and Coal Vend.” Only a few months
earlier he had been shouting that it was
“illogical and unfair to complain against
the (coal and shipping) trust . . . also,
very foolish ... it is not only a labor-
saving device, and the best and latest
at that, but it marks a notable epoch in
the history of production and civilisa-
tion. The central ideas of the combine
are co-operation and systematisation.
It substitutes order for chaos, combina-
tion for . . . the old barbaric way of cut-
throat competition.”
But consistency was something that
never worried Billy if it led to political
advantage. Only a matter of weeks or
months after he praised the Vend, he
was announcing angrily that “the
Managers’ Association must be
smashed,” that it “would be a triumph
if we could tomorrow split the Vend by
putting one set of proprietors against
another.” He was adjuring electors that
“the law is like a Gatling gun” and that
they were like rabbits facing the gun and
would remain so until they captured it
by putting Labor in power. After which
they “could turn it against the Vend
and elsewhere and you will find nothing
so effective (in gaining your ends) as the
gun of the law.”
Apart from that, his theme song
throughout the campaign was that “the
Government should nationalise the
mines.”
The strike reduced the NSW coal out-
put by two million tons a year. It ruined
the Australian overseas trade in coal.
It lost the miners over a million pounds
in wages (as a union estimate confirmed),
it lost the Victorian coal custom for
NSW and started brown coal on its up-
ward way.
Even Billy did not find the victory
all roses. On becoming Attorney-General
he settled to the task of destroying the
Vend. Even when the matter was before
the High Court, he, now Attorney-
General, was denouncing it in the
Domain and repeating his “determina-
tion to crush it”. Only a hasty apology
saved him from action for contempt of
the High Court, in which Isaacs J. was
trying an alleged combination of 40
companies in a manner which one paper
suggested to be “more like a prosecutor
than a judicial personage.” Billy held up
the Vend which he had formerly praised
as “the biggest curse of the Australian
coal industry and one w'hich will furnish
the Federal Government with an excuse
for attempting to nationalise it, also the
iron industry.”
However, even though Isaacs J. felt
that the 73 days of interminable
evidence “cohered into a solid bank ot
proof” that the defendants’ behaviour
amounted to a “gigantic conspiracy”, the
Full High Court upset his judgment. It
took a view they annoyed the new
Attorney-General very much; that it
was for the Crown to prove the com-
panies guilty, not for the companies to
prove themselves innocent. The Crown
had to pay all the defendants’ costs and
refund all their fines.
The Coal Vend incident set the first
stitches in a pattern which followed
Billy’s obsession that the law was his
Gatling gun by right of capture and he
never failed to react violently when it
refused to fire, or misfired, or backfired,
as he sought to smite his enemies of
the moment with it. He could never be
made to understand that he was not the
law. He was impatient with the demur-


rers of assistants who balked at getting
copies of opponent political opponents’
telegrams from the GPO with the aid
of the War Precautions Act or some
other abnormal piece of legislation. He
could not understand that it was un-
ethical to throw pins at his one-eyed
messenger or to censor a State Hansard
and seize it. He never forgave those who
failed to convict T. J. Ryan and Theo-
dore of the charges he had laid against
them during the second conscription
campaign.
ITe was, as Frank Anstey put it, “a
monster of violence” when smiting
his enemies, or even those who served
him best. The only exception was the
mild looking Percy Deane, who became
his private secretary in 1916 and from
then onwards was the only civil servant
who dared defy Billy. I can see him
now in the Belle Vue Hotel in Brisbane,
harnessed to the code book with which
he lived, ate and slept, calmly telling his
raging master: “Oh you go to — You
need some sleep!”
It was somewhat fortunate for Billy
that the war came when it did. He was
able to leave the completed task of
writing “The Case for Labor” to the Syd-
ney “Daily Telegraph” to sound the
clarion and condemn all pacifists and
IWW men to blithering blazes along
with the Kaiser and an assorted lot of
political enemies.
It was about this time that he began
to metamorphose into the now familiar
Hughes. When I first met him in 1910
he had a somewhat swarthy look. His
skin was still smooth and there was a
hard firmness about his face. It was a
sort of hard-rubber mask of a face
clamped between high, wide cheek
bones in which were imbedded two glit-
tering black eyes. But now he had
developed dyspepsia and wrinkles. His
hands seemed to have acquired the look
of talons and he extended them when
orating, as Frank Anstey said, “like the
Devil holding out his claw towards his
own.”
He looked 20 years older than when
I had first seen him as he stood on the
platform of the Exhibition Building in
November 1917 stretching out those
claws towards an invisible T. J. Ryan as
he discussed the famous afterwards-
seized Hansard No. 37 which embo-
died a censored conscription pamphlet
and working up to his sibilant perora-
tion: “And if he will say outside the
House what he said inside within
48 hours —I’ll have him.”
By this time he had come to invest
everything the two referendum cam-
paigns for conscription, in both of which
he was defeated by a narrow majority,
the throwing of the “Warwick Egg”, the
refusal of the Crown Law office to oper-
ate laws against his enemies that weren’t
there to operate, later the various unco-
operativeness of British Ministers, Cle-
menceau and President Wilson with
the atmosphere of a major hurricane.
Towards the end only with Diggers
was he amenable. It was noticeable to
those who were around him that his
poses became more familiarly Napo-
leonic, though he very much resented
any suggestion that this was so.
The “Warwick Egg” incident was an
example of his power to magnify the
trivial into the world-shaking. As Billy
alighted on Warwick platform on his
way home after the Hansard 37 incident,
two big, bold Irish bad-shots named Pat
and Bartie Brosnan heaved a couple
of eggs at him. One hit the fence. The
other could have been avoided if Billy
had moved faster, but it hit his new hat.
Then what a coil! Sister Kenny's
rugged police-sergeant brother rushed to
the rescue, but, being a big rugged plain-
clothes man, Billy did not recognise hint
at first for what he was, said something
about “gorillas” and then kept on
shouting: “I command you as Prime
Minister to arrest that man!” —which
would have been somewhat difficult
since poor Bartie Brosnan was at that
moment underneath a large returned
soldier, one Alex. Rull, who was trying
to take him apart, and Pat had retired,
not to be heard of again until he ap-
peared in court to be fined 10s. for aim-
ing straight.
In the next few days the whole world
shook and rumbled under the impact of
Billy’s wrath, as he cursed the police,
the Brosnans and the Ryan-Theodore
Government, which refused to have his
assailants hanged, drawn and quartered,
Queensland looked on bewildered,
for there the egg was a normal, even
a mild, political weapon of argument.
The lustier electors preferred rotten
tomatoes, blue metal or even prickly
pear. But Billy saw to it that dozens
of leading articles were written. You
didn’t throw eggs with impunity at The
Little Digger. When you did, he formed
a Commonwealth Police Force to pro-
tect himself, as he did on this occasion.
Tf Billy was sentimental about anything,
A it was the Labor Party. When he
quarrelled with it over conscription
during the war, even the fact that the
quarrel elevated him to the position of
one of the most powerful and adulated
and cartooned figures in the world, did
not compensate him for the hatred of
old comrades.
If he had realised that the break
with them would be permanent, I doubt
if he would have made it. But he re-
garded conscription as merely a tem-
porary war-time issue. He believed that
when the war was over, I think, that it
would no longer subsist and that he
would then return to the Labor fold,
with the added status of one who had
been depicted by Low with a scattered
British Cabinet beseeching Lloyd George
to “speak to him in Welsh and pacify
him.”
Apart from the war, his thoughts on
nationalisation and the rest of the Labor
platform were one with those of his
old comrades. He retained to the end
his old Labor-pioneer habit of addressing
everybody as “Brother”.
He might even have achieved the re-
union save for three reasons.
After the Peace Conference he
seemed rather a spent force. In the
campaign of 1919 it was hard to get
his policy speech out of him. He seemed
like a child who has had his drum taken
from him by parents tired of the noise.
But what turned the separation between
himself and Labor into a divorce was his
acceptance of the gift of £25,000 and
the capture of the Trade Union Con-
ference of 1921 by the ill-assorted
huddle of Socialists and Communists
such as Scullin, Curtin. Donald Cameron
and J. S. Garden, Holloway and Howie.
The subsequent domination of the Fede-
ral ALP Conference by his lethal enemy
E. G. Theodore settled his hash finally.
From then onwards, he was a lonely
political exile, sitting in alien ministries,
vengefully watching them rise and
more vengefully sometimes aiding in
their fall as he did when he helped des-
troy the Bruce Ministry in 1928; and as
when he set out to disconcert the UAP
during World War II by remaining in
the War Council after the followers of
Menzies had left it.
I imagine, from things I heard him
say, he even then still held a lingering
hope of reconciliation with Labor. But
it was not achieved.
He maintained his hates till the very
limit of his life. He was determined,
wayward in a manner that triumphed
over his frail body and his chronic dys-
pepsia and his very variable state of
deafness. He was an amusing compa-
nion and racounteur with a vast fund
of reminiscences which could not have
always been supported by affidavits. He
was not very likeable, or very grateful
to anybody, a far better hater than he
v/as a lover. He was not an efficient
administrator. Lord Birkenhead summed
him up to me as “more like a live shell
than a man.”
But he had greatness in him. He had
the gift of swaying or bull-dozing
crowds, which was not due to any great
powers of eloquence for he seemed to
be only eloquent in vituperation of
which he was a master.
He became the idol of the first Im-
perial Force to such an extent that, even
when he has been dead a decade, his
chair is still placed in Martin Place for
the Anzac Day march as a symbol of
his ghostly presence.
He is part of Australian history.


HIGHLIGHTS FROM NATIONAL BANK
CHAIRMAN’S 1962 ADDRESS
Mr. J. A. Forrest, Melbourne, 28/11/62
BUSINESS RECOVERY HESITANT. Judged against the rapid expansion of the 19505, business
recovery in Australia has been somewhat hesitant and many have felt it has neither been
fast enough nor sufficiently embracing. However, most classes of business are reporting
increased sales, and profitability, though still well below what is generally desirable, has
begun to improve, but tougher trading conditions are to be expected for some time to
come.
TRENDS OVERSEAS. Rates of industrial growth have slowed down in the advanced Western
countries. Business turnovers, although at high levels, are not rising at the earlier very
high rates; competition has increased sharply, and profits are not so easily made in
markets which now favour the buyer rather than the seller. World prices for many basic
commodities have steadily receded as a result of, in many instances, supplies exceeding
present market demand. But the announcement during the last month of expansionary
measures in Britain and Japan, and a slightly improved outlook in the U.S.A., have led
to good recoveries in share prices from their low levels earlier this year.
THE COMMON MARKET AND US. Anything said on this issue is still largely conjectural as
the terms on which Britain may be enabled to join are not yet known. Of £2o6m. of
exports to Britain last financial year (approximately 19% of our total exports), dairy
products, fruit, sugar, wheat and meat were worth more than £loom. The future of
these industries naturally gives cause for concern should she enter, and the most desirable
outcome would be arrangements to give us access to the enlarged market on terms de-
signed to offset, to some degree, our long-enjoyed British preferences. However, with
Britain in, a united Europe may progress so rapidly that industrial expansion and rises
in the living standard of some 225 m. people would lessen our possible export difficulties.
OUR INDUSTRIAL GROWTH MUST CONTINUE. Rough estimates suggest that our workforce
may reach 4.6 m. in three years time and about 5.2 m. by 1970, and provision of pro-
ductive employment for this rise requires that growth of secondary industries and those
in the tertiary sector should be as rapid as possible, and on a sound economic basis.
Even with no further rise in prices, gross national production (£7,300m. last financial
year) will need to be about £9oom. higher by 1965, and near £2.500m. higher by 1970,
to employ our workforce and provide a small advance in real productive value per head.
BRIGHT PROSPECT FOR AUSTRALIA. The estimates imply plenty of room for growth in our
production and commerce in the years immediately ahead. There is no sense in being
discouraged by the changes in the business and trading scene of the last year or so;
they may require more flexibility in our outlook, and more self-reliance but are no cause
for loss of confidence. We must show the confidence needed to plan for, and progress-
ively execute efficient sound expansion wherever this is warranted by growth of our
markets. Many of the world’s peoples have a new vista of higher standards of living,
and rising living standards suit the businessman well, as they permit the efficient use of
existing and future additional capital equipment and the knowledge and skill of the
workforce. Against this general background, Australia’s prospects are bright, whatever
the problems of the 19605.
ACCOUNTS. Consolidated balance sheet assets at £4Ol m. are a record, and over £32m.
higher on the year resulting from a rise of £l9m. in the assets of the parent Bank, and
accrual to 30th September of £lsm. of assets by the new Savings Bank. Deposits in-
creased by nearly £32m. there being an addition of £lBm. by the parent Bank and
£l4m. by the Savings Bank. Consolidated gross earnings, at £12,581,000, were
£380,000 higher than in 1961, and expenses rose by £427,000. After slightly lower
taxation provisions, net profit at £1,065,486 was £9,401 below the 1961 figure.
STAFF THANKED. The Australian and London staff were thanked for their efforts in main-
taining their high standards of service over the last twelve months.
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
and its wholly owned subsidiary
THE NATIONAL BANK SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
Head Office: 271-285 Collins Street, Melbourne.
923 Offices throughout Australia, Papua/New Guinea and 3 in London.


OVERSEAS
LEE KUAN
YEW AND
INDIA'S WAR
A lack of courage and a loss of
stature
From Our SINGAPORE
Correspondent
The multi-racial States of Singapore
and Malaya are more directly
affected by the China-India border
war than any other areas of South
Asia. While the governments of Indo-
nesia and Cambodia, for instance, still
tread the tightrope of neutralism, as
though unaware that it has snapped, and
feed their citizens anaemic comment and
severely censored versions of events in
the Himalayas, China’s decision to injure
and humiliate India raises acute and
inescapable political and racial issues in
Malaya (which, in this context, includes
Singapore).
The combined population of nine
millions includes more than four
million Chinese and about one million
Indians. Both these communities of
immigrant origin are politically alert
and large sections of both tend to look
at events through Chinese or Indian,
rather than Malayan, spectacles. The
echoes from the Himalayas are par-
ticularly loud here because Malaya is
the only nation where large numbers of
Chinese and Indians live side by side.
Their history of mutual tolerance and,
often, friendship is part of the miracle
of Malaya’s racial harmony. The impact
of the war on this harmony and on
both communities is sharp and complex
and is unlikely to be reduced much by
the cease-fire.
For Peking the prospect of tension in
Malaya is a potential fringe benefit of
the attack on India. For Malaya’s Indians
—with the exception of those very few
involved with left-wing political groups
—there are no qualifications about their
support for India. But they are being
urged to express this in terms of support
for democracy, and in opposition to
communism, not to the Chinese people.
In Malaya nobody, whatever the
provocation, can afford the luxury of
chauvinism or of thinking in racial
terms and Indian leaders and newspapers
here have moved swiftly to try to head
off any jingoism likely to produce a
reaction among their Chinese neighbours.
Tunku Abdul Rahman has warned, in
effect, that open communal reactions to
the border war will not be tolerated.
Indian and Chinese leaders in his
Alliance government have endorsed his
stand that “this border trouble is not a
fight between the Chinese and the
Indians but between communism and
democracy.”
To consider this as bland and
expedient or simply an attempt to
calm Indian voters without alienating
the Chinese is to under-estimate the
Tunku’s sincerity and toughness. In
October, while almost every other Asian
leader was looking for an ambiguous
cliche to hide behind, the Tunku was
touring India, making no fewer than six
speeches of outspoken support. On his
return he launched a “Save Democracy”
appeal, with Indian and Chinese com-
mittee members, for contributions for
India which quickly passed the 100,000
dollar mark (about one fifth of this is
from non-Indians).
And he gave both communities, par-
ticularly the Chinese, an extraordinarily
frank warning against chauvinism and
fence-sitting: “There may be Malayans
who feel themselves involved in a racial
rather than ideological conflict. To them
I say that they are not true Malayans
and that all their protestations of loyalty
to this country are false.” This is a
controversial line to take. But the
Tunku can afford to take it.
His record as an integrationist,
politically and socially, is matchless. To
Malayan Chinese who may complain that
their government’s support for India is
designed to attract Indian voters the
Tunku can retort that his action may
well cost him votes those of Malay
Muslims sympathetic to Pakistan’s short-
sighted protests about aid to India. To
Chinese who may urge upon the Tunku
the discretion of a neutral stand by a
country with a large Chinese community,
the Tunku can point to the plight into
which India’s own belief in the armour
of neutrality has led her.
So far Chinese leaders m Malaya
have been timid in comparison. Singa-
pore’s Prime Minister, Mr Lee Kuan
Yew, has resisted pressure from Indian
newspapers to comment on the border
war and has strenuously avoided any
public recognition that the most
significant event in post-war Asia is
taking place. Mr Lee, of course, cannot
afford to risk alienating any Chinese
voters. But he can claim that racial,
not political, risks dictate his silence.
He has said only that “our concern is to
ensure that the conflict between India
and China does not upset the harmony
and unity of the Chinese and Indian
communities.” But the officials of Lee’s
People’s Action Party who have been
quoted locally as saying that the border
war is an “external affair” and the Singa-
pore government has “no business to
interfere with the affairs of other
countries” are merely dodging the issue.
Singapore’s foreign relations are, it is
true, officially handled by Britain. But
in the past this has not prevented Lee
from welcoming Algerian leaders to
Singapore and expressing support for
their struggle against the French. When
the Indonesian Communist Party con-
demned the Malaysia plan as “neo
colonialism”, Lee hastened off to New
Delhi, Rangoon, Cairo, Phnom-Penh and
Belgrade to seek the support from non-
aligned leaders.
And in December Lee plans to wel-
come Prince Sihanouk of Cambodia to
Singapore. The truth is that Mr Lee is
perfectly willing to speak out on foreign
affairs or seek Afro-Asian support when
it suits his political book. New Delhi,
which has entertained Mr Lee twice this
year and given him a valuable endorse-
ment of the Malaysia plan, deserves a
better reward than Singapore’s silence.
In the eyes of many of his Western
admirers here Mr Lee has lost stature.
A little courage was expected despite
the inhibitions that a Chinese popula-
tion of more than one million places
upon him.
Mr Lee’s main opposition, the Chinese-
led Socialist Front —whose handful of
Indian executives are squirming—is, as
usual, speaking with different voices to
different audiences. In its Chinese-
language journal the Front has accused
India of “narrow nationalism” and of a
“neo-colonialist stand” remarks which
were quickly repeated approvingly by
Radio Peking and omitted from the
Front’s English-language publication.
The main middle-of-the-road Chinese-
language newspapers here owned by
men who have made vast fortunes under
the private - enterprise system have
exhibited all. the signs of political
paralysis. After a three-week silence on


OHB
LYSAGHT
answers every modern roofing problem
tm.
mm
\ 'V *■
wm m
M£±
'V.f?
■
?« i
h
Km
wPww 0 ..•••vZ e .
Hr
&&
*U
asSi
ft
/
m
%&&>...w
Lysaght galvanized
CORRUGATED
Every detail of the home at left is
completely modern and harmonious
including the Lysaght Galvan-
ized Corrugated Steel Sheet roof.
Whatever style of low-pitched roof
you may prefer, Lysaght Steel Sheet
will express your ideas perfectly. It
is your most practical choice, too.
Completely fire-proof, shatter-proof
and weather-proof, Lysaght Red
Orb keeps its original pleasing
appearance with a minimum of
maintenance. Available prepainted,
if desired, in a long-lasting stove-
baked finish.
m
S
*Anst. Patent No. 222046 (other Aust. and overseas Patent Nos. granted and pending).
Lysaght
KLIP-LOK*
SIXTEEN
Designed especially for modern low
pitched roof lines, this interlocking
galvanized steel decking of excep-
tionally attractive appearance pos-
sesses remarkable structural
strength. Suitable for any roof pitch
down to I°, Klip-Lok Sixteen is
supplied and delivered to the site
(Metropolitan areas, Capital cities)
in unbroken lengths up to 50 ft.!
This naturally results in quicker
roof erection and reduced labour
costs. Equally important, Klip-Lok
Sixteen is fixed to roof members by
hidden straps eliminating the need
to puncture the deck.
Illustrated above are two homes, LlO5 (top), LlO6
(bottom), selected from the 1962 Lysaght Home Plans
Portfolio. This Portfolio is available to all home builders
without charge. Simply fill in and mail the coupon at
right. As an additional service complete working drawings
and specifications for any Lysaght home illustrated are
also available through the “Australian Women’s Weekly’’
Home Plans Service for as little as £lO/10/-, which
includes help by qualified architects in altering the
selected plan to fit in with your wishes and to suit your
site.
For full information, ’phone or call at your local
“Australian Women’s Weekly” Home Plans Service.
JOHN LYSAGHT
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Offices at Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and Fremantle.
a
* %
SEND FOR FREE HOME PLANS
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited
50 Young St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, free and post free, your new 1962
Lysaght Home Plans Portfolio, comprising a series of
architect-planned homes styled in the modern manner
and designed to be built at moderate cost.
NAME , -
ADDRESS
’ STATE


(HOLDINGS) LIMITED
f '
An issue at
par (£100) of
£500,000
registered
first mortgage
debenture
stock
<0
Per Annum
5 and 10
years. d
3 YEARS>•» .7%P ■ A»
jm "V S /t/
4 YEARS .. . . T 27b P.A.
„ •> .. + •* > y A • ->y •• V s ’. s * ,
AND SHORTER TERMS AVAILABLE
METHOD OF INVESTING Application for Debenture
Stock will proceed only on one of the forms of application
referred to in and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus
obtainable from and lodged with
b JAMES WALLACE (HOLDINGS) LIMITED,
123 Sussex Street, Sydney.
■ The Commercial Banking 1 Company of
Sydney Limited any branch in New South
Wales or the Australian Capital Territory.
■ Any member of a Recognised Stock
Exchange.
Underwriting Brokers
■ RALPH W. KING & YUILL (members of the
Sydney Stock Exchange), 20 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, with offices at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Grafton, Tamworth.
the border war during which their
editorials concentrated furiously on
Cuba, rubber prices, technical education,
anything they are now permitting
themselves to write of hopes for a peace-
ful settlement. They are, of course,
expert fence-sitters and it is obvious that
they have lost none of the skill in this
that they gained during the decade that
a guerrilla army of Communist Chinese
ravaged Malaya.
And the government-controlled Radio
Singapore, striving anxiously for balance,
used Peking’s “border guards” euphem-
ism. These various reactions and the
equally noticeable lack of open re-
actions —represent, of course, only the
fraction of the iceberg that is visible.
But it will be surprising—and fortunate
—if China’s attack on India does not
produce further, stronger responses in
Malaya. Already, the wild-eyed men in
the wings are muttering. The crackpot
Pan-Malayan Islamic Party, which has
a nuisance value based on support in
the kampongs of the North-East Coast,
has presented the Tunku with the
monstrous and provocative demand that
in the event that Malaya despatched
troops to aid India only Chinese mem-
bers of the Malayan forces be sent.
★ ★ ★
In East Africa, where 200,000 Asians
live, there are further echoes of China’s
invasion of India.
A correspondent writes:
rr>HE Sino-Indian struggle, although more
than 3000 miles away across the
Indian Ocean, has become one of the
major issues between the Kenya African
Democratic Union (KADU) and its
larger rival, Jomo Kenyatta’s Kenya
African National Union (KANU).
With an Asian population nearing
200,000, the majority of Indian origin,
the situation on India’s northern frontier
has become of widespread concern here.
While the number of Indian volunteers
to fight in India probably has not risen
beyond 50, offers of money, gifts and
jewellery to help India have come pour-
ing in. amounting to over £50,000.
At many meetings African politicians
have been outspoken in their condemna-
tion of Communism, especially of
Chinese Communism. Some Africans
have also volunteered to fight in India,
but so far the Indian Commissioner has
not received any directive about these
offers of outside assistance.
With a Kenya general election in the
offing, the African parties are anxious
for Indian support, for, although their
numbers have little overall importance,
there are certain urban seats where the
Indian vote is significant. It is largely
for this reason that the Sino-Indian con-
flict has been drawn into the interminable
wrangling between KANU and KADU.
Mr Ronald Ngala’s KADU has long
stressed the dangers of world Com-
munism, and has been quick to seize
upon the example of India’s peaceful
co-existence to argue in favour of Kenya
forging strong bonds with the anti-
Communist nations.
Knowing that while within the ranks
of their rival party, KANU, there are
men like the strongly pro-West Mr Tom
Mboya, there is also a powerful left wing
with the ebullient Mr Oginga Odinga out
on the farthest left limb of all, Mr Ngala
and his lieutenants challenged Mr Ken-
yatta to define his party’s attitude to-
wards Chinese aggression. And, for
dramatic effect, Mr Ngala offered a pint
of blood for India.
KANU has firmly maintained a neutral
stand in the Cold War, but its vice-
president, Mr Oginga Odinga, has long
been an ardent sympathiser with Chinese
Communism and frequently wears his
Chinese worker's overalls.
Mr Kenyatta pondered the challenge
carefully, then came out with a policy
statement. After dismissing KADU’s
(Continued eol. 3, next page)


taunts as “local cheap political appeals
seeking to exploit the Indian situation,”
he said his party did not condemn a
country just because it was a Com-
munist country, or a Western country,
and reaffirmed KANU’s “positive
neutrality.”
But while African party leaders keep
the subject alive with constant references,
most Africans have little understanding
of what the conflict is about, or even
where China is.
As, however, more than twice the
number of Africans in Kenya have
volunteered to fight in the Indian Army
than local Indians, one Kikuyu, writing
to a Nairobi newspaper, quipped: “If
our Indians still consider themselves
colonists here, with a duty to the
Motherland, should they not offer them-
selves to that Motherland and, when
called, go and fight? They could then
send back their pay to Kenya and keep
their families.”
NIXON'S ERA ENDS
"You won't have Nixon to kick around any longer. ...” -Nixon
From MURRAY KEMPTON in New York
IVfR Nixon’s defeat in California has
removed him to that small place in
history which belongs to national disasters
which did not quite happen.
The poor man never did more for the
United States than in the dreadful self-
exposure of his final speech of conces-
sion. It was a mixture of the abject and
the nasty, of rancour and self-pity, quite
beyond the worst imagination of his ene-
mies. The “Detroit News,” his supporter
against Senator Kennedy in 1960, apolo-
gised for that mistake; a piece of heroic
candour that must have reflected the pri-
vate feelings of dozens of publishers less
brave.
Yet it has been claimed, with no over-
powering evidence in refutation, that Mr
Nixon would have been President of the
United States if the Democrats had not
stolen Chicago and the Texas Panhandle
from him. A grateful nation should have
thought last week of these mercenaries of
the Democracy, rigging the machines in
the terrible slums of South Chicago; what
God abandoned these defended and
saved the state of things for pay.
It is unkind to disturb his memory in
the shadows, but still I am afraid it is
necessary. For Richard Nixon represents
a whole decade of American history; the
period between 1950 and 1960 may have
looked briefly like the Eisenhower years
or the McCarthy years; but these were
clearly the Nixon years.
The American muse has often directed
her servants to lower-middle-class
tragedy, the Darwinian destruction of
salesmen or bellboys who did not under-
stand what was happening to them. In
Richard Nixon, this type almost became
the national image.
No politician before him ever rose so
steadily through a succession of personal
humiliations. He was elected to the
Senate of the United States in a campaign
notable for the hardly necessary venom of
his attacks on Helen Gahagan Douglas,
his opponent, as pro-Communist; in the
middle of that campaign, he was heard to
complain that Mrs Douglas had hurt his
feelings because she was so disdainful of
his modest social station when they were
colleagues in Congress.
He was stoned in Caracas; he was
treated with contempt by Khrushchev;
both these experiences increased his
standing with a nation so anxious to
please by now that it had forgotten to
ask whether indignities like this happen
to men with any real gift for command.
President Eisenhower tormented Nixon
with doubts of his favor for the succes-
sion; the Vice-President was confined to
menial ceremonial functions. In the sum-
mer of 1960, when the Republican Party
was his property, he flew to New York
to appease Governor Rockefeller, being
still the son of a grocer who revered the
authority of his betters. He ended the
1960 campaign wandering limply and
wetly about the American heartland beg-
ging votes for the reminiscence of how
poor he had been as a boy and how he
had always wanted a pony.
He moved towards the majesty of the
Presidency with a loser’s face desperate
to please, eager to be liked, pretending
to be bold and daring only to insinuate.
Yet millions of Americans voted for him,
and many seem even to have believed in
him. On the other hand, he was, through
all these years, the subject of a dislike
by thousands of others that was so much
larger than he was as to seem almost irra-
tional. Now he has done them all the
favor of explaining in his final speech
how deep and irrational had been his
own hatred for every one of us.
For he left, damning not his enemies
but his friends, the volunteers who had
struggled and failed to get out the vote
for him, the Republican publishers who
had not done their duty to truth by ex-
cising the name of his opponent from
their newspapers. To use one of poor
Nixon’s own expressions, his hatred then
was a thing as big as all America.
The Fifties were the decade when the
American lower middle class in the per-
son of this man moved to engrave into
the history of the United States as the
Voice of America its own faltering spirit,
its own bigoted nature, its self-pity and
its envy, its anxiety about what the wrong
people might think, its whole peevish
resentful whine.
The Nixon years belonged to all the
young men who had been to the schools
which instructed them that they could
not be too careful, the graduates of the
courses in how to influence people since
it was no longer of value to win friends,
assistants to chairmen of boards, clerks
who call themselves junior executives,
young men ashamed of their parents and
of themselves.
Poor Richard Nixon came the other
day to the moment when he could have
spoken for all of them.
He stood there with nothing left but
the conflict between his resentment and
his education. He had arrived at the
lesson that the American tragedy teaches
us about each of its pathetic heroes: life
is a cheat and it is not his fault. He felt
as he had when his father couldn’t buy
him a pony. He must have wanted to
curse the indifferent gods, but his train-
ing betrayed him. He would bring him-
self to say how much he hated all winners
and survivors, and then he would force
himself back to say: ‘But I respect you.’
He was alone, the race had been run; he
was free to say how much he hated all
the customers, but he was conditioned
to the end to apologise to them.


FORUM
ANATOMY OF A
FELLOW TRAVELLER
By GEOFFREY FAIRBAIRN
Fellow travellers come in all shapes
and guises. Their usefulness to
Communism lies precisely in the
disparateness of their motives, of their
types, of their methods of operations,
and of their eventual aims (as they them-
selves understand them). I therefore pro-
pose to examine the genus, Fellow
Traveller, under these four headings.
But first a few elementary points. The
aims, as expressed publicly, of the
Fellow Traveller are, however expressed
wheresoever directed, always negative.
There was a period of crude fellow
travelling just after the end of World
War II when people like Dr Eric Dark
tried to represent Joseph Stalin as the
Seal of the Prophets (a modern
Muhammad) who had only come in
order to fulfil the Law of Christ, but
not to upset it. This did not work very
well; it has now been abandoned as an
historical ploy. Now the approach is
always negative; seemingly, often, only
peripheral for example, any govern-
ment that looks friendly to the West and
western ideals, whether Gaullist or Sari-
tist, must be strenuously opposed
but always in the name of liberalism
(“small ‘l’ ”, old mate). The Soviet Union
or Communised China or liberated
Hungary is never praised for its own
virtues; not simply because such might
be beyond the ordinarily not very im-
pressive spirit of the fellow traveller but
because that is not his role at all. His
role is necessarily a good deal more
negative than a “One Way” street sign;
“Any street but this one” is his catch-
cry and if you happen to be half way
along a street already, what could be
more distressingly negative?
Secondly, the role of the fellow
traveller is conceived as being not only
negative but essentially destructive (con-
ceived, that is, by the Communist masters
who manipulate him the word is
used quite deliberately: the fellow
traveller is usually an intellectual mas-
turbator in search of guiding hands). For
example, the fellow traveller’s task is to
scotch the kind of article I am writing;
not by direct reply but by innuendo, in
common room and club and bar, to the
effect that I am a drunkard, homosexual,
lecher (the technique varies according to
"It keeps them off the streets."
the company), madman, fascist, etc. Now
having said that, as I have, the fellow
traveller’s next ploy will be to whisper:
he has a “persecution complex”; he is
doing this because he believes there are
Communists under his bed or “He’s im-
potent and resents the fact that his bed-
room is empty.” You can’t win.
Thirdly, the fellow traveller is usually
an intellectual or would-be intellectual;
not usually (though sometimes) an in-
telligence of the first rank, but always
the sort of person who would (some-
times secretly) like to be described as
an intellectual. Andre Malraux, a man
of great intelligence who also fought for
causes he believed in and still does
wrote of intellectuals: “They are like
women; they admire soldiers.” This
should be expanded a little; progressive
intellectuals only like other nations’
soldiers “loose” women like some-
thing new, not because they are morally
inferior in the ordinary sense at all, but
because they are deeply jaded, inward-
looking upon something they find un-
attractive, outward-seeking in the silly,
but understandable, hope that somewhere
the human condition itself is different.
So with this type of intellectual.
And so to the make-up of the fellow
traveller. Is there a type that can be
called fellow-travelling? No, I don't
believe so for a moment; certainly not in
the initial stage. Almost every young
person of sensibility and intelligence can
see, at least when they are young, that
there is something deeply wrong with
liberal-capitalist society. It is the next
step that reveals the fellow traveller;
and the next step is not simply described.
The idealist of yesterday may become the
hard-faced businessman of tomorrow,
sneering at advances in thought, con-
cerned only to perpetuate a system al-
ready doomed, one way or the other
if unchanged; or his idealism may sour
in another way, not more noble or less
noble, but less obviously successfully:
this is the fellow traveller in embryo —•
the man who loathes liberal-capitalism,
but secretly desires its status symbols,
the man whose talents, though often
greater than the idealist-become-business-
man, have not enabled him to succeed in
that or any other way. As I have sug-
gested, the intellect of the fellow traveller
is not usually quite first class; but his
sensibility is high and so is his amour
propre and yet he has not “made
it” either way: he had neither the in-
sensitivity to become an “executive” nor
the courage to become or at any rate,
to go on being a Communist. He
hates the people who have acquired the
status symbols; loves the symbols them-
selves —symbols that, by the time he is
thirty five years of age, seem to have
escaped him altogether. And so he looks
for others elsewhere.


ROYAL
The Royal Exchange Assurance Group of Offices provides a
world-wide insurance service backed by experience over almost two
and a half centuries.
The following are the associated companies operating in
Australia.
• ATLAS ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• AUSTRALIAN & EASTERN INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) ,
• THE STATE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• BRITISH EQUITABLE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• THE PACIFIC INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
Branches in ail States
EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated in England)
Assets exceed £183,000,000
Head Office for Australia—
Kindersley House,
Bligh/O'Connell Streets,
Sydney.
Frank H. Egerton
Manager for Australia
But and this is something that the
ideal ist-become-businessman can never
admit (for very personal reasons) —this
result is not merely a reflection of the
human weakness of the fellow traveller
himself. Oh no, it is a reflection also of
the shortcomings of a society that is
pitiless towards those who will not con-
form; which is deaf to those who would
alter it; which is dumb (social ostracism
is the weapon of the dumb) in the face
of those who would ask serious questions.
The fellow traveller does come in
many guises; he is made out of clay that
society (and his own weaknesses) have
cracked. He is not always a he: “he”
may be a Lesbian who is not imprisoned
for her weakness, as a homosexual is,
but is yet laughed at by this gloriously
masculine Anglo-Saxon community half
of whose male members never satisfy
their wives. He may be a schoolmaster
whose abnormal (I must use that term)
desires have led not only to his dis-
missal, which surely must be right, but
to his ruin as a human being. He may
be a Jew whose schoolmates sneered at
him; usually on the grounds of his
“race’s” communal greed, usually at a
school to which boys are sent for reasons
of Gentile greed for status symbols,
more money, better (financially) wives,
etc. He (the fellow traveller) may be an
otherwise perfectly normal man or
woman who believes that his/her talents
can not achieve fulfilment in this kind
of society. The fellow traveller is not
necessarily a “misfit”; he may be an
open-eyed supporter of the Communist
Party who is detailed off never to hold
a Party Card because it would be fatal
to his public position. But usually he is
a misfit; negative, played upon, the
victim of motives that he is not prepared
to own up to.
What about his modus operandi? Well,
the first thing to grasp here is that
very probably many fellow travellers
haven’t much of a clue as to how they
are operating; they may not even be
aware that they are operating in any
particular way. And yet they are: by
attacking wholly destructively the
society in which they live and from
which they have their being (and from
which they have, in one sense, acquired
their neuroses) they are only serving the
Communist cause. That they would be
quickly shot by a Communist Govern-
ment (these days for peculation, “mis-
appropriation of state funds” etc), seems
to escape the intelligence of such people.
This is understandable: the sneer in the
bar or common room or club is closer,
if not quite so fatal as the bullet behind
the ear. But all the same the fellow
traveller’s reaction is not awfully attrac-
tive really: even quasi-intellectuals have
a duty (to themselves) to be a weeny
little bit gumptious.
And yet even now, someone might
ask: what does the fellow traveller dol
Well, as a matter of fact, he doesn’t do
very much. If he did, he Wouldn’t be a
fellow traveller: he would be a member
of the Communist Party or an anarchist
or a liberal or a businessman or a
scholar who whatever might be his
views had done something, said
something, understood something. He in-
stead pecks away capon-like at the seed
roosters might otherwise feed upon; he
does his worst not only to foul his own
nest but the whole damn farmyard in
which we all have to live.
More specifically and here one
can’t provide a blanket answer, but only
a few examples he/she supports the
“pygmy” Cuba against the “monster”
USA, the right of the political bosses of
a university to drumbeat its “reaction-
ary” minority into submission (I hasten
to add, not out of fear but out of can-
dour, that I am not referring to my own
university); the right of the USSR to
“liquidate” millions of people because
they were designated “kulaks” middle-
ranking peasants, all below the status
and holding of the Australian cocky-
farmer while denying (very properly,
in itself) the right of much poorer “poor
whites” to try to secure themselves
against negroes.
Ah, the fourth point about the fellow
travellers: their ultimate aim? It is quite
simply expressed: destruction. Nothing
very quick or dramatic: but slow. Fellow
travellers are not on the whole remark-
able for their human spiritedness; they
only really want to destroy themselves,
but like many of us, lack the courage
to embark upon that very personal ad-
venture; and so they spend their lives
trying to destroy us all. They have no
ultimate aim apart from those party
functionaries told off by the Party to
go on cravenly (as it seems) betting both
ways, because of their position except
to destroy themselves and the rest of
us with them.


LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
A CONVENIENT MARRIAGE
Sir,
Almost since the inception of the
Australian Labor Movement there has
been a close marriage between it and
the Catholic Church in New South
Wales. The Labor Party was to remove
the social injustices suffered by the
working class; Catholics, in particular,
looked for some change in the distribu-
tion of public funds for education. For
the most part, perhaps, the marriage n U s
one of mutual advantage, but increas-
ingly it has grown to be one of custom
on the part of the Church and one of
convenience on the part of the Party.
There have been a few recent mild
flirtations by the Catholic partner: Mr
Menzies has been on the scene at the
opening of two Catholic colleges; quiet
gratification has been expressed at the
increased tax deductions for school fees.
But never has such a daring display of
independence been long-lived enough to
shatter the inviolability of a union so
hopelessly trusting, so blindly affection-
ate and so barren for Catholics.
In almost 80 years the pattern has
not changed: soporific references to in-
justice at school openings; the sincerely
valued presence of the local Labor MP
(a Catholic probably); vague apologies
of “the claim” for assistance directed in
some unnamed authority. One would
never guess that the identity of the auth-
ority is known to Catholic leaders and,
in fact, that both parties of the dispute
are unswervingly loyal political allies.
In the past few days we have seen
yet another example of the political
preference which characterises the ap-
proach of “The Catholic Weekly”. The
NSW Labor government of Mr Heffron
steadfastly sat on the fence during the
closure of the Catholic schools in Goul-
burn with a skill which comes only
from long practice. Moreover, as if in
reply to the Cardinal’s petition for funds
for independent schools, the State gov-
ernment has even cut its spending on
State schools. On the other hand, Mr
Menzies has said in his White Paper
only what was clear enough already —•
that under the Constitution education is
the responsibility of the States.
If the NSW government; were to
change the 1880 Act, as it alone has
pow'er to do, and grant some assistance
to the independent schools, who can say
that Mr Menzies would not willingly
help in the new expenditure? Apparently
the “Catholic Weekly” does not need to
consider such possibilities. Its latest issue
(15/11/62) gratuitously chides Mr Men-
zies for being “less than generous” in
paying tribute to private schools. But
the State Labor government escapes un-
scathed, as always, for its irresponsible
attitude to both State and independent
education.
KATHLEEN WOOLF
Cronulla (NSW)
BUYING A WINE?
Sir,
The points raised in his column by
“Cellarmaster” (Bulletin, November
17) on the use of specific European
names to describe low-standard imita-
tions have my entire agreement and
support.
It has been of great concern to me
for a long time that such labels as
“Marsala”, “Grappa”, and “Asti Spu-
mante” have been used on beverages
which have not the slightest resemblance
to the original. Asti Spumante, for in-
stance, is a sparkling wine produced by
very specific techniques from the Muscat
grape grown in the Piedmont area in
North-Western Italy, and unless the
wine is made from an identical grape
by an identical process, it obviously has
no right to the name.
While I consider the quality of Aus-
tralia’s fine wines to be equal to those
produced anywhere in the world, I
would be the first to support any legisla-
tive or trade-sponsored programme to
restrict the naming and labelling of the
products of Australia’s wineries.
FRANCO MORPURGO
Managing Director,
L. J. Stock Distilleries
Sydney.
ORGANISATION
Sir,
In your issue of November 24 Mr
Don Houghton, President of the Aus-
tralian Radio, Television and Screen
Writers’ Guild was so anxious to accuse
your reporter of inaccuracies he failed
to mention that, despite his coyness
about the word “union” and his implied
distaste for “unionistic” methods, his
Guild, at a meeting in Fellowship House
on August 16 last, resolved to apply for
registration as an industrial union in
order to bring the local Guild in line
with overseas Guilds whose policy is to
press for only unionist material to be
accepted by radio and TV production
units! A policy which Mr Houghton now
claims is contrary to his personal beliefs.
He states there are no writers’ unions
in this country. Hasn’t he heard of the
Australian Journalists Association and
Actors Equity both of which have been
covering writers of all types for years?
M. STONE
Sydney.
DOING RECORD BUSINESS
Sir,
Referring to an article entitled “Doing
Record Business” which appears in your
issue of November 24, whilst appreciat-
ing that this makes interesting reading,
particularly to members of the trade, I
feel that I must draw attention to a
number of inaccuracies in this article.
For instance, 1 am not the Managing
Director of E.M.I. and also such refe-
rences as “Southey and his colleagues
could sell practically anything”, “Southey
. . . came out specifically to launch local
artists on the local market”, “. . . fought
hard to save the Australians on his lists”
are quite misleading. Actually, I was
sent out in 1926 by the parent Company
(Columbia Graphophone) to set up and
equip a recording studio specifically to
record local artists and it was the job
of the Sales Department to promote and
sell any local recordings of Australian
artists. Furthermore, the Columbia
Gramophone Company did not disap-
pear with the depression and is, in fact,
still a registered company.
R. V. SOUTHEY
Director, Recording Division.
Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN BOOK WEEK
Sir,
Your section devoted to Australian
Book Week in the November 10 issue
was most interesting. You emphasized in
various articles that Australian publis-
hers are now looking for an export
market. In this respect I would like to
point out that although a number of
Australian books of recent years have
been concerned with various aspects of
South-East Asia, not one Australian
publisher so far has sent a review copy
to our Journal. We receive books on
South-East Asia from all the leading
US, UK, Dutch and other publishers.
They are reviewed by international
experts. We circulate throughout the
world, but particularly in Asia and
America. Australian publishers, if they
are interested in an export market, should
seek also outside reviews of their work.
As an Australian, I look forward to
assisting them.
K. G. TREGONNING
Raffles Professor of History.
Singapore.
DEATH AT THE ZOO
Sir,
Robert Murray’s article “Death at the
Zoo” (Bulletin, November 24) was
both reasoned and well-informed. How-
ever, your correspondent might well
have extended his article to include refe-
rence to some protected fauna which
are, at present, in captivity at Taronga
Park, New South Wales.
Note 8 to the Second Schedule of the
Fauna Protection Act, 1948, defines as
“protected fauna” the mallee fowl, the
bustard, the spiny ant eater and the
koala. Specimens of all of these are now
at Zoo. It would appear, from a perusal
of the Act, that the only way in which
at the Zoo. It would appear, from a
perusal of the Act, that the only way
in which the Zoo Trust might legally
seize protected fauna is by a licence
under S. 26, which is to the effect that
protected fauna may be taken or killed
as specimens of natural history for
scientific institutions or museums.
Have such licences been granted for
the koalas etc.? If so, why were they not
granted for the perished platypuses?
BRIAN W. L. JESSOP
Sydney.


Around Perth
A SOUR NOTE TO THE GAMES
Every Little Marching Girl Has A Mother
is the time for post-mortems,
for agonising re-appraisals of
the Perth Games. Long before they
were over reporters were taking polls
of visiting pressmen with the simple
question: “Do you think the Games
have fallen fiat?” A surprising majo-
rity said “Yes.” Now why was this?
There was very little to complain
about. Perth had done all it possibly
could to make everything a success.
The organisation was good, the
venues and facilities were superb, yet
there were two things lacking, warmth
and atmosphere. A “Courier Mail”
writer described it this way: “Perth
was like a hostess who threw a large
and expensive party. She tried so hard
that in the end she found she couldn't
enjoy the party herself.”
The build-up beforehand was tre-
mendous. The Perth people were told
“These are your once in a lifetime
Games you'll never see the like
again.” They were told repeatedly
that there would be 25,000 visitors
and heaven knows how many would
drive across the Nullarbor. The main
stadium, too, was booked out all
days and the Games were a success
even before they started. On Thurs-
day, the opening day, there was a fair
crowd, said to be 50,000 but it was
less than that. Much of the crowd was
due to the vast regiments of marching
girls and youth organisations. Every
little marching girl had a mother.
On Saturday, when the list of
athletics events was a sporting en-
thusiasts dream, only 18,000 turned
up, whereas 26,000 had bought
tickets. This meant 8000 actually had
tickets in their hands but they did not
bother to come. It is perfectly true,
the temperature until the change at
3 p.m. was 103.9, the hottest Novem-
ber day since 1913. Yet West Aus-
tralians are not unused to heat of
this kind and what was to stop them
from coming for the mouth-watering
events like the six-mile, late in the
afternoon? Then on the Monday,
Snell in the 880, Halberg in the three-
mile, the temperature was 90.6. The
stadium was only half full with
25,000. And so it went on through
the week with the crowd building up
for the final day.
On all occasions there was a lack
of warmth and atmosphere, no feeling
of the really big time. On opening day
the cheering was just desultory. I
remember walking out of the stadium
and a Perth man described what he
thought of it. Remember there had
been Navy, Army and Air Force
Bands, marching girls, teams from 33
nations, the Duke of Edinburgh, the
Prime Minister, the Governor, Vulcan
jet bombers, the lot. “It was all right
but . . . but it wasn’t a grand final,
was it?”
It wasn’t actually, and sometimes
it was like a minor league match. The
big moments came from the vast vi-
siting contigent of New Zealanders
who turned on their hakas and wild
cheering for Snell and Halberg. With-
out them it would have been dead.
Of course television had its effect.
It was possible to watch all the events
very comfortably at home with a glass
of beer. Yet surely the answer wasn’t
as simple as that! Much of the trouble
I think is that the British Empire and
Commonwealth Games have become
literally the Australian Games. Aus-
tralia gorges itself to such a degree
on gold medals there is nothing in it
anymore. There is no excitement in
Australia winning a gold medal. At
the Melbourne Olympics an Austra-
lian gold medal was almost enough to
bring tears to the eyes. At Perth even
the ceremony had a comic opera
quality about it. The winners took
their place on the podium, three
girls in cute white shirts, white shorts
and bare legs came out marching in
line bearing the medals on dark blue
cushions. Then the amplifier played
“Advance Australia Fair,” no
band mind you we turned to the
three flags and stood correctly at
attention until all was over.
Often this regrettable tune was
played seven times in a day at the
one venue. When you sat there with a
Canadian on one side, an Englishman
on the other and a New Zealander
in front one did not have to be over-
sensitive to take note of the atmos-
phere. To be blunt, they were fed up
with the tune and fed up with Aus-
tralia winning everything.
Naturally we rejoice in the skill oi
our athletes but this does not alter
the situation, particularly when the
front pages of most newspapers re-
corded with high glee the gold medal
tallies. We should realise too that it
could have a vital effect on the future
of the Games.
The only large teams at the Games
were Australia, England, Canada and
New Zealand. The time may not be
far off when many countries will not
be prepared to go to the expense,
particularly if the United Kingdom
goes into the Common Market. Al-
ready countries like Jamaica are
prepared to spend far more on other
Games. We should realise that there
have been four major Games this
year the Asian Games, the Carib-
bean Games, the European champion-
ships and the American champion-
ships.
All these are more useful to various
Commonwealth Countries. They may
be useful because medals are more
easy to win in other Games and they
may bring far more political kudos
than a purely Commonwealth affair
held in far away Perth. It is much
better for the Pakistanis and Mala-
yans, for example to carry off medals
in the Asian Games, the Canadians
gain vast prestige by winning in the
US, the Jamaicans spend big sums to
win in the Caribbean, and don't think
that medals don’t count for English-
men in the European contests, be-
cause they do and often they rate
bigger headlines.
So where does this leave Australia?
It leaves us in a vacuum because we
compete in none of these we have
to wait for the Olympic Games. It
will be very interesting to see what
happens in another four years and to
note the size of the contingents that
appear at the Jamaican Common-
wealth Games.
All this, but for the point about
the crowds staying away is not meant
to be a criticism of Perth. Perth
handled the Games very adequately
and tried so hard it w'as almost em-
barrassing. Yet it was odd the way
they stayed away. Never before had
Perth seen any pageantry. As Kirwan
Ward, the columnist of the “Daily
News”, put it: "The only time we see
a changing of the guard is when the
bloke in the blunt end of the Bellevue
Battler hands over to his mate at
Perth Railway Station.”
SWA[?]


REVIEWS
MUSIC
MASTERPIECES IN AN IDEAL SETTING
By MARIA ELBA LOPEZ
Guitar Recitals. J. L. Gonzalez, Cell
Block Theatre, Sydney.
IV/fANUEL de Falla once noted that all
Spanish music had been created
under three historical influences: the
adoption by the church of liturgical
chants, the Islamic invasion and the
arrival of the gypsies. Referring to de
Falla’s remark, Garcia Lorca, musician
as well as poet, called the combination
of these influences la grande cuerda
espanola —the great Spanish string. A
continuity of feeling and expression
found in the composition and perform-
ance of all Spanish music.
A few Sydney-siders have had re-
cently the opportunity to experience the
import of this idea. In a series of two
concerts, sponsored by the Society of
The Classical Guitar and given at the
Cell Block Theatre of the East Sydney
Technical College, Senor Jose Luis Gon-
zalez, who is by all reports and all the
evidence of performances, one of the
world's great exponents of the classical
guitar, provided a complex and concen-
trated demonstration of Lorca’s theme.
There was, although I cannot quite de-
fine it, an immensely Moorish quality
to his performance. Perhaps it was
absolute intensity, the impression he con-
veyed that the whole universe was divid-
ed in two parts —his music and every-
thing else.
Each of the concerts had two distinct
halves. The first half of each was de-
voted to compositions of the 16th to
18th centuries, often, as in the case of
the lutenist Weiss and the harpsichordist
Scarlatti, not music originally composed
for the guitar. The second half com-
prised compositions by relatively modern
composers whose works, with the ex-
ception of Debussy’s “The Girl with The
Flaxen Hair” and some piano-pieces of
Albeniz, were composed with the guitar
specifically in mind.
Here the emphasis was on such men
as Castelnuovo-Tedesco, Villa-Lobos and
Tansman, whose compositions stress the
intricate, “experimental’’ concerns of
modern musicology. Some of the most
interesting music, however, was that of
two Spanish composers of the 19th cen-
tury, Fernando Sor and Francisco Tar-
rega, whose work occupied a kind of
middle ground.
An additional interest in the first pro-
gramme was the playing of five folk-
songs. Of these, four Catalan songs
were arranged for the guitar by Mr
Gonzalez himself. Their evocation of a
wistful, haunted mood enabled him to
establish one possible range of the
guitar. Later, the folksong. Crespo’s
“Nortena,” an Argentinian dance of
Inca origins, allowed him to explore an
opposite range of explosively wild
rhythms (where incidentally, he indicated
some of the guitar's versatility by briefly
using the sound-board as a percussion
instrument). One remark concerning the
information given by the society in their
printed programme for the second con-
cert ought to be made: although they
imply that the Brazilian composer Villa-
Lobos is still alive, he has been, in fact,
dead for over a year.
From the audience's viewpoint, one of
the obvious advantages of the Cell Block
Theatre was the proximity from which
they could observe Mr Gonzalez’s
sheer virtuosity. People who attended
the concerts of Andres Segovia last year
usually went away with the impression
of having heard something superb and
yet not having understood how it was
done. This was especially true of the
contrapuntal, “two-instrument” effect of
the classical guitar.
To the uninitiated, this appeared little
short of magic. In the case of Mr
Gonzalez, however, it was possible for
the entire audience to observe, and to
study if they were so inclined, the actual
operation of his fingers executing their
complex tasks. From Mr Gonzalez’s
point of view, the theatre, besides offer-
ing a desirable rapprochment with his
audience, provided excellent acoustics.
There was not, as seemed to happen in
some of airy caverns in which Segovia
played, any blurring of tonal clarity and
precision. Indeed, the acoustics were —
as Mr Gonzalez said after his first per-
formance—estupenda!
In listening to Mr Gonzalez’s severe,
somewhat doric, performance in the
diminutive theatre with its walls of yellow
and grey stone, I could not resist a com-
parison with the emotions I have had
before the paintings of Goya and El
Greco as they hang on the sunlit wooden
walls of the Prado, dignified and un-
adorned: masterpieces in an ideal setting.


THEATRE
O'LEARY WITHOUT CORDELIA
O’Leary. Richard Hall. Australian
National University Dramatic
Society. Canberra.
nPHE first night of a brand new play is
even more of an adventure than an
ordinary first night: no familiar text to
shape expectation, no London perform-
ance to compare it with, no Argo record-
ings to give authority to a certain timing
and accent. A 1 Butavicius’s production of
this new Australian play did not disap-
point his first-nighters; it offered a con-
tinual interest, occasional tension and a
1 conclusion whose general direction was
1 predictable, but not its precise and bitter
point.
Richard Hall’s play has a single and
time-honored theme, the problem of the
old left alone by the passing of their
generation and not wanted by the young-
er ones. But he works it out in Australian
terms. His old man, O’Leary, has three
daughters. (I must confess I found my-
self wishing he had been called O’Brien
or O’Connor, for it is not fair to any
play to compare it even momentarily
with Shakespeare’s tragedy of old age.)
His story has the sort of central sim-
plicity invaluable in the theatre if
elaborated with sufficient imagination.
On the death of his wife, O'Leary goes
to live with his daughter, Kathy; when
she grows tired of him, he moves on to
Mary, who however stands by her sister
and refuses to take him in. Meanwhile
O’Leary’s retreat to his third daughter,
Joannie, has been cut off because she
leaves her husband and family at just
this time. O’Leary ends up in a rented
room, drinking with his old mate, look-
ing backward with regret to the com-
panionship of earlier times, and forward
with terror to an ever increasing loneli-
ness.
Obviously, the weight of this play
falls on O’Leary, and it was admirably
carried by Harry Schmidt. He made the
character uncomfortably human, garrul-
ous, unpredictable, kind-hearted, pathetic
and in all his speech and actions, truly
old. O’Leary is on the stage a good deal
of the play, and while he is on, he com-
pletely absorbed our attention.
This was as well for the play. All but
the last scene of this suburban drama is
playing in sitting rooms, with a group of
characters sitting around drinking. The
events which decide the behavior of
Kathy and Mary are almost entirely
played off-stage and then recounted by
them in family discussions. Especially
when O'Leary starts talking, the action
tends to be static, and it is as well we
concentrate on him and rather ignore the
other actors who have to perform long
stretches of that most exacting dramatic
feat, sitting still and listening.
It is as well too, that O’Leary was so
interesting, for his fate lacked subtlety
and variety. All three daughters fail
him, and all three are characterised with
a bold simplicity not unlike a Morality
Play: Kathy, shrewish, shrill and domin-
ant: Mary, sly, complaining and domin-
ant: Joannie, worn, whining and crushed.
Such simplicity has a limited dramatic
effectiveness. As played by Rosaleen
Smyth, Stella Wilkie and Marjorie
Russom, this was fully exploited, but
they could not conceal the basic
monotony of their parts. Their speeches
and actions were given, and there was
no contrast among them, no Cordelia
touch of love or unselfish pity to widen
the author’s narrow vision.
So in the end, Hall’s play was unre>
lievedly sad. It had had its comic
moments, for his handling of dialogue is
good, and his grasp of the essentially
Australian phrase and humor is first-
class, even if differences of individual
speech often escape him. Hall is a
promising writer, not afraid to tackle a
serious theme, relevant to us all, and
possessed of one fundamental dramatic
virtue he does not try to do too
much. But his sense of form needs
strengthening, both in the whole sweep
of the play and in the build-up to more
effective curtains; he needs to devise
more significant action and rely less on
static narration. In spite of this he has
given us a play which, with the collabora-
tion of careful production and intelligent
acting held the audience for its playing-
time and kept them thinking long after
that.
HOPE HEWITT
ANOTHER TURN OF THE SCREW
The Bad Seed. Maxwell Anderson.
Martin’s Theatre. Melbourne.
TTenry James turned the screw by
associating the innocence of child-
hood with the diabolic supernatural.
William March, in the novel on which
this play is based, achieves an effect
rather less subtle but hardly less horrify-
ing by making his delightful eight-year-
old an adept at murder without com-
punction. The mechanism here is an
inherited psychopathic condition which,
whether or not it is possible in fact, is
certainly made credible for the run of
the play. We shall all be inclined, for
a while at least, to treat with circum-
spection the moppets of our acquaint-
ance.
Maxwell Anderson’s stage adaptation
does the novel justice. It is gripping so
long as it concentrates on the child and
her mother, and the shock ending comes
off splendidly. But, as with most thrill-
ers, there is a good deal of laborious
fill-in material, some of it frankly maud-
lin, some of it simply inane.
George Fairfax has achieved a satis-
factory production, though some of the
minor parts are rather amateurishly
played. Beverley Dunn is excellent as
the mother, and Moira Carleton and Paul
Karo do well with what they are given.
In the performance I saw, the child was
played, very well indeed, by Suzanne
FTeywood, who is alternating in the part
with Rhonda Nunquam. The set, pre-
sumably by the theatre’s new designer
Paul Kathner, is admirable.
JAMES MURPHY
ART
WORTH THE JUDGE'S NOD
H. C. Richards Memorial Prize:
Queensland Art Gallery. Brisbane.
year’s entries in this exhibition,
and only the alleged best were hung,
were not a great event in Brisbane’s cul-
tural life. Not nearly so high a ratio
were abstract as last year and what there
was turned out to be a series of individual
battles with paint, not aesthetic problems,
which usually ended up in an inconclusive
draw.
The winning work, however, did de-
serve the judge’s nod: “Bushfire”, an oil
by Margo Lewers, simple and perhaps
obvious in design, is a most thoughtful
and arresting picture, pure abstract which
suggested to me a wall, not of fire but of
pain and terror. The gradation, in brush
strokes angled off the vertical, from black
through red to white heat rising in bright
sharp spicules justifies the title, an unu-
sual thing in abstract painting. The actual
amount of paint was unusually exiguous
giving an economy of means altogether
admirable as was the thoughtful approach.
It was far superior to Olsen's last-year
winner.
Far the best picture, technically, was
John Rigby’s “Pullenvale Landscape.”
With any kind of emotional commitment
evident this could have won. In color,
design, rhythm, it was superb and it


GIVE
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS THIS CHRISTMAS
I, THE ABORIGINAL, Douglas Lockwood
The authentic biography of an Arnhem Land aboriginal,
Phillip Roberts. 28/6
CAPE YORK TO THE KIMBERLEYS, George Farwell
The excitement and difficulties of life in Australia's northern
outposts. 28/6
MAD AS RABBITS, Elizabeth Lane
The hilarious story of a girl growing up on a Victorian farm.
Illustrated by Rigby. 23/6
BY THE WIND, Captain J. Murray Lindsay
A factual account of life before the mast, storms, mutiny, sinkings,
and a stay in Hobart. 28/6
PUBLISHED BY
RIGBY LIMITED
ADELAIDE - MELBOURNE - SYDNEY
BRISBANE - PERTH
“carries” marvellously. Deserving of
special mention were Kenneth Jack’s
“Waterhole”, Sali Herman’s “Open Cut”,
Ray Crooke’s “Sunrise”, and Arthur
Evan Read’s “Black Mountain” spoilt a
bit by the varnished sky. Andrew Sibley’s
“Winter Orchard” was disappointing.
I find the prices listed very baffling.
Sibley, for example, wants 300 gns for
his entry but Rigby wants to give his away
at 75. Herb. Carstens and Frank de Silva,
both good painters, ask 25 and 35, while
Deuerring and Rapotec ask 300 and 190
for what I think pot-boilers. The sense of
values at the moment is quite cockeyed.
J. V. DUHIG
PIONEER OF POST-IMPRESSIONISM
Arnold Shore. Victorian Artists’
Society. Melbourne.
Mary Talbot. South Yarra Gallery.
Melbourne.
A rnold Shore sticks to the principles
which established him as a pioneer
of post-impressionism in Australia, and
still inform in large measure his review-
ing. As he says himself he “draws from
nature,” but behind each painting is a
clear sense of construction which ranks
him as a first-rate landscape painter. His
scenes are mostly of the forest, and he
captures the riotous light and untidy
confusion of the bush with heavy rapid
stroking and a luxeriance of color. The
charm sparkle of the painting and the
peaceful domestic atmosphere which per-
vades the scenes reflect an intimate and
loving acquaintance with the bush which
is most pleasant to share. The large
applique mural rubbing shoulders un-
easily with the paintings is a mistake, but
one which should be overlooked.
The drawings of Mary Talbot at the
South Yarra Gallery are extremely pol-
ished and attractive, if somewhat preci-
ous. Her drawing techniques approach
perfection, and her rich and fantastic
designs compel a certain fascination akin
to the esoteric intricacies of fin de
siecle drawing. One would not be sur-
prised to find one of them in a room
with an incense burner. However, the
sophistication never falls into pre-
tentious symbolism, but is wisely kept
at the level of pure fantasy, which gives
free play and calls attention to the
wonderful draughtsmanship.
Although I was not able to see it in
time for review, I would like to mention
that the South Australian painter Wladys-
law Dutkiewicz has an exhibition at the
Jazz Gallery, which should be of interest
since he has shown little in Melbourne.
BILL HANNAN
FILMS
FORD IN DECLINE
The Man Who Shot Liberty Vaiance.
Prince Edward. Sydney.
P|Y> those whose interest in films is com-
paratively recent, the unquestionable
brilliance of John Ford was a truism
formulated by an earlier generation of
critics. Films such as “Stagecoach”, “She
Wore a Yellow Ribbon”, “The Long
Voyage Home” and “The Quiet Man”
had apparently established him in the
forefront of American directors. Today
John Ford is in eclipse.
His last three films, “Horse Soldiers”,
“The Trial of Sergeant Rutledge”, and
“Two Rode Together” are generally re-
garded as uniformly mediocre and at
times downright bad. Ford’s latest film,
“The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance”,
is perhaps a slight improvement.
Liberty Valance is a traditionally
homicidal bandit who terrorises the
frontier town of Shinbone. Into the
town rides an idealistic young lawyer
(James Stewart). Mr Valance promptly
beats him severely with his silver-topped
whip. The film then resolves into a
wordy debate between the lawyer and
a tough, albeit likeable, rancher (John
Wayne) as to the correct method of
dealing with Valance. Wayne suggests
gunning him down in the main street,
while Stewart advocates kiling him legal-
like.
The temptation is to reject this film
out of hand. Such an action, however,
would be based on inevitable preconcep-
tions with which one views any film of
John Ford. It is apparent that the muta-
tion through which his word has been
passing has, finally, reached some reso-
lution. Compared with earlier works,
this film is a complete about-face. It
may be termed an anti-film. Within the
traditional framework Ford has at-
tempted a fable on the respective worth
of Reason and Violence in the social
order. Despite such laudable endeavor,
the film fails.
Rather than the usual consortium of
talents, a Ford film is totally controlled
by the director and, as such, his is the
absolute responsibility. In attempting
the simplicity essential to fable, the
director has reduced the central charac-
ters to types. This practice is acceptable
only so long as they do not degenerate to
stereotypes, which has happened in this
instance. It is most interesting to ob-
serve the respective acting techniques of
Wayne, Stewart and the brilliant Lee
Marvin, each struggling against an ap-
palling script, the banality of which con-
tinually provoked pained murmurs from
a far-from-critical audience.
Inevitably, we are treated to the
familiar procession of Ford stock actors.
Somehow, they appear a little tired, and
a little uninterested in the whole process.
Andy Devine, Willis Bouchey and
Woody Strode are the main offenders.
The acting is uneven and the director
seems incapable of resolving the inevit-
able fragmentation.
Probably the most disturbing aspect
of the film was the characterisation of
Woody Strode. Throughout Ford’s
career there has been an odious “Uncle
Tom” attitude to negroes. Often boring,
the film occasionally degenerates into
gratuitous violence and gross bad taste.
The immediate reaction of one of the
audience was “I would rather watch
Paladin any day.” I was forced to agree.
A. B. DELING


POETRY
Pneumo-Encephalograph
Tight scrimmage of blankets in the dark;
Nerve-fluxions, flints coupling for the spark;
Today’s guilt and tomorrow’s blent;
Passion and peace trussed together, impotent;
Dilute potage of light
Dripping through glass to the desk where you sit
and write;
Hour stalking lame hour . . .
May my every bone and vessel confess the power
To loathe suffering in you
As in myself, that arcane simmering brew.
Only come to this cabin of art:
Crack hardy, change clothes, and play your part.
Contraband enters your brain;
Puckered guerilla faces patrol the vein;
The spore of oxygen passes
Skidding over old inclines and crevasses,
Hunting an ancient sore,
Foxhole of impulse in a minute cosmic war.
Concordat of nature and desire
Was revoked in you; but fire clashes with fire.
Let me ask, while you are still,
What in you marshalled this improbable will:
Instruments supple as the flute,
Vigilant eyes, mouths that are almost mute,
X-rays scintillant as a flower,
Tossed in a corner the plumes of falsehood,
power?
Only your suffering.
Of pain’s amalgam with gold let some man sing
While, pale and fluent and rare
As the Holy Spirit, travels the bubble of air.
FRANCIS WEBB
Tree in a City
In the city branches are a small span
but still boys break at the brittle parts
before school, reaching above asphalt,
or they climb up as a convenient excuse
to pretend adventure in the old limbs
and they write their knees with necessary
scratches
and their torn shirts feel the foreign soot
in corroded bark.
The Council has the power to trample on it
with a girl’s finger lightly at a typewriter,
or it may even now be withering in secret, quietly.
Or the rough-chinned youths might fall upon it
tonight
in the hours after no school remembered
because of the feel of a blade in their good hands
or something about it being there, living, and
them
to accomplish nothing.
But today it is fact in a green accent
it is a live tree in this city
with its exuberances of new leaves
for all children to tear at and to fondle
to learn the feel of moistness still on them
to tell the truest way of year from.
It is a place to eat their lunches under
in shade, greedily.
THOMAS W. SHPCOTT
A Holiday Improvisation
Lightly moving through moving air
That quickens skin and mind,
In sound of sea, under an open heaven
Over a blaze of sand
Treading black thongs of seaweed, and those
narrow
Rustling strips like the crinkled paper
Packed round chocolates in pound boxes
Slowly into the sea, one’s chest
Alert with cold, or bursting quick
Into it with a flat dive
The day a lyric
Intense but all too short: the full glare steadies
And starts to fail by three; insidious evening
Mutes joy and leads to melancholy sunsets
Exhaling sharpness, transience,
The anguished taste of Sunday nights at school.
Only the skin remembers burning, shivers
At the touch of cool
Rising airs. Far too short, we say,
Because a holiday must be too short,
And are left wondering
How they feel, the people of the township
Who live all the year in this magnificent
Landscape of coast and mountain; do they go for
relief
To buses or underground railways, find the
descent
Of escalators adventure, or do they simply
See it more truly than we, seeking weather and
livelihood
In the face of a lifetime companion, more
than mere backdrop?
J. R. ROWLAND
On Tour
Josephine, the dwarf, and me
Walked together through the town,
Three abreast past shop and fence
We pranced the main street up and down.
The red rooves gleamed, and the pavement
steamed,
And the tired sun shone on the copper grass;
As though the show had already begun
Their faces turned to watch us pass.
For we were the entertainers come,
Josephine, the dwarf, and me,
And to fox-run road and rickety bridge
Had brought this week its novelty.
The old dwarf waved his chubby hand
To make them forgive his ugly story,
And Josephine wore her dresses low
Till they guessed what was in her repertory;
For them I would play the doodlepipe
And think, as the audience laughed and cheered,
Of the dry hot miles, and the towns we’d seen,
And the loneliness my companions feared
Yet in every place I’d seen it grow,
A crazy patchwork harmony
Of the sheep-headed men with their vague sheep
wives,
And Josephine, the dwarf, and me.
WILSON BLACKMAN


THE RED PAGE
STOWS RIOTOUS GARDEN
By LEONIE KRAMER
Outrider. Randolph Stow. Macdonald.
31s.
Poetry, as we are frequently re-
minded, does not pay; and even
though Australian poets have been
particularly productive in the last tew
years, none would expect to find him-
self a rich, or even moderately rich man,
by virtue of his poetic talents. Aus-
tralian painters, on the other hand, are
enjoying a period of social and financial
success, both here and overseas. I do
not know whether there is any con-
nection between these two facts and the
current fashion for illustrated poetry.
Australian Letters has now published
the work of eight Australian poets
illustrated by Australian painters; so that
Randolph Stow’s book of verse, Outrider,
with paintings by Sidney Nolan, does
not take us completely by surprise.
It does, however, provoke a question
about the marriage of the two arts. Is
it a genuine alliance, or is it a mariage
de convenance? Poetry commands a
very small audience; does it hope to
increase it by calling painting to its
assistance? Are the paintings merely
decorative, or do they support, even pos-
sibly elucidate the poet’s words?
The poet who immediately springs to
mind as most significantly combining
painting with poetry is Blake, whose
illustrations to the Songs of Innocence
and Experience and to the Prophetic
Books are not simply ornamental, but
are part of the meaning of the poetry,
and equally important, part of its quality
and tone. Perhaps this is a union which
can be realised only when the poet is
his own artist. Blake does not use the
one medium merely to underline or re-
state the other, but combines both in
an artistic unity.
The relationship of painting to poetry
in the Randolph Stow volume lies some-
where between decoration and interpreta-
tion. Nolan has clearly sought to express
the mood of certain poems, and in par-
ticular to capture the color of their
landscape. One poem, “The Land’s
Meaning”, is dedicated to him. In a
sense it is a simple allegory, the theme
of which is stated in the first two lines:
The love of man is a weed of the
waste places.
One may think of it as the spinifex
of dry souls.
The imagery of the poem is pre-
dominately of aridity, barren harshness,
of the “iron street” and the “dusty
yard”. Something of the atmosphere of
the lines
and a skin-coloured surf of sand-
hills jumped the horizon and
swamped me
is caught in Nolan’s streaked, burnt-
brown composition of barren hills leap-
ing towards the sky. His is a landscape
empty of human content, without even a
suspicion of the lonely humanity spoken
of in the poem. It stands to the poem
as a painted backdrop might stand to a
play. It focuses attention upon the set-
ting, leaving the poem to fill out the
scene with meaning. The land’s mean-
ing, in a word, is to be found in Stow’s
language; one looks to the painting only
for a translation of color and line. Yet
in this somewhat limited sense the two
arts complement each other.
Nolan is not always as successful as
this. One of the most disturbing poems
in the book and, though not for this
reason, one of the least satisfactory —is
“Strange Fruit”. This presents a land-
scape of mental nightmare, hysterically
evoked. Certain lines bear an unfortu-
nate resemblance to the wilder state-
ments of Ern Malley:
(Embers of crocodiles love you
from the mangroves.
Dingo ears suck the wind for your
tranquil breathing .)
Yet turn to Nolan’s painting, and you
find neither the horror nor the dis-
integration of the poem. There is no
suggestion of the fever, the panic nor
“the rattling howl in the gullies”. There
is merely a tangle of swampy green, not
unlike an over-crowded indoor garden.
It touches no more than the fringes of
the poem and even at this level is
irrelevantly decorative. In general, it
seems to me that Nolan is most success-
ful as an illustrator when, as in “The
Land's Meaning”, “Landscape”, and to
a lesser degree “Endymion” he is con-
cerned purely with landscape. Where,
as in “Strange Fruit”, the visual content
of the poetry has little significance in
terms of an external world, his contri-
bution is slight.
The poetry itself is curiously uneven
in quality and unusually consistent in
tone. Stow repeatedly sets up a strong
opposition between man and his environ-
ment. “The Wild Duck’s Nest” pictures
the natural life of the bush vanishing
in fear before the approach of predatory
man. In this poem and elsewhere there
is a strongly romantic vision of the
“rightness” of nature, even of the arid
and destructive nature of the dry in-
terior, and of the contrasting inadequacy
of man —man the destroyer, man lonely
and frustrated, man “whose house is a
ruined shell”, who opens his heart
“knowing nothing can come !n”, whose
lands “mirror the moon in desolation”,
and who barricades himself against the
world, invoking sleep as “identity’s last
fortress.”
Though there is no disputing the force
of Stow’s central theme, which seems to
me to be a vision of man tied to his
environment by a passion which is as
much hate as love, and of man divorced
from his own reality, even from a belief
in his own existence, this conviction
comes through with only limited
success. Partly this is due to an over-
exuberance of language and imagery;
partly to lapses into triteness.
These two faults are not unconnected.
Stow creates single lines and images
which are arresting, and produce that
sudden flash of recognition and illumina-
tion which is one of the marks of good
poetry; but their effect is often lessened,
sometimes actually destroyed, by their
context. The “intricate wordwreaths”
referred to in the poem “The Recluse”
do not always serve him well. To read
many of the poems is to walk in an
over-stocked, unpruned garden, where
individual beauties are obscured by
riotous growth, and where plants that
should be able to expand and grow—as
a successful image does —are inhibited
by their neighbours, or choked by
weeds.
Further, though man and his environ-
ment may be taken as his central con-
cern, there is a marked repetitiveness in
his statement of it. One of the best
poems in the book, in my opinion, is
“The Ghost at Anlaby”. It is slight
enough, but graceful, whimsical, and
controlled in idea, form and language.
But it is an exception. For the most part
one is aware —often uncomfortably so —
of a nervous self-consciousness for which
the dramatic lyric form he so frequently
adopts is only a thin disguise.
Finally, I must draw attention to two
minor technicalities. Nolan's paintings
are very badly placed in the text, in that
they are remote from the poems to
which they refer; and acknowledgment
is made to the Penguin Book of Aus-
tralian Verse (wrongly listed as the
Penguin Book of Modern Australian
Verse) for permission to reprint, though
in fact Stow was not represented in it.
These are trivial faults but they should
not mar a book so lavishly produced as
this.


R
For my money
## S CF • • •
NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS BANK
ACCOUNT
EARN
31%
INTEREST
UP TO £3OOO
Open a National Bank Savings
Bank account today . . . and
make every pay day a put away
day.
THE NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS BANK LTD.
A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
9684/1/62
PRESS CLIPPINGS
WILL TELL YOU
Keep fully informed by letting us
supply you, or your office, with
press clippings on any subject in
which you are interested.
We offer a complete coverage of
newspapers and magazines, all
States, city and country. This
press clipping service enables you
to keep a complete tab on any
matter —your company, trade or
profession, financial news, com-
pany reports, publicity mentions,
new industries, political and
editorial mentions, publicity
checks, press releases, sales
leads, competitors' news.
We will supply clippings on
any subjecf you may care
to specify.
A.N.Z.PRESS CLIPPING SERVICE,
199 Liverpool St., SYDNEY. 61-4230.
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. "D", Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
HISTORIANS OR P.R. MEN?
Royal Australian Air Force 1939-42.
Douglas Gillison. Australian War
Memorial. 40s.
sphere seems to be no end of the writing
A of official histories of World War II
There were people who grumbled about
the volumes produced on World War I;
but they were a mere circumstance to the
pages of print that are being churned out
!about the last war.
The Australian effort in the first war
was pLihaps too detailed for the common
taste, but, literary in tone and all of a
piece, it was well written for the most
part and well edited and, above all, it
I was a useful military work. It had extra
I justification in that World War I was
a war of the individual and many of its
important phases could only be told in
terms of the small unit.
The whole with its detailed maps, its
background of technical skill, both mili-
tary and literary, produced something
valuable, reliable and properly documen-
ted. It is enduring as a work for military
students as well as a solid memorial to
the men who fought.
The same cannot be said of the World
War II histories. They are very largely
written by men with public relations
training, with a public relations style
and with no experience of the kind of
work which they have been allotted and
are the result of post-mortem, instead of
contemporary study.
The British have done it better, more
succinctly. Under the editorship of Sir
James Butler, Professor of Modern His-
tory at Cambridge, a distinguished his-
torian with a vast experience of the strat-
egy of the war and an experienced writer
ot history, the various volumes have been
committed to well-known naval, military,
and air writers who are backed up by
knowledgeable small committies from the
other services to help correlate and fit
in background. These have produced
concise stories, designed to be of military
use with accurate and adequate maps,
illustrations and montages which give
clarity to their narratives.
The Australian War History when
complete will run to 22 volumes, of which
no more than three service ones are to
be written by any one man—seven devo-
ted to the Army campaigns, two to the
Navy, four to the Air, five to the civilian
war and four medical —all of these by
Dr Allan Walker. Fifteen volumes have
been published to date and, on their show-
ing, the total will work out at least to five
million words and perhaps to six million
since volumes seem to tend to get longer
as they go on and there seems to be no
uniformity of pattern or timetable, style
or treatment. John Herington's “Air War
Against Germany” came out in July 1954.
It is perhaps the most satisfactory volume
in any branch yet produced, well written,
bearing the marks of experience in his-
torical research, writing and arrangement
and with excellent maps, diagrams and
illustrations which are informative as well
as being interesting. It covers the whole
of Australia’s part in the war against
Germany and Italy 1939-43, a consider-
able one, in about 700 pages. It is not
easy reading because of its tombstone
paragraphs, but its arrangement is logical
and clear. George Odgers, a journalist
and public relations man, wrote the Air
War Against Japan, published in October
1957 in 500 pages. It has a different style
of approach to writing with short para-
graphs, more pithy accounts of events
and giving, on the whole, a clearer pic-
ture for the average reader than Hering-
ton’s, but technically far from as good
from a military viewpoint.
Now comes Douglas Gillison’s “Royal
Australian Air Force 1939-42,” which is
chiefly concerned with the air war against
Japan for the 16 months from December
1941-March 1943. It runs to 750 pages,
including the tables of aircraft at the end,
and roughly 320,000 words. Its methods
differ from that of Odgers, so that the
two volumes are not of a piece, though
one is the continuation of the other. The
style of each is different from the other.
This new volume covers the period of
Malaya, the East Indies retreats, the
Darwin bombings, the battle of the Coral
Sea, the Buna operations and the battle of
the Bismarck Sea.
It contains a good many facts not gen-
erally known, such as those in a jrseful
summary of the operations of Japanese
submarines off the East Australian coast
which were far more extensive than the
public realised. Between May 16, and
August 3, 1942, inclusive of the raid on
Sydney Harbor in which the Kuttabul
was destroyed at Garden Island and a
number of the survivors of HMS Repulse
killed. During that period sixteen vessels
were attacked, seven of them sunk, four
damaged and one abandoned, all but two
or three between Port Stephens and the
region of Moruya and mostly not far off
the coast.
It is a salutary warning about what
could happen in any future war.
EK DUM


THE IDRIESS CHARM
My Male Dick. lon L. Idriess. Angus
& Robertson 275. 6d.
Suburban Souvenir. Hermon Gill.
F. W. Cheshire 18s. 9d.
In My Lady’s Chamber. Juliet Rolles-
ton. Angus & Robertson 21s.
The Desperate Passion of Henry
Knopp. Maurice Levinson. Faber.
16s.
Man Walking on Eggshells. Herbert A.
Simmons. Methuen. 20s.
Qince “Lasseter’s Last Ride” which I
read as a schoolgirl I have not peru-
sed any other of lon Idriess’s numerous
books and must therefore have fewer pre-
conceived ideas of what to expect than
most Australian readers. I found “My
Mate Dick” (which is an account of
Dick's and Idriess's prospecting adven-
tures in the Cape York Peninsula before
1914,) interesting and agreeably enter-
taining in a “bangy” way. That is, the
prose bangs cheerfully and clumsily
along, the narrative bangs about rather
haphazardly, and the author (nicknamed
“Cyclone” by Dick) crashes ineptly and
Watsonishly through incident after inci-
dent. Through it all I can hear the deli-
berate voice of a genuine Australian
raconteur and who am I to question
Idriess’s authenticity? Of his, or Dick’s
interpretations of certain phenomena?
The illustrations are well chosen.
At least “My Mate Dick” has an un-
pretentious honesty sadly lacking in the
next three books listed, and its naive
innocence lends it particular charm
among its chance companions.
“Suburban Souvenir” contains a num-
ber of “humourous” sketches of suburban
life with illustrations by Esther Paterson.
This sort of thing:
“Walter said s-s-s-s-sh and cast a sort
of quelling glance at Beryl’s mother as he
conducted the Berlin Symphony Orches-
tra playing the introduction to the Third
Act of Lohengrin on the radio and Beryl’s
mother who was rustling the newspaper
said good heavens a person could hardly
call their ears their own with Walter
around the place surely a person was
entitled to read a newspaper that wasn’t
interfering with his lordship was it and
Walter who was busy quelling the exub-
erance of the brass with one hand while
he sort of wafted the wood-winds in with
the other hand in the quiet part didn't
answer . . . .”
The blurb says I will find that Hermon
Gill “is as a writer what Barry Hump-
hries is as an actor-satirist of Australia’s
suburbia, but in more genial vein.” It is
alleged that I shall enjoy it “like you
enjoy baked beans on toast for Sunday
tea.” Perhaps the fault is with my palate
which prefers other fare for Sunday sup-
per and places Barry Humphries so far
above and beyond and to the side of
Hermon Gill that never the twain shall
come close enough for comparison.
The next two novels make me ques-
tion whether my palate, since it is under
discussion, is becoming incurably sour.
They are alleged comedies and both
thoroughly distasteful to me. Juliet Rolles-
ton's “craziest of plots” (vide Blurb)
concerns a poet. Martin, who for reasons
connected with a novel he hopes to write,
masquerades as a woman, a “Nanny” for-
sooth, in a Sydney seaside house. Even
de Maupassant fails to convince me that
a man can successfully pose among
women as a woman —much less Juliet
Rolleston, a teenage writer whose “hero”
not only fools her/his infant charges but
his lady employer when she surprises him
in the surf minus his wig. On the last two
pages All Is Revealed (metaphorically)
and Martin/Martine and the lady plight
their troth.
Henry Knopp whose Desperate Pas-
sion engages Mr Levinson is a sort of
allegorical schoolmaster in an allegorical
school bossed by an allegorical mayor
and council. He worships another
teacher, the beauteous Miss Truelove and
has an odious wife who refuses him what
a witness in a Sydney divorce court once
referred to as “me congenial rights.”
Therefore poor old Knopp scribbles slo-
gans in public lavatories and discusses
“life” with a nonagenarian lavatory atten-
dant. There is a smirky, sniggery quality
to this phony quasi-symbolism which is
objectionable and, coming from a pub-
lisher who once could be relied upon for
books of mature fiction, sad.
“Man Walking on Eggshells” is by an
accomplished negro author. It is un-
doubtedly the best novel in this sorry
bunch, but at that would only be really
exciting to anyone who had not hitherto
read any of the spate of novels written
by negroes about aspiring jazz musicians
a type of hero that has become a
stereotype in much negro fiction. Nearly
all these books are fresh, arresting in
idiom, and evocative as the poetry of
many of the current wave of young
negro poets is exciting. But read three
and you have read all.
NANCY KEESING
THE TASMANIAN TOUCH
Diogenes. A Literary Annual. The
Literary Society of the University
of Tasmania.
wise enough to expect nothing
from University magazines are often
agreeably surprised, as in “Diogenes”,
1962, by Tim Thorne:
Tell me,
how do we recent fellows sound
Or does it matter?
Such humility from an undergraduate
is epoch-making; and the answer is that
Mr Thorne sounds pretty good; so does
Robert C. Hughes; they both can write
clearly and purely in regular metres. But
the show-piece for this year is one of
those things that is neither edifying nor
technically accomplished; you just
happen to remember it:
My life is just
A nother
Burning cigarette
Lit by the flame
of love
In my father’s bed
Some twenty years ago
And smoked
By some fickle
Superhuman being
Who,
When he’s satisfied
Will stub me
Into death.
1 only hope
The bastard catches cancer.
The author is “Spero Meliora”; but
his other contributions are worse, some
even sentimental. In this issue the
‘'Bulletin” short-story writer A. E.
Sturges is to be met as a lecturer in
Engineering Drawing and Design at the
University, and if the essay on “Why
the Thinker should be an Atheist” and
various other contributions are no more
than are to be expected, there is exercise
for the mind in wondering how they get
on in the same paper with the nice
poems of Barbara Dunin-Horkawicz,
who has won a prize in a poetry com-
petition conducted by the Roman
Catholic “Standard.”
APEMANTUS


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Reid Murray balloon bursts
80,000 INVESTORS SHOULD HAVE REASON WHY
IT'V I RECTORS of Reid Murray Holdings have even now
II said far from enough to allay the worst of the vast
flood of fears and rumours which swept business circles
during these last few months. Still further delays are to
prevent any exact picture of the decline of this once-grandilo-
quent and hyper-confident group.
Reid Murray was born five years ago of a merger between
Robert Reid & Co. Ltd—an old and respected wholesaler and
retailer (Hustlers of the Riverina) —and David Murray Ltd, a
South Australian retailer and credit retailer. All the damage
has happened since. Mushrooming growth saw the group,
headed by a Mr O. J. O'Grady, first move into retailing in a
big way. Such well known retailers as Hicks Atkinson, Paynes
Bon March, Major 8 (in Victoria), John Allan (in WA),
Cowells and Reid Murray Electrics (in NSW) joined the
group in rapid succession.
It was only “true form” that led the Reid Murray combine
into land at the peak of the boom in 1959 and 1960. The
land boom, itself, was purely an extension of the Reid Murray
modus operandi.
Now, comes the collapse of the balloon so carelessly blown
up.
If much credence can be given to a view that the entire
debenture subscriptions totalling some £32 million stand
imperilled, directors at the present stage have only themselves
to blame.
A dubious punctilio in October led them to confess an
inability to “report on other than audited figures,”
apparently to see the light late in November. When the
colossal trading deficit emerged last week, it lacked the de-
cidedly necessary completion of the developmental write-downs.
Such behavior, and postponement of full figures until Janu-
ary, can but lend support to the gossip’s estimated £5 million
loss and their forebodings of accounts so confused that it is
difficult to bring them'to fruition. The proposed scheme of
arrangement does little to abate the atmosphere.
For what it may be worth at present, trading losses of
£2,533,760 for the year to August 31 are revealed. Within
these is at least £ 1 million “provisions for possible future
bad debts.” The climate of inexactitude must sustain further
contingencies “which are not ascertained at present.”
Vagueness piles upon vagueness when the developmental
land comes to be dealt with. We await the tabulation of
independent sworn valuations. These were proceeding early
in October, as directors informed us.
The write-down admittedly is substantial. Yet at this stage
We are left to juggle with a fine piece of whimsy: “Although
the net difference between the book values of the undervalued
and overvalued properties is not material, there will be sub-
stantial variations up and down.”
T>lacing overall losses at a fairly conservative £4 million,
shareholders have to suffer the obliteration of accumulated
reserves and a £1 million eating into capital of £9,319,127.
The scheme of arrangement could halt dividends, now of
course in abeyance, for at least five years.
In this air of obscurity, the ss. shares slid to Is. 3d. They
had seen a peak at 17s. 9d. in 1960. Parallel to this skid,
and perhaps facing equally dire prospects, debenture holders
saw a host of buyer quotes at £2O for their £IOO holdings.
This could well have been before any proper examination
of the scheme. Indeed, the scheme scarcely allows a proper
examination. Again, “many other general machinery provi-
sions” are unavailable. In crowning mystery, “certain (undis-
closed) persons” will not be bound by the arrangement put
forward to the Court, debenture holders, creditors, deposit
holders and shareholders.
T7ery many reservations should attach to the proposals,
T allegedly designed for eventual repayment of debentures
and group reorganisation. The responsibilities thrust upon
trustees (The Equity Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd)
are patent and must be courageously discharged.
It is not hard to see that the desperate plan for salvation
definitely breaches the debenture holders’ primacy of repay-
ment, legally and absolutely guaranteed by the trust deed.
As the scheme stands, certainly lacking any but directors’
approval, unsecured noteholders would obtain satisfaction
five years ahead of the debentures.
Where is the supposed additional security pertaining to
debentures as such if note and unsecured holders have a
priority in any scheme for repayment, be it a bankruptcy or
just a normal repayment? After all, investors take less interest
on debentures than on notes for this added safety of repay-
ment.
Were a programme such as this permitted without modi-
fication, the most sorry feature of boom-happy financing
would be condoned—a heedless attitude towards apparently
secured and guaranteed fixed interest borrowings.
It is bad enough that reckless miscalculation and optimism
culminate in stark crises of illiquidity, so that due redemptions
and interest cannot be met. Preservation of the superficial
company fabric may look fundamental in these instances.
But high above all resides what is by legality and custom
protected—the rights of secured lenders.
Reid Murray's huge and dissipated raisings affect a
great multitude makes more plain what is at stake. The
little man has suffered once more. The impact of this on
the Australian economy and investment scene will not be
slight, since some 80,000 investors are involved, in share,
debenture and note holdings.
And to make matters really critical, not all of this particular
crash can be charged to developmental excesses. The much-


praised specialist activity of credit retailing has had to endure
many blows from over-confidence, to put it most charitably.
On directors’ own admissions, in the 1960-61 report, the
group’s deliberate policy had been to place its funds “prin-
cipally in hire purchase and instalment . contracts on com-
paratively short term.” As late as May this year, the gospel
was reiterated in an appeal for more debentures. For the
hire-purchase and instalment debtors who were then to all
intents and purposes stimulating an ailing liquidity were the
“customers of the various retail stores operated by subsidiary
companies.”
No number of fulsome and optimistic interim reports can
conceal failure here. There were too many such beatings
into the wind and directors need strenuous criticism on this
count.
The whole dismal recital does not bear concluding without
mentioning the barely ethical disposal, in the group’s parlous
condition, of 33 retail stores simply to settle a debt to
Electronic Industries. Strict justification of that move alone is
demanded.
SAVINGS AT THE FLOOD; BUT
NOT IN NEW ZEALAND
11/'ith the addition of another £28.9 million in October,
savings bank deposits in Australia have risen by just over
£2OO million to £1,836 million in 12 months—surely a very
remarkable performance.
Naturally with their obligations to put 70 p.c. of their
deposits into Government, semi-Government or local securi-
ties, the strong flow of funds into the savings banks here has
been a powerful influence contributing to the strength of the
prices of these in the markets and also to the success of new
loans over the last year.
In October alone savings bank holdings of Government loans
increased by £7.9 million and of semi-Government and local
securities by £8.7 million, while their loans to the short-term
money market went up by £4.1 million, making a total of
£20.7 million support for official securities.
However, precious little of their accretion of funds during
the month went into private investment, even if the £3.7
million put into housing loans was an improvement on recent
figures. Undoubtedly the chief victim of all this is the share
market with the shops perhaps running a close second.
Our savings performance must be the envy of New Zealand,
whose authorities have recently been very much exercised at
savings trends in that country. According to the NZ Minis-
ter of Finance, Mr H. R. Lake, private savings have declined
progressively from £l6B million three years ago to £93
million in 1960-61 and to only £75 million last year. Moreover,
despite some improvement lately, savings this year look like
being even lower than that.
Among steps taken to reverse this trend, NZ had a national
savings week in October to alert people to the combined virtues
of thrift and a higher rate of national growth. (The proportion
of GNP going to industrial investment has dropped from 14.7
to 11.8 p.c. in the last 10 years). Post office savings bank
deposit rates have been increased, two new Trustee Saving
Banks have been authorised and the Government is even
considering letting the trading banks in on the savings banks
field as in Australia.
The latter would be a sharp break in tradition in NZ where
the Government Post Office Savings Bank, National Savings
Accounts and Trustee Savings banks have long held the
savings field. But New Zealand might do well to take a leaf out
of our book and see what the trading banks could do to
stimulate saving.
OIL DEVELOPMENTS
NEW IMAGE
rTI'HE Bulletin didn’t get a very kind reception to its thought
before the assembled brokers for the Alliance Petroleum
Australia NL float in Melbourne last week when it suggested
that the initial offering of 10 million shares was rather a
mouthful. Brokers were of one accord that the issue would be
oversubscribed by the public even in current malaisic condi-
tions in the oil search section of the market.
This, inter alia, is certainly an ingenious way of wooing more
public capital into the orbit of Oil Development which in
present circumstances would find a new issue of capital a some-
what hazardous enterprise for all the promise of its future dril-
ling programme and übiquitous spread of permit areas, includ-
ing some new ones taken in via Alliance Petroleum.
However, there is much more in the move than that, since
the new company is acquiring additional permit areas in
addition to those of Oil Development in which it will share an
interest, and for other reasons such as its participation on an
equal basis with Oil Development in a management proprietary
company to take over management, administrative and technical
arrangements for the whole group.
The managing director explained to us that the formation of
Alliance Petroleum was directed not only to consolidating its
own with Oil Development’s interests, but to creating an
investor’s image of an Alliance Group just as in the
Associated Group, it being the intention to prefix Oil Develop-
ment’s name itself with an Alliance attribution. (The merits of
this are not very clear and it could lead to some confusion
especially overseas).
The nominal capital of the new company will be £lO
million in ss. shares, of which a quarter will be offered for
subscription, Is. being payable on application and the first call
of 6s. per share will be payable not earlier than June next
year.
Timor Oil is taking up 1,000,000 shares, Bitumen & Oil
500,000 and various vendors who have transferred various
search permits and licences 1,000,000, while Oil Investments,
Reading & Bates (the drilling company) and - also some
unidentified interests are to subscribe for big parcels. Thus the
number of shares available to the general public will be some-
thing short of 7,500,000 shares in the initial offering.
Included in the permit areas to be taken over by the company
are two (both acquired from National Oil Holdings) on either
side of the Clarence-Burmah Murphy permit in the Clarence
Basin (northern NSW). These are of particular interest in the
light of current developments in this basin.
Bitumen and Oil will have first call at competitive prices on
any oil found by the new company just as it already has on
finds by Oil Development.
KEENER EDGE TO GILLETTE’S
OPERATIONS HERE
A keener edge was officially stamped on Gillette’s operations
here by the opening of the Australian company’s new
factory at Noble Park, near Melbourne, by Premier Bolte.
All Gillette’s manufacturing facilities in Australia have been
concentrated at the site following the recent transfer from
the five-year-old factory in Sydney and the installation of
plant at Noble Park which will produce super blue blades for
the first time in this country.
Only jarring note in this smoothly executed operation is
on an imports replacement theme. While we will save on
imports of finished blades, all the steel required has still to
come from Sheffield, Britain, which Gillette says is one of the
few sources in the world capable of producing steel to the
exacting standard it needs.
What about it, BHP?


smm
C.B.
' pm
. .o. .vi, :—% ■ .
Travel with
confidence!
’•WaW'. ,'^um
THE
COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED
makes all
travel arrangements
for you!
Travelling for business or pleasure, you can
travel with complete confidence when your
travel reservations have been made by the
C.B.A.
Our experienced Travel Officers will gladly
arrange all details for you.
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
THE COMMERCIAL SAVINGS BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
CBA/37/24R
MR HEATH NOT HOME AND DRY
By “CROESUS”
this distance it would be pre-
sumptuous to draw any firm con-
clusions on the effects recent by-election
results in Britain are likely to have on
whether Britain will go into the Common
Market. However, it seems from what
the London Times has to say on the
matter that the reverses should not be
regarded too seriously in this context.
The Times that “it is not that
the Common Market as an electoral
factor has gone sour on the Con-
servatives their fortunes seem more
than ever to hang on the outcome of the
negotiations but they are still inhibited
from exploiting it to the full.” “They can
manage a few introductory bars on the
European organ, but a full diapason is
denied them and will be denied them so
long as Mr Heath is not home and dry.”
The latest notes of discord for Com-
mon Marketers from the British elector-
ate as well as some unharmonious sounds
among the Six themselves, coupled with
the canvassing of alternatives to going
into the Common Market by some of
the leading British economists and the
pressing doubts of Mr Gaitskell, don’t
make Mi Heath’s task of clinching
matters in Brussels any easier.
However, leading economists in
Britain, including Cambridge Professor
James Meade, who is regarded in Britain
as a sort of “liberal nostalgic for the
Commonwealth,” are still asking them-
selves what alternative courses should be
followed in the event of the match not
being made.
One of the alternatives Meade put for-
ward in a recently published Hobart
Paper is, that Britain should join with
Commonwealth and European Free
Trade Area Countries (the Seven) in
getting multilateral trade negotiations
going under GATT’s auspices, designed
to advance free-trading policies by all
the developed countries. However, in
view of the present attitudes of Com-
monwealth countries, the Economist
considers it would be inappropriate to
pursue this line of thought very far at
this stage, even if it is the sort of idea
which might be worth taking up if
Britain stays out.
Meade's other alternative seems more
realistic —that is, to get a much greater
rate of economic expansion in a Britain
adopting complete free-trade policies
along 19th century lines, protecting the
balance of payments by an initial de-
valuation of sterling and a subsequent
floating exchange rate, and galvanising
the position with a “really effective
policy of restraint for money wage
rates.”
Meade also wants —and this would be
very acceptable to us —to impose moder-
ate upper limits on the amount of
subsidies received by British agriculture.
How sweet the latter sounds against
the background of the present open
squabble (in which Britain is joined) on
the methods of financing sales of
Common Market agricultural surpluses
on world markets with the aid of
subsidies after the C.M.’s agricultural
policy is fully implemented in 1970!
Incidentally, if France doesn’t get its
way on the latter—that is, fails to get
an irrevocable guarantee that such sub-
sidies will come out of EEC funds pro-
vided, inter alia, from levies on imports
of farm products (notably by Germany
which is a big net importer of agri-
cultural products)—she is likely to turn
nasty on some of the other tentative
agreements reached, like that on tem-
perate foodstuffs, which is of prime
importance to Australia.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
IS FRESH STIMULUS REALLY NEEDED?
So Mr Ricketson wants the Govern-
ment to get the whips out again,
to give a new stimulus to the
private sector by way of another 5 p.c.
once-for-all cut in income tax and an
extension of investment allowances.
On the first of these, the presumption
is that people are not spending fast
enough, and on the second that private
investment is recovering too slowly.
Taking these two together, the general
presumption is that we should gather up
the small remaining slack in the economy
as rapidly as possible.
Let us take these three presumptions
in turn. Going on the October retail
trade spurt after the previous month’s
indifferent performance, coupled with
the near-all-time monthly high for motor
vehicle registrations in October and the
accelerating increase in HP outstandings,
spending is on the patchy side but is none
the less trending strongly upward.
This is not so evident from the
Government’s estimates for personal
consumption expenditure in the Sep-
tember quarter released last week. These
show that after rising from £l,lOO to
£1,165 million in the June quarter,
personal consumption expenditure
marked time in the September quarter,
being £1,164 million. It will be seen
from the table that a drop from £147.7
to £l3O million in expenditure on food
and clothing offset small increases in
most other categories of expenditure.
Some people will see in this result an
encouraging sign that consumers were
still not running riot in the September
quarter. But, as the ANZ Bank points
out in its November review, consumption
even at this level was not achieved with-
out a small breach in consumer price
stability, and if the rise in the consumer
price index continues “it could mark
the end of a valuable period of price
stability which must have materially
assisted our competitive position,
especially in export markets.”
Maybe the breach was insignificant in
itself. On the other hand, there is strong
evidence that consumers are keeping big
reserves of spending powder dry . . .
“several leading indicators show there is
inflationary potential in the economy,
notably the high level of savings in the
hands of consumers, large, unused over-
draft limits and increasing scarcity of
particular types of skilled labour,” says
the ANZ. ' y
The September quarter national in-
come and expenditure accounts underline
the continued high level of saving. Per-
sonal savings in the quarter were £lO6
million, a rise of £l7 million on the
September quarter last year.
So if Mr Ricketson is not satisfied with
the present rate of consumption he has
this warning from the ANZ to chew over,
as well as the October retail sales and
car registration figures and the advancing
tally of HP outstandings to consider.
Is private investment also recovering
too slowly? Is it of vital importance, as
Mr Ricketson maintains, that “in order
to make a real and expeditious contri-
bution towards recovery, the investment
allowances should be materially increased
and that their scope should be widened as
well as enabling them to apply, though
on a lower basis, to new building and
other projects undertaken by trade and
industry generally"?
In the issue of November 17 under
the title “Private Investment Looks Prom-
ising” The Bulletin examined the then
available evidence of the recovery in pri-
vate investment, which we thought was
fairly reassuring. This view was recently
supported by. the Bank of New South
Wales’ latest industrial survey (see
The Bulletin, November 24).
Against this the figures, at least for
fixed capital investment, revealed in the
September quarter's National Income and
Expenditure estimates, are frankly disap-
pointing, though as we pointed out on
November 17 it is difficult to reconcile
figures from the National Income and
Expenditure accounts with others on
capital expenditure published by the
Commonwealth Statistician.
At any rate fixed capital expenditure
of businesses subject to pay-roll tax de-
clined from £132.8 in the June quarter
to £120.5 million in the September quar-
ter and was lower also than the two pre-
vious September quarters. Moreover it
was down in all sectors of industry and
also for the two types of asset, building
and construction and other capital equip-
ment.
On that performance it is quite unlikely
that the Commonwealth Statistician's
estimate for a big increase in capital
expenditure in July-December will be
realised; indeed it would seem impossible.
On the other hand, the quarterly
figures confirm the impression that stock
building proceeded satisfactorily in the
September quarter. Non-farm stocks in-
creased by £46 million in the quarter
after run-downs of £l9 and £27 million
in the June and September quarters 1961-
62 (they increased by £B7 million in the
boom quarter September 1960-61).
Against this there was a rise of only
£1 million in farm stocks in September
quarter, but this compares with run-downs
of £lOB and £7 million in the June and
September quarters last year.
Drawing these complex threads to-
gether, a pattern something like this
emerges: Consumption is rising but tlie
high accumulation of personal saving is
indicative of continued spending caution
and, at the same time, of a build-up of
spending potential which, when released,
would have a strong inflationary impact.
So even if a cut in taxation is always
worth pressing on wider grounds, it k
questionable if a spending stimulus of
this sort is either necessary or desirable
at present, or whether it will be needed
this fiscal year.
Private investment is also rising, but
this is concentrated more on raw material
stocks to feed rising production and to
a lesser extent on finished goods which
are moving strongly into consumption.
Fixed investment is moving higher, too,
though the extent thus far is arguable, the
more so since pockets of unused indus-
trial capacity preclude any expansion in
some industries. However, a big increase
appears to be in prospect and should
occur at an increasing tempo in the New
Year without a new spur in the manner
Mr Ricketson suggests.
Tt has to be recognised that if this in-
crease in private investment eventuates,
as seems likely, it will perforce give a hi"
lift to personal incomes and, one would
expect, also to consumption.
On the third presumption, for all but
the break-neck developers and arm-chair
Keynesians it is sound policy always to
leave a little slack in the economy, es-
pecially this one which is often faced
with an adverse wind from abroad and
also from the direction of the Arbitration
Commission when going at full stretch.
If we take all the stops out when, as
at present, the economy is stepping into
higher ground under the impetus of rising
confidence, it makes the climb back from
the limb so much more arduous when
something goes wrong.
Wasn’t it the big broker in Collins
Street who was loudest in his castigation
of the excesses of the boom in 1960?
PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURE
£ million
Sept Sept June Sept
Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter
1960- 1961 1961- 1962-
61 62 62.. 63
Food 279.4 291.4 293.0 303.0
Tobacco and cigarettes 41.5 41.4 40.5 41.8-
Beer, wine and spirits 69.1 69.8 72.4 73.0
Clothing, footwear and '•
drapery 12.9 127.8 147.7 130.0
Electrical goods 48.4 42.6 46.9 47.5
Other durable goods 53.3 49.5 49.8 52.5
Gas 9.0 9.0 8.0 9.4
Electricity , 21.7 23.5 20.2 25.0
Postage, telephone and 7
telegraph 9.4 9.9 10.7 10.3
Fares 26.0 26.0 26.3 26.3
Rent (inch imputed rent
of owner-occupied
dwellings) 101.5 109.9 116.5 117.6
Other goods and
services 312.8 308.2 330.0 32/.6
Total 1,102.0 1,109.0 1,165.0 1,164.0


“WALES” REPORT, year ended 30.9.62
Widespread Activities of the Wales
The size of the activities of the Bank of New South Wales continues to grow and the subsidiary services are
making considerable headway.
Deposit items of the trading bank rose by 6% in tune with the general movement of liquidity in the hands of
the Australian public. Total advances, however, were virtually unchanged, but easier credit conditions and
increased commitments have led to a rise in recent months as the economic recovery proceeds.
A greater rate of expansion occurred in the Bank
of New South Wales Savings Bank Ltd. Depositors’
balances rose by £34,000,000, or by almost 20% to a
total of £207,000,000 and the number of individual
accounts increased by 200,000 to 1,200,000. This
progress enabled the savings bank to lift its rate of
lending for housing purposes. Outstanding loans rose
by £7,000,000 to £41,000,000 and a further £8,000,000
have been approved.
The Wales’ wholly-owned subsidiaries which
provide investment services are proving of considerable
benefit to customers and to the investing public.
The Wales Unit Investment Limited has attracted
20,000 individual holders in seven trusts and now
controls total funds of £15,000,000.
The Wales Superannuation Funds Limited is pro-
gressing steadily. It has over 4,500 members in two
funds and the market value of their present interests
exceeds £1,000,000.
Bank of New South Wales Nominees Pty. Limited
is used widely both by local and by oversea investors,
and the market value of securities now held on their
behalf exceeds £60,000,000.
Accounts
The Bank’s accounts are presented in conformity
with the Uniform Companies Act which came into
operation this year. Though the Bank is not bound
by its provisions, being incorporated by special Act
of Parliament, it was considered appropriate to
conform to them.
Profit
Consolidated net profit for the year at £3,294,190,
less amount written off premises £503,401, represents
7.35% on consolidated capital and reserve funds or
12.71 % on capital.
Dividends
Ordinary dividends paid and proposed during the
year were at the rate of 9% p.a. on capital. These
were supplemented by a special bonus dividend of
2\%.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
and
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 30th SEPTEMBER 1962
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers £41,072,565
Loans to Authorized Dealers in Short
Term Money Market (Australia) .. .. 13,118,000
Money at Short Call London .. ~ 6,250,000
Treasury Bills London 1,500,000
Australian Public Securities
(a) Commonwealth of Australia
(i) Treasury Bills and Treasury
Notes 11,200,000
(ii) Other Securities 169,402,845
(b) Local and Semi-Governmental
Authorities 53,574,356
Other Public Securities New Zealand,
Fiji, and London 2,236,817
Other Securities 248,337
Term Loan Fund Account with Reserve
Bank of Australia 11,736,000
Statutory Reserve Deposit Account with
Reserve Bank of Australia 44,453,000
Statutory Deposit with Reserve Bank of
New Zealand . . 12,362,785
Cheaues and Bills of Other Banks and
Balances with and due from Other Banks 13,073,241
Bills Receivable and Remittances in
Transit and Sundry Debtors .. .. 85,079,161
£465,307,107
Loans, Advances and Local Bills
Discounted 335,401,825
Shares Listed Companies .. .. 4,325,156
Unlisted Companies . .. .. 450,433
Bank Premises and Sites 14,440,000
Accrued Interest and Sundry Balances .. 3,549,261
£823,473,782
LIABILITIES
Issued and Paid-up Capital £21,950,000
Reserve Funds 16,500,000
Final Dividend and Bonus Dividend
Proposed 1,042,625
Balance of Profit and Loss Account .. 1,711,468
Balances due to Other Banks 2,857,015
Deposits, Accrued Interest, Rebate, Bills
Payable and all other Liabilities, in-
cluding Provisions for Income Taxes
and for Contingencies 779,412,674
£823,473,782
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
Oldest and largest trading bank operating in Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua-New Guinea, with
three branches in London and a wide network of oversea agents and correspondents.
A 6262


DALGETYS DOUBTS ON STOCK SECTION
IVfERE size is not a sufficient answer to
problems besetting the pastoral and
woolbroking houses, it now appears.
Amalgamations and integrations may
give every indication of the economics of
merger, yet the rude world of higher costs
and lower prices has still to be overcome.
A little-observed passage in Dalgety
and New Zealand Loan’s annual report
examines these influences and holds out
dire prospects for the group’s stock
department. Rather cryptically, the
chairman (Lieutenant-Colonel C. P.
Dawnay) mentions that “the company
obviously cannot operate a major activity
indefinitely if the basis should become
unprofitable.”
Perhaps the annual meeting on Dec-
ember 20 may learn more plainly if any-
thing’s on the way out. Colonel Dawnay
has darkened counsel by hints: “I would
not wish to see the company operating in
any sphere in which reasonably strong
competition was denied; it would be bad
for us and it would be bad for our
clients.”
The sale and handling of stock is evi-
dently giving rise to excessive competi-
tion and “has led to features which need
correction.” Dalgety and NZ Loan
ascribe most of their disappointing first
group profit to the stock department’s re-
duced earnings, both in Australia and
NZ.
While some of the decline can be attri-
buted to unfavorable seasons and lower
prices for sheep and cattle, “some of it is
due to a more permanent adverse trend
of higher operating costs.” The decline
in profitability is visible over the whole
of the past decade.
Colonel Dawnay points out that initial
effects of a major amalgamation show a
tendency to inflate rather than to curtail
expenses. Few economies are reflected
in the 1961-62 accounts.
Another hidden, or at least unre-
marked, passage reveals that “directors
are considering the desirability of rais-
ing additional loan capital,” chiefly to
build modern, single-storey wool stores
on less valuable land than the traditional
sites. Here also the annual meeting
should get the details filled in.
A. G. Sims the next shock
HThe next shock for investors will be
Albert G. Sims’ thumping loss. The
scrap metal dealer will have a sorry
story to tell about almost every facet
of its business.
The purchase of Mort’s Dock (at a
high capital price) some two years ago
doubtless will be held responsible for
some of the debacle. But according to
some intelligent gossip, the bone may
well be pointed at the inscrutable Orient.
Sims ventured into the Asian shipping
business—Hang Fung Shipping—several
years ago. According to directors (in
their interim report) trading was
“successful” in the first half of the year.
According to talk the position has
changed drastically.
Anyhow, delays generally harbour
bad news; A. G. Sims’ accounting for
the year to June 30 last is now six weeks
overdue. The absence of some sort of
statement —no matter how sorry —is
not comforting. The company, after all,
has 9000 shareholders and five directors.
British Tobacco vindicated
"Oritish Tobacco vindicated itself and
some commentators (including The
Bulletin) with a quick restoration of
a 10 p.c. dividend rate. Such a rate is
indicated in the final payment of 5 p.c.
for 1961-62.
A profit recovery of about 20 p.c. in
the year to October 31 should be seen
when the full accounts are published
next February. This is a splendid “kick”
to a share market which knocked the
20s. shares from 355. to 21s. over the
past 12 months.
It remains to be seen, however, how
much more the company can extract
from the cigarette market. In the scheme
of things it appears that the present
profit level from smoking is near to the
best it can hope to be in the future. The
“health” campaign must prevent what
otherwise would be a steady growth ia
cigarette smoking.
Certainly, Wills’ sales may rise; but
they will only do so in the face of fierce
and costly competition. Shareholders,
however, can look forward to some
extra and heavy rewards stemming
from diversification over recent years.
Printing and packaging and pastoral
interests are the main diverse activities
undertaken. Both could prove extremely
profitable.
Faith in Fertilisers
Tcianz five years ago implemented a
A policy not to hold minority holdings
in other companies. As part of this
policy it sold 190,000 20s. shares in
leading fertiliser group Australian Fer-
tilizers Ltd at 28s. a share.
As further evidence of the chemical
complex's faith in fertilisers, last week
it took up 100,000 20s. shares in Aus-
tralian Fertilizers at 455. a share. This
costly operation has more in it than
meets the eye, however.
For Australian Fertilizers is to be
ICIANZ’s main NSW distributor for
that company’s nitrogenous fertilisers to
be produced at its new Botany plant.
Both companies, too, will work with
the CRA subsidiary Sulphide Corpora-
tion Pty to develop the use of this type
of fertiliser in NSW including, by the
the world of business
"Please feel quite free to criticise the management/'


9*
PER ANNUM
5 TO 10 YEARS
1
II
■
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
9% p.a 5-1 Oyrs.
BV2 % p.a 4 y rs.
8% p.a 3 yrs.
% p.a......2 yrs.
7Vz % p.a. 12 mths.
6% p.a ...6 mths.
Funds may be withdrawn in
a personal emergency as
set out in the Prospectus
(A Z
(0 n
Incorporated under
the Companies Act of
New South Wales on
the Bth March, 1950.
Applications for these Notes must be made on
the form attached to the Prospectus which is
now available from
All branches of the Company's Bankers:
THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lons-
dale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Fir., Empire House, Corner Wharf
and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68
Grenfell Street.
PERTH: 7th Floor, 81 St. George's Terrace.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House. 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Baylis Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from the following Brokers fo The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Trustees for the noteholders are the Bankers and Traders Insurance Co. Ltd.
CCISI A/B
Clip and Post Coupon
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House a 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the prospectus with
application forms.
NAME
ADDRESS
C*£P
way, direct application of anhydrous
ammonia.
Australian Fertilizers is also working
on a substantial programme to produce
(by wet process) phosphoric acid with a
100-ton daily capacity. Also plans are
afoot to erect a plant to make high
analysis NPK fertiliser.
Expansion through the 50 p.c. owned
ACF and Shirleys in Queensland in
nitgrogenous fertilisers will no doubt
follow. The group is also developing
aerial top dressing and now controls the
two major operators in this field.
After many years of solid (but dull)
groundwork it looks as if Australian
Fertilizer is weighing anchor. Share-
holders should watch the market in the
rights to the one-for-three issue (at 255.
a share) next April. The stock appears
now as a growth one; well worth port-
folio position.
Investors still doubtful should ponder
ICIANZ’s remarkable policy change; its
drive into the fertiliser industry (it
acquired competing Commonwealth
Fertilizers last year); and its expensive
new nitrogenous plant at Botany. Also,
Sulphide Corporation’s interest is worthy
of thought.
Investors unconvinced
to the series of inter-
national conferences Country
Women, Power, Colombo Plan and
currently the International Labor
Organisation —in the last few months
have done wonders for the occupancy
rates of Melbourne’s big hotels.
Since August, when the hotel opened,
the Southern Cross has averaged a 69
p.c. rate and it boosted this to 79 p.c.
in November, when, as well as accomo-
dating most of the participatints, it was
also the venue of the Colombo Plan and
ILO conferences.
Investors are obviously not convinced
that this international traffic will be
sustained, for although hardening a
shade last week the ss. shares are still
well below par at 3s. 9d.
Long-range forecast by Ansett
*t ——— ■ ■ -
YI/hat other company besides Ansett
* Transport Industries Ltd can predict
with such confidence that it will enjoy
satisfactory profits year by year for the
next 15 years?
The only proviso made by Mr R. M.
Ansett was “efficient management.” He
said the public did not fully appreciate
the significance of the 1961 Civil
Aviation Agreement Act which gives
Ansett an Australia-wide aviation fran-
chise of about 50 p.c. of the industry
revenue until 1977.
The £5 million needed to buy two
Boeing 727 jets and the necessary
etcetera will be provided in depreciation
in the next two years before the aircraft
come into service.
These are described as the second
generation of jet aircraft, and will be
particularly applicable to the run
between Perth and eastern capitals.
Promise unfulfilled
IV/Jelbourne based Harco Steel Ltd,
one of Walter Ham and Co’s floats
in boom days, has failed to live up to
its early promise, profit having dropped
from £16,382 in its first year to £9,414
in its second as a public company. More-
over, apparently the bulk of the latter
was made between March and June this
year.
The report looks forward to an
improvement in the current year, but
the market is not very enthusiastic, the
dividendless ss. shares showing little
life at around 4s.


wrawiwi tmimvami
7
'-f&SQiv/
A happier choice for every occasion • . •
aneoves WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’s
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES. PORT, MUSCAT,
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course!
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
YOUR FAVOURITE BRANDY . . ST. AGNES BRANDY
James Wallace “an apt pupil”
Qydney builder and civil engineer
James Wallace (Holdings) Ltd held
earning rate at 28 p.c. on higher capital,
and lifted absolute profit by 25 p.c. to
£161,439 in the year to June 30.
Contracts in hand are worth £l2
million, in contrast to a figure of £7
million this time last year.
Highly efficient firms like Lend Lease
Corporation Ltd can teach the locals
overseas techniques. James Wallace is an
apt pupil, and reports that a head
lease on a large city building on a “lease
back-buy back” basis has proved highly
lucrative to one subsidiary.
Respective performances do not seem
to justify the margin between Lend Lease
ss. shares priced at 16s. to yield 3.1
p.c. (6.8 p.c. on earnings), and James
Wallace ss. shares priced at 14s. to
yield 4.2 p.c. (9.8 p.c. on earnings).
The market for Lend Lease shares, of
course, is under-pinned by Bredero’s of
Holland.
Stock bound to improve
VTational Consolidated Ltd again
proved its calibre in 1961-62 by
improving sales and profits, even if profit
margins were narrowed. The net profit
as a percentage to sales dropped from
9.1 to 8.6 p.c.
The proportion of current year’s
earnings retained in the business was also
down from 43.3 to 38.1 p.c., but in view
of the economic climate, particularly in
the first half of the year, this trend
must be only temporary.
The National group had to close
down part of its plant in the early
months of the year when demand for
initial equipment radiators was at a low
level. All radiator manufacture has
now been consolidated at Punchbowl
within the National group, and Mullers
will concentrate on air-conditioning and
commercial refrigeration.
The shares have moved up a couple
of shillings to 265. Bd. in the last few
weeks, and are still not overvalued. The
stock is bound to improve later in the
year.
Gippsland plays politics
share market has taken a jaun-
A diced view of Gippsland Cement
shares since the dismissals from the
Traralgon plant a few months ago, the
failure to pay a final dividend and the
reduction from £101,397 to £42,330 in
net profit for 1961-62. But for all that,
the managing director of the company
told shareholders recently that the
company’s sales were at present run-
ning at the maximum the mill could
produce.
Dr Gottlieb said that sales to the
East Gippsland area had been doubled
since the company got a permit to deli-
ver by road to that area beyond the
previous 50 mile limit. Nonetheless the
company has to find about 70 p.c. of its
market in the Melbourne area. High
freights, taxes and permit fees put it at
a big disadvantage vis -a - vis its
competitors (the chairman says road
taxes and permit fees are equal to about
10s. a ton of cement produced).
However, what is worrying the board
most is that by next year the present
production capacity of the three Vic-
torian cement companies will be 500,000
tons in excess of the State’s consumption
at the present rate of industrial expan-
sion (incidentally The Bulletin got its
lines a little crossed on this score in a
recent reference to the company).
With all the talk of balanced develop-
ment, decentralisation and so forth, the
company obviously still hopes to pull
some concessions from the political pie.
For, as the chairman said at the meet-
ing, it would readily accede to the State
Government’s request to have a repre-
sentative on the board. When a Govern-
ment nominee moves in, one would ex-
pect the shares to move up and the
other cement companies to sit up and
take notice.
Minus into plus?
Australian Shareholders’ Associa-
tion has a nice point in suggesting
that the Stock Exchange break precedent
and allow a minus quotation for the 3d.
paid ss. shares of Factors Ltd., Mel-
bourne-based industrial and general
finance company, whose subsidiary
Rockmans is in a spot of bother with the
trustees for its debentures just now.
Without going too deeply into the
origins of these 3d. paid shares, roughly
they are a legacy from the company’s
old 8 p.c. convertible £1 notes from
which in happier days the conversion
element was hived off from the fixed-
interest content. This gave holders a £1
non-convertible 8 p.c. debenture and
four of these 3d. paid ss. shares liable
to a call of 4s. 9d. on December 31,
1963.
As the ss. shares of Factors are now
a paltry Is., unless there is a sur-
prising change for the better in the out-
look for the group (which has, inciden-
tally three very sound and profit earning
companies mixed in with some very in-
different stuff) by December next year,
a holder of the 3d. paids (there are
1,437,676 of these) will perforce have
to throw a lot more good money after
bad.
Cutting some corners in the calcula-
tion, if the price of Factors is still in
the region of the present one in 13
months’ time, he would be putting up
his additional 4S. 9d. for a fully paid
ss. share worth only Is. (in fact the
call would enhance the value of the
shares by something not calculable at the
moment).
If a holder can manage to sell the 3d.
paids at the now nominal price of Is.
he passes on the liability for the call to
the buyer who, understandably, is con-
spicuous by his absence at present. How-
ever, as a shareholder is liable for the
call for 12 months after transfer if the
subsequent holder is unable to meet the


home to an oasis
... or an oven? i
\
caw®
Do you walk out of summer when you walk in
your front door—or is your home a stifling,
sizzling reminder of conditions outside? Your
family deserves the unmatched comfort of
Westinghouse refrigerated room air conditioning!
Think of it yourself—coming home to an atmos-
phere that's refreshing just to enter . . . sleeping
through the hottest night in springtime comfort.
A Westinghouse room air conditioner operates
with pushbutton ease . . . reduces humidity
. . . filters out dirt, dust and pollen . . . delivers
a constant, fully controllable stream of clean
cool air. And in winter, it supplies you with
warm fresh air—the healthiest heat of all—at
half the operating cost of any other electrical
. heating appliance. Choose from three models,
including the exclusive Mobilaire that you can
move from room to room as you need it. See
your Westinghouse retailer today—don’t endure
summer any longer. Enjoy it!
you CAN BE SURE..IP it's
Wfcslinrthouse
ft
ROOM AIR CONDITIONERS
WACI7HP
You'll be happy to know how little it costs to
enjoy year-round weather comfort with a
Westinghouse room air conditioner. The three
model range covers every air conditioning need
for home or office, from 8,300 to 20,000
B.T.U.'s. Prices from 215 gns.
Mail this coupon today for full details
I To: Department R.A.C., Email Limited, Consumer I
I Products Division, I
I Box 4, Wcterloo, N.S.W. I
■ Please send me literature and full particulars on I
I Westinghouse Room Air Conditioners. I
t NAME J
J ADDRESS *
PHONE No. ...
PLACE X IN SQUARE IF FOR SCHOOL PROJECT □ 178
commitment, any sales after December
31 this year would not free a present
holder from the liability.
All in all the shares are less than
worthless as things stand at the moment.
Some sort of carrot would seem neces-
sary to get buyers for them, say by
providing a minus quote on ’Change,
which in present circumstances might be
as low as minus 3s. 6d. As a long shot
option, the shares might be an interest-
ing speculation at an even higher price
than that.
New home for Exchange
Tt seems only yesterday that the Stock
A Exchange of Melbourne was knock-
ing down its long cherished call facili-
ties in Little Collins Street to make way
for post trading in the building, but it
seems, as we always thought, the bulge
of today's business demands less cramped
arenas.
With all the caution usually associated
with moves by the Exchange, a joint
proposal with the ANZ is now an-
nounced, which, if implemented, would
give the Exchange a new home next to
the site of the original Stock Exchange
of Melbourne on the south side of
Collins Street, between Elizabeth and
Queen.
ONE TO BUY
AMPOL'S WIDE INTERESTS APPEAL
fFHE advent of Amoco and Phillips to
Australian oil distribution should
not shake investors’ faith in Ampol
Petroleum Ltd.
The company claims it has made
inroads into the Queensland market
where this competition first began.
“Ampol was born and has existed and
grown to its present stature in the face
of tough competition,” directors said in
their report for the year to September
30, 1962. This is the spirit of their
enterprise, and in our view the ss. shares
at 11s. 3d. merit more support.
Consumption of motor spirit in Aus-
tralia increased about 6 p.c., yet Ampol
did better than the overall market rise.
Ampol’s total revenue from all divisions
rose 3.8 p.c., which in a difficult year is
sound progress.
The net result for the 1962 year was
£2,363,019, or £89,695 more than in
1961, after providing £229,919 more
for tax at £1,167,858 (in 1961 Ampol
had tax benefits from the Ampol Ex-
ploration share issue) and £276,541
more for depreciation at £1,437,393.
The investment in B. F. Goodrich
Aust. Pty Ltd has not yet reached the
dividend stage, but projected factory
expansion can be financed from accumu-
lated profits.
In addition there was £1.5 million in
development projects from which no
profit was earned for the year. These
were the new tanker P. J. Adams, the
25 p.c. interest in Australian Lubricating
Oil Refinery Ltd, and undeveloped land
for service stations.
As almost £1.5 million of notes are
converting to ordinary shares in May,
1963, additional profits will be required
in 1962-63, but the board predicts an
earning rate comparable to the present
15.7 p.c.
Ampol caters for a variety of investors
—its motor spirit is the bread and butter
line with still some yeast in it, the ship-
ping, the cab fleet, the tyres and tubes
and the refineries provide growth
elements, and the interest in WAPET’s
exploration for oil has an appeal.
Although the present earnings yield
of 6.9 p.c. looks meagre, it shouldn’t be
reduced and the income return of 6.6
p.c. from the 14 p.c. dividend rate is
decidedly generous for a stock of this
calibre.


A. 1. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 21-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
16 O’Connell St. T Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5957 (7 lines)
43 Northbourne Ave.
City, Canberra, A.C.T.
4 0365-66
Flinders House, Crown St., Wollongong
B 5900
Telegrams and Cables:
“Kosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. VV. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road
Melbourne
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Telephones: 51-6243, 51-6245
Est. 1939
HELP
LEGACY
the
oil
round
year
St
Elizabeth
169
Donations: 1
Sydney
2001
m
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
T adies and Gentlemen, Reid Murray
and Jones Street riots notwithstand-
ing, this Speculator has pleasure in sub-
mitting this, his Third Annual Report and
Accounts covering the 12 months ended
November 30, 1962 —there’s swift pre-
sentation of accounts for you!
PROFIT: Despite difficult trading con-
ditions, another satisfactory result was
achieved. The value of the portfolio in-
creased by 54 p.c. during the year, thus
maintaining the standard set in each of
the two previous years.
This diary was begun three years ago
with an initial investment of £2OOO. In
the first year of trading this investment
grew by 64 p.c. to £3115. By November
of last year it had grown another 55 p.c.
to £4867. Now it is worth just on £7400.
Most of this year’s increase occurred
in the first six months, progress having
been rather slower recently. The increase
was also achieved without, in the verna-
cular of company directors, any “close
attention to costs”—i.e., no one was fired.
TAXATION: A lot of thought but no
action was given to this subject. It is at
this time of year that I generally find
among my Christmas cards that distinc-
tive envelope marked “Personal”. So I’ll
know soon whether HE has caught up
with me yet.
SPECIAL RESERVE: Following mur-
mured threats from a certain company,
consideration was given to the wisdom
of creating a libel suit reserve. Libel
actions, or the risk of them, are, of
course, part of the daily fare of those
who expose what they consider to be mal-
practice. However, it was decided not
to create any special reserve for this con-
tingency as my funds are readily negoti-
able in any legal emergency.
TRADING REVIEW: During the year
170 transactions were made (last year
165). Of the 77 sales, 53 produced pro-
fits. The best profit by far came from
Hunter Douglas (£281). Next was
Western Mining (£190), followed by
O’Donnell Griffin (£177), Beau Monde
(£141), Mid-Eastern (£137) and Fen-
wick (£132).
Some of the better profits are still on
paper: Automobile and General Finance
(£130), Marcus Clark notes (£180) and
Hanimex (£250). In fact on Saturday
Hanimex brought my financial year to
a happy end by sending me a dividend
cheque for £5O, the biggest dividend
I’ve ever received.
The more memorable of the losses
were provided by Ready Mixed Concrete
(£128), the MLC, Mauri Bros and
Southgate (each £63).
Of course, mistakes were made not
simply on what I bought but also on what
and when I sold.
OIL MARKET: Despite my airy re-
jection of the oil market in January, I
have since been in AOG no fewer than
five times. I lost twice and made twice for
a net gain of £6O and I am still holding
100 bought in August at 555. 6d.
My other oil ventures were into
Planet, Exoil, Mid-Eastern and Wood-
side. Thanks largely to participation in
original floats, I came out making £252
on these which, with £6O from AOG,
gave me total oil profits of £312 for
the year. Fair enough for a non-mining
man, but peanuts alongside what the real
oil speculators made —and, in some cases,
subsequently lost.
MARKET CONDITIONS: Generally
speaking, it was a discouraging year for
investors and speculators. Just when the
market seemed to be getting over its reces-
sion and Common Market blues, along-
came Wall Street and then Cuba to set
everything back again. Now Wall Street
is booming and there is no lack of confi-
dence in the Australian economy.
But there is lack of confidence in the
share market.
The underlying explanation must be
the run of company failures and near-
failures. 1962 will go down as the year
in which the Reid Murrays, Latecs,
Hookers, Chevrons, Stanhills and others
dealt devastating blows to confidence into
stock market investment in Australia.
Money lost, not so much in the shares of
these companies, but in their debentures
will not be forgotten for many a long
day. If ever a Royal Commission was
needed it seems to be into present day
company practices, with particular atten-
tion to trust deeds and company
reporting.
However, apart from these matters,
trading operations have not, in the opin-
ion of this Speculator, been materially
affected by any item of an abnormal
character —not even the Government or
the “Herald.”
DIRECTORS: Periodically pressure
has been put on me from one quarter or
another to retire. It’s even been sugges-
ted I become a stockbroker. But, in spite
of doubtful eligibility, I offer myself for
re-election, and there being no other
nominations, accordingly declare myself
re-elected
THANKS: This report would not be
complete without a word of thanks to my
editors for, at times, letting me get away
with sheer murder in this Diary.
Finally, a word of thanks must go to
you readers without whose support we
would not have been able to raise the
advertising rates last month.


MODERN MANAGEMENT IN
GOVT. DEPARTMENTS
By J. O. MILLER
Mr Miller recently spent eight months in Canada assisting a Royal Com-
mission inquiring into the value of modern management techniques as applied
to Government Departments. He spent four years overseas with Personnel
Administration operating companies, studying and devising organisation plans
for private enterprises.
is now the biggest busi-
ness in Canada, as it is in Austra-
lia, with an annual budget of 6,000 mil-
lion dollars. It is therefore not sur-
prising that many suggestions have been
made urging the Government to intro-
duce modern administrative practices
which have been found useful by pro-
gressive private enterprise managements.
Crusaders for streamlining Govern-
ment departments in Canada considered
that modern techniques such as man-
agement accounting, inventory control,
operations research and executive deve-
lopment programmes (to name a few),
would have their place in Government
administration. So the Canadian Gov-
ernment appointed a Royal Commission
to determine to what extent such techni-
ques could be applied in Canada.
One of the main supporters of the
plea for improved organisation in the
Federal Government had been Mr Die-
fenbaker, when Leader of the Opposi-
tion in Ottawa. It was not unexpected,
therefore, when soon after this year's
election the Diefenbaker Government
established a Royal Commission to in-
vestigate Federal Departments and agen-
cies and report on steps which could
be taken to improve the efficiency,
costs, organisation and service to the
public. The Commission invited Per-
sonnel Administration’s Canadian com-
pany to provide several consultants to
assist in the investigations.
There was considerable public’sup-
port for the Commission, especially be-
cause of the success of the Hoover Com-
mission in the United States in the early
fifties. The Hoover Commission not
only succeeded in cutting administrative
costs generally, but disclosed large areas
where Government was engaged in com-
mercial operations in competition with
private business. The Hoover Commis-
sion also reported several years after
the main investigation, on the extent to
which its recommendations had been
implemented by the various government
departments and agencies.
The Diefenbaker Government also
required the report from its Royal Com-
mission (“The Glassco Commission”
after its chairman, Mr Grant Glassco,
a Toronto chartered accountant) to in-
elude references to areas where the
Canadian Government was engaged in
operations which could be carried out
by private business. The Government
printing operations were among those
expected to be investigated, since the
cost of its operation was about 12 mil-
lion dollars a year.
The organisation of the Commission
itself was a difficult management deci-
sion, and the Commissioners decided to
use a team of management specialists
drawn from industry, professional man-
agement consultants and some personnel
from the Canadian and American Civil
Service. From time to time opinions
were also sought from leading British
Civil Service officials.
With approximately 80 Federal de-
partments and agencies in Canada, the
decision on methods of investigating and
reporting had to be taken between ver-
tical studies of activity (agriculture,
fisheries, immigration, etc.) or horizon-
tal studies of function (accounting, per-
sonnel, procurement, etc.).
The Commissioners adopted the func-
tional approach, supplemented by a lim-
ited number of vertical studies among
them the Post Office and Defence. This
choice had several obvious advantages.
Specialist teams in the various manage-
ment functions would be utilised to
greater advantage, and the costs would
be reduced because sampling procedures
could be introduced. Obviously every
function in every department could not
be studied, but in this way consistent
methods of reporting and investigating
would be developed. Anomalies and in-
consistencies between departmental prac-
tices could be highlighted.
The following project teams were
among those formed: Accounting, man-
power, paperwork and systems including
electronic data processing, procurement,
transportation, health and medical ser-
vices, education, insurance and lending
scientific research, defence, legal, ser-
vices to the public (e.g. Post Office),
Government enterprise in competition
with business, materials management,
and organisation. Studies were directed
by the research committee which repor-
ted to the Commissioners.
The co-operation received from the
Government officers was excellent, since
all the Deputy Ministers (the perman-
ent heads of Departments) had been well
briefed, and most civil servants looked
on the Commission as an opportunity to
report constructively on areas where there
were anomalies and room for improved
organisation.
The total cost of the investigation is
expected to be about 2 million dollars,
but the annual savings to exceed this by
ten times.
Following publication of the final re-
port it seems likely that special proce-
dures will be established in departments
to streamline paper work and control the
level of output and hence the required
work force. Areas where dramatic im-
provements in performance are likely are
inventory control, paperwork systems
and procedures, electronic data proces-
sing and printing costs. Because of the
huge numbers of forms used, a simple
clerical improvement has a very great
financial benefit.
Simple methods improvements in print-
ing initiated by Personnel Administration
will alone save the Canadian taxpayer
500,000 dollars a year. The savings will
be made without any redundancy.
The adoption of modern work study
techniques, by which methods can be
improved, work measured, and suitable
cost control procedures introduced, has
been surprisingly slow in Government and
semi-Government undertakings in North
America. This is a result of the Ameri-
can attitude to work measurement in Gov-
ernment operations, following the now
historic arsenals dispute and investigation
of the first World War, when the pioneer
of scientific management, Frederic W.
Taylor, unsuccessfully defended his time
study techniques. Congress passed a law
forbidding it in Government plants and
offices, and the law was not rescinded
until 1950.
The scope now 7 is immense, and
although some sections of Government
have been very active recently, especially
the Services, the Canadians themselves
will admit that work study and clerical
systems and procedure studies can be
very profitably used in Government
operations.
The benefits of introducing or extend-
ing the use of modern management tech-
niques into Government and semi-Gov-
ernment operations are considerable.
British local governments are also be-
coming increasingly aware of this, and
the Royal Commission on Government
organisation in Canada is likely to accel-
erate the process in Britain.
But is enough being done in Australia
to help the Federal. State and local public
service bodies to become more efficient
through better organisation, training,
methods and control?


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD
"WHILE I PROFIT I'LL GROW"
A nthony Hordern and Sons Ltd,
universal providers of Sydney, tact-
fully omitted its trade mark of an oak
tree and motto “While I Live I’ll Grow”
from the latest published accounts.
Shareholders might well feel con-
cerned by the net trading loss of
£559,882 for the 18 months to August
29, 1962, and omission of ordinary divi-
dend for 12 months.
The change of balance dates—the last
previous accounts were presented for the
year to February 22, 1961 —would have
blurred the comparison of earnings and
expenses.
But the reverse in trading leaves us in
no confusion. The year to February pro-
duced a group loss of £376,033 compris-
ing £326,933 as the price of reorganisa-
tion and writing down of stocks because
of generally depressed trade, and £49,100
representing interest charges on unpro-
ductive capital expenditure on the car
park, and remodelling of the main Brick-
field Hill store and of Hordern Brothers.
The £183,849 extra lost in the final six
months to August suggests a continua-
tion of the rate of loss, but directors ex-
plained that in this period tax (£25,063)
and £20,000 additional depreciation were
charged. They now assert that sales in the
August six months were 7i p.c. better
than for the similar period of 1961, and
they believe that the car park is bringing
steadily increasing patronage.
Although most of the loss is declared
as incurred by the major Brickfield Hill
store, the Wollongong store also made a
relatively large loss because of depressed
conditions in the area, and this more than
offset the profits of the Canberra, West
Ryde and other branch stores. Directors
stated in their review that downtown
Hordern Bros was now profitable, but
the problem of re-establishment had been
slower than expected.
The subsidiary Haymarket Finance Co.
Ltd commenced business in November
1961, and is earning at the rate of
£70,000 before tax. The parent company
is doubling its shareholding to £500,000,
and depositors with the parent will be
invited to transfer to the finance com-
pany. Terms business of the group is now
handled on a more systematic and con-
trollable basis, and Haymarket also
handles similar business for other retail
houses, and the leasing of capital equip-
ment.
Sale of the Hordern Bros building
lease back at a capital profit of £554,903
provided funds for the £1 million capital
expenditure. Unwanted properties will
be disposed of to save expenses and
strengthen the liquid position.
The numerous factors to which the
loss was attributed—prevailing economic
conditions pruning profit margins
(especially consumer durables), the loss
of sales during building alterations and
the exceptional expense of renovations
and alteration of the fixtures and fittings,
the writing down of stocks to meet the
adverse summer season, and the interest
charges on the capital expenditure which
was then unproductive—are all suggested
as being temporary in .nature.
But the basic difficulty is the off-centre
location of the huge main store. New
management, which may still need some
stiffening, has been constructive in its
approach so far. Their problems are more
enduring than directors suspected. The
chairman, Mr R. A. Irish, noted expert
in the world of finance, said 1962 would
be Anthony Hordern's year. It proved to
be a year of trial, and 1963 will be
equally testing.
The net tangible asset backing of 58s.
per 20s. share should not mislead any-
one into believing the shares are worth
anything more than these assets can earn.
In the four years to 1961 the earnings
were unimpressive in relation to a sober
8 p.c. dividend. A 4 p.c. distribution was
paid in respect of the six months to
August 1961, and none since. (Prefer-
ence charges have been met.)
At present the shares are worth no
more than the 19s. 3d. at which they were
recently traded. Faithful customers,
prepared to back Horderns for an even-
tual recovery, might be safer in the 73
p.c. notes of 10s. converting to two 10s.
shares in September 30, 1965. These are
selling at 10s. 9d. but at least provide
immediate income.
The final key to recovery must be mer-
chandising. If it has the goods, well dis-
played, the store traffic will stop to buy.
Otherwise shoppers will continue to by-
pass Horderns. The prospect of these
customers moving to the downtown
Hordern Bros site appears possible. But
it remains clear that the Brickfield Hill
estate must pick up even further than
it has done.
£'ooo
August
February 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 4579 4703 5622 7065 5825
less current liabilities 1904 2076 2628 3999 3273
Working capital 2675 2627 2994 30<4 945?
Fixed assets 5090 5127 5435 7877 7413
Investments 12 12 1325 40 41
7777 7766 9754 10,983 10,011
Loan capital 2003 1934 3140 3514 3405
Preference capital 750 750 750 970 970
Ordinary capital 1250 1250 2003 2903 2908
Reserves 3774 3832 3861 4291 3428
7777 7766 9754 10,983 10,011
18 months
Depreciation 49 53 58 79 172
Taxation 107 92 116 120 25
Net profit 186 194 196 199 -560
Net profit for ords 130 138 140 126
Dividends 100 100 122 177 88
Surplus 30 38 18 -51 -757
Earning rate 10.3 11.0 9.2 5.8
Dividend rate 8 8 8 3 4
Dividend yield (a) 6.6 3.6 4.4 5.8
Price earnings
ratio (a) 11.8 22.4 19.6 22.9
High price (b) 30/3 24/10* 45/6 49/- 36/6
Low price (b) 20/3 21/- 23/- 32/- 27/-
ESANDA LTD
SHEET ANCHOR FOR A PORTFOLIO
ESANDA LTD
Incorporated: October 21, 1955, in
Victoria.
Directors: H. G. Ensten (chairman),
H. McE. Scambier, A. L. Eason
(Director of E.S. & A. Managed
Investments Ltd), N. C. Westerman
(Director of E.S. & A. Managed
Investments Ltd), H. N. Lord.
Esanda Ltd is a wholly-owned subsi-
diary of the English, Scottish and
Australian Bank and was formed to
take over all the hire-purchase business
conducted by the bank. The company
acquired (at par) 40 p.c. of the issued
capital (17,666 20s. shares) in Property
Improvement Acceptance Co. Ltd and
secured a profitable source of income by
discounting that company’s promissory
notes. In April 1960 the company sold
this interest to Reid Murray Holdings Ltd
at a capital profit of £152,157. In June
1960 the bank subscribed a further
£500,000 of capital.
Examination of the accounts shows
the steady but sure growth of the com-
pany, the most notable item being the
growth in profit. Incidentally the bank
management fee (which covers reim-
bursement of salaries, use of premises,
services and office equipment paid for
by the bank) is only reimbursed to the
bank after payment and provision for
payment to date of interest on all de-
bentures and notes, and considering the
magnitude of business done and vast
area serviced is a remarkably low figure.
This low cost of operation and the
growth achieved can only mean effici-
ency of management, a factor which de


benture and note holders should keep
well in mind.
The 1962 profit after tax is an in-
crease of 29.6 p.c. on last year’s figure,
and a point of interest is that increased
costs were more than offset by a lower
level of bad debts.
Examination of the company’s latest
accounts reveal that within the next two
years liabilities to the public total
£7,325,757. This is very handsomely
covered by amounts due to the company
for the same period of £25,738,394.
The company thus offers debenture
and note holders excellent security and
a good return on their investment. This
point is made in view of the new issue
of debentures and notes which are being
offered on the following terms: —2 year
debenture stock 5i p.c., notes 5f p.c.;
4 year debenture stock 6i, notes 6i;
5 year debenture stock 61, notes 6f;
6 year debenture stock 61, notes 7.
There may be other debentures and
notes offering a higher rate, but one is
prepared to take a little less to gain extra
security.
All in all the new issue offers a good
sheet anchor investment in any portfolio.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY £'ooo
Shareholders Funds £ 2285 2376 3081 3287 3630
Index 100 100.4 135 144 159
Total Investments £"10588 15025 25171 27657 23662
Index 100 142 242.8 261.7 223.9
Working Capital £ 10401 13798 24622 25263 31248
Index ■ 100 132.7 236.8 243 300.8
Commonwealth
Bonds £ 100 1113 423 2242 2381
Tax Provision £ 127 170 189 287 308
Debenture and
Note Interest £ 377 617 1073 1481 1535
Management Fee £ 185 250 360 520 600
Net Profit £ 219 291 303 456 591
Index 100 133 138.4 208.2 270
Dividend rate 7\ 10 10 10 TO
Dividend amount 150 200 250 250 250
Undistributed
Profit p.c. 31.5 31.3 27.4 45.6 57.6
Percentage profit to:—
O.rd. Capital 10.95 14.56 15.15 18.23 23.32
Shareholders' Funds 9.64 12.25 9.85 13.88 16.3
Total Investments 2.07 1.93 12 1.64 2.5
Leverage 4.63 6.32 8.15 8.4 6.57
Assets backing:
Debentures £ 207.4 172.7 183 177 182
Notes £ 130.2 117.2 112.7 116.3 114.7
HIDDEN ASSETS HERE
F. H. FAULDING & CO. LTD
INCORPORATED: May 31, 1921, in
South Australia.
DIRECTORS: A. F. Scammell
(Chairman), G. V. Scammell, W. F.
Scammell, M. R. Lodge (Director of
Kelvinator Aust. Ltd and SA Rubber
Holdings Ltd), R. T. Patterson, F. A.
Yeates, Sir Donald Bradman (Direc-
tor of Argo Investments Ltd; Clark-
son Ltd; Kelvinator Aust. Ltd, and
SA Rubber Holdings Ltd).
NATURE OF BUSINESS: Manufac-
turing Chemists.
CAPITAL: Authorised'. £38,000 20s.
6 p.c. Cum. Pref. shares, £250,000
20s. 5 p.c. Second Cum. Pref. shares;
£1,212,000 in 5s shares.
SUBSIDIARIES: F. H. Faulding &
Co. Ltd (Perth).
The company was originally estab-
lished in Adelaide in 1845 by Mr F. H.
Faulding, and in 1861 was joined by Mr
Luther Scammell. Later Mr W. W.
Garner joined the partnership and took
charge of the West Australian activities.
The Sydney branch was formed in 1899.
In 1921 two private companies were
formed, one registered in Adelaide, which
also operated in Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane; and one incorporated in Perth.
Both were styled F. H. Faulding and Co.
Ltd.
In 1947 the Scammell and Garner
families held all the shares in the Ade-
laide company and in June of that year
the Adelaide concern acquired the shares
of the WA company. The same year the
company made a public issue.
Other capital moves have been—Nov.
1950: Three-for-10 issue of Ord. shares
at 10s. premium; May 1952: Three-for-10
issue of Ord. shares at 7s. 6d. premium;
1962: One-for-four issue of Ord. shares
at par. £1 shares split into ss. Stock
Units.
The company continues to grow with
increasing profits, except for a slight drop
in 1961, when record sales were made. A
recovery, however, was made in 1962
when £126,246 was earned, and this
would appear to be a disclosed profit
record, although the annual report doesn't
mention the fact. The previous record
appears to be £119,927 in 1958/9.
Examination of the accounts, however,
reveals, that, based on the taxation pro-
vision, concealed profits of £14,526,
£17,890 and £27,440 were made in 1958
to 1960 respectively.
A notable feature of the 1962 accounts
is the reduction in overdraft (£269,400)
and depositors (£42,500) and the rise in
stocks (£43,000) and debtors (£50,000).
A further item of interest is land,
buildings, etc., have been included in the
balance sheet at cost, and here again is
the possibility of a large hidden asset.
The ss. shares are traded at the time
of writing at 12s. at which price they
yield 4.2 p.c. and earn 7.2 p.c. You
might get a better return for less cost
with another share, but you won't get the
solidarity.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY £'ooo
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Shareholders' Funds £ 1357 1404 1449 1492 1670
Index 100 103.6 106.95 1 10.1 123.2
Total Investment £ 2248 2080 2402 2409 2366
Index 100 92.8 106.6 107.2 105.3
Working Capital £ 763 843 837 849 1116
Index 10,0 110.5 109.9 111.3 146.1
Tax Provision £ 83 87 74 86
Net Profit £ 110 120 118 115 126
Index 100 108.6. 107.1 104.3 114.2
Concealed Profit on
Tax Provision £ 14 18 27 2
N.T.A. Der Ord
share (55.) 9/1 9/6 9/10 10/2 9/3
Div rate 8 10 10 10 1.0
Div. Amount 50 62 62 62 68
Pref. . charge p.c. 6& 5 6&5 6&5 6&5 6&5
Pref. amount 10 10 10 10 10
Undistributed Profit
p.c. 53.5 39.3 38.4 36.8 37.4
Percentage Profit to:—
Av. Ord. Capital 16.1 17.55 17.28 16.8 18.36
Shareholders' Funds 8.15 8.56 8.17 7.7 7.55
Total Investments 4.9 i 5.75 4.94 4.8 5.33
N.T.A. (Ord.) 9.71 10.13 9.62 9.08 87
Leverage Ratio 1.93 1.73 1.92 1.86 1.61
Share Prices High 32/6 45/3 53/- 46/6
Low 28/- 32/- 40/- 38/-
Note: Share prices are for period Jan. to Dec. and
are for original 20/- shares.
CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETIES MINISTER'S REPLY
Sir,
I wish to draw attention to an article
under the heading “Building Societies
and Their Liquidity” published in The
Bulletin on November 17.
As Minister for Co-operative Societies,
I am most disturbed by some of the wild
and irresponsible generalisations made
by the writer about our permanent build-
ing societies.
The writer was obviously dealing with
one particular permanent society in
Victoria which was doubtless a victim of
the Commonwealth Government's credit
squeeze.
Surely, because of one case the writer
should not try to condemn all permanent
societies and shake public confidence in
this type of investment.
Public investment in our leading NSW
permanent societies has been increasing
at a steady rate, and they are continuing
to make a growing contribution to the
home building effort.
If the writer had made inquiries he
would have discovered that existing
legislation in NSW provides adequate
safeguards for both investors and
borrowers, and the operations of the
permanent societies are kept under
surveilance by the Registrar of Co-
operative Societies, Mr A. R. Crosky,
and his staff. 1 believe they will eventu-
ally become as important in this country
in the field of housing as the huge per-
manent building societies in Britain,
South Africa and the United States.
I have personally seen the magnitude
of some of these overseas societies during
my visits abroad, and they are wonderful
financial institutions which have the
support of the people.
The NSW Government is encouraging
the development of the permanent
society movement, and I am confident
the day is not too distant when the
societies will be regarded as housing
‘‘banks” where more and more of our
people will invest their savings with
safety and be paid a fair dividend while
at the same time home seekers will
obtain adequate loans at reasonable
interest rates.
Much more could be said in praise of
our permanent societies and I think you
should give this side of the picture—the
true side of how our leading permanent
societies are assisting home seekers.
A. LANDA
NSW Minister for Housing
and Co-operative Socie es
[The article dealt with a Victorian
problem. Ed.]


BROKEN HILL SOUTH LIMITED
LOOKS TO FUTURE
Increased demand for Lead and Zinc expected
Addressing shareholders at the annual meeting of Broken Hill South Limited in
Melbourne on November 5, the Chairman of Directors, Mr. G. Lindesay Clark, struck
a note of optimism both with regard to the Company's present activities and the
development of a number of its projects.
Mr. Clark said that increased world demand for lead and zinc, as well as an
increase in price for silver was beneficial to the Company. He reported favourably
on other big investments by the Company including the progress of Alcoa of Australia
which is constructing a £45 million aluminium complex in Australia; Cobar Mines
Pty. Ltd., which is developing the C.S.A. copper mine at Cobar, N.S.W., and other
exploration activities.
FINANCIAL
Profit— The net profit of the Company fell
to £567,000 from £761,000 in 1961, due to
lower prices realised from lead and zinc, as
well as the low level of production voluntarily
maintained under the International Agree-
ment restricting mine output.
The surplus from working the South Mine
declined by £224,000. Investment income, in-
cluding £50,000 in dividends from the sub-
sidiaries Barrier Central and Zeehan Mines,
totalled £600,000 which showed an increase of
£3,000 on the previous year.
Mining expenditure charged to the working
account was down £200,000 due to the lower
mine output, and to the capitalisation of
£170,000 expended on the development of the
Junction mine; a sum which appears in the
balance sheet under “assets” for the first time.
Strong representations are being made to
the South Australian Government for a reduc-
tion in the excessive high rates applying to
railage.
The Chairman advised that it was the Com-
pany’s intention to call up 2/3d. per share
(including 9d. premium on January 31stf) on
the contributing shares.
Dividend Dividend No. 114 of four pence
for each stock unit payable on December 4th,
will require £274,167.
Balance Sheet The substantial rise in
shareholders’ funds reflects the reorganisation
and issues of share capital and the revaluation
of certain assets. The Share Premium Account
credit balance stood at £444,000; an additional
£704,000 will be credited to this account as
premiums are received from Shareholders.
The Assets Revaluation Reserve has a credit
balance of £2,145,000 after capitalisation of the
sum of £3,200,000. Market value of listed
securities is higher than that reported on
the balance date. Current assets amounting
to £2,575,000 include £392,000 invested tem-
porarily in Commonwealth Loans but since
sold toward payment of a call on shares by
Alcoa of Australia Pty Ltd. current liabilities
amounting to £1,863,000 are adequately
covered by the remaining current assets of
£2,183,000. Contingent Liabilities include
£3,297,000 uncalled on Alcoa of Australia Pty.
Ltd. contributing shares, since reduced to
£2,748,000 by the payment of a call.
BROKEN HILL SOUTH MINE
Operations Operating expenditure increased
from £7.6.0 per ton of ore to £7.18.8 for
reasons already explained.
The latter figure includes the cost of devel-
opment expenditure which has been capitalised
in the accounts.
Operations on the British Junction Leases,
acquired from North Broken Hill Limited,
commenced during January, 1962. Following
investigations it was decided to extend the
1,480 ft. level drive some 6,200 feet north to
connect with the British Junction working.
The drive will be the main transport opening
for ore produced at Junction.
Reserves of ore are 220,000 tons higher than
the previous year due to the acquisition of the
British Junction Cases.
Mine production this year to date is ap-
proximately 50% higher than it was for t'he
same period last year. It is proposed to increase
the annual rate of production to 350,000 tons
as compared with 259,000 tons produced last
year. The achievement of this rate during the
current year will depend on whether the
Junction haulage drive is completed by March,
1963. Diamond drilling of the deep fold struc-
ture in the Western Zone was continued from
two locations. On the first location two
further deflections were drilled from holes No.
1093 and 1126. The first passed beneath the
main fold whilst the second intersected the
structure exposing three feet width of ore at
a grade of 14% Pb. 5.5 ozs. Ag per ton and
3.7% Zn. A third deflection is in progress.
On the second location Hole No. 1205 was
completed and passed beneath the fold struc-
ture-j indicating the position of the structure
to be higher than anticipated. Drilling from
the Junction haulage drive to test the posiiton
will be delayed until next April.
Exploration Diamond drilling on geophysi-
cal anomalies in the Broken Hill district has
been incerased, and five geophysical anomalies
located, and a further two being drilled. Of
those tested two contain considerable widths
of strongly mineralised lode material whilst
the remaining three are minor sulphide or
graphite disseminations not warranting fur-
ther investigation. The two well mineralised
positions occur at Staurolite Ridge and Stirling
Vale, the former about sixteen miles South of
Broken Hill, and the latter six miles South
West. Two further holes drilled 5,000 feet east
of the first location showed a similar lode with
less iron but somewhat stronger, though un-
economic, copper content. At Stirling Vale a
similarly broad iron sulphide mineralisation
was intersected in the one hole drilled to date.
The discovery of these mineralisations marks
an important step forward in the effectiveness
of our geophysical techniques.
The exploration in the district is being
financed jointly with North Broken Hill
Limited and Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Austra-
lasia Limited. Exploration work beyond the
Broken Hill district is being carried out by the
Broken Hill South subsidiary, Mines Explora-
tion Pty. Ltd., in conjunction with McPhar
Geophysics Ltd. of Canada, and North Broken
Hill and the Electrolytic Zinc Co. propose to
participate.
Geological and geophysical, testing has been
done in the Kanmantoo and Tumby Bay
districts in South Australia, resulting in some
twenty-four mineral claims being pegged,
In Queensland a number of anomalies have
been located in the Chillagoe area.
Drilling has been started to test two ano-
malies disclosed in the Moonta-Wallaroo dis-
trict on Yorke Peninsula, South Australia, by
Western Mining Corporation, a project in
which Broken Hill South has a 30% equity.
COBAR MINE
Satisfactory progress is being achieved in the
C.S.A. Mine No. 1 ventilation shaft of 14 ft.
diameter was sunk to a depth of 174 ft. ini-
tially, and sinking No. 2 service shaft of 18 ft.
diameter was suspended at 157 ft. The instal-
lation of the head frame and sinking winders
at No. 1 shaft is now virtually complete and
sinking operations recommenced on Novem-
ber 5.
The sinking head frame has been erected
over No. 2 shaft. The three deck sinking stage
is being assembled and sinking will resume
within the next few weeks.
In the power station four of the five diesel
alternators have been commissioned, and the
four stationary air compressors are available
for use.
Tenders have been called for the erection of
the pilot ore treatment plant.
Experience over many years in the various
Cobar orebodies reveal that both ore and en-
closing rock are strong and that the ore stands
well without support over considerable widths
during mining. Early work on the upper
levels of the C.S.A. western orebody showed
that it had a similar property. Diamond dril-
ling to below 3000 feet has indicated that this
favourable characteristic should continue in
both eastern and western orebodies, making
them suitable for extraction by some open
stope method. To select the particular min-
ing method most suitable for the wall and
lode condition at C.S.A., Mr. M. Howell, Exe-
cutive Director of Broken Hill South, and
Mr. L. Thomson. General Manager of Opera-
tions at Cobar, visited a number of comparable
deposits overseas, and inspected newly devel-
oped mechanical equipment for underground
use. Following this visit it has been decided
to adopt a mechanical cut and fill system of
mining, which will enable mining to be carried
out at costs comparable with open stope
methods.
Broken Hill South holds a 76 2/3% interest
in the Cobar Mines, and Consolidated Zinc
Pty. Ltd. the remaining 23 1/3%. An amount
exceeding £2,100,000 has been expended to
date, including prospective development at
the C.S.A. Mine, and acquisition of fixed assets.
The initial finance for 1963 calendar year will
be provided by short term borrowing. Dis-
cussions are in progress with the State depart-
ment and various State authorities in New
(Continued on Next Page)


IS IT POSSIBLE TO
INVEST WISELY?
With the share market constantly influenced
by day to day world news and news on the
local front, by economic ups and downs,
how can a share buyer invest securely?
Options are the one safe way to do so.
Share options take the risk out of a fickle
share market. At the same time they do
not limit possible profit, and protect against
an unsatisfactory operation for the price of
the option premium.
FIND OUT HOW THIS OPERATES
THROUGH USING PUT AND
CALL OPTIONS
Write or ’phone today for further
details to
II
324 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Phone 26-1024.
South Wales for the provision of essential
public services and housing needed for the
establishment of the enterprise.
The assessment of the capital requirements
for Cobar accordingly has to await the con-
clusion of these discussions.
ALCOA’S PROGRESS
This company has a 16.6', interest in Alcoa
of Australia Pty. Ltd., consisting of 486,111
fully paid £1 shares and 3,663,889 contributing
shares of £1 each on which 5/- per share has
been paid to date totalling £916,000.
The company budgets to meet a further
£2,100,000 for Alcoa during 1963 and 1964. This
liability is covered by the outstanding balance
of 5/3 per share on Broken Hill South’s own
contributing shares. The provision of the
balance of £641,000 will be considered at the
appropriate time.
Alcoa reports good progress at its refinery
at Kwinana and its smelter at Point Henry.
Kwinana with a capacity of 210,000 tons of
alumina per annum is expected to commence
operations in the last quarter of 1963, whilst
the first stage of the Point Henry plant, with
an annual production of 20,000 tons of alu-
minium is expected to commence production
about March, 1963, initially from imported
alumina.
The second stage at Point Henry will in-
crease the smelting capacity to 40.000 tons per
annum. Work on the fabricating plant has
commenced and production from the first
segment should begin about the middle of
1963.
Long range prospects both at home and
abroad are bright for Australian aluminium,
initial sales contacts having proved to be
encouraging.
World Market Trends The Lead/Zinc
Study group meeting at Geneva predicts a
further statistical improvement in the metal
field. According to estimates by the delegates
the Free World’s consumption of lead this year
will reach a record level, and that new supplies
will fall short of demand by 75,000 tons. With
regard to zinc the study group also forecasts
8 consumption record for 1962. The world price
of silver has risen since November 1961 and is
now approximately 10/8 per ounce as against
8/3 in June 1961. Indications point to stability.
THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
From a large number of readers' letters seeking "7 'he
Bulletin's" advice on investment matters, these have been selected
for publication. The balance have been answered personally.
My wife is a shareholder in Farmers
and Graziers’ Co-operative Insurance and
Agency Co-op Ltd, and has received
four different proxy cards. Who should
we vote for to have the shares listed on
’Change? — G. Me A. (Kingsgrove, NSW).
The annual meeting will be held on
December 12. There have been several
letters written by both sides putting the
arguments for and against listing to the
shareholders. Rather than give your
proxy to one side or the other. The
Bulletin advises you to attend the meet-
ing in person and vote as you see fit.
★ ★ ★
/ have been given five £5 bonds of
Queensland Forests Ltd, which were
bought in 1928. Have these any value?
G. H. R. (Numurkah, Vic).
Queensland Forests Ltd is one of
several companies connected with Com-
mercial Credit Corporation of Australia
Ltd, which is at present the subject of
an enquiry by the NSW Government.
In the light of what little has been dis-
closed at this stage, your bonds appear to
be worthless, particularly as there is no
ready market for them.
★ ★ ★
My portfolio is worth about £3OOO,
consisting of 260 Amalgamated Chemi-
cals, 125 Blue Metal, 100 Buckinghams *,
300 Conzinc Riotinto, 200 Deposit and
Investment, 200 H. C. Sleigh, 114 IA C,
100 JaywotlC, 160 Lend Lease, 400
LNC, 600 Mercantile Credits, 100 Payn-
ter and Dixon, 350 Reid Murray *, 280
Robbs I ', 200 Tasmanian TV*, 387 Thiess,
124 Wool worths, 400 Peko, 100 AOG.
200 Exoil, 100 Oil Search and 500
Planet. The shares marked with an
asterisk show the biggest losses. I need
£2OOO cash in April next, but wish to
retain the best for growth. — E.M.M.
(Canberra, ACT).
It is difficult to advise you to quit,
overnight, two-thirds of your shares. The
market seems certain to move higher
early in 1963.
Unfortunately, the stocks which have
cost you dearly are in most cases the
stocks we would sell. The stocks we
would hold perhaps will give you a
better idea of what to sell. We would
not sell Conzinc Riotinto, Deposit and
Investment, H. C. Sleigh, lAC, Lend
Lease, Thiess Holdings and Woolworths.
On top of this, if you can afford to hold,
we would be disinclined to leave Mer-
cantile Credits, Amalgamated Chemicals,
Robbs Industries and Blue Metal Indus-
tries at their present price. Perhaps you
could organise to sell, say, half your
holding in these four—although in the
case of Blue Metal this would leave you
with a broken lot.
You should certainly quit the oil pros-
pecting field. This operation is pure
speculation and does not suit your book
in the slightest way. But don't rush to
sell; watch the market closely. We hope
that by gradual sale of these and the
other stocks not mentioned you can ob-
tain the £2,000 necessary.
★ ★ *
As a newcomer to investing, 1 hold
Bradford Cotton and Steggles. What is
the market potential of these two, how
is a dividend payment compensated on
the market, and how would a good or
bad report affect that market? — D. C.
(Maitland, NSW).
Bradford Cotton and Steggles are both
regular dividend payers, so the shares
do not appreciate much in anticipation
of a dividend announcement. For the last
two years Bradford has paid 10 p.c., but
in 1961-62 profits were insufficient to
cover the dividend payment.
A substantial investment in a new fine
spinning mill has not yet brought any
return, but it should this year. The com-
pany is efficiently managed, but it is
experiencing severe competition from im-
ports, and looks less attractive as a long-
term investment proposition than for
many years. The 1962 balance sheet is
not yet published, but on 1961 figures
the asset backing was a very satisfactory
9s. 2d.
You did not say how much you paid
for either of your holdings, but Bradford
Cotton at 6s. lid. look better holding
than selling.
Steggles’ entry to the field of poultry
processing was a nice extension from
the stock foods business and the shares
should be interesting holdings.
In theory shares should drop by the
amount of the dividend as soon as it is
paid, with a gradual build-up towards
the next payment, but on 5/- shares this
movement is rarely discernible.
A good report should send any shares
up and a bad report should send shares
down, in the normal course of events.
Sometimes, however, a good report may
not be fully appreciated by the market,
giving astute observers the opportunity
to pick up a bargain.


THE MAN
ON THE
LAND
GRAVE DOUBTS ON CHOWILLA
£14m. DAM PROJECT
T>ehind all the optimism of the politi-
cians, some pertinent questions are
being asked about the proposed £l4
million Chowilla dam to be built on
the Murray in South Australia.
The dam will constitute the largest
water storage in Australia and is to be
built jointly by the Commonwealth,
South Australia, Victoria and New South
Wales. It is primarily, however, a South
Australian idea and the other States have
been pressured into accepting it.
Victoria and NSW, who will benefit
indirectly, have each agreed to pay a
£3l million quarter share of the cost.
South Australia will also pay a quarter
and the Commonwealth the remainder.
It would be interesting to know, how-
ever, how much detailed technical con-
sideration the dam project has been
given by Victoria and New South Wales.
NSW has never been keen on the idea
and put it low on its list of priorities. It
is sharing the cost only because the
Commonwealth has agreed to lend it
the money.
None of the announcements of the
decision to build the dam has answered
criticisms which circulated strongly in
the Mildura area some months ago and
were raised again at a Victorian ALP
country conference. These are the high
evaporation rate of the proposed storage,
the suitability of the site and the problem
of salinity.
According to the critics the site of the
proposed dam in South Australia,
just over the Victorian border has an
annual evaporation rate of 3 ft. This
means the dam will lose almost a sixth
of its capacity in evaporation each year.
Doubts have also been expressed
about the holding capabilities of the
sandy ground in the area. Heavy seepage
could add to the evaporation losses.
In addition salinity has always been
a problem in the Murray. The high
evaporation rate will tend to lift the
salinity of the stored water, and the
critics also suggest that the hydraulic
head of the water behind the dam may
force subterannean salts into the down-
stream flow of the Murray.
If the Murray below the dam became
very salty it could be disastrous for the
salt-susceptible grape, citrus and stone
fruit crops grown under irrigation at
Renmark.
All these are obvious items to be
checked by engineers planning a dam
. . . but so far there is no public evidence
that they have been checked.
The dam itself will be three miles
long. It will impound a lake covering
a quarter of a million acres in NSW
and Victoria, and will hold 4.7 million
acre feet of water. The dam wall will
average 40ft in height.
All irrigation from the dam will be
in South Australia. Victoria and New
South Wales will benefit, however, be-
cause under the River Murray Agree-
ment they are now required to see that
a certain amount of Murray water
reaches South Australia.
In dry years this means releasing water
from the Hume Reservoir (only half the
size of Chowilla) and occasionally from
Victorian storages such as Eildon.
When Chowilla is completed in four
years’ time South Australia will be able
to meet all its own needs and the two
other States can make full use of water
from the Hume. Thus extra water will
be available for both NSW and Victorian
irrigation areas.
NSW does not appear to have any
plans for its extra water at present. Vic-
toria will use its share as an insurance
policy. It will not extend its irrigation
areas, but will use the additional water
on existing irrigation farms.
These benefits will be felt even before
Chowilla is built. Under a special agree-
ment, the River Murray Commission will
take over NSW’s £5 million Menindie
Lakes scheme for seven years from
January 1, 1963.
Part of the water in the Menindie
scheme will be set aside to safeguard the
supplies of Broken Hill and nearby irri-
gation schemes, but the rest will be re-
leased down the Darling for South
Australia’s use.
RUNNER BEANS UNDER GLASS
rowers have always been puzzled by
the fact that runner beans do not
“set” easily under glass. Now Dr D. G.
Rowlands, of the Unilever Research
Laboratory, Sharnbrook, England, has
found that proper fertilisation can be
achieved if the stigmatic surface of the
flower is damaged.
As a result, workers at the Lee Valley
Experimental Horticultural Station, Hert-
fordshire, are finding that by using stiff
bristle brushes instead of soft camel hair
brushes to pollinate beans under glass,
an earlier crop, and one three times
greater, can be obtained.
VIRUS-FREE TOMATOES
T>lant breeders at a British glasshouse
crops research institute have created
breeding stock free from tomato mosaic
and introduced freedom from greenback
into a number of existing and new
varieties.
Tomato mosaic is possibly the worst
tomato disease in Britain for overall
losses. Wild tomato varieties from Can-
ada and the United States were used as
a source for the virus resistance and
seedlings produced at the institute have
kept free from mosaic after inoculation.
The resistance characteristic will eventu-
ally be bred into commercial varieties.
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
WOOL PROMOTION LEVY
Sir,
With interest I read your article on the
wool levy on the Man on the Land page
(Bulletin, 17/11/62). Sir William
Gunn is only following his original aim of
obtaining a levy of £1 per bale from Aus-
tralian woolgrowers for promotion.
For his statement decrying the fact
that the work of the IWS is judged only
on the way it can influence price move-
ments I ask: On what else are we to judge
their work? Their target, as far as we are
concerned, is for a better return to the
woolgrower, yet they claim they have not
enough ammunition to reach it. If they
can’t even make a dent on this “target”
with five million bullets a year then it
would appear time that their weapons
were re-aligned.
' We can sell all the wool we can pro-
duce. This is shown by the fact that there
is no carry over of wool from year to year
to speak of, and there are no vast stock-
piles of wool in the world. Is this frantic
search for new markets then not a waste
of time and money? And would not our
time and money be better spent devising
a marketing system whereby buyers
would have to pay the maximum amount
they are prepared to rather than the mini-
mum?
Sir William’s case may be good but he
may rest assured that it will have to be
before he can gain an increase in the levy,
if feelings in this area are indicative of
mood of the industry.
M. E. LAWSON
Mungindi.


Missing Persons
Re: JOSEPH ELLERY STAFFORD and MRS.
ELSIE KATE DICKSON. If MRS. ELSIE KATE
DICKSON or any descendants or other rela-
tives of hers or of JOSEPH ELLERY STAFFORD
will communicate with the undersigned she
or they may hear something to their advant-
age. Any other persons who can give any
information as to his or their whereabouts is
also requested to communicate with the
undersigned. (Signed) Hardwickes, Solicitors,
3 Dumfries Place, Cardiff, U.K.
BRIGHTON
"KURING-GAI"
MAGNIFICENT PROPERTY WITH ACTUAL BEACH FRONTAGE
257 ST. KILDA STREET.
Adjoining Royal Brighton Yacht Club.
AUCTION—NEXT WEDNESDAY, 12th DECEMBER, AT 3 P.M.
ON THE PROPERTY
Well designed and perfectly constructed, it offers the ideal position and setting for a fine
family home.
Reception area comprising: Drawing room, dining room, ballroom and den; seven bedrooms,
breakfast room, nursery, four bathrooms; staff quarters.
Panoramic bay views from all windows. \
Land 204' 1 1" x 223^' approx. BEACH FRONTAGE = 193' APPROX.
192'9" 379'9"
Two Titles An allotment with approx. 84ft. beach frontage can be sold off.
TERMS; \ Deposit, balance 7 years, payable £5OO per quarter, plus interest at 7% per annum,
payable quarterly.
Inspection by Appointment with the Auctioneers in conjunction:
S. P. SIMMONDS, 281 Bay Street, Brighton. 96-2801
R. T. EDGAR & SON PTY. LTD.
108 Queen Street, Melbourne.
MU 1000 MU 9292.
NEW WEED KILLER HAS
QUICK ACTION
A new British weed killer is claimed
by the manufacturer to be effective
against grasses and other species after
only one application. The kill is quick,
there are no hazards, rainfall after use
makes no difference and the chemical
becomes immediately and completely in-
activated on touching the soil.
Gramoxone, which is the trade name
for paraquat, is a completely new
chemical which is absorbed through the
leaves of susceptible plants interfering
with their breathing and metabolism.
Re-seeding can be done in a few
hours after spraying—the chemical is
harmless soon after it touches the
ground.
TWO-COURSE MEALS FOR
PRODUCTIVE COWS
T>elieving that variety in the diet of
a high - yielding cow is essential,
Mr W. A. Hall, a Buckinghamshire
(England) farmer gives two-course meals
to all his cows which produce more than
four gallons a day.
For the first four gallons they are
given four pounds of a dairy ration made
on the farm and, after that, cattle cake
at the rate of between three and four
pounds a head for each extra gallon
produced.
The dairy ration consists of palm
kernel, groundnut, linseed cake, ground
beans, molasses, meal, bran fishmeal,
yellow (untreated) maize, flaked maize,
wheat and oats in varying proportions,
and up to 40 p.c. of barley can be
included as an economy measure without
making the feed any less palatable.
Mr Hall believes that if for any
reason the feeding value of one of these
ingredients went down it would do so
without much affecting the overall value
of the mixture—which would not be
the case if one of only two or three
ingredients were of poor quality.
UK LAMBING RECORD
A Lancashire flock of Mules and Suf-
folk crosses has set a lambing record
in the British National Lambing Compe-
titions with a 236.36 p.c. crop. It pro-
duced 104 lambs reared from 44 ewes,
beating the previous record of 232.558
p.c. set up last year by a Yorkshire
flock.
Feiffer.
THE iJG£M6 WUe
SUMMER PLAHHOPSE
16 HAPPW TO WEiOOME
MOP LAPIEA AMP /
6EMTLEMEM. IF MOP \
WILT RitJPl-M ROPER (
TO MOPR PROGRAMS,
I idol'll? EIRE TO
AMMOOfJOe A FEW'
CHAN6ES FOR TORIOHT6
PERFORMANCE -
/U The part of maomkross
dot HEIEM HAME6 AMP POT
IM MIRIAM WAL6H- [M THE
PART OF MfOHRA -CROAE>
OUT SPEMCER TRACK AfJP
PUT Ik) MTTOM 60EF.
WHERE IT SAHS ORCHESTRA
COMPPOTEP 0M RERCW
FAITH-OROSE OPT THE £
WHOLE LIfJE AMP PUT IM: '
BAMTO 6M REP ELLIOT. /(
ARP WHERE IT 6AMS /
EMTIRE PROPUCTIOM Y
6TA6EP AMP CHOREO6RAPHEP
BM 6EOR6E AXELROP-
Ef?oss That out amp
pur IM MRS. REP ELLIOT.
MOW WEVE HAP A
UTUE TROP6LF
(WITH THE OPRTAIiO-
-60 WHERE IT SAM 6
mERPUSSIOO-
CROiS THAT OPT.
0M- Mow <4OO PEOPLE
IM THE BACK Of THE
homee - mim poor
q ov WNE Oouoo
fROMT- AMP SORT OF
6PREAP APART A 6/T.
THAT IMAM, MOORE ROT
A 6 UKEIM' TO HEAR
the rEimooe.mk
WE HAVE To ACCEPT
RESERVATION.
m SC. MuMTy


PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
■life
, !
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BUL-
LETIN to be delivered to me each
week by
MY NEWSAGENT 1
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick ( J ) whichever
method of delivery you prefer.
For those desiring direct sub-
scription :
Please find enclosed my cheque/
money order for months
subscription to THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea): 1 year
£2/12/-; 1/2 year, £l/6/-. post tree; Britisn
Dominions, £ 3/6/-; other countries. £3/16/-
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS; Remit to Box 965.
Wellington, N.Z.: 1 year, £2/12/-; Vj year
£l/6/- (N.Z currency).
Please add exchange to cheques
ONLY THREE MORE
WEEKS TO XMAS
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 722
ACROSS
I—Don’t eat some promontory' stronghold with speed.
(8)
s—They haven’t married spilled chances. (6)
9—A fowl ranch which breaks a duck? (3)
10—Breaches in something vulgar. (11)
12— Sink caught off a mistimed square cut? (5, 4)
13— Ernie has a change—a change of sex, at that. (5)
14— Nihilist is not Hungarian if I can be seen to replace
you. (12)
19—Not skating what puts up with a committeeman.
(6, 6)
22 — Some time before I mention
a Moslem nymph. (5)
23 Octopus secretion doesn’t sit
in desk equipment. (3-6)
26 Pledge wherein Yours Truly
describes himself a snorter
number with local tax. (11)
27 Slovenly looking woman gets
the sack. (3)
28— It’s most painful like this re-
mainder. (6)
29 Fish who’s in charge of the
apartments. (8)
DOWN
1— Ferguson spoilt this naval
■ armament. (8)
2 Dotage direction on nothing
Jolson leaves Italy. (8)
3 Uproarious and inquisitive
about one. (5)
4 Fears are misplaced when
this is more secure. (5)
6 Complex makes it certain.
(9)
7 More sluggish direction in an
inferior position. (6)
8— Adelaide outhouse girdled by
a band of ribbon. (6)
11—Speak defamatorily of a
creature of a kind not found
in Ireland and the tongue
spoken there. (7)
15— Breaks the rules in forehead
concealers. (9)
16— Football metal from which a
bicycle is made? (8)
17— Leg borne out of a French
city. (8)
18—Foreshadowed before Degas
is upset. (8)
20— Charles is holding in meas-
ures. (6)
21— Nightcap initial of 7-down
but the rest contradicts the
rest of 7-down. (6)
24 A lark in a Kaffir village.
(5)
25 — The fort having no alterna-
tive misappropriation. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 721


What Year Car Do The Jones Drive?
The Jones drive a Volkswagen and
Volkswagens look alike from year to year.
A Volkswagen is never outmoded. In-
deed, no one knows how long a Volks-
wagen lasts; the first VWs made have not
worn out. We hear from VW owners who
have clocked astonishing mileage with-
out engine repair.
Most owners rarely see the engine. The
engine hood is open only when the car is
serviced and, incidentally, VW service is
as good as the car.
The Volkswagen does change where
it counts. A while back we added an anti-
sway bar to the front suspension to make
curves even smoother, new insulation
to deaden engine and roadway noise.
Most recently we changed the footbrake
leverage to make braking easier, better.
Over the years almost every part in
the Volkswagen has been changed (but
not its heart or face).
Volkswagen owners find
this a happy way to drive
and to live.
How about you?
©


BY APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS JOHN WALKER & SONS. LTD.
FOR THE SCOTCH WITH A CHARACTER ALL ITS OWN
TOl*
“Johnnie Walker”
THE SCOTCH OF SCOTCH
Now in miniatures, 5 oz.
flasks, 13 oz. in flasks and
square bottles, and the pop-
ular 26 oz. square bottles.
BORN 1820 —STILL GOING-STRONG
