

The Bulleitn
NOVEMBER 24, 1962
Australia 1/ New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $5
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION - EST. 1880
DOING RECORD BUSINESS


ROTHMANS SUPERB QUALITY MAKES IT
Australia’s most
SisKl
/ 'fifi'A k /fif fir
cigarette 1
wanted
■ *
c
X
A
■
>v
-
-
m
BETTER TOBACCO
Rothmans is famous for paying top prices
year after year at the world’s great tobacco
auctions, to give you superb tobacco, the best
that money can buy.
FINER FILTER
5.000 inches of pure cellulose fibre strands are
used in every cigarette to give better filtration
2nd to enhance the fine smooth flavour of the
'.vorld’s best tobaccos.
TRUE KING SIZE FLAVOUR
For True King Size flavour and full smoking
satisfaction smoke Rothmans King Size Filter.
Doubly smooth the extra length plus the
filter tip give you that cooler, smoother taste.
ROTHMANS KING SIZE
really satisfies


National Notebook
ln a whirl
Immense things are happening around
Melbourne’s Albert Park Lake. The
chairman of the Albert Park Trustees,
Senator Kennelly, has announced that
come next March they will have a new
£40,000 restaurant on the south-west
side of the lake, to be called the Car-
ousel. The exciting part is that there will
be a special section for 20 diners which
will revolve. It will make a complete
revolution every half hour. (NSW al-
ready has a revolving restaurant at
Katoomba.)
Senator Kennelly got the idea when
he visited a revolving restaurant at
Buffalo in up-state New York several
years ago. There are many details of
this restaurant yet to be explained. Will
the kitchen revolve too?
Meanwhile on the other side of the
lake at Queen’s Road a lush new ven-
ture is almost ready to go the John
Batman motor inn, worth £500,000. It
will be opened by the Premier, Mr
Bolte, next month. Two
of the directors are the
brothers Ross and Peter
Shelmerdine who already
have an elegant restaur-
ant, Capers, in Collins
Street.
According to Ross Shel-
merdine there will be nothing to equal
it for fine living in the country. It was
designed by Robin Boyd and it is full of
remarkable ideas. They have negotiated
with the Australian galleries and there
will be £15,000 worth of paintings on
the walls. Guests will be able to lie in
bed and gaze at 500-guinea Nolans and
Tuckers. The Melba suite will have
wall-to-wall kangaroo hide on the floor
just to give that Australian feeling.
Furthermore, there will be a dog-
house, also designed by Robin Boyd.
This will be the drill. When you book
in with your hound you will get your
key to the doghouse. And just like you
order meals for yourself you will get
your card for the dog. Fill it out, write
down whether your dog likes steak, shin-
bone, or puppy-mix and exactly what
hour he would like to have it served.
Experiment
J'HF universities’ dramatic societies
seem to have a better record of ex-
periment in the still risky field of new
Australian plays than other groups. It
was the Melbourne University Union
Theatre which first put on “The Doll”
and it was the Adelaide University
Theatre Guild which gave Patrick
White’s first two plays their world
premiere.
Now the Australian National Univer-
sity Dramatic (graduate) Society is stag-
ing a new Australian play—“O’Leary”
—by a young Sydney journalist, Richard
Hall, for a season of five nights, opening
November 30. Hall has been a member
of the National Institute of Dramatic
Art playwright’s studio at Kensington,
Sydney, for the past two years and his
play will be the first full-length work to
come out of the studio.
Among the experts
YI/e found ourselves last Sunday rub-
" bing shoulders with the men and
women who are usually leaning over our
shoulders. The event was a wine tasting
for waiters and waitresses, put on in
elegant style by Lindemans at their 21-
acre wine bottling plant in a Sydney
suburb.
Assistant general manager Colin Mac-
kay twirled the stem of his glass and told
us this was indeed a rare
occasion. “Last time we
invited waiters and
waitresses was three years
ago. The idea is to tell
them about wine—ours in
particular and give a
few tips that they can
pass on to the public. Of course, the
members of the wine waiters’ guild are
pretty well experts.
“Did you know people are still scared
of wine? Strange isn’t it?” And to prove
wine didn’t scare him he finished his
glass of a gentle little white and had it
refilled. It appears wine tastings of all
kind are more popular and prevalent in
Australia than anywhere else. In eight
years’ residence in Britain as his com-
pany’s representative, Mr Mackay never
recalls hearing of a function similar to
the one he was presiding at.
Touring the vast area —it’s the biggest
in the world —we met a waiter from
Rome who asked didn’t we think his
profile was like Mark Antony’s, a Greek
from Athens who bemoaned the fact that
there wasn’t any retsina (resinated white),
a Dutchman from Amsterdam who con-
sidered local wines the best in the world
but local diners sadly lacking in savoir
faire, and a waitress from Ardrossan
who did a term at the Cordon Bleu,
worked as a chef in Montmartre and
plays the bagpipes.
After seeing a film on the right and
the wrong ways to serve wine which the
assembled company found screamingly
funny, we departed. By this time the
wine-serving fraternity had settled down
to a pleasant session of wine drinking.
SIR HENRY McMAHON Page 27
The Man Who Drew The Line.
•
! NSW-Vietoria: Is Peaceful
Co - existence Possible? 10
NSW v. M.C.C. Biblical
Cricket 11
Doing Record Business 12
Nelson Eddy —■ Romantic
Flashback 17
Rome Newsletter The Novel
Writing Industry 19
Britain’s Big Four at Perth’s
Games 21
The Noble Art of Cricketrite 23
De Gaulle The New Presi-
dential System 26
India and Pakistan A
Summary of Press Attitudes 28
South American Migrants For
Australia? 29
Colombo Plan—Plain Speaking 41
Investment Clubs An
Education .... 48
Agricultural Research Draw-
backs 56
•
TANNER ...... ~ ...... 4
PLAIN ENGLISH ...... 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 7
AROUND
MELBOURNE 10
OUT AND ABOUT 16
ROME NEWSLETTER 19
OVERSEAS 26
FORUM ...... .... 29
LETTERS 31
REVIEWS 33
RED PAGE 36
WORLD OF BUSINESS 41
FEIFFER 57
MAN ON THE LAND 56
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney.
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone
27-5971. Melbourne: Phone MF3341. Bris-
bane: Phone 82691. Adelaide: Phone
W 4121-3.
Vol. 85
No. 4318


Constant stream
the publication in England of
her latest book, “Doctor Caroline”,
Maysie Greig will have established what
is thought to be an Australian record.
Miss Greig has published 180 full-length
novels. She began writing in 1924 and
her first novel, “Peggy of Beakon Hill,”
was filmed. Hollywood had a publicity
photograph of her taken standing by a
huge bottle of ink. “But I always use a
typewriter”, she complained. Undaunted,
the next photo was by a huge typewriter.
Collins, with whom she has published,
off and on, for the last 20 years, is
thinking of Issuing a volume of the titles
of all her works. They asked her to
submit a list, but Miss Greig had to
admit “I’ve forgotten most before the
150th.”
Collins have accepted books of hers
they will still be publishing five years
from now, and she still churns them out
at the rate of five a year.
In the swim
HHhere’s been renewed speculation over
the past week on the future of
Australia’s glamor boy of swimming,
Murray Rose. One thing that's certain
is Rose will have a leading part in
the ABC's major television drama offer-
ing for December. The play is “My
Three Angels”, and Rose will star along-
side such seasoned professional actors
as Gordon Chater and Hugh Stew'art.
The play will be significant also because
it will be telecast on the opening night
of the ABC’s new Canberra television
station December 15 and will be
beamed simultaneously to the Capital
Territory.
According to recent Press reports,
Murray Rose has been auditioned by the
Garnet Carroll organisation (that strange
bedfellow of the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust), and one report said he had
signed a contract for the Carrolls, who
had been very impressed with his pos-
sibilities.
Meanwhile, there’s a good deal of un-
easiness (and some professional jeal-
ousy?) among actors in Sydney over
the casting by producer Alan Burke
of such a relatively inexperienced actor
as Rose. And the fact that they will have
in their midst one of the youngest, most
muscular, and most handsome bachelors
in the Australian swimming world is not
radically altering their approach.
Rose is reported to have said, on the
other hand, that he is not very attracted
to television. But who knows? It is a
strange and compelling medium: and
sooner or later w'e may well find the
young vegetarian swimmer-turned-actor—
who received his education at Sydney’s
exclusive Cranbrook School, and started
swimming at nearby Redleaf Pool in
Woollahra as compere of a new
national show for young people.
Finding their way around
way they told it to us, Les Tanner
and Charles Sriber both returned
to Sydney after some time abroad and
discovered they couldn’t find their way
around the old home town. They sought
a guide-book but no such thing existed.
So being enterprising chaps, they com- j
piled one themselves. Sriber, a regular.
contributor to The Bulletin found out
the How, Who, What and Where in
Sydney, and Tanner, The Bulletin’s
cartoonist did the witty maps and draw-
ings.
Sriber found that, apart from leaf-
lets and brochures, the only guide to
Sydney was one compiled by the chief
librarian of the City of Sydney and pre-
sented by the Town Hali to visiting,
VlP's.
Out of stock
V/Lf e heard of a man the other day who
** actually managed to upset the staid
breakfast routine of the Melbourne Club.
Given a cavernous bedroom the night
before, he was distinctly put out to find
that the bathroom was two floors down;
a vast, tiled, draughty affair with a tiny
dressing table across which was spread a
somewhat feminine lace mat. Yielding to
hasty impulse he irritably shovelled the
offending object into one of the dresser
drawers. Next morning at breakfast he
heard the head waiter remonstrating with
another guest: “I’m sorry, sir, you cannot
come in here without a tie.” The tieless
guest replied wih some feeling that he
was Moderator of the Presbyterian
Church and that someone had mislaid
his lace stock. The stock—with due
apologies was retrieved from the
dresser drawer.
"America will not rest until ail
offensive items are gone from
Cuba.
"Soviet missiles are offensive!
Jet bombers are offensive. Russian
technicians are offensive . . .


Jhe "sick" Minister for Health
{lnterpretation of dreams is favored
I* by many psychiatrists, these days. But
"it is doubtful that a head-shrinker would
'have any difficulty in finding the mean-
ing behind a recent dream of NSW
Health Minister, Billy Sheahan.
At the recent opening of extensions to
Wollongong Hospital, Sheahan related
what he said was a dream. He broke in
with this iittle bit of his own brand of
humor after describing the “raw deal” he
got in Canberra over Commonwealth
contribution to patients’ costs.
The dream: “I was walking along when
I saw the Commonwealth Minister for
Health hanging from a tree with a rope
around his neck ... I looked at him
for a while and then went on ... I
hadn’t gone far when I came across the
Queensland Minister for Health, who
said ‘Hadn't we better relieve him?’.
‘No,’ I said, ‘He isn’t dead yet’.”
Why hesitate?
The building committee of Melbourne’s
A new cultural centre say they have
had hundreds of suggestions for narmja
for the building. Artorium, cultoriurA,
the Russian sounding cultcentre, and
right through to the idyllic “Haven of
the Arts.” There’s also Anzacult (which
sounds like a political pact) and Mai
Centre (music, art, literature).
Those who take a dim view of Mr
Bolte’s Government, however, are
strongly in favor of calling it the Tait
Gallery.
Tamer
• • . and you could do with a hair-
cut. 11
PLAIN ENGLISH
AUSTRALIA-A PACIFIC SPAIN?
PRE-WAR edition of the Columbia University Encyclopaedia, in an
entry under Australia, described the education system of this country
as “notably good.” So it was. Despite a small population and relatively
meagre resources our education system was abreast with the rest of the
world and, both at the secondary and the tertiary levels, maintained high
standards and sufficient teachers. Of course it was easier. It is now a
vastly different picture. World War II ushered in a technological age of
tremendous complexity and swift development making demands in fields
to an extent unthought of twenty-five years ago.
Last week, on “Four Corners,” three leading Australian physicists,
Professor J. P. Baxter, Professor Harry Messel and Sir Mark Oliphant
warned that in the new technological age now dawning Australia was in
grave danger of dropping out of the race. In one sense we can never be in
any race in which the US and Soviet Russia are the pacemakers. But
there is a level of technological achievement and scientific skills below
which no nation can fall and survive as a modern country. That level
gets higher, not lower. Professor Oliphant vividly described our situa-
tion when he said unless money, teachers and facilities for
greatly increased scientific training were found Australia would become
like Spain—which has been left behind by modern Europe.
The now constant clamor in this country, on the part of a few, for a
new deal in scientific education and standards is not merely the result
of physicists’ self-infatuation. It is provoked by a sense of urgency and
impatience with the refusal of large sections of government, industry and
the “informed” public to face up to the fact that in a modern society there
is hardly an aspect of living and producing which is not being affected
by a technological revolution. By and large, with some notable exceptions,
the class most affected by what is happening — the businessman — is the
least aware of the nature and extent of the changes that are upon us.
The new businessman has been apparent for two decades in the US.
His counterpart in the Soviet forms the new elite. He is well in evidence
in Western Europe. He is the new technocrat class. He knows what he is
dealing with and what may be expected of it. Most of all he knows the
variety and extent of scientific training necessary in the new society that
is emerging. That is more than can be said of the pacemakers and opinion-
formers in Australia with their deluded sense of isolation and safetv, their
complacent acceptance of a changing world in which they play
increasingly little part, their political notions that sound depressingly
like a dialogue between the twenties and thirties. But it is not merely
they who are at fault. We all are.
THE BARMAN FROM HOLLANDIA
W7HILE noting Indonesian ruthlessness over its West New Guinea
Y promises—and Sir Garfield Barwick’s awkward attempts to explain
the fait accompli—the rapidly changing West New Guinea atmosphere
seems to have escaped Australian notice. Several hundred West Papuan
leaders for one reason or another are being happily feted and
indoctrinated in Indonesia. When even the slow-witted barman at the
Government hotel in Hollandia attends a hotel waiters’ course in
Djakarta it is time we noted realities.


THIS AUSTRALIA
GREEKS
MELBOURNE'S PLEASANT
SUNDAY AFTERNOON
The Victorian police rise to the occasion
ARCHBISHOP EZEKIEL
TSOUKALAS
Locked out
long dispute between the Victorian
Greek community and the Greek
Orthodox Archbishop of Australia and
New Zealand, Ezekiel Tsoukalas, had a
dramatic anti-climax last Sunday when
the Archbishop found himself locked out
of the community’s East Melbourne
church. The real farce, however, was
not provided by the Archbishop or his
opponents, but by the police who hugely
over-estimated the potential of the situa-
tion and sent seventeen cars, including
a riot wagon, to the scene.
Some 200 Greeks in their Sunday best
milled about in the sunshine on the foot-
path in Victoria Parade, but there was
little danger of blows being struck,
however loudly they argued. Inspector J.
Harrison, who was in charge of police
operations, said he had not wanted to put
on a massive show of police strength, but
tempers were warming and he feared
trouble. Later he deployed some of his
forces to a noon service at the Greek
church in Carlton, but again there were
no incidents calling for police interven-
tion.
The Greeks inside the church were
supporters of the anti-Archbishop fac-
tion and a spokesman said later that the
doors were locked against the Archbishop
because it was feared that there would
be trouble if he gained admission and put
his views. The community’s Honorary
Secretary, Mr E. Vlass, also pointed out
that the community was a private com-
pany and since it owned the church
building it had power to eject anyone
it wished. Archbishop Ezekiel conducted
his service on the footpath outside the
church, watched curiously by Inspector
Harrison’s squads.
The Archbishop's visit from Sydney
came soon after his supporters had been
rebuffed in a Supreme Court action last
week. The Victorian Greek Orthodox
community is registered as a limited com-
pany by guarantee and it runs the affairs
of the Church in Victoria. Four of the
company’s members and three who claim
they have been wrongly expelled went
to the court asking it to remove the
company’s Committee of Management
and appoint a receiver.
Mr M. V. Mclnerney (for the appli-
cants) told the court that the community
had, without proper reason, refused to
admit 2120 persons eligible for com-
munity membership and had arbitrarily
excluded some members from a general
meeting held last August. Mr P. H. Opas
QC (for the community) argued that the
case was an attempt to use the Com-
panies Act to decide ecclesiastical issues.
Sir Edmund Herring ruled that the issues
were ecclesiastical and that the Court
would not intervene.
After his footpath service, Archbishop
Ezekiel addressed a gathering in Fitz-
roy Town Hall in which he charged that
the Management Committee's supporters
wrongfully believed that he wanted to
control the real estate and financial
affairs of the Greek community. “The
ignorance of these people is being ex-
ploited by Communists who have in-
filtrated into the Greek community and
are working in the background against
the Church.”
Numerically, only an insignificant
number of Melbourne Greeks are Com-
munists, but the Archbishop’s attack
was probably provoked by the Com-
munist-type vituperation which has been
directed against him. Now aged 49, he
was originally ordained as Bishop of
Boston and New England in 1950, and
in 1954 became Bishop of Chicago.
When he came to Sydney in 1959 and
tension developed with local Greek
community leaders it was easy to use
ready-made Communist epithets that he
was an instrument of American policies.
The Victorian community has been
in existence since 1895 and its control
is largely in the hands of long-established
settlers. They have no wish to share
leadership with the Archbishop and have
accused him of trying to impose an
“American” constitution on the com-
munity in place of their present regist-
ered company set-up. They distrust many
of the new arrivals as dupes of the
clergy and hence have become sensitive
over whom they admit as shareholders.
From the Archbishop’s viewpoint, even
if he wished to assume lay leadership of
the community, his first task is a more
fundamental one to get some measure
of control over the Church which he is
supposed to head.
As it is, the community has broken
off relations with him and are appoint-
ing their own priests irrespective of his
views. It is therefore rather fatuous for
community spokesmen to complain that
he had refused to bless a new church
which has been built in Footscray at a
cost of £30,000, or to ordain priests
for it.
REDISTRIBUTION
McEWEN SOUNDS THE ALL CLEAR
The Deputy Prime Minister moves on redistribution proposals
As I see it
T ast week
i when John
McEwen in his
Qc ~
criherl hi if° Un , rty Geader des-
over thP nrn a ' m ° St L “ des P air ”
sals twhirh h^° S ] e 16 ISt T but ! 0n P ro P°‘
cockeved’h ti P as crazy and
the All n h W f S Und ° ubted ly giving
followers m , . S u uff i Clent of b is
Parliamenf to u 6 'u* Labo y m tbe
Un t p nn ° a out their defeat.
MeF wen f nr ar " P ressure has been on
uneauivocal sta^ 16 r time *° rna h e an
tion nronosals • a^ ainst the redistribu-
proposals in their present form. The
CP's strength is concentrated in rural
areas which the Party cannot allow to be
eroded piecemeal into other, non CP,
electorates without its very existence
b Gng threatened.
Under the redistribution recommended
by the Electoral Commissioners tb e
Country Party stands to lose Gwydir in
NSW earmarked for abolition. In
Queensland, Dawson held by the Deputy
Country Party leader Charley Davidson,
who is also Postmaster General, is slated
to go out and Davidson will have to
shift to Capricornia which under tb e
proposed redistribution is a CP po*


bility but by no means a certainty. It is
doubtful whether CP representative
Hugh Leslie could continue to hold
Moore in Western Australia. There are
' only minor offsetting gains.
Hitherto McEwen has stubbornly re-
sisted CP pressure to come out fighting
against the redistribution proposals,
though in conjunction with Labor the
CP could defeat the proposals on the
floor of Parliament.
There was still a chance that the
ultimate redistribution need not come
out too unfavorably for the Country
Party, particularly if a combination of
the Labor Opposition and a few CP
‘'mavericks” (as distinct from the CP as
a body) resulted in the present proposed
redistribution being sent back to the
electoral commissioners for further ex-
amination.
At this stage it would not do the
Liberal-CP coalition any good if he came
out against the proposals which a majo-
rity of the Liberals favor. By commit-
ting the CP formally to opposing the re-
distribution proposals as a Party he
would be displaying publicly a quite
fundamental split between the Liberals
and the CP whose coalition ranks had
successfully weathered hitherto all at-
tacks and the strain of thirteen years in
office.
That was McEwen’s approach until
last week. Then, at a CP dinner in
Queensland, he abandoned this cautious
and conciliatory approach and came out
flatly against the redistribution proposals
in their present form.
The intriguing question is “why”?
As 1 see it, the resignation of Sir
Leslie Melville as Chairman of the Tariff
Board was probably a factor in causing
McEwen to come out so unequivocably
on the redistribution issue. He could
flght the Country Party on one front, but
he could not fight his own Party on two
front. Sir Leslie’s own letters tabled in
Parliament last week show that Sir Leslie
accepted an appointment to the staff of
the World Bank before he resigned as
Chairman of the Tariff Board.
Nevertheless, rumor and report have
depicted Sir Leslie in the role of a man
trying to protect the independence of the
lariff Board and primary producers’
costs against the unfair pressure of Mc-
Ewen-backed protectionists, mostly urban
manufacturers.
By this condemnation he has probably
strengthened himself internally in the CP
a nd averted criticism that he has become
solicitous about urban interests to the
e triment of the primary producer. He
ls back again in the role of fighter for
rural areas against the threat of political
omination from the cities, but it will
e roterestirjg to see what effect his con-
emnation—bound to be unpopular with
e ma J°rity of the Liberals —will have
upon relationships.
ALAN REID
FAUNA PROTECTION
DEATH AT THE ZOO
"You can't prosecute Sir Edward ..."
three female platypuses captured
A last month at Taree, NSW, are all
dead. They died within a week of being
brought to Sydney’s Taronga Park Zoo.
A local farmer caught them, and gave
them to Sir Edward Hallstrom, who ac-
cepted them on behalf of the Taronga
Park Trust. Sir Edward, a noted philan-
thropist, benefactor and manufacturer,
is the ex-President of the Trust. His son,
Mr J. Hallstrom, is now President.
The Zoo was happy to have the pla-
typuses. Sir Edward commented to the
Press: “I am very pleased to get them,
they are the only ones we have.”
Oddly enough his comment is the
first official admission that a platypus
caught last year at Windsor and given to
the Trust, is also dead. Then, as now,
the Trust has made no official comment
However, keepers at the Zoo told The
Bulletin last week that the bodies of
the three platypuses were incinerated
shortly after they died.
Platypuses are defined by the Fauna
Protection Act of NSW as protected
fauna. To capture or receive them is an
offence punishable by a fine of £5O or
six months gaol.
When news of the capture of the pla-
typuses got out, naturalists demanded
that the Fauna Protection Panel take
action.
(The FPP was set up under the Act
to see that the Act's provisions were ob-
served. It is subject to the control of the
Chief Secretary.)
Recently, Sir Edward made a gift of
£lO,OOO to the FPP towards providing a
reserve of 750 acres near Cowan. It is
the latest of a long history of such gifts.
The FPP advised the Chief Secretary,
Mr C. A. Kelly, to take action against
the farmer. But there was no suggestion
that the Chief Secretary should take
action against either the Trust or Sir
Edward.
Since under the Act a receiver of
protected fauna is just as culpable as the
original offender it seemed logical that
Sir Edward should be prosecuted also.
Mr A. Strom, the Chief Guardian of
Fauna, said the Panel had not recom-
mended prosecution of Sir Edward.
“You can’t prosecute Sir Edward”, he
said “without prosecuting the Trust.
You can’t prosecute the Trust because it
is a semi-Government body.” He admit-
ted that he had made no move to re-
store the platypuses to their natural
habitat, or even find out whether they
were dead or alive.
When the matter was brought up in
the NSW Legislative Assembly, Mr Kelly
said that the reason why the Trust was
not being prosecuted was that a 1958
regulation, which was to operate for
GIN FOR LADIES
November 25, 1882
It is with tears of joy in our eyes
that we record the fact that in the
glorious future gin will be the cure
for every sickness. How do we know
this? Well, we have just now under
our hand an advertisement addressed
to females which appears from time
to time in a daily paper. It is from
a certain firm whose business lies
with intoxicants. Here is an insinuat-
ing sentence which cannot fail to
fetch the female heart:— “In lieu
of consulting the family physician,
much trouble and inconvenience
could be saved by taking a simple
prescription, which is always feasible,
and will always prove efficacious.” In
other words, ladies, drink this firm’s
gin. If you find a little does you no
good, drink more. Drink a lot. Get
drunk. Go to bed with a gin-bottle
under your pillow. Take your coffee
with gin. Put gin in the baby’s
feeding-bottle. There is nothing like
gin And , when you have been divorc-
ed f rom y OUr husband, deserted by
children, and find yourself a
b!ear _ eved olltcn „ t in th _ s / rppK thpn
blear eyed outcast in the streets then
y™ bless that firm Certainly you
Wlll have B one to perdition, but what
of that? The gin business will boom
when you are in the dead-house. And
the canvasser for that gin-firm will
go round and collect his commission
from the undertaker—who by that
time will have wisely dissolved his
ancient alliance with the doctors for
the newer and more improved method
of murder. Sling your medicine out
of the window, ladies. Drink gin and
be damned!


four years, exempted the Zoo from the
provisions of the Act “in special circum-
stances'’. He did not say what the cir-
cumstances were, but indicated that they
applied in this case. Mr Kelly also said
he didn’t know if the platypuses were
alive or dead because the FPP hadn't
told him.
After his initial statement, expressing
delight in receiving the protected ani-
mals Sir Edward made no further com-
ment, and asked The Bulletin to “let
the matter drop for the while.”
Mr Alexander Chisholm, naturalist,
journalist, and Editor-in-Chief of the
“Australian Encyclopaedia,” told us he
thought that Mr Kelly had discovered the
regulation “suspiciously late”. He claim-
ed no one but Mr Kelly knew about the
regulation, how it was enacted, or what
it consisted of.
Mrs. T. Stead, the ex-Secretary of the
Wildlife Preservation Society, said the
regulation was new to her. She claimed
that in 1960 Mr Kelly seemed not to
know about the regulation because he
stated that the Zoo was “no different
from anyone else as regards the Act.”
Is this a case of one law for the
Government and another for the citizen,
one for the farmer who found the platy-
puses, and another for the Trust which
received them?
ROBERT MURRAY
UNIONS
MR SANTAMARiA'S
POUND OF FLESH
A matter of withdrawal
B. A. SANTAMARIA
Only Communists
C|nce again last week the Amalgamated
Engineering Union was on the de-
fensive in the Commonwealth Industrial
Court. This time Mr Allan Macdonald,
the secretary of the Hawthorn branch in
Victoria, was challenging the validity of
Rule 2 of the union which, he alleged in
evidence, prevented him from standing
for office on the union's supreme body
in Australia, Commonwealth Council.
Although the union is made up of
77.000 members throughout Australia
only Section 1 members, numbering
11,161, are eligible to stand for any of
the five positions on Commonwealth
Council.
A Section I member is one who con-
tributes to the Union's social services
or benefits fund. Macdonald had become
a Section 1 member in June, 1957, but
when he nominated for the position of
Commonwealth Chairman he was in fact
ineligible to be a member of that Sec-
tion because at the time he transferred he
was 40 years and seven months. The
Union’s rules state that members over
40 can not become Section 1 members.
On these grounds his nomination had
been rejected.
Unless the Court upholds Macdonald's
challenge against the rules the two can-
didates who will contest the position will
be the present Chairman, Mr Arthur
Horsburgh. and Mr Seaton.
The union still shows all the signs of
a union which is politically in a state
of constant turmoil. Mr Seaton is in
fact a follower of the present Secretary.
Mr J. Garland, and it is strongly
rumored around the AEU circles that
Mr Garland helped Seaton write his 750-
W'ord electoral address.
In so f ar as Garland and Horsburgh
arc both members of the ALP and have
worked uneasily together for years in
the union, this more or less open declara-
tion of war bv Garland is bound to com _
plicate the struggle going on for control
of the union. The struggle is between
some members of the ALP and members
of the National Civic Council on the
one hand, and on the other, members of
the ALP with members of the Commu-
nist Party. Mr Horsburgh. who falls into
any camp, will almost certainly win
xu , , .
ther elect,on ' which will also be
conducted by the Commonwealth Elec-
toral Officer sometime early next year, is
that for the position of Organiser for the
Sydney Division (No. 6). This has long
been held by Mr W. Buckley, a member
of the Communist Party. He has three
opponents, two of whom were refused
permission to withdraw their nomina-
tion by the Returning Officer.
The real battle is between Bucklev.
who undoubtedly will receive the tacit
support of ALP member Garland, and
Mr Cudmore, a branch official of the
ALP who is employed at the oil refiners
in Kurnell, NSW.
This ballot is particularly interesting
as its result will give an indication of the
ability of the Communist Party to halt
its decline in influence in its biggest
stronghold in the Australian trade union
movement. Its defeats over the last two
years in the Engineering Union are
mostly the result of buried antagonisms
between some members of the ALP and
members of Mr Santamaria's National
Civic Council.
Two of the four positions taken away
from the Communist Party in the last
two years have been won by members
of the Labor Party who have had no
connection with the National Civic
Council, but who have received its un-
solicited organisational and financial
help.
Now' that ALP members are con-
vinced that the only pound of flesh Mr
Santamaria W'ants for his support of ALP
members standing for trade union office,
is opposition to the Communist Party
they are prepared to w'ork behind the
scenes w'ith him.
In the Organisers’ position this com-
bination is expected to defeat Mr Buck-
ley. If any further evidence was wanted
of how far the pendulum has swung
since the ALP split in 1955, the fact
that one of the two members who
wanted to withdraw from the ballot to
lend his support to ALP member Cud-
more was a member of the National
Civic Council. The other was a member
of the Labor Party.
MUGG[?]
ABORIGINES
"THE ARMY PAY US NOTHING"
Will the Army come up to scratch?
O ne of Australia’s shabbiest wartime
riaht inJUStiCeS gradually being Put
-P^nnn er y6ar the Navy P aid out
£-000 to a group of aborigines who
had acted as coast-watchers during the
war. Armed with .303 rifles they had
patrolled from Darwin to the shores of
Arnhem Land in dug-out canoes. They
rescued many downed airmen, took
prisoners and reported the movement of
Japanese planes and submarines.
A few went north w'ith commando
groups to the Indonesian islands on
mysterious, often bloody errands.
The native troops were given rations
and clothes but received no pay. The}
brooded over this for years, and finally
one spoke out before a Parliamentary
committee which was touring the Tern-


tory to inquire into the question of
aboriginal voting rights.
And so, finally, the Navy settled its
20-year-old debt.
In Darwin this week another group
came forward. This group had done
similar work for the Army between 1942
and 1944. Their spokesman, full-blood
Jack Gordon, 40, told newsmen the
Navy payout had started him thinking
and finally he had decided that the Army
too should come up to scratch.
He was among 30 aborigines who
worked for the Army at Katherine and
near Mandorah during the war. “We
fix up camps, dig trenches, carry sup-
plies, build huts and concrete slabs and
help find lost soldiers,” he said. “The
Army pay us nothing just tucker and
a bit of tobacco. Now that Navy fellow
paid up, maybe Army will too.”
A w'hite Darwin resident, Mr Jack
Murray, backed Gordon up. Mr Murray
was an honorary coast-watcher in war-
time, when he helped rescue a number of
pilots who were shot down. He said 30
natives had aided him, including Gordon
and such personalities as the famous
tribal dancer Mosic (who died some
years ago), Willy-Woodie and Jack
Mulberry. The Army employed, but
never paid them. All they got was
rations.
Mr Murray said: “They deserve some
financial reward, just as much as the
Navy group.” Gordon wants “several
thousand pounds”, to be shared by him
and his companions.
So far the Army has made no com-
ment.
The payment, when and if it is made,
will be too late for many of the 30
native soldiers, 19 are dead.
KEITH WILLEY
CRICKET
"SADIE THOMPSON"
RUINS THE MCC
!! Samuel xviii: "Why didst thou not smite him?"
Rev. D. SHEPPARD
Sectarian catch
PngLishmen are much too easily
seduced. That, at least, is the story
of the MCC’s match against New South
Wales, and I shall be much surprised if
this Sydney tale of the over-easy seduc-
tion of gifted Englishmen is not repeated
in the Test series which begins in Bris-
hane at the end of next week
Almost to a man. the English bats-
men conducted themselves with mature
nnd circumspect decorum when the New
South Wales bowling had character and
status, and then, when the rubbish ball
came along wooingly to purr “I am
Jondelayo”, they promptly went to de-
bauch and ruin. Eight of them, in that
first innings of 348, gave themselves
and their lives away in this thoroughly
disreputable manner. Only two of them
seemed honestly beaten by bowling of
quality.
Perhaps the pattern was set by English
°Pener, the Reverend David Sheppard,
v 'ho was the first to go. There was some
devil in Alan Davidson’s opening overs
(but not in Frank Misson’s) and the
Parson batsman, using his pads skilfully
m the traditional English defence against
s arp late swing, did all the devil-shun-
omg that might be expected of him. But
en Johnny Martin's left-hand slows
were introduced and the big off-breaks
came in so docilely to Sheppard from an
assortment of indifferent lengths that he
allowed himself to become unwary.
There was clearly a Sadie Thompson
element in the moment of his undoing;
the parson fell hopelessly for a wrong
’un. He flashed to cut, but the undetected
variation in break had the ball on the
edge of his bat and wicketkeeper Ford,
possibly for sectarian reasons, refused to
drop the catch.
It was much the same tale all through
the innings. Dexter, itching to get at
the bowling, was immobilised at the
bowler's end for several overs and was
obliged to amuse himself and the crowd
between whiles with an excellent display
of mighty swings at imaginary bowling.
There is a fidgety cat-on-hot-bricks factor
in the Dexter temperament which may
be counted on, for all the resource and
dash of his strokesmanship, to lead him
over the brink from valor to rashness.
Dexter made merry for 42 in 50 minutes,
and then run-hunger finished him. He
had the heretical idea that the bat should
be swung at right angles to the flight
course of a well-pitched ball on the
stumps. The bat swung west-east as the
ball travelled south-north, as if jointly
to sketch out the cruciform ground plan
of one of the Reverend Sheppard’s
cathedrals.
Cowdrey, who makes strokes with big
square precision and poise, almost as if
an innings is built just as an edifice in
a Roman capitol is built, acquired 50
classical runs in quick time and then,
as reward for a ludicrous long-hop from
O'Neill, renounced his classicism with a
prep-school pull which put the ball
straight into Davidson’s hands at mid-
wicket. If Cowdrey was seen to be mut-
tering on his return to the pavilion it is
conceivable that he, as a lesson-reading
churchgoer, was savoring a text from
II Samuel xviii: ‘'Why didst thou not
smite him?”.
The seduction of Pullar was of an-
other kind. For nearly five hours his
careful bat obstinately prodded out the
message to his opponents and to the
crowd that they can expect to have a lot
of his company this summer. The crowd
became increasingly impatient with this
prospect as Pullar moved up towards the
130's. It told him so. Now Dexter's men
are keen on popularity (their tricks and
capers in the field later made that clear),
and Pullar, slow-handclapped, made a
sudden mad bid to get his own share of
it, pranced down the pitch to Martin,
swung like a windmill and sent the ball
straight up in the air. One wicket to
the crowd! Pullar was a sacrifice to the
cult of “brighter cricket”. “Woe to the
multitude,” says Isaiah, "woe to the
multitude of many people which make a
noise like the noise of the seas.”
Graveney and Smith, early into error,
had forfeited their haloes to the score-
board staff who hung them out by way
of information. Stumps were drawn 10
minutes before the Angelus, and players
went to vespers.
Dexter’s preoccupation with the obliga-
tions of “brighter cricket” led him on
one occasion to grasp the ball between
his two feet and “jump” it up into his
hands and Sheppard quite unintend-
ingly won a laugh when, chasing a drive
out towards the Noble Stand fence, he
wore such a look of taut life-and-death
concentration on his face that it might
have supposed his speed was determined
less by the ball in front of him than by
a tiger behind. But, in the field gener-
ally, only Allen behaved consistently at
Australian levels of fielding efficiency
and he is a man who wears a scowl.
And yet Allen, seemingly unruffled by
the tremendous punishment the New
South Welshmen gave to his unturning
offspinners, appeared true to St Paul’s
admonition to be “patient in tribulation”.
The indications are tht all the
Englishmen will have to go along with
that as the tour proceeds Only rarely
can they be expected to have the upper
hand in this Test series.
LINDSEY BROWNE


Around Melbourne
NSW-VIC: IS PEACEFUL CO-EXISTENCE POSSIBLE?
ITave you noticed that the dan-
gerous tension between Sydney
and Melbourne has been on the in-
crease almost daily? Indeed some-
times I have wondered where it will
all end. Before the situation gets out
of hand would it not be wise to
suggest that our two great leaders,
Mr Bolte and Mr Heffron, be joined
by private line to their various White
Houses so that they could contact
each other direct at any hour on oc-
casions of peril? Mr Heffron should
not take it for granted that Victoria is
entirely helpless. We still have a unit
of the Royal Victorian Navy, the
iron-clad HMVS Cerberus, equipped
with four 18-ton muzzle-loading guns.
Admittedly it has been sunk as a
breakwater at Black Rock since 1926
and is in a somewhat rusty condition,
but we could restore it.
A typical example of the situation
was a little scene in the Senate the
other night. Senator Fitzgerald (Labor
NSW) brought out a circular written
by Mr W. L. Hume of Sydney titled
“Melbourne's one-sided cold war in
Sydney”. It has been distributed to
Members of Parliament. Senator
Fitzgerald pointed out that, according
to the circular, contracts for large
Melbourne firms had been given to
Sydney and overseas investment was
being directed to Melbourne. What’s
more, Federal Cabinet was dominated
by Melbourne interests against the
better interests of NSW.
Senator Spooner was kind enough to
admit that the pamphlet was quite ir-
responsible but then he went on to
say: “Of course it is to the great
ill-content of my Victorian colleagues
that there is no comparison between
the respective virtues of Sydney and
Melbourne. Melbourne is not in any
way making the progress that Sydney
is making!”
But the real point which drives
Melburnians to anger is the frustra-
tion over the lack of a jetport. Our
Lord Mayor, Cr Nathan, likes to
comment on this daily. Last week,
acting as Chairman of the Victorian
Promotion Committee, he sent mid-
night telegrams to Mr Menzies, the
Cabinet Ministers, and all Victorian
Federal Members calling for an early
start on the project at Tullarmarine.
Why the telegrams were sent at mid-
night was not explained, but perhaps
it had a nice air of doom about it.
It’s not always mentioned, but the
outsider gets the feeling that Sydney
was behind the hold-up at Tullar-
marine. Why, Mr Nicol, the Liberal-
Country Party man for Monash, went
so far as to say in the Legislative
Council that these three forces were
working against the Melbourne jet-
port —“Sydney interests of various
types, Australian domestic airlines
and Qantas.”
Even Sir Roland Wilson’s name
was brought into it “One of the
most powerful men in Government
circles today” he was a director
of Qantas and he did not want a
jetport in Melbourne,” according to
Mr Nicol.
The other cause for strife is the
worry as to which of the two fine
States is making the greater progress.
Last August Mr Whitlam and Mr
Bolte challenged each other to a
public debate on the subject. The
debate sadly did not come to fruition.
Mr Heffron has said that on facts
and figures no other Australian
State can rival NSW in its growth.
Of 569 firms which have set up in
Australia, 277 have come to NSW.
Of 299 subsidiaries of US firms estab-
lished in Australia 152 are in NSW.
NSW supplies 96 per cent of Aus-
tralia’s steel, 79 per cent of its black
coal and 44 per cent of its factory
output. In oil development it has half
of the investment in petro-chemical
and petroleum industries and NSW
accounts for £962 million or 43 per
cent of the total sum invested in
manufacturing in Australia between
1950 and 1960 against £703 mil-
lion or 32 per cent invested in Vic-
toria. Yes, Mr Heffron thinks that
NSW beats Victoria economically and
in every other way.
But let’s get down to some heart-
less figures worked out from those
of the Government statistician. In the
post-war .years of 1947 to 1961 there
was an. increase of 57 per cent in the
number of factories in Victoria, 69
per cent in NSW; in the number of
factory employees 45 per cent in
Victoria, 374 per cent in NSW; sala-
ries and wages, 39.6 per cent increase
in Victoria, 37.3 per cent NSW; value
of output 42.2 per cent increase
Victoria, 41.5 per cent NSW; value
of land, buildings and machinery, 57.2
per cent in Victoria and 60.6 per cent
NSW.
Without boring you to death with
figures, Melbourne is increasing in
population faster than Sydney; as of
December 1961 bank deposits per
head of population were higher in
Victoria than NSW and 1959-60 the
value of new factory buildings com-
pleted was higher in Victoria than
NSW. But in 1958-59 NSW had the
edge in new houses and flats. We
could go on and on. average male
earnings in NSW are £21.11 whereas
in Victoria they are £20.89; average
factory production per head in NSW
is £207, in Victoria £209; rural
production per head in NSW £94, in
Victoria, £99 and NSW, serve ’em
right, has more TV sets.
So all in all there is not a vast
difference between the two States. We
have a common ethnic and cultural
background so surely there is the
possibility of some agreement be-
tween the two. Oh. lam not sugges-
ting that it could come about at once.
It could start with exploratorv discus-
sions at lower levels between special
envoys, working up to State Secreta-
ries and finally, when all is in order,
a summit meeting between the two
Premiers. This could take place some-
wliere on the border, perhaps at
Albury, in a railway carriage
(standard gauge). Then the hard
bargaining would begin. Mr Heffron
would want something pretty decent
in exchange for backing Melbourne’s
jetport. Mr Bolte could offer, perhaps
an aluminium factory and several
American foundation garment pro-
duction lines.
There could be a disarmament
program on the lofty building race.
Each city could agree to put up no
building over 20 stories for 10 years
and they would need to adopt a non-
aggression pact in the Loan Council.
Finally, if Mr Heffron was still testy
. about Victorian domination of Fede-
ral Politics, lam convinced Mr Bolte
would be only too happy to offer him
Mr Menzies and Mr Caiw'ell as a
gift. Surely something can be done.
I for one am prepared to believe in
the possibility that Sydney people
are human.
BATMAN


SPECIAL ANNUAL
Walkabout
24 PAGE COLOUR SECTION "FOUR SEASONS IN AUSTRALIA'
ALL of Australia
as a Christmas gift
. . . to you, and your friends
LEADING Australian authors Keith
Dunstan, Bill Beatty, Harry E. Mercer,
George Farwell and more . . . plus
OUTSTANDING photographers Jeff
Carter, Mark Strizik, Gordon De'Lisle,
David Moore, Maggie Besson Fraser
among many more . . .
All combine efforts to bring you
ALL of Australia in enlightening articles
on the four seasons in Australia, Sydney
Beach dwellers, opal gouging at Anda-
mooka, epicurean Melbourne, big-game
hunting up north, and many more
articles, interviews and features . . .
ALL in Australia's way-of-life magazine.
SPECIAL ANNUAL ISSUE
64 BIG PAGES
24-Page COLOUR SECTION
ON SALE NOW
FROM YOUR NEWSAGENT
12-TIMES BETTER
AS A SUBSCRIPTION
To begin your gift subscriptions, this Special
Annual Issue, selling for 4/6, will be included
at regular subscription rates, and will bear a
gift card with your name. Your newsagent
will be glad to take your subscription, or
write —-
Walkabout
18 Collins Street, Meibourne
universities
EMPIRE BUILDERS IN TASMANIA
The Universities Commission visits Tasmania
A good empirical case has been
made for a medical school at
Hobart’s University. Urged on by
Dr R. J. D. Turnbull, in his single-
minded days as Tasmanian Minister for
Health, supported wholeheartedly by
University empire-builders and city-
boosters, and at least never opposed by
politicians ready to accept anything
that the Commonwealth provides, those
seeking establishment of the faculty
have created a general conviction in
Tasmania that the State should be train-
ing its own doctors.
That was the situation which met the
Australian Universities Commission
when it visited Hobart last w'eek to
assess the University’s capital needs.
Ordinarily the Commission might have
anticipated only limited demands for
money, as £3 Tin. has been spent in the
first half of the current building program
at Sandy Bay, where a completely new
complex is being erected to replace the
old University buildings in the Domain.
Instead, Prof. S. Sunderland, Dean of
Melbourne University’s Medical School,
had had fair warning that he would have
to give his expert advice to his fellow
commissioners on the necessity for, and
the cost of, a complete medical school
for Tasmania.
Three years ago a parliamentary com-
mittee reported that Tasmania required
-0 new doctors annually to replace losses
and gradually increase the doctor-to-
population ratio to the desirable one-to-a
thousand. The committee found that
fewer British doctors were migrating
despite their spectacular prosperity in
Australia and that, indeed, Britain her-
self would be facing a medical shortage
fiy 1965. The committee recommended
that a medical school should be set up
al the University “as an urgent neces-
sity”.
Last year, the University Council ap-
P'oved the plan in principle. Running
cost was estimated to be £250,000 annu-
ally. The council believed that if building
Were started in 1964 the school would
fie ready in 1966 for its first intake of
second-year students. (Already medical
students can do their first year within the
existing science school). The Vice-Chan-
cellor, Prof. K. S. Isles, told the council
I at sufficient students would enter each
)car to turn out the 40 graduates needed
annually to staff the State’s public
ospitals, then chronically short of resi-
dent medical officers.
A contrary view was expressed by Sir
Harry Platt, a leading British surgeon,
when he visited the State shortly after-
wards. “Until Tasmania has a population
of 500,000 1 don’t think it could main-
tain a medical school,” he said. “The
population is too thin. The varieties and
numbers of illnesses w'ould not provide
experience for medical students, and the
cost would be too great for the limited
number of students.”
Early this year, Prof. Isles reported
that 17 of the medical students who had
passed their first year at the University
had been placed in mainland universities
to complete their courses. He said that
he hoped to place the remaining couple
of students. “Whether these places are
secured or not,” he added, “there is no
strong ground for claiming that Tasma-
nian medical students are hard done by
in comparison with students in other
States. Mainland universities with medi-
cal schools place severe restrictions on
entry at first year or on the number of
successful first-year students admitted to
pre-clinical courses.” Monash University,
he said, had honored its undertaking to
allot ten per cent of its intake to Tas-
mania, but unexpectedly its total for this
year had been halved to 70.
Even the most optimistic do not sug-
gest that Tasmania will produce suffi-
cient students to justify the medical
school. However, they say that parents
on the mainland will be eager to send
to Hobart their boys and girls who
cannot gain admittance to medical
courses in their home states. 1 he doubt-
ers do not question this, but they do
question the standards of these students.
Experienced medical men also frankly
question the standards of staffing avail-
able. Not only is Tasmania (pop. 350,000)
much smaller than any other State, but
its distribution of population has res-
tricted the growth of individual hospitals.
The Royal Hobart Hospital, maternity
section included, has a daily average of
372 patients. It caters only for its own
area. Launceston General Hospital s
is 234, with an additional 60
maternity patients in the Queen Victoria
Hospital. As a corollary, there is no big
concentration in the capital of consul-
tants who could become part-time lec-
turers of high quality for a medical
school. This would further lower the
standards of the faculty, the doctors say.


DOING RECORD BUSINESS
Savage competition and tension behind a glossy front
By CHARLES HIGHAM
1r is late afternoon, the hour when
tired commuters are driving home
bumper - to - bumper. In 2GB's
studios in Sydney, John Laws, a spindly,
exhausted-looking man in his mid-
twenties, is ad-libbing his way rather
jadedly through a ritual involving a series
of new recordings, signals to technical
staff “off,” and invitations to his listen-
ing audience to send in requests for
numbers they want to hear again. “If we
get 100 phone calls before six o’clock,”
he says, “we‘ll play Bobby Pickett's
number once more!” Then he flicks a
switch, and, while the record plays, re-
laxes to talk about the problems of a disc
jockey, and the whole radio and record-
ing complex which gave this strange
breed birth.
A disc jockey, as successful and popu-
lar as Laws may boast two cars (Laws
has four), a mansion (Laws lives at
Whale Beach, in Digby Wolfe territory),
a salary of around £lO,OOO a year and an
inexplicable ability to sell both records
and advertised product. He is one symbol
of the boom in Australia’s recording
industry, which, after taking off in a big
way in 1956 reached an all-time peak in
1959 and has only slightly recessed from
that peak today.
Just how big the recording industry is
can be estimated from figures compiled
by the Commonwealth Statistician (the
record companies individually do not
supply sales figures). According to the
Commonwealth Statistician, in the cur-
rent financial year 3,018,000 single plays
(78 rpm), 755,000 extended plays (45
rpm) and 3.421,000 long-plays (33-1/3
rpm) were produced here with only
422,578 records imported. On current
prices (single plays are 10s., extended
plays, generally, 175., and long plays,
365. 6d., 395. 6d., 525. 6d. and 575. 6d.,
with record clubs supplying records at
special prices.
Sales of records are divided about SO-
SO between classical and popular-and-
jazz, but few classical recordings are
made here even now. The overwhelming
majority of classical records are pressings
of overseas originals. Jazz, according to
the sales managers of several firms, takes
only a tiny proportion of sales. Although
Graeme Bell in the 19405, the Port
Jackson Jazz Band and Ray Price (now
with a separate group) have sold fairly
well, they haven’t come anywhere near
the sales of local popular singers. It’s
worth remembering that in the first hey-
day of jazz in America, in the twenties,
jazz left most Australians cold.
Perhaps the most striking feature of
the record boom has been the increase
in public interest in Australian-manufac-
tured records featuring Australian artists
singing Australian songs. EMI, when it
was the Gramophone Company, long aso
pioneered the now enormously popular
country-and-western records with an
Australian flavor by launching Slim
Dusty, whose harsh, angular voice, rip-
ping energetically through ersatz or din-
kum ballads, has kept the customers
happy for almost two decades.
Dusty’s cunningly titled -‘Pub With No
Beer has been among the most startling
successes in the history of Australian
recording: to date it has sold 135,000
copies in this country, and 250,000 in
England. Only a little way behind him
has been Tex Morton, also a hillbilly-
type singer of limited, but very exploit-
able, talents.
Other Australian records which have
done well include Johnny O’Keefe’s
ferocious “It’s Too Late,” Dig Richards’s
soft, deliberately sexy “I Wanna Love
You,” and Col Joye’s whispered “Bye-
Bye Baby.” These records, arranged, pre-
sented and, in Richards’s case, written by
Australians, have been bought by Aus-
tralians in large quantities, and the
stigma of not having had overseas suc-
cess is no longer applied to a recording
artist.
From royalties on records alone, some
performers in their heyday have earned
large sums. The fact that those records
have not been “cover versions” —slavish
imitations of American recordings —is
significant. Chiefly due to the policy of
Reginald Southey, managing director of
EMI Australia, and to the brilliant Ken
Taylor, former artists’ and recording
manager at Festival, the Australian re-
cord is now the nucleus of very big
business indeed.
Mr Southey of EMI can take credit
for being the major recording pioneer in
Australia. A quiet, gentle, soft-spoken
man, he came to Australia from England
in the mid-1920's when the Gramophone
Company was operating from the Syd-
ney suburb of Homebush and its only
real competition was the Graphophone
Company, owned by Columbia. Southey
came to the Gramophone Company
specifically to launch local artists on the
local market, and in those antediluvian
days he built up a list of now forgotten
performers, who caught on with the
public surprisingly well.
Among these mysterious names from.


zm.
wsl
_ V>i rv K
'Ham t*aC»^ £:
Pink
for
girls
If she says “gorgeous’', “delightful”, "heavenly”,
chances are it's Romalo Pink Champagne. A gay,
scintillating wine for joyous times ... for parties,
weddings and ever-so-special dinners for two.
All over the world sophisticates celebrate with Pink
Champagne. Australia's finest is Romalo.
Trade Enquiries: S. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd.
348 St. Kilda Road, Melbourne
the distant past were the Bondi Beach
Concert Band, Harriett Bennett, the Big
Four, tenor Maxim Brody; and the
public of the time evidently got pleasure
from listening to pressings of Billy
Hughes delivering speeches, Charles
Kings ford-Smith describing his trans-
world flight, Frank Chichester doing like-
wise, and Bert Hinkler providing thrilling
accounts of his own aeronautical feats.
One record which was a hit in 1928
was someone named Florrie Hodges des-
cribing a bushfire, with the fire’s heroes
appearing occasionally to add color to
the drama . . •
With the depression, Columbia
Graphophone disappeared and so did
another, smaller firm, Brunswick (labels
of which are now' collectors’ items). For
an incredibly long period the depres-
sion until post-World War II the
Gramophone Company had a monopoly
of the Australian market, which even
then, despite its small population, took
up almost two per cent of world record
sales.
The Gramophone Company’s Austra-
lian bonanza is an extraordinary episode.
Until ARC really got going in 1948,
Southey and his colleagues could sell
practically anything the demand wms
huge and supplies of shellac easily ob-
tainable and very cheap, it is astonishing
that no enterprising firm jumped in and
fought the Gramophone Company on
its own ground, but apparently none did.
By 1938, increasing American influ-
ence through radio and talkies finally
struck dead the interest in Australian
performers, though Southey fought hard
to save the Australians on his lists. He
was also determined to maintain his
English artists, though the cry w ; as still
very largely for American. When World
War II started, w'ith the Gramophone
Company releasing American RCA,
American Decca, American Columbia,
English Parlophone, English Decca and
English HMV, Southey had to drop al-
most all Australians because of public
apathy and concentrate instead on divid-
ing the list between American and
English artists.
Shellac had to be brought in under
war conditions and was frequently in
short supply. Information on American
artists was frequently scanty when the
matrices came across the Pacific, and
there w'ere odd mistakes (a Les Brown
recording w'ith Doris Day was released
as Les Brown with Vocal Chorus). This
was maddening for collectors. But the
Gramophone Company could do nothing
about it, and anyway people wouid buy
practically anything, even Joe Loss’s
inferior version of “In The Mood” on
a cheap label w'hen Glenn Miller’s one
was available more expensively.
Being a monopoly, the Gramophone
Company didn't need to advertise exten-
Slve ly: their catalo gue usually became
obsolete rather quickly because items
contained in it were sold out within days
of issue. Geraldo and Joe Loss in En-
gland, Glenn Miller, Lionel Hampton,
Count Basie and Duke Ellington in
America, were the big record-sellers of
the time, together with the perennial
“The Nun’s Chorus,” sung by Anni
Frind, and Stokowski’s lush Philadelphia
Sympony Orchestra recordings.
Disc jockeys didn't really come into
their own until just after the war,
although local addicts kept abreast of
American releases by short-wave, and
begged, borrowed or stole up-to-date re-
cordings from American sailors. There
still wasn't any interest, by 1948, in
buying Australian, though a few record-
ings of Jim Davidson and his band were
fairly well received.
One episode of the period is typical:
in an effort to promote Australian talent,
ARC released a recording of Wilbur
Kentwell, the Sydney organist, playing
Ken Griffin’s hit “You Can’t be True,
Dear.” The recording proved so indiffe-
rent it was replaced by the American
original on one side of the disc, with
Kentwell playing another number on the
reverse. On Pacific label. Les Welch was
featured: Welch, a colorful personality,
led a combo, and played jazz piano in
the notorious Roosevelt Club in Sydney’s
Kings Cross (known as the “Boozy
Roozy”). Welch, through friendship
made with Americans, was able to pre-
serve a certain up-to-date quality in his
renditions. He provided his own arrange-
ments, but soon learned that his records
sold better when they were exact copies
of the originals. While his early Pacific
releases still make attractive listening, he
switched later to imitations of Frankie
Laine (very well mimicked, especially
“Mule Train”) and others. His career
was cut short by a car accident.
Another short-lived recording artist of
those days was the now legendary Ralph
Mallen, whose 17-piece band raucously
rendered Stan Kenton arrangements (to-
gether with some quasi-Woody Herman
and Glenn Miller) at the Sydney Town
Hall. Mallen, a massive truck-driver who
drove when he wasn’t conducting,
appeared tentatively on a label oddly
entitled “Jazz at the Town Hall” put out
by Elierstone Jones, a musical enthusiast,
then ended his career as suddenly as
Welch in a truck-smash which took his
life.
By the very late 1940’5, disc jockeys
were beginning to be popular: Alan
Toohey, the Old Smoothie of 2UE. with
his slick line of patter and partiality for
Hawaiian music. Bob Pollard of 2CH
these men occupied the positions then
that John Laws and Bob Rogers hold
now.
In 1948, something memorable hap-
pened in Sydney: J. Stanley Johnston’s
music counters received large stocks of
Capitol records the first, overseas con-
signment since the war and Stan
Kenton and Ella Mae Morse were heard
loudly in Johnston’s halls. It was the
beginning of the flood. By the early
1950’5, ARC and EMI were expanding,
more record players were bought, and
EMl’s obtaining of a Decca franchise
meant a field-day for collectors.
Long-play records began coming into
the country in the early 1950 s and finally
completely revolutionised the industry.
By 1957 EMI, for exampls, had stopped
the issue of 78 rpm records entirely.
The biggest avalanche came in 1956,
when Richard Brooks’s fil n about juve-
nile delinquency, “The Blackboard
Jungle,” opened at a midnight preview
in Sydney. Festival Records, which had
just started up at Pyrmont in a modest
way, obtained the Decca franchise and
suddenly launched a 45 rpm EP (“with
optional push-out centre”) of “Rock
around the Clock,” the film’s ferocious
theme tune, played by Bill Haley and the
Comets.


For weeks, Festival pressed practically
nothing else: the record’s huge sales put
them on the map at once, and EMI and
ARC now had a formidable competitor.
Public apathy towards the Australian
performer had vanished by the end of
1956, swept away by the upsurge of
rock'n’roll and the arrival of television.
Audiences now wanted to touch, to feel
close to their idols, and the cost of im-
porting Americans was, for all save Lee
Gordon, prohibitive.
The time was obviously ripe for a
star-maker, someone who could build a
handful of burgeoning singers into natio-
nal figures with the same glamor and
mystery and excitement that American
teenage idols had for Americans. TV
shows weren’t yet nationally orientated
and anyway TV wasn't universal in Aus-
tralia. Country tours by singers hadn’t
really got under way. Radio was city-
bound. Only gramophone-records could
reach a national public, so the necessary
star-maker had to be in the records
business. Once again, Festival was lucky.
Ken Taylor, their artists and reper-
toire manager, was a perfect example of
the right man in the right place at the
right time. A former manager of Mc-
Dowell's (Sydney) record bar, he
had run hit parades on 2CH which re-
putedly featured works of his own com-
position. This salesman's flair was to
serve him well when he took the Festival
job. A shrewd, forceful showman, Tay-
lor sized up the show-business situation
in the Australia of 1956, Australians
needing Australians to entertain them,
and went to his bosses with a carefully
outlined policy.
Full-scale campaign
TJe wanted Festival, now thriving on
the proceeds of “Six O'Clock Rock,”
to begin a full-scale campaign to launch
local talent through a selected series of
pressings. The campaign would have to
be carried out, he explained, in the full
American manner: glossy covers of the
recording stars looking handsome and
boy-next-door-like, their builds displayed
V l . T-shirts and jeans, their expressions
friendly but sexy. All the raw material
for establishing a series of California-
type sex symbols was obviously available.
At first, Taylor met with determined
opposition. “Festival’s directors were
adamant,” he told me. “They didn’t give
a jot for Australian performers and did
not believe anyone else did, either. They
absolutely refused to back me.”
Frustrated and thinking seriouslv of
resigning, Taylor went around Sydney
dance shows, listening carefully to
audience reaction to Col Joye" and
Johnny O'Keefe, the first local'perfor-
mers to emerge. He could see how
O Keefe's earthy vulgarity and uninhi-
bited energy, and Col. Jove’s relaxed
friendliness, were exploitable features:
“They obviously complemented each
other,” Taylor says. “O’Keefe brutal and
vital, like Sydney itself; Joye modest and
simple, the country boy.” Here, clearly,
were two national recording stars in the
making.
But still Taylor couldn’t make Festival
see things his w 7 ay. It took Johnny O'-
Keefe to force the company's hand.
In a characteristic burst of showman-
ship, O’Keefe took space in Sydney’s
newspapers to announce he had been
signed by Festival. Taylor immediately
rang O’Keefe’s secretary to find out what
on earth O’Keefe meant by pulling such
a stunt. Soon after, O’Keefe rang Taylor
and said: “But I am working for you!”
By virtue of the powers invested in
him, and without his bosses’ approval,
Taylor immediately signed O’Keefe.
Thus O'Keefe became the first of the
Australian recording stars to make big
money out of record royalties, greatly
assisted by Ken Taylor’s scrupulously
careful exploitation and the record
covers done for Festival by Artist Maris
Earl, including one on which O’Keefe
was seen standing in front of the
smashed car from which he’d escaped in
a near-fatal smash, the title reading, “I’m
Still Alive!”
Later, Taylor and Maris Earl did fine
jobs on covers for Col Joye recordings,
notably “Songs That Rocked the
Stadium” with Joye shot running down
an aisle, clutched at by the usual claws
Taylor broke with the old tradition of
using pseudo-American lettering and
cover ideas, and Maris Earl subtly in-
troduced Australian features into her
designs: another break with tradition was
to have the cover indicate what was on
the record, not simply illustrate some-
thing which would make the customer
buy it for the picture alone.
<w h6 f Veiy i dlfferent personalities of
O Keefe and Joye were carefully pro-
moted by Taylor, whose chief problem
was to keep O'Keefe’s ego in check, to
prevent him from performing too many
outrageous stunts; with Col Joye it was
a question of building up his confidence
In !° yC I Bye-Bye-Baby,” which I
remember being moaned on countless
beach transistors in 1957, Festival had
another winner, their best since O’-
Keefe s frenetic “It’s Too Late.” J oye
almost whispered the words like t
parting message in a girl’s ear - and
this cleverly concealed the fact he had
little or no singing voice at the time,
as well as creating a thoroughly saleable
erotic effect.
With Joye and O'Keefe doing very
nicely, Taylor began to extend what he
calls “an octopus grip” over the boom-
ing teenage market, and was looking for
a new star as potentially valuable as the
two he had signed. He found him in
Dig Richards.
Expert Judgment
lyfoßE and more, the pop record history
of recent years devolves into a
biography of Ken Taylor. With L. J.
Hooker's temporary acquisition of Festi-
val before it passed over to Rupert
Murdoch, Taylor had a freer hand to
exploit as he wished, and added Noeleen
Batley, Lucky Starr and several others
to his list. Then, suddenly, he left the
Festival organisation, apparently over
some difference of outlook with the new
directors. Today, he’s with 2-GB, where
his selection of John Law's, now the
country's top disc jockey, revealed yet
another case of expert judgment of
public taste.
Probably the most prominent figures
in the w'hole recording complex are
those with whom I began this article: the
disc jockeys. Their existence, more than
that of anyone else it is possible to think
of, hinges totally on the manufacture of
records. Bob Rogers and John Laws are
the only two earning big money. Most
others are on aw'ard rates. Some work
odd hours for casual rates. Rogers and
Laws work about 16 hours a day and
write newspaper columns, supervise TV
programmes, operate late in the after-
noon on radio, when men are often
trapped in car-queues and women also
tend to flick on the dial. The two men
make interesting contrasts. Laws is very
tall, very thin, very charming and edgy,
a picture of violent extremes. Rogers is
intellectual-looking, bespectacled, more
quietly fidgety. Of medium height and
build, he’s more like a young executive
who plays tennis to keep his weight
down.
How long their popularity as platter-
spinners can last remains to be seen, and
perhaps partly depends on the success
of their TV programmes, and their
health (Laws collapsed while rehearsing
a song for his ATN “Startime”, was
found to have polio).
The tw 7 o men, dynamic, very intelli-
gent, shrewd, rich and forceful, in a way
sum up the contemporary Australian re-
cording world, with its savage competi-
tion (it’s hard to find anyone saying any-
thing good, in an interview 7 , about any-
one else) and inner tensions hiddend
behind a glossy front. But those tensions,
that gloss,.unthinkable a decade ago, are
proof of a success story which is still
being written.


i m
.
m
om
*•
m
,/
V*(«U
The inside is finished like the outside
This is our idea of a grand opening. We took
a Volkswagen apart so that you can see for
yourself what the inside looks like.
You won’t find dribbles on the paint or nicks
on the chrome. No wrinkles, not one missed
stitch.
A bevy of seamstresses make sure nothing
zags when it should zig.
Maybe you think quality isn’t something you
can quite put your finger on. But just run that
finger underneath the dashboard. Smooth?
Along the headlining. Smooth?
Under the door. Smooth?
Smooth. It’s one of our old family recipes: a
lot of patience plus a lot of paint.
A visitor once asked, “4 coats of paint?
Isn’t that putting it on a bit thick?”
We said, “No”. We don’t count
on the paint to hold the VW to-
gether. But it keeps it from fall-
ing apart.


OUT AND ABOUT
COLONEL CLAYTON RETIRES
The Quiet Voice In The Council
By EK DUM
The retirement of Hector Joseph
Richard Clayton from the leader-
ship of those members of the NSW
Legislative Council who “do not support
the Government”, as recognised by Sec-
tion 17c of the Constitution, provides a
horrible example of what happens to the
fame of those who neglect the machin-
ery of publicity.
One would have expected that the
name of a leading commercial solicitor
who had lived through 25 years and 75
volumes of Hansard as a member of the
Legislative Council, and for two years
as Leader of its Opposition, in a time of
constitutional contention, would be well
known to all and much publicised by
his own supporters.
But Colonel Clayton is one of those
who have eschewed publicity and he is
now suffering the penalty if he feels
it a penalty. Almost nobody outside his
own immediate circles knows anything
about him. The most obscure jockey,
disc or otherwise, in New South Wales
is infinitely better known.
As Chairman, and largely the archi-
tect of the Australian Guarantee Corp-
oration, as head of his firm of solicitors,
he has won great respect, and even some
awe, in Sydney financial circles.
But his fame is compartmented. When,
for instance, I remarked to a leading
Sydney stockbroker that I understood
that the Colonel was resigning his leader-
ship, he meditated without hesitation:
“1 wonder what AGC will do now?”
When I corrected him and pointed out
that it was the leadership of the Opposi-
tion in the Legislative Council, he said
with obvious relief in his voice: “Oh,
that!” and looked as if he had scarcely
realised that the Colonel was a Council-
lor.
That, outside Parliament seemed to
be a general reaction.
The Liberal Party is not noted for its
sense of gratitude, but one would have
expected that it would be armed to pay
tribute on his retirement from high
office to a loyal servant who, in the Par-
liamentary sphere had made great sacri-
fices and done great and able service
for half a lifetime in the interest of
the principles of Liberalism.
But the answer of public relations in
Ash Street to a request for information
brought only a frigid statement that the
Liberal Party is a campaigning organisa-
tion and that there are no campaigns in
the Legislative Council and therefore
there was no dossier on the honorable
Mr Clayton. “Perhaps,” suggested public
relations helpfully, “you may find some-
thing about him in ‘Who’s Who’.”. But
if it had known the Colonel it would
have known that this would be a pretty
hopeless quest, for the subject of “Who’s
Who” entries is in general the author of
them.
All “Who’s Who” yielded was the in-
formation that H. J. R. Clayton was
born in June, 1885; that he went to
Sydney Grammar School; that he quali-
fied as a solicitor in 1911; that he was
away at World War I for the whole
of its duration—he was in the Fourth
Battalion, was injured on Gallipoli and
served thereafter on staff duties. He
continued to serve in the CMF when he
returned right through to the end of
World War 11, during which he was
Colonel Commanding the Ist Australian
Movement Control Group. I used to
foregather a good deal with him. He gave
most of the credit for his large achieve-
ments to a collaborator. He is now an
honorary colonel on the retired list and
has been a member of the Legislative
Council of NSW since 1937.
The Sydney Grammar School and
Sydney University annals fail to reveal
any records of brilliance or prowess
during the scholastic career that sent
him into the world a BA, LLB. He
weathered the first World War and per-
formed the unusual feat of rising to be
a major without special mention in the
War History until the war was over.
Yet everybody who was in contact
with him in his youthful and World
War I years remembers him as a man
somehow apart to whom others were
apt to defer, an equable well-balanced
citizen who did a good job always, with
remarkable unobtrusiveness and seemed
to slide out, somehow, when the certifi-
cates of merit were being distributed.
The one mention of him in the official
war history concerns the mobilisation
and despatch homeward of the First
AIF, a somewhat gigantic and harrow-
ing task undertaken under the wing of
Brudenell White. There is a note to say
that the main designers of the condi-
tions and methods used in the home-
ward transport system were Colonel Ken
Smith —afterwards PMO of the Austra-
lian Army Medical Services —and Major
H. J. R. Clayton.
There is no doubt but that he did
considerable service in World War 11, at
an age when many a man, especially if
he were a valuable asset to his Party in
an Upper House might have begged off
service altogether. Hansard is a blank as
far as he was concerned for most of the
war. He came back full of vigor and
apparently without having lost the thread
of events, and so unobtrusively, one
member remarked, that it was difficult
to believe that he had been away.
As a Legislative Councillor the Colo-
nel made his mark from the beginning
largely because of his unique approach
to debate and his equally, almost unique,
approach to relationships with political
opponents.
As a colonel, he looked and sounded
very much like a normal modern
colonel, but as a Parliamentarian he
looked and sounded like a survival from
the more courteous early Gladstonian
age, or even from the Regency that inso-
far as his sentiments and debating idiom
went. He introduced into the Council
a style of debating more reminiscent of
the board room than the forum.
Entering the House on a 12-year term,
appropriately enough on August 4, 1937,
the anniversary day of the outbreak of
World War I, he was, in the next
session, deeded the task of moving the
Address in Reply and performed the
remarkable feat of doing it in less than
1200 words, within the scope of which
he reviewed the whole legislative pro-
gramme of the Government, which was
a large one, still finding room to inject
some early Gladstonian patriotic senti-
ment into his oration.
In opening he referred to the happy
emergence of the State’s economy from
the depression and “Ventured to suggest
that the chief instruments in bringing
about that happy result were the charac-
ter, fortitude and unity of our people.”
He thanked the Opposition to the
Stevens Government, of which he was
a supporter, for having “at all times
given their assistance to us” in bringing
about recovery and hoped that Labor
would long continue to help the Govern-
ment, and hoped that “if the Govern-
ment is in any way lacking in carrying
out its obligations” the Opposition would
give it a good twist of the tail.
This method of approach to party
matters set the keynote for his debating
habits which the Labor Government
when returned to office three years later


found rather disconcerting. It is very
hard to wallop a fellow who gives you
credit for acting in good faith and even
for achieving great things in the humani-
tarian field as he invariably did with
the Labor Party.
He would perhaps approach a highly
debatable question on which some Labor
minister had made a vigorous and pole-
mical speech by remarking that what
had been said was interesting but inade-
quate. Yet at the same time he could
become a full colonel if attacked and
charge the enemy with fixed bayonet
in one hand, a couple of de-pinned
grenades in the other.
Generally speaking, however, he was
kind and conciliatory and we find him,
as in 1960 remarking that “if no one
else will humble himself so far as to
congratulate the ALP on its achieve-
ments, as set out in the Governor’s
speech, I beg to be allowed to do so.”
He asked the Secretary to the NSW
Trades and Labor Council, Mr Kenny,
to convey to the movement his sense of
its proper share in the elements of credit
for the Government programme.
The basis of the Colonel’s reputation
in the House thus rests on his being dif-
ferent: different in believing that words
are precious and that what should be
said should be said as briefly as possible
and without frills or waste of time: dif-
ferent in always serving sugar with his
castor oil; different in never seeming to
be anxious for a row and always ready
to come in as a conciliator or adjuster
of viewpoints to secure a mutually ac-
ceptable solution.
Indeed, the Labor side gave him full
credit for devising most of the strata-
gems which obstructed its attempts to
destroy the Upper House. He made the
question of Council abolition his own
from 1944 onwards and, by the time it
came to be a referendum issue, nobody
knew more about it both in broad aspect
and in detail and nobody was more fer-
tile in resource in building roadblocks to
obstruct the Government’s plans.
He should be remembered by the Op-
position with undying gratitude for the
manner in which he contrived to sieve
the asperities out of debate on the sub-
ject and while showing an outward sweet
reasonableness to put up a very stubborn
and successful fight.
He is a good citizen. His service has
been great and his influence in inner
circles of Parliamentary politics the
greater because his advice always has
sanity as an ingredient and the aim
with him always takes precedence of the
credit which he is ready to present
gratis to anybody who wants it.
THE EDDY ERA
Looking back—without regrets
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Beyond the mauve and scarlet walls
and ceiling, the tinsel streamers
and multiple green light bulbs of
Sydney’s Chequers Restaurant, one steps
through a door into another world:
stripped of glamor, the dressing-rooms
for the performing stars adjoin the
kitchen quarters, and it’s here—in a
narrow room flanked with a harshly lit
wall-mirror —that I talked last week with
Nelson Eddy, appearing twice nightly
until December in an act with singer
Gale Sherwood which he’s done about
6000 times since it was first put on in
San Diego nine years ago.
At 61, Eddy is a healthy-looking, well-
built man with the celebrated bluff Nordic
looks scarcely impaired by the years. It’s
15 of those years since he made his last
movie a fragrant turkey named
“Northwest Outpost” but his memory
goes back to the early thirties, when his
“Naughty Marietta”, “Rose Marie” and
“Sweethearts” launched a spectacular
career as M-G-M’s biggest singing star
of the decade.
A descendant of President Martin Van
Buren, Eddy belonged to a musical
family (his mother and grandmother
were both celebrated singers) and after
working as telephone operator, ad sales-
man, police reporter and copywriter, he
worked his way up through the Phila-
delphia Met. and Gilbert and Sullivan to
become a successful concert star by the
early 1930’5.
In 1933, he was performing with his
wife in Los Angeles when RKO offered
him a contract to star in a musical ex-
travaganza, “Melody Cruise”. Plans for
the film collapsed and instead Eddy went
to M-G-M, where he tested for director
Leo Feist in a sequence from “The
Barretts of Wimpole Street” as Robert
Browning. After showing his paces in the
test, Eddy was hired for “Naughty
Marietta” opposite Jeanette MacDonald
and the rest, as they say, is history.
Eddy worked with some of the great
figures in the history of light popular
music Romberg, Friml, Cole Porter,
Rodgers and Hart and some of the
major box-office directors of the 1930’5,
W. S. Van Dyke II and Robert Z. Leon-
ard and he spoke vividly about most of
them. Romberg, he said, was “wonder-
ful, amazingly lacking in pretence for a
man of his stature”.
“Rudolph Friml, who scored ‘Rose
Marie’, was a complete contrast
esoteric, effete, he’d gone mad on Chinese
things, had a Chinese wife, Chinese
furniture, a Chinese house, Chinese
drinks, and played Chinese checkers . . .**
Lighting a cigarette, Eddy continued,
warming to the subject of people he’d
known: “Of course, Willard Van Dyke
did all my best pictures. He was a real
he-man, not like so many you had to deal
with in those days. A straight-shootin’
ex-Marine major, he’d stand for no non-
sense on the set —everybody had to take
orders as though it were a parade ground
—a fair-and-square shootin’ man, Van
was.
“They’d always call him in to doctor
a picture if it looked like falling down.
My last picture with Jeanette ‘l
Married an Angel’ was botched by
director Roy del Ruth, and Van came
in to salvage it. But even then it didn’t
turn out too well.”
I asked about Robert Z. Leonard,
M-G-M’s biggest money-spinning film-
maker of the period, and Eddy grinned
at happy memories. “Bob was easy, a
big fat rolypoly fellow who took his
time,” he said. Obviously, Van Dyke,
Leonard, Louis B. Mayer and Nelson
Eddy had been men of similar type
extroverts, men’s men, not concerned with
the cinema as an art form, out to give
vigorously alive entertainment to the
masses all very typical of a brasher,
simpler, more economically shrewd Holly-
wood era.
Eddy was contemptuous of “art”
directors who took 35 takes and printed
the one they liked best: he preferred
straightforward men who knew what
they wanted, the Hitchcocks, the W. S.
Van Dykes. And he was obviously
amused at the pretensions of Holly-
wood 20 years ago: referring to Herbert
Stothart, who did the musical arrange-
ments at M-G-M for all Eddy-Mac-
Donald vehicles, he said startlingly: “He
couldn’t arrange a dinner party at the
automat! He was a big, bluff, handsome
man, who simply got away with it had
all his staff working hard and took the
credit! And Friml! He’d tickle the ivories,
somebody’d be under the piano with a
recorder, and they’d take a few bars and
turn them into something!”
His favorite film remains “Naughty
Marietta” a fantasy which probably
could never be made today. World War
II and postwar tensions have swept
away the Eddy dream world of 25 and
more years ago, leaving the voice, the
still magnetic presence (at Chequers,
he’s very good) to please the middle-
aged customers. Facing his stark mir-
ror behind the nightclub glamor, Nelson
Eddy didn’t seem to have any regrets.


AN IDEAL XMAS GIFT
Keep Your Personal Papers SAFE
gjj J UNITIZER
Price: 45/- N.S.W. (Postage Paid);
48/- Interstate; 50/- (Postage Paid)
W.A. and N.T.
Attractively finished in book binders’ cloth,
this handy portable Home Unitizer will keep
all your personal and important documents
neatly and safely—ready for quick reference.
It has twelve compartments and comes com-
plete with printed tags for 72 various titles,
such as Medical, Dental, Rates. Car Expenses,
Insurance, . Taxation, Banking. Receipts, etc.
Strongly made for long wear. The Horae
Unitizer makes an ideal gift with real utility
value.. Size 15V Z in. x 11 in. x 3 in.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
MECHANICAL INDEX CO.,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
GETTING BALLET
OFF THE GROUND
Nine weeks to float a company
By PATRICIA ROLFE
The Australian Ballet, the latest
enterprise of the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust, has just got off the
ground, but no one knows for sure
whether the company is equipped with
the same stop-and-start mechanism which
guides most Trust endeavors. No one,
least of all the young, enthusiastic
dancers at Her Majesty’s Theatre,
Sydney, knows whether the money being
spent on ballet this year in 12 months’
time may be devoted to supporting
another Garnet Carroll musical, or, per-
haps, some group of madrigal singers.
The company has, however, an artistic
director, Miss Peggy van Praagh
something the Trust itself still lacks.
It appears in theory, at least, that ballet
can attract audiences to keep the com-
pany going indefinitely, something
which apparently opera or drama cannot
do. The tentative plan with the Aus-
tralian Ballet is to play two months of
each year in Sydney and Melbourne,
and one month each in Brisbane, Ade-
laide and Perth. Add to these a yearly
country tour, possible trips to New Zea-
land or, in the future, even further afield,
holidays and time to rehearse new
ballets. This rounds out the year.
Ballet has always had a large if not
always discriminating audience in Aus-
tralia, but most of this audience can be
captured in limited seasons. “When
Borovansky had his company dancing
here, J. C. Williamson’s would keep
them on for as long as they were making
money, and then move them on some-
where else,” Miss van Praagh explained.
“But limited seasons should be much
more satisfactory.”
But audiences will, of course, depend
on the standard which the company can
achieve, and it is this that passionately
concerns Miss van Praagh and the
company’s balletmaster, Mr Ray Powell,
who is on loan from the Royal Ballet.
Miss van Praagh and Mr Powell had
just nine weeks of rehearsal, often for
18 hours a day. in an enormous,
draughty hall in Melbourne (with the
dancers’ muscles tearing with disastrous
regularity) to make a company of a
group of dancers, some of whom had
never been on stage before.
“As I said to John McCallum, you
couldn’t even get a business company
going in nine w'eeks, much less a ballet
company,” Mr Powell commented.
How'ever, the nine w'eeks, plus a
couple of weeks before critics and
audiences at Her Majesty’s have con-
vinced Miss van Praagh and Mr Powell
that the company is worth sacrifices.
Miss Van Praagh is on a limited con-
tract with the Trust, although five years
has been suggested as a minimum term,
when it is clear to both sides whether
they are going to like each other or not.
Miss van Praagh, although naturally not
inclined to commit herself too firmly,
can, at the back of her mind, see what it
would be like to live in Australia, with
a permanent flat in one city a: anchor-
age. She is very accustomed to travel,
has been here before, finds it easy to
settle down in new places, finds dancers
“the same the whole world over,” and
cannot conceal that there is something
exciting in making a beginning, rather
than carrying on a tradition. However,
her proviso would be that she could go
abroad often enough, and for long
enough, to “keep in touch”.
Mr Powell is due back in London in
January to begin preparation for a Royal
Ballet tour of America in May. How-
ever, his inclination now is to stay here,
at least until the company has run
through its first tour of the capital
cities.
Miss van Praagh said that most of the
girls were well trained, but that it is
much harder to find male dancers. Some
of the company’s male dancers have
come from musical comedv companies.
Miss van Praagh feels that the biggest
single lack her dancers have is theatre
training. “Most of them are technically
good,” she said, “but some have never
been on a stage. You even have to tell
them to face the audience. What we
need is a theatre school, such as Russia
has had for 200 years and as they have
in London, Denmark and France.”
Miss van Praagh said she saw no
reason why some time in the future the
company could not dance overseas,
particularly in Asia. “But. of course!
you cannot export a company unless it
has its own repertoire,” she said. “We
can’t do ‘Swan Lake’ in Russia.” She
said she believed the “Melbourne Cup”
ballet and “Just for Fun” (devised by
Rav Powell) would b“<fin to show what
the company could do that was different.
“But I believe that the companv’s
‘Australian’ ballets should be in the
classical idiom. I don’t think you get an
Australian ballet by dressing a lot of
white people as aborigines to do a cor-
roboree. I believe aborigines are
wonderful dancers, and I would love to
see them, but I don’t believe in white
people doing their dances. If you want
to see aboriginal dancing, put on seasons
of aboriginals doing it.”
Miss van Praagh said that although
it was a new company, it had inherited
a lot of sets and costumes from the
Borovansky. “Williamson’s have been
very good, really,” she said, “but it does
mean that some of the ballets do not
reflect my own taste at all. The costumes
may be lovely, but not what I would
have chosen. When I saw the simply
enormous cut-out swans for ‘Swan Lake’
I nearly died. Fortunately, we were able
to replace them with something which
didn't completely overwhelm the
dancers.”
Miss van Praagh said she had been
heartened by the way in which the Trust
had secured sponsorship from private
industry for individual performances.
“I think it is wonderful,” she said, “as
long as they don’t want ‘five minutes
from our sponsor’.”


home to on oasis
... or an oven? i
rase
SII
I 1
tezjz?v*£ms,
Do you walk out of summer when you walk in
your front door—or is your home a stifling,
sizzling reminder of conditions outside? Your
family deserves the unmatched comfort of
Westinghouse refrigerated room air conditioning!
Think of it yourself—coming home to an atmos-
phere that’s refreshing just to enter . . . sleeping
through the hottest night in springtime comfort.
A Westinghouse room air conditioner operates
with pushbutton ease . . . reduces humidity
. . . filters out dirt, dust and pollen . . . delivers
a constant, fully controllable stream of clean
cool air. And in winter, it supplies you with
warm fresh air—the healthiest heat of all —at
half the operating cost of any other electrical
heating appliance. Choose from three models,
including the exclusive Mobilaire that you can
move from room to room as you need it. See
your Westinghouse retailer today—don’t endure
summer any longer. Enjoy it!
you CAN BE SURE. .IF it's
Westinghouse
ROOM AIR CONDITIONERS
WACI7HP
e==Je
-!■==
lE—
- 1------
e
You'll be happy to know how little it costs to
enjoy year-round weather comfort with a
Westinghouse room air conditioner. The three
model range covers every air conditioning need
for home or office, from 8,300 to 20,000
B.T.U.'s. Prices from 215 gns.
Mail this coupon today for full details
*
To: Department R.A.C., Email Limited, Consumer
Products Division,
Box 4, Waterloo, N.S.W.
Please send me literature and full particulars on
Westinghouse Room Air Conditioners.
NAME
ADDRESS.
PHONE No
PLACE X IN SQUARE IF FOR SCHOOL PROJECT □ 178
Rome Newsletter
NOVELS-A
VERY
PROFITABLE
INDUSTRY
A New Cultural Common Market
From DESMOND O'GRADY in
ROME
Miracles are not uncommon in Italy
but Italians are surprised that their
much-publicised economic miracle
is producing yet another, cultural one.
Everyone is so tired of soaring produc-
tion graphs, export records and other
boom bulletins that there have been wide-
spread strikes for a bigger slice of this
magic pudding called gross national in-
come. Soon, however, the talk will be of
the cultural miracle, for already one is
frequently assailed by figures which seem
to be those of industrial production but
are, instead, those of book sales:
Moravia’s “The Empty Canvas,” pub-
lished last year, has sold more than
200,000 copies, but then Moravia is
Moravia; even more indicative is the sale
of 100,000 copies in 10 weeks of Giorgio
Bassani’s new novel “II Giardino dei
Finzi-Contini.”
Only a few years ago a novel such as
Bassani's would have sold barely 10,000
copies and its current success has been
accompanied by yelps of protest from
those who remember the bad old days.
Bassani, an editorial adviser to the pub-
lisher Feltrinelli is probably happiest as
a writer in his long stories of life in
Ferrara, but this novel was launched with
high-powered and astute public relations
backing and, despite competition from
novels which some critics claimed were
of greater worth, was awarded one of the
major literary prizes. Sophia Loren in
a new role as patron of the arts presen-
ted Bassani with his award and said how
much she enjoyed “The Garden of the
Finzi-Contini.” The photo of La Loren
with Bassani was in more than 100 papers
throughout the peninsular the following
day.
The publisher Valentino Bompiani was
one of the first to introduce new promo-
tion methods into the Italian book mar-
ket: he held the first cocktail party to
which a venerable poet Ungaretti and a
voluptuous star Rosanna Schiaffino, were
invited together; he was the first to get
the publication of a book treated as an
important new item in the Press; he con-
vinced gossip writers, who had previously
confined their attention to playboys,
actors and singers, to scribble about the
novelist Bonaventure Tecchi; he followed
a policy of making his author's faces
known to the public before other editors
took up the idea; he organised lunches
where his authors would meet, for in-
stance, a member of the Pirelli family
(rubber manufacturers), an outstanding
surgeon, a senator, an aristocratic woman
who wanted above all to be a patron of
the arts . . .
Bompiani’s commercial acumen has
made him one of the half dozen leading
Italian publishers but he has always com-
bined literary, with his business, interests.
Some of his younger competitors, how-
ever, have entered the publishing field
without distinguishing between books and
soap as merchandise. Bompiani sees, as
the main danger in the cultural boom,
that the fierceness of competition and
the heightened rhythm of production will
lead to an inevitable drop in the quality
of books published.
His distaste for the new situation is
slight compared with that of many older
writers. Montale, who ranks with


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Hanking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON A
O'SULLIVAN
: PTYLTD.
Sc S« s <d
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Frinters, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPH ERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTY PERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
HELP
ail the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Streep Sydney. BM 2001.
Ungaretti and Quasimodo as Italy’s major
poets, has ceased to write; he feels silence
is the only possible choice when there is
such a mechanical chatter from today's
poets who seem units in an industrial
concern —the industry being culture.
There are countless writers less renowned
than Montale, who likewise lament the
new' situation.
Their tradition is that of the writer who
works w'ithout thought of recompense.
This was no romantic pose but was forced
on them through circumstances: the
market for their works was so small
that they could not rightly expect to be-
come wealthy through them. The return
they had was in the satisfaction the work
afforded, the prestige it gained them in
their circle of friends and perhaps the
help it gave them in their career. They
knew that books were pre-fabricated in
America but life there seemed to be a
chapter of science-fiction; they did not
think they would live to see the day
when anything similar would happen in
Italy. But they have.
They know that certain publishers
employ four or five writers (“phonies,”
the old guard would say “how I hate
phonies!”) who advise authors how their
manuscripts should be changed in order
to satisfy the market: a love scene in
black mud to strengthen the beginning,
make the truckdriver assault the religious
novice to liven the middle . . . They can
point to editorial advisers who are also
reviewers, experts in arousing public in-
terest in a book but not keen to make a
critical judgment of it.
Sofistieatori Cultural Con. Men
say that anyone who can get
A 70,000 words on paper nowadays
can have them published as a novel. They
see young novelists invited to take a trip
on the launches of Milanese millionaires,
and accepting. They have happily spent
their life's resources at the service of
their talent but now they are over-
whelmed by talented youngsters who
make no morality of deprivation.
If there is an element of sour grapes in
the protests the bitterest gall of all must
be not so much the meritricious success
but the talented writer who buys a
Giulietta Sprint after his first book and a
Ferrari after his second but whose work
remains uncorrupted.
Part of the protest is due to the break-
down of the former comforting, writer’s
solidarity. Writers reared in the old tradi-
ion fear that the embrace of the bour-
geois will become strangulation. They
look askance at the acceptance of angry
young men although the technique has
been used in England to smother revolu-
tions, including literary ones, for many
years.
Closer contact with his public and suc-
cess are not necessarily any worse for a
writer than a complacent “elitism.” It is
probably a matter of temperament
whether one enjoys taking cocktails with
Eleanora Rossi-Drago or Monica Vitti,
lunching with an aristocrat who wants to
be a patron of the arts, or being subject
to a columnist's indiscretions but most
writers would survive such treatment.
Nevertheless there are reasons for con-
cern about the situation. Writers inclined
to an unconscious cynicism or mere
doubts about their work can easily fall
victim to the market mentality. The pres-
sure is always applied to foster only a
standard product: not an unpredictable
best seller such as “The Leopard” but a
solid seller which will ensure a steady
profit. Such books can be compared with
the adulterated foods which are dis-
covered so frequently in Italy at the
moment. These foods, in taste and
appearance, excel the originals they
imitate. They fulfill all the expectations
of their consumers but they certainly do
not nourish. The food-fixers are described
in Italian by a word which could well
apply to the cultural con. men:
sofistieatori.
They are not confined to Italy.
Bompiani has said that one of the most
encouraging aspects of the literary scene
is the interest and faith of foreign editors
in Italian writers. He added that they
were willing to translate and publish im-
mediately even first works. If Bompiani
wants one of his authors to appear in
French he has only to take up his pen
and write to Gallimard: “Mon cher
Gaston . . .
Such a cultural common market greatly
increases a writer's potential audience—
provided he is not the victim of restric-
tive trade practices. The case of a young
French assayist will illustrate this threat.
His essays aroused interest in France and
his publisher, not Gallimard, took up his
pen and wrote “Mio iaro . . (not
Valentino). That is why one of the lead-
ing Frenh publishers suggested to an
Italian firm that they should bring out an
Italian edition of the essays. A friend of
mine was engaged as translator but be-
fore he began work he received a letter
from the author saying that his publisher
was insisting on certain modifications to
a chapter because of the criticism it had
received. The author asked the translator's
opinion as to whether such changes
should be made. The translator, one of
the older school of Italian writers, could
not go against his principles and advised
the author to change his opinions to fit
in with public opinion. But his know-
ledge of the cultural common market was
such that he did not bother to begin the
translation. His judgment proved correct.
The author next wrote that because of
his refusal to change the disputed chap-
ter his contract with the publisher had
been revoked and within a few days of
this letter another arrived from the
Italian publisher saying that he had deci-
ded against an Italian edition of the
essays. The essayist, in fact, had com-
mitted cultural suicide; in future he will
probably have to search for provincial
publishers, for all the great houses may
blacklist him.
The cultural miracle cannot emulate
too closely its economic predecessor or it
will produce only a great quantity of
Dead Sea fruit: post war Germany, a
robust economy in a creative desert, is a
caution for anyone imagining culture as
an inevitable component of cornucopia.


YOU WOULD EXPECT
TO PAY MORE
AT MELBOURNE’S
SOUTHERN CROSS
HOTEL
Bill YOU DONT!
Rates commencing at just £4 single, £7.4.0 double,
are just the first of many pleasant surprises awaiting you at
Melbourne’s Southern Cross., Australia’s largest hotel, backed by
the skill and experience of the world’s
leading international hotel group. Others
include elegant new restaurants, in-
timate coffee lounges, cosy bars,
and underground parking for
over 300 cars. Comfort and
good taste are the keynotes to
every individually air-condi-
tioned guest room and suite.
Book NOW through your travel
agent, or by contacting direct
the Southern Cross (Melbourne
63 0221, grams “Inhotelcor”).
Jm
9
OE
SOUTHERN
CROSS
HOTEL OF NEW HORIZONS
EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE
IHCT.24
INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS
SPORTING NOTIONS
ENGLAND'S
BIG FOUR
AT THE
GAMES
British doggedness is out,
dedication is in
By JOHN SAMUEL
Tf they didn’t know him already, Aus-
A tralians should by now be acquainted
with Gordon Pirie a kind of father
figure in British athletics. The descrip-
tion may not appeal to the Duke of
Norfolk or the MCC cricketers, but, as
the lusty bunch of British athletes for
the Commonwealth Games in Perth may
suggest, Pirie, at least, has never taken
to eating his young.
Pirie, as an athlete, never fed off any-
one. He taught British amateur athletics
a total self-reliance. Spurning all groups,
he went his own lonely way, sometimes
in his failures a pathetic figure. But
never contemptible. At Perth, Australia
will see the successors to Pirie, in par-
ticular four of Britain’s five European
gold medallists Robbie Brightwell,
winner of the 400 metres, Bruce Tulloh
(5000 metres), Brian Kilby (Marathon)
and Dorothy Hyman (women’s 100
metres). The fifth, Ken Matthews, the
20 kilometres walk champion, is not
competing because there is not, as yet,
a walking event at the Games.
For two of these four, Perth is a
bigger challenge than Belgrade. Dorothy
Hyman has to meet Marlene Matthews
on her own midden, and Tulloh, in the
three miles, will almost certainly come
up against the Olympic 5000 metres
champion, Murray Halberg. of New
Zealand. Just how good are Britain’s
big four —at Perth they all run for
England and how are they proposing
to mine the gold? How close are they
to Pirie. how close to the old conception
of the British athlete —as amateur in
practice as he was in spirit?
Firstly, do each have any physical
advantages? Tulloh has, for one. He
is quite short, at sft 7in, yet his legs are
those of a man of six foot. “I’m pretty
thin, too,” says Tulloh, “so I’ve a fair
amount of power pushing a light weight.
Much the same principle as a racing
car, I suppose.”
Dorothy Hyman, too, has thighs of
exceptional length and strength (“Though
nobody has ever measured them!”) “It
must make some difference,” she says,
“but I don’t know whether it’s all that
much. See me alongside Wilma Rudoph
with her long legs and what a nipper I
look.” Marathon runner Kilby is sft 9in
and 9st 71b, and he’d like to be 9 stone.
“The less weight you have to carry
around the better.” Brightwell claims no
special physical advantages other than
the fitness that comes with his training,
but each has a pulse beat, resting, of 40
to 43 to the minute, some 20 below the
average man’s. “There’s nothing special
about that really,” says Tulloh, “Regular
training will bring down any man’s.”
Training. It’s impossible to talk with
any of the four for long about attitudes
of mind, will to win, or race tactics
before they’re back to training. All
roads lead to or from it. Kilby spends
longest at it, morning and night, 100
miles a week. Brightwell, student and
schoolmaster, his handsome face intent,
snaps out his feelings. “What makes a


m
&
Always ask for
AINSLIE’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd., Sydney
Halloran Manton Pty. Ltd.
gold medallist? I can answer that in two
words. Hard work. In 1959 I had a bad
year. You know why? I was over-con-
fident. Didn’t train enough. But you
learn sense. 1 do one and a half hours
a day, six days a week. I train so hard
I puke three times a week.
“Training methods? I’m only con-
cerned with what suits Brightwell. I’ll
read about Herb Elliott running up and
down sand hills. Might try it. If it
doesn’t suit, that’s it. I hate being
beaten, you see. Dead aggressive. We’re
all the same really. You can feel it all
about. Reach out and you can touch it.
Sounds horrible, doesn’t it? What a crew
we are. We keep it to the track I hope
don’t behave like a bunch of teddy
boys. But athletics is life, and life isn’t
always very pretty. I’m a cynic I
suppose, but not in a passive way. I
fight, if I only fight for Brightwell.
“I spend hours running through races
in my mind. A sort of private inquest.
I see it all again. Drag up things from
my sub-conscious. Kinder, the German,
beat me at the Olympics in Rome. I like
running against the Germans. They're
hard competitors, but tough and good,
Kinder beat me. And I wanted to beat
him in Belgrade more than anything else.
It wasn’t a grudge. Just the way I felt.”
The Girl from Cudworth
X) right well admires dedication. He
** admires Dorothy Hyman. “She’s
dedicated. But don’t get me wrong
she’s all woman. But it’s a special thing.
She’s Yorkshire and she doesn’t like
being beaten.” Dedication it’s a word
Dorothy Hyman, the 21-year-old girl
from Cudworth, near Barnsley, reluct-
antly uses about herself. Since her
widower father died in February,
Dorothy has helped bring up five other
children, gone out to work, and some-
how fitted in training five or six evenings
a week. “After Belgrade I would go out
on the training track and sometimes it
would seem so damp and lonely and
miserable. I wondered why I bothered.
But the day of the race comes, you
suffer agonies of doubt —at least I
always do and then perhaps you win
and it all seems worthwhile. And there
are the other people keeping you at it.
Your coach, your team-ma'es. Maybe
I'll give up after the Commonwealth
Games. I don’t know.
“I suppose racing was always in me.
I started winning races at 13, but my
father really brought it out. He wouldn’t
have any messing about at training. No
chatting or anything. He’d stand at the
finish and shout: ‘Come on lass, there’s
no one pushing you back.’ I’m supposed
to be a cool one, but I really worry
like mad. I never think I’m going to
win. But it all disappears on the start-
ing block. Once I’m running I forget
everything except the tape. In a sprint
there’s not time to think of anything
else. They told me that in the 200 metres
at Belgrade I looked round. I can’t
remember doing it. I suppose I must
have done.”
Tulloh, like Hyman, trains five or six
days a week, one and a half hours a day.
“But so do hundreds of other athletes
who’ve never won a gold medal,” he
says. “It’s a thing always at the back
of my mind when I’m on the winner’s
rostrum. I’ve built up steadily for this,
of course. It hasn’t come overnight. I
didn’t start athletics until I was 19. I
was too frail for Rugby and in any case
I ve no eye for a ball game. I suppose
if I boil it down, though, I’ve one big
advantage. It’s an ability to
I deliberately go into a shell in the 24
hours before a race. I plan carefully
for the conditions, and in Belgrade I
trained at exactly the time I would be
competing. The. night before the race
I asked permission to be excused the
reception given by the British Ambassa-
dor as I thought it would be too dis-
tracting.
On the track I don't worry too much
about what other people are doing. 1
plan the race as I want to run it and let
the rest do what they want.” How about
Kuts at the Berne European Champion-
ships? A dark horse then, he ran away
with the 10,000 metres field. Was there
no risk of this happening with someone
else? “Maybe. But you get to know the
form. I’ve only two or three to worry
about really.”
Kilby—The Marathon is like chess
/Concentration —and confidence. And
confidence is the most important
thing to marathon runner Kilby, a 24-
year-old draughtsman at Coventry.
“Marathon running is a bit like chess,”
he says. “A deliberate and calculated
business. You have to know when to
move, but just as important when not
to move. In fact to run slower. It’s so
easy at 13 miles to say to yourself, ‘I feel
great I can keep this up forever.’
Then you come on them at 15 or 17
miles. Rolling at the roadside. Finished.
“You’ve got seriously to think mara-
thon and cross-country running, and I
get angry at people dismissing them as
the wrong end of athletics. The sprinters
get most of the glamour But these
fellows sometimes run two or three races
a day. You can’t attempt more than four
marathons in a season. Just to complete
one is an achievement.”
Kilby’s ability is quarried from a
training programme that dwarfs many
others. He is up at 6.10 every morning.
A quick cup of tea and he is out of his
house on the outskirts of Coventry and
into the gentle lanes of Warwickshire,
picking his way through darkness in the
winter, too early even for the milkmen.
Five miles of this and it’s back for
breakfast and the office. But the train-
ing day is only a third begun. In the
evening he is out again. Another ten
miles, this time with “interval” work
jogging then accelerating, more jogging,
more sharp bursts. “The more miles
you have on the training clock the more
confident you are.”
He, like all the others, visualises the
race before it is run, imagining his
position at various distances, delving in
his mind for the sensations it may offer.
And the moment he enjoys best, the
moment he savours most during his
lonely dawn patrols, is the point just
before entering the stadium. “Three
hundred yards and I’m there. And no
one can catch me!” It is a moment more
satisfying than the breaking of the tape.
These, then, are Britain’s ace athletic
gold-hunters. They’re also four of the
world’s worst losers. And they admit it.
Perhaps, after all, this is the one big
difference between the post- and pre-
Pirie generations. There is no hypocrisy
with themselves. Doggedness, the old
British trait, is out. Dedication is in.


THE AWFUL PRESS
THE NOBLE ART OF CRICKETRITE
"... Stunned by the unadventurous, leaden-footed caution
of the latter day tacticians ... the great age of cricket
chivalry..." etc., etc.
By DISCUS
It looks like a great season for cricket-
rite, with more exponents of the art
than ever, and the whole team of
them more forward in their training than
cricketriters have ever been before the
First Test. As far back as October 10,
when the MCC men had just arrived, a
“Sydney Morning Herald” editorial
writer showed that some intensive
preparation had been going on during
winter. It was a well flexed man who
wrote:
“To the public, stunned by the un-
adventurous, leaden-footed caution of
the latter-day tacticians, it has often
seemed that the great age of cricket
chivalry—an age which produced a
mythology rooted in the historic daring
of a Trumper or a Ranj itsinhji and the
onslaughts of a McCabe or Woolley
was gone; that an age of sophisters,
economists and calculators had suc-
ceeded; and that the glory of cricket was
extinguished forever.”
But not the glory of cricketrite. On
the same afternoon a trained-to-the
minute Keith Miller sent off his first
dispatch and it was, as they say, a
sizzler:
“Tighten up your belts a notch. This
Australia-England series should be a real
thriller. It’s going to be a hard grind,
with no quarter given either way. It’s
going to be tough and it’s going to be
tense.” Keith said the Duke’s idea “that
Australia was only slightly odds on to
retain the Ashes must be treated
seriously, Frankly, 1 think the Duke was
right on the ball.”
That was how it appeared in the
Sydney “Mirror”, but the Brisbane
“Courier” transformed the opening into,
“When the Duke of Norfolk said Aus-
tralia was only slightly odds on to retain
the Ashes, 1 think he was right on the
ball.” And in Perth the “West Aus-
tralian” ran it as: “Sydney: This is going
to be a tough and tense Test series
because both teams have powerful
batting lineups.” Heaven knows what
Keith did write.
In the Sydney “Sun”, same afternoon.
Richie Benaud admitted he’d been train-
ing for three months His column,
Come in Spinner, began with. “Good
morning, Ted! Your Press conference
had all the earmarks of providing a
great cricket season and one that will
do a power of good for Anglo-Australian
cricket.
“I can well believe the reports that
your team is super keen and filled with
a desire to separate the wood from the
trees and turn it into those elusive
Ashes.”
It shows what three months’ training
will do.
Richie was off the wicket, though, in
that last bit. It was the Duke of Nor-
folk who had said, “I think it would be
a terrible mistake if the Ashes were
allowed to become the leaves of the
trees that obscured the wood which is
the game of cricket.”
The Duke made this famous utterance
at the MCC’s Press conference at Fre-
mantle, and Kevin Hogan recorded it
for the Melbourne “Sun”. In his report
“the Duke was strong, dignified, yet
friendly and unassuming.” When asked
if he might commit reporters to the
Tower “there was mischief in the Duke’s
smile, but also a strong hint of ruthless-
ness.” Ted Dexter was a character too,
“with his firm jaw thrust forward soon
after his team landed at Fremantle,”
declaring, “it is our intention to try to
score 60 runs an hour.”
The art of cricketrite does not often
embrace portrait work, but it has other
compensations. There shall be contro-
versy, excitement, prediction, conflict,
doubt and martyrdom.
The martyrs have been lan Meckiff
and Gordon Rorke in recent years, and
this season may be the same. The Sydney
“Mirror” sporting columnist set the
stage on October 8 with a wheezy, “I
don’t think this English team is in the
race on the cricket field . . . England is
relying heavily on other factors, in-
cluding the belief if sufficient
controversy is aroused Australia will be
stampeded into a peace at anv price
move which might see us take the field
without the fast bowlers that the slow
footed flinchers among the English bats-
men fear so much.”
The columnist sees his English
cricketriting colleagues behind every
leaf of those trees that obscure the
wood that becomes Ashes. He mutters
darklv and freouentlv about “the
travelling circus of English pressmen . ..
patriots all . . . can select a suitable point
on the shores of a lake and take a
running jump.” He regards the English
writers as a policy wing of the MCC
team.
Unfortunately for Meckiff and Rorke’s
immediate chances, the first MCC-
Combined XI match went this way:
“Fireworks are expected tomorrow on
a fast, greenish looking pitch. The early
sessions could be all in favor of fast
bowlers.”
Next day: “MCC batsmen collapsed
sensationally before a hostile pace
attack in the match against a Combined
team today . . . Cowdrey 0, Dexter 2,
Graveney and Barrington 0. The
wickets were shared by Des Hoare and
Graham McKenzie.”
And next day: “Australia’s opening
batsmen today gave England’s bowlers
a chilling taste of Australia’s great
batting strength in the coming Ashes
struggle.” More of this colorful report
“. . . bundled out . . . sensational match
opening . . . combined display of ruthless
efficiency . . . rocklike defence . . .
barrage of bumpers . . . MCC floundered
. . . made the new ball lift nastily from
a good length . . . Bevan’s safe hands.”
Good cricketrite, but it did not com-
pare with an English commentator’s, “A
feeling of apprehension rose in the throat
today as the might of England’s batting
was led meekly to the wall and riddled
with bullets.” Powerful.
Against that sort of thing in this
match we could only offer such trifles
as: “The spell was broken when the
Combined Xl’s captain, Barry Shepherd,
anxious not to throw too great a burden
on Hoare’s willing shoulders decided to
give him a spell.”
Incidentally that was not Keith Miller’s
idea of it. He saw “McKenzie and Hoare
straining at the leash like bull terriers on
the warpath and both bowling superbly
on the rather lively pitch. Barry
Shepherd made a glaring tactical error
to let the MCC off the hook.”
Although some of cricketrite’s finest
is written during the clash of mighty
teams, the lulls between matches have
to be filled with advice to the captains
and stuff like that. Here is a sampling
from one Writer’s dispatch: “touring
party tumbled headlong into the jaws of


TEE GENTLE PERSUADERS
An American documentary film, "The Gentle
Persuaders" is currently being shown on com-
mercial television in Australia. It deals with the
religious Society known as the Quakers. In the
United States there are some 120,000 Quakers,
who play a role out of ail proportion to their
numbers in an effort to improve race relations,
reform the penal system, and promote interna-
tional peace and goodwill through service and
reconciliation.
Here in Australia the Society of Friends
(Quakers) is much smaller, but it is also active.
Through its service organisation, the Friends
Service Council of Australia, it promotes.
• Better race relations through seminars
on racial preiudice, Africa, and so on.
© Relief work for refugees in Hong Kong,
victims of apartheid in South Africa.
• Aboriginal Development through its com-
munity centre at the Allawah Grove Community
near Perth, W.A.
• Education in underdeveloped countries,
notably through scholarships for children at
schools in Kenya.
• Individual service by assisting members
serving in needy areas.
Members of the Society of Friends are also
active in
• Penal reform movements.
• Peace movements —• where Friends' stand
is one of Christian pacifism seeking actively to
remove the causes of war.
• Immigration reform.
All these activities, as in America, spring
from deep Christian conviction nurtured in their
Meetings for Worship. Quaker Meetings are held
each Sunday in each capital city and some
other centres.
Write to Enquiries,
FRIENDS' HOUSE,
133 Orrong Road, 5.E.2.
VICTORIA
For free information.
its first defeat . . . England’s most
buccaneering post-war captain . . . excess
baggage unless they can adapt ... the
most lethal prong in Dexter’s off-spin
trident ... on Dexter’s mind like a
great hangover . . . horror stretch . . .
food for thought.”
Not bad, in eleven paragraphs.
This was a good one too: “A group
of chastened English batsmen today
fought grimly to find form before an
audience of curious Perth Cricket
Ground sw'eepers.”
Well, they went on to Adelaide where
Larter was no-balled frequently, E. M.
Wellings of the London “Evening News”
condemned the umpire.
Then, “after black Friday in the
bowling and fielding departments, the
MCC camp was wreathed in batting
smiles at stumps.” Which is a nice trick.
The MCC declared at 9 for 508,
making their own cricketriters fools for
savage comments cabled home at the
start of the match. Some of the team
had dared to bring their golf clubs and
field glasses to Australia.
It was an English squabble and was
ignored until Melbourne Cup Day when
the Sydney “Telegraph” had E. M.
Wellings condemning Dexter, Phil Tres-
sider defending him, other English critics
attacking and one of them dismissing the
team’s 508 as the result of “a month’s
ration of slow leg hops and full tosses
in one day,” while Phil called it “a
rousing day’s performance.”
This led Ray Robinson of the Sydney
“Sun” and other outlets to ask Dexter
some questions. And Dexter said of
golf, “It keeps your legs in condition. I
think this is particularly good for
bowlers, rather than sitting on their
backsides on the dressing room balcony.”
Then he flew to Melbourne for the Cup.
When the MCC team followed later,
the Duke of Norfolk decided to try
some cricketrite of his own, and pro-
duced a gem. He said, “I made it clear
on our arrival that I would always be
ready to meet the Press and anyone
could have had a word if they wished
before the publication of the articles
which might lead to bad feelings on
what, to my mind, is a very happy tour.”
“Smacks of censorship,” said Mr
Wellings in the Sydney “Telegraph”.
“Surely Australians have anticipated this
tour as the resumption of the historic
battle for the mythical Ashes?”
While that rumble went on, Keith
Miller was looking at the MCG wicket,
and the Combined XI bowlers Guest
and Misson for pace, and Martin, Vievers
and Simpson for spin “bowlers who
are little if any better than good club or
district bowlers.’ Miller tipped the
English batsmen “to have a harvest and
blast the daylights out of the attack.”
They did.
“Slaughtered ... massive total... death-
knell of Martin’s Test hopes . . . fierce
hammering . . . dynamic Dexter ... day
of devastation . . . ripped the attack to
pieces.”
Even the Sydney “Herald” man, Tom
Goodman, had to fall into cricketrite to
record it . . . “Inspired by dynamic Ted
Dexter, the MCC slaughtered the
mediocre bowling. Dexter hit a brilliant
power-laden century—the MCC rattled
up 458 runs . . . Lord Edward the dash-
ing cavalier of modern batsmen.”
Adelaide’s Keith Butler cried, “ful-
filled a threat of vengeance . . . MCC
pulverised an Australian XI . . . the weak
and frustrated Australian bowlers stood
helpless . . . paled into insignificance . . .
an innings of cold fury.”
Worse, solid Percy Beames of the
“Age” wrote “the MCC batting machine
slaughtered a pathetically thin and weak
Australian XI to score a mammoth
5/458.”
“Mammoth” was also the word from
Phil Tressider, with his “MCC’s craggy
jawed sheet anchor batsman Ken Bar-
rington in an unconquered 219 .. . MCC
declared its mammoth score 7/633.”
Thanks to Dexter and Barrington, our
twelve employed cricket experts, and
Richie Benaud, Keith Miller, Bill
O'Reilly, Lindsay Hassett, and occasion-
ally Ted Dexter are all in great shape
to write about the Tests. Evidently they
will be supported at times by Wellings,
Crawford White and Ron Roberts of
England.
With all of this talent available, you
will be able to read up to four identical
versions of any day's Test play in your
newspaper. You will have to regard
that as a boon, because after all it is
being provided for you, at considerable
expense, whether you want it or not.
They know you do. The fact that only
14,000 people saw Dexter’s knock in
Melbourne means nothing. Everyone is
interested in cricket and wants to read
about it. Hearing it on radio and seeing
it on television don’t mean a thing. It
is established that you want to open
your newspaper in the morning and read
the staff man’s: “Big headed, square
shouldered Flinty Rockwill bore the
brunt of the MCC attack for three hours
yesterday, and then counter - attacked
with a savagely compiled century that
left the English bowling in a heap,
taking our score at stumps to a record
4/10/9.”
Then you read the other three or four
versions by a former Test star, one of
the captains, an English writer or two,
and then it’s lunchtime and you can buy
the afternoon ’papers and start afresh, as
you would have had to at the end of the
Melbourne match last week.
After the MCC’s “mammoth” score,
the Australian XI made a medium
massive 451 on Bill Watt’s pitch, the
MCC went in again and lost 5 wickets
for 68 declared, and the Australians
were left with 160 minutes to make 251
runs. They made 201.
It was wonderful pre-Test practice for
the cricketriters. From one day’s
delirious praise to the next day’s
criticism, analysis, and innuendo.
It was all fine cricketriting.
And now we come to the beginning
of the Tests, or open season for the giant
superlative, the sabre toothed cliche, and
the bellowing trite. Good hunting,
chaps.


GOOD
REASONS WHY
I ALWAYS USE
PIPE
ON MY
PROPERTY!^
: /
\ V
v
; ■
&
nr
:W
m
v "•
-"
O No other pipe has greater strength. Steel pipe is not
fragile or susceptible to damage by stock or fire, so can be
laid above ground, saving cost of trenching. It also with-
stands far greater pressures and that's important, too.
• Steel pipe lasts longer. Steel pipe doesn't deteriorate in
sunlight or with exposure, is not damaged by termites or
rodents. Its inherent strength enables it to withstand all
sorts of external impacts undamaged.
© Steel pipe costs less. On account of its much longer life
and comparatively low initial cost, I have found steel pipe a
far more economical buy than any other type of pipe-and
I've tried them all.
• Steel pipe is easy to instal, handle or store. Steel pipe,
being so sturdy can be surface-laid, then dismantled and
relaid in a new location or stored without risk of damage
in handling.
• Steel pipe has so many uses. Its inbuilt strength and rigidity permit a wide
variety of uses, not practical for other fragile or flexible types of pipe, such
as vertical and overhead installations. That's why i say, "Give me steel pipe
every time."
FOR GREATER STRENGTH . . .
. . . EXTRA VALUE - INSIST ON STEEL PIPE
LONGER LIFE
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
55A.3.&&


OVERSEAS
FULMINATING AGAINST
PERSONAL RULE
A Presidential regime a I'Americaine is here to stay
From NEIL McINNES in PARIS
The current French elections,
November 18 and 25 (there is a
second round in constituencies
where no one wins an absolute majority)
are expected to reduce considerably the
parliamentary representation of the
Gaullist “Union for the New Republic.”
Its 178 seats were won in the tidal wave
of 1958: de Gaulle had just come back,
nine-tenths of the electorate felt that
only he could settle the Algerian affair,
and they gave him the sort of Assembly
he wanted. It would be normal for the
new house to give a more faith-
ful reflection of traditional sectional
interests, now that the Algerian dossier
has been filed, the saviour-general cut
down to size, and his team marked by
the wear and tear of four years in office.
Yet this likely return to a more normal
parliamentary spectrum does not mean
that French politics will go back to the
familiar pattern of the Third and Fourth
Republics. The mainspring of the old
system has been broken and, whatever
the results of the elections, a return to
the regime of government by omnipotent
assemblies (which the French have called
“democracy” since 1875) is henceforth
impossible.
Not surprisingly, few of the candidates
in the present campaign seem to have
realised this, for the idea that France
has tilted once and for all away from the
parliamentary to the presidential system
will take some getting used to. True, the
presidential regime that de Gaulle has
foisted on the country is a hybrid and
will need serious revision before it be-
comes workable for anybody but himself.
But the parliamentary regime is finished,
and the only line of progress from here on
will be to make the presidential system
safe and workable. The majority of can-
didate-deputies. on the contrary, seem
still to be under the illusion that they
can restore parliament's supremacy if
they annihilate the Gaullist party, make
life hell for the president and maybe
even drive him back to Colombey to finish
his Memoirs. In other words, they
believe, as they have believed since 1958,
that the Fifth Republic is just the Fourth
plus de Gaulle, and with him out of the
way they will be able to go back to their
old parliamentary games.
It will probably require the shock of
the first election of a successor president
by universal suffrage to cure them of
this misapprehension. For when that
election takes place, they will discover
that there now exists over their heads a
man who (whether or not his name is de
Gaulle) has all the power, prestige and
popular support of a US President. In-
deed, he will have more of those things,
since he will not only be elected by the
people directly but will have the faculty
of dissolving the Assembly and holding
referendums. It is this somewhat exces-
sive concentration of powers in presiden-
tial hands that makes the system hybrid,
and useful parliamentary action will be
aimed at reducing them, for fear that one
day the presidency fall to a less worthy
man than de Gaulle. But, over-powerful
or not, the fact is that parliament hence-
forth must live in the shadow of a popu-
larly elected president, so the regime of
government by assembly is a closed
chapter.
So little are the old gang of politicians
reconciled to this new reality that those of
them I have heard so far in the campaign
have spent their time fulminating against
“personal rule,” the threat of dictatorship
and other parliamentary hobby-horses. It
is clear that by this they do not mean
the accumulation of powers in the presi-
dency, but the very fact of a president
directly named by the people over parlia-
ment; in the rhetoric of French assem-
blies, “personal rule” has always signified
any efficient executive that lay beyond
the reach of mercurial parliamentary
combinations. Only one, the socialist
Andre Philip, was lucid enough to say,
in effect: “We are now stuck with the
presidential form of government, so w'e
must kiss the old regime good-bye and go
the whole American hog by giving our-
selves a Supreme Court and making it
impossible for the president to dissolve
parliament.” Philip (who is so intelligent
a politician that Guy Mollet had him
expelled from the Socialist Party) was
the first deputy to see that declamations
about “personal rule” will not undo the
fact that the French have decided to
choose their own president henceforth,
and so the urgent problem is to ensure
that the president is responsible to some-
one and cannot get rid of parliament
when he wishes.
As to just how urgent this is, ideas can
fairly differ. Personally, I think it will
be time enough to begin amending de
Gaulle’s hybrid in a “more democratic”
direction when the class of professional
politicians have got into their heads the
fact that no one wants to see the restora-
tion of their degrading and ridiculous
system of revolving-door cabinets, in
which dummy premiers act as stooges for
a month or two for secret corridor-com-
binations. Because of the fragmentation
of French political opinion, into never
less than six currents (communist,
socialist, catholic, radical, traditional-
conservative and some variant of Bona-
partism-Poujadism-Gaullism), strongly
bureaucratised parties and stable majori-
ties have never existed here. So assem-
blies cannot govern, except by means of
shifting and often sinister coalitions;
since an effective executive is refused,
as “dictatorship,” the country drifts un-
governed from calamity to humiliation —-
until a real dictator is called in. This
is the natural tendency of French demo-
cracy, and formally excessive powers in
the hands of a popular president will not
be too much to ensure that a disastrous
tradition is decisively broken. Once it
is so, and the deputies are reconciled to
acting like Congressmen, de Gaulle's
successors could safely be relieved of
some of their extensive powers.
Meantime, however, the oratory about
the dangers of personal rule (and such
demagogy is to date the staple of this
election campaign) covers unwillingness
to accept the presidential system which
the majority chose in last month’s refer-
endum. Most of the candidates, one
gathers, would be content with scoring
some spectacular revenge over de Gaulle
for inflicting this system on them. If they
can wipe out the Gaullist representation
this month and then maybe overthrow a
few cabinets of the president’s choosing,
parliamentary honor (if those two words
do not sound too absurd placed side by
side) will be satisfied and the old parties
will then begin the re-adaption that is
required of them in the new state. Yet
there is a minority, and its leaders are
not the least eminent of deputies and
senators, who are ready to go to any
lengths to reverse the people’s decision
of last month. The president of the Sen-
ate has already sought to have the refer-
endum declared null and void, on juri-
dical technicalities. If that fails, they


WORLD-WIDE
100% British Made
the iron that travels...
The Tilley Domestic Iron goes anywhere, tackles any-
thing. NO flex to get in your way; it is entirely
self-contained, and runs for 4 hours on one filling
pint of ordinary kerosene). Clean, easy to use, with
exact heat control.
For trouble-free ironing, anytime, anywhere, you
can put your trust in TILLEY.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores. In
case of difficulty write to:—
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LIMITED
109 2 Mt. Alexander Rd.,
Essendon, W. 5. Australia
will try to get parliament to refuse to
work the new system at all: overthrow
every cabinet, seek to drive de Gaulle
out of office, refuse to apply the rule of
popular election to his successor, and
then take the first opportunity to have
parliament undo the constitutional amend-
ment that permits direct election of the
president.
This sordid and exceedingly dangerous
adventure is, of course, proposed in the
sacred name of democracy, like all the
escapades of French assemblies. (That
it is “democratic'’ to undo a referendum,
and replace universal suffrage by a re-
stricted college of notables, is an argu-
ment well within the tradition of parlia-
mentary demagogy.) The immediate in-
terest of the coming elections will be to
see how many advocates of this parlia-
mentary fanaticism are returned. If
there is a substantial number, plus an
enlarged Communist representation (for
the Communists will naturally co-operate
in any adventure liable to paralyse the
republic), a trial of strength between the
Assembly and the President will take
place early next year.
THE MAN WHO
DREW THE LINE
A capacity for patience
From JAMES DELANEY
in NEW DELHI
pEW know very much about the man—-
General Sir Arthur Henry McMahon
who gave his name to the boundary.
Born at Simla on November 28th
1862, he came of a family which had
served India for generations. His grand-
father, who hailed from Ireland, had a
distinguished career as a soldier which
began towards the close of the eighteenth
century. His own father, General
Charles McMahon, was a Commissioner
in the Punjab, and a distinguished geo-
logist.
Henry shared his father’s passion for
geology, heard his father’s stories of
conditions in the Himalayan ranges and
the tales of the complex ownership
problems which the lands presented.
He left India to attend Haileybury,
the public school which provided a re-
gular supply of recruits for the Indian
Civil Service. Then followed Sandhurst,
from which he graduated top of the list,
with the sword of honor.
He returned to India where he joined
the Punjab Frontier Force and later the
Punjab Commission.
A few years after he was transferred
to the Indian Political Department where
be served for 24 years.
In the light of what is happening along
India’s frontiers right now, McMahon’s
undoubted ability for doing the difficult
job well has considerable significance.
In 1897 he demarcated the frontier
between Baluchistan and Afghanistan.
The task demanded endless patience and
a capacity to win the trust of the leading
personalities on both sides to secure
equitably agreed conditions.
The success of this job was followed
by similar assignments, including the
fixing of the boundary between Iran and
Afghanistan.
In 1910, a year before he became
Foreign Secretary in New Delhi, China
invaded Tibet and occupied Lhasa. Chin-
ese troops presented themselves at Rima,
on the Assam-Tibet border, and ordered
them to build a road to India.
The problem of the frontier territo-
ries which had always been in the back-
ground of India’s foreign affairs sud-
denly became acute. The first require-
ment was accurate information to re-
place the rather vague facts existing then
about those areas.
Great stretches were explored and
surveyed. This was a prelude to nego-
tiating a tripartite convention between
India, China and Tibet. The Indo-
Tibetan frontier was mapped out and
onto McMahon’s shoulders fell the
burden of obtaining an agreed border
line. This was negotiated and completed
in the 1913-14 period.
Just 30 years later, in 1943, China,
then non-Communist, issued maps which
showed Tibet as a Chinese Province and
it also gave the Tibetan frontier as 100
miles south of the McMahon Line.
World Was II was in progress but in
spite of the pressure of the conflict,
those who governed India thought it
prudent not to ignore the challenge. A
second period of exploration began and
fresh surveys were carried out. The
work confirmed that the territory up to
the McMahon Line drawn in 1914 was
indisputably India's.
There was a change of regime in
Peking and the Communists began to
issue further maps and other claims.
McMahon died in London in 1949 at
the age of 87. His life bridged the period
from the time when the British Raj was
at its height to the birth and consolida-
tion of an Independent India.


INDIA, PAKISTAN AND CHINA
A summary of Press attitudes
By EUGENE BAJKOVSKY
The Queen’s throne speech had
warm words for India’s struggle
and Mr Macmillan spoke out for
India in the Commons.
And, if the Press is any indication of
popular feeling, India is truly grateful.
“The Hindustan Times” points out that
“considering that India is not in any
way allied to Britain, and that on the
other hand had frequently come out into
conflict politically over many major
issues, no more magnanimous under-
taking could have been given by any
country.”
Whatever else may be said about Mr
Nehru’s past policies, he has made a
courageous admission of his errors and
the nation seems to be solidly behind
him. Criticism of Mr Nehru himself and
of his Government is restrained and
constructive, but his former Defence
Minister and personal friend, Mr Krishna
Menon, is the target for savage attacks.
This quickly drove him from his face-
saving post of Minister for Defence Pro-
duction and it is anyone’s guess how
long he will keep the relatively minor
sop of a member of the new 30-man
Defence Council.
Despite intensive pressure by the more
fellow-travelling Afro-Asian neutrals and
equivocal, if not openly hostile, attitude
of its immediate neighbors, India seems
determined not to parley on Peking’s
terms. It would be difficult for the
Government to survive anything less that
negotiation from strength, with honor.”
The scholarly “Eastern Economist”
bluntly states that accepting Peking’s
cease-fire offers would be “recognition
of the state of affairs created by blatant
acts of military aggression”. The journal,
with a wide following in intellectual and
business circles, adds that “defence has
acquired indisputable priority over every
other project.”
“The Mainstream”, an outspoken
newsweekly which has long opposed
Nehru’s wishful thinking on the Chinese
problem despite its suspicion of the
West, calls the Chinese invasion “an act
of folly of an irresponsible, narrow-
minded, intolerant, power-drunk coterie
of ruthless warlords”.
Bombay’s eloquent “Free Press
Journal” is full of reports about mass
anti-Chinese protest meetings, marches
on Chinese Consulates by workers and
students, public burnings of effigies of
Chinese Communist leaders and huge
donations to the defence fund.
The President’s declaration of the
state of emergency was front-page news
everywhere. Reports of frontier fighting
are frank and reverses are not played
down.
Both the “Hindustan Times” and the
“Times of India” report growing de-
mands for a firm attitude towards the
Indian Communist Party, though warn-
ing against mob violence and individual
excesses. Large photographes show the
Communist Party’s headquarters in the
capital after sacking and burning by
angry demonstrators.
“The Hindustan Times” reports that
“proscribed Chinese publications were
seized by police in Trivandrum”. Com-
menting on the ICP’s last-minute switch
to support the MacMahon line and the
war effort, the paper caustically points
out the Party’s “extra-territorial loyal-
ties” and says that it “cannot expect by
a last-minute condemnation (of Peking)
to purge itself entirely of the stains left
by earlier equivocation”.
Anti-Indian editorials in the “Pravda”
and “Izvestia” were condemned by the
whole Press, unappeased by occasional
statements by Mr Nehru that the USSR
is expected to honor its contract to sell
MIGs to India. “The Hindu” carries a
long angry editorial condemning Soviet
aid to China.
“The Hindustan Times” front-pages a
bitter article on the Communist-domi-
nated “World Peace Council”, which
summarily dismissed India’s complaints
against Chinese invasion only the
Polish session chairman dared to express
his “personal sympathy” with India. But
it willingly listened to the wild, lying
harrangues by Peking’s delegate who
demanded that India be condemned as a
wicked agressor. Other papers comment
on the political folly of India associating
with such transparent “fronts” as the
“World Peace Movement”.
Every hint of sympathy or aid from
the outside world is gratefully reported
•—the Press seems to realise how isolated
India is because of Mr Nehru’s dogmatic
neutralism.
The attitude of Afro-Asian neutrals,
which so far seem to favor talks on
Peking’s terms, while Ghana’s bombastic
President Nkrumah even demands that
UK should suspend all aid to India,
dismays Indian leader writers, some of
whom, are realistic enough to point out
that little else could be expected.
Relations with Pakistan remain a
major worry. On the whole, the attitude
of Indian papers is one of hopeful res-
traint . . . and wishful thinking.
“The Hindustan Times” remarks that
“Pakistan has endeared itself to India
by its frank recognition of the Chinese
aggression as a threat to the entire sub-
continent.” Hopes are expressed that
Pakistan will not now “press” the Kash-
mir dispute which is reported to tie
down some 500,000 Indian troops and
militia.
But official statements by Pakistan’s
President Ayub Khan, expressing con-
cern about arms aid to India and des-
cribing the Sino-Indian conflict as
“limited”, give little immediate hope of
a sub-continent united in armed resis-
tance to Peking.
And if Pakistani Press is to be taken
as a barometer, there is little hope for
an immediate truce in Kashmir, except
on Pakistan’s terms. The most that can
be expected at the moment seems is that
Pakistan will refrain from using the
situation to improve its strategic position
on the Kashmir border.
“Dawn”, Pakistan’s influential English-
language daily, is full of reports and
comments hostile to India and demands
prior settlement of old disputes before
any arrangements on mutual defence
against China.
Reports by Peking’s New China News
Agency (Hsinhua) are prominently
featured, and the “arms build-up in
India” violently opposed. The paper feels
that arms given to India to defend its
frontier with Tibet will be used against
Pakistan in Kashmir and East Bengal.
Turkey has already refused to send any
aid to India after energetic protest by
Pakistan.
Mr Khwaja Nazimuddin, President of
Pakistan’s powerful Muslin League, has
called on the Government to demand
that India agrees to a plebiscite in Kash-
mir, replacement of Indian troops in
Kashmir by UN forces, and stops what
he describes as persecution and forcible
eviction of Muslims in India. Failing
that, Pakistan should mobilise its forces
and put them on a war footing along
the Indian border.
“Dawn” reports that India has started
a blockade of Nepal and says that “satis-
factory agreement” has been reached
with China on the demarcation of Sino-
Pakistan and Sino-Nepalese frontier.
Headlines are generally unfavourable
to India. Here are a few samples: “India
Creating War Atmosphere Peking
Note to Delhi”, “Plea to Stops Arms
Supply to India”, “Nehru Spurns China’s
Offer”, “Pakistan Won’t Allow Transport
of Arms”, “President Ayub Khan
Worried About Arms Aid to India”, “No
Undertaking on Kashimr”, “India Main-
taining Unfriendly Attitude”, “Chou’s
Fresh Offer for Border Talks”, “Peking’s
Isolation Wishful Thinking”.
One of “Dawn’s” overseas correspon-
dents reports that Peking has turned
down Mr Khrushchev’s mediation offer
and demanded increased supplies of
Soviet arms to China.


FORUM
LATIN AMERICAN MIGRANTS—
AND WHY NOT?
A reservoir of untapped skills for Australian needs
YjTTILLIAM HORNADGE (a member of the Australian Trade Mission
to South America earlier this year) found Latin American
businessmen, professional men and. technicians interested in migrating to
Australia. In this article he urges that we should do something about
getting them here.
The Department of Trade recently
released the official report on the
Australian Trade Mission to South
America earlier this year and a very
handsome and comprehensive docu-
ment it is indeed. The report outlines
in detail the trade prospects (and pro-
blems) in each of the eight states visited
(Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru,
Chile, Argentina, Uruguay and Brazil)
and makes certain recommendations,
mainly in the field of publicity, scholar-
ship, credit terms, future missions and
commercial treaties, but omits any refe-
rence to a matter which loomed large in
the minds of many mission members,
namely the possibility of South America
being the source of a considerable num-
ber of migrants for Australia.
Mission members found that the
people they met in South America
evinced a keen interest in Australia, and
in many instances this went far beyond
mere curiosity about a relatively un-
known land—the enquirers were gen-
uinely interested in Australia as a place
to which they could migrate. From my
experience, such enquiries invariably
came from Europeans who migrated to
South America in the 1930’s to escape
Nazi persecution or after World War II
to find a better life than was then offer-
ing in war torn Europe. The bulk of
these migrants comprise business and
professional men, skilled tradesmen and
technicians namely the exact class of
migrant Australia needs most urgently.
It is difficult to obtain exact figures on
these Latinised-Europeans, but their
numbers certainly run into several hun-
red thousand, the European colonies
being particularly strong in some coun-
tries, notably Argentina. Because of their
skills and talents, the Europeans have
done very well for themselves in a
physical sense, but the frustrations of
life in South America are many and
varied and the people of almost every
Latin state wage an almost ceaseless fight
against the bogey of inflation.
This falls most heavily on the middle
class section of the community, to which
most of the Europeans belong, and is
the primary cause of their general and
widespread discontent with South
America as a home. Revolutions and
political instability, they can learn to
tolerate —except perhaps in Venezuela
where the almost daily round of terrorist
activities is wearing thin the nerves of
the European community but the
constant whittling away of their savings
by the ever rampant inflation is a night-
mare to the thrifty European. Because of
this, Europeans have been drifting back
to their homelands in recent years in
ever increasing numbers. But many
have no homelands left this side of the
Iron Curtain, and others have no wish to
return to a Europe which holds such
bitter memories for them.
These are the people who are looking
for stable areas of the world to which
they could migrate and settle permanent-
ly. Because of its tight quota system,
the United States is closed to many of
the Europeans scattered throughout
South America. This leaves Australia as
one of the few attractive places to which
they could migrate. Many of them have
distant relatives in Australia but their
knowledge of the continent, its way of
life and its prospects is very limited
indeed and they are thirsty for know-
ledge in a very practical way.
During the mission I was approached
by about a dozen such Europeans seek-
ing information about Australia as a
place to which they migrate and I
think my experience would have been
paralleled by most other mission mem-
bers. Since we had, of necessity, to
travel “light”, we had very little suitable
literature to distribute and had to rely
on a verbal “selling” of Australia, sup-
plemented by literature, magazines,
newspapers, etc. forwarded since the re-
turn of the mission. Our efforts in
“selling” Australia, were not entirely un-
successful as I have just had a letter
from one such contact in Uruguay ad-
vising that his family unit of three are
leaving Montevideo at the end of Oc-
tober to settle permanently in Australia
and a very fine acquisition to Aus-
tralia this family will be. I am hoping
that this success will be repeated in at
least two other personal contacts I made
one in Venezuela, one in Ecuador.
At present we are losing the chance
to attract to Australia thousands of the
best type of migrants because of failure
to publicise Australia and follow up with
personal interviews. Australian diplo-
matic representation is thinly scattered
in South America and in most states
British Embassies and Consulates act for
Australia where needed. An official in
one such Embassy told me that interest
in Australia had increased tremendously
in recent years and that his Embassy was
now processing about 100 visas a year
for Australia. He believed this could be
stepped up considerably if Australia
could arrange some on-the-spot publicity
to attract migrants.
The matter was mentioned at the final
briefing meeting of the Trade Delega-
tion, held in Rio de Janeiro, when it was
pointed out that Australia would have
to be extremely careful in approaches
to would-be migrants in South America
for fear of offending the always-touchy
Latin Governments. That the Depart-
ment of Trade realises the issue could be
a “hot potato” is obvious from the fact
that the matter is omitted entirely from
its official report.
If the Department of Trade, quite
understandably, does not wish to bat
on a sticky wicket of this nature, there
is no reason why the Department of
Immigration should not take the initia-
tive and enter the arena difficulties
and problems notwithstanding. A pro-
gramme to attract migrants from South
America could well be developed along
the following lines:
• By the insertion in leading South
American newspapers and periodi-
cals, advertisements giving brief facts
about Australia and inviting readers
to apply for additional literature.
• By the preparation (in Spanish) of a
series of attractive booklets about
Australia, emphasising those points
which most likely would interest a
potential migrant.
• The distribution of such booklets
through the existing Australian Trade
Posts in Caracas (Venezuela), Lima
(Peru) and Australian Embassie in


Buenos Aires and Rio de Janeiro.
© The use of Radio Australia to beam
regular Spanish language broadcasts
to South America. (A number of
people of the West Coast of South
America told me they regularly
picked up the present Radio Austra-
lia broadcasts in English—but special
Spanish language programmes ob-
viously are needed.
• By a systematic programme orga-
nised through the Good Neighbour
Council and similar bodies urging
migrants in Australia to “Bring out
a Friend”. This campaign could be
conducted along the lines of the
“Bring out a Briton” campaign, and
migrants could be urged to make
contact with friends and relatives in
South America and supply them with
Spanish language literature provided
by the Immigration Department.
• The Immigration Department should
send an officer on any future Aus-
tralian Trade Delegation but, having
missed the bus in the case of South
America, should follow up by send-
ing a small survey team throughout
the area covered by the Trade
Mission.
The Immigration Department is said
to have been disturbed by the difficulty
of securing suitable migrants in the
years ahead, due mainly to the rising
standards of living in Europe. South
America offers an untapped and very
challenging field for migration and no
time should be lost in exploiting the con-
siderable goodwill and interest in Aus-
tralia generated by the recent Mission
to that rather remote area of the world.
CUBA-TWO VIEWS
No. 7. Sir William Hayter, former
UK Ambassador to Moscow:
VTow that the Cuban squall has blown
by the landscape which its flurries
briefly obscured reappears with all its
old ugly features virtually unchanged—
the Berlin situation, the disarmament
deadlock, and a newer one, the India-
China conflict.
The euphoria which followed Mr
Khrushchev’s retreat led many people to
think at first that something had changed
fundamentally. This illusion took two
forms. The first was that because the
Soviet Government had yielded over
Cuba rather than start a nuclear war it
would yield similarly elsewhere.
This idea was, of course, an absurd
one. It was ridiculous ever to suppose
that because the Russians had abandoned
an ill-judged sortie into an area where
their conventional weapons were useless
and where their only choice was with-
drawal or nuclear war, it would be safe
to attack their main fortress where their
conventional superiority was overpower-
ing and where the responsibility of start-
ing the nuclear war could be put on to
our side.
The United States Administration has
dealt wisely and firmly with this illusion,
in this form. But some of its pronounce-
ments have suggested that it is not
entirely free from the other form of the
illusion, that of supposing that the co-
operative mood engendered over Cuba
could somehow be extended into other
fields, particularly that of disarmament.
The Soviet Government is not, on the
whole, susceptible to moods of this kind.
The Russians judge, or believe themselves
to judge, international questions objec-
tively. Objectively, the Berlin and dis-
armament questions are not affected
in their main factors by what happened
in Cuba. So policy about them is not
affected and should not alter.
If it is affected at all, it is for the
worse. Just as, over Cuba, President
Kennedy had to show he could not be
pushed around, so Mr Khrushchev may,
after Cuba, feel the necessity to estab-
lish the s me thing over Berlin. The
more the American die-hards crow vic-
tory, the more he has to do this.
Flow do Anglo-American relations
emerge from the squall? Not very well,
I fear. The British Government seems
to have behaved impeccably, but the
British public, or some of it, lost its
head. There was never any danger of
the Soviet Government starting an atomic
war for Cuba. In saying this I am not
being wise after the event; I said it in
a broadcast on the second day of the
crisis, and if it was obvious even to me
it must have been still more obvious to
Mr Kennedy and his advisers. So they
ran no risk, and the two ladies who de-
camped to Western Ireland to avoid the
bombs were wasting their time and
money. These and other manifestations
of British shakiness and weak nerves can
hardly have seemed very impressive to
the Americans.
No. 2. John Strachey, War Minis-
ter in the Attlee Government:
has been a very great event. It is
too early yet to do more than guess
at the consequences. No doubt there
has been some shift, though not a pro-
found shift, in the balance of world
power. But more important than this is
the revelation that the two super-Powers
can, if only after they have scared the
daylights out of each other (and every-
one else), come to terms.
It is this second aspect of the crisis
that naturally interests me most. For I
had ventured to prophesy, in my recent
book “On the Prevention of War,” that
this process of what may be called “ac-
commodation through mutual terror,”
was, unfortunately, our best hope for
survival in this desperate nuclear age.
The Cuban bargain brought the big
two to terms only on one limited issue.
What all serious people must be con-
sidering is how this small, but vitally im-
portant, breakthrough into the possibility
of hope can be widened and generalised.
Nothing was more important in the whole
Cuban affair than the fact that President
Kennedy, in his letter to Mr Khrush-
chev, instantly took up the question of
a test ban agreement, on which Mr
Khrushchev had said that the Russian
and American positions were very close.
A test ban agreement, I am convinced,
is the key first move to world stabilisa-
tion under authority. For it would open
the prospect of stopping the spread of
nuclear weapons round the world.
I, for one, cannot withhold my tribute
to the rock-like steadiness of the Ameri-
can Government. I mean its steadiness in
resisting both the extreme provocation
of the Russian actions, and in resisting
strong internal pressures against any
settlement which involved leaving the
Castro Government in possession of
Cuba. The acceptance, in effect, of co-
existence with a Communist-controlled
Government in the Caribbean was a far
more difficult thing for an American
Administration to agree to than is usually
realised in this country.
I cannot feel that any of us in Britain,
Government or Opposition, cut a very
distinguished figure in the crisis. Mr
Macmillan’s public pronouncements, and
what one hears about his private reac-
tions, sounded to me rather like those
of a fussy old retired nanny, for ever
calling out: “Oh, oh, Master Jack, do be
careful or the bad men will get you!”
I cannot think that this was very useful.
The role of Britain in this direct con-
frontation of the two nuclear Powers
could be only a modest one. When there
was little that we could say which made
any difference, might it not have been
more dignified to assert our solidarity
with our ally and, for the rest, to keep
silence?


letters
to the
editor
ORGANISATION
Sir,
I must take strong and definite excep-
tion to an article in your November 3
issue under the heading “Organisation”.
In this paragraph I am reported to have
said: “Only unionist material should be
accepted for Australian radio and tele-
vision.”
I must state publicly that not only did
I not say anything that remotely resem-
bles this but also that these senti-
ments are contrary to my own personal
beliefs. Furthermore, your reporter was
responsible for many inaccuracies within
the item.
The meeting he speaks of was called
by the Fellowship of Australian Writers
which is not a Trade Union and, further-
more, at this time there are no Writers’
Trade Unions in this country.
Delegates from the Australian Radio,
Television and Screen Writers’ Guild
were invited to attend this discussion on
problems concerning writers in every
sphere. This organisation, of which I am
President, sent three delegates, myself
included, and we attended out of cour-
tesy. I gave the meeting a resume on the
work of our organisation, our progress,
our hopes and our ideals. I was most
careful not to use the word “union”. I
alw'ays make this a firm rule when ad-
dressing any body publicly in regard to
this Guild’s activities.
The Guild was formed on May 2 of
this year as the result of a meeting of
24 writers and dramatists who believed
that their interests could be furthered by
some organisation which would give
them a united voice and a point of con-
tact. They were as much concerned with
raising the status of Australian script-
writers and opening up new markets for
their material, both here and abroad, as
they were with the more basic financial,
industrial and copyright problems con-
cerning the writer when submitting that
material to production houses. The num-
bers of this association have more than
tripled since that May 2 meeting.
This Guild is a non-political organisa-
tion w'hich dedicates itself to lifting the
lot of the Australian scriptwriter and has
a special regard for his welfare. It is our
intention to extend markets for our
members through liaison, co-ordination
and co-operation with all production
houses, not by any “unionistic force of
arms”.
Writers are individuals and their in-
dividuality must be safeguarded. It is
an integral and important part of the
character of their work. This Guild
respects that individuality and resents
any suggestion that the scriptwriter can
be classified as an antagonistic militant.
We feel that your reporter, through the
misquote, may have inadvertently weak-
ened our bargaining position with our
employers.
This Guild represents the majority of
Australia’s professional freelance script-
writers and dramatists and its activities
are quite open. We welcome interest and
true reportage on our progress, our
ideals and work.
Don Houghton,
President, The Australian Radio,
Television and Screen Writers’ Guild
Sydney.
WRITERS’ TRADE UNION?
Sir,
It takes a long time for The Bul-
letin to reach Michigan and your issue
of October 6, has just come to hand.
In it was contained an article concerning
the possible formation of a writers’
union. How dreary and plebeian the
word union seems. Surely these ladies
and gentlemen have enough professional
pride to form at least, A Society of
Authors. But I doubt if this would do
much good. What the young and the
established writer needs is a first-class
agent who is both tough and literate.
The Australian publisher is unique.
He is the only publisher in the world
who is forced, by international cartel
agreements, to publish predominantly
native material. In every other country
publishers’ lists are international in flavor
and origin. Until something is done to
allow Australian publishers to bid for
Australasian rights to overseas books the
trade will never be prosperous enough to
support the efficient staff necessary to
take care of certain of the Australian
writers’ grievances.
However, some Australian writers
could, one would think, do something to
help break through this unhappy situa-
tion. Last year one world famous Aus-
tralian writer (not Olaf Ruhen I hasten
to add, whose company on the ferry
is always a joy) castigated me for not
returning home and establishing a pub-
lishing house to be Australian in flavor
but international in experience. I asked
him if, should I do so, he would grant
me the Australasian rights to his future
books. He gently explained that this was
rather a naive inquiry for, as an estab-
lished author, he could do nothing which
would spoil the harmonious relations
existing between him and his British
publisher! British exploitation may be
dead in Eire but it is not in the Aus-
tralian book trade-
LYLE BLAIR
Professor and Director.
Michigan Stale University.
SHORTER LETTERS, PLEASE!
With the steady increase in THE
BULLETIN’S circulation over the
last nine months the number of
readers’ letters reaching us each week
has quadrupled.
Many of them are excellent letters
spoiled by being too long.
We want anybody who has some-
thing to say to write to us but as
concisely as possible. We realise that
some subjects require long letters but
many do not and brevity, as ever,
remains the soul of wit. Ed.
WANNAN SCHOOL OF “HISTORY”
Sir,
I am not in the habit of replying pub-
licly to the reviewers of my books,
almost all of whom have approached my
work critically, temperately and seriously.
In your issue of October 27, however,
occurs a notice—it is certainly not a
critical review of my book “Very Strange
Tales”—which calls for comment. It is
signed by M. H. Ellis, who is, if I am not
mistaken, the same Mr Ellis whose bio-
graphy of John Macarthur I referred to
in the Introduction to “Very Strange
Tales”.
I pointed out that Ellis’s biography has
a quaintly old-fashioned air about it to-
day, presenting as it does a portrait of
Governor Bligh as a tyrant and implying
that Macarthur and his rum-selling assoc-
iates were men fighting for justice and
freedom. This was the kind of attitude
that was fairly popular in mid-Victorian
times, but was no longer tenable after the
publication of “Historical Records of
Australia”, and more recently of Dr H. V.
Evatt’s brilliant and lucid assessments in
“Rum Rebellion.” I accept Dr Evatt’s
conclusions, and not those of M. H. Ellis.
It is not, as Mr Ellis so gratuitously
suggests, that I am critical of Macarthur
because he is “a symbol of capitalist
infamy”, or because I envy him. Anyone
who envies John Macarthur ought to
hurry along to the nearest psychiatrist’s
couch without delay.
My book, or rather the first chapter
of it, is concerned to show briefly, and
I believe accurately and objectively, the
evil influence which Macarthur, and other
corrupt contemporaries, exerted on the
developing young colony of New South
Wales.
But “Very Strange Tales” is concerned
with much else besides the machinations
of Macarthur. It deals with several kinds
of corruption that were rampant in early
Australia—and in Tahiti and New Zea-
land. It is also concerned with honorable
men, like Edward Smith Hall, Dr Henry
Grattan Douglass and Governor Gipps.
But Mr Ellis does not mention these.
Indeed, he concentrates his feeble fire
in an attempt to dispose of two alleged
inaccuracies in my book.
With regard to the duel fought between


John Macarthur and his commanding
officer, William Paterson, the important
point to remember is that it was pro-
voked by a particularly shabby, but typi-
cal, piece of underhand trickery perpe-
trated by Macarthur. As Governor King
stated, Macarthur’s intention was “to
create dissension between me and Lieut.-
Colonel Paterson.” And how did Mac-
arthur try to accomplish this? By making
available to the Governor copies of letters
which Paterson had sent privately to him
(Macarthur) and others.
And as if this were not enough, he
circulated to a number of people the con-
tents of a private letter written by Mrs
Paterson to Mrs Macarthur, and he did
this in such a scurrilous way that its pur-
port was open to misconstruction.
It is true, as Mr Ellis says, that after
his arrest following the duel, Macarthur
refused to go to Norfolk Island. But I do
not see that this fact in any way mitigates
his previous unsavoury conduct.
King wrote, “ ... as Captain Mac-
arthur did not choose to quit his arrest
unless tried by a General Court-Martial,
nor to give the necessary securities for
keeping the peace, I judged it necessary
and indispensable for the tranquillity of
the colony and regiment to direct that
the officer to be sent to England in the
arrest he continued himself under, here
to answer for his conduct . - .”
On the more important question of the
missing dispatch, to which Mr Ellis de-
votes most of his notice of my book, so
much has been written that there is little
that I can add. I did not, of course, state
that Macarthur actually stole the docu-
ments that were found to be missing from
Lieutenant Grant’s box.
But I did quote the considered con-
clusion reached by Dr Evatt in his “Rum
Rebellion”; “ . . . The inference is irresis-
tible that either he (Macarthur) or some
close associate of his arranged that the
damning documents should be stolen or
destroyed.”
According to an article by Mr Michael
Roe, “More on Ellis v Evatt” (“Meanjin,”
No. 3, 1960) the original copy of Gover-
nor King's dispatch did not reach the
Colonial Office until some time after
January 19, 1803, although it was later
mysteriously marked as having been re-
ceived in 1802. Who is correct —Mr
Roe or Mr Ellis? Mr Roe quotes docu-
mentary evidence to show that John
Macarthur lied about his knowledge of
this dispatch. Why did he lie?
It should be made clear, by the way,
that this dispatch of the Governor's out-
lined certain of Macarthur’s corrupt prac-
tices in New South Wales.
The theft charge against Macarthur is
not, as Mr Ellis insinuates, some plot
concocted in modern times. As Mr Roe
states in the article mentioned above,
“When a version of the theft charge
appeared in a Sydney newspaper in 1844
(“Atlas,” 28/12/44; the accusation was
allusive, but would have been clear to
contemporaries); it was not denied by
James or William Macarthur, active
though they were in colonial life.”
Few writers who deal with the vast and
complex facts of history can prevent
minor errors from creeping into their
work. Mr Ellis is, of course, no excep-
tion.
Thus, in his biography of Macquarie he
confuses Mr Rowland Hassall with his
son Thomas in one instance. But this is
surely pardonable.
It is not so pardonable, however, for
Mr Ellis to state, apropos the Rum Corps
rebellion of January, 1808, that “the
colony rebelled against Bligh.” (Bulle-
tin, July 29, 1961). This is grossly in-
accurate and thoroughly misleading. One
would like to hear what many of the
settlers of the Hawkesbury River and
other districts of New South Wales in
Bligh’s time would have said to such a
statement.
It does not inspire confidence in Mr
Ellis either as an historian or as a critic
of the historical writings of others.
BILL WANNAN
Caulfield {Victoria).
Mr Ellis writes: The substance of history
as retailed in Mr Wannan’s letter is about
as inaccurate as much of that in his book.
It is mostly slanted nonsense. And his quo-
tations from Dr Roe’s findings do not
improve his case since Dr Roe’s version
in “Meanjin” is marred by schoolboy
howlers in statement of fact, prejudice and
schoolboy judgments. He has not proved
anything except the decrepitude of his
knowledge of his subject. I am glad to find
that even historians of the Left feel as I
do about Mr Wannan’s volume. Professor
Manning Clark’s review in “Australian Book
Review for October reads like an echo of
my own views (though it was not, obvious-
ly.) His review is headed, “Very Strange
History”.
Professor Clark writes that he “suspects
Wannan is using Marsden and Macarthur
to prove the wickedness of the ‘ancient
nobility of New South Wales’.” He con-
cludes: "Is it good Marxism to be so cen-
sorious of those who showed the way for-
ward?”—Ed.
SCHIRRA MAKES HIS SPLASH
Sir,
Mr Baume of 2GB (Bulletin,
Nov. 3) seems satisfied that his station
did enough for its listeners by launching
Commander Schirra and then reportin°
on his flight once each hour until 5 a.rm
As one of those listeners, I did not agree.
If Mr Baume reads the review he will
find marked appreciation of the
American commentaries, and relays of
conversations with Schirra in space,
which other stations provided. He is
obviously certain this is a wrong view,
but does not say so, and in avoiding
that central issue leaves me wondering
why he wrote at all? If 2GB was
criticised, it was very mildly, but now
that Mr Baume has raised the question
perhaps he will answer it. Why doesn’t
he think his station s midnight to dawn
listeners would have welcomed more
news of the orbital flight, including
relays of Schirra’s conversations with
the ground?
DALE MILLER
Sydney.
NOT WORTH A DAMN?
Sir,
In The Bulletin of October 13 you
pose the question: “Should not employers
be protected from insolvent insurance
companies in cases where they are liable
under the Workers’ Compensation Act?”
But should not all policy-holders?
Three weeks before notification of the
liquidation of the Australian & Overseas
Insurance Co. Ltd, my car was involved
in a collision with another vehicle.
Nothing spectacular, nothing dramatic.
The other party, uninsured, issued a
summons against me to appear at a
Petty Sessions court, on a date post-
dating the notice of liquidation. The
legal representatives of Australian &
Overseas told me, in effect, “you’re on
your own.”
Result? An out of court settlement-
on the advice of my own solicitor —for
£B5 payable by me, an honest mug who
had gone through life naively believing
that in our society a paid-up insurance
policy was as valid as money in the
bank.
I will consider that £B5 well spent if
the law is revised to ensure that such a
thing cannot happen again. This is
one case in the argument for free enter-
prise where the “little man” isn’t worth
a damn.
G. THALLON
North Balwyn {Victoria).
PUBLISHING RAT RACE
Sir,
Max Harris brings librarians into his
discussion of Australian publishing and
bookselling, on p. 28 of The Bulle-
tin for November 10. 1 am one, and we
are interested in our public image, and
in the uses to which we may be usefully
put. Would he therefore tell us why, in
his estimation and his discriminating use
of words, we are an innocent and enthu-
siastic tribe? Herman Melville many
years ago called us a sallow, hopeless
tribe. Why are we still a tribe rather
than a profession, and one which senses
rather than reasons? And why are we
essentially, as he says, both innocent
and enthusiastic, and about what?
Is there in his estimation a casual rela-
tion between this state of innocent enthu-
siasm, or enthusiastic innocence, and
what he says is a demand largely from
libraries and schools for solid Austra-
lians? Apparently from this demand he
concludes that “it is logical that sooner
or later the association of publishers
must form a liaison committee with the
association of librarians”. We may insert
“try to” after “must” but why would the
tribe of publishers attempt this liaison?
“Things are booming in the Australian
carriage trade”, he says, in the trade for
solid Australiana. But is the school and
library trade a carriage trade? Can it be
expected to promote itself? The carriages
in which only some of the tribe can
afford to ride are the baby kind, suitable
to a state of innocence.
JOHN METCALFE
Dover Heights {NSW).


REVIEWS
THEATRE
RATTIGAN'S "ROSS"
JAMES MURPHY
Ross. Terence Rattigan. Union
Theatre. Melbourne.
The Quare Fellow. Brendan Behan.
Emerald Hill Theatre. Melbourne.
nr-HOUGH the distinction is hard to draw
with any real precision, we are all
aware that there is a difference between
good theatre and good drama. “Ross”
is very good theatre. At a certain level,
it achieves everything it attempts. No
competent producer or actor will be in
doubt at any stage as to what is the in-
tended effect; nor will he be embarrassed
by unreasonable technical demands, oi
by clumsy construction, or dullness, oi
the awful necessity of treading unfamiliar
emotional paths. No normal audience
will feel that it is getting less than its
money’s worth the play is unfailingly
interesting, often impressive, sometimes
distinctly compelling.
But “Ross” is not very good drama.
Simply stated, the reason is that it does
not submit its theme to a sufficiently
rigorous examination. The theme is:
“How did Lawrence (of Arabia) become
Ross (the obscure and inhibited aircrafts-
man of the post-war RAF)?” We have it
demonstrated to us, vividly enough, that
Lawrence shrank from physical con-
tact; that he suffered atrocious viola-
tion at the hands of the Turks; that he
worshipped his own will, and then
found it vulnerable; and so on. And the
mere shape of the play insists to us that
this is the answer to the question, that
this is how Lawrence became Ross. But
the answer is not emotionally satisfying,
because the process of change has not
been examined with any real penetration.
When the rhetoric has died in our ears,
we realise that Mr Rattigan’s Lawrence
is just as much of an enigma as anyone
else’s.
Further, a distressingly conventional
note is struck in the treatment of all of
the other major characters. Sir Ronald
Storrs is a mere cardboard diplomat;
General Allenby and Colonel Barrington
are nicely contrasted stock military types;
the Arab leader Auda would need only
slight modification before he could take
his place in “The Desert Song.” Mr
Rattigan, then, demands of us more
than the cost of our ticket; he demands
that we co-operate with him in cutting
life down to size. If we can meet this
demand we can be sure of unalloyed
pleasure.
The current production by Raymond
Westwell, with the Union Theatre Re-
pertory Company, is full of merit. The
cast is large, but there are few real
weaknesses, and some small but bril-
liant achievements. Stewart Weller and
Charles Haggith as two of Lawrence’s
companions in the RAF, and Max
Bruch as the Turkish Governor of Arabia
are particularly good.
Mr Westwell himself is splendid as
Allenby. Edward Hepple’s portrayal of
Lawrence is almost too good for the
play, reaching at certain moments a
truthfulness and intensity which are
profoundly affecting. This is probably
the best performance I have seen on
stage this year.
In “The Quare Fellow”, Brendan
Behan takes us inside a prison where a
murderer is about to be executed. Bets
are being taken about the likelihood of
a reprieve. The quare fellow’s lavish
meals are envied and jostled over. Mem-
ories are swopped about the quare
fellow himself, who loves a certain
song, who spoke kindly to a young
prisoner and killed his man most
brutally; about that other condemned
man who asked to be led in backwards
so that he might not see the rope; about
the young parson who stayed unwaver-
ingly with his man until the end, and
then fainted.
The hangman makes his preparations
the drop must be nicely calculated,
so that the man, a “well-set-up chap”,
will neither slowly strangle, nor have
his head pulled off; the hood must be
slit and the shoes removed, for the man
is an R.C., and the anointing must not
be delayed.
All of this takes place against the
background of the continuing and vivid
life of the other prisoners and the
warders. Mr Behan does not sentimen-
talise. These men are not, by and large,
capable of giving sustained attention to
the quare fellow’s fate. But, by reason
of their situation, neither are they cap-
able of sustaining indifference to it.
This is a fine play vital, compas-
sionate, admirably direct and economical
in its methods. It is very well suited to
Wal Cherry’s company and theatre, and
is given an excellent performance which,
apparently, is being studiously ignored
by Melbourne’s theatre-goers. With no
prejudice whatever towards the Union
Theatre Repertory Company, I must
point out that anyone who wants to see
the real thing this week will find it at
Emerald Hill unless, of course, it has
already died for lack of support.
FRESH, CRISP AND GOOD FOR YOU
Salad Days: Dorothy Reynolds and
Julian Slade. Theatre Players.
Canberra.
HThis performance showed that Can-
A berra’s triumphant w'orld -premiere of
“The Sentimental Bloke” last year was
no fluke. The place must be bursting
with musical comedy talent, possibly a
reaction from bearing the nation’s
burdens all day! “Salad Days” is a light-
hearted fantasy, turning on two new
graduates who marry on the strength of
a piano whose music sets everyone
dancing even those who have never
danced before. It starts off at a univer-
sity, but, because the piano becomes the
object of police suspicion, and because
the young man possesses numerous uncles
in influential positions, it moves through
park and police-station, Whitehall, night-
club, dress-salon and Inner Space with-
out further need of explanation. Every-
one sings because this is a musical and
everyone dances because of the piano.
Obviously, this sort of thing can either
be great fun, a riot of varied scenes and
dance and music, or it can be awfully
silly. The Theatre Players’ “Salad Days”
was great fun, with high credit going io
the authors and to the producer (Edward


Knox). The script is just acid enough
to prevent the creation from becoming
sugary, and the satire, like all good satire,
seemed specially written for this
audience. Not the University bits par-
ticularly almost every town has a
University these days but the jibes at
diplomats, bureaucracy, nuclear physicists
and society wives were hailed by the
audience with joyful recognition.
An appropriate air of youthful high-
spirits kept the improbable affair moving
quickly. The central couple (Constance
Vane and Roger Pegrum) were as hand-
some and agile a pair as anyone could
wish, and sang charmingly the many
numbers which fell, especially to the
heroine.
The costumes by Joyce Goodes and
Bill Goodwin were themselves a delight
and a source of comedy. It is a rare
pleasure to see satire conveyed in line
and color as these designers did. At the
end of the affair, it was the exotic
splendor of the get-up of the scientific
uncle and his space minion which helped
get us round an awkward corner in the
plot. For even musical comedy plots
must be resolved. The authors managed
this one by a typical juggling with words
and one more flight of fancy: Uncle Zed,
the planetary inspector, located the lost
piano from his flying saucer, thanks to
his unusual powers of nuclear vision.
Everything ended in laughter and song
with a colorful finale. Altogether this
was a first-class entertainment.
HOPE HEWITT
"THERE'S
LANGUAGE"
The Playboy of the Western World
J. M. Synge. Brisbane Arts Theatre,
Brisbane.
Tt’s full of the wild ringing words I
A am, and the lingering charm of the
legendary Irish. And that though it’s in
hot steamy Brisbane I am surely, and
there not a breath of brisk air about.
But that’s the trick of the play, that you
arrive in a fine land with a green sun
dawdling outside and come to a nest of
the most engaging rogues who ever spoke
poetry. And they are as fully true as
the best make-believe.
Well, Synge was wise, I think, to
choose comedy, and to create his charac-
ters likeable in their simplicity. Your
Jimmy Porters will soon be quite for-
gotten, or at best catalogued and rubber-
stamped with their date and address,
but Chris. Mahon will never lose his
capacity to delight. Or if he does, it will
be our shortcoming.
The gusto of the play is in the language
which is as rich as you like and as
freely given as the raw whiskey on stage.
It is most interesting that the novelty
has not palled, that it delights as much
as it ever did. This is surely because
Synge was clever enough to fit his words
carefully to each character, so that al-
though the rhythm flows through all the
voices, on closer listening each one has
his distinctive variant of cadence, from
the youthful exuberances of Chris.
Mahon to the spinsterish hesitances of
Shawn Keogh, the erstwhile ‘rival.’
This performance gave good dimen-
sion to each part and was enhanced con-
siderably by the extremely apt physical
appearance of the leading players. Chris
Mahon was small and lithe and bursting
with the discovery of his capacities, his
father was the very image of the big-
boned raw old sinner, Pegeen was
statuesque and well in command of
everything except what was outside her
simple experience, and the Widow
Quinn was magnificent with her small
pale peaked face and huge mane of
unruly red hair and her unquenchable
fire. Hers was a part that was entirely
vibrant in performance and in some ways
the most completely dimensional in
character, this was due very largely to
the excellent performance of Barbara
Wheelton.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT
ART
MONEY FOR ART'S SAKE
The Mendel Collection. Georges Gal-
lery. Melbourne.
Jeffrey Smart. South Yarra Gallery.
Melbourne.
Dorothy Braund. Leveson Street Gal-
lery. Melbourne.
interest of the Mendel collection
spreads over French, German and
Canadian painting. The French includes
Renoir, Rouault, Braque, Chagall,
Derain, Vlaminck, Utrillo, Vlaminck and
Buffet, which is a line-up impressive
enough to indicate what a first-class
collection this is. To local viewers, how-
ever, the lesser seen or known Germans
and Canadians may prove perhaps more
stimulating. Apparently a good deal of
Mendel’s German collection was lost in
Hitler’s purges, but the few that remain
are the best examples to be seen here.
It is redundant to comment on this
collection at length in a review. The
wealth of names should be incentive
enough not to miss the exhibition.
At the opening of the Mendel
exhibition, Georges Ltd announced the
institution of an annual 1000 guinea art
prize. The prize will be non-acquisitive
and there will be no conditions attached
to the use of the prize-money. Artists
will be invited to enter, and the first
award, next year, will be for figurative
painting. In succeeding years the prize
will be for portraiture and for non-
figurative painting. The prize will be
administered on behalf of the sponsors
by the recently founded Australian
Division of the International Association
of Art Critics.
Jeffrey Smart has not exhibited for
some years, which is a pity because his
surrealism is pointed and refreshing,
pointed because it is still in contact with
reality, and refreshing because it is
calm and unpretentious, which can rarely
be said of a surrealist. To a certain
extent of course his cunning little dig
at abstraction, which has Mr and Mrs
A.E. stalking blindfold on silts across
a messy hessian background, can be
turned against him: there is no shortage
of Mr and Mrs SR, statuesquely nude
among uninhabited buildings and
geometric wastes. But the nudes are
handsome, the buildings familiar. Reality
is exploited to an intelligent purpose. By
sharpening outlines and stripping appear-
ances, Smart’s surrealism demonstrates
tellingly how unacclimatised men are to
their surroundings, and how great the
distances are separating them from one
another and from their own selves.
At the Leveson Street Gallery Dorothy
Braund is presenting a record of her
travels, mostly among Greeks and Arabs.
When she verges on geometric abstrac-
tion, she produces some attractive paint-
ing, well constructed in tone and
spacious in form, contriving at the same
time to re-create a distinct local atmo-
sphere. Unfortunately for the most part
her work is too like competent illustra-
tion for a well-mannered guide-book,
pleasant but repetitive. Simplification of
shapes has been taken to extremes so
that the point of painting so many
samples of the same subject is lost
indeed the subject itself is lost and,
although her control of color is admir-
able, these paintings offer very limited
scope to display the possible range of
her ability.
Two other current exhibitions and
sales should be visited. One is an
exhibition of early Australian prints,
including some excellent samples of
S. T. Gill and George French Angas;
and the other is a beautifully mounted
display and sale at Gallery A of
jewellery by Darani Lewers and Helge
Larson, which taken as metal sculpture
is thoroughly satisfying, and offered as
jewellery is an incitement to covetous-
ness.
BILL HANNAN


DISCIPLINE OF THE WHEEL
The Potter’s Society of N.S.W. Mac-
quarie Galleries. Sydney.
Milton Moon. Rudy Komon Gallery,
Sydney.
■poTTERY shows this week provide
stimulating contrast to the long pro-
cession of painters’ more frequent exhi-
bitions, where few reveal anything like
the discipline achieved at the wheel.
The potter’s society has a high profes-
sional standard and something more,
which gives it a certain unity—an aware-
ness of the Far Eastern contribution, at
once highly functional and deeply
aesthetic. These works give a satisfac-
tion beyond that of machine or mass-
produced stuffs for the simple reason of
being the result of a feeling-discipline.
In the extreme form of the Japanese
tea ceremony this awareness has be-
come a ritual of living where the simp-
lest, most uncomplicated and useful of
objects are incorporated into a whole
Weltanschauung.
Moved by the rich possibilities affor-
ded in this and other examples (leach,
for instance), these potters have set
themselves the task of creating an in-
digenous school within the refreshing
orbit of international influences, at the
same time paying the greatest attention
to the properties of local materials.
Something else too —an awareness of the
need to rethink the position of the
potter in relationship to the civilisation
in which he finds himself. Instead of be-
coming a somewhat isolated, precious
survival of a declining craft, the studio
pottery is rapidly assuming an impor-
tant role in the reassessment of human
creative values.
Within this general agreement the in-
dividuality displayed is as variable as
a score of samples of handwriting. Ivan
England's robust control of shape is in-
stantly recognisable, likewise the con-
centrated, massive skill of Peter Rush-
forth or the restrained elegance of
Mollie Douglas. Col Levy, Joan
McPherson, Bernard Sahm, Les and Sue
Blakebrough, to name a few, manage to
convey images of smooth function and
strong sensibility. There are the decora-
tive objects of wit by Derek Smith or
Marea Gazzard but the emphasis is on
plates, bowls, tea or coffee sets, casser-
oles, jars, vases and jugs. None of the
exhibitors fail to contribute a measure of
interest, or come up with a lively form.
Vastly different is the overcrowded
Milton Moon one-man show where about
a well-selected third of the exhibits
would have sufficed to convey a far
greater impression. He is a prolific ex-
perimenter, willing to try almost any-
thing with the medium. His forms are
variable but very uneven, sometimes
lumpy or just messy. Overstated brush-
work reveals the feverish haste of an
impulsive temperament, fascinated with
the primitive joys of the primeval mud
pie, in which at some time everyone de-
lights. Extreme forms like “Stonefish”
look highly dangerous, like some kind of
land mine, capable of shattering an un-
wary toe or becoming a weapon in a
family dispute. The bowls, on the other
hand, appeal because their shapes (often
vigorous) are not drowned in a mish-
mash of fretted, tortured glaze. Where
any of the visual arts wander into the
imitations of found objects, rocks, roots,
walls, (almost always images of decay
or corruption) one is tempted to drop
them and collect found objects! The
trouble with abstract expressionism in
pottery is its attempt to paint inside a
kiln. It is all very jolly, like the ginger-
bread in architecture, but like ginger-
bread, exists at the expense of the art,
as a mannerist extravagance.
JOHN HENSHAW
ART AMONG THE ATHLETES
fTfiiE Commonwealth Games Art Prize
Competition, organised by the Perth
Society of Artists, drew a fairly large
number of interstate entries, and the
show is interesting, if very uneven in
quality.
Miss Kathleen O'Connor, the doyenne
of West Australian painters took
the British Petroleum Prize with a flower
piece, “Verging on the Abstract,” in her
impressionistic style. A pale screen of
calligraphic strokes and dabs resolves
itself into a vase of flowers and a fruit
bowl, beautifully arranged and firmly
established behind the flickering surface .
of light. There is about this canvas the
air of faint melancholy which haunts the
work of many of the later generation of
Parisian Impressionists. But what is
chiefly characteristic is the professional
skill and finish with which the painting
is executed.
In explaining his assessment of the
winners, Mr Hal Missingham pointed
out that what he, as a professional,
looked for in paintings was a finish, a
skill inseparable from considered work
and study. Addressing the local society,
and, by implication, a lot of the inter-
state entrants, he said that enthusiasm
was no substitute for skill, and expressed
the view that many Australian painters
exhibit too soon.
On the criterion of painterly skill and
finish Missingham gave the open Prize
(Jackson’s) to Sali Herman's "Ballarat
Landscape.” From the point of view of
subject matter this is not a very excit-
ing picture, a little hill on the horizon
of a ploughed field, surmounted by a
group of mop trees. For people who
like the dash of Herman’s urban scenes
it is a disappointment. However, as an
exercise in painting it is very good
indeed: the conjunction of the greys and
greens, with a few blues, and the working
up of the surface are all eminently
painterly. This is the sort of canvas
that sorts the people who really like
paintings out from the topography fans.
The McKellar Hall Prize was won
by Robert Juniper with an abstract
"Dancers on the Wall,” a charming
painting with a “relief” surface, suffu-
sed with gold and saffron light, and
touched off with oranges, yellows and
blues. The “subject” is two circles, one
containing two angels (?), the other a
star, over a kind of yellow hill, decor-
ated with suggestions of plant forms.
But the subject hardly matters: the
picture is a good example of Juniper’s
style of lyrical expressionism, where
color rather than form does the job.
Among the local artists, Guy Grey-
Smith and Elizabeth Durack stood out,
for skill and finish, and Allan Baker and
Geoffrey Allen both showed interesting
and promising work.
The Eastern states contingent attrac-
ted great attention, both for its novelty
and for its merit —though its merit was
uneven, to say the least. Frank Hodgkin-
son's “Land of the Critical Grasshopper”
is a finished abstract, but lacks the ex-
pressiveness of his entries in the Perth
Prize. Jon Molvig and Michael Shan-
non both disappointed their admirers,
one gathers.
The most eye-catching things were
Ostoja-Kotkowshi’s “Bridge,” a smooth
red surface with a few wide black bands
on it, anti-painting at a high pitch of
efficiency, and Elwyn Lynn's social
democrat dada objects. Lynn’s dada
lacks the guibbiness of the original, it
is fresh and clean and Australian, not
justly, but even so it gets on one's nerves.
This is no doubt the point of it.
The acres of abstract expressionism
which were sent in had the usual de-
pressing effect on one's sensibilities, as
abstracts many of them were tedious
in the extreme, lacking both imagina-
tion and finish; and as expressions they
prompted, often, the unaskable, forbid-
den questions, which I nevertheless ask:
“Was it worth the trouble to say that?”
PATRICK HUTCHINGS


THE RED PAGE
AN ART HISTORY TO INFLUENCE ART
The ultimate role of historian?
By JOHN HENSHAW
Australian Painting 1788-1960. Ber-
nard Smith. Oxford University Press.
105 s.
Australia Land of Colour: Rosemary
Dobson. Ure Smith Pty. Ltd. 12/6.
T>ernard Smith’s lavishly produced,
scholarly work has been long
awaited. Well over 13 years have gone
by since anything of its scope has been
attempted, yet there has been a revolu-
tion during this time in the Australian
art-world more profound than anything
that went before. The author combines
the thoroughness of the historian with
the perception of a professional art critic,
the history gradually merging into criti-
cism as he launches into the contempo-
rary period. It is to his credit that the
story is well knit, flowing, and eminently
readable even when sometimes the mate-
rial is uninspiring. It is a book “written
not for specialists but for those seeking
a useful and comprehensive introduction
to the subject”. Specialists, on the con-
trary, will find it essential as a reference
book.
Any historical view is likely to fail if
it tries to push the "historical necessity”
angle at the expense of the curiously in-
tangible quality of individual accomplish-
ment. Countless individual imaginations
and actions have produced art, in few
other studies is the light of human con-
sciousness so obviously the source. Ber-
nard Smith has steered a middle course
by warming his solid mass of facts with
shrewd glimpses of the men who lived
them. He develops in the narrative sug-
gestions of penetrating insight into cer-
tain patterns in the history of painting
in Australia which are highly provoca-
tive. There is, beneath an imposing array
of evidence, the author's self-confessed
aim of writing an art history to influence
the course of art itself. Perhaps this is
the ultimate role of an historian: partici-
pation in the process of shaping the
growth of a tradition or a movement.
However, one becomes immediately
cautious of the way such an historian
arranges his material. To what degree
will the incalculable tincture of subjec-
tivity influence the writing over and
above the level one expects of an honest
interpreter of events? Whether Bernard
Smith’s aim is legitimate is best answered
by the reader himself.
If the past is crystallised but clear
only to the extent we know it, Smith
throws considerable light on the early
and later colonial periods. The melan-
choly, forbidding aspects of landscape is
discovered early; Strutt’s dead animals,
bushfires and hold-ups, for instance, are
over a hundred years old. Within thirty
years after 1790 this and the smiling
pastoral and bush landscape had arrived.
Notable, too, was the lively contacts with
important developments in Europe
through people like Glover, Martens,
Wainwright, Strutt, Chevalier, Piguenit,
as well as Buvelot and many others.
This makes absorbing reading but
Smith’s account of the “Genesis” of the
Australian tradition in the Heidelberg
School is finely and sympathetically
handled, perhaps the best chapter in the
book.
He uses the word “impressionist”
freely but the true impressionist if there
ever was one was an objective painter.
He was not concerned with the moods
of nature or with literary values. It was
his business to depict a fragment of the
world in a moment of time with all the
conditions of light, atmosphere, tempe-
lature, wind and shadow. Technique
enters into it, too. No matter how
broken the color or high the tonality
there were in the Heidelberg School rare
occasions and then only in their sket-
ches when the Heidelberg painters did
attain such objectivity.” The link with
academic art, Whistler, the Barbizon
painters, Lepage and “plein air" re-
mained uppermost.
In a word these artists were Anglo-
Saxon, infused with the impulse towards
sentiment and “truth” which has pro-
duced both the triumphs and failures ot
the English school. Lacking the con-
ceptual discipline of the French they
could not be wholly Impressionists.
Streeton Roberts and Conder after the
poetic effusions of youth were unable to
realise the fullness of their considerable
gifts. Conder made a minor if sophisti-
cated contribution to “Art Nouveau” but
the painters of the 'nineties were naively
discovering the Australian landscape as
a tranquil Elysian dream.
Heysen, whom Smith tries to rescue
from the corruptions of his imitators
Gruner and Meldrum (Australia’s most
single minded theorist), lived at a time
when the Philistinism of anti-art Aus-
tralians (an ever present reality) was
matched by the narrow authoritarianism
and intolerance of painters themselves.
Both effectively stifled the synchronism
of Wakelin and de Maistre, and the
emergence of a native school of cubist
painting of any consequence as an off-
shoot of the century’s most significant
movement.
The 1920's and 1930's is the least
satisfactorily treated; there are several
omissions and a few over simplifications.
In the discussion of the arrival of the
contemporary movement the narrative
swings back into its stride. Bernard
Smith traces the cycle of Melbourne-
Sydney and now Melbourne as the
centre of Australian Art. The view might
well be correct, it could equally well be
partisan, Sydney painting seen through
a sceptical protagonist of the Antipo-
deans. Minimal attention is given to the
considerable achievement of Fair-
weather, Passanore and Miller in favor
of Nolan, Drysdale, The Boyds, Black-
man, Tucker, Percival and Pugh.
Dobell fares better with space and the
analysis of his work is illuminating.
Dante may have emerged into the pur-
gatory of the Antipodes but his was a
description of spiritual experience which
has nothing whatever to do with Aus-
tralia as an external phenomenon.
Figurative versus no figurative is far
too simple, or Melbourne versus Sydney
far too restrictive a division. Smith is a
champion of the “image” (see BBC talk
July 1962) and he puts an interesting
case but one implicit in Dada or Sur-
realism. Abstract Expressionism came
through Surrealism as well as the An-
tipodeans. Clearly Smith fails to grasp
the real implications of the Australian
movement as.a world wide activity even
though he traces its trend towards mate-
rialism, an activity which has its nourish-


A book
of truly remarkable value
to send to friends
or to keep for yourself
rWWTV TWO COtWR MCTRODUCCD BY
32 magnificent plates
in full colour by well-
known Australian painters.
Introduced by Rosemary Dobson.
12/6 (including envelope).
A Ure Smith Publication.
ment in the climate of technical civiliza-
tion. He felt, “with non-figurative art
suddenly emerging as a mass movement,
arrogant and intolerant of all other
forms, and one to which the Press critics
were becoming increasingly committed
without much discrimination. It was felt
that a trenchant defence of figurative art
was needed” hence the Antipodean
manifesto.
Feelings ran high at this time and
Smith quotes the Sydney press in the
person of Haefiiger describing John
Reed’s collection as mostly possessed
of “a decadent, inbred, hill-billy flavor
of tenth-rate German expressionism
mixed with a dash of Picasso and at
times reverting to the Australian primi-
tive school” and Westbrook’s sweeping
condemnation of avant-garde excesses
(“any change or novelty necessarily
means progress”) in reply both con-
tain elements of the truth. The trouble
with factions is their defence of the bad
and the mediocre within their own
ranks.
Bernard Smith enjoys paintings very
much indeed, whatever one may think
of his taste. He eulogises the later work
of Percival comparing his freer knife
techniques with that of Van Gogh. On
closer examination one comes to the
conclusion that a vast gulf yawns be-
tween the achievement, aspiration and
vision of both artists, the use of paint
is the only thing they have in common!
The text indeed is controversial and will
stimulate interest for many years to
come. Of the 191 illustrations 40 or
more are in color of middling to fair
standards (most are small) but the ar-
rangement is designed for clear reading
and seeing together.
Excellent print on art paper and good
binding together make this a handsome
addition to Oxford University Press
books. Copious notes accompany each
chapter and the indexing has been
thorough.
In “Australia Land of Colour,” thirty-
two reasonably well-reproduced paint-
ings from the Australian school, Streeton
to Nolan, are introduced by Rosemary
Dobson. Designed as an attractive, small,
gift book ready to post, it should find an
interested audience, especially among
friends overseas who want to know what
the country looks like.
TALKS WITH THE DEVIL
Conversations with Stalin. Milovan
Djilas. Rupert. Hart-Davis. 20s.
TAjilas was re-arrested last April, “pre-
sumably”, his publishers say, in con-
nection with the then forthcoming public-
ation of this book. The everlasting arbi-
trariness and capriciousness of totalitarian
regimes apart, it is hard to see why he
should have been arrested for such rela-
tively trivial and unstartling chit-chat.
Incidental remarks and the concluding
comments make it clear that Djilas is
still an unregenerate critic of the Com-
munist “new class”. There is evidence
of vanity (“As usual, I was more severe
and downright than the others” apropos
Kardelj), of puritanical responses to the
interminable Russian drinking of vodka;
and of hypochondria. But any revelations
about Stalin are banal and commonplace
twenty-five years after Trotsky’s “The
Stalin School of Falsification” and six
years after Khrushchev's denunciation of
Stalin as a monster of brutality and
terror. And nothing unflattering is said
about Tito, little about Kardelj, nor, for
that matter about Khrushchev. Sympathy
for Djilas ought not to lead us to magnify
the intrinsic interest or importance of
these reported conversations. We are
given nothing as detailed or compre-
hensive as the conversations with Hitler
reported by Hermann Rauschning or Dr
Henry Picker. Djilas saw Stalin on three
of his visits to Moscow and the details
he now remembers are meagre.
We do get yet another glimpse of the
paraphernalia of luxury and self-indul-
gence with which Stalin and his courtiers,
Molotov, Beria, Malenkov or Zhdanov,
like so many gangsters at play, sur-
rounded themselves even during wartime
(a meeting with Khrushchev is reported,
but not in company with Stalin). At the
first hour-long meeting, Stalin, “of very
small stature and ungainly build”,
paunchy and with sparse hair, impressed
the then Communist Djilas as lively,
quick-witted, and with a pointed sense
of humor. The humor is of this variety:
“Stalin inquired where Yugoslav King
Peter II had found a wife. When I told
him that he had taken a Greek princess,
he shot back mischievously, ‘How would
it be, Vyacheslav Mikhailovich (Molo-
tov), if you or I married some foreign
princess? Maybe some good could come
of it’.” At his final meeting with Stalin
in 1948, Djilas has come to feel that
Stalin has become afflicted with senility.
“He laughed at inanities and shallow
jokes”, by contrast, one must assume,
with the scintillating stuff of 1944. He is
no longer able to appreciate Molotov’s
citing Churchill’s declaration, in his cups,
that he deserved the highest order and
citation of the Red Army because he
had taught it to fight so well, thanks to
the intervention at Archangel.
At times Stalin, “ungainly dwarf of a
man” but also a monster, appears in a
better light than he is meant to. He is
far from doctrinaire about the Greek
uprising: “The United States is directly
engaged there the strongest state in
the world ... do you think they will
permit you to break their line of com-
munication in the Mediterranean? Non-
sense. And we have no navy. The up-
rising in Greece must be stopped, and as
quickly as possible.” Djilas tells Stalin
that Gavrilovic is “a shrewd man”. Stalin
comments, as though to himself: “Yes,
there are politicians who think shrewd-
ness is the main thing in politics but
Gavrilovic impressed me as a stupid
man.” Stalin takes it out on Molotov,
with angry resignation, “We, too, commit
stupidities.” He predicts the rapidity of
German post-war recovery. Even his
defence of the raping by the “liberating”
Red Army soldiers, though brutal and
barbarous, does attempt to balance one
set of horrors against another: “You have,
I know, read Dostoevsky? Do you see
what a complicated thing is man’s soul,
his psyche? Well then, imagine a man
who has fought from Stalingrad to Bel-
grade over thousands of kilometres of
his own devastated land, across the dead
bodies of his comrades and dearest ones.
How can such a man react normally?
And what is so awful in his amusing
himself with a woman, after such
horrors? You have imagined the Red
Army to be ideal. And it is not ideal,


nor can it be, even if it did not contain
a certain percentage of criminals we
opened up our prison and stuck every-
body into the army.” When a (stolen)
dispatch from the US State Department
is brought in, Stalin quips, “They steal
our dispatches, we steal theirs Djilas
believes that the deification of Stalin, the
“cult of personality”, was at least as
much the work of Stalin’s circle and the
bureaucracy, as it was his own doing.
But much of his evidence would suggest
that it was more their work than his.
For instance, taunting the sick and age-
ing Dimitrov, Stalin complains that what
he says, what Tito says, is assumed by
people abroad to be said without know-
ledge: “For example, the Poles have
been visiting here. I asked them: What
do you think of Dimitrov’s statement?
They said: A good thing. And I tell
them that it isn’t a good thing. Then
they reply that they, too, think it isn’t
a good thing.”
Djilas was obviously actuated by
serious motives in setting down this
material. “I am driven,” he tells us, “by
an inner compulsion to leave nothing
unsaid that might be of significance to
those who write history, and especially
to those who strive for a freer human
existence.” One must respect this motive,
one can be moved by his present plight
as a political prisoner, one ought to share
his passion for a freer human existence.
But he also says, “I hold that humans
and human relationships are more im-
portant than dry facts”. This might be
thought an unexceptional sentiment. But
in fact it both suggests a false antithesis
and also fails to excuse the paucity of
facts, dry. wet, or of any other sort.
DOUGLAS McCALLUM
A TASTE OF HOMEY
The ; Moustache. Nantas Salvalaggio.
Macdonald. 13s. 6d.
The Walk Home. Gwyn Jones. J. M.
Dent. 20s.
Safety First. Josephine Bell. Geoffrey
Bles. 255.
HThe first two of these novels are in the
picaresque tradition, and deal with
the adventures of two young men one,
an Italian country-man in search of what-
ever Rome has to offer him, and the
other, a Welshman, in search of a de-
faulting father. There, resemblances end.
“The Moustache” has strong comic
overtones, a sardonic ruefulness, and the
“old black magic” of a writer who can
make the shaving-off of a prized
moustache symbolic of an integrity that
has been hoaxed rather than lost, and
representative of the kind of defeat that
is wryly educative rather than final.
In a sense, Quadri’s outsize moustache
stands to him as the totemic locks of
Samson. Delilah—for him—is the ruth-
less, amoral world of post-war Rome,
where, as a rustic innocent, he comes to
seek what he may find. He finds a
fairly cushy job as chauffeur to Don
Alfredo, one of those compelling rogues
who begin as wild boys and end up,
after much experience in sharp practice,
as tycoons.
Don Alfredo “cons” his way to the
top as the director of a film company,
beginning with a sensational film “short”
of the bodies of Mussolini and his Clara
strung upside-down to receive the
defiling obsequies of the populace. He
is especially pleased with his camera-
man’s “touch of human interest” a
small child throwing stones at the dead
dictator’s face. With know-how like
this, Don Alfredo rockets to riches,
taking with him at a respectful dis-
tance measured in lire a staff of go-
getters tough enough to withstand the
vicious, practical jokes he plays on them.
We wind up liking and accepting Don
Alfredo, who steals the novel right away
from our innocent hero with blustery
vitality and human awfulness our
moral judgment paralysed, as is so often
the case, by the man’s magnetic person-
ality. Nantas Salvalaggio has written a
novel of great charm and style.
“The Walk Home” is set in the Wales
of a century ago, and has the wild, rural
beauty one has come to expect from
Celtic writers. A dark, brooding atmo-
sphere pervades the book, as David Row-
lands after his mother’s death from
over-work in the fields, sets off in search
of the well-born father who had sired
him and then abandoned his mother.
He meets other vagabonds on the
road, and his innocence is assailed first
by the sinister beggars, Scabbo and Mort,
and their women. His outsider-ness is
stated when he, temporarily, becomes
the assistant of a Sin Eater, who holds
the unenviable post of taking on to him-
self the crimes of the deceased to whose
home he is summoned, and afterwards
is sent on his way with a hail of stones.
There is an eternal quality about stone-
throwing that makes modern weapons
seem affected!
Despite his experience of human evil,
cynicism does not take’ on David
Rowlands, and a powerful humorlessness
keeps him uncorrupted to the end.
Naturally, he is defeated, in the sense
that worldly people consider death-
before-dishonor, defeat.
“Safety First” is a set of four long
short stories, in which the authoress tries
to illustrate that the choice of the “safe”
way can often have the opposite out-
come to what its devotees hope. (In
other words you can’t win).
After the astringent atmosphere of
“The Moustache”, and the gloomy
turbulence of “The Walk Home”, it feels
relaxing to read a book that is simply
pleasant. One understands then why
such books are the staple diet of a large
majority of women library readers.
There is nothing in it to ruffle the
feathers of mind or spirit. The obvious
sincerity of the author obliges one to
pay her the respect of attention. She
writes neither up nor down, but well
within the limits set by a sturdy com-
monplaceness. Such work bears the
stamp of a solid and reassuring common
sense.
But, it is as well that she does not try
to mine at deeper levels, or to break
away experimentally from the chaste
taste of her following. Once, or twice,
when Mrs Bell does essay a brave little
run at what are called the Facts of Life,
the result is embarrassing, more un-
wittingly obscene than when the same
detail is treated by a truly creative writer.
It is not what is done but who does
it. On the lips of some people bawdry
has the elegance of a fine art. On others
—the crudeness of the clumsy.
This gives rise to thoughts of those
irritated critics who berate the “roman-
tic” writer for writing as though
characters still went about on Victorian
“limbs” instead of legs. Such writers
do well to stay within the limits set by
their own personalities. It’s awful when
they try to be “frank”.
Most of the time, Mrs Bell cheerfully
sets banality upon banality to create the
surface texture of what, for want of a
just word, one might call “homey-ness”.
Occasionally, the wistful author seems to
scent — something —and tentatively pokes
at it with the point of her pen, so to
speak, then hastily retreats. Not so
much because she is “nice”, but because
she becomes uneasy. She soon reverts
back to her homey surface, and we are
all safe.
Like a tourist, briefly enchanted by
the simplicity of the natives, one might
say: “It's all right for a visit. But I
couldn't live anywhere else but ... in
the dangerous, heady disturbing, mad-
dening minds of those “corrupt” writers
who “poison” us with enlightenment.
The first two novels contain a few
grammes of such salutary "poison”.
THELMA FORSHAW


FIXERS AND DEMAGOGUES
The Earl of Louisiana. A. J. Lieb-
ling. W. H. Allen 345. 9d.
Long was a notorious zany, even
in the baffling world of American
State politics. This did not prevent his
serving two terms (1948-52, 1956-1960)
as Governor of Louisiana. He seems to
have excelled even his brother, the
legendary Huey, in holding the State by
a mixture of political chicanery and
homespun appeal. During the May,
1959, legislative session he gave signs
of moving from eccentricity to lunacy,
when he so cussed the legislators and so
compromised his wife and relatives that
all together they snatched him off to a
Texas asylum. Even Earl may not have
talked his way out of a more awkward
situation, but he was back in Louisiana
by August, ready to stump the State for
re-nomination in the Democratic
primaries. And anyone who wins the
Democratic primary in Louisiana gets
the gubernatorial chair.
There was only one hitch: Louisiana
law forbids a Governor to succeed him-
self. Earl had bowed to this in 1952.
Now there seemed to be a more personal
urgency about his wanting to run again.
Was it merely to confound his enemies
who said he was insane, or was it true
that the income tax people were on his
trail and Earl cannily hoped to put his
(doubtfully won?) gains down to cam-
paign contributions as many said Nixon
had done in 1952? Earl hoped to evade
the law in a manner not so much
ingenious as astonishingly impudent: he
would resign the Governorship after
winning the Democratic nomination,
thus being free to contest the formal
election as an ex-Governor. So he would
suceeed the guy who succeeded him.
Anyway, it’s not the spirit of the law
that counts, but the way it reads! If
Mr Liebling can be believed, only Earl’s
inveterate opponents worried about this,
and only because he was likely to keep
them from office.
Fixers and demagogues have had
successes in Australian State politics,
too. Brighton honors Tommy Bent with
a statue. Will there be one of Mr J. T.
Lang in Sydney? We have had our less
dignified passages; one robust State
Premier is reputed to have applied full
nelsons and body dumps to colleagues
in the privacy of his suite, while the
NSW Premier is currently reported to
refer to our boastful Mr Bolte as
“satchel-mouth”. However, Louisiana
leaves us for dead. Earl Long could
refer to an opponent as “nothing but a
little pissant”, “a little pea-headed nut”,
“a goddam hoodlum”, etc. Earl
occasionally went on a shopping safari
(spending thousands of dollars) fully
escorted by policemen and politicians
acting as processional carriers, who had
to lug and stack a surrealist miscellany
of purchases, sacks of potatoes, alarm
clocks, dozens of gold-fish in plastic bags
and so on. Amusing enough, but
buffoonery just the same.
Mr Liebling praises Long for his
“liberal” stand on the racial issue. He
upheld the Negroes’ right to vote and
one feels not solely because they, to-
gether with poor upcountry whites, were
likely to vote for him. But a just cause
in his hands was often vitiated by the
means employed. For example, his way
of getting Negro nurses employed in the
new Charity Hospital was to rant against
the indignity of white nurses attending
colored men.
Mr Liebling is an exceedingly smart
phrase-maker in the “New Yorker”
tradition. His style is engagingly clever
and at first face admirably attuned to
the subject. But it is difficult on reflec-
tion to share his enthusiasm. As he says
in the opening lines: “Southern political
personalities, like sweet corn, travel
badly. They lose flavor with every
hundred yards away from the patch.”
One can be briefly amused by, but not
generally complacent about, political
fixing, corruption, and rabble-rousing.
One does not have to be a prig to regard
government as a serious business.
JAMES GRIFFIN
NAPOLEON'S 800 "T.G.'s"
Napoleon and his British Captives.
Michael Lewis. George Allen &
Unwin Ltd. 655.
VTapoleon did not invent the modern
concept of total war but he destroyed
the convention—maintained throughout
the long sequence of eighteenth-century
dynastic wars —that belligerents fought
according to rigid codes of etiquette, and
that civilians were excluded from the
contest.
The French observed all the old rules
until Napoleon resumed the war with
Britain in May, 1803, after a fifteen-
months’ truce. He then issued an un-
precedented order directing the intern-
ment of all British civilians in France.
As a result about 800 “TGs” (“Travel-
ling Gentlemen”), mostly rich, and drawn
from the nobility, gentry, or professional
classes, were seized. Generally TGs
were sent to depot fortress towns in the
north-east, especially Verdun and Bitche.
The civilian detenus were in a curious
position because it was British policy
not to detain French civilians at all and
any who were captured on French war-
ships were always repatriated uncon-
ditionally. Consequently no exchanges
could be made with French civilians in
England and as the English prisoners
in France had given their paroles . . .
well, escape was unthinkable.
So that the TGs would not be too
miserable, their wives and servants were
permitted to join them in France and
at Verdun they formed “a little enclave
of English high-life buried in the heart
of an alien and hostile land, which made
it, probably, unique” and it blossomed
forth “into a reflection, if a little pale,
of Bath or Tunbridge Wells.” I wish that
Prof. Lewis had given us more detail of
how these civilians lived—did they carry
on business, how did they support them-
selves, did they communicate with
London? but the bulk of the book is
taken up with military prisoners.
There were 80,000 French soldiers
held in Great Britain, many of them
in specially constructed prisons, but the
officers were free to live on parole in
London or Bath until repatriation.
Prof. Lewis does not really explain
why the “honour system” worked so
well. Was it because of masochism, lack
of imagination, or for “Bridge on the
River Kwai”-type reasons? Consider the
story of the eleven young midshipmen
captured by the French at Toulon in
1803 and sent off under guard to
Verdun. When their guards went on a
five day drunk the midshipmen simply
asked the way to Verdun and started off
on foot, walking 950 miles and taking
more than five months to get there. They
were arrested on the way for the crime
of putting a bust of Napoleon upside
down in a chamber pot but were other-
wise unmolested.
Of course most military prisoners
were reluctant to attempt escape (with
a strong risk of being killed) when
exchanges were so regular, and on the
basis of a tariff worked out by Napoleon.
Later, some of the TGs were included in
the tariff English peers could be
swapped for French Admirals or
Generals, peers’ sons for naval captains
and colonels, knights for commanders
and majors, and gentlemen for lieuten-
ants and army captains.
But escapes there were, and the later
chapters recount stories not materially
different from the POW-escape stories of
World War 11.
Prof. Lewis’ long stem-winding
sentences detract from the excitement
of the book, but it is splendidly illus-
trated and produced, magnificently
indexed, and contains a wealth of detail
not previously available. Nevertheless
it may only appeal to specialists in
Napoleana, military history buffs, or
escapologists.
BARRY O. JONES


"THEAUSTRALIAN EXECUTIVE'S MANUAL"
COMPLETELY FREE
TO NEW SUBSCRIBERS
TO RYDGE'S
Every new subscriber to Rydge’s Business Journal
will receive a complimentary copy of “The
Australian Executive’s Manual” This 400 page
book has received first-rate reviews from the
Australian Institute of Management: (i This Aus-
tralian book is an excellent manual.” (Sydney
Division). “The book is recommended to those
readers who desire a successful business career
• . —(Melbourne Division).
A Brief description of Rydge’s Business Journal
For 34 years Rydge's Business Journal has been recognised
as AustraJia's premier authority on business and invest-
ment matters. It is essentially a practical publication and
each month articles are written by well-known authors
dealing with such important matters as selling techniques,
collecting outstanding accounts, successful advertising,
minimising tax, executive development, etc. . . . etc.
Below in very brief detail you are given some idea of the
latest contents.
7
ARTICLES FOR
BUSINESSMEN
The below listed article titles give a
quick idea of the subject matter covered
in each month’s issue of “Rydge’s.”
1. "Sources of Finance for the Small
Business."
2. "Practical Ways to Increase Safes."
3. Current Trends Regarding Sales-
men's Cars."
4. "Going Rates for Female Staff."
5. "Rights of the Shareholders at a
Meeting,"
6. "How Can Executives Get a New
Joh?"
7. "How P R. Can Build Profits."
8. "Practicable Methods of Staff
Selection."
9. "Ways to Build Up Export Distri-
bution."
10. "What You Should Know About
Forms and Form Design."
11. "Writing of Business Reports."
12. "Cost Reduction Techniques for
Use in the Office."
13. "Tax Advantages of a Company."
14. "Long Service Leave Principles
Explained."
INFORMATION FOR
INVESTORS
The last one-third of each month’s
journal is devoted to investment matters.
Each month we recommend a particular
share to subscribers this is normally
sure of a good price increase. Following
the recommendation are articles dealing
with such important matters as asset
backing for shares, interpreting financial
statements, the significance of earning
percentage, etc., etc.
Attention is also drawn to shares
which look to be good buying on today’s
market, and other specialised situations
which we feel investors should be made
aware of.
In addition to these interesting articles,
a regular feature of each month’s Finan-
cial Section is an analytical review of 20-
30 public companies’ accounts. These
reviews have, through the years, become
very well respected for their accuracy
and penetration.
FREE YEAR ROOK
In May each year, all subscribers re-
ceive free a copy of Rydge’s Year Book.
This sets out the type of business con-
ducted, registered office, directorate, cap-
ital, etc., of every public company in
Australia, together with completely de-
tailed tax rates of depreciation now al-
lowable as deductions.
"THE AUSTRALIAN
EXECUTIVE'S MANUAL"
Recognised as Australia’s most practical,
valuable and up-to-date book on executive
development this volume contains 54
chapters divided into four main parts. It
is designed to help the young and junior
executive on the road to the top as i veil as
act as a guide and book of reference for
senior executives.
SOME CHAPTER TITLES
Skills you Must Develop—Developing your
Leadership Techniques Your Social
ctivities Ilotv Good are your Communi-
cations. Hoto to Tackle a Problem—Can
rou Persuade? Being a Good Con versa-
tionalist - Are your Interviews Effective?
I echniques of Decision Making The
rt of Delegation—lmproving your Con-
ferences Originating and Implementing
ideas A new Look at the Specialised
fexecutjre Advice to the Middle-Aged,
Middle-Rung Executive.
n ni °re than 100,000 words this book
presents knowledge and advice that can be
TO: RYDGE'S BUSINESS
JOURNAL
449 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
Please send me free your book described
above, and enrol me as a Journal subscriber.
My cheque for £3/15/ is attached.
Name .. .. ~
Address .. ..... ..


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Plain Speaking on Colombo Plan
While obviously anxious not to bite the feeding hands
of the major donor country members of the Colombo
Plan, some of the recipient countries didn’t mince
words in Melbourne last week when commenting on the draft
report of the Plan for 1961-62.
i Their frankness in exposing some of the fundamental
difficulties of developing countries incidentally, most of
them depend on the export of primary commodities gave
the delegates from big industrial nations foretaste of what
to expect when mooted negotiations for ; world commodity
agreements get under way.
For instance, Shri B. K. Massaucf, leader of the Indian
delegation, drew attention to the massive task of debt servicing
which is accumulating; for the countries whose development
over the last decade has been financed to a large extent by
loans from the industrialised Countries.
As Mr Eugene Black, president of the World Bank, pointed
out at the recent annual meeting of that institution in
Washington, developing countries, which account for about
70 p.c. of the population of the less developed world, have
already doubled their external indebtedness since 1956, whereas
their exports rose by only 5 p.c. over the period.
“This has tended to make their payments position more
vulnerable,” said Mr Massaud, “and has underlined the need
to explore to the fullest extent the possibilities of expanding
exports.”
He added that the developing countries would need to
increase their exports by two and a half times in the next two
decades if they were to be in a position to import their grow-
ing requirements and service their mounting external debts.
The task was all the more formidable because during the 1950 s
they increased their exports by only 3.6 p.c. a year. If one
took account of the deterioration in their terms of trade during
the period the purchasing power of their exports rose by only
a little more than 2 p.c. a year.
“Clearly,” said Mr Massaud, “this is much too small an
increase if we wish to achieve an annual rate of income growth
of 5 p.c., the minimum envisaged by the United Nations
resolution on the Development Decade.”
He didn’t minimise the efforts being made by various
international bodies to find the answer to the problems, but
nonetheless pointed, one or two sharp bones at the developed
countries. For example, he sharply criticised their strong
protectionist policies, saying that rich and technologically
advanced countries which, because of their resources and
know-how, have an advantage in producing the most complex
products of the modern industrial society, should insist on
protecting and subsidising the simpler forms of manufacture
even when the less industrialised countries have a competitive
advantage in their production.
“These artificial barriers to trade,” he said, “have added
greatly to the difficulties of the developing countries in
servicing their debt.”
In his view it would be a good thing if, just as most lenders
to the developers tie their loans to purchases from their own
countries, so when these loans are repaid the repayments
should also be tied to purchases from the debtor countries.
On the same theme, another delegate, Mr Kasein Sriphayak,
from Thailand, thought debt servicing would be a lot less
onerous if the leading countries proferred money without
interest, or at least on much more favourable terms than at
present.
Mr Massaud also said it was of vital importance to the
developing countries that the rate of growth of the industrialised
countries be accelerated because the developers depended on
them for their main export markets. For that reason he
hoped the recent slowing down of growth in the more
industrialised countries was only a temporary phenomena.
“It is only in the context of an expanding world economy
that the developing countries can hope to achieve reasonable
standards in the next decade or two,” he said.
On this, in line with the “self-help” theme of the Colombo
Plan, the Burmese delegate, Colonel Hla Han, suggested there
should be a much bigger rate of expansion of trade within
the South-East Asian area itself.
TTowever, taking in one another’s washing could not be
expected greatly to ease the deterioration in the terms of
trade of the developing countries in recent years. This lies
at the deep heart of their difficulties, just as it does of
Australia’s in pressing on with economic development.
The Malayan delegate explained that a fall in the price of
rubber last year cost the Federation more export income in
one year than its total aid received since the inception of the
Colombo Plan in 1950.
The leading American delegate, Mr Frank K. Coffin, was
put on the spot at a Press conference on some of these points.
Far from burying the hope of salvation for the developing
countries via the route of higher export prices and better terms
of trade, he told The Bulletin that the passage of the Trade
Expansion Act had cleared the path for both the liberalisation
of trade and the expansion of export markets of the developing
countries. However, he believed it would take some time to
see tangible results.
He thought President Kennedy’s statement on signing the
Trade Expansion Act particularly significant in the light of his
new powers to secure free entry of tropical products into
developed countries.
Mr Kennedy said: “We will use the specific authorities
designed to widen markets for the raw materials and manu-
factures of the less developed nations.”
Let us hope it works out that way, but it is difficult to
see how the Common Market, which derives most of its
imports of tropical products from dependencies, is going to
become a better market for similar South-East Asian products
as a result of the application of the Trade Expansion Act, as
Mr Coffin seemed to suggest would happen through most-
favored-nation treatment. The US itself is not an exporter of
tropical products to Europe or anywhere else.
One came to the conclusion that the Consultative Committee


is now holding out more hope for the continued success of
the Plan from the extension of technical aid and training, and
from “self help” by such means as this and improvement in
marshalling internal savings than from the extension of capital
assistance from donor countries.
Clearly the biggest problem is not “aid” but the need to
give more reliable outlets for the exports of the developing
countries at satisfactory and stable prices. This is not some-
thing that could be tackled concretely last week, but the
enlightened discussion and forthright speaking On it, one may
hope, will bear fruit in the wider world context in which a
solution must ultimately be sought.
Next to this, as Senator John Gorton, deputy-leader of the
Australian delegation, emphasised to the committee, is the race
with population growth the population of South-East Asia
has increased by 150 million since the Colombo Plan started.
“This sort of growth,” he said, “if it is to continue, if it is
to be increased, is an immense limitation of what a Plan like
this can ultimately achieve.”
But Senator Gorton saw other limitations, too. Not only
was there the problem of the terms of trade, but the Plan is
also subject to limitations which lead countries in the region
to divert from the increase in their own production and the
improvement of their own economies and resources into
defence. But this is only partly true, at least for most countries
in South-East Asia.
To be realistic, the in-pouring of funds by Western powers
into the region since 1950 (the US alone has put about ten
billion dollars into Plan countries) has often had a distinct
defence flavor.
On the other hand, it has to be recognised that some member
countries, such as Indonesia, have preferred guns to butter.
COLOMBO PLAN REGION
Development Expenditure Per
Population 1961-62 Capita
(1960-61) Total fstg. Income
Million fstg. per head fstg.
Burma 20.6 49.6 2.4 16.8
Cambodia .... 5.0 16.6 3.5 33 0
Ceylon 9.8 47.1 4.8 460
Malaya 6.9 91.3 13.2 97 0
India 438.0 1356.8 3.1 24.5
Indonesia 94.0 165.0(a) 1.8 214
Laos 1.8 3.4 1.9 8 0
Nepal 9.2 4.9 0.5 n.a.
North Borneo .... 0.5 3.6 7.2 n.a.
Pakistan 94.0 174.6 1.9 18.3
Philippines 27.5 179.2 6.5 71.8
Sarawak .8 4.6 5.8 71.0
Singapore 1.6 22.9 14.3 151 5
Thailand 25.5 56.4(a) 2.2 35*9
Vietnam 14.0 37.9 2.7 59 6
(a) 1960-61.
“INDUSTRIALISTS OPTIMISTIC ”
SAYS THE WALES
JgEARiNG in mind that industrial performance often belies
expectations, the Bank of New South Wales’ latest survey
of industrial trends covering June to November in retrospect
and the next four or more in prospect, is possibly more news-
worthy on what industrialists expect will happen than on how
they have performed in the last four months.
The survey shows an accelerating upward trend in both
output and employment to the point where shortages of labor
and capacity are appearing and where new capital expenditure
is being planned in certain industries.
Over the last four months widespread increases are reported
both in output and deliveries in Australia. New orders reflect
not quite so strong a trend. Employment has the strongest up-
ward trend since July 1960. The reported changes in overtime
are the strongest since November 1960, and reflect the first
definite increases in overtime since the beginning of the recent
recession. Export orders and export deliveries continue to re-
flect favourable trends.
The survey sees the biggest below-capacity working in the
building and the lowest in vehicles. Chemicals have wide-
spread unused capacity but show the strongest recent increases
in output, while paper, printing and textiles industries are
making the best improvement of all.
Looking ahead, the Wales finds industrialists are evidently
strongly optimistic that the general business situation will im-
prove during the next six months. Although 59 per cent of
companies report that they are working below capacity, this
is an improvement on last July, when the figure was 66 per
cent. Shortage of orders is still recorded as the factor most
limiting increased production, but there has been a slight
change indicating that shortages of capacity and labour are
in evidence in some areas.
The survey gives a somewhat less optimistic preview of
capital investment in building, and a more optimistic one for
investment in plant and equipment than the Commonwealth
Statistician’s figures for anticipated expenditure in the July-
December period and, contrary to the latter, indicates that
expenditure on plant and machinery is moving up faster than
that on industrial building.
The Wales says that, taken together, its figures for the two
prongs of capital investment indicate that the low point of
capital expenditure has been passed. Moreover “current trends
in industry are evidently beginning to justify the planning of
further capital investment.”
The strongest upward trends in capital investment are in
vehicles (building, plant and equipment), printing and miscel-
laneous (plant and equipment) and building materials (build-
ing).
As further evidence of the current improvement, the survey
shows that a re-stocking movement is in progress. Over the last
four months stocks of raw materials rose in 11 more firms
than in the previous survey, and of finished goods in nine more
firms in the surveys sample of some 314 companies (44 p.c.
of which are in NSW, 34 p.c. in Vic., 9 p.c. in Queensland,
7 p.c. in SA, 5 p.c. in WA and 1 p.c. in Tasmania).
The only variations found by the Wales between the gen-
eral expectations of its survey four months ago and actual
performance was that the increase in overtime working was
more pronounced than industrialists had expected in June.
AUSTRALIAN FRUITS AND
JUICES FOR GUAM
uuam firm of Jones and Gurreau has bought a
6000-ton ship for the sole purpose of shipping direct be-
tween Australia and Guam. The company is presently investi-
gating the possibilities of buying large quantities of Australian
fruits and fruit juices.
Jones and Gurreau already purchase large supplies of Aus-
ra lan rice, and in addition to seeking fruits, is now wanting
° uy more primary produce, especially fruit and vegetables.
Guam, the main island of the Mariana group, obtained full
US territorial status in 1950. It is at present under US Navy
a ministrative supervision, and with its huge naval base could
ecome a large and important dollar earner to Australia.
uam imported Australian goods valued at about 5 million
1° ,u- the financial .Y ear to June, 1961. It is thought
a t is figure could easily be doubled with direct and regular
shipping services.


.'rawiTfc
CLYDE
SECURITIES LIMITED
«»
s>
£1.000,00
Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stock.
&
Earning Interest at the rate of
(0
0
per annum for
10 or 12 years
Other rates and currencies
available at subscribers' option:
Clyde Securities Limited
was registered on April
26th, 1960, and its paid-up
share capital is £1,000,000.
This current offer opened
on November Ist, 1962, and
will close on April 30th,
1963. Applications for De-
benture Stock will proceed
only on one of the forms of
application referred to in
and attached to a printed
copy of the Prospectus,
available from:
• Any Branch .of Clyde
Securities Limited.
• Any Branch of the E.S.
& A. Bank.
• Members of recognised
Stock Exchanges.
• Any office of the Under-
writers, lan Potter & Co.,
360 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne (Members of The
Stock Exchange of
Melbourne).
The main business of Clyde Securities Limited is to raise funds to
assist in the expansion of the Clyde Industries Group of Companies.
Write to Investment Department
CLYDE SECURITIES LIMITED
90 Ocean Street, Edgecliff, N.S.W., Australia
.CS2S/62
DR GOH SHOPS
AROUND
Singapore’s able and astute Finance
Minister, Dr Goh Keng Swee,
should have made a most favorable im-
pression on Sydney businessmen last
week. In Australia ostensibly to take
part in Colombo Plan deliberations, Dr
Goh is also finding plenty of time to
push his city’s industrial requirements
and overseas chances to join in the re-
cently conceived economic development
plan.
He is accompanied by the director of
the Economic Development Board. Both
men speak unashamedly of their lengthy
“shopping list.” Both wish for consider-
able Australian participation.
In his talk to Sydney members of
the Chamber of Manufactures, Dr Goh
explained his proposals with charm and
persuasion. Singapore is not now content
to remain merely an immensely wealthy
port and trade-handling centre. It is call-
ing for industrial expansion, equally to
achieve commercial balance and to re-
solve political and social problems.
The background to these situations
was examined by our Singapore corres-
pondent in The Bulletin, October 27.
Australian could be well in line to help
the required development, for Dr Goh is
clearly looking for “know-how” and
states quite forcibly that finance, if
necessary, can be easily provided.
It is clearly up to local businessmen
to examine the possibilities before their
British, American, European and Japan-
ese rivals beat them to it. Australian
skills will receive a thorough and
smoothly expedited welcome. Chief
among Singapore’s far-sighted projects
are a new, large industrial estate and a
shipping port to service it.
SHARE PRICES
WAVER
Jn a kind of cussed reversal of recently
expressed firmness, Australian share-
markets crept down a little towards the
end of last week. Most observers do not
expect the now-warranted progress to
move perpetually in a straight line, yet
were loth to venture upon any definite
explanations. So many of the usual
adverse influences —overseas, bad com-
pany results to come —appear to have
been properly discounted.
It's true what they say about these, yet
there were one or two erratic elements
hovering above prices. Not a few invest-
ors reacted over-sensitively to the Tariff
Board disturbances—often haphazardly
and mostly in the wrong direction.
There’s still protection for the “economic
and efficient” in this land of the brave.
A good deal of the sheer index retreat
was undoubtedly produced by BHP,
which struck a four-year low. Here, for
once, overseas selling appeared to be a
genuine force and not a dubious inven-
tion. America and Europe seem to be
widely afflicted by one of their periodical
debates on steel prices: some of this dis-
cussion may have rubbed off here, with
John Lysaght’s earlier encouragement.
Local investors should not forget that
the consumer factor has entered the econ-
omic recovery. Industrial leaders may
be taking a knock on a yield basis, but
there are many other opportunities.
Agencies replaced
TAickson Primer Consolidated Ltd
will terminate its NSW distributing
agency for Southern Portland Cement
Co. Ltd at the end of this month. As
from December 1, 1962, it will become
a distributor in NSW and the ACT for
Kandos Cement Co. Ltd.


Positions Vacant
HEADMASTERSHIP
OF
BARKER COLLEGE, HORNSBY
N.S.W. AUSTRALIA
A leading Secondary School for Boarders
and Day Boys.
Enrolment— 223 Boarders, 422 Day Bovs.
A capab.e and experienced person as Head-
nnHof required for th e abovementioned School.
16th Mav C i°Qfi\ m T Ce r aS , S °° n aS P ossible after
16th May 1963. Applicants should be communi-
cant members of the Church of England, either
clergymen or laymen. Salary is at rate of £3 500
per annum with allowance for expenses, super-
annuation. free residence, electricity, telephone
gas, etc. Car provided. ’
For particulars and conditions apply to
The Hon. Secretary,
The Council of Barker College,
9-13 Bligh Street, SYDNEY.
Applications close 31st January, 1963.
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
LOOKING AHEAD ON INTEREST RATES
TJroviding the second and third Com-
monwealth loans this year are as
successful as the corresponding loans
last year, the Government will be
absolved from its undertaking to make
up the estimated £5l million gap be-
tween works requirements and estimated
loans raisings this financial year.
More than half (£124 million) of the
required overall £246 million for
Government public works set by the
Loan Council has already been raised,
leaving £l2l million still to get without
resorting to Treasury Bill finance. More-
over, the situation was just as comfort-
able for semi-Government loan raisings
since already 67i p.c. of the amount
required for the year is already in the
till or promised.
Between them the February and May
loans in 1961-62 brought in £128.9
million.
A leading Melbourne broker opined
last week that with solid basic support
from the institution’s 20/30 rule plus the
legislation regulating the investment pat-
tern of savings banks, and making no
allowance for further overseas loans or
subscriptions to the new type of Treasury
Bills, the Government is well on its way
to getting its full requirements from the
local market.
This would mean, of course, that the
actual budget deficit for the current year
would be reduced by £5l million, or,
in other words, there would be just that
much less stimulus to the economy.
Applying the multiplier, the reduction
would entail a cut of, say, £l5O
million in overall income generation
resulting from the finance of public
works as envisaged for the year at
Budget-time.
However, the situation is not as simple
as that. Judging from present appear-
ances there is still a lot of steam in the
Bond market and whether or not Bond
rate is cut in February, it is highly likely
that redemption yields on bonds would
by that time be much nearer levels
likely to induce a swing from fixed
interest stocks into equities.
This impression is reinforced by the
September figures for Bond holdings of
the Reserve Bank, which show a con-
siderable increase in open market
purchases, indicating that the authorities
are themselves bent on forcing yields
lower, perhaps with the intention of
reducing the Bond rate in the next loan
to match lower market yields.
Taken together with the distinct
possibility that the outlook for share
prices will improve progressively in the
coming months—the broker supports this
by saying that the share market has
regained its confidence and investors can
approach it in a mood of understanding
and predictability—the lowering of Bond
yields and the possibility of a cut in
Bond rate predicate a likely reduction in
subscriptions to new loans in the New
Year.
/\n this assumption it could be that
the authorities will still have to find
something from Treasury Bills to support
the loan programme.
In itself the lowering of Bond yields
has already had sympathetic reflection in
reduced rates being demanded on other
fixed interest securities (quite apart from
other influences such as the lower level
of private investment over the last year
or so), and also in lower short-term
money rates, if not bank advances or
deposits rates.
However, if the cap was put on lower
Bond yields by a cut in official Bond
rate, this would have a powerful psycho-
logical effect on the whole concertina
of interest rates and even promote a
reduction in bank rates.
So coupled with the budgetary effects
of a reduction in subscriptions to bonds
in the New Year, a reduction in Bond
rate would act as a stimulus to the
economy, though at this stage it is
impossible to gauge how much.
Taking up the thoughts of the Mel-
bourne broker again, he seems to be in
some doubt whether Bond rate will be
cut in February, and also whether the
economy will require or warrant the
stimulus of lower official interest rates
early next year.
Either the economy will be at a much
fuller stretch than it is now, in which
case a stimulus from a cut in Bond
rate would possibly hold danger, or a
deterioration in the balance of payments
would preclude it whether the economy
needed a stimulus or not.
At this stage, with another three
months to go before the February loan,
the broker prefers to wait on events,
happy with the portents for a continua-
tion of free monetary condition “or, at
least, not of tightness”, confident that
overall the conditions will not cause any
early reversal in the fall in rates and are
more likely to keep bearing down on
them.
However, it is open to doubt whether
the present pressure on interest rates
through high liquidity and a strong Bond
market are sufficient to keep the eco-
nomy moving forward at the desired
pace.
Having missed a golden opportunity
to cut official rates and so lower interest
rates generally in the economy and
strengthen the relative attraction of
private investment by failing to cut Bond
rate for the September loan, it is appa-
rent from the very modest increase in
Treasury Bills this year that there is now
very little stimulus coming from Can-
berra.
As previously noted, against this some
stimulus appears to be coming indirectly
through open market purchases of Bonds
by the Reserve Bank. But this is not
by any means on a massive scale (at least
on the September figures of Reserve Bank
purchases of Bonds) and it is to some
extent being offset by the Reserve Bank’s
enforced reduction in the liquidity of the
trading banks (re-inforced by injunctions
to keep their new lending down to <£9m.
a month.)
/Certainly the bigger these open market
purchases become the stronger will
be the downward pressure on interest
rates generally, and the better the chances
for a spirited recovery in private invest-
ment which offers a more promising
route to full employment than deficit
financing.
Private investment is now generally
considered to be picking up and this is
just as well.
In fact, this is no time to be timorous
about lower interest rates, nor to be
fearful that by February they would run
us into trouble. On the contrary, both
on short-term recovery and long-term
development grounds, there is urgent
need for them.
Equally it is time we awoke to the fact
that for all the inducement to small
savers the high elevation of interest rates
puts too high a premium on what in the
Middle Ages used to be called the usurer
class.


r~T EOX FINANEE
CORPORATION LIMITED
FINANCING CUSTOMERS’ ACCOUNTS FOR
ONE OF AUSTRALIA'S LARGEST CHAINS
, OF DEPARTMENT STORES
AND ITS SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
• COX-ECONOMIC, PERTH
• SNOWS, SYDNEY
• FOYS, MELBOURNE
• FOY-BILSONS, COLAC
• FOYS (W.A.), PERTH
• WAUGHS, WOLLONGONG
• BRIGHTS, GEELONG
• MYERS, BENDIGO
• BOWRINGS, MILDURA
• PARTONS, DANDENONG
• MORSHEADS, BALLARAT
• GEORGES, MELBOURNE
Registered
First Mortgage
DEBENTURE STOCK
INTEREST
RATE UP TO
o
vm
5-8
YEARS
h%
4
YEARS
h%
3
YEARS
7%
PER ANNUM
UNDERWRITTEN BY:
lan POTTER and COMPANY
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE & CANBERRA
MEMBER OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE OF MELBOURNE
APPLICATfONS— may be lodged only an, forms attached to the printed copies of the prospectus, which may be obtained from
• The Secretary, Cox Finance Corporation Limited, 75 Flinders Lane, Melb.
• The Manager of any store in the Cox Bros., Foy, George’s Group.
• / •;
• Any member of a Stock Exchange.
• Any office of the Underwriters.
lAN POTTER & CO.
MELBOURNE-SYDNEY-BRISBAtiE
ADELAIDE-CANBERRA
CIPIO/M


TWO COMPANIES FACE THE MUSIC
Yn the ebb and flow of commercial
behavior, sometimes companies,
sometimes stockmarket practices draw
the ire of investors. Any deviations
from expected codes on either part
provoke deep mutterings for the local
equivalent of the US Securities Exchange
Commission refurbished Companies
Acts or no.
Last week, a purist judgment was
applied sternly to the company side.
Quite a few observers caught signs of
transgression by Electronic Industries
and Neon Signs (A’sia).
So far as Electronic’s efforts were
concerned, directors of the aggrieved
and beleaguered party, Mick Simmons
Ltd, moved speedily in an attempt to
protect their shareholders’ interests.
They merit praise for a model strategy.
It was no news to them that the
Electronic chairman, Sir Arthur Warner,
and a batch of associates had, over a
six-month period, gained a 20 p.c. hold-
ing in Mick Simmons. Nor did Elec-
tronic, for that matter, co r ceal its
desire to substitute four directors (out
of six) to represent this holding, and for
other purposes.
At the present rather parlous stage of
Mick Simmons’ trading and dividend
fortunes, an offer or explanation to all
shareholders is manifestly called for.
Directors explain that they do not
criticise any attempt to push Electronic’s
legitimate progress.
‘’But when it appeared that Sir Arthur
and his colleagues wished to control this
company, he was told that an offer
should be made to purchase it at a price
fair to our stockholders. This has not
been done,” directors now declare for
public knowledge.
The ball went cleanly to Sir Arthur
“we now publicly invite Sir Arthur
Warner to make a fair offer to our stock-
holders.”
A riposte did not take too long.
Electronic, apparently, has “only a small
interest in Mick Simmons (Holdings)
Ltd” and “does not wish to acquire it in
view of the very low profit condition of
Mick Simmons (Holdings) Ltd,” accord-
ing to a statement from Sir Arthur
Warner.
Indeed the parties infiltrating the Mick
Simmons citadel “for nearly two years”
(on their own admission) “would be pre-
pared to sell their shares to any other
group at their net asset value without
goodwill.” Their sole motivation in
gunning for directors is to “rehabilitate
the profits of the company and its share
values.”
Statements from the conflicting prin-
cipals are soon to hit shareholders,
together with the latest Mick Simmons’
results.
Whatever benefits may accrue to Elec-
tronic, inspired by altruistic benevolence
or not, Mick Simmons’ shareholders still
need every consideration and a proper
price if control by stealth is not to win
the day.
Electronic should be brought to see
the honest necessity of this. With its
current urge towards obtaining direct
electrical retailing outlets, further
exemplified by the recent purchase of 33
NSW shops from Reid Murray, Mick
Simmons provides a fine additional haul,
particularly right in Sydney.
Yet shareholders, who have seen a
dividend whittled away from 123 p.c.
to nothing since 1957, and share prices
hovering frequently below par, deserve
more than a concentration upon certain
benefits to others.
Fog blankets Neon
IMTeanwhile Neon Signs has done little
or nothing to dispel a fog hiding
exact evaluation of its past and its
future. It cannot be very often that pro-
posals for a share issue, albeit at a
premium, call for such careful scrutiny
as this one.
For Neon’s two-for-five issue of ss.
shares at 2s. 6d. premium could not he
taken at face value, despite the 14s.
market price ruling on announcement.
Directors had failed to furnish any
possibility of calculating the issue’s size
and surely hardly believed shareholders
would be mollified by a promise to
return the premium in the guise of a
bonus issue after the earning rate had
been staunchly defended
Even a report on the capital situation
made a day after the first announcement
hardly clarified things or set share-
holders’ minds at rest. There was a
matter of options given to executives dis-
turbing the ex-rights calculations and
non-disclosure of the terms of the latest
stream of takeovers.
To cap it all, shareholders have not
been allowed to know the vital account-
ing element of rental and sale outstand-
ings since 1960, for balance sheets have
avoided showing this.
The guardians must be prepared to
battle with such obscurities and evasions
Stock Exchanges and policemen of
Companies Acts together. There’s an
SEC lurking round all these corners.
the world of business
"Yew. o f it I Had! Mealy-mouthed yes-men, chorusing their 'Great
idea, chief. Yes sir Mr. Benson!' 'You're right again, J.B.!'...
God! How I miss them!"


mm
NMH -
siiamms®
CtriXE austbaUA" Vi / c\ -
BRAN!**
: s^GlTgs
k^HANPt;
•^r^l‘ T!LiJ,D C-MATU** 0
.°YES ltd.
?. YOUR ’
FAVOURITE
. BRANDY
fine Australian
pot-still
THREE STAR
Distinctive in flavour and bouquet
OLD LIQUEUR
=._A superb quality Liqueur Brandy
S&fMTI
T
BRANDY
Drastic drop in profit
11/hile it was expected that Tableland
" Tin’s profit last year would not be
nearly as good as the previous year’s,
when there was an increase from
£59,312 to an adjusted £131,662
(see The Bulletin, November 3), the
market was unprepared for the drastic
drop to £24,489 announced last week.
The £1 shares which were recently
down to 10s. improved to 13s. 6d. on
the upward move of tin during the
Cuban crisis, but trade was sellers only
on the latest results.
Tin is still very firm in London,
having advanced from £B5l to £B7B stg.
in London in the last month.
Out of the wilderness
TTolders of Z shares in Carlton &
AJL United Breweries may soon be led
from the wilderness of the unofficial list
if directors’ proposal to enfranchise them
with the same voting rights as the
ordinary shareholders is implemented.
They have no voting rights at present.
However, it seems a bit rough on the
several brewing companies (such as
Queensland, Richmond and Ballarat),
who jumped on the CUB bandwaggon in
exchange for Z shares alone without
getting any ordinaries, to find that the
latter are now to get a one-for-two bonus
and that the Zs are not.
The only plausible excuse for dis-
criminating between the two classes for
the bonus is that the ordinaries possibly
had their equity watered by the long
series of takeovers since 1958, financed
mainly with Z share issues.
But there isn’t much strength in that
sort of brew, particularly as the ordin-
aries themselves got a one-for-four bonus
of Z shares in 1957.
Another change of name?
wire has it that Motor Credits,
Melbourne based finance company,
is toying with the idea of changing its
name for one more in line with the
more diversified nature of its activities.
It is felt that in any case HP business
in automobiles has been a little dis-
credited in investors’ calculations in
recent years.
Motor Credits was floated in 1957
under sponsorship of the Victorian Auto-
mobile Chamber of Commerce and the
VACC Insurance Co. Ltd. It now
operates in all States.
The original purpose of the company
was to assist with finance in vehicle
purchases. While it still engages in
selective financing of vehicle purchases,
which in turn provide a fair proportion
of total outstandings, other financing
accounted for more than half the com-
pany’s outstandings at June 30, but
these other activities include mortgage
loans, bulk finance, bridging finance,
bills of sale financing, and discounting
of contracts of sale.
Motor Credits has achieved steady
growth in its five-year history, and since
June, 1958, net profit after tax has shown
about a five-fold rise and shareholders’
funds have been almost trebled. Out-
standings have risen six-fold in the five
years to June 30 and now exceed £l5
million.
Acceleration at Bell Bay
llThile Comalco is finding the provision
of the necessary finance an obstacle
to progress on the Manapouri round-
abouts, the swings at Bell Bay are
moving at an accelerated tempo.
Last week the company began pour-
ing metal from a big extension to the
Bell Bay plant on completion of the
first stage of an expansion programme
which will lift capacity to 35,000 tons
of metal soon, and some time next year
take it up to 52,000 tons, or about 2,000
tons higher than present aluminium con-
sumption in Australia.
The latest additions were completed
five months ahead of schedule at a cost
considerably less than the original £7
million estimate.
Results of efficiency
Investors in Rubbertex will say it was
A about time the company called in
efficiency experts to redress the heavy
bias of losses, the latest year’s being a
stiff £93,993 after one of £65,720 the
previous year.
This has been one of the most un-
successful of the new floats made in the
1959-60 boom. But the experts appear
to be getting things in better shape as
sales were lifted by 35 p.c. in the Sep-
tember quarter and present production
level is about £700,000 a year com-
pared with £500,000 for 1961-62. This
still leaves some way to go, directors
say, if the drag of accumulated losses is
to be offset.
The company is in arrears on pay-
ments due to the International Finance
Corporation, which helped with loans in
the early stages.
Spotlight on PGH
for share capital are relatively
rare these days. The spotlight was
therefore on PGH Industries Ltd, a Syd-
ney building group, when it announced
last week a one-for-five issue of ss. shares
at a premium of 4s.
This expansive group now embraces
units making building and construction
materials, furniture and wood products,
packaging materials and plastics in NSW
and SA.
In the year to June last the company
earned 23.9 p.c. on average ordinary
capital, 11.5 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
and 4.1 p.c. on sales.
The board expects to maintain the
16-2/3 p.c. dividend paid for the last
two years, after the current issue. A
purchase at current price of around 18s.
3d. would provide an attractive return of
4.8 p.c. taking account of the issue.


INVESTMENT CLUBS
THE PROFITABLE ART OF TOGETHERNESS
An investment club of our acquain-
tance has a subscribed capital of
close on £lO,OOO, and over £lOOO
in reserves and unappropriated profits
after only a couple of years operations.
It has a qualified secretary, an accountant
and a solicitor in its membership. In fact,
it is going about this business of mutual
investing in a proper and profitable way.
This group was sufficiently ambitious to
form a non-listed public company with
authorised capital of £25,000 in £1 shares.
It raises capital by an issue of shares each
year at par to original shareholders. The
shares are payable in full on application
or ss. on application and the balance in
three quarterly calls. Outsiders wishing
to join may do so by subscribing to
shares at a premium. The newcomers are
introduced in October of each year, at
the time of the annual meeting to sim-
plify accounting. All shareholders are res-
tricted to a stated maximum holding.
This particular club decided to plough
back profits without paying dividends for
at least four years, to allow rapid ac-
cumulation of funds.
Such an operation is commendable —-
but is probably out of the scope of the
“office syndicate” type of venture that
could be attractive to the young and un-
initiated.
There is hardly a large office in Aus-
tralia that does not operate an investment
syndicate of some kind. But, usually,
these syndicates limit their activities to
the horses, lotteries, and the like.
Professionals in the art of investing
are often nonplussed at the failure of the
Australian public to look to shares as a
rewarding “hobby.” Our own “Specu-
lator” gives weekly evidence of the “fun”
of playing the market.
The investment club movement offers
rewarding, but less risky initiation to
those who don't know anything about the
share business.
The movement began in Australia
about four years ago. In the interim the
market has suffered a very severe rever-
sal. Club members—largely novices in
the field of investing—could be forgiven
for a loss of confidence.
But one of the major principles of in-
vestment clubs is to average costs over
the full economic cycle. Now is no time
for diffidence. A review of the movement
therefore seems timely.
A lthough clubs have penetrated to the
depths of the country amongst
groups of servicemen and wives, sports-
men, suburban businessmen and house-
wives’ sewing circles, investment clubs
still remain a mystery to millions.
Where two or three are gathered to-
gether, money and how to make it is an
inevitable topic of conversation. This is
the starting point for many a club.
Basically they are groups of people
(preferably friends) who band together
with a common purpose of investing in
shares and other similar securities. Their
personal investment aims may be varied
—to provide for the education of their
children, for retirement, as a form of
compulsory saving but they all aim to
profit in terms of money and investment
knowledge.
Members gather monthly to discuss
investment proposals and contribute a
monthly sum, usually of bor some
round figure. As clubs operate on the
do-it-yourself principle, different club
members are chosen each month to pre-
sent their selections to the club for deci-
sion.
fJpHE common legal status of clubs is
a partnership, because formation of a
company is expensive. A partnership
cannot exceed 20 members by law, and
twelve to fifteen people is more ideal, as
too big a number becomes unmanage-
able.
Withdrawal or death of a member does
not involve the dissolution of the partner-
ship. His share of the net assets of the
partnership is determined and paid to him
or his estate. New members may be ad-
mitted at any monthly meeting on the
basis that they do not profit or lose by
the experience of the club before their
admittance.
A proviso that any retiring member
give to remaining members the opportu-
nity to place his share with someone of
their choice, and failing that, with some-
one of whom they approve, ensures
harmony within the club. A rule requir-
ing three months' notice of intention to
withdraw prevents one member from
disrupting the club's long range plans in
order to profit by a market peak.
A club must decide how to register its
securities. Most club members desire
tangible experience of ownership, and
would not be content to let the club’s
broker hold the securities. The shares
may be registered in the name of a
couple of members who are appointed as
trustees.
Retirement, illness or death of a trustee
may however provide legal complications
and involve stamp duty on transfers.
To avoid these, some clubs have form-
ed nominee companies to hold their
shares. Others are private or public (non-
listed) companies in which each member
is a director.
Various more sophisticated versions of
the original investment club are being
bred. Once investments were made in
growth stocks to build up a permanent
portfolio. The more experienced clubs—
perhaps of professional people, accoun-
tants, etc.—may operate two accounts, a
share trading account and long-term in-
vestment account.
The use of share options may also give
a club opportunity for quick profit-
making supplementary to its main object
of building up a portfolio.
The tax position of investment clubs is
an important question. Speaking gener-
ally, purchases made as a genuine invest-
ment do not attract tax if sold later at
a profit. Capital profits on share trading
—shares bought with the intention of
selling later at a profit—do attract tax.
Partnerships as such do not pay tax.
The members of an investment partner-
ship pay tax on their income individually.
A private company and a public company
in effect, by virtue of a rebate, do not
pay tax on their investment income
(dividends) because it has already been
subject to tax. But a private company at-
tracts tax on retained profits. In the case
of a private investment company, only
10 p.c. of income can be retained without
attracting tax.
A private company may, however, be
considered for tax purposes as a public
company if its members exceed 20
persons.
An investment club which is a public
company may decide to invest all its
funds, income and capital profits, and
make no distribution for a fixed term.
To the extent to which profits are asses-
sable income, the club members will be
taxed on eventual distribution no matter
what is the procedure.
But if a public company goes into
liquidation, the portfolio is sold and cash
distributions made therefrom by the
liquidator, the distribution is deemed to
be capital and therefore not taxable in
the hands of the club members.
A private investment company may
cost the best part of £IOO to form, and
a public non-listed investment company
upwards of £2OO. Of course if a club
member is a lawyer, the legal fees in
respect of drawing up the memorandum
and articles of association may be negli-
gible. There is still the printing cost, and
the expenses of registration.
These include about £7 worth of
sundry items for either a private or a
public company, plus a fee depending on
the size of the nominal capital. The first
£SOOO entails a fee of £2O, the next


On time...
every time
f . 4 : y \...
&<&•: C. i. '\
<*< v >- V ft.-:' '< < '
*««*?
178
V
Jr
1' / '
£
0
m
•< &)
■ i
«*<*■*
% • ' Vj?3 /*£*
*-*■■■"! -■*>
: v.
v* ,f;.:.
... .;..•;' 34
v _. . .
...y^-fi..&i4
3?6 I •'*
it* ..Of****** &*9*«o* f '&&
With a highly trained staff, pantechnicions and equipment
especially designed for fast safe transportation, Mayne Nickless
operate Australia’s most reliable interstate freightways. To
facilitate the fast handling of all goods, Mayne Nickless main-
tain a large fleet of Radio Pick-up trucks.
MAYNE NICK LESS LTD.
. INCORPORATING ANTILL RANGER
Australia's most reliable Intersfafe Freightways
SYDNEY'MELBOURNE-BRISBANE-PERTK
ADELAIDE • CANBERRA • NEWCASTLE
PORT KEMBLA • LAUNCESTON • HOBART
Fast daily schedules
to all main centres.
/IE '
3S IJ l)) »i 7;/tt
w
mk
m
for
EVERY TRANSPORT NEED
£ 15,000 a fee of £ls for a private
company and £2O for a public company.
A private company with nominal capi-
tal of £20,000 therefore would cost some
£42 to register, whereas a public com-
pany would cost £47 in all.
A device to cut initial costs is to form
a guarantee company, which differs from
a limited company in that each member
undertakes to contribute up to a speci-
fied sum to the assets of the company in
the event of wind-up while he is a mem-
ber, or within one year after he ceases
to be a member, for payment of debts
and liabilities before he ceases to be a
member and the expenses of wind-up
and adjustment of rights of contributor-
ies.
This undertaking need not be onerous
for the specified sum may be as little as
£1 per member.
Registration of a company limited by
guarantee depends on the number of
members. It is £5 if not exceeding 20
persons, £ls if between 20 and 100 per-
sons, plus the usual £7 or so for
sundries.
A partnership requires no registration,
except that of a business name, if not
that of the partners, which is a fee of
£2. A club which is a partnership has
the legal expense of drawing up a part-
nership agreement.
Investment clubs which are companies
—private or public—may issue, say ss.
shares paid to 6d. The monthly fees re-
present calls on the shares which are
fully paid in ten months.
One deficiency on the investment club
scene in this country is the absence of a
National Association of Investment
Clubs. The USA, Britain and New Zea-
land all have one.
A national co-ordinating body can
further the interests of members. Mem-
ber clubs pay a small fee which is used
to provide initial and continuing advice
on club procedures, legal and tax matters
and for the dissemination of investment
club news in a monthly bulletin.
In America there are well ever 8000
clubs, and their total investments rank
sixth in importance of all groups of in-
vestors according to the New York
Stock Exchange official listing.
BANKS VIEW THE ECONOMY
TEhose of the Australian trading banks
which publish periodical reviews
have mostly sustained a calm, almost
prosaically judicious outlook on a pro-
gramme for the economy. Apart from
some dignified axe-grinding on such topics
as restrictions of bank lending, even in
1960 they avoided any advocacy of the
wilder shores of expansion. The lessons
were undramatic, but were spelled plain.
At this present moment of our develop-
ment, when business appears once more
on the march, three of these surveys
come out practically on top of each other
—from the Bank of NSW, the Com-
mercial of Australia and the National
of Australasia. The mood of improve-
ment is carefully examined, and
encouraged.
The Wales early on points out that
most recent doubts have not centred on
the fact of revival, but rather on its
pace. Yet now the speed of recovery
receives frequent confirmation.
“For the most part these doubts are
being resolved and the inherent verve
of the economy is surmounting the fail-
ure of confidence which has held back
progress over the past 12 months,” this
particular commentary assures us. We
had talked about a lack of confidence
among businessmen for quite a while. It
seems an abstract consideration, yet its
defeat is obviously needed before the
purely statistical trends will be fully given
their heads.
The statistical omens are generally
favourable. Better still, “the recovery in
output is soberly based on a solid revival
of consumer demand and lacks the fever-
ish assumption of limitless expansion
which characterised the earlier period.”
The Wales had earlier seen some hesita-
tion in private capital investment. Yet its
more up-to-date survey undertaken with
the Chamber of Manufacturers and also
issued last week, found obvious improve-
ment here.
Following a brief treatment of Gov-
ernment finance, the Wales expresses
some caution on the current balance of
payments situation. It mentions our
heavy reliance on a high capital inflow
both for a healthy payments situation and
for business activity and employment.
“Emphasis still needs to be placed on
exports.”
Here the Commercial of Australia
takes up the tale. Our export drive “is
complicated by many problems not the
least of which is the balance of payments
difficulties of many under-developed
countries that are potentially good cus-
tomers for foodstuffs and items needed
in their own development.”
This bank indicates that primary pro-
duction continues as the most important
element of our overseas trade. “Indeed
with the rise in living standards and the
economic development of many Eastern
and Asian countries, their markets for
primary produce are as valuable as those
for raw materials or manufactures.”
Also admitting the marked internal
improvement, the Commercial sees fit
to advise that “the present trend in im-
ports requires very careful watching if
expansion within the economy is to be
achieved as evenly as possible.” Re-stock-
ing may principally explain the increases
in recent months, but imports must not
get out of hand.”
Of the three surveys under note, the
National is even further forward-looking.
It deals with the part of the service in-
dustries—wholesale and retail distribu-
tion, transport, travel, entertainment and
so on —in lifting the standard of living.
Australia is joining the pattern of the
most advanced economies and will see a
rapid increase in the working population
employed in these service industries.
The National speculates that “the
pattern of development of our service in-
dustries will be dependent on democratic
consumer choice and new inventions,
just as has been the case with much of
the development of our secondary in-
dustry during the post-war period.”


THE UNIVERSITY OF ADELAIDE
AT BEDFORD PARK
APPOINTMENT OF PROFESSORS AND
LIBRARIAN
Applications are invited for the following initial
appointments to the University of Adelaide at Bed-
ford Park:
Librarian
School of Language and Literature:
Professor of English
School of Social Sciences:
Professor ot History
Professor of Economics
School of Physical Sciences:
Professor of Physics
Professor of Chemistry
Applications tor professors in the School of Biolo-
gical Sciences will be sought later.
Salary for eoch position is £4,250 a year with
superannuation on the F.S.S.U. basis.
Beginning in 1956 the work of the University will
proceed on two separate sites. The University's work
at the new Bedford Park site, 62 miles south of
the city of Adelaide, will be organised in the tour
Schools listed above. Subject to the University
Council, the academic work will be under the control
of the Bedford Fork academic staff, who will be
encouraged to develop an individual structure of
courses, to foster new developments and to design
new syllabuses. Full degree work in the four Schools
will begin with first-year courses in 1966, and
second and third year courses will be added in
succeeding years. Facilities for some honours and
postgraduate work will be available from the
outset.
By negotiation with the successful candidates,
three professors will be asked to take up duty in
the second half of 1963 and the others early in
1964. The University's purpose in making these
early appointments is to enable the professors to
assist in the planning of the academic structure and
organisation and to consult with the architects on
the detailed planning of the academic buildings.
The Librarian will be expected to take up duty
at the earliest possible date so that the ordering
and cataloguing of books may begin. It is planned
to open the Bedford Park Library with 60.000
volumes. The Librarian, who will be independent of
the Barr Srmth Library in the University at North
Terrace, will be expected to advise on the system
of classification to be used and to assist in the
detailed planning of the library building.
Enrolments are expected to be about 500 in 1966,
rising to about 2,000 in 1970.
A statement giving fuller information about the
development of the four Schools at Bedford Park and
setting out conditions of appointment may be ob-
tained from the Registrar or from the Secretary, The
Association of Universities of the British Common-
v/ealth, Marlborough House, Pall Mall, London, S.W.I.
Applications in duplicate should reach the Regis-
•rar of the University at North Terrace, Adelaide,
1 tot later than 16th January, 1963.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
TlThile the Church and the Judiciary
" have been slugging it out in the
Equity Court, I have been down in the
wine cellars arguing about the share
market.
The problem, of course, is what’s
wrong with the market? Normally one
would have expected it to be rising over
the past six months or so. But it hasn’t.
First there were doubts about
economic recovery but these now seem
to be have been disposed of. Then we
had the Common Market scare but it,
too, has now been put in its proper
perspective, even if Mr. Bury did lose
his job in the process.
Then there was some anxiety about
the US economy and whether it was
heading for a decline. Wall Street now
seems to think not, if the strong rise of
the past few weeks is any guide (which
it probably isn’t). Finally there was
Cuba.
All these hazards seem to be passing
safely into history. Yet Australian share
markets continue to drift aimlessly
about.
The reason, perhaps, is that a lot of
investors are still disillusioned with the
share market and maybe with their
brokers, too.
While quietly enjoying a very nice dry
white at a wine tasting, 1 was reminded
that many investors had lost so heavily
on the BHPs, Ready Mixeds, L. J.
Hookers, Stanhills and others that they
are still sour with the share market.
This probably is the underlying prob-
lem. And to think that we still have
to hear the worst from L. J. Hooker,
Reid Murray, Albert G. Sims and others.
This has been a year in which it has
been vitally necessary to adjust to the
situation. It has been foolish to remain
stubbornly inflexible. Investors have
needed to reorientate their thinking.
Those who haven’t must, at this stage, be
regretting it. Far too many people have
continued to concentrate on the well-
known companies and too few have
ventured into the less well regarded com-
panies. Now, more than ever, it’s
speculate or perish.
This line of thinking was a bit of a
blow to my wine-tasting friend from the
Union Club ah, what company I’m
keeping these days. But it was the view
of one of the keenest market followers
I've come across. She yes, she
charts the prices of some 200 companies
every day And she applies her charts
very profitably, I gather.
But she had no good tip to pass on to
me so I fell back on the advice of my
broker who insisted that I buy some
Jacoby Mitchell. Fortunately I did this
early in the week when I was able to
get 400 at 15s. Jacoby Mitchell imports
a variety of electronic equipment for use
in office communications and so on. Its
profits have built up steadily from
£35,000 to £45,000 since listing three
years ago. The interesting point about
the latest result was that it was largely
attributed to a strong increase in demand
in the last five months of the financial
year. If trading continues at that level
for all 12 months of this financial year,
the 1962-63 result should be a par-
ticularly good one.
It was the same broker who, with all
the wholesale enthusiasm of a scout-
master, directed my attention towards
A. G. Campbell the previous week. But
it was not until last week that I was able
to pick up the balance of my order for
1000 rights.
My other purchase last week was
some Waugh and Josephson which had
slipped from 20s. back to 16s. without
my noticing. They were back up to
16s. 6d. by the time I could get a couple
of hundred.
In the sales department I found it
difficult to hold my Goodwins any
longer. The dispute with Mr Alan
Fraser, MP, seems to be building up
rather than diminishing so I sold out at
6s. despite the 10 p.c. dividend yield
and the 20 p.c. earnings yield. My profit
was £5 — not much on an eight
months’ investment.
I took a somewhat better, and
quicker, profit (£27) on the 1000 Rosslyn
bought last month at 3s. 6d. At 4s. sd.
they were getting up towards double
their par value (2s. 6d.) which seemed
enough for the time being.
SOLD
800 Goodwins at 6/- £244
1,000 Rosslyn at 4/5 £2ll
BOUGHT
800 A. G. Campbell rights at
6/9 £2BO
400 Jacoby Mitchell at 15/- £3OB
200 Waugh & Josephson at
16/6 £l6B
These transactions left me still with
£29 in the till. The portfolio didn’t
vary much during the week but I’m
grateful to the weekend newspapers for
suggesting giving Malleys “a whirl”,
writing up Hanimex’s recovery and pre-
dicting that 1963 could be one of the
best in the nation’s economic history.
On Monday the Chambers of Manu-
factures joined in with their statement
about Australia being on the threshold
of “spontaneous, dynamic growth”.
There was a time when that sort of talk
would have put some spark into the
share market. We ll see if it does this
week.
Meanwhile the portfolio consists of:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
400 Auto and General
Finance 8/2/62 19/9 27/
400 Malays 3/5/62 20/9 23/-
2,000 Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11 8/-
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 26/9
300 Marcus Clark notes 22/6/62 27/6 39/6
100 CSR 1/8/61 49/- 50/9
400 AWA 10/8/62 20/- 19/9
1,000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9 5/6
100 AOG 27/8/62 55/6 53/-
1,000 AN I 14/9/62 4/- 4/5
400 Western Mining 19/9/62 15/9 18/9
200 Shipping News 20/9/62 24/- 22/9
50 Shipping News
rights 12/3
1,000 Vesta 27/9/62 3/9 3/-
500 Kauri 11/10/62 6/6 8/3
400 Waned 11/10/62 12/8 12/8
400 Nightingale 17/10/62 14/11 17/-
400 Avala 31/10/62 9/9 HZ-
-400 Aeron 1/11/62 12/- 13/6
400 Functional 2/11/62 7/7 8/-
1,000 Prasby 8/11/62 2/8 2/11
1,000 A. G. Campbell
rights 9/11/62 6/9 6/9
400 Jacoby Mitchell 12/11/62 15/- 15/6
200 Waugh &
Josephson 14/11/62 16/6 17/


IS IT POSSIBLE TO
INVEST WISELY ?
With the share market constantly influenced
by day to day world news and news on the
local front, by economic ups and downs,
how can a share buyer invest securely?
Options are the one safe way to do so.
Share options take the risk out of a fickle
share market. At the same time they do
not limit possible profit, and protect against
an unsatisfactory operation for the price of
the option premium.
FIND OUT HOW THIS OPERATES
THROUGH USING PUT AND
CALL OPTIONS
Write or ’phone today for further
details
324 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Phone 26-1024.
(HOLDINGS)
LIMITED
An issue at
par (£100) of
£500,000
registered
first mortgage
debenture
stock
Per Annum
5 and 10
years. a
:
■ mm | rtf
YEARS.... tz/O F.A.
AND SHORTER TERMS AVAILABLE
METHOD OF INVESTING Application for Debenture
Stock will proceed only on one of the forms of application
referred to in and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus
obtainable from and lodged with
■ JAMES WALLACE (HOLDINGS) LIMITED,
123 Sussex Street, Sydney.
■ The Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney Limited any branch in New South
Wales or the Australian Capital Territory.
■ Any member of a Recognised Stock
Exchange.
Underwriting Brokers
■ RALPH W. KING & YUILL (members of the
Sydney Stock Exchange), 20 O’Connell Street,
Sjffiney, with offices at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Grafton, Tamworth.
f C,7R4c
OIL
WHAT'S WAPET'S EXPLANATION?
patience of oil search companies is
A proverbial, so what is to be inferred
from WAPET managing director’s state-
ment in the West last week that WAPET
isn’t interested in drilling many more dry
holes?
The company has recently spudded-in
its 84th well, this one being at Woolmulla
in the Fitzroys, with only the Rough
Range well in December 1953 giving the
company success (but not commercial).
“There is quite a lot more to it than
shoving down a hole,” said Mr P. B.
McGrath, “and if we drill a dry hole
tve need an explanation every time.”
Nobody would presumably worry
about explanations if WAPET got a wet
one.
Some jam for shareholders
Intensification of the search for oil in
Australia this year hasn't revealed any
new field, but it has at least kept the rigs
of the contract drillers busy and provi-
ded—in one case anyway, that is, Oil
Drilling and Exploration—a little jam
for shareholders.
ODE's announcement of an increase
from 3 Id. to 4d. in dividend on its
3s. 4d. shares attributes a rise from
£132.187 to £164,600 in profit before tax
directly to the acceleration in the search
for oil, though as the company paid no
tax the previous year and had to pay
£39,390 last year, the net result was
slightly inferior.
The latest after-tax profit represents
just under 6d. a share on capital. Con-
sidering more than a quarter of the issued
capital is locked up in advances to the
Oil Search subsidiary, Exoil Ltd, which
has been searching without success so
far, earnings thoroughly justify the cur-
rent price of 4s. for the shares, at which
they yield 7 per cent —the more so since
Exoil itself holds promise of finding oil.
The company is unique among oil
search shares in that it combines profit
earning operations (contract drilling), a
useful portfolio of industrial shares and
a substantial interest in oil search opera-
tions. It also has a predilection for real
estate development, but it is understood
that after its completion of two big home
unit projects in Sydney (and at a profit)
it is no longer terribly interested.


r
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
LIMITED
AND ITS WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY
THE NATIONAL BANK SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
Abridged Consolidated Balance Sheet
as at 30th September, 1962.
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers .... .... £12,181,154
Money at Short Call Overseas .... .... .. 625,000
Treasury Notes 7,000,000
Government and Other Securities 87,015,161
Loans to Authorised Dealers in the Short Term Money Market 3,051,000
Statutory Reserve Deposit Account with the Reserve Bank 30,708,000
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks and Balances with and due from
Other Banks 20,803,053
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted 156,602,537
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites 10,103,661
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit 42,257,607
All Other Assets 3,846,096
374,193,269
Liabilities of Customers under Letters of Credit, etc.—as per contra .... 26,627,272
£400,820,541
LIABILITIES
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Final Dividend Proposed
Balance of Profit and Loss Account
Balances Due to Other Banks
Deposits, etc
£10,089,037
7,500,000
454,007
977,383
2,027,810
353,145,032
Liabilities under Letters of Credit, etc..
CONSOLIDATED NET PROFIT
374,193,269
26,627,272
£400,820,541
£1,065,486
0166/34/62


DAVIS GELATINE
CONSOLIDATED LTD
INCORPORATED: February 22,
1955, in Sydney.
DIRECTORS: O. Michaelis, chair-
man, (Director, Associated Leathers
Ltd, Kinnears Ropes (A ust.) Ltd),
A. H. Vascoe, M. C. Davis (Director,
Amalgamated Batteries Ltd, Mercan-
tile Mutual Insurance Co. Ltd), G. G.
Davis, F. B. Blood, Dr L. E. King,
R. L. Michaelis (Director, Associated
Leathers Ltd), Sir Arthur Sims.
NATURE OF BUSINESS: Holding
company (Manufacturers of Glues,
Gelatine, etc).
CAPITAL: Authorised: £5,000,000 in
20s. shares.
SUBSIDIARIES: Davis Gelatine
(Aust) Pty Ltd, D. G. Transport Co.
Pty Ltd, Davis Gelatine Pty Ltd,
Glues & By-Products Pty Ltd, G. M.
Skinner Pty Ltd, Safre (Holdings) Pty
Ltd, Davis Gelatine (NZ) Ltd, The
NZ Glue Co. Ltd, Davis Gelatine
(Canada) Ltd, Davis Gelatine Inc.,
Geo. Nelson Dale & Co. Ltd, Davis
Gelatine Industries (Pty) Ltd, Davis
Gelatine (Africa) Pty, Ltd.
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
A SOLID INVESTMENT STOCK
The company was formed to consoli-
date all shareholdings in the Davis Gela-
tine organisation and to control all the
various companies’ activities. Subsidiary
companies operate in Australia, New
Zealand, South Africa, Canada, USA and
England, which by any standard com-
prises a far flung commercial empire.
The consideration for the take-over was
£1,200,000 cash, which was then sub-
scribed for 20s. shares. In April 1955 a
further 300,000 20s. shares were offered
to the public (at par). In 1960 a further
300,000 shares at par on a l-for-5 basis
were issued, payable ss. per share on
application, balance in calls as required.
At balance date no calls had been made.
In August 1961 a further 250,000 shares
were issued at a premium to acquire the
Safre group and G. M. Skinner Pty Ltd.
The premium was apparently 10s. a
share. This brings issued capital up to
£1,825,000.
In 1961 profit fell by £BO,OOO, but in
1962 recovered £54,000. Dividend at
the steady 8 p.c. was well covered in both
years; but in fact the high percentage of
undistributed profit each year since for-
mation is a notable feature of this stock.
Oddly enough in 1962 working capital
was reduced to that of 1961, and this is
chiefly due to a rise of £503,000 in over-
draft, which was only partially offset by
increases in stock (£299,000) and
debtors (£151,000). It would be interes-
ting to know where these increases took
place.
The main fact is that 1962 showed a
recovery and the strength of the com-
pany is reflected in the NTA of 325. Bd. a
share. Had the 15s. outstanding been
called up prior to balance date the NTA
would have fallen to 275. 10d., comfort-
able backing.
Land and buildings are taken into the
accounts at cost less depreciation (about
9.75 p.c.) and it can safely be implied
that here is possibly a considerable hidden
asset.
With its world-wide subsidiaries this
stock should appeal to supporters of solid
rather than speculative investments, yet
the shares are being traded at 325., which
yields 5 p.c. and earns 6.6 p.c.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY £'ooo
1958 1959 1960 196! 1962
Shareholders' Fur>ds £ 3965 3864 3894 4013 4645
Index 100 104.6 105.4 108.4 125 7
Total Investments £ 4025 4353 4280 4394 550 7
Index 100 108.2 106.4 109.1 136 3
Working Capital £ 937 906 967 1085 968
Index 100 96.5 103 115.6 103.1
Tax Provision £ 141 163 168 106 179
Net Profit £ 242 252 264 180 231
Index 100 104. 109. 74.3 96.5
Concealed Profit on
Tax Provision £ 6 15
N.T.A. a 20s. Ord
Share 32/- 34/3 36/6 34/2 32/8
Dive Rate 8 8 8 8 3
Dive. Amount 120 120 120 136 137
Undistributed Profit
p.c. 50.5 52.9 54.6 24.4 41.5
Percentage Profit to: —
Average Ord.
Capital 16.17 16.82 17.64 10.58 13.68
Shareholders' Funds 6.56 6.5 6.8 4.47 5.05
Total Investments 6.03 5.8 6.15 4.1 4.25
N.T.A. 10.1 9.8 9.68 6.3 7.5
Leverage Ratio 1.09 1.12 1.1 1.1 1.19
Share Prices High 44/6 63/- 67/3 41/-
Low 40/- 43/6 33/6 32/3
McILWRAITH McEACHARN LTD
NEED FOR MORE FINANCE
HFhe postwar period has seen the
atrophy of the Australian coastal
shipping business, due to impossible
labour costs, both ashore and afloat,
competition from road and air trans-
port, and the enormous cost of replacing
old vessels.
Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd is one
of the few survivors, but it has suffered
with the rest. However, acquisition of
the fleet of Huddart Parker Industries
Ltd and its subsidiary James Paterson
and Co. Pty Ltd in September, 1961,
overnight doubled Mcllwraith’s fleet.
Other costly ventures are being
entered into which reflect new attitudes
to the trade, and reaffirm directors’ con-
fidence in the company’s capacity for
adaptation.
Directors believe that reliable, swift,
cheap transport will always be in demand
interstate, and that sea transport is best
suited to meet these requirements. They
are conscious of the need to rationalise
the Australian coastal trade, and “certain
steps now under consideration should
constitute an important contribution to
this desirable objective."
A major development is in the use
of 120 cubic foot cargo containers
known as “Seatainers’’ which simplify
cargo handling. Shipping documentation
has also been streamlined.
A £2m. cargo liner of revolutionary
design (to carry only “Seatainers’’), with
a speed of 16 knots is under construc-
tion, and should be ready for service
between Melbourne and Fremantle about
March, 1964.
The fleet acquired from Huddart com-
prised the freighters Waringa, Wata-
murra, Woomera, Adelong, Barwon and
Pattawilya, and the passenger liner
Wanganella, which has since been sold.
An interest in towage services w'as
obtained through James Paterson, which
owned a tug of that name and the
Walumba, and was part owner in Bat-
man.
Apart from the tugs, the tonnage
acquired was approximately 35,000, plus
real estate, stevedoring business and
their large interest in Bulkships. Bitumen
and Oil Refineries Ltd, which had made
the takeover bid for Huddart Parker,
received 700.000 fully paid 20s. Mc-
Ilwraith shares, worth £927,500 on the
market at the time.
The balance of the purchase price was
cash to be paid to Boral by December,
1971. Jn the latest accounts Mcllwraith
shows as deferred liabilities £.144,007
secured debt, and £609,245 unsecured,
all not repayable within one year, and
another £250,000 amongst current
liabilities repayable within the year.
These would no doubt include payments
for ships newly built.
The present fleet totals over 50,000
tons in 12 vessels. Seven are interstate
vessels used in the NSW-Melbourne-Tas-
mania-WA general cargo and steel
products trades, and carrying bulk
cargoes of gypsum and sugar.
An associate interest is held in Bulk-
ships Ltd, formed three years ago to
develop shipping in bulk ore carriers.
The present contribution of capital is
Mcllwraith 44 p.c., Howard Smith Ltd
7 p.c. and Adelaide Steamship Co. Ltd
49 p.c. Orders were placed with BHP
to build two 16.400 ton ships.
Financially the group has made no
real progress in the last seven years. The


ltd'
HELP
LEGACY
oi! the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
record profit of £220,542 was achieved
in 1954-55, and compares with the latest
£117,100 for the year to June 30. This
was arrived at after charging £162,320
for depreciation, writing off £31,681
trading loss on the “Wanganella”, and
providing £4,585 for tax.
The capital structure was built up
from £1,250,000 to £1,950,000 during
the year, of which £500,000 is in par-
ticipating preference shares. Holders
of these have a prior right to a fixed
cumulative dividend of 5 p.c., and to
participate rateably with ordinary share-
holders in any ordinary dividend over
5 p.c. Six p.c. dividends have been
paid on all capital since 1952. The
earnings cover has dwindled to 50 p.c.
over and above the dividend charge.
The sole capital benefit in postwar
years has been the one-for-four bonus in
December, 1959, to ordinary and
preference shareholders.
The present deficit in working capital,
with commitments for £1,720,000 for
new ships, the liability to Boral, and the
£854,610 uncalled on shares held in
other companies, point to the need for
more finance, perhaps in both fixed
interest and equity capital.
The current market valuation of the
20s. shares at about lOd. over par to
yield 5.8 p.c., reveals the apprehension
with which investors view the company’s
capacity to service extra capital.
SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTS
£'ooo
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 1015 1342 982 865 1068
Less current
liabilities 1077 1096 625 705 1384
Working capital -62 246 357 160 -316
Fixed assets 2071 2075 2091 2243 3794
Investments 114 117 295 391 753
Intangibles 1 2
Total capital 2123 2438 2743 2795 4233
Represented by
Deferred liabilities 753
Minority interest 2 28
Preference
capital 500 500 500 500 500
Ordinary
capital 500 500 750 750 1450
Reserves 1123 1438 1493 1543 1502
2123 2438 2743 2795 4233
Depreciation 59 73 109 115 162
Taxation 14 16 8 23 5
Net trading profit 133 88 72 77 77
Investment
income 45 57 44 45 40
Total net
profit 178 145 116 122 117
Total dividends 60 60 75 75 103
Surplus 118 85 41 47 14
Earning rate on
total capital 17.8 14.5 9.3 9.8 7.6
Dividend rate 6 6 6 6 6
Dividend yield 5.2 3.4 6.0 4.6
High price 23/3 24/3 43/- 32/3 26/6
Low price 19/- 21/11 23/- 20/- 17/3
COSTLY GROWTH BY CONCRETE IND.
T'\espite full marks for production, in-
formation and shareholder relations,
Concrete Industries’ colorful annual
report cannot disguise the fact that while
issued capital has been increased by 5.6
times since 1958, net profit, thanks to
last year’s recession, has increased by
only 4.9 times over the same period.
This is no cause for grief, but rather
a reminder that a company can only go
so far in capital growth without prejudice
to the dividend, unless earnings are
rising in step. An obvious point, perhaps,
but one which investors in growth com-
panies should keep constantly in mind.
Investors in Concrete Industries have
- in rough proportions subscribed
about one-quarter of the company’s pre-
sent £8,443,383 issued capital; they have
received about one-quarter of the capital
by way of bonus issues, and the other
half or so has been issued to vendors
of acquired companies.
One or both of two conclusions arise
from the failure of profits to keep pace
with capital growth in this case. In the
first place acquisitions have been costly
in terms of maintaining earnings rate.
Secondly, bonus issues (in this case made
wholly from share premium and assets
revaluation reserves) have been too gene-
rous in terms of assets’ earning power.
As net profit shrank from £1,002,378
to £954,000 and the dividend require-
ment increased from £674,800 to
£833,144 last year, the group had its
retained profits cut to only £43,538, the
lowest for more than five years and little
more than one-eighth of the previous
year’s £320,578.
Alhough in terms of sheer size, re-
serves of £4.3m. (paid up capital was
£8.4m.) on June 30 were sufficient for
another bonus, this could not be sup-
ported by earnings at last year’s level
without sacrificing something from the
10 p.c. dividend rate.
Not so obvious, it is worth noting that
although general reserves and unappro-
priated profits have not been raided for
previous bonus issues, they still amount
to only £844,500, or the equivalent of
about one-tenth of the issued capital.
The bulk of reserves is attributed to share
premiums, assets revaluation and capital
surpluses on consolidation.
This shows that the group’s task of
building reserves from retained profits
lies ahead of it. It predicates strenuous
efforts in consolidating its interest and
perhaps also an end to further acquisi-
tions for a while.
The present share price of 11s. 2d.
for the ss. shares at which they yield
4.4 p.c. on the 10 p.c. dividend seems
too low with another round of growth
in prospect.
ONE TO BUY
BRAEMAR
A RECOVERY
PROSPECT
/Catering for home appliance, machin-
ery, automotive and chemical indus-
tries, Braemar Industries Ltd felt a very
severe pinch in the year to June 30,
1962. Profit tumbled from £70,267 to
£9386, but the reduced 8 p.c. dividend
was maintained.
The confident assertion that profits in
the first four months of the current year
equalled the half-year’s budget therefore
arrests one’s attention. With the ss.
shares scraping ground level at about
ss. 3d., where they yield 7.8 p.c., this
stock attracts as a good recovery pro-
spect.
Directors said that the full 1962-63
budget was prepared on the basis of
covering the 8 p.c. dividend. Up to
1960 the company was able to pay
10 p.c. dividends, but uncertain trade
conditions prompted prudent trimming
to 8 p.c.
Braemar is perhaps the largest maker
of hot water services and appliances in
Australia. The present company was
formed in 1950. Emphasis has since
been given to diversification.
The group now includes Gardinol
chemicals for textiles, pharmaceuticals,
cosmetics, agriculture, and industrial
detergents, made at Box Hill (Vic.). A
separate subsidiary, National Brands
Pty, markets the “Blue Sky” washing
powders made by Gardinol. An acrylic
resin plant came into operation in June
1961. A subsidiary venture in NZ makes
the basic material for the processing of
detergents.
Another subsidiary, Lightning Indus-
trial Products Pty, makes materials
handling equipment in West Brunswick,
but otherwise all Victorian manufactur-
ing activities of Braemar are centred in
a modern plant at Noble Park.
In NSW, activities are centralised at
Punchbowl, and include the STG sub-
sidiaries which make and market valves,
grease guns and petrol taps.
Imports competition and contraction
of new home building compelled man-
agement to strive for greater productivity.
The 1962 profit of £9386 was the
residue after providing £20,050 for tax,
and £31,425 for depreciation, and after
writing off £56,600 for obsolete stocks,
and in respect of a change of basis of
valuing stock.
One concludes that 1962 results were
not representative of the company’s real
ability, and the shares are recommended
as a “special situation” purchase.


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5957 (7 lines)
43 Northbourne Ave.
City, Canberra, A.C.T.
4 0365-66
Flinders House, Crown St., Wollongong
B 5900
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong.
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGEAM,” Sydney.
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. W. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road
Melbourne
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Telephones: 51-6243, 51-6245
Est. 1939
BEACH PETROLEUM N.L.
SHAREHOLDERS and their friends are re-
minded of the meeting to be held on
Monday, 26th November at 8 p.m. at
A.M.P. Theatre
Circular Quay
at which Mr. R. C. Sprigg, M-Sc. will give
a talk on the Company's various projects.
This will be supported by films of the
Company's operations in the Simpson Desert.
THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
From a large number of readers' letters seeking "The
Bulletins" advice on investment matters, these have been selected
for publication. The balance have been answered personally.
I have two problems—Detroit Finance
Corp. and Development and Vending
Co. Ltd both unlisted stock. —L. D.
( Woollahra).
Efforts by The Bulletin to contact
Detroit Finance Corp. have been unsuc-
cessful. As the company is unlisted, the
only way you can dispose of your shares
is to advertise for a buyer. However,
because of the company’s history your
chances of locating a buyer at any price
are remote.
Your investment in Development and
Vending Co. Ltd (Davco) also appears
to be lost. However, holders of vending
machines sold by the company have
formed various “action” committees.
One such committee has as its address, 15
Stanford Smith St., Klemzig, South
Australia. A letter there may give you
more help.
★ ★ *
I am self-employed and have funds
with which to buy and sell shares in a
speculative way, without attracting tax.
What is the minimum starting figure
and what are brokers’ usual fees? —
D. H. B. (Preston).
We are not quite clear what you
mean by dealing in shares without pay-
ing tax. Any income by way of dividend
is taxable. A capital profit is not taxable
if such transaction is not normally part
of your mode of deriving income. In
other words, occasional capital profit
should be tax free.
Not knowing how deep you wish to
go into the share market it is difficult
to answer the question of how much you
require, but you could start with £lOO
although that would not get you far.
£5OO sounds a more likely figure but
we strongly advise you to pick a share-
broker, explain your ideas in full to him,
and, he will advise you. He will also
give you commission rates.
* ★ ★
What is your opinion of King Island
Scheelite, which / hold? — M. D. (Blax-
land).
King Island Scheelite is changing its
basic character from a mining company
to an investment company because of
the low price of tungsten ore and the
difficulty of extending its contact.
Its investment portfolio is very large;
market value exceeded £1 million com-
pared with a book value of £732,397.
Last year’s profit was £103,054 which
gave a bare cover to the £.100,000 divi-
dend requirement.
However, the company’s investment
portfolio currently produces more than
£50,000 income a year and this will
grow as the investments (mainly in-
dustrial shares) grow. The mining
activities have an obscure future. Cur-
rently the company does not hold any
contracts.
The shares are selling around 8/- to
show a dividend yield of about 12i p.c.
provided the 20 p.c. dividend is main-
tained.
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
Dear Sir, — I have read with interest
the article "In Defence of Cheque
Charges” and find some of the state-
ments put out by the author, a leading
banker, difficult to believe.
The article states “Many have agreed
that the basis of the new system is far
sounder than that of the old system..
Does this imply “many bankers” or
“many customers”? I doubt the latter.
In any case, how many is “many”?
Later the author gives one reason for
rejecting the single cheque issuance
charge, made at the time of purchasing
cheque books, being ruled out because it
would have involved charging customers
before any service had been performed.
Did the banks consider that their cust-
omers might have found this system en-
ticingly attractive also? Were they asked?
After all, the public is used to paying in
advance and instances of this are tele-
phone rentals, driving licences and motor
car registration fees.
Later reference is made to the new
scale of charges giving special considera-
tion to the “little man”. While the
average current account balance is
quoted as being over £4OO. no mention
is made of the number of “little men”
maintaining the required credit balance
of £3OO.
Now that the so-called “free enter-
prise” banks have sat at the same table
as the State and Federal Banks and
made a deal with them, I was hoping we
would be spared having to look at and
listen to puerile and trite advertisements
advocating “freedom of choice”. But
no, they continue! If only one of them
had had the courage to keep out of the
deal they would have been inundated
with new accounts.
JOHN FORWARD
Crow’s Nest.


Missing Persons
WILL ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
Arthur McDonald brother of Fred C. McDonald
deceased, late of Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.,
please communicate with Norton Smith &
Co., solicitors 33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
ANY PERSON . knowing the whereabouts of
Hugh Arthur Bernsten formerly of Maroubra
please ask him to get in touch with S. A.
Tocchini, Smith & Co. Solicitors, Sydney in
connection with a matter of benefit to
himself.
THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
DRAWBACKS TO CO-ORDINATING
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
Any efforts by an overall agricultural
research council to co-ordinate
agricultural research throughout Austra-
lia could meet serious obstacles and have
substantial drawbacks, agricultural scien-
tists have been told in Brisbane.
Addressing the Queensland Branch of
the Australian Institute of Agricultural
Science, Professor K. O. Campbell, Pro-
fessor of Agricultural Economics at the
University of Sydney, said that volume
of agricultural research output could be
increased either by devoting more re-
sources to research, or making use of
existing facilities.
“Co-ordination to some people means
the epitome of scientific wisdom,” Pro-
fessor Campbell told the institute. “To
others it implies meddling and interfer-
ence.
“Pleas for co-ordination and avoid-
ance of duplication seem to imply that
any research scientist can be put to
work on a problem with perfect assur-
ance that he will come up with an
answer. This is patently not true. Re-
search, particularly basic research, is a
chancey business. In these circumstances
it is wise to let several independent re-
search scientists work on the same prob-
lem.”
Professor Campbell pointed out that
co-ordination of research restricted the
freedom of the individual research work-
er to shift his efforts in the direction
which to him seemed most promising,
and this might significantly reduce his
productivity.
Evaluation of individual research pro-
jects—the traditional method of co-
ordinating, and disbursing money for
research —clearly prejudiced the quality
of research undertaken, and threatened
the rights of the individual scientist.
Assessing the practical difficulties fac-
ing any co-ordinating organisation, he
said that Australians had striven for co-
ordination of scientific research for the
best part of half a century without any
conspicuous success. There was little
reason for believing the chances of
achieving this goal were more auspicious
today than in the past.
Dr E. M. Hutton, of the CSIRO
Cunningham Laboratory, Brisbane, said
that no system was perfect, and any
attempt to graft a so-called Agricultural
Research Council on to our present quite
satisfactory system could easily put the
clock back.
“What suits Great Britain does not
necessarily suit us here,” he said. “We
do not want to be diverted from our
pattern of research development by
catch cries such as ‘let us co-ordinate
our primary industry research with an
agricultural research council’.”
MAKING WAR ON THE DINGO
By HENRY G. LAMOND
fpms year Bowen Downs is celebrating
its centenary, which marks the first
pastoral settlement in the central west
of Queensland. From the time when
the first tent was pitched there has been
an incessant war on the native dog, the
dingo. In spite of it, reports say the
dingoes are probably worse now than
ever, and that we are fighting a losing
battle.
Against that, dealing with sober facts
and eliminating hysteria, there are
thousands of square miles of sheep
country in Australia where a dingo is
a rarity.
I don’t think there is a pure-bred
dingo alive in Australia now. Knowing
something of the lust wanderings of a
male dog, the chance of any pure bloods
remaining is so remote that it can be
dismissed as infinitesmal. Those are not
dingoes (Canis Australis) which roam
the back country now; they are a mix-
ture of many breeds. As for the sup-
posed distinguishing color f the pure
dingo—red—that is merely a reversion
to type. Red is the basic color of dog-
dom.
The real dingo, if early reports are
nearly true, was something of a gentle-
man, skilled in stealth, brainy to a de-
gree, and a worthy foe. The rubbish
which now masquerades under that
name is, as his ancestry would indicate,
a street arab, without morals, a killer
by inclination and a low-grade assassin.
He also is cunning with a sly instinct
inherited with his breeding.
The trouble, as I see it, is that over
the many years the destruction of the
wild dog has been aimed at the male.
Practically all lures and decoys appeal
to his sex. The professional dogger al-
most invariably employs traps. He
wants the scalp to collect his bonus.
He doesn’t waste time in riding into
remote places in the hope of finding the
carcase of a fool dog which has taken a
bait. He wants the scalp where he can
collect it—at his trap. The bitch is not
interested.
A couple of really expert doggers
who each had scalped over 800 dingoes,
told me some time ago that in their
traps they had caught only eight
bitches. All the others were dogs, drawn
by sex lure. Where does that get us in
dingo destruction? It is merely helping
to increase the dingo population.
A few years ago Mr B. Rich, of a
property near Barcaldine, Central
Queensland, compounded a mixture
which was just as attractive to the bitch
as any sex lure was to the dog. He gave
the prescription to the public and the
Press. (I didn’t keep a copy; I thought
it was of such value that all interested
would do that). That lure had one great
drawback —if any was spilt on clothing
or upholstery in a car only time would
get rid of the smell. But it remained
an attraction to all dogs, bitches in par-
ticular.
It is time to alter the bonus system
—pay at least twice as much for a bitch
as for a dog. It would be easy to dis-
tinguish a dog scalp from that of a
bitch. The male is worth next to noth-
ing. It is the bitch which is the fountain
of life; she supplies the future genera-
tions. Apart from that, she is the more
vicious killer, the one most difficult to
get, imbued with low cunning and vile
habits.
In short: Attack the female. There
would then be no following generation
to fight.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
To: STANLEY SUTTON late of 32 Austin
Crescent, Bellield in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that DAISY MARY SUTTON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3320 of
1962 on the grounds of desertion and of sep-
aration. If you wish to defend this suit, you
may enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney,
N.S.W. on or before the 11th January, 1963
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. A. J. F. ROFE & N. A.
MOFFITT. Solicitors, 79-81 Pitt Street, Svdney,
N.S.W. —• C A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
To: KEVIN ARTHUR HULIN late of 112 A
Augusta Street, Punchbowl.
TAKE NOTICE that SHIRLEY MAY HULIN
has commenced a suit Number 384 of 1961
against you in this Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the ground
of desertion and that you are required to enter
an Answer to the said suit at the proper offices
of this Court by the 11th of January 1963
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the Petition filed herein may be had
free of charge on application to j\ Grant
Marsh. Solicitor 28 Martin Place. Sydnev.
C. A. H. HARMS. Registrar.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: WENDY MAY PHILP. TAKE NOTICE
that OWEN JOHN PHILP has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2421 of 1961 on the ground of
desertion. If you wish to defend you may
enter an answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney by the 11th day of January,
1963, and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from Messrs. McCaw, Johnson & Co.,
Solicitors, 62 Margaret Street, Sydney. If you
do not wish to file an answer but wish to
receive a coDy of each document filed in the
proceedings you should file a Notice of
Address for service on or before such date.—
C. A. H HARMS, Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: NORMAN MAXWELL SMITH. TAKE
NOTICE that a Petition No. 3081 of 1961 has
been presented to the abovenamed Court by
MARION LOUISE SMITH instituting proceed-
ings for a Decree of Dissolution of Marriage
on the ground of desertion.
A copy of this Petition and Notice of Petition
may be obtained free of charge from Messrs.
Maurice Isaacs & Glass. Solicitors rf 149
Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
If you wish to defend you should file an
answer on or before the 28th day of December
One thousand nine hundred and sixtv two at
the above address. —C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
BUSINESS PROPOSITIONS
SPACE, TECHNICAL KNOW - HOW, MACHINERY, OFFICE
PERSONNEL, AND FINANCE WOULD BE AVAILABLE FOR
SUITABLE PROPOSITIONS WITHIN THE MANUFACTURING
AND/OR OTHER ACTIVITIES. FIRST DETAILS ARE INVITED
FROM PRINCIPALS ONLY INTERESTED IN PARTICIPATING
ACCORDINGLY.
POST OFFICE BOX 19, EAST BRIGHTON, VIC.
UNIVERSITY APPOINTMENTS
UNIVERSITY OF MELBOURNE
Deparment of Economics
Applications are invited for the positions of
SENIOR LECTURER and LECTURER in ECONOMICS.
Qualifications in labour economics, micro-econ-
omics and economic statistics would be desirable
but applications would be welcomed from candidates
with other interests.
The salary range for a Senior Lecturer is £A2,450
x £AIIO to £A3.000 per annum and for a Lecturer
is £A 1,650 x £lO5 to £A2,450 per annum. Com-
mencing salaries will be fixed according to quali-
fications and experience.
Conditions of appointment and further informa-
tion may be obtained from the Registrar, University
of Melbourne, Parkville N. 2., Victoria, and ap-
plications should reach him by 31st December, 1962.
F. H. JOHN'STON, Registrar
ALL SOULS' SCHOOL
CHARTERS TOWERS
Wanted Master to teach Physics and Mathe-
matics to Senior standard, commencing January,
1963, resident or non-resident,, award salary.
For particulars apply Headmaster
Teaching Staff—l 963
BALLARAT COLLEGE
Applications are invited for the position
of Senior Modern Langtiages Master. Single
and married accommodation available.
Further information from the Head-
master.
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
Preparatory School Master
A vacancy exists for a master to teach
in the Preparatory School at North Sydney.
Apply in writing to the Headmaster giving
details of career and qualification.
—B. H. TRAVERS, Headmaster.
Feiffer
1 POUT <MOU) IF
1 CAM 60 WITH
A BOM OML6SS
I KNOW HOW
He feels about
IMPORTANT
THINGS, HEMRT-
WORLDLY
THINGS -
TEST me-
ASIC ME
ANYTHING,
I LUCILLE !
I'M
I [JELL reap;
WELL, HOW WOULD
40U DESCRIBE
YOURSELF
POLITICALLY?
IVE GIVEN THAT
a LOT OF THOUGHT
AMP AFTER. WEIGH'
IMS THE APVAM-
I TA6ES OF BOTH
) PARTIES IP SAH
I WAS AM
INDEPENDENT.
WHERE PO
HOU STAMP
OM THE . (
IUTEERAW-
ISSUE?
WELL,AFTEP CONSID-
ERING ALL THE
PROS AMD COMS
. I THWM-AT LEAST
I TENTATIVELY-TKAf
IP HAVE TO 60
ALONG WITH THE
SUPREME COURT
it fs the law
OF THE LAMP-
AUP WHERE
CD MoU
STAMP ON
THE
ÜBERTiecU
ISSUE?
WELL, MODE OF OS
CAM 06 REALLY
SURE OF WHATS
\ 601M6 OM, BUT
\ AFTER EXAMtU'
\ IMS THOS6
' 1 FACTS AVAIL-
"T ABCC TO THE
I PUBLIC JP
7 HAVE-ID-AGREE
1 WITH THE sU-
freme court:
y IT IS THE LAW
I Of THE LAMP.
AMP THE
SCHOOL
PRAMER
ISSUER
MOW IVE 60NE IMTO
THIS QUESTION
RATHER extensive-
\ m AMD WHILE
' THERE IS MERIT
!M EVERLj OPIMIOM
IVE HEARD'IM
/ FORCED TO
AGREE WITH THE
' SUPREME COURT.
it is The law
\ OF THE LAMP.
T THIMW ITS BETTER
THAT WE DOMT tC
SEE /•■'
OTHER VtTA ?
A6AIN,, Y
HENRH.S<( I
BUT WHY
LUCILLE ?
\ WHY?
X NEVER DREAMED,
MOD WERE
A RADICAL f £> 0


PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
★
★
"4r "4r
i-*'- •• v
★
Wsi
>
★
★
★
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BUL-
LETIN to be delivered to me each
week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick (</) whichever
method of delivery you prefer.
For those desiring direct sub-
scription :
Please find enclosed my cheque/
money order for months
subscription to THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea): 1 year,
£ 2/12/-; 1/2 year, £ 1/6/-, post free; British
Dominions, £ 3/6/-; other countries, £3/16/-.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS: Remit to Box 965,
Wellington, N.Z.: 1 year, £2/12/-; V 2 year,
£l/6/- (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
ONLY FIVE MORE
WEEKS TO XMAS
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 720
ACROSS
I—This makes the Maori support woolgrower’s com-
munications. (9)
s—One of 1-across in which my encounter with a
savage dog is reported? (5)
8— One of 1-across in which reassurance is given as
to 5-across? (4)
9 One of 1-across which might have search parties
out looking for me. (8)
11—One of 1-across wherein my eligibility for employ-
ment is reported? (8)
13—Book five in Christmas. (5)
15 — Time taken from the bus
timetable may be broken. (8)
16— Raw timber doubled a mathe-
matical aid. (6)
19— Levelly. (6)
20— Shylock lived on this active
engagement of mind in a
matter. (8)
22—Bone-waggon award. (5)
24 —Sad siren disturbed by such a
desert characteristic. (8)
26 How am I in 8-across when
there’s none left. (3, 5)
27 Author of the Old English
Chronicle. ( 4 )
29 Mad Miss Lamour. (5)
30— A fishing craft (lumpy in
style) is very satisfactory like
26-across. (5, 4)
DOWN
1— Vehicle role is overturned.
(4)
2 East Sydney card game.
(3)
3 Mary spoilt William with de-
fence legislation. (4, 4)
4 A little money flushed and
robbed of sweetness. (6)
5 Gray like some layer. (5)
6 Those who torment a town
named after 27-across for a
start. (11)
7 Car parts a crook in tights.
(4-6)
10—Bash donkey to go crook.
(6)
12—Top artistry teacher on light
shipping. (11)
14—Lie dead, Bob? Shuffle a
bit, though, like an A.B.
(4-6)
17— Time for the light of pub-
licity in Old English. (3-3)
18— A bit of advice on an honour-
able response in church sing-
ing. (8)
21—What the cannibals might
make of a captured artist
vegetable. (6)
23—A team event about to drop
an egg. (5)
25—About my French boy’s
name. (4)
28—For example, nothing I Latin-
ised. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 719


ISISiSS
m
. H . *>j', * r
-'**••* -•-.
lA
.
m
. ■ If k %‘
.
VV^#si
!;•
v:,'.
' i
SB
-•
m
• ?■:
*■
-’*•
M::
-
■
■H
■H
-
H
'
--
*»
'■•r’t
-i
sSg&siihs
-s-
Sfe
•:-r*>•-
’imßS
-*■ >
■s £g?>W«(||
y;
m
he
9%£
mm
k rt « : ’ft -■<
I v "'•%%£?
km
o
:' s se
- K .
-m
R
ft
•sKS
©
-
&2H-2
gs
■■■zC
SB
, - •
A >
|
'Sr-
■* '■
1 5 sf M
-
Wk
■ -.


lie more you 100
...the more yo
find to like!
Op
NOV 1962
HU
•Jt
When one car outsells other makes the way this new Holden is doing— there’s
got to be a reason. And your first glance will show you some pretty good ones,
Holden’s clean-cut lines, for instance. Its rich interior and its stretch-out
comfort. Look deeper, and you’ll discover details that give you a sure
indication this car is built to last ... to keep its value, dependability and
freedom from repairs for years to come. The best reason of all, however, is
something you cant see. Because you have to drive Holden yourself to really
discover all the value and pure driving enjoyment that’s packed into those
long, low lines. Why not visit your Holden* Dealer and. do just that?
regd.
Lowest P ricecl six cylinder car, from £BB5 plus tax. General Motors-H olden’s Pty. Limited
t I M
J
w
HOLDEN
AUSTRALIA’S OWN CAR
