

The
Bulletin
Registered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
January 20, 1962
i
ANATOMY OF A
COUNTRY TOWN


Va
■■'»u«W*W||V 'W*-
m i
«
'' *■'. ■:
;-:vv:;
—SiMi
■■■ ■■.
■■■■:■ . ,:,>M 1
; • ■ - y ,-
■
; - V
■ :: : ~
.
Wtmk
9.
'
■ ■
\
:;:" v .
I
ISM
M
8
o many
things that
make life
happier
come through
S&L steel pipes
TP H ROUGH steel pipes of every conceivable
size, flow the oil and raw materials that keep the
continent’s industrial wheels turning; the life
preserving water; gas, steam and the electric
current that provides power, lighting and com-
munications.
Steel pipe is so easy to form and join and has
the inherent strength and stability to take tough
assignments for long periods. Costwise, steel pipe
stands alone for low initial cost and low installa-
tion cost.
Before finalising your next project, talk “steel
piping” with Stewarts & Lloyds; the leading
Australian producers of welded and seamless steel
pipes.
S§&IL
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay. Kalgoorlie.
55G.1.61


"WE'RE PLEADING POLITICAL ASYLUM. WHAT ARE YOU PLEADING,
POLITICAL LUNACY?"


This Australia
POLITICS
A GREY EMINENCE RESIGNS
FROM AN ASH STREET CORRESPONDENT
J. L. CARRICK,
Smiler with a knife
'There was only a minor stir among
those in the know when the head-
lines announced the impending resigna-
tion of Mr J. L. Carrick, general secretary
of the N.S.W. division of the Liberal
party for the past 14 years. It has been
an open secret for over a year that
Australia's most efficient party secretary
was finally going to accept an offer from
private enterprise. Official Liberal party
denials of the resignation “rumor,”
needed in view of the coming N.S.W.
elections, fooled no one, and Carrick him-
self only said he had no “immediate”
intention of resigning.
A thin, lean-faced, grey-flannel man
of 43, with granite chin, a smile that
switches on and off like a neon sign, and
a vague resemblance to Kirk Douglas,
John Leslie Carrick was one of the young
ex-servicemen who returned to Australia
after the war full of idealism acquired in
p.o.w. camps, but soon disgusted with
the old U.A.P. gang. He was a lieutenant
in the A.I.F. and an interpreter—he
speaks fluent Japanese, Malay, Hindu-
stani and Urdu. Captured with the
“Sparrow Force” by the Japanese on
Timor, he did pick-and-shovel work on
the Burma-Thailand “Railway of Death.”
A p.o.w. for over three years, he
learned how to handle those who had
power and how to organise to survive,
and he also learned that it was a tough
world —lessons he has not forgotten. His
strongest supporters in the party have
been other ex-servicemen. His meteoric
rise—he became research officer in 1946
and was general secretary two years
later, at the age of 29 —was due to their
support and to the influence of Senator
Spooner, then one of the top men in the
party.
His empire is National House at 30
Ash Street, a five-storey, dingy building
in a narrow and dark lane, easily over-
looked by the crowds who pass it every
day when they rush from Wynyard to
Martin Place. Only the ground floor is
modern: the lift always tends to break
down ; the neon sign with the party name
is usually on the blink. The N.S.W. divi-
sion shares the building with part of
the Federal secretariat. (There is little
love lost between the two.) On top is
the old National Club, where real busi-
ness is transacted ; at the bottom a
gloomy basement with hard seats—
partly because the party is always broke,
partly because it’s a good thing to make
the delegates to bodies such as the State
Council rather uncomfortable in case
they stay too long and gum up the works.
For years, what the Press calls “the
grey eminence of Ash Street” has worked
under impossible conditions. Carrick has
been secretary, organiser, P.R. man, fund-
raiser, chief clerk, policy-maker, propa-
gandist. He has been Dorothy Dix to
disappointed wives whose husbands have
once more failed to gain preselection and
to hundreds of other callers who want
something from the party or whose corns
have been trodden on.
A good deal of his time is spent trying
to clean up the mess left behind by well-
meaning but utterly inefficient amateur
helpers and by prima-donna politicians
who really believe what they and Carrick
himself have to say, that there is a huge
gap fixed between Liberal and Labor, or
that Liberal means no controls and
Labor means full-scale nationalisation.
Carrick, who is a Bachelor of Economics
of Sydney University, and has made a
special study of the arbitration system,
while in the last few months swotting up
on the Common Market, knows better.
His ideal is a two-party system very much
on the U.S. model ; he is strongly anti-
ideological, though he has to spout the
same tired old phrases as the others for
most of the time.
His salary is puny ; his quarters
cramped ; his better staff is constantly
poached ; he has to attend a meeting
nearly every night when election or
referendum pressures are on ; he has to
say the same things again and again with
an air of utter conviction and spontaneity
so that he will not offend the old lady
from, say, Randwick branch who has to
be induced to spend endless hours in the
basement checking and posting rolls,
licking envelopes and who might be
useful outside the polling booth. There
are indeed very few people John Leslie
Carrick can afford to offend. No wonder
that smile has become increasingly
mechanical and strained over the years.
J.L.C. also has to spend a good deal
of time selling the official Liberal image
to all comers. The first thing which strikes
one about him is that he himself, miracu-
lously, has not been affected by the syrup
he dishes out. He hardly ever kids him-
self about his own party. Where he goes
wrong, as in his private prediction of
how many seats the Government would
lose on December 9 (“ten”), his mistake
was shared by everybody else, from Labor
men to political scientists. Carrick bubbles
over with ideas, many his own, some
taken from Britain’s Bow Group —the
“angry young men'’ of the Conservative
party —and the Conservative Political
Centre.
TTe and the half-dozen people on a State
11 executive of over 20, who really run
Ash Street, have done miracles on a shoe-
string budget .... and with never any
time to develop any single idea (an elec-
tion or referendum has always been just
round the corner). Through a Branch
Development Drive involving impressive
charters, regular meetings with branch
officials, increased membership fees,
enrolment of new members through ex-
insurance agents working on a commis-
sion basis, he has increased the party
membership and, above all, the number
of active workers. (How horrible, some
will say. to have ex-insurance agents
enrolling members! Perhaps, but Car-
rick knows there's no money for more
permanent organisers. People who
waffle about the rich coffers of the Liberal
party have never looked at it.)
For years Carrick and his group have
worked on an Electoral Assistance
Scheme. The essence of this is that
M.L.A.s and branch members in safe
seats should look beyond their own little
dunghills and help where it counts: in
marginal seats. He has met bitter resist-
ance in this scheme as in the branch
development drive. Members in safe
seats do not want strong branches: all
it means to them is that they are helping
to foster potential rivals who might beat
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol. 83
No. 4275


them in the next preselection. And they
never feel that their seat is really “safe”:
they treat it as their private pocket-
borough. Maybe, after what happened
in December, one cannot blame them.
N.S.W. Liberals are the most frustrated
among the State divisions. They have
again and again come very close to vic-
tory, only to see it elude them at the last
moment. They have blamed everything
from boundaries to “poor-quality” State
members, and they have not been much
consoled by the presence of a Federal
Liberal-C.P. Government. (Not every
N.S.W. Liberal was altogether displeased
when Mr Menzies so nearly got it in the
neck recently.) They feel that N.S.W.
under the Labor Government is no
longer the “premier” State, but has
become the “senile” State. In other
States, such as Queensland, which looked
like permanent Labor States, Labor has
lost —but that is no consolation to N.S.W.
Liberals. Carrick knows, like everyone
else who has had a look at Labor’s 20-
year reign in N.S.W., that the basic cause
is beyond his or his party’s control: it
is the absence of a real split in the A.L.P.
and the consequent unimportance of the
D.L.P. preferences.
Carrick is the first Liberal party official
who has gone out of his way to estab-
lish ties with political scientists and
academics generally. What he really
thinks of the political scientists only he
knows, but since most of them are like
babes in the wood on the issues which
concern him, it cannot be very much.
He has been more than helpful to people
from the Australian National University,
Sydney and overseas scholars. He
believes that an objective approach to
Liberal party history and organisation
can only benefit the party. He tells them
nothing that really matters, but drops a
hint here and there —usually about some-
thing which will appear in “The Aus-
tralian Liberal” anyhow—and that makes
them feel they are at last in the corridors
of power, for which many of them
secretly yearn.
Wherever J. L. Carrick will finally end
up, he will be underpaid and under-
estimated. The party has only itself to
blame if he goes somewhere where he
will have time to plan and a well-paid
staff to supervise. He is the most charm-
ing and likeable of men, and, if politics
have made Carrick the Smiler with the
Knife, he is a very highly intelligent
smiler, with a very keenly honed knife
indeed.
CIVIL LIBERTY
THE JAILING OF JONSSON
FROM JOHN HIGGINS IN BRISBANE
W. R. F. BOLTON
Art-lover
VI/hen the North Queensland vegetable-
grower Albert Edward Jonsson
chose three months’ jail as the alternative
to paying fines totalling over £5OO for
breaches of the State Transport Act, his
jailing shocked and angered North
Queensland and resulted in a mass pro-
test meeting at Ravenshoe chaired by the
local Shire Council president. The meet-
ing demanded that the State Government
intervene to release Jonsson from jail—
a request which was formally refused by
Cabinet last week.
In the meanwhile, Brisbane’s Sunday
“Truth” provided backing for Mrs
Jonsson to take a writ of habeas corpus
to obtain her husband's release from jail
pending the hearing of actions to test the
validity of the Act. In Chambers, vaca-
tion Judge Mr Justice Stanley issued an
order on the Comptroller-General of
Prisons and the Superintendent of Stuart
Creek Jail to bring Jonsson to Brisbane
for hearing of the writ on January 22.
Grounds for the application claim that
the Act is invalid ; and that Section 49 of
the Act under which convictions were
recorded against Jonsson had no appiica-
l'on 1° b ' m inasmuch as he was a farmer
carrying his own goods to market in his
own truc ks. It is argued that any tax
P a * d 011 tb * s basis is an excise and exceeds
tbe P owers °f the State legislature.
jonsson is one of the biggest vegetable-
growers in Australia. At Kaban, outside
Ravenshoe on the Atherton Tablelands,
4000 ft above sea level, he owns a 6000-
acre freehold property on which he has
built 21 homes for 36 employees. He
employs up to 150 people at peak
seasons, and supplies approximately one-
third of the requirements of North
Queensland from Townsville to Cairns.
He has been hit hard by two successive
drought years, and admits frankly that he
is desperately short of cash. Atherton
public accountant Angus McKinnon went
on record in Brisbane, however, as say-
ing that Jonsson’s assets at cost totalled
£198,000, and that he was fundamentally
in a sound position. Using five semi-
trailers, Jonsson takes his own goods to
market at Townsville (240 miles) and
Cairns, servicing intervening towns.
Under the State Transport Act, Jons-
son is forced to pay a vehicle capacity
tax which has a maximum rate of 3d.
a ton mile. Where the full rate applies,
tax on a return trip to Townsville would
total £72. A concession rate of Id. a ton
is made for vegetables, but where any-
thing else is carried the full rate applies.
Jonsson argues that he is unable to pass
on the tax where he sells on an open
market; and that he is not a transport
operator but a farmer carrying his own
goods to market, and his farm require-
ments from market.
Early this year will see the start of
a massive series of legal actions against
the Act, the majority of them stemming
from Cobb and Co., the big South
Queensland group operators, headed by
Mr W. R. F. Bolton, well-known Queens-
land philanthropist and art-lover. One
of the first to be heard comes before
the Full Court next month when the
Transport Commissioner, Mr Kropp, has
to show cause that his Act is valid.
Invalidation of the Act, of course, would
in itself free Jonsson immediately, and
also expose the Government to heavy
financial liability. The Government is
reported to be concerned over its posi-
tion, and is said to have three Q.C.s
preparing its case.
Jn the meantime, Mr Jonsson is in
jail at Stuart Creek, Townsville, where
he is reported to be in charge of the
jail dairy. Well liked and respected in
the north, the father of three children,
his conviction under the Act seems cer-
tain to be one more hurdle for the
Nicklin-Morris Government when it
meets the electors next year. Road-
transport interests have made it pain-
fully clear to the Government that they
are after its scalp as a result of the
State Transport Act, which has been also
subjected to continuous and outspoken
attack by Country party backbench
Members, branches all over the State, and
country people generally.


THE PORTUGUESE REFUGEES
WAITING FOR £750
FROM A DARWIN CORRESPONDENT
MANUEL RICARDO
“People disappear"
nFHE Government's decision to deport
three Portuguese sailors who had
sought political asylum has come as a
cold shock to members of Darwin's
Portuguese community. Some are them-
selves political refugees. All sympa-
thise with the young men who, they
say, will “disappear” if returned to
Lisbon. The three —Joaquim Teixeira,
21, assistant mechanic, of Lisbon, Jose
Manuel Costa, 22, fitter, of Queen-
borough, and Norberto Augusto
Andrade, 23, assistant mechanic, of
Guidia —are in Fannie Bay Gaol while
friends try to raise the bonds of £750
a head which Immigration Minister
Downer has set as a condition for their
release. Their case will appear before
a Court in a few weeks' time. But unless
the Governmen. relents —and it shows
no sign of doing so —the men seem certain
to go back.
So far their story briefly is that they
deserted from the Portuguese Navy
frigate Goncalves Zarco at Darwin on
December 11, hid in the bush for a
few days until it sailed, then gave
themselves up to the Administrator,
Mr Roger Nott, and asked for political
asylum. He referred their appeal to
Canberra and they were allowed to go
free pending a decision. Portuguese
friends helped them with money and
accommodation and they looked for
jobs.
On January 8 police arrested them
and took them out to Fannie Bay Gaol.
Simultaneously, the Chief Immigration
Officer, Mr Les Liveris, went “into
smoke.” Callers at his home were told
he was “not available to anyone.”
Next morning he turned up again at
his office but refused to comment on
the affair. Word leaked out that the
men were to be flown to Timor on the
first available plane. Supporters of
the men immediatey briefed lawyer
Mr Dick Keller, who blocked their
deportation—at least temporarily—with
a writ of habeas corpus and other legal
moves.
Meanwhile, the Portuguese Vice-
Consul in Darwin, Mr Pat Da Luz, had
interviewed the men in Fannie Bay
Gaol. They told Mr Keller later that
Da Luz had asked them to write a
letter saying all the newspaper reports
about their case were untrue. They
had refused to do this. They said
Da Luz promised to intercede for them
and get them jobs with Timor Oil
Company, but that they had not be-
lieved this. They said that if deported
they were convinced they would be
sent to a prison for political offenders
in Portuguese Africa.
According to the transcript of their
interview with their lawyer, Mr Keller,
the men said they were not politically
minded and had “lived a quiet life.”
They told of some officers arrested in
Portugal for speaking against the Gov-
ernment. “After two days they were
told they could go home but as they
left the prison they were all shot.
Everyone is afraid to speak anywhere.
They are scared of the Secret Service
men.” All three told Mr Keller they
would prefer to die in Darwin rather
than be sent back to Portugal.
As the case flashed into national
prominence, Darwin businessman Mr
Neil Nilson, who lived 20 years in
Portugal and Portuguese colonies, came
forward on their behalf. “I have no
doubt whatever that Australia will re-
gret it forever if these young men are
sent back, for they will be finished,”
he said. “They will be met in Timor
by the Police Internationale and that
will be the beginning of the end.”
Mr Nilson is Norwegian and his
wife part-Portuguese. They and their
daughter came to Australia three years
ago from Portugal, where he owned a
business. He said: “Australians may
find it hard to believe, but things hap-
pen to people who oppose the Portu-
guese dictatorship that could only be
equalled in communist countries. I
saw at first-hand the type of thing I
had known about for years but had shut
my mind and eyes to.” He told of one
lawyer who had spoken against Salazar
during a dinner party. A little later
there was a knock at the front door
and two men asked to see the lawyer.
He excused himself, went outside, and
was never seen again. The missing
man’s wife called the Police Interna-
tionale but they refused to say anything.
She made inquiries for weeks through
Government and other channels but
never heard of or saw her husband
again. He believed the man had been
sent to llha de Sal (Island of Salt) —-
Portugal’s most feared penal colony.
Mr Nilson had one comment to add:
“There is one good thing about Portu-
gal. They saw the dangers of com-
munism before any other country and
outlawed it. But they have built a
dictatorship themselves which must
find a rival only in the communist
bloc.”
Mr Manuel Ricardo, a former Portu-
guese citizen now living in Darwin,
said: “Nobody likes to condemn the
country of his birth, but dictatorship
of the worst kind has lost all sympathy
with us.” He claimed people should
not be “deceived” by Portugal's aboli-
tion of capital punishment, and added :
“People disappear, and we know the
fate of many others is a living death.
The result is the grave in places like
Jlha de Sal.” Mr Ricardo’s wife said
Teixeira had been “almost hysterical
with joy” after receiving £lO for a job
of work in Darwin. “He kissed the note.
He had never had so much money
before.”
SPORT
ON SUNDAYS
FROM A BRISBANE CORRESPONDENT
r i'he fate of the Brisbane City Council’s
A new Sunday sport ordinances is still
in the balance. The ordinances in effect
allow for commercial sport on Council
owned parks. (Football, cricket and
tennis are the main sports involved )
They were returned to the Council last
week by the Local Government Depart-
ment, which has the right to veto if it
does not approve. Departmental chief
Mr M. McNamara told the Press: “We
don’t see eye to eye with the City Council
on this Sunday sport business”, and that
the Department felt the Council should
revise the ordinances. Lord Mayor Jones
replied with understandable testiness that
the ordinances were in line with Council
policy, and that the Council was a demo-
cratically elected body. So far no one
has been able to find out the exact
reasons why the Local Government
Department is objecting to the ordinances.
On the surface at any rate it seems to pro-
vide simply one more illustration of
the State’s formidable bureaucratic
apparatus at work. The City Council, as
Lord Mayor Jones says, is in fact a
democratically elected body, and surely
it should be capable of legislating on
Sunday sport without having to bow and
scrape to a State Government
Department.


DAVID SWAIN
“I'm not one of these recession bums. I Was out of Work in the boom.”
POLICE
"STREAMLINING” JUSTICE
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
'T'he blue of the Tasmanian bluey will
now be somewhat lighter, though its
cost will be heavier. The sombre blue
of the old summons went out with other
forms when the new Justices Act super-
seded the Justices Procedure Act on
January 1.
In keeping with the times, the court
costs of Bs. in undefended cases have
been upped to £1 and, in accordance
with today’s faster tempo, justice (or what
passes for justice when motorists are
involved) has been “streamlined.”
The procedural amendments which
Attorney-General R. F. Fagan expects to
have operating by March will provide
for an on-the-spot summons for the
minor traffic offender.
The system will eliminate the cumber-
some business of swearing out complaints
before Justices, the personal deliveries of
the familiar blue forms, and the formal
attestation that they have been handed
to defendants. The traffic summons will,
in effect, be issued by the policeman.
Mr Fagan says that “it will depend on
the nature of the offence” whether the
summons will be made out on the spot.
And traffic officers will be author-
ised to “exercise some discretion.”
Each summons will be numbered, and
will have two attached forms, bearing
the same serial number. One will be
for use if the defendant decides to plead
guilty. He will not be required to attend
the court, but the form will provide for
a written submission in mitigation of
penalty. The defendant will be notified
in writing of the fine. The other form
will be used when the motorist wishes
to plead not guilty. If this form is
returned to the authorities they will
automatically adjourn the date of hear-
ing, as set down by the policeman on
the summons, and will notify the
defendant when the court will hear the
case.
Mr Fagan believes that this system
will so regulate sittings as to reduce con-
siderably the long hours of waiting at
court which now infuriate minor traffic
offenders —and often prompt them to
“plead guilty and get it over” even when
they have a good defence. “It is too
much to hope that this disability will be
entirely overcome, but it should be
reduced to a minimum,” Mr Fagan said.
The new system should please Mr
Fagan’s colleague, the Minister for
Police, Mr McLoughlin, whose over-
loaded force wastes countless hours hang-
ing around dusty courts, prepared to
give evidence but not called because the
erring motorists do not appear.
Mr Fagan has stressed that the “spot”
summonses are not for drunken or
dangerous drivers; but if they prove
successful with traffic offenders a simpli-
fied system is likely to be adopted for
other minor malefactors.


ABORIGINES
THREE DIED
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
'T'his is how 50 aborigines live in the
reserve at the outback W.A. mining
town of Norseman:
9 A single-pan lavatory serves the
whole camp, and used to be emptied
somewhere in the bush by the natives
themselves until the Norseman Health
Inspector agreed several days ago to have
it cleared by the council.
• Washing facilities consist of one
cement bath with a rag for a plug and
two cement wash-basins. Both are sitting
in the dust around the wash-tap. The
bath and basin have to be filled with a
hose, which is also used to spray the
dust which envelopes the whole camp
with every puff of wind.
• The area is steadily being denuded
of shade trees because the natives are
forced to chop them down for firewood.
• All accommodation consists of tents
put up by the natives themselves. Some
have built corrugated-iron walls around
their tents ; others have put up shade areas
from tree branches and boughs.
• In the last two months, almost all
the town natives and their children have
been in the Norseman hospital with
enteritis, hepatitis and other complaints.
Three died.
Yet the present condition of the natives
is probably better than they have enjoyed
in the past. Prior to moving on to their
present camp about 12 months ago, they
lived in a number of areas on the out-
skirts of the town without even the
amenities they now have.
A native reserve was gazetted north of
the town about 12 years ago, but the
death of several elderly people there
made it taboo for natives under their old
tribal laws which they have now virtually
abandoned. Most of the present natives
are farm-workers, truck-drivers and
shearers and many have citizenship rights.
' Efforts by the Native Welfare Depart-
ment to find an alternative site over the
last few years have met with continual
frustration. Of the three sites it selected,
one was abandoned after local objections
that it was too close to the town. The
second was rejected because it was on a
mining lease, and the third was held up
by legal processes within the Mines
Department and the Lands Department.
Finally, a craggy, outspoken Victorian,
Dr A. W. Riseborough, who has been
in Norseman less than a year, cut through
the red-tape by issuing a report on con-
ditions in the reserve to Health Minister
Hutchinson, Native Welfare Minister
Cornell and South-east Province M.L.C.
Cunningham. It so shocked the Govern-
ment that the difficulties which had held
up the release of the third site for months
were miraculously untangled within days
and the land is expected to be declared
a native reserve this week.
This does not mean that the natives
will suddenly be given living standards
normal in the white community. The
only amenities that can be granted to
them at the moment under the inadequate
native welfare funds are four toilets, two
for males and two for females, showers
for males and females, a bath in the
female section and laundry facilities.
Only £5OO has been allocated for these
improvements, but at least the natives
will get a building with cement floors for
their washing facilities and a septic
system for their toilets. Native Welfare
Minister Cornell has promised to con-
sider facilities of a more permanent
nature on the new reserve at a later
date.
Though Dr Riseborough can claim
victory from a hygiene point of view, the
natives at Norseman and many other
sub-standard reserves throughout the
State are not likely to get substantially
better living conditions until the funds
available to the Native Welfare Depart-
ment are appreciably increased.
HUNTING?
THE GREAT TURTLE RUSH
FROM A DARWIN CORRESPONDENT
~VTorthern Territory crocodile hunters,
who look like working themselves
out of a job in a season or two anyway,
are thinking of swapping their rifles for
harpoons. The reason is the recent
announcement by Mr Warren Wilson —
Darwin boss of a big transport and
refrigerated cargo firm —of a rich new
market in England for turtle meat.
The price offered is staggering by
Territory standards: £1,120 a ton —10s.
a lb., paid in Darwin. This would make
an average greenback turtle worth over
£5O butchered —more valuable than a
prime beef steer. That sort of money
sounds particularly attractive to croc
shooters —now “sitting down” in Darwin
for The Wet. They found the big saurians
pretty elusive this season, although at
sky-high prices the bag was satisfactory
enough.
Half-way through this year, they esti-
mate. the nearer creeks and lagoons will
be shot out of crocs (except for a few
solitary old bulls, who in any case grow
clever enough to outwit any hunter —
one appears regularly in a bend of Delis-
saville Creek, just over the harbor from
Darwin, but is never caught). Hunters
face a not-far-distant prospect of having
to travel hundreds of miles to remote
swamps and billabongs, or risk heavy
fines and jail sentences by poaching in
the Arnhem Land aboriginal reserve.
As an alternative, they like the idea
of turtle hunting. But while a full-scale
assault on this harmless sea reptile could
earn the Territory tens of thousands of
pounds annually—for a time—it has real
dangers. Veteran fishermen, many of
whom prize turtle eggs as a valuable part
of their diet when away from Darwin,
fear uncontrolled hunting could wipe out
the species. And that it would not take
very long.
Mr Mick Haritos, who runs the big-
gest barramundi fishing show on the
coast, estimates one good boat could
probably clean out the Vernon Islands
in a couple of months . . . and the
Vernons are one of the Territory’s few
remaining major turtle areas. He reckons
the big greenback turtle would be the
one in demand for meat. These weigh
in live at around 5001 b. to 6001 b. and
carry only a soft and commercially useless
shell. They are easy to catch. Natives
generally stalk them on beaches as they
lay eggs at night, or paddle quietly along-
side as they swim in the sea.
On the beach the cumbersome reptiles
are flipped on their backs and left help-
less until wanted for the pot. At sea, the
technique is to harpoon them in a non-
fatal spot, take them ashore and keep
them until wanted. (This would give even
unrefrigerated boats a show of joining
the big turtle hunt.)
They are killed in the same way as
sheep. You cut their throats, as they
must be bled to be edible. Those who
have tried it say the meat tastes very much
like good quality veal. There are many—


notably veteran Darwin croc hunter Roy
Moffat —who also enthuse over the eggs,
though I tried a few once and thought
they tasted like mud.
For all the revenue it would bring to
the Territory—and not forgetting the
very active native fishing fleets of the
Arnhem Land coast —big-scale develop-
ment of this industry could prove a
mistake. Turtle meat and eggs form a
vital part of the diet of island aborigines.
In some areas at certain times of the
year they are a staple food. Once they
are gone they can never be replaced.
Even now, turtles do not exist in
particularly great numbers. They are
rare these days at Quail Island, once a
great breeding spot but destroyed for the
turtles when the R.A.A.F. took it over
some years ago as a bombing range.
In any case they are slow breeders.
They lay a lot of eggs, but the babies
must survive sea bird attacks as they
waddle 30 or so yards to the sea after
quitting their shells. No more than half
make it. And even after that they have
to evade constant attacks by hungry
fish. Several fishermen and croc
shooters have contacted Mr Wilson
already about his offer.
But the bonanza may never eventuate.
Some Government officials “leaked” to
Darwin pressmen recently the news that
they might try to rush through pro-
tective legislation at the next meeting
of the Northern Territory Legislative
Council and forestall —or at least cut
short —the Great Turtle Rush.
COUNTRY TELEVISION
PHASE 4
FROM FRANK SANDERSON IN MARYBOROUGH
C. W. DAVIDSON
June, 1962
August 9, last year, the Postmaster-
General, Mr C. W. Davidson, told a
reporter at the Maryborough airport that
the Wide Bay and Burnett area could
not expect a television service until the
third phase of television at present being
introduced was well under way. The
following day district editors called for
a clear-cut statement on when details of
phase four were likely to be made known.
Soon after, Mr Davidson announced
that applications for phase four licences
would be invited. Since then, Wide Bay
and Burnett Television Pty Ltd has been
formed, with its registered office in
Maryborough, to make application for
a licence.
One sweltering morning last week eight
directors of the company left Mary-
borough and drove the 56 miles westward
to Biggenden to examine two suggested
sites for the company’s transmitter. They
saw one on the Biggenden Bluff (2350 ft)
and another on the Woowonga Range
(2182 ft) after a gruelling day-long tour.
Both sites are within a few miles of the
cow and timber town of Biggenden
(population 400) which is one of the
four main towns in the fertile central
Burnett valley. The others are Gayndah,
Mundubbera and Monto.
In a statement issued after a meeting
at Childers (between Maryborough and
Bundaberg), the directors said that they
believed that both the commercial and
national television transmitters would be
erected at one of the sites they had
inspected.
The company has yet to be granted a
licence but its formation has joined news-
paper, radio, retail and wholesale
interests in Gympie, Maryborough and
Bundaberg. The radio stations are 4BU
Bundaberg and 4MB Maryborough, and
the newspapers, the Bundaberg News
Mail and the century-old Maryborough
Chronicle.
If granted a licence, the company will
bring television to more than 103,000
people in a 14,000-square-mile area
bounded by Bundaberg, Monto, Eidsvold,
Proston, and Gympie, which includes
Gayndah, Mundubbera and Childers.
Biggenden is roughly in the centre of
the area and is only 42 air miles from
Maryborough, 48 from Bundaberg and
60 from Gympie, the main centres of
population. The district’s products are
some of the finest citrus fruits of the
State (some say in Australia), prime
beef, grain, butter, coal, some gold, sugar,
ships, locomotives and timber.
Meanwhile, under phase four of tele-
vision extension in Queensland, a road
is being built to a site at Mt Hopeful,
in the Dee Range south-east of Mt
Morgan (near Rockhampton) for the
central Queensland service and a build-
ing is being erected at Mt Mowbullan,
near Toowoomba, for the Darling Downs
service’s transmitter and auxiliary power
source.
Preparatory work in a phase-three
transmitter at Mt Stuart, near Towns-
ville, also is being done. It is expected
that Darling Downs television pro-
grammes will be on the air by June, 1962.


ELECTIONS
THE LAST COUNT
FROM A DARWIN CORRESPONDENT
“TIGER” BRENNAN
175 votes
HThe Northern Territory poll was finally
declared last week after one of the
hardest-fought tussles of the entire
Federal election. A recount —insisted on
by Independent candidate Harold “Tiger”
Brennan —gave sitting A.L.P. member
Jock Nelson the decision by a whisker
(175 votes), mainly due to the phenomen-
ally high vote he received in clannish
Central Australia, where he lives and
owns a cattle station. Polling in the
Centre went Jock’s way by a thumping
four-to-one, countering the swing against
him in the Top End.
The election had been a big strain on
the sitting member who, though not a
firebrand in the Territory's usual flam-
boyant political tradition, is nevertheless
very widely liked and respected. Despite
12 years in Canberra as the Territory
representative, he faced a strong challenge
even from within his own party. A
determined bid by dissident Top Enders
nearly cost him the pre-selection last
year. With the glittering prize of a seat
in Cabinet (as Minister for North Aus-
tralia) promised him by his leader. Mr
Arthur Calwell, Jock very nearly suffered
the ignominy of being the only Labor
sitting member defeated at the recent
election.
There are several reasons for this para-
dox, which must have surprised Mr
Calwell, who had announced a vigorous
and imaginative policy for Territory
development. One reason is the paro-
chialism w'hich exists not only in Jock’s
Centralian stronghold but also in the Top
End where many, even in his own party
organisation, felt it was time they sent a
Darwin man to Canberra. Another was
the fact that most of the Territory’s
major political battles over the past few
years have been fought from Darwin,
through the Legislative Council.
Although he worked hard for similar
objectives, Jock was out of the limelight
at home.
Perhaps the major reason for the swing
against Jock Nelson, however, was the
calibre of his opponent, indefatigable,
tub-thumping Legislative Councillor
Tiger Brennan, who has enormous
popular support in the Top End and
came the closest of any man for years to
being the only Independent Member of
the House of Representatives. Tiger is
by no means a spent force. In a few
weeks time he will put up again for his
old Legislative Council seat of Elsey (he
resigned to contest the Federal election).
He will have at least one opponent in
Elsey, but the result is a foregone con-
clusion. And he is a certain runner in
the next Federal election, when he will
concentrate more on Jock’s home stamp-
ing ground of Central Australia, where
Tiger can be expected to stress his own
links with the area. (He was one of the
early miners on the Tennant Creek field
and helped build the famous Wauchope
Hotel south of Tennant).
On one thing both candidates agree,
and that is the threat to the north which
the West New Guinea crisis has at last
brought out into the open. Speaking
a t the declaration of the poll, Jock Nelson
called for establishment of a mobile
striking force at Darwin, “instead of
2000 miles away.” “Darwin should be
made a major military base as a demon-
stration that we are prepared to fight for
the north, as well as the rest of Aus-
tralia,” he said. “Mr Calwell’s policy to
do this demonstrates positive thinking
on defence.”
Nelson and Brennan both charged the
Government with regarding the north
as “expendable” under current defence
planning. Mr Brennan said it was time
the Government became aware of Terri-
torians’ anxiety for the security of them-
selves and their children. Happenings to
the north of us were “alarming.” He
said: “There is an immediate need for
a strong policy of defence, development
and administration of the Northern
Territory. The Government should not
leave it as if it was supporting the old
Brisbane Line theory.”
AIRLINES
PICKING UP
FROM EUGENE BAJKOWSKI IN SYDNEY
T ast year the major international air-
lines were affected by a number of
political and economic upheavals across
the world which unfortunately coincided
with a considerable increase in the air-
lines’ passenger capacity —the result of
an expensive re-equipment programme
initiated when international conditions
seemed to be more settled. For some
time there were often more seats than
passengers.
But things are improving and Sir
Hudson Fysh, chairman of Qantas
Empire Airways Ltd, feels that “the
tempo of growth is picking up again.”
Qantas now expects to carry some
220,000 passengers on its world routes
in 1962, logging in about 800 m. passenger
miles. This will be an increase of 15 p.c.
on the 1961 figures and 30m. passenger
miles more than in 1960, which was a
good year for the international airlines.
The impressive rate of economic
growth in Western Europe, particularly
in the Common Market bloc, augurs well
for air transport’s future. Moreover, the
large increase in passenger capacity is
beginning to level off. Sir Hudson Fysh
pointed out that of the 975 jet airliners
ordered by the industry when the great
re-equipment programme began, about
750 are expected to be absorbed into
the system by the end of 1962.
Even despite the worries occasioned by
the threat of excess capacity, 1961 was
an eventful year for Australia’s inter-
national airline. New V-jets—turbo-fan
powered Boeing 707 aircraft, capable of
cutting flight times on all routes —were
introduced. The Qantas Jet Base
Development Scheme at Sydney Inter-
national Airport was virtually completed.
Jet services were started to the Far East
and Noumea and on the Tasman. Jet
frequencies on the mainline routes to
London via the Middle East and North
America were increased.
The airline’s four new V-jets and con-
version of its existing jet fleet to turbo-
fan powerplant should keep Qantas in
a fully competitive position till the
coming of supersonic aircraft.


MAIN STREET TODAY
Anatomy of a Country Town (Mainly Yass)
By BILL HOWARD
IS it better to be a Darlinghurst
Road boulevardier or a Main
Street sloucher? As a seven-year
refugee from King’s Cross and now
in middle age. I believe Main Street
to be easier on the psyche, the kick,
the ego, the Id and the blood pres-
sure. Life is much easier. You can
cash a cheque at any pub and nod
the head at any store. Sartorially all
you need is a sports jacket, a pair of
pull-on elastic-side boots and an occa-
sional black tie. No inevitable daily
dressing up.
You miss, of course, the obvious
things in our country town . . . five-
o’clock cinema, good cafes, cheaper
grog, girl-watching at five o’clock at
the corner of Castlereagh Street and
Martin Place, being able to buy bulk
dinner wines, the Journos’ Club and
blokes who can talk about other things
than super and 1080.
Yass is a typically Australian coun-
try town equal in population to
Sinclair Lewis’s “Main Street”:
with all its social pressures, its nega-
tions, its intolerances and its aggres-
sive lowbrowism. Yet we are not quite
typical. Situated about 37 miles from
Canberra on bitumen, our few deter-
mined culture vultures think nothing
of popping over for repertory and
celebrity concerts. It’s no further in
a time sense than going in from
Turramurra.
Of course we have our own culture.
A repertory society —Priestley and
Rattigan—no Brecht or Pinter; a
strong and discerning music club with
imported national artists (second half
you play ’em muck). There is an ill-
attended film society. There is also
a university extension record playing
group for musical keenies (house to
house job. no fuss, only coffee and bis-
cuits.) So Carol Kennicott, heroine
of Sinclair Lewis’s novel, who rebelled
against Main Street’s cultural
inactivities, would have been a little
at home here.
All these add up to ours being a
rather superior little town. Wagga,
Orange, Goulburn and others, nudg-
ing the 20,000 population mark, often
offer less cultural outlets, and some
western towns of equal population are
bleak cultural deserts. Our attend-
ance at the Arts Council’s “Rigoletto”
was more than Goulburn or Wollon-
gong’s. But the citizenry of Yass won’t
fall for the drama, and the Arts Coun-
cil’s admirable “The One Day of the
Year” only pulled in a couple of hun-
dred, but the Buddy Williams show,
hillbilly songs and the rest, had the
whole town under canvas. Still, with
enough enthusiasts on the job, we can
muster an audience of 600 on occa-
sions. This we did when we won the
Telegraph Top Town one year and
again for a Red Cross centenary
concert.
In a small town like Yass the pres-
sure to join organisations is pretty
terrific. If you are not a joiner you
are very much the odd man out. We
have all the outfits of other towns,
the platitudinous Rotarians (night-
out-from-mum job); the earnest
Apexians with their labels in their
lapels. (There are no bank clerks
these days, it is banker.) There are
the jolly Lions, too. with all their
bull. Masonry exists, too, of course,
and probably a Knights of the
Southern Cross crowd. We have a
newly formed Alcoholics Anonymous
and we are very proud of our increas-
ing membership. There is a strong
Catholic Dinner Club, and if you are
in business in Main Street it is judi-
cious to attend, not just send apolo-
gies: anyway, attendance is no hard-
ship with such eminent speakers as
Mr Menzies, Professor Titterton,
James McAuley and Mr Santamaria.
A few years ago the picturesque
and powerful Bishop Guildford
Young (now Archbishop) was stationed
in Yass, although the town did not
warrant such an Eminence. The
bigoted and bitter maintain the 37-
mile Barton Highway (Yass-Canberra)
was an ecclesiastical and political link
between the Bishop and D.L.P. wooer
Mr Menzies. There is not a known
vociferous communist in the town. An
active A.L.P. of course. There is only
one “New Statesman” subscriber in
the town, and copies are carefully
covered by “Country Life” when any
of the squatocracy pop in for a beer
after tennis. There are all the usual
clubs. The new and opulent soldiers’
club; the . . . reverently, please . . .
bowling club and golf club, the last
two rapidly becoming democratised
each year. We have, too, a miniature
Queen’s Club, the Allambee, where
country women (not station hands’
wives) can kick their shoes off and yarn
over a cuppa.
CjUPERFINE wool and tourism are
Yass’s major industries. Beauti-
fully, strategically situated near the
junction of the Barton and Hume High-
ways, thousands of tourists stream
through the town, leaving behind their
quids in pubs, stores and cafes. Being
dependent on this trade, the four pubs
give a weekend service not found in
many western towns. Hit a western
town on a Sunday panting for a grog
and every pub is an impenetrable
fortress. Some young, back-country
shearers “inside” for the first :lme
reckon wide-open Yass the Paris of
the south, with grog on all the time,
much music and pretty companionable
dolls.
The local paper of any country
town is significant. Some people
derisively snort, call it the two-
minutes’ silence, affect not to read it,
but do read it. Our paper, “The Yass
Tribune,” a virile and independent
bi-weekly, is edited by former Jap
p.o.w. Bert Mudge, son of “Herald”
journalist Bert Mudge, once president
of the old Press Club.
“The Yass Tribune” (emphasis on
the Yass) will have a go at anything
or anyone from Mr Menzies and our
local member, the Burrinjuck bunyip,
Mr Sheahan, to domesticated rabbits.
Some years ago it called our Chamber
of Commerce the Chamber of Comics,
and the Main Street boys didn’t like
it at all. When sculptor Tom Bass
came for the unveiling of his superb


figure of Christ on the modern, beauti-
ful Catholic Church he was kept away
from the local Press: “They will pub-
lish anything.”
The biggest pressure group on the
paper is a varied one from station
owner, station hand and local laborer
the D.U.l’s (driving under the
influence). They come and implore
“please keep it out of the paper.” It
always goes in. It’s the policy. I’m
sure Mum. who is sub-editor-reporter,
would be secretly pleased if I got
lumbered for D.U.I. “WOOL-
CLASSER ARRESTED FOR D.U.1.”
headline would demonstrate to the
public the dinkumness and detached-
ness of the paper in their D.U.I-ing.
But I refuse to surrender my D.U.I.
maiden status even to please Mum.
(I’ll probably be lumbered tonight,
now.)
All country newspapers make typo-
graphical blues. Some years back I
had an article in “The Bulletin”
called Woolaway. It described accom-
modation changes in shearing sheds,
“shearers now have soft, clean
mattresses to sleep on.” “The Yass
Tribune” republished the article. They
printed “shearers now have soft, clean
waitresses to sleep on.” Labor was
short in the shearing game that year,
but not in our town.
There is some snobbism in our town,
probably more in the banking and
storekeeper hierachy. One storekeeper
prefers calling himself merchant. But
it’s a pretty casual, almost classless
society, specially with the bush blokes.
Graziers in town drink middies with
their station hands. The real test of
being “in” is to belong to the
Bachelors and Spinsters’ Ball Com-
mittee.
There is no intellectual snobbism
in our town. (There are no intel-
lectuals.) There is some cuisine snob-
bism. The wooden salad-bowl users,
the ones who drink vin ordinaire for
dinner are a bit upstage about the
shredded lettuce, baked dinner, bottled
beer type. One rather inverted
snobbism is the squatter type who
comes to town during the week in his
working clothes. Blucher boots and
all. One of our richest graziers, look-
ing as if he had slept under the bridge
the night before, kept stopping and
yarning to people he met in Main
Street. The new. keen cop from the
city, seeing what he thought was the
“bite going in” from a bagman, was
about to arrest Mr Broadacres for
vagrancy.
Probably our keenest sartorial types
are the young men who work for the
wool-broking firms in their uniform of
highly polished elastic-side boots,
nicely adjusted hats (half Martin
Place, half back country). These
blokes, with their charm and good
looks and right clothes, are admirably
poised for a matrimonial ascent into
the squatting families. They often
crack it, too, and it is no hardship,
either, as these bush dolls are attrac-
tive and well dressed with probably
un grand tour overseas behind them.
So go south, young man.
(A UR town is pretty sound and pros-
perous economically. It may, of
course, become a suburb of Canberra.
Many new houses are being built for
retired graziers, who move into town
when they hand over to their sons.
Twenty years ago they would have
gone to Manly. Now they stay in the
town, where there is everything for
them, and pop out once a week to see
their beloved grandchildren, their
beloved rams and their pasture
improvement.
Yass was hard hit economically
when the Burrinjuck Dam was finished
and all that payroll dough was lost to
the town. Since then the Electricity
Commission has built a £2m. sub-
station employing over 60 men,
and that has been a big help to
Main Street. These young techno-
crats, with their energy and city know-
how, are in everything.
Incidentally, Burrinjuck Dam is be-
coming a miniature Riviera with the
local graziers spending weekends and
holidays there. It is admirable for
water sports, cheap, and has the
supreme advantage of being about an
hour from their stations in the danger-
ous bushfire period. It is a reassurance
for them to know that while they are
getting back to their properties if a
fire has started, members of Associated
Yass Bushfire Brigades will have got
stuck into it. Four-wheel units, ready
loaded with tanks of water, tucker,
two-way radios will be on their way,
directed from the central post by
World War I veteran Mr Les Knight,
of Derringullen, who is their captau.
Graziers, cockies, men working in
the local branches of wool firms and
one permanent townsman, owner of
the cinema, Mr Bob Phillips, join to-
gether in this close-knit, tight organisa-
tion that is always on call and is ready
to swing in behind Civil Defence under
area controller Air Vice-Marshal
Bladin.
Perhaps the biggest change in Main
Street is the absorption by the big city
woolbroking firms of the old-fashioned
stock and station agent. The stock
and station agent probably has it
stacked away after all the boom years,
but remains on as manager with all
the old touches . . . the bottle of Scotch
to be got out for the valued client . . .
Country people are either good or
bad townsmen. Bad townsmen are
the graziers who leave the town on the
side, who buy stores and supplies in
bulk from Sydney and get their grog
cheaper from their wool firm. You can’t
blame them. Quixoticism can be
expensive. But bad townsmen are
becoming increasingly rare as Main
Street’s markups become more com-
petitive.
Good townsmen are graziers who
buy locally and show an active interest
in local events. Best townsmen of all
are the graziers who. after they retire,
live in the town and take a big part in
Local Government, like Mr Terry
Walker, of the famous Ledgworth
Merino stud, who has been Mayor of
Yass nine times.
“Good shot, boss.” you congratu-
late your tennis partner as he whizzes
a bushman’s forehand down the centre
"With you telling me to push the button SLOWLY—we could lose the
next war!"


court. “Yes,” your partner cracks
back, “I” might be all right when I
grow up. Your partner is Australia’s
most enthusiastic tennis player and
follower, the near-eighty, fit, lean-
w!fipr tnc>k hk r
Walter to s oat J ast „ y ear
his' beloved' stud' ewes " Hc'ls a "good
example of a good townsman with his
interest in local town affairs, and
Merryville and its out-stations, with its
pnnrmom rmvroll Hops a hm iob in
r«™ng MaV Street’s economic \pirhs
up
A ~ , , , .
, Another mark of the good grazier-
townsmen is hitting their personal kick
for local appeals, and Sir Walter’s
mmt rprpnt thp Hnnatirm nf n
ramfor our M°ss Aus-
tralra Quest entrant. Of all ironies, the
winner was the wife of our local chief
of police, “Sarge” Rippon . . . I’ve
not been able to check up whether the
pampered ram spent the night in the
lock-up with three drunks.
Sir Walter, in his interest in local
things, thinks nothing of driving in
from Merryville on a Sunday in one
of his early model Holdens, which he
prefers, and watching our mediocre
tenn * s finals. Sir Walter’s younger
brother Ernie, boss of Ravensworth
stud ’ now retired *° M ugga Way, Can-
7™. returns nostalgically as often as
can to our Main Street and has a
Scot , ch or ‘w° wlth old cobbers - Rc '
cently son Owen was on holiday and
Ernie went back to look after Ravens-
worth. He was so pleased to be back
in the scrub it is said he mustered every
sheep eyery day , Qften S£en Qn ou y f
Main Street in town shonninp from
v , c . w . sh opping from
Yeumburra Station is former New
Guard Colonel Eric Campbell,
k di to rwrh i n a"e ra zi ef' bC eltC '"
to the editor-writing grazier.
Togetherness is mercifully almost
unheard of in a town like ours except
in its legitimate and best sense of the
town and rural communities combining
for a major event. Most important of
these each year is the local show on the
picturesque pine-tree sheltered show-
ground with a grandstand that might
have come out of a Dufy painting.
If you have only seen a Sydney or
Melbourne Royal you’ve never experi-
enced the true show flavor with shirt-
sleeved cookies leaning over rough,
wooden sheep pens comparing notes
°, r « ul r? n f be f. r a ; ound % , ! n : root^ d
shack that is the bar, staffed for the
day by Apexians. Yass show’s
destinies have been guided now for
about 15 years by Mr Jack Hodgkin-
son of another famous Yass Merino
stud ’ a^e View. Horses are as much
sheen and cunninelv for
nis love as sneep ana, cunningi) ior
i^ r °” “t
we snare all the Melbourne horses on
their way hom£ frQm the Sydney
Royal.
Darlinghurst Road boulevardier or
Main Street sloucher? Main Street
sloucher any time.
THE NEW GOLD
In the Unofficial State of Central Queensland
In a recent Bulletin we mentioned
the dynamic outlook of the great de-
velopmental groups of the Dawson
Valley and Fitzroy River system
basins. The potential reserves, touched
and untouched, of these great districts
are in the valleys and watersheds of
the Mackenzie, the Isaacs, the Fitzroy
and the Dawson and its tributaries. This
region is a complete whole, served with
two of the most magnificent ports in
the world, Port Alma and Gladstone.
There is rivalry between the groups of
developers about these ports as about
some other matters, but on the face of
them, they are corollaries to one
another. Port Alma has had its railway
connecting it to Rockhampton and Mt
Morgan and the west for many a year ;
but its approaches from the landward
side are bleak, salt flats, not suited to
carry much population. Its harbor, how-
ler, is magnificent.
It is a great sweep of unobstructed
water, landlocked and sheltered from all
winds, but with a capacious entry. It is
said, especially by its supporters, to be
almost free of problems of wind, shoals,
shallows or tortuosities of approach. It
is only 50 miles from Mt Morgan by
road or potential road. And Mt Morgan
already has its offshoot enterprise, Cen-
tral Queensland Salt, located near it.
Gladstone, 50 years ago, used to be a
bleak, brown, depressed little town
huddling down to the water as if it badly
needed a drink. The railway line ran
nprilnmlv alnna the prW
™ V QW n ripple of patched W
. ... .
Wrlg f k f behmd the town which sat
°? ,‘* s lowe ', flanks ' ™ h e or ' zo " s
of the § randiose roadstead dwarfed the
tenestnal scene. It literally extends
almost as far as the eye can see and
much fuither if Gladstonians can be
believed. All Gladstonians have its
statistics by heart. The basic ones are
that it has 30ft of water at the wharves,
but that “down the creek” towards the
Pacific Ocean proper (which is only
larger than the port itself!) there is
7 0b “right up to the edge.”
Instead of the one depressing looking
jetty which used to be there, busy
wharves which handled about 200,000
tons of cargo during 1959-60, and
equipped with a bulk-loading plant,
stand flanked by large piles of local
products from the Dawson Valley and
Mt Morgan—coal fines, pyrites, scrap-
iron > § rain sorghum. Kianga coal was
tbe S reates t load carried last year—the
38,000 tons does not sound much, but its
rattle on the bulk loader was the trumpet
“ ? he -
turned just as this was written with con-
tracts jn his e , £or £ mi||ion and
2.4 million tons of Kianga coal sold to
the j a p ane se steel works and assurances
that Gi ac j s t o ne will be the port of at
least the southern Dawson Valley coal-
fields.
The near f uture seems to promise that
the 115 cargoes carried away last year in
115 ships, 64 from overseas, will be mere
cats’ meat compared with what is com-
ing.
The e y es 0 £ ]y[ r Golding, the Chair-
man G f t h e Harbor Board, Alderman
Anson, the Mayor, and that perennial


driving force in Gladstone enterprise,
Mr A. D. Hopper, the secretary and
wharfinger, sparkle when they talk about
it just as if they had been given the
winners for the next ten Doomben Cups.
For years they have been talking in
millions, and now the millions are com-
ing. And along with concentrated help-
ings of bulk cargo—coal, minerals, grain
sorghum —it looks as if they will have
a substantial tuna and prawn
fishery, which at present finds itself far
more deeply tangled up in Federal red
tape than in its half-idle nets. Also, a
very substantial tourist boat traffic is
growing up now that the mouth of the
Don River has been changed from a
rather scruffy bit of stream into a mag-
nificent natural boat harbor, with the
scarcely appreciated tourist resorts of
Heron and adjacent islands, on the
southern tip of the Barrier Reef only
40-odd miles out to sea, and the whole
of Port Curtis to play in: Port Curtis,
that “vast expanse of deep water,” the
least of its water in the line of leads,
27ft . . . the approaches clear of
danger . . . the Auckland Point jetty
1000 ft long ... its cover for 10,000 tons
of pyrites, its stockpile area for 10,000
tons of coal, its town of 8000 people!
Statistics in Gladstone are fed to the
visitor at the rate of half a ton to the
pint of hospitality. The one way to
bring a check in the enthusiastic flow is
to mention the virtues of Port Alma,
when a sound cleaves the atmosphere as
of strong men putting on their knuckle-
dusters. They will not hear of a divi-
sion of labor, with Gladstone taking the
meat and the grain and general cargo
and Port Alma the heavy duty stuff.
Down with that salt-saturated mangrove
flat on Port Alma Creek! The whole
back country to Gladstone Harbor
Board, as firmly stated in the lyric it
calls a report, is “Gladstone’s hinter-
land.”
XTet there is room for both ports, and
they both will be needed before fate
has finished with the Pacific slopes of
Central Queensland. Already this region
is knitting itself up into a whole —like
Townsville’s wide-flung environs, a kind
of unofficial State.
Rockhampton itself is not so dynamic
a concentration of industry as Towns-
ville, which has leapt ahead of it in
population. But it has the air of a capi-
tal, industrial and otherwise. It has a
voice' which is very effectively heard
through the Rockhampton “Bulletin,”
which recently celebrated its centenary
with the issue of a bulky historical issue.
(It was the source from which immedi-
ately the Sydney Bulletin obtained its
greatest editor, James Edmond.)
But Rockhampton is 68 miles from
Gladstone and 52 miles from Port Alma,
and its Fitzroy River, though broad, will
never be a great port, which is its handi-
cap. Yet it will always be a capital. The
days of “sin, sweat and sorry” disap-
peared with the gold era. Its Range is
one of the finest residential suburbs
north of Brisbane. The rivers of the
Fitzroy-Dawson system converge on it
from the Carnarvons in the south out of
the blacksoil plateau of Clermont and
the Wolfang, where 5000-acre dry-farms
have replaced the huge stations like
Retro and milo is beginning to replace
sheep as the primary crop grown around
Clermont. The whole of those river
valleys spreading out to the ranges and
plateaux over an area 500 miles long and
250 miles deep into the interior are full
of riches.
’yUHAT once seemed to consist of
tumbled rock, granite and sand-
stone, brigalow and box, looks to the
modern chemical scientists and engineers
an inexhaustible mine of various wealth.
And not only on the surface ; for Glen
Sheil, the general-manager of Mt
Morgan, came back from South Africa
a little bit shamefaced about his little
bit of a thousand-foot deep hole ; on
the Rand they are actually mining down
to 15,000 ft, a depth which a few years
ago seemed impracticable, but are pre-
paring to mine to 20,000 ft, which is a
matter of four miles. What may be down
there 20,0000 ft under huge fused piles
of Central Queensland mountain which
have had tens of millions of pounds’
worth of gold and copper and silver
squeezed out of them over 75 years and
still have over 12 million tons of visible
ore reserves on a few dozen acres, no
man can more than guess. Even the lost
part of the Mt Morgan Golconda seemed
to have slipped elusively out of reach of
the pre-electronic geological science
But that can wait, for the Rockhamp-
ton area, as Mr Sheil pointed out
recently, is one which has quite enough
to keep developers busy for a long lime
to come without going too far down. It
has water development potential in the
vast Dawson-Fitzroy basins, as yet not
fully and properly surveyed for water
usage ; but Mr Haigh, the Victorian-
trained Commissioner of the Queens-
land Water Supply and Irrigation Com-
mission, told me his department already
knew of four potential Fitzroy-Dawson
water storages comparable in magnitude
to the great dams of the Murray-
Murrumbidgee systems and as capacious
as anything the Burdekin has to offer. It
has the coastal spear-grass plains reach-
ing from just north of Bundaberg almost
into the environs of Mackay and thirst-
ing for controlled non-seasonal water
and mass application of fertilisers to turn
it from primitive, natural, erratic grazing
country into controlled pastures fatten-
ing the maximum potential of beef
cattle for overseas markets.
This makes no mention of the briga-
low country which is now beginning to
fall rapidly under the axe.
With the water, it has in its own area
the potential for related chemical and
metallurgical industries based on pyrites,
salt, limestone —all present and all
cheaply available once a demand is
organised for them in bulk.
Power the Central District needs to
turn the huge pyrites vats of Mt Morgan,
saved against the day of need, into sul-
phate concentrates to spread on the land,
no doubt by aircraft. And of course, the
sugar industry needs fertiliser, too —for
its usage is about 80,000 tons of the
staple nitrogenous manure, ammonium
sulphate.
Of course, there is the salt of the brine
beds of the Fitzrov which is as necessary
to the alumina industry as fertiliser is to
the land. Salt and limestone produce
soda ash. Soda ash separates alumina
from its impurities. Most of the soda
ash in Australia is produced far south
round Adelaide and competes with the
imported product from the United
Kingdom.
The Central Queensland prophets of
progress are not slow to point out that
their soda ash, and their illimitable lime-
stone are about 2000 miles closer by
sea to Weipa than that of the salt beds
at the mouth of the River Murray.
They have a great deal to say, too,
about sulphuric acid. For, strangely
enough, to the chemical engineer’s mind
acid is the mother of everything. A
family tree of products that start with
acid would be as multi-various as that
of the human race. Mr Sheil points out
that “the multiplicty of the uses of only
one acid—sulphuric—is unbelievable.”
In the domain of the chemical engineer,
sulphuric acid is the man-of-all-work.
There is scarcely a single article of
nuclear age commerce that has not at
one stage or another to have contact
with sulphuric acid.
r T' I HE measure of production of sulphuric
acid, in fact, seems to be the baro-
meter of industrial activity. It is indis-
pensable in the most universal sense in
the processing and chemical industries —
in extracting uranium at Mary Kathleen,
gold in most mines. About 170,000 tons
is imported annually from the United
States, despite the fact that there is abun-
dant sulphur available as the product of
flotation processes in mining in
Australia.
Mt Morgan pyrites has a 53.4 per cent,
sulphur content and 46.6 per cent, of iron.
Mt Morgan has in sight seven million
tons of pyrites tailing and unmined
pyrites. Little encouragement has been
given in the past to the usage of this
material to oust the imported fertilisers.


The Government’s policy will persist
again for this year.
Mt Morgan, however, does not look
on the situation as defined. It has a
pyrites capacity of 180,000 tons a year.
And its directors envisage the establish-
ment of a 75,000-ton acid plant using the
contact process which will lead to out-
put of white ammonium sulphate of good
appearance for fertiliser. This would
mean about 100,00 tons of ammonium
sulphate per annum, enough to supply
the needs of the State, and involving,
apart from the acid, output of 26,000
tons of ammonia, for which there is an
expanding world demand.
But this is not all, for the district has
materials to amalgamate sulphuric acid
with local phosphoric rock ; to make
gypsum through the action of sulphuric
acid on ground limestone ; to make
hydrogen fluorides through acid reaction
on fluorspar, of which the company has
leases, these being utilised in refriger-
ants, solvents and other “freons.”
'T'here are limestone deposits of 100
A million tons or so in The Caves area
near the site of the pioneer Canoona
Rush, whose gold opened the Rockhamp-
ton district to settlement a little over a
century ago, as well as at Marmor, and
Struck Oil. Some of this, crushed, is
used to control the fluidity of mining
slags—-Mt Morgan uses 7000 tons a
year. Some goes into the cement industry
and there are some interesting experiments
in limeburning going on with the Bara-
laba semi-anthracite coal in place of the
normal fuel —coke. Calcium carbide for
acetylene gas and for plastics—a venture
to produce 36,000 tons a year from the
highly pure lime of The Caves would
eat up 100,000,000 units of electricity a
year and add production revenue of £2
million per annum to the income of the
district.
So the list goes on —high-purity cellu-
lose from brigalow associated with lime
and pyrites ; soda ash, caustic soda, salt
for cattle licks; fertiliser to turn bare
ground into organised pasture and
pasture into beef ; coal, for export and
petrochemicals, electricity expanding
monstrously in usage, to feed power to a
new industrial area ; a hugely developed
transport industry by road and electric
rail to provide arteries. These are the
dreams of the “locals.”
Their thinking does not even seem to
have reached its greatest intensity as yet.
Undeterred by the indifference of the
C.5.1.R.0. and the Joint Coal Board and
encouraged by the experience of South
Africa, they are beginning to turn their
minds to the problem of oil from coal
and an associated petrochemical
industry. That involves really big
thinking.
GUINEA SPLITS
A Set-back to Soviet Expansion in Africa
FROM A CORRESPONDENT IN CONAKRY
HThe expulsion of the Soviet Ambas-
A sador from Guinea for fomenting
subversion of the Sekou Toure regime
may well be a watershed in the relations
between Russia and the new African
States, since none was more closely tied
to the Soviet Union than Guinea. It also
throws a sudden light on a series of
obscure events that has taken place here
recently.
The incidents started on November 24,
1961, when the High Court of Conakry
condemned five members of the Guinean
Teachers’ Union to jail terms ranging
from five to ten years each. Then, three
days later, when students throughout
Conakry demonstrated in protest, the
Government and President Sekou Toure’s
Parti Democratique de Guinee (P.D.G.)
ordered all schools closed and students
sent home until further notice.
The severe penalties against the instruc-
tors were based on allegations that they
had “edited and distributed within
Guinea and abroad a mendacious and
subversive document”. Authorities
judged the teachers’ actions to have been
part of “a new counter-revolutionary
attempt”. Among those condemned to
ten-year sentences were M. Koumandean
Meita, Secretary General of the Teachers’
Union, and M- Mamadou Rayautra,
Director of the Institute for Research
and Documentation.
In view of the fact that Guinean
students rose to the defence of the
teachers, it is interesting to note that the
High Court included among its charges
the Union’s “systematic efforts tending
to divide and demoralise the young”.
Evidently the Government felt that its
case was none too clear. While the
trials were being held in Conakry a
series of “meetings” was organised
throughout the country in order to
explain, and justify, the measures taken
against the teachers. The Government
spokesman, M. Ismael Toure, the
President’s brother, who is Minister for
Public Works, brought up a few extra
charges of his own, declaring that the
Teachers’ Union had been responsible
for the recent demonstrations at Labe
where three persons were killed and
several injured.
A special communique issued by the
P.D.G. was broadcast to the nation by
Radio Conakry. In no uncertain terms
the radio stated that “all students, with
the exception of several ringleaders being
held for questioning, will be sent home.
Since last Sunday special trucks and
trains have already begun carrying the
students back to their families.”
In the capital of Conakry, passers-by
looked on in silence while details of
armed and helmeted gendarmes patrolled
in front of the empty school buildings.
Then, in a startling revelation made
public on December 11, President Toure
declared that the student riots had been
part of a communist design to over-
throw his regime. He said that an official
investigation into the rioting had
“uncovered the existence of a subversive
network reaching from an Eastern bloc
embassy in Conakry to Dakar and Paris.”
These words are in startling contrast
to Guinean attitudes of the last few
years, and it should be remembered that
Sekou Toure is a Lenin Peace Prize
winner. Guinea has occupied a special
position among the new African States,
for from the very beginning its political
leaders have shown particular suscepti-
bility to communist doctrines and have
tolerated far-reaching communist infiltra-
tion. Their political education and com-
mitments, even before Guinea became
independent, led the leading officials of
the P.D.G. into a specially intimate
relation with communism. The schools
have been infiltrated, as the trials have
indicated, a Czech military mission
reorganised and trained local army units,
and Soviet bloc propaganda is found
everywhere: in Government offices,
Party headquarters, State institutions.
Perhaps this will change with the
expulsion of the Soviet Ambassador,
Daniel Solod. Formerly the head of the
Near East department of the Foreign
Ministry in Moscow, he is a well-known
figure on the diplomatic scene. From
1944 to 1950 he was in Beirut and then
from 1953 to 1956 in Cairo as chef de
mission, Minister and ambassador —and
succeeded in making these places key
positions for communist action in the
Middle East. He is a Ukrainian by
origin, and speaks English, French and
Arabic. His transfer to Conakry in
January, 1960, indicated the importance
Moscow attached to Guinea, and how
seriously it had set out to develop this
State into a bridgehead for the com-
munist penetration of West Africa. Now
that Sekou Toure has taken the extreme
step of expelling Ambassador Solod, it
will be interesting to see what other con-
sequences will follow the discovery of
the plot against his regime.


LIFE WITH SOEKARNO
No Quiet Holidays
By PETER HASTINGS
Whenever I said I wanted to see
President Soekarno I was told
firmly by everybody in Djakarta
that there was no chance. He
disliked foreign correspondents and
couldn’t trust them to report him
accurately. He was not long back from
a wildly extravagant world tour which
U.S. newspapers in particular had
slated. But his presence was everywhere
in Djakarta in giant posters and in lurid
shop-window paintings. His palace —the
old Governor-General’s palace—was the
only really well-kept building in
Djakarta. 1 was told that an Australian
photographer not long ago had just
marched right in with a few photo-
graphs and a painting which he insisted
on giving to the President himself. The
President fancies himself as a collector
and saw him. I was advised to try the
same, but the guards at the palace
thought it a bad idea.
He is very fully reported in the
Djakarta Press in a rather lopsided way
—even his wildness of speech and his
intemperate sexual life are occasionally
mentioned in an offhand way. The
Press is controlled, but with an occa-
sionally charming inefficiency.
He is, of course, a principal subject
of conversation among the foreign resi-
dents of the city and an inexhaustible
subject of speculation at dinner parties,
although one has to be discreet. He is
60 or more, which is an advanced age
for an Indonesian, and he lives high. He
is an intensely active man, but his
energies are fatally dispersed. He is a
demagogue, a father figure and an astute
politician, but is a poor statesman. He
also likes things the easy way. Indo-
nesia’s chronic economic troubles are in
large part due to the President’s dread-
ful mismanagement, his incapacity to
sit down and deal with the hard facts of
life, one by one, and dispose of them.
He is forever thinking up schemes and
ideas and ardently pressing them upon
his colleagues. He dislikes argument and
hates criticism. One of his colleagues
told me: “When I am abroad I some-
times hate him, even though I revere
him as the leader of the revolution. But
abroad 1 can stand away from him and
criticise him. And yet when I report
to him on my return determined to tell
him he is wrong, even dangerously
wrong, words fail me, my courage oozes
away and, I admit it, I hesitate to hurt
his feelings.” This was the remark of a
top Civil Servant, Dutch trained and
educated, but it might have come from
the intelligent and trusted courtier of
one of the old sultans, and a sultan is
exactly what Soekarno is, with all the
magnetism, charm and charisma of a
20th-century demagogue.
He is frequently compared with Hitler
and Mussolini, and I think the compari-
son misleading. He has none of their
innate beastliness, and despite his increas-
ing intolerance of criticism and his wild,
demagogic speeches, he is not in their
sense either vindictive or revengeful.
His regime is not one of concentra-
tion camps ; no minorities are singled out
for persecution, and, apart from the
vexed and complicated question of West
New Guinea, I do not think he is an
apostle of expansionism. There are
those who would disagree with me there
and with good evidence. However, in
concluding the six-year rebellion neither
Soekarno nor the Army has been any-
thing else, in the main, but extra-
ordinarily generous towards their politi-
cal enemies. He is a cunning
manoeuvrer who recognises his own
inabilities and the inherent problems
of running an archipelago state of
1000 islands. He retains power by play-
ing one party off another, clipping the
wings of this politician and elevating
that one. He stays in power simply
because Indonesia, particularly Java, will
fall into chaos when he dies.
He is a superb talker, softly per-
suasive when necessary, hysteri-
cally convincing on occasions, with
the true demagogue’s ability to
measure his crowds. But even
he is failing to carry the crowds as he
used to, and he knows it. Where once
thousands listened and cheered him, there
are signs of irritation and grumbling
among his audiences, who want to know
why, in one of the world’s richest coun-
tries, there is a rice and food and kero-
sene shortage, why prices keep going up,
why distribution is so poor and why
Indonesia has to maintain such a fan-
tastic Army, Navy and Air Force. Even
the magical cry of “Irian Barat” cannot
withstand the force of growing criticism
for ever. Nor cannot it withstand indif-
ference on the part of huge sections of
the population.
It is his knowledge of his failures
which drives him from one expediency
to another. It is their knowledge of their
incapacity to measure up to anything
like him that forces his critics to let him
have his way. It is quite futile to point
to the skills, energies and common sense
of a Prime Minister like Djuanda or a
revolutionary hero like Hatta as alterna-
tives to the mesmeric powers of Soe-
karno. The only alternatives to
Soekarno are either the Communist
party or the Army. i
It is knowledge of his failures which
drives him more and more into the life
of a frantically pleasure-seeking sultan.
There are always more and more beauti-
ful girls to meet and entertain him at
his palaces in Djakarta or at Bogor
and Bandoeng in the hills. He carts
them off there by plane or sends them
ahead of his arrival. He quite possibly
suffers from satyriasis, and it is com-
mon gossip in Djakarta that he now takes
drugs frequently to keep him going.
Indonesians do not appear to object,
for, although Indonesia is Islamic, the
easy-going ways of pre-Muslim Java
seem to persist. There is quite a bit of
speculation mixed with genuine alarm
that his life of excesses and drug-taking
will kill him off sooner or later, but even
that possibility is accepted fatalistically.
TJE is gregarious by nature and likes
A crowds and friends. He is quite un-
sympathetic to the idea of quiet holiday
retreats favored by British Prime Minis-
ters or U.S. Presidents. He likes fun
and excitement and fancies himself, and
indeed is, the life of any party that he
happens to get going. He is despotic in
many ways. He thinks nothing of whisk-
ing 10 or 12 foreign ambassadors—
maybe twice that number if the mood
suits him —into military planes away to
a country palace for a weekend. If you
can find one of them willing enough to
talk he will tell you that these week-
ends are desperately dull and desperately
tiring. Not so long ago Soekarno de-
cided to enliven Presidential balls and
private parties with the introduction of
a special dance invented by himself
comprising a shuffle of 12 steps. In the
ballrooms of innumerable palaces
perspiring ambassadors, unsound of limb
and short of breath, shuffle their way up
and down egged on by the untiring
Soekarno. The dance frequently lasts
for an hour or more with a short break
for orange-juice refreshments.
It is de rigear to attend and an insult
to refuse. Besides, it is a very useful way
of assessing just where you stand in the
Presidential favor, which has an import-
ant bearing on Government policy. He
smiles winningly at those in favor and
curtly nods at those whom he disap-
proves for one reason or another. Both
the U.S. Ambassador and the Russian
Ambassador vie openly with one another
for Soekarno’s favor, and do not mind
submitting to any competitive contests
in the interests of their countries.
Neither gentleman is particularly young,
and America's Mr Howard Jones is near
70. Diplomacy can offer a tough life.


IN THE
GARDEN
“You spray at petal-fall, not at fruit-drop !”
“There's so much hate in the world; why
must they have Kmirrhinums ?”
“1 just thought I'd make a swimming-pool.”
“My Daddy grows seed-packets.”
“We call them our passion fruit.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
THE CASE OF
THE PORTUGUESE SAILORS
THE Federal Government has
been too legalistic in its attitude
to the three Portuguese sailors
who have sought political
asylum in Australia. Having made its
mistake, the least it could do was to
agree to a Court hearing. Whatever
the hearing brings out, the Govern-
ment should interpret its findings
liberally; if there is the slightest sug-
gestion that there are grounds for
believing that the claim to political
asylum is genuine, then the Govern-
ment should grant asylum.
As with the two Darwin Malays, the
Government has been altogether too
high-handed in the first place. Be-
fore deporting anyone who is not a
criminal or an absconding seaman with
no claim to political asylum, the Gov-
ernment should hesitate and ask: Is
there any reason of humanity or policy
why this person should be deported? If
there is not, purely legal considerations
should be ignored. Laws say we may
deport persons of various categories;
they do not say we must deport them.
In the case of the Portuguese sailors,
it seems a heavy responsibility for a
Government to deport three men back
to a regime as tyrannical and arbitrary
as Dr Salazar’s. We would not hesi-
tate—at least one assumes we would
not —if the three seamen were Russians.
All over the free world political asylum
is almost automatically granted to
absconding Russians, as it should be,
and not many questions are asked.
Many of those who abscond might be
hard put to it to convince a Court that
it was political asylum they were seek-
ing; but there is no doubt in our minds
that ordinary humanity demands that
we shelter any refugees from totali-
tarian despotism.
To our credit, we certainly did not
hesitate to open our doors when the
Russian suppression of the Hungarian
uprising left many Hungarians State-
less. For many years Australia was
a haven for the victims of the totali-
tarianism of Hitler and of Stalin. We
must maintain the position that all
peoples who rebel against tyrannical
Governments are welcome to these
shores—with one exception: if refu-
gees are themselves upholders of rival
tyrannies we might not accept them.
If the three Portuguese were com-
munists we might perhaps not grant
them asylum, although we should in
all humanity make very sure of our
facts before making such a decision.
In a country like Portugal a man is
likely to be branded a communist when
he is merely a liberal or, for that
matter, a conservative.
Granting asylum has no relation to
the political relations between States.
In the general East-West struggle
Portugal is an ally, if a rather grubby
one, but that does not provide any
reason for not granting asylum to indi-
vidual Portuguese. Indeed, it under-
lines the fact that, although on certain
issues we have things in common with
the Portuguese—and Dr Salazar’s
tyranny can be distinguished in many
ways from Mr Khrushchev’s totali-
tarianism —there are other matters on
which we are anxious to distinguish
ourselves from them.
Lost in the Wash?
THE decision of the recent Federal
A.L.P. Executive meeting not to
do anything about the scandals
of the Victorian A.L.P. Execu-
tive, except to exhort it to change its
ways, should in theory lose Mr Calwell
the next election. Before December
last year one might have made this
prediction more confidently; now the
future is anyone’s guess. But. questions
of expediency apart, to anyone who is
interested in seeing the Labor party
reform itself, in its own interests and
in the interests of Australia, it is a
tragedy that Mr Calwell has failed to
use the authority his election successes
gave him to risk a bold move.
The reasons given—that a clean-up
of the A.L.P. might cause a split—
do not tell the whole story. The
A.L.P. is already split, and has been
since Dr Evatt pushed it on the rocks
in the mid-nineteen fifties. The real
situation is that the A.L.P. Federal
Executive (although not all of its mem-
bers) and Mr Calwell would sooner
rely on communist union support, and
the kind of A.L.P. support that can
fairly be described on issues that
matter as pro-communist, than on the
kind of support that at present gives
strength to the D.L.P., especially in
Victoria.
This is a fact that Liberal-Country
party spokesmen should now emphasise
to the electorate. Their failure to
dramatise the real nature of parts of
the A.L.P. in last year’s campaign was
one of the main reasons why they
nearly lost the election. They must not
repeat this mistake.
In the meantime, although Mr Cal-
well thinks he has chosen the safe —
if dishonorable —course he might yet
find that he has chosen the riskier of
the two. By not cleaning up the A.L.P.
he risks electoral defeat; his gamble
that the D.L.P. vote in Victoria will
disintegrate may not come off. He
also takes the risk of becoming the cap-
tive of his own Left-wing forces; his
gamble that he can make them his
captive will almost certainly not come
off.
And he is still risking attack from
his own Right wing. There are men
in the A.L.P. who want a reunion with
the D.L.P.. and when, as is expected,
the two Left-wing Queensland dele-
gates to the Federal executive are
changed to Right-wing delegates
during the year, it is just possible that
what will then be a Right-wing
majority on the executive will want to
send the troops into Victoria and purge
the suspect parts of the A.L.P. in
other States. If this happens, even
Mr Calwell could get lost in the wash.


What the Left Hand Doesn't Know
FOLLOWING the American trend,
something of a scare is going on
at present among Australian
liberals about the “Right-wing
extremist” groups in America, as if the
John Birch Society were about to take
over the Republican party. They are
in prominent company: President
Kennedy himself is leading this scare
campaign in America.
Like many such campaigns, it seems
to have little basis, and it serves as a
cover-up for the operations of “Left-
wing extremist groups” within the
Democratic party. Only two Republi-
cans have been identified as Birchites,
but Americans for Democratic Action
—the Left’s John Birch Society—has
people all over the place in Washing-
ton. As often happens, Left-wing
“extremists” are operating inside the
administration and the Democratic
party without being attacked; the
attacks are reserved for Right-wing
“extremists” who play no part in the
administration and very little part in
the Republican party. Mr Robert T.
Hartman. Washington correspondent
for the “Los Angeles Times,” recently
identified 36 A.D.A. members, all in
high places in the administration and
all presumably committed to the
“Left-wing extremism” of the A.D.A.
The way in which American
“liberals” can always rig the facts to
suggest that America is about to go
under to a Right-wing conspiracy was
brought out in an article in a recent
issue of “The National Review.” The
article explained the background to an
apparently sensational TV interview
with General Eisenhower. In the
course of this interview Eisenhower let
loose against Right-wing “extremists”
and “super-patriots.” Kennedy picked
up the theme and friendly publicity
media played it far and wide.
What had happened was that the
TV station had interviewed Eisenhower
for several days. Out of all he said it
chose to play up his brief and passing
reference to the anti-communist Right.
It suppressed his own anti-communist
statements. And the rest of the
orchestra picked up the theme with
news flashes and front-page headlines.
There is often a curious double
standard about anti-anti-communism
that becomes justified by self-
righteousness.
Repairing the Roof
PRESIDENT KENNEDY’S State
of the Union speech is encourag-
ing in so far as it shows a clear
realisation of the world’s basic
economic problems and indicates a
desire to meet the challenge with bold
and dynamic policies.
Used to America’s unassailable
economic position in the Western
World in the earlier postwar years—
which were marked by a chronic dollar
shortage and massive U.S. aid hand-
outs—many American politicians seem
unable to notice some of the radical
changes taking place. For years the
United States has been urging the need
for economic pools and dismantling of
tariff walls in the free world, while
maintaining protection at home. Now
ff is faced with major problems in
Europe and Asia.
The Common Market and EFTA
countries have long ago ceased to be
a drain on the United States taxpayer’s
pocket. The dollar shortage in Europe
has disappeared. As a matter of fact,
the dollar may yet become softer than
some West European currencies. The
Common Market has become a fact.
Britain’s projected entry, and the
almost certain admission of most of
the other EFTA countries, will make
this economic bloc potentially as
powerful as the United States, but with
a higher rate of economic growth and
a considerably lower cost structure.
If the United States remains compla-
cent, relying on tariff walls to safe-
guard its economic prosperity, the next
few years may see the emergence of
three great separate economic and
political blocs —the United States and
its dependent allies, the European
Common Market bloc and the Soviet
bloc, probably excluding China. Un-
doubtedly there will be fierce compe-
tition between the Common Market
and the United States. If the Ameri-
cans decide to abandon their reliance
on tariff protection and try to compete
on the basis of their technological
superiority—for instance, on extensive
use of automation, despite the grave
internal labor problems—they may
actually benefit from the growing eco-
nomic might of the Common Market.
This is the reason for President
Kennedy’s insistence that he be given
wide powers to vary tariff rates, and
the generally grave tone of his speech.
But if reciprocal tariff concessions
cannot be secured American manufac-
turers may soon find themselves virtu-
ally locked out from the growing and
increasingly wealthy West European
market. This means that the United
States will have to depend almost
exclusively on the finely geared internal
market and face continuous grave
balance-of-payments problems.
The position with Japan is even
more difficult. Japanese economy
needs expanding markets to maintain
its rate of growth and support its popu-
lation. The United States has con-
tinuously frowned on any expansion
of Japanese trade with Communist
China, and the Japanese have dutifully
obliged. But although trade with
Peking involves quite a number of
technical problems, apart from its poli-
tical aspects, China is a natural
exchange market for Japan in terms
of basic economic geography. How-
ever, if Japan trades with China she
will probably have to make some
political accommodation with the
Peking regime. If she does not trade
with China she will have to acquire
some alternative outlets. The other
free world countries —such as Aus-
tralia—are doing their bit, and it
would be wise for the United States to
liberalise its tariff policy with Japan.
If Japan is lost, politically or eco-
nomically, there will be little chance
to keep communism out of the rest of
Asia.
President Kennedy said the time to
repair the roof is when the sun is
shining. A storm may break out
sooner than expected.


FORUM
WHAT'S WRONG
WITH THE THEATRE
1 .-The Writer's Fault
By KEVON KEMP
“The Bulletin’s’-’ Sydney theatre critic
RATHER more than a year ago 1 founded a little theatre company in
Sydney, a company which has become one of the busiest in the city.
Every six to eight wee\s a new production is mounted, given a run of at
least six weekends and succeeded at once by another play. One of my
principal ideas in beginning the venture was to show local playwrights,
over a period, all the great modern masters of the drama. I don’t thin\
any writer can know his craft properly unless he is familiar with some or
most of the great craftsmen in his field .
Well, bless our optimism, in seven productions we did have one
playwright come to see us. It was not an accident, I think, that this one is
also our only first-rate playwright Douglas Stewart and it was no
accident either that he stayed behind in some excitement to talk about our
production of “Desire Under the Elms,” and what with one thing and
another we arranged there and then to do the world premiere of Stewart’s
latest play. Stewart actually gets out and goes to see plays that interest him,
he has been closely associated with theatre groups in his time, he knows
what makes a stage and a stage company tick-
in a nutshell, this is the difference between him and so many of the
younger would-be writers he is actively interested in theatre and great
writers of the theatre.
VjS/HEN I began to learn something
v ” about theatre, nothing would have
kept me away from a production of
Strindberg or Ibsen. No matter how
obscure the theatre or how bad the pro-
duction I’d have gone because drama
'is not something on a printed page, it
is the dynamic process which goes on
with the play, the lives of the actors
and the reactions of an audience . . .
and this is the drama that a writer must
get to know. I don’t wish to push my
particular little theatre, but it gives me
strong first-hand experience of the sort of
apathy I find hard to understand. Lately,
our company did a great masterpiece, a
play by Frank Wedekind. No one, one
would think, who really knew and cared
for drama could possibly pass up such
an event —Wedekind’s ruthless honesty,
daring construction, mastery of language
and of audience ought to be the stuff of
life to a young writer. But no writers
came. (In fairness, no actors came either
and no producers!) This is exactly the
trouble with all parts of our native
theatre no one knows enough and the
ignorant have no urge to venture out
and learn.
There has been an outcry lately on
behalf of the neglected playwright. Mr
Patrick White, it is said, was refused a
production in Sydney and it took
Adelaide’s brilliant culture to do “The
Ham Funeral." Let’s be fair to Sydney ;
we didn’t know about the play. Mr White
(if I recall the article describing how the
play came to light) had had it tucked
away for some considerable time, and
had never shown it to any Sydney
theatre personality. Now Miss Hanger,
in The Bulletin, December 30,
complains on behalf of Mr David
Ireland that no theatre will do his play.
How many theatres has Mr Ireland asked
to do his play I
In this mutual ignorance of each other,
the playwright and the working theatre
in Australia are both losing out. Not
knowing playwrights, I cannot tell if
they have a shyness all their own which
makes them run away from theatre
companies, but, if they have, they ought
to get over it quickly, seek out enterpris-
ing producers and establish human
contact. Playwrights ought to seek to
work in the theatre not to become
actors, but to understand how an actor
goes to work ; not to produce, but to
learn the craft of production.
I once produced that deservedly well-
known local musical play, “Reedy
River.” It had already been staged
many times, and the author should have
had several solid royalty cheques. When
I came to the play it was a technical
mess —the author did not even trouble to
take his characters off or bring them on
—they several times merely appeared.
The producer had himself to work out
just how and when. Halfway through
the action some entirely new characters
appeared.
Only through the courtesy of another
theatre group were scripts available.
None of the music was prepared, one
had to discover every piece oneself. Yet
the author felt that he had done his job
by the theatre, and that he was entitled
to receive payment on the same basis as
Rodgers and Hammerstein. This is one
other besetting sin of the local play-
wright—lack of professional expertise,
lack of sheer craftsmanship.
All this means is that practising
theatre must get back into harmony with
the playwrights. Theatres and theatre
men can hardly be expected to go out
personally and solicit the writer ; the
man who wants to write for the theatre
must have at least enough human
warmth to approach the group he feels
he would like to work with.
If the playwright does this with the
same sort of humility that dedicated
actors and producers bring to their craft,
if the writer comes to his theatrical col-
leagues prepared to rub along with them
and jointly learn the art and craft, then


he'll find no cold shoulders and no
refusals. Yzhenever he wants a scene read
he’ll ha,ve friends around who will read
for him, when he wants to try his play
he will have a group vitally concerned,
with him that his play shall go well.
This, after all, is the way some fairly
well-known names operated in their
time —Moliere, Shakespeare, Sheridan,
O’Neill, Ibsen (who knew every last
nuance of his actors), Synge—there are
many good examples for the young
Australian talents.
Drama is not, I must repeat, words on
a page. It is not elaborately written
stage directions and details of settings
as the isolated writer imagines them.
It is a creative team effort resting finally
on the judgments of other humans, the
audience.
If, so far, in Australia, the writer has
been left out of the team, it is pretty
much his own fault. Difficulties face
actors and designers who want to get
breaks in theatre, but on the whole they
seem to want to get into touch with their
fellow theatricals far more than the
writers.
Writers are not gods apart, and Miss
Hanger could now do us all a service by
urging them into active participation,
not encouraging them to sit on the side-
lines, feeling unloved and unwanted, as
she did in her recent Bulletin article.
At least in Sydney there are two or
three little theatres more than willing
to help them on the way to the big time.
2.—Some Case Histories
By GREG BRANSON
The Adelaide literary agent
'Y' HERE are hundreds of theatre groups throughout Australia and most
of them would like to produce Australian plays. But most of them
are too timid to experiment. The producers make tentative inquiries, but
when the chips are down they fall bac\ on the old reliables. Often they
want to know how an audience received the play when first produced or
they as/{ for reviews. Although a great number of very competent plays
have been written in Australia, the sad fact is that only a handful have
reached the stage. Dozens of very excellent plays lie mouldering in
cupboards and desks while rubbish from overseas is trotted out to lose
friends for the theatre and alienate audiences. Let us examine a few case
histories.
T>lay competitions have provided the
•*- necessary incentive to authors to
undertake the immense task of writing
a three-acter. If they are lucky they win
a prize—maybe up to £2OO. The winning
play in each competition is usually pro-
duced but it is quite probable that this
first short season of a few nights will be
the last that is seen of this work. Many
of the runners-up will never be staged.
What a shocking waste of talent! “Resur-
rection at Matthewstown” by George
Landon Dann is to be put on by an
Adelaide group during the Adelaide
Festival of Arts four years after it was
written. “The Slaughter of St Theresa’s
Day” was placed first in a General
Motors-Holden competition three years
ago and was staged then with little
success. Little has been heard of the
author since. These first productions
must be regarded as try-out seasons. Few
plays ever achieve success on what can
only be considered a first draft. The
author must have the opportunity to
alter, re-write and polish before the play
should be exposed to a mass audience.
“World Without End”, which received a
Sydney Journalists’ Club award, was pro-
duced in Adelaide two years ago. It
received excellent reviews and was enthu-
siastically welcomed by packed audiences.
Thenceforth nothing further was heard of
it. “Image in the Clay” by David Ireland
and “Pub at Pelican Creek” by
Chris Gardner each had their brief,
successful moment and decended into
the limbo of the forgotten. “2 D” by
Eunice Hanger, “Anchor Nugget” by
Jon Holliday, and many others have
never been produced.
The Trust must change its present
practice. Instead of waiting for an
approach by groups it should take the
initiative, broach the subject of Austra-
lian plays with the societies and encour-
age them financially and with “know-
how” to stage the best offering. At pre-
sent groups must find the plays them-
selves and then apply to the Trust for
help which is only occasionally given.
“The One Day of the Year” and “The
Ham Funeral” were presented by Adel-
aide groups after the Trust had rejected
them. It took the amateur bodies to
prove their quality. But amateur produc-
tions usually provide the author with
less than £2O in royalities. He cannot
exist on this.
In any case it is not sufficient to help
only the best two or three authors. There
are many more whose work has shown
considerable promise such as John Naish,
Laurence Collinson, Desmond O’Grady,
Marion Dreyer, John Pinkney and they
should not be forced to give up play-
writing. If it is necessary, the Trust
should have more money, more skilled
personnel and increased publicity. How
long can a writer be expected to follow
the most exacting and difficult craft
known to literature, the writing of plays,
when he knows that there is little chance
of ever seeing the play in production?
Assuming that a good case has been
made out for greater aid for the Austra-
lian theatre, how is it to be provided?
Chiefly, I think, by the State Govern-
ments. The Australian theatre must be
decentralised. Being so intimate a thing,
drama can not be controlled in six States
from Sydney. Certainly the Trust should
have a hand in everything connected with
play producing, but the practical mech-
anics of putting on plays should be con-
ducted within each State. After all, the
merits of the different groups are only
known within the State.
Therefore, every State should have a
professional theatre entirely maintained
by Government aid. Actors, directors,
artists and even electricians and scene-
shifters should be paid by the Govern-
ment. Every other play produced should
be an Australian play. This need not
frighten politicians. Within a compara-
tively short time such a venture should
be self-supporting—if well managed. The
casts will not expect exorbitant salaries
until they have proved that they are
worthy of them . . . until they are draw-
cards at the box office. In addition, many
writers of plays should be subsidised
while they are at work.
If the launching of plays is so hazard-
ous, the lack of support for the theatre
so frustrating, the production of Austra-
lian plays so financially disastrous, it may
well be asked why I, Eunice Hanger,
Jean Marshall, Colin Ballantyre, Mus-
grave Horner and so many others con-
tinue to devote so much of our energy
and resources to this field of endeavor.
I think that it is because to us the
theatre is a way of life. Certainly drama
has a vital educational function that no
other art form can surpass. Movement,
voice production, discipline and confi-
dence as well as history and sociology
can be iearnt from the theatre. However,
this aspect should not be stressed too
much. Primarily the theatre exists to
entertain the masses, and what more
rewarding career could there be than
entertaining the public with worthwhile
fare?


LETTERS
THE RED AND THE BLACK
Sir,
The article by Mr George Cook
(Bulletin, December 30) throws much
light on the writer’s anti-communist
fervour, but little on his concern for
aboriginal advancement.
From his very frank account of how
he and his friends infiltrated the Queens-
land State Council for the Advancement
of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders,
installed their own nominee as secretary,
and then, despairing of making the
Minister for Home Affairs, Dr Noble,
safe from criticism, voted to dissolve the
Council, one is driven to the conclusion
that the only losers are the aborigines.
Mr Cook says that at the June meet-
ing of the State Council, he and his
colleagues rejected a motion condemn-
ing the alleged flogging of an aboriginal,
Jim Jacko, by a Lutheran mission super-
intendent. The grounds given, that the
Council then had insufficient evidence,
are reasonable enough. However, at the
June meeting they defeated a motion
that the Council be represented at the
official inquiry into the case. (The
inquiry, held as the result of public
pressure, found that Jim Jacko had been
flogged illegally by the superintendent.)
After invoking the aid of the Justice
Department to dissolve the State Council
(one can imagine the ready co-operation
of the Minister in charge), they decided
to form their own organisation, which
would exclude communists from mem-
bership, and, to be doubly sure, refuse to
accept trade unions as affiliated organisa-
tions. All meetings of the new organisa-
tion are opened with an inter-
denominational prayer.
According to Mr Cook, it will help
to maintain a hostel for aborigines in
Brisbane, and to assimilate aboriginal
families from the hostel into the com-
munity under the care of their fellow
Christians. This is admirable, but is it
enough?
What will happen to the next Jim
Jacko, flogged, threatened with banish-
ment to Palm Island without recourse
to law, if there is no organisation willing
to criticise the Government, or a mission
superintendent flagrantly in the wrong,
because to do so might give fuel to com-
munist propaganda or react against one’s
political allies?
Queensland has the most repressive
laws against aborigines of any State in
Australia. It is the only State where a
full-blooded aboriginal, even if “ex-
empted” from the Act, may not exercise
the franchise. By law, aboriginal pastoral
workers are paid less than white workers,
and part of their wages is retained in a
Government Trust Account, to be spent
at the discretion of the authorities.
Arbitrary power is exercised by superin-
tendents of misisons and reserves. With-
out trial, an aboriginal may be banished
to another reserve. Aborigines may not
marry whom they like, live where they
like. An inquiry into the death of an
aboriginal in the Palm Island jail revealed,
not that he was ill-treated there, but
that he died while serving a sentence for
the crime of untidiness!
I cannot comment on Mr Cook's
charges of communist infiltration,
because the only infiltration he details is
his own, but suggest that he take warning
from the example he gives, on the Select
Committee on Voting Rights of Abo-
rigines. He says that communists were
prominent in giving evidence (presum-
ably, although it is not stated, in favor
of voting rights). He gave evidence, he
says, of communist influence on Abo-
riginal Welfare organisations! But did he
or the members of his new organisation
have anything to say about voting rights?
This is the point which will concern
aborigines, who are not interested in
white people's factional fights, but in
their own struggle for equal status.
(Miss) GRACE B. BARDSLEY
Summer Hill ( N.S.W .)
STATE AID
Sir,
“If, as critic Nelson asserts, direct parent
influence on the education of their child-
ren is bad, and shielding of teachers from
parental wrath is good, would not the
State serve its citizens the better by
‘Brave New World Manship?’’’ (L. A.
Woolf, Bulletin, January 6).
In fact “critic Nelson” wrote: “gener-
ally it can be said that once the schools
are open to direct parent influence they
are at the mercy of every organised
pressure group in the community.”
I was concerned with the situation
where a group of parents, either through
their superior organisation or in default
of others, are able to impose their will
on the majority. I was not questioning
the right of the individual parent and his
own children. L. A. Woolf’s rhetorical
questions arising from his unjustified
extension of the argument are irrelevant.
H. N. NELSON
Numurkah (Victoria)
WHAT’S WRONG WITH WATTS?
Sir,
G. Stuart Watts, in reviewing N.
Earle's “What's Wrong With The
Church” (Bulletin, January 6), cannot
resist the temptation to knock the Church
at every opportunity, always professedly
for the Church's own good.
Now it appears that sex and psycho-
logy advisory bureaus are Out. One of
Mr Watts’s pet “the-Church-has-failed-
to . . .” themes appears to have been “sub-
ject to constant revision in the light of
further knowledge.” It is the Evangel, the
good news which is now In ; the good
news whose rational foundation Mr Watts
has so relentlessly derided as “worn-out,
anachronistic creeds of theology, sacred
and profane.”
Mr Watts enjoys posing as a John the
Baptist of “critical” philosophy but I am
afraid he is an Iscariot thereof. When
pressed hard to defend his old refrain,
“the traditional proofs of theism are in
ruins,” he will deny the principle of con-
tradiction. In other words, “is” equals
“isn’t”; “being” is “non-being” ; and
“yes” is “no.” Surely this is the death-
knell of all philosophy. Certainly this age
needs another Aristotle or d’Aquino—
but to rescue us from the scepticism, the
nihilism, the “plurality of views about the
universe” so characteristic of the
“critical” philosophy about which Mr
Watts is always pontificating.
A. P. NeEGUS
Ryde (N.S.W.)
GOA
Sir,
“Plain English’’ (Bulletin, December
30, 1961) shows poor logic in saying that
the taking over of Goa by India is a
precedent for Indonesia in West New
Guinea.
I’m tired of hearing Indonesia's aggres-
sion glossed over. How can anyone think
that because India takes over a part of
its own geographic territory and part of
its own racial population (for centuries
before European States colonised parts of
Asia), this is a similar case to the con-
quering of primitive black fuzzy-wuzzies
by a comparatively cultured Asian race!
G. G. JOYCE
Mooloolaba ( Queensland )
MANNA
Sir,
There are two matters raised by your
reviewer, J. Burnheim (The Bulletin,
December 30, 1961), in reviewing
“Manna/’ No. 4, 1961, which reveal an
inaccurate analysis and assessment of the
value of several of the articles in this
publication.
1. Your reviewer's main point was
that, “the most general and characteristic
fault of the contributors is their lack of
attention to the concrete needs and
possibilities of the present situation and
of different groups within it.” It
surpasses understanding how Dr Burn-
heim can write this, if he had considered
the contributions by Patrick Hutchings,
Father Crittenden, Brother Fogarty, and
Drs Charlesworth, Suttor and Gascoigne.
2. Contrary to your reviewer’s assess-
ment, Dr Suttor made a valuable contri-
bution to the symposium by his analysis
of certain historical and current trends
of Australian Catholic culture and life,
as illustrations of the thesis that there is
a lack of a tradition of philosophical and
theological analysis in Australian
Catholic culture. Dr Burnheim pre-
sumably does not gainsay this ; nor can
it be possible for him to avoid realising


the practical implications of this thesis
for Christian education. For the article
demonstrates and states the need for
educational institutions, for the forma-
tion of Catholics in a Christian philo-
sophical and theological tradition.
Through diverse approaches both
Patrick Hutchings and Dr Gascoigne
have amplified this need. Dr Gascoigne
especially so, by illustrating the present
lack of and the need for a valid meta-
physics, as the basis for sound scientific
education in Christian schools. Although
the terminology may appear as
“un-analysed” to your reviewer, it in
no way invalidates these arguments.
Despite your reviewer’s misgivings
about the value of the contributions by
Dr Suttor and others in the 1961 issue
of “Manna”, there is sound evidence for
claiming that a careful consideration of
this issue could well assist towards a
solution to some of the problems of
Christian education in Australia.
J. T. WADE
Strath fie Id (N.S.W.)
EDUCATING THE BLIND
Sir,
Thank you very much on behalf of
this Association for printing such a good
article by Kylie Tennant concerning the
future education of our blind and par-
tially blind children (Bulletin, January
6, 1962).
Up to this minute, parents of partially
blind children have no idea where their
children will be sent when the school at
Wahroonga closes down. This informa-
tion has been sought by letter and urgent
telegrams from the Minister for Educa-
tion without success. We have even
learned during these holidays that one of
our teacher-drivers has been notified of
a transfer from our school at the begin-
ning of next term. This is a serious
matter as the 16 pupils whom he brings
to the school and returns to their homes
each day will have no means of trans-
port to the school, nor will they know
that he will not be turning up as usual
when school resumes. This is the kind
of treatment we are receiving from the
Department of Education.
Our esteemed Headmaster has been
transferred from the school to which he
has given his whole teaching life. He
has appealed against his transfer. He
also drives a busload of children to and
from the school each day.
Already another letter has been written
to the Premier asking if he will see a
deputation from this Association as a
matter of urgency in order that we may
discuss the following matters:
h The reinstatement of Mr A. A. Percy,
M.8.E., as Headmaster.
2- The outcome of the meeting of experts.
3. The reallocation of the children.
(Mrs) E. D. TOOSE
(Honorary Secretary)
Wahroonga Blind School
Parents and Citizens’ Association
REPUTATION’S BLOWFLIES
Sir,
Since I have not received the rough
treatment at the hands of Australian
critics of which Mr Porter complains, 1
do not feel as passionately on the sub-
ject as he does, but, speaking generally,
1 think there is room for improvement.
One is often struck by the extreme
subjectivism of certain critics and by the
fact that there are hardly any common
standards now. Looking for informed
analysis and comparison, we frequently
find instead “bright” angles and the kind
of featurising which tells us more of the
critic’s than of the author’s idio-
syncrasies.
Being myself an occasional reviewer,
and hence aware how easy it is to make
mistakes, I acknowledge that critics need
elbow room. A sense of responsibility
must not lead to inhibiting free comment,
and pussy-footing reviews are little better
than maliciously or cleverly destructive
ones. The following seem to me to be
the three most desirable attributes a good
critic should have or strive for:
1. He should be able to see the wood
for the trees. That is, he should be able
to assimilate the whole of a book, its
purpose and achievement. He should be
responsive to what is central to it, which
calls for some objectivity.
2. He should cultivate the gift of
“discovery.” That is, he should be able
to see the new and the fresh that a book
may have to contribute. He should not
be one-sidedly fascinated by the odd or
by negative qualities which, in any case,
always stick out like a sore thumb, for
any fool to recognise.
3. He should love good literature
(which presupposes a knowledge of it)
and have the power to communicate it
to his readers. This means that he must
be able to feel pleasure, which requires
some humility—a word 1 am not usually
fond of.
How rare is it for a critic to convey
delight and a sense of gratitude! Fortu-
nately, it does happen, but to look at the
general run of reviews one is apt to get
the impression that our writers, and par-
ticularly our poets, hardly know what
they are about and do not have much
to offer that is good and alive.
R. A. Simpson, for instance, is a dis-
tinguished poet, but as a critic (Bulletin,
January 6) he displays his blind spots
when he discusses John Manifold’s
“Nightmares and Sunhorses.” He sees
no advance in Manifold’s work (a view
which, I believe, is correct, up to a point),
but he allows this to obscure for him
the merits of the collection.
He holds Manifold to be “crude and
clumsy in terms of personal attitudes” —
a judgment on a man no critic should
risk, unless on the strongest evidence.
R. A. Simpson shows his own bias when
he accuses Manifold of being blatantly
“Left,” and characterises this as being,
these days, rather naive.
Yet Manifold’s “personal attitudes”
were the same when he published
“Selected Poems,” which his critic retro-
spectively praises. Why, to please others,
should a poet like John Manifold change
his whole world outlook? Would this
make him a better poet? And why is
it wrong for him to want to be a popular
poet —admittedly his critics have no such
desire —and to aim at developing the
Australian ballad tradition? These are
irrelevant criteria. They incidentally
imply that readers can only enjoy verse
with which they are in ideological
agreement.
Another reviewer, who also detests
Manifold’s world view, singles out for
special strictures the very poem which
R. A. Simpson hails as a rare moment
of delight. To Mr A. D. Moody, Mani-
fold's “Elegy I” is proof of how the poet's
mind has been coarsened by politics ; to
Mr Simpson, on the other hand, it is
one of three happy exceptions.
There will always be room for indivi-
duality among critics. But individuality
among writers also has its point.
DAVID MARTIN
Melbourne
Sir,
Hal Porter is no doubt justified in his
attack (Bulletin, January 6) upon the
critics who have the deplorable habit of
comparing the work of one author with
that of another. But why, one cannot
help asking in a raised voice, has he kept
silent for 20-odd years? He even tries
to make a virtue out of his sin. Could
it be that Mr Porter isn't very much
concerned about the standard of literary
criticism as long as it doesn’t interfere
with the sale of his books? If we must
blame any for the general low standard
of literary criticism, we must first blame
those who seem to know better but prefer
to keep silent.
Why can't we have some sober and
continuous exchange of ideas between
the leading writers? It would be most


{lysaght^
m
PROOF
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHTS
ESTABLISHED 1884
m
O
r%
m
OT
95P
09
m
O
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
In every Roll of Netting
M
'
r.-.':. •;'•'*•
ffi:
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
IYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT’S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC
stimulating and would certainly raise the
standard of literary criticism. Some time
ago The Bulletin conducted a forum
on the Australian short story —it was a
disappointing affair ; no one seemed to be
much interested.
I am afraid Hal Porter, with his inven-
tion of the term “criticasters/’ has made
the free exchange of ideas in this country
still more difficult.
KURT TITZE
Geelong ( Victoria )
STUDENT ACTION
Sir,
Many of the letters to the national
Press concerning the Student Action
campaign in Melbourne seemed to regard
its methods of tomfoolery and heckling
as lacking in dignity, and therefore
doomed to failure. Like Judith Mc-
Pherson (Bulletin, January 6), I disagree
with Student Action's aims, though with
modifications, but its methods seem
much like those of previous successful
pressure groups, such as the suffragettes,
and I expect we can put up with them.
But from the original convenor of the
Immigration Reform Group downwards,
the Melbourne agitators have been too
soft on the Labor party, which one would
expect to be their main target. Do they
still dream about the natural goodness of
the worker, and his inherent feeling for
the solidarity of mankind? Racialism
has always been the rule, rather than the
exception, in labor movements in the
New World. Samuel Gompers, the great
American unionist, and William Lane, the
Queensland idealist, would have seen
eye-10-eye with Sir Roy Welensky, the
tough, practical ex-locomotive driver, in
this matter. When cosmopolitan finan-
ciers tried to put some Africans on semi-
skilled work in Johannesburg 40 years
ago, the white workers manned the
barricades and had to be subdued by
gunfire. They died under their banners,
“Workers of the World Unite for a White
South Africa.”
It is quite reasonable to believe in a
White Australia and at the same time
be thoroughly tolerant, racially. Many
Australians have made the essential dis-
tinction. But a confusion still hangs
over the labor movement. (Historians
who write about the past conditions for
membership of the A.W.U. should check
to see if they have been changed yet.)
As far as I can gather from my elders,
20 years ago, almost anywhere north of
the Murray River, an Australian of
Chinese or part-Chinese descent who
wished to leave his background behind,
take a normal Australian job, marry a
decent Australian girl, live in an un-
assuming Australian suburb, raise good,
healthy, wheat-eating little Australians —
in short, become a dinkum Aussie —did
not always find life a complete bed of
roses. However, let us say heartily and
hurriedly to ourselves, “Things change so
quickly in Australia.”
Mr Calwell recently described Asian
students who want to stay in Australia as
“escapists and deserters.” However, he
seems to have made a break, if such a
complex and befuddled temperament can
be said to make breaks, from the simple,
fanatical purity of his attitudes of 12-15
years ago. Once he deported people with
such delicate witticisms as “Two Wongs
don’t make a White.” We don't hear such
now, whether through repentance or
dearth of inventiveness, I can’t say. In
his policy speech last month he expressed
disapproval of SEATO’s present aims,
and suggested alternative ones which
would have been quite admirable if sup-
plementary to the existing ones. Then,
like a bolt from the blue, he said: “Aus-
tralian troops will not serve under Asian
commanders in military operations in the
Western Pacific.” As this was said quite
without context, it aroused no response
at the time, and only a few people
puzzled over it afterwards.
It occurred to me (1) that while we
would all wish the United States to take
the over-all command in a SEATO opera-
tion, just as in a NATO operation,
Pakistan, as the only Asian SEATO
member with a standing army of eight
divisions trained on British Common-
wealth lines, would well be as entitled as
any nation to command the ground forces
allocated to the operation ; (2) that our
standing army is of one battalion and
two battalion groups. In last October’s
debates on the estimates, some members
of a party whose leader does not know
when to yell “panic” and when to hold
one’s tongue if a neighboring head of
State is sounding off, were advocating
reductions in the Defence Budget ; (3)
that when the army of Pakistan was
formed by men, including the present
President of Pakistan, who had served in
the British-Indian Army with ranks from
lieut.-colonel to brigadier, they persuaded
an Australian, Brigadier Cawthorn, to be
their first Chief of Staff. After his tour
of duty, Major-General Cawthorn, as he
now is, remained for some amiable years
as High Commissioner to Pakistan.
If our next Prime Minister turns out
to have both neutralism and racialism
way there in the back of his woolly
head, we are in for a helluva time.
JOHN QUINLEM
Canberra ( A.C.T .)
Sir,
Judith McPherson, who attacked
(Bulletin, January 6) Student Action's
stand against the White Australia Policy,
subscribes to the “oil-and-water theory,”
that is, that races can’t mix. She seeks
justification for the policy in the need
to prevent inter-racial frictions and sees
the policy “vindicated every day by
events’’ overseas. This is superficial since
it does not take into account the causes
underlying such friction. Everywhere
tension can be traced back to unequal
conditions—for example, in South Africa
the political subjugation and economic
exploitation of Africans ; in the U.S.A.the
historical inferiority of status of Negroes;
and in S.-E. Asia and Europe to the
economic power of Chinese and Jews
respectively. Such unequal conditions
can be avoided in a planned system. Of
course, harmonious relations between
peoples are not newsworthy. Minor
incidents, like individual criminal acts,
make the headlines and by themselves
present a distorted picture.
PETER SAMUEL
Brighton ( Victoria )


AUSTRALIA GOES
GOURMET
From Pie Shop to Motel
By BERNARD HESLING
tn Sydney the first meal I bought after
I’d set up house in Australia was
grouse. You won’t believe this (my
brother certainly didn’t). I phoned him
at Lane Cove.
“Where did you get this grouse?” he
asked.
“Circular Quay.”
“Had it a wishbone?”
I said, “Don't be daft!” All the same,
I went through the remains of the carcase
and then returned to the phone.
“No!” I said.
“ Nay, lad! They fobbed thee off
with a rabbit! They were pulling thy
leg! ... .”
1 guessed he was right. Most Austra-
lians could tell a rabbit in 1928 ; every
ham-and-beef at the quay had a vast pile
of them, stuffed and steaming, in the
window at eightpence a kick. When I
said, “What are those there in the win-
dow?” the assistant thought a silly
question deserves a silly answer. He
replied, “Bloody grouse, mate! . . . .”
The price should have told me it
wasn't game, but I was all mixed up
about poultry in those days, from know-
ing big Ern Claridge, who used to call
on me with wonderful birds—all electric-
blue and Matisse-pink plumage—and
taking hours to cook, not at all the sort
of duck you'd buy in a shop! Ernie was
a bird-lover, who lived over near Cen-
tennial Park, and these birds used to live
on the lake there. He had no facilities
for cooking them, so he brought them
to me at Bondi Junction.
Once, after I’d moved to Burdekin
House, Macquarie Street, he turned up
with a beauty—but by then J had no
proper cooking facilities either. Bur-
dekin House, at this time, was a classy
flop-joint, and instead of a stove I had
a Georgian cut-glass chandelier, with
leads running from the electrified candle
sockets to toasters, jugs, irons and hot-
plates ....
This was a Sunday, and too many folk
ln the Domain to roast a duck, so we
took her up to Cleopatra’s Needle, near
Mark Foy’s. There was a vast pyramid
°f mulloch there—about 30 feet high—
something to do with ventilating the
underground railway. We climbed the
pyramid, lit a fire and cooked our bird,
washing her down with beer —for at this
time Sydney Sundays were civilised: just
rattle on almost any pub door, and a
pyjamaed sleeve would snake out bear-
ing bottles!
Mind you, we didn't always dine ex-
pensively! In William Street there were
places where you got a three-course meal
for 10d., or 12 meals (by ticket) for the
price of 11. One lunch-time I chose
bangers and mash for my entree. I
must have been out of my mind, as it
was Monday and the snags had lived
precariously in and out of the fat all
weekend. “This sausage is on the nose!”
I told the girl. She looked at me as if
I was a proper spoil sport —one who
didn't give a snag a fair go. “You haven’t
tried the other one, mister!” she said.
Our sausage-and-hamburger-type joints
have not changed much down the years.
Recently at a well-known pie shop—a
place where they have been getting away
with it for 50 years —I ordered a pie and
tea. Incensed at being charged three
shillings, I complained. “You've been
grossly overcharged,” agreed the cashier ;
but my waitress thought differently.
From across the shop she stabbed the air
at me like Judith Anderson in “The
Medea.”
“You!” she shrieked. “Yeouse ’ad
tomato sauce!”
The main difference in the poorer-type
menu is that now we have more choice.
Salamis —those lengths of tasteless
donkey sausage wrapped in silver and
gold paper —could only be had at King’s
Cross before the war. Smoked tailer,
smoked eel, those pink-cheese spreads,
gorgonzola, camembert and all cheeses,
bar mild and tasty, were unknown.
Often, too, there was doubt as to which
was mild and which tasty, but at our
grocer’s in Castlecrag we always knew,
for the tasty was the one the cat slept
on in the window ....
Not until you couldn’t get anything
decent to eat and drink did Sydney begin
to give a damn about food. Up to the
time of Pearl Harbor I drank, perhaps,
four beers per week, cracked a bottle of
wine once a month and had no use for
spirits whatever. My chops were cooked
by the kerosene-tin method, and large
steaks vaguely by the Lennie Lower
method. I'd best describe these two
culinary processes, for they've died out.
For the first recipe, you put a big
handful of dry gum-leaves in a kero-tin,
light them and toss in your chops. The
leaves cook the chops and the chops keep
the leaves burning. You’ll need one or
two handfuls of leaves, but no more.
Lennie Lower's recipe for cooking big
porterhouse steaks is strictly an inside
method, and one never to be attempted
when the wife is home: you take the
business end of a big electric stove, grease
all the hot-plates thoroughly (to prevent
sticking), switch on at “high,” and then
just drag your T-bone gently to and fro.
It's as simple as that.
TN 1942 we gave up this simple-style
A living almost overnight. Wine, which
we just had not bothered with before, we
now obtained by the cask deviously from
South Australia. Chops, snags and such-
like suddenly came to the table balanced
on slices of pineapple, a strip of bacon
pinned to them like a memo.
I don't for a moment think that the
change in our eating was caused entirely
by American soldiers demanding chicken
Maryland, schnitzels, pretzels, wieners
and good coffee. Rather was it that we
could no longer get much steak. The
New Australians, unable before (when
there was no shortage of kerosene-tins)
to interest us in cheap cuts, well cooked,
were now allowed to make even tripe
palatable . . . Some dishes, of course,
were a wholly American idea. The
avocado, or crocodile pear, was first
noticed by the G.l.s littering the ground
in Queensland. Americans knew of this
fruit, for around 1937 the “Reader's
Digest” and similar papers were full of
The Avocado Story. How fortunes had
been lost —and finally made —by people
trying to turn this tasteless fruit into a
face-cream and elbow-soltener . . .
How an avocado packer, who suffered
from blackheads, got a mouthful of the
stuff, thought it wouldn't be bad with salt


and pepper, added garlic and a squeeze
of lemon to produce a real meat pie of
a fruit and then this lass became the
first Miss Avocado.
Mind you, De Luca’s, in King Street,
had sold avocados for years to the few
who knew of them.
Leon Gellert knew of them. He kept
salt and pepper in an inkwell in the
“Herald” building, and, whenever he
wanted to let his hair down, he bought
himself a pear. Leon it was who first
saw avocados on a Sydney menu at Julie
Rasborsek’s and he plumped for avocado
pear salad. Now Leon is pretty smart
and almost immediately he noticed that
amongst his shredded lettuce, his tor-
tured celery and his slices of uncopewith-
able orange, no avocado lurked.
“Hey, miss! Where’s my pear?”
Miss, heaving the salad from before
him like an anchor, bore it huffily to the
kitchen and returned it, swimming in
tinned Bartletts.
“Is this some ghastly joke?” squeaked
Mr Gellert.
But the manager put things right.
“There ees no avocado,” he explained.
“It ees chust a trade name, like Boston
Beans, York Ham or Grannie’s Old-time
Pancakes.”
Between 1946 and 1950, food was
pretty good in Sydney. I don’t mean you
could get shish kebab—those wonderful
bits of alternating goat and mutton,
speared on a skewer—or sukiyaki in your
bare feet, but reasonably priced restaur-
ants, such as the Monterey and the four
cafes run by Walter Magnus (long since
gone), served as an everyday lunch:
schnapper mornay, cauliflower mornay,
schnitzel with potato salad, Irish stew
(for some reason called goulash), and (in
Walter’s case) at least 20 sorts of
omelette.
Today we have nothing like this —
only classy Hungry Horses, Greedy Pigs,
Grandmother’s Coal Cellars —places
where you can eat your head off, but
usually at times when I’m in bed. In
fact, food has become a hobby, like
collecting stamps .... Admittedly, we
have fine bistros, places where you can
get bouillabaisse, or tripe a la mode de
Caen, with a good glass of wine, but in
the main, these are not for ordinary folk
who like to keep awake in the afternoon.
We discovered espresso coffee around
1948, but only recently has this craze
reached the country, and as late as three
years back there was still not one espresso
machine in all North Queensland. The
Banana State is a law unto itself, for
apart from a few regional dishes such
as grenadillo pie and the wonderful fish
barramundi, the far north feels the need
to eat food quite unsuitable to the
climate.
Out near Mount Isa, I heard tell of
a tourist, who, after roast pork for
dinner, pork chops for breakfast and
“You owe me five bob, he ate it”
pickled pork for lunch, complained to
the hired help that his tea was so strong
he could stand the spoon in it.
“Yeh! It’s strong awright,” said the
lass. “It’s bore water ”
“ Stone the crows!” said the
tourist. “You sure use the whole pig
in this neck-a-the-woods! ”
has become such a hobby since
the war that the Food and Wine
Society now has branches , all over the
country. It’s like a fifth column, with
its members making little puddings on
Saturday afternoons to scoff on Satur-
day nights, instead of going to the races.
Wherever you go there are diners’ clubs,
also places where expense-account
types can eat their heads off and not
worry to carry one penny in the pocket
(except for petrol), for the food bill
comes every month just as it does for
your pair of socks at David Jones’.
I’m not a member of any of these
gourmet cliques (I stay fat without
being), but I have, in order to get special
treatment, memorised certain passwords.
Next time you eat at a shack with a
diners’ club sticker on the door, rever-
ently let drop the name of the late
Maurice O’Shea, or the word Tallawanta,
or perhaps say you know nothing about
wine, but have they an odd bottle of
Houghton Red from Western Australia?
You won’t need to carry even petrol
money after that.
Way back in 1930, only the Greeks
knew about coffee and only the Chinese
understood food. We’d sit for hours at
the Greek Club, in Castlereagh Street,
alternately sipping coffee and iced water,
or at the Chinese you’d eat local oyster
dishes, such as Foo yung har, washed
down with lashings of Lapsing Soochong.
Now the Greeks are so mixed up that
one cafe in Sydney even recommends
itself to a ravenous public as “The
Spartan”—whilst at the Chinese the
oysters are now dried and ironed out in
the East and even the Chinese drink
Corio with the meal!
|yroTELS have done much to civilise our
A eating. Admittedly, motel steaks and
fish tend to be square, or the perfect
oblong in shape, but that, I suspect, is
because these viands come deep-frozen
from Sweden, packed solid in the drawers
of those knock-kneed Scandiwegian
dressing-tables as a sort of ballast! Still,
anything is better than a tin of cold
tomatoes poured over my toast, as once
happened at a pub in Glen Innes.
If I have a complaint about motel
cooking, it is that a woman is usually in
charge and they are busy slimming ; they
give you plenty of expensive protein and
always two eggs for breakfast, but when
it comes to toast, they are as bad as
the missus, and all I get is the one thin
slice.
A necessary adjunct to good eating is
the proper climate and for this,
Canberra, with its gimlet wind boring
suitably sized holes in your stomach,
is the perfect place. Alas! the hostelry
where I stayed there recently is gastro-
nomically the bottom of the vase.
Imagine (if you can) a thickly carpet-
ted, dimly lit, Aztec sacrificial chamber
furnished with widely spaced torture
tables, from some of which—as if instru-
ments were being warmed —thin spirals
of smoke rise from a nearby brazier. A
few poor heretics, too weary with travel
to drive the half mile to the nearest chop
suey joint, furtively order in public
library tones, a mug of beer from the
24-inch wine list.
Fortified a little, they turn to the menu,
holding it up to the light to make sure
it is a menu and not one of those metre-
long Unesco art publications devoted
to the ancient culture of Cambodia.
What a menu! Did you ever see a bill
of fare without one single soup, without
one entree, or one roast? With no
sweet but a blob of ice cream, or ditto
with fruit salad, or ditto with straw-
berries? Chilled from a day’s driving, I
longed for ye old Brown Windsor-
even for yesterday’s Windsor, now called


Government
Guaranteed!
THE
SYDNEY WATER
BOARD
m
LOAN
For 7, 15 or 35 years
GOVERNMENT-GUARANTEED. Half-yearly interest payments and
full repayment of principal at maturity are unconditionally guaranteed by
the New South Wales Government.
TRUSTEE SECURITY. An Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W.,
Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania.
TAX CONCESSIONS FOR SUPERANNUATION AND PENSION
FUNDS. The Loan is an approved investment for Trustees wishing to
qualify for the taxation concessions provided for in recent legislation
relating to these Funds.
INSTALMENTS ACCEPTED. If desired, 10% may be paid on appli-
cation, and the balance by 30th April, 1962.
CONVERSION TO 5|%. Holders of securities in two Loans maturing
on Ist February, 1962—N0. 79 (£4/2/6%) and No. 173 (£5/5/-%) —are
invited to convert to the new Loan and make certain of HIGHER interest
without interruption.
INVEST OR CONVERT at any office of the Commonwealth Trading
Bank; Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of New South
Wales; Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited; English,
Scottish and Australian Bank Limited; Rural Bank of New South Wales;
or through a Stockbroker; or at the Board’s offices.
LOAN CLOSES NOT LATER THAN
SATURDAY, 27th JANUARY
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
Mulligatawny after some careless clot in
the kitchen had spilt the curry in it. But
no! I could have huitres, big plate or
small. Prawns (roi size). Lobsters
Neuberged, Thermidored, or saladed.
Fish grilled, but done no other way. There
were no omelettes, snags, spaghettis,
raviolis, schnitzels... no lamb chops,
pork chops, or even a mixed grill...
only three sorts of grilled steak.
Feverishly I turned the pages, for the
waiter wanted his book back. Surely, in
all this welter of well-collated art letter-
ing, there would be a Chef’s Suggestion:
a plat du jour, a meat balls with spag-
hetti, a rissoles rnit der sauce tomat?
Ah! Flere it was, a red line like an
electrified fence enclosing it. The chef
apparently was out of his mind. Admit-
tedly I got a soup (Kraft), but his other
suggestion was that I either dine cheaply
on spatchcock, cooked at my table for
28s. 6d., or on boeuf strogonoff, ditto
for 28s.
I was tempted. It was a cold Can-
berra night—a bonfire at my elbow
would be welcome. I could not, though,
keep up with a twenty-eight bob chef,
(besides, the commercial traveller at my
table was whistling “Smoke Gets in
Your Eyes”, and if we lit a fire under
his nose, he might think I was taking
the mickey out of him!).
“What’s the maitre d’hotel sauce like
today?” I asked the waiter, purely to
gain time.
“Just what it’s always like, mate!” he
said, flicking his stockwhip of a towel.
“Just parsley and melted butter”....
I ordered rump steak, 255., plus a beer
to marinate it in and it was good. So
were the Smith’s potato crisps, which the
chef had cleverly filleted the plastic bag
away from. My only other vegetable,
petit jardin pois, were the sort that come
frozen solid and are thawed and cooked
in the one operation by running the hot
tap over them .. . After breakfast the
next morning I told the manager I was
writing a piece for United Nations on
motel food (a la carte section) and asked
could I see the kitchen, “You know, la
chambre de grande cuisine?”
He was proud of it. As he talked,
showing me the fly wires at the window
and the cockroach-proof floors, I was
reminded of a book, “The Crime of
Giovanni Venturi,” the tale of a restau-
rateur who manages without a kitchen
by burrowing beneath the street to the
kitchen of a rival! This motel’s kitchen
was almost as non-existent —just a sink
with a hot tap for those peas, a frig for
those lobsters, a bin for those crisps,
and a griller. No vats for soup or gravy,
no bain-marie, no cocotte, no deep fry,
no breadcrumbs. Just one arid waste of
utter cleanliness, with a table at which
presumably the weary chef scoffed his
Day’s Suggestion! ...


DARLING
The Moderate Martinet
Continuing our series on the early Governors
By M. H. ELLIS
GOVERNOR RALPH DARLING
Governor Ralph darling came as a cold
shock to the colony of New South Wales after the
benign astronomer and “gastronome” Sir Thomas
Brisbane.
He was a bald, hard-bitten looking soldier 50 years
old, who had packed a great deal of experience into his
military life. He was the same breed as Macquarie —by
administrative training a military secretary, and, therefore,
versed in govenmental routine, military secretaries being,
even more in those days than now, the managers of vice-
regal affairs in military governments.
He was the seventh Governor of New South Wales
and the first to bring to his task previous experience as a
Governor, he having been Acting-Governor of Mauritius
as well as military commander there. He already had a
reputation as a martinet, earned for him principally by
acting on the Colonial Secretary’s orders to abolish the
slave trade and send home for trial those who transgressed
the anti-slavery laws.
To the recently conquered planters of Mauritius his
measures seemed an outrageous invasion of personal
liberty. His manner and methods had not endeared him
to those who suffered his restraints.
Darling belonged to a remarkable family. Because his
father was a sergeant major, who was promoted to quarter-
master and then to be adjutant of the 45th Regiment, it
has been held that he was “of lowly origin.” But this is
not necessarily true. He was one of three brothers. One
of the others became a major-general and Lieutenant-
Governor of Tobago; the other a major-general and a
Waterloo hero. A nephew became Governor of Victoria.
Ralph Darling himself was born in 1775, entered the
Army as an ensign in the 45th Foot, fought in suppressing
a negro rebellion during which Governor Home and 40
West Indian officials were murdered, was a lieutenant at
20, adjutant of the 15th Foot in captured Martinique next
year and the same year became military secretary to the
Governor, Sir Ralph Abercromby. He continued to serve
as military secretary under Generals Morshead and Cuyler
and other Governors who followed them, with an interval
in England. For a time he was principal Assistant
Adjutant-General at the Horse Guards, took the 51st Regi-
ment to join Sir John Moore in Spain, fought with him at
Lugo and in the retreats and battle of Corunna, being
presented with a gold medal for his services.
He was Deputy Assistant Adjutant-General of the
ill-fated Walcheren expedition during which “Lord
Chatham with his sword undrawn kept waiting for Sir
Richard Strachan.” By 1814 he was Deputy Adjutant-
General at the Horse Guards, having become a major-
general in 1813 at 38 years old.
The military world seemed to be opening in front of
him when Napoleon (or his haemorrhoids) lost the Battle
of Waterloo, thus ushering in what a disgruntled French
officer described as the “accursed lassitude of peace.”
However, he was selected early in 1824 for to fill Brisbane’s
shoes, though the astronomer was not told for some time.
In the spring of 1825 he was promoted lieutenant-general
and sailed for Sydney Cove in the ship “Catherine Stewart
Forbes” on July 29, 1825.
Neither the season nor the inhabitants were very wel-
coming. December of 1825 was not unlike that of 1961. It
rained and blew so hard that the populace had to wait an
extra day before the arranged time to get a glimpse of
him. He landed before a somewhat silent concourse. As
the “Sydney Gazette” delicately put it, “. . . instead of
shewing forth her gratitude for benefits and favors prospec-
tively conferred” (by the new vice-roy) “through the usual
English manifestation of cheering. ALL AUSTRALIA
MUSED!”
JJE had the task of producing a new constitutional
advance in the creation of an Executive Council —the
Chief Justice, the Archdeacon and the Colonial Secretary.
He had to face a somewhat dauntingly enlarged Legisla-
tive Council. Hitherto, during its brief life, it had consisted
of five nominated officials. Now it was to consist of the
Lieutenant-Governor (Commander of the Military Forces),
the Chief Justice, the Archdeacon, the Colonial Secretary
and three thoroughly incongruous non-official members.
These were John Macarthur, who. to all intents and pur-
poses, was mad, and whose eyes burned with hate when
he remembered Bligh, Robert Campbell, who had been
the principal member of Bligh’s cabal during the rebellion
of 1808, and Charles Throsby, medical explorer, who within
less than two years was to find himself ruined by his
involvement with Captain John Piper of the Customs and
to commit suicide in consequence.
Some of the officials with whom the new Governor at
first had to make do were not exactly a bright lot. The
Attorney - General, Saxe Bannister, was undoubtedly
verging on non compos mentis and could not make up his
mind even to go away, though he said he wanted to.
One of the Judges was described, with considerable
justice, by Macarthur as “a poor, drunken old creature.”
Scott, the Archdeacon, had been a wine merchant, but
through an influential marriage had been appointed secre-
tary to the Bigge Royal Commission and then pitchforked
into the Church and, the moment he had taken orders, a
Colonial Archdeaconry. He was exactly what might be
expected and a bosom friend of Macarthur. He seemed to
be “an alarmist and would lead one to suppose that some
great convulsion was always at hand in the colony.”
The Chief Justice had power to object to colonial
legislation as being repugnant to the laws of England,
which caused difficulties when it came to handling the


privileges of the Press. He - thought Macarthur every-
thing bad, and Macarthur thought him “a dangerous man.”
And they hated each other so much that when the council
met it was almost impossible to get them to look at each
other, much less speak to each other.
The Chief Customs Officer, Captain Piper, an opulent
relic of the old time, who had his own flag, band and salut-
ing guns and his private yacht, was a trial, since over the
years his accounts had become an inextricable mess, more
through muddle than dishonesty. A situation presently had
to be dealt with in which he sailed through the Heads in
his yacht and, while his band played “The Conquering
Hero.” dived overboard.
The situation was the more complicated, since, though
he could not swim, he apparently floated very well and
survived to end his years in prosperity and honor in the
exile of the west.
However, the Government help was not always like
this fortunately. The Colonial Secretary who succeeded the
unpopular Major Frederick Goulburn was a distinguished
British Civil Servant and scientist, Alexander Macleay, a
man of taste, as is witnessed by his still surviving mansions
of Elizabeth Bay House and Brownlow Hill.
The new Surveyor-General, Wellington’s map-maker
in Spain. Major Thomas Mitchell, did enormous replanning
of Sydney. He carried roads and exploration far into the
interior in Darling’s time, while Alan Cunningham pushed
northward and the Darling Downs were named and Captain
Sturt reached and named the Darling River, explored the
Murrumbidgee and Murray Rivers.
Martinet Darling may have been, but when he first took
office he certainly was prepared to be quite liberal
about the Press, the community and criticism in general.
In the beginning the new Governor believed, all too
easily, that he had taken over a community “to a man . . .
loyal and devoted to the Government,” in which he hoped
that, if he followed a policy of aloofness from party, “every
feeling of discord” would “be put to rest.”
His attitude of aloofness extended so far that he
refused to interfere with the Press when it virulently criti-
cised two members of the Legislative Council —the arch-
deacon and Macarthur —when they were attacked in their
private capacities.
j-TIS social outlook was much like that of Macquarie, He
A disclaimed “even the most remote wish of inducing,
much less urging,” familiar intercourse on freely come
settlers, who were still very few, “with men who have for-
feited their claim to good character.” At the same time, he
could “discover no just or reasonable ground for treating
the emancipists (freed convict class and their descendants)
as a body, with indiscriminate contumely,” which he appre-
hended. had “been too generally the practice of the old
settlers, or making them feel that reformation is
unavailing.”
He added that, without professing himself “a
philanthropist or affecting extraordinary enthusiasm on the
subject.” he must think “that such a course is no less
obnoxious in principle than contrary to the dictates of a
sound and wholesome policy.”
“Do they [the pure Merino settlers] suppose,” he
asked, “that the emancipists have no rights, but are to be
ever regarded as men under the immediate sentence of the
law?”
He added: “I should ill discharge my duty, I think,
if 1 were not to afford them, as a body, the countenance
and protection of the Government. It seems to me that
my duty is to see justice impartially administered to all, to
encourage the well disposed and to proscribe only the
incorrigible.”
vSo the well-meaning officer tried to compromise the
purpose of the Government at home that New South Wales
should now be basically a convict repository, in its present
phase, with the extension of settlement and the development
of the welfare of the free settlers.
His outlook was much that of Macquarie, but he
lacked Macquarie’s benign and patriarchal air and polished
manners. He approached his task with the outlook of the
sergeant-major rather than with that of the head of the
clan. Thus it is a sad fact that, in a community in which
half the population was convict under sentence and nine-
tenths of all either convict in origin or partial origin, he
soon found himself popular with nobody. He also found
all adversaries more modernly armed for attack than those
of Macquarie.
'J’HE Press, partly emancipist in control and certainly
emancipist in feeling, sought freedom of criticism to the
limit of slangwhanging everybody in typical Regency-
period style, until he was goaded into measures “restraining
its abuse” through the licensing of newspapers and the
prosecution of editors for seditious libel. This naturally
brought the hornet’s nest about his ears, and no pretext
which could be found to attack him was left unwielded.
Some of these pretexts, therefore, appear, on current
Press and political versions of his times, to be the true
corpus of history, but they are not.
There was, for instance, the case of Sudds and Thomp-
son. These two soldiers of the gallant 57th (Middlesex)
Regiment, when placed on transfer out of the colony, were
unfortunate enough to make use of a then current device
used by soldiers who wished to remain in Sydney at a
moment when the Government and the military alike had
become tired of the practice.
The pair committed a petty larceny in order to have
themselves convicted and “transported.” This meant, in
effect, that they would be sentenced to remain as convicts
in the colony, but living no more in servitude than under
the kind of military discipline which ruled in those far
from halcyon days.
Instead, no doubt to their surprise, the Court decided
on a different course. They were convicted, paraded as
examples to those who might hereafter play the same
game, stripped of their uniforms in the presence of the
regiment, fitted with iron neck-yokes and wrist and ankle
chains and, in fact, with the normal adornments of the
“iron gang.” They were sentenced to work in that gang
on the roads for seven years, after which they were to be
returned to the regiment. Unluckily for everybody. Sudds
died of fever within five days.
Something like this was just what Darling’s enemies
were looking for. William Charles Wentworth, in his
“impeachment” of him, avowed his intention to send the
Governor to the gallows in the steps of Governor Wall.
Joseph Hume took the matter up in England. And from
then on the gloves were off all the time until Darling
sailed for home via Canton on October 22, 1831. The
last bit of New South Wales visible to him was lighted by
fires of Wentworth’s gloating public bivouac for the mob
down at Vaucluse, arranged to celebrate his departure.
Such matters as the quarrel with the Press and the
Sudds and Thompson case were all lumped into the agita-
tion for extensions of the jury system, and self-government,
and land reform in which the Governor was held responsible
for much policy for which he had no real responsibility
whatever, since he was acting in strict accord with Home-
Government’s orders.
His enemies, as with Macquarie, carried their attack
on him into Parliament by courtesy of Joseph Hume and
others of his kind. But they were up against tougher
material than poor Macquarie had been.
They pursued Darling long after his departure from
the colony until a Select Committee of the House of


“Shall I compare thee to a summer's day ?”
Commons was appointed in July, 1835, to inquire particu-
larly “with reference to the grants of Crown lands made
by him, his treatment of the public Press, his treatment of a
Captain Robison whom he was supposed to have perse-
cuted and the New South Wales Veteran Companies, and
the alleged instances of cruelty towards the soldiers Sudds
and Thompson and other persons.”
The list of members sitting on this Select Committee
included such historical figures as Lord Stanley, Henry
Bulwer Lytton, Joseph Hume and W. E. Gladstone. They
found that the punishment of Sudds and Thompson was
“under the peculiar circumstances of the colony, especially
at that period, and of repeated instances on the part of the
soldiery of misconduct similar to that for which the indi-
viduals of in question were punished, entirely free from
blame.” Also, that there was nothing in the Governor’s
conduct towards the two soldiers, or in his reports to the
Home Government on their case, inconsistent with his duty
as a public functionary, or with his honor as an officer
and a gentleman.”
The hearing of the remaining charges against him all
collapsed for lack of evidence.
The finding came out on September 1, 1835. On the
following day the Crown solaced him by appointing him
a Knight Grand Cross of the Hanoverian Guelphic Order,
to mark its sense of his innocence and disapproval of the
persecution that had been levelled against him.
Anybody who has studied the details of his period
closely will agree with his exculpation, and is likely to
conclude that much of his trouble lay, not in his acts,
but in his manner of doing them. However, the tradition
of the hard, unconstitutional martinet who should have
swung on high like the cruel Governor Wall of Goree
persists.
Darling, the builder and consolidater of civilised
living in the young Australia, the name of which was for
the first time officially recognised—it had been used with-
out sanction from Westminster 10 years before by Mac-
quarie—during his reign, is almost forgotten in the public
mind.
Yet under his rule the first really deliberative assembly
met in Australia, free to debate matters within the ambit
of its limited powers without censorship, the first local
taxes were levied by a legislative vote instead of by the
use of the vice-regal proclamation, the departmentalised
Civil Service was created, the Hunter River and the Middle
Western Districts and the country southward from Camden
to the Murrumbidgee were colonised, land legislation and
titles regularised and brought within the control of a depart-
ment. The coalmining industry was set on its feet and
the first mechanical aids to mining and steam engines were
employed in coalmining. The age of steam was on the
doorstep, the “Sophia Jane” on her way to introduce it, and
a steamship was building in the colony.
The age of free immigration opened during his period.
Banking was established on a competitive basis. A second
bank, to serve the “pure merinos,” was formed. Govern-
ment currency notes issued. The public library was estab-
lished and the first embryo university college, the first public
school in King’s School. Church and education were
endowed with land. The Sydney Chamber of Commerce
was founded, the first in the colony. The knowledge of
the continent expanded enormously, the sheep industry
was put on its feet. And curiously, despite all the sup-
posed repression, freedom of speech flourished refreshingly
—and picturesquely.
It was Darling who, when the news arrived that
French ships of discovery were likely to be on their way
to Australasia, sent Major Lockyer to command a settle-
ment at King George’s Sound, on the Westralian coast,
and Captain Wright for the same purpose to Western
Port. And it was he who wrote to the Under-Secretary
for the Colonial Office on October 9, 1826, asking that
British territory, of which the western limit had been settled
in his commission as extending west only to the 141 degree
of east longitude in the mid-centre (having been fixed at
the 135th degree before 1825), should henceforward
include the whole of the continent. It was he who made
this de facto by his instructions to Major Lockyer that, even
if he should discover that the French had arrived on the
Western Australian coast before him, he “should, notwith-
standing, land the troops agreeably to your instructions,
and signify that it is considered the whole of New Holland,
is subject to His Britannic Majesty’s Government.”
Jl/fOREOVER, in spite of his alleged tyrannies and sup-
pression of freedoms, it was during his period that the
rights of liberty were defined in a way in which they had
never been defined before, a properly organised system of
courts and civil law established, the right of the Governor to
act as an appeal judge repealed.
Darling’s period in many ways was the most fruitful
five years in Australian advance and expansion before the
gold era, despite the curse of bad weather and market
conditions.
The structural changes, the changes in outlook, the
growth in every field were appreciable. His age might be
described justly as the Age of Establishment, ranking with
the Macquarie age, though more important as a period in
which settlement became firmly anchored to the continent,
the last chance of its evacuation disappeared for ever and
the sun began to set on the convict era.
Unlike Macquarie, Darling left the Government, a
comparatively young man only 56 years of age, in rude
health and vigor.
A few years after his return to England he became a
general by seniority and colonel in succession of the 41st
and 69th Foot as marks of honor and some profit. He
lived to see responsible government, the natural and
inevitable corollary of the progress that had been made in
his own time, established in Australia, which had become
a fabulous Mecca for the fortune-hunters of the gold era.
He died at Brighton in 1858 at the ripe old age of 82.


FeifTer
60 1 ReM'MMMW
!ti M 4 HT COURSE ■
qou &M6MER ?
MM tub
KB FUSE
TO Uifß M £
MHW |
um w
stop 6o m \
ok to m 1 f)
I
Al»
AMP I RiAUIEP hoiaJ
us6Ful a wtAPW That
\*>. I MfAlO WHAT
IN)4Tf?(JMFMT OF
FAWW tEfal
AMCe IN) '
TIMeS OF
tyranny-
WAW
FROM
ANY
6Poup/
60
AHeAC7,
-ARMIS-
toat. ALL WU HAV6 TO QO ft
LOOK AROUNO < TOO / MIL{?KOO
tOPA<4 MAN 1$ WRM;
WZQ &i WOMAN ?' '
H6s MAT£(? \tfl A
flt!l,D-A PRISON^
£Rf m 0 I
vtfir&ricb- /
LOHO OMM all L
M MOM 1 * «
TOOM?mWM
ims m mm I
no hUCt&m. I
BfCAtAO W Q
owrruttMfli! £
bO
AH6AP
«me
M J » F/£Hf SACK
mVRSQ- vof THAU OfUM
iu wizutC' dvr i MHEHbe&p
"MwmxA \aw ne
\C6A cwt 10 M£'
whm mrMBH
mee 10s
me K
AWTHW6
to pp w/th |
WOM6M mil 1
im
10 ue out ?ovJ£R ?
MhO
m\e
9> routes ' if 1 ? WOT Vfou
M A PERSON I'M ‘
Kjecriwej Miu7p6C?
ITS W A$ AjO
WMY/ r '
WAUT W)
THAT. <g\
6>o
APMIf?
bo mu u ckui tee
tm orm now ' ■
Mmt
m twMtiC'i*
15 M (
CM OMS V
m % tom n
6R. OUT MT/i I
tneio, mom, |
ifb Kb if- I'M
HOUfct R6P 1
CH/DA- f
r bee.
ARM M
Q 0 WU 65T TH6
i DO,
ARM 16, AMI?
r mpecr
wo m
J Mme
jli ra? ir.
fcoj eons
mb\ urn
v a cme


The Wild
Cat Pages
MOTELS
GROWING CAPITAL CONCENTRATION
FINANCE BUSINESS ECONOMIC COMMENT INVESTMENT OIL AND MINING
T\eflationary difficulties have empha-
sised the long-run advantages of
larger motel chains with greater
capital resources. On the whole, the
industry seems to have benefited from
the Federal Government's deflation-
ary measures, w'hich have resulted in
a marked trend to consolidation through
the weeding out of a high proportion of
speculative investment and marginal
operators.
In the boom days the industry devel-
oped under several basic handicaps—
land values were inflated, labor was hard
to get and expensive and building
materials were often in short supply,
causing delays and additional costs. This
did not deter the short-term, speculative
investors who, anticipating the boom to
continue indefinitely, were prepared to
pay high prices for attractive sites and
erect low-cost structures—often poorly
designed and prefabricated from cheap
materials —hoping that the boom spend-
ing wave would ensure the return of
capital outlay plus a handsome profit
over four, five or six years. Motels began
to mushroom, spreading into summer and
then winter resorts.
When the boom was pricked the
situation changed. Competition stiffened
and occupancy rates for the poorer-
quality units failed to grow or sagged.
Customers became more selective and
better-built and designed motels gained a
distinct advantage.
One of the basic equations of the motel
industry is matching room cost against
gross room revenue. The inflow of cash
must be reasonably steady, and sufficient
to cover overheads, operating expenses,
maintenance and depreciation charges
and interest payments. When all these
are deducted from the gross cash room
revenue, the balance, after tax, can be
matched against equity investment to
arrive at the net earning rate.
Here the advantages enjoyed by the
well-managed motel chains, with good
credit standing ensuring a supply of
loan funds if necessary, become apparent.
A well-established company operating a
chain of motels and having adequate
capital resources can buy the best motel
sites —an extremely important factor —
and erect good, durable motel buildings,
with such added incentives as licensed
restaurants and swimming-pools. It can
also operate both terminal (city) and
transit (country) motels simultaneously,
gaining the advantage of lower country
costs and higher city occupancy rates.
The total cost of erecting a good
country motel, built of brick and tiles
and having all the internal facilities —
Motel Federation of Australia standards
are exacting —is estimated to vary from
£2600 to £2900 a unit. The cost of a
similar unit in Sydney could go as high
as £4500 to £5OOO a unit. But in Sydney
a good motel has an occupancy rate of
85 per cent, to 100 per cent., while a
country motel could find 65 p.c. to 85
p.c. satisfactory. And whereas a country
chain motel may break even on an occu-
pancy rate of about 40 p.c., a marginal
individual operator would require a mini-
mum of about 60 p.c. to feel safe.
Gross room revenue of a good city
motel is estimated at about £BOO-£IOOQ
a suite a year, while £5OO to £650 may
be considered reasonable for a country
chain motel.
This partly explains the recent take-
over moves made by expanding motel
interests with a solid background of well-
run terminal units and access to loan
funds. In the same way, such powerful
companies as Lend Lease Corporation
find limited investment in high-standard
motels an attractive form of diversi-
fication.
The motel industry is in a state
of consolidation but not decline.
The number of motels and units
is growing. The latest Motel Federa-
tion of Australia’s figures show
that its membership has reached 206
motels with 4499 units. Of these, some
33 p.c. are owned by chain operators.
For instance, the Motels of Australia-
Carapark Holdings merger will result in
a powerful chain of some 40 motels
spread throughout the Commonwealth.
Finance is now more readily available,
the climate less speculative and building
costs more stable.
The industry is growing and the pat-
tern of ownership is changing, tending
more and more towards concentration of
capital and control.
MANAGEMENT
THE INDUSTRY'S CHANGING ATTITUDES
tvjot so long ago, those persons who
were prepared to accept that the
training of employees at every level of
industry and commerce has a great
impact on productivity were definitely in
the minority. Indeed, many thought this
was unwarranted, unnecessary, and that
the instigators of such ideas were
crackpots. The implementation of train-
ing schemes which were continuous in
that they followed the employee from
induction to either retirement or dis-
missal was nonsensical. After all, what
were the workers paid for?
However, the few Australian concerns
which attempted to put into practice the
suggestions of trained management
specialists were amazed at the sudden
transformation which their companies
underwent. Some were almost blinded
by the changes that soon became an
established feature of their businesses —
rises in morale, productivity, fewer cases
of industrial unrest, a drop in costs and
waste, and a steady flow of helpful
suggestions for all round improvement
from the people on the spot. The male
or female worker who found satisfac-
tion in doing a more satisfactory job as
a direct result of training, gave of their


C*Ml
v*V ITo ‘
YOUR
FAVOURITE
BRANDY
fine Australian
pot-still
BRANDY
best. And the shareholders had little
option but to admit that the compara-
tively slender proportion of gross profit
eaten into by the cost of such schemes
was a sound investment, sounder in fact
than far greater sums spent on less pro-
ductive media.
Yet as the number of concerns who
were willing to accept that employees
were human beings rather than some-
body who unfortunately had to be
paid on Fridays rose, industrialists were
confronted with the problem of finding
suitably qualified persons who could not
only implement these changes with exist-
ing staffs but also ensure that,
sooner or later, supervisors would
have understudies, trained to take over
in cases of promotion, illness or expan-
sion. The supply of those who could
teach the future teachers was very limited.
The process of the change to an enligh-
tened view of industrial relations has
been hindered to a great extent by the
scarcity of trained management. Grossly
overburdened and understaffed, Govern-
ment-subsidised Technical Institutes are
now required to cope with annual enrol-
ments which a few years back would
have been considered fantastic. With an
understanding of why people work the
way they do as the basis of industrial
relations, lecturers are provided to cover
motivation, analysis, training, payment,
time and motion study, planning, awards,
and a host of other items, all of which
have the ultimate aim of increasing
efficiency in manufacturing, retail, whole-
sale, and office administration.
As with other professions, supervision
and management cannot be learned over-
night, nor can results be guaranteed on
completion of training. What is certain,
however, is that under tuition from
qualified lecturers, the graduates of the
technical colleges are more likely to
succeed more rapidly than their counter-
parts who rely solely on experience.
Mistakes are costly, and an upset or
poorly instructed employee contributes to
the decline in profitability.
The “workers-are-just-cogs” attitude is
disappearing, but there is still an
unhealthy number of employers who
think along these lines. They must find
it hard to reconcile their feelings with
their balance sheets. As with any revolu-
tion there are the diehards who refuse
to accept that scientific management is
here to stay because it is worthwhile for
everyone involved.
In one of the larger firms in the motor
industry, the export manager stated
recently to a student of Business Admin-
istration that he thought all this modern
management stuff was overdone. He’d
come up the hard way. What he did not
mention was that he had also gone down
the hard way, having once held the posi-
tion of general sales manager!
Management consultants are reaping a
bumper crop financially as they gather
the harvest from seeds sown on a fertile
industrial ground. So great is the demand
for what commerce likes to feel is a
package deal for its problems that there
are now few who do not have full
branches in every State. Their charges
for assisting industry to unravel the
tangled conflict of production versus
costs and labor are not light, the
more so when compared with the ridicu-
lously low fees asked by technological
colleges for students who, when
employed by a fi on, can often nip these
problems in the bud. It is ironical that
the nuclei of consultants’ staffs are
students of Business Administration etc.,
who felt that their services were not
altogether appreciated by their original
employers.
More important perhaps is the fact
that whether a company buys the services
offered by management consultants or
whether it encourages its employees to
undergo specialised training, the industry
in Australia is at last aware that the
crackpots of the past hold the key to
the transitional stages of Australia’s
future as an industrial nation,
BRYAN MELLONIE
UNITED STATES
EXPORT OPPORTUNITIES
time ago the American Consulate
General in Sydney began issuing news
releases about business opportunities
with American companies. Until now
most of them concerned American firms
seeking Australian markets for their pro-
ducts or wishing to appoint Australian
companies as agents and distributors,
mainly for consumer goods and light
capital equipment. But last week came
the first indications of new export oppor-
tunities on the United States market.
Particularly encouraging is the listing
by Smith, Kirkpatrick and Co. Inc., of
47 Beaver Street, New York, which wants
to import apricots, peaches, pears, prunes
and apples in quantities ranging up to
5000 tons a year. The company also
wishes to import bitter apricot kernels
to the extent of about 500 tons a year.
Another American firm, Aioco, of
1001 Grand Concourse, New York, is
seeking an agency as the exclusive distri-
butor of Australian photocopying
machines and other office equipment in
the United States.
If President Kennedy will be success-
ful in his efforts to liberalise the Ameri-
can tariff structure, Australian export
sales in the United States may rise
appreciably.


COMPANY REVIEWS AND NOTES
TENNYSON TEXTILE (HOLDING) LTD
WILL CAPITAL REDUCTION HELP?
'T'he Sydney-based holding company,
■*- Tennyson Textile (Holding) Ltd,
acquired the whole of the issued capital
in Tennyson Mills Pty Ltd, established
in 1945 to take over the business of
Tennyson Textile Mills. Initial authorised
capital of £150,000 was divided into
400,000 ss. ordinary and 50,000 20s.
5 p.c. cumulative preference shares.
Tennyson manufactures and treats
cotton, rayon, woollen and silk fabrics
of all types and also imports finished
textiles.
The holding company holds all issued
capital in Tennyson Textile Mills Pty
Ltd, Universal Textiles (Holding) Pty
Ltd, Universal Textile Agency Pty Ltd,
Silk and Rayon Dress Goods Distri-
butors Pty Ltd, Craftsman Fabrics Pty
Ltd, Neosil Fabrics Pty Ltd, and London
Buyers Ltd, of Manchester, England,
which acts as overseas agent for the Aus-
tralian interests
The credit restrictions and the increase
in competitive imports forced turnover
down by about 9\ p.c. Despite these
difficulties the company had a satis-
factory year. Results were adversely
affected by non-recurring expenses of
the subsidiary Tennyson Textile Mills
Pty Ltd, caused by major repairs and
re-spacing costs of present and new
machinery.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended June 30, 1961, was £16,624 lower
at £36,367, after providing £25,580 for
depreciation (down £517) and setting
aside £25,494 for taxation (up £204):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
f— Dividend v
June 5 p.e. To Re- Re-
-30, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1959.-33,104 2000 8 p.c, = 30,100 1,004 222,622
1960.. 52,991 2000 8 „ ~30,100 20,891 244,517
Capital profit reserve, £102,731 .. 347,248
1961.-36,367 2000 8 p.e. = 30,100 4267 351,518
* Subject to intangibles, £113,697, 30/6/61.
This was equivalent to an earning rate
of 9.1 p.c. on ordinary capital after
deducting 5 p.c. pref. div. charges of
£2OOO, compared with 13.6 p.c. in 1960,
8.3 p.c. in 1959 and 16.0 p.c. in 1958.
The steady 5 p.c. cum. pref. and the
8 p.c. ord. dividends (absorbing £32,100)
were fully covered. Reserves rose by
£106,991 to £351,518, subject to £113,697
intangibles. The sale of Tennyson House
resulted in a £102,731 gain and the
current asset ratio improved considerably.
On December 20, 1961, a special reso-
lution was passed at the general meeting
reducing ordinary capital by repayment
to ordinary shareholders of Is. 6d. per
share, leaving nominal and paid-up value
of the ords. at 3s. 6d. each. The rate
of preference dividend was lifted from
5 p.c. to 7 p.c. p.a. Paid capital will be
reduced by £112,875 to £313,375— —
£40,000 being preferential and £273,375
ordinary. The reconstruction of capital
is expected to provide better prospects
and increase the earning rate.
Paid up capital at June 30, 1961, was
£416,250 in 40,000 20s. cum. pref. shares
and 1,505,000 ss. ord. shares:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital—- 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref. .. .. £40,000 £40,000 £40,000
Ord 376,250 376,250 376,250
Reserves .. .. 222,622 244,517 351,515
Mortgages .. 105,850 101,036 58,242
Overdraft . . .. 118,212 193,645 270,303
Creditors . . . . 503,835 465,902 450,042
Tax provision . . 14 331 27,476 25,784
Final div. . . 16,050 16,050 31,100
£1.398,154 £1,464,876 £1,603,236
Land, buildings . . 222,284 224,583 128,491
Plant, machinery.. 210,453 189,292 185,699
Stocks . . . . 405,435 430,099 507,255
Debtors . . . . 440,960 500,744 500,321
Investments .. 3,375 4,194 5,012
Cash .. .. 2,010 2,315 162,761
Intangibles . . 113,637 113,649 113,697
£1,398,154 £1,464,876 £1,603,236
There were some important shifts in
the consolidated balance sheet. The pro-
perty at 16-20 Young Street was sold at
a capital profit and the proceeds used to
reduce mortgages on building by £42,794
to £58,242. Bank overdraft rose by
£76,658 to £270,303, due to the difficult
trading conditions in the last six months
of the financial year. Creditors decreased
by £15,860 to £450,042.
Stocks rose by £77,156 to £507,255.
Investments increased from £4194 to
£5012. Cash rose by £160,446 to
£162,761. Net tangible asset backing for
the 20s. 5 p.c. pref. share was £l6 7s. a
unit and for the ss. ords. Bs. 2d. at
balance date.
As many other textile manufacturers,
Tennyson faces rising costs, while selling
prices tend to remain stable. Higher
costs have to be compensated by
improvements in techniques and produc-
tion efficiency. Towards the end of the
financial year new plant was leased from
an American company and orders have
been forthcoming at a satisfactory rate.
Additional printing units, which should
not only increase capacity and reduce
production costs but also help to branch
out into new fields of activity, were
ordered during the year. The company
is devoting a great deal of effort towards
increasing the volume of exports and this
has even been made more attractive
through the tax concessions offered by
the Government.
Turnover for the five months ended
November 30, 1961, fell by 12 p.c. as
compared with the same period last year,
but now the mill is “working around
the clock” and prospects for 1962 appear
to be reasonable.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
fetched 4s. 7d. a unit. The immediate
return is 8.7 p.c. p.a. The 20s. 5 p.c.
prefs. were last traded at 13s. each.
OIL DEVELOPMENT N.L.
PROMISING EXPLORATION PERMITS
'T'he search for oil in Australia has
been carried on for more than 50
years, embracing all the States, New
Guinea and Papua, offshore waters
and Bass Strait. Some 500 wells
have been drilled. But in Canada
3000 holes had been sunk before
commercial production of oil began ;
and in Algeria 300 holes were drilled in
three years by independent American
companies (Philips, Mobil, Sinclair,
Newmont), the West German concerns
(Elwerath and Wintershall) and the
Italian A.M.I.F. However, they were not
“I said, ‘ Don't you find the silence deafening ?' ”
THE BULLETIN, January 20, 1962


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on the Bth March, 1950.
(ASSETS EXCEED £9,000,000)
10/
2/o
PER ANNUM
5 OR 6 YEARS
INTEREST PERIOD
9Va% Pi. 5 or 6 years
9% P.A „_4 years
BVi% P.A. 3 years
8% P.A... _2 years
7Vi% p.A„„ .12 months
6!/a% P.A .6 months
INTEREST PERIOD
9Vx%?X years •
9% P.A._ 3 years
BV*% P.A „_2 years
8% P.A 12 months
7% P.A „_6 months
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal emergency
Applications for Debenture Stock and Notes accepted only
on form of application attached to prospectus, obtainable from
Any BRANCH of the Bank of N.S.W.
OR
The Company's Offices:
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: sth Floor, T. & G. Building, 137 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
NEWCASTLE: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street,
Newcastle West.
OR
Any Member of a Stock Exchange
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
CC.IIB/M
given a free hand, but were required to
enter into joint agreements with French
companies.
Various developments over the past
ten years —including the strike at Rough
Range, W.A. —encouraging results at Port
Campbell (Vic.), Roma and Combarngo
(Qld), climaxing in the strike at Cabawin
and Moonie, have created great interest
in Australian oil exploration, in particu-
lar by overseas organisations. This is
particularly true of the U.S., which now
has 25 groups actively engaged in oil
search in Australia. Other overseas
groups have also began to survey Aus-
tralia’s prospects, particularly the French
who have achieved a remarkable success
in the Sahara.
A new concept has developed in the
search for oil. Experienced exploration
companies are proceeding scientifically
to select targets with the aid of the
latest techniques. Scientific data are being
collected from all over Australia. Aus-
tralia has deep sedimentary basins, with
marine sections and the structures which
may provide traps for oil and gas.
Oil Development N.L., incorporated
in Melbourne on April 13, 1960, is a
relatively new company, exploring for
oil and gas within its petroleum permit
(licence) areas:
In Victoria. —Petroleum Prospecting Licences
199, 210 and 256 and Petroleum Exploration
Permits 28, 29, 32, 34 and 36.
In N.S.W.- —Petroleum Exploration Licences
3, 12, 32 and 35.
In W.A.—Petroleum Prospecting Licences
106 H and 127 H.
In N.T. —Oil Permits 3 and 8.
In Queensland. —Authority to prospect 81 P,
Alpha District, Central Queensland.
During the year there were some
changes—Petroleum Exploration Licence
69, in the South Sydney Basin (N.S.W.),
was acquired early in 1961. The option
over P.E.L.’s 3 and 12, Hunter-Sydney
Basin (N.S.W.), was abandoned in Nov-
ember, 1960, after a detailed geological
examination. Early in 1961 an extension
covering the offshore area to the west of
Bathurst-Melville Islands, Oil Permit No.
8, was granted to the company.
The company holds permits in Tor-
quay (Vic.), Bonaparte Gulf (N.T. and
W.A.), Bathurst-Melville Islands (N.T.),
the Hunter-Sydney Basin and Tibooburra
District (N.S.W.), Alpha (Qld), Ander-
sons Inlet and adjacent continental shelf
(Vic.), and other areas in Victoria
(Portland Basin) and in Western Aus-
tralia (Fitzroy Basin).
Oil and gas exploration is being
carried out in two stages—firstly, a
detailed investigation, and, in some cases,
shallow holes ; secondly, the drilling of
selected targets.
All seismic and drilling activities are
carried out by contractors on a competi-
live tendering basis, avoiding the need to
outlay capital on costly plant.
The prospecting statement for the 15
months ended June 30, 1961, indicates
that expenditure on direct field operations
amounted to £214,423. Subsidies received
were £33,709.
Paid capital at June 30, 1961, was
£539,000 in 3,220,000 ss. ords. paid to
2s. 6d. each and 546,000 ss. fully paid
shares. Calls of 6d. per share were made,
payable on July 12, and November 8,
1961, making the shares paid to 3s. 6d.
each. Creditors stood at £49,226:
1961
Paid capital £539,000
Creditors 49,226
£588.226
Equipment, plant & building .. 20,025
Shares 21,000
Stores 1,609
Debtors .. .. .. .. 6,647
C'wealth subsidy .. 33,709
Cash 19i806
Intangibles 485,430
£588,226
Equipment, plant and buildings stood at


FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS. £893.311.
TANGIBLE ASSETS. £3,075,026.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
YEAR ENDED
30-6-61
£12,857,865
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/11/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
• ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• HDS2.II
FIRE -
X.!!
TELEPHONES
THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATION
.W. BRANCH: 1!) BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
BIT 4387 L F. THORPE, Manager.
a modest £20,025, after charging £2500
for depreciation. Oil Development N.L.
holds 200,000 fully paid shares of 2s.
each in Westralian Oil Ltd, and 1000 £lO
shares paid to £1 each, in South East Oil
Syndicate Ltd. Intangibles stood at
£485,430, including payments for petro-
leum permits and licences.
A “farm-out” arrangement was entered
into with General Exploration Co. of
Australia Ltd (the partners to which are
Santos Ltd and General Exploration Co.
of California) in August, 1960, in respect
to a 200-square-mile area at Penola,
S.A., and in two 100-square-mile areas
situated near Mt Schank. An agreement
has now been made with Santos Ltd
regarding the second “farm-out” arrange-
ment.
In partnership with Santos Ltd, Oil
Development N.L. has acquired a
National 50 heli rig and a National 50
standard rig. Oilsand Pty Ltd, jointly
owned by Santos Ltd and Oil Develop-
ment N.L., has been formed to operate
the drilling rigs for the two companies.
Field operations carried out during the
year were as follows:
Drilling of Genola Well No. 1 suspended in
May, 1961, at 4985 feet owing to operational
difficulties; gas was present in lower parts of
the well but not jn commercial quantities.
Drilling of Beachport Well No. 1 by South
Last Oil Syndicate Ltd —in which Oil Develop-
ment N.L. has a2O p.c. interest—was commenced
early in September, 1961.
Spirit Hill Well No. 1 was completed at
3003 feet in November, 1960; minor gas and
oil flows were present. From June to Septem-
ber, 1960, Bathurst Island Well No. 1 was
drilled to 828 feet, but discontinued due to
caving ground.
Bathurst Island Well No. 2 was commenced
in July, 1961. However, two months later the
hole had to be abandoned at 1024 feet because
of showings of gas at high pressure.
A seismic survey extending over 105
miles was carried out in the Alpha
District in Queensland, where first-class
drilling targets were discovered along the
eastern edge of the Great Artesian Basin.
Discussions are taking place with local
and overseas enterprises, with a view to
drilling in these localities. Plans are in
hand to carry out a shallow drilling pro-
gramme near Mt Salt in the Gambier
Basin. Also a most encouraging strati-
graphic picture was revealed by the
seismic survey carried out in the Torquay
area in Victoria.
Oil Development N.L. will issue
3.766,000 ss. shares at par on basis of
one-for-one held at January 18, 1962.
The shares will be payable Is. each on
application and this will increase paid up
capital to £888.300.
Because of the use of latest techniques
in the dramatic search for oil, links with
companies such as Santos Ltd, and per-
mits, licences and interests held in areas
with promising oil and gas potential the
company seems to be in an attractive
position in its class.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.,
paid up to 3s. 6d., fetched Bs. 7d. a unit.


NOW AVAILABLE IN THE FAMOUS
INTERNATIONAL PACK
f The new round bottle ,
'wmd,
m
m
UO JSISUI
• •
• • * msu os dinoj^
n» o Scot
BLACK&WHITE
BUCHANANS
CHOICE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
‘BLACK & WHITE’
SCOTCH WHISKY
“BUCHANANS”
By Appointment
Scotch Whisk v Distillers
to Her Majesty he Queen
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD.
GLASGOW, SCOTLAND
LONDON
ASSOC. SECURITIES & ANSETT
TAKEOVERS FAIL
'"pHE withdrawal by Associated Securi-
ties Ltd of its ambitious £22.4m.
takeover offer for Australian Guarantee
Corporation Ltd, following closely on
Australian Guarantee’s one-for-three
bonus issue, indicates that the now classic
defensive tactics of issuing gift scrip are
still effective. It seems that the board
of the Bank of New South Wales, which
has a 40 p.c. share interest in Australian
Guarantee Corporation, has so far
remained rather neutral in the tussle.
This made Australian Guarantee’s bonus
issue a powerful, if costly, defensive
weapon —at least for the time being.
But Associated Securities has not really
come off second best —the seriousness
with which Australian Guarantee’s direc-
tors regarded the takeover threat, and
even the very fact of the bid, have con-
siderably increased its sharemarket
prestige.
The situation with Ansett Transport
Industries Ltd’s takeover offer to Antill
Ranger (Holdings) Ltd is still not clear.
Antill’s board, as was to be expected, has
rejected the offer, but Ansett may yet
make a direct approach to the share-
holders—this would be in line with its
tradition of aggressive expansionary
thrusts.
AUSTRALIAN FACTORS LTD
NEW PAR ISSUE
A ustralian Factors Ltd is making an
issue of 260,000 ss. ordinary shares,
one-for-five at par, to shareholders
registered on January 25, 1962. Directors
say they are confident the present 124 p.c.
dividend rate will be maintained. New
shares are payable in full on application
by February 21, 1962, ranking for divi-
dend from January 1, 1962.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
COLLECTOR'S £23m.
A .m.p. Society wrote £23m. Collector
Assurance in 1961. A.M.P.’s general
manager, Mr H. B. G. Walker, stated
that Collector was developing into “a
major factor in Australian life assur-
ance.” The figure represents the first full
year for this type of assurance which was
introduced in Australia and New Zealand
by A.M.P. in the second half of 1960.
Mr Walker said that “the Collector
Assurance total of £23,341,128 for the year
1961 justifies the Society's decision to
provide fuller protection with a home
collection service, based on its assess-
ment of the new needs of wage-earners.
Comparison of this figure with 1959, our
last full year of Industrial Assurance,
shows an increase of just under 120 per
cent, on the £10.6 million written by
our Industrial Department in that year.”
ASSOC. AUST. OILFIELDS
GLENTULLOCH
A ssociated Australian Oilfields
N.L. and associated companies report
in a joint statement that production
testing of the Glentulloch No. 1 well is
in progress. After a production test of
63 hours the 2490 ft to 2530 ft interval—
which had earlier made a showing of
natural gas at a daily rate of 1.75 million
cu. ft on a drill-stem test —is producing
a gas flow at the rate of 2.1 million cu. ft
a day. There is a “small quantity of
water.”
“Further testing of the intervals which
yielded 2 million and 2.9 million cu. ft
per day on drill-stem tests will commence
in the next few days.” The company
intends to thoroughly test all intervals
during the present series of production
tests.
Associated Australian Oilfields N.L. is
working under a partnership arrange-
ment with Associated Freney Oil Fields
N.L., The Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum
Co. Ltd, Associated Continental Petro-
leum N.L., Interstate Oil Ltd and H. C.
Sleigh Ltd.
TIMOR OIL LTD
MATAI
T'mrectors report that it has been
decided to relocate the Matai No. 4
well across a traverse fault in the same
locality where it is hoped that the pro-
duction formation will be encountered
in greater thickness. More favorable
drilling conditions are expected. The
hole is expected to be spudded in soon
and then cased.


John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cablet:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO"
Phone: 312*61
(4 lines)
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. K. E. DOWLING,
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfin House, 16 O'Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne, 61-5957 (1 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney
Melbourne or Woolongong.
FOR THE INVESTOR
The Australian
FINANCIAL TIMES
OUT EVERY MONDAY
PRICE 1/6
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman).. F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLAS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director.
Brandies in all States
R. A. CATLEY, Manager.
Agencies in all Country Centres
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Monday, January 15.
At the risk of being considered un-
worthy of the title of speculator, I
have to confess that I have not bought
or sold one oil share in the last fort-
night. There are some things I consider
too dangerous even for speculators and oil
is one of them. So I simply went along to
the public gallery of the Stock Exchange
the morning trading resumed after New
Year. There I witnessed what Noel
Coward would describe as the “macabre
spectacle” of middle-aged housewives and
others having their flutter on the oil
market. I quietly said a prayer for them
and went my way.
I have, however, foregone my prin-
ciples about oil shares and applied for
1000 shares in the Planet issue announced
today. The initial outlay is only £5O, but
even that could be against my better
judgment. Despite its size and associa-
tion with C.S.R., Planet is, after all, just
another oil prospecting company embark-
ing on a career that has already ended in
failure for a good many. Still, it is only
by companies such as this raising money
to put down drills here and there that
we are ever going to determine if there
is oil in commercial quantities under our
soil. So I feel more patriotic than con-
fident about my £5O, particularly as it
will probably be six weeks before
Planet’s shares are listed and in that time
anything could happen on the oil market.
Planet may not, therefore, be the good
thing that the stags think it is.
Otherwise this fortnight has largely
been a matter of repaying my brokers.
I started the year owing £370 and then
got further into debt by buying 400 Antill
Ranger. You might remember that I
vainly held Antill Ranger shares through-
out the better part of 1961 and then sold.
Now with Ansett opening the bidding in
the takeover war. the shares are already
worth 17s. I was lucky enough to get
400 on the way up at 15s. My reason-
ing, as with Fibre Containers, was that
Antill Ranger is in an industry that is
sharpening its competitive knives and
therefore unlikely to be knocked down
to the first bidder. But the real moral
of the story lies in my error in selling
my original shares last September: it
pays, it seems, to hold on to the weak
stock when it’s down, provided it operates
in a competitive industry (as road trans-
port is), in the hope of either a takeover
or a fairly swift recovery.
The 400 Antill and 1000 Planet brought
my total debts to £728, so I began my
cash realisation programme with Bitumen
and Oil which had treated me very kindly
since I bought in through Huddart Parker
in September at 225. 6d. Apart from
getting £75 in cash, I was able to make
a further £35 when I sold my 300 for a
total profit of £llO. I also parted with
my remaining 200 Marrickville for a
profit of £3l. 1 came to the conclusion
that Marrickville is probably overpriced
unless, of course, Procter and Gamble
one day decides to swallow the whole
outfit. And that’s quite possible. Finally,
I sold my 200 F. G. O'Brien which had
not moved in price since I bought them.
What I did not sell was Mello-lite (now
Hunter Douglas) which has taken off
from 265. to 395. 6d. since I bought them
just before Christmas. I resisted the
temptation to take a good profit because
I feel the shares will be worth still more
—admittedly later rather than sooner, but
before too long.
The glamor accorded Mello-lite under
the Hunter Douglas banner makes one
wonder when the Alcoa label is going to
stick firmly to Western Mining. Its shares
have been very quiet since the new issue
despite the rapid strides being made by
Alcoa Australia at Geelong and in W.A.
These sales reduced my debts to a
mere £l2 after a week in which I made
a profit of £136. Details were:
SOLD
300 Bitumen and Oil at 25/3 £373
200 Marrickville at 25/3 .. £248
200 F. G. O’Brien at 9/9 . . £95
BOUGHT
1000 Planet at 1/- .. £5O
400 Antill Ranger at 15/- £3OB
And my portfolio is:
„ Cost Cur-
>o. of Name of Total Per rent
Shares Company Cost Share Price
300 Hornibrook £354 23/- 27/-
300 McDonald 207 13/6 16/-
200 Southern TV 205 20/- 28/6
300 Pyrox 87 5/9 7/1
200 136 13/4 J4/S
400 Derrin 206 10/- 11 / -
400 O'Donnell 239 11/8 13/9
50 Rothmans 199 78/9 88/-
200 Shipping News 175 17/3 23/-
400 Olympic Bowl 100 5/1 4/1
500 West. Mining 210 8/3 9/6
800 Southgate 346 8/6 8/6
1,000 United Motels 184 3/6 4/-
1,000 Harris .362 7/ 7/9
200 Mello-lite 265 26/- 39/6
200 Beau Monde 255 25/- 26/6
500 Fibre Cont. 886 34/9 36/-
800 Leo Buring 262 6/4 6/11
„ 400 Antill 308 15/- 16/6
1,000 Planet 50 i/_


Out: and About
FASHION
YOUNG MEN IN A HURRY
THE ARTS BOOKS FASHION TRAVEL ABORIGINALITIES
'T'he newest thing in men’s fashion for
1962 is the two-button, single-
breasted suit. The switch from a three-
button to a two-button fastening (a fairly
startling change as male fashion goes)
reflects the influence of President
Kennedy.
At first American tailors could not see
that President Kennedy was likely to do
a thing for their industry. Mrs Kennedy
obviously could set the pace in women’s
fashions, but what sort of a standard
would be established by a hatless, care-
less, shaggy young President?
Not only did Kennedy not wear his
clothes well, he didn’t even buy some of
them in America. At the same time that
the news leaked out that Mrs Kennedy
bought in Paris, it was disclosed that
the President had some of his suits made
to measure in London.
But now, only a year after his inaugu-
ration, President Kennedy has pioneered
the “young man in a hurry” look for
men, for men who have time only to
fasten two buttons on their jacket
instead of three.
What other changes are expected in
men’s fashion this year?
Mr Paul Nelson, a local authority on
men’s clothing, says there have been more
changes in men’s fashions than in
women’s in the past five years. However,
he does not expect any violent change
this year that might necessitate discard-
ing whole wardrobes of clothes.
American-born Mr Nelson, who is
managing editor of the Australasian
“Tailor and Men’s Wear” journal thinks
that the general outline will follow the
body contour with narrow lapels, slim
trouser legs, slim ties, narrow shoes and
narrow-brimmed hats.
Mr Nelson says that the colors for men
in 1962 will be olives, browns and greens,
with just a smattering of blue.
However, in high fashion the new color
is black. Not charcoal-grey, Mr Nelson
cautioned, but pitch black. Mr Nelson
now has a black suit which he wears for
late afternoon in summer, but which he
finds suitable for all-day wear in winter.
Mr Nelson said there has been a
revival of the weekend suit, or what was
often called in England a town-and-
country suit. This was of tweed and
sometimes serves to win Australian men
away from their old love, the sports
jacket and slacks outfit.
Mr Nelson said that this year shep-
herd’s check, or houndstooth, was coming
in for men. He had invested in a shep-
herd’s check suit, the jacket of which
could be worn with plain slacks, and the
trousers with a plain jacket.
Mr Nelson said that other fabrics were
in crosschecks and glen urquhart plaid,
all, of course, very subdued.
Mr Nelson said that the all-over idea
in men’s fashions was to make clothes
less trouble to look after and more com-
fortable to wear. To this end, the soft
evening shirt, the short-sleeved business
shirt (which Mr Nelson said is growing
in popularity) even the mocassin-type
shoe which does away with shoe-laces
and the sort of bending-over which slips
discs, had been designed.
Mr Nelson believes that a wool-and-
synthetic blend is the easiest to tailor
satisfactorily, and, perhaps, the easiest to
valet. He said that linen plus synthetic
was being used increasingly for men’s
suits.
Mr Nelson does not believe that Aus-
tralian men need worry unduly about
their clothes going out of fashion before
they are worn out.
“I estimate we go on a
fashion cycle here,” he said, “compared
with a nine-month cycle in the United
States.”
The return of the blue, double-breasted
suit is still a long way off, but fashion
being what it is, it will surely come
back. It will come when the trade is sure
that enough men want, or can afford, a
major change in their dressing. Mr
“Let's face it Henry — you're only half the man you used to be!”


Nelson said that a new style double-
breasted suit was being worn in America.
However, the cross-over was not exten-
sive, the lapels were narrow and the
jacket edge was still rounded.
Mr Nelson said that although the con-
centration was on a young man’s look,
the improvement in Australian men’s
dressing embraced all age groups.
“Most Australian men now have at
least one lightweight suit for summer
and a light-medium weight for the rest of
the year,” Mr Nelson said. “Of course,
there are still a few old-timers past 50
who still wear a heavy, wool suit, with
a waistcoat, right through summer, but
they are dying off. They are possibly
dying off faster because of the clothes
they wear.”
Mr Nelson said that made-to-measure
clothes now represented only five per
cent, of the market.
“Young men will no longer sit cross-
legged on a bench sewing all day,” he
said. “It is hard enough to find appren-
tices for other, more acceptable trades.
It is impossible to get them for tailoring.
“Although there are still some good
tailors around, the average man around-
the-corner probably hasn’t had a new
idea in 20 years. But if you buy a good
ready-to-wear you get the benefit of the
world’s best designers. Some of the suits
made in Australia under licence are de-
signed by men earning 60,000 dollars a
year.”
Mr Nelson claimed that 75 per cent, of
the clothing market is taken up by young
men. The young man’s market stretches
from about 16 to the mid-thirties.
Mr Nelson believes that, as far as
clothes are concerned, the bodgie with
his leather jacket and bright shirt has
vanished. He said that the young man
from an industrial suburb now wished to
look like an American college boy. “Why,
I don’t know,” Mr Nelson said, “but he
does.”
Mr Nelson said that the American
popular entertainers who came to Aus-
tralia now were generally neatly and
well dressed, and this had an effect on
young men here. “Presley purple and
that sort of thing is out,” he said. “When
Frank Sinatra came here wearing a hat,
that did a lot for the hat trade.” (Mr
Nelson kindly didn’t mention that the hat
did a lot for Frankie, too, hiding his
bald spot).
Mr Nelson said it was difficult to find
real male style-setters. The last was
probably the Duke of Windsor, who
introduced the white dinner jacket, the
red carnation in the buttonhole, and, of
course, the Windsor knot.
He said that although there were some
very well-dressed men in Australia, he
did not think that any of them influ-
enced other men greatly in their choice
of clothes.
On the subject of Mr Menzies, and his
influence on Australian men’s dressing,
Mr Nelson merely said: “I know that
some people make a studied effort to be
eccentric in dress. But I do think a
national leader might realise that it
would help the economy if he dressed
well and so encouraged other men to
dress well, particularly as this country
produces wool.”
PATRCIA ROLFE
TRAVEL
IRAN-QUICKLY
AJTjltiply Rowe Street, Sydney, by
200 square miles and you have
Teheran. Gift-wrap it and drop it from
a great height into the middle of the
Nullarbor and you have Iran —which is
as good a reason as any for spending
your next holidays at Wentworth Falls.
If 1961 was “Come to India Year,”
may I propose the slogan, “Stay in Aus-
tralia in 1962”?
Even that bit of backwater behind
Balmain is here . . . down to the last oil-
slick. The Iranians call it the Caspian.
I know. It was here I was put under
house arrest in the sweetest little hotel
(the only hotel) in Bundar Pahlevi, near
the Russian frontier.
I arrived on a bus, booked into a hotel
{the hotel) and —bold as brass—two
policemen walk in, one with revolver
drawn, and he —the one with the
Colt .45 —says, “Welcome to Bundar
Pahlevi. You are under arrest,” which,
you must admit, smacks of pre-war
Graham Greene.
The arresting force were very jolly
companions. The ungunned one even
went so far as to suggest that if I gave
him money he would pop down to the
nearest Persian-type bottle department for
some vodka and we might as well enjoy
ourselves, eh?
I didn’t have a military permit.
Everybody was very nice about it.
Except me.
I didn’t mind being handcuffed to the
cop with the Colt and marched ignomin-
iously to the bus station and being put
on the 3.15 to Teheran.
What I minded was that I had already
been to the permit department of the
Teheran police and asked, “Do I need
a permit to travel to Bundar Pahlevi on
the Caspian?”
But the man I asked didn’t say me
yea or nay, just signed his autograph
in my passport (on the page that states:
No entries to be made on this page
except by a Bank or Travel Agency in
the United Kingdom) and said, “Wel-
come to Iran! ” It sort of makes you
feel wanted like.
But, apart from people running around
welcoming you, Iran doesn’t have much
for the casual visitor.
There are mosques, of course. But I,
personally, find it hard to enthuse over
mosques and minarets.
Persia also has Persian miniatures,
Persian carpets, Persian cats, Persian
markets, a Persian Gulf and the Shah.
There are oil wells, too.
Iran has no roads, save around the
capital.
Farah Diba has one of the most fan-
tastic collections of jewellery in the
world.
Iran has no railways, save around the
capital.
Talking of railways, you arrive in Iran
by train ... a Pakistani train, which
crawls across the border for 47 miles to
the town of Zahidan.
There’s not much you need to know
about Zahidan. The people are nicer in
Bourke. The beer’s better in Norseman.
Then you take the bus across the desert
to Bum, and another bus to Kerman,
and another bus to Yezd, and another
bus to Isfahan, and another bus to
Teheran. And, save for the last stretch
from Isfahan into the capital, Iran has
no roads.
Back in Teheran after my Balmain-
on-the-Caspian bother, I found myself
at a loose end. I looked at a royal
mosque here, a Shah’s palace there, read
old copies of the “Illustrated London
News” in the British library and decided
it was time to make tracks.
There is a bus daily from Teheran to
Erzurum, just across the frontier, in
Turkey.
It takes three days, and, apart from
the three-hour asphalt-smooth ride to
Kazvin, Iran has no roads.
Tabriz is famous for its medieval Blue
Mosque (if it hasn’t fallen down). The
bus was due to leave at 10 a.m. and at
9.05 a.m. a young American breathlessly
joined the group of passengers, watching
the driver change the two front wheels.
“Oh, boy!” he said, “never thought I’d
make it. The secret police certainly take
their time about issuing exit visas . . . .”
EXIT VISAS?
I got directions and a taxi. “Exit
visa,” I said to the bus-driver. “Will
you wait for me?”
“No,” he said, changing the back
wheels.
I got back at 12.10 p.m. and half
the engine was lying on the garage floor.


And the next day we left for Turkey.
That was the day of the Newsworthy
Incident.
It is night. The Tabriz express is
speeding through the mountains of
North-west Iran. A villager appears
(what was he doing in the middle of the
mountains of North-west Iran at that
time of night, I wonder). What does he
see? He sees that the rails have been
twisted and torn by a landslide. Then
he hears the v/histle of the approaching
train. Thinking quickly, he strips off
his clothes and sets alight to them. The
train-driver sees the fire, stops the train,
the Tabriz express is saved.
The Iranian Government gave the
villager a medal.
In Australia he would have been
arrested for indecent exposure.
DON WHITE
ABORIGINALITIES
THE DROVERS
A ll day I have driven through a magni-
ficent, barbaric landscape on fire with
heat and color. Mountains of fire-red
cliffs and escarpments, fissured and
caverned, lilac-haze ranges of empurpled
gorges and chasms have reared, moved,
receded and reappeared in my vision all
day long. This is the land of the baobab-
trees, not merely the symmetrical, bottle-
shaped trees, but monstrous, squat, obese,
grotesque, gesticulating baobab-trees by
dry watercourses and among the chaos
of heat-blackened and sun-fired rocks
and boulders at the feet of the ranges.
Now, towards sunset, as 1 drive into a
group of baobab-trees to make my camp,
I feel exhausted, saturated by the heat,
color and immensity of the landscape
through which I have travelled.
The sun is setting behind a deep purple
and lilac-hazed range. It seems I have
camped near drovers who are settling
the mob of cattle down for the night.
A cloud of fire-amber dust is rising
against the sunset. From about half
a mile away, and out of the amber dust-
haze, comes the low, mingled moan-
ing and bellowing sound of the mob.
From behind me comes the thin, sharp,
“crack-crack-crack” sound of whips.
Aboriginal stockmen are driving the
“plant”, horses, mules and donkeys, with
jingling bells and hobbles round their
necks, back from the w'ater-tanks, wind-
mill and bore behind me through the
trees. The horsemen swing and ply the
whips, riding nonchalantly alongside and
behind the “plant.” They pass me,
horses, donkeys, mules and horsemen,
moving, riding into the blaze and haze
of the sun, the dust and the lilac range.
My camp-fire is blazing now among
the baobab-trees. Where the sun has set
the sky is deepening in burning red-
amber. The coming night is turquoise
above it. Bush-fire red the dust rises
from the bellowing and lowing of the
cattle, the shouting and whistling of the
stockmen riding and settling down the
mob, unseen.
It is night, a clear, cool night. The
monstrous-bodied mass of a baobab with
writhing, outflung arms stands against
the brilliant, burning Southern Cross
swinging below the black range-mass in
the south-west. A mopoke calls from
the stars. Crickets sing around me. The
cattle are still bellowing and moaning.
Clear on the night comes the whistling
of the stockmen riding round the cattle.
Again and again an aboriginal sings a
tribal song.
In the north-east the clump of baobabs
with branches like electric, affrighted,
out-flung hair stands against a white
glow in the sky. Is this the light of the
unsleeping Wyndham, the meat-works
of Wyndham, where the cattle will be
slaughtered?
By the red, glowing coals of the fire
I sit writing in my notebook. The
cattle bellow, scream hoarsely, angrily.
The stockmen shout, whistle, the abori-
ginal sings.
All night under the stars, under the
moon, the aboriginal rides round the
mob singing his repetitive, savage, clear
song, that becomes in its repetition a
lulling sound.
I have slept late. The morning is
quiet. The drovers and the cattle have
moved on. Perhaps the whistling and
the shouting and bellowing I heard last
night were the sounds of the mob break-
ing camp before daylight.
I have gone only a few miles down
the road when, against the red and lilac-
shadowed mass of the range, I see the
drovers’ “plant” of skewbald, grey, bay,
and brown horses travelling with manes
and tails flowing in the wind. Mules
and donkeys walk and trot along loaded
with pack-saddles and swags. Two
aboriginal drovers are riding leisurely
at the rear of the “plant.”
Stopping the car, I get out and speak
to the elder of the two men. Oh, why
do not the television producers get a
good eye-full of such an Australian
stockman as this man. He is a quiet,
well-spoken, pleasant man. He is almost
too shy to answer the questions I ask
him. He wears a dark sombrero with a
white, plaited band, a simple, dark, open-
necked shirt, grey mole-skin trousers,
“concertina” leggings, and the Austra-
lian ’lastic-sided riding-boots.
He sits his horse easily, naturally. He
has wonderful “hands” on the reins, con-
trolling the restless, spirited animal with-
out any show. He is obviously a man
who has spent his life in the saddle. They
have brought the cattle from Hall’s
Creek and are taking them to Wyndham.
It is as I thought; the mob is entirely
in the charge of aborigines.
He smiles when I tell him of the abori-
ginal songs that I heard all last night.
“Ah yes,” he says, “they’re just rubbish
songs we sing, anything to make a noise
and let the cattle know you are there
and riding round. If cattle are going to
give trouble, its always at midnight.
While you kick up a row, they're quiet.
But if you don’t make a noise, and you
cough, they’ll be off, stampede, you
know.”
The “plant” has moved well ahead and
wandered across the road. I say
“So-long”, and start the car. The other
stockman is cantering ahead of me to
turn the horses, mules and donkeys back
off the road. He is just a boy, proud of
himself as a stockman in his “ten-gallon”
hat, mole-skins and riding-boots. He
gives me a big grin and a wave as I
drive slowly past.
ROLAND ROBINSON
“It Was his last wish that he have no ostenstatious memorial, just a simple
limestone pyramid, and a small granite sphinx,"


VARIETY
HOW TO WRITE A REVUE
A ll you need to put on an intimate
revue is an intimate cast, an intimate
pianist, a stage and one or two American
records of Hermione Gingold that
nobody’s ever heard.
Now, let us take it one step at a time.
CAST. Well, casting on is simple, so
to speak. All you have to do is tell all
your friends you're putting on an
intimate revue, then sit back and wait.
They will flock!
Six is a good number, I always say.
When I put on a revue I decided on two
girls and four boys, but the mixture
doesn’t matter, because if your revue is
going to be terribly sophisticated, you
will have at least six numbers in which
all the boys are dressed as girls (bar-
maids, opera singers or the glamorous
Tivoli ballet) and the girls as boys.
And so I ended up with . .. Jennifer.
Blonde. Lovely voice. Could even do a
bit of heel-and-toe dance routine (she
confessed she’d once been in show-biz in
Brisbane ... I didn’t even know they had
theatres!)
Sharne. Brunette. Nervous. Lisped a
bit. But perfect foil for Jennifer.
Danny had an atrocious South London
accent. Phil. Tall, handsome type.
Myself. And then there was Vernon.
His only brush with the theatre world
had been one time in Repins when he
sat opposite Barbara Wyndon, but he
became the out-and-out star!
PIANIST. By the teeniest coincidence
Shame’s mother just happened to be able
to play the piano (I suppose everybody
learned in those days) and, what’s more,
she thought the whole thing was Good
Fun.
STAGE. Where else but the Stage
Club? That’s when it was in Forbes
Street, of course, and run by Mrs Lorenz,
who is wonderful even if she did get our
rehearsal dates doubled up now and again
with Miss Gorham or Madame some-
body-or-other’s ballet class.
Anyway. That’s how matters stood on
March 1, and the revue “Nonentities”
(what a clever title! I thought it up
myself) was booked for September 29
and 30 and October 2.
I called our little group of artists the
Pinchgut Younger Set Players and we
passed a resolution to dob in 2s. 6d. per
rehearsal (every Thursday night at
Vernon’s place in Victoria Street). This
amount soon added up to pay for the
hire of the Stage Club and two wigs (one
blonde, one grey) and w ; e were able to
buy the complete wardrobe at Paddy’s
Market for £2 17s.
All that was left, now that we had a
cast, a pianist, a stage, two wigs and a
wardrobe, was a script.
A trifling matter. I had a Dolphin L.P.
by Hermione Gingold (two numbers of
which had already appeared in a Phillip
Street revue) and two Rae Bourbon
recordings.
I decided, after going through my old
programmes, that 25 numbers would be
exactly right. We took 18 from the three
records —they hardly needed an altera-
tion! —and in the end decided to write
the other seven ourselves. Sharne three,
me four.
Rehearsals went off well. Well, more
or less. Sometimes it wasn’t convenient
for the others to come, and other times
they were showing those beautiful Greta
Garbo pictures at the Metro on Thursday
nights. But —sure enough—as September
29 dawned, we were all —more or less —
word perfect, and had even worked out
the mysteries of lighting, sets, and ironed
out difficulties like how Vernon would
have time to change from his disguise as
Nellie Melba back into a nylon slip to
be a Greek chorus.
Pianist Pat was a marvel. She cut up
pages and pages of her own sheet music
(which was wonderful of her) for bits
to play when the curtain was down.
Tickets were selling well. Sharne, bless
her, was doing most of the sets —includ-
ing building a spinning-wheel and paint-
ing original oils for one sketch, set in
the Blaxland Galleries in picture hats.
And then. The first night! It rained,
of course. We even sold one or two
tickets at the door!
Nervous? Need you ask. Poor Pat
had sliced the tops off at least three
fingers that morning with the result that,
at interval, the piano keys were covered
with blood like a scene from that dread-
ful film about Chopin.
A friend, who was operating lights and
curtains, dropped his torch behind the
fuse-box and spilled Nescafe on the cur-
tains, but the curtain went up sharp at
8 p.m. to the lines (by courtesy of Miss
Gingold) “Ladies and gentlemen, we
must apologise, for having no one here
to introduce us . .
The audience loved us! Of course,
that first night was mainly mums and
dads, uncles and aunts, and friends from
Walton-Sears, but the applause was
deafening.
Of course, Vernon stole the show.
Whether as Dame Nellie, as a Greek
chorus, as a Palmer Street lady of ques-
tionable morals or as Mr Coward’s Miss
Worthington, he was the star.
Jennifer did miff some lines, I admit,
but this was excusable as she was having
boyfriend trouble. And, after all, one
must expect something.
After the first night, we decided to
prune and crop ruthlessly anything that
didn’t “go,” as I believe they say in theat-
rical circles.
Phil’s number about the Daily Mirror’s
Gallup Poll flopped a bit, but it bright-
ened up on the last two nights when we
made him do it without his trousers.
Tried, but true!
One piece didn’t bring a titter, but
again, we decided to leave it in, so that
the audience could use it as a yardstick
with which to measure the excellence of
the rest of the show.
We had a brilliant party after the last
night, up at Vernon‘s place. Everybody
complimented us. “Much better than the
Phillip Street Revue,” they said.
Flatterers!
We finished up £1 4s. 7d. in the red,
too.
DON WHITE
FILM
DIALOGUE ON A KING-SIZE SHOW
King of Kings. St James. Sydney.
Q.: Would you recommend “King of
Kings”?
A.: Yes; with qualifications.
Q.: To anybody?
A.: Yes; including those whose reasons
for going would be suspect.
Q.: How suspect?
A.: Hollywood has made a mess of most
religious spectacles. The genuinely
religious are rightly affronted, and
the irreligious confirmed in their
disgust, when Christianity is ex-
ploited for profit.
Q.: Isn't this true of “King of Kings”?
A.: It may be true. The film will make
millions, and it would please me if
some of the money went to charity ;
but this is too much to expect.
What distinguishes “King of Kings”
is nevertheless its honesty. It is not
primarily a spectacle, or primarily
sensational. It is reverent, without
being cloying.
Q.: Surely the life of Christ is sensa-
tional, from any point of view?
A.: Yes; but this merely makes any
interpretation difficult. Indeed, there
are so many allegorical overtones
that it is artistically impossible to re-
enact His life on the stage or on
the screen, and to say “Ecce Homo”
with conviction. At best, success


must be partial and the inevitable
failure open to discussion. Christ’s
own success was of the same kind.
Resurrected, He would be subjected
to the same doubts and depreda-
tions.
Q.: Aren’t you being blasphemous?
A.: I don’t think so. One doesn’t have
to be religious to accept the fact
that Jesus was the world’s greatest
teacher, or irreligious because one
can point to shortcomings in the
acceptance of His doctrine. The
values of the world in which I live
seem more like the Rome of His
time than the pattern of life He
preached. Caesar is still triumphant.
Q.: Isn't this taking a mere film too
seriously? What about its own
shortcomings?
A.: 1 have admitted that it attempts to
do the impossible. In our best
moments, all of us do just that. But
between the intention and the
achievement there are lapses of
energy, knowledge, skill and judg-
ment. Because the theme of “King
of Kings’’ is so controversial, one
knows in advance that one’s judg-
ments will themselves be judged by
other than artistic criteria. I speak
of faith, or lack of it. It is there-
fore important to assert that the film
is a historical narrative: it is descrip-
tion, rather than revelation. As
history, it is open to certain objec-
tions ; in the role allotted to Barab-
bas; in the motives assigned to
Judas ; and in the placing of final
blame almost entirely on the
Romans. However, my main quarrel
is not with inaccuracy but with
historical imbalance. Given the
title, “King of Kings,” and the
Gospels to work from, I am sur-
prised to find so much time spent
on the coming of Christ (an
abridged history of the Jews from
the first Roman occupation) at the
expense of abridging His life and
work. This imbalance is further
reflected in the insubstantial charac-
terisation of the Apostles, who are
mere puppets against the flesh and
blood of John the Baptist, Herod,
Pilate and Lucius . . .
Q.: Are you reversing your judgment
and condemning the film?
A.: No ; 1 am merely stating some
reasons for not giving unqualified
praise. “King of Kings” is far from
perfect, but it is very good. More-
over, it could not be if the portrayal
of Christ were not honest and chal-
lenging, despite the inevitable limita-
tions. Jeffrey Hunter carries the
conviction of moral superiority
against a varied and talented cast.
This alone is worth experiencing, in
a world belonging to Caesar.
ANTON VOGT


Hstab'ished 1868
Contractors co Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banhing and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSON &
O'SULLIVAN;
PTYLTD A
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Fafet Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS ROOK HINDERS
GOLD BLOC KERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS •: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•MACKSUL,” BRISBANE
THEATRE
GOOSE PIMPLES
Dracula. Union Theatre. Melbourne.
A n enjoyable rash of goose-pimples and
giggles, this is the play from Bram
Stoker’s best-selling horror novel
“Dracula”, produced by Moira Carleton
at the Union.
The goose-pimples prickle in suspense
as Dutch Doctor Van Helsing fights, with
magic herb and sacrament, the blood-
sucking, soul-capturing activities of
vampire Dracula. The plot is not a
“w'hodunit” but a “will-they-gettim”,
arid the answer is successfully delayed
till the last minute as the hero works
against time and supernatural tricks.
The suspense is fed with horror as the
vampire does his deeds on stage. At the
end of the first act the audience is treated
to a discreet upstage blood-sucking, with
only a silvery claw in action ; but the
climax of the second act is a triumph of
horror theatre, as Dracula, after banish-
ing a trainee vampire of lesser appetite,
gives a full-scale demonstration down-
stage, while the willing victim lies pros-
trate.
The giggles of the evening come from
the comic relief of the emotionally unin-
volved minor characters ; the pert maid
(Joy Mitchell) and the befuddled atten-
dant Butterworth (Leon Lissek).
A more double-edged source of amuse-
ment is provided by lighting, sets and
props, which go far to create the world
of eerie fantasy that their very con-
trivance denies. Orange, red and olue
lights, transparent and revolving panels,
giant crawling spiders, flapping bats,
howling dogs, and mysteriously moving
curtains and chairs —all form part of
extravagant preparations for the blood-
suckers. Enjoyment of such matters does
not always remain within decent melo-
dramatic bounds. On the first night, the
grand finale, with its wonderful para-
phernalia of elevated coffin, huge killing
stake, fireworks and disintegrating body,
brought bursts of surprised laughter, and
was only just held together by the con-
tinuing seriousness of the actors.
They did manage to preserve the
tensions and thus assured the major
achievement of the production. Clement
McCallin, as the Dutch doctor, was an
earnest and resourceful fighter of evil.
Reginald Livermore, as the frightened
madman who must obey the Master but
would save his soul, gave a supple pyjama-
clad performance, and Patsy King was a
suitably enthralled and enthralling victim.
Dracula, played by Frank Thring. was the
most obviously dressed for the occasion
—high black collar, high black eye-
brows, and cloak. He too seemed the
most amused with his role. In his person
and in his activities he held the contra-
dictions of the play—dandling a
delighted audience between the ridiculous
and the repulsive.
WYLVA ANDON
ART
NO ANGST TO HAWK
Donald Friend. Skinner Gallery.
Perth.
"Daintings by Donald Friend, opening
A by Vivien Leigh, Perth Festival by
the Committee ; not a bad mixture, all
things considered. Friend’s paintings are
all lively, full of color, and they make
an excellently festal choice. And Miss
Leigh is the decorative personified.
Pastiche is much harder to do than
it looks, creative pinching is harder than
just pinching, and Friend’s six oil
pastiches are great fun and beautifully
done. The catalogue lists them as Ikons,
no doubt on account of the (real) gold-
leaf backgrounds and the frames painted
with designs to make them part of the
whole ; furthermore, a decorative object
by an exotic name is twice so. There is
a pair of posies, not as far as I could see
to be sold as a set, but painted as left
and right of a pair: a brown hand i®


Pick up a better return
with complete security
X
P.A. for 8 and 10 years
with
REID MURRAY
Acceptance Limited
Reg. First Mortgage Debenture Stock
7V2«y4> p.a.
2 Years
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
71/-OJL PA.on 12
/2'/0 mths. notice
gSL o / PA. on 6
O yO mths. notice
["F ftf PA.on 3
mths. notice
P.A. at cal!
Applications accepted only on forms at-
tached to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaida
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of
Adelaide Ltd.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
RMA.2OV
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
a red sleeve clutches a paper doyley’d
posy; in one canvas the flowers are
tropical animals and birds, in the other
a hut full of Ceylonese belles. In both
these pictures there is a queer little red
mountain in the hand’s world, sinister
enough to drive you into the bunch, if
you had to choose. For the Adult
Westerners there is “The Bushranger's
Farewell” with all the colonial props and
a frame like a piece of Cl 9 toleware.
For the Investor, “Gods and mortals
welcome the new director,” triumphant
in an Englishman's suit and a classical
chariot. On a second look, from the
figures in the foreground, one might infer
that he is a gallery and not a company
director. So much more unkind then,
all this classical nudity and gold-leaf.
And there is a portrait of a monkey with
a flower, in a Rousseau landscape
against a ground of gold. The monkey
might be an eminent intellectual, but he
is too handsome.
The rest of the show, which is the
greater part of it, is made up of pen
drawings, colored in, or rather over, in
Ceylonese colors. They record the
delights of a happy expatriation, idealised
brown boys, gay street scenes, manic
cantonment architecture, trays of clay
toys and sweeping and lively views of
bays, full of light and movement. One
misses, oddly, the greenness of Ceylon,
though everything else is there in puce,
yellow and blue. Everything pleasant,
anyhow: there are no allusions to
poverty or riots, and the only elements
of seriousness are provided by the super-
imposition of modern figures on to
sketches of rock carvings and ancient
Buddhas. The drawing is always sound,
and the decorative effect is usually admir-
able ; sometimes patches of color are
popped on simply to fill out a dull bit of
drawing, but this is the exception rather
than the rule. In a few of the drawings,
‘‘The Gamblers” notably, and in some
of the straightforward portrait sketches,
there are traces of insight into and sym-
pathy for a non-activist approach to the
world. These figures do not move, and
they do not intend to. What is the
point? It is the landscapes that move,
even more violently than the crowds.
Friend is serious about his drawing and
his painting, but he refuses to be serious
about anything else: no social docu-
ments, only the delights of the exotic.
And why not?
He really draws far too well to be an
angst-monger of the fashionable abstract
sort, and for all one can tell from these
Paintings he probably has no angst to
hawk about anyhow. It is useful to be
reminded occasionally that painting does
arise from, among other things, no doubt,
ordinary visual experience and visual
delight.
PATRICK HUTCHINGS


THE RED PACE
THEORETICIANS, SAVE DICKENS
By PETER SHRUBB
The Imagination of Charles Dickens.
A. O. J. Cockshut. Collins. 20s.
The Art of George Eliot. W. J.
Harvey. Chatto and Windus. 31s. 6d.
T>oor Dickens will soon have been a
-*■ hundred years dead, and if things
keep on the way they have been going
then none of his admirers need worry
about not being invited to the ceremony
in Poet’s Corner; Poet’s Corner will
have more than enough room for all of
us. After the ceremony, indeed, we
might all comfortably have a celebratory
glass of Purl at the Six Jolly Fellowship-
Porters. Remember it?
“The bar of the Six Jolly Fellowship-
Porters was a bar to soften the human
breast. The available space in it was
not much larger than a hackney-coach ;
but no one could have wished the bar
bigger, that space was so girt in by
corpulent little casks, and by cordial-
bottles radiant with fictitious grapes in
bunches, and by lemons in nets, and by
biscuits in baskets, and by the polite beer-
pulls that made low bows when customers
were served with beer, and by the cheese
in a snug corner, and by the landlady's
own small table in a snugger corner near
the fire, with the cloth everlastingly laid.”
We will need a bar to soften the heart,
and this one will be the right size. And
if Henry James should be there —
although this is very unlikely—we will
ask him to leave ; for it is to Henry
James that we owe, both directly and
indirectly, a good deal of the disrepute
into which Dickens now has fallen.
In 1865, reviewing Dickens’s last
novel, “Our Mutual Friend,” James
wrote “It were, in our opinion, an
olfense against humanity to place Mr
Dickens among the greatest novelists. For,
to repeat what we have already inti-
mated, he has created nothing but
figures. He h 's added nothing to our
understanding of human character.” He
went on to say that, though Dickens
was a great observer and a great
humorist, he was nothing of a philo-
sopher. Dickens could not write seriously
of “those elementary passions in which
alone we seek the true and final mani-
festation of character” because he was
not philosopher enough to understand
them.
Philosopher or no, of course, Dickens
was for many decades the most popular
of English novelists. But critical opinion
slowly hardened against him, and when
Dr Leavis excluded him from the Great
Tradition it was all up with poor Chas.
The best people now pass him off as a
very shallow type of fellow indeed, and
to a large extent their reasons are the
reasons James gave 95 years ago.
Unfortunately, Mr Cockshut’s book is
not going to make much difference in
this situation. To begin with, he asks
two questions: “How did a man with
such a coarse mind become a master of
his art? and, How was it possible, in the
Nineteenth Century, to be a best-seller
and a true classic at the same time?”
Now these questions involve assumptions
that not every reader will agree to make,
and especially not a reader who has
Leavis in mind. The notions of the
“coarse mind,” “master of his art” and
“true classic” are, to say the least, crude ;
no precise or serious sort of criticism
could go ahead without a close examina-
tion of such terms —and a close
examination would, of course, involve
their being discarded. Luckily, however,
Mr Cockshut doesn’t really try to answer
the questions he asks.
What he does is to discuss
various aspects of Dickens’s work
and try to show how Dickens’s treat-
ment of the ideas or subjects that
obsessed him often showed greater
maturity as time went by. He discusses
Dickens’s humor, Dickens’s obsession
with prisons, his reforming anger and
his interest in crowd activity as it
affects questions of justice. After this,
seven of the novels are treated in some
detail —but not, as one might have
expected, in terms of prisons, anger or
crowds. They are just discussed.
Mr Cockshut, that is, does a lot of
different things. It might have
been better had he tried to do one thing
well. It would certainly have been better
had he at the beginning attempted to
explain to us what place he believes
Dickens can be said to occupy in the
history of the English novel. This,
surely, is what we must be initially
grateful to Leavis for, this forthright
statement of belief backed up, as it were,
horizontally, by reference to other
writers and other critics. If Mr Cock-
shut had “placed” himself in relation
to current critical thinking, had elabor-
ated his general position and then sup-
ported this position with detailed
examination of the works themselves,
his book might have been more sub-
stantial. As it is, he too often merely
“talks about” Dickens, and, because he
has no major critical points to make,
finds himself rounding off sections of
talk with such remarks as “He hypno-
tised the reader because he hypnotised
himself” —which seems to me patent stuff
and nonsense. Mr Cockshut is not
always like this ; if you are prepared to
delve you will find that his perceptions
are often acute. Speaking, for example,
of Dickens’s use of the long-lost heir
device, the unsuspected link, he points
out how sinister and terrifying these links
always turn out to be ; it is not a major
point, but it is an interesting one,
nevertheless. But fifty acute perceptions
do not make a book of criticism. Im-
portant questions have been raised about
Dickens that Mr Cockshut makes no
serious attempt to answer.
The real book of criticism comes —■
as might have been expected, in view of
the high regard all the best people
nowadays have for her —from the man
writing about George Eliot. Mr Harvey
does what Mr Cockshut ought to have
done. He begins, for instance, by
examining the criticisms most frequently
made of George Eliot’s work—and finds
their most important source, of course,
in Henry James, who, while admiring
George Eliot a great deal, nevertheless,
opined that there was too much philo-
sophising in her work, that her books
lacked some of the formal tightness and
concentration that great art demands,
and that the author intrudes into the
work to a degree that is sometimes
offensive.
There is a good deal to be said in
support of these strictures, of course, and
Mr Harvey displays his seriousness and
sense of responsibility—and his recog-
nition of the importance of preserving
conditions in which disagreement is pos-
sible —by taking it as his task not to deny
but to make distinctions. Broadly, he
shows that while in some cases these
criticisms have undeniable point and
validity, in other cases where they would
seem to apply they really do not. He
does this by close reference to the works
themselves, by the close examination of
passages freely quoted, and by a close
and continuous elaboration of the
theoretical background against which dis-
cussion of particulars must be evalu-
ated. Take, for example, his discussion
of the intrusive author; Mr Harvey
begins by reminding us that the prob-
lem is not a simple one, that in evaluat-
ing an intrusion we must take into
account several factors. “These include
the quality and successful realisation of
the body of ‘particularised life’ within
the novel, the relevance of this life to
the opinion expressed, the intrinsic
quality of this opinion (its inclusiveness,
balance, maturity), the frequency and
extent of intrusion, the relation of the


FRANK BUCHMAN'S SECRET
Peter Howard
The biography of the initiator of Moral Rearmament —a man whose
beliefs and doctrines have had a profound effect on millions of people
of every class, colour and creed all over the world - - - 13/3
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON MELBOURNE SYDNEY AUCKLAND
intruded opinion to the author and,
finally, its relation to the reader.” This
is making distinctions with a vengeance,
and it is the only way discussion can
proceed. The alternative, which Mr
Cockshut tends to embrace, is the search-
ing for conclusions; but conclusions
often turn out to describe the critic
better than they do the book because
books have a way of turning out to be
more complex than most conclusions
can allow them to be.
"VT evertheless, Mr Harvey makes
some firm and very interesting points
about George Eliot’s work, in particular
about her varied and subtle use of
authorial comment and about the im-
portance of regarding her novels as built
around “a balance of conflict of a num-
ber of centres of interest” rather than
—the Jamesian view—as failures to
supply the dominating central character,
the fine central intelligence. In his
thoughtful, careful way, then, Mr Harvey
covers the ground and builds up a richly
documented and deeply felt answer to the
criticisms he began by citing. In the
course of this he discusses George Eliot’s
use of time, the architecture of her
novels, her characters, her diction, her
imagery, her rhetoric and her use of
image and symbol. It is all precise and
sincere.
But, as Mr Harvey himself says, “It
is doubtful whether very much criticism
exists which can vitally help one’s
growth into understanding, private and
prolonged as such a process must be,”
and he does not claim that distinction
for his own book. Basically, his aim is
merely to clarify some issues which
separate certain of George Eliot’s
admirers from certain others; no iepu-
tation is being rescued here, no central
meanings are being elucidated, nothing
new is being unfolded. Elegant adjust-
ments are made.
If only that were all that Dickens
needed!
For we must agree, probably, that if
the novel’s job is to present fully
enacted moral insights, then James was
right, and Dickens is a fairly feeble
novelist. His plots are unlikely, his
characters unreal, his moral insights
shallow and maudlin. I would go so
far as to say that he is not convincing
even about London, that Dickens does
not make anything like so real to us
what people actually do in London as
George Eliot does what people in
Micfdlemarch do, or as Tolstoy does what
People in Moscow and Petersburg do.
J°e Gargery never actually does any
Wacksrnithing, and cannot be imagined
doing any ; the only work Dickens
closely describes is the sort Gaffer
Hexam does —which no one does.
But if he is a feeble novelist, he is a
great something. He is a great observer,
James said, and a great humorist. What
the first means I am not sure, but to the
second we will all nod assent. But it is
obviously not enough, and to find out
what more can be said we must turn to
Leavis again, who, speaking of “Hard
Times,” describes its author as “a poetic
dramatist,” and reminds us that “in our
preconceptions about ‘the novel,’ we may
miss, within the field of fictional prose,
possibilities of concentration and flexi-
bility in the interpretation of life such
as we associate with Shakespearean
drama.” Now, this is more like it—
even if Leavis also could afford to be
more precise sometimes in his terms. It
is what we need to hear, and he goes on,
“The final stress may fall on Dickens's
command of word, phrase rhythm and
image: in ease and range there is surely
no greater master of English except
Shakespeare. This comes back to saying
that Dickens is a great poet.”
But, although these words are music
to our ears, Dickens was neither a poet
nor a dramatist ; a metaphorical poetic
dramatist is not worth being, Dickens
may well have thought, if what you write
is prose. So, the problem is not yet
really solved.
T>erhaps, as Leavis suggests, we need
A to examine our preconceptions more
closely. We need a theoretician of fiction
to examine what Leavis has not. Per-
haps he should ask what a person must
want or need or love if he is to enjoy or
be interested in a certain kind of fiction.
To enjoy and be interested in the fiction
Leavis most admires, for instance, one
needs to believe, I think, in the reality
of value and judgment ; one must believe
life to be a sort of test that it is of the
utmost importance to try to pass ; one
must believe in duty.
And perhaps, then, to enjoy and be
interested in Dickens's fiction one must
believe, say, in the reality of creation
and birth ; one must believe life to be a
sort of force that it is of the utmost
importance to try to cherish ; one must
believe in beauty.
Theoreticians, save Dickens! For
how much there is to love in him! Joe
Gargery’s knee, Sloppy’s buttons, Abbey
Potterson’s snug cheese corner —but who
would be fool enough to start a list that
could not possibly ever end! Not I.
And not this theoretician who is waiting,
1 hope, around the corner —what he will
do is what Mr Harvey did, not what Mr
Cockshut did: he will theorise, not list.
And if he comes around the corner in
the next eight years my friends and I
will offer him a front place in the Poet’s
Corner ceremony, and even pay for his
glass of Purl —or Flip, or Dog’s Nose, if
he prefers.
AN EXPERT WITNESS
Liars and Letters Anonymous. The
casebook of an expert witness. By
Oscar A. Mendelsohn. Lansdowne
Press. 355.
A/fr Mendelsohn is an expert witness
but, understandably, he prefers to
be called a “questioned document
examiner.” That subject involves the
examination of handwritten or other
documents about which a dispute or
problem has arisen.
There are two matters upon which Mr
Mendelsohn is rightly adamant ; and one
wishes he had dealt with them at greater
length and had related them by concrete
examples of his own experience. The
first is that the “graphologist,” that is the
diviner of “character” from handwriting,
is, almost without reservation at all, a
quack and has nothing to do with the
questioned document examiner. Mr
Mendelsohn’s contention is that the
examination of questioned documents is
a science, the foundations of which were
laid by the American A. S. Osborn, more
particularly in his book “Questioned
Documents,” published in 1910. Osborn,
according to the author, was a genius
who “. . . took an unorganised subject
which had been the prey of quacks and
. . . turned it into a discipline which, if
not precise, was at least capable of the


BOOKHUNTER
' Dept. “D,” Box 2«H, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difftenU to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. Sydney.
WRITE STORIES
SUCCESSFULLY
STOTT'S CAN TRAIN YOU
Many Stott Students pay for their Course
before completing it.
Stott Students are taught how to write
stories that sell and are advised by the
College of the names and addresses of
reputable Literary Agents in various coun-
tries who may be trusted to handle
Students’ MSS 1o tlie best advantage: If
YOU have a story to tell, learn how to tell
it. This lucrative field of Authorship is
waiting to pay well for good work.
15!) Flinders Fane, Melbourne; 119 Castle-
reasrb St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane; 24 Grenfell St., Adelaide;
22 Howard St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON ——
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, jour Prospectus, and full par-
i titulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
Australia —The Quiet Continent
DOUGLAS PIKE
A concise history of Australia, in which the main theme is the sober hard-won
progress of isolated colonies struggling to increase their population and pay their
way. Dr Pike tells of uneven advance, of success and failure, of windfall wealth,
and most of all, of men’s efforts to make themselves secure in a land starved of
capital and private investment. The traditional exaggeration of lawlessness and
violence in the outback has been avoided; Australia is treated as a whole, not
just Sydney and Melbourne and the eastern coast writ large. Both the scholar
and the general reader will find this a stimulating and sympathetic study.
Price in Australia, 375. 3d.
FROM ALL BOOKSHOPS
CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS
same organisation as any other applied
science.”
This brings us naturally to the second
matter, which is the question of with what
degree of certainty examined handwriting
can be assigned to an individual. A
correspondence the author conducted
with Dr J. R. Nicholls, a distinguished
United Kingdom scientist, is reproduced
and it seems that Mr Mendelsohn had
the better of the argument. In reply
to Dr Nicholls’s assertion that an expert
“can only point out similarities and
differences and give an opinion as to the
probability of authorship” he properly
asks, “Is not this the essence of scien-
tific process?”
To those who are interested, these are
matters of absorbing interest; but un-
fortunately they are dealt with only
incidentally and in a discursive and
u-nwarrantedly chatty way. They could,
it seems to me, have been made the core
of the book and the actual cases built
around them or used to illustrate them.
Instead, Mr Mendelsohn has chosen
simply to work through a list of his cases,
not one of which even lives up to its
title in interest.
Specifically, this is for two reasons:
firstly, the author seems to be afraid of
boring his readers by telling much of his
actual techniques in a particular case ;
but these —and how Mr Mendelsohn sus-
tained them and his conclusion under
cross-examination (when necessary)—-
would be of the greatest interest. Mr
Mendelsohn has, in fact, fallen a victim
to the necessity for “real-life interest”
and, as this is not necessary, and as the
author is not adept at whatever it
involves, the book is disappointing.
The second reason is that Mr Mendel-
sohn has elected to use this opportunity
to enlarge upon life and his interests
generally. I can see no warrant for the
inclusion in this book of a recommenda-
tion of Arnold Bennett's novel “Buried
Alive,” and very little warrant for an
examination of the well-known case of
the Bank of Portugal and Waterlows, the
printers.
Nonetheless, I look forward to Mr
Mendelsohn's next book and, partly for
that reason, I point out that this one is
edited and proof-read (if at all)
abominably.
ALWYN KARPIN
PROPHETIC DIARIST
Chateaubriand. Friedrich Sieburg.
Allen and Unwin. 555. 6d.
, ,
Memoirs of Chateaubriand. Edited and
translated by Robert Baldick.
Hamish Hamilton. 435. 6d.
/Chateaubriand's life was one of the
fullest and most varied that it is
possible to imagine. Soldier, traveller,
writer, diplomat and Minister, he took
part in and witaessed the most important
events that occurred during his lifetime.
He was as active in politics as he was in
literature, and for a man who has been
conveniently labelled “one of the world's
greatest egoists" and “excessively adjec-
tival” he was curiously alert and attentive
to other people, and his style, especially
in his memoirs, with all its density and
richness, has a peculiarly Proustian pre-
c j s j on
Chateaubraind was born in 1768 and
brought up in an old feudal castle, Com-
bourg, in Brittany. He fought against the
French Revolution and in 1791 went
roaming across America, where he visited
Niagata Falls, met Washington and
observed different Red Indian tribes. He
hoped to discover the North West passage
and write an epic about the noble savages.
On learning of the arrest of Louis XVI
he returned to France to fight for the
King. From 1793 he was a refugee in
England living miserably from French
lessons-and translations; he recovered his
religious faith and v .wed to de cte all
his literary talent and energy to the
defence and restoration of the religious
beliefs that the Revolution had tried to
destroy
r eturned to France in 1800. trusting
j n the promises of conciliation given by
Bonaparte “Atala" and “Rene were
published soon after and then "Le Genie
du Christianisme" which was dedicated to
Napoleon. Chateaubriand was rewarded
with appointments in the French Embassy
in Rome, then as French Minister to the
Valais, but the kidnapping and murder
of the Due d’Enghien turned him against
Napoleon to work for the restoration of
the Bourbons. He was made French
Ambassador to Berlin, then to London,
He represented France at the Congress
of Verona; he instigated the French war
against Spain. He broke with the Bour-
bons when they violated the Charter.
His great idea of endowing the French
with a political system in which a heredi-
tary monarchy should be mated to English
institutions came to nothing,
The extraordinarily involved fluctua-
tions of Chateaubriand's political atti-
tudes and career are studied in detail in
Sieburg’s beautifully translated book
which has only one important defect: it
gives no references and mentions no
dates except one, which is misprinted.
Chateaubriand started to write his
memoirs in 1803; the first complete
edition appeared in 1948. They are his
greatest work. In them the description


of his own life is enlarged to a picture
of the history of his time, and this appar-
ently most personal work, which begins
with an account of his childhood, actually
contains the finest and fairest study of
Napoleon that has ever been written (a
point that Sieburg makes very well). It is
a work of immense variety: satirical,
autobiographical, historical; the work of
a diarist, poet and prophet. Dr Baldick’s
judicious selection can be recommended
to anyone who has not yet been intro-
duced to this remarkable writer.
VIVIAN SMITH
A HEAVY HAND
Meanjin. No. 4, 1961. Twenty-first
Anniversary Number.
nTHERE is fine balance to be kept in a
literary quarterly, and anyone who
manages to keep one going for twenty-
one years deserves praise, for, while many
demand literary quarterlies when there
aren't any, few like them when they do
appear. “Meanjin” seems to have sur-
vived and prosp:red by being respect-
able and, as this anniversary issue
demonstrates, by keeping a reasonable
balance, first, between new creative work
and criticism and, second, between in-
lormative comment and grand-scale uni-
versity criticism.
A glance at the contributors to this
issue would sustain what many feel about
“Meanjin” the hand of the universities
lies too heavily upon it. Half the critical
articles are by university men, and, al-
though this should in principle be a good
thing, anyone who can boast of having
survived a university English course will
see the danger. Not that all are neces-
sarily dull and overbearing. Vincent
Buckley's reprint of his opening address
at the Len French exhibition is engagingly
sincere and probably unique among
art commentaries for its profundity and
breadth. But David Moody’s "Poetry
Chronicle” is the sort of criticism that
should stay in the lecture halls, where
people have the time to wade through
the involved English and the innocence to
swallow the mock-serious terminology
and the deadly serious condemnations.
In all my unfortunate association with
criticism, during which I have seen many
works and authors tossed and gored, I
don't recall anyone suffering so heavily
as Ray Mathew, of whom Mr Moody
supposes that “the best that can be said
for him is that he has the arrogance of
his ignorance.”
The nasty trick played on the reader
with this sort of stuff is that he has to
come across it in a review of the year’s
poetry, where, if he is conscientious, he
hopes to find out whether he has missed
out on anyone good during the year.
Instead, he winds up in the clutches of
some thesis-maker, world culture exp rt
or future professor. By way of compensa-
tion, it should be added, Dr Heseltine’s
Fiction Chronicle is kinder and more
informative; whilst Alan McCulloch’s
review of the Sidney Nolan book is sober
and stimulating.
The greater part of this issue is devoted
to three writers Katherine Susannah
Prichard, Eric Schlunke and H. M.
Green. The very long analysis of Kathe-
rine Susannah Prichard by Jack Lindsay
is couched largely in Marxist terms,
“since no others express K. S. P.’s concept
with precision and in accordance with the
movement of her thought.” No glossary
of Marxist terms is provided. Both
Eric Schlunke and H. M. Green are given
the warm tributes they merit.
A positive side to Meanjin’s associa-
tion with the university over the years
has been its interest in education. It
is appropriate that in this 21st anniversary
issue it should have a short but far-
seeing article on the future of tertiary
education by Sidney Dunn, Assistant
Director of the A.C.E.R. In it he
transfers the problem of selective versus
comprehensive schools to the tertiary
level, and, without taking sides, puts a
most interesting case for at least trying
comprehensive tertiary institutions. The
country is suggested as the most likely
starting point, since most provincial
towns, while unable to support a number
oi separate institutions, could perhaps find
the resources to maintain a combined
technical college, teachers’ college and
university. His grasp of the situation
is extremely lucid, and everyone inter-
ested in the future of the country should
read it, despite its brevity. One of our
biggest problems seems to be that the
lucidity of our few top educators rarely
seems to illuminate the administrators of
our educational systems.
For the rest, this issue of “Meanjin”
gives substantial evidence that it will
have many more birthdays. By and large,
it has become an avenue for our most
respected writers, and especially in poetry
and the short story it is indispensable.
By lasting so long and so successfully it
has become part of our literary history,
and unlike many quarterlies which lack
the dignity of an institution it can afford
to follow its sober but useful way.
BILL HANNAN
”Oh, goody! My first hole in one”


POEMS
Canberra In April
Vast mild melancholy splendid
Day succeeds day, in august chairmanship
Presiding over autumn. Poplars in valleys
Unwavering candleflames, balance over candid
Rough-linen fields, against a screen of hills
Sending invisible smokes from far below
To those majestic nostrils. A Tuscan landscape
On a larger scale; for olives eucalypts
In drifts and dots on hillheads, magpie and crow
For fieldbirds, light less intimate, long slopes
stripped
Bare of vine or village, the human imprint
Scarcely apparent; distances immense
And glowing at the rim. as if the land
Were floating, like the round leaf of a water-plant
In a bright meniscus. Opposite, near at hand.
Outcrops of redbrick houses, northern trees
In costume, office-buildings
Like quartz-blocks flashing many-crystalled
windows
Across the air. Oblivious, on their knees.
Of time and setting, admirals pick tomatoes
In their back gardens, hearty
Bankers exchange golf-scores, civil servants
Their after-office beers; the colony
Of diplomats prepares its cocktail parties
And politicians their escape to Melbourne.
This clean suburbia, house-proud but servantless
Is host to a multitude of children
Nightly conceived, born daily, riding bikes.
Requiring play-centres, schools and Progress
Associations: in cardigans and slacks
Their mothers polish kitchens, or in silk
White gloves and tight hats pour each other tea
In their best china, canvassing the merits
Of rival plumbers, grocers. Bega milk
And the cost of oil-fired heating or briquettes.
To every man his car; his wife’s on Thursday
Plus one half-day she drops him at the office
(Air murmurous with typewriters) at eight-forty
To pick him up for lunch at home; one-thirty
Sees the streets gorged with his return to duty
And so the year revolves; files swell, are closed
And stored in basements. Parliaments adjourn
And reassemble, speeches are made and hooted.
Within the circle of the enfranchised
These invite those and are themselves invited.
At formal dinners, misprints of the “Times”
Compete with memories of Rome or Paris
For after all. the capital is here.
The general populace sprays its roses, limes
Its vegetable patch and drinks its beer:
Golf at the weekend, gardening after five
Pictures on Saturday, radio day and night
TV to come, and shopping late on Friday—
As under glass the pattern of the hive
Swarms in its channels, purposeful and tidy
Tempting romantics to dismay and spite
Planners to satisfaction, both to heresy.
For everywhere, beyond the decent lawn
A visionary landscape wings the sight
And every child is rebel and unknown.
So long as daylight moon, night laced with stars
And luminous distance feed imagination
There’s hope of strangeness to transcend, redeem
Purblind provincial comfort: summer fires
Under prodgious smokes, imperious storms
A sense of the pale curving continent
That, though a cliche, may still work unseen
And, with its script of white-limbed trees, impart
A cure for habit, some beneficent
Simplicity or steadiness of heart.
J. R. ROWLAND
Mr Jones as the Transported Poet
“And how do you react to exile?” Politely
They ask; and remnants of my country courtesy
Make me answer politely, meaninglessly.
I say, “Of course, a poet is in exile
Anywhere, always.” And that “of course”
disarms.
Undoes them. They are politely satisfied
There was something they always knew about
poets.
Or I say, putting on a bit more accent,
And of course prefacing what I have to say
With that disarming and dishonest “Of course.”
1 say, “Of course, you know, we Welshmen are
exiles
Just as much in England as Australia.''
And they nod and smile politely.
And think I didn’t really understand the question.
How could I tell them, politely or impolitely.
That the only exile is from your bed.
From that visionary and impossible moment
When our customary involvement made
A sudden meaning we had not known before?
Exile, like love, is a word not to be lightly said.
T. H. JONES
Freshwater Crayfish
In rebel hills you'll find his pond
where granite galleries hold their breath,
nervously shout your whispers, watch you,
when you kick a stone: explode.
Festooned with weed, the concave ceilings
float —arenas carved from water —
where this armored crayfish marches,
flurrying the sediment.
Claws held high, elbows bent,
he swaggers —like a muscle conscious
soldier —hunting feebler creatures.
Evil efficiency? Or grace
and verve, denied by human values
to their prisoner, the human eye?
RODNEY HALL


Public Notice
Would anyone knowing the whereabouts of Albert
Whittington formerly of 19 Peel Street, Jolimont,
Western Australia please ask him lo communicate
with Charles R. Hopkins & Co., Solicitors, 254
Murray Street, Perth from whom he shall learn
-something to his advantage.
Missing Friend
lo: MAURICE RELEVY SMITH whose last known
address is 297 Vulture , Street. South Brisbane,
Queensland but whose address is unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife RUBY FLORENCE SMITH
has instituted divorce proceedings against you in
the Supreme Court of Victoria for a dissolution of
her marriage to you on the ground of desertion —
AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that unless you
file an Answer herein in the office of' the Registrar
Supreme Court at Ballarat on or before Ist March,
19(12 the ease may proceed in your absence.—
HERRINO BATHURST A BRUCE, High Street, Mary-
borough, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA
Matrimoniai, Causks JuRISDH'TIO.Y.
No. MX*. 207 of 1901.
Between BERYL • MAY SMITH Petitioner and
RAYMOND STANLEY SMITH Respondent—To:
Raymond Stanley Smith formerly of 11 Allunga
Street, Gkigwelt in Tasmania. TAKE NOTICE that
Beryl May Smith lias filed a divorce petition against
you on Hie ground of desertion. Included in the
petition is a claim for costs AND TAKE NOTICE
that if you intend io defend the petition you must
file an answer within 28 days of the publication
of this Notice at the Registry of the Supreme Court
of Tasmania Macquarie Street, Hobart from which
address further information can be obtained other-
wise the Court may hear and determine the pro-
ceedings in vour absence. Dated this 22r,d dav of
December, 1961—T. BRETTINOH AM-MOORE
Registrar.
“And I say a surprise frontal attack in force can throw the
enemy of balance."
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 676
Across
I—Guide mother is swallowed by a lire-spouter. (8)
s—Seaman5 —Seaman with poetry dwellings. (6)
9 —Need it not change what keeps the children back at
school? (9)
10 —Lover, 1 must be seen to interrupt an ugly duckling in
maturity. (51
12 — Nip off this could be an
inefficient “'Madame Butter-
fly.” (5)
13 — Honor that is a ball-game lor
children. (7)
14— Pertaining to the birth of Gould
and Jolson. (5)
15— Hood made the wrong way. (4)
lb—Ceruminous ten in the way. (4)
19 — -In due course, we'll all cross this
writer with a corresponding
kiss. (4)
20— Filter if in the street. (4)
21— Island tavern is. (5)
24 —Swallow one cocktail. (7)
26 Taxes in tears. (5)
27 — It can kill one of the specialising
4-down folk. (5)
28 — A wicked fellow makes the girl
end in secret. (9)
29 Look out for my driveway in
the woods. (6)
30 — An Englishman and his ruler
have a box of perfumes. (8)
Down
1— Anger Dudley and George
North. (7)
2 One to dump one on your hos-
tility. (9)
3 Not a lyre, (anagram) (8)
4 I seal charm in it wrongly lor
those with heads for figures. (14)
6—Measure some conveyance before
he is over 50. (6)
7 and B—The8 —The live-in artist’s model
is thus butchered. (5, 3. 9)
11 —la necessitous circumstances. (5)
17 — -Wrong names bound to be par-
doned. (9)
18— West Indies star and 1 get a
flowering shrub to know an
operatic number. (8)
19 — Stevenson's final address takes
but a brief moment in South
Australia. (5)
22 — Boastfully proceed to get raw
eggs scrambled. (7)
23 — Modification of the rustic fruit
family. (6)
25 —A supplementary clause what’s
in the saddle. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 675


WORKING FOR AUSTRALIA
Thousands of well-known
Australian goods are
packed, wrapped and pro-
tected in cartons and
packages made from
A.P.M. all-Australian papers and paperboards.
Owned by 30,000 Australian investors, and employ-
ing 5,000 Australians, A.P.M. is Australia’s largest
supplier of quality materials to the packaging trade.
A.P.M. is the leading paper manufacturer
in the Southern Hemisphere operating
seven mills conveniently located near
Australia’s largest cities and ports. With
its continually growing supplies of raw
materials, and over 90 years experience of
our local market and conditions, A.P.M.
can supply the present and future needs of
Australia's vital packaging industry.
school projects: For material on A.P.M.
activities, write to ‘Projects’, A.P.M.,
G.P.0., Box 1643, Melbourne.
□
*
/■:x
■
mm.
vm#
m
Hf|
w&m
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
SOUTH GATE, SOUTH MELBOURNE. SALES OFFICES IN ALL STATE CAPITALS.
