

The
Bulletin
Registered, in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
January 27, 1962
!'•
A PLAIN MAN S
GUIDE TO
W.C. WENTWORTH


FOR SPEED
(First issues off the press)
CONVENIENCE
(Right to your mail-box)
CONTINUITY
(No chance of missing out)
HAVE
The
Bulletin
DELIVERED BY POST
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW St B. RENEW AL
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque / money-order for
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
NAME: ....
ADDRESS:
RATES (A/asia): 1 year—£2 12s. ; \ year— £l 6s.
Post free. British C’wealth : £3 3s. 6d, Foreign:
£3 16s
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d. ; \ year—
19s 6d. British C'wealth: £2 3s Foreign £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether
the subscription is paid direct to The Bulletin
or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
TH E BU L LETI N
IS AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
NEWS MAGAZINE—
5 2 pages of top-flight information. The press,
the radio, TV will dish you up the headline
news . . . but The Bulletin has time to bring
you the news inside the news.
AND IT’S PACKED WITH
ENTERTAINMENT
Nearly every facet of modern life is reflected
in The Bulletin’s pages, so no wonder
anyone can find a little of himself—or herself
—in The Bulletin.


Tanner
"THE DOOR IS NOW OPEN FOR PEACEFUL NEGOTIATION OF
THIS DISPUTE."


This Australia
COTTON MILL DEBACLE
BREAKING THE CONTRACT
FROM PAT LAWLOR IN NEW ZEALAND
K. J. HOLYOAKE
£2m. compensation
-[VIEW Zealand’s reputation has suffered
' following on the Government’s
decision to break the agreement with the
British firm of Smith and Nephew, parent
company of the Commonwealth Fabric
Corporation, to establish a cotton mill
in Nelson. Following in the footsteps
of an unprecedented period of political
chicanery over the last few years (the
commencement and abandonment of the
Nelson railway, the dubious juggling
with import control, topped off with
the Standard Insurance crash, fortunately
non-political), business people at home
and abroad wonder just how far “there
is something rotten in the state of New
Zealand.” The ballot box bribery in
recent elections has been progressive and
was set in motion mostly by the Labor
party.
As for the latest blot on our reputa-
tion —the Government’s critics point out
that a contract is always a promise—even
if the National Government was dealing
with a hydra-headed monster handed on
to it by the previous Labor Government.
The fact remains that the National
Minister in charge of the scheme stated
in Parliament on November 2, last year,
that the cotton mill agreement was “legal
and binding.” A few days ago, after
weeks of lobbying by high pressure
groups, and caucus meetings of the
National members who, in the words of
the Wellington “Post”, “were brought to
Wellington and harangued by Ministers,”
the “legal and binding agreement” was
broken.
The cost? A blot on the integrity of
the country and a matter of compensa-
tion which might very well run into
the near side of £2m. This
compensation involves 36 British families
totalling 137 people, arrangement for
whose passage to N.Z. had already been
made, as well as the land and partially
constructed buildings in Nelson.
One of the approving voices was that
of Sir Jack Harris, president of the N.Z.
Wholesale Softgoods Federation. He con-
gratulated P.M. Holyoake on a
“courageous decision.” He deplored “the
secret agreement” entered into in the
first place, adding: “It is reliably
reported that many other secret agree-
ments were concluded by the last Gov-
ernment.”
A hurried look at the progress of the
negotiations which commenced in July,
1959. reveals more fully than any coir;-
ment of mine the deplorable trend of
events. The first serious talks with the
Labor Government took place in Feb-
ruary, 1960, and a few days later with
the president of the National party. The
following month Mr Nash announced
with great blowing of trumpets the
decision to establish the mill. Then
followed some backing and filling until
the agreement was signed in August. In
December, the newly elected National
Government announced that the cotton
mill was “welcomed and supported by
the National Government.” This was
later reaffirmed (March, 1961) bv Mr
Holyoake in London.
In July of that year, the Minister in
charge, Mr Marshall, stated in the London
“Financial Times” that work was progres-
sing in the establishment of the mill:
“Production is to commence in 1962.” By
November the opposing interests in New
Zealand really got busy and set up a
commission of inquiry into “secret
agreements.” Later in the same month,
representatives of the Commonwealth
Fabric Corporation arrived in N.Z. and
then the great battle of interests,
political and otherwise, commenced, lead-
ing to the final decision.
At the time of writing mass meetings
of infuriated protest are being held in
Nelson where the people have been
deprived of their Labor-promised railway.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.PTYLTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol. 83
No. 4276
’ROO
A CONTINENTAL DELICACY
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
Tn defiance of Parkinson's Law, the
Department of Primary Industry has
refused to institute an inspection and
control system for kangaroo meat
exported from Australia. It is a neat
paradox with the exporters pleading for
controls and the bureaucrats stolidly
refusing to widen their powers. Seen in
another light, it is a vicious circle which
is costing Australia some amount of
export earnings.
Packers and exporters of ’roo meat
believe that they could build up a useful
export trade if the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment would issue certificates stating
that the meat was fit for human consump-
tion, similar to the certificates issued for
other Australian primary exports. How-
ever, officialdom has so far refused to
bring 'roo meat under the scope of the
export certificate machinery on the
ground that there is no evidence of
sufficient volume of sales to warrant the
expense of inspection. It comes down
to a situation where sales abroad are
dependent on certificates and introduction
of certificates depends on there being
ample sales overseas.
’Roo meat is, of course, being exported
without health certificates, but exporters'
say business is slack and nowhere near
the boom year of 1960. In that year the
industry was growing rapidly and in
nine months West Germany alone
absorbed about £500,000 of ’roo. In
Europe, ’roo is regarded as a delicacy in


the same class as rabbit and hare, but
this 1960 bonanza came to an end in
August when shipments of maggoty
meat were landed in German ports. The
ensuing outcry in the West German Press
almost killed the trade, and in West
Berlin health officials issued a statement
to the public warning them against the
kangaroo. The German importers
indicated that they intended repudiating
all contracts for the purchase of 'roo and
the Australian exporters rushed a two-
man mission to Frankfurt-am-Main in an
effort to save their business.
They were only partially successful,
however. An unofficial inspection system
was set up under which public analysts
were used to examine shipments of the
meat and the Germans were urged to
accept certificates from the analysis as
evidence that the meat was sound. Never-
theless, the business has not resumed its
former proportions and exporters are
convinced that business certificates with
a Governmental imprimatur are essentia!.
Late last week Singapore, one of the
best Asian markets, also banned 'roo
meat without a certificate.
Hungarian-born Mr J. Benedek, chair-
man of The Kangaroo Meat Exporters
and Packers’ Committee, believes that
useful markets could be developed in
Europe, North America, Japan and
South-East Asia if the Government
would issue certificates. He has visited
these areas and says that everywhere he
came across the certificate obstacle.
Briefly, prospective importers are puzzled
at the lack of Government certification
which they interpret as indicating that
something is wrong.
From the Government’s point of view
it can be argued that there can be no
possible supervision at the point of killing
since ’roos are shot in far-flung outback
areas. However, the same is true of
rabbits and these are nevertheless exported
with Government certificates.
Mr Benedek says that exporters are
more than willing to bear the cost of an
inspection system. On them would fall the
expense of constructing boning and chill-
ing works where the supervision would
take place. Even if this added as much
as 2d. or 3d. to the cost of exporting the
meat they are prepared to meet it because
they are convinced it is the gateway to
much bigger sales.
On the whole, Mr Benedek is optimistic
that the Government will eventually meet
the industry’s need for an inspection
system. Not that this is the only problem
it faces. Another one consists in the
fact that ’roo meat is forbidden to share
freezer holds with other foodstuffs. This
complicates the shipping of ’roo, since
enough must be consigned to fill a whole
compartment. As a result, the trade
often finds it hard to fill small orders.
THE COMMUNIST PARTY
AS SHARKEY
FINGERED HIS WATCH
FROM MUGGA
TED HILL
Is he behind it?
Stresses and strains are growing in
the ageing Communist party, par-
ticularly in its Melbourne and Sydney
centres. Some derive from the Soviet-
Chinese-Albanian squabble, but others
have local origin. Generally, the inter-
national issues are making themselves
felt via the local power and prestige
struggles, although there are a few
genuine ideologues who are supporting
either the Soviet or the Chinese line out
of genuine conviction and not mere
tactical manoeuvring.
The anonymous circular emanating
from Victoria before Christmas (see The
Bulletin, December 30) which called for
a special national congress of the party to
discuss the Sino-Soviet issues, Khrus-
chev’s attacks on Stalin, the expulsion of
G. McDonald, Soviet nuclear tests and
communist union defeats, has caused a
flurry, mainly because its widespread
distribution indicated that it was an
“inside job”—that is, issued by some com-
rade with access to names and addresses
of many fellow members. (Under the
party rules a special National Congress
shall be convened “upon a request from
Party organisations representing at least
fifty per cent, of the Party member-
ship. ’) Because of the hierarchical
organisation of the C.P. this points to
somebody fairly highly placed. A rank-
and-file member who attempts to com-
pile a mailing list of his comrades would
very quickly be spotted.
Most are inclined to attribute the cir-
cular to the pro-Moscow moderates in
the Victorian C.P. leadership who are
known to be dissatisfied with the support
given to the Chinese “tough” line by
the national leaders Sharkey and Dixon.
However, another view is that Victoria's
top communist, Mr Ted Hill, is behind
it. This is at first sight incredible for
the reason that Hill is just as much a
Peking supporter as the two older leaders.
However, when the question of motive
is considered, it is not improbable that
Hill may have issued the circular. For
one thing, he is known to be out of
favor with Sharkey, who regards him as
a dangerous rival. One thing that counts
against Hill is the fact that in the State
under his control a rebel movement has
developed, involving not only rank-and-
file members but encompassing some of
the full-time functionaries. If the rebels
themselves did not issue the circular, did
Hill issue it in an attempt to force a
show-down, knowing that it would be
pinned on them? Or did he have the
motive of diverting Sharkey’s attention
away from himself? In the shrinking
world of local communism such double
double-cross situations are increasingly
common.
The party setbacks in the trade union
sphere, notably over the general secre-
taryship of the Waterside Workers’
Federation and in the Victorian Building
Workers' Industrial Union, have also
created rifts. At a post-mortem meeting
of W.W.F. party activists, held in Sydney
after Mr Fitzgibbon's win, some of the
Victorians challenged Sharkey over the
decision to run Tom Nelson as the C.P.
candidate. They argued that Mr Norm.
Docker, the Federation's Industrial
Officer, would have been a more popular
candidate.
Fingering his new Russian wrist-watch,
Sharkey gave a most revealing defence
of the decision to run Nelson. The Com-
munist party, he said, was in a period
when it would find it hard going to hold
its trade union positions. Defeat was
foreseen, whoever was run as the W.W.F.
candidate. Running Docker would have
involved his vacating his present posi-
tion and the C.P. might have lost this
as well as the general secretaryship. It
was cold comfort to the comrades, and
a surprising endorsement of Mr Laurie
Short’s prediction that comnlunist influ-
ence in trade unions could be ended
within five years provided there was
determined leadership and organisation
from the A.L.P.


BETTING
FEARFUL FOLLIES
FROM JOHN HIGGINS IN BRISBANE
HTake the case of the Queensland Racing
A and Betting Acts Amendment Bill,
which will become law on March 1.
When the Bill was introduced in the
House on November 30 last, the
Treasurer, Mr Hiley, said that the Gov-
ernment considered people who are
beyond convenient reach of a racecourse
on a race day should be able to bet with
registered off-course bookmakers. His
Bill provided for off-course betting out-
side a 30-mile radius of the Brisbane
G.P.0., and outside a 15-mile radius from
any other racecourse on a day on which
a meeting was being held at such a
course. The Bill also provided authorisa-
tion for the establishment of an off-
course tote service. So far, so good. As
far as everyone was concerned, the Bill
was designed to let country people have
a legal bet on race days, and, apart from
dedicated wowsers, there were few who
objected to the idea.
As usual with most of its legislation,
however, the Government had failed to
consult with the people most vitally
concerned, and reaction to the super-
ficially innocuous measure verged on the
violent, with race clubs, bookmakers,
owners, trainers and patrons showing a
united front. Not for the first time,
Queensland was treated to the spectacle
of the responsible Minister receiving
protest deputations from vitally inter-
ested parties while the legislation was
on the floor of the House under debate.
Certain undertakings appeared to have
been given, for suddenly the opposition
collapsed.
What those undertakings were only the
interested parties know —but this much
emerged last week: Mr Hiley announced
the appointment of an eight-man
Totalisator Administration Board which
can merrily blow his Racing and Betting
Acts Amendment Bill off the Statute
Books as soon as it is placed there.
The Board, for instance, will be able
to establish an off-course tote in Bris-
bane. What price now that section of
the Bill that says there will be no off-
course betting within 30 miles of the
G.P.0.? Asked if the Board would
establish tote shops in the heart of the
city, Mr Hiley told the Press: “I don’t
know. Ask the Board.”
Queensland has become used to the
spectacle of the Nicklin-Morris Govern-
ment engaging in almost every sort of
legislative duplicity, but this was too
much even for the pro-Government
“Courier-Mail”: “A move which began
as a bid to license S.P. bookmakers in
rural areas where there were no regular
race meetings has now become a policy
of extending betting facilities throughout
the State.” The “Courier-Mail” went
on in acid anger to suggest that the main
reason for the volte face appeared to be
the hope of a £1 million a year rake-off
from betting turnover. It added salt to
the wound by commenting that Mr Hiley
and his colleagues had “travelled a long,
roundabout route since 1954 when they
opposed Mr Gair’s mild Racing and
Betting Bill,” which permitted referenda
to be held in State electoral zones for
licensed S.P. betting.
Long and roundabout certainly sums
it up. The real point at issue, however,
is that Parliament appears to have been
deliberately misled on the matter. On
top of that, the Government is appar-
ently attempting to evade the conse-
quences of this action by shelving respon-
sibility on to a Board of outside interests
of its own creation.
Fear having compounded folly, it will
be interesting to see what follies further
fear can induce in the Government before
March 1. The matter is now under
review by the Parliamentary parties, the
sort of cart-before-the-horse procedure
that has become an identifiable feature
of the Nicklin-Morris coalition, and it
could well be that there may be some
more melodramatic changes in the
Government’s “firm” stand on the
matter.
ANNA PRESTHUS
TROUBLE ON BOARD
FROM A DARWIN CORRESPONDENT
A. J. Forde, master of the
Norwegian vessel Anna Presthus,
finally broke his silence to tell a
strange story. Rumors, which had centred
around Anna Presthus ever since she
berthed at Darwin from Japan with a
load of cement, erupted recently when
North Australian Workers' Union secre-
tary Paddy Carroll asked the ACTU to
investigate :
© Conditions aboard Anna Presthus
which were said to contravene an inter-
national maritime code.
® An allegation that no inquiry was
held into the death of a man at sea.
9 Alleged shortage of water aboard.
9 The case of three Chinese seamen
who were taken from their beds in the
dead of night, while police stood by,
escorted to the airport and put aboard
a plane for Hong Kong.
Captain Forde, who earlier had refused
to discuss the reports with pressmen, gave
his side of the strange story just before
sailing for Port Hedland, Western Aus-
tralia. He said that:
9 During an earlier voyage before he
joined the vessel Chinese crewmen had
manhandled the First Officer in a bid to
get at the water supplies.
9 A seaman had fallen down a hatch
to his death at Misumi while Anna
Presthus was on her way to Darwin.
9 A seaman had threatened and
pushed the First Officer around when the
ship was tied up at Darwin waterfront.
9 Officers had to lock their cabin
doors at night in fear of possible attack
as tension mounted during the voyage
from Japan.
Captain Forde said trouble reached a
climax here when crewmen demanded
American cigarettes instead of English
and Australian, and then asked for more
pay. Their wage was equal to about
£l2 10s. a month, with another £5 a
month sustenance allowance, from which
they must buy their own food.
The sailors found it hard in ports like
Darwin, where food was so much dearer
than in Japan and elsewhere in the Far
East. The trouble on board had been
building up for a long time. It had
culminated in the men refusing to work
while in Darwin. Then the ship’s officers
and engineers had handed him an ultima-
tum. They threatened to quit unless the
“trouble-makers” were paid off. At 2.30
a.m. police had stood by while the three
Chinese “ringleaders” were taken to the
airport and put aboard a Hong Kong-
bound plane.
Captain Forde said he believed the ship
would settle down now. He denied
reports that Anna Presthus had been
short of water, but said such a shortage
did exist on a previous voyage. On that
occasion the men were limited to a
bucket a day. Finally, they had rushed
the First Officer and got at the remainder
of the slim supply. He agreed that wages
were very low, but said that was the
standard payment to Chinese seamen and
all had signed contracts accepting the
conditions.
Meanwhile, in the south, the president
of the ACTU, Mr Monk, said he con-
sidered it was time the unions and the
Government investigated conditions on
ships coming to Australia from the East.


DAVID SWAIN
“Not this one, John. It cant be much good if they have a vacancy
ON THE LAND
RABBITS!
FROM GOODWIN EWINCE IN LAUNCESTON
A rabbit has been seen on Flinders
Island and the settlers have been
out with their dogs. On their way
to the pictures, Mr George Robinson
and Mr Don Bailey noticed it at dusk,
stopped their car and gave chase. The
rabbit, they found, had gone into a
culvert. “The culvert was about 20ft
long and only lOin. in diameter, so we
couldn’t get him out,” Mr Robinson
said. They blocked both ends of the
pipe and went back next morning, but
the bunny had got away. For the first
time in 100 years there is a danger on the
island from the pest.
The rough range country of Flinders
Island would be a paradise for rabbits,
and settlers, already battling for a living
under the handicap of expensive and
inadequate transport for their products
and their necessities, fear that infestation
would be their ruin.
Recalling how the crew of a cray-boat
released three rabbits on the north of
the island several years ago as a prank,
they are hoping that what Messrs. Robin-
son and Bailey saw was only the evidence
of another joke. The earlier prank was
harmless, if cruel, for the fishermen had
made sure that the Pilgrim Fathers would
never found a race: they were all bucks.
Since the islanders recovered from the
fright they have been able to grin sympa-
thetically at the thought of those three
rabbits condemned to a most unaccus-
tomed celibacy, but they have always had
an eye cocked over the shoulder for a
recurrence, only too aware that the next
joker might be not so discriminating or
accurate in his rabbit-sexing. And there
is the ever-present risk that cray-boats
carrying live rabbits from Tasmania for
bait might inadv~"tently loose them.
Even on mainland Tasmania, rabbits
are causing concern. They are seldom
seen these days, but Minister for Agricul-
ture Atkins has warned farmers that
they should not accept this as ground
for complacency. The rabbit was
actually on the increase, he said, but it
had within a space of years become
almost completely nocturnal in habit and
was consequently infrequently seen.
Inspectors were now looking for evidence
of rabbits rather ihan for the rabbits
themselves, Mr Atkins said, and were
pressing a vigorous poisoning campaign.


TOURISM
A QUICK FRISK
AT THE BORDER
FROM AN ALBURY CORRESPONDENT
[?]
Banana-curtain
/Customs houses on State borders went
out of vogue after Federation, but
visitors to Victoria are still subjected to
a quick frisk at the border. One of
Victoria’s most impressive establishments
for processing innocents interstate is
located a few hundred yards south of
the Union Bridge at Albury, where the
Hume Highway leaves N.S.W. for Vic-
toria. Wodonga-bound, the motorist
crosses the Murray and is confronted by
a large illuminated sign, “Roadblock,
200 yards.” Passing on under the
emaciated boomerangs supporting the
Victorian coat-of-arms, he is waved to a
halt between a watch-house and central
traffic island by an official splendidly
attired in white pith helmet and navy
uniform. This officer is not a policeman ;
he is an employee of the Department of
Agriculture of Victoria controlling Mr
Bolte’s banana-curtain.
Gone are the days when the visitor
was merely asked, “Carrying any fruit or
vegetables?” and then was waved on if
the answer was no. The list of prohibited
items is now far too long for recital to
drivers, and the standard routine is a
quick appraisal of the car and its occu-
pants followed by, “Travelling, eh?
Down to the shed on your left, driver.”
Such is the tourist's welcome to Victoria.
Down at the shed, visitors learn fast
the penalty of ignorance. Car boots,
interiors and glove-boxes, caravans,
trailers, personal effects are systematically
searched. Prohibited imports? All fruits,
vegetables not in commercial consign-
ments, pig meats (even in tins !), numerous
plants. Bring in any of these foodstuffs,
even in sandwiches, and they will be con-
fiscated. Of course, if tourists are still
capable of digesting anything under these
circumstances, they are occasionally
permitted to gorge on the forbidden fruits
under the watchful eye of an inspector
and. unlike Adam and Eve, stripped of
sin, may subsequently enjoy the freedom
of the Garden of Eden.
Co-operation is compulsory. Not all
drivers take kindly to being halted and
searched, however. Periodically, hapless
individualists crash the block, but are
inevitably pursued and brought to jus-
tice by the Victorian police. Resigned
compliance is the best policy; Wodonga
Court lists . frequently record fines
imposed on incensed motorists who had
the temerity to abuse inspectors seizing
their property.
Tourists entering Victoria lose heavily.
During the recent holiday period, con-
fiscations were made from approximately
9000 vehicles at the Wodonga roadblock
alone. As the Department of Agriculture
claims that confiscated foodstuffs are
destroyed, needless and extravagant waste
is going on at roadblocks. Suggestions
that channels be organised by which
commodities seized at the Wodonga road-
block could be donated to hospitals and
charitable institutions in Albury, on the
N.S.W. side of the border, have not been
responded to. If properly informed,
travellers would rather take this step
themselves than hand their foodtsuffs
over to the Victorian authorities.
There is no doubt that the mode of
operation of the campaign to quarantine
Victoria against insect pests and diseases
endemic in other States displays the
sledge-hammer sensitivity to the niceties
of public relations typical of Government
departments. If there were much sincerity
in the pious protestations of regret by
Victorian officials at the “necessity” for
seizing foodstuffs from visitors entering
the State, they would be making a
strenuous effort to inform intending
tourists of their stringent prohibitions.
The Department has no printed lists of
individual items liable to seizure to give
inquirers ; prohibitions are hardly ever
indicated in tourist pamphlets ; no
notices on the border warn visitors what
they may not bring in.
Strange anomalies exist in the opera-
tion of the quarantine. Private indivi-
duals have their provisions arbitrarily
confiscated without the right of inspection ;
commercial consignments, often from the
same sources, are allowed to proceed to
Victorian markets after inspection which,
in view of the volume involved, can
never guarantee their harmlessness.
Moreover, some N.S.W. visitors to Vic-
toria recently alleged in letters to “The
Age” (unanswered) that not only were
they given no opportunity to take pro-
hibited items back to N.S.W. but also
that they found tinned hams identical
with those taken from them at the
Wodonga roadblock on sale in shops in
Victoria. The expense this causes is a real
bonanza for Victorian border shopkeepers.
TOWN PLANNING
DARWINS PLANNERS GO HAYWIRE
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
A master town plan, strictly followed,
is an urgent necessity for Darwin,
according to Victorian architect H. E.
Pottage, who has returned here after
20 years in the south. His criticism came
as of a surprise to Darwinites,
knowing as they do that they live in
Australia’s most “planned” city.
Public Service planners have always
vociferously looked towards the day
when Darwin’s 15,000 people will grow to
100,000 or more. They have included
green belts, reserves for this and that
(Welfare, R.A.A.F., Navy, Army etc.)
with such a lavish hand that already
home builders have to go eight miles
out past Rapid Creek to find a vacant
block. (In the process they forgot about
sporting ovals, but planners can’t remem-
ber everything.)
No private entrepreneurs were allowed
to butt in and until a few months ago
there were no private subdivisions.
The Parap shopping centre, despite
protests from the City Council and the
unfortunate lessees, was built to some
obscure Swedish design, with shop
frontages facing away from the street.
As predicted, it has become, businesswise,
a white elephant. Mr Pottage himself
described the Fannie Bay centre as “an
unsightly row of shops in a dangerous
position facing the bus route and houses,
with no indications where roads are or
where cars should be parked.”
On Ross-Smith Avenue you can drive
one way up the bitumen half of the
road. Coming the other direction you
have to travel the dirt section, with
potholes two feet deep. If you travel the
bitumen both ways—and as it is quite
wide enough many do —you risk arrest
and a solid fine. Yet that road has waited
years for completion.
AH this evidence of super-planning


gone haywire did not impress architect
Pottage one bit. He called for a “com-
bination of authorities controlling
Darwin'’ to produce a master plan as
soon as possible. Such a plan should
cover all future sub-divisions, shopping
centres, sports grounds etc., he said.
Mr Pottage criticised the approach to
Darwin, still lined by an assortment of
rusted wartime buildings, junk yards,
shanties, backyard factories and incom-
plete structures. He warned businessmen
that the present main shopping centre,
because of lack of planning, would be
unable to retain leadership over more
centrally placed shops if ever Darwin
became a city of 80,000 to 100,000
people.
SNUFF
ADELAIDE,
THE SNUFF CENTRE
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
SIR THOMAS PLAYFORD
Big business
/Avernight Adelaide has become the
snuff centre of Australia. This pre-
eminence is mainly due to the importing
efforts of an Adelaide firm of tobac-
conists, Charles Tunney and Sons Ltd.
Imports into Australia nearly doubled
in a year. In the 12 months up to June
30 last, 15681 b. weight of snuff, valued
at £1548, was imported (compared with
7761 b., valued at £7OB, in the preceding
year). Mr E. C. Tunney, a director of
the Adelaide importing firm, said recently
that his firm was now importing three
3001 b. shipments a year from Ireland
and England for customers in S.A., Vic-
toria and W.A., so that his firm is under-
taking the bulk of Australian imports.
Snuff is Sir Thomas Playford’s latest big
business.
The strange feature about the upsurge
is that women have been partly respon-
sible. Mr Tunney has about 300 regular
customers including women and,
according to retailers, many housewives
have now taken to snuff. Women who
like a “light smoke” often prefer a snuff,
which has less bite and perhaps a trace
of perfume.
He also says there has been an increase
in the use of snuff both in England and
America. “A lot of manufacturers are
taking full-page ads in American and
British magazines now,” he says. He
told The Bulletin that a lot of people
in Britain suffer from sinus complaints
because of the weather there.
Mr E. C. Tunney believes that increased
U.K. migration has been responsible for
the greater demand. The demand had
grown in the past five or six years, during
which S.A. has seen great growth in its
predominantly British-migrant areas of
Elizabeth and Salisbury.
The price of snuff being sold in
Adelaide ranges from 3s. for an ounce
to 325. for a lib. tin. The types of
snuff being sold overseas run the full
gamut of nasal experience. They range
from peppermint, medicated and mentho-
lated to jasmine, rose and wallflower.
But in Australia the field has been until
now rather restricted. According to Mr
Charles Tunney, Australians have been
showing a preference for the plain,
menthol and medicated varieties. Besides
having a choice of “smells” buyers can
choose between fight and dark, coarse or
fine. One type of snuff marketed in
England under the trade-name Cardinal
is golden in color—-and scented. The
most commonly marketed snuff being
distributed by the Tunney firm is Wilson's
snuff (British). A lot of the plain variety
is sold. Other popular brands are
Carol’s (Irish) and Gallagher's (British).
To the ardent snuff-taker the art of
inhaling and savoring is a religious
ceremony. Snuff should be placed in a
pinch on either the back of the hand
or the wrist. (You earn disdain if you
take it from an upturned palm.) A heavy
snuff-taker may take 30 or more pinches
a day. Mr Charles Tunney, who classi-
fies himself as a heavy consumer, says
he takes snuff “all the time.”
A heavy snuff should be taken with a
brisk inhalation through a nostril. Then
the herb can be gently savored while it
sticks in the nose. Inhalation should
not be so heavy for a light variety. This
type of snuff floats through to the back
of the throat and helps to relax it.
Adelaide snuff-takers have yet to catch
on tc the American habit of chewing
it.
DEVELOPMENT
THE POWER STATE
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
HPasmania’s Premier Eric Reece was
able to project a king-size image of
his little State last week when he reviewed
the progress of its power-development
schemes. The island, he said, had barely
one-thirtieth of Australia’s population
(even if it is the tail which could wag the
Senate dog after June 30), but its spinning
turbines are generating one-ninth of all
electricity produced in the Common-
wealth.
Its 10 power stations have an installed
capacity of 800,000 h.p., compared with
the 520,000 h.p. of the expensive and
spectacular Commonwealth - financed
Snowy scheme. By the middle of the
year Catagunya will sieve another 66,000
h.p. from the lower waters of the Der-
went, already wrung almost dry of power
by turbines higher upstream, and within
two years the first of Poatina's generators
will start up, ultimately to add more than
400,000 h.p. to the total. Poatina (abori-
ginal for “cavern”) power station is being
hewn out as a great cave, 300 ft long,
100 ft high, nearly 5000 ft below the
Western Tiers which tower above it.
Mr Reece said that Tasmania's output
would continue to outstrip the Snowy’s,
thanks to bountiful and regular rainfall.
He could foresee a Tasmanian output of
12,500 million kilowatt-hours annually
from an installed capacity of 2,400,000
kw., whereas the Snowy's 2,500,000 kw.
installed capacity would yield only 5500
million kwh. a year.
“Tasmania’s power developments are
the biggest in Australia, and its citizens
should never forget this,” said Mr Reece.
Tasmanian power, he said, was cheaper
to industry and to the domestic consumer
than power in any other State, and there
was no additional charge imposed on
even the most remote farm homestead.
The State has been warned that time
may be running out for its water power,
that nuclear power may one day become
more attractive. Consequently, it is push-
ing ahead as quickly as finances permit
(it has only its own loan funds for
development) to utilise the power, even if
aluminium smelting and the big B.H.P.
ferro-manganese plant soon to operate at
Bell Bay are relatively poor employers in
terms of power consumed.
The Government has often beer
attacked for spending toe much of its
loan allocation on power schemes.
Money spent on tourist facilities, oppon-
ents say, would yield more to the State.
However, the Hydro-Electric Commission
isn’t such a bad tourist bait in itself.


ABORIGINES
INCREASING SEGREGATION
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
DR J. P. O'LOUGHLIN
A timely comparison
'T'he Catholic Bishop of Darwin,
Dr J. P. O'Loughlin, the other day
called for a new approach to the Gov-
ernment's avowed native policy of
“assimilation" into the white community.
As at present administered, he claimed,
it was working in reverse. Natives were
segregated in increasing numbers on
Welfare settlements and missions, and the
situation would get worse unless work
and housing could be found for abo-
rigines in Darwin and other Territory
communities.
He blamed much of the trouble on
the European population: “There is a
lack of co-operation by people in trying
to make natives part of the community.
If people will not co-operate then these
schemes must break down. There is a
lot of talk and theory about assimilation,
but in practice not many people are pre-
pared to carry it out. A number of
natives are ready to take their place in
the community if they could get special-
ised help. We must turn our thoughts to
them.”
He also warned that the Catho-
lic Mission at Bathurst Island —a
green jewel in the mud grey Arafura
Sea half an hour’s flying time north of
Darwin and a great source of the Terri-
tory’s most spectacular, highflying Aus-
tralian Rules footballers-—was “seriously
overcrowded.” Natural food supplies are
dwindling because of a “population
explosion” among the natives. Children
could not be educated if their families
had to roam away from the mission in
search of food. Some of Bathurst’s 1000
Tiwi tribesmen could be transferred to
another mission, but this also would
become overcrowded in time.
The solution was to find work and
housing for selected aboriginal families
inside Darwin itself. This would be “a
real move towards assimilation.” It was
a backward step to congregate or segre-
gate natives in settlements and missions,
as was happening in Central Australia.
Evidence of this could be found by com-
paring the number of natives on segre-
gated settlements with the number on
cattle stations.
The last annual report of the Welfare
Branch bears out his claims of increasing
numbers of natives on segregated
missions and settlements. Numbers
soared on eight of the 13 Government
settlements and the overall number also
rose, as did the missions' figure. The
native population increased on four of
the five Anglican missions, three of
the four Catholic missions, all four
Methodist missions and on the famous
Lutheran mission at Hermannsburg. The
year ended June, 1961, saw more than
10,000 aborigines living on missions and
settlements —a rise of about 600 in 12
months. In December, 1960, another
5600 were living on cattle stations or in
touch with mining and agricultural areas.
Only 470 lived in towns —mostly resi-
dents of Darwin's seedy Bagot Com-
pound —and a bare 400 Pintubis and
others were nomadic, not in contact with
missions or settlements.
Dr O'Loughlin’s comments are all
valid, but the fault does not lie with the
community alone. In outlying areas the
Welfare Branch seems consciously to be
pursuing a policy of segregation. Station-
owners, now wrestling with new and
very real problems of modernisation,
markets and herd control are seldom
consulted and never heeded before law
concerning their native employees are
promulgated. The result is a drift by
pasturalists away from using aboriginal
stockmen towards whites and half-
castes ; a drift which such experts as
Pastor Albrecht of Hermannsburg fear
may be permanent.
A white man who enters a native
reserve without permission risks jail or a
heavy fine. To share a drink with an
aboriginal means a mandatory minimum
of six months in jail. A white man can
seek permission to marry a native girl,
but he is commiting a criminal offence
if he tries to court her beforehand. Even
the few hundred happy-go-lucky Yanyu-
las who lived for generations on the
MacArthur River bank at Borroloola
have been moved over to isolated Robin-
son River —apparently to remove them
from the “contaminating” influence of
half a dozen old age pensioners.
Perhaps the greatest failure of all has
been the total inability to get the assimi-
lation message across to the whites, who
make up the most numerous and pros-
perous sector of the community. The
approach has been academic —the ethno-
logist's rather than the sociologist's —so
much so that many here will tell you the
aborigines have assimilated the Welfare
Branch instead of vice versa.
The Welfare Branch has never
attempted to reach a basis of understand-
ing with the public. It is reputed to have
had a Public Relations Officer on its
staff for more than 2 years, but Darwin
pressmen never meet him. The Director
of Welfare, Mr Harry Giese, has little
use for newspapermen and makes no
secret of it when they attempt to inter-
view him.
The Bishop’s words are timely, against
the background of a perhaps too-leisurely
programme which the Minister for Terri-
tories, Mr Hasluck, last year envisaged
as “three generations of perpetual
change.” That sort of time may not be
available. It is time the Government's
officers came down from their ivory
tower.


A PLAIN MAN S GUIDE
TO W. C. WENTWORTH
An Interview with PETER HASTINGS
PH: What is your explanation for the
recent close election vote?
WCW: Well, 1 don’t think this was a
vote for the Labor party. I think it
was a vote of censure on certain
aspects of Government policy.
But you've got to look at the other
side of the picture, too —the vote
wouldn't have been nearly as close as
it was (and 1 mean close on the other
side) if the Labor party had not been
split and divided. The Labor party is
completely discredited, and the
frightening thing is a party as dis-
credited as Labor could have ridden
us to within a couple of seats.
PH: Now I wonder whether a lot of
Liberals are not misleading them-
selves about it. A lot of people I
know said, ‘’Well, people voted for
Labor to give Liberals a scare, and
if elections came up again they’d
think twice about it this time” —do
you think that true?
WCW: Yes, that’s true, but only half
the truth. It's truest in a number of
electorates that don’t matter —the blue-
ribbon electorates. But, secondly,
there's also a movement 1 fear in the
other direction. A lot of people who
voted Liberal last time might be in-
clined not to vote Liberal next time if
(and only if) they felt that the Labor
party was rehabilitating itself on the
communist issue. So . . .
PH: I’ll come back to the communist
issue later. There’s a lot of talk in
Liberal circles that the Liberal party
needs in some way to rehabilitate itself,
to be more specific about what it
wants.
WCW: I think there’s a lot of wishful
thinking about this. A lot of people
say that what’s wrong with the party
is a matter of public relations and
presentation. I’m afraid this isn’t
entirely true. I think the party has
got to have quite a considerable
reinvigoration and reorientation of its
policy, going right beyond the presen-
tation of it. I’m not saying the pre-
sentation can’t be improved. I think
the presentation of our policy at the
last election was shocking. In point
of fact, we didn’t help ourselves at
all. But it’s not only a question of
presentation.
PH: If Labor came to power within the
next 12 months do you think it would
actually set about the socialistic pro-
gramme of nationalisation and so on,
or is that bogey over, or is it still a
bogey, or is it a bogey at all?
WCW: Well, it never was a bogey —it
was always a reality, a very real
thing. Now Labor couldn’t come to
full power in the next 12 months, be-
cause it wouldn’t have a clear majority
in the Senate. Even though a large
number of socialistic measures can
be effected without new legislation,
unless you have a majority in the
Senate, Labor is not fully in power. It
is perfectly true, for example, that,
without passing any new legislation at
all, you could socialise the banking
system by mere administrative mea-
sures using existing legislation. But
if the Labor party, by administrative
action, were to do this, then, although
the Senate could not protect the bank-
ing system, it could throw out a Supply
Bill and thus force the Government to
face the country. So Labor really
has not got full power unless it has
power in both Houses. I’m quite con-
fident that if Labor achieved power in
both Houses there would be no prac-
ticable limits on how far it would go.
PH: Do you still think this is still true?
Despite Calwell's denial?
WCW: Ah, yes, I do not take that at
its face value at all.
PH: Would you say communist influ-
ence was currently strong in the
A.L.P.?
WCW: I would indeed. Not that all
individual members are all like this.
Chifley, for all his leanings, was partly
conservative, but he was also, of
course, a socialist (queer mixture,
there). Chifley himself, I think, was
really an anti-communist. Calwell is
by inclination just as anti-communist
as Chifley ever was, but he lacks the
strength in this. It may be because he
lacks the backing of the party or be-
cause he is a weak and frightened man.
But on this issue Calwell has shown
up really shockingly in his leadership.
PH: Nowadays you say there is no
Chifley to stand up to, to withstand it.
This is true enough, but there is no
effort to push, either. Doesn't it bal-
ance out?
WCW: Well, I wouldn’t say there was
no effort to push it. I regard Cairns,
for example, as not having the prestige
or the legal skill of Evatt, but he is
certainly a very astute manoeuvrer be-
hind the scenes, and, as I said, the
communist influence in the Labor
party which is now being exercised
through pressure on pre-selection bal-
lots and things like that is, in my view,
greater now than it was, in spite of
the fact that Evatt is not there. You
know, I have never regarded Evatt as
a communist. I believe Evatt was a
man who in one way or another was
under communist pressure and dis-
liked very often doing what in fact he
did, but he had to do it.
PH: Well, now, this brings up another
interesting point in relation to the
people of Australia as a whole who
must now be convinced of Russian
conspiracy. Very hard not to believe
that now.
WCW: Insane not to believe that now.
PH: Insane not to now, and there was
much more excuse in 1945.
WCW: Whether there was or not, it was
a fact that a number of people who
were absolutely well-intentioned did
not then believe that the Russian and
communist menace was a real one.
PH: Those people now have the evi-
dence in front of their eyes. Where
do they stand in relation, then, to
communist pressure on the Labor
party?
WCW: I think people now are still under
an illusion. It is a different illusion
from the 1945 one, but it’s still an
illusion. In 1945 these well-intentioned
people wouldn’t face the fact that
Russia and communism were menaces,
they deceived themselves on that issue.
Now that they have been convinced
by events on that issue, they are still
deceiving themselves on the ground


that communism can’t do anything in
Australia and can’t get anywhere with
the Labor party. In other words, they
substitute one illusion for another
illusion. It is related to the same
end process, but it is a different illu-
sion.
PH: Well, to turn to another subject,
what about encouraging exports to
balance our overseas funds?
WCW: It seems to me we should not
be neglecting the export field, but we
should also be paying a great deal more
attention to import replacement. There,
of course, we have really had our
windfalls.
PH: What is that?
WCW: Oil discoveries. Our oil debits
overseas, including freight, are now
130 or 140 million quid a year, and
this figure tends to double every seven
or eight years. At this rate, it wouldn’t
be more than a decade or so before our
oil debits crossed our wool receipts, and
that’s a very loathsome prospect. But
I feel fairly confident now that we're
in for big oil discoveries in Australia
and we will soon be independent of oil
imports. This changes the whole
picture.
PH: Now, you’re fairly confident on
what grounds?
WCW: Well, I wouldn’t like to summarise
these in a couple of minutes. You can’t
be quite certain about any single field,
but the present Queensland field looks
like being a really big thing. It goes
much further than that: because, when
you look at the conditions along the
whole of the eastern coast of Australia,
south from somewhere around Mackay
right down to Gippsland, in that whole
area we now know that there are many,
many occurrences equivalent to the
Queensland occurrences which are now
producing oil. I would think that the
chances of finding oil in N.S.W., either
in towards Moree or even more impor-
tantly in what they call the Sydney
Basin (that is the basin which stretches
from Gunnedah down to the Clyde
River), are now really bright, really
bright, and this by no means exhausts
the possibilities in N.S.W. This same
condition will be extending down to
Victoria. Just as the old Roma gas
showings indicated the existence some
hundreds of miles away of the present
Moonie field, so it would seem that the
old showings at Lake Entrance are
probably indicative of oil, at any rate,
gases, deep in the Gippsland Basin.
Then you move round to Port Camp-
bell and the Beachport occurrences.
Both of these are promising by any
standards. Then recently the turn-up
in the northern extension of the Perth
basin, and there are other things in
Western Australia also. Now these are
not a complete list of our prospects.
To my way of thinking, the
miracle is not that we are finding
oil in Australia. The miracle is that
we have taken so damned long to find
it. Especially during the last few years,
this may not be unrelated to the fact
that there has been a world glut of oil.
PH: How much foreign capital is tied up
with oil research here?
WCW: Much too much, I wouldn’t like
to give a figure. But particularly in
late years a great takeover has been
taking place. Take for example, the
A.O.G. affair up in Queensland —that
Queensland Basin A.O.G. have given
away 80 p.c. to Union Kern. This was
a fair amount; Union Kern have been
doing all the work, that’s perfectly true,
but it looks like as if, for an expendi-
ture of only a couple of million, they’re
going to get an asset which will be
valued in terms of hundreds of
millions. Now A.O.G. have come down
to the Sydney Basin, e.g., A.O.G. have
given away most of their rights to all
rocks lower than the Permian. It is
true that people think the best chances
of oil are in the Permian, but nobody’s
certain and it’s very interesting to see
in the last few days this frantic
bidding for A.O.G. on the New
York Exchange. Of course, this means
overseas investors are now trying to
get in on the 20 p.c. remaining, and it’s
very awkward in my way of thinking.
These pressure points in the Australian
economy are passing out of Australian
ownership.
PH: Would you also direct that criticism
to other fields of foreign investment?
Not all, any other in particular?
WCW: Yes, I think I would. I don’t like
to see the key-points going. You may
remember about ten years ago I
initiated a motion in the House in
regard to the overseas takeover of
foreign broadcasting stations. I believe
this would be a very bad thing, and
it should be resisted. Recently, the
Government very popularly squashed
the attempt of a group of Hong Kong
people to take over a Broken Hill
company for 17 million quid. This is
a complicated question. I think you’ve
got to look at this matter of foreign
investment not merely as an economic
thing but as a political thing also, be-
cause in my view Australia is going to
need all the friends she can get. I’m
by no means certain that over the long
run these ties of investment are con-
ducive to international friendship.
PH: You’re thinking of Canada?
WCW: Not only Canada, but Cuba.
But we seem to be running rather wide.
If you can come back for a moment
to where you started on your economic
import replacements.
PH: Oil is one.
"It’s from us.”
WCW: It seems to me that we should be
increasing public investment, so as to
bring private industry back to its full
productive stage. Then perhaps we
can tape off the public sector as the
private sector takes up. We should be
adapting our external economic policy
to fit in with this. Whether we
do by selective import restrictions, or
by tariffs or by exchange control
or by alteration of the exchange rate
or by the combination of all these, isn’t
of primary importance. The import-
ant thing is that we should do it.
PH: Regarding the Common Market. Sir
John Crawford and Mr McEwen and
others are now threatening dire results
for us. 1 think Sir John pointed out
the other day that we have to make
up £4OO million a year in exports over
the next ten years. Now, 1 don’t see
how we’re going to do it.
WCW: I think he’s putting insufficient
emphasis on import replacement
there. Particularly, of course, this
oil.
PH: Now, what else apart from o: 1 ?
What other things can be replaced as
our skills grow?
WCW: We haven’t even got to have
extra skills. What we’ve got to do is
to get our industry working at full
pitch again. Now, let's think of these
terms: If you have 150,000 unem-
ployed at the present moment and
they are worth, in terms of production,
at least £2OOO a year each (and that’s
a very moderate figure when you think
of idle plants and so on), there’s
£300,000,000 in one hit.
PH: Yes.
WCW: And it’s really rather better than
it looks because you’ve got the pro-
jects like the tin plate, which have
been under construction five or six
years, and they’re only just starting to
pay off. So what you’ve got to do is
to look at our import schedule and
compare the goods on it with our
capacity to produce, and when you
do that you’re not quite so dis-
couraged.


PH: What about the development of the
north?
WCW: This is something I have always
felt a certain amount of doubt about.
The north is underpopulated, has been
underpopulated for hundreds of years.
Indonesians landed on it, didn’t think
it worth populating. Now, we can’t put
in quickly any significant population.
If we overplay the “riches of the
north” we strike trouble.
PH: Outside Australia what points of
danger do you see?
WCW: There is only one danger—the
communist drive coming south and
mobilising Asian nationalism as the
vehicle for its purpose.
PH: Well, without being too much of a
crystal-ball gazer, how is it going to
occur?
WCW: It may never occur, if luck is
with us. One hope would be a strong
and friendly Indonesia, which would
not become a party of the communist
drive. We may perhaps succeed in
establishing an island chain round Asia
which is not communistic and which
would insulate Australia to some extent
from the communist world. This is a
thing to hope for.
PH: Any future foreign policy of ours
should aim at encouraging as much as
possible the anti-communist element in
Indonesia.
WCW: This perhaps is the most import-
ant thing for Australia.
PH: Taking the present Dutch-Indo-
nesian dispute on New Guinea, where
do you see the communists benefiting?
WCW: The communists benefit of
course if they can exacerbate trouble
between Indonesia and Australia —if
they can produce the position in which
the communists in Indonesia become
“patriots” supporting nationalist Soe-
karno.
PH: Which they’re trying to do.
WCW: Which they are doing at this
moment, as hard as they can. Until
recently, the army was the strongest
anti-communist force in Indonesia.
Well, now the army is being committed
on the New Guinea front in alliance
with communists.
PH: An uneasy alliance.
WCW: All alliances with communists
are uneasy in this sense —the com-
munists’ technique is the takeover bid
on uneasy alliances.
PH: The army will try to stop the com-
munists deriving benefit from any take-
over of West New Guinea, should it
occur.
WCW: Pious thoughts! Many other
people in other countries have had them
in relation to communists. It is a
current habit to underestimate the
length of spoon you need in supping
with communists.
PH: Therefore, in opposing Indonesia,
whom do we help—the communists or
the non-communists?
WCW: I’m afraid the communists.
PH: Why do you say that?
WCW: We’ve produced a situation in
Indonesia where the communists can
pose as Indonesian patriots and put
themselves in alliance with the non-
communists in Indonesia on the point
of policy which the non-communists
in Indonesia (such as Soekarno and
co.) now announce to be their main
policy. It has enabled the communists
to mobilise much more effectively their
phoney anti-colonialist front.
PH: Do you think we can rescue the
situation?
WCW: It will be very difficult for us to
do so. We have given the Australian
people such a false view of what the
facts are. This false view, that we’ve
encouraged over so many years, will
make any switch of policy very difficult.
PH: Well, all our terrible chickens have
come home to roost.
WCW: I wish they were chickens!
PH: What about self-determination in
West New Guinea?
WCW: Well, I’m afraid I regard this as
rather an academic issue. As you
know, I’ve been twice to West New
Guinea (not for any length of time),
but I’ve spent a much longer time in
Australian New Guinea. The people
of West New Guinea are so far from
civilisation of any kind that it's going
to be many generations before they
can exercise any effective self-
determination at all. Events in the
world are not going to allow those
generations to elapse, whatever we do
and whatever we say. So you can’t
really believe that there is any possi-
bility of effective self-determination for
these people. I wish there were. This
is one of the things you regret, but
these are the facts of life.
PH: Well now, therefore, what about
our own side of New Guinea?
WCW: The general level of develop-
ment, economic and otherwise, is
higher on our side than it is on the
Dutch side, but we’ve been going at
it longer. On the other hand, the elite
on the Dutch side are much higher
developed than with us.
PH: There are 300 Papuans on the west
side who are bilingual, who speak
Dutch and Malay.
WCW: Who speak English, too!
PH: Some of the good ones speak
English.
WCW: We found more good English
spoken by the Papuans on the Dutch
side than you would on our side. On
our side they spoke pidgin and dialect,
but mainly pidgin.
PH: Now how do you form a nation
on that?
WCW: Not possible—we’ve started too
late and with too little.
I was, as you know, over in the
United Nations last year. You don’t
believe it until you actually see it —
the intensity of feeling of these people,
these previously colonial people, on
what we call the colonial issue. Maybe
it’s illogical on their part, but they
want to be free of Europeans. This
has become an obsession with them.
You can say “This is obsession. This
is illogical,” but you’re still left with
the fact that this is how it is.
PH: So when a sufficient number of
people in New Guinea on our side say
we are ready to go, nothing is going
to stop it.
WCW: I’d say much more than that.
I’m saying that our presence in New
Guinea is going to become an issue in
the United Nations, which will be used
by the communists (who will be using
obsessions and illogicalities) to poison
the relations of Australia with the
whole of Asia.
PH: What do you think of the future
of the United Nations?
WCW: Remember what we said on
“Meet the Press” about a year ago?
Exactly this, you have either got to
make this an effective organisation or
you have got to end it.
PH: Yes.
WCW: It may have got to the position
now where UNO cannot be made into
an effective international organisation,
but you have got to have an inter-
national organisation of an effective
sort.
PH: Yes. Don’t you know that the only
way out of this is to surrender national
sovereignty?
WCW: Yes, though I hate the implica-
tion of this. It is still the only way.
PH: Tell me, should we withdraw from
the United Nations?
WCW: I don’t think that anybody should
withdraw from .he United Nations
except for the purpose of creating an
effective international organisation. As
I’ve said, the U.N. in its present form
is incapable of meeting realities.
PH: It is unworkable.
WCW: Of course, but this is the whole
point—you’ve either got to smash it
and put something else in its place
or else you’ve got to reform it and
develop it into a really effective gov-
ernment —one or the other.
PH: Reform is obviously the more
desirable way.
WCW: But we’ve been tinkering about
with this for years and years and
nobody’s doing anything about it at
all.
PH: Your notion, anyway, is a super-
national body in which all countries
relinquish sovereignty.
WCW: I m afraid this is inevitable. It’s
going to be a loathsome affair, but it
is the only thing now.


THE BOARD THAT WORKED
By M. H. ELLIS
l N a period when grand-scale,
if vague, developmental plans
are widely discussed, The
Bulletin considered that a
better approach to develop-
mental problems would be to
isolate an extreme example of
what has been done in one par-
ticular industry by purposeful
and imaginative planning, which
may serve as a model for future
thinking. In this article M. H.
Ellis shows how, after 1949, the
N.S.W. Coal Board recon-
structed and made prosperous
one of the most backward and
unstable Australian industries—
the black coa l industry.
At the end of World War II the
N.S.W. coal industry suffered
from every mortal illness the
mind of man could conceive. It
was listless and bankrupt. It was losing
its railway markets, had lost its steamer
market. Generations of strikes had cul-
minated in the destruction of its over-
seas trade as far back as 1910. Industrial
strife had begun to ruin its interstate
export market and forced the develop-
ments of brown coal in Victoria and
South Australia.
A Royal Commissioner, Mr justice
Davidson, reported at the end of the war
that “the coal industry in its major fields
is a tottering industry, undisciplined,
losing its production and markets, a prey
to evil and revolutionary influences,
inefficient, dangerously overgoverned to
the point of strangulation .. . the very
thought of profits has for many years
been almost fanciful.” Only Govern-
ment subsidies, he wrote, had kept 80
per cent, of the coal proprietors of New
South Wales from financial wreck.
Faced with carrying the responsibility
for an awful position in which they had
surrendered completely to the whims of
communist union leadership which had
become the virtual dictatorship of the
industry, the Federal and State Labor
Governments combined to get the pro-
blem off their backs before it crushed
them.
They naturally turned to the idea
of a socialistic Joint Coal Board.
The first efforts of the Board
only culminated in the great 1949 coal
strike and in more chaos, sabotage, strife,
special legislation and industrial para-
lysis and blackout throughout the con-
tinent.
The Menzies Government came into
power in 1950 and with it a new Joint
Coal Board which, miraculous as it may
seem, had insight and vision. It found
itself faced with a demand from industry
for 16 million tons of coal in the coming
year and a problematical supply of 11
million tons, largely of poor and expen-
sively produced stuff, to meet the demand.
It proceeded to get down to fundamentals.
It deduced that the extremely poor
profit history of the industry lay at the
root of many of the difficulties which
faced the industry and the community.
It noted that colliery owners did not
receive the developpient concessions
available to other mine owners under
Section 10 of the Income Tax Assess-
ment Act. It could see no incentive to
owners to produce either more coal or
good coal in the system of price fixing.
It found itself faced with the ‘'infinitely
complex problem” of changing the tradi-
tional hostility of miners and miners’
communities to employers.
It noted the need to improve working
conditions by mechanisation, through
a complete changeover to new methods
and terms of employment and a new
outlook on absenteeism and trivial dis-
putes. But in spite of all this a huge
success was achieved with coal.
Income tax concessions, assistance in
mechanisation, advice, leased modern
equipment, reorganised wage systems,
attendance money, amenities for
mining communities in the form of
swimming pools, medical attendance,
education facilities, pensions, proper
workers’ compensation—all the things the
industry thought could not before have
been afforded and which have completely
changed the industrial picture of the
fields.
Where the possible mining year was
once 180 days in a good year, it has been
229 days in the past year, despite the
introduction of four weeks' holiday in
the year.
The loss of coal through stoppages in
New South Wales fell from an average
of about 2.5 million tons per annum over
the years 1947-50 on a total average pro-
duction of 11 million tons to 385,000
tons on a total production of 18.5 million
tons in the twelve months ended in
December.
Almost complete mechanisation has
been achieved in the decade, vast new
mines have been opened, the reduction
of manpower from a ratio of more than
one man to each ton produced to one
man to every ton and a half produced,
with large transfers from one field to
another have been carried out with a
minimum of industrial trouble and unem-
ployment. The output in ten years has
been nearly doubled.
The moral of the lesson is that tremen-
dous spurts can be made in the develop-
ment of the worst industry in the
country by proper organisation and
incentives both to owners and workers ;
that wages can be pushed up and hours
shortened while keeping prices down ;
that large scale mechanisation or automa-
tion does not necessarily mean unemploy-
ment ; and that the best means of getting
annual holidays, pensions and amenities
is not by agitation and stoppages but
by overall co-operation which ensures
that the return from the product is able
to carry the cost of all these things along
with profits.
It is a pity the lesson has not been
fully applied elsewhere. The Coal Board
seems to be a prototype that should be
studied when Governments are consider-
ing the creation of an organisation for
the development of the Commonwealth.
Boards like this might well be the
standard for liaison bodies between Gov-
ernments and specific industries, examin-
ing the industries from the point of view
of workers, usefulness to the country,
price ranges and employers’ problems.
There also seems room for regional
development authorities, of the type of
the Coal Board, quite different in charac-
ter from the Government development
departments which merely peck at the
problems all over the country, keeping a
careful eye on political temperature and


making sure that everybody has a little
(if futile) bit of Government bounty or
work.
An authority might, for instance, take
over the review of the Dawson River
Valley in Central Queensland, estimate its
capacity in land potential, estimate the
potential of its coal, estimate its water
storage capacities, its need for communi-
cation, its productive capacity in metal
mining, copper and pyrites in Mt
Morgan, carbon products, lime, and
timber present or possible through plant-
ing.
Such an authority consisting of the
right men could very well make a blue-
print of what moves are needed to turn
the whole region, equal in area to a size-
able European kingdom, into a “going
concern” as a community with a view to
population building round its products.
And linked with this plan would be
another —to put into operation the blue-
print on how to do it on a long term
basis, how to finance it with private or
public capital, what the Governments
would need to do, what self-help would
be needed, how its products would be
absorbed locally or marketed elsewhere,
Such a body could take over, with the
resources of knowledge of the south and
the export markets, the answering of the
plea which one hears in every district
along the far north coast littoral: “Find
us a staple product on which we can live
as a district and which does not only give
seasonal employment.”
Regional developmental bodies could
very well be tied together by a strong
limited body of four or five men of the
capacity and enthusiasm and influence
of, say, Mr Warren Macdonald, head
of the Development Bank, which would
tackle the problem of overall develop-
mental planning at national level.
It might have a constitution something
on the lines of the Tariff Board, but with
a more constructive franchise, not merely
with powers to advise the Governments
on broad policies and procedures and
recommend the means of financing
specific schemes, but with power to
negotiate specific agreements for finance,
to plan a development tax-concession
programme, to find where help may be
obtained by private planners, to nego-
tiate with prospective participant firms
in large schemes and to help find a way
round obstacles to their participation;
to vet the overall market programme
abroad and generally to act as a prac-
tical ginger group to keep departmental-
ised and regional plans working and the
public fully informed and co-operative.
Mr McEwen is already thinking along
the lines of these objectives in relation
to the export trade.
It should be emphasised that what is
suggested is not the kind of formalised
socialism which is represented by institu-
tions such as the N.S.W. Egg Board,
which establishes tyrannies over both
consumers and the producers, the latter
always in the shadow of jail or fine, their
products taken and carefully staled before
sale.
The Joint Coal Board differs in that it
starts at the other end of the spectrum
of relationships from that at which the
Egg Boards of this world begin. Its
initial moves are at the citizens’ end, at
the workers’ end, the producers’ end, the
consumers’ end. It learns their views
and needs, sifts them and short-cuts them
to the Government. It deals with indivi-
dual cases. It admits that the people who
know most about a business are those in
the business itself. It provides advocacy
and arbitration in the quick settlements of
troubles. It has flexibility in handling
isolated problems, and can handle them
quickly. It can reward price reduction.
Its plan is co-operation, not force.
GOA AND V
FROM GEOFFREY FAIRBAIRN IN NEW DELHI
A/Tr V. sells pictures, talks pictures,
collects pictures, loves pictures. He
loves a girl in America. He supports a
large family of brothers. His family are
Jains, very much a minority sect in India.
The family have a temple beside a lake
in a jungle fastness where V. as a child
learned the Indian ragas whose sounds
have haunted him all his life, subtly
interwoven with the kindly growl of his
grandfather and the jungle shrieks and
the noise of thunder that frightened him
when, as a small child, he would walk
back along the jungle path with his grand-
father after the temple festival was over.
He is only 28. He abhors politics. He
is happy in Paris, London, New York.
The painters he sponsors do well in those
places, too. He is a cosmopolitan.
And yet he is an Indian. I was with
him when his copy of “Time” magazine
arrived. It contained two cartoons from
American dailies. One was of Mahatma
Gandhi with a blood-dripping knife stuck
deep in his back labelled “Goa”; another
was of Mr Nehru standing on a shadow
of his figure, prostrate in the dust,
labelled “Conscience,” while the Prime
Minister of 450 million people brandished
yet another blood-stained knife in his
hand.
V., understandably, looked as though
he were going to vomit when he saw
these cartoons. We then drove out
towards S.’s, a painter of very remark-
able talent. On the way, V. very sud-
denly became a politician, sadly but
angrily. “You realise,” he said, “that the
U.S. State Department must have ordered
those awful cartoons to have been pub-
lished in ‘Time’ magazine?” I argued
that Mr Henry Luce was most unlikely
to consult the State Department about his
copy. The argument was no good. For
the Asian edition of “Time,” V. insisted,
State Department approval must have
been given. “This is what the Americans
really think of us,” he insisted. Then
suddenly the British were brought on to
the scene. “You realise that though we
have so much more in common with the
British, actually we like the Americans
better because .. . He swerved to avoid
a bullock-cart. “Because of Pakistan?”
I suggested, knowing that virtually every
Indian regards Pakistan as the result only
of a sinister British plot.
V. immediately agreed that Pakistan
was the result chiefly of British machia-
vellianism and to a lesser extent of Mr
Nehru’s “unfortunate attachment” to the
Mountbatten family. He went on to
argue that, anyway, the British had
granted India independence only out of
its postwar weakness, not as a result
of policy. “But that is not really the
point,” he insisted, still as much in sorrow
as in anger. “The British cannot bear
us to achieve anything. Before they left,
they did everything possible to ensure
that India would quickly revert to chaos.
They have never forgiven us for ordering
our affairs as well as we have done. Now
they cannot forgive us for acting in
Goa.”
We went up to S.’s flat, with its bleak
concrete walls hung with (to my mind)
“ Personally , I like to take life as
I find it."


truly wonderful paintings. S. is in his
early thirties, looks like an Italian, has
the brightest, friendliest eyes of any
artist I have ever known. He is a happy
man. His young wife, who lies under a
blanket clutching a basketful of hot coals
to her sick stomach, is a Hindu. S. is a
Muslim. Their courtship is a mediaeval
romance of splendid developments.
Politics are momentarily impossible
here. S. is a respected poet as well.
We look at his paintings: his abstracts
look much more exciting than Paul Klee’s
and he has spiky forms that recall
Graham Sutherland ; he has a dancer as
lonely in her permanence of pose as the
famous black figurine of Harappa, done
perhaps five thousand years ago. V.
laughs and jokes about painting, con-
scious of being the Vollard of India ;
arranges that he and I and S. shall go to
see the erotic ocean of forms at Khaju-
raho next weekend, whistles with dismay
at S.’s first use of beeswax as a medium,
cries with well-merited delight at the
artist’s quick adaptation to it.
But once outside and back in the car
again V. is politician for a night. The
subject of Western reactions to Goa is
resumed. He makes the same points over
again. I think they are important ones
for Australians to grasp.
I think they are very important indeed.
“Asia” is fundamentally a dream —or
nightmare—emanating from the Euro-
pean subconscious. It is what-we-
are-not. As such, it is dangerous,
because fundamentally meaningless. So
we are unable—almost by definition —
truly to understand the national aspira-
tions of countries that lie within the vast
area which we denominate as “Asia.”
Because it was in Western Europe that
steam-power, as opposed to man-
power, was first developed, “Asia” was
easily conquered. The results of this con-
quest have been many, and some of them
wholly admirable, but the greatest of
them has been this: the imposition, not
altogether deliberately, upon “Asia” of
the greatest collective inferiority com-
plex known in history.
And this is where one comes back to
V., cosmopolitan, encourager of a truly
international form of vision, charming
and sincere advocate of world under-
standing, who is suddenly made to believe
—as a result of the unconscionably, the
quite monstrously deformed Western
evaluation of the meaning of India’s
forcible resumption of its Goan terri-
tories —that, when the pressure is on,
“Asians” will always be judged by
different standards from those the West
is prepared to apply to itself. In brief,
according to this “Asian” understanding,
any positive move by “Asians” will
always be misconstrued by the West —-
the civilisation that gave the world the
burning of Hiroshima and Dresden,
amongst many very wonderful things.
FOR CUBA SPECIALISTS
Who Are N ot Too Busy With New Guinea
By ROBERT CONQUEST
I regret having given erroneous
information and!or advice about Fidel
Castro and his Cuba. As token of my
repentance 1 undertake to abstain
from publicising my opinions on
foreign affairs for a trial period of
ONE YEAR.
Signed.
TT is no doubt pressure of work and
similar causes which have prevented
a number of people from making the
disavowals which are now called for,
and it is with a view to saving them
trouble that the above form is printed.
It should be signed, torn out and sent
in c/o The Bulletin. If this is thought
to be undignified, perhaps one of the
more conscientious would organise a
round-robin?
It is both in practice and in theory
that the Castro regime has now demon-
strated that it is totally unlike what a
number of men of goodwill, as well as
one or two with more doubtful motives,
would have had us suppose. Signatories to
pro-Castro letters and articles included a
number of vocal bomb-banners. When
the Soviet fifty-plus megaton bomb was
exploded, it will be remembered, the
Cuban delegate to the Belgrade confer-
ence of neutralists was the only one to
express hearty approval, and Cuba was
the only State supposedly outside the
communist bloc which voted in favor of
the explosion when it came up in the
United Nations. On that occasion, how
ever, the customary volubility even of
some of our most dramatic commentators
seems to have deserted them.
Then we had, at the beginning of
December, Castro’s speech on the crea-
tion of a new “united” party in Cuba.
This was a somewhat sensational docu-
ment. But one would not have thought
so from the almost ostentatious lack of
attention which it aroused in the circles
mentioned above. Castro boasted of his
long attachment to Marxism-Leninism.
And his references to the fact that this
had to be concealed in the early pro-
grammes of his movement for fear of
alienating support were coupled with
what amounted to the formal (in con-
summation of the long-established fac-
tual) setting-up of communist one-party
rule in Cuba. With this, one would have
thought, such arguments as the one which
had urged that any hostility to Castro
would “drive him into the arms of” the
communists might seem to fall to the
ground. And his cynical statements on
the methods which Rakosi in Hungary
used to call “salami tactics” could have
been expected to arouse indignation and
revulsion of feeling among those in this
country who were duped by them. (Those
in Cuba who were duped by them are
of course now in jail, like the unfortunate
Major Matos and his colleagues.)
Early in 1960 I wrote in the London
“Spectator” on the Cuban situation. I
am not an “expert” on Cuba like those
who have put in the regulation week in
Castroite Havana. But I know what
happens when a country falls into the
hands of a communist party with allegi-
ance to the apparats in Moscow or
Peking. (In much the same way, a doctor
who knew about cholera would be
entitled to write about the outbreak of
an epidemic of the disease in Tierra del
Fuego, without necessarily being an
expert on the conditions in that island.)
I wrote that if certain facts were estab-
lished —for example, that the police, the
trade unions, the universities and so on
had been put under the control of the
communist party —then Cuba must be
seen as a communist State in which no
claims, or even temporary practices, of
a progressive nature should be regarded
as having any significance. Those in-
adequately aware of the history of the
communist movement could, and can,
argue against this view. But those who
claimed that the political analysis was
incorrect, and that Cuba was not in fact
in communist hands and therefore des-
tined to the political, economic and
social measures invariably inflicted by
orthodox communist rulers, were wrong,
and have been proven wrong. It would
clear the air and introduce an unwonted
decency and propriety into political con-
troversy in this country if they would
now speak their bits in public. I wish
I could think that any of them would.
But, alas, they are probably by now far
too busy getting ready to teach us all
about New Guinea or Vietnam.


Feiffer
yt that m mu?
A KNOeKOOT? M t o
Meet m? umm-
QDM-emiCf&uT
WITH QUAUM?
mtto TO M 5.1
KMW THAT mib
evePM
BHFOPf THFU
MAKF IT.
<m (t)HAT SMU met 7
metre.
wm&M vm oho
W6ARS 66« SlJlts
mo mrt rot a
mme.
comes ml m.
60 AT MT, UK6 '
HOW. 6H6 6056
tmt- mme
Jdst to mw.
eufAmrre.CMM 000 in
7H6 place has m eye on
wet worn i troo.
y wofb moo?, eoeonr
6W6 ? . BUT m COHO To
A m&O\)T LIKE THIS If
SH6 pomr mr to
\ ee ?\cm up? mt
s \ MNT to BE
\ \ View UP.
m %C'6 M6IW ABOUT it- £££
HOIO 5H6 PIA4S WITH W 6U&> ?
6m nem me rm wok.
ftoBMiM Toot wrep off
id m wet boo mm. mo
& chomr oor. m
swe a mm. w
iwr pooim that rm
6 M BJ6HT m TO
niop it.
IT VOfrK) T MATtftf HJOfcJ. 7M
6W AT THP WPXT TABLE'6
6\mtd op dm wep. an) actor
Type. t/MMPUMEU HER 6* WAS
ftOBAm BOOKISH. 60 5H6
omr TO 60 FOR Mb. H 6
seem oems, so owe ;
THINKS H EU w eA9i
TO HA ME. IdWATV I
reu pout mo meo
TO wet TABLE- 6W610
be mi QisAPPomev.
?00t KIP. I? 6%
om Mid
THAT I mo
vwezow
WAS
mm
me ah
M
mu.


PLAIN ENGLISH
A QUICK RUN OVER
THE ECONOMY
IF defining problems helps to solve
them, Mr Menzies has got off to
a flying start in his current run
over the Australian economy.
His statement released last Sunday
neatly puts the whole of the Australian
economic dilemma. This is itself an un-
usual feat. Traditional pressure groups
usually put only their side of the case,
as if there were no other problem.
One side of the dilemma is that, in
addition to ordinary questions of
humanity, full employment is necessary
if we are going to maintain a big
migration programme and fill out the
country’s development.
But on the other side there is the
problem that short - run policies,
whipped up to restore full employ-
ment, may also cause inflation and
threaten the export industries and the
encouragement of investment in de-
velopment.
It is heartening that the Prime
Minister should state the problem. The
next question is: What is he going to
do about it, how is he going to balance
out these two apparently conflicting
needs?
In the long run Australia needs bal-
anced long-term development, based
on adequate Government and private
investment in the essential industries,
maintenance of competitive viability
of export producers trading on unpro-
tected world markets, a steady immi-
gration intake and continuous efforts
at keeping production costs as low as
possible.
These are difficult problems, and the
Government cannot hope to solve them
if it gives in to individual pressure
groups. The Prime Minister’s state-
ments on his economic policies are
reserved and guarded—the Govern-
ment, with its slim majority in the
House and the prospect of a dead-
locked Senate after June 30, must tread
warily and try to make its statements
please all and offend none.
As expected, the nation’s two most
vociferous economic pressure groups—-
the Associated Chambers of Manufac-
tures and the Associated Chambers of
Commerce—are endeavoring to exert
as much pressure as they can on the
Government. A more favorable politi-
cal situation in which to press their
claims may not arise for a long time. In
brief, manufacturers are demanding
high protection walls, including “antici-
patory tariffs,” to protect industries as
yet not in existence but possibly cap-
able of developing in a hot-house
atmosphere. This group is doing its
utmost to force the Government to
bring in sweeping import controls.
Unfortunately, most manufacturers are
not as yet export minded, and think
exclusively in terms of the domestic
market.
Manufacturers also want everybody
to “buy Australian” and agitate for
immediate indiscriminate pump-prim-
ing to raise the overall level of con-
sumer spending.
The commerce faction primarily de-
mands a pump-priming to raise the
level of spending. It is against import
restrictions, because some imported
lines are quite profitable to handle.
Whereas the manufacturers face
steeply rising costs under protracted
boom conditions—before they can
realise higher inflationary money
profits—retailers are less concerned
with the dangers of inflationary pres-
sures. Both these groups think almost
exclusively in short-run terms. Both
favor a steady migrant intake because
it increases the labor force and ex-
pands the market.
Any steady, large-scale development
programme in Australia requires the
continuation of a relatively high rate
of migrant intake. But, to be able
to provide employment opportunities
for the growing population, essential
industries must receive priority of
investment. Imports policy must be
considered not so much from the point
of view of immediate short-term
results but geared to a long-term
economic development programme.
And any such programme must envis-
age the growth of a competitive export
industry, capable of standing on its own
without artificial protection props.
If the degree of protection should
be too high, Australian manufacturers
will become high cost and inefficient,
driving the country further into eco-
nomic isolationism. It is unwise to
argue for or against all protection. If
necessary, selective import controls—■
preferably quantitative—should be im-
posed. But protection should be
regarded as an emergency device,
rather than an essential condition for
our industrial development and pros-
perity. Protectionist mentality is a
dangerous thing, particularly when we
must look for new markets to make
up for the traditional outlets which may
be lost when the United Kingdom
joins the Common Market.
It is to be hoped that the Govern-
ment, in its obvious anxiety to secure
its political future, will not be
tempted or forced into all the easy
short-run policies that some of its
more irresponsible and self-centred
critics so loudly demand. Pump-
priming undertaken only with the
specific intention of immediately
increasing consumer spending is a
dangerous thing. Public funds should
be invested into basic development
projects and not spent merely to pull
the motor vehicle or the hire-purchase
industries out of a trough. Govern-
ment spending on essential industries
will also raise the level of demand and
take up the employment slack, but at
a steadier pace and without as many
inflationary dangers. If Australia
would have been facing a major de-
pression indiscriminate pump-priming
could be justified. But today there is
no need to employ people digging holes
and filling them up again merely to
raise the level of spending. There are
more sophisticated methods, and the
Government must be allowed to use
them.
The Government’s recent deflation-
ary policies have succeeded in produc-
ing a degree of price stability and in
creating an opportunity for trans-
ferring some resources from non-
essential to basic industries. Here the
Government must take the initiative,
spending public funds to encourage
the transfer. Measures directed at
merely stimulating consumer demand
should be limited to the minimum
compatible with the exigencies of poli-
tical expediency.


Wide Open
FOR the more fanatical anti-
Americans any international
development or apparent Ameri-
can setback is taken as an
opportunity to trot out all the old
slogans about what is wrong with the
American way of life—that they are
too Affluent, too Hidden-Persuaded,
too Other-Directed, too Mother-
Dominated, and so on. The Americans
who do this sort of thing so well have
provided their critics with a cliche to
cover every level of American life.
There are the Power Elite at the top
(war-mongering), Organisation Men in
the middle (conformist), the Lonely
Crowd at the bottom (confused).
Whenever anything appears to go
wrong you know what to say.
A couple of years ago, for example,
there was the “scandal” revealed by
an “Army study” of Americans’ col-
laboration in Korea. We were told
that at the first touch of hardship or
the brain-washing brush. Americans
caved in, collaborated or died. This
was because they were too Hidden-
Persuaded, Affluent, Other-Directed,
etc., etc. When this “Army study”
was shown to be no such thing but a
mixture of dubious stories and fake
statistics produced by a small group
of Defence Department officials and
carefully selected to present a criti-
cism of American life, it made no
difference to the critics. They simply
looked around for something else.
Recently they hit on American de-
feats in the Space Race. This showed
the Americans were too Affluent,
Other-Directed, blah, blah, blah. It
also showed Russian superiority in
science and education. Because Aus-
tralians who dwell in this anti-
American fantasy-land are more insu-
lated from facts than their counter-
parts overseas, it has been useful to
have the leader of the West’s space
planning, Dr Wernher von Braun, in
Australia recently.
He pointed out that the Russians
started on their rocket programme in
1948, seven years before the Ameri-
cans, and concentrated on their heavy
rocket, which is capable of both bomb-
ing any part of the world and of a few
spectacular space flights. When the
Americans began they recognised that
the best military rockets are not neces-
sarily the best space-research rockets.
They decided to separate the two and
concentrate on winning military
superiority first. The result is that,
whereas the Russians now have their
own big rocket, the Americans have a
far more flexible and adaptable fleet
of rockets (Titan, Minuteman, Polaris).
They are also now in a position to
concentrate more on space research,
and, whereas the Russians’ big rocket
is incapable of taking a crew of men
to the moon and bringing them back,
the Americans should be able to do
this within eight years.
Dr von Braun emphasised that the
Russians may catch up with the Ameri-
cans: the race is “wide open.” But
the apparent American inferiority was
the temporary by-product of a choice
between military and space priorities,
which will probably result in Ameri-
can superiority in both.
The Cannibal War
NEWS of the latest wave of rapes
and massacres in the Congo
poses the problem of the extent
to which the UN-sponsored
Leopoldville Central Government
merits any further support. The
United Nations has now undertaken
two successive military interventions
with the object of forcing President
Tshombe’s breakaway Katanga regime
into an abject submission before Mr
Adoula’s disorganised, inefficient and
bankrupt Central Government, which
has shown itself quite incapable of
running even the territories it claims to
administer. After the last campaign
in and around Elisabethville, during
which the blue-helmeted UN troops
knocked out some vital industrial
installations and transport facilities and
disrupted the operations of Union
Miniere, the backbone of Katanga’s
economy, top United Nations officials
in the Congo have taken steps to bring
units of the Central Congo “Army”
into Katanga to “maintain peace” in
the province.
Such a move can only lead to more
widespread violence and further blood-
shed, if only because the Leopoldville
regime’s “Army,” thoroughly purged
of its European and European-trained
officers and led by squabbling former
privates and non-commissioned officers
who had hurriedly promoted them-
selves colonels and generals, has dis-
integrated into several dangerous rival
armed mobs of murderers and looters.
So far all UN efforts have concen-
trated on subjugating Katanga,
although nothing has been done to
bring back under the central admini-
stration Mr Gizenga’s murderous pro-
communist regime in Stanleyville.
No action has been taken to stop
the slaughter and plunder of defence-
less white missionaries and African
tribesmen by the marauding Leopold-
ville and Stanleyville troops. It is the
Adoula-Gizenga coalition Central Gov-
ernment —not the Katanga administra-
tion—that is responsible for the recent
acts of rape, murder and plunder in
which some Italian airmen were de-
voured by cannibals in army uniforms,
19 white missionaries machine-gunned
to death and several nuns kidnapped
and raped.
It is true that Katanga’s vast and
efficiently administered mineral wealth
presents a tempting prize. Katanga’s
economy could perhaps be made to
pay for the development of the Congo
as a whole. Apart from the submerged
currents of international power poli-
tics, this seems to be the main reason
behind UN policy. But it should be
realised that these hopes must founder
if Katanga is handed over to the armed
rabble called “the Central Congo
Army.” From a wealthy mineral pro-
ducer, Katanga will rapidly become a
smouldering heap of rubble with a
ruined economy—a coveted prize in a
cannibal’s war.
If Katanga must be “re-united” with
the rest of the Congo, the job of reuni-
fication should start in Leopoldville,
Stanleyville and Kivu—not in the
orderly and well run Elisabethville.


FORUM
CAN YOU TRUST
Dr SCHWARZ?
The Australian leader of one of America's
anti-communist crusades
By FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
CHARACTERISTIC feature of present American politics the kjnd
of “unofficial” politics going on in small ideological organisations and
on university campuses —is a revival of Right-wing radicalism. Various
associations have sprung up almost overnight, formed largely by people
under 40, which bear all the hallmarks of success in this particular field:
large membership figures, huge quantities of literature, successful meetings
and picfet-lines, access to respectable institutions and public figures, as well
as pretty girls—whose presence or absence in “ideological” organisations is
a good index of general social acceptance by the clinically normal majority
of the population. The organisations range from the nasty, semi-fascist
Birch Society to respectable conservative societies such as Young Americans
for Freedom. The father figure of the more respectable bodies is Senator
Barry Gold water, and their chief theoretician appears to be William J.
Buckley, Editor of the “National Review” and author of two very contro-
versial and hard-hitting books on Yale University and American liberalism
respectively.
'T'he defenders of our liberal civilisation
-*■ —the chaps who defended or double-
talked about the Moscow trials, GPU
activities in Spain, the enslavement of
Eastern Europe, the Tibetan genocide,
who lied and cheated about Mao and
Castro and who are now jumping on the
bandwagon of Russell’s Soviet Nuclear
Monopoly Movement —in short most of
our liberal intellectuals in and around the
universities are very worried and fright-
ened by all this. Now, it is a good rule
to assume that prima facie anything
which frightens that mob must have some
good in it and should not be dismissed
without very close examination. On the
other hand if it is found wanting it ought
to be condemned or criticised even if one
has to endure the nauseating experience
of approbation from liberal-progressive
academics.
Schwarz's book* is a good specimen
of the average as against the high-
brow calibre of the New Right
in the U.S.A. Schwarz himself
is an Australian physician, and a former
Baptist lay preacher who took up anti-
communism as a vocation after World
War 11. He is President of the Christian
Anti-Communist Crusade with head-
quarters in the U.S.A. and a branch in
Australia, which, despite its ratbag name,
seems to be a “respectable” part of the
New Right.
It is clear from the stated intentions
of the author that the book is meant to
be a training manual for anti-com-
munists. The book addresses itself to
middle-brow, lower-middle to middle-
class sections of the population who are
still responsive to an old-fashioned pre-
Freudian ethic. The status groups quoted
as examples of people who ought to “take
up the fight” (for example, dentists, and,
repeatedly, “patriotic businessmen”), as
well as the puritan-evangelist jargon
occasionally used (“motherhood is
gathered in its beauty and its purity”, etc.)
and the values invoked (family, patriot-
ism, religion) make this clear.
The basic thesis of the book is impec-
cably sound. It says that the communists
have stated openly their intention of
destroying our society, and there is
nothing in their present or past behavior
which would indicate that they have
changed their mind. This is presumably
meant to counter the position of liberals
like Lippmann and Kennan whose opti-
mism concerning future Soviet intentions
is based on the belief that national self-
interest rather than Marxism-Leninism
is the mainspring of Soviet behavior
and that Soviet leaders do not really take
communist articles of faith very seriously,
at least not in their conduct of foreign
affairs.
There are chapters of varying quality,
ranging from quite good to very bad,
on such topics as organisational control,
fellow-travellers, dialectical materialism,
brain-washing and methods of counter-
action. Schwarz emphasises that anti-
communists should operate within the
terms of specific institutions, for example
as Catholics, Protestants, trade-unionists
and in the name of specific institutional
values. He does not sufficiently stress
the need for national organisations which
could pool and disseminate technical
operational information and advice about
enemy movement and personnel without
involving itself with any one specific
group or ideology and making its find-
ings available to anti-communists irres-
pective of their ideological and organisa-
tional contexts.
Yet there are very serious weaknesses
throughout the book, which cannot be
accounted for by limitations imposed by
a middle-brow approach. They are,
rather, characteristic of the Right-wing
following to which Schwarz addresses
himself. First, though his exposition of
classical Marxism is fairly accurate if
superficial, he does not even mention
Lenin’s theory of imperialism which is
extremely important, since it underlies
communist strategy in our under-
developed back-gardens—particularly the
part of it which claims that all inhabi-
tants of developed capitalist countries,
including the proletariat, benefit from
exploitation of the colonial proletariat
and, thereby, share the guilt for what is
taken to be an inhuman social system.
This doctrine more than any other
provides the “scientific” fuel to the
non-conformist masochists, who, together
with the power-men, make up the cadres
of Western communist parties and who
predominate among fellow-travelling and
neutralist intellectuals. Why not subvert a
Babylon which battens on the sweat and
blood of the poor in Asia and Africa?
It also explains their cynically contemp-
tuous attitude towards Western workers.
It is no exaggeration to say that this
Leninist doctrine of “classless” exploiter-
guilt is one of the most dangerous
*You Can Trust the Communists. Dr
Fred Schwarz. Jacaranda Press,
Brisbane. 1961.


intellectual poisons at work in our society.
It is a fantasy based on fabrications and
half-truth and it has been ably refuted
from the democratic Left, in recent years,
particularly by John Strachey and pro-
fessor Seton-Watson. Yet it is still being
used to paralyse us, and not only by
communists but by freebooting condot-
tieri like Soekarno, Nkrumah, Nasser and
by those Australian politicians and pro-
fessors who are working with the Chinese
Government. Schwarz has not even
noticed it.
Secondly, Schwarz believes firmly that
communism can be countered only by
what he calls “Christianity.” Outside the
Catholic Church, and to a much lesser
extent even inside it, Christianity means
many things to many men. Quite apart
from the official doctrines, which are
largely unknown or unintelligible to most
non-theologians, it amounts to a
vague belief that some kind of semi-
spiritual electricity permeates the universe,
that people should not drink, beg and
gamble, be nice, benevolent and “British”
and, if communist, sincere.
Hollywood Bible atrocities (for example,
“King of Kings”) are not a bad represen-
tation of popular Anglo-Saxon Christi-
anity, and they are made, roughly, for
the same clientele to which Schwarz
addresses himself. This, then, is presum-
ably the rock on which the free world
ought to lean. And even among those
intelligent and noble Christians, mainly
Catholic, for whom the passion of Christ
is a reality and way of life, and who
accept a body of coherent propositions
and an institutional discipline to guide
their actions and their lives, how many
would be prepared to prove that notable
Christians such as the Dean of Canter-
bury, the Metropolitan of Moscow and
scores of other fellow-travelling clergy-
men throughout the world, including
some Catholic ones, are theologically
heterodox? Who goes to hell, Mgr
Tiso. the Slovak quisling leader executed
for collaboration with the Nazis in 1946,
or Mgr Sramek, Prime Minister in Dr
Benes’s part-time Czechoslovak Govern-
ment in London and Cabinet Minister,
who sent Tiso to the gallows?
There is another, more fundamental
sense in which it could be plausibly
argued that naturalistic philosophies alone
have no answer to totalitarianism, since
they reduce the human person to a mere
organism, and once you do that there is
no reason why you should not regard
gas-chambers and the MVD as legiti-
mate instruments of social engineering, It
is also true that there is a kind of
Christian piety associated with an inner
firmness of purpose and self-assurance
which aids in action when action requires
courage and renunciation. Yet this other,
highly sophisticated and analogical sense
of counterpoising Christianity and
totalitarianism is far removed from the
crudely institutional, Babbittish and con-
ventional way Schwarz goes about it.
The only safe generalisation one can
make about what counters communism is
to say that it is anti-communism, that is
the presence of organised, intelligent
operators, knowledgeable of communist
ways, and determined to win. Their
philosophies do not matter very much as
long as they do not interfere with their
effectiveness or lead to actions which
are incompatible with the social system
we are defending and its moral taboos
(on which there is a reasonable amount
of de facto consensus). It so happens
that in Australia most anti-communists
are Catholic Christians. Yet most Aus-
tralian Christians are neutral. Some are
on the other side. And men like Orwell,
Borkenau, Burnham, Koestler, Hook, and
many others to whom we (including
Schwarz) owe most of our intellectual
equipment against communism and who
have done more than others to raise the
alarm, were agnostics.
nPHiRDLY, Schwarz does not really under-
stand the broader social causes of
communism. Unlike the liberals who over-
stress them and ignore or understate
the conspiratorial features of communism,
Schwarz almost completely ignores the
former and distorts the latter. He also
seems to accept the American Right-wing
dogma that a strong executive breeds
“socialism.” This leads him to give a
grotesquely inaccurate account of the
1948 Prague coup, which he ascribes to
successful machinations of a very small
group of communists, to a strong execu-
tive and to threats of Russian intervention.
The facts ignored or unknown to Schwarz
are that the Czechoslovak communist
party polled 40 per cent, of the vote in
the free 1946 elections, that there is no
real evidence to suggest that the Russians
intended to send the Red Army (they
didn’t when the virtually simultaneous
Finnish coup was foiled) and that the
Czechoslovak middle and working class
was politically and morally paralysed by
loot illicitly acquired from 3,500,000
Germans and Hungarians who were
expropriated and deported under concen-
tration-camp conditions. The Soviet
Union was the only power prepared to
underwrite, in full, this act of genocide.
With the communist party in control of
the police, industry, the trade unions,
loot from the Germans, and virtually all
mass-organisations, and Germany as the
only Western neighbor, there was little
Benes could do when Moscow’s agents
presented him with their bill for help
given. Schwarz does not even mention
all these things. The centralised “minis-
tries” to which he ascribes the debacle
were, if anything, an obstacle on the corn-
You know, you look very smart
in a beret!"
munist road to power. They were run
by prewar conservative officials whose
legalistic obstructionism was a source of
frequent irritation to the communists.
The really interesting feature of the
Czech coup lies in the fact that the Czech
bourgeoisie was politically emasculated
not by expropriation but by illicit appro-
priation. They were smothered in their
loot. Schwarz does not see all this
because his narrow, conventional,
nativistic outlook prevents him from
understanding the casual link between
communism and social disorganisation.
It is all conspiracy, atheism and strong
executives. One should not read Marx
like Schwarz, merely as a piece of intelli-
gence about the intentions of the enemy.
One can learn from him much more.
In pointing out the weaknesses of
Schwarz’s book I do not wish to belittle
its worth. It is a good textbook for
beginners whose field is not the labor
movement, and it is superior to much
academic writing and teaching about
communism in Australian universities.
It has been said by no less an authority
than President Kennedy that the New
Right misperceives the danger, and
instead of hunting for subversives at
home Americans ought to develop
America’s economic and military
strength. There is no doubt that
many New Rightists are hysterical and
that more are tremendous fools. They
link together things that do not belong
together such as health services, fluorine,
income tax and communism and they
often discredit their alleged objectives.
Yet the more sophisticated ones do
make one point which is crucial: that
one cannot separate the external from
the internal danger, if opinion and policy
makers, that is the leaders, are inadequate.
And they claim that this is indeed so
with American liberals, that they are not
the kind of people who can really face
communists and defeat them, and that it
is therefore necessary to reduce liberal
influence on public life by criticism and
relentless exposure. All this is probably
very unfair to American liberals. But as
one watches the doings of Australian
liberal-progressives as educators, opinion
makers and politicians at a time when
communist China is closing down on us
across a rapidly disintegrating front in
South-East Asia, how can one possibly
doubt that here their continued hegemonj
in public and cultural life spells disaster?.


LETTERS
THE RED AND THE BLACK
Sir,
Your correspondent, Mr George Cook
(“The Red and the Black,” Bulletin,
December 30, 1961), has given an inter-
pretation and account of recent events
concerning the Queensland State Council
for the Advancement of Aborigines and
Torres Strait Islanders. We, members
of this organisation, would like to make
the following comments:
(1) From its inception in 1958 this
Council was the scene of conflict, not,
as Mr Cook says, between communists
and Christians, but between those who
wished the Council to press for legal and
administrative reforms and those who
wished it to accept the existing arrange-
ments and to restrict its activities to the
promotion of good works on behalf of
aborigines.
(2) After the Fourth National Confer-
ence on Aboriginal Advancement held in
Brisbane last Easter the Council took a
step towards activity for legal reform
when it adopted, as expressing its own
policy, a long series of recommendations
of that conference which call for the
repeal of discriminatory legislation and
for “equal citizenship rights for abo-
rigines with other Australian citizens.”
(Resolution 1.)
(3) It was after this that Mr Cook
joined the Council. Mr Cook is an
employee of the Queensland Health
Department, which, like the Sub-depart-
ment of Native Affairs, is administered
by the Hon. H. W. Noble, Minister
for Health and Home Affairs. With Mr
Cook came a number of other persons, as
described by Mr Cook in his Bulletin
article, and these new members voted
through, by a narrow margin and against
the constitution of the Council, the
motion for disbandment of which Mr
Cook appears to be so proud. Naturally,
the disbandment has not been recognised
by those who opposed it, and the Council
continues to function.
(4) Mr Cook omits to mention, in his
references to the Federal Parliamentary
Select Committee on Voting Rights, that
both he and Mr Sweet appeared before
it as opponents of the granting of voting
rights.
(5) After the somewhat successful dis-
ruption of the work of our Council, a
similar attempt was made to stack the
membership of the Queensland Abo-
riginal Advancement League, another
Brisbane organisation which has legis-
lative reform as its chief objective. Pro-
visions of the constitution of this body
stood it in good stead, however, and to
date no drastic disruption has been
inflicted on it.
(6) Queensland law, as it affects abo-
rigines and Torres Strait Islanders, is
extremely repressive, as even a brief
reading of the relevant Acts will reveal,
and puts powers of the most sweeping
kinds into the hands of officials, both
august and petty. We believe that this
is the core of the aborigines’ problem in
Queensland, and that aid, counselling
and charitable works can do no more than
alleviate individual cases of distress while
the undesirable legislation remains.
Until the legislation is repealed some of
its ill effects can be mitigated by vigi-
lance against abuses. It was the Federal
Council for Advancement of Aborigines
which succeeded in bringing the Jacko
case before the public. Incidentally, is it
not imprudent of Mr Cook to reveal in
his article that he is still quite happy to
have worked against the holding of that
inquiry?
No one, as far as we know, wants to
interfere with any charitable acts which
Mr Cook may wish to perform towards
Australian aborigines—we hope and trust
that he will find it increasingly difficult
to interfere with the actions of those who
are working for the repeal of Queens-
land’s inhuman legislation.
R. Perkins (President)
(Mrs) K. Walker (Secretary)
Kathleen Cochrane
G. R. Cochrane (Delegate,
Western Suburbs Branch of
the United Nations Assoc.)
H. Gurnett (Delegate, Trades
and Labor Council)
R. Hall
Sherwood ( Queensland)
REPUTATION’S BLOWFLIES
Sir,
Hal Porter (Bulletin, January 6) has
administered some merited and long-
overdue kicks to the type of literary
“critic” now only too common in Aus-
tralia, but he could have made some
points plainer and more emphatic.
The term “the author manque” will be
over the heads of many of those who
read his article. It means those who have
written books which can’t find a pub-
lisher. A surprising number of these
people write reviews and their jealousy
towards those who do get their books
published will often show itself in their
criticisms.
How do we, the people whose work is
published, know that some of our critics
have failed to bring it off? Some of us
earn a few guineas occasionally by read-
ing manuscripts for publishers and these,
of course, bear the names of those who
wrote them ....
Mr Porter could have stressed the
sheer, mullet-headed ignorance of many
critics. Some personal experiences: one
man who reviewed a book of mine knew
so little of Australian geography that he
thought Kangaroo Island is in Bass Strait.
Another doubted if the sealers of 140
years ago made open-boat voyages of
hundreds of miles. Any kid’s history
book would have shown him that they
did.
But the prize goes to the one who
thought it too much of a coincidence for
two people who had last met in London
to run across each other again in Sydney
by chance. I was able to ask him for
an explanation. Believe it or not, he had
thought of Sydney as it is today ; a city
of some two million people. It hadn’t
occurred to him that at the time dealt
with in the book the total white popula-
tion of N.S.W. was about 20,000!
One of the most vicious below-the-belt
jabs administered by this type of critic,
and a thing against which there is no
riposte, is something such as “the
characters are wooden” or “the people
in the story are merely puppets dancing
to the author’s bidding.” They get away
with it even when competent reviewers,
here and overseas, have praised the
characterisation.
The cure lies in the hands of editors,
“Those bifocals again!”


Estab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
.0 - SULUVa\-
£ •"<, PTYLTD C
Q 8 'VtKi aPv'iSf t
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANU FACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS •; PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you properly
covered? Now is the time to
review your insurances. Serious
financial losses can result on private
and business premises that are
improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
73 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
IN
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
and it is the one used by publishers in
the case of those who read manuscripts
for them. Any of the latter who furnish
adverse reports about work which is sub-
sequently published successfully by rivals
are soon struck off the list.
Every editor should make a practice
of reading at least one review copy per
week and compare his own reactions with
those of the person who wrote the review,
thus gathering evidence which will enable
him to cull out the malicious and the
incompetent. No editor need worry
about a shortage of book reviewers; for
every person capable of writing a book
worth a publisher’s risk there are at least
50 eager to criticise what others have
written.
H. A. LINDSAY
Highgate (S.A.)
A POLICY WITHOUT A PARTY
Sir,
The writer of “A Policy Without a
Party” (Bulletin, December 23), in spite
of his clear assessment of the local scene,
will hardly become the founder of a party
with a policy. He serves, however, to
illustrate the kind of logic which prevails
in our national thinking and which has
brought about the very situation he
deplores: “the gloomy period of political
instability that lies ahead.”
He urges “strategic national develop-
ment” in the economic sphere by way of
adopting planned capitalism and aban-
doning State parochialism (an historic
heritage of the 19th century). Free enter-
prise, he says, should be left to run its
own affairs in detail, but be given direc-
tions in the national interest. Education,
on the other hand, should NOT be a
national matter. “An emphasis on diver-
sity of approach in education may provide
the main hope for survival of education
standards, and discussion on these ques-
tions,” he assures us, “is better carried
out on a State level.”
If diversity and high standards can be
retained under (limited) national control
in the field of economy, why, in the name
of reason, should they be lost in the field
of education through the bond of a
common educational philosophy and the
adoption of a common gauge, that is,
common fundamental features?
At what stage and by what magic does
the writer expect State-conscious New
South Welshmen and Victorians to turn
into self-sacrificing Australians in the
interest of fellow Queenslanders or West-
ern Australians? Unless curricula at
school are basically motivated by our
national needs and intentions, our hopes
for a crop of young dedicated politicians
can surely be fed only by propitious stars.
The State approach in education has
been tried for over half a century, since
Federation was achieved in 1901, result-
ing in excessive uniformity, utilitarianism,
and the consequent lack of leadership
with long-range vision, through the
inevitable concentration of reformers on
organisation instead of ideas. Precedent
in England, Scotland, Western Germany,
and other Western democracies demon-
strates that healthy diversity is not only
compatible with national planning in
education but conditional for sound
variety and high standards in every
department of life.
MARGARET DIESENDORF
Eastwood {N.S.W.)
WHARF HOUSE
Sir,
I request that you will allot space in
your columns for me to correct state-
ments published by you in the guise of
a competent review of my book, “The
Spirit of Wharf House” (Bulletin,
January 13). It is a pity that Mr M. H.
Ellis should feel I have intruded on his
field, but he should stick to facts. He
has made at least six errors which I wish
to correct.
1. I am not a descendant of Robert
Campbell of the Wharf but am the hus-
band of one.
2. 1 prefer, to Mr Ellis’s story, the his-
torical records and Robert Campbell’s
account of the disposal of his first cargo.
Both stories agree that commissioners
were appointed to buy the cargo so that
there would be no competition at the
sale, but the question is why? Mr Ellis
states it would be the means of the
inhabitants “receiving the articles at a
much lower price,” but let us see what
happened. Rum for which the commis-
sioners paid Bs. was sold to the inhabi-
tants at from 20s. to 60s. Tea for which
they paid 10s. was sold to the inhabitants
at from 30s. to £B. So Mr Ellis’s state-
ment must be untrue.
3. I wish to apologise to Mr Ellis for
having made an error of one word in a
paragraph I have borrowed from his
book. The penultimate paragraph of my
page 63 should commence with: “The
biographer of Macarthur states that
amongst Johnstons closest friends and
nearest military subordinates were those
who ‘believed firmly, etc ’ ” On
page 364 of the book on John Macarthur
the equivalent words referring to Johns-
ton are: “Their ranks included some of
his closest friends and nearest military
subordinates. They believed firmly . . . .”
The meanings are identical and for Mr
Ellis to say “I certainly did not write
anything of the kind” is ridiculous.
My point is quite clear in either ver-
sion. It is that Mr Ellis knew there had
been a monopoly of rum, otherwise the
military clique could not have re-
established it in order that they might
bring in all the rum in so
that they could buy at the minimum price
and dispose of it to the less-fortunate
patriots at a maximum price.
4. I realise Mr Ellis does not like the
quotation for he is at pains to extract
from Palmer’s evidence before the select
committee of 1812 a statement “that
there was no monopoly of rum by the
New South Wales Corps and Civil
officers.” But Palmer did not say that.
The relevant questions and answers of


his evidence before that committee are:
Q. In what manner was merchandise
distributed?
A. To all ranks of people.
Q. Has the greatest proportion of it been
given to officers?
A. Yes, they had a larger proportion
than anyone else.
Q. A greater proportion than they were
able to consume themselves?
A. Yes, very often.
Q. And which could be of no other use
to them than for the purpose of
retailing it?
A. Yes, or paying to the men for labor.
Q. Were they retailed by the officers at
moderate prices?
A. By no means. The prices were very
extravagant.
Q. The same practice took place with
regard to spirits that were imported
into the colony?
A. Yes. They were sold at an immense
profit. The officers did not exactly
sell it themselves, but they kept
women and those women used to dis-
pose of it, which is the same thing.
Immense quantities have been sold in
that way.
Palmer had clearly meant by his answer
that spirits were retailed in a like manner
and not that they were distributed whole-
sale by the Governor “to all ranks of
people.”
However, monopoly or close monopoly
is proved by the distribution of cargoes.
For example, the spirits landed from the
Castle of Good Hope were distributed
in the following proportions (see H.R.A.,
Vol. 4, p. 335):
To the officers of the Civil Establish-
ment (perhaps 20 people), 1000 gals.
To the Naval and Military officers
(perhaps 20 persons), 1000 gals.
To licensed people, 1000 gals.
Distributed to such persons as the
Governor may think fit to grant to
(perhaps 4000 persons), 1000 gals.
In addition, the master’s investment of
950 gals, was disposed of equally between
the commissioned officers Civil, Military
and Naval.
5. What Mr Ellis wishes his readers to
infer, from his statement that Campbell
was unable to swear to the extent of
the New South Wales Corps involvement
in the rum trade, is that he did not know.
This is most misleading. Campbell knew
it well but he couldn’t answer what he
was never asked. His evidence runs from
page 82 to 90 of Bartrum’s account of
the proceedings. The nearest question
and answer to what Mr Ellis says Camp-
bell could not swear is:
Q. Did you ever hear any of the officers
of the New South Wales Regiment
complain of the Governor’s (Bligh’s)
regulations with regard to spirits?
A. I was not much in the habit of con-
versing with them on public affairs.
1 cannot call to my remembrance that
I did ever hear any of them complain
after the proclamation was pub-
lished.
However, Campbell had already sworn
that it . was notorious throughout the
colony that both the Civil and Military
officers were particularly dissatisfied with
the new distribution of spirits because
they had not such large quantities as
formerly to dispose of to others.
6. Yarralumla is not a monument to
Robert Campbell. It did not belong to
a Campbell until 35 years after Robert’s
death. If Mr Ellis had read my book
he would have known that.
C. E. T. NEWMAN
Bellevue Hill (N.S.W.)
FIDO
Sir,
Peter Coleman’s article (Bulletin,
December 23, 1961) on FIDO (Federal
Inland Development Organisation) is a
blatant example of southern Australian
people's refusals to seriously consider
Queenslanders’ outlook on how northern
Australia (in particular, Queensland)
wants development and population
increase, or even population stability.
If the proposed Pioneers’ Highway is
ever completed, it will only serve to aug-
ment the trade and population of Sydney
—which, in the opinion of most people,
has far too high a percentage of both for
the general welfare of Australia, anyway.
The thought of more work being created
for wbarfies and meatworkers in Sydney
while Queensland's coastal workers are
out of work for months annually is
surely subjectivity in the extreme. Also,
most of Queensland’s meat ports are
1500-3000 miles closer to the much-
desired South-east Asian ports, and this is
of prime consideration in these days of
speedy, efficient trade.
FIDO's claim that the brigalow country
would keep Queensland’s coastal interests
busy is just a sop which all Queenslanders
quickly see through. Why should Queens-
land not reap the benefits from her own
lands when N.S.W. and South Australia
so zealously do so?
Southern disinterestedness is at present
responsible for the proposed wastage of
£3O million of grudgingly conceded funds
for the renewal of the 3ft 6in. gauge Mt
Isa-Townsville-Collinsville railway when
a better idea of similar cost would be
construction of a standard gauge railway
from Mt Isa through Pentland, overland
to Collinsville, then to the splendid port
of Bowen. A small but concerted effort
(by Townsville's citizens) has put back
the possibility of a vital link in the
standardisation of Australia’s railways at
least a generation, and possibly forever,
and also it'll be interesting in a few years
to see the conflict of mineral and live-
stock priorities on this northern railway.
Queensland’s Channel Country is a
proven unreliable area for grazing. Far
too many bad years occur because of
irregular rainfall for it to be considered
as a permanent grazing proposition.
There is plainly no case for the com-
pletion of the Pioneers’ Highway, and
the chief figures can be accused of
insincerity and narrow-mindedness in
their approach to these problems.
B. D. ALEXANDER
Wellington ( N.Z .)
JAPANESE PLYWOOD
Sir,
I refer to an article which appeared on
page five of The Bulletin of Novem-
ber 25 last. Eugene Bajkowski apparently
has an axe to grind, or at least a “chip”
on his shoulder, from the vicious style
of his writing and making an attack on
an Australian industry on a subject of
which he obviously does not know the
facts.
Whilst every sheet of Japanese or other
imported plywood which enters Australia
is one less that is produced by Austra-
lian workmen, 1 can assure you that, to
this stage at least, the Australian ply-
wood industry is not “hard-pressed by
competition from imported Japanese ply-
wood,” which he claims is obvious.
In fact, the amount of plywood used
in 3000 sub-standard boat kits from
Japan is quite insignificant in the total
Australian plywood production or even
in Australian production of genuine
marine plywood ; that is plywood using
glue which will keep veneers together
for a long period of use in water.
Surely no responsible person would
suggest that we sit by and do nothing
where there is a definite risk to human
life. The risk is there on the statement
of qualified naval architects, experienced
boating enthusiasts and our own Forest
Products laboratory, which is rated equal
or better than any in the world. In fact,
the general run of Australian plywood
is better than similar production else-
where. But that is another subject, just
like the case of Japan dumping cement
in Australia recently which your corres-
pondent thinks does not happen these
days.
We are unaware of the “lime-honored
method of warning the public" that
Eugene Bajkowski refers to and. as he
apparently has had more experience in
that connection, we can make no com-
ment. What we do know is that a good
number of Australians are employed by
an industry using Australian capital and
resources in producing a high-quality
article to satisfy the needs of Australian
people. Our angle is that any unfortu-
nate experience with plywood, from
whatever source it may be, attaches the
stigma to plywood in general. This
includes plywood made in Australia.
Australian plywood manufacturers are
more concerned with the harm likely to
be done to their industry through adverse
publicity than the small quantity involved
in sub-standard imported boat kits. In
fact, we had to weigh up whether any
publicity at all at this stage would harm
the industry or whether possible later
events may make this worse.
D. LINKLATER
(Secretary, the Australian
Plywood Board Ltd)
Brisbane.
[This matter has been considered by com-
petent authorities of the Commonwealth
Government which, after having samples of
imported Japanese plywood examined by scien-
tific tests, decided they would take no action
to stop the imports.—EDtToa.]


"And now, your Honor , I'd like to call a special witness."


MY BOMB HAS GONE
"Pitch a good story and stick to it"
By BERNARD HESLING
1 strolled down for the milk at
seven a.m., walked through the
empty carport to pick up the morn-
ing paper, walked back through my
still-empty carport, did a double take
and registered that the port was empty.
Damn! I must have left the car in
town and come home by bus. I've
behaved this way before, but only on
a day when I’ve taken my car to town.
This day I hadn’t, and it was home last
night I remembered. Ergo, the car was
stolen.
The boy next door was cracking his
stockwhip on the back steps. Oweny
never sleeps. He was cracking his whip
when I went to bed, so presumably he'd
continued cracking through the night.
He could have noticed something.
I called to him that my car was gone.
“It’s those hire-purchase sharks,” he
said between cracks of the whip. “You
gotta keep your payments up or
else . . . .”
I let this remark pass. “My car’s been
stolen,” I said firmly.
“You phoned the police?”
I said no to give me time, but Oweny,
flicking his whip, was already up our
back steps into the house and dialling
whatever number you dial.
Owen is 15, and at that age Police,
Ambulance and Fire Brigade are import-
ant to him ; leastways he knows the
numbers.
“That the police? I want to report
a stolen bomb.”
I loosened his fingers from the phone
and took over in time to hear a voice
ask: “What makes you think it’s
stolen?”
“Because it’s gone,” 1 said.
“Coulda bin possessed. Sure you kept
the blood-money up to them?”
“Certain.”
“Then it coulda bin took,” deduced the
local Sherlock Holmes. “You’ll have to
report here in person. Bring your licence
and registration and on your way keep a
a sharp look-out. Some of the local
hoods have probably taken her for a
burn and left her up the street.”
Owen organised a neighbor’s car for
me. Peter, a lad of 18, was at the wheel.
Two unknown children with a transistor
were in the back. Kids always listen to
rock-and-roll, so these must have been
deaf, for the programme was a talk on
combating skeleton weed in western
N.S.W.
“Any of your mob wear plimsols?”
asked Oweny. “I’ve been measuring
footprints in the drive.”
I said “No,” and we drove off.
We went along Rockieigh Street, then
along the Ridge to look at a certain Boof
Wimble’s place.
“Boof won’t have had a chance to strip
the car down yet,” said Peter, speaking
the words past a dangling cigarette.
“Boot’s in the Gosford home,” said
Oweny.
“No, he's out on good conduct,” cor-
rected Peter. “Looked after the warden’s
bomb and never swiped it once. I’m
sure he hasn’t got Bernard’s car though ;
not since the head-shrinker told his old
man that if he bought Boof a bomb of
his very own he'd lack the motivation
to burn other people’s. But we’d best
go down that way. Pogo Paget may have
it ; the little twerp who busted the super-
market wide open.”
Pogo I knew by sight as an innocent
child who, tears in his eyes, once begged
to be let wash my car for a quid on a
bob-a-job day. He was a badly mixed-up
kid, due, obviously, to the head-shrinker’s
being unable to suggest that somebody
buy him a supermarket.
Peter delivered the paper in school
holidays and often found stolen cars in
the bush, so he naturally drove me to all
the likely spots.
The routine at the police station was
an anti-climax ; merely a matter of giv-
ing name, number, valuables in car, and
so on. The children waited outside as
there was a vague feeling that it isn’t
etiquette to smoke in a police station.
I got the boys to drop me at a friend’s
place afterwards. Having a car pinched,
I thought, would earn me a well-laced
cup of coffee. But my friends took a dim
view' of the matter; behaved, in fact, like
characters in a thriller whom you are
meant to suspect.
“Our John has no need to steal cars
now since we bought him his Lambretta,”
said Sandra, “and as for young Jeff—
wasn't Jeff doing his homework, Bill?”
I should explain that Bill and Sandra
Porkhouse are pretty smart types. It’s
a three-car household, with nobody com-
ing to re-possess any of them. The boys
are good kids, John doing law at the
University and Jeff, at 17, an uninvolved
Sunday-school-looking character studying
for the Leaving.
“I don't think Jeff would go for any
car unless it had twin carbies,” said the
father.
“Mine has twin carbies,” I said.
“That's why the police said musta bin a
kid. But I never suspected my friend’s
kids, honest.”
four of us hunted Jeff in his bed-
A room, but he wasn't around. A typical
open-air-type boy’s bedroom it was.
Pennants, pin-ups, silver cups for sport
and what looked like a collection of silver
presentation trophies but turned out to
be hub caps. On the bookcase was a
vaguely familiar silver figurine, rather
like a miniature Winged Victory of
Samathrace, resting precariously on a
screw-threaded base.
“Mascot off a Rolls,” said the infant’s
brother. “Worth 18 quid, though I don’t
suppose Jeff would sell it.”
Oh, no, Jeff wouldn’t sell it ; he’s a
favorite of mine, Jeff ; a good kid. I've
watched him grow up. Maybe, though,
I thought, I haven’t watched him grow
up very closely.
“What are you all doing in ’ere?”
demanded young Jeff, hastily dousing his
cigarette in Dad’s honor as he zoomed in.
“Where were you last night?”
demanded his father.
“Filleting fish for the Greeks. Who
wants to know?”
“You said you were going to burn old
tyres,” remarked his brother.
“Yair, but it rained, so we worked
for the Greeks to get money for petrol
to get the tyres started. But by then
everyone was in bed and no one was
around to object to the pong of burning
rubber. No good burning tyres just to
annoy nobody.”
I mentioned that my car was taken


last night. “Could it have been a cool
cat?” I asked hesitantly, not certain of
my terminology.
“Not if you didn’t get it back this
morning,” said the child. The theft didn’t
surprise Jeff, but the fact that it hadn’t
been returned looked as if it was not just
high-spirited cats going for a burn, but
possible naughtiness.
Dad agreed with this.
“We’ve had cars taken from the drive
when the kids were younger, Bernard,”
he said, “but never more than one at a
time and the cars they take I’ve always
found just up the street next morning.
No, they’re good kids around here;
always put your petrol caps back on after
they’ve taken the contents.”
1 told of my visit to the police, but
this filled both boys with horror.
“You squealed to those biudgers!” said
John.
“Never thought you were a square!”
said Jeff.
“That will be enough of that!” barked
father.
“But he shouldn’t have went!”
“He shouldn’t have gone, boy.”
“No, he shouldn't! A cool cat takes
your bomb for a burn, meaning to bring
it back. But say you’ve bin mean on
juice, oi he has a prang and before he
can get the bomb back he hears through
the grapevine that Bern's squealed to the
busies? Well, he'll dump the crate in
French’s Forest. It’s on the police list as
a hot-rod. Fd get after it if I was
Bernard. It could have been hub caps.”
I agreed that it had hub caps, not to
mention a radio. “Could you help me
recover it? Perhaps I could supply you
with petrol to burn your old tyres. You
must know something.”
“Nothing.”
“But you know the gangs,” insisted
his proud father. “Would it be the
Chatswood mob, the Paget’s push, or
those poor university types from the
dress circle of Willoughby?”
“I don't know, Dad.”
“And if you did you wouldn’t tell?”
The boys' good training came out
here.
“You’ve got to be loyal, Dad. You
and Mum have always brought us up to
be loyal. Besides, I’d get bashed up.”
Jeff appeared to consider how much
he could spill.
“The kids around here are good types,”
he finally risked saying. “I mean their
I.Q.s wouldn’t let them go for a bright-
red bomb that’s built like a paper bag.
It’s too risky. Besides, they’re Mercedes-
minded.”
After a fortnight and my bomb not
back, Bill passed me a hot tip from his
son. He’d tapped the local group, the
Scouts and the Sunday-school mob.
None of them was in it. “His advice to
you, Bern, is to keep your fingers crossed
and hope you’ll never see the car again.
In six months—less with some insurance
companies—you’ll get the full compo.
Use it to buy a Mercedes.”
I was naturally grateful to Jeff. He’s
a good kid and as full of help as a stock-
broker. That very night he came around
and, after scoffing two mangoes at Is. 9d.
each (they make him very sick but he
feels it’s more adult to like things that
are expensive), he told me of an egg-
head friend, Bobby, very reliable, who
had a car he could lend me. “Not much
use to him while he’s swotting.”
I gathered the car was shabby, but
was being painted up. All 1 had to do
was pay for the paint and hand over two
notes per week. “It’s not a bad little bus ;
radio, rubber sound, battery first rate.”
I accepted the offer—subject to a trial
run —but got booked on my very first
outing.
'"This was a Saturday morning trip to
Crow’s Nest and, ironically, Jeff, who
was up at the shops thumbing lifts, was
with me at the time. I went to the bank
while Jeff bought himself a duffle-coat
at disposals, and when we came back to
the car a motor-bike cop asked to see my
licence. He told me that the borrowed
car had been re-painted, that the number
plates had been changed ; in fact, I was
driving a stolen car. I looked so sur-
prised and was so obviously innocent of
any hanky-panky that the officer let me
drive ahead to the station to make my
statement.
“Pitch a good story and stick to it,”
said my child passenger on the way.
“My oath!” I said. “Your little palsy-
walsy hires me this bomb at two notes
per week! Don’t worry, you young
innocent. Thumb-screws won’t change
my story.”
“But you can't Bernard. You just
can’t! ”
“Are you involved, Jeff? Tell me one
good reason.”
“No, honestly, Bernard, I didn’t know
it was stolen ; but that doesn't matter.
It's what it’s going to do to Bobby that
matters. You see, he’s a good kid, clever,
the sort you like. He’s near top of the
school and in the middle of his Leaving.
He could top the State. A mere breath
of scandal now would upset him ; ruin
his whole career. You old birds are
always yackety-yacking about how every
boy should ought to be educated, and
the first chance you get you blow cold
on the top boy of the State. Don’t
forget, Bobby’s a third-time loser. You
squeal on Bobby now and he goes up
for a stretch and your name is mud
around Willoughby. You've got to give
him a chance. Be loyal. He’s a good
kid. You’ve gotta think of a story.”
I had never known Jeff —or any of the
younger generation— to speak a long
sentence before, so it was very moving.
With my spare eye I squinted down on
him and thought of this third-time loser
—just another similar tow-haired child
caught up in a world of desirable hard-
ware which they have no manner of
getting their hands on other than by
shorting the ignition. I thought of myself
at 17, a clod who couldn’t drive and had
no temptation to steal cars anyway,
because there weren’t any.
“How many days before Bobby com-
pletes his Leaving exam?” I asked.
“Next Wednesday.”
And so, folks, just now I’m sitting
writing this in a police charge-room
whilst thinking up a likely story.
Up to now I haven’t found one, and
so must hang on here until Bobby tops
the State and I can squeal, next Wed-
nesday, for I've got to be loyal. You
can see that —even if the wife can’t.
They’re such good kids.
“Jones won't be in this morning. He’s got a touch of strontium
sickness due to fall-out."


TREASURES OF
WOBURN ABBEY
“Tell me —do you REALLY have
poker machines at Woburn?”
“See, Col? It pays to advertise.”
“Good lord, an artist. Wonder what he Wants?"
“But how Wonderful, yer Grace. W e so
seldom get culture here.”


“Cod, this is a dull exhibition. I don't recognise
a soul!"
Cartoonist Robert Hughes joined the
crowds at David Jones, Sydney,
having a look at paintings and art
treasures from Woburn Abbey,
which, along with the Duke and
Duchess of Bedford, are at present
in Australia. The exhibition will
go later to Brisbane, Melbourne and
Adelaide.
“This is my wife. She feels spiritually elevated."
“Madam, I am charmed that you're thrilled ...
charmed that you're thrilled...charmed that . ..


A SHORT STORY
“Why did you let him go in? You \now what
fools these bloody New Australians are A
Pammie thrust her small face close
to his. “Otto,” she demanded, “are
you happy here?” In the hard
light reflected off the sand her face
was perfect. She was entirely and com-
placently aware of this. “Tell me truly,”
she persisted.
A small, red-tipped finger lightly
touched his wrist, then, pressing deeper,
travelled to his elbow, hurting as a
professionally manicured fingernail so
easily can.
“You mean, here on the beach?”
“No, of course not, silly, here in Aus-
tralia.”
He looked past her across the sand
towards the ugly, smug, red bungalows
which rose tier upon tier upon what had
once been a pleasant green hillside.
“What does it mean—to be happy?”
“Oh, Otto, don’t be so bloody Conti-
nental,” she said. “You know exactly
what I mean. I’ve been to Europe three
times. I know what it’s like.”
“Yes, The Excelsior. The Georges
Cinq. You know what it’s like.”
“All right, then, but why do you keep
brooding about it all? You can’t go
back. Everything's gone. You’ve got
nobody, nothing to go back to.”
“Yes, of course.”
“Then why do you keep thinking
about it? If you would only look at
things the right way. You’re much better
off here. If you would only take a posi-
tive attitude you could have everything
you want, right now.”
“Yes, of course.” He laughed. “Today
I feel very positive.”
“Do you?” she said, pleased. “Well,
then, why aren’t you happy?”
“I am happy.”
“You don't look happy.”
“Is this better?”
“Yes. darling,” she said, giving him a
smiie which put at least 12 teeth on view.
“That’s much better.”
They were first on the beach on a
perfect day. That should have almost
been enough in itself to make anyone
happy. Otto would have admitted that.
He loved the beaches when there was
no one there. Perhaps he was happy.
Perhaps he was happy because of
Pammie. Or in spite of Pammie. He
didn’t want to think about it. He just
wanted to lie in the sun. To lie in the
sun and not to think—wasn’t that the
Australian idea of happiness?
Now other people began to come,
staking their claims to a piece of the
beach with outsize umbrellas. Some of
them called across the sand. “Marvellous
day.” “A southerly on the way.” That
was all. The beach is no place for con-
versation.
Soon some of Pammie’s family came
down from their house, which was the
biggest, reddest and smuggest on the
hill. First came Joan, who was the middle
sister of the family, with her English
husband, David Walmsley. Joan was
laden with oils, lotions and protective
garments, which were necessary to save
David from a burning which might once
more send him to hospital. But there was
no possibility of David being allowed
to remain in the house. Joan liked the
beach, so David came, too. “You’ll get
used to it,” she told him. “You’ll get
acclimatised. Our children —if we ever
manage to have any—will have much
darker skins than yours.”
After Joan and David came Shan, the
eldest sister, alone. She wore a brief,
dark, cotton two-piece swimsuit and
flicked at her skinny legs with a towel.
She was as slim as Pammie. Only a
slackening of the stomach muscles and
a faint dusty shadow on her brown skin
showed that she was more than 10 years
older.
Joan spread a towel in the shadow of
Pammie’s beach umbrella and motioned
David to sit down.
“Do you mind, Otto?” she asked, after
she had moved his few belongings into
the sun. “You know poor David just
simply can’t stand the sun.”
“Then why didn’t you bring another
umbrella?” Pammie demanded, staring
angrily at pink David, sitting motionless
on the towel while Joan anointed him
with oil. Shan looked at David with
some distaste. She spread her own towel
in the sun and lay down, her face, as
perfectly pretty as Pammie’s but some-
what more weatherbeaten and petulant,
turned to the sun.
Shan, as far as Otto could gather, had
been divorced a couple of times. Or
perhaps it was only once. She talked
about her ex-husband in such a variety
of ways that Otto felt there must have
been more than one. It was, at least,
four or five years since she had been
married, and she now showed no inclina-
tion to try again. In the months that
Otto had known Pammie he had never
known Shan do anything to speak of.
She didn’t work. She had a vast con-
tempt for the social-climbing committee-
work which most of her friends did. In
summer she lay on the beach. In winter
she stayed in bed in the mornings, and,
so Pammie told him, knitted the heavy
sweaters which she wore for the rest of
the day. Mostly she shopped. She had
recently been in Europe for two months,
during which time, as far as Otto could
gather from her scant conversation, she
had mostly shopped.
The Canvey family was silent now, a
silence broken only by the sound of
David, sunglasses clipped over his thick
glasses, turning the pages of his book.
Occasionally he gave a small grunt to
express his dislike of sitting in the heat
where there was a perfectly good, cool
house up the hill.
Ooon the girls’ brother, Phillip, who
was a few years older than Pammie,
came down the beach. Phillip was as
relentlessly active as the girls were indo-
lent. He was with three other young
men. They all carried surfboards, held
high over their heads. They looked
curiously alike with square, strong,
brown, but somewhat ungraceful, bodies,
and short-cropped hair bleached by the
sun. They stopped only to drop their
belongings under the umbrella. They
gave no greeting excepting a nod and
a grunt, then, bearing their surfboards
like shields before them, they dashed into 1
the water.
Otto lay on the beach with the three
sisters. For perhaps an hour there was
no sound or movement except David
turning the pages of his book with a
methodical thumb. Once Joan moved
across and smeared more oil on David's
legs. This did not make Shan open her


LIFEA AM ONG THE
SAVAGES
By PATRICIA ROLFE
eyes or Pammie raise her head from her
crossed arms.
Otto lay on one side resting on his
forearm. He tried to distinguish Phillip
from among the men and women on surf-
boards beyond the first breaker, but
there was no easy way of telling him
from a hundred other young men out
there. Once or twice a strong shoot
brought some of the board-riders right
into the beach, but even then it was
impossible to distinguish known from
unknown.
Phillip and his companions would stay
there all day, or at least until they were
driven from the water by hunger. Otto
felt he should be with them. He felt
inadequate and humiliated on the beach
with the women and David. Not, of
course, that Phillip and his friends would
be consciously contemptuous of him.
To them he was just one of Pammie’s
boy-friends, something she had picked up
somewhere just as she might pick up a
new lipstick from a shop-counter, or
choose a new gold charm for the brace-
lets which clattered and banged on her
wrists. Perhaps because he was a
foreigner they thought he was an un-
scrupulous fortune-hunter. A fortune-
hunter, perhaps, but not unscrupulous.
Merely indecisive.
He wished he could stand up and
walk away from Pammie now, and go
out with the surfboard-riders. But the
surf baffled and frightened him. He was
a fair enough swimmer, a steady swimmer
with a strong stroke. In the old days each
summer he had gone with his family to
Corfu or to Rhodes. There he had swum
all day in the safe Mediterranean. But
here it was wild and difficult. Most of
all, he was terrified of sharks. Any
normal, reasonable person would be, he
told himself. If he had suggested to his
family that anyone would jump into
shark-infested waters they would have
laughed and said, “What a way to
commit suicide!” But here everybody
did it. Everybody except himself.
Later, he went with Pammie and swam
in the shallow, green water near the
beach. Then, because Pammie hated
lying on the beach in a wet swimsuit,
they went up to the house.
The house was large, heavy and of red
brick. Outside it appeared hot and un-
comfortable, but inside it was cool with
room air-conditioners hissing faintly at
every window. The house had been built
by the owner. Although Canvey prob-
ably had not intended to practise the cosy
vulgarities and brilliant economies which
had made him a postwar, near-millionaire
builder of mass-produced cottages, never-
theless, mainly through force of habit,
he had made the house a grotesquely
swollen edition of his standard cottage
design. Facing the street was an immense
flagged terrace where Canvey in comic
chef’s hat and apron would shortly begin
reducing prime beef to cinders on an
elaborate barbecue. The terrace, with
its wrought-iron tables, multi-colored
umbrellas and swinging canvas seats, was
placed to face the street, otherwise
people might not realise it was there.
However, this had made it necessary
to face south, so that the terrace, shaded
by the bulk of the house, was unusable
for the whole of the winter and for most
of the afternoon even in summer.
Adjoining it was the swimming-pool,
also placed so that it could be seen from
the street and also, because of its aspect,
useless for most of the day and most of
the year.
TJammie and Otto went upstairs. The
A housekeeper, apparently, had finished
on the upper floor. All was quiet. They
had a shower and changed. Otto was
combing his damp hair when he heard
Pammie’s voice outside the door.
“Darling, do my zip.”
She came into the room. Otto obedi-
ently bent over the back of her sundress
and pulled up the fastener.
She walked across to the window. “I
wonder where everyone is,” she said,
looking down at the deserted terrace.
She sat down on the divan and patted
the place alongside her. “Come here,
darling,” she said. He came. She let
him kiss her a few times, putting out her
mouth with a pursed-up movement
which he knew she copied from the pecu-
liar way that film-stars pose for the
camera. The moment that he tried to
make her forget that ridiculous pursed-
up movement and just let herself be
kissed she somehow manoeuvred him—it
was surprising how strong her small body
was—so that he was lying with his head
in her lap, robbed of the initiative. But
after she began to stroke his hair and
his cheeks and murmur to him he felt
relaxed and content.
“Otto,” she said at length, “have you
thought any more about what you are
going to do when you are finished?”
“It’s quite a long way off. I have to
pass my finals before I can think
about it.”
“It’s only another year, darling, and
you’re sure to pass. You’re so terribly
clever. What do you think you want
to do?”
“I should like to design a cathedral.”
The gentle hands came to a stop.
“A cathedral?”
“Yes, a cathedral.” He was delighting
in fooling her. A cathedral. He didn’t
even believe in God, didn’t even believe
in himself. “You know what a cathe-
dral is?”
“Of course I know what a cathedral
is. Oh, you’re joking.”
“No, that is what I want to do.”
“But we’ve already got a couple of
those. There wouldn’t be any need for
any more.”
“No?” he asked. “That’s bad.” He
looked at her and closed his eyes. Her
small hands were busy again, smoothing
back his damp, fair hair.
“Darling,” she said in a new, breath-
less little voice. That was something else
which came from the films. “I know
you think you want to design cathedrals,
but why don’t you see Daddie? Ask
him about a job.”
“You mean, work for Canvey Con-
structions?”
“Oh, I know you despise us, but that’s
where the money is these days. And
you like money all right. You won’t
make real money in an architect’s office.
Not for years.”
“What makes you think Daddie would
want me?”
Pammie bent and kissed his closed
eyes.
“I’m his favorite,” she whispered.
“So?” he said and sat up


At once she was confused. Otto noted
with some surprise that she blushed. It
was only a faint blush, but, after all, a
blush was not something which even
Pammie could summon up at will. At
least, he thought not.
“So?” he repeated.
She laughed then. Otto had never seen
her look so pretty.
“Oh, darling.” she said, ducking her
head. “I just knew I would have to
propose eventually, and, there, now I’ve
done it.”
He kissed her then, and for once he
noticed she didn't think, or perhaps she
didn't have quite enough time, to arrange
her mouth in the Hollywood fashion.
Her cheek was warm from the blush.
Almost at once she sat up.
“Darling,” she murmured. “Just
because we're engaged we mustn’t.”
“No,” he said, laughing, feeling
wonderfully happy, feeling that this was
the funniest thing he had ever heard.
“Pammie, why do you want to marry
me?”
“Oh, I love you, darling,” she said.
“Really, I do.”
He sat up now and she lay back among
the cushions, smiling as he stroked her
pretty hair. She jangled the bracelets on
her wrists, counting the solid gold
charms. Love. There was no verb to
love in the Canvey vocabulary. There
was the verb to acquire, and to Pammie
that meant the same thing. She would
love what she could buy. Himself. He
felt oddly sorry for her. It was harder
for Pammie than for the others. She had
only been a child when the money came.
There had been time to send her to
expensive schools, later to Mon Fertile
to “finish.” While her sisters were still
happy with the things that money could
buy, Pammie wanted what money
couldn’t buy—acceptance. And even in
a place like Sydney that was difficult.
A generation of money or position was
enough to gain you acceptance, but one
generation was the irreducible minimum.
Canvey’s beginnings were still too close
for comfort. Otto could understand that
he was the best way out for Pammie. A
foreigner who wasn't conspicuously a
New Australian, not a lost little man
wandering the city streets on Sundays
with other lost little men.
“You know,” Pammie was saying now,
as she swung a little gold horseshoe on
her bracelet, “Daddie darling is always
going on about being a self-made man,
but when you think of someone like you,
coming out here as a migrant and having
to work on the Snowy, and now, 10 years
later, simply by your own hard work and
saving, and doing your Matric at night,
you are nearly through architecture.
That’s my idea of a self-made man, and
I’ll tell Daddie so if he makes any more
cracks about you being a foreigner. And
nobody would really think of you as a
migrant or a New Australian. You’ve
got hardly any accent. You could say
you came here before the war.”
“You know,” he said, pushing his
fingers through her dark hair, “before I
came here I used 10 see color pictures of
men standing in fields of wheat, or at tfte
“ You're going to eat those Words! ”
doors of blazing furnaces with their
faces covered with sweat. And I used
to think of myself working hard for the
rest of my life, so hard that I had no
time to think. But it’s so easy. It’s so
easy to learn to loaf during the week so
you get double time at the weekend. So
easy—”
“Darling, that’s not easy. That's smart.
Daddie always says you’ll never get on if
you don’t take every opportunity.”
He kissed her then to stop her talking.
He wondered how many times he would
have to kiss her to stop her talking;
Perhaps that was what marriage
amounted to, kissing someone to shut
them up.
TPhere was movement on the terrace
below now. Otto saw Canvey come
out of the house. Canvey wore white
slacks and shoes, a navy-blue jacket and
what appeared to be a full admiral’s cap.
He went across to the barbecue pit, flung
some lighter fluid and struck a match.
In a few seconds the fire was blazing.
Almost at once Mrs Canvey came out,
bearing a platter of raw steak. Her hus-
band took it and bore it proudly, like the
head of a prophet, to the barbecue. He
stood then, putting the comic apron, “Let
Father Be the Cook,” over his stomach
and replacing the admiral’s cap with a
comic chef's hat on his bald head. He
picked up a knife and it flashed silver
in the sun as he hacked about at the
pieces of steak.
“Darling,” Pammie said. “Let’s go
and find Daddie and tell him.”
“He’s on the terrace offering up
sacrifices to his gods.”
Pammie laughed. “Now’s the time.”
They passed Pammie’s mother in the
living-room. She smiled and opened her
mouth to speak, but Pammie brushed
past and went out to the terrace.
Pammie went and laid her head against
the comic chef’s apron, which was now
flecked with blood.
“Daddie, darling,” she said in one of
her most effective breathless little voices,
“Otto and I are engaged. We’re going to
be married.”
Canvey looked across at Otto with
his small, sharp blue eyes.
“Who says you’re going to be
married?” he demanded.
Pammie laughed. “Otto just asked
me,” she said. “Or, rather, I asked him.”
Canvey found this funny. He laughed
with his daughter, holding her by the
upper arms and rocking her gently back
and forth as he laughed, pressing her
against the comic apron.
“Well, if that’s the way you want it,
girlie, that’s the way you want it,” he
said. “I’ve never denied you anything,
have I?” he demanded anxiously.
“You’ve had everything money can
buy?”


nes, Daddie, darling, you’ve been
wonderful.”
He released her and picked up the long
knife again.
“Now get yourselves a beer,” he said,
pushing her away. “Pour a couple of
beers, laddie. I’ve got to get these steaks
done by the time the rest of them get
back. We can talk about it later.”
Otto filled two glasses with beer, and he
and Pammie settled in one of the canvas
swinging seats.
Mrs Canvey came out, bearing two
wooden bowls of salad. Pammie leant
across Otto.
“Oh, Mummie,” she said. “Otto and I
are engaged.”
Mrs Canvey came towards them with a
bowl in each hand. Her eyes were wrink-
led against the sun, but she held the rest
of her face, subjected to twice-weekly
massage, carefully, so that it appeared
almost unlined, the double chin in retreat.
Her eyes watered in the strong light (she
only ever came out of the house at the
beach for the ritual barbecues). She put
down the bowls awkwardly on one of the
glass-topped wrought-iron tables and
dabbed at the outer corner of her eyes
with a handkerchief.
“Engaged, Pammie?” she said. “It
seems so sudden.”
“We've been knocking around together
for nearly a year. What’s sudden about
it?”
Mrs Canvey blushed. It was not the
quick, warm glow of Pammie, but a
dull purplish color spreading under the
heavy make-up.
“Oh, 1 know that,” she said. “I mean,
I just didn’t think it would be today.
1 didn't know whether Otto and you were
serious. 1 didn’t think it would be so
soon. When will you be married?”
“I don’t know,” Pammie said. “I
haven’t thought.”
“It makes me feel so old, all these son-
in-laws,” Mrs Canvey said with a
shudder. “Who knows, I might soon be
a grandmother!” She turned from her
daughter to study Otto. Otto had a
quick, uneasy feeling that she was now
considering him as a possible future ally,
a fellow-sufferer at the hands of the
Canvey family. As she would have once
considered David Walmsley and found
him too craven, and might once have
considered Shan’s nameless, faceless hus-
band, who had run away from it all.
“W elc ome to the family, Otto,” she
1 said with more emphasis than he
had ever heard in her voice. Perhaps
she was being kind, perhaps ironic. He
had no way of knowing. She waited for
him to reply. He said nothing, and,
smilingly, rejected her. She went away
and stood at the edge of the terrace,
still dabbing at her eyes. After a while
she moved to the powerful telescope
which Canvey had had installed on the
edge of the terrace. She trained it on the
beach and stood there for several
minutes.
“Here they come,” she cried at last.
“They’re leaving the beach now. Shan
is brushing the sand off her legs. David
is putting on his shirt.”
Sunday lunch with the Canveys. Otto
stuck his knife into the great piece of
steak which Canvey’s cooking had
rendered almost uneatable. The blood
ran across the wooden platter and drip-
ped on the flagstones. Otto scraped at it
with the toe of his espadrille. Walmsley,
pink already from the sun, methodically
ate the small cubes of steak which his
wife (“Here, let me do that!”) had cut
up for him. Canvey talked a great deal,
in between chewing his steak and drink-
ing beer. Every moment Otto expected
that something would go wrong, that
Canvey would dribble his beer, or acci-
dentally spit out a mouthful of steak.
But Canvey could even manage to eat
steak with false teeth. You really had to
admire him, Otto felt. It was concentra-
tion and determination like that that had
got Daddie darling where he was today.
A man who can eat steak with false teeth
can do anything. That would do the
Canvey family for a motto when it
acquired a coat of arms. Hardly listen-
ing to her father, Shan, still in her swim-
suit, with her stomach hanging in skinny
folds, smoked between mouthfuls of
steak, and when she had finished chucked
the remnants on to the hydrangeas below
the terrace.
Phillip sat with his legs spread, and,
when a careless movement of his arm
knocked a glass of beer over a table, he
didn’t even turn to see the mess he had
made. Phillip spoke to no one, and
certainly didn’t listen to his father. When
he had finished eating he drank some
more beer while he frowningly picked
at the callouses on the soles of his feet,
tearing off strips of yellowed skin, exami-
ning them and then throwing them on
the flagstones. Mrs Canvey was the only
one who didn’t have steak. Her hus-
band cared so little for her that he didn’t
even mind when she refused his cooking.
She sat in a swinging canvas chair, eating
a chicken sandwich and drinking what
was probably her fourth or fifth brandy
of the day. When Canvey clutched his
stomach and padded inside to get a dose
of his indigestion mixture, Otto judged
that the meal was officially ended. That
was grace after meals.
thankfully set his steak aside.
He looked beyond the terrace at
the sea. He thought of being back home,
sitting with his family for Sunday lunch.
Pammie was not right when she said he
brooded about home. In truth, he rarely
thought about it, but sometimes, at
times like these, he could almost physi-
cally transport himself back in time and
place. He thought of a gentle summer’s
day, so fragile and precious, and him-
self, a grown man, and not just a loved
child. A man, back from his travels in
distant places. But everything else
miraculously as it had been, his parents
the same age as they had been when he
had seen them last in 1943. the house,
which was now rubble, or rebuilt as a
residence for some commissar, restored to
what it had been. Let me tell you about
life among the savages, he would say
to his parents. The man, although richer
probably than anyone we have ever
known, richer than Grandpapa was
before the war, before the Great War,
had no dignity. He would put on a
comic hat and comic apron and cook the
meal himself. Imagine, Papa, you cook-
ing the dinner for us. It would be cooked
in the open air. Over a fire. Just like
cannibals. Raw steak, burnt on the out-
side. Imagine how platable! Then they
would eat it from wooden plates. Very
expensive, but exactly the sort of thing
which the savages in the South Seas
would use. And they would drink from
sawn-off pieces of bamboo, like the


savages. He could see his parents, sitting
at the dining-table, lifting the wine-glasses
to their lips, setting their forks momen-
tarily on the gold-rimmed plates. How
they would laugh, looking at each other,
tenderly proud of their son, as he told
them of his adventures among the
savages of Sydney.
“Otto, you’ve hardly eaten anything,”
Pammie said.
He trembled at the sound of her voice.
He tipped the platter and more blood
dripped on the terrace.
“Aren’t you hungry?” she demanded.
“Not very.” He scraped at the blood
with his toe again. Later on the beach,
he would tell her the whole thing was
impossible. That he had never intended
to marry her. That he didn’t intend to.
That he would go somewhere, into the
country, and work hard so that he
couldn’t think. He would go back to
the Snowy. Back to Europe, to nothing,
nobody.
“Otto and I are engaged,” Pammie said
brightly, turning to her sisters.
“Yes,” said Mrs Canvey. “My baby
is engaged. Isn’t it awful? Let’s have
some champagne, lots of champagne.”
It was half an hour before he could
say to Pammie, “Let’s go back to the
beach.” On the beach he would explain
to her.
“But we can’t go swimming so soon
after lunch,” she said. “Let’s have some
more champagne. You know,” she said,
narrowing her eyes at him, “Shan and
Joan are furious. They seem to think
I’ve put something over them. I’m loving
it.”
“The champagne has given me a head-
ache,” he persisted. “Let’s go on to the
beach.”
She frowned doubtfully, but obediently
went into the house. She changed into
another swimsuit and joined him on the
terrace.
The crowd had thinned out on the
beach now. The sun was mild, big, soft
ciouds floated from the west, and there
was no need for an umbrella. They chose
the end of the beach where there were
fewer people. There were now only a few
dozen people in the flat surf. The surf-
board riders had gone to the other end of
the beach in search of stronger waves.
Otto lay on his stomach looking out
towards the sea. Sometimes he looked at
Pammie lying face downwards with her
head resting on her crossed arms. Idly
he picked up a handful of sand and ran
it through his fingers. Then he threw
away the handful of sand.
“I’m going into the water,” he said.
Pammie looked up.
“But you can’t.”
“It’s nearly an hour.”
She consulted her watch.
“So it is. What do you want to go in
for? It’ll be cold now.”
“I’m just going down to wash the sand
off my hands.”
“Oh,” she said, losing interest. She put
her face down into the crook of her arms
again.
He walked down to the water’s edge
and slowly and carefully washed the
sand from his hands.
He stood looking at the surfboard
riders, then turned his attention to the
surf in front of him and began to move
into the water. He brushed the small
waves aside, but now the tide was begin-
ning to turn, and each wave struck at the
sand, then sucked its own strength under.
Once he was out of his depth he had the
greatest difficulty in breasting the waves.
Two or three times he was flung back,
but he kept on swimming rhythmically,
even when the breakers tossed him. The
thing was to keep an even stroke. He
swam as if he were in the Greek seas.
He might be tossed back towards the
beach, but each time he gained a little
ground. If he swam strongly he must
eventually get beyond the breakers. Or
perhaps he would not get as far as that.
The sea and the sky seemed to grow dark.
He had been told that the beginning and
the end of the day were dangerous times
for sharks. But it was only about four-
o’clock. Too early.
I am not trying to prove anything, he
told himself as he swam. But, to be
honest, if I can get out there 1 will some-
how show that something is possible I
shall know that escape is possible. Escape
from Pammie, escape from myself, even.
If you get out there, he told himself
again, you will prove just one thing.
That you can swim.
He was out near the first breaker now.
He trod water for a few moments, getting
his breath back. He could feel his legs
moving slowly below the surface of the
water. They felt very white and fleshy,
conspiciously good eating. He began to
go forward again. The waves were strong
now, but he felt his own strength assured.
Then someone grasped his shoulders
from behind. He gave an angry shout,
struggled, then something hit him across
the side of the head.
He came to as the surfboard propelled
by Phillip brought them into the beach.
He began to struggle again, and then he
was being carried up the beach, past the
small crowd, mostly children, which had
gathered to watch the rescue. They did
not seem particularly interested. Perhaps
they had expected him to be unconscious,
at the least, or preferably dead.
Phillip laid Otto down beside Pammie.
She dropped on her knees beside him.
“Is he alright?” she asked.
“Of course he’s all right. But why the
hell did you let him go into the water
by himself? You know what fools these
bloody New Australians are.”
Otto lay against Pammie's side and
the salt water, pouring from his mouth,
left a wet patch on her dry swimsuit.
He realised then that the whole of the
Canvey family had come down to the
beach. Canvey, still in the “Let Father
Be the Cook” apron, but now with his
admiral’s cap instead of the chef’s hat;
David, bright scarlet, staring at him
reflectively, and at the same time search-
ing with a finger for a piece of food
caught in his teeth. Otto looked at Mrs
Canvey, who was speaking.
“I was just looking through the tele-
scope,” she said, “and I saw him go into
the water. Wasn’t it lucky?” She looked
down at Otto, and now he couldn’t
mistake the irony in her voice. “Wasn’t
it lucky?” she said to him.
He turned his face away and hid it
against Pammie’s stomach. Then in front
of them all, in a little scene which she
might have seen in films half a dozen
times, Pammie put her arms around him.
“Otto, my darling,” she whispered, and
he knew she would never let him go.


The Wild
Cat Pages
OIL EXPLORATION
MOONIE RAISES INVESTMENT HOPES
FINANCE BUSINESS ECONOMIC COMMENT INVESTMENT OIL AND MINING
/"\ne of the major effects of the promis-
ing oil strike at Moonie No. 1 well
is a marked upsurge of investment
confidence.
Moonie No. 1 has now been described
as a commercial well. Cabawin —
in the same area—was not, despite the
high hopes which were tempered by
deliberately cautious statements from the
drilling company. But although even two
or three commercial wells would not
mean much economically, the recent
chain of promising indications suggests
that it is worth while spending more
money trying to find oil.
The Cabawin and Moonie wells have
also underscored the fact that the share
of domestic capital in oil search ventures
in Australia is relatively small. So far
most investment has come from overseas.
Australian Oil and Gas Corporation Ltd
has only a 20 p.c. capital interest in the
joint venture —with Union Oil Develop-
ment Corporation and Kern County
Land Company, both of U.S. —which has
drilled the Cabawin and Moonie wells.
Vacuum Oil and British Petroleum hold
the major shares in Australasian Petro-
leum Company. Most Australian oil
exploration companies are small by world
standards and have required capital back-
ing from the great oil concerns or the
major independent international com-
panies.
Total expenditure on oil exploration in
Australia and New Guinea in 1960
amounted to £6.4 million. This was
higher than the £5.8 million spent in
1959, and last year’s figures should show
a rise in both Government and private
capital expenditure. But it is not enough,
despite the modern emphasis on scientific
Preliminary surveys, which are less costly
than drilling. At a certain stage actual
drilling must be undertaken and the num-
ber of wells drilled in Australia has been
grossly insufficient.
It is fortunate that Australia continues
to attract substantial amounts of foreign
capital for oil exploration. But it is also
essential that more Australian capital
should be diverted to oil exploration,
even if at the expense of some other less
important industries. The Common-
wealth Government has a system of oil
search subsidies, but these should be
made more attractive—if necessary by
using some of the indirect tax revenues,
such as a portion of the sales tax on
motor vehicles.
By and large, Australian investors have
shown a lively interest in oil search floats
despite the obviously heavy risk element
involved. But more institutional investors
should support oil exploration, increas-
ing Australia’s share in the quest for
black gold within her own territory.
The present optimistic outlook which
has followed the Cabawin and Moonie
strikes, and the encouraging reports from
some other oil search areas, have made
the sharemarket climate favorable for
large floats by oil exploration companies.
Oil Development’s one-for-one par
issue of 3,766,000 ss. ordinary shares has
been followed by Planet Oil Company's
£2 million float for capital to obtain
interests in petroleum exploration con-
cessions covering more than 35 million
acres in Queensland, New South Wales
and Victoria. Planet's initial explora-
tion programme is estimated to cost
£1,450,00. Particularly encouraging is
the C.S.R.’s explicit intention to acquire
a 30 p.c. share interest in Planet Oil
within five years. Initially, the sugar
group is taking up 400,000 ss. shares.
The underwriting interests are well
spread and the float seems to have good
chances of adequate subscription.
It is to be hoped that C.S.R.’s example
—and that of the 8.H.P., which already
has participated directly and indirectly
in several oil exploration ventures —will
be followed by other leaders of the Aus-
tralian economy. The stakes are high
enough to justify the risks.
COMMON MARKET
PROGNOSIS BY PRECEDENT
At five minutes to 12 o'clock it looked,
particularly to those who wanted to
see it that way, as if Britain might be
spared the decision of joining the
Common Market or of batting on alone.
France and Germany, however, have
found a compromise formula on a
common agricultural policy and Italy has
fallen grudgingly into line.
So it is an open season again for all
who will expound what this will mean
to Australia, although it does really not
require much prudence to realise that any
assessment will depend on so many
imponderables that, without a precedent
to fall back on, it would be better to
wait and see and prepare for the worst.
Paramount in any forecast of conse-
quences for Australia is obviously what
Britain’s actions might and will mean to
her economy. By stretching comparisons
and similarities a little a precedent might
supply some indication of the direction
of the trends at least.
When France —after much soul-
searching—signed the Treaty of Rome,
there was more than just a minority of
experts and manufacturers who predicted
dire consequences for many French
industries. A look at the performance
of the Fifth Republic during 1961, fol-
lowing 18 months of booming expansion,
might provide a clue to what 1963 could
mean for Great Britain.
The French Gross National Product
rose by 5.5 per cent, in 1961, in spite
of the poor harvest caused first by
excessive rain and then by drought.
Wheat production was down 17 per cent,
and sugarbeet yield fell by 49 per cent.
Industrial output, still rising at a rate of


If you have
money..
earning less
than 4 1 p. a.
It’s time to
consider a
‘Short Term’
Deposit
at the ‘Rural’
Make sure that your money grows
on Interest Bearing Deposit at the
Rural Bank.
4% p.a. from 3 to 11 months,
4J% p.a. for 12 months.
Enquire at any branch of the
RURAL BANK
FOR EVERY CLASS OF TRADING BANK BUSINESS
“makes money work”
HEAD OFFICE: Martin Place, Sydney.
i 7 per cent, during the first quarter of
1961, slowed down to a 5 per cent,
increase for the rest of the year, giving
an average of just over per cent.
Retail prices, measured on the basis of
250 commodities, rose from 133 to 138
index points (just under 4 per cent.)
during the year and wholesale prices
increased even less. Wages and salaries
jumped by 9 per cent. —admittedly from
an artificially low level.
Better results can be found in the
external trade. Imports rose less than
exports, leaving a favorable balance of
662 million new francs (£60.3 million).
Interestingly enough, all the increases came
through trade with countries outside the
franc zone, mainly from the partners in
the EEC. Best results, however, have
been achieved in the balance-of-pay-
ments. Income from tourism alone
rose from 397 million new francs (£36
million) to 660 million new francs
(£6O million), an increase of 67 per cent.
France was also able to increase her
gold and foreign exchange reserves by
3592 million new francs (£326.5 million)
to a total of about £I3OO million.
Capital investment has risen by 26 per
cent, compared with the previous year,
reaching 6000 million new francs (£545
million). Short- and long-term money
is cheap on basis of a 31 per cent, dis-
count rate, compared with the British
bank rate of 61 per cent. Reflecting the
confidence of the public and the business
community, the Stock Exchange of Paris
has raised the general index by 20.6 per
cent, on all traded papers. If all share
prices in New York, London, Frankfurt
(Germany) and Paris had started
from zero in December, 1960, Paris
would have done better in the second
half of 1961 than all the others, finishing
nearly 3 per cent, above New York and
about 30 per cent, above Frankfurt by
the end of the year. The best sign of
public confidence is possibly provided by
the share price of the big retailers. “Les
Magazins,” which increased in value by
more than 100 per cent, during the last
12 months. And to make the contrast
with Australian conditions complete: oil
shares were the only losers, finishing one
per cent, or so below the level of
December, 1960.
Considering the political situation in
France —with stresses and strains un-
paralleled in the United Kingdom —which
must have had a dampening effect on
business in general and long-term invest-
ments in particlular, results like these
must be admired. If Britain could do
as v Australia in turn might be let
off lightly.
T ooking at the external situation,
France is confronted with troubles in
Egypt—comparatively small —and diffi-
culties in Tunisia, w'ith talks in Rome at
the end of last December going well.
Algeria, however, is a serious problem.
Unofficial negotiations are going on all
the time without much publicity and
this gives an ample chance for specula-
tion, generally uninformed.
Partition has become the favorite sub-
ject, mainly for people who have little
real knowledge of the circumstances.
French experts with practical experience
in Algeria discount the idea altogether,
pointing out rightly that such a course
would only create new problems, with-
out solving even the original difficulties.
The most likely thing will be a general,
not necessarily immediate, repatriation
of all or most French people from
Africa to Europe. The problem is enor-
mous, but can be solved as the example
of moving eight million Germans from
East to West has proved.
Apart from Army personnel, the
French “colons’’ in Algeria can be classed
into three groups: civil servants, farmers
and—mainly small — shopkeepers. It is


The New
Approach to
INVESTMENT
ghjghj
Of great significance to those with Estates,
including Investment holdings, is the plan-
ning of a balanced investment portfolio, and
possibly the formation of a Family Trust.
Such a plan may be devised to minimise
Death Duties, yet provide adequate
income and conserve Estate assets
during one’s lifetime and after death.
Union Trustee with a group of experts —
skilled in the modern conception of
Investment—can act as your financial
counsellor, relieving you of investment
worries, and helping you in many ways
to plan for future financial security.
May we discuss these matters with you—
without obligation—and in complete
confidence?
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated, in Victoria)
333 Collins St. Melbourne, C.l.
20 O’Connell St., Sydney
398-402 Queen St., Brisbane.
Also at Newcastle, Albury, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton, Townsville and Charleville.
Please send me your “Estate Planning” folder
NAME
ADDRESS
UT34a.B2N
only a question of money to inte-
grate the Civil Servants into the
(administration in France proper, especi-
ally as many of them have spent at least
part of their career in France anyhow.
Money, of course, will be no object in
any of these transactions, as whatever
is done for these people in the future
w jll be many times cheaper than the
j “war” in Algeria.
There is plenty of land capable of
growing wheat waiting for new farmers
in the southern regions of France. There
seems to be also some substance in
stories that parts of Corsica are being
prepared for people from Africa. All in
fall, it is not a question of finding room
for them but rather discovering markets
for what they will produce. This is one
of France’s main interests in Britain’s
entry into the EEC as no other country
can take as much grain—low-price grain
at that —as the United Kingdom. And
rwith this idea or plan in the back of her
[ mind France has had to fight hard during
the Common Market agricultural
policy negotiations against high-priced
Germany.
This leaves the shopkeepers and they,
admittedly, will provide a hard nut to
crack. Many of them are no longer
! young and are less accustomed to the rigor
of modern life and climate in Europe.
Quite possibly the only answer will be
money, and again anything would be
cheaper compared with present military
demands on the French Budget.
It is safe to assume that of the non-
Arab population of Algeria, estimated at
■ one million (80 per cent, of whom were
born in Africa), not more than 300,000
! would join the French work force of
about 15 million. This is just two per cent,
(less than the present unemployment in
Australia) and is counterbalanced by a
labor shortage in many industries and
the presence of more than 500,000 foreign
workers in France.
r J’HE solution of the Algerian question,
now that a compromise on the Sahara
region has practically been agreed upon,
would look simple if not for the
‘'Organisation de l’Armee Secrete” (OAS).
Neither the provisional rebel Arab Gov-
ernment of Algeria nor General de Gaulle
can- be sure that any agreement they
reach would not be destroyed by this
terrorist underground clique. The grow-
ing French movements of entire divisions
from Africa to Europe can only be
understood in this connection. If the
transfer can be achieved without an
uprising by the friends of OAS in France
the General might win once more.
Internally, France must expect further
pressure for higher wages, which already
have risen from 137 index points in
January, 1960, to 157 points 23 months
later—by about 15 per cent. For the first
time in French history, communist
socialist and Catholic unions are acting
together, assisted by a shortage of labor,
particularly in the skilled sector.
'T'HE other internal problem, which ex-
A ploded into violence in Bretagne last
June, centres round the peasants. Cer-
tain reform measures, designed to give
the farmers easier credit and introduce
some co-operative grouping, were passed
by the French Parliament a few days
before Christmas. Again, Britain’s incor-
poration into the Common Market would
go a long way to alleviate the situation.
It would be foolish to expect smooth
sailing for France all the way through
1962, but economic growth and ex-
panding exports have assured a firm franc
with comfortable cover. If Great Britain,
after its integration into Continental
Europe, can do as well, Australia in turn
could reap enough benefits to upset all
or most of the gloomy predictions.
J.G.H.


John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. Li. NEVITT. A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Fife Building:.
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887VV
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
K. H. ALI.EN, M. R. L. DOWLING,
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COLBSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfin House, 16 O'Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building:, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne, 67-5957 (1 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney
Melbourne or Woolongong.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
W. K. Yuill, K. C. Phillips, I. C. Walton,
G. G. King, W. S. Shugg
(non-member partner).
BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, 2-0137
84 WILLIAM ST.,
MELBOURNE. 67-5089
340 QUEEN ST.. BRISBANE,
31-2101
Telegrams ami Cables: “Ralphking,”
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Grafton,
Tamworth and Armidale
FOR THE INVESTOR
The Australian
FINANCIAL TIMES
OUT EVERY MONDAY
PRICE 1/6
COMPANY REVIEWS AND NOTES
BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY
STEEL OUTPUT, EXPORT GAINS
r T''HE story of the B.H.P. goes back to
■*- August 13, 1885, when the company
was formed to mine and later on smelt and
refine lead, silver and zinc on the Broken
Hill field. However it was during the
post-war period that steady, solid growth
'has taken place with the support of the
Federal Government.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd is
the undisputed leader and backbone of
Australia’s secondary industry and
occupies a special place in the nation’s
economy.
The B.H.P. organisation is a classic
example of vertical integration ; its opera-
tions are largely based on sea transport.
Subsidiaries cf the parent company
are:
Australian Iron and Steel Ltd, Port Kembla
(N.S.W.) —steelworks, collieries, etc.
Australian Wire Industries Pty Ltd —holding
company in Lysaght Bros and Co. Pty Ltd —-
barbed-wire, nails, netting, zinc oxide and wire.
Australian Wire Rope Works Pty Ltd, Ryland
Bros (Aust.) Pty Ltd and Bullivant’s Austra-
lian Co. Pty Ltd.
Commonwealth Steel Co. Ltd, Newcastle
(N.S.W.) —steel castings, forgings, railway
equipment, special alloy steels, including tool
and stainless steels and hollow drill steels.
The Titan Manufacturing Co Pty Ltd, Mel-
bourne and Hobart —barbed-wire, nails and
hand tools.
B.H.P. By-Products Pty Ltd, Newcastle—
road contractors, suppliers of tarvenac, col-
venac, bitumen, slag and naphthalene.
B.H.P. Collieries Pty Ltd, Elrington (N.S.W.)
—coal.
The Port Waratah Stevedoring Co. Pty Ltd,
Newcastle and Melbourne—stevedores.
Southern Portland Cement Ltd, Berrima
(N.S.W.) —cement.
The associated companies are:
Tubemakers of Australia Ltd —holding com-
pany for British Tube Mills (Aust.) Pty Ltd,
Adelaide —cold-drawn and manipulated tubing;
Stewart and Lloyds (Aust.) Pty Ltd, Newcastle
and Adelaide —steel tubes and fittings.
The Newcastle Chemical Co. Pty Ltd, New-
castle —phthalic anhydride, hydrochloric acid,
sodium sulphate, etc.
Rheem Australia Pty Ltd, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane and Perth—steel drums, pails, etc.
The Structural Engineering Co. of W.A. Pty
Ltd, Perth —structural engineering.
The Wiltshire File Co. Pty Ltd, Melbourne —
files and table knives.
The company also holds large interests
in ICIANZ and Commonwealth Air-
craft Corp. Pty Ltd.
Capital expenditure continued at a
high rate —£36,713,141 was spent on
capital projects in the year ended May
31, 1961, as compared with £27,777,249
during 1960.
A new sinter plant at the Newcastle
steelworks was completed and is produc-
ing more than 1,000,000 tons of sinter a
year. The new ore-handling installation
was also completed. Rehabilitation of the
open hearth building is ahead of sched-
ule. Foundations have been laid for the
oxygen steelmaking plant. Work on the
bloom mill is well advanced. Other
major projects at Newcastle are the
installation of a high capacity rod mill,
rebuilding of No. 2 battery of coke ovens
and the construction of No. 4 blast
furnace.
The opening of the inner harbor at
Port Kembla during November, 1960,
paved the way for further expansion. The
completion of the fourth open hearth
furnace in No. 2 shop added 350,000
tons a year to steel capacity. Conver-
sion of No. 3 blast furnace improved the
output of pig iron. Installation of a fifth
open hearth furnace in No. 2 shop, a 30-
ton electric furnace and the fourth row
of soaking pits at the slab mill is pro-
ceeding. A tenth hot dip was completed
and installation of the electrolytic tinning
line is expected to be completed early in
1962.
Good progress has been made in pro-
viding many of the additional facilities
and services which will be required at
the Whyalla project. The first permanent
building on the site will be a metal
foundry. Conversion of the Whyalla
works rail system to standard gauge is
proceeding.
Development of the Koolan Island ore
deposit, Yampi Sound, is well on the
way and the cargo wharf is nearing
completion. There are 54 houses under
construction for the employees. Con-
struction at Bell Bay of the plant of
Tasmanian Electro Metallurgical Co.
Pty Ltd, is proceeding satisfactorily and
production should begin in February,
1962.
Haematite Explorations Pty Ltd was
registered in Melbourne on May 11, 1961,
to undertake exploration and develop-
ment work. It has been granted licences
to explore for petroleum in the eastern
coastal waters of South Australia and
Bass Strait.
Two more ships were added to the
B.H.P. fleet—the 19,000-ton Iron
Dampier and the 6250-ton Balook, which
was renamed s.s. Iron Warrior. There
are now 15 vessels in the company’s fleet
(including one on time charter). In addi-
tion, the company’s workshops launched
a new 32,250-ton tanker which is being
built for Ampol Petroleum Ltd.


n&i
ghjghj
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
Financier . . . Established 1882
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Interest payable quarterly through the Bank of N.S.W.
Free of Exchange.
DIRECTORS:
W. R. Schofield (Chairman)
T. H. Martin Dr W. F. Pattinson
Alternate Directors: R. V. Agnew, G. L. A. Donohoo
Trustee for Debenture Stock Holders:
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
APPLICATIONS AND PROSPECTUS
Applications will be accepted only on one of the forms
of application attached to the printed copy of the Pros-
pectus which may be obtained from:
• All branches of the Bank of New South Wales in New
South Wales, Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
Queensland.
# Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
Telephone: BW 4521-2-3.
AND BRANCHES
Underwriting Brokers'.
RALPH W. KING 8c YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O'Connell Street, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne. 340 Oueen Street, Brisbane
BROKERS IN VICTORIA
Clarke & Co., 450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS IN QUEENSLAND
Charles Elliott & Son, 356 Queen St., Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BROKERS IN CANBERRA
r F. H. Thompson & Son, Petrie St., Canberra
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
.
z
2
PER ANNUM
FOR 5 YEARS
m
6 months
5
3.
- /
4
12 months
ghjghj
3 years
5i V *
9 months
V.
2 years
□
4 years
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the Manager,
who will quote you a price for the original.
WE SUPPLY
EXPLOSIVES Log-splitting and
post-hole guns. Powder and fuse
for same. Blasting mats. Tamping
rods. Magazines. Carrying boxes.
Exploders and all accessories.
STEAM VALVES Everlasting
valve. Particularly suitable for
boiler blow-off or full on.
WATER FILTERS For farm,
household and industrial use.
ghjghj
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.,
78 PARRAMATTA RD. CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
Ingot-steel production at 3,736,281 tons
(up 6.5 p.c.) was again a record:
Steel Blooming
Coke, Pig-iron, Ingots, Mill,
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
8.11. P. . . 994,098 1,104,360 1,321,549 1,142,092
A. I. and S. 1,544,256 1,857,115 2,331,697 2,072,607
Total, 1961 2,538,354 2,901,475 3,736,281*3,215,299
Total, WHO 2,190.6),2 2,607,701 3,506,692 * 3,030,90 S
Total, 1959 2,01,7,983 2,266,778 3,192,680 * 2,82!,,715
* Includes Commonwealth Steel Co., Ltd.
The term 1960-61 was marked by import-
ant changes in the conditions under which
the industry operates. Early in the year
there was a serious shortage of labor
and heavy demand for steel. When the
term ended domestic demand for steel
was reduced and the labor supply
increased. The sudden upsurge in
demand in the beginning of the year
caused a marked rise in steel imports,
while in the previous two years Australia
had been a net exporter of steel.
The general downturn in economic
activity, due to the credit restrictions,
resulted in a lower rate of steel consump-
tion and there is now a substantial
surplus of iron and steel products avail-
able for export.
Last term the B.H.P. exported 133,900
tons of pig-iron (mostly to Japan) and
65,763 tons of steel products. Mean-
while, the Yawata Iron and Steel Co., the
largest steel mill in Japan, has contracted
to buy 30.000 tons of hot coil from the
B. Daido Steel Sheet Manufacturing
Co. (also of Japan) is still negotiating to
import a further 5000 tons of hot coil.
Earnings did not benefit greatly from
export sales. The satisfactory profit earned
reflects the expanding capacity of the
home market. Consolidated working
profit tor the year ended May 31, 1961,
was disclosed at £52,401,890 (up
£8,376,343):
Consolidated Figures.
(Covering both group and.outside interests.)
Gross earnings— 1959. 1960. 1961.
Working profit.. 39.308,119 44,025,547 52,401,890
Divs.. etc. . . 1,647,298 2,454.386 2,751,514
Total .. 40,955,417 46,479,933 55,153,404
Depreciation .. 11,260,240 11,655,862. 22,001,321
Provision plant re-
■ placement . . 6,200,000 7,025,000
Taxation .. 11.851,683 12,052,517 15,748,933
Other exes. . . 1,460,419 2,030,243 2,447,640
Total exes. . . 30,772,342 32,763,622 40,192,894
Net profit .. 10,183,075 13,716,311 14,960,510
Profit sale assets. . 31,886 146,688 168,944
Income from investments was higher at
£2,751,514 (up £297,128), bringing the
total gross earnings to £55,153,404.
B.H.P. has continued its policy of
liberal provisions for depreciation. Con-
solidated provision was £22,001,321 (up
£2,923,804). For the past seven years
the company has been supplementing the
depreciation charge based on historical
cost by an additional provision towards
the increased cost of plant replacement.
However, due to revaluation of assets,
the board—after careful consideration—
was satisfied that the proper charge which
should be made against profits is one
which reflects the diminution in value


of the fixed assets used and should be
determined by applying such estimated
replacement costs at current price levels
as are appropriate to the expected pro-
ductive life of the asset.
Provision for taxation absorbed
£15,743,933 (up £3,691,416). Other costs
added up to £2,447,640 (up £417,397),
bringing total expenses to £40,192,894.
Consolidated net profit increased by
£1,244,199 to £14,960,510. Sales of fixed
assets yielded a profit of £146,688. For
the 1960-61 period tax was overprovided
by £1,191,426, reckoning at the ruling
company rate.
Total consolidated net profit represents
an earning rate of 19.6 p.c. on the ord.
capital, compared to 22.5 p.c. in 1960,
and 20.1 p.c. in 1959. The earning rate
on shareholders’ funds decreased from
12.3 p.c. to 7.15 p.c. This was due to
the creation of an assets revaluation
reserve of £59,490,500.
Dividend rate was lower at 7-17/24
p.c. on the higher capital, absorbing
£5,970,222.
During the year paid-up capital
increased by £32,198,611 to £96,595,833.
At an extraordinary meeting in January,
1961, nominal capital was increased from
£loom. to £lsom. and new Articles of
Association were adopted to comply with
Stock Exchange requirements. In June,
1961, shareholders were advised of an
issue of 16,100,000 20s. ords., one-for-six,
10s. payable on application and the
balance of 10s. by December 11, 1961.
According to the “Nihon Keizai Shim-
bun,” an influential Japanese economic
journal, the B.H.P. is providing strong
competition to Japan’s iron and steel
industry in the sales drive for major over-
seas markets. The paper said that an
“undercutting drive” by the Australian
company was winning export contracts
at the expense of Japanese producers.
The U.S.A., Canada, Malaya, Singapore,
India, the Philippines and Taiwan are
among the steel markets where the B.H.P.
has made inroads against Japanese
exporters. This seems to be a great back-
handed tribute to the group’s efforts.
Consolidated reserves were increased by
£66,419,759 to £113,466,401:
Consolidated Figures.
Shareholders’ Funds and Liabilities.
1959. 1960. 1961.
£ £ £
Paid capital .. 54,141,907 64,397,222 96,595,833
General reserve. . 29,771,539 34,516,219 101,259,968
Mining plant and
development . . 1,200,000 3,750,000 4,650,000
Excess par-value
over cost of in-
terco. holdings 2,969,740 3,278,321 448,476
P. and 1. balance 4,623,274 5,502,102 7,107,957
Outside holdings
in subsids. . . 2,512,912 1,581,974 1,666,682
Shareholders’
funds . . 95,219,372 113,025,838 211,728,916
Provision plant-
replacement . . 21,150,000 28,175,000 ■ —
Provision taxation 21,048,243 21,104,478 22,991,439
Mortgages .. 15,675,000 21,550,000 22,925,000
Trade creditors. . 10,916,600 14,969,684 16,181,554
Sundry creditors,
accruals .. 18,694,714 17,092,953 20,073,569
Inter-co suspense
182,703,929 215,917,953 293,900,478
ASSETS.
Freeholds, lease-
holds . . . . 3,571,522 4,254,411 5,696,223
Machinery, plant, 106.854,071 122,292,569 194,992,482
Shares other cos. 1,668,915 1,653,198 5,421,278
Stocks . . . . 35,776,675 35,138,993 41,830,070
Debtors .. . . 9,872,668 11,135,738 12,982,645
Govt, bonds, etc. 14,203,685 38,153,465 . 27,578,166
Cash ~ .. 1,075,696 4,013,734
Inter-co. suspense 9,680,697 ,3,289,579 1,385,880
182,703,929 215,917,953 293,900,478
Mining plant and development rose by
£900,000 to £4,650,000. Outside interests
totalled £1,666,682 (up £84,708). Trade
creditors increased by £1,211,870 to
£16,181,554, while sundry creditors
increased by £3,080,616 to £20,073,569.
Last year the consolidated book-value
of plant and machinery was £72,699,913
higher at £194,992,482 (after deprecia-
tion). Freeholds and leaseholds rose by
£1,441,812 to £5,696,223. Due to
the economic conditions stocks were
£6,691,077 higher at £41,830,070. During
the year it was necessary to maintain a
very liquid position and investments in
Government bonds, etc., were reduced by
£10,575,299 to £38,153,465. The net
tangible assets backing for the 20s. ords.
i» 435. 6d. on consolidated figures.
Maintaining low costs of production
is the requirement for future develop-
ment of the industry. Rising expenses
are a source of anxiety, development of
raw materials further afield resulting in
higher transport and processing costs.
This is aggravated by the increasing
capital costs of new plant and equip-
ment.
The number of shareholders at May
31, 1961, was 73,446 (up 8907). The
company is opening branch share
registers in Canberra and Tasmania.
The “blue-chip” B.H.P. is an attractive
long-term investment, which in the past
two years has been enlivened by share
issues.
At the last sale in Sydney the 20s.
ords. fetched 68s. 3d. each. The imme-
diate return on the 7-17/24 p.c. div.
basis is 1.8 p.c. p.a.
M.L.C.
NEW BUSINESS
“PVEspite difficult economic conditions
prevailing in 1961, the Mutual Life
and Citizens’ Assurance Company
Limited reports that its Ordinary Blanch
new business for the year totalled
£90,153,000, with annual premiums of
£3,060,000. The Industrial Branch
wrote £13,247,000 new business, with
annual premiums amounting to £666,000.
In addition, “substantial term assurance
was written.” The M.L.C. says that
“results for the month just concluded
are the best on record.”
TEN-PIN BOWLING
VICTORIAN CO.
TDowl-o-matic Limited has been regis-
** tered in Melbourne with an author-
ised capital of £2m. in ss. shares to
acquire the whole of the issued capital
of Pacific Bowling Centres Pty Ltd. The
company says it will operate “one of
Victoria’s largest bowling centres, a 24-
lane house at Geelong.”
All equipment is to be obtained from
Brunswick of Australia Pty Ltd, an
associated company of Brunswick Cor-
poration of America, a leading manu-
facturer of indoor bowling equipment.
The Brunswick group will acquire an
undisclosed share interest in Bowl-o-
matic Ltd and will be represented on
its board. A public share issue is
expected to be made shortly, “with
priority of application for residents of
Geelong and other areas in which centres
are proposed.” The amount of the share
issue and expected earning and divi-
dend rates have not been disclosed.


Another “Wales 9 * Service
cteaue
> v
oahtß
Save time, save travelling,
save money open a
“Wales” cheque account.
Pay your bills the safe way
and have a permanent
record of all your money
matters.
You can have your
name printed on your
cheques. Enquire at any
Branch about this “per-
sonalized cheques” service.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
A6IIBC
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the economic
growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
PLANET OIL
£2m. PAR ISSUE
Planet Oil Co. N.L., which was incor-
porated recently to obtain interests
in various oil exploration concessions
extending over 35m. acres, has announced
an issue of 8,000,000 ss. ordinary
shares at par. The Colonial Sugar Refin-
ing Co. Ltd has reserved 400,000 ss. ords.
for application, and has also acquired an
option to increase its shareholding in
Planet Oil to 30 p.c. of the capital withia
five years. Shares are payable Is. oa
application by February 26, 1962. The
balance is callable Is. a share by June 13,
1962, and then in calls of Is. at not less
than three months’ intervals.
Planet Oil will have interests in petro-
leum exploration permit areas and
licences in six sedimentary basins spread
over Queensland, N.S.W. and Victoria.
It is estimated that initial oil exploration
activities will cost about £1,450,000. It
is hoped that ten wells will be drilled.
The issue is being underwritten by
Messrs Patrick and Co. and J. and J.
North (Sydney Stock Exchange), Corrie
and Co. (Brisbane Stock Exchange),
Stanley E. Watkin and Son (Melbourne
Stock Exchange) and Cutten and Harvey
(Adelaide Stock Exchange).
CLARENCE RIVER OIL
CLIFDEN No. 2
TNirectors of Clarence River Basin Oil
Exploration Company N.L. report
that the Bureau of Mineral Resources in
Canberra will provide expert assistance
to measure the gas flow at Clifden No. 2
well. The company says that the test
cannot be made until the hole has been
cleared and suitable equipment obtained.
At present the drilling rods are stuck, but
are being recovered sectionally. The gas
flow is continuing.
NEW GUINEA GOLDFIELDS
PROFIT UP £20,428
Met profit of New Guinea Goldfields
Ltd for the year to June 30, 1961,
advanced by £20,428 .to £60,607. This
was after paying £257,868 expenses and
gold royalty (down £19,434), £269,317
trading expenses (up £ 17,302) and
£11,860 tax (up £2860). Gross profit
from mining (£264,478), trading
(£334,711) and dividends (£463) was
£21,136 higher at £599,652. Book value
of fixed assets was written down by
£129,034. The 3s. 6d. f.-p. ords. last
fetched Is. 9d. each.


Out and About
TRAVEL
INSTANT CRISIS
THE ARTS BOOKS TRAVEL DESIGN -- ABORIGINALITIES
Y am in The Bulletin editorial office
just before I leave Sydney and I am
saying: “Just think, just think. Sydney
to London overland. Just think, trouble
in Asia? There I’ll be. On the spot. An
assassination in the Near East? I'm
there, too. Crises in Western Europe?
That’s where I .am. I’ll be 15 overseas
correspondents rolled up in one. Won’t,
won’t you, please, ask me to do a series
of articles for you, and when I get to
London . . . .”
“I’ve got a friend in London,” the
editor said, absently, and that's when
1 knew 1 was getting through to him.
And here I am. A failure.
Ceylon, for instance. Mrs Banda-
ranaike declares an emergency in Ceylon.
1 hurry to Jaffna and wait around for a
riot. No riot. I leave. Riot.
Goa, for instance. Did Nehru invade
while I’m around? Not on your life.
He waits till I’m in Frankfurt.
And then Turkey. Elections, execu-
tions, demonstrations. And I was there!
Yes, 1 was. I was cruising from Trabzon
to Istanbul on a luxury Black Sea liner.
1 didn’t know anything about it till I
read “Time” magazine the following
week. In Athens.
Yes, Athens, too. More elections, more
demonstrations, more what-have-you. It
must have happened on the day I went
on the tour to Corinth. But I saw it
all three days later in the newsreel they
showed to accompany their Festival of
Old Donald O'Connor Films.
Yugoslavia. I wanted to tell Bulletin
readers what the man-in-the-street in Bel-
grade really thinks. I forgot that the
man-in-the-street in Belgrade thinks in
Serbo-Croatian.
Austria. Well, it snowed in Vienna,
and I couldn’t get tickets to the Gala
Performance of ‘ Die Fledermaus,” but
I swear I didn’t know a thing about the
capital-crippling transport strike . . . .
You can’t win, it seems.
And that’s how I came to catch
’flu ....
I took a train determinedly through
East Germany to Berlin. I booked into
a hotel, took a cab to the Brandenburg
Gate. Well, to within 200 yards of it,
at any rate, cab-drivers won’t go any
nearer.
I walked the 200 yards to the Branden-
burg Gate (“Is it Brandenberg e-r-g or
Brandenburg u-r-g?” I asked an Ameri-
can soldier, but he didn’t reply) and
there I sat, swearing I wouldn't move
until I had an honest-to-goodness, real-
live crisis to report to Bulletin readers.
Well, nothing much happened that
morning. There were soldiers here and
there, and busloads of American tourists
every hour on the hour. Then the Rus-
sians came across and did something to
the Soviet War Memorial which is in
West Berlin. Then I had lunch.
Afternoon much the same. At 7.30
p.m. it had been dark for three hours and
I couldn't see anything, anyway. 1 went
home.
Next day. Nothing to report. There
was some excitement when a car drove
across with a flag on the rear bumper,
but I didn't know who it was or what he
was doing.
Third morning. ’Flu. Took two
aspirins, but undaunted, took up my
position. And who do you think turned
up? Adenauer? No! Khrushchev?
Don't be silly! It was JUDY GAR-
LAND! Yes, the world premiere of
“Judgment at Nuremberg” was being
held in the West Berlin Congress Hall
(it looks like a small model of the Sydney
Opera House). And that’s how I came
to get my first scoop of the trip, my first
genuine crisis for you, dear Bulletin
reader. SPENCER TRACY IS ILL IN
BERLIN WITH HIS LIVER..
The Wall was an anti-climax. Pretty
shoddy workmanship, too.
Had a look at East Berlin, though.
Maybe I lack the true perceptiveness of
a correspondent, or a sense of the
dramatic, but frankly East Berlin looked
exactly like West Berlin to me. East
Berliners looked just like West Berliners.
Only thing I made a note of was a sign
in the East saying “The Winter Holiday


you’ll always remember ... in Moscow.I** 1 **
But that afternoon in a West Berlin
travel agent’s 1 saw the same sign, so it
doesn’t really prove anything.
Anyway, after the excitement of Mr
Tracy’s liver, there wasn't much to hold
me in Berlin. 1 went to Hamburg. It
was Sunday, so I didn’t stay. Came on
to Utrecht and Amsterdam.
Fly to London next Friday, but I'm
keeping my eyes open. Don't worry,
anyone invades Holland in the next four
days, you'll be the first to know.
DON WHITE
DESIGN
SOMETHING TO WEAR
Tn one of the narrow streets of Wool-
loomooloo, where the terrace houses
are painted in hurdy-gurdy colors, Eliza-
beth Sutherland has a studio in which she
prints fabrics in exciting colors and
designs.
The whitewashed brick walls of the
studio are covered with strips of fabric,
with some of the wall-hangings which
Miss Sutherland has designed, and with
odd magazine clippings which might pro-
vide inspiration. In one corner are stacks
of dye-pots and against another wall the
silk-screens which Miss Sutherland uses.
Fabric-printing is a very messy business,
and the walls, floor and the immense
table, which make up the room's sum
of furniture, are spattered with paint
and dye.
Miss Sutherland never prints on white,
always on another color. She sometimes
does her design straight on to the silk-
screen, after, perhaps, doodling for some
time on paper. She finds that a design
loses something if it has to be traced
on to the screen.
Generally, she prints a trial length of
the fabric herself, but later she takes the
job to a silk-screen printing factory at
Thornleigh and, after making sure that
the dyes are right, leaves it to them.
Miss Sutherland has been experiment-
ing with fabric-printing and design since
she finished a general design course at
the East Sydney Technical College a few
years ago. In 1959 she joined the staff
of industrial designer Gordon Andrews,
and helped him with the work on the
Australian stand for the Lausanne fair.
Last year, she designed the upholstery
and a spectacular ceiling fabric for the
Australian stand at the Cologne trade
fair.
M iss Sutherland also worked as a
designer for interior-decorator Marion
Hall Best. Her wall-hangings have been
displayed at Scandinavia House in
Sydney, and she has designed dress fabrics
for Magg of Melbourne.
In between this work, Miss Sutherland
has been creating new designs, and trying
to sell them to architects and to com-
mercial fabric-printers.
What sort of success has she had?
Enough to make her feel that there is a
market, although an unpredictable, some-
what patchy one, in Australia for indi-
vidual design in fabric.
Miss Sutherland has sold some of her
designs to a local commercial fabric-
printer. These will be on sale next
spring.
“Some of the people I went to see were
very interested,” she said, “but in most
cases they just didn’t believe there is
a market for them now. Come back in
three years, they said, and we will buy
them then.
“Then it is hard to get people to pay
a reasonable price for an individual local
design. I know that fabric-makers here
buy 50 designs from overseas and use
only one of them. But they won’t buy
locally.”
Another complaint Miss Sutherland
has is that Australian buyers tend to think
that anything imported must be good.
“They will point proudly to some-
thing and say ‘Finnish,’ ” she said. “Well,
the Finns are wonderful designers, but
still some dreadful things come out of
Finland.”
With these reservations, Miss Suther-
land is pleased with the reception her
fabrics have had. She would, at this
moment, be engaged in further projects
only she plans to go overseas in March.
Although she hopes to spend some years
working and “just looking,” she expects
to return to Australia.
She would like to work in Finland,
preferably in a design studio. She will
take with her a book of samples of her
fabrics and wall-hangings, but is uncer-
tain of how the bright colors will look
in colder climates.
Perhaps the nicest aspect of fabric
design is that Miss Sutherland always has
something to wear. She makes up her
own designs into simple dresses which,
she believes, make the best use of the
fabric. She says that many dress
designers pay no heed to the size or pro-
portions of the fabric pattern when they
are designing clothes.
PATRICIA ROLFE
ABORIGINALITIES
THE BENEFIT MEETING
Tn the big bush, where stations were
A large, distances long, a dull period
would surely arrive which required fill-
ing. A benefit meeting was the good old
stand-by which could be relied upon to
fill the bill. Sports in the township would
feel itchy ; the local publican and store-
keeper had cavities which required
replenishment ; the portents and omens
would be set right for a benefit meeting.
Any township in West Queensland will
serve —they are all alike. Put a score
of iron houses in the centre of a plain ;
get a pub or two, a shop, a police station,
a post-office. Erect a horse-yard and a
bough shed or two behind each pub ;
sprinkle a dozen or more goat-yards
about ; whisk up a lazy whirlwind to
scatter dust ; lay on a shimmer of heat-
waves, and there is the township. As it
must have a name, and, as none other
has a title remotely resembling it, the
place can be called Purinthy. That is the
settlement which springs this benefit
meeting.
Influential citizens gather. A drunk
or two fill vacant chairs in the sacred
precincts of the coffee room of the pub.
They get down to the serious business of
promoting a benefit meeting. Those men
are experts: they know when a slack
period is likely in cattle country ; they
juggle dates to fit in with the cut-out of
a big shed in sheep country. They pick
a time when men are hungry for a bit of
sport, with money in their pockets, the
desire to go gay. Those men are lost in
the back country: they should be hand-
ling the finances of the Commonwealth.
There is a strange formality and strict
decorum about that meeting. Only two
men are coatless. Strangely enough, they
are the ones most used to wearing coats:
a couple of visiting station managers.
One of them is voted to the chair. The
others are stiff with formality and creased
coats which have a scent of mothballs.
Jack, Tom. Bill and Harry take their
seats. Outside they are known only by
nicknames and sundry titles ; inside the
coffee room they are all “Mister.”
The first thing, of course, is to find an
excuse for the benefit meeting. Every
man there knows the primary benefi-
ciaries: the store and the pub. Half of
them have an idea they, individually, will
benefit: each of them has a dark horse
which is a moral certainty if the correct
race is selected for it. Though they all
know previously, each pretends to gasp
in wonder when the striking originality
of the benefit is announced: The local


hospital. That is a good cause and a
reasonable excuse.
The foundation of the benefit meeting,
of course, is the number of horses for
the races. Horse-racing was the only
sport of the wide west. That is an easy
hurdle: every station within a 50-mile
radius has its champions ; each of them
is prepared to risk a bob or two and to
send in other horses as a screen for
their champion.
After half an hour’s debate when the
business grows smooth and the tightness
of the coat across the shoulders ceases
to worry the wearer, one word stands
out: “'legible.” That word flies back and
forth across the room and over the table
with all the celerity of a ping-pong ball
in a fast set. The same word, ’legible,
suits all occasions ; it can be both
positive and negative. Its meaning is
gathered by the context about it, by the
energy and fire with which a speaker
mouths it.
The rules and conditions are drawn
up ; a programme is written ; a secretary
is appointed—and the local schoolmaster,
if new to his job and unaware of the
positions to be forced on him, usually
falls in for that task. All stations in the
district are informed ; an invitation to
attend is extended.
The publican, of course, lays in an
extra stock of supplies. Mrs Public-
House may import a barmaid for the
occasion ; if she has no aborigines work-
ing then she and her staff sweep spare
bedrooms, hunt spide-raise dust. She
has her secret wornes. Will the cook
stand the strain? Will he break out in
the middle of it and start to skid up and
down the spirals of the corkscrew?
The sports were ready A true spor
would be prepared at all times for any
emergency in which loose money was
concerned. A sport was a species of his
own: he wore his hat over one eye ; his
shirt sleeves were held in position with
elastic bands —a rolled sleeve was the
mark of a man who worked with his
hands and let his brain lie idle. The
sport always talked out of the south-east
corner of his mouth, rarely louder than
a whisper which cut with its sharpness ;
his eyes perpetually darted from side to
side ; he never rose from a sitting position
without dusting the seat of his trousers
with his hands; he carried with him
always a note-book and a pencil in
which to record bets.
If preparations were made in Purinthy
it was safe to assume all stations interes-
ted were equally busy. The benefit meet-
ing was discussed round camp fires and
in huts ; the management and homestead
staff took an interest. Plans and plots,
schemes and counters were evolved and
worked in theory. The whole district
would be agog, and, if only horses could
think and reason, the wise ones among
them who had been to previous meetings
would know there was somethin’ doin’.
When the date of the benefit drew near,
travellers came to Purinthy. Invariably,
there was at least one suspicious charac-
ter camped on the river. He said little,
talked not at all, and word went round
the bay gelding in which he was interes-
ted was a ring-in and a disqualification
from some metropolitan course. Jim
-—Smith and any name suits him—is
treated with marked respect by the sports
when he strolls through the township.
He is not allowed to spend a penny of
his own —and the chances are he has net
got any.
The day dawns 1 The horses from
sundry stations and several private
owners are yarded for sale. That is
simple, E. &O. E.: All horses are sold
with the right to race them for the
day. There are sundry sensible restric-
tions : no spurs to be used ; no more
than two starts.
The whole of the proceeds of the sale
of the horses goes to swell the common
fund and make the benefit meeting live
up to its name. The prize moneys, and
the trophies, have already been donated
and subscribed.
The sale goes with a zip. Indicative of
the buying: at the township of Urand-
angie, back in 1917, when there were
240 d. to the £, £22 10s. was given
for the right to race one horse for the
day. £5 and £lO are common prizes.
Enthusiasm plus!
The second day may sort the sheep
from the goats ; but on that first day,
when owners are really trying out their
purchases, fields are big and betting wide.
The sports are interested at that sale.
If the manager or the head-stockman of
any station shows a keenness for his own
station offering then that marks the
animal as hot stuff. Its odds are cramped
immediately: someone has inside infor-
mation. And when Jim Smith's bay geld-
ing is led into the yard, offered for sale,
not one man round the ring believes the
records are correct: It is a ring-in :if the
facts were known it would not be ‘legible
for nomination in any race.
After time has been allowed for
nominations, immediately following the
sales, the next thing is to hold a Calcutta
sweep. Those things, under that name,
have been illegal for years. That doesn't
worry them at Purinthy.
That leads to the races. As they do
not differ from any other meeting there
is no need to describe them. There is the
publican’s booth, the empty bottles, the
full-bosomed matrons who call shrilly
to children to come back or be careful,
the dust, the thunder of hooves, the
importance of those who wear a bit of
ribbon in the lapel of the coat which
proclaims them as an official of some
sort.
And so the benefit meeting draws to
a close. There are full heads, empty
pockets, busted hopes, wrecked
ambitions. At the back of the bough
shed which served as a booth there is a
heap of empty bottles. A couple of
drunks, dead to the world, lie in the dust
as sports tot up figures and compute
wins in their note-books. Everyone
votes it the best ever. And the final race
of the day, quite unofficial and not
listed on the programme, is the mad
scurry on horseback, in buggies, any
other transport, to see who is first back
to the township to breast the bar there
and tell again of all the events of the
day.
HENRY G. LAMOND


ART
PREDICTABLE CHOICE
Archibald, Wynne and Sulman Prizes.
National Gallery of N.S.W.
The 1961 Archibald Prize raises a
wider issue than that of a conserva-
tive panel of gallery trustees who might
be replaced, namely, the value of com-
petitions as a means of encouraging,
developing or raising standards of art.
The trustees’ judgment runs in certain
directions, while their selection has
broadened. What is depressing is the
predictability of their choice. It is the
outstanding example in this country of
the impossibility of committees making
imaginative judgments. Too often win-
ning entries represent innocuous com-
promises between several opinions, like
an algebraic equation where the big
things cancel out, leaving a small
remainder which equals naught. In no
sense do competition prize-giving,
noise, fanfares, obscure the fact that we
need to build up a sound level of
informed patronage. Competitions
usually appeal to the wrong motives in
an artist once he begins to take them
seriously. The net result is all too
frequently something like a merry-go-
round of go-one-better paintings, each
more superficial than the last. It is
assumed a priori that this competitive
spirit breeds creative activity and some-
where along the line one will pass over
to the others. Certainly something does
happen, a dulling conformity to the
attitudes of the right, the left or the
centre. Creative activity is much too free,
disinterested and serious to be harnessed
to any bandwagon. Considerable acute-
ness and unprejudiced vision are needed
to spot the thing with the living or the
new. If one or two members of a panel
have these qualities, the chances are
that their opinions will be swamped ;
in this field, it seems, democracy does
not work.
There is a solution to the problem, one
found by the Contemporary Art Society
of Great Britain. Each year a sum of
money is raised and handed to an indivi-
dual selected for his discrimination. He
is required to purchase contemporary
works during one whole year ; these are
then offered to a public collection. Next
year another will take his place, possibly
a person with utterly different tastes.
This is as near to good, official encour-
agement of art as one is likely to get.
Mistakes will be made, but for one year,
perhaps, not thirty. On the other hand,
there will be great variety, the artist
will feel a substantial satisfaction in work
Purchased, not a dubious one which
conies from the occasional prize. The
fact of the matter is that in a group
judgment can never be as good as
the judgment of its most enlightened or
imaginative member. Group decisions
are inevitably second rate, at least as far
as art is concerned.
. At least a dozen portraits in the
Archibald are of better quality than
William Pidgeon's Rabbi Porush. The
subject and his robes were obviously
interesting, but little has been done to
make a statement of character such as
one might expect in a winning entry.
Neither has an attempt been made to
integrate portrait wdth a formal means
of expression. It is an abstraction, in
the sense of a statement which has not
been brought to life. The Carrington
Smith portrait of Dr Turnbull or the
Mary Brady of G. Shanahan, both on
the same wall, evoke some semblance of
personality without which there is no
portrait. Likewise, the more erratic, less
conventional portraits on the east wall
arrest attention by what they attempt.
Their more sedate brothers opposite
often merely support clothes or offer an
excuse for a craftsman’s touch (not, that
craftsmanship is to be despised).
In throwing overboard some of her
more irritating mannerisms, Judy Cassab
has produced a crisp, emphatic presen-
tation of Robert Helpmann. On this
occasion her command of form is struc-
tural, there is no looseness or indecision.
Kahan enlarges and dramatises Albert
Tucker to the point of rhetoric, but some-
how the character eludes him. Sibley’s
portrait, somewhat Blackmanlike in
image, is swamped by the same sort of
thing as Some of the “traditional” works,
too much concern for technique. Rigby,
Pugh, Grey-Smith and several others
have something to say and to reveal.
What impresses one most about this show
is the utter impossibility of assessing
these attitudes,’ values and ideals as being
something one can arrange in neat hier-
archical order—and award a prize.
David Strachan’s Wynne landscape of
Hill End fairly obviously won because
it is infused with some of the subtlety of
the French school of landscape. Taste
is the guide in the balancing of warm
earth - and cool sky, foliage, hill and
sheds. Some of the abstracts on the
other hand have little landscape quality
at all and no doubt could be inspired by
anything. More is needed to arouse a
sense of place ; it seems that only the
best can do it and remain faithful to the
idiom. Grieve comes near and, perhaps,
F. Williams, mainly because they have
built up ordered structures from a con-
cept of space felt rather than seen. How-
ever, the standard this year is not high.
Paintings tend to be overwhelmed by
neighbors in a hugger-mugger of mixed
styles. R. Fluke, Sali Herman and Rigby
score successes because of transcriptions
of keenly observed forms into telling
compositions. The Annois watercolor
which won the special prize given by
the trustees is an interesting play of
shifting planes and transparent color.
Looking at the Sulman Prize section
for murals, won by R. Norling lor his
ceramic wall, makes one wonder if the
art is dead—surely this year’s is the
poorest response ever. The only ad-
vantage is its position, upstairs away
from the tropical heat of the arc lamps
that oppress the viewer in the rest of
the show.
J. HENSHAW
THEATRE
NAKED AND DEAD
Naked Island. Russell Braddon. Eliza-
bethan Theatre Trust. Union
Theatre. Sydney.
nPHis adaptation by Russel Braddon of
A parts of his book “The Naked Island”
has been chosen to begin the season of
three Australian plays sponsored by the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust at the Union
Theatre.
One suspects that some mercenary
motive, some hope to profit by the book's
established name and sales, was behind
the choice, for the play itself has little
to justify its production, and nothing
to merit its staging ahead of quite
a number of better local works. The
Trust is obviously still nervous about
its audiences; not brave enough to take
that courageous leap forward which
alone will bring it the respect of Sydney
theatre-goers.
Mr Braddon’s play is a routine series
of set scenes of life in a prisoner-of-war
camp. Australian soldiers —articulate
beyond belief—describe verbally and
verbosely some of the routine horrors
of such a life. There are self-consciously
heroic discussions on such themes as
mateship, God, keeping self-respect.
There are some genuine humor and some
roundness of character in two of the
soldiers —Mum, a motherly fellow who
runs the small group of prisoners ; and
Magpie, a Cockney scrounger.
Nothing that even these likeable crea-
tions achieve is, however, really fitted for


the stage. All of it should have been left
to its legitimate field, the novel.
Mr Braddon only rarely solves his
difficulties of dialogue—mostly the racy
idioms of speech are missing, in favor
of the measured effect and wordy des-
criptions of prose. Any dramatic pull
which is exerted by some section of the
play is, on analysis, the pull of the
printed page —there is nothing given to
the audience from the dramatic circum-
stances in front of it. Nothing is
seen, all is described —and a whole even-
ing of this can become pretty boring.
All this is not to say that there are
not some good .hings about the writing.
There is no doubt that Mr Braddon has
selected from his book those items which
would go best dramatically ; he has a
fine eye for character, and a feeling for
rhythm. His diction —though always be-
longing to the written word—varied
subtly, his characters did not all talk
alike. And. since monotony of diction is
a besetting sin of local playwrights, Mr
Braddon’s variety is something to be
thankful for.
There is no reason to doubt that Mr
Braddon could write quite a play, and
it is to be hoped that this fortunate try-
out will encourage him. Let him think
in proper dramatic terms, let him realise
that drama comes most truly from things
done before an audience’s eyes —not
long descriptions of things off-stage—and
he will be on the way.
The production by Ronald Denson pre-
sented a rather unbelievably fit and
energetic group of supposedly starved
and emaciated men ; of the actors, only
Mr Ron Haddrick seemed to tone his
effort properly to his physical condition.
Mr Brian Anderson, as Mum, and Mr
Jon Dennis, as Magpie, stole most of
the honors —mostly because they had the
only really grateful parts in the play.
KEVON KEMP
DISPLACED PEERS
Plaintiff in a Pretty Hat. Little Theatre.
Melbourne.
TAark, dramatic plaintiff Jennifer Wren
(Jeannie James) wears in fact two
dashing hats, a red straw and an orange
toque in the breach of promise suit she
has initiated. Her successor as fiancee
to Lord Plynlimmon, a sweet, blonde
type, appears equally dazzling for the
opposition, whose defence centres around
a sophisticated father-figure, the Earl
of Hewlyn, as he attempts to save his son
embarrassment, and his own pocket.
In Margaret and Hugh Williams’
script, the financial problems of Eng-
land’s “poor” aristocracy, and their social
difficulties—the necessity to avoid
scandal—arouse us neither to laughter
nor tears, merely to a mild curiosity of
the gossip column variety. The quaint
touch —to be expected in such society
is provided by a Welsh gamekeeper act-
ing as butler in his plus-fours, and an
unseen organ-grinder. Alfie.
The set by John Truscott, derogated in
the script as one of those dreadfully
repetitious S.W.I regency drawing-
rooms, is a masterpiece of genteel vul-
garity. Wallpaper with huge stripes,
curtains to match, heavy stair balustrade
and modern electric heater, do more to
arouse our sympathy for the displaced
peers than plot and script alike.
In parts with cardboard-thin dimen-
sions, Jeannie James and Annette Andre
(the blonde rival) do as much as can be
expected of them, acting prettily and
poutilv according to the demands of the
moment. But having recently seen
Michael Duffield in “The Caretaker,”
one can only sigh to see him here as the
Earl of Hewlyn, who finds such a
pleasant and romantic solution to his
son’s problems. With little to test his
ability he still manages a stage presence
of distinction, which moreover helps to
lend credibility to the younger players’
efforts. Lord Plynlimmon is played so
passively by Alan Morgan it is difficult
to see how he can attract one young
lady, let alone two ; on the other hand,
Collins Hilton as Watkyn, the butler-
gamekeeper, is so discreetly active he
receives all the delighted laughs one
generally accords to such household
peculiarities.
As a piece of escapism “Plaintiff In A
Pretty Hat” is pleasant enough.
WYLVA ANDON
TELEVISION
WHERE IS THE WORD?
Ayr any of the writers who were writing
for American television in the
’fifties say now they have turned to other
media, and the critics —if not the sponsors
and the networks —are asking why.
New York journalist Marya Mannes,
after sitting-in on a discussion between
leading writers for television, decided
that three things were driving creative
writers from television —lack of money,
lack of prestige and lack of freedom—
but the greatest of these was lack of
freedom.
Miss Mannes checked through the
writers of the ’fifties and found that
most of them, including Gore Vidal,
David Karp, Tad Mosel and Sumner
Locke Elliott, now rarely wrote for
television.
Miss Mannes made it clear that when
she spoke of writers the reference was not
“to the hundreds of men and women who
supply the connective tissue of words
to this insatiable organism ; copy-W'riters,
news-writers, introductory writers, gag-
writers ; nor even to those who write the
dialogue for soap operas, situation
comedies, crime serials, or westerns” ; to
those, in Miss Mannes’s phrase, who
“write distractions between interrup-
tions.”
What we are speaking of here, she says,
is the creative writer who produces a
whole, the writer of thought in terms of
emotion, the dramatist. In the realm of
imagination, as against documentation,
he is the writer who has brought tele-
vision its most exciting and most power-
ful moments ; Rod Serling's “Requiem
for a Heavyweight” and “Patterns”;
Paddy Chayefsky’s “Marty” and
“Mother” ; Robert Alan Aurthur's “A
Man is Ten Feet Tall.”
Miss Mannes said that after sitting-in
on the discussion her conclusion was that
the greatest lack the writers felt was
freedom, the freedom to write of things
in terms of the writer's own truth.
Miss Mannes said that the TV writers
conceded that there was no medium
except, possibly, the novel, where absolute
freedom existed. Beyond the limitations
of time and space imposed by the stage,
theatre writing is a corporate effort where
dramatist, director and actor work
together and where the writer's will is
often either thwarted or modified by
others.
This is doubly true of films, although
Miss Mannes claims that many TV
writers have deserted the small screen for
the big screen where they can, literally
as well as figuratively, expand.
The TV writers were aware, too, that
the intimacy of television —its intrusion
into the core of the American family at
home —dictates a special reserve.
Most writers agreed that the network


Suff
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£A363,000, 000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Lsors (or Directors of Continuity
t [C eptance, as they prefer to be called)
Lrcise their prerogatives with intelli-
f'nce and good sense.
What, then, is the constrictive factor
I television which so throttles the
ieative writer that he cannot give it his
jest by communicating his truth? The
Lswer, in overwhelming unison, is the
lower of the sponsor over the word ;
*e domination of the medium and of the
([works by commercial interests whose
f ®cern is necessarily with a quantitative
jiidience rather than with a qualitative
joe. The same could be said of movies
Id even theatre, with one determining
jifference ; that, in these, the product to
v sold, as widely as possible, is the
lieture or the play itself, while in tele-
t'ion. the programme, in this case the
lay, is only a means towards the selling
fa product wholly unrelated to it.
One TV writer, J. P. Miller, remarked:
Iln the beginning was the word.’ In
e beginning may have been the word,
at a lot of times in television, in the
fid, where is it?”
More and more, the writers say, the
mtrol of the word has slipped from
iem, resulting sometimes in basic altera-
i)ns of character, locale and meaning,
metimes in ludicrous substitutions of
ecific phrases offensive to a sponsor.
<ne writer, Rod Selling, said that in some
alogue he w'as asked not to use the
i'ards “American” or “lucky.” He was
led to use "United States” and “fortu-
ne- ’ instead because the programme was
onsored by a cigarette company and
[American” and “Lucky” connoted a
jal brand of cigarettes.
| This state of affairs, Miss Mannes
■ ays, leads to pre-censorship. “Everyone
if us,” said Paddy Chayefsky, “before
e sit down and write a television show
akes that initial compromise of what
(ere going to write. We don’t... con-
jive a television idea that we know is
ping to be thrown out the window.”
'Then there are the commercials. Not
ply, says Miss Mannes, has the
frequency of commercials become intoler-
able, but the kind of product advertised
is often so alien to the play’s mood that
far more than mere continuity has been
destroyed. Against this a writer has no
weapons. He must watch a tenuous and
delicate love scene followed by a toilet-
paper ad., a poignant soliloquy termina-
ted by a deodorant. No amount of
rationalisation that without the toilet-
paper or the deodorant there would be
no play at all can obliterate the central
fact of his humiliation as an artist. And
in the last four years many of the best
writers have chosen to lose television
rather than their self-respect.
Miss Mannes found that American TV
writers, too, were concerned about their
prestige—or lack of it. Chayefsky, in the
foreword to his collected plays, says, “In
television, the writer is treated with a
peculiar mixture of mock deference and
outright contempt. He is rarely consul-
ted about casting, his scripts are
frequently mangled without his knowing
about it, and he is certainly the most
poorly paid person in the production.”
Money and prestige, the writers agreed,
were factors, but they were not as
important as freedom.
It is important to realise, Miss Mannes
says, that the decline of the TV writer
harms the public more than it does the
writer, who can —and does —turn to the
freer media. For it deprives the viewer
of the kind of stimulation and excitement
and pleasure that only a fine talent and
an unfettered vision can provide.
Finally, Miss Mannes says: “Com-
mercial television will hold little induce-
ment for the writer until he is given the
power which is his right; the power to
determine what he shall write about, how
he shall write it and where it may be
interrupted. If a commercial, moreover,
is injurious to the mood of continuity of
his scripts, he should have the right to
question its tone and placement and
request a change. If a sponsor wants a
hack, he can hire a hack. But if a sponsor
hires talent he assumes an obligation to
respect that talent.”
[?]LM
CRUMBS FOR THE YOUNG
feenage Millionaire. Esquire. Sydney.
Impressed with the new Presley, I
t thought I would try the new Twist,
■t the experience made me angry.
(Teenage Millionaire” is a shallow, stupid
P, designed less to corrupt than to de-
Nd the young. It promises everything
gives nothing ; so before you buy a
iet. watch the youngsters coming out
the previous session, bitterly dis-
Psioned.
A thin plot describes a pleasant enough
youngster, Jimmy Clanton, as an un-
willing millionaire who wants to sing for
his living. Whenever he has nothing to
say or sing, he puts on a record of some-
one else who has nothing to say, but
sings; Jackie Wilson, Dion, Marv John-
son, Jack Larson, and Chubby Checker,
among others. These are described as
“top TV and radio stars”; but what
chiefly distinguishes them is that their
voices are indistinguishable, and thaf
none of them can act. Indeed, they are
scarcely called upon to act. Instead,
they are merely photographed as they
sing one maudlin song after the other ;
and even the photography, described as
“Musicolor,” is a cheat, consisting simply
of dipping the celluloid in different dyes
for the different acts! In other words,
the film isn’t even honest black-and-
white, but eye-straining muck, to wrest
a few shillings from kids who would be
better advised to buy records of their
favorites to listen to, or pin-up photo-
graphs, if they want to look at them.
I probably sound like a “square.” Let
me therefore add that the one thing the
music has got is rhythm ; but that the
rhythm is only in the music itself, which
is utterly ruined by the absence of acting
ability in the singers, whose every gesture
is wooden, vacuous and inept. Sinatra
and Presley are genuine troupers, who
work hard to perfect their timing.
Chubby and his checkered gang merely
work themselves into an artless frenzy.
ANTON YOGI


THE RED PAGE
DON'T FEED THE VULTURES
By VIVIAN SMITH
Angus Wilson is the only postwar
British novelist who can be said with
any degree of certainty to belong to the
great tradition of English novelists. A
liberal and an agnostic, he has more
consistently probed the limits of liberal-
ism than any other novelist of his genera-
tion, and it is no accident that his new
novel should be concerned with the
inadequacies of detachment and non-
commitment in the face of political
machinations. Wilson is a violent and
compassionate writer ; a first-class crafts-
man (the best in English, I think, since
Conrad); and his work has that sharp-
ness of edge that makes it a salutary
irritant to thought. From “Anglo-Saxon
Attitudes,” a profound study of con-
science and memory, with its wide
Dickensian canvas, to his masterpiece,
“The Middle Age of Mrs Eliot,” with its
preoccupation with the quality of life
and living possible without any transcen-
dental beliefs, Wilson has continued to
grow and develop, and to add to a body
of work which is already remarkable for
its diversity and intensity of interest.
One of Wilson’s main preoccupations
is the relation between public and private
morality, between the private life and
the impact of public events that con-
stantly intrude, challenge, change and
often destroy. This is true of “The Old
Men at the Zoo,”* an intricate and
beautiful structure, and the fact that it is
set in the near-future will not put anyone
off the track. “The Old Men at the Zoo”
is not, like “1984" or “Brave New World - ’
(or even “When the Kissing Had to
Stop”), a vision of the future showing
what could happen if certain tendencies
in our society were allowed to develop
to the full (though plausibility is sus-
tained through such unobtrusive detail
as the visit of Princess Anne to the
Antarctic, the discovery of a yeti bear in
the Everest Expedition of 1963 and the
reference to a new musical from Angola).
It is in fact a realistic fable which
explores existing attitudes to power and
general responses to political happenings ;
it exposes the paradoxes of idealism, the
connections between politics and war, the
violence and chaos of our times, the
corruption of the exercise of authority
through vanity and egotism and megalo-
mania, the impact of uncontrollable
public events on individual destinies.
Wilson has dared to show all this and
much more through a characteristic mix-
ture of fantasy and realism that is dis-
concerting to the “realist’’ and probably
appalling to the aesthete who likes his
myths “pure.”
The narrator, Simon Carter, secretary
to the Zoo, is intelligent, scrupulous,
sympathetic, an efficient administrator.
It is a sign of Wilson's exceptional
ability that he has chosen to relate the
course of events from Carter’s viewpoint,
for the irony implicit in this choice is
that the qualities which make him such
a suitable and convincing narrator are
those which make his mora’ attitudes
precarious and ambivalent and his
choices and decisions so difficult. Carter
represents the humane liberal who goes
about his job as best he can, trying to
make a decent go of things. He is very
good with things, not so good with
people, though he can imitate them
excellently. One of the lessons he learns
through the course of the action is the
necessity to be truly involved with the
uniqueness of people rather than to have
humane but slightly caricatured ideas
about them. One of the most revealing
moments comes when, in reply to Hale’s
statement, “You had the tough luck to
be associated with a very bad period . . .
A shocking lot of old men. A very bad
period in the Zoo’s history,” Carter says,
“I'm afraid l can't see it as simply as
that. You see, 1 knew them all.” One
remembers just how much that knowing
cost.
The narrative begins swiftly with the
screams of a keeper who is killed in a
giraffe enclosure. Carter knows that
there should be an investigation into the
circumstances of the young keeper's
death and is determined to have one, but
there is opposition from the Zoo authori-
ties, The Old Men. The only interest
they have in the accident is to use it
to further their own plans ; and there is
a particularly keen struggle for power
within the Zoo itself between the
Director, Edwin Leacock, a radical who
has a grandiose vision of a natural
reserve, and Sir Robert Falcon, Curator
of Mammals, once a great explorer and
animal collector. Falcon is a conserva-
tive and wants a grand old Victorian
zoo: England’s past quaintly preserved.
He thinks the end is near and that Eng-
land may as well finish off in a blaze of
fun and antiquarian whimsy. Carter
shares Leacock's vision, but is indebted
and sympathetic to Falcon. There is
also the need to spare the keeper’s parents
the horrible details of their son's death:
to weigh the mother’s unhappiness
against justice on behalf of her dead son.
The irony of Carter's position is that his
common decency and respect for others,
as well as his belief in efficiency and
loyalty to the institution he serves, con-
stantly land him in false and precarious
positions ; his ability to see the multiple
aspects of difficult moral situations looks
more and more like neutrality and an
opting out of choice and responsibility.
This indeed is what happens to him;
the collapse of his moral world ; and it
is only at the end when England, badly
defeated in a European war, has come
under the control of a neo-Fascist group
which wants to use the Zoo for the
gladiatorial destruction of political
prisoners, that he finally revolts.
Carter not only works under the suc-
cessive Leacock and Falcon regimes in
the Zoo but also under that of the pure
scientist Beard, whose work has become
his only means of “escape” from his
tragic private life, and of Dr Englander,
wily, down to earth, who believes that
money and good sense are absolutes, but
who, for all his refreshingly tough and
sharp ways, finds it necessary to com-
promise with the Fascist regime. These
four stages of the Zoo’s decline are
paralleled by Carter’s inner decline and
throw into relief the inadequacy of his
attitudes in front of changing and
increasingly abnormal conditions. 1 can
think of no other novel in which the
situation and behavior of scientists and
idealists in the postwar world are con-
veyed with such persuasive subtlety.
■poß what this novel implies is the neces-
sity for political awareness in the
modern world and the way in which
everything is and can be used for politi-
cal ends. One sees this obviously enough
through the actions of Godmanchester
with his opportunist manipulation of the
future of the Zoo and his newspapers
which impose on, and incite in, the public
responses and views that are supposed to
come from the public itself. All the
people at the Zoo (“Do not let me hear
of the wisdom of old men”), scientists,
research workers, with their own narrow
disciplines and specialties, constantly
insist that theirs is not a political institu-
tion, that politics don't come into the
question. Consequently a Godmanchester
or a Fascist Blanchard-White can use
the institution for their own insidious or
evil purposes. Some of the scientists,
“as long as they can get on with their
own work,” will let anything happen.
The gap between what their institution
represents and what it can be used for
* The Old Men at the Zoo. Angus
Wilson. Seeker and Warburg.
22s. 6d.


QUADRANT 21
In the New Format
Alexander Porfeous makes out
a case against Dr. Leavis's
apotheosis of D. H. Lawrence.
B. A. Santamaria states his case
for a Pacific Confederation.
Peter Hunt examines the health
of Industrial Design in Australia.
20s. a year : : ss. a copy
Box 4714, G.P.0., Sydney
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. "D,” Box 2671, G.P.0.. Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O, Sydney,
[the modern world is suggested with
Lt delicacy and tact.
[One of Carter’s problems is his own
([ached and impotent “goodwill.” He
fair-minded, prudent, extremely
inest; it takes the collapse of his mar-
W and the stupid brutalities of a vile
Lernment to make him realise just how
Certain type of making-a-go-of-things
jithout asking more final questions can
ecome indistinguishable from political
Ylvete and lack of courage. Carter is
deemed that things should work well ;
: gradually learns that it also matters
hat they are working well for. Carter's
lemma is a real one ; he is ready to put
his personal objections out of
'nuine uncertainty and openminded-
[ss; but “in a world where the arbitrari-
of the powerful is taken as a proof
[ sincerity and where the individual
pnscience is confounded by sheer scale”
[ finds again and again that public
tents move much faster than his private
inscience. It is significant that Carter
jintinues to work with the same efficiency
jtder four directors whose aims are so
isically opposed. The novel ends with
is application for the vacant director-
lip. a sign of his decision to involve
Fnself at last in action and to accept
esponsibility for the nature and the
jitiire of the Zoo.
the Old Men at the Zoo” is a packed
1 and complex novel, superbly con-
:ived and organised, and not the least of
i ach evements is the way it covers a
('eat range of moods w'ithout any slack-
ing of tension. It abounds in marvel-
ously observed characters, from the pro-
[gonists to such lesser figures as the
jiirator of Birds and the Curator of the
isect House, Sanderson. All are pre-
nted with that illusion of detached
impathy which allows them human
Ignity even at their most squalid and
Wesque. The work has immediacy,
jramatic poise, a sensitively felt and
Stained atmosphere and there is an
ihilarating zest in the writing. Especi-
ly fine s the account of Leacock's life
id the collapse of his plans and dreams
per the scandalous death of his nympho-
teniae daughter Harriet. There are no
prty-scenes” as brilliant as those in
jilson's other novels, and the comedy
|f repetition as used here by Sanderson’s
ousekeeper, Miss Delaney, has already
pen fully exploited on Yves in “Anglo-
Aon Attitudes”; but it reveals that
blend of uproarious comedy,
pee and tragedy which is the hallmark
t Wilson's genius.
The background of the Zoo with its
iimals and birds is spectacular and is
further demonstration of that use of
IWibolism embedded in the narrative
become realism which Wilson has per-
ct“d from Conrad and Zola. The sense
of war and violence and terror that
moves through this book to the narra-
tor's collapse in the devastated English
countryside, or the images of the Zoo
in flames with the screams and hoots of
dying animals, and later of the vultures
and condors wheeling in the sky over
the bombed and rotting pits and cages,
have a haunting, obsessive quality.
Wilson’s work, never consciously
“poetic,” is built up from “unconscious
statements which speak through symbols
from one emotion to another.” And
whether one is suddenly sharing Carter's
feeling of “the secret unity of life” or
roaring with laughter at Mrs Moiyneux-
West, it conveys a sense of the incompar-
able variety and richness of life.
DISINTERESTED IMPERIALIST
Dust in the Lion’s Paw. Autobio-
graphy, 1939-1946. Freya Stark.
John Murray. 31s.
“Creya Stark is the rarest of mortals—
A a traveller of genius. Deeply
influenced by classical Greece, she has
spent most of her life moving about in
what was once Alexander's empire, a
serene, civilised mind burning bright in
a tormented Moslem world. Ten travel
books, each one distinguished by a rich
lyrical quality, record the experiences
gathered over 40 years. More important
for literature, certainly of wider general
interest, is the account of her life. "Dust
in the Lion’s Paw” forms the fourth
volume in the series. Like its predeces-
sors, it will make its own way into the
aristocracy of letters.
The period covered by this particular
story is the war years, when she was
employed by the Ministry of Informa-
tion and later the Foreign Office in what
she likes to call “the art of persuasion.”
In Aden she assisted with the Arab News
Service, in the Yemen she helped run a
cinema to combat the influence of Fas-
cist propaganda, in Egypt she established
a nationalistic pro-British group, the
Brothers of Freedom, and, to neutralise
German penetration of Iraq, crossed to
Baghdad and was promoting an active
branch there when the coup d’etat saw
her caught up in the siege of the British
Embassy. She visited America to rally
support for the Arab cause in Palestine,
then, on the invitation of her friend
Lord Wavell, went to India, returning
home to Italy as the Germans were
retreating north.
It is an active period of strain and
hardship, with many disappointments
and few 7 successes, but she had the quali-
ties that make for survival: a physical
stamina, a sense of irony, a gentle spirit
tempered like fine steel. Action was some-
how 7 combined with meditation and the
written record given imaginative shape.
The arid workings of political strategy
are illuminated here by the personal
statement of one who, in her own unob-
trusive way, was moving down the centre
of history.
If much of her work was devoted to
popularising the British war effort in the
Middle East, it is clear from the letters
and diary extracts woven into the text
that she was no uncritical tool of the
Foreign Office. She calls herself an
imperialist, but the way in which she
qualifies her position suggests that her
frank advocacy of disinterested service
was often an embarrassment to White-
hall. She urged that power and responsi-
bility should go hand in hand, that “our
aim should be to make nationalism
friendly,” and warned of the dangers of
British officialdom drifting out of touch
with local opinion, warnings that could
be ignored in 1941 but were fulfilled in
Israel in 1947 and in Iraq in 1958.
For the failure of British policy after
the war and before communism became
an issue she gives two reasons. Few
are likely to quarrel with them. One
was Britain's lack of clearness and faith
in her own values —“we were trying to
offer a civilisation which we did not
believe in”—and the other was her inept
handling of the Palestine problem, which
effectively alienated Arab opinion. The
painful gains of the war years were
thrown away within five years of peace.
The message of the book therefore is
a melancholy one, but the way the story
unfolds makes fascinating reading.
Freya Stark has the great gift for vivid
description. Here are a few examples:
“a boy showered us with rose petals,


cool and smooth like hands under water”;
“in Rome at the end of July, 1945, one
still heard stray shots every night in the
woods of Villa Borghese and dimly
visible the German corpses rotting under
Tivoli waterfalls”; at a party there was
Clare Luce “looking beautiful in a sad
and bitter way”; and Wavell “twinkling
with his one eye and quoting Oscar
Wilde on Samarkand.”
In 1957 this gracious lady came to
Baghdad after an exhausting trip through
Turkey and Persia gathering material for
a book on Alexander. She chatted about
her hero and then about contemporary
history, expressing concern at the trend
of recent events. I was too obtuse to
appreciate her comments at the time,
until the following year Kassem’s army
swept away her world and banned her
books. The present volume is dedicated
to the memory of friends in Iraq who
were imprisoned or murdered.
DOUGLAS TERRY
THRUST INTO HISTORY
Poems. Boris Pasternak. (Translated
by Eugene N. Kayden.) University
of Michigan Press. (Distributed by
Ure Smth.) 325.
cannot presume to judge a poet
from translations. No doubt narra-
tive poetry and verse drama can still
suggest their original qualities when
recast in a new language, but lyric
poetry suffers too unpredictable a sea-
change. One can hazard a guess about
its original qualities, but not with any
real confidence. Lorca and Heredia, to
choose a couple of examples, emerge in
English most convincingly, whereas
Mallarme and the lyrical Goethe seem
pitifully loose and hackneyed in the
available translations. With Mallarme,
I have recourse to the original and can
judge the disparity, but Goethe's poems
must remain a closed book, the language
barrier cutting him off completely.
What, then, can be made of Boris
Pasternak without any knowledge of
Russian? By comparing various trans-
lations I have found a composite figure
whom 1 find serious and sometimes
exciting. From the few English antho-
logies of Russian verse, Pasternak and
Blok probably emerge as the two poets
of this century in whom Western writers
can recognise kindred spirits. Pasternak
it was, at any rate, who at first attracted
me, the translations suggesting a depth
and precision that were hard to detect in
most of his contemporaries.
Eugene M. Kayden’s translations of
Pasternak are generally consistent in
style. Furthermore, they are very close in
substance to those J. M. Cohen made a
few years ago, if a little smoother and
more “poetical.” I suspect that Kayden
has used a certain amount of padding,
but not so much as to be really disturb-
ing. His translations certainly present a
substantial, coherent body of poetry.
Pasternak's poems, seemingly, are
characteristic of second - generation
Symbolism. They have affinities with
much European poetry of the first half
of the twentieth century, but are
curiously alien to the chief modes of
English poetry, where syllogistic form
and proseworthy syntax have survived
the hot breath of several revolutions. His
poetry is rather clotted, crammed with
simile, metaphor and bold personifica-
tion. These lines from “Moochkap” are
typical :
And why her late arrival, troubling
My sight with tubs, crab claws, spare
sails,
With superflous slime of tears veiling
The gleam of fishes' heads and scales?
And oh the hour slips, like a pebble
In shallows ricocheting down
The bay. Not sinking, no! It’s there
Like my thoughts—tobacco, faded brown.
This willingness to pursue apparently
unrelated images is sometimes irritating
and sometimes extremely fruitful—
particularly in the frequent poems record-
ing a sense of atmosphere or place,
“Sparrow Hills”, “Hayricks”, “The Urals)
for the First Time,” and so on.
Apart from this lyrical response to)
situations, Pasternak was chiefly con-{
cerned with the role of the poet, the)
stance of the Romantic artist. From his
great creative surge after the 1917 Rev.
olution to the soberer, plainer poems of
the last few years of his life, he went on
exploring the nature of his dramatic role,
In 1917 he wrote “Definition of Poetry,”
“The Soul and Creative Art”; a few
years later he described youthful poets
who “descry unlooked-for seas afar";
in the ’thirties wrote of how “the lines
of passion ... grip you at the throat and
kill” ; and as late as his famous “The(
Passing Storm” (1958), his concern for:
the figure of the poet remained:
But more exalted far the poet of power,
Who washes clean away the dust and
grime,
When by his art emerge transformed the
harsh
Realities and truths of naked time.
Whatever his concern for “the poet of<
power,” Pasternak’s is for the most partf
subjective poetry ; it is a little withdrawn,
a little old-fashioned even. If the opti-
mism of a new society emerges from
time to time, it is by no means a central
concern. There is an uneasy tension at
times between private experience and
public situation. It is the work of a lyric
poet thrust willy-nilly into the main-
stream of history and managing,
courageously, not to be engulfed.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE
HISTORY INTO NOVEL
Holy Week. Louis Aragon. Harnish
Hamilton. 31s.
Madeleine Austrian. Robert Kirsch.
Cape. 225. 6d.
T ouis Aragon’s very long “Holy Week”
concerns the week in 1815 during
which Napoleon, having landed from
Elba, was marching on Paris and the
Bourbon Court and all French citizens
were completely confused. It has sold
tremendous numbers in France. I found
it almost impossible to read —Haakon
Chevalier's translation is frightful.
Another difficulty is that the book pre-
supposes a knowledge of personae of the
Napoleonic period which no doubt most
educated French readers possess, but few
others will have at their fingertips. The
translator's guide to some of the more
important historical characters cannot
make up for this lack of basic know-
ledge—one flounders constantly trying to
keep in mind tremendous flocks of men
who appear and disappear sporadically,
along with their retainers, mistresses,
wives, allegiances and official positions.
And yet one cannot lightly beg the
responsibility of reviewing a book of this
stature by Aragon, and so one persisted
and was rewarded by several scenes of
such consummate brilliance as made the)
labor worthwhile indeed. Section X,
“The Night in the Thicket,” is one ofj
the most remarkable pieces of true)
creative imagination I have ever read:
to some extent it stands on its own like
a splendid long short story and no ont
really interested in the fiction of our tintei
should miss it. I
“Madeleine Austrian” is a sort ofj
female counterpart of Kauffman's “The!
Philanderer,” but with even less
genuine literary excuse for existence
Madeleine Austrian is a middle-class
American nymphomaniac of arty ptf>
tensions who leaps into so many beds
in the course of this novel that I M
count.
Satisfactory treament of the theme
requires a good deal more real sympath!
and insight, and considerable less vularity,
than Robert Kirsc’h would seem to poS'
sess.
NANCY KEESNG


Position Vacant
INSTRUCTOR
Instructor for Outward Bound School, age 21
to 30, preferably single. Applicant must possess
strongest character and leadership qualities.
Must have desire and ability to direct young
men in the principles of character training as
taught in Outward Bound. A liking for, and
experience in, at least one phase of outdoor
activity is essential, such as skiing, climbing,
sailing, etc. Salary will depend on experience
and ability, but should not be applicant’s major
consideration when applying for this post. The
appointment is permanent and is residential.
A probationary period of 28 days is necessary.
Apply in writing with fullest details to The
Warden, Outward Bound School, Fisherman’s
Point, via Brooklyn, N.S.W
IT'S ONLY
and there’s
more to
read for
the whole
family in
Eueiybodys
SIDBLACK.
"And this is Detective Smike who saw you enter the building and
alerted the patrol."
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 677
Across
I— The girls confused such fire-givers. (8>
s—Silver doe> some sneaky sleuthing backwardly. (6)
10 —Flower-boy named L.B. asks that you don't make him
a victim of your amnesia. (6-2-3)
ll Vegetable. (3)
12—Woman's comicality may occasion this crime. (12)
14— Hinges adjusted by horsey communications. (6)
16 —The ruler of the matured ugly
ducklings is proceeding with
swagger. (8)
18— I ate corn, (anagram) (8)
19 — Black Sea city poetry with sex
appeal. (6)
22 —My rake had oil spilt by one on
vacation. (7-5)
25 Influential Moslem again drop-
ping in. (3)
26 — Knots ingredients for a meat
soup. (11)
27 — It endangers the life of many a
baby coloratura soprano? (6)
28 : —They face the facts about a
duelling-ground. (8)
Down
1 — Ant film edited by one whose
travelling has many ups and
downs. (7)
2 Parts of speech which make the
earth goddess manage unsavoiy
resorts. (10)
3 Scottish twill is small-hearted. (5)
4 Row behind us. (6)
6 Modelled a comedian's talk on
Kelly. (9)
7 Go up and turn up in a malevo-
lent secret police service. (4)
8— Thus a majestic fellow is saturat-
ing. (7)
9 Nuns who change to be not
displayed. (7)
13 —Prime honors in a biblical
book. (5, 5)
15 —You in equipment for watering
aids to horticulture. (3, 6)
17 — Firmer soldier is injured. (7)
18 — Loudly and urgently calling a
shellfish an insect. (7)
20 — Cops disorderly starers. (7)
21 — This specimen provides south
with plenty. (6)
23 — Hulme injured this French com-
poser. (5)
24 — Just blonde. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 676


mm
sST. .
u
6i m
All
IP
W-B-
-,. y>^ — . N
V - ' S 3
ONE THING
HASN’T
CHANGED-
A PROGRESSIVE
When, in 1903, the Wright brothers flew the world’s first powered aeroplane, New South Wales, on
the threshold of the Motor Age, was manufacturing its first pneumatic tyre. Many said that the
arrival of these new forms of transport presaged the end of the Railways.
But what are the facts?
In 1903, the New South Wales Government Railways operated 3,280 miles of line . . . logged
35,000,000 passenger journeys and carried 6,700,000 tons of freight.
Last year, the Railways operated 6,062 miles of line . . . logged over 253,500,000 passenger journeys
and carried 24,000,000 tons of freight.
mm
4a
&
o:
7^
Uj
Q
CO
Co
j:m
The plain fact of the matter is that the Railways are carrying more people and moving
greater payloads than ever before.
Despite the impressive and laudable development of other forms of transport, the
New South Wales Government Railways remains, as it has done for over a century, the
State’s most valuable and productive transport system.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
