

The
Bulletin
Registered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper
February 3, 1962
V
King’s Cross Today


/c
/c
V
C
?t\ 'S£\ J 8
A
A
k
k
k
a
t_r
§
BUSINESSMEN
BANKERS
FINANCIERS
GRAZIERS
VIIV
Stockbrokers in Sydney,
Magnates in Melbourne, Bankers in
Brisbane, Architects in Adelaide,
Tycoons in Tasmania, Professors in
Perth are but a few of the busy
businessmen all over Australia who agree
that here at last is a financial paper
that fulfils the needs of the times.
THE AUSTRALIAN
FINANCIAL TIME
SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
AUSTRALIA: /4/5/- per year.
Mail coupon to “Circulation Manager,”
Australian Financial Times,
Box 185 C, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, C. 1, Victoria.
NEW ZEALAND: Air Mail Subscription
Rate /7/-/- for year
Mat! coupon to: Box 965, ti.-P.Q-.,
Wellington; New Zealand.
Please arrange for copies of Ihe Australian, financial limes
to be delivered each week to
ADDRESS
Enclosed is a cheque for £ , covering subscription for
12 months.


"HE’S ONLY WORKING TO COVER UP THE FACT THAT HE’S A ROYAL PARASITE."


This Australia
ABORIGINES
THE RED AND THE BLACK
JACOB ROBERTS
“They think we are
children.”
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
npERRiTORiANS may soon have to
rethink some of their ideas about
aborigines. Recently, and for the first
time, a group of full-blood natives
banded together to form their own
Northern Territory Council for Abo-
riginal Rights. Their leaders are full-
bloods Jacob Roberts (president), Davis
Daniels (secretary) and Don White
(treasurer). All belong to the little band
of black citizens. The council's stated
aims are to “fight for equality and
justice” on a programme built around the
United Nations Universal Declaration of
Human Rights.
Mr Roberts gives as their aims:
• Equal pay for equal work.
9 Better wages and conditions in the
pastoral industry.
9 Full rights for all aborigines.
9 More advanced education system
for native children.
“We consider the welfare policy too
slow,” Mr Roberts said. “They appar-
ently believe we are like children and
their education policy is based on this
belief.” He claims the council already
has 50 Darwin members and will move
soon to organise in Central Australia and
bush areas. Tribal divisions would be no
barrier, he said. When language difficul-
ties arose they would use sign language.
The native leaders are sincere. Their
aims seem fair enough. They have invited
Church, union and other organisations to
affiliate and hope the Welfare Branch will
co-operate. Nevertheless, the council has
a few disquieting features. Militant
though the committee may be, the back-
ground to it is one of apathy. In the
December Federal elections only a hand-
ful of the Territory’s 70 or so aboriginal
citizens bothered to vote. Few of the
full-blood witnesses before the Select
Committee on Aboriginal Voting Rights
last year had ever heard of Canberra.
Probably not more than a dozen or so
natives in the whole of the Territory
are fully literate and few, if any, would
subscribe to a southern newspaper or
magazine. Apart from wonder at the
variety and range of our possessions
(aeroplanes, motor cars, etc.), our way of
life means little to them. Their whole
background is one of co-operative living,
with all property shared and individual
interests subordinated to the good of the
tribe.
The mass of the aboriginal people,
ignorant, bewildered, resentful, half-
educated or illiterate, could be fertile
ground for trouble-makers. A potted
brand of communism, probably spiced
with an anti-white theme, would appeal
to many of them. At the moment most
would not have heard of either com-
munism or Soviet Russia. But they will.
Darwin’s active Communist party
branch will not miss an opportunity like
this. Already the CP branch secretary,
Brian Manning, is one of the first two
white men in the council (every member
of the committee itself is an aboriginal).
A politically naive, uninformed, dis-
gruntled people could prove dangerously
malleable, particularly when they have
genuine grievances.
Shooting of dogs around native camps
-—necessary though it may be —has
caused riots in at least two Central Aus-
tralian settlements. Treatment of abori-
ginal employees in the pastoral industry
is improving. (No one whips them any
more —as was done on a Barkly Table-
lands station not so many years ago), but
their status and pay are still low. Most
glaring grievance of all is the liquor law.
Natives see drunkenness all around them
among whites, yet cannot enter a hotel
or buy a bottle without risking a fine or
jail term. As a result, they turn to White
Lady (metho and powdered milk) and
similar concoctions. Even the aboriginal
citizens constantly face the choice of
insulting a friend or relative by refusing
him a drink, or else risking the minimum
penalty of six months’ jail for supplying.
The future direction the Council for
Aboriginal Rights will take may depend
on the attitude of the Government and
community. Official paternalism, in the
past, has sometimes bordered on repres-
sion. Young natives are not encouraged
to buck against the old men or tribal
customs. A young man and woman in
Alice Springs who wanted to marry were
refused permission by the Welfare
Branch, which sent the woman back to
her place as second or third wife of an
old man A tribesman, after a settle-
ment superintendent had refused to inter-
vene, had to fight a duel and eventually
face a murder charge in a vain bid to
save his ailing young brother from savage
initiation rites.
A bove all, the Government must never
** repeat the attitude it took in the Fred
Waters case 12 years ago. Waters
organised other Darwin aborigines to
battle for more pay. The few natives
then working were mainly domestic
houseboys and housegirls who were paid
ss. or 10s. a week with a few meals
thrown in. When the natives staged a
brief strike Waters was banished to a
settlement in far-away Central Austra-
lia, where he lived in exile with an alien
tribe for several months.
Repression would be suicidal and
wrong. The Communist party will
undoubtedly take a great and increasing
interest in the Northern Territory
Council for Aboriginal Rights. What
this, if carried to its worst conclusion,
could mean to Australia is obvious in
the light of happenings in New Guinea
and in the United Nations.
If the council is not to become an
embarrassment —maybe a danger—to the
North, we must do what we should have
done years ago. Church, union and other
authorities should accept the invitation to
co-operate with the council. The com-
munity must let them feel we are with
them in their aspirations, and that it is
possible to achieve those aspirations
within a reasonable time. Most important
of all, the Welfare Branch may have to
modify its parental, protective attitude,
which often amounts to Mum shooing
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol. 83
No. 4277


the more precocious of her chickens back
into the nest. Welfare must resist the
inevitable temptation either to discredit
the council, or to “take it over,” no
doubt with the best of motives, and cosset
and mother it to death. Roberts and
company do not want that. They have said
they will welcome help and encourage-
ment, but they obviously want also to
stand on their own feet like men.
In the process of living with a large
and increasingly militant aboriginal
minority in the Northern Territory
(16,000 natives, 25,000 whites), some of
the Government’s most sacred “gradua-
list” dogmas may have to be tossed over-
board. One of these is Minister for
Territories Hasluck’s assertion that
assimilation of the natives will take
“three generations of perpetual change.”
Australians no longer have that sort of
time available.
PRESS
TAKING OVER THE
TRADE-UNION DAILY
FROM BOB COTTON IN BROKEN HILL
RUPERT MURDOCH
£25,000 for the lease
* “Darrier Daily Truth,” the voice of
the Broken Hill trade-union move-
ment, may soon he silent—because the
majority of the 2500 members of the
Workers’ Industrial Union of Australia
who own the paper will not dip into their
pockets to get the paper out of yet
another crisis They have already poured
about £60,000 m levies into the paper
over the past few years and most of them
are adamant that they will pay no more.
With the paper at the edge of the
precipice, Mr Rupert Murdoch, the
owner of Broken Hill’s other newspaper,
the “Barrier Miner,” has ottered the
WIU £25,000 for the lease of “Barrier
Daily Truth” for five years. The offer
simply means £25,000 to keep “Barrier
Daily Truth” off the street for five years.
It'looks as though the offer will be
accepted, for “Barrier Daily Truth” is
in debt for £42,000 (probably for a few
thousand more, union officials say) and
the creditors, some of whom have not
received a penny for several years, are
screaming for their money.
However, the paper got a reprieve
when the rank and file of the WIU
ment on Saturday, January 20, to con-
sider Mr Murdoch’s offer. The 400
members who attended the meeting
empowered their executive to continue
negotatioas with Mr Murdoch and to
consider other offers, including the much
advocated takeover of the paper by the
Barrier Industrial Council, the controll-
ing body of the Broken Hill unions.
The State Secretary of the Printing
Industry Employees’ Union, Mr E. C.
Bennett, advocated that the Barrier Indus-
trial Council take over the paper, set up
a board of management and persuade
the 6000 affiliated unionists to pay 4s.
a week for a short time to put the paper
back on its feet. His idea is then to
convert the paper into a “free” one and
build up its circulation by throwing it
over the fence of every Broken Hill home.
Union observers believe that this pro-
posal has little or no chance of success
uniess a few union officials are pre .
pared tQ stjfle the jealousy betW£en
officials of the Workers - Industrial Union
and those of other unions officials of
the Barrier i nduslria i Council are not
on very good terms with WIU officials,
and in recent years the WIU has very
seldom gone to (h£ BIC for he]p in its
disputes
, , . ,
T Th , e Pres,den ' ‘he WIU, Mr A. C.
Treglown, speak,ng at last Saturday s
saw ll ‘ t!e of the
BIC com,ng >n on the Barrier Daffy
Tru,h “S™« denstvely: We ve
S one *° ' he u “ onS “ c ™ vvl J ed to them on
our hands. They offered us peanuts,
when we needed watermelons,
Following Saturday’s meeting, how-
ever, the executive of the WIU
approached the BIC and the BIC
executive “determined that every effort
should be made to retain ‘Barrier Daily
Truth’ as a medium for the Trade Union
movement.” They will hold another meet-
in § during the week.
Before the turn of the century,
“Barrier Daily Truth” was run by the
Barrier Federation of Labor, and was
the world’s first Labor daily in 1908.
Since then it has known some bad times
but has always pulled through.
DEPARTMENT STORES
DISCOUNT WAR
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
Ti/TELBOURNE store magnate Sir Frank
Richardson may have a reputation
for benevolence among Federal parlia-
mentarians, but he wouldn't win a popu-
larity contest among his rivals in the
Perth department store field at the
moment. His two Perth stores, Cox
Bros.-Economic and Foy’s, are mainly
responsible for the current clothing war
which has affected all city stores and
has now spread to the suburbs.
Sir Frank's stores were the first to
introduce the shareholder discount system
to the department store trade in Perth.
Once this system became widespread,
stores began giving discounts to clergy-
men, sporting groups and social clubs.
Early this month a group of six stores,
some of whom were already engaged in
the discount trade, issued a joint state-
ment protesting against the system and
announcing a 12j- per cent, cut for certain
lines of men’s clothing in their stores.
The statement said the retailers believed
there should not be special prices for
special people. They had acted to ensure
that fixed prices should not be used to
create price privileges which all sections
of the public could not enjoy.
The Cox Bros.-Economic general
manager, Arthur W. Garvey, issued a
strong rejoinder in which he claimed that
the action by the six stores —David
Jones’, Boan’s, Ahern’s, Walsh’s, J. R.
Saunders’ and Worth’s —stemmed from
the success of the Cox Bros, stores. “Some
of them must have their tongues in their
cheeks when they speak of being opposed
to special discounts for special people,”
he said. “It is no secret that some of
them have been giving special discounts
to the clergy and other special discounts
to sporting bodies for years.”
Last week there were signs that the
system had got out of hand. Suburban
retailers were forced to follow the lead
of the six stores or lose business and
some were threatening to band them-
selves into a buying group to bargain for
lower wholesale prices.
The six city stores came back with
another statement replying to suburban
stores’ complaints that the price-cutting
was harmful to them. They said their
actions were unprofitable to themselves
as well as suburban stores, but that it
must be even more unprofitable to the
discount stores which now had to reduce
their prices to competitive levels as well
as giving discounts to privileged groups.
“Something’s got to give,” sighed an
executive of one of the six stores last
week, “we can't keep this up indefinitely.”


GAMBLING
THE PUNTER'S BEST BET?
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDNET
HThe South Australian Police Force has
taken to the air in its efforts to gain
evidence about what is considered to be
one of the most brazenly operated two-up
schools in the State. With the use of a
Cessna light aircraft carrying two police
officers, an alleged two-up school opera-
ting in mangrove swamps near the
Adelaide suburb of Semaphore Park was
turned into merry chaos. The aircraft
dived, circled and buzzed the swamp
victims for about 20 minutes while
radioing information to three converging
police parties. At the end of the opera-
tion 23 men were captured in the police
net and one escaped.
The air-assisted raid marked the most
successful two-up raid by police in the
swamps in the 30 years or more that
the force has periodically safaried into
them. For many years now the schools
have operated in mangrove areas content
in the knowledge of two things. One has
been that, with the assistance of an able
nit-keeper, any police land raiding party
could be spotted immediately and the
players could turn to such mundane
tasks as fishing or digging for worms. In
fact there are stories about some fishing
rods that their owners boast have
never touched the water. The second
has been that, even if police
managed to elude the nit-keeper and
close in, there would be a fair chance of
escape when every man fled for himself.
But this new method of attack, coldly
calculated by the SA Vice Squad, com-
pletely shattered the illusion that the
swamp was the punter’s best bet.
The story of the raid itself is one
something like a Mack Sennett comedy.
The aircraft, specially fitted with police
wireless equipment, was flown by Con-
stable B. J. Perry of the SA Coroner’s
Office. His observer was Constable B.
Quinn of the Vice Squad. The aircraft
first rendezvoused W'ith ground forces
near the Cheltenham Racecourse and
then flew to the nearby swamps where it
circled at a height of about 1500 ft. At
this stage, say police, the game had not
begun. Even the men in the game are
said to have told police afterwards they
thought the aircraft was a shark-spotting
patrol.
Pilot Perry reported from above:
“They are all there, but they haven’t
started playing. Give them another ten
minutes.” It was not long before the
kip and money were out and the coins
were flying through the air. The nit-
keeper then spotted the police. He ran
as fast as he could across a pipeline to
warn his confederates, said the police.
The police version of what next
happened is this. As members of the
school spotted the land party they ran
in all directions. One climbed a tree and
attempted to hide in its branches. Others
ran helter-skelter through the mud. One
man more daring than the rest plunged
fully clothed into the Old Port River and
swam about a quarter of a mile to the
beach. But a police officer was waiting
for him on his arrival.
The reasons given by the victims for
their sudden urges to see swamp life on
a Sunday afternoon were many. One
young man who said he was out for a
Sunday walk was later recognised as the
person who had led one officer a merry
chase before disappearing. Unfortunately,
most men were caught without their fish-
ing rods. It was therefore with profound
relief that a group of three fleeing men
spotted a genuine fisherman with a rod.
They snatched his rod from him but by
the time police arrived it was a free-for-
all to get possession of the rod.
One well dressed gentleman found
wandering told police he was collecting
worms. Plenty of dirt and mud were found
in his pockets —but no worms. The
most exasperated of the Sunday sinners
was a man trying to hide behind a man-
grove tree. Above him the Cessna dived
time and time again to pinpoint his
position. In disgust and infuriation he
made signs to the pilot which some
people would say are rude. Doing no
good, he picked up mud and flung it
upwards.
The one man who escaped from the
police performed a long distance
endurance run worthy of an athlete.
When police had first arrived he had
hidden himself but was surprised later by
a police constable who had come to look
for evidence. The constable chased the
fleeing man across the pipeline, across
the beach, through more swamps, ditches,
mud, streets and main roads. Eventually
the constable had to give up the three-
mile chase in the heart of Port Adelaide.
Alleged offenders, some of whom were
still stained with the mud in which they
had waded to their waists, were taken
to the City Watchhouse in one police van
and six patrol cars. Later a total of 72
charges were laid against the 23 men in
Port Adelaide Police Court. The charges
ranged from being present at a place
where an unlawful game was taking place
to occupying a common gaming house—
“namely a defined area of unendorsed
land.” '
RELIGION
HARD SELL
FROM FRANK SANDERSON IN MARYBOROUGH
■pASTOR G. A. Metcalfe of the Seventh
Day Adventist Church admitted last
week before he left Maryborough for
Nambour that “Maryborough could be
a bit more progressive.” He found in
particular that evangelism in Mary-
borough was a challenge. During his
34- year ministry in the city, Church mem-
bership only increased from an estimated
35 to 58.
Yet 18 months ago he had launched an
evangelistic campaign in the city similar
to that conducted by Adventist Geoffrey
Ratcliffe in the Brisbane City Hall several
months before. There was an extensive
advertising campaign using the slogan
“Dead Men DO Tell Tales” for Sunday
night meetings in the Town Hall. On
stage during the meeting were banks of
flowers near the footlights and a massed
“non-denominational” choir. The main
speaker stood under a spotlight. “Ad-
mission is free” proclaimed the advertise-
ments, though a collection was taken each
night to meet the expenses of hiring the
hall. There was nothing in any of the
advertisements, either in Maryborough or
Brisbane campaigns, to indicate who had
sponsored the meetings. An adherent said
that if Adventists advertised who was
sponsoring the campaign, no one would
come to hear the speakers.
Although Maryborough people flocked
to hear the addresses and to see the film
shows on archaeological searches in the
Middle East (how the dead men told
their tales) not many showed interest in
changing their religion.
The lack of converts in Maryborough
need not reflect upon the ability or sin-
cerity of Pastor Metcalfe, who was a
devoted youth worker. He could be
right when he says that Maryborough
people do not rush into things in a hurry
and that they take their time about
changing their religion. Two Mormon
missionaries doing the rounds of the city
for several months discovered this also.


MOSQUITOES
SUCKING THE TOWN'S LIFEBLOOD
FROM A DARWIN CORRESPONDENT
A t last the mosquitoes seem to have
stung Darwin into action. Every
year big, wet-season winds blow millions
of the tiny black menaces off the swamps
and right into town. Every year there
is public outcry, followed by a series of
conferences and “plans,” until finally
the mossies go home to their swamps and
everyone forgets about it.
But the invasion last week was on a
giant scale. “In my 27 years in Darwin
I’ve never seen anything as bad as this,”
said veteran taxi proprietor Clive Keet-
ley. “Whenever I work on a vehicle now
I have to have a boy standing by with a
towel to flap them away from my back
and legs.” Children, now on school
holidays, had to stay indoors. One
harassed Fannie Bay housewife said:
“The children just can’t go outside a
minute. They are covered in lumps in no
time. So I have to put up with them and
their mates playing havoc in the house
all day.”
No one was immune. A cocktail party
to welcome officers of the visiting British
destroyer Caprice had to be abandoned
after half an hour of scratching and
swatting. Pests broke up meetings and
were blamed for two traffic accidents
when drivers claimed they were too busy
slapping the air to watch the road
properly.
But this time it seems the mossies have
gone too far. The City Council last
week voted £4OOO towards an aerial
spraying programme and asked the Gov-
ernment to weigh-in with additional
finance. Veteran Territorian Mr Henry
Lee, of Nightcliff, planned to raise money
by public subscription to wage war on
mosquitoes.
A mass meeting at Nightcliff formed
a “beat the mosquito” committee of
rive, including Mr Lee and Messrs John
Baker, Alan Longstaff, Cecil Forbes and
David Aron. After discussion, the meet-
ing decided to reject individual offen of
money to push an aerial spraying pro-
gramme. A spokesman said: “We be-
lieve the responsibility belongs to Local
Government and Federal authorities, and
we intend to see they do their
job.”
The committee plans to write to the
Prime Minister, Opposition Leader Cal-
W'ell and other Canberra dignitaries
urging a mosquito eradication campaign
for the Darwin area. They want £9OOO
spent on aerial spraying now, followed
by £l5OO a month on control measures
for five or six months of each year.
“The Northern Territory News” com-
mented in an editorial: “A man can
hardly concentrate on his job, or driving,
if assailed from all sides by the little
black devils. This issue goes more than
skin deep. It is sucking the very life-
blood of the town.”
CLIVE KEETLEY and his towel boy
POLITICS
Mr WATTS'S NEW JOB
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
Vl?hen Mr Arthur Watts, Attorney-
General and Deputy Premier of
WA, resigned he presented Premier David
Brand with a sizeable political millstone
to carry to the forthcoming State elec-
tions. Mr Watts's out-of-the-blue an-
nouncement of his retirement from poli-
tics at the age of 64 coincided nicely
with his appointment to the plum job
of chairman of the Licensing Court at a
salary of £3450, which is £lOOO below
his ministerial salary.
In announcing the appointment, Mr
Brand said it implemented a Govern-
ment decision to have a qualified legal
man as chairman of the Licensing Court.
(Mr Watts is a qualified solicitor, though
he has not practised in that capacity for
many years). But the appointment
brought an immediate reaction from Op-
position Leader Albert Hawke, who
said Mr Watts’s appointment at a salary
£670 above that of the present chair-
man was open to “severe criticism,
quite apart from the political nature
of the appointment.” Mr Hawke also
said it was not necessary to have a
legal man in the job. Very few, if any,
serious legal problems arose and the
advice of the Crown Law Department
was always available when they did.
Avon Valley Liberal MLA Jim Mann
pointed out that Mr Watts introduced
the amendment to the Licensing Act to
provide for a legal man as chairman.
Was he, asked Mr Mann, looking to his
own future at the time?
No sooner had this stir died down
than Mr Watts announced in his capa-
city as Minister for Education the ap-
pointment of Perth businessman Charles
J. Cornish, also a 64-year-old, as public
relations officer to the Education Depart-
ment. Mr Cornish's salary was way
below that of Mr Watts at £l5OO and his
appointment was only for one year, but
Mr Hawke did not waste this golden
opportunity to attack Mr Watts again.
He said a younger, more experienced
man was needed and appealed to the
Government to reconsider Mr Cornish's
appointment.
Mr Watts’s retirement from politics at
this stage leaves Mr Brand in an em-
barrassing situation for two reasons. The
Opposition is bound to make the most
of his new appointment at the coming
elections and his desertion of the leader-
ship of the Country party leaves Mr
Brand’s coalition Government in a weak
position in the Cabinet room.
Pig-breeder Crawford Nadler becomes
the leader of the Country party and two
new CP members will go into the Cabinet
—one to replace Mr Watts and the other
to replace CP Cabinet man Charles
Perkins, who died recently. Mr Watts
has always insisted on holding half the
Cabinet seats for his numerically small
party, and the field for selection is now
getting pretty slim.


EDUCATION, OR FOREIGN AFFAIRS?
THE STUDENT FROM THAILAND
FROM A BRISBANE CORRESPONDENT
Tn recent weeks many Australians have
•*- wondered just who really makes our
foreign-policy decisions. Events in Bris-
bane in recent weeks suggest that part
of the answer is—the University of
Queensland.
On January 7, the Brisbane “Truth”
published a number of startling allega-
tions based on leaks from sources within
the university administration. Follow-
ing high-level interference by the External
"Oh! But we had to pass him. His old man was a
Prime Minister or something."
Affairs Department, said “Truth,” the
university had passed an Asian student
under suspicious circumstances.
The student in question is a member of
one of the powerful families who rule
Thailand. For three years in the middle
1950 s he was a full-time student. In
that time he obtained only two units to
his credits. In most subjects he failed to
sit, or else he just failed. Fellow-students
from Cromwell College, where he was
resident, speak of him as one who was
barely able to speak English.
For the past few years he has con-
tinued his course as an external student,
sitting for his examinations in Thailand
under the supervision of a local police
official. His examination results have
improved immeasurably. Some say the
change has been unbelievable.
At the end of 1961, he sat for Austra-
lian history, auditing and statistics. His
answers were of a standard for which
Distinctions and High Distinctions are
usually awarded. Unfortunately, in the
auditing examination he used American
techniques not included in the course.
All papers were submitted in copper-
plate writing and the English was fault-
less. Both the statistics examiners refused
to mark the paper and the head of the
Commerce department, Professor Gif-
ford, submitted a departmental report to
the Vice-Chancellor, Professor Schonell.
The Commerce department was dis-
turbed. among other things, by the fact
that the papers had not left Thailand
for fully seven days after the examina-
tion date.
After a number of discussions, it was
unofficially decided to bring the student
to Australia (at the expense of the uni-
versity) for a further oral examination.
This seemed to be an admirable arrange-
ment. A week later, however,
the student received a letter from the
university to say he had passed his
examinations. The statistics paper was
still unmarked and in the other papers
he was apparently entitled to Distinctions.
On Friday, December 22, the aca-
demics and senior members of the ad-
ministrative staff adjourned as usual to
the Royal Exchange Hotel in Toowong.
It was here that the decision was leaked
in detail. A furious argument developed
which could be heard all over the hotel.
One of the loudest voices was that of
one academic who blithely suggested—
“Oh! But we had to pass him. His old
man was a Prime Minister or something.”
The strangest aspect of the whole case
then came to light.
It reads like an academic fairytale. A
psychologist was requested to submit
a report on the social and political
effects on the Thai people of a
decision by an Australian university
to flunk one of Thailand's great names.
The actual report was drawn up by a
lecturer in anthropology who is an expert
on Australian aborigines, the indigenous
natives of North Borneo and other
primitive peoples. The gist of it was
that the failing of the student would have
a shattering effect on the simple people
of Thailand, and might upset Australia’s
good relations with them.
Those opposed to the decision seem
intent on at least two courses of action.
Firstly, they can take it up with the Staff
Association and, secondly, some are
already calling for Australian consular
representatives to supervise external
students in future. In the Toowong hotel
the opinion is that if the student did not
fake the examination he should have
been given Distinctions in two subjects
and an oral test in the third. If
he did fake the exam, he should
be flunked. If Sir Garfield Bar-
wick did interfere, he should be censured ;
and if the university tried to pretend
that it was Sir Garfield it should have
its head read.
CENSORSHIP
THE VICE SQUAD CALLED
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
\7ice squad police called at the offices
’ of the Victorian district of the Aus-
tralian Journalists’ Association last
month and, after producing a search
warrant, seized 100 copies of the 1961
issue of “Midnight Etaoin". a tabloid
paper distributed at the annual Journa-
lists' Ball. “Etaoin”, like the better-
known “Shrdlu,” is a combination of
letters grouped on the keyboards of lino-
type machines and as a title it symbolises
the “private” humor which is usually a
feature of this journalists’ paper. Satires,
lampoons and parodies of newspaper
styles and of the writing foibles of
colleagues have been prominent in “Mid-
night Etaoin” over the years, some of
them of a high order. Other ingredients
have been the nudest of nudes and
extremely risque jokes, and it is from
these that trouble has stemmed.
Conceived somewhat in the spirit of a
university “rag” paper, “Midnight
Etaoin” is usually written and edited by
an ad hoc committee of younger journa-
lists, rarely without some friction with
senior AJA officials on the score of
obscenity.
The paper is distributed at the Journa-
lists’ Ball, but sufficient copies are printed
to sell a few at Is. each around newspaper
offices the next day. This year, the
district committee, feeling that “Etaoin”
had overstepped the bounds, impounded
the copies left over after the ball. It did
not take the further step of destroying
them and they were still in its office when
the police arrived.
After the police raid there were meet-
ings of the district officials and some
behind-the-scenes discussions with Gov-
ernment officials. As a result, it was
agreed that no further action would be
taken providing the district committee
undertook to suspend publication of
“Midnight Etaoin”. This will mean a
future loss of some £5OO a year in
revenue for the committee’s benevolent
fund which makes payments to AJA
members in need and to families of
deceased members. In any event, the
benevolent fund, with assets of nearly
£17,000, is in a good enough state to
handle present and prospective calls on
it.


“I knew We'd strike it sooner or later.”
TRANSPORT
THE JONSSON MOVEMENT
GORDON CHALK
A job?
FROM JOHN HIGGINS IN BRISBANE
A mixed batch of transport operators,
newsmen, one ex-politician, and a
couple of stray accountants waited
restively under the jacaranda trees out-
side the Supreme Court building in
George Street in the comparatively early
(9.30 a.m.) hours of Monday, January 22.
Inside, vacation Judge Mr Justice Stanley
was hearing a writ of habeas corpus to
free from jail Atherton Tablelands vege-
table grower Alfred Edward Jonsson for
alleged breaches of the State Transport
Act of 1960. The hearing took only 20
minutes —and Jonsson was freed on his
own recognisance, to appear before the
Full Court on June 29. Something like
four hours elapsed, however, before
Jonsson was free of handcuffs and the
formalities associated with his release.
In the welcome party for Jonsson was
South Queensland group operator Mr
Bill Bolton, head of Cobb & Co., who is
on the verge of launching a series of
legal actions against the Transport Act,
which may save Jonsson from appearing
on June 29. With Bolton was the latest
addition to his staff —Mr Malcolm
McColm, former Liberal Member for
Bowman who was numbered among the
victims of the December 9 Queensland
landslide against the Menzies Govern-
ment.
Others included executives of Country
Road Transport Association, which was
active in the behind-the-scenes manoeu-
vres leading up to the successful habeas
corpus writ. CRTA is the formal organi-
sation representing the powerful road
transport lobby, which has split the
Government in Queensland into warring
factions in the last twelve months.
CRTA has now declared open
war on the Nicldin-Morris coalition on
the ground that negotiation has proved
futile. A week before Jonsson’s release
it flew three executives 1200 miles north
to the Tablelands on a “show the flag”
expedition designed at organising North
Queensland operators and their
customers into a solid anti-Government
front. The expedition saw the formation
in Atherton of a North Queensland
Road Transporters Association which
will affiliate with CRTA, and which is
committed to a series of resolutions
designed to hamstring the Act.
Jonsson, Australia’s biggest dry farm
vegetable grower, will be among CRTA’s
newest recruits. He was jailed because
he refused to pay Court costs and fines
totalling £5OO for alleged breaches of the
Act. He claims that he is a farmer
taking his own goods to market in his
own truck, and should therefore be
exempt from heavy taxation imposed on
Queensland hauliers under the Act.
From his Kaban vegetable farm (1200
acres under cultivation), Jonsson supplies
up to one third of the requirements of
North Queensland, and also does a good
trade with Port Moresby. He employs 36
farmers, for whom he has built 19 rent-
free homes and a single men’s barracks.
Shortly before he left Brisbane to
return to his farm he told a pressman:
“Tell Gordon Chalk (Liberal Transport
Minister) I’ll have a job for him next
year. He’ll need it.” (Ihe State elections
are held next year).


KHRUSHCHEV'S PERSONAL CRISIS
The Turning Point
By RICHARD LOWENTHAL
The weird events that took place at
the 22nd Congress of the Soviet
Communist Party, and the subse-
quent appearance of new rifts
within the Sino-Soviet alliance, mark a
true turning-point in the history of both
the Soviet empire and the international
communist movement.
Unless I totally misread the signs, they
also mark a turning-point in the personal
history of Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev
—the end of his dream of achieving
world hegemony by pushing the expan-
sion of the empire and the movement
on separate but parallel lines.
I am not suggesting, of course, that
the party Congress brought any weaken-
ing of Khrushchev’s position inside the
present Soviet leadership, as some of his
Western admirers seem to have feared on
rather insufficient grounds. The basis for
his control of party and State was solidly
laid five years ago with the election of
a Central Committee dominated by his
nominees at the 20th Congress. All
that could be asked from the 22nd
Congress in that field was that it should
consecrate Khrushchev’s triumph by the
final and formal condemnation of the
“anti-party group” that had dared to
lift their hands against him. This the
Congress accomplished with dutiful
unanimity and according to plan.
For there was a planned element in
the proceedings, which has since become
known as the “second de-Stalinisaficn.”
Khrushchev has long been convinced
that the modern Soviet society of to-day
cannot be kept going by the same
primitive and brutal methods by which
its industrial apparatus was first created,
and that officials who cannot or will not
learn the more difficult techniques of
leadership and administration required
for the new stage will have to go, even
if they faithfully repeat his every word.
De-Stalinisation, to him, has meant
chiefly that.
Yet, to accomplish these eminently
reasonable and by now highly conven-
tional objectives, it would not have been
necessary to dig up the dead past in
order to bury it once again. There was
no need to re-tell publicly the horrible
story of Stalin's crimes against his closest
associates, to recall the killing of the
flower of the Red Army on the eve of
Hitler's war, to produce the evidence
pointing to police connivance at the
murder of Kirov, which thus became the
pretext for starting the trials of former
leading Bolsheviks. There was no need
either to remove the dead tyrant from his
honored place at Lenin’s side, or to
re-name the city (and even the battle) of
Stalingrad. Nor did Khrushchev himself
think so before the Congress: nothing in
the preparations, nothing even in his
own opening reports indicated such an
intention.
This, then, was the unplanned drama
of the Congress. And it arose not
from the internal problems of the Soviet
Union, but from the fact that the long-
festering dispute with Communist China
got out of hand. It started when Premier
Chou En-lai, leading the Chinese dele-
gation, reacted to the first moderate
attacks on Stalin's memory by laying
down a wreath at his tomb: from that
moment, the transfer of the body from its
showcase became inevitable.
From the moment when Mao, at the
Moscow international conference of
November, 1957, deliberately assumed the
role of the most active sponsor of the
unity of the bloc under Soviet leadership,
he seems to have considered that this
would entitle him to increased influence
on Soviet policy in the future. For the
first time, China had successfully inter-
vened in the destinies of a part of
Europe. But Khrushchev did not see it
that way. Once the acute crisis in his
East European empire had been over-
come with Chinese help, he felt no need
for further Chinese advice on what he
regarded as his own affairs. Nor was he
willing to pay heed to Chinese interests
where they collided with Russia’s own.
Tt was this sharp disappointment of
A Chinese hopes for increased economic,
diplomatic and military support from
the Soviets that led to the first major
disagreements between Mao and Khrush-
chev during 1958. The Soviet failure to
grant the massive new credits needed to
tide China over the critical period in
her industrialisation greatly contributed
to push her into the adventure of the
“great leap forward” and the imposition
of “people's communes” throughout
the Chinese countryside.
While Khrushchev, conscious of the
new relation of forces between Russia
and the West that had come about with
the advent of the intercontinental rocket,
embarked on a world-wide offensive, he
remained careful to limit the risk of an
aimed clash with the United States by
alternating the creation of crisis with
offers of summit meetings, the language
of threats with that of co-existence.
This caution first led him to offend Mao
by temporarily agreeing to discuss the
Middle Eastern crisis of that summer
at a summit meeting called in the frame-
work of the United Nations Security
Council, and later to let him down by his
refusal, during the bombardment of
Quemoy, to supply him with guided
missiles equivalent to those given by the
Americans to Chiang’s forces.
To the Chinese leaders, deprived of
scope for similarly flexible tactics by
their lack of diplomatic relations with the
principal enemy, and deeply immersed
in the efforts and sacrifices of their
domestic revolutionary upheaval, the
cautious egotism practised by the Soviets
at their expense seemed evidence that
Khrushchev and his team were sadly
lacking in the spirit of international
solidarity and revolutionary militancy—
hence unfit for the leading role in the
“socialist camp” and the international
communist movement.
They prepared to challenge that role
by ideological arguments. By September,
1958, the Chinese claim that the “people's
communes” were an application of the
supposed Leninist principle of “uninter-
rupted revolution” and a short-cut on the
road from the lower “socialist” to the
higher “communist” stage implied that,
while the Russians were looking for
comfortable resting-places on that road,
the Chinese were hurrying ahead and
overtaking them. In the following
months, the Soviets replied with a
vigorous campaign against the Utopian
concept of achieving full communism
before a stage of economic abundance
had been reached and with developing
their own concept of moving towards
communism on the basis of the most
developed modern technique.
Under the pressure of this criticism
and of the severe practical setbacks
suffered by the “people’s communes,”
this first Chinese challenge had to be
withdrawn by the turn of the year. At
the 21st Congress of the CPSU in
February, 1959, Chou En-lai recognised
that Russia alone had started on the
road to the higher stage, and was
rewarded by a new agreement on eco-
nomic aid.


r T"'HE conflict revived, however, in a more
acute form in the winter of 1959-60,
owing to Khrushchev’s visit to Eisen-
hower, his summit preparations and his
hardly benevolent neutrality in China’s
quarrels with India and Indonesia. This
time the Chinese, now thoroughly
alarmed, were not content with working
out a theoretical position for challenging
the leading role of the Soviet Union:
they were only seeking to recruit allies
within the international movement.
At leadership meetings of various
international front organisations (the
World Peace Council, the World Trade
Union Federation, the Afro-Asian
Solidarity Committee, etc., as well as at
a meeting of the Warsaw Pact), the
Chinese criticised the Russians for their
“un-Marxist” illusions about the possi-
bility of securing peace by agreement
with Eisenhower, and their “opportunist”
tendency to subordinate their support of
revolutionary movements and “wars of
liberation” to the tactical needs of their
diplomacy of co-existence. Finally, they
chose the 90th anniversary of Lenin’s
birth in April, 1960, as an occasion to
publish their arguments in a whole series
of articles.
The platform from which the Chinese
attack was launched, of uninterrupted
revolution at home and unlimited support
for revolution abroad, was Trotskyite
rather than Stalinist in inspiration. Yet, to
the Stalinist remnants in Russia and the
Soviet bloc, any powerful voice that
raised doubts in the Leninist orthodoxy
of Khrushchev and his team must have
been more than welcome.
As for the Chinese, they might hope
to find truly congenial allies among
Asian or Latin-American communists
thirsting for “wars of liberation”; but
in Russia and Eastern Europe, the
Stalinist remnants were their only hope.
In fact, it may now be regarded as
proven that the alliance between the
Chinese and the “Stalinists” had been
formed by April, 1960, if not before. At
the 22nd Congress Mr Elychev, one of
the newly promoted secretaries of the
Central Committee of the CPSU, dis-
closed that on the same occasion when
the Chinese started their public campaign,
the 90th anniversary of Lenin’s birth,
Molotov, then Soviet Ambassador in
Outer Mongolia, submitted to the
“Moscow Communist” an article on
similar lines. Khrushchev took the point.
During the next few weeks, Molotov was
recalled, President Voroshilov, the last
undisclosed member of the Stalinist
former majority of the party presidium,
was encouraged to retire from all his
offices, and “Pravda” suddenly pub-
lished the anti-Stalinist epic of the poet
Tvardovsky.
During the same period, the Albanian
communist leaders first showed
their defiance of Khrushchev’s leader-
ship. Hoxha and Shehu, it may be
assumed, had never wavered in their
gratitude to Stalin, whom they regarded
as the liberator of Albania from Yugo-
slav domination, and to whom they
owed their personal triumph over the
pro-Yugoslav group inside the party.
They had distrusted Khrushchev from
the moment of his first visit to Belgrade
and had quietly and successfully resisted
his efforts to change the Albanian party
leadership in the interest of better rela-
tions with Yugoslavia.
But up to 1960 they had never openly
and explicity crilicised the policies of
Khrushchev or the decisions of the
20th Congress. Only when China
started her attack on Soviet foreign
policy did the Albanian Stalinists come
out into the open. At the Bucharest
conference of ruling Communist parties
in June, 1960, when Khrushchev tried
to force the Chinese to withdraw their
criticism, the Albanians openly sided
with the latter and helped them to insist
on the calling of a world conference
which subsequently met in Moscow.
Tn raising their challenge to Soviet inter-
national leadership, the Chinese com-
munists clearly did not want to break up
the alliance. They wanted more Soviet
support, not less. But neither can they
have expected that they would quickly
or easily supplant Soviet leadership—
the greater power and older authority of
Moscow precluded that. They must have
counted on a prolonged ideological tug-
of-war, in which the alliance would con-
tinue without a clearly established leader,
and Chinese influence in the world move-
ment would gradually increase from
one compromise to the next.
Khrushchev, too, was certainly in-
terested in maintaining the alliance, and
could be expected to make some conces-
sions to Chinese pressure, as indeed he
did in his behavior on the international
stage during the months preceding last
winter’s world conference of Communist
parties, and also in some of the formula-
tions adopted at the conference. More
important, he explicitly renounced the
Soviet Union’s claim to its traditional
“leading role” in the communist world
movement, thus recognising the limita-
tions imposed on his international
authority by Chinese opposition and the
need for continued adjustment of policies
to meet new situations. But he could
not be expected to tolerate continued
“Stalinist” defiance within his own
power sphere.
Even before the Moscow conference,
a bid to remove Hoxha from the leader-
ship of the Albanian party had been
made by pro-Soviet elements; it was
forestalled by a purge of the Central
Committee and arrests of important
officials. After the conference, Hoxha
had his policy approved by a party con-
gress and the arrested men were executed
after a show trial for alleged conspiracy
with Yugoslavia, Greece and the United
States. As these events proceeded
during 1961, Moscow stepped up the
pressure by stopping economic aid, can-
celling credits, calling home the sub-
marines based in Albania and finally
recalling all Soviet and Soviet bloc tech-
nicians.
But a Chinese aid agreement and
Chinese technicians stepped into the
breach as far as possible. The Chinese
leaders thus indicated their determination
not to abandon the first small European
country that had sided with them —in
other words, to maintain a permanent
challenge to Khrushchev’s authority, even
within his empire.
Khrushchev’s public attack on Albania
in his opening speech at the 22nd
Congress and Chou En-lai’s rejec-
tion of that attack must be understood
in that context. The Soviet leader was
not really, as has been said, making a
“veiled attack on China” by criticising
Albania: he was warning China that he
would expel the Albanian Stalinists from
the fold, whether China liked it or not
—that he might tolerate prolonged differ-
ences with his Chinese ally, but not a
Chinese faction within his own back-
yard.
Chou En-lai’s reply was a counter-
warning that China would not accept
the legitimacy of any expulsion from the
“socialist camp” ; and his deposition of
the wreath at Stalin’s tomb was an open
challenge to Khrushchev’s legitimacy,
even in Russia itself —an attempt to
conjure up the ghost of the Soviet past
against the Soviet present. The shadow
of Stalin had suddenly come alive again,
and it had assumed the features of Mao.
Tt was at that moment that the quarrel
A got out of hand. Each side had been
determined to avoid a break, but each
side had counted even more on the
other’s need to avoid it and on the
limits that would impose on its actions.
Each had thus more and more com-
mitted its prestige in order to impress
the other and force it to retreat ; and
each had thereby made it increasingly
difficult for itself to retreat for the sake
of unity.
Mao had tried to demonstrate that
Khrushchev could not force an approval
of his “anti-Stalinist” line and, in par-
ticular, the explusion of the Albanian
leaders on the international movement
against China’s will; Khrushchev had
tried to demonstrate that he was free to
take what action he liked against the
Stalinist remnants in Russia and the
Soviet bloc, whether China approve.' it
or not; in the end he had no option but


to break diplomatic relations with
Albania before it had been condemned
by any international communist con-
ference- —something not even Stalin had
done.
While the Chinese communists were
exhibiting Stalin’s picture, along with
those of Marx, Lenin and Mao, and
while Stalin statues were falling on
Khrushchev’s orders all over Eastern
Europe, Khrushchev found himself
forced to out-Stalin Stalin in his own
methods of conducting his conflict with
a small communist country.
npo understand the full impact of these
events on Khrushchev’s Russia, one
has to recall the basic concept of the
relations between the Soviet empire and
the communist world movement with
which he set out, and its contrast to the
ideas and practice of Stalin. During a
long reign in isolation, Stalin had
acquired the firm conviction that no
progress of communist world revolution
was either likely or desirable unless it
coincided with the territorial aggrandise-
ment of the Soviet empire: the action
of the communist parties abroad had to
be strictly and openly subordinated to
the interests of the Soviet fatherland,
because the interests of world commun-
ism were simply identical with the
growth of Soviet power.
Hence, while Stalin expanded the
frontiers of the Soviet Union and sub-
jected a number of neighboring States to
its control, he warned against the de-
cisive moves of the independent Yugo-
slav and Chinese revolutions and dis-
trusted the new regimes after their vic-
tories. His rigid identification of the
communist cause with the cause of the
Soviet Union made it impossible for him
to recognise any independent allies, any
truly equal partners within his “camp.”
It was this that led to his conflict with
Tito and, despite his realistic caution in
his dealings with China, would sooner or
later also have led to conflict with Mao.
Khrushchev, coming to power in a
very different situation, started with a
much more confident view of the
strength and nature of independent revo-
lutionary forces. He concluded that
such independent revolutionary regimes
would have to be treated as equal part-
ners and that even the satellites should
be granted increased autonomy to make
the rising “socialist world system” more
attractive.
Khrushchev did not abandon this out-
look even after he had used armed force
to keep Hungary within the Soviet em-
pire and after his hope of winning Tito
back as an ally had been disappointed.
For ultimately Khrushchev’s whole
vision of the world relation of forces,
and of the March of History towards
the world-wide victory of communism,
hinged on this belief in the fundamental
harmony between the interests of the
Soviet Union and the development of
independent revolutionary forces all
over the world. It was by the dynamics
of revolution that the balance of terror
between the super-powers could be most
easily by-passed and thus the actual bal-
ance of power tipped in favor of the
Soviet camp without war.
It is, of course, unlikely that Khrush-
chev was ever so naive as to believe in
the official doctrine that no differences
of interest could arise between States
governed by communist parties. But he
seems to have been confident that, once
the equality of the partners was recog-
nised in principle, any differences could
be adjusted without major strain be-
cause of the overriding importance of
the common conflict with the non-
communist world.
What he failed to foresee was that the
very ideological tie on which he relied
to ensure the adjustment might prevent
it —by turning the limited conflict of
interest into an all-out ideological
struggle for leadership.
'V/ r et this is what has happened. The
A Soviet-Chinese dispute has got out
of control not because the differences of
interest between the two great com-
munist powers were unbridgeable in
themselves, but because the struggle was
conducted in an ideological form which
came to involve the prestige of either
regime to the point of no return. From
the moment that the Chinese leaders
allied themselves with the Stalinist rem-
nants in Russia and the Soviet bloc,
Khrushchev’s imperial power was at
stake. By breaking relations with
Albania without waiting for her inter-
national condemnation he admitted that
his belief in the necessary harmony of
Soviet and world-communist interests
had been mistaken and that once placed
at the crossroads Khrushchev’s Russia,
like Stalin's, would put her own power
first.
Tn admitting the failure of his funda-
A mental concept of the advance of
world communism, in accomplishing the
break with Albania and accepting the risk
of a break with China for the sake of
Russian imperial interests, Khrushchev
has, I believe, critically weakened the
dynamic power of Russia’s thrust to-
wards world hegemony. He can no
longer count on running the empire and
the movement in double harness. He has
opened the road to new and as yet
unforeseeable autonomous developments
in all those communist parties that have
the inner strength for a new departure.
But beyond that, he has also dealt a
major blow to the future of ideological
party rule in Russia itself.
Just as, in the international field,
Khrushchev had believed that he could
promote, simultaneously and without
contradiction, the progress of indepen-
dent revolutionary forces and the growth
of Soviet power, so he has always be-
lieved that he could work at home simul-
taneously for speedy economic improve-
ment by pragmatic reforms and for the
preservation of ideological party rule.
As many observers have pointed out,
the growth of a modern industrial society
with highly educated cadres and out-
spoken claims for material improvement,
together with the disappearance of mass
terrorism from Soviet daily life, has
greatly weakened the hold of the official
ideology on both the masses and the
intelligentsia and even the pressure to-
wards outward conformity.
Yet Khrushchev, aware that the party
regime requires the ideological vision for
its legitimation, has consistently tried to
counter the anti-ideological current aris-
ing “from below,” from the nature of
the new Soviet society, by a conscious
effort at “re-ideologisation” from above.
Hence his interest in a new party pro-
gramme for the “transition to commun-
ism.”
Y ET belief in the imminence of the
world-wide victory of the com-
munist movement, and in the natural har-
mony of interests among all communist
parties and all Governments ruled by
them, is one of the main pillars of that
ideological vision. The events during
and after the 22nd Congress
have undermined that pillar—and that at
the same moment when the renewed bit-
terness of the anti-Stalin campaign must
have raised doubts about the essential
continuity of the party's policy and prin-
ciples . . . and also about the nature of
a political system that made Stalin’s
crimes possible.
For the thoughtful young generation
of Soviet citizens in particular, the value
of the party regime as guarantee of
alliance with all progressive forces
abroad, and as trustee for a more just
and humane future at home, is thus put
into question all at once.
Of course, Khrushchev’s own belief in
the party regime will not be changed by
these events, as his power is bound up
with it. Nor is that power likely U be
endangered while he is capable of wield-
ing it. The story of Titoist Yugoslavia
is there to remind us that a modern party
monopoly, even with its international
backing gone and popular belief in its
ideology widely undermined, and even in
the absence of Stalinist mass terrorism,
may cling to power for a long time so
long as its top leadership stays outwardly
united under an uncontested chief. But
even under that regime, the blows that
have broken up its ideological crust may


well prove the prelude to bolder prag-
matic experimentation, particularly in
the economic field, than in the past.
From a long-run point of view,
Khrushchev’s duel with the shadow of
Stalin will leave no victor—except per-
haps the people of Russia. For the
Stalinist regime, the Stalinist ideological
synthesis and the Stalin image are shat-
tered beyond repair, and Khrushchev
has failed to replace them by a viable
ideological synthesis of his own. The
full effects of this failure may only come
to the surface when the question of the
future of the regime is reopened: in the
next crisis of succession.
[Reprinted by arrangement with
“Encounter,” London]
IN AUSTRALIA'S RUHR
Planners Have a Playground Complex
By M. H. ELLIS
T}or many years the problem of the
Sydney-Newcastle road has been
under review, culminating in the “Hills
solution” of a 16-mile four-lane highway
through chamois and mountain-eagle
country from Hornsby to Calga to join
a stretch of two-lane bypass road
already approved to miss Gosford. This
road will be paid for by a toll, but the
details do not matter. The real issue
should stem from the word “develop-
ment” —a word that is apparently not in
the Hills vocabulary.
Newcastle is already connected with
Sydney by a good road, though it has
dangerous turns, patches that are either
too narrow or badly placed ; but still a
passable road.
It feeds through the bottleneck of
Peat’s Ferry Bridge and through other
bottlenecks, much longer, carved out of
declivitous hillsides. Its point of entry
to Newcastle is through another bottle-
neck of seaside and holiday suburbs be-
tween Lake Macquarie and the sea.
Everything that wants to go through
Newcastle has to negotiate these. With
the building of the Vale’s Point Power
House and the vast development of coal
mining immediately along the route to
the south of Newcastle, this entry chan-
nel will become more and more con-
gested, and so will the Peat’s Ferry
Bridge, however it is treated. Even with
four-lane highways all the way it is
possible to see a dangerous, even an
unworkable jam, in five years’ time. The
Hills plan promises to make the bottle-
necks even more congested.
The conditions dictate a careful and
sane planning of the road system which
connects Sydney and Newcastle and the
associated steel and coal city of Wollon-
gong. How would any sensible man go
about solving this problem?
First, he would look at the landscape
and its resources and see the direction
of development round the termini of the
two road systems. He would find the
basic resources to be:
(a) Two great coalfields, one on the
south bounded by the Burragorang on
one side and the sea on the west and
east and running from the Sydney suburbs
beyond Port Kembla ; the other, running
from the Hunter River Valley to Wyong,
embracing Newcastle and a dozen embryo
industrial cities, and inter alia, the Greta
gas-coal seam.
(b) two great water systems capable
of development, the greater of them the
Hunter River system, with all its possi-
bilities of conserving the waters of various
mountain ranges in large dams.
Each of these two areas is bigger than
the Ruhr. It is possible to envision, in
60 years’ time, each area carrying a
population as big as the Ruhr and Aus-
tralia carrying a population as big as
that of Germany or the United Kingdom.
The petrochemical industries linked
to coal have scarcely been touched ; the
technique of burning and transport of
pulverised coal by pipeline as you would
oil is only in embryo. The problem of
oil from coal is only nearing solution
at an economic level. The resources of
the two coal-producing industrial areas
have long been known, but have not by
any means been fully surveyed. In many
ways they are complementary to each
other ; in many others both are comple-
mentary to Sydney industry. The uti-
lisation of gas from the gas coals of the
Greta seam, the electrical organisation
and rationalisation of the three areas,
and their interlocking transport systems
are again matters in their pristine
stages.
All thinking about developmental
roads, however, is in the horse-and-
buggy stage with Mr Hills and his
colleagues and a lot of other people.
In relation to this vast 200-mile long
area of industrial potential in NSW not
only unsurpassed, but its natural resources
scarcely touched, without parallel in the
civilised world in a location near the
sea, all authorities still think of road
development with their beaks to the
yellow lines that lead over Peat’s Bridge
and through the narrow neck of land
which sidles into Newcastle's imitation
of Blackpool, between Lake Macquarie
and the sea. All these planners have
the playground rather than the develop-
mental complex.
The empire of riches which lies be-
tween the Barrington Range and the
Hunter River on the north and the Shoal-
haven River on the south, between the
Blue Mountains and the Liverpool
Ranges on the west and the sea on the
east, needs great developmental arteries
capable of carrying the giant traffic with-
out bottlenecks or interruption from
pleasure traffic.
A main industrial highway might fol-
low the old main north road via Dural,
a bridge at Wiseman’s Ferry or there-
abouts feeding into Newcastle through
the heart of the gas-coal centres of the
Greta seam round Cessnock and Kurri
and through them, too, up the New
England Highway. A further heavy-
duty road would be the shortcut which
most of the locals of the Hunter River
area now use, via Windsor and Rich-
mond and Putty to Singleton—one
which would be a vital defence road as
well. These roads could be built and
reserved for heavier traffic, specialised
through-ways paid for by toll.
Such schemes need thinking out on
a national basis and with national
development in view and with planning
according to the same sort of long-
distance vision behind the Snowy Moun-
tains scheme. They should be planned
always with history and its axioms in
mind. The core of these axioms is that
the country with a powerful basic heavy
industry built round the pitheads or oil
derricks or adjacent to them becomes
great and populous. Those that have
not these central enclaves of basic fuel
and industry remain more or less shep-
herds’ kingdoms or the playthings of
others.
'T'he new Ruhr of NSW, ideally situated
for world export and at the
apex of routes that fan out all over the
Far East and the Pacific, with great
markets growing and exploitable round
it and the fuels of heavy industry at
the very door of its great producing
areas, could be anything in the way of
an aggregation of people, from another
Atlantic coast-type community such as
that backed by Pittsburg, to a West
Germany or a United Kingdom type of
industrial complex.
The greatest and most potent ingredi-
ents in the recipe for this kind of de-
velopment are: first, imagination based
on knowledge of what has been done in
the great prototype countries ; second,
adventurous enterprise ; third, loads of
capital; fourth, a co-operative Govern-
ment or Governments armed with a
stimulating cost-reducing developmental
and tax system and the will to go along
with private developers of the right
capacity and outlook.


LAST CHANCE IN SINGAPORE
By GEOFFREY FAIRBAIRN
Singapore is a very deceptive city. It
is still clean by Asian standards,
though the British who based their
colonial case largely on grounds of
civic orderliness have long since departed
the administration. The really poor reside
well away form the area the tourist sees ;
beggars are very infrequently encoun-
tered. The cheap-rent flats rise glisten-
ing impeccably from neat blocks of
kempt lawn. The city's energies, which
being Chinese are great, seem to be con-
centrated in its innumerable shops and
businesses and street stalls.
The visitor wanders delightedly
amongst the stalls. Rows of fat rugged-
skinned durians catch his eye, a sweet-
tasting, foul-smelling fruit with the
rumored quality of being able to re-
juvenate even the most old and weary
traveller. (The experience of eating a
durian has been likened to that of
eating strawberries and cream in a public
lavatory, so dreadful is its stench.)
Gaudy Chinese suitings designed for
bamboo-slim figures hang in one shop,
the dully glowing batik printed materials
of the Malays are draped enticingly in
another. Beside a shop full of cheap
watches and cameras there will be one
selling crocodile-skin bags and snake-
skin ties. Next-door probably, the scent
of Chinese cooking, the best in the world,
will be deliciously insinuating itself
through a green-shuttered doorway. On
the pavement somewhere nearby bicycles
will be getting repaired, new life being
coaxed into a dispirited and battered
radio.
Oh, yes, it is all very charming,
amiable, peaceful—what the tourist sees.
But any time now Singapore is likely
to errupt into violence. What the tourist
sees is only the smiling countenance that
hides a troubled and often vicious mind.
A few years ago violence did show its
very ugly face ; Chinese youths, some of
them mere schoolboys, killed policemen
with hoes ordinarily used to till the
soil. They were hooligans but they were
hooligans exploited by the communist
party of Singapore, an organisation con-
trolled and directed by Peking. This
kind of thing may well happen again
quite soon.
Here in Singapore today a young
(under forty) Chinese labor lawyer, Lee
Kuan Yew, whom I first met at Cam-
bridge University, is desperately trying
to fend off a cunning and persistent
attempt to turn Singapore into a vital
forward base for the communist con-
quest of South-East Asia —that area
which stretches from Burma to New
Guinea.
As Chief Minister, Lee Kuan Yew has
many problems, but the greatest of them
in one sense is the highest birthrate in
the world occurring in an island whose
economic future is grim indeed if left
to its own devices. Either Singapore
industrialises itself, in order to provide
employment for ihe generation knock-
ing at the door of employment, or it
achieves a union with mainland Malaya
that would allow emigration. There is
no third alternative except starvation.
But Lee Kuan Yew has another prob-
lem of equal greatness in another sense:
Singapore is an overwhelmingly Chinese
city and wherever Chinese are gathered
together in the world today commu-
nism is accepted quite unconditionally
by great numbers of them. The reason
is quite simple: the sudden strength of
communist China has enabled the ordi-
nary Chinese to believe in the import-
ance of his race. No longer is he going
to be regarded as a funny little “Ching-
chong-chinaman,” the eternal laundry-
man or vegetable gardner ; no longer
is he going to be the butt of the White
Man’s humor. Ke is already in his
imagination—whether he lives in China
or not —a “citizen” of the biggest nation
on earth, the nation destined soon to
rule a very large part of the world. So
he believes. And he may well be right.
HPo give an example of this feeling, may
A I mention a young and beautiful
Chinese girl from a rich, highly educated
family with everything to lose materially
from a communist government. 1 met
her at a party in Singapore one day
and asked her w'hat she wanted to see
happen in her home town in the future.
She replied without hesitation: “I want
to watch the Red Army (of mainland
China) marching down Singapore’s main
street.” Singapore’s poor have even
better reasons for looking forward to
that day.
Well, Lee Kuan Yew and his Govern-
ment are implacable opponents of com-
munism. They cannot industrialise their
city fast enough, because capital for
industrialisation is flowing chiefly into
mainland Malaya. So by a very brilliant
piece of diplomacy Lee Kuan Yew has
persuaded the Prime Minister of main-
land Malaya, Tungku Abdul Rahman, to
unite Malaya with Singapore and with
British Borneo. This move, if it can
be implemented, would create a workable
economic unit—a new nation that might
just be able to survive. But it would
have another effect too; the moment
this union is achieved the security
forces (army and police) based on Kuala
Lumpur, capital of mainland Malaya,
will destroy the communist movement in
Singapore. For political reasons, Lee
Kuan Yew cannot make this move in
Singapore itself today. He does not have
the physical power to do this without
risking violence and the use of British
troops based in Singapore. But the
government of the new Singapore-
Malaya-British Borneo nation could—
and will.
This is the reason why a new upsurge
of violence in Singapore is likely: the
Communist party of Singapore, which
is very well entrenched, knows that it is
done for if this union, this merger of
territories, is brought about. So it must
act beforehand. How it will act remains,
of course, a secret. It may declare a
General Strike. It may also use the
Work Brigades, groups of unemployed
who are being controlled under semi-
military conditions by the present govern-
ment and who have already staged a
minor ‘"mutiny.” It may alse use politi-
cally indoctrinated students and even
schoolchildren. Whatever methods it
chooses, it will be attempting to over-
throw the present Labor Government and
replace it with a communist one. In
other words, it will be attempting to
establish in Singapore, the crossroads
and main port of South-East Asia, a
satellite of Peking. Should it succeed
in doing this, the consequences for Aus-
tralia’s “Near North” would be very
grave.
In a situation like this Lee Kuan Yew
and his Labor Government would be
presented with a terrible dilemma: they
represent the anti-colonial movement
which secured the withdrawal of the
British administration—could they now
call in British troops to quell a riot
against their own policies? They might
not need to. But let’s remember the
rich girl with everything to lose who yet
chose the Red Army. Lee Kuan Yew
might need the British forces in order to
survive, in order to prevent the commu-
nists taking over Singapore.
No one knows, perhaps even Lee
Kuan Yew himself does not know, the
answer to this question. But this is a
region of quite literally vital importance
to Australia. There are Australian troops
in mainland Malaya not far away. It
is a problem all Australians ought to
think about. Think about hard.


Feiffer
i.ioo&Ktv for me mnth-
6ATHOT6 MATERIAL- FOR m MI6I,
IHAf IMULP diOlO HOUmOP
(joioe ope to! exposing me
FPUSTRATIOM - me
M66AIOMAMIA' me
dkc^mme.
dor dCFORg i ■ coulp
mm it, r usee tcovets
txeosm m,wwooo
CAKE our.
so r toeur to for. Television-
mat6Rim, for mm ttoveu that
UOOULP 6LOU) TV A U£y 10106 OPEnt
6WC6m TM
PCTtmess- m
WOCRM' TW6
6ACK4TAO3M6.
dor 06F ORB t COQIQ fWH IT,
Fl\ efpDSlM
\/i5(O(0 out
ft? r toeur To (jdORK FOR
API/6£T(SIW6-6ATHei?(N)6
material w mJei
THAT 01^0)
MA O6OM AVF/WF
EWOtIUO W
HeoiomxH,
TtiC CofJFffiti
m- m
d\CKSTmiOo,
OUT eefORB l COOIO 66T
Duvets, tivm twas
6XP00006 MVeRVSItiG
CMC
out
mr r
HhH
OVIL
sewce.


PLAIN ENGLISH
A CUSTOMS UNION
WITH NEW ZEALAND?
IN the whirlwind of problems,
ideas, prophecies of doom and
hopes for a golden age, which the
United Kingdom’s negotiations
with the European Economic Com-
munity have caused in Australia,
hardly a thought has been given as to
how the Common Market is going to
affect our relations with New Zealand.
And yet this is a very real and
immediate problem, more important
than our passive and frightened obser-
vation of the progress of Britain’s
bargaining with the Six.
The question of New Zealand’s
economic future after the United King-
dom enters the European Economic
Community is of direct interest to
Australia if there is any truth at all
in the economics teaching that pockets
of wealth and pockets of poverty exert
a powerful influence on the economic
development of neighboring areas.
New Zealand's prosperity can make us
more prosperous, while its impoverish-
ment may slow down our own pro-
gress. This is quite apart from any
humanitarian or political considera-
tions. which demand that Australia
should take an immediate and sym-
pathetic interest in New Zealand’s
grave problems.
That these problems are grave and
hard to solve can be seen from a glance
at New Zealand’s international trade,
which for decades has been built up
to satisfy the specific requirements of
the United Kingdom market. New
Zealand has been successfully de-
veloped as a source of high quality
cheap food supplies for Britain. In
return, the United Kingdom has sup-
plied the bulk of New Zealand’s
import requirements. Unfortunately,
2,500,000 people can’t buy all that
much in world terms, and New
Zealand’s imports from Britain amount
to only 5 p.c. of the United King-
dom’s total export trade.
Another difficulty is that New Zea-
land’s exports are mainly dairy pro-
duce and lamb, for which it is difficult
to find alternative outlets. The ques-
tion of developing novel consumer
tastes in new markets is an extremely
complicated and expensive business
and requires time.
Butter, often described as the back-
bone of New Zealand’s export trade,
had become a problem even before
any concrete steps to bring Britain
into the Common Market had been
made. Since last May, the price paid
in Britain for New Zealand butter has
been lower than actual production
costs, calling for heavy subsidies —this
problem is familiar to Australians.
Although New Zealand’s difficulties
offer no easy, ready-made solution, it
must be realised that the concept of
the European Common Market itself
was first thought to be more revolu-
tionary in Europe than in Australia
and New Zealand. The greatest diffi-
culty there was to cause a radical
change in the traditional, narrowly
nationalistic ways of thinking—not an
easy thing for countries with centuries
of historical traditions. national
achievements and antagonisms.
In the case of Australia and New
Zealand the gulf is much narrower.
There is no unhappy heritage of blood;
conflicts and antagonisms are minor
and parochial.
It is time to consider what can be
done to solve the coming problems.
One would expect that the Common-
wealth and New Zealand Govern-
ments would have already been hold-
ing informal talks on the possibilities
of economic integration—perhaps they
would be if we were sure we had a
Government.
It is, therefore, left to public dis-
cussion to take the initiative. One of
the first thoughts that comes to mind
is that even if New Zealand succeeds
in a rapid industrialisation drive all
on her own—which is unlikely —she
will still have to find new markets.
And the people who are going to buy
from New Zealand are also going to
be in the position to call the tune,
pushing Australia right out of the
scene. For all too long Australians
have taken the New Zealand market
for granted, happily enjoying large
premiums on their export sales to the
Dominion. But if New Zealand will
not be able to export a large part of
its output to Britain and Australia will
not increase her intake of New Zea-
land’s goods the Dominion will just
have to shop elsewhere. New Zea-
land’s eyes are now hopefully turning
to Japan and the United States. Japan,
an experienced international trader who
lives or dies by exporting, is already
increasing her imports of dairy pro-
duce from New Zealand. If this trend
accelerates, Japan will become more
important than Australia to New
Zealand. The two sister nations may
lock themselves in a competitive
struggle for a share of the Japanese
market—a dismal prospect.
At the same time everybody knows
—but few dare say it—that our own
dairy industry is uneconomic and has
to be helped along by large hidden
and overt subsidies. There is also every
prospect that migrants may be harder
to get as a labor shortage develops
in Europe. Why. then, must we keep
manpower and capital tied up in an
unprofitable dairy industry instead of
importing dairy and lamb produce
from New Zealand and “buying out”
our farmers? This will enable us to
divert more labor and capital to our
basic industries and increase our manu-
factured goods exports to New Zea-
land. Provided a far-sighted policy is
followed on profits ploughback. suffi-
cient capital can be accumulated to
industrialise New Zealand gradually.
The Dominion will have to indus-
trialise, anyway, but the question is,
who is going to help —Australia, which
is in a box seat position, or the United
States and Japan?
Once this idea is digested the thought
of a form of customs union comes
naturally, followed by greater natural
mobility of labor and gradual equalisa-
tion of the overall cost structure on the
lowest common denominator. This
could then be followed by further
economic integration and possibly an
eventual political federation.
If Australia and New Zealand will
be able to accomplish an economic
union they will be in a much stronger
bargaining position against the United
Kingdom and the Common Market,


and better placed to share in Europe’s
greater prosperity. It must also be
realised that the basic idea of the
European Economic Community is to
make Europe wealthier and not to
make outsiders poorer.
The initial stages pose difficult
transition problems, but no more diffi-
cult than the ones which the six Euro-
pean countries had to solve when their
Common Market was being originally
set up.
The Glue that Sticks
PARTS of the British Press have
put on a rather disgusting per-
formance in their sensationali-
sing of the Earl of Snowdon’s
appointment to “The Sunday Times.”
First he is criticised for not working;
then he is criticised for getting a job.
There is nothing particularly disgrace-
ful about working for a newspaper,
and for a professional photographer it
is one of the few sensible jobs open to
him in which employment can become
something more than a charity and a
subterfuge.
The husbands of royal princesses
have previously been either wealthy in
their own right, so that they could sink
back into obscurity in their estates, or
they have been sufficiently noble or
royal themselves to live on the money
of their wives and not look as if they
were doing it. When Mr Armstrong-
Jones married Princess Margaret he
was neither wealthy nor noble; work-
ing for a living was the most decent
thing he could do.
The same tendency to make a sensa-
tion about almost anything any royal
person decides to do was evidenced
when it was announced that Prince
Charles would go to Gordonstoun.
Criticism could be made of any school
he might attend; why should he not,
like many a royal boy before him, go
to his father’s old school?
In both these cases the royal family
is at the mercy of professional contro-
versialists who can make their reputa-
tions by the simple trick of attacking
royalty for being either insufficiently
“democratic” or insufficiently dignified.
It is a wonderful two-way bet in which
royalty can never win and it is played
by some of the professionals with a
cynicism that one hopes will finally
destroy itself in the public mind.
If it does not destroy itself it could
end up destroying royalty. Both exces-
sive adulation and excessive criticicin
may erode the acceptance of the royal
family as a symbolic institution; and.
if that happens, what would replace
them? They are symbols of many
different things—of England’s past, of
its traditions of Parliamentary demo-
cracy. of ideals of disinterested service,
even of stable family life. Are these
things disgraceful in themselves that
they should be so carelessly brushed
aside? Or are they not the glue that
sticks together the fragments left over
from England’s great disasters? And
if they were to go. what hideous
realities might not replace them?
Royal Commission on Culture
BEGGING for State aid for the arts
is in season once again. The
New South Wales division of the
Arts Council of Australia is to
ask the State Government for a
£lOO.OOO annual grant. It is a bold
claim when the State spends less than
half that amount of public money
annually on subsidies to the theatre
arts and on fostering culture, but doubt-
less the Arts Council will prove every
penny of it is needed.
This appeal highlights our piecemeal
approach to the arts. Whether it is a
question of how to fill the Sydney
Opera House or how to develop a film
industry, there is no answer, because
we have never taken the trouble to
examine the arts, to recognise responsi-
bility for them and to set up a body to
foster them.
The arts are not satisfactorily sus-
tained by occasional concessions when-
ever an organisation can apply suffici-
ent pressure on a Government. Assist-
ance should be constant if there is to
be a steady development and it should
be given in accordance with a com-
prehensive idea of the needs of the
various arts. Painters and sculptors,
for instance, have to travel so that
they can see the best that has been
done in these fields; playwrights have
to see performances or at least hear
readings of their work.
In a country where private patrons
are very backward in coming forward,
appeals are usually made to Govern-
ments and fended off as best they can.
Not only does culture rate low as a
budget item but nobody knows just
how public money should be distri-
buted in this sphere. How could they
know when there has never been any
proper survey made of the state and
needs of the arts?
Canada faced the same problem
until a Royal Commission on Culture
established, in 1957. the Canada Coun-
cil for the encouragement of “the Arts,
Humanities and Social Sciences.” The
much quoted words of that Commis-
sion apply well enough to Australia:
“No novelist, poet, short-story
writer, historian, biographer or other
writer of non-technical books can
make even a modestly comfortable
living in Canada. No composer of
music can live at all on what Canada
pays him for his compositions. Apart
from radio drama, no playwright, and
only a few actors and producers, can
live by working in the theatre in
Canada. Few painters and sculptors,
outside the fields of commercial art
and teaching, can live by the sale of
their work in Canada.”
The Canadians devote about
£1,000,000 a year to literary maga-
zines, symphony concerts, drama festi-
vals and individual artists, and a Royal
Commission here would almost cer-
tainly step up the rate of our assist-
ance to the arts. Moreover, it would
eliminate the present appeals for
money, which are unsatisfactory for all
concerned, and would probably put the
arts on a sounder footing by giving
them greater dignity and by discourag-
ing hopeless ventures. We thought it
worthwhile to set up the Murray Com-
mittee to look into our universities.
Isn’t it time we did something similar
for the arts?


FORUM
WHAT'S WRONG
WITH WRITERS
1.-Too Many Plays
By REID DOUGLAS
r jp 'HE great Unproduced Australian Playwright is rare like a bunyip and
some suspicious folk do not even believe that he exists. Having returned
to Melbourne from foreign parts a few weeks ago to find not one but three
Australian scripts being staged—two at a fully professional and the other at
a good semi-professional level — I’ve become one such sceptic. Earlier in the
year, two other new scripts had the same sort of recognition.
/Contrast this with the last 18 months
in English-speaking Canada where
there was but a single new script pro-
duced above an amateur level.
Let’s be realistic about this: play-
wrights are the rarest of animals. Good,
talented, professional-potential play-
wrights, that is, and not just the rest of
us who have a fat unproduced manu-
script of 28 scenes in our bottom drawer.
Playwrights re scarce in Australia, just
as they are scarce in any other country,
England, America and Afghanistan in-
cluded. Although these days it’s possible
for the most demanding plays to be
commercially successful, just how many
good new playwrights appeared on
Broadway or the West End last season?
Or for that matter how many good old
playwrights? Is it logical for us to
expect the miracle of something better
from ourselves 0 We have our share
and they get produced more easily here
than anywhere—certainly this must be the
only country where reputable publishers
and agents advertise for new scripts.
At this moment there is not a pro-
fessional producer in the country who
is not spending at least half his spare
time searching for the Next Australian
Play. John Sumner is, Wal Cherry is,
I am, and goodness knows how many
others. And during the last few years
every management of any responsibility
has staked its faith in at least one Aus-
tralian play or musical, not infrequently
to lose their pants in the process. New
plays by comparative unknowns are
always something more than a sensible
professional risk: to produce one at all
shows more faith than acumen.
The unknown name which must reach
the public consciousness within two or
three short weeks will never be the most
comforting of thoughts to any manage-
ment, no matter how altruistic. By the
time a new English or American play
has reached us it’s usually the best part
of a year since its first showing. In
that period we’ve heard the name a
dozen times and read all about the
interesting personality of the author;
when it gets here we’re at least curious
enough to give it a chance. To launch
a new play in New York, even with the
ready-made publicity machinery there,
can take as much as 30 per cent, of the
early budget. Here the publicity costs
have to be doubled for a new play before
much impression is made —and not every
company can face this sort of increase,
especially with a very dubious return
involved. I know audiences should care
more about serious Australian play-
wrights, but in fact they are already giv-
ing a deal more support to such talents
than, say, Canadians.
And what happens outside London or
New York is an even greater show of
uninterest. Again some facts: it costs
more to stage a new play here than it
does in provincial England and yet
how many repertories there would care
to independently risk an untried serious
play? I doubt if there are any. The
Coventry Belgrade staged a couple of
Weskers—but only when the Royal Court
had guaranteed a London production to
help defray expenses. Oxford occasion-
ally finds a new script, the especially
meritorious “Passage To India” being
an example—but only as a preliminary
to a London season and with a cut on
possible film rights thrown in.
In the United States the picture is
not dissimilar. Apart from under-
graduate work in the universities there
is at this moment but a single summer
stock theatre prepared to stage worth-
while new scripts. To the end of last
season none of the scripts it had found
was of Broadway standard.
If this underlines again the rarity of
worthwhile playwrights anywhere, it also
suggests the difficulty of getting on an
untried script outside London or New
York. In Australia, by comparison, they
seem to be produced at least to a semi-
professional and often fully professional
level with extraordinary frequency.
It is even a bit pointless to regret
that we have not more small “experi-
mental” theatres. Perhaps we could do
with one more in both large centres —
providing they were sufficiently subsi-
dised and fully professional.
TJut the old-fashioned place of the little
artistic theatre with its little artistic
audience is having to be refashioned in
face of the emergence, since the war, of
a large serious public prepared to sup-
port work of sufficient merit for long
seasons. From a distance the small,
suburban theatres of London or New
York can seem exciting places: close
up —I'm not so sure. New York's semi-
professional off-Broadway movement or
London’s Arts, Mermaid, Theatre Work-
shop or even occasionly Royal Court
are largely over-rated phenomena exist-
ing more by the merit of their busy
publicity departments than the talents
of their authors. Good playwrights and
promising plays, no matter how intellec-
tually demanding, are these days snapped
up very quickly by the commercial
managements.
Since the war, I know of no new
playwright unearthed in the cellars of
off-Broadway who has subsequently
matured into the equal of Wilder, Miller,
MacLeish, Chayefsky et al., who were
enjoying enormous success in me com-
mercial theatres up-town. Anu in Lon-
don I’ve often felt acutely embarrassed
for the “artistic - ' managements because
they had obviously been scraping the
bottom of Mr Tennant’s bucket.


What does all this prove? Just that
things are not so bad with current Aus-
tralian theatre as some of our more
practised nay-sayers would have you
think. An example of this sort of head-
in-the-mud view was a recent Forum
article where the writer gave a heart-
rending wail at the thought of all our
local managements, playreaders, pro-
ducers, everybody, who just didn’t know
a good play when they saw it. It was
all very sad and I felt deeply, I really
did. But only in the same way I do
during the weepy bits of a Lassie film
—tears drizzle from the end of my nose
but I believe not a word. There are
gaps and weaknesses in our theatre of
course, but such things are not irre-
vocably static. And that there is no
opportunity for good new scripts to be
staged to a professional level is hardly
one of them.
The awful truth is that most unpro-
duced plays, Australian or otherwise, are
terrible. Every so often one crops up
with a couple of actable characters and
a cracking good curtain line —and for
this the rest are worth wading through.
But even when there’s an interesting
potential in a script, these days standards
are so high in serious theatre that the
play may undergo a metamorphosis be-
fore it reaches a stage. The two actable
characters may be made into star roles
and the good curtain line built into a
whole scene. All the turgid swell of
dialogue may end up blue-pencilLd and
half the original cast be cut or amal-
gamated. Certainly, the scene which
requires a realistic set of the Sydney
Harbor Bridge will have to go and so
will most of the other 28 sets as well.
But all manner of clever things will be
added. Not very long ago an American
short-story writer, with only one con-
trived commercial melodrama behind
him, took a new script to Kazan. It
was all about a Jewish family in the
Bronx, with troubles. Kazan did not
rewrite it but with his help Arthur Miller
did, several times. These days it’s called
“Death of a Salesman.”
What Arthur Miller needed Joe Bludge
from Burra Burra and the Cross will
certainly need too: the difficulty is to
first find your Kazan as there’s only one
of him —and he’s busy. There’s an ele-
ment of risk involved in any change but
there is no way round putting your
complete faith in the producer.
If anyone still feels that by some
miracle of oversight a worthwhile play
has gone Tam produced, there are several
more logical ways of getting it onto a
stage thtu: sitting at home and decrying
the perspicacity of Australian profes-
sional theatre. I mention them out of
kindness tO'frustrated authors rather than
with any thought that they are absolutely
necessary expedients at this moment.
The first would be to investigate the
possibility of the old idea of charity
matinees. These were a useful shop-
window for worthwhile scripts in the
days when serious audiences were too
small for a normal commercial produc-
tion. The usual arrangement was for a
committee of enthusiasts to interest the
stars of a successful commercial produc-
tion in a new script. The stars in turn
persuaded the rest of the cast and bullied
the management into an equal interest
while the committee raised the money
necessary to produce the play for one
or two afternoon performances. These
were open to the public at charity-in-
flated prices. Everyone concerned,
especially the management who had
merely contributed their consent to the
project, basked in generous praise, and,
almost incidentally, a new script was
staged by professionals. If interest was
sufficient, which it sometimes was if
the play was by Ibsen or Sudermann,
another production could be arranged
under less make-shift circumstances.
The second method is the Sunday
“reading” of the sort frequent at the
London Royal Court. It is of course
very much more than an unrehearsed
reading although it is generally called
this to disguise the modest nature of
the proceedings. To circumvent the
restrictions usual in not especially reli-
gious countries, the performance is open
only to subscribing members of the
theatre and there can be no charge for
admission. The actors and director get
a fee and a showcase for their abilities ;
the management (which usually has to
find most of the budget necessary to
support the venture) gets lots of publicity
it couldn’t buy for double the amount
as well as yet another lure for more
annually subscribing members. And an-
other —if these days frequently dubious-
new script gets a professional airing.
The third way is to find the best pro-
ducer you can, offer him a suitable bribe,
and then arrange for him to stage the
play with a competent amateur company.
If necessary, and should your committee
have sufficient ability to raise the funds,
the cast could include one or two pro-
fessional performers. It is worth noting
that because of the wondrously restric-
tive nature of the box-office and back-
stage laboring unions overseas, number
one and number three solution would be
impossible in the West End and all
would be unthinkable in New York.
Here they are feasible.
But is there any need in Australia to
go to such bother? I doubt it —although,
if you have an unproduced script of
28 scenes including the Bridge and a
cast of 40, you, I suspect, may not.
2.—Never Ask a Theatre
By MARIEN DREYER
J AM grateful, even flattered, that Greg Branson should include my name
with those authors who should not be forced to give up play writing. At
this stage, l don’t regard myself as a playwright, feeling that the production
of three one-act plays and winning three prizes in play competitions hardly
qualifies me for that distinction. In my own estimation, I am a writer who
is learning how to write plays.
There are a few things that Kevon Kemp ought to \now. I have
learned, as most writers of plays do learn, the hard way —you don’t ask
theatres to do your play. If you hjiow a producer, you as\ him if he will
read it and say whether it can be done or not. Mostly not, though you only
learn this from producers you \now. It’s not a case of writers being shy
it’s that writers meet with the utmost rudeness from producers whom they
don’t know personally. Or that’s been my experience, and others have had
the same treatment.
Tl7hen my first play, “Fifteen Years
” for Eddie,” came eighth in the first
ETT-GM-H competition I was elated, to
say the least. Now I know better. I
learned with that first one just how diffi-
cult it was. First, f tried the producers
I know —Little Theatre ones. In the
main they liked it, but had nobody in
the group suitable for casting. That was
a reasonable explanation. Then I tried
producers I didn’t know, first writing to
ask if they’d consider reading it. There
was one, in Melbourne, who agreed to
read it, so I sent off a copy. I had a
letter saying he was reading it and would
let me know when he finished it. That
was three years ago —since when I
haven’t had his reply or the play
back.
Which brings up an important con-
sideration —having enough copies of
plays on hand for producers. I once


borrowed a friend's duplicator, paid
out something like £l2 for master sheets,
carbons, paper for duplicating, duplicator
fluid and set to work. It takes me a
week to copy a three-act play, because I
have regular journalistic assignments
which are my bread and butter —I also
have a home and family to run, so I
reckoned a week was fairly good going.
It took me 12 hours one Saturday to run
off the 98 sheets—2s copies of each
sheet—collate them and bind them firmly
in folders.
And what happened? They went out
to producers—and they're still out.
These Little Theatre —or, more accur-
ately, amateur —producers so passionately
interested in Australian plays haven't
bothered to write and say that the play
is a stinker and they’re sending it back.
I wouldn’t mind that so much —at least
I'd have some reaction. They’re too
damned apathetic to bother sending the
play back.
After that salutary experience I de-
cided that in future I would only let
producers I know have copies of plays
for consideration, a decision I have
adhered to firmly. The only producers to
get my three-act plays now are Norman
McVicker at the Pocket Playhouse,
Hayes Gordon for readings, since I have
not attempted to write for Theatre in
the Round, and a friend who runs a
Victorian drama group.
When Norman McVicker gave three
one-act plays of mine a season in 1959
(which, incidentally, The Bulletin
didn't bother reviewing) I was along with
flapping ears at the first reading, and at
every subsequent rehearsal right through
to the dress rehearsal, learning—learning
—learning.
The value of this intense study in
watching my own plays grow from the
script into life was that the next one-
act play I entered in a competition tied
for first prize. (Ipswich Little Theatre
drama competition.) The next three-
act tied in the last ETT-GM-H Award
(“Wish No More”), and the following
one-act won outright the Far North
Queensland Amateur Theatre Associa-
tion competition, with flattering
comments by the judges.
But, because of the reasons explained,
I don’t bother producers I don’t know
because I dislike studied rudeness and
the fact that writers are treated as if
they’re things that crawl out of holes in
the wall at night.
years playwriting was the skeleton
in the cupboard of Australian litera-
ture. Then Sumner Locke Elliot broke
through with “Rusty Bugles.” We had
another long spell, and Ray Lawler broke
through with “Doll.” Despite the
odd Australian productions put on at
the Elizabethan, nothing worthwhile
came along until “The One Day of the
Year.”
However, I do not forget that
“Summer of the 17th Doll” shared first
prize in the Playwrights’ Advisory Board
competition with “The Torrents,” by
Oriel Gray ; and what happened to that
play?
For my own information 1 have kept
a record of the number of entries and
winners in all competitions held for
playwrights since 1955—the first Journa-
lists’ Club Award. This attracted 120
entries, was won by “The Shifting
Heart,” with “The Multi-Coloured
Umbrella” and “Swamp Creatures” as
runners-up. Where are the remaining
117?
Next, the first ETT-GM-H competition
in 1957, which drew 202 entries, was won
by “The Slaughter of St Teresa’s Day,”
with a second, two sharing third and 12
honorable mentions. (Mine was listed
fourth in the honorable mentions, which
is why I think I can claim to be eighth.)
Of those, the winner was produced. One
of the third prizes was David Ireland’s
“Heirs of the Dead Heart,” renamed
“Image in the Clay” and done at the
Pocket. And it was good, though it
needed working over when I saw it. So
where are the other 200?
After that, of course, play competi-
tions were definitely in, so JCW and
Melbourne Little Theatre jointly hopped
on the bandwagon, and in 1959 their
competition drew 379 plays. It was won
by “Burst of Summer,” which had a
brief season in Melbourne, but hasn't been
done in Sydney. The recent televi-
sion production was slammed by every
reviewer. Runners-up were Eunice
Hangar and the late Phillip Albright
whose play “The Bust” has been renamed
“The Break” and will be done during
the current Trust season at the Union.
And the remaining 377 . . . ?
In 1960 there was the second ETT-
GM-H competition—l4o entries, four of
which tied for the monetary prize. (I
was one of them.) Laurence Collinson’s
“The Zelda Trio” has had a production
in a small group in Melbourne, and 139
others are dust gathering.
I think the Coff's Harbor Centenary
Prize in 1961 attracted about 38 entries.
I can't be sure of this, as the organisers
of this competition lacked the courtesy
to include a list of the winners when
they returned my entry. I was, I sup-
pose, lucky to get the play back, and it’s
like my hide to expect to be told who
won this competition.
Currently, the Journalists' Club Award
is for a play—lo 2 entries had been re-
ceived when this competition closed on
December 31, and judging is now in pro-
gress. Therefore, there have been some-
thing like 1000 plays entered for competi-
tions in the last seven years, of which
less than a dozen have been produced.
Any producer who really wanted to
do Australian plays would have written
to the winners of various competitions
as they were published—got addresses
through the competition organisers—
asked the librarians of various news-
papers for them —written to the Play-
wrights’ Advisory Board. Because so
many writers are like me —reluctant to
send copies out to people who don’t send
them back and use them to stand cups
of coffee and mugs of beer on.
I find, on checking, that 11 Australian
plays were done by commercial and top
repertory groups in Australia in 1961.
Of these, one is a musical, “The Senti-
mental Bloke.” Of the others, three
were new. “Day,” done in three States,
made a fourth. The other six had all
been done previously.
I don’t expect red carpets and VIP
treatment —just a little ordinary polite-
ness. But I’m weary of the espresso
intelligentsia going white about the
beard at the thought of a play which
is not abstract, free verse, profane in
the extreme or a kitchen cynic variety.
There are far too many obscure and
untalented amateurs posing as producers
and experts behind their scruffy little
beards, encouraging the mediocre and
exhibitionists, ignoring those who slave
over a hot script to make it craftsmanlike
and workable, simply because those pro-
fessional writers will stubbornly insist
on writing plays intended chiefly to
entertain.


LETTERS
THE RED AND THE BLACK
Sir,
My article “The Red and the Black”
(Bulletin, December 30) contained two
basic facts.
The first is that the Queensland State
Council for the Advancement of Abori-
gines and Torres Strait Islanders was
closed because the communists used it
as a platform for bitter and constant
abuse against Church and State, thereby
obstructing the executive from assisting
individual aborigines.
The second is that OPAL, an associa-
tion for the assimilation of all people
living in Australia, has been formed with
wide backing from all major Christian
denominations and welfare organisations
and from which communists are ex-
cluded.
Mrs Cochrane and her co-signatories
(Bulletin, December 27) omit any
reference to OPAL whatsoever whilst
Miss Bardsley (Bulletin, January 20)
gives it only passing reference without
mentioning it by name.
Since my article was written the im-
portance of OPAL has received further
recognition, this time at the Federal level
by the invitation of its president, Mr
James Hamilton, who is an aboriginal
gentleman, to the Citizenship Convention
in Canberra.
In regard to titles used by co-signa-
tories with Mrs Cochrane the title of
president was allegedly awarded to Mr
Perkins, and the title of secretary was
allegedly awarded to Mrs K. Walker at
an invalid meeting in December, 1961.
It is noteworthy that, although Mrs
Cochrane was allegedly awarded the title
of assistant secretary at this same in-
valid meeting, she does not place this
title after her own name.
The president of the Queensland State
Council was and still is Mrs Sylvia
Cairns, an aboriginal lady, and the secre-
tary was and still is Mr J. Cranitch.
The affairs of the Queensland State
Council are being wound up by the
Queensland Justice Department by which
the executive, of which Mrs Cairns and
Mr Cranitch are members, are still recog-
nised as the legitimate office-bearers until
this is completed.
As recently as January 18, the Justice
Department issued a public notice to this
effect.
The persons and organisations con-
tacted by Mr Noel Wilson and myself
joined the Queensland State Council to
support the executive against the com-
munist-led minority.
It is incorrect for Miss Bardsley to
label support for the existing executive
as infiltration.
For the information of Miss Bardsley
I did detail evidence of communist in-
filtration, identifying Mr Wally Stubbings
as a Communist party State Committee
member, Mrs Daisi Marchisotti as a
full-time Communist party worker and
Mrs Cochrane as a communist leader
in the Union of Australian Women.
On voting rights, Miss Bardsley asks
a question and Mrs Cochrane and her
co-signatories make an incorrect state-
ment. Before the Select Committee I
advocated increased voting rights on a
system of progression, this being the
British way. One sentence of my evi-
dence reads, “The way to work for
improved voting rights for aborigines—
which should have come —is to get the
State laws amended.”
Most aborigines put improved housing
and education before voting rights.
Regarding Queensland’s Native Affairs
laws these are designed to protect the
aborigines against predatory Europeans
and bogus marriages. Some sections no
longer required could well be repealed
but these laws are not designed to be
repressive.
GEORGE COOK
Brisbane
Sir,
A correspondent from NSW, in your
issue of January 20, made certain
accusations against Queensland's repres-
sive laws. Our Press carried reports of
aboriginal conditions in New South
Wales which indeed made sorry reading,
and made us realise what has been done
in our State for Queensland aborigines.
The Native Affairs Department has
turned Cherbourg, which 30 years ago
was a gunyah camp, into a suburb boast-
ing amenities few others can boast.
With sewerage, free housing, free elec-
tricity, free transport, dental and medical
care, and free basic food requirements,
the aborigines at Cherbourg have been
enjoying for years the economic Utopia
promised by Russia to its people in 20
years time, IF . . .
Referring again to the “repressive
laws,” at Cherbourg Aboriginal Settle-
ment there are 1200 people, and not a
gate to the place. What keeps 1200
people there? “Repressive laws”
couldn’t. Could it be contentment?
Some States have lost their aborigines.
In Queensland we have the privilege of
a large number, and, owing to the con-
ditions prevailing on settlements and
missions, the number is climbing higher
year by year.
But whilst the DNA and the mis-
sions have done a noble job, they are
not fitted to carry the burden of educa-
tion. Too often they are in the impos-
sible position of having to plead for
teachers. In the case of missions those
who answer the call lose the pay packet.
Soon, however, this too will be corrected
as the Education Department will make
itself responsible for the education of
all Australian children.
The pastoral industry was also thrown
into the pool by your correspondent.
The aboriginal wage is ten pounds a
week, as against the award rate of
£l4/17/6. The aboriginal worker also
gets not only a home and food for
himself, but his wife and all his children
up to the age of 15 years must also be
accommodated and fed at the employer's
expense, plus educational facilities
wherever possible also at the employer's
expense.
As regards saving, a percentage is
banked, which no one can draw upon
except the aboriginal himself, or his
wife. This money is banked because of
the delightful generosity of the aborigi-
nal who will give to the first one who
asks. This saving protects him from
unscrupulous whites, who would be quick
to take advantage of this trait in the
aboriginal’s character. He would work
and still be destitute. Drawing is not
restricted, for last year some thousands
more were drawn than deposited. Any
aboriginal can apply for exemption, and
get full control of his money. Some
do. Sometimes they are “rooked” of
all their money, and at their own request,
return to the mission or settlement.
However, there are 21,170 aborigines
who have nothing whatever to do with
the DNA.
No wonder the communists hate “mis-
sion” and “settlement.” Whilst the
aborigines are there, the comrades can-
not get their claws on them.
M. E. LANGFORD
Indooroopilly ( Queensland )
CROC HUNTERS
Sir,
If the croc hunters, “The Great Turtle
Rush” (Bulletin, January 20), want to
change to another place they may con-
sider the delta area of Papua. There
are thousands of square miles of swamp
with hundreds of miles of tidal channels,
all full of crocs. During the war I
made medical patrols of this area and
we shot hundreds. Most filled the
protein hungry stomachs of the villagers.
I recommend the hunters to give it a go.
C. M. DELAND
Goodwood (5,4)
STUDENT ACTION
Sir,
While I agree with Peter Samuel
(Bulletin, January 20) that “minor
(racialist) incidents make the headlines
and by themselves distort the picture,”
surely it is the minor incidents that
would, when blown up by Asian news-
papers, create publicity that could harm
us. If a quota of a hundred immi-
grants a year were introduced and a
thousand applied, we have succeeded in
irritating nine hundred: eventually to
prevent criticism, for “Quota” would no
doubt become as dirty a word in Asia
as “White” has, the number would be
enlarged and enlarged again: when it
would no longer be a quota.
JUDITH McPHERSON
Turramurra, (NSW)


KING OF KINGS
Sir,
Q. Are The Bulletin’s film reviews
generally evel headed and sane?
A. Yes. Though 1 sometimes feel they
are a little too harsh on films.
Q. Then what about the review of “King
of Kings”? (Bulletin, January 20).
A. I was amazed. They did a complete
volte face. When every thinking
critic in the world damns the film,
The Bulletin gives it almost un-
qualified praise.
Q. You wouldn’t agree with The
Bulletin, then?
A. No. “King of Kings” was the greatest
lot of unmitigated claptrap it has been
:ly misfortune to see. (A misguided
friend passed on a free ticket, and
my curiosity got the better of me).
Q. But don't you agree with The
Bulletin that Jeffrey Hunter carried
“the conviction of moral superiority” ?
A. In his wierd get-up, it was hard to
tell if he was trying to play Jo-jo,
the dog-faced boy, or Rita Hayworth.
That auburn wig was the dizzy limit.
So was the beard. So was the acting.
Q. Did you find the film amusing, then?
A. It was laughable in spots, but mainly
just plain boring.
Q. Then The Bulletin critic was mainly
wrong?
A. Mainly. But he hit the nail on the
head in one of his statements—“ The
genuinely religious are rightly af-
fronted, and t' e irreligious confirmed
in t ieir disgust, when Christianity is
exploited for profit.”
S. JAMES
South Yarra ( Victoria )
JOHN BIRCH
Sir,
The writer who equates the tempera-
ment of the Americans for Democratic
Action with that of the lohn Birch
Society fails to define the “left-wing
extremism'' which is said to characterise
the former organisation. While one
need not fear a coup d’etat within the
Republican party by members sympa-
thetic to the pronouncements of the
Society, nonetheless, there is a danger
of a radical “right” movement, bred in
the beliefs and emotionalism of Mc-
Carthyism, not paralleled on the “left.”
(I use terms “right” and “left” to be
consistent with the terminology used in
your article, but I fear that we may be
beginning from a different “centre.”).
The John Birch Society, viewing internal
communism as the country’s greatest
danger, even greater than that of exter-
nal pressure from the Soviet Union
itself, employs many of the same tactics
as did McCarthy: labelling, guilt by
association, double-talk, theatricalism.
The Americans for Democratic Action,
in reports released to the public, presents
a documented summary on which its
evaluation has been made ; this the
Society fails to do. The ADA is neither
secretive with respect to membership
lists nor with crediting the authorship of
reports as is the Society. Furthermore,
the Society uses oratory tactics gauged
to rouse their audiences to a fever pitch
reminiscent of evangelists as well as of
more virulent orators. Its letter-writing
campaigns and clandestine college groups
find no parallel on the “left.” It is
the semi-fascist nature and utter disregard
for individual liberties that prohibit the
making of a comparison between the
Society and the ADA.
S. J. SILVERMAN
Canberra {ACT)
NATIONAL SERVICE
Sir,
Pleas for a return to National Service
training are ill-conceived, particularly if
they link it with countering juvenile de-
linquency and improving the discipline
of the youth of the nation. The aban-
doned scheme of universal national ser-
vice, which provided for only four
months’ continuous training at a time
when Britain and the US found at
least 18 months essential, was once des-
cribed by Lord Slim in an unguarded
moment (or as a calculated indiscretion)
when he was Governor-General, as
“playing at national service.”
The Australian scheme was abandoned
mainly because the claims of the scheme
on our small Regular Army for train-
ing and administrative duties were gradu-
ally sapping its strength and impairing
its mobility. Prior to its abandonment,
the Government had unofficially drop-
ped universal training and adopted a
system of selective service. In 1956,
although some 60,000 men were liable
for training, about half were exempted
—mainly from country districts.
Since the scheme was stopped, the
Government has gradually built up a
force of two Pentropic Divisions, com-
prising ARA and CMF units. This
is “one Army” in that training is inte-
grated and all are liable for overseas ser-
vice. This unity rests on the subterfuge,
yet to be tested in a court of law, of
only accepting men after they have
volunteered to serve abroad. In terms
of Section 49 of the Defence Act, soldiers,
unlike seamen and airmen, cannot be
compelled to serve outside Australia un-
less they volunteer to do so.
The introduction of an effective scheme
of universal NS training would now
entail the training of an annual intake
of about 100,000 men for a period of
18 months or more of continuous ser-
vice and would hamstring not only the
ARA but the economy of the nation.
A scheme of selective service for an
entry of about 10,000 p.a. for 18 months'
continuous service could be a practical
proposition, but like all NS schemes
for Australia founders on the rock of
Section 49. Are we to revert to two
armies—one to fight abroad, if neces-
sary, and one to stay at home?
It could be argued that a Liberal-
Country administration had ample time
when it had the numbers to have re-
pealed Section 49. But the history of
conscription indicates that people will
only accept repeal by a Labor Govern-
ment, which would have to swallow
Labor principles to do so.
With the domestic political situation
as it is, the best form of selective ser-
vice is to select, or accept, many more
men as volunteers to serve in both the
regular and citizen forces. If people are
really worried about the defence of Aus-
tralia the response should be there.
Basically, this conforms to the mili-
tary principle of economy of force. We
have not yet got the population to
counter an invasion in force of our partly
occupied continent. But we have suffi-
cient people and resources to provide
sufficient hard hitting mobile forces to
deter such a threat and defeat any attack
by fighting outside Australia. We have
the means and ability to double the pre-
sent strength of our defence forces.
The overriding proviso is that we re-
cognise the obvious. Our overall strategy
must be maritime and a maritime stra-
tegy does not lock up troops unneces-
sarily for home defence.
CRASTEŔ C. M. USHER
Hornsby y/VSB 7 )
EUNICE HANGER
Sir,
Mr Kevon Kemp's remark (Bulletin,
January 20) that Miss Eunice Hanger
could do writers a service by urging them
into active participation with the theatre,
“not encouraging them to sit on the side-
lines, feeling unloved and unwanted,”
forces me into the arena. Miss Hanger be-
longs to a Playwrights Workshop in Bris-
bane whose down-to-earth policy of act-
ing as liaison between writer and the
amateur theatre has given Queensland
playwrights a shot in the arm. Instead of
“sitting on the fence” Miss Hanger and
her band of enthusiasts have been respon-
sible over the last 12 months, for plays by


I XL
This World Famous Brand is Manufactured
and Distributed by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES AND
ASSOCIATED COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the Manager,
who will quote you a price for the original.
Queenslanders being given a monthly
airing in the South Brisbane Library in
cooperation with the Deputy Librarian,
Mr John Sirovs. Only for this encourage-
ment, my humble contribution (I sup-
pose the one-acter must still be regarded
as the Cinderella of the theatre) would
never have seen two performances in
Brisbane, two in country centres, with
three more in the offing.
SUSIE COMANS
Mary boro ugh (Q nee ns land )
STUART WATTS REPLIES
Sir,
The letter by A. P. Negus called
“What’s Wrong with Watts?” (Bulletin,
January 20) supplies its own refutation
by an unfairness and a woolly-minded-
ness which reach fantastic proportions.
Apparently it is written by someone who
wants to attack me on theoretical issues,
but has no idea where to begin or how
to carry it through. He attributes state-
ments to me as though they were ex-
cerpts from my review of “What’s
Wrong with the Church,” which they
are not, and gives no indication of their
source. He falsely accuses me of argu-
ing “that sex and psychology advisory
bureaus are Out,” while “It is the Evan-
gel, the good news which is now In” ;
but once more does not tell us where I
am supposed to have argued in this way.
He does not understand that criticism
may be frank and hard-hitting, without
being in any way unfair or malicious.
He is completely ignorant of my philo-
sophical position, and tries to saddle me
with views whose weaknesses I frequently
expose in my lectures. May I ask Mr
Negus to furnish evidence in support of
his serious allegation that, in attacking
orthodox theistic doctrine, I “deny the
principle of contradiction?”
G. STUART WATTS
Sydney
POETS
Sir,
As David Martin generously remarks
in his letter (Bulletin, January 20),
there is need for “elbow room”
when it comes to reviewing. Compres-
sion may lead to misunderstandings, and
I believe that David Martin has mis-
understood my review.
When I say that I see “no advance”
in Manifold’s poetry, I mean that I find
no consistent poetic achievement to
match the poetry in his first collection
—that the book is a step backwards
rather than a continuation of his abilities.
Also, the statement that his approach
is “crude and clumsy” in terms of “per-
sonal attitudes” is meant to refer to his
faith in the craft of poetry. It seems
quite irrelevant if a poet is a “wife
beater” or a Catholic, etc., when think-
ing of such matters. Manifold’s book
fails because it is mostly not poetry at
all.
R. A. SIMPSON
Wye River ( Victoria)


KINGS CROSS TODAY
By FRANK ROBERTS
King’s Cross is non-existent, dan-
gerous, rather drab, thrilling,
passe, full of clip joints, loaded
with atmosphere, convenient,
noisy, lousy with foreigners, fascinating,
significant, out, way out, not what
it used to be, the centre of the
melting pot, the most vibrant place in
Australia, the only place worth living in,
and a neon-lighted jungle.
These are a few conceptions gathered
at random from residents, visitors, and
people in other States who have lived at
King’s Cross for a time, or heard about it.
They are all true, all accurate. The
Cross has more moods than the best of
women, most of them in the minds of her
beholders.
One handicap in writing about the
place is the difficulty in defining its
boundaries. In the beginning, King’s
Cross was merely an intersection and
most of its residents knew they lived in
Darlinghurst. But as that inner suburb
declined in status, people began to say
they lived at King’s Cross, or better,
Potts Point.
The lie of the land helped this transi-
tion. In the scoop-shaped area with the
domain and the city as one side of the
scoop, Woolloomooloo as the front and
part of the floor, and Darlinghurst as the
back end, the area of Darlinghurst that
curved around on a ridge to form the
other side of the scoop was easily
separated and defined as King’s Cross.
To condense history, this area on the
hill had some fine old homes, and when
these began to decline into boarding
houses, guest-houses, and residential,
new people moved in, including those
who came to be loosely defined as
Bohemians because some dressed and
were inclined to act a la Boheme.
King’s Cross may have tried to forget it
was part of Darlinghurst, but was re-
minded of the fact rather sharply in the
late ’2os when the razor gangs treated it
as just another part of their battleground
Even after the gangs had been broken,
the Cross had its share of bashings, its
occasional shooting, and more than its
share of domestic brawls. The Bohemian
tag suggested to many that if a man and
woman were going to live together with-
out marriage, the Cross was the natural
place for it.
Came the war, the Americans, a
streaming of Australian servicemen from
other States through Sydney, and King’s
Cross gained a national reputation for
after-dark devilment at prices that would
have melted Ned Kelly’s armor. And
if the prices hadn’t, some of the liquor
sold in those years would have.
After the war came the migrants.
Radio comedians in national shows
could always be sure of an interstate
laugh with that standard line, “Hey,
what do you think happened to me at
King’s Cross last night? Somebody
said goodnight to me in English!
It was a comic’s exaggeration. At least
every second person in the street, then
as now, used English.
This potted history has introduced the
main internals of King’s Cross life today
—the rather staid and status-conscious
earlier residents and their descendants,
the Bohemians and theirs, the under-
world, the clip joints and their successors,
and the migrants.
The externals are another matter. They
include the young bloods who come from
distant suburbs in search of the high life,
the strollers after lights and movement,
and the motorists out for a drive who
include the Cross in their run.
The young bloods mostly gravitate to
the Rex and to a lesser extent the
Chevron hotel in Macleay St, which is
possibly in Potts Point and not King’s
Cross. The strollers generally come from
the dark side of the Hill, Elizabeth Bay.
The motorists come from all over, and
are the real rubbernecks, looking from
the windows of cars stumbling bumper
to bumper along Darlinghurst Rd at
night, any night in summer. The types
they see are, of course, nearly all pedes-
trian visitors. But that’s their King's
Cross. Many views of the Cross are
mirage.
In one way, the entire place is. Offici-
ally, King’s Cross is still no more than an
intersection in Darlinghurst. It does not
exist as a suburb, although a recent
university survey into the status of
various parts of Sydney gave it 137th
position, while adjacent Potts Point
romped into the first ten.
The only reliable definition of King’s
Cross is to be had from William St Post
Office, which sorts and delivers its mail.
The posties deliver King’s Cross letters
the lengths of Victoria St and Darling-
hurst Rd as far as St Vincent’s Hospital,
to the foot of William St hill, halfway
down to Rushcutter Bay, and up to but
not including Macleay St, without which
Potts Point would hardly exist at all.
The postmen’s work is complicated
by the preference of many King’s Cross
borderline residents for a Potts Point
or Elizabeth Bay address.
But. as the William St postmaster de-
clares, “Departmentally, of course, King’s
Cross does not exist.” Nor will you
find it on any reliable map or in any
street directory. Even its business people
seem uncertain. There are few ‘‘King’s
Cross” these or that in the telephone
directory, and they are separated into
King’s and Kings. The King’s Cross
Loan Office is way down the city end
of William St, and the King’s Cross
Stores happen to be in Macleay St Potts
Point.
A nother shimmering aspect of the
Cross is its Bohemian life. Swarmed
over by riotously clad “bods,” the resi-
dent intellectuals have very largely gone
drab and become invisible to the casual
eye. True, Darlinghurst Rd, between
the main intersection and Macleay St,
sometimes has more beards to the acre
than Mawson Base, but most of their
owners, after the wise words are spoken
and the coffee drunk, go mildly home
to Potts Point or Elizabeth Bay.
Delving further, the most dangerous


side of King’s Cross life is crossing the
street, especially at the top of William
St, where it becomes a 50-yard dash
with up to 100 cars and buses charging
the pedestrian uphill and down, pro-
bably the only place in Australia where
“chicken” is legally sanctioned.
T>ut the back lanes of King’s Cross are
safer, particularly for women, than
many parts of many cities where any
skirt is at least whistlebait. Darlinghurst
detectives mostly visit King’s Cross to
question or pick up characters who have
been gainfully employed the previous
night in less crowded suburbs, or to in-
vestigate domestic brawls.
One or two of the exotically named
night spots at King’s Cross (Flamingo,
Balalaika, Tabou) made the same error
but quickly went back to warm jazz and
leg art for the tourist and the men
without women.
“Those migrants” fall squarely into
that class, particularly the Italians, who
tend to vocalise their masculinity and
toss “ragazza” into the air at full bellow
more often than any other word. The
more docile sit in the Bar Coluzzi and
stare unblinking up William St at the
fizzing neon signs, or lounge in other
espressos and watch 17in. television.
King’s Cross has no real shortage of
ragazzas at a price. They stand patiently
at intervals along the part of Darling-
hurst Rd which is most people’s King’s
Cross, and in William St. But that is
the dangerous way because, unless the
accosting is done with the eyes and very
skilfully, the Vice Squad pounces. It
is easier to sit and wait in a hotel lounge,
but that gambit is not confined to King’s
Cross. Certainly no innocent will be
accosted at the Cross.
The handful of back street dives where
“cognac” used to be served in
a teacup at half a crown a throw
now have liquor licences and
prefer to keep them. Gambling exists
in a limited way. There are at least
two long-run baccarat schools and it’s
hard lines for the entrepreneur who feels
that one more can exist. The Cross has
one particular establishment where the
knowing can back the horses and dogs,
and rush to and from a nearby pub
between races.
A final myth is that it is very expensive
to live at King’s Cross. It can be. It
need not. Rentals for comparable flats
are no higher than in almost any other
part of Sydney. Room rents are too
much, but there is scope to shop around
now. Food costs are average.
The residents of King's Cross pay 9d.
for their ten-minute trip to work in the
city, and can shop for food until mid-
night. Many are people who like to be
able to stroll out the front door at night
and see color and movement. Suburban
quiet and dark streets would be ruinous
to them.
Many of the younger ones have the
same feeling. They stay. Others feel
it’s chic, or in, or sophisticated, or wild.
They are the transients, coming and
going in thousands each year. The
Cross is a place for realists who see it
plainly and like what they see.
Not everyone would like the Saturday
morning King’s Cross when the streets
are filled with ambling, casually dressed
locals and numbers of their children ;
when old friends stop in the middle of
the footpath to chat in any of 16 lan-
guages ; when nearly everyone is slightly
dishevelled and amiable and unhurried.
The young single, and married, and
apparently married, dart around the
groups and shop intently. The ladies
from Potts Point wear comfortable and
mildly tapered slacks. The business girls
from Elizabeth Bay favor more adven-
turous stretch tights which would dis-
locate many neckbones and jawbones in
other suburbs and cities.
/"An such a morning last year, a Briga-
dier in mufti dedicated the El Alamein
fountain in the park at the junction of
Macleay St and Elizabeth Bay Road.
“The enemy—” he said repeatedly and
seriously, reliving the old battle, sur-
rounded by a fascinated audience of
Germans, Italians, and rafts of former
enemies. The fountain resembles a
dandelion seedball, and reacts similarly
in a good wind. When turned on, it
scattered the enemy very satisfactorily.
The Saturday afternoon King’s Cross
is mostly bearded young men and bellow-
ing groups of Italians. Around in a back
street the shirt-sleeved punters rush to
and from their pub. Most of the people
are sitting in small rooms listening to
radio, cooking, washing.
On Saturday nights the sputtering of
little sports cars heralds the arrival of
the fellows and their donahs, immaculate
in their new suits and very tight dresses.
The Italians shout more loudly. Groups
of sloppy Joes arrive by bus and cab
and head for the Rex. Traffic jams in all
roads and the point cop feels incipient
ulcers.
Tourists pour out of the private hotels
to see the “real Cross” at last. The neons
splash red and blue right, left and centre.
By 8 p.m. there is complete bedlam.
The hardier locals stand on street corners
and enjoy the sights and sounds, becom-
ing by inversion tourists on their own
ground. But most stay indoors.
On Sundays the locals have their Cross
back again. They sleep late, stroll out
for the papers, do a little shopping, sit
in the park, walk the surprising number
of dogs that inhabit King’s Cross. In
the residentials someone always has a
dozen beer under the bed, and has no
trouble finding friends to share them.
Wavering song breaks out. And outside
a new fleet of sports cars transports
King’s Cross girls to the beaches. Buses
to Bondi are frequent and seldom empty.
The ABC Newsroom above Woolworths
stolidly gathers the news and grinds it
into national bulletins, broadcast from
King’s Cross. Stooped men with hand-
carts gather a harvest of Saturday’s
bottles and newspapers.
VS/Tek days and week nights, by season
and mood, are amalgams of these
scenes. There are others too. If you can
see beauty in a tree-lined street of old
houses and historic steps down to the ’Loo
and the waterfront, try Victoria St, King’s
Cross. The less pleasant part of it is
regarded as Potts Point, where the beefy
bloke in a singlet, leaning on a verandah
rail and contemplating a pile of empties
on the footpath, really lives in a high-
class suburb, if you like paradox.
Most of the buildings at King’s Cross
are old. Only one new block of flats has
been built since the war, and that just
before the credit squeeze. When the
Chevron Hilton went up in Macleay St,
real-estate men felt sure it was the be-
ginning of a new era for the Cross,
which they envisioned covered with mas-
sive hotels and blocks of holiday flats,
arcades of shops below.
But the Chevron dream ended with
Stage 1, and a big hole for the founda-
tions of Stage 2. The hole accumulated
much water and gave King’s Cross
a rare plague of mosquitoes and a respite
from the activities of Whelan the Wrecker-
and Booker the Builder. Probably few
King’s Cross residents realise their debt
to Mr Menzies. A year ago it was in-
evitable, in some minds, that King’s
Cross would become a huge tourist ac-
commodation centre, the entire ridge
ablaze with 20-storey glassed boxes.
Now, although large-scale redevelop-
ment is still considered inevitable, no
one will guess its nature or year or
decade.
The Cross, as it is, female as it is,
splendidly rich in moods and nuances,
will continue to live it up until this
time comes.




O[?] Archibald
Rejects
1 his Ar looking at the Archibald and Wynne
entriesjyere exhibited, we decided to have our own
salon (jes. And among the refuse we found some
fascinating pictures.
Portrait of R. C. Menzies by S*DN*Y N*L*N
Inland Development by R*SS*LL DR*SD*LE
Morris West repulsing the temptations
of HollyWood.
Duke and Duchess of Bedford at the
ancestral turnstile.
Blue Anguish menaced by Toil Road, composition in corrugated bitumen
by P*T H*LLS




The Letter writer
A COMPLETE STORY
by HAL PORTER
Mum is one of those women
who collects misfortune,
accident, disease and death.
Anytime, anywhere, to anyone she
can pin down to a simulation of
hearing if not listening, “Believe
you me,” Mum says, perhaps dig-
ging out ear-wax with a bobby-pin and
looking at it, “I’m a great one for letter-
writing. Got a gift for it. They all look
forward to Mum’s newsy letters.” For
this announcement she arranges her
mouth in a special way that indicates
confidence in her power thus to enchant
people. At times, no more honestly or
dishonestly, but in more rarefied mood,
“I’m a great one for cor-res-pond-ence,”
she says, perhaps clearing phlegm from
her throat with refined secrecy and,
equally secretly, swallowing it.
It’s one of the remarks she’s always
making: “Believe you me, kiddies are
tops. They’re delightful little scamps.
And kiddies know. They know Mum’s
personally very inter-es/-ed in them.
They always take a shine to Mum.” Or,
to reveal that she has a domestic as well
as a cultured and lovable side: “I do
quite a fair bit of fancy-work and cetera
myself,” she says.
Truth is that the third only and last
grimed bit of fancy-work she didn’t
finish in 1933 was a traycloth on which
a noseless crinolined woman with an
embroidered hare-lip held up a parasol
under a trellised arch sparsely dotted
with . . . could it have been measles?
As for children . . . kiddies . . . she has
had four herself: Horrie, Dot, Val and
Marlene, who all left her in ungrateful
huffs before their adolescent pimples
were ripe, and while her back was turned
to say, “Believe you me, it’s the mum
keeps the home together. I’m a mum, and
I know.”
Letter-writing?
Dear Val,
You owe me a letter but none yet so
here goes. Been a proper stinker today
and my back playing up like billy-oh.
Tell young Em he wrote a nice letter
although v. short (1 page). He sure gave
me some news (no mucking about) so
have gathered up some stamps for his
album (real good ones). That’s what
comes of writing me a nice letter. Tell
him my 60th birthday (no kidding) and
still kicking on Feb. 12th. Tell Mabel
someone pinched my Scottie Xmas card
she sent me. Did l see red and still see
it. I think 1 know the one. Have been
in bed with Bronchitis and Germ in the
throat but am on the mend and am
going gay (whack-oh) on my 60th birth-
day (Feb. 12th) all being well. Stan,
Hilda Freebie’s Stan that is, had a v.
nice funeral. A lot of the cousins there.
A nasty lot. Saw an awful case of nerves
the other day. Tell Dot and Chooka that
Frank is in hospital, the gas from the
war. Don’t think he’s long for this
world. You better let old Mrs Pither
know that on Feb. 12th . . .
She is one of those women who col-
lects misfortune, accident, disease and
death. News of cancer exhilarates her
for several days ; death is fodder for a
fortnight. Her own connection with
eternity has never entered her head from
which drifts a perpetual mulch of scurf.
She lives for cheap and useless time.
Take getting up in the morning—take
a Thursday morning, C.W.A. day, 7
o’clock. No alarm goes off, but she
decides to stop pretending to herself she’s
still asleep, and ungums her eyes to look
at the clock which has been knitting
away at her shroud all night. A big
woman, with the bony scaffolding of a
Neanderthal ruckman imbedded deep in
many pounds of coarse flesh no one
wants to take, she first of all levers her
Rodin bulk half-out of its warren and
drops her legs heavy as duffle-bags over
the edge of the bed. Two disconcertingly
small feet she washed a fortnight ago
make a single convinced declaration on
the bedside mat. It is, after all, their
mat. The eight toes wear eight perfected
and perfectly circular corns which she
has cherished for 35 years. She has been
married to them longer than she was to
her husband who, alive, had been a
slaughterman with fingernails edged all
round with blackened blood. He,
winkled by death out of her bed and
life after 30 years of them, was a corpse
with an archaic smile on its face. “Dear
old dad and I were helpmates,” she says,
looking unseeingly at the liver-spots on
the backs of her hands. “I gave dear
old dad the best years of my life,” she
says, dipping ginger-nuts in tea dark as
a Tamil.
She perceives no coalition between
these statements and the corpse’s smile
which, albeit a mere muscular quirk, was
an unanswerable comment. Before death
manufactured this underhand criticism
for him, he had had to limp in, morning
after morning, with a large MOTHER
cup of the Tamil-colored tea and two
slabs of singed bread wringing wet with
margarine, and cry ironically, even bit-
terly, “Wakey, wakey! Rithe and
thhine! ” Then she would grind the
sugary, honey-colored granules from her
eyes, and insert her false teeth, and shed
her first fall of dandruff for the day,
and say, “The toast’s too thin,” or “The
toast’s too thick,” or “Can’t you ever
serve a cup of tea without slopping it?”
TVTow, these human pleasures denied
her, now, C.W.A. day, a tealess
widow, she sits with the shiny rind of her
soles on their mat, and stares towards
the Niles and Mississippis of cracks in
the plaster wall, and reaches with prac-
tised blindness to the bedside cabinet
which contains a po and a pair of crippled
stays and on top of which her false
teeth, magnified by refraction, seem to
occupy fully a tumbler of oyster-colored
liquid. She hooks them out. She plugs
them into her face which becomes
brutally public. She is beginning to
resemble herself. She reaches for her
bloomers.
Let us draw a veil.
Let us lift a veil: it is nine o’clock.
She is dressed. She resembles, to the
last subtlety of odor, her C.W.A. self in
her navy marocain only partly rotted
under the armpits, her nylons nubbled
with varicose veins, and her white shoes.
She has taken her Epsom salts. Her
stays hem in a light Thursday breakfast:
two fried eggs, two sausages, four slices
of toast and dark plum jam, four cups
of tea. The day, too, is beginning to
resemble itself.
It really begins when she sees the post-
man go by without stopping. Upon this
her jaw becomes quilted with muscles
and her eyes get smaller. If it were not
C.W.A. day, and she due on the street-
stall with Mrs Stein at 10 o’clock, she
would get her indelible pencil, and lick
it, and write:
Dear Rube,
Must say I was v. upset when no letter
from the postie today, it’s been well over
three weeks. Have you had your asthma
again ? Doc Stafford says what with the
Bronchitis and all I’m lucky to be hav-
ing my 60th (Feb. 12th). You remember
Stan Freebie, well he passed on (cancer
of the bowels) and a v. nice funeral. I
made an anchor wreath of those pink
climber geraniums. Tell Bella they all
said the best there and couldn’t believe
it wasn't bought (whack-oh). Ollie Green
had a nasty ringworm. Tell Peg and
Nobbie I’m 60 on Feb. 12th, and not to
forget. If ;ou want backs of Xmas cards
for the Guild Quiz just drop a line and
postage (If3d.). Lot of summer colds
about this year. Don't think old Mrs
Dean will be with us much longer, she
had a nasty turn (her insides). Tell
Flossie she owes me three letters now
and to drop a card (Scottie dogs or roses)
on 12th. Weather a real scorcher.
Tell . . .
But she cannot spare time to be enter-
taining and fascinating on paper this
morning ; the world eagerly awaits her.
“They couldn’t get along without Mum,”
she tells herself, and pins on the
MOTHER brooch she bought herself,
and goes to the cupboard of jams she
made herself. It takes some time to find
a jar of jam small enough and with the
special quality making it suitable for the
C.W.A. street-stall, but she finds it. She
removes the cellophane covering, she
spoons off the plush of mould, she re-
places the cellophane, she puts the jar
in her basket with her plastic apron and
her purse. She goes into the backyard
overrun with Cape weed, sorrel and mint.
She picks and puts in the basket six
bunches of mint.
The moment has arrived to complete
her disguise. She rubs a grey powder-
puff over her chimpanzee nose, her faded
moustache and her wattles. She forces
down a hat over the powerful aluminium-
colored crenellations of her hair, and
chalks out some marks on her shoes.
Then, sure, but not absolutely, that her
neighbor has gone out, she goes next-
door. Secure in the validity of her
toilette which says Respectability, and
her bulk which says Salt of the Earth,
and her brooch saying Decency, and her
juggernaut advance implying Probity,
she reaches her neighbor’s back-door.
She calls through the fly-wire with a
voice louder than the size of the house
requires, with the complex accent and
tone of one who expects nothing to
answer but is catering for ears acciden-
tally listening elsewhere: “Mrs D., are
you there, dear? It’s only Mum.”
Nothing answers. She increases volume:
“I was wondering if you wanted any-
thing down the street . . .” Nothing
answers, not even a budgerigar. Directly
as fate, and majestically as chancellors
of universities, she goes to Mrs D.’s
vegetable garden. It takes little time, and
far less power than she grossly has, to
pull up and throw 12 carrots over the
fence into her own backyard, to screw
back into the ground carrots too small
for her purpose and vanity, and to
obscure the signs of her visit. Furrily
humming “The Old Hundredth,” she
returns to her own house. She washes
the carrots. She puts them in the basket.
She is ready. She locks her house, she
locks away the unmade bed, the un-
washed dishes, the indelible pencil, the
jam-cupboard, the blowflies alive and
dead, her husband's framed Rechabite
certificate, and the photograph of her-
self and the children, she rearing up with
her engraved expression of monopoly
above the forced smiles of Horrie with
a cow-lick, and Dot, Val and Marlene
cheaply overdressed and empty-eyed.
she arrives at the street-stall she
is forced to abandon an attitude,
to still herself to wariness, to shroud
certain powers for, instead of her usual
helper, Mrs Stein, who has a crippled
foot and is bossable, she finds Mrs Rad-
ford, who is shaped and colored too much
like a mother from a magazine, and is
inclined not so much to downright bossi-
ness as to an unawareness of others’
capabilities. Mrs Stein has, Mum knows,
selfishly accomplished an attack of
migraine. Mrs Radford, fool of a
woman, obviously believes the attack is
not deliberate.
“Yes, the poor old trout,” says Mrs
Radford, lipsticking away in the full
glare of Main Street, “when she tele-
phoned for help her poor little voice was
dim with pain. I was still en robe de
nuit, and Radford’s was a hive of indo-
lence. But the Stein is a lambie-pie. So
I hurled myself under showers, and drove
here like M. Campbell himself. Hon, is
there any lippy on the snowy tats?” And
she bares her brilliant teeth at Mum like
a poster Polynesian. “Now, hon, what
mullock has been unloaded on us this
fair morn? My God, look at this!” And
she lifts from among the donations of
plum sauce, silver beet, broad beans, and
no-egg sponges the texture and color of
bath-sponges, a framed oleograph of two
children in velvet, one of whom holds a
dead canary which they are sentimentally
sorrowing over.
. “Shades of my girlhood,” says Mrs
Radford. “ ‘The Little Mourners’ it is.
My mamma doted on the thing. It
seemed to cheer her up no ruddy end.”


“I thought it wasn’t a modren photo,”
says Mum, unpacking her basket in a
Lady Bountiful manner. “I could pick
it first off. Myself, I like a more modren
photo.”
“Really, hon? Do you really? I think
I go along with you there. Poor mamma
was crazy about all this old Christmas
Supplement stuff. Much more better,
like, than the tripe turned out by Rem-
brandt and Leonardo and those upstart
boys—so thought me old mum. But
she’d have given me a backhander if
she’d found me moping over a dead
canary instead of being virtuously cross-
eyed over homey.”
Then she says, lighting a cigarette,
“Hell, hon, you have gone crazy mit the
mint. But the whole southern hemi-
sphere’s lush with it: the yokels’ll have
a hellish sales-resistance. Bet we don’t
sell a bloody leaf.”
Mum would like to say, “If you please,
Mrs Radford, I don’t approve of swear-
ing in a lady,” but, faithful to a legend
she has made (“Mum’s always the same,”
she says of herself, “nothing puts her out,
for sure”), she begins an oath-free and
unstintedly detailed account of the bus
she missed because the bus-driver was
early, of the bus she caught after wait-
ing hours because the bus-driver was
late, of the bus-driver’s rudeness when
she told him off, and the dustiness of the
bus-seats, and of the superior qualities
of her son-in-law Chooka who is a bus-
driver on the Yarraville run. She tells
Mrs Radford that, among the five letters
she got that morning, was one from
Chooka who writes once a week. “Oh,
Mum. comes first with the son-in-laws,”
she says. “They appreciate what well-
trained wives they’ve got.”
Mrs Radford could scream. But all
she says, and in front of Canon Wake’s
wife who has picked up a bottle of
sulphur-yellow pickles and is assessing
them in a religious way, is: “Hell, hon,
if my son-in-law wrote to me I’d go
straight to a lawyer.”
Not much later, while Mum is sharing
a minute account of her costiveness with
Mrs Radford, Mrs Radford coarsely —
she has no manners at all —interrupts,
“Look, hon, I adore being guide-toured
through your troubles, but the truth is
your dipso old palsy-walsy Radford is
the tiniest mite overhung. You see, my
ouija-board neglected to reveal that Mere
Stein was to be in the throes, and your
humble on the bridge, or I’d have been
as pure as the driven, last night. But
you know how it is, hon. Filthy beasts
of husbands with their filthy friends with
filthy bottles —lovely! Be a doll, and
hold the tiller while I scarper to the
Pig and Whistle for a hair of.” Mum
cannot translate this until Mrs Radford
is across the road and into the Commer-
cial Hotel. Mum’s wattles stiffen.
Depravity, however, has its silver lining.
Gently grunting “Rock of Ages,” she
wraps the mint bunches in newspaper.
Then, choosing her time, and with the
over-nonchalance of someone publicly
concealing the fruits of infanticide, she
jams the parcel deep into a municipal
rubbish-basket on the nearby lamp-post.
Presently, Mrs Radford returns with
lipstick on her teeth. This pleases Mum
who says nothing of it.
“Hell, hon,” says Mrs Radford, “you
should be in insurance. Or did some-
one steal them?”
Mum puts on the expression of some-
one who has never heard of mint. But
it wasn’t mint.
“That eggless monster with the acne-
pink icing? And the dernier cri hessian
oven-mitts? No one would steal ’em.
You must have given them away.”
Mum inflates. “I sold them. Of
course,” she says, large and regal and
eyeless as a civic statue, but ladylike, and
putting Mrs Radford in her place, and
keeping her distance from the dangerous
smell of brandy as Mrs Radford keeps
her distance from the smell of Mum
who is biding her time.
“They tell me you're doing better than any of us."
She bides it until the noon angelus is
ringing, and their stint on the stall is over.
“Oh, by the way, Mrs Radford,” she
says, “the mint. I sold it. While you
were away in the . . .”
“Pub, hon. Local. Gin-crib. Rum-
shack. I have no shame.”
“The mint. I’m sorry to say you were
sadly mistaken. I could of sold it several
times over.”
“Garn!” says Mrs Radford, who never
says the right thing. “I’ll bet —just to
make a false prophet of me —that you
ate it yourself, you old monster.”
Mum’s face, defying this sort of
mockery too near the truth, takes on the
unarresting personality of a stopped clock.
olumnia-like, despite her abraded
* profile, Mum now proceeds, with the
monotonous and inexorable pace of fore-
seen doom, to the kitchen of the
Mechanics’ Hall, where other C.W.A.
women are at work on the catering for
a wedding breakfast later in the after-
noon. Already 20 trifles are lined up,
high-class slum food that the plastic-
aproned and tea-drunk women have con-
structed from a pastry-cook’s stale throw-
outs soaked in the liquid of tinned
peaches, thick-skinned skim-milk custard
and mean curls of mock cream. If men
live too large with their diabolically un-
charitable designing for another world,
women live too meanly with their penny-
pinching imitation of charity for this one.
Mum tells them it is a hot day. She
hangs up her hat to indicate that she
is about to put on her apron, puts on
her apron to indicate that she is about
to drink tea, makes it clear that it is a
hot day, and that yesterday was a hot
day and that tomorrow will probably
be . . . They could scream. Mum, self-
lessly repeating an elaborated description
of her morning’s experien” with
criminal bus-drivers, has five s of
tea. Their silence she sees as deep
interest. The poor things like a get-
together, she thinks, and a bit of enter-
tainment. Believe you me, Mum’s the
one, always bright and breezy. She picks
delicately as a starved dingo at the wed-
ding food, and talks. She scrapes Wool-
worth fish-paste on to the margarine
someone has scraped on bread, and talks.
She chops up lettuce until it is fine and
soaking as mermaid’s hair, and talks.
Now, to these other women, all mar-
ried, all deft in the manufacture of
rubbish from rubbish, all occupied in
the preparation of a rubbishy meal to
celebrate the marriage of a woman, tea
takes on the nature of an anodyne for,
until their money-making chicanery is at
an end, they are trapped between two
symbols: Mum and the wedding table.
This, composed of trestles hired from the
Fire Brigade, covered with cloths hired
from the Red Cross, is set with steel-
handled cutlery and grey tumblers hired


from St John's Church of England
Women’s Guild. Central among the neon-
colored bottles of gassy liquids, and the
soup-plates of water in which snipped-off
hollyhock flowers float, stands the
wedding-cake topped by a plastic groom
jin a 1930 dinner-suit, and a square-
shouldered bride. Above all hang the
limp loopings of green and black
streamers left over from the Footballers’
Ball. Before leaving with a pound of
margarine, a Swiss roll, four tomatoes, a
jar of anchovy paste and a packet of
custard powder concealed in her basket
beneath the plastic apron, Mum describes
Dot’s wedding-cake, and Val’s. and Mar-
lene’s. They tower, higher than cathe-
drals, whiter than icebergs, above the
semi-circles of red beet, the tinned ham,
the potato salad, on plates hired from
the Main Hotel. Nobody shuts her up.
Nobody screams.
Ultimately ultimately —-Mum goes
home.
The letter-box is empty. She unlocks
the house in which has been locked noth-
ing to steal. She takes off her stays. The
sun sets. As she is cooking noisily, eat-
ing noisily, washing up noisily, the night
rises into the twilight to flood it out. to
refresh her weeds. It refreshes the din
of crickets, it refreshes to life the little
noises of night, it refreshes most her
other inner voice now that space and
time have struck away the audience for
her physical one. She supports impati-
ently the necessary interval of barren-
ness that eating and slovenly domesticity
require, and the night is fully risen when
she takes up her indelible pencil, and
licks it. and writes:
bear Marlene,
Have had no news so am dropping a
line. Will be 60 on Feb. 12th and still
going strong (whack-oh). Had a bout of
Bronchitis but on the improve. Stan
Freebie, don’t know if you know him,
passed away of cancer (the bowels). A
Iwppy release but v. nice funeral. Tell
Cora she owes me a letter, two if 1
remember rightly. Remind her of my
(Oth. Busy day today in charge of
C.W.A. stall and wedding breakfast at
Mechs. Inst. All hands to pump. Had
them all in fits. The lady on the stall
with me (supposed to be) spent all the
morning in the hotel. You know what.
Could hardly stand. Did I see red and
tto mistake. Gave her a piece of my
mind (no mucking about). Ollie Green
hod a nasty ringworm. Tell . . .
The dandruff sifts down. Again and
again she licks her pencil ; the grey of
her tongue becomes suffused with violet.
Dear Gwen, she writes. Surprised no
news 1 from you as yet . . .
Dear Peg, she writes. Have been
expecting to hear . . .
Dear Dot, she writes. No letter from
y°u since . . .
Warmth gradually suspires from the
“Do you think he's a phony?"
earth as it does from a dead body. The
clock knits on. The blowflies drone
themselves to movelessness. All elbows
and decorously darting speed, the spiders
spin in the smashed springs of the settee,
between the dusty vases, along the tops
of curtains. Now, pale with effort, vast
and noisome, she finishes the last of her
pencilled letters. Now, as in the trance
of a bestial priestess moving towards the
consummation of a final rite, she rises,
she moves to get a pen and a bottle of
green ink, she sits again. Now, with
laborious care, a colossal schoolgirl, she
addresses an envelope:
“Mandy,”
C/o Country Women’s Page,
Weekly Advertiser,
Melbourne.
Now, the day gathered in, the day
solved, she writes:
Dear Mandy,
1 thought l would correspond and bring
Christian comfort to the lonely people in
your column for advice. I myself am
a popular widow with four lovely mites.
Their dear father has passed on. The
litle elves are tucked away in their nests.
1 am tired but happy, but couldn’t drop
off without a message to lonely souls
of your column. The message is, you
have a full life like I and no time for
worry and that. The alarm went off at
five. I sprang up and had a shower.
The postie came and there were letters
from relations and many more. What a
wonderful thing to be sure. Mrs Next-
door donated me eight bunches of carrots
for my stall. My garden is better than
hers, but you can’t hurt another’s feeling.
Then a wealthy friend called to take me
to the stall in style. They are
always calling for me for just rides,
or picnics and cetera, so you see
there is no need to be lonely. What
do your readers consider of about
ladies who go smoking and drinking?
/ am very broadminded and popular but
don’t agree with it. And dirty filthy
language, too. She brought mint along.
No good at this stage with everyone with
mint to burn, I said to her. 1 took a
lovely lot of flowers to the cemetery.
It was Chris’s (my late hubby) tenth
celebration of his passing. Some bus-
drivers are rude you find but will meet
their match and ought to be reported.
Do you know a photo called “The Little
Mourners” ? It is depicting two lovely
tots holding a sad little dead canary.
Whilst my late mother was alive she kep'
the picture and it came to me when she
passed on. I prize it as it is real to life
although the dressing of the children is
nothing like yoi see today. My mother
would never slap me for dead birds
instead of my home work. I know a
prayer for the lonely people to protect
a home from fire and flood and that. My
late sister proved it when an electric
storm struck the town she lived in. I
baked a lovely wedding-cake and decora-
tion. So tell them what with one thing
and another you haven’t got the time to
b * lonely.
Late —it grows late. The spiders have
spun themselves empty and their number-
less eyes to sleep. From the crude
branches of her bones the rank foliage
of her flesh sags down, weighs down,
towards the dirty floor, the dirty earth,
the dirty grave. With a thirsting move-
ment her empurpled tongue seeks and
circles finally about her lips and the last
sentences.
I wish you could see my lovely home
and garden. Eveyone says so and are
always in and out. Must now sign off
with a cheerioh.
She fights her thickening fingers, she
compels her bulk to answer her, she has
reached the end.
Thanking you in anticipation, she
writes, Yours truly, Elfin Maid.


“Dad, meet Helen of Troy, she's a War bride."


The Wild
Cat Pages
OIL
UNINFORMED INVESTORS
FINANCE BUSINESS ECONOMIC COMMENT FNVESTMENT OIL AND MINING
tvscussing the Moonie strike, Mr
Urquhart, chairman of the Sydney
Stock Exchange, notes that “very few
Australian investors could be acting in an
informed manner on this occasion, not
only because a full assessment of the
Moonie well and any surrounding wells
has yet to be made, but also because we
have no background of experience in
this country for evaluating an oil dis-
covery in sharemarket terms. Until we
have this knowledge, and, in particular,
until the tests in southern Queensland
have been completed and the geologists
and accountants have had the oppor-
tunity of evaluating the discovery, the
whole subject should be treated in a
reasoned manner and with a minimum
of emotion . ..”
When the first traces of oil were
found at Moonie, AOG's ss. ordinary
shares shot up from about 20s. to 485.,
and then to a peak of 75s. —compared
with the 1961 “low” of 7s. 6d. —despite
deliberately cautious progress reports
issued by the drilling company. At
that stage there was insufficient evidence
to show that the well was “commercial.”
Heavy American buying of AOG scrip
—at one time the New York sharemarket
Quoted prices higher than the Sydney
peak—spurred on the Australian buying
spree. But the basic speculative demand
for AOG shares following the Moonie
strike came from Australia.
Ironically, by the time it was officially
stated that Moonie was in fact “com-
mercial”, the demand slackened con-
siderably and AOG shares settled at
about 655. a unit. Even this seems too
high, taking into account that the real
commercial potential of the well, and of
the whole field, is yet to be assessed, and
that AOG has only a 20 p.c. share in
any possible profits. There is a real
paradox in the fact that official designa-
tion of the Moonie hole as “commercial”
has made relatively little impact on the
sharemarket.
If we are fortunate, Australia may
soon be entering into an exciting period
of important oil strikes. This calls for
a greater investment effort, to ensure
that most of the possible oil profits will
not be quite legitimately siphoned abroad,
and an informed and sober sharemarket
and public. Emotion, is a poor guide to
oil fortunes.
In assessing the potential of an oil
stock an investor must rely on expert
technical data, honestly and lucidly pre-
sented and evaluated against the general
background of the economics of oil pro-
duction and marketing.
IMPORT RESTRICTIONS
HOW MUCH PROTECTION?
Jr is now generally expected that the
Federal Government will introduce
some form of import restrictions at an
early stage. Ever since licensing controls
Were lifted early in 1960, there has been
steady agitation —particularly from the
less efficient manufacturers who are not
dependent on imported raw materials —
f°r reimposition of import controls.
After the deflationary measures were
introduced in November, 1960, the Fed-
eral Government was openly accused by
the Labor Opposition of attempting to
improve the balance-of-payments position
through deliberately causing a measure of
domestic unemployment to curb the flow
of imports.
Although credit restrictions were
followed by a sharp drop in the rate of
imports inflow there is little substance in
this political charge. The Federal Gov-
ernment was obliged to undertake
unpopular deflationary measures to
curb the run-away inflationary boom
which was dangerously overloading Aus-
tralia's cost structure. The Japanese
Government recently had to do the same.
Imports fell off as a natural conse-
quence of “boom-breaking”, which was
necessary, although a number of methods
used were hasty and incorrectly
applied. The Federal Government can
be justly accused of having failed to use
the deflationary situation to encourage
the transfer of productive resources left
idle by credit restrictions to the capital
goods sector —a charge seldom levied
because it makes poor political ammuni-
tion in an election campaign, and because
a large part of the Government’s critics
does not want to see the essential indus-
tries given any preference over the
higher profit-margin consumer goods
industries.
HPhe question of import restrictions is of
A vital importance. But it is useless to
merely argue for or against any import
restrictions. Import control policy must
face the immediate realities of the situa-
tion, seen against the background of the
long-run problems of economic growth in
a highly competitive world.
The important thing is to regard any
form of import controls—be it through
tariffs, quotas, licensing or subsidies—
as one of the instruments of economic
policy, no more and no less. Import
controls cannot be made an essential con-
dition of economic development by a
country which gets most of its overseas
earnings by selling primary produce on
the world markets, and which is
endeavoring to build up a competitive
manufacturing export industry.
In some situations import controls are
essential. Balance of payments problems
are immediate and require imoort policies
which can give prompt results. It is quite
in order to use some import restrictions
to rectify balance-of-payments problems.
But it is something quite different to
become committed to an import policy
which results in perpetual overprotection


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Established J. 562
Head Office: GEORGE ANI) HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. .1. VICARS. A. MURRAY .TONES. HUGH DIXON,
D. A. T. DICKINS. K. I',. MYERS. A. E. STEPHEN
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of Every Description
J. O. LEWIS, General Manager.
and a non-competitive cost structure.
In Australia, in the short run, the present
employment slack can be taken up by
public investment in capital projects,
using import restrictions as a subsidiary
instrument. In the long run, attempts
to establish export industries would be
jeopardised by a protectionist policy,
which inevitably raises production costs
and prices our products out of the world
markets.
npHE wisdom of the sudden wholesale
lifting of import restrictions in Feb-
ruary, 1960, is open to question. Mr
Menzies had probably overestimated the
competitive viability of Australian manu-
facturing industries. It also seems, in
retrospect, that tariff policy was insuffi-
ciently used as an instrument of import
control. But no doubt the lifting of
import restrictions has helped to check
the growth of some costs in the boom
phase.
It is to be hoped that the Federal
Government will not be forced into a
complete about-turn and sweeping
import controls, administered by an
expensive and cumbersome licensing
system. Selective import restrictions,
introduced for a definite purpose, may be
useful. And a wider use of tariffs —
recommended by an experienced and
impartial board —is advisable. On the
other hand, slapping on blanket import
restrictions is quite undesirable and will
do more harm than good. The idea,
pressed in some quarters, of introducing
“anticipatory tariffs’’ to protect non-
existent industries —a variation of the
famous old “infant industries protection”
gimmick —is unacceptable. If a certain
industry has to be built up for some
urgent national reason it can be helped
along to maturity by subsidies, tax con-
cessions and cheap capital loans, without
antagonising our trade partners by exces-
sive protection. Past experience shows
that once protection is granted a hot-
house atmosphere soon follows and the
“infant” industry never reaches maturity,
while reducing protection becomes
fraught with major political difficulties.
Tf selective import restrictions are intro-
duced, it is essential to ensure that
they are the minimum required and
that they will not damage our export
trade. Protectionism as a principle
“ You've got a suspicious nature, Fred”
breeds retaliation as a principle. Care
must be taken not to scare Australia’s
major customers, and here long-run
considerations become particularly
important. For instance, Japanese trade
officials seem very apprehensive about
the extent of the anticipated import
restrictions.
Part of the problem could be solved
by gearing import controls as much as
possible to the requirements of our
economic development, giving definite
preference to imports of capital goods
and essential raw materials.
The entire problem must be tackled
with detachment and objectivity that
may be difficult to achieve in the
political climate which has followed the
recent Federal elections, and which gives
unprecedented power to the various
pressure groups.
E. B.
VACUUM CLEANERS
TARIFF PROTECTION REDUCED
domestic appliances manu-
facturers, who are demanding higher
duties on rival imports, last week got a
setback from the Tariff Board, which
found that the degree of protection for
vacuum cleaners and floor polishers
should be leduced. ,
The Tariff Board, presenting its n -
ings to the Department o ra e, note
tat retai se mg puces 0
cleaners and floor polishers averaged 113
p.c. and 73 p.c. respectively over the
manufacturing and selling costs. These
large profit margins were similar to the
ones found by the board in 1954 and
1957. The board expressed its concern
that competition between manufacturers
of vacuum cleaners and floor polishers
was largely restricted to “trade-in”
allowances and distribution margins and
felt that if price competition reduced
retail prices both consumers and manu-
facturers would benefit. No evidence
was found of any harmful effects of
competition from imports. Hoover
(Australia) Pty Ltd, the largest pro-
ducer and assembler of vacuum cleaners
and floor polishers in Australia, gave
evidence in support of tariff reductions.
The company’s representative at the
Board’s hearings said that lower prices
should follow cost reductions, and this
should increase turnover. Lower duties
on parts would also provide an alterna-
tive source of supply at competitive
prices. This argument cut across the
claims of manufacturers who opposed a
reduction in duties, arguing that it would
put domestic producers out of business.
The Minister for Trade, Mr J
McEwen, accepted the Tariff Board’s
recommendations and said duties on
imported vacuum cleaners and floor
polishers and parts will be reduced.
Lower tariffs will also apply 1°
imports of bathing caps, guitars,
safety pins and floor tiles. Tariff pro-
tection for tyre cord and tyre cord
fabrics, styrene, acrylic resin emul-
sions for paints and floor polish, and


superbly
dry
FINO DRY
SHERRY
•• • •
• •
ASK ALSO FOR ST. AGNES BRANDY
industrial nitrocellulose used for mak-
ing paints will be increased,
It is interesting to note that retailers
will be the ones most affected by tariff
reductions. Figures released during the
Tariff Board's hearings show that, of the
113 p.c. average profit margin earned
on vacuum cleaners, 21.1 p.c. went to
the wholesaler, 47.7 p.c. to the retailer
and 44.2 p.c. to the manufacturer. In the
case of floor polishers the retailer’s
margin averaged 64.4 p.c.
OVERSEAS TRADE
LARGE NON-STERLING SURPLUS
rvvERSEAS trade figures for the Septem-
ber quarter of 1961 show an
encouraging overall export surplus of
£4om., compared with a trade deficit of
£83.1m. in the same quarter of 1960.
Earnings from non-sterling areas
accounted for by far the major part of
the favorable trade balance. There was a
marked rise in the trade surplus with
the communist bloc, particularly Com-
munist China. Imports from the dollar
area continued to exceed exports,
although the gap was considerably
narrowed down. Trade with the
European Free Trade Area showed an
adverse balance, but an export surplus
was achieved with the European Com-
mon Market group.
Surpluses with the free world’s non-
sterling area seem to have a firmer base
than gains from sales to the communist
bloc. Export surplus with the non-
sterling area (including Japan, Korea,
Nationalist China, Siam, the Philippines,
the Middle East and South America)
amounted to £29.3m. —an improvement
of £22.6m. on the third quarter of 1960.
Here our exports are slowly but steadily
rising and there are chances that existing
markets may be expanded and new out-
lets found through persistent efforts and
direct selling methods. The new direct
shipping service to South America should
be a great help.
ptADE with the communist countries—
the Soviet Union, Communist China,
Hast Germany, Poland and Czechoslo-
vakia—resulted in an export surplus of
£25.8m. for the period (up £23.3m.).
However, although some increase in
regular trade turnover with the Soviet
Union, Poland, Czechoslovakia —and
possibly East Germany—may be antici-
pated, Australia’s sales to Communist
China must be regarded as sporadic. In
ihe September quarter of last year exports
of wheat and barley to Communist China
totalled almost £2lm., accounting for
a bout 90 p.c. of the overall rise in export
surplus with the entire communist area.
Grain sales to Communist China depend
°n the extent of food shortages encount-
e red by the Peking Government, its
foreign exchange reserves and purely
political considerations, and it is foolish
to base any long range trade hopes on
them.
On the other hand, the £2.3m. balance
of the increase in the trade surplus rea-
lised on sales to East Europe could be
expanded, even independently of the
improvements in wool prices.
Poland —and to some extent Czecho-
slovakia —seems to follow the least
politically colored trade policy within
the East European communist bloc, and
is capable of offering some heavy,
medium and light capital equipment suit-
able to Australia. Even in the case of a
substantial increase in trade turnover,
the quantities involved would be far too
small to cause political worries. How-
ever, Australian goods are not well
known in this area, and in the past there
were some unsuccessful attempts to sell
eggs, cheese, milk, butter and other dairy
products traditionally produced and
exported by Poland. Any efforts to
push Australian products must concen-
trate on articles which have a fair
chance of winning markets—such as
tallow, yarn, fibres, asbestos, essential
oils, glues, bowels, tannings, and con-
centrates of zinc and rutile. There may
be possibilities of exporting limited
quantities of steel and iron sheets. Of
course, the degree of trade reciprocity
poses a problem.
The Poznan International Trade Fair,
held between June 10 and 24, offers an
opportunity to present Australian goods
in Poland and East Europe, particularly
since the rival Leipzig Trade Fair in
East Germany is expected to attract
many less customers than usually because
of the Berlin crisis. However, exhibits
must be carefully selected on the basis
of their probable marketability and
strong competition for some products
must be expected from the United King-
dom and the European Common Market
countries—particularly France and Italy,
which have already secured extra space
allocations.
'T'urnover with ihe sterling area and
the European Common Market
group was on the whole encouraging.
Although the sterling area surplus was
only £4.6m., it compares with a deficit of
£3lm. in September quarter of 1960. And
trade with the Common Market bloc
resulted in a surplus of £5.6m., compared
with the previous deficit of £4.3m.
If Australia succeeds in maintaining
some export surplus with the Common
Market and is able to build up its Latin
American, Middle Eastern and East
European trade to compensate for at
least a portion of the market losses
expected to follow Britain’s entry into
the European Economic Community, the
transitional period may not be nearly as
difficult as was originally thought.


COMPANY REVIEWS AND NOTES
AUSTRALIAN CONSOLIDATED INDUSTRIES
GROUP NET PROFIT RISES
T* eservations about the previous year’s
results and the ensuing eighteen
months were the underlying theme in
A.C.l.’s latest report. As with other
basic industry groups, glass manufac-
turers enjoy slightly less than average
profit margins however, turnover
bridges the gap.
Australian Consolidated Industries
Limited is Australia’s largest glass manu-
facturer producing glass containers,
window glass, flint blown and pressed-
ware glass, building-bricks and glass-
fibre products. In addition it is engaged
in engineering, quarrying, finance and
plastics. The complex operates through-
out the Commonwealth and in New
Zealand, Singapore and Thailand.
The pattern of subsidiaries linked to
the A.C.I. group shows both vertical and
horizontal integration, all of which help
achieve cost reductions and economies
of scale. From the basic raw materials
to the final sales promotion and market-
ing, the A.C.I. group presents a fully
integrated unit capable of peak efficiency.
In addition to its existing overseas
associations, the following interesting
arrangements have been currently
made:
Chicago Bridge and Iron Company of
Chicago, U.S.A. has joined with A.C.I. to
from " Bridge-Lennox Pty Ltd (formerly
Lennox Heavy Transport and Erection
Company Pty Ltd) ;
Agreement in principal has been reached
with Harbison Walker Refractory Company
of Pittsburgh, U.S.A., for the manufacture
of basic refractories used in steel, glass and
cement industries in Australia ;
Plans are in hand to establish a plant of
suitable size to manufacture corrugated con-
tainers at Kuala Lumpur in the Lederation of
Malaya.
It was announced that in October. 1961,
the sum of £6,344,186 (comprising
£2,471,483 share premium reserve and
£3,872,703 revaluation reserve) was to be
capitalised and a bonus issue of one-for-
two for shareholders registered on the
13th October, 1961 (fractions to be sold
and distributed). The expanded capital
of the company provides ample scope for
internal financing. A cash issue of one-
for-five (including bonus shares) held on
the 30th November. 1961, is to be made
payable 15s. on application on February
15, 1962, and the balance on July 31,
1962. These shares will carry the right to
a dividend of one-quarter of the total
rate of dividend which may be declared
on fully paid ordinary shares for the
year ending 30th June, 1962.
The cash issue is to provide funds for
new furnace and batch mixing facilities
for glass container manufacture in
Adelaide, a new sheet glass factory in
Dandenong, Victoria, and new furnaces
and other extensions to glass-making
plants in Sydney, Auckland and Christ-
church as well as for developments in
the plastics and engineering industries
generally.
After the current expansion of capital
ordinary paid up capital will exceed £23
million. During the year a further invest-
ment of some 200,000 ordinary £1 shares
in Luke Muras as well as a £200,000 loan
were made.
After noting that the company has been
laboring under increasing costs for a
number of years, a “small increase” in
the selling price of glass containers was
made last June (the first since 1953). It
was pointed out that the Singapore opera-
tions are able to compete freely and
successfully on world markets as com-
pared to the frustrated Australian export
ventures.
Group results during the past term
included the Banks Boxes and Johnston
Cardboard Box companies and the FI. N.
D. Bottle Company Pty Ltd. Results
of Wonderglass (A/asia) Pty Ltd, Mel-
bourne, were omitted. Trading profits
increased £937,992 to £8,564,290. Income
from investments totalled £469.364 (up
£79,238 on last year’s figure of £390,126).
Consolidated earnings were disclosed at
£2,645,157 (up £308,272) after providing
£2,078,649 for depreciation of fixed assets!
(up £191,815). Directors’ and auditors’ fees'
were £118,459 and taxation absorbed I
£3,093,731 —an increase of £528,640. The
annual migration of funds to the various i
provisions and reserves totals £ 1.090.000.
After these transfers are added to the I
consolidated net profit we would get
something of the real picture of consoli-
dated net earnings of £3,735,157
(up £313,272) for the year ended June
30, 1961: |
A.C.I. and Subsidiaries-.* - ,
Dividends —s
Net Pref. Re-
Jne., Profit. 9 p.c. r— —Ordinaries s serves.*
£ £ £ £
’59 5,284,938 15,750 121 p.c. =1,219,144 15,983,365
To staff fund, £50,000 . . . . 15,983,365
Profit Kile assets, £223 . . . . 15,933,586
Share premiums, £1,084.585 .. 17,018,173
Reserves capitalised, £1,663,325 . . 15,354,848
To stock-fluctuations prov., £450,000 14,904,818
Net additions reserves, £229,284 .. 15.134,132,
’6O 3,421,885 15,750 124 p.c. =1,517,701 17,002,566]
To staff fund, £50,000 • • .• 1 '»,9 5 2,soiit
Share premiums, £1,092,127 .. 18,044,693
Consolidation adjust. £753,064 .. 17,291,629
Stock adjustment, £400,000 . . . . 16,891,629
Net unexplained add. £462,583 .. 17,354,212
’6l 3,735,157 15,750 124 p.c. =1,582,761 19,490,838
To staff fund, £50,000 . . . . 19,440,858
* Subject to intangibles written off in 1957 againstj
revaluation reserve accrued for that purpose. |
f Deducting outside interest in profits and reserves,!
After satisfying the preference dividend
requirements (£15,570) this was equiva-
lent to an earning rate of 29.9 p.c. on
the higher average ordinary capital of
£12,663,500, compared with 28.1 p.c. of
1960 and the 32.9 p.c. on pre-bonus]
capital in 1959. The ordinary dividend
rate was a steady p.c. (£ 1,598,511).
Ploughback amounted to £2.136,646,
which was almost equal to the disclosed
net profit figure of £2,645,157.
During the year share prenTums in-
creased by £1,092,127. Transfers to
general reserves amounted to £891,000,’
Adjustments to consolidated reserves re-1
duced them by £753.064. Last term s net;
unexplained additions to reserves
amounted to £462,583 bringing the total
for the last eight years to £2.242,823,
Total reserves and undistributed profits
were shown at £19,440.858 (including
£760,399 provision for contingencies),!
Consolidated Balance-sheet. ’ |
1959. 1960. ISM-
£ £
Paid capital .. 9,9 28,149 1 2.40 7.4 29 1 2,823,3;
Reserves . . . . 15,933,365 16,052.56 6 19, 440,M
Outside interests* 262,765 513,f»M> 446,39
Mortgages . . 249,075 236.021 254,'0w
Overdraft . . . . 1,621,7366
Sundry creditors. . 3,006,217 3,692,527 3.733.1
Staff 'fund .. 274,200 273,500 2.73,408
Inter-eo. balance.. - _ p J
Sundry provisions 5,06 4,6 3 9 5,7 4 6,160 6,535 a
Final divs. .. 731,487 915,127 951,0
35,449,897 40,737,316 46,100, Mt
Freehold . . . . 7,64 5,9 5 0 9,110,8 78 1 0,7234*]
Plant, etc. .. 7,4 1 7,68 4 9.0 7 4,105 11,82>
Shares, etc. .. 1,937,920 2,559,198 2,763,9
Stocks . . . . 9,147,8 3 0 9,5 3 5,2 9 8 11,545,»
Debtors .. •• 3,748,474 6,566.054 i,452,-m
Bonds, cash, etc... 5,536,225 3,855,525 1,689,^
Inter-co. balancef 15,814 2,958 wj
35,449,897 40,737.316 46,100,01jj
* Including proportion reserves, f Due to differencfl
in balance-date. j
Outside interests fell to £466,328 o ßi j
I


Lstab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
Jl-O'SULLfVXN v /
PTYLTD . **
rSADEN^'MAWK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANU TACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
to further investment in existing sub-
sidiaries. Over £6,400,000 was added to
fixed assets through direct expenditure
or by acquisition of new companies.
This high level of expenditure on
fixed assets may dilute the group’s earn-
ing power. During the next term paid
capital will increase to over £23 million.
The issue of bonus shares will of course
in the short run decrease the ability of
the company to earn similar profits as
in previous years. That being so Directors
point out that future dividends will be
reduced proportionately to two-thirds of
what they were. Plant, etc., increased to
£11,825,576 (up £2,751,471).
Accounts as shown are conservative. A
note of warning in the chairman's
address pointed to the fact that esti-
mates for 1962 are not expected to
reach the levels of 1961. However, eigh-
teen months ahead A.C.l.’s earning
capacity should be just as high as before
the 1961 bonus.
At the last sale in Sydney the 20s.
ordinary shares fetchced 71s. 3d. for a
yield of 2.3 p.c. p.a. The rights to the
current issue sold for 375. 104 d. Net
tangible asset backing shows 495. 3d.
for each 20s. ordinary share or. con-
solidated figures.
BRUCK MILLS (AUSTRALIA) LTD
FIERCE COMPETITION FROM IMPORTS
TTiere was a drastic change in the
pattern of demand, with a strong
swing against rayon, and Bruck Mills
faced a major reorganisation. This has
now been completed, and the company
boasts an efficient and modern plant
which it hopes will give it a good edge
over its competitors. Further modernisa-
tion is in progress, and new looms and
dyeing and finishing equipment have been
installed.
Bruck Mills (Australia) Ltd was
formed in Melbourne in 1946 to acquire
the Australian assets of Bruck Silk Mills
Ltd, of Montreal, Canada, engaged in
spinning, throwing, weaving, dyeing,
printing and finishing silk, rayon and syn-
thetic materials and fabrics. The fac-
tory is located in Wangaratta, Victoria.
The company has continued to widen
its range of fabrics. Among new pro-
ducts successfully introduced was car
upholstery material used on the new
Ford Falcon. Water-proofing of many
fabrics by a synthetic coating process
was successfully commenced last term.
The subsidiary Bulli Spinners Pty Ltd
(jointly owned by Bruck Mills and John
Vicars Co. Ltd, Sydney, on a 50-50
basis) operated profitably and main-
tained a high standard of efficiency.
The year 1959-60 was one of the most
difficult trading periods experienced by
the company since its inception, and
resulted in a loss of £30,883. In the first
six months of last term there were
definite signs of improvement, and a
trading profit of approximately £150,000
before tax was disclosed in an interim
report. But early in the second half the
company felt the full impact of economic
restrictions and easy entry of rayons and
other synthetic materials from overseas,
mainly Japan and Hong Kong.
The inflow of imported fabrics forced
the company to dispose of some of its
materials at unprofitable prices to match
its competitors.
Net profit for the year ended June
30, 1961, was £72,322, after a loss of
£30,883 in 1959-60. Provision for de-
preciation was £5077 higher at £82,670,
while income tax took £19,000: —-
Year, , Dividend To Re-
June Profit- Pref. Ord. serves. Deficit.*
30, 5 f>.c.
1958.220,343 12,500 12ip.c.=149,439 64,405 715,482
Tax overprovided, £5206 .. .. 720,688
1959.176,019 12,500 8 p.c.= 95,640 7.579 728,567
Loss
1960. 30,553 12,500 685,184
Pro-fit
1961. 72,322 12,500 4 p.c.= 47,820 12,002 697,186
* After deducting intangibles, now £115,955.
This was equivalent to an earning rate
of 5 p.c. on average ordinary capital,
after 5 p.c. preference dividend
(£12,500), compared with a loss in 1960,
8.36 p.c. in 1959, 17.82 p.c. in 1958 and
19.22 p.c.. in 1957.
The 4 p.c. ordinary dividend absorbed
£47,820. Reserves benefited by £12,002,
rising to £697,186 after deducting
£115,955 for intangibles.
Paid capital was unchanged at
£1,445,500 in 250,000 5 p.c. cumulative
20s. preference shares and 1,195,500 20s.
ordinary shares. Bank overdraft more
than doubled at £578,680, and helped
finance plant modernisation:
Paid capital— 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord 1,195,500 1,195,500 1,195,500
Reserves .. .. 844,522 801,139 813,141
Mortgage .. ... 75,000 75,000 75,000
Bank overdraft .. 285,982 578,680
Creditors .. .. 360,624 321,753 324,397
Final divs. ... 54,818 6,250 54,070
Tax provision .. 65,000 20,384 39,383
£2,845,464 £2,956,008 £3,330,171
Freehold property 449,449 450,002 449,911
Leasehold .. 4,769
Plant, machinery,
etc 474,922 574,752 533,237
Shares .. .. 75,000 75,000 75,000
Stock .. .. 820,604 887,306 1,251,300
Debtors, etc. .. 781,556 837,652 867,007
Cash .. .. 123,209 15,341 37,761
Intangibles .. 115,955 115,955 115,955
£2,845,464 £2,956,008 £3,330,171
Freehold property at £449,911 and plant
and machinery at £533,237 were slightly
lower after higher depreciation charges.
Investments remained steady at £75,000.
Stocks rose by £363,994 to £1,251,300.
There was a slower turnover of debtors,
shown at £867,007.
With general improvements in the
economic climate, the company may
return to more profitable trading, but
the competition from imports remains
fierce. The co.’s chairman intimated that
any benefits of an emergency duty on
medium and higher class fabrics would
not be apparent until current stocks are
liquidated.
Net tangible assets backing of the 20s.
prefs. is £8 11s. 5d., and the 20s. ords. a
healthy 31s. Bd. a unit.
At the last sale in Sydney the 20s.
5 p.c. cum. prefs. changed hands at par,
and the 20s. ords. were traded for 16s. 6d.
each. The immediate yield is 4.8 p.c.
at the 4 p.c. dividend rate. Still priced
below par, these shares could become a
good recovery proposition if earnings
improve.


BUCKINGHAM’S LTD
LONG STRUGGLE AHEAD
Sales w 7 ere adversely affected by the
introduction of credit restrictions the
full impact of which was felt in the
second half of last year. Retail trade
continues to be difficult, the cost of
selling increases in greater proportion
than sales and increased competition by
laiger retailers presents many problems.
Buckingham’s Ltd was formed in 1920
to take over a retail drapery and cash-
order business established in 1878. The
group operates the Ashleys Bucking-
ham and Curzons chains of stores in
the centre of Sydney and in the suburbs
of Parramatta, Hurstville, Bankstown,
West Ryde, Fairfield, Caringbah,
Campsie, Ashfield and Chatswood. There
are stores in Wollongong. Newcastle,
Katoomba and Blackheath, all in N.S.W.
The company also operates a fleet of
panel vans known as the “Home Service
Division,” catering for customers in the
outlying districts. A property was pur-
chased at Campsie (Sydney) for a new
Ashleys Buckingham store.
The company has experienced setbacks
in recent years, mainly from losses
incurred in the TV and home appliances
section. Buckingham’s fashion-lines were
another weak link.
The reduction in turnover, particularly
in sections dependent on credit selling,
dampened last term's earnings. Re-organ-
isation over the past three years has not
yet been reflected in improved results.
Consolidated net profit for year ended
July 31, 1961 was £18,991 lower at
£60,167, after writing off £44,942 for
depreciation (down £5873) and making a
provision of £9925 for taxation (down
£30,960):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Dividends To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. N serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1958.-119,008 5,938 10 p.c. = 88,100 24,970 960,374
Net reduction reserves, £19,325 .. 941,049
1959.. 14,844 5,938 5 y.c. = 46,558 903,397
Net increase provision for collections,
£19,682 923,079
1960.. 79,158 5,938 6 p.c. = 55,868 17,352 940,431
Net decrease provision for collections,
£159,431 .. .. •• •• 781,000
Redeemable pref. shares, £11,875 .. 769,125
Gi p.c.
1961.. 60,167 7,719 6 p.c. = 75,195 _746,3/8
* Subject to £60,217 intangibles at 31/7/61.
After paying a higher preference divi-
dend (64 p.c.-£7719) this was equivalent
to an earning of 4.2 p.c. on average
ordinary capital, compared with 7.9 p.c.
in 1960, 1 p.c. in 1959 and 12.8 p.c.
in 1958.
The 6 p.c. ordinary dividend absorbed
£75,195 and reserves had to be drawn
upon. Consolidated reserves were lower
at £746,378 after writing off £159,431
provisions for collections, paying £11,875
to the redeemable preference share-
holders and drawing £22,717 from
reserves to help pay the ordinary divi-
dend. Intangibles amounted to £60,217.
Ordinary paid up capital remained
unchanged at £1,253,255. The 475,000
5 p.c. ss. redeemable preference shares
held by the City Mutual Life Assurance
Society Ltd, were replaced by an equal
number of 8 p.c. ss. redeemable cum.
prefs.
The balance of convertible notes
(£238,112) not converted on July 31, 1960,
was redeemed for cash on July 31, 1961.
During the year a new issue of £lOO.OOO
"... and remember , son, the man who loves his Work is seldom a malcontent."
notes was made, bearing interest
rate of 8| p.c. per annum. These notes
are redeemable for cash on July 31,
1966.
Creditors, bank overdraft and sundry
depositors increased by £363,954 to
£1,956,859. Provision for unearned
income increased by three times to
£231,140:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Taid capital—- 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref £118,750 £116,750 £118,750
Ord 931,167 1,253,255 1,253,255
Reserves .. .. 903,397 940,431 746,378
Mortgages .. 237,067 249,500 225,200
Notes . . . . 351,000 238,112 100,000
Creditors, tax pro-
vision . . . . 1,741,406 1,592,905 1,956,859
Provision unearned
income . . . . 73,391 73,081 231,140
Final divs. .. 49,527 30,903 42,348
£4,405,705 £4,497,237 £4,676,930
Land, buildings .. 966,630 1,002,303 1,076,179
Fixtures, fittings . . 603,726 597,924 591,931
Shares .. .. 38,171 44,435 3,077
Stock .. .. 9 85,8 2 6 9 8 3,811 928,033
Debtors .. .. 1,717,389 1.791,879 1,997,296
Cash .. .. 14,235 15,338 20,197
Intangibles .. 79,728 61,547 00,217
£4,405,705 £4,497,237 £4,676,930
Investment in shares decreased by
£41,358 to £3077. Stocks were also lower
at £928,033, while sundry debtors
increased by £205,419 to £1,997,296 due
to slower repayments.
Buckingham’s once-strategic position in
Oxford Street, Sydney, is today a liability
from a major retailer’s point of view.
This led to branching out into suburbia
which is considered essential to survival
in the long-run.
Some sections are now doing encourag-
ingly well and the high-fashion name of
Curzons is proving useful. But there
is a long struggle ahead. Takeover bids
cannot be ruled out.
Net tangible asset backing works out
at 7s. 9d. for each ss. ord. At the last
sale in Sydney the ss. ords. changed
hands at ss. 2d. per unit. The
immediate return is 5.8 p.c. on the basis
of the 6 p.c. dividend rate.
B.H.P.
DEBENTURES
npuE Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd has
announced that it will make an issue
of “medium long-term” debentures later
in the current financial year. Allotment
will not necessarily be proportional to
shareholdings, and shareholders will not
enjoy any specific or transferable rights.
The extent and form of the issue are still
being considered by the company.
This will be the first public issue of
debentures fn the B.H.P.'s eventful
financial history and possibly indicates a
departure from the traditional policy of
meeting most of the group’s capital
requirements from fresh share issues and


Btl
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Go. Ltd.
Financier . . . Established 1882
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Interest payable quarterly through the Bank of N.S.W.
Free of Exchange.
DIRECTORS:
W. R. Schofield (Chairman)
T. H. Martin Dr W. F. Pattinson
Alternate Directors: R. V. Agnew, G. L. A. Donohoo
Trustee for Debenture Stock Holders:
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
APPLICATIONS AND PROSPECTUS
Applications will be accepted only on one of the forms
of application attached to the printed copy of the Pros-
pectus which may be obtained from:
# All branches of the Bank of New South Wales in New
South Wales, Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 4521-2-3.
AND BRANCHES
.Underwriting Broken'.
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O’Connell Street, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne. 340 Queen Street, Brisbane
BROKERS IN VICTORIA
Clarke & Co., 450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS IN QUEENSLAND
Charles Elliott & Son, 356 Queen St., Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BROKERS IN CANBERRA
T. H. Thompson &. Son, Petrie St., Canberra
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
I.
2
PER ANNUM
FOR 5 YEARS
ES
&
6 months
9 months
5
4*
*
12 months
2 years
•\*
3 years
4 years
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Union Australia Group)
ESTABLISHED 1872
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne. Queensland Branch:
Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agrents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON, Manager
accumulated reserves. Debenture interest
should be cheaper than servicing dividend
payments on an increased share capital.
The question arises if the development
of a general tendency to finance expan-
sion through fixed-interest borrowings
rather than by new share issues can be
expected. This could slow down the rate
of growth of the “dynamic” equity stocks
although the “true ’ growth rate of the
listed companies—and, for that matter,
of the economy as a whole —-could be
somewhat accelerated by the employment
of cheaper funds.
If this trend develops in the long run,
there may be hopes for some relaxation
in the upward pressure on the overall
cost structure of the Australian economy
because of lower cost of funds. Fixed-
interest borrowings normally carry a
lower interest rate than average dividend
payments and are also allowable deduc-
tions taxwise. But the growth of equity
stocks may then become much slower
than the sharemarket has been accus-
tomed to over the past few years.
SANTOS-DELHI
DULLINGARI No.1
Cantos Ltd reports that a new explora-
tory test well will shortly be drilled
in the north-east of South Australia, in
the Great Artesian Basin, on area jointly
held by Santos Limited and Delhi Aus-
tralian Petroleum Limited.
Delhi Australian last year completed
an extensive seismic and aero-magnetic
programme as a result of which it has
now been decided to drill on a site
approximately 40 miles south of Inna-
mincka. The new well will be known
as Delhi-Santos Dullingari No. 1 and
will test the structure in what is con-
sidered to be “an attractive sedimentary
area.' The cost of this drilling opera-
tion will be a charge against the balance
of approximately U.S. $900,000 still to be
expended by Delhi under an agreement
with Santos.
The well has a total projected depth of
11,500 feet and is expected to commence
next March.
OIL DEVELOPMENT, N.L.
BORAL LINK
Qil Development, N.L. reports an
agreement with Bitumen and Oil Re-
fineries (Australia) Ltd—popularly known
as Boral —under which 2,000,000 ss. ords.
will be placed with Boral at par for cash.
Oil Development’s directors say that the
placement “is in accordance with their
stated policy of securing the financial
support and interest of a substantial Aus-
tralian organisation.” Funds provided by
the placement will be used mainly to step
up drilling and seismic activities in Oil
Development’s 19,500 - square mile
Queensland concession.
Mr A. T. Molloy, Oil Development’s
secretary, says that “by agreement,
control, management and policy of Oil
Development, N.L. will remain un-
changed.” However, Boral will enjoy
preference “in respect to supplies of
crude oil which may become available to
Oil Development, N.L.”
The placement does not participate in
the current one-for-one issue of 3,766,000
ss. ords. Caltex, which has a substantial
shareholding in Boral, will now acquire
an indirect interest in Oil Development.
On January 18, 1962, options in respect
to 295,000 contributing shares were
exercised by a cash payment of 3s. 6d. a
share and outstanding options now total
200,000.


A. L. NEViTT, DRAPER & CO.
A. JL. NEVITT. A. C. Dll APIS It,
N. VV. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761
(4 lines)
P.O. BOX
No. 1887 W
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stook Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN. M. R. L. DOWLING,
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne, ei-SOST (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney
Melbourne or Woolongong.
Financiers in London, Tokyo,
New York.
Experts in every field of business
and commerce.
Unbiased correspondents in
Canberra.
Facts are presented precisely,
concisely in
The Australian
FINANCIAL TIMES
OUT EVERY MONDAY
PRICE 1/6
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your
fancy write to the Manager, who will
quote you a price for the original.
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Monday, January 29
TT was certainly nice to see Mr Menzies
A putting his shoulder so squarely be-
hind the market last week. His remarks
about the need for short-term measures
to stimulate economic recovery were
received like an anxious female accepting
her hesitant lover’s proposal. The result,
of course, was that the market really
began to hum and to hum in a way
which we had not seen for eighteen
months or more.
For some time I’d had the feeling that
things might really start to move again
in January, but oil tended to steal the
limelight from the rest of the market for
the first couple of weeks, at least. Now,
however, I feel that my Christmas shop-
ping was worth it. In that burst, you
might remember, I spent a mere £2,000
in a few days on 1,000 Harris Holdings
at 7/- (now 8/6), 200 Hunter Douglas
at 26/- (now 37/6), 200 Beau Monde at
25/- (33/6), 500 Fibre Containers at 34/9
(36/-) and 800 Leo Buring at 6/4 (6/11).
Without doubt, the star performers in
that group have been Hunter Douglas
and Beau Monde. The others have not
done quite as well although I still have
high hopes for the Fibre Containers
takeover-bonus situation.
What has worked out better than Fibre
Containers has been the 400 Antill Ranger
bought a couple of weeks ago at 15/-
just when that takeover battle was warm-
ing up. Little did I imagine that as many
as three other bidders would enter the
fray and that I would be able to make
4/- a share so quickly. When the price
approached 20/- I decided to take my
profit, which amounted to a very pleasant
£BO.
The reunion with Antill Ranger proved
so sufficiently pocket-warming that I de-
cided to revisit another stock I held for a
time early last year, W. J. Manufacturing.
W.J. is still not my idea of a blue chip
but from all accounts it (and also Beau
Monde) will be among the few companies
to report improved trading in the past
half-year, which could mean some
improvement in last year’s 7 per cent, div-
idend rate. W.J.'s virtue is that it has been
falling into good company lately. Not
only is it associated with A.C.I.
in one subsidiary making fibre-glass
sheeting, but now it is connected
with a big American chemical group in
another of its offshoots (Waratah Chemi-
cals). At 11/9, or only 1/9 above par,
the shares looked worth a modest interest,
so I bought 400.
Then along came Mr Menzies with
his cheering remarks, which had the effect
of putting half the stocks on the market
up a shilling or two including, I’m glad
to say, quite a few of the ones I hold.
Mr Menzies’s “determination” to give
secondary industry a “proper degree of
protection” seemed to ring a bell for all
sorts of depressed companies such as
1.C.1. I had been eyeing 1.C.1 closely for
some weeks, thinking the shares must
have about reached rock bottom. (I
shorted them, unsuccessfully, back in June
at 78/- but admittedly that was before the
bonus and the cash issues.) They were
already on the rise again when I decided
to buy some rights to the present cash
issue. I paid 9/5 each for 400.
Almost as if to counter the Govern-
ment’s high spirits, B.H.P.’s directors
found themselves casting gloom over the
market for their own shares by revealing
their intention to make a debenture issue.
By the way the market reacted on the
afternoon of that announcement, you'd
think it was a crime bordering on high
treason for B.H.P. to issue debentures. So,
first thing next morning, I put in an order
to buy 100 B.H.P. at a 65/- limit. I got
them at 64/6. Now, as a holder of B.H.P.
and 1.C.1., I think they'll retitle this
column Reactionary’s Diary.
To pay for these sins, I had only £3BB
from Antill Ranger. So I decided to sell
my 300 McDonald Industries and 200
Dodge Consolidated to pay for the
balance. I'd held both for six months or
more and neither had proved exactly ex-
citing, although between them they did
produce a profit of £46.
SOLD
400 Antill Ranger at 19/9 .. £3BB
300 McDonald Industries at 16/- £235
200 Dodge Consolidated at 15/9 £154
BOUGHT
400 1.C.1. rights at 9/5 .. .. £193
100 B.H.P. at 64/6 .. £328
400 W. J. Manufacturing at 11/9 £241
This left me with a whole £3 in cash
and these shares:
Cost Cnr-
'o. of Name of Total Per rent
Shares Company Cost Share Price
300 Hornibrook £354 23/- 28/6
200 Southern TV 205 20/- 27/-
300 Pyrox 87 5/9 6/11
400 Derrin 206 1 10/- 11/9
400 O'Donnell 239 11/8 13/9
50 Rothmans 199 78/9 93/-
200 Shipping News 175 17/3 22/3
400 Olympic Bowling 100 5/1 4/5
500 Western Mining 210 8/3 11/6
800 Southgate 346 8/6 8/6
1,000 United Motels 184 3/6 4/3
1,000 Harris 362 7/- 8/6
200 Hunter Douglas 265 26/- 37/6
200 Beau Monde 255 25/- 33/6
500 Fibre Containers 886 34/9 36/-
800 Leo Buring 262 6/4 6/11
1,000 Planet Oil 50 1/-
400 1.C.1. rights 193 9/5 11/4
100 B.H.P. 328 64/6 67/-
400 W. J. Manufactur-
ing 241 11/9 12/3


Out and About
TRAVEL
THE PICTURESQUE AMERICAN
THE ARTS BOOKS FOOD TRAVEL ABORIGINALITIES
i merican stockbrokers, store clerks
and soda-jerks, after years of wan-
dering round the world photographing
the picturesque peoples of other coun-
tries, are now being admonished to
“look picturesque” so that they will
appeal to tourists visiting the United
States who wish to photograph them in
their natural habitat.
The stern call to look picturesque has
gone out to Americans from Voit Gil-
more, appointed by President Kennedy
to head the United States Travel Service.
Mr Gilmore was here recently, and, after
a quick look at us, suggested that if we
wanted to build up a good-sized tourist
industry we’d better start looking pic-
turesque, too. However, Mr Gilmore
already thinks we are better to look c.t
than kangaroos, which he finds of
limited appeal.
America and Australia have both come
late to the tourist business. They both
start with some problems in common.
Neither has much by what has been the
accepted standard of tourist appeal—
monuments and antiquities. Both have
first to persuade their own people, be-
fore persuading others, that there is
really much to see in their countries.
The United States Travel Service is a
Government agency concerned with per-
suasion. It will not sell travel or travel
services. The service comes under the
US Department of Commerce, and its
object is to make money rather than to
be an extension of US propaganda. At
present 2,000,000 Americans go abroad
each year, but only 600,000 people visit
America. The Americans want to
redress that balance.
“But we are simply asking people to
visit our country,” Mr Gilmore said.
“We don't demand that you like it or us
when you get there. That is up to you.”
Already offices have been established
in London, Paris, Frankfurt, Caracas,
Tokyo, as well as Sydney. The Aus-
tralian office will be in the charge of
Mr Charles McGee, who was for many
years with the Matson line.
To decide where their offices should
be the service simply looked at the
figures for visitors to the United States
in the previous 12 months. Australia
came sixth on this list, but, according
to Mr Gilmore, on a per capita basis
it was at the head of the list. Canada
and Mexico were excluded from the
reckoning.
To decide what the approach should
be in each country, the service, accord-
ing to Mr Gilmore, undertook “market
research in depth.”
A survey was undertaken in nine coun-
tries to find out why people went to
America, more importantly, why they
didn’t go to America, their general
motives for travel and so forth. The
Australian survey was carried out by
J. Walter Thompson, and the results are,
at the moment, being “processed” in
America.
However, Mr Gilmore feels he has
established from reading the survey that
the chief reason why Australians travel
is simply curiosity. “They are interested
in other people and other places,” he
said, “and they are not afraid of dist-
ances. To a Frenchman a trip to London
is an adventure, but Australians think
nothing of going to Europe."
Although the survey is still being
“processed,” the service is beginning to
work out approaches in various coun-
tries. For example, it has been estab-
lished that more than 50 per cent, of
travel from the United Kingdom is
initiated by women. They go to the
travel bureaux, make the decisions and
the arrangements. Advertising in Britain
will be directed towards women.
It has also been established that the
strongest appeal America has for Ger-
mans is as a country of wide-open
spaces, so this is the way it will be sold
to Germany.
“However, we couldn’t sell America
to Australians because of its wide-open
spaces,” Mr Gilmore said.
It is also no use selling the idea of
travel to people who can’t afford it.
“For example, in Amsterdam there are
800,000 people, but we have found that
only about 20.000 could afford a trip to
America,” Mr Gilmore said. “So the
appeal would, perhaps, be through
financial journals, which might be read
by a good proportion of the 20,000, or
even by direct mail advertising.”
Mr Gilmore said that the largest single
class of Australians to visit the United
States at the moment was businessmen,
and they would be the first target.
“We’ll suggest to them to stay a little


longer when they do come and see a
few more places,” he said. “We hope
to ensure that local businessmen in vari-
ous centres will meet visitors in the same
line of business and perhaps arrange for
them to see plants and factories that
interest them, or even put more business
their way. Then we’ll suggest to the
visiting businessman, ‘Next time, brUg
your wife.’ ”
Mr Gilmore says that he hopes to
get rid of the idea that everything in
America is expensive.
“I was talking to businessmen in Mel-
bourne,” he said. “They all said how
expensive everything was in New York,
but they had all stayed at the Waldorf
or somewhere similar, and they’d all
had breakfast in their rooms. Well, I
don’t stay at the Waldorf, and no Ameri-
can ever has breakfast in his room, be-
cause it costs too much.”
The other class of Australian at
which Mr Gilmore is looking with an
acquisitive eye is the tourist already in
Europe. He hopes his service will be
able to persuade a large proportion of
these that they can afford to come home
via the United States and that the trip
will be worthwhile.
“We say that it costs only £6O or £7O
more,” he said. “America has 35,000
good hotels and 22,000 good motels,
none of which is frantically expensive.
And for those who really want to see
the country we have the ‘99 days for 99
dollars’ tours. These are tours in modern
buses, with transport, excluding meals,
costing only a dollar a day.”
PATRICIA ROLFE
FOOD
ON WASTING NOT
"Cinancially, our family’s outlook was
never very bright. So that many of
my early rememberances have to do with
food. The delicious bread and butter
pudding which used up the stale bread ;
the shavings of cold meat that were used
as “surprises” in batter that would other-
wise have been plain batter eaten with
jam ; the washing-up soap made from
rendered-down mutton-fat; the case of
grapes a cousin sent us.
When my husband, son and I came to
live in a house that boasted a large back-
yard and an apricot tree that was almost
a quarter as large as the yard, I felt like
sinking down and saying a small prayer
of gratitude. It would have been a primi-
tive sort of prayer, along the lines of:
“Lord, thank you for this fecund apricot
tree ; it is indeed unexpected, but all the
more appreciated. Lord, I shall not waste
a fruit.”
The sight of the rotting mat of apricots
that was a harvest for blowflies insulted
both lawn and my principles re waste. I
bought a preserving outfit.
Our son was a fortnight old and we
had not unpacked properly, but I picked
apricots till my limbs were stiff and my
clothes crawled with earwigs. When I
complained my husband laughed heart-
lessly and said, “Damn good for you,
sitting in the sun. Wish I could sit in the
sun all day.”
That year I preserved 108 jars of
apricots and for three months swaggered
as a “capable housekeeper.” After that
my husband became bored with apricot
flan, apricot betty, apricot doughnuts,
apricot chiffon pie, apricot punch, apricot
fritters and apricot “surprises.” I
hoarded the housekeeping money and
bought cases of preserving pears and
apples. Used in alternation, apricots were
a delicacy.
The great tree passed through her
annual cycle. Against autumn’s winds
she was a wild, trembling creature who
danced in scarves of bronzes and yellows
and golds. In winter she was a gnarled
old harridan who nursed her grey so
that she wouldn't have to compete with
younger femmes. Basically, she had an
ugly figure ; but though her twists and
knots were like a fat woman’s varicose
veins she still looked powerful and
proud. When spring challenged, her
innate vanity couldn't resist dressing in
little clear green shoots which comple-
mented the grey so cunningly that,
staring at Madam Apricot from over the
kitchen sink, 1 often wondered from
where she had culled her Dior fashion
sense. Against dull grey, clear green is so
vibrant.
Early one September morning I held
my breath. Madam had remarried! So
exquisitely was she bedecked in white
which held but the faintest tinge of pink
that it seemed she had found a moneyed
groom who loved Alen?ons lace.
Throughout her five-day wedding feast,
she dazzled. Specked by dark confetti,
she lazily dropped little snips of lace for
her admirers, some of whom, so drunk
that they could not find their way home,
buzzed into the snips and slept.
My husband, who is interested in
neither trees nor spring blossom, was
awed by Madam’s careless glory: “Just
look, will you?” he would exclaim,
staring like a small mortal.
Then Madam threw off her lace. I
was sorry. Once more, she was a working
woman who looked a little fusty. When*
ever visitors saw the apricot tree they
marvelled: “What an incredible crop
you’ll have! DO remember us!” Remem-
bering the previous year, I recklessly
promised Madam's produce to anyone I
saw.
When the sun kissed green balls
towards gold, I started the harvest-pick-
ing. As 1 sat on the top of a step-ladder
in December heat, brutally denuding the
smaller boughs in one jagged sweep and
determinedly shaking the bigger ones so
that my small son yelped in outrage and
cried: “Yours tellin’ fibs, Mum, on
Pete's head!” I thought: “How pleased
everyone will be! They’ll have fruit for
weeks. Make the canned fruit manufac-
turers wonder, hah? And the blackbirds
haven’t even noticed yet.”
With a half-dozen cartons of apricots
neatly assembled on the back porch I
felt virtuous, domesticated, darned tired,
but ready to spread largesse. Madam’s
boughs were still so laden that I thought
hard about the miracle of the loaves and
fishes.
The list of those who had begged apri-
cots in front of the telephone, I geared
myself for 22 short calls. Though short,
they were all similarly frustrating. “Oh,
um, oh yes, apricots!” said my cousin
who was always moaning about the credit
squeeze because she said she couldn’t
adequately feed her five small sons since
it started. “We’d love some, really. I
could make jam, I suppose. Of course it’s
a bit difficult for Jim to collect them just
now. He’s so busy with the Christmas
rush, and things.”
“But I’ve already picked them for
you!” I cried. “You live only two miles
away.” Jeannie made comforting sounds,
then said that by all means Jim would
come when he could, if he could. Of
course, he didn’t.
All my calls were like the first, with
“Christmas” cropping up as a commonly
solid base, though it was interesting to
discover that some people have to be “in
the mood” to eat apricots ; others find
stone-removing (when stewing or preserv-
ing) “rather messy.” I was annoyed. I
did not wish to preserve what I had
initially picked because I wanted to do
96 jars in successive batches and the new
jars I had ordered had not been delivered.
(People rarely return preserving jars.
During 1961 I gave 32 jars of fruit to 32
different people who each promised to
return the jar, top and ring. Like limpets
they did.)
So I gave the contents of the six
cartons to strangers, most of whom were
suspicious at getting something for
nothing. They wondered what I wanted
and got away quickly: the new baker,
the grocer-boy, an RACV man, the
honey-man, the painter, a door-to-door


collector, a man who sold encyclo-
paedias. Desultorily, I picked.
Reproachfully, Madam began to drop
her fruit. By this time most of it was
ploppy, beak-stabbed and ridden with
earwigs. Every time I rang the city shop
about the jars the girl said, “But you
must understand the Christmas rush?
Don’t worry. They're on their way.”
I made 10 jars of jam (none of our
family eats jam) and gave eight jars to
the kindergarten fete in the hope that the
kindergarten might accept our child
before he turned The committee-
woman said, “Oh. More jam?” and I
felt mean because I hadn’t baked a
mocha cream sponge.
I rang my mother and implored:
“Don’t you want any apricots?” She
considered. She had been busy doing
Christmas shopping. “Well, I’d like to
preserve some,” she announced, “but the
only time I can possibly come is after
Mandy’s 21st party on Saturday. About
10.30, if we leave early. I suppose we
could leave early.”
Because I was so busy with apricots,
1 1 had refused the invitation to my first
1 cousin's party. Gently, my aunt had
queried: “But, dear, you don’t have
to guard them, surely?” “Someone might
call to collect some, though,” I had
sulkily muttered. “One never knows.
Besides, Christmas is so near and I
'haven’t even planned a stocking for
| Pete.” Aunt had been puzzled, amused,
then hurt.
Mother sounded rather like her elder
sister, except that she decided she could
use one-and-a-half cases of apricots but
expected them to be picked ready for
collection. “Couldn't Bill come out and
pick for a couple of hours?” I pleaded.
. “Hours? Heavens, don’t you know
how busy poor old Bill is?” Mother’s
voice came acidly. “But if he can find
'time to go to a party?” I persisted. “Your
brother has become as thin as a rake
lately,” said Mother. “I’m worried about
him.” “I’m rather busy, too; truly,
Mother!” I offered. Mother hung up.
( So that is what Madam Apricot did to
| me, or Ito her, in December, 1961. Now
'that the fiasco is over, it does not seem
to matter very much, although our
hypocritical friends and relatives will be
hurt because we did not deliver their
promised apricots. But I did preserve 64
liars of good fruit and 32 jars of over-ripe
fruit. The new jars arrived three days
I too late, just after the Christmas rush
I had eased. They had been left at an
I e mpty house in error.
I And Madam’s product graced our
'Christmas lunch: not in the form of
(chiffon pie, nor flan, nor betty. I was
too tired to even pretend elaborations.
‘Not stewed apricots again! ” accused my
.husband. “Not on Christmas Day,
surely?”
Stiffly, I served stewed apricots without
cream. I had forgotten to order cream.
“Waste not, taste not, eh?” observed
Rob, pushing away his apricots. “Did
Shylock’s shade happen to be around
when you were christened, darling?”
Next year, in our house, the apricot
shall be such a rarity that my husband
will plead for plain old stewed apricots
at 2s. a pound. I shall find some chari-
table organisation that would appreciate
a truckload of small-sized apricots. If
said organisation can spare a truck, plus
some men who are not mentally deranged
by the Christmas rush, they may strip
the tree and distribute apricots to their
hearts’ content.
Maybe I’m wrong. Maybe even
charitable organisations will say: “It’s
so kind of you but, really, Christmas is
almost here and we’re so busy.” Uh-huh?
M.B
ABORIGINALITIES
CUT-OUT PARTY
Tt is cut-out day at the last shed of the
A year after a long dry run.
Everyone—shearers, rousies, wool-
pressers—have the “cut-out horrors” ...
an impatience to get it over with and get
on the track home.
Would the station turn the grog on
again this year?
We watched every vehicle going up to
the huts.
It had been a pleasant, peaceful shear-
ing ; no “blues” or bitterness. Not a
sheep struck, hardly an irritated oath.
A woman could walk into the shed
anytime without the traditional Law-
sonian warning going up the board from
bending shearer to shearer “there’s sheilas
on the board.”
A tough wether shed too —thousands
of them—weeks of unrelenting head
down, backsides up for the bogghi boys.
A gun team reduced to mediocre tallies
by these formidable wethers.
When we saw, from the shed, the local
publican arrive and unload cartons and
glasses there was a yell, “She’s on for
young and old.”
The “gay ’n’ hearty” was not allowed
to kick off until the woolpressers and
classer arrived up from the shed. Thirsty,
too, after the big clean-up panic.
The shearers and rousies, all showered
and dressed up, swags rolled and in the
back of utilities, were waiting outside the
dining room.
Inside, the amiable, worth a million
“babbler” had a feed of cold cuts all
prepared—from ham to colonial goose
The “ringers,” with superb timing
started to arrive in from the paddocks,
the squatter screeched up. The manager
cracked the first bottle. She was on.
We oldies, who find it increasingly hard
each year to get a kick, hit ourselves
first up with a Brindabella—OP rum
with a beer chaser. The garrulous
babbler increased his garrulity with a
couple of “rozzner” Scotches. The
young picker-uppers got frisky after a
couple of ponies. The contractor got on
their backs then and they were brought
back to lemonade. Old Big Ted, the rep,
after a couple of Brindabellas clapped his
hands for silence... A million woolly
sheep had been through those dooks .. .
“Gentlemen and shearers, we want to
thank the boss for the beaut big shout
up .. .”
Everyone was getting their average of
grog and as the empties increased the
overhead machinery started to whirr.
Thousands of sheep were reshorn. The
droll babbler went to his kitchen, got
his broom and swept at imaginary second


cuts lying at the squatting shearers' feet,
and admonished them “forget about
woollies for once, you greasies... do
your boasting about barmaids.'
The burly presser “did 45 on his own
in eight hours.” The old piece-picker
went on: “1 picked for ten guns on me
own and not a frib in the broken.” The
woolrollers rolled a million fleeces a day.
The young picker-upper, not to be out-
done, boasted “I picked for seven ‘deuce
merchants' on my own last year at Cocka-
dotta Downs and swept each time they
let go.”
The grog cut out. The last bottle
emptied. Party over. Another shearing
over.
The mob had been together for months.
All good cobbers.
The little poignant good-byes, “see you
out on the Paroo in January, Darky.”
Motors kicked. Heading for home and
mum, pleasantly cashed up.
The gargantuan wethers forgotten. An
hour later, the boys, like a mob of
shut-up weaners turned into a paddock,
had “a big scatter on,” miles wide.
BILL HOWARD
RADIO
THE BIG DAY
At 12.10 a.m. EST on Sunday, January
the Voice of America broadcast
from Cape Canaveral that Colonel John
Glenn's orbital flight had been postponed
until further notice, and Radio’s Big Day
suddenly became mildly absurd.
For several days, radio in all capitals
had been rashly promising “a full cover’
of the flight. Most of the stations, which
normally close between 11 p.m. and
midnight, declared they would stay open,
and nearly all used such optimistic terms
as “until the flight has been successfully
completed and the capsule recovered.’
During 12 hours of listening on Satur-
day and into Sunday I heard only one
“if.”
One can sympathise with radio's spell-
bound approach to Project Mercury.
Here was one of the great events of the
century. It was one that TV could not
possibly cover with the “immediacy” of
which radio has been boasting and fail-
ing to achieve since Hitler’s elite marched
into Austria more than 20 years ago. So
radio was going to BRING you Colonel
Glenn’s flight, come hell or high clouds.
And let’s not even think about low ones!
The ABC’s way with the Big Day was
almost impeccably cautious. One station
was to remain open in each capital until
the flight was completed. News of the
preparation was confined to normal
bulletins, with a promised cross to the
Voice of America at final countdown
time.
This was to have been 10.30 p.m.
EST, and at that hour the ABC crossed
to its Perth studio to hear a correspon-
dent who had been to Muchea to record
such interesting sounds as the chatter of
teleprinters which would transmit mes-
sages to Cape Canaveral. They sounded
very like teleprinters.
Meanwhile, the commercial networks
had been creating “immediacy” and pro-
viding “full cover.” I was listening in
Sydney and can only report on the
sounds from its stations, but in most
cases network special broadcasts come
from here and go “down the line” to
the other capitals.
Between 7 p.m. and midnight, tuning
from station to station, I heard these
“immediate” sounds:
At 7.50 a “news flash” that blast-off
was 10.30 EST, which it had been for
at least 48 hours.
8.00, “a cable just coming through
from our correspondent at Cape Cana-
veral.” In other words, a United Press
cable, which all other news sources were
receiving.
9.00, an interesting recording from
Muchea Tracking Station, in which
three men explained the work they
would do when Colonel Glenn was way
out.
9.30, a “news flash” that Colonel
Glenn had entered his capsule at 8.11
and that there would be a 15-minute
delay in firing.
10.50, one commercial station reported
that clouds had appeared over the
launching area.
10.55, the ABC discovered that there
might be a slight delay.
11.50, the ABC reported that firing
was unlikely before midnight. It was
not known (except by the station which
had reported it an hour earlier)
“whether the weather trouble is at the
launching or recovery site.”
12.10, all but one station heard and
repeated the Voice of America announce-
ment that the firing had been post-
poned.
12.15, this station made rather desper-
ate noises for five minutes, and then
broadcast a final report “from our corres-
pondent,” who sounded strangely like
the Voice of America’s man, heard
earlier on other stations.
12.20, everyone but the all-night
station staffs had gone home.
So ended Radio’s Big Day, and in
retrospect its absurdity was less in the
eventual postponement than in the lack
of interesting material to match the
promises of “up-to-the-minute cover.”
Nearly all networks relied on the
Voice of America shortwave broadcasts
and normal wire service cables. Two
used recorded interviews from Muchea.
And that was all. Not much for a Big
Day.
This listener would have been happier
if all had adopted the attitude of the
ABC and, in Sydney, 2SM—both content
to relay the Voice of America broad-
casts when, and if, the rocket was fired.
However, all concerned now have had
another chance at another Big Day.
I hesitate to mention it, because no
one did on the First Big Day, but I
believe that a Russian astronaut had
been placed in orbit and safely recovered
some time earlier. Or don’t we in radio
speak of such things?
DON BASS
ART
A GHASTLY MESS
Retrospective Show. Queensland
National Gallery. Brisbane.
C'omebody at the Gallery had the
curious idea lately of showing all
the pictures, over 800, in its possession at
the same time. It appears to have arisen
out of the wish of the Director, Mr
Laurie Thomas, to dispose of the less
worthy works; periodic stocktaking is
undoubtedly necessary but disposal by
sale or otherwise should not be impulsive
as taste is a delicate thing and queerly
capricious. But just how showing all the
works to the public can help is difficult
to understand. Press discussion just now
is centered round the question of who is
to do the culling. Clearly the public is
disqualified, the Director cannot be
expected to take all the responsibility,
while our trustees, 13 of them no less,
are, except for an architect and a plastic
artist, quite incompetent. In its 67 years
the Gallery has never had a competent
Board of Trustees; I have closely
followed the Gallery’s fortunes for over
30 years and I believe the present Board
the worst in all that time. A trustee
needs trained taste, judgment, especially
of artistic integrity and survival value,
long experience and broad historical and
aesthetic knowledge, which ours do not
possess. Evidently the Government will


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
m
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(England)
N.S.W. Branch:
Kindersley House,
Bligh - O'Connell Sts., Sydney
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the
rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on application
to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth st„
Sydney. 0 BM 2001.
have to seek outside assistance, possibly
from Sydney, Melbourne or Adelaide.
Anyway, the display is a most ghastly
mess ; every square inch of wall space
from floor to ceiling and some of the
floor is covered by pictures. Though I
have never had much confidence in
successive Boards over the 30-odd years,
I was surprised that there was, relatively,
so little rubbish. Unfortunately, there
never was any fixed policy on purchases,
so that there are gaps in the Australian
section, otherwise quite a good collection.
The new abstracts call for comment.
Good abstraction is the most difficult of
all pictorial art forms ; it can be dishonest
as it lends itself too easily to imitation
of fashionable gimmicks ; it requires high
intelligence and a capacity for fruitful
reflection. Only one of the recent pur-
chases is any good by my tests, one by
Sam Fullbrook, the others, including
the “You beaut country”, can be for-
gotten. A three-quarter abstract by
Clifton Pugh is not at all representative ;
it was a bad buy and the same applies to
an old Drysdale. In this section
judgment and insight of a high order will
be needed beyond our present resources.
I would strongly advise other directors
not to do a thing like this in their
galleries. At the outset, it is a Minister’s
responsibility to appoint only the best
for training and ability ; he should
remember that a friend, looking for some
status, with similar political affiliations
is not necessarily a good judge of art.
The political view has prevailed too
long in Queensland.
J. V. DUHIG
THEATRE
DRAMA AT THE GENESIANS
Performances at the Genesian Theatre,
A one of Sydney’s leading little
theatres, and the only one with a per-
manent home within the city proper,
have during the past 12 months been
only intermittent. However, from
reports, the atmosphere backstage has
been filled with drama, with accusations
of “anti-clericalism,” differences
between the chaplain and the committee,
the wholesale dismissal of the committee,
and audiences with the Catholic Arch-
bishop of Sydney, Cardinal Gilroy.
The Genesians was founded by the
Catholic Youth Organisation 17 years
ago. Then it was probably thought that
putting on plays was a very good way
to keep young people out of mischief, in
much the same way that the Catholic
Youth Organisation believes in sport.
However, from the early days, and
perhaps more particularly since 1949,
when the group left the Catholic Youth
Organisation and was given a new con-
stitution, the Genesians have achieved a
high standard of production. There were
successes and failures, good periods and
bad, but, within the limits of Little
Theatre, the Genesians made a contribu-
tion to Sydney theatrical life. They put
on such plays as “Murder in the Cathe-
dral,” “The Glass Menagerie,” “The Mad-
woman of Chaillot,” “The Cocktail
Party,” “The Italian Straw Hat” and
“The Skin of Our Teeth.”
The Genesians were accepted by the
general public, and it may have been at
this point that some doubts were felt
whether the theatre was fulfilling the
function for which it had been set up.
Not that the theatre seems to have got
far away from the Church which
founded it. The theatre had a chaplain,
who read and censored plays, with a
power of veto over any play he felt
unsuitable. Only Catholics were admitted
as members.
Cardinal Gilroy attended most open-
ing nights. According to a former mem-
ber, the Cardinal generally went back-
stage after the performance. “Invari-
ably,” said the former member, “the
Cardinal had two comments: ‘Very
amusing, very entertaining,’ and ‘I don’t
know how you learn all those words.’ ”
There is no doubt that over the
years the censorship on plays was, in
general, painstaking and thorough.
One member recalled that in “The
Skin of Our Teeth” a line, from one
woman to another, “Last year I used to
wash your underwear” became “Last
year I used to wash your clothes.”
In “The Madwoman of Chaillot” there
was a line “Let us talk to the Bishop”
(meaning, let us talk to someone in
authority—it could easily have been the
local Member, the senator, the President),
to which the reply was “These days only
money talks to the Bishop.” The revised
version ran something like, “These days
the Bishop is a very busy man. We
mustn’t worry him with these little
problems.”
Also in “The Madwoman” the leading
character used to produce a dinner-bell
from the front of her dress and ring it
when she wanted attention. However,


WORLD-WIDE
X 246
the light
that never
fails...
The Tilley Storm Lantern
is proof against wind
and weather. . . giving
12 hours of brilliant
light on one filling
(1£ pints of ordinary
kerosene).
For economical everyday
use, for unfailing service
in an emergency, you
can put your trust in
TILLEY.
Obtainable from all good Hard-
ware Stores. In case of difficulty
write to:
100% British Made
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LIMITED
1092 MT. ALEXANDER ROAD, ESSENDON, W. 5. AUSTRALIA
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
ALFRED S WHITE, Esq., Chairman ; E. G. CONEN? Esq., T. K. MAGNEY, Esq., A. G. PARKER,
Esq., DOUGLAS WADLEY, Esq.
H. H. MOULTON, Esq., Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Esq., Manager
’Phone: BU 7401. (Branches in all States) 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
the actress playing this part found that
her costume was so high-cut she couldn't
manage even a tinkle. Also in the play
was a reference to “dinner-bells from
bosoms’’ ; this was changed to bodices,
and. finally, for some reason, to beggars.
The former artistic director of the
theatre, Mr James Lang, has now' issued
a 5000-word manifesto to members of the
Genesians, setting out his version of what
has happened, and his feelings on the
matter.
Mr Lang is one of the best-known
theatrical producers in Sydney. He has
produced 33 of the Genesians’ 57 major
productions. Recently he produced “The
Play of Daniel,” which was presented
with enormous success and given a repeat
season in the crypt of St Mary s
Cathedral,
Thirty per cent, of the cast were not
Catholics. Active help was given by the
choir of St Andrew’s Cathedral and St
Mark’s Church, Darling Point. The play
was televised by the ABC and is being
issued as an LP record by Philips.
Mr Lang says in his manifesto that in
November the chaplain of the theatre,
Father Sidney Thorne, during a committee
meeting said he “accepted the resigna-
tions of the committee. ’’ When the
president, Mr James Gaffney, pointed out
that the committee had not tendered their
resignations, Father Thorne, according
to Mr Lang, said, “This committee no
longer exists. 1 shall run the theatre
together with the producer, Mr Pooley.”
According to Mr Lang, Father Thorne
then held a meeting at his presbytery at
Erskineville, at which he announced the
appointment of a number of officers. Mr
Lang was told by people at the meeting
that Father Thorne told the meeting:
“As of now the theatre will run as an
apostolate.”
After this meeting a circular was sent
to members of the theatre informing
them tha: the theatre’s annual meeting
would be held. The circular said there
would be a statement by the chaplain,
but that no elections would be held and
no discussions or questions permitted.
At the annual meeting the new director,
Mr John Pooley, was in the chair.
Mr Lang and another member, Mr
Barry Morrison, both received letters
from Father Thorne, terminating their
membership of the theatre. However,
after Mr Lang and Mr Morrison had an
audience with Cardinal Gilroy, Father
Thorne reinstated them.
Mr Lang says, however, he does not
intend to renew his membership.
“Legally,” Mr Lang says, “the new
theatre is the continuance of the old, but
the new organisation, as announced by the
chaplain, gives the complete power of
running the theatre to one man —-the
director, who operates under the direc-
tion of the chaplain. Potential members
must be interviewed alone by the chaplain
and he alone will decide whether they
shall be admitted. The rights of mem-
bers are, as the chaplain announced, ‘only
to do as they are told.'
“As a man, I cannot join an organisa-
tion which has been built upon the
shabby treatment of people whose inte-
grity is beyond question, whose work has
been self-sacrificing and whose motives
are of the highest. I cannot be a member
of an organisation consisting of those
who have not been loyal to their elected
representatives when unjustly treated.
“As a theatre person I cannot belong to
a theatre whose established policy is
that standard does not matter. Nor can
I work with, let alone u: ier, people
whose ability I doubt, whose motives 1
suspect and whose behavior I dislike.
“As a Christian, I cannot belong to
an organisation which is founded upon
distortions, false pretences, downright
untruths and upon the perpetuation of an
injustice.”
PATRICIA ROLFE


THE RED PAGE
THE BURDEN OF CRITICISM
By A. PORTEOUS
rpHis* is an exciting and nourishing
*- book. Professor Lewis gives a stimu-
lating account of a possible criticism, or
critical procedure, which would concern
(itself not with intrinsic literary “badness”
I(a concept whose reality he denies) but
with the worth of the kinds of reading a
I given work permits. Thus “the ideally
bad book is one of which a good reading
! is impossible” ; the good book one which,
although it may be “used” in Professor
[Lewis’s sense —as a vehicle for castle-
I building “Egoistical or Disinterested”,
j as a quarry for a moralistic or prophetic
“vision of love” (Professor Lewis here
rather underestimates by implication the
[role of literature as an implicit discussion
jof life) —is also capable of being
[valuably “received.” His account of this
[last process is very attractive: the good
[reader submits himself attentively,
obediently, disinterestedly to the terms of
the sufficiently good work, and finds a
I joy in the w orking out and achievement
| of a satisfying and suggestive pattern, and
! a simultaneous enlargement of his world
through his reception of its content
(which does not necessarily imply moral
, or intellectual acceptance). Thus the term
“lover of literature” which recurs
throughout this book is a precise render-
ing of the nature of the process sugges-
ted: good reading having the quality of
appreciative love, with constant delight
and wonder before the experience.
Such a view has much to commend it
besides its accuracy to the taste of good
literature (Professor Lewis is both sound,
and heartening, on the rich complexity of
experience from which articulate criti-
cism is always, and only, a selection). It
allows, for example, a valuable gloss on
the concept of “significance” in litera-
ture, a term so often used today as an
absolute —or as defeatist short-hand. It
also permits the well-intentioned critic
an escape from the categorical and
general condemnation, on his own say-so,
of works for which he lacks a necessary
sympathy, but in which he may recognise
the presence of what other readers whom
he respects find in it. I have long
wanted to say: “All right, ‘The Faerie
Queene’ is an excellent and valuable
achievement, but it’s not for me” ; and
Professor Lewis’s procedure cheerfully
allows me to.
It also, of course, formidably devalues
evaluations, devaluations, revaluations,
as would-be absolute and final judgments
—at least a pragmatic virtue at a time
when, as he says, “dethronements and
restorations are almost monthly events.”
The topical interest of this has been
seized on —Lewis going for “the
Vigilants”, as he calls the camp-followers
of the Leavis tradition. It is a large merit
of his book, however, that this function
is genuinely incidental to a larger pur-
pose ; although these limited objectives
needed attacking the uncalled-for
glumness of so much of their criticism,
coupled with a cramping insistence on
what might be called preter-Naturalism ;
the utter refusal to allow the postulates of
certain traditional conventions, such as
the Pastoral.
But the book ranges over a far wider
field of general criticism. One of its best
passages is a catalogue raisonne of the
kinds of criticism the author has found a
valuable assistance to the kind of read-
ing he defines: “At the top comes
Dryasdust. Obviously I have owed, and
must continue to owe, far more to
editors, textual critics, commentators, and
lexicographers than to anyone else. Find
out w'hat the author actually wrote and
what the hard words meant and what the
allusions were to, and you have done far
more for me than a hundred new inter-
pretations and assessments could ever
do.” Secondly, the literary historians, “the
really good ones”, of whom he mentions
W. P. Ker and Oliver Elton, in showing
what exists and indicating its context.
His assertion of their value is compel-
ling ; and one could add that such an
observer as Ker, despite or because of the
scrupulous limitations of his survey,
hardly writes a paragraph without a
suggestion that sends one right back to
first principles or a re-reading. Thirdly,
the emotive and infective enthusiasts,
“sending me with a good appetite to the
authors they admired” ; and only fourthly,
the ‘"great critics”: Professor Lewis
doubts whether his “appreciation of any
scene, chapter, stanza or line has been
improved by reading Aristotle, Dryden,
Johnson ... Coleridge, Arnold...”; and
he makes the provocative point that, since
they are judged by their illumination of
previous reading, it is necessary to read
Dryden’s prose to enjoy Johnson’s
account of it —not vice versa.
Professor Lewis gives us also, en
passant, stimulating comment on a wealth
of important topics: on why bad books
are widely enjoyed (valuably complemen-
ting Richard Hoggart here); on the
nature of realism, distinguishing realism
of presentation from that of content
(though I think he implicitly undervalues
the essential reality of much of the
overtly marvellous that he so properly
defends); on the function of myth ; on
the dangers of teaching “criticism” to
school-children —“activity tending to
impede reception.”
But his main burden is criticism proper.
Perhaps the best value of his book lies
in his happy defence of the whole
activity: “Being the sort of people we
are, we want not only to have but also to
analyse, understand and express our
experiences.” And the best measure of
his vivacity and integrity is that he is far,
thank Heaven, from seeking to promul-
gate a new New Orthodoxy ; he is rather
offering possible positions for our dis-
cussions, in a spirit courteous, cheerful
and attentive —no bad qualities in the
prosecution of criticism as a civilised
discourse.
*An Experiment in Criticism. C. S.
Lewis. Cambridge University Press.
255.
LOST BETWEEN TWO WORLDS
In a Glass Darkly. Helen Heney.
Angus and Robertson. 455.
Tt does seem one of those oddities of
A Australian publishing that while the
1953 edition of Geoffrey Rawson’s “The
Count” is featuring on booksellers’
remainder shelves, a fresh and thoroughly
definitive biography of Paul Edmund
Strzelecki should appear. Strzelecki is a
limited subject of interest in the Aus-
traliana field, either as explorer-scientist
or as a nineteenth-century personality,
and one can only ascribe a great deal of
nobility to Miss Heney’s publishers that
they have rewarded her painstaking
scholarship so handsomely.
Miss Heney’s interest in Strzelecki over
the past 25 years has largely been in the
field of historical detective work: her
years in Poland and fluency in the Polish
language have led her to an intense pre-
occupation with the Polishness of the
peripatetic pseudo-Count, his domestic
ties, long-distance love-life and political


BOOKHUNTER
Dept, “D,” Box 2(571, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. .Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
LEARN
STORY
WRITING
STOTT’S CAN TRAIN YOU
SUCCESSFULLY
STOTT’S will provide you with interesting,
practical Home-study Instruction of the
highest quality, under the guidance of
thoroughly experienced Instructors.
Write at once for your copy of STOTT’S
Literary Brochure, sent without obligation.
Stotts Correspondence College
15!) Flinders Lane, .Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagh St.. Sydney; 290 Adelaide St.,
Hrisbane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide;
22 Howard St., Perth.
—CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MV NAME
ADDRESS
AGE... .(S.B. 362)
values. These biographical minutiae can
prove appallingly dreary to the non-
committed reader unless they eventually
illuminate a historic personality, or
prove relevant to some important set of
events. But Strzelecki’s Gippsland ex-
ploration was no world-shaking event ;
indeed, as Miss Heney points out with
commendably blunt honesty, its signi-
ficance was over-elaborated through the
subtle boasting and insinuating egoism of
the Count himself.
It would seem that Strzelecki perpetu-
ated his name in Australian historical
memory not so much tor what he did but
for what he was: the exotic “aristocrat"’
who drifted in from the Pacific, the
scientific mystery man who captured the
imagination of Lady Franklin, Phillip
Parker King and the more impressionable
authors of colonial journalism. And
Miss Heney has been wise enough to
realise that she must hold her reader's
interest by virtue of the man's personal
mystique rather than his historical
activities.
It becomes inevitable to compare
Leichhardt with Strzelecki. Both were
products of the European day and age,
both had army service problems, both
were self-obsessed and egocentric, rest-
lessly driven by secret ambitions, drifting,
rootless manifestations of the “Sturm
und Drang” of European romanticism.
But Leichhardt was driven by the fiercer
demons, blind to the social conventions,
in hot pursuit of a personal destiny,
surely destined in the course of history
to be mythologised from Leichhardt into
Voss. In addition to the fabled quality
of the man, the spurious Doctor left a
more impressive mass of written material
behind him than the spurious Count. In
addition to the self-portrait to be derived
from his published works and letters,
Leichhardt's associates sketched in their
images of the weird German . . .
Daniel Bunce. for instance, with his
authentic account of Leichhardt as a
food thief, sneaking off in the dim
reaches of the night to stuff his paunch
with the precious supply of watercress ;
and so on.
Strzelecki provides the thinnest of
material for mythmakers. Miss Heney
does her best to endow him with Euro-
pean Angst . . . the charmer with the
warped, unhappy streak, the perpetual
destroyer of his own happiness, an
epicurean with a bitter palate. But it
doesn't ring very true. There was too
little in the man and not enough of the
right kind of source material.
However, while imbuing her hero with
this kind of interest, Miss Heney does
not blinker herself against the plain
facts of Strzelecki’s psychology. From
childhood onwards his character was that
of the exhibitionist. In order to be
admired and noticed he became the
“Count,” avoided his fellow-scientists,
cultivated the art of colonial social-
climbing, practised the suave arts and
the science of discreet self-advertisement.
To some, like W. S. Macleay, Strzelecki
appeared as both parvenu and con-man.
Miss Heney is a truthful historian, and
she paints her hero w'arts and all. She
errs only in building up pity for her
anti-hero. The Pacific was peopled with
romantic adventurers in the post-
Napoleonic years, and Strzelecki was but
one of the fraternity of fortune-hunters,
neither greatly to be pitied nor greatly
to be admired.
“In a Glass Darkly” is a tribute to the
application and basic honesty of mind of
the authoress. I only wish one could
find praise for Miss Heney's literary
style. But her writing is painfully stiff,
pedestrian and graceless. It reads almost
like a formal academic translation from
a Slavonic language. In the stylistic sense
at least one feeis that Miss Heney is well
and truly lost between her two worlds.
MAX HARRIS
LUST FOR UNIVERSALS
This Vital Flesh. Vol. I of Collected
Works of William Baylebridge.
Angus and Robertson. 30s.
VSHlliam Baylebridge, who died in
VV 1942. left £lB,OOO and willed that
one third of the income from his estate
should be used to provide the Grace
Leven Poetry Prize and also to publish
and publicise his own works. This hand-
somely produced volume, edited by P. R.
Stephensen, is the first of six which are to
appear in fulfilment of the latter
provision.
Baylebridge himself considered “This
Vital Flesh” the most significant of his
works from a philosophical viewpoint
and the one in W'hich he came nearest,
in parts, to satisfying his conscience as a
poet. In the poems, and in his comments
on them, there are many indications that
he had no qualms as to their truth and
importance. Few. unfortunately, will be
able to share his feelings.
Baylebridge is primarily a moralist
who concerns himself with none but the
grandest themes —God, Life, Race, the
Cosmos, all with capital letters. He
monsters everything into an abstraction
and is interested in nothing that he cannot
endow with a universal significance.
Lyricism, with which his admirers
unaccountably credit him, simply cannot
function in this denatured air. There is
not one singing line in the whole of this
massive book, and it is a profitless
question whether Baylebridge was quite
lacking in poetic talent or whether his
potential talent was stifled by his so-called
philosophy. He may or may not have
been a good philosopher or a sound
moralist—we shall come to that in a
moment —but he was one of the most
deplorable stylists we have suffered even
in Australia. The kindest thing that can
be said about his style is that it is rheto-
rical ; but even rhetoric is not necessarily
verbose, unmusical, lacking in clarity and
precision, or disfigured by downright
jargon overlaid with archaisms and
gratuitous distortions of syntax.
What are we to make of a poet who
is content to print lines as hideous as the
following, not only once or twice, but on
page after page after page?
“That abler self is deity, the
Summation Earth’s Humanity ;
To it alone we homage owe.
And it to Gods that vaster meanings
know,
Out of our stricter knowledge? Haply so. 1.
There is undoubtely a kind of philo-
sophy, militant and assertive, all through
Baylebridge’s work ; but verse, his verse, |


LITERARY COMPETITION
The Xavier Society annual £500
literary.prize is offered for the best work
of fiction or non-fiction submitted by an
Australian writer. Conditions and entry
forms are available from the Hon.
Secretary, Box 1680V, G.P.O., Brisbane.
was not the best way to express it. He
no more successful when he imitates the
prose-poetry of “Thus Spake
Zarathustra,” or even of Blake’s “Pro-
verbs of Hell,” in order to give vent to
his dehydrated Nietzscheanism ; and in
the section of his book entitled “National
Notes,” where he comes nearest to dis-
cussing the world as most people know it,
and where he expresses his views on
Nationalism, Morals, Eugenics, Popula-
tion, Marriage, and Politics, his best
passages read like indignant dogmatic
letters to the Editor of “The Sydney
Morning Herald.” Some of his ideas
inevitably contain some truth, but they
are all half-baked and lacking in distinc-
tion.
No doubt Baylebridge was a man of
good intention. He hoped good things
for Australia. Unfortunately he was
devoid of humor, his imagination was
arthritic and dry, he was incapable of
self-criticism, and he never learnt how to
write.
JOHN THOMPSON
CURSING THE ESTABLISHMENT
The Emerald Whaler. William J. Lau-
benstein. Andre Deutsch. 225. 6d.
TThe escape of John Boyle O’Reilly
•*- from the Western Australian penal
settlement is a well-known and stirring
tale which has overshadowed the equally
dramatic rescue of his six comrades
some ten years later. Cranston, Darragh,
Harrington, Hassett, Hogan and Wilson
had been transported to Western Aus-
tralia together with O'Reilly for their
part in the Fenian rising of 1865. There
they were subjected to the vindictive
rigors of an English penal system devised
not just for criminals but for patriotic
Irishmen as well.
From Western Australia escape seemed
almost impossible although the convicts
had greater freedom of movement there
than they had enjoyed in the East.
Certainly it could not be won overland
and hardly any sea captains would con-
nive at escape because of the risks from
British gunboats and the rewards offered
for handing over escapees. O'Reilly had
been intrepid and lucky, but after that
only a tortuously elaborate organisation
could liberate the six men still languish-
ing in Fremantle.
A plan was hatched in Boston, U.S.A.,
by John Deroy who chartered a whaler,
the Catalpa, under the charge of Capt.
George Anthony. The ship was to sail
slowly towards Australia on a whaling
expedition, and casually call into Fre-
mantle. Meanwhile John J. Breslin, who
had directed a number of daring escapes
of Irishmen from English gaols, was to
arrive in Perth posing as a Yankee in-
vestor and incidentally is the owner of
the Catalpa. Through Father P.
McCabe, he was to contact the prisoners
and supervise the rescue. The plan
succeeded though not without many
hitches. Capt. Anthony in the Catalpa
was harassed by mutiny and storms, and
after picking up the prisoners had a
running skirmish off the Western Aus-
tralian coast with a British gunboat dur-
ing which he needed all his reserves of
republican courage.
All of which makes quite an exciting
story, the author having spared no pains
to make it authentic. We conspire in a
back room in a Boston pub with san-
guine expatriates, we curse the British
Establishment in the hold of a convict
ship, we endure the rigors of whaling,
we experience some of the desperation
of men suffering for a good cause. The
narrative is unpretentious and skilful,
and deserves to be numbered among the
notable convict tales.
JAMES GRIFFIN
HUNGER FOR GOALS
Australia in the Antarctic. R. A. Swan.
Melbourne University Press. 575. 6d.
IMearly eighty years ago, when the
Swedish explorer Nordenskjold was
proposing an expedition to Antarctica,
there was published in Melbourne the
suggestion that Australians should “bestir
themselves,” for it was “part of their
destiny to explore these southern soli-
tudes.” The writer’s name and the refer-
ence were long forgotten, and it is fitting,
in this period of widespread Antarctic
activity, that Mr R. A. Swan should
recall them in a chronology within which
Australia now possesses an unassailable
right to be represented. Sir Douglas
Mawson’s contributions to Antarctic dis-
covery and research, spanning a period
of twenty years, and his contagious en-
thusiasm assured Australia's role in the
future of the continent. Today this is
reflected in ANARE —the Australian
National Antarctic Research Expeditions
—whose overall strategy is planned by
the Antarctic Division of the Common-
wealth Department of External Affairs,
administered, since 1949, by Mr Phillip
Law. These are now in their sixteenth
year, with a continuous and continuing
programme of exploration and scientific
research.
Mr Swan lists every Antarctic expedi-
tion, with details of its salient work,
and the names of its leading members
and sponsors. Those with Australian
leadership or personnel are related in
somewhat greater detail within the
general survey, with just appreciation
of their significance in the unveiling of
the last continent.
Unless he uses the volume as the ex-
cellent guide it is to further reading, the
reader who knows little of Antarctica
will not appreciate the magnitude of the
task that Mr Swan has successfully con-
cluded.
Even those who have made their way
to the Antarctic classics, including Maw-
son's “Home of the Blizzard,” often find
it hard to discover the precise signifi-
cance to general polar history of expedi-
tions by other notable Australians such
as Wilkins and Rymitl. This problem is
solved by Mr Swan's fine synthesis of
the records.
Only an energetic historian, spurred
by a deep personal regard for his sub-
ject, could have produced “Australia in
the Antarctic.” The necessary research
amongst scattered source material, often
difficult and tedious of access, would
have intimidated anyone less dedicated.
Mr Swan has set the expeditions in a
context of national aspirations, inter-
national rivalry and treaty, personal
courage and ambition, and expanding
knowledge of geography and geophysics.
As a historian, he has admirably fulfilled
his intentions ; as a poet he emerges
rarely and modestly in the concise text;
he confines his creative flair mainly to
verse as chapter headings:
Man is the explorer, and will never cease
To hunger for a goal beyond each goal.
In objective terms, this book shows
how committees and public meetings,
national legislature, Government grants,
private gifts, hope of material profit, and
the dictates of pure science have all
buttressed expeditions for which team-
members were never lacking. Hunger
for goals must be matched by both cargo
and ballast.
J. M. BECHERVAISE


POEMS
The Burning Truck
It began at dawn with fighter-planes:
They came in off the sea and didn’t rise
They leaped the sandbar one and one and one
Flying so fast the crockery they shook down
Off my shelves was spinning in the air
When they were gone.
They came in off the sea and drew a wave
Of lagging cannon-shells across our roofs
Windows spat glass, a truck took sudden fire,
Out speared the driver, but the truck ran on
Growing enormous, shambling by our street-
doors
Coming and coming—
By every night in town, by every average
We knew of in the world it had to stop
Fetch up against a building, fall to rubble
From pure force of burning, for its whole
Body and substance were enraged with heat
But stop it would not.
And all of us who knew our place and prayers
Clutched our verandah rails and window-sills
Begging that truck between our teeth to halt
Keep going, vanish, strike —but set us free.
And then we saw the wild lads of the street
Go running after it,
And as they followed, cheering, on it crept
Windshield melting, canopy-frame a cage
Torn by gorillas of flame, and it kept on
Over the tram-line, past the church, on past
You and me, then on out of the world
With its disciples.
LES A. MURRAY
On Reading Poets
On reading poets, I admire the lives
Of those who, half outside of life as lived
By busy keepers of broad facts, discern
That wholly different and vast world that drives
This semblance of their spangled seas to burn
Across the range of wind-blown dotterels, gulls
That know but true home’s paradigm. These
poets.
Unhoused on earth’s estate, must life-long wander
Through a realm where such music as they hear
Stands silent in a stone or tree and, always,
The birds that down long centuries sing are
themes
That stem from some far angel’s casual sigh.
I read them and know how their wound contains
Swift access to a voice that speaks all things
Wherein, helplessly, like children they ponder.
Much disturbed by beauty, and much by pain.
Walking in forests, they brush sparkling trees,
And take in sunlight a shower of rain.
NOEL MACAINSH
Prologue For Future Voyages
The Santa Maria, bullet-nosed
standing up a tower of silver metal
banded with crimson. Saltes Bar,
Harbor of Palos,
and a fine August morning. The Santa Maria
pointing defiantly the new Atlantic
of Space. Celebration of communion:
thrice the bell rings out
upon the sacred silence. And the tongue,
pointed off so much evil
is extended, cupped
to take the weightless wafer.
God speed you mariners,
and a safe return. News, sirs,
of the size of God’s creation!
W. HART-SMITH
The Falling Sickness
The foliage of light begins to wither
Into a dark discontinuity.
And in that darkness now I bring together
A pattern of disorder, tenuously:
Dim squares of light and shade, this music and
these voices.
Under the skin and flesh my fingers feel
The fine erratic structure that encases
The focus of all movement. 1 lie still.
Now in a little while this world that I
Could shut out with a hand will take its sway
Till I have misremembered that outcry
And stagger forward into yesterday.
EVAN JONES
The Watchers
Out on the terrace two stone lions
gazed moodily into the narrowing
afternoon, keeping strict watch
over your secret childhood. Times
without number you’d have run
busily over the garden chasing
a ball into the shrubbery, careless
of flowers, or on a rainy day spun
your best top on the kitchen floor
—but the lions were always watching,
brooding over the garden, their stone
stare coldly observant, condemning your
failures. At the window where you sat
waiting for the beckoning lights of the
city to float upwards like stars hung
over the river farms, you knew that
out on the wet terrace the lions sat,
ruling the empty garden, chasing quick
lizards among the drenched leaves, waiting
to pounce on you. So you never went out.
J. E. WEIR


“Gils Were made to love and kiss, de da de dum, de da, de dum, da da..."
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 678
Across
I—Publicists1 —Publicists who send beaks by mail. (11)
6 —Agitate a funny man. (3)
B—George .Sharp injured these scholars. (11)
10— In what state is the famous Chicago crook? (3)
11 — Comment on the dining-rooms of the Japanese cele-
brities. (8)
12 — Somewhat Japanese with a keen temperature. (5)
15 —Lt forms a jelly for the Earth
Goddess language he short-
ened. (8)
17 —Furniture south of Australia. (4)
19 — It's cosy backing weapons. (4)
20— Doubled celestial dog. (4-4)
22 Legal job isn't long. (5)
23 — The great gratification of the
Moore Park school? (4. 4)
27 The Queen takes a considerable
time. (3)
28 — Harvest piano artist is Jolson
giving a new valuation. (11)
29 — Downs in contrast to such a
sketch of a horseshoe footnote
in correspondence. (3)
30— No self-gloss is to be expected
in such game instruction. (4. 7)
Down
1 — Starts to earnestly ask for a turn
at batting. (10)
2 Curve the small piano urchin of
Louisiana. (8)
3 Who composed “The Poet and
Peasant” overture? (5)
4 When the sun goes square. (4)
5 Bird relative to relations. (6)
6 Birds demand cruelty to Burke's
offsider. (4-4-5)
7 Hoodwink this bird. (4)
9 —Negro’s in a coat, (ana-
gram) (13)
13 — Nothing in N.S.W. disturbed
cocaine. (4)
14— Sack swallowed to sell up
trifles. (10)
]6 —The African weaver-bird, thanks
to mirth. (4)
18 —Sad teeth in decay at the harbor
entrance. (3, 5)
21 —Again tow the provocation to a
bull. (2-4)
24 — Force spirit over the electric
light. (5)
25 Courses listed you with a sign
of convenience. (4)
26 — Take a tumble during this
season (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 677


FOR SPEED
(First issues off the press)
CONVENIENCE
(Right to your mail-box)
CONTINUITY
(No chance of missing out)
HAVE
vv
7 FEE
DELIVERED BY POST
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SUB./RENEWAL
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order for
....... months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
NAME: .................... ...
ADDRESS: .................... ; ........................
RATES (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; | year—£l 6s.
Post free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign:
£3 16s.
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—
19s. 6d. British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether
the subscription is paid direct to The Bulletin
or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
TH E B U L LETI N
IS AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
NEWS MAGAZINE—
5 2 pages of top-flight information. The press,
the radio, TV will dish you up the headline
news... but The Bulletin has time to bring
you the news inside the news.
AND ITS PACKED WITH
ENTERTAINMENT
Nearly every facet of modern life is reflected
in The Bulletin’s pages, so no wonder
anyone can find a little of himself—or herself
—in The Bulletin.
