

The Bulletin
MAY 11,1 963
New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION - EST. 1880
PI ALBA HERVEY BAY, SCARNESS. From the sketch book of James Phillips.


IMSm
Si
■
lArc? ■
rz
|pgp^
m <*&**
Sratt*
s
-•'
s'
■•;-
Ci^AVEm
ISSI
ilfil
AS
//>-
*
K«Sffis
-
s':-' - ' ;•■ .
m
3'-
; : ' 1 88
■ B
-A‘ • ■ •.
:! ’ ' .
. . ■ '. ‘ * ’
--•>
Light it
1


National Notebook
Progress on the Roads
the Victorian Lieutenant-Gov-
” ernor, Sir Edmund Herring, was
telling the audience at the opening of the
Motor Show in Melbourne’s Exhibition
building that he had given up trying to
cross roads, across the way in Parlia-
ment the State Attorney-General, Mr.
Rylah, was making a case for his stiff
new strictures on motorists.
In what was described as a major step
towards getting uniform traffic laws in
Australia, Mr Rylah’s new list of traffic
offences and penalties could help Sir
Edmund on his way, though the Attorney-
General frankly admitted it was a shot
in the dark. “Nobody knows of a real
solution to the problem of road acci-
dents,” he said.
The Bill ushers in “on the spot” fines
for the first time in Victoria, the high-
est being £lO for offences at pedestrian
crossings and for exceeding the speed
limit by more than 10 m.p.h.; a fiver
will be charged for neglecting traffic
signals, not giving way to
the right, failing to keep
left, crossing double lines,
not giving necessary hand
signals, unlawful right and
left turns and passing
stationary trams. Those
without prescribed lights
get <£3. If the offence is serious
enough to warrant a higher penalty the
matter will go to court.
Of a variety of other provisions per-
taining mainly to probationary drivers
and owner registration, one obliges reg-
istered owners selling their cars to pro-
vide the new owner with a certificate
of roadworthiness after a safety inspec-
tion by a “suitably equipped and operated
garage.” The latter would charge a fixed
fee of 12s. 6d. At the current rate of
300,000 transfers a year, this should net
the garage industry an extra £150,000 a
year in Victoria, perhaps not as much
though as the Bill will net the police.
. . . And Royal Progress
Ctill on the subject of cars, a
Melburnian motoring supplement
printed the story of what happens
to the Queen’s cars when they have
outlived their usefulness for royal occa-
sions. An American who tried to buy
one recently received this reply from
Buckingham Palace: “There are no cars
in the Royal mews to be disposed of,
but, in any case, it is never the practice
to dispose of Royal cars privately.” The
article went on to explain that actually
the cars were disposed of through deal-
ers most discreetly.
If this is so, has the New Zealand
Government committed a terrible sin?
In the Tenders columns of the Melbourne
newspapers this ad. has appeared: “Rolls
Royce Phantom V cars for sale by ten-
der. Automatic transmission, power
steering and brakes. Seating capacity 7
persons. Equipment includes air-condi-
tioning, radio, electrically operated wind-
ows, cocktail cabinet and safety belts.
The two identical Rolls Royce cars were
imported by the New Zealand Govern-
ment in January, 1963, for the Royal
visit. Tenders close Monday, May 6.”
Well, there you are. Here’s your op-
portunity to turn on your own private
Royal Progress.
Sirius Contribution
Surprise result of Angus and Robert-
son's venture into “egghead” paper-
backs, the Sirius (not to be confused
with serious) series, is that the hard-
back edition seems to be
doing slightly better with
the trade than the paper-
back. Two of the series
are set as University text-
books —Slessor’s “Poems”,
and Collins’s “Such is
Life” —and even students
seem happy to pay 21s. or 255. for a
hardback, instead of 12s. 6d. or 16s. for
lighter binding. Angus and Robertson
have already announced their second
series of six and have quite a list of
probables, possibles and hopefuls. The
series is being edited by The Bulletin’s
former Red Page editor, Mr Douglas
Stewart.
Another former Red Page editor and
associate editor of The Bulletin, Mr
Cecil Mann, has finished work on his
three-volume “Prose of Henry Lawson,”
which A. and R. hope to have out before
the end of the year.
Also, later in the year a group of
friends and former colleagues of Mr
Mann expect to publish a handsome,
limited edition of three of his most
noted short stories “The Pelican,”
“Stiff Luck for the Colonel” and “Beu-
lah.” The book is a tribute to Mr
Mann’s talents and to the generous help
he has given so many writers during
his career.
Histpric Cruiser
lndonesian warship “Irian” which
triumphantly bore President Soe-
karno to West New Guinea last week
Page
N. QUEENSLAND IS “IN” . . 12
Boom and bustle
The Lushest Motor Show of All 11
South Africa: Private People in a
Political State 15
Sydney’s Social Rounders 18
Counterfeiting Within the Law ... 20
Cry the Beloved Country .. 22
Land Reform in Asia 23
The Two RSLs 26
Theatre: Duerrenmatt’s Morality . 32
Mummified Moderns: A Clue to
Australian Poetry 35
Critical Era for Wool 39
Forcing Information from Com-
panies 40
Picking Up Some Selective Stocks 47
4
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA G
80 YEARS AGO G
AROUND MELBOURNE ... 11
OUT AND ABOUT 15
OVERSEAS 22
FORUM 26
LETTERS 29
REVIEWS 32
RED PAGE 35
MAN ON THE LAND 39
WORLD OF BUSINESS ... 40
FEIFFER 58
CROSSWORD 58
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.
PTY LTD
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone 27 5971.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone 2 0666 Ext. 380.
Vol. 85
No. 4343


is a Russian Sverdlovsk class heavy
cruiser. It was originally the “Ordzho-
nikidze” which carried Messrs Bulganin
and Khrushchev from Russia to England
in 1956. It anchored at Portsmouth and
was the subject of some highly undip-
lomatic, underwater spying by Lieu-
tenant-Commander Lionel Crabb, who
was never seen again.
Cultural Growth
HThe long-standing art battle of abstract
versus representational seems to have
entered a new arena with two Sydney
sculptors prepared to take on the Com-
monwealth Government.
Mr Leonard Hessing and Mr Michael
Nicholson have sought legal advice on
their position, following the Common-
wealth Department of Works’ notifica-
tion that it does not intend to go ahead
with the sculpture the two men designed
for the Commonwealth office block in
Phillip Street, Sydney.
Mr Hessing says that the Department
of Works originally approached the Soci-
ety of Sculpture to get a short list of
abstract sculptors. Some of these sub-
mitted designs for a type of contest
organised by the Department. The sculp-
tors were told there was no actual prize
but the winner would receive the com-
mission for the work, worth £lO,OOO.
Last November Mr Hessing and Mr
Nicholson were told by letter from the
Department of Works that their design
had been accepted. The design consisted
of six panels symbolising the cultural
growth of Australia.
In February this year they got an-
other letter, saying that their work would
not be used. Mr Hessing was told in-
formally that the department wanted a
representational design. The Department
offered an ex gratia payment to com-
pensate the sculptors for their time and
trouble. This they refused.
“But we are prepared to fight,” Mr
Hessing said. “This is an important prin-
ciple so far as artists are concerned. If
a contract existed, why can it be broken
at what, I believe, was the whim of
one person? They could not do this to
someone who had signed a contract to,
say, supply concrete. Why can they do
it to an artist?”
Cheaper by the Flagon
TI/lelbourne newspapers occasionally
sound off about high wine prices
in restaurants where a bottle costing
Bs. 6d. retail will appear on the wine list
at 18s. or more. However, there can
be no complaint on this score about a
new restaurant which recently opened
at the eastern end of Little Collins Street.
You cannot get a glass of wine, or
even a bottle—only half-gallon flagons
of good, honest two-year-old Australian
dry red; ss. 6d. a flagon, it is magnifi-
cent value for lunchtime drinking.
If you’re a weakling who cannot man-
age half a gallon of claret at lunch, then
you write your name on the label and
the balance is kept for your next visit.
Obviously, this system gives the restaur-
ant a built-in guarantee of return visits!
by clients who want their money’s worth.
At the other end of Little Collins Street
is the office of the Vintage Club which;
offers members cut-rates on wines,l
spirits and decanters, accreditation cards
to visit vineyards, and a variety of other
services. Its latest circular announces that
there is room for a few associate mem-
bers who get discounts, but who may
not attend the club’s social functions
vineyard visits, or use its Prahran cel
lars and bins. Vacancies for full members
are harder to find. “To maintain the
social standing of the Club,” the circular
states, “nominate only people who have
a good education and speak well; whc
dress respectably and are good man-
nered; who have a good reputation ir
the community.”
What price wine-snobbery, after that'
Spaceman
Australian audiences still have dif
Acuities with many of the newe:
wave of US comedians, but last year
Rowan and Martin, a virtually unknowr
comedy duo, built up a capacity
audience at Sydney’s Chevron Hiltor
during their three weeks’ engagement
Their brand of humor was so weddec
to the modern American scene that i
would have surprised no one if they hac
provoked no more than an impatien
shrug.
The Chevron people have brough
them back hoping they’ll repeat theij
success with a slower build-up this time
ft "jkt °f~ tpe Sex
f ii\xt2ifct /was proceed
cl westerly direction ajitfitt
[aforesaid aj/Ce-qed miser
\ <x bersoh or person\
\uMd\ouifCto nufseifam
c^^Po/lourS—
“Tape recording interviews with
suspects
. . . is completely impractical.


IWe chatted to the straight man, Dan
Rowan, during their perfunctory re-
hearsal recently. While pessimistic about
the state of the world, he was able to
arouse enthusiasm for Australia. “I
nearly migrated here after the war,” he
told us. “I was a fighter pilot in the
’islands —spent a couple of very edifying
Heaves down here. You know, Kings
Cross, wartime uniforms, all those
women . . .
“But the thing that really got me in
was a holiday on a sheep station. You
know, there isn’t an inch of space in
the US where a man can get away from
civilisation . . . where a guy could re-
assess his values. Even here in Sydney
I get the feeling of space. It renews me.”
We looked out the window at team-
ing Macleay Street and if our eye was
a trifle more jaundiced than his it prob-
ably had something to do with compara-
tive values.
This Week’s Cover
Thus week’s cover is by Sydney artist
Mr Jim Phillips. The painting was
done during a recent trip to North
Queensland. Our cover line reproduces
the note Mr Phillips scrawled on the
back of the original, but it seems the
geography is a bit astray. Hervey Bay
is dotted with small townships. The
homestead shown is between Pialba and
Scarness.
Tanner
They'd never remember their lines/'
PLAIN ENGLISH
THE NEW FRONTIER
N° one in his right senses will argue against the urgent necessity to
increase Australia’s defence expenditure. Since the end of World
War II it has been far too low and Australia has never borne its fair
share of SEATO commitments commensurate with its vital interests or
its capacity. Nevertheless, a sense of proportion is needed especially as
a great deal of the present sense of urgency over defence has been
brought about by the fact that we have a new frontier with Indonesia
as if the present and potential menace of Red China were not in itself
enough to warrant the immediate expansion of our armed forces.
The present growing fear of Indonesia has already degenerated
into near hysteria used by those seeking, for unscrupulous motives, merely
to attack the Government. The basis of this fear lies in Indonesia’s huge
numbers, in its President’s intransigence, the size of its Communist
Party, its antagonism to Malaysia, its apparently dangerous, alternate
flirtations with Peking and Moscow, the formidably large number of
troops it is reportedly putting into West New Guinea and the allegedly
break-neck speed with which it is modernising its armed forces. In
surveying all this, however, certain things seem to be forgotten about
an archipelago of 3000 islands with poor communications, a disastrously
mismanaged economy and a near bankrupt treasury. What is certainly
forgotten is that Indonesia has to import something like 98 p.c. of its
industrial needs, that half the military equipment received from Russia
rusts through neglect, lack of maintenance skills or foreign technicians,
that its 350,000 strong army is split up throughout the island chain and
carries on the duties of the civilian administration in many parts of
Indonesia right down to village level.
"W/'HILE there are lively ambiguities in Indonesia’s attitude to Australia
it should not be forgotten that —in addition to a not negligible
reservoir of goodwill towards us despite our small numbers Indonesia
regards with respect our capacity to design and build our own destroyers,
planes and cars. It is equally.respectful of the sort of industrial sophisti-
cation that can produce complex communications equipment and the
installations that go to make up Woomera. It is aware of Australia as a
rapidly growing industrial power in the area with friends elsewhere in
Asia.
It is also aware that its policies and the behavior of its president
have lost it friends and that it is rapidly becoming isolated in a distrustful
world where mere numbers in population simply aren’t enough. Indonesia
will prove a problem neighbor and we must behave sensibly. There
must be some concerted effort on the part of Australians to understand
the complexities of Indonesian national life and the pathological reaction
of some powerful Indonesian forces to any suggestion of colonialism. If
our fears destroy our judgment and the Press of this country slides into
name-calling we will invite similar reactions and the adoption of inflexible
positions. So far as New Guinea is concerned we should increase the
pace of jet strip and road building in East New Guinea—at least 15 years
ahead of West New Guinea in material development and push its
political progress as fast as the traffic will bear it. But none of this is
incompatible with friendship with a neighbor which fears, even more
than we, a common enemy to the north.


THIS AUSTRALIA
THE ALP
The Machine
Takes Over
Uren and Haylen know more than Calwell
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
L. HAYLEN
Wentworth right?
no> n FuFF F? Federal Labor
.[] Leader, Mr
Calwell, will leave
Australia early in June for a trip
abroad. It is expected that while in
Washington he will see the Presi-
dent of the United States, Mr Kennedy.
It has been stated authoritatively on Mr
Calwell’s behalf that his visit will have
a special value, as he will be able to
inform Mr Kennedy on Labor’s policy
on foreign affairs in general and the pro-
posed United States communication
centre at Exmouth Gulf, Western Aus-
tralia, in particular.
But these days it is hard to see that any
Labor parliamentarian is in a position to
interpret Labor policy accurately. Quite
a deal of responsibility for the formula-
tion of policy on defence, as well as
foreign affairs, has now been handed
over by the Federal Parliamentary Labor
Party to the ALP machine.
If Mr Calwell’s cohorts were stating
honestly what they believed was going to
happen at the meetings of the ALP
Federal Conference (Labor's supreme
policy-making body) and the ALP Fed-
eral Executive (Labor’s supreme govern-
ing body between conferences), which
decided the Exmouth Gulf issue, those
around Mr Calwell and advising him
have lost the ability to interpret what is
happening within the ALP machine.
Prior to these conferences and ALP
executive meetings the Calwell cohorts
were insistent that Mr Calwell would get
from the conference a 30-to-six endorse-
ment for ALP approval for the base on
conditions acceptable to the US.
The fact that Calwell’s supporters were
so abysmally wrong would not matter
if the other groups were equally wrong
in their assessment of what was going
to happen at the conference.
But there were those who did forecast
it with considerable accuracy. The group
around Mr Les Haylen (Lab., NSW) and
Mr Tom Uren (Lab., NSW), who led the
fight for a total ALP ban on the base
almost from the outset, knew that the
conference was split 19 to 17 and that
there would be no 30-to-six support for
the viewpoint that Mr Calwell would
have preferred to have seen prevail.
They missed out on 100 per cent accu-
racy. They thought they would win.
They suspected that at the last moment
Mr John Duggan, Queensland Labor
Parliamentary leader, would switch
from supporting the Left wing anti-base
line to the Right wing, thus dropping
them back to 17, the figure at which they
ultimately finished. But they had every
reason to believe that when they lost
Duggan they would pick up two delegates
from Right wing States who were pri-
vately inclined towards their side. As
it happened, they did not get these two
because something happened for which
they had not calculated. A section of the
Right wing got very tough with these two
prospective defectors and forced them to
stay on the Right wing line.
Now you have the position of a sec-
tion of the Right wing, including Mr
Calwell, insisting that the United States is
able to go ahead with the establishment
of Exmouth Gulf without any fears of
what attitude a future Labor Govern-
ment might take about the station.
On the other hand, you have Mr Uren
declaring that if the principles set down
by the ALP were adhered to there would
be no communications centre at North-
west Cape. On performance over recent
months I would class Mr Uren as a
much more accurate interpreter of what
is happening in the ALP machine, and
the lines it is following, than Mr Calwell
or his advisers. So perhaps Mr. W. C.
Wentworth is right and Mr Uren and
Mr Haylen should go to America with
Mr Calwell.
THE BULLETIN RAISES ITS PRICE
May 12, 1883
With the next issue of The Bul-
** letin will be inaugurated a new
series. The success which has attended
The Bulletin in the present form has
been unprecedented in the history of
Australian journalism. In the short
space of three years, this journal has
obtained a popularity and circulation
justly regarded as phenomenal. We
have constantly been striving to make
it better and brighter, and additionally
attractive. But efforts in that direction
found a practical limit. That limit was
the price of the paper. There is not
in the whole world a weekly publica-
tion which gives for threepence so
much value in literary wares. In any
other country such a paper as The
Bulletin costs sixpence or an
equivalent sum.
There were only two alternatives,
to stand still, or to leap the gate. We
are resolved to produce A SIXPENNY
PAPER. It will be printed with
superb ink on fine toned paper IN A
COLORED COVER, fastened at the
back with the new wire stitching, and
will have THE EDGES CUT, IN
BOOK STYLE,
enormously powerful journal,
-*• the KIAMA INDEPENDENT,
exhorts the Government to prosecute
the Freethinkers and Spiritualists of
Sydney under the blasphemy laws. A
few new gaols would be wanted.
BUSINESS
Rough Justice
Excluding the Press
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
Tt was a nice touch by Testro Bros to
get retired SM Mr T. W. Hammond
to accept the job of inspector into the
affairs of Garrison Industries Ltd in
which the company acquired a control-
ling interest for <£235,000 last year
only to find it had virtually bought a
pup. For not only has the Government
appointed an official inspector into
Testro Bros itself, but Mr Hammond is


renowned in Melbourne for detecting
rough, not to say foul, play. He is chair-
man of the Victorian Football League s
tribunal which even so early in the
footy season has seen fit to send three
of the leading players from Richmond
and St Kilda to the sidelines for a
number of weeks.
There was a sort of rough justice too,
perhaps, in excluding the Press from
the meeting making Mr Hammond s
appointment because the official inspec-
tor into Testro Bros is apparently to
operate under a similar ban, though from
what Rex Testro told The Bulletin
there was nothing to hide.
He is very confident that a close in-
spection of transactions following Gar-
rison’s submission of warranties to
Testro Bros before the controlling in-
terest was purchased will get to the
heart of the matter, which incidentally
is also the cause of two separate court
actions being brought by Testro Bros
against Garrison Industries Ltd and Mr
Peter Garrison, the company’s former
chairman.
This is not to say however that
Testro Bros is certain to recover the
cash it spent on the Garrison purchase,
the loss on which was the direct cause of
the breach in the trust deed of its de-
bentures and thus of the present re-
ceivership. But at any rate Mr Testro
is sure all will come right in the end and
instanced the company’s continued work
on its Suncoast resort project in Queens-
land on which it has already spent
nearly £400,000 as an act of faith in
that being the result.
RELIGION
An Australian Prayer
Book?
Bringing it up to dale
FROM CHARLES STOKES IN SYDNEY
BISHOP ARTHUR
“Not for many years”
At the Anglican Conference Centre of
“Gilbulla,” in the lush and rain-
sodden countryside of Menangle, south-
west of Sydney, last week, 30 leading
Anglican churchmen from all over Aus-
tralia initiated one of the most important
modernization moves ever in the history
of the Australian Church. They are mem-
.s of the Prayer Book Revision Com-
mission, which was appointed by Gen-
oral Synod last year after the Australian
ranch of the Anglican Communion be-
came autonomous under the new Con-
stitution.
There was an imposing array of bish-
°ps (Adelaide, Grafton, Bathurst, and
Coadjutor Bishop Loane, from Sydney),
three deans (Hobart, Melbourne, and
Newcastle), 19 other priests, and four
laymen a university lecturer, an archi-
| ect ’ a solicitor, and a medical prac-
10ner -
But the real variety lay in the church-
manship represented from the ex-
heme Low Church-Evangelical Diocese
of Sydney to the High Church, Anglo-
catholic Diocese of Bathurst (the home
0 the historic Red Book controversy of
some years back), and, in between, the
middle-of-the-road dioceses like Adelaide
ar >d Canberra-Goulburn.
More than anywhere else in the four-
day discussions, strong and general ag-
reement lay in moves to bring the lan-
guage of the 1662 Prayer Book up-to-
date.
it is in the revision of the Holy Corn-
munion service that disagreement is
most likely to occur. And the prelimin-
ary meetings of the Commission thought
G f a neat wa y out: it was suggested that
the Australian Prayer Book could in-
elude two Holy Communion rites the
first would be very similar to the 1662
version, with simplified rubrics, and the
second would be a draft liturgy along
the lines of the service used by that re-
markable union of churches of
South India. Presumably, priests could
use whichever rite most appealed to
them. A very Anglican solution!
A surprising turn in the early discus-
sions was that the issues raised by the
1928 Version of the Holy Communion
service were largely by-passed: at the
same time, it was felt by a number of
bishops and priests present that certain
of the alterations in the 1928 rite could
satisfactorily be included in the proposed
revision of the 1662 rite. The significance
of the proposed second rite is that it
would bring the Australian Church itself
closer to the Church of South India.
And as there is a strong move in Aus-
tralia for the Methodist, Presbyterian,
and Congregational Churches to unite,
and seek affiliation with the Church of
South India, the eventual union of the
new United Church of Australia with
the Anglican Church of Australia be-
comes more than just a faint possibility.
All these speculations belong, of
course, to the fairly distant future. The
Commission decided to set up regional
committees in each State, and each will
concentrate on a specific section of the
Book of Common Prayer at quarterly
meetings, and report their views and
findings regularly to other members of
the Commission, which will meet again
in two years’ time.
But even when the Commission has
reached agreement in itself, its recom-
mendations will have to be debated and
accepted by General Synod of the
Church. And General Synod has not
even agreed definitely yet that the
Prayer Book should be revised at all.
The Bishop of Grafton (the Right
Reverend Gordon Arthur), who last
week was elected chairman of the Com-
mission, told me that “probably the fin-
ished job will not be seen for many,
many years ahead.” But he said that un-
der the new Constitution, what were pre-
viously 25 dioceses scattered all over
Australia are “all one Church now.” And
for the first time in its history, that
Church is free to work out its own
destiny, and its own Prayer Book as
other member churches of the Anglican
Communion have done in Canada, the
United States, South Africa, Scotland,
and Ireland.
BANKS
The Rat Race
Bank officers nerves
/Charges that banking has become a rat
race were freely voiced by delegates
to the Australian Bank Officials’ Associa-
tion meeting in Melbourne last week
when a plea went out to bank boards,
free enterprise and otherwise, all over
the country to cut out the scramble for
new business which it was claimed had
eroded the high ethical standards of
banking and were straining the nerves of
bank officers in and out of office hours.
Judging by what the Federal Secretary,
Mr D. Williams, had to say the five-day
banking week was a travesty for the
bank officials whom he claimed were
pressurised to be perpetually looking
for new business by incentive schemes in
one form or another. Some of the
practices objected to looked petty, such


as touting for business from school
children and door-knock campaigns.
Others like excessive and exaggerated
advertising campaigns financed at the
expense of bank officials’ salaries hit
bank officials’ pockets. Still others
arising from the banks’ hire purchase
affiliations, for instance, enormously
complicated the bank officials’ existence.
Complaining that banking was suffer-
ing from the reckless proliferation of
branches without regard to the business
potential of the areas involved, Mr
Williams deplored “the pronounced
lowering of the status of bank managers
and staffs arising from intense and
frequently illogical competition between
banks.”
QUEENSLAND ELECTION
The Pendulum Swings
Back to Nicklin
Duggan’s Doom?
FROM A BRISBANE CORRESPONDENT
FRANK NICKLIN
By rail, car, plane.
ITlhe campaign for Queensland’s June 1
election got under way last week
with the policy speeches of the four main
parties the Country Party, which now
has 26 seats, the Liberals (20), ALP (25)
and QLP (2). (There are five Indepen-
dents.) Labor must pick up 15 seats if
it is to defeat the Government.
Premier Frank Nicklin, 67, is a genial,
non-smoking, pineapple-juice-drinking,
teetotal six-footer. A one-time farmer,
he leads the Country Party. Labor
leader Jack Duggan, 52, a former
grocer’s assistant, is a thickset, well-
spoken middle-of-the-roader who talks
with machine-gun-like rapidity and who
at Labor’s Federal Conference on Ex-
mouth switched at the last minute from
the anti-base line advocated by Leftists
and Communists to the “accept-and-
make -it - unworkable” policy finally
adopted.
As the Country-Liberal Government,
when elected in 1957, was the first non-
Labor Government in Queensland in 25
years, the ALP wants Queensland to
return to what it regards as “normal.”
It is mounting an extensive and colorful
campaign.
Mr Duggan is barn-storming up and
down Queensland in a light aircraft.
Federal big guns, including Mr Calwell
and Mr Whitlam, are giving him a hand.
Mr Nicklin this week will engage in
the traditional Queensland Premier’s
role of travelling vast areas of this large
State (area 667,000 square miles), mostly
by rail coach, but also by car and plane.
The Government parties, because of the
lingering effects of the credit squeeze,
are not encouraging participation by
their Federal counterparts.
~ .
Mam issues in the campaign are
centred on unemployment (down con-
siderably, but still high); Left-wing and
rs ■ . , , f “ .
Communist control of the ALP in
Q ueensland; and development of the
State.
The dec|inj
land Labor Party (which has now linked
with the Democratic Labor Party) was
evident in the 1960 poll when its Parlia-
mentary numbers were cut from 11 to
four. Since then, two of the four have
left the QLP and are standing as
Independents. They include former State
Treasurer Mr E. J. (Ted) Walsh. But '
the Government expects QLP preferences 1
at least to help it maintain —and possibly |
improve upon—its present position.
The coming election threatens to!
extinguish completely the three-party l
activity in the State House. The QLP
Leader (Mr Paul Hilton) is in danger of
defeat because of the ALP’s decision to
give second preferences in his electorate
to his Country Party opponent. The
other QLP member of Parliament, Mr
L. F. Diplock, is also by no means safe,
but he’s probably better off than his
leader.
The election will be the first State
election in which preferential voting will
be compulsory. The Government’s
decision to change from fim-past-the-
post voting obviously was aimed at help-
ing to keep it in power.
Only a fool will predict the exact
result, but the Government’s stocks have
risen in the last 12 months with the re-
covery in the economy and Labor’s move
to the Leftists and fellow-travellers
should lose it votes. The pendulum is
probably swinging back to the Govern-
ment.
The occupations of 100 of the new
candidates for Queensland’s election on
June 1 include a Labor stockbroker from
the Gold Coast, a saw doctor, a bedding
manufacturer, a couple of the usual kind
of doctors, farmers, graziers, meat-
workers, a policeman, businessmen, a
sprinkling of accountants and solicitors,
a host of tradesmen, a man who drives
a tram, and a Liberal who drives a taxi.
There are 18 Independents standing,
nine Social Credit, three Communists.
LIQUOR
Victoria Reforms
But Publicans are afraid
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
HHhe Victorian Government’s new
A liquor reform Bill has not only
brought the predictable response of con-
demnation from the Protestant churches,
but has also touched off an unexpected
side dispute. The Bill will enable li-
censed restaurants, which at the moment
can only serve wines and spirits, to pro-
vide bottled beer and stout for customers.
The idea was immediately attacked
by the secretary of the Freeholders’ As-
sociation, Mr K. F. Courtney, who
claimed that selling beer in restaurants
would have “disastrous” effects on hotels
run by his members.
Mr Courtney sent urgent telegrams to
all members of the State Parliament ask-
ing them to oppose beer in restaurants,
Mr Courtney said: “Beer would be quite
a draw in a licensed restaurant.” He
claimed that hotels had spent nearly £l6
million on capital improvements in re-
cent years and the draw-card of beer in
restaurants would jeopardise these in-
vestments.
Then up spoke Mr Reg Fogarty, chief
G f Carlton and United Breweries Ltd and
undisputed Tsar of Victorian beer mat
ing. “Does the Association wish to deny
people in the lower income groups the
pleasure of dining within their means?
he asked. Mr Fogarty went on to make


the unkind, cutting comment that “Mem-
bers of the Freeholders’ Association do
not conduct hotels; they lease them. I
fail to see how they can be concerned
with the increased trade in restaurants
that may arise from the proposal.”
The new Bill, which seems assured of
passage, leaves 6 p.m. hotel closing un-
disturbed, but will allow drinking with
meals until midnight in licensed restaur-
ants and hotel dining-rooms, Sunday and
Good Friday excepted. Serving of
liquor must stop at 11.30 but drinkers
will get the extra half-hour to finish it
off. This will make the after-theatre sup-
per party, unknown in Victoria since
World War I, possible again.
The surprise provision, however, is one
enabling unregistered clubs and premises
to sell liquor with food on “special occa-
sions.” This should help myriads of clubs
and organisations to run dinners and
other functions without resorting to sub-
terfuges to get around the law.
The heads of seven Churches pro-
tested against the Bill in letters to Pre-
mier Mr Bolte and Mr Rylah. The letters
were signed by heads of the Presby-
terian, Methodist, Baptist, Congrega-
tionalist, Church of Christ and Salvation
Army denominations. The Anglicans
were represented by the Bishop of St.
Arnaud, the Rt. Rev. A. E. Winter, but
not by the Melbourne Archbishop.
Beyond suggesting a “full-scale investiga-
tion into the social consequences of ex-
cessive drinking” the churchmen seemed
to favour the status quo in Victorian
drinking.
Another pressure group, the hotels
section of the Melbourne Chamber of
Commerce, expressed disappointment
that hotel bar hours were not liberalised.
However, as Mr Bolte remarked just
prior to the announcement of the new
Bill, liquor reform in Victoria is a “poli-
tical hot potato.” He told delegates to
the conference of the Australian Hotels’
Association that “if you do not do some-
thing for the hotels, they are in trouble.
If you do, you are in trouble with those
who believe that any reform in this
industry must be voted out.” It was an
oblique shaft, perhaps, at the churches.
However, members of Mr Boite’s party
and of the Country Party will be allowed
free votes on the Bill.
THE COMMUNISTS
The Secret Meeting
In Melbourne
A caretaker moves in
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
RALPH GIBSON
Always on the line.
secret State Conference of the Vic-
A torian Communist Party held in Mel-
bourne last week took further steps to-
wards the final destruction of Ted Hill
and his pro-Peking allies. The usual
fiction of firm but comradely criticism
that gives a dissenter the opportunity to
re-establish himself was still maintained,
but the savage blows, that either drive
deviationists from the party or force
them to humiliate themselves with sep-
arate confessions of their errors, will
continue behind the scenes until the last
Ted Hill and his faction is heard of.
State Secretary Frank Johnson, who had
thought he could hunt with the hounds
and run with the hare for ever, finally got
bis come-uppance and, as predicted in
The Bulletin (April 20, 1963), was
named as a pro-Hill man and dumped.
Tiected, or rather manoeuvred into the
secretaryship, was Ralph Gibson; the
ex-South Australian Secretary, John
became president. ’
Gibson, however, will be only a care-
taker secretary. His task will be to weld
the Victorian organisation together
again. Then at a suitable time Bernie
Taft will be allowed to occupy the seat
he has so long wanted. (Taft’s only
rivals now are John Sendy and Harry
Stanistreet.)
Ralph Seward Gibson, MA, nearly 60
and a chronic asthmatic, is a typical ex-
ample of the intellectual who joins the
Party and is destroyed by it. Both his
father and brother hold chairs of
Philosophy; both have also dissociated
themselves from Ralph and the philo-
sophy he embraced. It was mainly
through Ralph Gibson’s influence that
so many Victorian intellectuals at one
time or another flirted with the Corn-
munist Party.
With over 30 years’ service to the
Party he has survived the innumerable
splits in Victoria by always agreeing
with L. L. Sharkey, and lately with L.
Aarons. After being State Secretary in
the early forties he was dropped as being
“too intellectual”, and for a time was
editor of the Victorian Communist weekly
“Guardian”. From there he moved to a
behind-the-scenes job in charge of Com-
munist Party “Peace” activity in Victoria
(again this is a partial explanation of
why so many Victorian intellectuals were
associated with “Peace” fronts) and he
was resurrected as State President when
the Sino-Soviet split occurred in early
1962. His wife Dorothy, also a Party
member of long standing, comes from a
wealthy family and has long been a
power behind the scenes in the Victorian
“Peace” fronts
One most interesting aspect of last
week’s conference was the Draft Resolu-
tion, which in 15 closely-typed foolscap
sheets spelt out the present line of the
Communist Party of Australia with
special reference to Victoria. It kick-
ed off with a plea for unity: “Conference
calls upon all members to carry out the
Party Line, to safeguard party unity
and uphold democratic centralism which
have been under attack by a small group
in the Victorian Party Organisation”. It
reaffirmed the leadership by the Soviet
Union, and castigated the line adopted
by Red China as “adventurist, dogmatic
and Left sectarian.” But while it savaged
Hill and his adherents, it carefully word-
ed the references to China and Russia
in order to give the least offence to
rank and file members who had support-
ed Hill.
The resolution baldly stated that
Peaceful Co-existence as envisaged by
Mr Khrushchev is a tactic to undermine
the Western World, and concluded:
“Conference decides to do more to
popularise the Soviet Union”. It dealt
at great length with the need to rebuild
the Peace Movement and used the theory
(which Sharkey and Aarons had once
axed Jack Blake for propounding) that
the Peace Movement was a political
weapon to be used to bring closer the
realisation of a “People’s Australia”.
There was a long harangue urging a
United Front with the ALP and ex-
pressing concern that some leading
members in the Victorian ALP were
terminating their sympathetic attitude to
the Communist Party. A call was made
for an increased industrial struggle
(strikes and demonstrations).
Plans to counteract falling Party mem-
bership and declining sales of Party pub-
lications were broadly outlined; these
consisted mainly of paying more attention
to work in youth organisations, the Peace
Movement, women’s organisations, the
aboriginal and cultural organisations.
One of the last items was an attack
on The Bulletin.


COONAWARRA ESTATE*
CLARET
ixS
0
f-
*o
WldMll]
I t
At wine tastings through-
out the Commonwealth,
this claret stands out as
being the most enjoyable,
distinctive and authentic
in style.
• " Estate” (as the word "Chateau” in France)
Is used to distinguish this claret as being the
genuine product o' the winegrower's own
vineyard.
Cl IN
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD.
ORR CASE
A Strike at
Hobart University?
The ghost still walks
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
S. S. ORR
In the ring.
fThiE small but stalwart ghost of Sydney
Sparkes Orr continues to upset the
tranquillity of Tasmanian university life.
Last month, the Students’ Representa-
tive Council issued a strike manifesto.
“For over six years, responsible bodies
have been calling on the University
Council to negotiate on the Orr Case,”
it declared. “Strike action is proposed.
Have we any other way to convince
people that the Orr Case must be clear-
ed up?”
A few days later, Orr was in the ring
again, though not as a participant. He
had been invited to a meeting of the
Socratic Society. Suddenly the proceed-
ings were interrupted by the arrival of
six uninvited guests who began a fire
of unphilosophical interjections and
irrelevant questions. Two of the party
were former students, one of whom had
been ejected before the meeting began.
The philosophers believed that the in-
truders were flushed with liquor, and,
certainly enough, some of them had been
recruited at a nearby pub. When Mr Orr
left the bedlam to make a private tele-
phone call some of the more muscular
philosophers moved to eject the six, and a
brawl ensued. There was some damage,
and stitches were required in a cut face.
Then a few days passed and the scene
changed—to high drama instead of near-
farce. Speaking as it were ex cathedra
on the eve of his departure from Tas-
mania for retirement, Anglican Bishop
G. F. Cranswick charged the University
Council with unworthy conduct; vigor-
ously criticised the former Governor,
Lord Rowallan; and accused a former
vice-chancellor of perjury. Backing the
Bishop were the Rev. Merlyn Holly, a
leading Baptist minister, formerly of
Hobart and now of Melbourne, and the
Rev. A. Christie-lohnston, former Mod-
erator of the Presbyterian Church in
Tasmania.
Referring to the inquiries made by
the Governor who went to the University
as Visitor —the official representative of
the Crown, called upon to adjudicate in
university disputes—the churchmen said
he did not investigate the procedures of
the committees leading up to Orr’s dis-
missal, nor the detailed acts of miscon-
duct by University officers. The Visitor
declined to do so, saying that too long a
time had elapsed for him to adjudicate
fairly. “We do not accept this. The
toll of unjustness increases with time,”
the clergymen declared.
The Visitor had not sought their views
and they had not approached him be-
cause of “the delicacy of his position”.
But after Lord Rowallan went to the
University and made a public statement
of his finding, they asked to speak with
him personally. The Governor had re-
plied that neither as Visitor nor as Gov-
ernor could he meet them. “We were ■
disabused of our illusion that the nice i
balance in an ordered Christian commun- !
ity is maintained by due regard for the
considered views of responsible Church
leaders.”
Newspapers must have looked twice
at the churchmen’s words, for they seeth-
ed with defamation. They could, how-
ever, see that events had confirmed the
assumption that those attacked would
not let themselves be provoked into the
courts. The University Council is report-
ed to have begun a statement in reply
to the churchmen and then torn it up,
In the end they said nothing, as is their
soundly established habit. The Chan-
cellor, Sir Henry Baker, may say some-
thing this week when the Council meets;
but the Vice-Chancellor, Professor K,
S. Isles, told reporters that he had not
seen the churchmen's statement.
The Premier, Mr. Reece, told “The
Examiner” (Launceston): “We will not
change our policy of making no state-
ments on the Orr Case.”
Tt was left to the students to fire the
last shots to date. At two lunch-hour
meetings they further discussed their
strike proposals in the light of an intim-
ation that the Staff Association was again
negotiating with the University Council
to get security of tenure for academic
staff. “If nothing eventuates the staff
probably will agree to join the students
in protest,” SRC President R. Plehwe
told the meeting. “That’s typical soft-
soap,” interjected Paul Berry, a radio
man, part-time law student and strong
Orr supporter since way back. (“It is
significant,” he said, “that those who want
to soft-pedal on the strike are those
who want to make a career in law!”)
Next day, a boisterous meeting agreed
that the staff should not be embarrassed
in their negotiations by student action,
and the strike was postponed. But Barry
Walker, another part-time student who
once studied philosophy under Orr,
warned that it was “wrong to think
getting agreement on security of
tenure would make any difference to the
ban on the philosophy department.” The
secretary of the Australasian Association
of Philosophy, Mr W. Ginnane, had tele-
graphed him that morning: “Philosophy
Association has always maintained that
justice for Orr essential. Proper future
procedures important but not substitute.
To which the supporters of the Coun-
cil reply that Orr has already had justice
and that the real question now is justice
for a University being subjected to a
smear campaign mounted by a mixture
of honest but mistaken people and less
savoury types whose real motive k the
pleasure derived from blackening the
name of any university on any pretext,
regardless of the facts of the case.


Around Melbourne
THE LUSHEST MOTOR SHOW OF ALL
ictoria’s reputation as the State
' with the most dangerous drivers
is unquestionably secure. This last
Easter there were 694 accident re-
ports and 39 died on the roads. We
more than doubled Australia's figures.
Indeed some statisticians worked out
that Victoria over Easter was the most
dangerous place in the world. How-
ever, it must be admitted that we
come up smiling.
For, look at us, right now we
are staging the biggest, the lushest
motor show ever seen in this
town. You can take your pick
of the 100 mph plus sports cars.
Some of them are made nigh on
irresistible with soft spotlighting and
nestling on beds of flowers. You
want to pick them out as if they were
chocolates. They have stirring
names, too, like Spitfire, Wildcat 8;
and if we follow the advice of the
oil companies we can put wild ani-
mals and rocket fuel into the petrol
tanks. Most cars have belt anchors
but only two out of all those on
display provide safety belts as
standard equipment—the Swedish
Volvo and the locally-assembled
Studebakers.
Actually we have always been
mighty keen on motor shows. The
first big “International Motor Show”
opened here on April 30, 1925.
There were brass bands, of course,
and the Governor, Lord Stradbroke,
released 6000 pigeons. “The Sun
News-Pictorial” reported: “Never be-
fore in the history of Australia has
such a glittering array of cars been
assembled—never before have they
been so mechanically perfect. For
the gentler sex the beautiful coloring
of the bodies and the exquisite
machinery will catch the eye. Mere
man goes deeper. He knows that
looks will fade with time. He delves
deeper—beneath the bonnet—where
the power unit operates.”
The most expensive car in the
show was the 82 horsepower six
cylinder Minerva at £1250. The
Packard was £ll5O, the Morris
Cowley £298, the Rugby Tourer
£-285, the Chevrolet £2lO and the
Ford Tourer £192/10/-.
It was extremely difficult to get
terms. It was taken for granted that
if a gentleman couldn’t pay for a
motor car then he couldn’t afford one.
This year the big cars look bigger
and the small cars look smaller. The
wrap-round windshield which was the
glory of 1960, the ideal which would
make for safer motoring, has disap-
peared altogether. Tail fins after
rather a long dry autumn have with-
ered away. The galaxy of head-
lights, considered to be an American
vulgarity in 1960, now, apparently, are
almost as essential as underpants.
In short, most cars are longer, lower,
more hungry-looking. In fact some
cars have a certain look about them,
and it is wise to steer a wide course
just in case they bite.
names are melodious and roll
A off the tongue—Laurentian, Gran
Turismo. Sedan de Ville, Bonneville,
Electra. But quite clearly, glorious
names are becohning short in supply.
Soon it may be necessary to intro-
duce a sort of racehorse studbook
for motor car names.
If you have sump oil in your blood
there are several things that will bring
a tear to your eye. Daimler, of
course, was devoured recently by
Jaguar. Now Daimler, in certain
parts of SE2, used to be even more
distinguished than Rolls Royce. After
all it was a car with a strong Royal
Family tradition. Now you have to
put on your reading glasses to dis-
tinguish it from the 2.4 litre Jag or
the B Series MG (£1365).
to the motoring writers,
Jp r registrations are still breaking
records and the less cautious are
even talking of the rosy boom days
ahead. The car which most symbol-
ises this boom is the Cadillac Sedan
de Ville (£6250). Not only does it
have headlights all over the .Tont, but
there are sidelights which automati-
cally go on as the driver turns the
wheel to take a corner. There are
so many buttons which operate vari-
ous electric motors one can't help
but wonder what would happen if
the children were left in the car
while mother went to buy the
potatoes.
For example, at the driver’s seat
there are buttons for all the
windows and all the doors. You
can even open the boot while you
are driving along. There are six
buttons which operate the seat up,
down r forwards and backwards and
tilt. Press them all at once and the
seat stirs like a pudding. There’s a
“station-seeking” radio which auto-
matically tunes in to the loudest
station; heating and air-conditioning.
The air-conditioning could, if requir-
ed, cool the car down to 30 degrees.
Yes, use it to cool the champagne.
All these things are standard on
the Sedan de Ville, but if you feel
that the comforts are inadequate then
you can get extras. For example,
there’s the electronic automatic dipper
for the headlights. There’s the auto-
matic pilot for the freeways—set your
speed to, say, 70. There’s a sentinel
which flicks on a warning light when
you drive too fast. Then there are
the special tinted windows. You can
get murky brown glass for the rear
window, soft green tinted glass for
the windscreen. This has a marvel-
lous psychological effect on the driver.
The windows always make the past
appear horrid and always he is driving
into a glorious green future.
Tf you can't afford the Cadillac then
there is the Buick Electra con-
vertible with that 325 bhp Wildcat
engine. The .cost, £.4675. The rear
is like the flight deck of the Coral
Sea nuclear aircraft-carrier and the
boot is the largest seen at the exhibi-
tion in 38 years. A horse, or two
Mini Minors, would fit in there com-
fortably. The electrical gadgetry pro-
vides almost as much fun as in the
Caddy, and there’s something differ-
ent. You work the radio by pushing
a little pedal under the carpet. Each
time you push you change the station.
Yes, there’s no question the Ameri-
cans are good on these psychological
points. If you don't like your disc
jockey you can stamp on him.
BATMAN


North Queensland Is “In”
The sophisticated frontier
By L. J. ROBERTS
Before the war the only really good
addresses in Townsville were Melton
Hill, some parts of sea-side North
Ward, sections of Station Hill and a sub-
urban section centered around Fulham
Road. Today, as all of North Queensland
booms and bustles, the city has spread to
such an extent that any address can be a
good one. Even the city's North Queens-
land Club—the North's only pre-war top
bracket Club has found the enormous
growth of “top people” almost impossible
to cope with. In ten years the city’s popu-
lation has jumped to over 40,000 mak-
ing it Queensland’s second city and one
of the fastest growing in Australia; and
it could double in the next 15 years.
Students pour in from all over the north
to the University College which will
soon be full. (The University land has
already been secured.) The city has
reached the stage where its new sec-
ondary industries attract other industries,
factories and handling plants in a com-
plex chain reaction.
The same sort of thing applies to a
lesser extent in Mackay and most of the
other towns in the new North Queens-
land. Of course it is still well to re-
member that the biggest annual High
Life affair in Townsville, Cairns and
Mackay is the Race Club Ball and
relatively few city people get on the
strict invitation list. It is still basically a
countryman’s country and the Western
grazing areas or the sugar districts of
Ayr and Ingham ignore Townsville as
a social centre for most farmers and
graziers know they could buy and sell
nine out of ten of the city people who
try to patronise them. The same applies,
though to a lesser extent, with Cairns
and Mackay.
But, town or country, no part of Aus-
tralia has changed, and improved, so
much in the past ten years as North
Queensland, as Australian and foreign
investors discover something entirely new
in the concept of development the
“sophisticated frontier.”
North Queensland may still be a fron-
tier but it is also sophisticated in that
it is a settled area, with a prosperous
community, an expanding local economy
and more larger town or city centres
than any comparable part of the nation.
The Northern part of Queensland has
made history in the social sense, although
the North Queenslanders it has pro-
duced tend to ignore the fact. In the
period of less than 60 years since the
compulsory repatriation of the inden-
tured Melanesian sugar field workers, it
has become the only large, completely
tropical area with a completely Euro-
pean-origin population. Much less than
60 years ago, medical opinion held the
view that Europeans could not engage
in heavy manual labor in a tropical area
with high rainfall and high temperatures,
without complete loss of health and vigor,
if not loss of life. Today, the major
population concentration in the North
is in the lushly rich, high rainfall and
high temperature coastal belt from
Mackay to Cairns and Mossman. The
sugar industry they have brought to the
peak of success is the most efficient in
the world, and North Queenslanders are
among Australia’s healthiest and most
forward-looking people. Even at the
most severe stages of the humid summer
and the wet season no one can imagine
living anywhere else. North Queensland,
in fact, has produced a distinctive Aus-
tralian.
Expansion and pioneering there invol-
ves an extension within the existing
areas of settlement. Gone are the isola-
tion, the privation, the economic heart-
break which often applied in the days
up to the Second World War, and im-
mediately after,
get down to hard facts, a huge
programme of electrification has
taken power to thousands of farms and
properties each year while catering for
the needs of industry in the major centres
of population. An inter-connected grid
system, based on two hydro-electric sta-
tions and two major thermal stations,
extends from the sprawling Tablelands
behind Cairns through to the Mackay
area.
The interconnection links the power
sources of the Cairns, Townsville and
Mackay Regional Electricity Boards, and
to supplement the Tully Falls and Bar-
ron Gorge hydro schemes and the giant
Townsville and smaller Mackay thermal
stations, a new £24 million thermal sta-
tion now is being built at Collinsville in
the heart of a rich coal area in the
Bowen hinterland. Listed to follow then
is a third hydro scheme, larger than the
existing two, involving the harnessing of
the Herbert River which rises in the
Cairns hinterland and enters the sea
at Ingham.


Fairy Godmother to a booming town
like Townsville is the incredibly rich
mining centre of Mt Isa, hundreds of
miles back towards the Northern Terri-
tory border and centering on Mt Isa
Mines Ltd which now has in full-scale
operation at Townsville a copper re-
finery capable of handling the Mt Isa
smelter’s 80,000 tons capacity of blister
copper, and producing wire, rods, wire
bar, cathodes and billets. New factories
utilising those products have been, and
still are being, attracted to Townsville.
Quite independently, the city has gained
a cement factory, a paint factory and
numbers of other different plants with
each new enterprise attracting others.
Mt Isa Mines Ltd has spent £3O mil-
lion on production expansion over the
last six years, with another £2O million
to be spent in the next four years. Ore
treatment facilities are being raised to
14,000 tons a day and every ton of
production must pass through Towns-
ville. The Queensland Government cur-
rently is nearing the completion of a
£3O million rehabilitation programme on
the Townsville-Mt Isa railway line.
Although primarily aimed at ade-
quacy in handling the greater mineral
output, the huge railway improvement
scheme will greatly facilitate the move-
ment of stock and general traffic with
mutual benefit for both Townsville and
the North West.
/Current industrial development not-
withstanding, North Queensland’s
wealth remains with the land with the
sugar industry of the coast, the cattle
industry of the hinterland and Gulf, with
the fine cabinet woods of the Dividing
Range, the dairying of the Atherton
Tableland and with the tobacco of the
Mareeba-Dimbulah area served by the
Tinaroo Dam irrigation complex.
None of these industries, as a whole,
is static and most are booming. The
sugar industry has met the opportunity
provided by the lapsing of the Interna-
tional Sugar Agreement by increasing
production to the stage where Australia
now ranks second only to Cuba. More
importantly, the Colonial Sugar Refining
Company Ltd, as marketing agents for
the industry, has gained solid entry into
the potentially enormous Japanese mar-
ket. All of Australia’s huge surplus for
export on the free market, after meet-
ing home consumption needs and the ob-
ligations under the British Common-
wealth Sugar Agreement, has been sold.
Processing of a new record crop is about
to begin with the acquisition of every
stick of cane assured.
No Australian industry probably has
more regulations, rules and limitations
than North Queensland's sugar industry,
but by the same token none is better or-
ganised for production and marketing,
more efficient or more generally suc-
cessful.
Since the early 1890 s, it has taken
Italians in large numbers in the belt
from Mackay to Mossman. As well,
Maltese have gone to Mackay farms,
Greeks to the Lower Burdekin, Finns to
Ingham and Tully. Spaniards to Ingham
and Innisfail, and Yugoslavs to Ingham
and Innisfail. These peoples have merged
into one group with those of British
origin in an assimilation or integration
unmatched anywhere in Australia.
Ingham’s sugar efficiency and Mar-
eeba’s tobacco success have made them
the most improved and progressive
towns in the North. Both are virtually
unrecognisable in comparison with even
post-war days. Tobacco has boomed in
the Mareeba-Dimbulah area in the
Cairns hinterland under the irrigation
system based on the Tinaroo Dam. This
year’s Mareeba crop could be worth £8
million.
Ingham, with tobacco as a subsidiary
crop, has done proportionately as well.
However, the overall picture of the
North Queensland tobacco industry is
marred by the uncertainty which each
year surrounds the sale success of leaf
from the Government scheme Burdekin
areas of Clare. Millaroo and Dalbeg. up-
river from Ayr. There seems little doubt,
after some 12 years of trials and tribula-
tions, that the up-river Burdekin area is
not generally suited for tobacco. Top
Government officials now are investi-
gating alternative crops for the area and
the leaf growers there have made one
unsuccessful effort to secure sugar cane
assignments. They may not be unsuc-
cessful next year.
Tf the sugar and tobacco industries have
been transformed in recent years,
then the North Queensland beef cattle
industry must be considered to be under-
going a full-scale revolution. An entirely
new approach has developed that of
fattening cattle from the dry interior
breeding areas on the wet tropical coast.
The approach has captured the imagina-
tion of the giant United States beef “em-
pire,” the King Ranch of Texas.
Its Australian offshoot (combining
Australian and American capital), King
Ranch (Aust.) Pty Ltd, has committed
itself to a million pounds expenditure on
the development of a fattening property
on Crown Lands being leased in range,
plain and swamp country in the Tully
area. King Ranch will fatten cattle there
from its Northern Territory stations.
Within the past few weeks, a major
English pastoral company has spent an
amount stated authoritatively to be very
close to £900,000 on purchasing the big
Wrotham Park station aggregation be-
yond Cairns. To do this, they are stated
to have disposed of a blue-riband Hun-
ter River property.
North Queensland cattlemen recently
were told on unimpeachable sources that
another English group had £5 million
which it was prepared to spend to se-
cure the right area in the North. Other
big capital amounts also are known to
want tropical land.
Overseas and Southern interest in
Northern pastoral development never
has been greater. The interest arises to
a very large extent from the efforts of
Northern cattlemen who have shown
by individual schemes what can be done
with tropical lands. Land thought to be
fit only for a beast to six or seven acres
now is carrying a beast to two acres.
However, more than that is involved.
North Queensland’s shipping route
proximity to the Japanese market has
been a major factor in the capturing of
so large an initial share of that country’s
sugar imports. Informed beef industry
opinion sees the same advantages apply-
ing for North Queensland in the field of
meat supplies. If Japan’s eyes once were
fixed on North Queensland, then the
position now is quite reversed. Northern
eyes are set firmly on Japan’s markets.
Within the past six years, North
Queensland’s cattlemen have become
more confident than they ever have been.
This arises from the fact that, in its two
terms, the Liberal-Country Party Gov-
ernment has adopted the sane view with
the long-awaited stability of tenure in
grazing areas. With this security, pas-
toralists at last have been able to begin
to pour back their profits into permanent
improvements on their properties at a
rate unknown during the previous suc-
cessive ALP administrations.
Confidence also has been increased by
the State Government’s implementation
of a multi-million pound Beef Road con-
struction scheme to ensure ease of move-
ment of stock to the coast for either
meatworks killing or prior fattening.
These avenues of moving cattle at times
when Stock Routes have been eaten out
will mean a huge degree of reduction
in the present appalling loss rate in the
breeding areas.
T'he beef industry revolution in pasture
-*■ improvement and also in the de-
velopment of tropical breeds of cattle
can be related to the work and influence
of individual cattlemen. As much as any
single area, the Ingham district has
played a dominant initial role in both
fields. Ingham district's tropical breed
studs provided a basis for the focusing of
attention through the combination of pas-
ture improvement on stud properties
concentrating on tropical breed de-
velopment.
Tropical breeds of cattle involve the
infusion of Brahman blood into the
British strains, and the fixing of the


•
II I I
fifty-fifty with TEACHERS
Highland Cream Scotch Whisky
Try it —and you’ll dig it too! So will
your friends! Wherever you find it,
water’s divine*— -fifty-fifty with un-
mistakable Teacher’s. It’s the socially
acceptable drink. But there’s
no need to search for it. Just
ask for it anywhere—water,
fifty-fifty with Teacher’s.
*Tliere’s soda for those who prefer it.
N.S. W. Agents:
Tucker & Co. Pty. Limited
335 Kent St., Sydney.
Distributors of fine spirits
for 125 years.
EACHERS
whisky
TW29.84S
infusion percentages in herd program-
mes. The Asian origin Brahman cattle
have the advantage of tick, heat and
drought resistance.
The first really definite new breed,
Droughtmaster, was developed by R. L.
Atkinson, a member of one of the
North's best-known pastoral families,
on his Ingham area, Mungalla property.
Former Federal Liberal politician,
John Murray, in his years of active
association with Tropical Cattle Pty Ltd
at the Ingham property, The Orient,
focused attention on a national basis
not only on the tropical breed develop-
ment but on the pasture improvement
scope offered on the wet tropical coast.
Murray’s company reclaimed extreme
coastal section salt pan and tidal country
formerly thought worthless and trans-
formed it into pasture as rich as any in
the country.
Transformation of pasture means the
transformation of carrying capacity, and
carrying capacity is the key to turn-off
and profits.
Concurrently with the Ingham area
stud efforts, similar programmes were
put under way by Daintree River proper-
ties above Cairns, and, though generally
attracting less attention, these served to
spread the message in the extreme Far
North.
Tremendous interest also has been
created among cattlemen by the work
of Gulf country grazier Mr Percy Ed-
wards on his big Abingdon Downs prop-
erty. His is a breeding property, and his
efforts are aimed at giving the cow a
better chance of survival before and after
calving. Each extra cow surviving means
an extra calf. She will also go on to
produce more calves, and production
eventually will commence from her
heifer calves.
Abingdon Downs has big areas of
Townsville and Hunter River lucerne
and buffalo grass pasture, and now Mr
Edwards is growing corn to feed his
weaners, again to ease the burden on
the breeding cow.
HThis is a completely revolutionary ap-
proach for stations such as Gulf
properties but it is paying dividends
and more and more are following the
Abingdon lead. Equally revolutionary
has been the approach of H. M. Clarke
on Fanning River, a property in entirely
different country in the dry hinterland
area near Charters Towers. By growing
and buying lucerne for storage and using
it in feeding at crucial times, he has cut
his losses in breeding production from
50 per cent to 20 per cent.
Interest in pasture improvement is on
such a wide scale now that a new agri-
cultural-pastoral field is being opened
the growing of artificial grass for com-
mercial seed harvest and sale.
The Reid Brothers, who operate the
Burnside tropical breed stud in the Ing-
ham area, found seed difficult to obtain
when they wanted to extend their own
plantings. Consequently, they have
turned to harvesting seed to meet a con-
stantly increasing market potential.
A tremendous force in the swing to
artificial pasture has been a lone Depart-
ment of Agriculture and stock agricul-
turist —Fabian Sweeney. Stationed at
Cairns, he has served the area from Tully
north to the Peninsula and out to the
Gulf.
Half a dozen more such men could be
utilised in the area, but agriculturists
apparently are a rare breed in Australia,
and the Department is desperately short of
them. However, quite literally, Sweeney,
young and dedicated, has done the work
of half a dozen men himself.
As a result of his efforts and enthu-
siasm, the Department, with the assist-
ance of pastoralists, now has dozens of
experimental plots of many different
types of grasses all over the North.
These experiments are being undertaken
at the pastoralists’ expense.
These individual experiments comple-
ment the Department's South Johnstone
Tropical Experiment Station in the Innis-
fail area, and also will complement pas-
ture improvement research to be under-
taken now for different types of country
by the CSIRO at a Townsville station.
However, no one research or experi-
ment station can produce all the answers
since the pastoral region of the North is
so vast, with so many different soil,
climate and rainfall patterns.
’VTo part of North Queensland is not
being changed now, whether by in-
dustry, agriculture or mining. Even the
remote Cape York Peninsula is being
provided with a town, port and multi-
million bauxite mining enterprise by the
huge Comalco group at VVeipa on the
Gulf coast some 300 miles from Cairns.
Vast iron ore deposits have been estab-
lished to exist at Constance Range, also
in the Peninsula, and extreme optimism
has been expressed by the Queensland
Premier, Mr F. Nicklin, at their being
worked for North Queensland advantage
in the near future.
North Queensland now is aggressively
selling itself to the rest of Australia, and
to the world as a whole. On the indivi-
dual level, as an example, Mackay is
seeking United States and Continental
interest in a pulp and paper manufac-
turing plant utilising bagasse, a sugar-cane
crushing surplus. Mackay already has
available some 100,000 tons of bagasse
and this quantity is considered capable
of being increased by 25 per cent. On
the overall level, the People the North
Committee, a subsidiary of the North
Queensland Local Government Associa-
tion, is advancing at State and Federal
Government level the great scope exist-
ing for further development in the area.
Its proposal is for a joint Common-
wealth, Queensland and West Australian
Authority to plan and implement devel-
opment for Northern Australia on lines
generally similar to those of the Snowy
Mountains Authority. The proposal has
received the support of Queensland
Cabinet.


OUT AND ABOUT
Private People in
a Political State
“All I have to offer is my ability to write ”
A PROFILE
The problem of a detached, sensitive
writer caught up in a great poli-
tical turmoil recurs throughout the
world. But it has a special poignancy in
South Africa. For there, writers in
English—many of them unusually talent-
ed, with the long tradition of English
prose behind them have found them-
selves sharp up against one of the cruel-
lest of all systems of government.
They have reacted in very different
ways. Alan Paton has become politically
committed, in his acts and in his books.
Dan Jacobson, Laurens Van Der Post,
Doris Lessing have moved to London,
making forays to Africa from there.
Others, staying in Africa, have devoted
their writing to polemic. But Nadine
Gordimer, who has remained in Johan-
nesburg, writing with great fineness and
perception, is in many ways the most
distinguished of them all. Her own, very
private writer’s world has gradually been
invaded and opened up by the pressures
of racial politics.
Her new novel, “Occasion for Loving”,
is in the first place a book about love,
and the power of love, and much of it
has nothing to do with apartheid, or
Johannesburg. But the attitudes of the
four white people are changed and illu-
minated by the arrival of an African
composer and his affair with one of them,
which puts in a new light the whole per-
spective and meaning of their loves.
It is not a book with a bold political
message. It is primarily about private
people, only secondly about politics. But
it is the privacy, the starting point of
ordinariness and domesticity, that makes
it a far more accurate, and also more
moving, picture of South Africa than
much more committed writing. And the
intrusion of politics accurately reflects
the development of the writer herself.
Nadine Gordimer is a dedicated and
professional writer. Her looks, her talk,
her eyes, have the same fineness and
strength as her writing style. She is a
small, neat person of 39, beautiful in a
very feminine way; and she gives the
impression, correctly, of being firmly in
control of herself.
Her life in Johannesburg has a pattern
of outward calm and discipline. She
lives in a strange, rather austere house in
a trim suburb, with her husband, Rein-
hold Cassirer, a reluctant businessman.
Their house has the settled orderliness of
most well-to-do white South African
homes: smiling servants pad in and out,
the hose plays in the garden, three
children come to and from school,
chamber music comes out of the gramo-
phone. Expeditions are made to the high
veld, for camping and shooting buck.
On most mornings at home, Nadine
Gordimer shuts herself up in a small
study and writes, from 10 to two. But
the apparently effortless calm of the
house is misleading and conceals a com-
plicated personality.
Nadine Gordimer was born and
brought up in what might, for a writer,
seem one of the bleakest settings in the
world —the grim, materialistic gold-mining
town of Springs, 30 miles from Johannes-
burg, on the “golden reef” that sprawls
across the Transvaal. Her father was a
Jewish refugee from Lithuania who ran
a jeweller’s shop in Springs; and Nadine
was brought up in a peaceful, secure
home, surrounded by the conventional
hierarchic society of mining engineers.
She always wanted to write and used
to ghost her elder sister's school essays.
She read enormously and tried writing
short stories. But her parents and friends
were not much interested; not until she
was 22, at university in Johannesburg,
did she begin to meet literary people.
It was not long before she came into a
much wider world. A short story was
accepted by the “New Yorker” (which has
been her patron ever since). After several
more short stories, and an unsuccessful
first marriage, she wrote her first novel,
“The Lying Days”—a brilliant, rather
shapeless book about a young girl’s first
encounters with love and reality—which
was immediately acclaimed in Britain
and America.
She married again, began to travel,
settled into a happy family life and went
on writing. Europe and America began
to creep into her short stories; but it was
always Africa—the smells, skies, excite-
ments and special miseries of Africa
that underlay her best writing.
In her later stories from about 1954
onwards —Africans began to loom more
large, and they appear full-size in “A
World of Strangers”, recently made into
a film, a novel about a young English-
man who comes out to Johannesburg, and
moves between the two worlds of white
society and black bohemia. Here Miss
Gordimer tries to capture the talk and
thoughts of Africans, not only with
whites, but with one another—an im-
mensely ambitious task. Sometimes the
dialogue and characters have, perhaps,
too much of the drawing-room. But in
this and later stories Miss Gordimer has
written about Africans, not as symbols or
romantic beings, but as very complex in-
dividuals; this has put her in a different
class from other white writers.
Meanwhile, in her own life, Miss
Gordimer has broadened her horizons.
She remains, as ever, a private and
particular person; she has a small, hand-


mi
lillii
-
'
•vSS-5
:3£*?j£
Wo>.
■■■
■'M
WmWmmMm
m
(Ml
:
m
: ■>: ■;
'
Mm
: ■■■?■
m
»iiw
w;>;
' : :y, v:
■
' -
X : . •
:#¥S
H
mm
*
’'Revolutionary” is the word for UNICHROME spray-on vinyl
Here it is a revolutionary new decorative vinyl finish you can
apply by spray, which looks, feels and wears like the highest quality
embossed vinyl film. Now made right here in Australia, Unichrome
865 Coatings have all the built-in vinyl virtues: they won’t stain,
fade, chip or scuff. Easily applied to metal, hardboard or fibre-
glass by standard spray-gun, they
mantle even intricate forms with a
rich, warm finish, satin smooth or
textured. “Revolutionary” is the word.
,m


n,
Unichrome 865
has sales appeal,
gives superior
performance, provides processing
economies and has applications in a
wide range of secondary industries.
Metal furniture, architectural panels
and partitions, office equipment,
household appliances and television
cabinets are just a few of its many
applications. The close-up pictures
here suggest the variety of textures
that can be obtained which include
two-tone and multi-colour effects.
Our colour service will match
samples and formulate any special
colour plain or metallic
you require. Unichrome sprayed-on
vinyl adds a quality look to your
product, and pays off handsomely in
these ways:
Your designers are free to change
colours at will ... to adopt novel
textured effects ... to reproduce
in finest detail any underlying metal
pattern. ‘Revolutionary’ is the word.
Your production benefits when
the finish is applied after fabrication
or assembly. No more raw, un-
finished edges ... no expensive
losses in pre-coated cut-offs ... no
stockpile of pre-finished material to
inhibit quick changes in colours and
styling as the market demands . . .
fewer rejects because of ease in re-
finishing. ‘Revolutionary’ is the word.
Your dealers welcome the reduc-
tion of costly returns, mark-downs
and write-offs due to finish damaged
in transport or showroom demon-
stration. ‘Revolutionary’ is the word.
For full details about Unichrome 865,
contact United Chromium (Australia)
Pty. Ltd. at Mandemar Avenue,
Homebush, N.S.W. Telephone Mr. R.
Bartels at 76-0511. Or put in a call
to one of these United Chromium
branch managers:
VICTORIA
Mr. B. Barnett, Melbourne. 69-3263
QUEENSLAND
Mr. B. Kiernan, Brisbane. 5-4091
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Mr. D. Bruce, Adelaide. 71-7240
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Mr. G. Parsons, Perth. 21-4937
NEW ZEALAND
Mr. A. Nisbet, Auckland. 594-221 UC4
s :
&
*»
♦Xt
*>V
mmmmmm
.§:
I
>&
wmm
N
picked group of friends, some of them
very odd, dating back to early encounters.
Her attitude to politics has been condi-
tioned, not by isms and doctrines, but
by the experiences of herself and her
friends. She wrote a profile of Chief
Lutuli, and so came to know him well,
and found a new interest in African poli-
tics. At the time of Sharpeville one of her
closest friends was arrested and imprison-
ed, and she saw the horrors of the police
State with a new vividness. She now has
many African friends, in both London
and Johannesburg, including several
young writers; and she sees the agony of
her country partly through their eyes.
Gradually, in the past three years,
between visits to Europe and America,
she has been involved further with poli-
tics. “A World of Strangers” was banned
in the paperback edition, to stop it being
read by Africans. This new one, too, is
likely to be banned. She has made some
brisk but effective forays against the
ruling white mentality writing to “The
Times” attacking Harry Oppenheimer’s
humbug; cancelling her radio licence in
protest against biased broadcasts; mak-
ing a short, sharp speech in London a
year ago when she was awarded the
W. H. Smith £l,OOO prize.
But, like others around her, she feels
desperately inadequate. “I’m an apolitical
person in a situation where to be effective
you have to be political. All I have to
offer is my ability to write.” Her new
novel is partly a statement of this despair.
“Its main theme,” she explains, “is that
the liberal attitude has become meaning-
less. We have to accept that we cannot
live decently in a rotten society.”
Now, as the small group of Johannes-
burg liberal intellectuals steadily
dwindles, she and her husband find the
problem of living in that rotten society
increasingly hard. Both are tempted to
live in Europe—particularly her husband
who, having fled from Nazi Germany,
now sees the same pattern emerging in
South Africa. But Miss Gordimer has,
one senses, a desire to see the problem
through a stage further, to come to grips
with it a little more closely, before she
finally leaves and joins the other anguish-
ed South African exiles.
For, like all writers from Africa, she
is very conscious of the roots of her
writing the energy, the feel and the
sheer magnitude of her continent. It is
never easy for outsiders to understand
the hold that South Africa, for all its
horrors and dullness, has on its in-
habitants, both black and white. But for
writers that hold is remorseless, and to
have to leave it mine-dumps, com-
pounds, police raids, Verwoerd and all
makes a terrible uprooting.
On page 22, Helen Joseph’s view of
South Africa today.


Around Sydney
Who’s for Rounders?
The spectator is always right
By RUTH RODGERS
Every Wednesday Sydney’s women’s
page reporters play rounders. The
bases are Prince’s, Romano’s, the
Pickwick Club, the Bistro, the Angus
Steak Cave, and Martha Washington’s
a tuckaway tea shoppe type of establish-
ment in Martin Place, which serves good
food but is not licensed. It is regarded
as “quite nice” in some necks of Sydney’s
social woods.
The spectators are society and would-
be-society matrons, do-gooders (charity
work is always a valid reason for a lunch
together), suburban brides-to-be, and
young girls, mostly pretty, “going over-
seas” or celebrating an engagement, a
new job, an approaching 21st, or any-
thing else. The reason doesn’t matter all
that much.
And why do Sydney’s females of this
species gather at the city’s smartest cafes
on Wednesdays? Simply because that is
the day when the four metropolitan news-
papers send their social writers and
photographers on lunchtime rounds —or,
as we call it in the trade, rounders.
Thursday by tradition is the day on
which the big city shops advertise. It’s
rag trade day or women’s day since
women are always interested in what the
shops are offering. Editors as a conse-
quence devote more space on Thursdays
than on other week-days to women’s
news. That’s why we play rounders on
Wednesdays; our news and pictures are
published next day.
To get back to the Wednesday-for-
lunch girls. They deck themselves out like
old-time trolley horses on what used to
be called Eight Hour Day. There are
exceptions, the pretty young things with
the kiss of sun and surf on their cheeks,
sleek, and well-fed, and simply dressed
(and no hat at all), but on rounders day
they are a minority.
Conversation lags until the Press turns
up between 12.30 p.m. and 2 p.m. Some
of the Wednesday mob don’t eat. They
sit in the lounge and sip martinis or
brandy crustas. But whatever their cate-
gory, eaters or sippers, they’re there for
the same purpose to get their names
plus a photo in the paper next day. As
the reporter looks round to see who’s
who, the sippers and eaters take a quick
sideways look.
The practised performers nonchalantly
pretend not to notice. But gradually they
sit a little straighter. Give their hats a
pat. The key of their chatter and laughter
goes up a tone or two.
Some restaurants catering for the Wed-
nesday trade employ Press relations offi-
cers to “help” the reporters. These ladies
know all the “goss”. The Wednesday mob
chats sweetly to them on the way in, and
whisper special claims for Press attention.
(“Not that I want my name in the papers,
dear, but my friend from the country
would just love it.”)
They soon get to know us. You don’t
need a photographer at your heels or a
notebook in your hand to identify your-
self as a reporter. “Hello, dear, how are
you today?” they cry as they see us.
Others try a gentle bribe “Do have a
drink!” Or the butter-up approach
“My, you do look pretty. I should be
taking a picture of you.”
Some offer money, not only gushers
but the occasional male who becomes
caught up in the game. He, poor chap, is
not concerned with himself but with get-
ting notice taken of his wife, daughter
or what-have-you. Bribers are out for
life. We rounder-players work together
to that extent. We tell each other about
any proffered sling (as, I believe, this
type of operation is sometimes called)
and that’s the end of them. Their chances
of making the social pages next day or
on any other Thursday are nil.
Not everyone likes having her picture
taken at lunch time. I once asked a genu-
ine upper-cruster if I could take her
photograph. She begged off, saying her
face was much too tired. I saw her at the
Royal garden party soon after. Her face
is still tired, although she’d have risked it
to be in a garden party shot.
I felt rather sad for her, particularly as
even in a glimpse at her I saw the re-
mains of what must once have been a
beautiful face. But then rounders,
despite the noise and the fuss and the
too-gay gaiety, is often sad. The fearful
eagerness of people to win a little brief
attention is sad.
Ah, yes, we rounder-players have much
to contend with. There is the clutcher,
the woman with long, long fingernails,
usually painted a violent red, which claw
into your hand when you are trying to
get down a name or two. I struck a
clutcher the other day. With her talons
dug deep in my flesh she went on non-
stop like a crazy gramophone record.
“I'm giving the lunch . . . it’s for my
friend . . . the one over there in the
green dress ... do you know how to
spell her name? . . . now get it right,
dear . . . it's very important ... her
husband is a big businessman and they
are going to live in Florida ... you
know that’s in America . . . very gay ...
she’ll love it ... ”
Then there is the “organiser” who
shows us how to do our job. “I think the
picture should be taken this way. Oh, no,
that’s not her good side. Look at us, Sue,
and let’s see how you look. Fix your hat.
Oh, that's wonderful. Go on, take her
now.”
Finally the maker of hay while the
publicity sun might shine. You line her
or her friends up for a picture or a par,
but before you have put pencil to paper
or your noble ally, the photographer, has
got them in his sights she is smothering
you with story ideas about herself
and her pals, of course.
But, regardless of how rough the game
becomes, we must remain unshaken. We
have our rounders code: —
1. Concentrate on the game;
2. Don’t lose your patience;
3. The spectator is always right;
4. Keep keen.


" V
: '
x %%?ifi' ~' ’* ' ,
: ■
■* ' J.
—<sL i£
•.- '
Cv-jV
i a
m
■yV* : .WJt .>?.
the wrong place to wait for Lufthansa
You’d have a long wait at an Australian
terminal for a Lufthansa flight.
Probably more than a year.
The fact is that Australia is the
only continent in the world to which
Lufthansa does not fly a regular service.
Yet.
But experienced travellers and your
travel agent can tell you what
Lufthansa, the German international
airline, means in Europe, Asia, Africa,
America.
It means Boeing 7208’s and 707 Inter-
continentals, German thoroughness and
precision.
It means continental cuisine, friendly
service and crews who speak your
language.
It means experience born of pioneer
flights as early as 1926 culminating m
a proud record of 160,000 flights in the
last 8 years.
In the near future, when planning is
complete, Australia will be part of the
Lufthansa maps that circle the world.
In the meantime your travel agent can
book you Lufthansa flights to most over-
seas cities you will want to visit.
No, you can’t wait for Lufthansa
at an Australian terminal yet. But
Lufthansa is waiting for you as close as
Bangkok, Hong Kong or San Francisco,
just hours away from your office.
Europe? U.S.A.? The East?
Fly Lufthansa.
U 117388
YOUR TRAVEL AGENT OR TAA HAS FULL DETAIL;*
mn
LUFTHANSA
GERMAN AIRLINES


mm
\
,y-:■■■ ■
"
demand
Dalwood
w
Head Waiters will approve, when you do
Penfolds historic Dahvood vineyards are
situated in the famous Hunter Valley. Ask for
Dalwood Hermitage Claret, Dalwood Burgundy,
Dalwood Riesling, Dalwood Chablis.
PW47I
The Basement Room
Counterfeiting within the law
By A SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
Tien chong, my Chinese friend, was
usually full of fun and laughter. On
this occasion, which was several
years ago now, he spoke seriously and ap-
peared anxious to convince us this was no
joking matter. My attention was drawn
when he repeated that a fully-furnished
seaside bungalow could be made avail-
able to me at any time with a large gar-
den, or compound as we called it, all
free of charge.
“And what are the conditions of this
wonderful offer, Mr Chong?” I enquired,
although, having a very pleasant place of
my own on the sea-front, I was not par-
ticularly interested. Still my bungalow
was certainly quite expensive.
Chong proceeded. “There is a large
basement with five rooms,” he said. “It
is quite separate from the upper part of
the house. You will be asked to allow
five Chinese men you will, in fact,
be expected to allow them to live there
unmolested. The house is about 30 yards
from the main road and it is expected
that no sounds of work in the basement
would be heard in the road.
“What is much more important is that
you, being an Englishman and a former
Government servant in residence with
your name on the gate, would never under
any circumstances be molested or even
visited by a policeman or by Customs
and Excise officials.” Ele added that
the very little noise made by the Chinese
working in the basement would not at any
time disturb us.
At this stage it became, as I thought,
clear as daylight it was planned to set
lip and operate an illegal still within my
premises. •'
“Oh, no, not a still”, Tien Chong said,
“something very much bigger than that —
counterfeiting of currency notes.”
I shivered at the sound of this word.
Counterfeiting was an ugly word and
almost sacrilege to one trained in the
strict principles of the London Institute
of Bankers. I was not really interested.
“That is no small undertaking,” I
said. “What about all the equipment yoifll
require special paper; exact dyes,
printing blocks?”
“We’ve got all that,” replied Chong.
“The two Chinese in your place will do
all the work and never go outside the
building.” He went on to assure me we
were not dealing with English or Malayan
currencies, so that no local law was being
broken. I continued to protest that it was
an unfriendly act to participate in the
counterfeiting of the notes of a neighbor
state, such as Burma or Thailand, or of
any other. Tien Chong continued to
stifle all my objections. He would not
admit to any forgery because, as he
pointed out, we should be using the
actual plates and dyes previously used
by the Indonesian State Treasurer in
the printing of his own notes. Finally,
Chong assured me it would not even be
necessary to forge the Indonesian
Treasurer’s signature, because his own
original signature would always be ap-
plied by us.
I looked up in amazement. If what
Chong had said was true, we might pro-
ceed to make genuine currency notes and
continue doing so indefinitely without
committing any crime, not even a mis-
demeanor. I did not accept the princely
offer. But somebody else did.


Best blend of beauty, action and thrift on the road!
The way the sleek Falcon rides the roads keeps owners
sure they are driving Australia’s No. I Road Car. The
many advantages Falcon has over its main opposition all
contribute in this better roadability. Higher powered
engines provide more effortless
performance and split-second
response. Longer wheelbase gives
a smoother ride. Lower centre
of gravity means more stability
—surer cornering. Lighter steering
eases handling. Bigger brakes give
easier, smoother, and surer stops.
TRIM.TAUr TERRI FIC
Australia's No. 1 Road Car!
You get up to 30 miles per gallon (Mobilgas Economy
Run figures) and go 6,000 miles between oil changes.
And, as low extra cost equipment, you can have Ford-
omatic Drive world’s most simple and trouble-free
fully automatic transmission.
Consider all this, and you have
the reasons why more and more
people are changing to Falcon.
The change is made easier, too,
by Ford Dealers’ trade-in values
and terms. The best thing to do
is to see him today !
-nsr—
m
\
. ' • -"j
.
k
Si:.
FROM ONLY
£ 1065
INCLUDING 22 l A°lo GOVT
SALES TAX
F. 0.8. Ford Plants. Prices
slightly higher in
country areas.
'mmm
m
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.


OVERSEAS
Cry the Beloved
Country!
A law both futile and terrible
From HELEN JOSEPH
(Under house arrest in Johannesburg)
South Africa’s all-white Parliament
is preparing to pass new labor laws
for Africans which, in their es-
sence, combine all the most ghastly fea-
tures of “apartheid” race rule, at the
same time expressing the Government’s
last and most desperate attempt to stem
its own inevitable defeat.
The new laws for the control of
labor compel comparison with Hitler
Germany. The creation of a great army
of labor for mining, industry and
farming, held in transit camps until re-
quired, then housed in barracks; a labor
army without homes and families, de-
prived of any semblance of personal com-
forts or culture, nameless units with iden-
tity numbers; this is what Germany did
to the conquered countries. And this is
what South Africa plans to do this year,
1963.
“To people who know the labyrinth of
South African racial legislation,” com-
ments the London “Times,” “it must have
seemed almost impossible to devise fresh
laws to add to the regimentation, harass-
ment, and humiliation of the Black man
. . . The relentless logic of the ‘apartheid’
theory, however, has triumphantly come
up with further refinements.”
The instrument of these “refinements”
is a new Bill to come before Parliament
•—the Bantu Laws Amendment Bill. It
is a move to formally abolish the last
remaining rights of Africans relating to
residence in urban areas.
Until this Bill was published, the
notorious “Section 10”, a clause in an
Act of 1955, had been the one which
created the most hardship and family
deprivation. The new Bill makes Section
10 look progressive. Under Section 10,
an African had the right of residence in
an urban area only if he were born there
or had lived there lawfully for 15 years
or had worked for one employer in the
area continuously for 10 years. If he
could establish proof of these conditions,
he could not be turned out of his home
or the town, and could only be removed
by a banishment order.
Under the new Bill this remaining
safeguard is abolished. Any African can
be turned out of town or refused permis-
sion to be there at the will of any Labor
Officer. Such an officer can cancel any
contract of employment, or refuse to
sanction the continued employment of
any African in his area. A Labor Officer
(an official of Government-established
labor bureaux) may also prohibit any
African from working on his own ac-
count, or as a casual laborer. If he gives
him permission to work as a casual
laborer the African may have to wear
a badge—another Nazi-like provision.
African labor will be controlled
through a network of labor bureaux and
transit depots. There will be provision for
“compulsory detention” at these depots.
Any African may be detained in such a
depot without trial before being removed
from one place to another, or until his
removal has been ordered to a “place
indicated” by an official. No time limit is
laid down for the period during which
anyone may be forced to remain in such
depots.
“Youth centres” will be established for
young Africans from 15 to 21 years, and
they may be subject to the same condi-
tions of detention, removal and forced
labor as adults.
Authorities may lay down a quota of
African labor for any area and any type
of occupation, and may remove all those
above such a quota as “surplus”.
Work colonies will be provided for
“idle or undesirable” Africans, who can
be detained in such a work colony in-
definitely, or ordered to take up work
anywhere. The definition of an “idle”
person is a wide one, and includes some-
one who has changed his job three times
within a year for personal reasons. An
“undesirable” African includes anyone
sentenced to a term of imprisonment
under various laws, and would include,
for example, an African who had taken
part in a strike, or worn a badge of, or in
any other way supported the now-banned
African National Congress, or committed
one of literally dozens of other purely
political offences. Nelson Mandela, the
former African National Congress leader
now serving five years for “incitement”,
would automatically fall under the defini-
tion of undesirable, and on his release
could then be detained indefinitely in a
work colony. It is clear that these “work
colonies” will be South Africa’s equiva-
lent of Fascist concentration camps.
There will be no appeal to any higher
authority, or to the courts!
This grim new law, revealing the
fanatical determination of South Africa’s
rulers to preserve the southern tip of the
African continent for White ownership


Established 1868
Contractors to Government,, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
fir’
JACKSON &
O'SULLIVAN
LX ptyltd. X
ss, X.
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
iand White rule is as futile as it is terrible
For the whole of South Africa is built on
the labor of the Black man, and the
urbanisation of the Africans is constant
and irreversible. In 1920, 14 p.c. of the
country’s non-whites lived in the cities.
By 1960, the proportion had risen to 37
p.c.
With incredible effrontery, the South
African Government used their Minister
for Information to release news of this
new law, describing it as a Bill aimed at
“promoting good race relations” and
“eliminating points of friction”. They
were actually perpetrating a fraud on two
fronts. The Bill provides better machinery
to force all unwanted Africans back to
the over-crowded, poverty-stricken
Reserves and to ensure that those who
stay in White areas to do the work shall
live there purely on a migratory basis
deprived of any permanent rights and
prevented from selecting their own place
or type of work.
At the same time, this far-reaching
measure for the creation of conditions
of serfdom for the Black man in South
Africa throws a relentless light on the
Government’s claim that “apartheid” is a
policy that brings justice to both Black
and White, each in their own areas. The
theoretical justification for “apartheid” is
that while Africans are deprived of rights
in what is described as the White areas
(87 p.c. of South Africa for 20 p.c.
of the population), they are granted full
rights of self-government in their own
areas, the Reserves. Even if there were
freedom, justice and self-rule in the
Reserves, which is simply completely un-
true, these “Bantustans” would still be
revealed as frauds, for they are barren
of industry and totally unable to support
their populations by agriculture, as was
made perfectly clear by the Government-
appointed Tomlinson Commission in
1951. For the African, then, the choice is
between destitution in the Reserves and
serfdom outside of them.
A Thing Called POQO
harsh laws, coupled with
the complete suppression of the Afri-
can National Congress and other political
organisations, and the stringent bans,
restrictions on, and house arrests of
leaders, together with the prohibition of
almost every type of meeting or demon-
stration which could express protest, have
today produced a situation which is like
a simmering volcano. Anger, frustration
and despair burn underneath a surface
calm, sometimes bursting out into viol-
ence. New factors have developed within
the past year. While, previously, political
activities and protests were directed
against the policies concerned, and were
guided by the far-seeing multi-racialism of
the African National Congress, now there
is no way of expressing opposition to the
Go by violence in one form
or s of sabotage against
Go\; erty and installations are
increase hough, up till very recently,
the saboteurs have most carefully avoided
any possibility of endangering life.
Less controlled, more ominous and
frightening are the indiscriminate violent
attacks, such as the recent hacking to
death of a family of five Whites in the
Transkei. More and more these are at-
tributed to nebulous under-cover organi-
sations, in particular POQO (We Stand
Alone), which is something quite unlike
the politically advanced and stable
organisations that the people had in the
past before these were banned. The aims
of POQO are believed to be simply to
attack and destroy wherever possible any-
thing to do with Whites a form of
bloody and uncontrolled vengeance. It is
reported that this organisation also
threatens and uses violence against Afri-
cans, to get them either to join or to ex-
tort money in its support.
South Africa knows that these violent
acts will increase possibly burst out
in wholesale riots, even mass massacres;
yet the process cannot be stayed without
reversing the whole process of Nationalist
rule and White supremacy.
The Inhuman Hunt For Labor
\S/hen this new Bill becomes law—and,
with their complete control of Par-
liament, it will not take the Nationalists
long to get it passed then indeed
South Africa will, in 1963, become the
prototype of Germany 30 years ago. In
this strangely divided country there still
exists two worlds, the world of the Whites
where, although individuals have been
persecuted and banned, the majority have
never encountered any hardship a
world of comfort, opportunity and pros-
perity; side by side with the world of the
non-Whites, lacking only the more hor-
rible excesses of Nazi Germany a
world where the manhunt for cheap
labor becomes more inhuman and ruth-
less; where every person, man or woman,
dare not move a step without his “refer-
ence books” (pass), to be produced on
demand. A world where Africans are
foreigners in their own land, like French-
men in occupied Paris who had to pro-
duce their identity cards at every step.
While visiting business men and
journalist-guests of the Government-sup-
ported National Foundation give glow-
ing reports of the financial stability and
rosy business prospects, South Africa’s
inner crisis grows. What will be the out-
come? The whole world knows and
the Nationalists, too, in their hearts
that the Black man’s claim for justice can-
not be stifled for ever in his own land.
The present Government cannot, in the
end, turn the clock right back and main-
tain its unnatural system.
Land Reform
In Asia
2. The Continuing Crisis
By DONALD HORNE
IT is one of the paradoxes of land re-
form in South-East Asia that al-
though there has been an almost
perfect textbook manoeuvre in Taiwan
land-to-the-tiller, cheap credit, good
co-operatives there is still an agri-
cultural crisis. Total performance has
not been much better than in the Philip-
pines; production is doing little more
than keep up with the alarming rise in
population; and the rate of growth is
slowing down.
It is worth looking at Taiwan’s agri-
cultural problems a little more closely.
They are problems of the second wave of
land reform. You fix up tenure, the credit
and the co-operatives. But there is still
a lot to do. Last year agricultural pro-
duction went up by only 1.5 p.c., 3.8 p.c.


mm*
■
m
f!
ai
«>>>*:
: £^&v4&&e&r>
V V , $ .
" " i-
How long since you looked at your
Insurance Policies?
What about those insurance policies?
Are they arranged to the best possible
advantage? Do they cover every impor-
tant need? When, and under what cir-
cumstances, will they be paid? Above
all, are they suitable as to size and type
to do the job you want them to do?
It is not hard to find the answer to
these and other related questions. Ask
for an A.M.P. FAMILY SECURITY
CHECK-UP.
ljhk
FOUR POINT HI
FAMILY SECURITY
check-up mmm mkM
Your A.M.P. man knows, from training and
experience, how to help you—
Check the facts related to your present family and
financial position.
0 Check the extent of your needs what would be
required if your family had to live without you
what you will require on retirement or to take
advantage of long service leave.
e Check to find if the provisions you have made are
adequate.
0 If they are not, your A.M.P. man will show you a
family security plan tailor-made to your precise
needs and circumstances.
An A.M.P. Family Security Check-Up costs you nothing but a
little of your time—involves you in no obligation except to those
you love. All you have to do is to call in your A.M.P. man or
call the nearest A.M.P. Office.
ķl
AUSTRALIA'S
No. 1
LIFE OFFICE
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE
Offices in cities and towns throughout Australia and New Zealand
and in the United Kingdom.
jh
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by assets exceeding £600,000,000 v/hich the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.
MII9B


ItllM
i ■ - - -'
|PPP^' UU
■
- ‘ - <■'■■• ■ ■■■ ■ ;. .
• ■ •■::■■.• ■ ' V -
,■ • - fgSp 4?'C‘ ’
>1 ffsif# .;■
Announcing a rare
Pot Still Brandy] aged in
true Limousin Oak.
Soft, delicate, very smooth.
Drawn from wood
in limited quantities.
Mil
Announcing a rare
Pot Still Brandy] aged in
true Limousin Oak .
Soft, delicate, very smooth,
Drawn from wood
in limited quantities.
PKNFOILK
POT STILL
BRANDY
under target, and less than half the rise
in population.
One reason for this is that the Provin-
cial Government in Taiwan is still
scrambling to catch up with the demands
land reform has let loose. Big public
works expenditure is essential-for farm
improvement, but in Taiwan reforms got
ahead of the public works programme,
especially in flood control and irrigation.
The total amount of irrigated land is
little more than that achieved when the
Japanese ran Taiwan, although the use
of existing irrigation has been improved.
Wartime and post-war mess-ups led to a
decline in irrigation systems, and there
was a lot of catching up to be done. But
when the present programme is finished,
reservoir capacity will be more than
doubled. Even that will not end the story.
It has to be accompanied by good irriga-
tion networks.
Equally as essential as public works is
a great increase in intensive farming.
There is a beginning in this and the results
show up in a comparison with the Philip-
pines. The increase in production in the
last 10 years in the not-yet-land-hungrv
Philippines comes mainly from virgin
land turned into farms. In tiny over-
crowded Taiwan it comes mainly from
existing farms. There is no expanding
frontier on an island where a population
slightly greater than Australia’s lives in
an area about one half the size of Tas-
mania. 1 he whole tone of research into
farm improvement in Taiwan seems con-
fident and practical. Research is
being conducted in many rather
shabby-looking provincial research sta-
tions where researchers talk to the lead-
ers of the local co-operatives who talk to
the farmers. The farmers I met seemed
to know what was going on in the research
stations and even to be using this know-
ledge. The use of better fertilisers and
pesticides is said to be universal.
Four Crops a Year
JJowever, many farming methods will
have to change decisively. In the Tai-
chung area some farmers are being en-
couraged to grow four crops a year
two crops of rice and two “intercrops”
of vegetables planted between rows of
rice before the rice is harvested. Farm-
ers in other areas have heard of this but
they are not yet doing anything about
it. An even better example of the pos-
sible revolutions of the future, although
nothing much is happening yet, is in
farming cattle. This is likely to increase
a farming family’s returns by 30 p.c. It
uses more family labor, which is good,
and the use of natural fertiliser not
only cuts the fertiliser bill but
increases the rice crop. Elsewhere there
are experiments in vegetable growing in
which eight or nine crops a year are
coaxed out of one farm. This produces
10 times as much profit as rice and
absorbs four or five times as much family
labor. Again, nothing much has hap-
pened yet. But it had better happen.
Even these devices if they hap-
pen will not use up all the family
labor that lives on farms. For this reason
more decentralised industries are needed
in the towns (that are easily reached
by bicycle or bus) and even in the
villages. And if these devices are car-
ried out they will bring their own prob-
lems. There is no point in producing more
food if people don't buy it. Along with
increased and diversified farm production
must go a search for export markets (this
is happening) and an attempt to change
eating habits by advertising or Govern-
ment propaganda. Demand-creation may
worry the economists and sociologists of
America. But it can be a poverty-or-
relative-prosperity matter in South-East
Asia.
More People, Smaller Farms
dismal thing about farming in Tai-
wan is that as population increases by
about 350,000 a year (it’s about
12,000,000 now and the second most
densely settled in the world) the sizes
of farms get smaller and the amount
of people dependent on farming gets
bigger. At present the average farm is
about two and a half acres, and on the
average about seven people live on it.
(They may not all work on it.) The posi-
tion is made worse because individual
fields are small and scattered.
Something is being done about the lat-
ter problem. Nothing less than a 10-year
plan was launched in 1961 to improve
the use of land by consolidating holdings


m
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM2OOI.
and trying to make sense of the patch-
work of fields. Little has yet been achiev-
ed, but the plans seem to be tooling up.
This is an essential reform. It will be
remembered that it was one of the bases
of agrarian reform in England.
Officially not much is being done about
over-population. A Family Planning
Association has now been formed but
the farmers I talked to had not heard
of it. They all wanted to know how to
have smaller families and wanted the
Government to tell them what “medicine”
to take. A survey conducted in a pro-
vincial town in Taiwan by the University
of Michigan had better luck. In 2,400
families interviewed the surveyors found
that 90 p.c. of housewives said that the
size of families should not exceed four
children; 32 p.c. of them had used con-
traceptives; 49 p.c. would do so if they
knew how. And a small decline in births
is already showing up in the statistics —
despite the old-style politicians who de-
plore hirth control as “a device of the
colonialists.”
The last complaint levelled against
Taiwan farmers is that they are spend-
ing too much of their income on them-
selves and not enough on their farms.
This is to say that they have improved
their living standards. To play around
with the figures, allowing for increased
productivity, reduced fixed costs and in-
creased variable costs, a man who was a
tenant rice farmer before reform and is
now an owner farmer is at least 50 p.c.
better off. He could be 70 p.c. or even
100 p.c. better off. He hasn't put all of
that back into his farm. He may have
put some of it into improving his house,
eating more, installing electricity, buy-
ing a radio set, a sewing machine, a bi-
cycle and so on. Both the economists and
the puritans don't mind these. But he also
“wastes” some of it on things like buying
more clothes, going to the pictures or
on conspicuous consumption of village
entertainment. Complaints like this
remind one of the winges about welfare-
state England. To the middle-class Eng-
lish and the low-paid Government officials
of Taiwan it’s all coal in the bath tubs;
to the old-style English socialists and the
old-style men of the Kuomintang it’s a
decline in the revolutionary spirit; and to
economists everywhere it's a drain on
domestic investment. But surely it's also
what the whole business of reform is
supposed to be about.
FORUM
The Two RSLs
Lobbyist’s homburg and Digger’s slouch hat
By PETER WESTERWAY
A SLED to nominate a pressure group, most Australians iconici name
1 some such organisations as the Chambers of Manufactures or
the Australian Workers Union. In this country pressure groups are
generally regarded as “selfish,” and quite likely sinister, bodies out to help
themselves and no one else. Yet the most successful pressure group in
Australia is often anything but selfish and very few people would regard
it as sinister. Very few people would even regard it as a pressure group.
It is the Returned Sailors, Soldiers and Airmens Imperial League, usually
known as the RSL.
At first sight this must seem an odd
assertion. But if success is measured
by the number of representations made
or the deferential treatment given them
by Governments, it must be accepted.
The quarter-million-strong RSL is only
one of many ex-Service organisations,
but it has for many years now been
regarded as the major voice of the re-
turned man. And ever since the days of
“Billy” Hughes the Digger vote has been
something to conjure with.
Sir Robert Menzies, then plain Mr
Menzies, saw this in 1949. In his policy
speech he offered to set up ex-Service-
men’s committees of Cabinet and Parlia-
ment, to confer with representatives of
ex-Service organisations. His offer was
suspect, the RSL seeing in it an attempt
to sidetrack their pension claims, but
when he was returned to power he kept
his word. “The interests of ex-Service-
men,” he had said in explanation, “are
too important to be left to casual lobby-
ing.” And a Cabinet sub-committee of ex-
Servicemen was set up to put this lobby-
ing on a regular basis. In recent years the
League’s annual pension claims have been
presented direct to this committee. It is
the only private organisation in Australia
with direct access to the Commonwealth
Cabinet.
How does this picture match the other
RSL, the organisation whose patriotism
is taken for granted, whose first object is
the perpetuation of wartime friendships
and to set an example of public spirit and
noble-hearted endeavour? The short ans-
wer is that even the most “unselfish” aims
may require the organisation and strategy
of a pressure group. How else does one
get better floodlighting on the Cenotaph,
persuade the Education Department to
teach more war history, and have the
Light Horse Memorial at Port Said
restored?
The longer and more accurate answer
is that the RSL wears two hats. It tries
its best to make the lobbyist's homburg
look like a slouch hat: but there are two
all the same. This awkward fact of life
has led to some conflict in the past. In
1953, for instance, the then Governor-
General, Sir William Slim, told the
Federal Congress that it should not go
in too much for demanding concessions
for old soldiers. The League is royalist,
counting the Queen its Patron, and the
Duke of Edinburgh among its Honorary
Life Members. Governors and Governors-
General usually adopt some form of
honorary membership. So it was with
a mixture of anger and dismay that the
Congress heard the NSW Branch Presi-
dent, Mr Yeo, erupt into an attack.
“With all due respect to His Excel-
lency,” he told them, “I say bluntly that
that is why the RSL is here and why it
has existed for thirty years!” The Minister
for Repatriation, always a prized guest
at Congress, walked out and the next day
the meeting formally apologised to the
Governor-General. Mr Yeo also offered
his regrets, but came under fire from
other members for some weeks after.
Interestingly, his main attacker was a
future Minister for Repatriation, Mr
F. M. Osborne, MHR.
The NSW Branch still owns to being
a pressure group. It lays great stress on
membership, and its journal, Reveille, is
sub-titled “the voice of 100,000 Ex-Ser-


PUBLIC NOTICES
VIEW AND STAR LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
Interim Dividend No. 96
Notice is hereby given that the Directors
have declared an Interim Dividend in
respect of the year ending June 30, 1963,
of one shilling sterling per share, less
United Kingdom Income Tax at seven
shillings and ninepence in the f, payable
June 20, 1963.
The Transfer Books will be closed from
May 14 to 16, both days inclusive.
The Australian equivalent of the Divi-
dend will be calculated at the rate of
Exchange ruling on May 13, 1963.
Net Dividend payable to non-resident
Shareholders entitled to United Kingdom
tax exemption is 11.709375 d. sterling per
share, and this rate of Dividend will apply
to all exemption authorities received by
May 13, 1963.
For Lake View and Star Limited,
R. C. BUCKETT, Attorney.
Fimiston, W.A.
April 26, 1^63.
about
the
CATHOLIC
CHURCH
Very few non-Catholics have ever had an opportunity
to read a simple, direct explanation of what Catholics
believe. The Catholic Enquiry Centre offers you |ust this,
through a free and confidential course of 21 weekly
leaflets.
See the reasons why 500 million Catholics look joyfully to Pope John
as their spiritual guide and teacher. Perhaps you are curious about the Faith
which some Catholic friend of yours values so highly. Perhaps you are
searching for a simple explanation of the purpose of life, or wondering why
Catholics can pray with confidence when things go wrong.
You may never intend to be a Catholic, but the Catholic Enquiry
Centre can still help you. 15,000 non-Catholics in Australia have studied
our leaflets during the past four years.
We cannot give you the Faith,
but we can give you the facts about the Faith
and remove misunderstandings .
POST THIS COUPON FOR DETAILS of our course of leaflets.
We guarantee that no representative of ours will call.
FREE and IN CONFIDENCE
Please send me your brochure in a plain sealed envelope. BLT 3/
Mr./Mrs./Miss
(Block Letters, please)
Address
State
CATHOLIC ENQUIRY CENTRE
P.O. BOX 63, MAROUBRA, N.S.W.
vicemen and Women” though its paid-up
membership still has not reached that
figure. “Numbers mean strength, and
strength means better bargaining power
with governments”, said one editorial.
Each month copies are sent not only to
members but to Members of Parliament.
Ministers and public servants to the
decision makers.
Nevertheless Mr Yeo made a mistake
in being so blunt. The RSL is in the
inner circle of pressure groups, and the
price of its position is “responsibility.”
It is not supposed to embarrass the Gov-
ernment. It is supposed to co-operate in
picturing concessions made to it as the
fruit of rationality and a healthy concern
for the national interest. Mostly it makes
a very good fist of this. Fifty years of
pressuring have given its technique a high
professional gloss. As one official put it,
“it is foreign to the thought of the RSL
to ever think of marching on Canberra.”
And clearly a great many members do
sincerely identify the League and the
national interest. Apart from its concern
for pensions and patriotism, the RSL
pronounces on issues all the way from
White Australia to the visit of a Japan-
ese baseball team. When the head of the
US Nazi Party, Vincent Rockwell, wanted
to enter Australia the National President
did not hesitate to express the nation’s
true feelings. “Australians,” he declared,
“hate Fascism, Nazism, Communism,
and all the other ‘isms’ which inhabit our
way of life and our love of democratic
government.”
More recently, the League has em-
barked on an anti-Communist crusade.
Just after the Second World War the
Communist Party, who claim that
4000 members served in the forces, made
a determined bid to control the RSL. It
still leaves a nasty taste in League
mouths.
The Communists were pretty ruthlessly
eliminated, but the Victorian State
President probably expressed the major-
ity view when he said that “they are
rats, and should be treated as rats”. When
the NSW Equity Court found that the
League had no right to expel members
because they were Communists, the rules
were changed to allow it. “We don’t
want the swine,” said one official, “and
we are going to kick them out legally.”
Nowadays the League sees itself as
“an attacking spearhead against Com-
munism.” It pressed the Chifley Govern-
ment to ban the party, and has been in
the forefront of all moves for its sup-
pression. And though some observers un-
kindly remarked that its latest campaign
came at a time when the Communists had
reached their post-war low, it obviously
feels that the effort is justified. Like White
Australia, anti-Communism is, to the
League, above party politics. It is a
national duty.


kjh
Air Cargo’d with Care ... to anywhere!
These goldfish will “swim” 6,000 miles tonight! Courtesy of
Qantas Air Cargo, of course. And they’ll do it within a con-
fined area as carefully thought out by Qantas as an astronaut’s
capsule. Housed in special water-filled plastic bags, these
little fellows will be fed and fended for in flight. Whether
your consignment is fish or fowl . . . whether it’s orchids or
TV picture tubes, you can count on Qantas to handle it with
an efficiency and skill born of 42 years of air cargo experience.
Air Cargo to the world. Qantas Air Cargo, with its associated
airlines and interlining facilities with over 90 lATA airlines,
enables you to airfreight your goods to anywhere in the
world. Qantas has the experience, the know-how, the equip-
ment, the people and the aircraft to enable it to offer you
fast, dependable Air Cargo services to almost any part of
the world.
Major markets only hours away. In effect, Qantas brings you
instant world markets. Think Qantas Air Cargo and think in
terms of hours not weeks. Rest assured that Qantas has an
appreciation of the importance to you of the arrival on time
and in perfect condition of the merchandise you entrust to
their care. Specify Qantas to your Air Cargo Agent or contact
Qantas.
mm AIK CAKGO
42 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
HOW THE QANTAS EXPORT
CONSULTANT SERVICE CAN HELP YOU
Qantas puts at your disposal one of the
most comprehensive transport systems in
the world. Qantas analyses each export/
import problem individually and offers you
this Qantas six-point service—FßEE.
1. Distribution time and static time
analysis gives you a time and motion
plot on your goods from despatch to
arrival.
2. Costing breakdown on your complete
shipping operation.
3. Systematic appraisal of packaging
with suggested modifications for the
lighter, more economical handling and
packing of your freight needs.
4. Advice on alternate routings, acceler-
ated cartage, taxation and insurance
reductions.
5. Analysis of current economic situations
of world markets, quarantine, import,
currency and customs regulations.
6. A business venue in many overseas
countries in Qantas offices in Europe,
America, Asia, the Orient, New Zea-
land and Africa.
EXPORT it by QANTAS if it’s
IMPORTant to you!
Qantas Empire Airways Limited, in association with Air India, 8.0.A.C-, S.A.A. and TEAL .
QAC94.FP8.33


LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
“OFF TARGET”
Sir,
“Plain English” (20/4/63) scored a hit
when it described SEATO as “a sorry
farce”, but it was right off target with
the comment on “Our Two Air Forces”.
It may be correct to describe our Fleet
Air Arm as “antique”, but the proposal
that its personnel should transfer to the
RAAF to man its antique Sabres and
Canberras when the RAAF gets new
fighters and bombers merely compounds
a felony our sins of omission. In-
stead of putting all the a/s helicopter
eggs in one basket (HMAS Melbourne)
we should learn from the Royal Navy,
which uses frigates for this purpose.
Both the RAAF and the RAN want
new bombers, the latter to pack a punch
from a modern strike carrier. Here again
we can learn from the UK, which is dev-
eloping aircraft which are interchange-
able between the RAF and the RN, to
operate from shore bases or ships. With
dual purpose aircraft wasteful rivalry is
eliminated; the RAN and the RAAF
would become complementary.
CRASTER C. M. UNHER
Cmdr. RN (retired)
Hornsby (NSW).
AUSTRALIANS IN LONDON
Sir,
All praise to Warren J. Glover
(27/4/63) for springing to the defence
of Australians in London, but his words
seem more patriotic than~pertinent. For
the first few paragraphs I had hoped to
take his letter seriously. Then I came to
the part where he claimed that on his
two visits to the “Surrey” he was the
only Australian there, and I realised that
I was being too optimistic. Were his
visits made out of hours?
My use of the phrase “mostly Aus-
tralians” in reference to fare-scalers at
Earl’s Court station is based on the fact
that the “colonial” population of the dis-
trict, as calculated last year, included ap-
proximately 45 per cent Australians, 40
per cent South Africans and 10 per cent
New Zealanders. I often passed through
the barrier at this station when Aus-
tralians or superb imitators of them
were remonstrating with ticket col-
lectors who had apprehended them.
The “hasty American-type sight-seeing
and fact-finding tour” spanned 12 months
of being almost constantly in London,
and was my third such visit.
I didn’t say that “Cooee” and “Bon-
zer” echoed up and down streets, but
t am dinkum when I say I have been
put off my drink more than once by
nearing identity-hungry Australians ut-
ter these dodo-isms in London pubs.
Certainly the Australian is “not the
only rotten melon on the vine.” Indeed,
Mr Glover’s figure of speech is too
severe: he is not rotten; only blemished.
But the article was written for Aus-
tralians rather than South Africans or
New Zealanders, and so it was with
Australians that it dealt. If, having read
Mr Glover’s airings in your columns,
I were again to write on Australians in
London, the only change I would make
would be to add more examples of their
unpleasantness in the hope not of satis-
fying Mr Glover, but of helping to shame
the culprits into reform.
R. SCHOLES
North Ringwood (Vic.).
THE POETRY PAGE
Sir,
To my mind, J. M. Mac Kean’s views
(23/3/63) on the quality of recent Bul-
letin verse are correct and would be
widely endorsed. I even suspect that you
would agree with them yourselves. How-
ever, in case you are tempted to make
other use of the space, might I suggest
two ways in which this feature of your
paper might be restored to its earlier
repute:
(a) eliminate the present page-full.
Print only good poems not a set
number. Distribute these over the pages,
as previously.
(b) Get a poetry-editor who is not
bound to a clique or riding a hobby-
horse. I suggest Max Harris, Geoff.
Dutton or Ronald McCuaig or per-
haps try one of the younger indepen-
dents like Noel Macainsh.
My main point, however, is that some
change might restore a feature that was
once an adornment to your paper and,
through school anthologies etc., to our
national culture as well.
PAUL SIMPSON
Aspendale (Vic.).
[The poetry is arranged as it is for
reasons that seem good to us, and the
poets have generally expressed pleasure
at having the full page.— Ed.]
BRITISH “DEMORALISATION”
Sir,
As a plain man I am bewildered by
the phrase “the current state of British
demoralisation” in “Plain English”
(27/4/63). It is an obvious and un-
reasonable exaggeration. The British
showed their courage and discipline
when the US Air Force was “bombed
up,” ready to go, during the Cuban
crisis. No doubt the Americans have
noted that Britain was the only nation
ready and able to help them against the
Russians.
As for the so-called secrets, what
possible interest can an enemy have in
the existence of “rescue” HQs to be
used only after the country is devastated
and presumably out of the war? Indeed,
the existence of these HQs, if they are to
be of any service, should be widely
publicised in Britain before the event.
What worries me is the stupid breach
of security involved in the widespread
discussions on the proposed US base at
Exmouth, which is to direct some opera-
tion in the event of a nuclear war. Surely
this should have been “top secret”? In
these days of the obliterating bomb it
would not matter now if a complete plan
of the base was published by the Press.
W. MOORE
Brisbane (Q).
A DIPLOMAT WASTED?
Sir,
The article titled “Barwick and the
Plimsoll Line” (Bulletin, 16/3/63)
pointed out that Australia is suffering
from an acute shortage of personnel
qualified for diplomatic appointments,
and that in consequence we now have
only part-time representation at the UN;
Mr David Hay, Australian Commissioner
in Canada, must commute between Ot-
tawa and New York.
It has often occurred to me that this
country cannot afford to waste the ser-
vices of such a man as Air Vice-Marshal
Bostock, now retired from political life
and managing a farm outside Benalla. He
is a veteran of two World Wars, and was
given command under General Mac-
Arthur of the Allied Air Force in the
South-East Pacific area. He represented
the Australian Air Force at the signing of
the Tokyo Bay treaty. As a member of
Federal Parliament he demonstrated his
wide administrative ability on many
Parliamentary committees. His national
status is attested by his portrait in the
Gallery of Honor at the Canberra War
Memorial.
Are there many Australians better
qualified to represent their country at the
United Nations?
C. G. BATTEN
Benalla (Vic.).
STUD CATTLE
Sir,
For many years I have read M. H.
Ellis on history and on other historians.
An unfortunate gap in my education
unhappily stops me from assessing his
capabilities in those directions; but I do
know something about beef cattle and,
frankly, his comments on the Herefords
and their judging at the Sydney Royal
terrify me by their ignorance.
I am the owner of a very small com-
mercial herd of beef cattle. At the
moment there is a gap a mile wide
between the views of commercial breeders
like me and the majority of the stud
men as to how our bulls should be bred.
We want bulls that, consistent with
reasonable beef type, will get us early
maturing, good milking cows. We breed
our heifers at two years and they, with
the mature cows, must be good enough
milkers to get off a 350 lb. or better
vealer at 8 to 9 months.
In the past few years some good work
has been done on beef studs on the
Monaro in co-relating good beef type


A put off...
A promise...
or a promotion
?
. . . The one you get depends on
how well you perform beyond
your job routine. Today, promo-
tions —not promises—come when
you show evidence of developing
your job skills and personal
abilities.
Management looks to your
initiative and self-confidence;
asks proof of how you motivate
yourself and others; listens to
how well you express your ideas.
These qualities inspire manage-
ment’s confidence in you as a
person.
In the past 51 years over
1,000,000 men and women have
developed their personal abilities
through Dale Carnegie training.
It is available in 1,077 cities
throughout the world.
For information in your city,
call the Dale Carnegie number
or write.
L 175
DALE CARNEGIE
DALE CARNEGIE
COURSES
90 Bank House, Bank PlMelb.
90 Barrack Hse., 16 Barrack St., Syd.
and all other Capital Cities
Sponsor in A/sia:
Hemingway Robertson P/I.
cattle with the good milking cow that
rears a heavy calf, but few if any of
the top show studs are interested. Gross
over-fat beasts fostered on a couple
of Jersey cows waddle round the ring,
but if I were asked where I could get
a bull to infuse good milking and early
maturity into my cows I couldn’t even
make a guess.
Less baloney about black spots, etc.,
more emphasis on genotypical rather
than phenotypical characters, and we
could possibly sort out our good produc-
tive strains. The worst disservice that
the Royals are doing the commercial
beef breeders in this country is importing
judges from the UK; as if the red light
has not been waved in front of the UK
breeders of standard beef cattle by the
Ministry of Agriculture allowing (over
their violent protests) the importation of
Charolais bulls from France. And why?
To get the lean cattle that, with the
Friesian, produce the high percentage of
lean meat required by today’s market.
L. FELL
Met ling (Vic.).
[M. H. Ellis writes: Mr Fell appears to
be “terrified by my ignorance” because I
agree with a noted English judge, who
demanded maintenance of the standards
always required in stud cattle. After
all, it is Britain and the United States
that set world standards in beef breed-
ing, and stud cattle are the key to the
production of sound, uniform beef.l
“THE BUSY FASCISTS”
Sir,
The Committee of the Cardinal
Stepinac Society has had its attention
drawn to the article entitled, "The Busy
Fascists of Australia,” contained in The
Bulletin of January 26 last, and sub-
sequent correspondence. The article, par-
ticularly in relation to the Cardinal
Stepinac Society, contains so many inac-
curacies that it appears that the source
of information must be regarded as ex-
tremely suspect, and that inaccuracies in
translation have been either manufac-
tured or used by Mr Jurjevic for his own
“non-fascist” purposes.
Neither the Cardinal Stepinac Society
nor any of its Committee has any con-
nection with the namesake society of
Geelong (Vic). Our Society has no poli-
tical affiliations and is not directly or
indirectly engaged in any local or in-
ternational politics. By its constitution,
and in fact, our Society is concerned
only with the religious, cultural and
social well-being of the Croatian people
in Australia.
Our Society encourages naturalisation,
and examination of the facts will show
that every member of the Committee
who is eligible for naturalisation is, in
fact, naturalised.
A. MOHARICH (President)
W. Maglica (Hon. Secretary)
Cardinal Stepinac Society
Melbourne (Vic).
THE SYDNEY GAZETTE
Sir,
In your issue of April 20, 1963, you
printed an extract "Faking Australian
History,” from The Bulletin of April
21, 1883, about the proposed reprinting
of the "Sydney Gazette.” This was par-
ticularly apposite. Your readers may be
interested to know that the Trustees of
the Public Library of New South Wales
now have in the press, and expect shortly
to be publishing in association with An-
gus and Robertson Ltd, a facsimile re-
print of the first volume of the “Sydney
Gazette,” with an introduction by Sir
John Ferguson. This is intended as the
first of a series of reprints which will
eventually make the volumes of the
“Gazette” available in facsimile up to the
volume published in 1824. It is financed
by the William Dixson Foundation.
G. D. RICHARDSON
Principal Librarian
Public Library of NSW
Sydney [NSW).
“EMERGENCY” MEDICINE
Sir,
The recent legislation controlling as-
pects of medical practice in New South
Wales, whereby in certain circumstances
medicos are obliged to enter a contract,
perhaps against their will, surely calls
for a lengthier examination than has so
far been made.
Under our contract law the principle
has always been upheld that parties to
a contract must enter the contract of
their own volition before its provisions
can be binding. The principle of free
acceptance of a contract is vital to the
validity of the contract. Now, this is
where the recent medical legislation goes
completely haywire. The doctor, enter-
ing the contract to treat his patient, is
no longer free to accept or reject a pros-
pective patient, once the word “emer-
gency” enters into a consideration of the
circumstances. He must grab his stetho-
scope and listen breathless while hoping
that a charge of infamous conduct will
not destroy his reputation if he has not
satisfied all the demands of a whimsical
public, no matter how unreasonable they
may be. It matters not that a competent
body will assess the worth or otherwise
of charges which may be brought against
him. Any medico knows that the mere
appearance on such a charge can do
untold harm to his practice, no matter
what the outcome might be.
The answer to the medical emer-
gency is to set up a service designed
specifically to meet it. Such a service
could be rostered on a 24-hour basis.
There are many examples of this type of
emergency service around the capital
cities of the world, and surely it is not
beyond Mr Sheahan to have a look at
them and discover how they work. While
the Minister persists with his present
scheme one is forced to the conclusion
that he is looking for emergency medi-
cine on the cheap. One would not be
surprised if he gets what he is looking
for, and the result will be nasty indeed.
JOHN F. HEESH
Leura (NSW).


m
m
m n
m
in
m
It!
> . Sr
i....x.„.&k
mm&
I'M*: :: :
•• : xv : :
. : :
X ill |
:
i
5
5
i i
i ]
• V
1*
X ,' : X
.
fx
mu
■-•.••••
?::■ •
m.
our export sales!
Eye-catching and practical
new packaging is helping to
win big export markets for
many Australian manufac-
turers ... new markets from
Colombo to Covent Garden
~ . from Brazil to Bangkok.
A.P.M. is playing a vital part
in this expansion. This true
Australian company not only
supplies the quality paper-
board that’s needed, but also
offers up-to-the-minute know-
how and new ideas needed to
create sales-winning protec-
tive packaging.
1
jh
AUSTRALIAN PAPER
MANUFACTURERS LTD
O WNED BY A USTRALIANS
r .rf-J
~:A
*
AUSTRALIAN
MADE• J
AP623101


REVIEWS
THEATRE
Duerrenmatt’s Morality
The Visit. Duerrenmatt. Independent
Theatre. Sydney.
Despite a production and a cast that,
with one stand-out exception, are
not equal to the stark challenges of the
playwright, Peter Summerton’s staging
of “The Visit,” by contemporary Swiss
writer Friedrich Duerrenmatt, is still
something for Sydney to hail and see.
This is a big play. Stark, epic, cynical;
relentlessly swinging from the warm hu-
man facade to the Freudian twistings be-
hind the facade; uncovering humanity,
refusing to cover up humanity. Duer-
renmatt will leave no one unmoved or
unmarked. “The Visit” is a vast morality
of a play, with a message as plain, and
as plainly told, as even Brecht would
ever wish for. Duerrenmatt treats him-
self to what is these days a theatrical
luxury a fierce, complex story; a
compelling melodrama.
... C| a ' re ’ has an
el^.li,ima,e. 1 i, ima , e ? 1 °, ov er> non
Sch.ll, who because he wishes to marry a
business, denies fatherhood and has
£ ■ , . ...... , . .
friends swear in court that they, too, slept
... ,i *
with the girl, many times, so that
. .. . , i . 4-, • , ,
paternity is dubious. The girl, her repu-
f.. i ~ , , u ' t „
tation shattered, becomes a whore. In a
brothel she captures a rich lover, marries
him. She marries seven times in all, each
time acquiring more steelworks, oil wells,
banks, and other impedimenta of wealth.
She comes back, an old woman, to the
town of her birth. She owns half the
world, and is prepared to give the run-
down town all the money it needs to
establish itself as a powerful centre. She
S^ ve town gives her the
body of her former lover, now the
town s most popular fellow, and the
next l' ne t 0 Burgomaster,
she is given a royal welcome, with
the inevitable banquet. Then she says
that she will give a billion marks
in return for Anton, dead. The people
are aghast. The Burgomaster indignantly
rejects the offer. Then Claire settles back
i n the hotel and waits. The poison of
the billion marks begins to work. Anton
begins to see that all his friends are buy-
ing on credit. Instead of local beer, they
are buying Pilsener; new shoes sprout
everywhere; bottles of cognac; stereo-
grams. He goes to the police chief for
protection, to have Claire arrested for
threatening his life and he sees that
the chief has a new gold tooth.
j n hi s terror, Schill runs to the Burgo-
master—but he has a new typewriter.
er friend has new Tv an .
T .u t
other has a stereogram. In these items ot
„ , ... c , . , ~
commerce, Schill sees his own death,
„ . . . ’ , , , ......
Calmly, in the end, he accepts the trial,
, . . , ’ , . r . I
his execution, because his moment ot
’ , , ,
ter ™ r ( waa ear * ~ * h , e " ha aaw the . n
S old tooth and heard the hl ' fl sound '
“The Visit” ends with the terrible
Claire and her retinue leaving town, this
time with the beautiful coffin she
brought with her, empty, filled with An-
ton’s body.
It is a little sad to have to record
that Mr Summerton was not, as pro-
ducer, altogether up to the play. He
will have to have more courage in his
actual mounting of big plays; it is not
good enough to ask us to put up with
all the shortcoming of the Independent’s
stage, while the producer attempts the
sort of production that needs a superbly-
equipped theatre to bring it off. There
is no excuse for scene changes that hold
up the flow and tensions of the play.
Michelle’s sets did very well by the
scheme of the production, but I do not
agree that so many sets were necessary.
A more austere stage, with better selec-
tion, would have heightened the end-
result immeasurably.
Performances were overshadowed by
Mr Alexander Archdale’s quite luminous
playing as Anton Schill, the doomed
lover. I doubt if Mr Archdale left any
gold still to be uncovered in his search
for Schill; his playing had a life and
utter conviction rarely seen on the Aus-
tralian stage.
By contrast, Miss Doris Fitton as
Claire was miscast nobly miscast, but
miscast just the same. The Claire of the
play had been a supremely beautiful girl,
a kitten, a little witch, and although
Miss Fitton fought gallantly against the
play’s drift, it was not a fair fight. Miss
Fitton’s stage presence and mask are
perfectly cast for classic playing in
Shakespeare and the Attic drama, but
she is not for Duerrenmatt.
Mr Robert Levis as the Burgomaster
was almost as much in his part as Mr
Archdale, and Mr Barry Jenkens stood
out, but for the rest adequate is the
only word.
KEVON KEMP
Satire:
Old and New
The Beggar’s Opera. John Gay.
Trinity College Dramatic Club.
Union Theatre. Melbourne.
White Collar And All That Jazz.
University Revue. Union Theatre.
Melbourne.
Brecht’s “The Threepenny
Opera” is better known than Gay’s
“The Beggar’s Opera” on which it is
based. Ronald Quinn’s production
showed that “The Beggar’s Opera” is still
a very lively piece.
The characters speak in the tones of
genteel society but they are whores and
pickpockets, and what they say reveals
that they are completely dominated by
self-interest and regard everything in life
as a commodity. The comedy lies in the
contract between the genteel language
and the outrageous cynicism, between


essaer i
'W'Wy
2%
Cool-smoking
Kentucky white
burleys, famous
for over 50
years. Ready-
rubbed or sli-
ced in pocket
tins. At all
tobacconists.
THE HOUSE OF EDGEWORTH. Virginia, JJ.S. A.
TOP
ACCOMMODATION FOR
EXECUTIVES . . .
£
4
T.
T
w.
m
SYDNEY’S MOST MODERN,
MOST CONVENIENT CITY MOTEL
® Just 3 miles from the heart of the city, 2
miles from Mascot Aerodrome.
O 3 Executive Suites, 1 Director's Suite and
32 standard and family suites.
• Individually controlled air conditioning. You
can open your window if you wish.
• 24-hour room and meal service.
® Laundry and valet service.
O Licensed restaurant.
• Private bathroom in every suite.
• Telephone, television, refrigerator and radio
in every room.
• Golf courses, beaches and other sporting
facilities. All within a few minutes of the
Travel Terminal. Overlooking Randwick Race-
course.
TRAVEL TERMINAL
2A Alison Road, RANDWICK. 39 7071
Telegrams: “TRAVTERM” RANDWICK
Service to the guest—our most important feature
ICI/43
the traditional ballad airs and the witty
songs. The interesting thing about it, in
comparison with “The Threepenny
Opera,” is that Gay achieved the kind of
coolness that Brecht said he was aiming
at, but did not achieve. Gay adopts the
comic, anti-romantic notion that every-
one, be he gentleman or thief, is moti-
vated solely by self-interest. But Brecht’s
basic idea is the essentially romantic
pseudo-Marxist one that everyone is
completely governed by self-interest, but,
whereas the rich are like that by nature,
the poor are only so by economic neces-
sity. And so in Brecht’s play the thieves
and prostitutes are romanticised.
The excellent Trinity College produc-
tion revelled in the 18th-century atmos-
phere, with a most villainous-looking col-
lection of Hogarthian pickpockets and
gin-sodden ladies of the night.
This year the Melbourne University
revue, following the pattern of revues
like “Beyond the Fringe,” consists of
satiric sketches interspersed with a few
songs, presented by a company of seven.
The production is smooth and sophisti-
cated, but, unfortunately the intellectual
quality of the satire is well below the
standard of the presentation.
Abstract art, Miss Lonely Hearts.
American travelogues, Dylan Thomas,
scoutmasters these are accepted jokes.
But good satire has originality and bite.
The most original sketch is the take-off
by Bruce Knappett of an ordinary Aus-
tralian saying a few words to university
students on hanging and other topics.
Hanging is one issue which the students
of Melbourne University do take seri-
ously, but surely there must be others.
One could not guess from this revue
what they might be.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
TELEVISION
Where Are
The Writers?
T'here were times during “The Pris-
oner” on ABN, Channel 2, when
I wished the camera would become the
Cardinal’s eyes, or the Interrogator’s,
and probe and pick at the other’s face,
seeking whatever might be revealed. But
that peculiar wish arose from the enjoy-
ment of the play, and there is a weak-
ness in that too, for it was good enough
to be experienced, and it was not meant
to be enjoyed.
As adapted and produced for tele-
vision by William Sterling, it was
stronger than the motion picture in many
ways. It was not as long, and the Car-
dinal’s transition from Prince to wretch
was visually too sudden, but in his first
encounters with his interrogator, and in
the period of his descent from wretch to
imbecile, the play was first-rate tele-
vision drama, and good by any standards.
Sterling used many close studies of
the two men’s faces, which was proper,
and Michael Duffield as the Cardinal
who was brainwashed, and Christopher
Hill as the man who was really broken
by it, the Interrogator, both responded
splendidly to the challenge of working
so close to the camera. So did the person
responsible for Duffield’s makeup, which
helped create the impression of a man
in rapid decline.
My quibble with the closeups was that
each time it was us looking at the man,
too often side on as he stared at the
other, where I felt we should have par-


ticipated by looking through one man’s
eyes directly into the other’s, into his
soul. Especially through the Cardinal’s
eyes into the Interrogator’s.
The actors were fine, including Camp-
bell Copelin as the warder, a babbling
proletarian who had seen all the re-
gimes and all their criminals, and was
“just doing a job.” The audio was per-
fect. And between them, Gunars Jur-
jans’ design and Harry Myers’ lighting
gave the drama a great deal of its force.
This version of “The Prisoner” was
acted out against back walls of mon-
strous blackness, in a cell the size of a
cellar, and in an interrogation room. The
Cardinal’s face was lighted so that all
the etchings of his torment were visible.
And side-lighting often made the In-
terrogator more terrible than his height
and size and steel-lined voice would
have done unaided.
ABC Television can be proud of this
production. So can Australians. It was,
at last, fair evidence that we can do
things well, that we don't have to accept
half-baked efforts just because local boys
are involved, and you can’t be too hard
on the poor blokes, they’re doing their
best, and have to learn, and all the rest
of that jazz.
This year capable television actors,
designers, producers and technicians in
general have sprung full bodied from
wherever they had been lurking and
in some instances it is a suitable word
for their previous efforts. But writers
now, where are the writers?
They can’t all be occupied with revue
scripts; and madly, wildly satirical in-
terviews for “Oz.”
FRANK ROBERTS
ART
A Streak of Sentiment
Robert Dickerson. Australian Gal-
leries. Melbourne.
David Newbury. Argus Gallery. Mel-
bourne.
lAickerson’s latest exhibition of paint-
ings and drawings does not tell us
much about him that we don’t already
know. There are some new types among
his people, and his figures overall seem
rather more animated. There are, too,
a couple of landscapes in which figures
are inconsequential, but this need not be
counted as an important departure since
the landscapes also are pretty inconse-
quential. The beauties of Dickerson’s
simplicity are to be found entirely in his
figures, and even if you have seen many
similar ones before, this show should not
be missed. It is worthwhile painting
which probes life and which graces it.
Dickerson’s simply moulded figures have
a melancholy dignity which should touch
anyone with a streak of sentiment in him.
Perhaps it is sentiment aroused the easy
way children are often used as sub-
jects just for that reason but it is,
nonetheless, a warm and honest senti-
ment that animates his formally very
austere images.
It is interesting to see here how finely
balanced this direct and naive art needs
to be. For all its stylisation of figures a
marked degree of naturalism is necessary
to make a convincing point. “Children
in the Street,” for instance, draws its
power from truthfulness of observation
rather than from formal devices. The
bare background is admittedly one of
Dickerson’s typical devices for throwing
figures into isolation, but the life and
beauty of the work flow mainly from
the stance and gesture of the figures,
tellingly observed and set down with
complete confidence.
On the other hand “Journalists Drink-
ing” a more ambitious work to all
intents is overloaded with devices, so
that the same point, man’s desperate
failure to reach through to his fellows,
fails to ring true. The message is thrust
upon us. Undoubtedly, the artist is
sincere and convinced, but he is making
the world dance to his conviction.
Dickerson makes little distinction
between painting and drawing. His in-
tentions are the same, and what changes
of emphasis there are arise naturally
from the change of medium. The softer
and more richly-textured charcoal evokes
a more generous feeling for his people,
and without the large backgrounds of
the paintings his figures are more tender.
This is an art which probes life sympa-
thetically but unblinkingly.
Going from Dickerson to David New-
bury one wonders indeed how much
communication is possible in our day.
Do we just have broad interests or have
we become habituated to constant re-
adjustments of thought? With Newbury
one must switch over to the values of
abstracted landscape, with its fleeting
perceptions, its contrived rhythms, its
play on materials. By and large it is
appealing painting the surfaces are
agreeably patterned both with line and
texture, and there are some rich and
subtle evocations of landscape moods.
But it is not always easy to see what
point the abstract conventions serve.
BILL HANNAN
Landscape
and Bodyscape
Lloyd Rees. Macquarie Galleries.
Charles Reddington. Hungry Horse
Art Gallery.
HThese modest-sized wash drawings
from fairly recent European travels
remind one that Lloyd Rees exhibits
qualities firmly rooted in visual experi-
ence yet with their own special enchant-
ment. The reminder, if we really needed
one, is simply depth transcends style.
Little could be further from the current
modes than this show. At the same time
few things seen recently touch so readily
feelings of wonder in the presence of
landscape. Further, these landscapes have
rich individuality which can only arise
as a result of some hidden line of com-
munication between artist and scene.
Whether one has seen San Gimignano
in brilliant sunshine or not, a few deft
washes amid some precise and searching
lines are sufficient to conjure up the im-
mense attractiveness of the town and its
surrounds. This is romantic realism of
the best kind, which in the Tuscan land-
scapes, studies from Greece or Rome as
well as those from France, submits the
viewer to that special excitement of
sharing an original experience.
Charles Reddington, the latest and
most forceful exponent of the bodyscape
shown here, injects a clean whiff of ab-
stract expressionism to enliven the recipe.
He has obviously studied (in the US)
certain phases of Pollock, de Kooning
or the Resnick of some years back. The
sense of environmental continuity, the
broadly knifed, sometimes stringy or
slashing power of the paint, certainly
belong with such artists. Add to this an
agreeable color sense interested in the
yellow, red, black and white areas and
one has the massive sensuality of
“Shoshan Celebration.” It is the sunny
expanses of yellow in “Did ya bring me
silver, did ya bring me gold” together
with some abrasive discords that hold it
together. “Skies in My Eyes” shows an
opposite coolness; this and one or two
drawings get beyond the sameness of at-
tack or the limitation of the forms in
very many others. This is essentially a
presentation of the “consumer nude,” a
reiteration of a rather fixed and limited
viewpoint in the face of the vast range
of meanings the nude has revealed
right up to our own times. What is in-
teresting is the attempt to open new ter-
ritory in the face of these meanings.
The circle may be closed but the weight
of comparison is sometimes intolerably
heavy.
JOHN HENSHAW


THE RED PAGE
Mummified Moderns
And a clue to the dulness of Australian poetry
By D. J. ENRIGHT
Contemporaries: Essays on Modern
Life and Literature. Alfred Kazin.
Seeker & Warburg. 525.
“JAke all true poets, Henry Miller gives
us a taste of the actual joy, energy,
and freedom we are starved for. He
makes one happy.” Often, in this bumper
collection, Mr Kazin is that sort of
critic: one may dissent from his par-
ticular judgments and yet applaud the
generalisation or implication which
accompanies them. Wrong—one feels—
but there’s a right reason behind it. In
the passage quoted Mr Kazin is really
getting at the “beat” writers —“they are
afraid of our world” and there he is
right for the right reasons. Elsewhere
he does justice to Miller and the
specialists in “detailed” sex-descriptions.
There is more real sex in Proust than
Mailer, and “no one seems personally
to have been more afraid of sex than
Henry James, who therefore was able to
suggest its power far more convincingly
than does Henry Miller.” This reminds
me of a superb snatch of dialogue in
Peter de Vries’s Tents of Wickedness :
“Why do modern novelists dish out so
much sex? Why have they always got
everybody in the sack?” “Maybe
they don’t know the facts of life.” Mr
Kazin has a proper respect for facts. The
“clinical” accounts of sex-making in such
painstaking puddings as O'Hara’s From
the Terrace are remote from human
facts: they belong to a dream-world,
and the dream in question is the opposite
of life-enhancing.
We may not be especially interested
in some of the authors Mr Kazin treats,
we may feel that he makes heavy and
wet weather of “the tragedy of Caitlin
Thomas,” at this stage our minds may
simply refuse to take in another essay
entitled “The Function of Criticism To-
day.” So perhaps one useful thing a
reviewer can do, faced with these 500
pages, is to anthologize some of Mr
Kazin’s art-enhancing perceptions. They
will find an echo in a number of bosoms
which (until recent years at any rate)
have been feeling rather lonely.
Thus, on the effects of the New
Criticism: “Undergraduates can get the
same pleasure from taking apart a poem
by Eliot or a passage from Joyce that
they get from working on a car.” And
the not-so-new critics “often miss the
point of criticism and use it to establish
their own ingenuity rather than to con-
tribute to the understanding of litera-
ture.” These passages come from a truly
original essay disguised under the re-
pellent title of “The Background of
Modern Literature,” as does the sugges-
tion that the young writer may be
justified “in view of the mummified
modernity that surrounds him on every
hand” —in treating modern literature
as his enemy. “The modern . . . has be-
come the enemy of the contemporary.”
This could be the case with “modern
painting” in Australia, that fifty-year-old
baby, cooing away in its phlegmy throat
while old ladies tickle its tummy. Per-
haps, though, it is not true of poetry in
Australia, where the odd behaviour of a
few ready wags and willing dupes resulted
in the deportation of modernism before
it was out of its nappies. The fact that
many Australian poets “sat out”
modernism may help to account for the
sedentary disposition of much contem-
porary verse: it hasn’t found anything
to fight against, and poets can’t cash in
on other people’s battles.
“Art is Good for You” a piece
which opens, “So far as I can tell, there
is nobody in the great enlightened
American middle class just now who is
not an art lover” may have a less
ambiguous relevance to the Australian
scene. Mr Kazin points out that to
compose music needs at least some
knowledge of the language of music, to
write a book requires an effort, whereas
painting, now that it has broken away
from representation, “ seems to be as
free and easy as a thought, anybody’s
thought.” It is easy to feel “creative”
in the presence of a modern painting of
this sort because the painting gives
you a free hand. This it does because
it is not truly creative itself: instead of
imposing the need to understand what
it says, it encourages you to say what
you will. You can be the artist. James
McAuley has said something to the same
effect in the symposium Australian
Civilization : poetry is made up of words,
and words mean, they can’t break away
from representation, you can’t pull the
wool over words for long. Nonsense
will out. Modern painting offers great
opportunities for nonsense to be put in,
if not by the painter then by the critic,
or the dealer, or (the root of the matter)
by the viewer.
To me it seems a pity that many
Australian poets still dogged by the
spectre of Ern Malley? should be so
preoccupied with such merely external
matters as technique or metrics. The
only point of feet is that the poem should
move on them, and the rest can be left
to the literary historian. And yet and
even though people tell me that Aus-
tralian painting is much more “interest-
ing” (perhaps the right word for the
phenomenon described in the paragraph
above!) I still believe that the Aus-
tralian creative potential resides rather
in poetry than in painting. Great
painters, always rare, are one thing: the
people who turn to painting as a soft
option are another thing altogether.
Abstract art, that winsome infant who
never bit anybody’s finger, can be an
“interesting” evasion, whereas poetry —-
though it often sentimentalises or ser-
monises and makes a mess of them is
irresistibly drawn to central contempor-
ary themes. It is made of words, and this
is what words are like: there is as yet
no substitute, at the highest levels of
exploration and explanation, for words.
“The worst of American sophistica-
tion today is that it is so bored, so full
of categorical aversion to things that
writers should never take for granted
and never close their eyes to.” That
judgment, arising from an acute appraisal
of Salinger’s “cuteness,” is true of more
than American sophistication. It might
even seem that for some time our
writers and our critics have been
assiduously preparing us to yield through
sheer boredom or querulousness to docile
extermination by the atom. Mr Kazin
is also good on the deterioration of the
language of contemporary fiction into
“the language of pundits,” the language
ol the New Critics, of the anthropolo-
gists and the psychologists. The novelist
sets up his lay figure and then “ironic-
ally” dismantles it. The loss of faith in
the complexity and variety (in, if it isn’t
too dirty a word, the mystery) of human
nature is accompanied by a loss of
faith in the creative possibilities of non-
technical language. Literature, real
literature, says Mr Kazin, “grows out of
a sense of abundant relationships with
the world.” It is indeed sad to see
novelists praying at being little Freuds
when the big Freud himself admitted to
following in the steps of the poets and
novelists.
And how cheering is Mr Kazin’s com-
ment on that belief, “so typical of all
the culturally frivolous, that the Orient
has transcended the intellectual torment


of the West.” It would be nearer the
truth to say that the Orient managed
with the help of poverty and caste to
avoid that torment, for a while. . . Rather
less welcome—some of us must murmur
“Touche!” to it is what he has to say
in “The Poet against the English Depart-
ment. The poet, the creative writer,
searching (simple wretch that he is!) for
“the language for his sense of things,”
can be so maddened by “the intellectual
togetherness of critical opinion,” by the
self-satisfied demeanour of his colleagues,
that “he is tempted to turn into the court
jester, the departmental fool,” calling
down a four-letter curse on all criticism.
An understandable reaction, says Mr
Kazin, but unfortunate. Yes, and down-
right scandalous if the departmental
fool finds himself by some accident also
the departmental head. . . But perhaps
Mr Kazin is over-solemn on this point:
cap and bells have served before now as
camouflage for an honest partisan. And,
as Mr Kazin so excellently says, the
effective critic must be “a partisan of
one kind of art and a bitter critic of
another.” He cannot be all things to all
books. The true critic is too involved in
literature because he is involved in
life, and so is literature to achieve the
juridical virtues of objectivity and ini-
partiality. He will not restrict himself to
genteel ten-letter Latinisms.
For Gentlemen Only?
From the Great Taskmaster to the Shareholder
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Publishers and Publishing. Edited
Gerald Gross. Seeker. 435. 6d
The House of Words. Lovat Dickson.
Macmillan. 495. 9d.
A financial expert, called in to try
to bolster a failing Hollywood
film company, remarked at a crucial
point in his investigations: “What can
you do about an industry in which your
assets put on their hats at 5 o’clock and
go home?” Anyone outside publishing
might have the same reaction to it. How
can you run a business in which your
assets are authors, as elusive and unpre-
dictable as actors without even their
good looks?
“Publishers and Publishing” is a
painstaking and exhaustive exposition of
publishing. The editor, Gerald Gross,
lets the publishers, in a series of me-
moirs, give their own answer to the
question which the head of Marks and
Spencer, the immensely successful
English chain of shops, put to Frederick
Warburg: “Is publishing an occupation
for gentlemen or is it a real business?”
The collection is a roll-call of the
great names which have appeared on
the spines of books throughout the
period of modern English-speaking pub-
lishing. It begins with Daniel Macmil-
lan, who, in the full flower of the Vic-
torian age, could write: “We booksellers,
if we are faithful to our task, are trying
to destroy, and are helping to destroy,
all kinds of confusion, and are aiding
our great Taskmaster to reduce the
world into order, and beauty and har-
mony.” It ends with Bennett Cerf, of
Random House, giving a talk to the
New York Society of Security Analysts,
in which, after outlining his firm’s earn-
ing rates and growth prospects, he pre-
diets that “within the next few years,
some five or six great publishing com-
bines will dominate the publishing scene,
much the way that a handful of com-
panies today dominate steel, automo-
biles and other truly big industries.”
Publishing today is a business. Se-
curing dividends for shareholders
rather than aiding our “great Task-
master” must influence the publisher,
and decisions to publish are the result
of recommendations of a staff of ex-
perienced editors rather than of the
publisher exercising his own sweet will
or judgment.
But the publisher, it seems, remains
a gentleman. Almost all of these me-
moirs are marked by generosity of
spirit to authors and rival publishers,
when the most you might expect is
teeth-grinding patience. And most of
the publishers set down their inevitable
setbacks and their painstaking learning
of the publishing facts of life with good
humor. If you can, as Warburg did in
1940, publish Mann, Mumford, Wells,
Orwell, Zweig, Caldwell, Gide and
“Clochemerle” and still make a loss of
£2159, and smile, albeit sadly, when
you do it, then you are a publisher.
The editor of “Publishers and Pub-
lishing” says that the book is intended
mainly for the trade and its fringes. It
is fascinating history, but since most of
the contributors are looking back on
their lifetime in publishing, it has little
to suggest what the future of the trade
is, and, indeed, little on what has hap-
pened to publishing in the postwar
years.
T ovat Dickson’s “House of Words”
is also of the past, but it is the
immediate past, which we tend to look
down at, our view foreshortened. Its
heroes and their reputations are di-
minished. Charles Morgan what a
pompous, old snob of a writer he seems
now! But Mr Dickson’s Morgan is
charming, sensible and amusing.
This is the second volume of Mr
Dickson’s autobiography. The first,
“The Ante Room”, dealt in part with
his early childhood in Australia. The
second book begins on a day in 1929
when a young, ambitious Canadian
graduate, who was to become general
list editor for Macmillans, walked into
the offices of Chapman and Hall . . .
“This was London; this was a publishing
house, an old and famous one. Chap-
man and Hall had started Dickens off.
Who knew what other giants had come
to this same counter?”
This is a marvellously evocative book,
well-mannered and graceful. We never
lose sight of the striving young man,
whom Morgan recognised as “clever
and astute” (not, Mr Dickson points
out, the same thing), who was ingenuous
enough in the beginning to be shocked
in the company of such as Galsworthy
and Wells at “how small great men
talked; what envies and enmities they
nourished; they seemed more quarrel-
some than less gifted people.”
But there are penetrating and fasci-
nating glimpses of other people, includ-
ing Mr Dickson’s boss, Harold Mac-
millan. There is Mr Macmillan, hurry-
ing into the family firm in September,
1939, and, when other publishers were
moving out of London, scribbling out
this advertisement:
“Macmillan and Company Limited,
in response to numerous enquiries from
authors, booksellers, and members of
the public, wish to state emphatically
that they propose to carry on their
business at St Martin's Street, London,
WC 2, until they are either taxed, in-
sured, ARPd, or bombed out of exis-
tence.”
Mr Dickson remembers GBS in the
Royal Automobile Club swimming-pool:
“There a stately figure sometimes
floated recumbent on the water, long
and white and narrow, clad only in a
loincloth, his white beard turned to-
wards the roof, his eyes surmounted by
mephistophelian eyebrows, closed in
contemplation: Bernard Shaw.”
It is in the last chapter, when Mr
Dickson telescopes three postwar inci-
dents to bring his autobiography up to
the present date (although one hopes for
a more leisurely account of this period
in due course), that we get the most
vivid impressions of people Mr Dickson
has known in a lifetime of publishing.
We find out, too, what became of the
eager young Canadian.
There is the death of Captain von


klyin^S)
drifti^ 0 s '
AUSTRALIAN
cpjDERS
\w c a P ricornia
1
keo« s
n ADAM S
KEITH
DAVID
SIRIUS BOOKS ... "Paperbacks with a Difference"
(Sydney Morning Herald)
SIRIUS BOOKS give you the op-
portunity to acquire memorable
Australian books in attractive
paperback editions. The first six,
just published, are listed alongside;
many more are in preparation.
They are also available bound in
cloth.
“Here are the first six books in
what promises to be one of the
most outstanding enterprises in
Australia’s brief literary history.”
(Sydney Morning Herald)
Such is Life
by Tom Collins
paperback 16/- (post 1/8)
bound 25/- (post 1/11)
Capricornia
by Xavier Herbert
paperback 16/- (post 1/8)
bound 25/- (post 1/11)
The Letters of Rachel Henning
edited by David Adams, illustrated by
Norman Lindsay.
paperback 17/6 (post 1/5)
bound 27/6 (post 1/11)
Australian Spiders
by Keith C. McKeown, revised and
brought up to date by N. L. Roberts.
paperback 17/6 (post 1/5)
bound 27/6 (post 1/8)
Flying Fox and Drifting Sand
by Francis Ratcliffe
paperback 16/- (post 1/2)
bound 25/- (post 1/8)
Poems
by Kenneth Slessor
paperback 12/6 (post 1/2)
bound 21/- (post 1/2)
AVAILABLE AT ALL BOOKSELLERS
published by ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Rintelen, Mr Dickson’s first author. He
“was found dead on South Kensington
underground railway station at 7 a.m.
on a winter’s morning in 1946. Clutched
in his hand was a workman’s ticket . . .
I had left him behind in upward flight.
. . . This was ingratitude.”
And Max Beerbohm’s funeral. “Dear
Max, how we all loved him! So we
said ... I had read everything that Max
had written, and I had loved every word
of it, but I had not read it more than
once, and it was mere hypocrisy to pre-
tend that I was desolated by his death.
Rather, I felt curious, and pleased to
be numbered amongst those deemed
important enough to be present on such
an august occasion.”
What a splendid sense of situation
and character Mr Dickson has! How
well he writes! What a splendid novelist
he would have made! But Mr Dickson
says this of his only novel: “I took a
simple story which was true, my own,
and encased it in a borrowed form, the
form of the novels I had read and had
most admired, where it sat as uneasily
as a colored pebble picked up on the
sea-shore would do if presented to
someone in a box from Asprey’s.” He
was not a novelist, but that pearl with-
out price, even at Asprey’s, a born
publisher.
Spiders Aren’t Human
What every young man should know
Australian Spiders. Keith C. Mc-
Keown. Sirius Books. (Pocket Book
17s. 6d; bound 275. 6d.)
fFms book was published by Angus &
Robertson many years ago, and is
well worth republishing. Mr McKeown
was the Australian Museum’s expert on
spiders and insects, particularly on
spiders on which there are few experts.
The new edition has been revised by Noel
Roberts, an amateur, but an excellent
spider photographer whose pictures add
interest to the new edition.
This is not a dry-as-dust scientific
work. It might well be described under
a subtitle, “What Every Young Man
(or Woman) Ought to Know About
Spiders” so far as anybody knows
anything about them. For there is still
a great deal to be learned and the spider
is a most complex creature with almost as
many species as the quadrupeds and
about as many variations in tempera-
ment and lethal qualities as well as gas-
tronomic tastes w'hich range from birds
and fishes to the smallest insect minutial.
Somebody once said that if there was
any living species which might inherit
the earth if man were immolated by
nuclear bombs, it would be the spider.
The arachnes are certainly the most adap-
table of vital entities and are able to live
in more various environments than the
bipeds. Anything suits them from a
crack in a wall, a hollow under a stone,
a hole in the ground, a self-made clothes-
line in a garden, on a ledge along a cal-
cimined wall. The spider is built to
repel mateship by other species, and even
overdoes it to such an extent that al-
though in Australia there are 1500 known
types of spider and certainly a good
many yet to be discovered, only three
types are known to be deadly (and two
of them not so deadly at that) —the Fun-
nel Web, the Trap-door and the Redback
or Jockey. There are others of the Trap-
door’s relations which are under suspi-
cion, but so far the verdict against them
has been, as McKeown writes, “not
proven”.
McKeown sums it up:
The spider world is net our world;
their ways are not our ways nor are they
those of insects. . . . Among spiders we
find customs that might well have been
transplanted from another planet, and


Marketing Director
required by
A strong leading Australian Company
active in all States Headquarters Sydney
DUTIES: In liaison with other Headquarter Groups, and through
State General Managers and Sales Managers where
appropriate:
(a) Appraisal of Australian and Overseas market capacities
and trends, direction of market research and develop-
ment of reliable data therefrom.
(b) Planning of marketing policy and strategy; co-ordination
of all action necessary to implement:
(c) Formulation of effective marketing and sales techniques,
oversight of their application in State Subsidiaries.
(d) Review of sales organisation, effort and. results.
QUALIFICATIONS: The appointee is likely to be an applicant already well
advanced in his career, will have an acknowledged record
in marketing and be established at or approaching top
executive level in his present organisation. He will know
business conditions and trends, the principles of production
and distribution and their relationship to sales. He will
have those qualities of personality and leadership essential
for the direction of Commonwealth-wide marketing activi-
ties in a Company of Established reputation, consolidating
past growth and expanding still further.
SALARY: A commencing salary of £7,000 to £B.OOO is envisaged;
an applicant of outstanding merit could command a higher
figure. Superannuation and other benefits would be appli-
cable. An attractive growth opportunity.
APPLICATIONS: May be made on a strictly confidential basis, setting out all
relevant information, including age, education, current
responsibilities and status, and past experience to:
“MARKETING DIRECTOR”
Executive Selection Division
JOHN P. YOUNG & ASSOCIATES (VIC.) PTY. LTD.
Management Consultants
2 Glen Street, Hawthorn, E. 2 Victoria
or to our offices in Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
JOHN OLSEN
By VIRGINIA SPATE
A new volume in the AUSTRALIAN ART MONOGRAPHS, with
nine pages of large colour plates and 28 pages of black and white
reproductions; a critical and biographical note on the artist,
chronological list of paintings, list of exhibitions and bibliography.
10" X 7±", cloth binding. 72 pages 42/-
Already published in this series:
CLIFTON PUGH, by Noel Macainsh 35/-
SALI HERMAN, by Daniel Thomas 35/-
Other volumes in preparation:
SIDNEY NOLAN, by Bernard Smith
RUSSELL DRYSDALE, by Joseph Burke
JOHN BRACK, by Ursula Hoff
JOHN PERCEVAL, by Margaret Plant
ARTHUR BOYD, by Franz Philipp
ALBERT TUCKER, by Alan McCulloch
Further volumes being arranged on CHARLES BLACKMAN,
LOUIS BUVELOT, CONRAD MARTENS and others
GEORGIAN HOUSE PTY. LTD.
296 Beaconsfield Parade, Middle Park, S.C. 6. MELBOURNE
and at SYDNEY
many things normal in spiders rival the
wildest imaginings of the disordered
mind of a drug addict. . . . The courting
and mating behavior of these creatures
is almost beyond belief . . .
However, the “curtain has been lifted
only slightly to permit us the
briefest glimpses of the hidden marvels.”
McKeown quotes Dr W. S. Bristowe as
guessing the average spider population of
England and Wales on a very con-
servative basis as 2.5 billion or
60 arachnes to very human being.
And he estimates that, in the same
two countries, yearly spider diet calls for
220,000,000,000,000 insects a year
which at, say, a thousand insects
to the pound would work out at
100,000 tons of insects, quite
enough crop-eaters, eye-biters and wood
destroyers to deserve the gratitude of an
ungrateful humanity.
H. G. Wells and Baron Munchausen
in collaboration could scarcely contrive
any fiction more improbable-seeming
than the spider world. But this is a use-
ful work also for it clears the innocent
and condemns and assesses the guilty
“dealers in death” at their true lethal
value. Special chapters on the latter
emphasise the point that beauty in a
spider, “resplendent livery” and the color
red in particular are “keep-off” signs
which all humans would be wise to take
notice of, even though the wearers some-
times prove to be timid and harmless
persons going about in the colors of their
poisonous betters merely for protection.
Of all the spiders the only really
dangerous, aggressive one is the Funnel
Web. Unlike most spiders which are
timid and retiring by nature and strike
only for food or in self-defence it “shows
a brazen indifference to the presence of
man and will offer fight with or without
pretext.” When even a breath or a shadow
stirs him it “strikes downward again and
again with a snake-like action” until its
last reserve of venom from its sharp
needle-like fangs is exhausted. The
venom is peculiarly lethal, composed of
at least six different toxic fractions and
of such light molecular weight that when
injected into other animals it will not
form antibodies, making it impossible
to create an antidote. Its fangs penetrate
any glove.
There is a special chapter on scorpions,
but they are more secretive about their
private lives even than spiders. The
writer says nothing is known about, for
instance, the large north Australian scor-
pion (Uradacusnovae hollandiae). Hav-
ing been bitten by one I could give him
some explicit, though unpublishably pro-
fane, data about it.
M. H. ELLIS


THE MA N
ON THE LAND
Critical Era for Wool
A ustralia has more sheep than any
other country, grows more wool,
exports more wool and produces most of
the world’s fine wool. But in the process
we are rather inclined to pull the wool
over our own eyes.
Our long wool tradition and the still-
dominant place wool occupies in our
national economy is often inclined to
make us overlook some significant facts.
For example, it is often not realised
in Australia that:
• Wool forms only 9 p.c. of all
fibre used in clothing production.
• Wool forms less than 55 p.c.
of wool-type fibre used in the major
wool-consuming countries.
Twenty years ago, or even less, there
were alternative fibres to wool fibres
like cotton, silk and rayon but today
there are actual substitutes for wool, as
well.
These new man-made fibres between
them, if not individually, provide a com-
plete range of substitute raw materials,
and the processing machinery of the
world’s spinners, weavers, knitters, etc., is
just as capable of using these fibres as
wool.
II?ool production has risen 40 p.c. in
" the last decade, but at the same time
demand for clothing has risen at such
a rate that wool’s share of world clothing
fibre consumption has dropped from 12
p.c. to 9 p.c. And during the last five
or six years a definite and close relation-
ship has appeared between the prices of
some synthetic fibres and the corres-
ponding types of wool.
In short, in the words of the manag-
ing director of the International Wool
Secretariat, Mr Bill Vines, the prices the
world has been prepared to pay for
wool have been substantially determined
by the price levels of the various syn-
thetic alternatives.
During his recent visit to Australia,
Mr Vines pointed out that, in the light
of this, three predictions became criti-
cal for wool—
• The volume of synthetic fibre sales
will inevitably increase greatly. The world
wants more fibres and we do not have
the prospect of appropriate increase in
production to meet this need. Higher
volume of synthetic fibre production
means lower manufacturing costs and an
eventual write-off of vast development
and establishment costs. Thus, in the
near future, we can expect an ability if
not perhaps a desire to sell synthetic
fibres at lower prices.
• Important patents, which have
hitherto ensured a near-monopoly situa-
tion for their holders, begin to expire in
the course of the next few years, thus
opening the way to much intensified
competition amongst the producers of,
for instance, polyester fibres.
• The internecine battle of the
chemical giants, of which we have seen
recent and dramatic evidence, may be
expected to intensify.
TI/Ir Vines’ predictions pose a big prob-
lem for wool. The prices of synthetic
fibres have been falling fairly steadily
over the last decade. What happens if
the predicted further substantial price
falls take place?
It would be disastrous for wool to
attempt to follow the synthetics down
in an attempt to retain a part of the
mass fibre market.
If woolgrowing is to remain even a
reasonably profitable business, wool
prices have to be stabilised at levels
fairly close to those ruling at the
moment.
How can this be done?
Mr Vines and his IWS board repre-
senting the woolgrowers of Australia,
New Zealand and South Africa have
come up with their answer.
They are setting out to establish for
wool products a quality as opposed
to a luxury image in the minds of the
consumer.
Mr Vines says he wants “to achieve,
in practical terms, a position wherein
by 1970 a lady in Cleveland, Ohio, who
owns six sweaters will be willing to pay,
say, 20 dollars for one because it is
wool and she knows it to be wool
whereas she has paid perhaps 15 dollars
for the five others made of some syn-
thetic fibre.”
He says that only in this way only
if there is consumer acceptance of the
quality of the end product, and a con-
sumer willingness to pay a reasonable
premium for that higher quality can
woolgrowers expect to command a
premium price for the raw material it-
self.
To help in achieving this objective, the
IWS proposes to establish under its legal
ownership a series of national wool
trademarks, linked by an internationally
common basic design. It will promote
these trademarks until they become
household names to millions of people
in each major wool-using country.
The trademark will be licensed prin-
cipally to manufacturers of end products
garment makers, knitters, carpet
manufacturers and where appropriate
to makers of intermediate products such
as cloth and knitting yarn.
The licences will be granted on the
condition that articles bearing it are
made of pure virgin wool and that the
garment or cloth complies with certain
minimum standards of quality and per-
formance.
The trademark project will be part of
a five-year IWS plan to expand world
wool promotion.
The cost of this plan has not been
and probably will not be revealed.
But Mr Vines has admitted it will re-
quire substantially more money than the
IWS has at present. The Australian wool-
grower is therefore going to be asked for
a bigger per bale wool promotion levy
within the next few months.
Each grower now pays 10s. a bale for
promotion and 2s. for research. A levy
of double or treble this sum is not un-
likely if the IWS can win full acceptance
of its plan. Some sections of the industry
are talking of a 455. a bale levy.
as persuasive a talker as the new
Australian Wool Board Chairman, Sir
William Gunn, will find it hard to
wheedle a levy of anything like this size
out of the industry.
One part of the IWS planning will
find favor with Australian growers. This
is Mr Vines’ insistence that the three
member countries implement some form
of wool marketing scheme capable of
stabilising wool prices.
Mr Vines says if this is done and the
marketing systems are strong enough to
protect both the producer and the pro-
cessor when under stress, he will guar-
antee an economic price for wool during
the duration of his five-year plan.
Mr Vines thus leaves the new Wool
Board with two of the biggest tasks ever
handed to a wool industry body to
win a major increase in the promotion
levy against dogged opposition, and to
find a workable, effective and acceptable
form of marketing.
The next six to 12 months could be
an historic period for the Australian
wool industry.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Forcing Information from Companies
NO law or Stock Exchange listing requirement can prevent
inefficient, unskilled or careless management. Hence the
all-important need for disclosure of information so that
the effects of management can be analysed.
How true. And who said it? None other than the chairman
of the Australian Associated Stock Exchanges, Mr A. B.
Mellor, when he addressed members of the Australian Hire-
Purchase and Finance Conference in Adelaide.
But, having said it, Mr Mellor backs off. He admits the
Stock Exchanges would like to see quarterly reports from
companies. The Stock Exchanges are quite firm in the belief
/hat such quarterly reports will come as a matter of evolution.
Then why don’t the Stock Exchanges give a lead and demand
quarterly reports as a requirement of listing a company’s
shares or debentures on the Exchange?
Mr Mellor says it is not yet opportune for the Stock
Exchanges to insist on this provision. After all, the Com-
panies Act only requires directors to account to shareholders
once a year at the annual meeting.
This is not good enough, Mr Mellor. The time IS opportune,
when companies are having a difficult time; when public con-
fidence has been sapped by debenture failures; when directors
quite often are whistling in the dark, hoping that things will
be better by the time the annual meeting rolls around.
Directors too often rely on time as the great healer. After a
convenient interval of six months or 12 months they hope they
may be able to justify some of the optimistic remarks they
made at the previous annual meeting, or in the half-yearly
report.
VlThy should investors have to wait with fingers crossed for
" information to which they are entitled? Certainly there is
some cost involved in quarterly reports. But quite often that
cost is saved by keeping a tighter check on operations and
budgeting.
Far too many companies fail to budget properly, and there
have been instances where directors have taken very belated
action after a deterioration of profits. Worse, they have given
optimistic interim reports when later figures produced for
that period show completely the opposite trend. Either they did
not know or understand the situation properly, or they were
misleading shareholders by bolstering their spirits.
The public buys and sells shares on the strength of such
information. And, too often, there is a bad leak of private
information.
Mr Mellor says that official legislation usually follows the
Stock Exchanges’ initiative. Well, here is an opportunity to take
the initiative and demand fuller and more frequent information.
Mr Mellor says that, on company loan securities (debentures,
notes, etc.), there is an obligation for professional bodies such
as auditors, lawyers, secretaries, accountants and directors to
support the Exchanges in their development of protective
measures for investors “so that we may justify our
stewardship.”
Investors have no say in the appointment of the stewards. So
it is up to the stewards to lead the way if they are convinced
it is in the best interests of the public.
A BALLOON DE GAULLE
DID NOT PRICK
gains most of its publicity these days from the
A huffings of General de Gaulle, master of the Grand
Design and aspiring spiritual leader of all Europe. But its
financial position also is worth a thought.
If Charles le Grand believes in the old-fashioned things, he
may hardly notice the solid creeping of good old-fashioned
inflation in his country. Hourly wage rates rose by 9.4 p.c.
in 1962. Concessions granted to railwaymen and miners
have sparked increased wage demands and requests for four
weeks’ annual leave.
Money supply is rising at 18 p.c. per annum, but national
production is rising by only 10.5 p.c. in value and 6.3 p.c.
in volume. The increase in money supply, apart from natural
causes, has been stimulated by a rush of money to Europe
when sterling looked very sick. European investments in
dollars also were reversed when there was a run on the dollar
recently.
There now is so much short-term money available for
lending that the French Government is trying to clamp down
on it. Other government measures include a reduction in
the price of gas, milk and medical supplies. But inflation
marches on.
It is no use blaming the free-spending occupation troops —■
after all, money is to be spent.
A last point, mes amis. If inflation continues, the rate of
exchange could suffer and touch off a round of devaluation
in Europe.
The Frenchman shrugs. Devaluation will make dollar
imports more expensive, but will cheapen French exports.
Unfortunately it won’t help French investment abroad. It
will increase the cost of capital outlays in overseas projects.
SMALL ARMS AND FINE
COTTON AT LITHGOW
IVJr Heffron’s trip to Hong Kong in an attempt to stir
up interest in NSW as an investment outlet for overseas
funds is to be commended. Australia needs to go out and
sell. It needs to break away from insularity. But Australia
also must sell for the long-term, not for a short-sighted future.
Some of the Australian deals cooked up in Hong Kong
and elsewhere have tended to bounce back on Australia with
a sad loss of prestige. People who would have difficulty in
raising money in Australia sometimes go overseas and sell


hard, knowing it is much more difficult for a stranger to
check up on local conditions.
Mr Heffron and other well-meaning people trying to sell
Australia must be sure that what they sell is grade “A” No. 1
quality, which will build Australia’s prestige and convince
others of the prospects available in this country. If
performance fails to live up to salesmanship, it will take a long
time to live down the disappointment and ill feeling which
come from failure.
Oress reports say that a prominent Hong Kong manufacturer
A will visit Sydney in May for detailed discussions with the
NSW Government on the establishment of a fine cotton yarn
plant at Lithgow. The initial contact was arranged by Mr Hef-
fron and entails the possible establishment of a mill at Lithgow
costing £500,000.
Fine. But the project, backed by the NSW Government,
will need to be justified on all counts. It is no use telling
overseas manufacturers they can expect to make a go of it in
a decentralised area if Australian manufacturers report bitterly
that, encouraged initially to decentralise, they finally found
themselves like a shag on a rock.
It is unreasonable to expect an overseas manufacturer to
undertake risks which could spell failure. If, on the other
hand, the project has been properly investigated by State
Government experts and is assured of a good chance of
success, it will be something in Australia’s favor. It may
prove that Australian manufacturers are too keen on hot-house
production, or that overseas manufacturers are capable of
succeeding where locals can’t.
If so, the introduction of overseas capital and competition
would be a vital stimulus. But let us not make the mistake
of inviting people here with wild assurances, only to see them
do their money cold on projects already proved to be un-
economical. This is no way to encourage overseas investment.
Disillusionment is one way to kill friends and antagonise
people.
ECONOMICS BEFORE
ARTISTS’ SKETCHES
Gatherings of notables have followed in rapid succession at
Federation House in Flinders Street, Melbourne, to see the
city's £5 million Princes Gate project well and truly on its
way. The official lunch to witness “the signing of the docu-
ments” was the best of all. It was also the most impressive,
even to the list of apologies (Lord Casey, Mr Clive Stoneham,
etc.) of those unavoidably absent. It will be another nine
months before the site work is started.
The Lord Mayor, Sir Maurice Nathan, struck the right
challenging note in saying that Melbourne had fallen sadly
behind Sydney in the breath-taking scope of its development
plans. But the Premier, Mr Bolte, believed it wasn’t for lack
of imagination. Hardly a week has gone by in the last six years,
he said, when he hasn't been shown some multi-million scheme
or other, but most fell down on the test of money. From long
experience he now preferred “to see the economics before the
artists’ sketches.”
In this case he had no worries, for with Australian United
Corporation acting as a catalyst, Lend Lease Corporation will
find this particular £5 million from private sources here and
overseas. The State Government will not be involved and
Melbourne City Council only to the extent of £200,000. The
council has an excellent chance of getting this back in rates
ir om the two new buildings to be erected on the site.
STILL COUNTING
THE CASUALTIES
when you are winning a war, casualties keep trickling
back to be patched up. Such is the situation on the current
economic battlefront in Australia with most production figures
moving forward but casualties still being reported.
Companies A. J. Benjamin (retailer), Hornibrook (building
and engineering contractor), Pioneer Welding (pressure ves-
sels, pipe fittings) and Frank G. O'Brien (glass merchant and
shop fitter) all reported wounded on the same day last week.
On many fronts the advance is slow. Tutt Bryant (construc-
tion equipment engineer) reported a “slight” increase in sales.
The mopping-up process doubtless will involve a few more
casualties.
At the moment, the economic front looks quite solid and,
barring an unexpected counter-attack, the general advance
should continue. But don't expect everyone to come through
unscathed. The patching-up process takes some time and there
will be plenty of companies still limping in a few months’ time
. . . even if getting stronger every day.
STAR BILLING FOR
INDUSTRIAL BUILDING
T ondon investors evidently are not rushing into property
debentures at the moment. When the City of London Real
Property group offerecj a £stg 12 million 6i p.c. debenture to
shareholders and debenture holders at £971, more than 86 p c.
was left with the underwriters. The market then opened at a
discount.
Although the UK Budget doubled the annual allowances for
industrial buildings, commercial buildings gained no conces-
sions.
A doubling of the 2 p.c. annual allowance on industrial
buildings (for new buildings after Nov. 5, 1962) together with
the 15 p.c. investment allowance and the 5 p.c. initial allow-
ance is claimed to give a 60 p.c. write-off in 10 years and
115 p.c. write-off in 24 years.
Australian tax laws permit no allowances for industrial
buildings. So the UK example may prompt some thoughts at
the Treasury.
TOP EXECUTIVES
MANNED THE STANDS
Successful selling at recent official Australian trade fairs in
Malaya and elsewhere appears to have been well matched
by the efforts of Repco’s top executives at the International
Automotive Service Industries’ shows at Philadelphia and Las
Vegas in the US. Manning the company’s stands in company
with local agents, they managed to make direct sales to the
value of 30,000 dollars. They also gained experience of local
marketing methods, which, they say, will be of great assistance
to the company in exnorting to the States. Pity Repco was the
only Australian concern represented at the shows.
Mr C. G. McGrath, Repco’s chairman, said on his return
that Australian automotive products currently selling in the
US are more than comparable in design and quality with both
local and imported counterparts and are competitive in price.
Repco, which sells in more than 50 overseas countries, is
also going for the Japanese market, but initial exploration has
run up against import restriction obstacles. But it was hoped
that these would soon be liberalised.
After his recent visit there Mr McGrath thinks there is a
big future for Australian automotive products in Japan.


Wait a second...
COMMERCIAL & GENERAL ACCEPTANCE LIMITED
INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES
©lie (Commercial Satthituj (Company of #yhney tint itch
KENT & DKUITT STREETS, SYDNET
027361
THE ATTACHED CHEQUE IS IN PAYMENT CF INTEREST FOR THE CUKkENT
QUARTER OR ACCRUED FROM DATE OF LODGEMENT OR PREVIOUS
QUARTERLY PAYMENT ON DEBENTURE STOCK/DEPOSIT/NOTES LISTED
BELOW.
RF 2?ST BtMENT ' PAYABLE FREE exchange COMMERCIAL & GENERAL ACCEPTANCE LIMITED
THROUGH ANY BRANCH OF THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
SIGNED
... and this interest cheque of CAGA FINANCE was calculated and printed at our Sydney
Computer Centre, on the GE.225 one of the fastest, most flexible computers available today in
Australia. In just a few minutes this modern computer can do all the mathematics that have ever been
done by hand —it can solve problems far beyond man’s capability and assist business, science and
industry to do a much better job ... accurately, more economically!
information PRoassM
mmura tr jusnuttM amußsmcK
Tfogress Is Our Most
ĝhf
Important Product
COMPUTER DEPARTMENT
103 YORK STREET, SYDNEY. 29-7553
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PTY. LIMITED
GE79/10.7i


an
C.B A
Travel with
confidence!
THE
COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED
makes all
travel arrangements
for you!
Travelling for business or pleasure, you can
travel with complete confidence when your
travel reservations have been made by the
C.B.A.
Our experienced Travel Officers will gladly
arrange all details for you.
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
THE COMMERCIAL SAVINGS BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
CB A/37 '24R
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Sluggish Build-up of Inventories
Industry’s patchy performance,
coupled with the merely moderate
level to which imports have settled
since the turn of the year, underline the
impression gained from industrial reports
that very little stock building in expecta-
tion of a spurt in production has taken
place in the last few months following
the easing of stock accumulations late in
1962.
The March production figures were in
certain respects disturbing. In 34 items
listed by the Commonwealth Statistician
in his monthly preliminary summary,
output in 12 of them was actually lower
than in March last year and in three of
them it showed little change.
Of the 19 items in which production
was higher than a year earlier, only
seven (tinplate, hardboard, radio sets,
electric motors, internal combustion
engines, and both categories of motor
vehicle chassis) registered increases of
more than 10 p.c. In some of these
(IC engines and motor vehicles) produc-
tion was lower in March, a long month,
than in February, a short one.
While this mixed performance would
hardly suggest that industry feels any
urgency about stock building, it is
obvious enough from the low level of
imports in both February and March that
the tendency to ease up on the purchase
of overseas raw materials and industrial
components, noticeable towards the end
of last year, has been carried further.
on the detailed February trade
returns (imports for that month were
£9.4 million higher than for the like
month last year), there was a sizeable
increase in imports of raw materials and
components on February, 1962. But it
is hardly likely that this will be the case
for March when imports were only a
bare £3.2 million higher than a year
earlier. Details for March overseas trade
are not yet available. But it is possible
that imports for the motor industry will
account for the whole of that increase,
leaving the rest of industry with lower
imports of raw materials and com-
ponents than in March last year.
This inference is supported by the
record registrations of motor vehicles
in March, just as it is by the perform-
ance of industry in March.
In fact, it would seem that over the
whole of industry there has been a slight
erosion of stocks in recent months,
following the additions of £46 million
and £7 million estimated by the Com-
monwealth Statistician to have occurred
in the September and December quarters,
respectively, last year.
The correct interpretation of this
would seem to be that the higher levels
of production compared with this time
last year are now being serviced partly
by eating into stocks built up in the first
half of the fiscal year. Still, it is not
expected that the decline will be of the
same order as that of the January to June


General
Sales Manager
SALARY £5,000 p.a. RANGE
An International Company market-
ing Grocery products wants a first-
class General Sales Manager with
wide experience of marketing in the
Grocery and Chain Store field.
Some of the products in the Com-
pany’s range are market leaders in
Australia and an extension into
other products as the result of success
in other countries is contemplated and
overseas help will be available.
The man we are looking for must
be able to show evidence of his ability
to lead a sales force, have imagination
and enthusiasm of a high degree in
addition to the preparation of sales
budgets etc.
The salary plus car and superannua-
tion is evidence of high calibre quali-
fications required.
Applications will be treated in the
strictest confidence and should be
accompanied by supporting documents
and be addressed to
GENERAL SALES MANAGER
c/- Hancock and Woodward,
Chartered Accountants,
19 Bridge Street,
Sydney.
fall last year, when the total decline of
£79 million is rightly attributed to a
solid upswing in industrial activity.
If this is the right reading of the
situation, it seems unlikely that we shall
see a big upsurge in industrial activity
in the winter months more likely not
much better than marking time.
liyHiLE not gainsaying the usefulness
” for other purposes, the recent survey
of stocks by the Australian Industries
Development Association is of little use
in any exercise of industrial forecasting.
Although the survey includes all com-
panies whose accounts have been pub-
lished for accounting dates up to March,
1963, it relates mainly to companies
whose most recent revelations for stocks
were for June 30 last year. The next
document of importance on this score
will be the March quarterly estimates
of national income and expenditure,
expected shortly.
Undoubtedly lack of confidence haT
played its part in the reluctance of
industry to err on the side of optimism
in holding stocks, though the persistence
until lately of high rates of interest on
bank money has been a big influence
working in the same direction. The
current move towards lower interest
rates should promote a healthier attitude
towards holding stocks, and for this
reason it is not wise to be as dogmatic
on the future trend of industrial activity.
However, AIDA’s survey is of more
than passing interest, particularly because
it points to the danger of generalising
on the basis of overall movements in
stocks. For example, widening its sample
to 728 companies last year, it showed
that stocks increased by 1.7 p.c., or £6O
million. (This indicates, incidentally,
that the total stocks held by these com-
panies were valued at £1,020 million
at the latest balance sheet reckoning.)
HThe difference between stocks rnove-
ments in manufacturing (plus 0.1 p.c.)
and non-manufacturing (plus 5.9 p.c.)
were striking, but even more astonishing
differences occurred between different
industries within these groups.
For instance, in the manufacturing
group there were falls of 21.5 p.c. in
stocks held by manufacturers of motor
vehicles and parts, and 13.6 in paper.
These compared with increases of 23.3
p.c. in metal refining and shapes, and
7.6 p.c. in building and construction
materials. (All these figures have a par-
ticular significance for an economic
analysis of the period covered by the
survey.)
Then in the non-manufacturing group
the overall movement of 5.9 p.c. was
completely dominated, not by the figures
for retail and wholesale trade (which are
most useful for forecasting), but by
stocks held by wool brokers, pastoral and
shipping companies which increased by
no less than 42.2 p.c. over the year.
This being said, the AIDA surveys
are becoming the more useful as the
series lengthens, though in this allowance
must be made for the widening of the
sample which to some extent vitiates
comparisons with earlier years.
TRENDS IN STOCKS
Non Total
manufacturing Manufacturing Increase
No. of % In- No. of % In- No. of
Com- crease Com- crease Com-
panies in Stocks panies in Stocks panies £m.
1956 ... 87 8.9 318 12.0 405 204
1957 .... 112 2.1 342 6.3 454 68
1958 .... 116 9.9 357 4.0 473 116
1959 .... 189 7.2 391 4.2 580 93
1960 .... 182 1 4.2 380 12.1 562 204
1961 ... 241 16.4 434 1 6.1 675 329
1962 .... 255 5.9 473 0.1 728 60
Scotts still interesting
Ocott’s Provisions’ first takeover
effort since its 1960 listing ended not
with a bang but a whimper. Motel Cor-
poration directors rejected the one-for-
four offer as inadequate.
The bid is not to be lifted and will
quietly lapse.
A good deal of the early mystery and
subsequent mild market flurry could well
have been avoided, for the two com-
panies possess a common director who
might at least have been aware of Motel
Corporation’s feelings.
Market interest can, of course, come
squarely back to Scotts, which is well
able to repay it. Prices now around 12s.
9d. yield 3.9 p.c. on the 10 p.c. dividend.
Smallgoods, bakehouse, frozen foods
and catering divisions were all going
great guns at the time the last accounts
were presented. The company also seems
to exude a perpetual echo of takeover
rumor, with one of the large food groups
eventually expected to pull the trigger.
Italian and French shipyards will
build 159 fishing boats, valued at more
than £A2S million, to create a fishing
fleet adequate to Korea’s needs.


y
hfg
h
COMPANYC
SAVE
ADMINISTRATION
fgdh
/
fgd
INCREASE
PROFITS
hfgd
KAYS FULLY SERVICED AUTO LEASE
• Eliminates the necessity of tying up valuable working capital.
• Eliminates company transport administration.
• Enables accurate budgeting with no detailed accounting.
• Offers free replacement transport in case of accidents or breakdown.
• Eliminates all contingencies arising out of company ownership.
Let Kays show you the economics and numerous benefits to be derived
through AUTO LEASE.
LEASING COUP,
prr. in.
A UNIT Or KAY CORPORATION LIMITED
MELBOURNE
(HEAD OFFICE)
18-30 MT. ALEXANDER RD.
33 0431
SYDNEY
106 WILLIAM ST. 31 6621
BRISBANE
40 TANK ST. 2 5837
ADELAIDE
17 TAVISTOCK ST. 8 648 G
LAUNCESTON
100 GEORGE ST. 2 4894
KL/R
“CROESUS”
Big Wad of Reserves
fIffiANKS to a late-month boost from the
recent fully subscribed 30 million
dollar loan in New York, international
reserves rose to more than £6OO mil-
lion at the end of April. This is the first
time this very comfortable level has been
exceeded since February last year when
we repaid the £7l million drawing from
the International Monetary Fund.
While this solid advance in reserves
over the last year must be welcomed,
there is the reservation that had the
economy been advancing at a rate more
compatible with the available resources,
particularly during the last six months,
we could well have afforded a some-
what slower rate of increase in
reserves.
It is all very well to say that we have
this massive wad of reserves in the bag,
but does it in part represent opportunity
missed? The answer to this depends on
which school you belong to, stability or
growth.
One highly satisfactory aspect of the
rise in reserves is the increment ac-
cruing from overseas official loans which
appear to have contributed close on £3O
million net so far this year. It is sound
policy to borrow strongly overseas when
reserves are high and our international
credit highly rated both for this reason
and the fact of the internal economy be-
ing in a healthy condition.
|t is equally satisfactory that a strong
recovery in private capital inflow has
followed the particularly poor (for re-
cent years) inflow in 1961-62. Net private
capital inflow in the December and
March quarters this fiscal year was £lO
million higher than for the whole of
1961-62, while for the first nine months
this year it was more than double the
amount for that year. As in the case of
official loans, this is testimony to con-
tinued overseas faith in the future of this
economy.
What is more, it could reflect over-
seas satisfaction at the continued main-
tenance of stability here. For all that,
] t is certainly conceivable that private
capital inflow, particularly for portfolio
mvestment, would have been higher still
ff Australia had enjoyed more buoyant
economic conditions in the last six
months.
As a matter of fact the mere £5 mil-
hon addition to international reserves in
Ihe March quarter as revealed by the
Commonwealth Statistician last week is,
°n the face of it, rather disappointing.
articularly is this so in the light of the
33 million surplus on visible trading
account during the quarter which sug-
gests that our degree of reliance on capi-
tal inflow (both official and private) is
tending to increase.
Attracting the complicating element of
the credit sales of wheat by Australian
marketing authorities, it is possible to
get a figure of £23 million for the nat-
ional increase in reserves over the quar-
ter. An amount of £lB million net was
debited to the balance of payments for
sales by the marketing authorities for the
quarter. But, by the same token, in the
first two quarters a total of £24 million
was credited to the balance of payments
from marketing authorities’ transactions.
So, over a period, these debits and credits
cancel one another out and the sales
would ultimately be fully credited to the
balance of payments through visible
trading account.
Oo long as credit payments are met (and
they have been thus far) this is an
innocent complication. But not so the
striking rise in net invisible payments.
These came to £7O million in the March
quarter compared with £59 million in
each of the two previous quarters, des-
pite a lower level of imports in the
March quarter. The Commonwealth
Statistician thought this important
enough for an explanation, to wit that it
arose largely from increased freight
charges. But there must be more to it
than that.
The March quarter debit of £7O mil-
lion for invisibles represents an annual
rate of £2BO million or the equivalent
of the entire proceeds from exports in
the March quarter. If this rate of net
payments for invisibles persists (it has
never been higher than £235 million in
any previous year) it seems bound to
heighten our reliance on capital inflow.
The trouble is that invisible payments
can be expected to move in some rough
proportion to our international trade.
Higher imports as well as exports are
essential if the economy is to be vigor-
ously developed. Both would add to the
net bill for invisibles.
Thus rising net payments for invisible
imports threaten to be much more
troublesome to the balance of payments
given a resurgence of developments here.
The hope must be that while every ef-
fort is made to scale down the net cost
of invisibles, capital inflow will con-
tinue to lessen its impact on reserves.
At any rate we appear to be getting
through the current year with more than
an adequate amount of cushioning.


m
Mr?-
Pfll
v*
■0?.
%
Hii.
' \ >'***%
f her> out customers took nmey
ire
tom
around
h
We use deposited funds to meet the many credit needs of
Commonwealth Bank customers.
The needs of home-builders, for example. This year we
will lend £55,000,000 to help our customers obtain some
20,000 homes for their families.
We help provide the day-to-day needs of businessmen—the
Vital working capital which keeps commerce moving.
And we recognise the special needs of manufacturers and
primary producers amongst our customers. We have
introduced a new concept of lending to help them expand
production and make production methods more efficient.
The activities we finance create employment. We would
like to finance still more of them. And we will, as more and
more people choose to “Bank Commonwealth.”
Commonwealth
TRADING . SAVINGS • DEVELOPMENT
Banks
C 8.25.103


tdNVyg
,>« l * ai T s .£?oXi -
• o*«rtiVW ? «*nu„’°*<y
9?l9Vii
Dili
?1 1l
s
rflrsi
liiijß
FAVOURITE
BRANDY
fine Australian
pot-still
THREE STAR
Distinctive in flavour and bouquet
OLD LIQUEUR
A superb quality Liqueur Brandy
<*NTI
T
BRANDY
Picking Some ‘Selective’ Stocks
A ll right. The market is edging up
and economic indicators are good.
But what should an investor buy?
This is a desperate question asked by
so many investors who are battle-scarred
and weary after their experiences since
November 1960.
Too often the experts talk glibly of
selective stocks and long-term invest-
ment without nominating the stocks
which they believe will qualify for such
distinction.
It is not so easy, particularly as good
stocks as well as bad stocks have taken
a serious knock in the past two years.
And reports from directors have not
always proved reliable when related to
actual figures.
So what is a poor investor to do?
Looking at it dispassionately in the same
manner which you should adopt when
advising your grandmother or a widow
how to invest her money, a couple of
definite facts stand out.
The motor trade is enjoying a renewed
boom. This boom is not expected to last.
But good figures must be achieved in
1963 with possibly some slackening
thereafter. So motor shares and finance
companies should benefit.
Retail figures are good for the strong,
well-established concerns like Myer,
David Jones, Grace Bros. The long term
outlook for retailers also is good, based
on population growth and spending
habits.
building trade must expect some
A further recovery. But in this field it is
not possible to be loose in comparisons.
A few stocks like Ready Mixed Con-
crete have proved by their interim re-
ports that they are on the way back
but there are question marks hovering
over the heads of many building trade
shares, including the problem of carefree
takeovers in boom years which now bring
difficulties of over-capitalisation.
Insurance companies continue to do
well. They have the benefit of actuarial
percentages on their side.
Newspaper shares continue to do well,
j chemicals are recovering and bank shares
should have a good year after interest
rate increases (since curtailed).
So where are we? We went through
(a Sydney sharebroker’s selection list for
1 overseas investors the other day and
narrowed it down to a few stocks. It
]> s not claimed that these are the best
j available. Nor is it claimed that current
| price levels are the best available. Many
jof the shares could have been picked
l lI P cheaper some months ago. But, any-
: w ay, here we go to pick a few stocks
| which we believe are “selective.”
A. Goninan, Allied Mills, Australian
Guarantee Corporation, ACI, Bank of
NSW, Bonds Industries, BHP, CAGA,
CSR, David Jones, Drug Houses, IAC,
J. Fielding, John Lysaght, Kandos, Mt
Isa, Myer Emporium, National Bank,
Queensland Insurance, Ready Mixed
Concrete, Rocla, Rothmans, South
British Insurance, W. R. Carpenter,
Wunderlich, New Zealand Paper Mills.
There’s nothing imaginative in that,
you may say. OK. But it’s our neck
that is stuck out. We're only saying that,
of a selective list put before us, we
narrowed it down to those stocks. We
don’t pretend it will break records for
investment performance. But we do say
that it is a safe set of selective stocks
which should benefit from any general
economic recovery.
And we apologise for those which
were left out. But, remember, we only
worked from a selected list put out by
a Sydney broker, and added New Zea-
land Paper Mills as an across-the-Tasman
stock.
Hire-purchase Uplift
¥>enewed confidence among the finance
and hire-purchase houses need not
go unmarked. Investors should keep a
careful eye on the better stocks, since
prices may soon begin to creep ahead.
The chairman of the Australian Hire
Purchase and Finance Conference (Mr
J. H. Partridge) has given a lead on
the industry’s present feelings. Speaking
in Adelaide, with two months of the
1962-63 year to run, he predicted gener-
ally sound results for the full year.
Overall outstandings stood £33 million
higher than their 1962 level, Mr. Part-
ridge indicated. This constitutes a very
fair recovery from the credit squeeze.
Better still, the coming financial year
will be approached in an expansion mood.
Term buyers appear increasingly con-
fident and financing opportunities are
growing more open. Even the much-
bruited arrest in the motor-vehicle boom
looks to be a long time a’coming.
Any hesitancy by fixed-interest invest-
ors seems to have disappeared over the
last few months, certainly so far as Con-
ference members are concerned.
In the equity field, investors may feel
that the bigger companies provide the
most obvious combination of assurance
and opportunity. Companies like Aus-
tralian Guarantee, CAGA, Finance Cor-
poration and Industrial Acceptance
could be among the favorites.
With their characteristic speed of re-
porting soon after the close of the finan-
cial year, we won’t have too long to wait
to assess company trends.


■ERIC fINDERSOM
(CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
RA
SHORT TERM
6 months 6fop.a. 12 months 61^oP-a.
LONG TERM
2 years p.a.;3 years p.a.
4 years p.a. >5 years p.a.
10 years p.a.
DIRECTORS: E. A. M. Newton (Chairman), 6. W. Solomons, E. S.
Pratt, A. D. K. Cochrane, E. J. Cameron, G. L. Martin.
Trustee for Debenture Stockholders:— P. T. PTY. LIMITED, a wholly
owned subsidiary of PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED), 33-39
Hunter Street, Sydney.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of application
referred to in and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
Prospectus may be obtained from and applications lodged with
Any Branch in New South Wales or the Australian Capital Territory
and any City or Suburban Branch in Brisbane, Queensland, of the
following Banks
☆ THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED.
☆ BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
or at
☆ ERIC ANDERSON (CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED,
125 York Street, Sydney.
☆ ERIC ANDERSON RADIO-TELEVISION PTY. LIMITED.
Any Branch in Sydney and Suburbs, Wollongong, Pt. Kembla,
Canberra, Queanbeyan and Newcastle.
☆ PACKARD BELL PTY. LIMITED.
Any Branch in Brisbane, Suburbs and Country.
☆ ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE, OR THE
fgdh
Underwriting Brokers: RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
OR POST THIS COUPON TO:
ERIC ANDERSON (CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED
125 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
Please post me, without obligation, a copy of your
Prospectus to:
NAME „
ADDRESS
E.A.(ConsoL) —2
Youngliusband Hopeful
VToungiiusband Ltd, Melbourne wool
A and produce broker, has come a
fair way to recovering the 1961-62 profit
decline. Latest earnings, for the year to
March, rose by £36,162 to £240,678,
after the previous year’s £47,129 drop.
Directors expressed reasonable con-
fidence of equable pastoral prospects by
bringing the dividend up from to 8
p.c. with a final 5 p.c. The 7i p.c. rate
had applied since 1961.
The ss. shares are around Bs. Od. and
have not moved much higher during the
last two years.
Affluent Landlord
giant AMP Society, with an in-
crease in assets of £52.3m. a
year (which compound each year
because it is a mutual society),
is someone to have on your side in any
financial struggle.
Its weight, in the property, bond, or
share market, can exert abnormal pres-
sure. This is indicated by its investment
of £B.Bm. in equity shares in 1962,
raising its total of ordinary share-
holdings to £51.6m.
Life offices increased their equity
shareholdings by £ 19.6 m. last year,
says the Commonwealth Statistician. So
the AMP accounted for almost half,
followed by National Mutual £5.1m.,
MLC £3.7m. (including prefs.). This
leaves only £2m. to spread among the
others.
The AMP is showing a marked interest
in property investment. Its £41.4m. in-
vested in freehold and leasehold should
continue to grow because the Society
doubtless is becoming increasingly
aware that many choice property de-
velopments are being financed by over-
seas groups.
Hornibrook Uncertainties
I>risbane civil engineer Hornibrook
Ltd has had to bow to the extreme
variability and competitiveness of con-
tracting over the last year or so. A small
loss in the December half-year led to
omission of the interim dividend.
The dividend climbed to 10 p.c. for
a particularly prosperous 1961, but came
back to 8 p.c. last year. Directors fore-
cast a “reasonably certain” final for the
current year from a fair share of con-
tracts now profit-earning.
Share prices have not been above 235.
this year, though they reached 295. 6d.
in 1962. Present levels are unlikely to
decline much while holders wait in
patience.
Brick Industries’ Doubts
Shareholders of Melbourne-based
Brick Industries may be looking a
trifle askance at what’s happened to the
earning rate after last year’s bonus and
cash issues.
They are doubtless partly mollified
by the new 12i p.c. dividend rate, which
represents an effective 151 p.c. on pre-
bonus capital. The company had held
payout at 15 p.c. since 1955.
Directors estimate that the 1962-63
profit, to March 31, will exceed £200,000
but fall short of the previous year’s peak
of £229,858. That gave an earning rate
at 32.5 p.c., whereas the latest result
cuts this back to around 16 p.c. on aver-
age capital used.
There is naturally no more than a


fg
D&I
FINANCIER
Registered First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
FULLY SUBSCRIBED
being uuiM
I
I
PER ANNUM FOR 6 & 10 YEARS
ISSUE OF
£1,000,000
Trustee for Deben-
ture Stock Holders:
Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
6% .... 2 YEARS
6i% .. 3 YEARS
7% .... 4 YEARS
7i% .. 5 YEARS
APPLICATION AND PROSPECTUS
Applications will proceed only on one ot
the forms of application referred to in
and attached to a printed copy of the
Prospectus Prospectus may be obtained
from:
• All Branches ot the Bank of New
South Wales in New South Wales,
Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
Queensland.
9 Any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT
CO. LTD.
Head Office:
74 Castiereagh Street, Sydney
and Branches
Telephone BW 4521
Underwriting Brokers
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O'Connell Street, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne
340 Queen Street, Brisbane
Brokers for Victoria:
CLARKE & CO.
450 Little Collins Street. Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne)
Brokers for Queensland:
CHARLES ELLIOTT & SON
356 Queen Street, Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
Brokers in Australian Capital Territoryi
T. J. THOMPSON & SONS
C.B.C. Chambers, Petrie Street, City,
Canberra
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
very short-term qualm. Indeed, directors
exercised considerable responsibility in
releasing unaudited figures because of
building-trade sluggishness. They had to
meet difficulties during the last five
months, after a sales and profit advance
in the first half of 1962-63.
Seasoned investors are not forgetting
the long-term bloom that building stocks
will display when the population bulge
gives them a fillip in the not-too-distant
future. They have taken a solid knock
during the last two years, with the Syd-
ney sectional index still standing well
below even 1962 levels.
Brick's shares now sell around Bs. to
yield 7.8 p.c., compared with earlier
1963 prices at 11s. 6d. The full report
could clear the air.
New Tin Venture
Anew tin company, Australian Placer
NL, has been formed in Mel-
bourne to develop deposits in the New
England (NSW) region. Finance is com-
ing from Metals Exploration, Paringa
Mining and South Alligator Uranium.
Any expansion of initial operations
may lead to a public issue.
Morning Star in Eclipse
11/lorning Star Gold Mines NL is
1 at last to close its Woods Point gold
mine and intends to liquidate. Share-
holders had twice voted to continue
operations since the Western Mining
group withdrew in October, 1959.
No return of capital is expected, as
directors believe all proceeds from assets
realisation will be required to discharge
creditors. Sellers of the shares at a nom-
inal 3d. look rather optimistic.
Putting Record Straight
Australian Paper Manufacturers
Ltd’s quarterly interim report puts the
record straight on relative heights of the
duties afforded the company by recent
Tariff Board decisions on paper, about
which some hard criticism has been made
in the last few weeks.
The report says the new rates of duty
on papers and paperboards are broadly
40 to 50 p.c. higher than the normal
rates previously applying to the com-
pany. But they are somewhat less than
the rates which applied after the imposi-
tion of additional temporary duties, and
rather lower than those the company re-
quested from the Tariff Board. They are
not quite in line with the company’s
needs. (APM favors Mr J. R. Murray’s
dissenting view recommending a flat rate
of £32 13s. 4d.)
Evidently, though, they are high
enough to warrant the expectation that
last year’s £2,121,093 group profit will
be exceeded in the current year. Sales for
the March quarter were above last year’s
levels and this satisfactory trend is con-
tinuing.
Gold Fields’ Moves
HThough the vast and vigorous Con-
solidated Gold Fields of South Africa
is not listed here, many of its overseas
moves are followed with great interest. In-
vestors have not forgotten that when the
chairman (Sir George Harvie-Watt) visit-
ed Australia in January, he promised
earlier local equity participation in the
subsidiary, Consolidated Gold Fields
(Australia) Pty, than had been expected.
A further idea of the power behind
the parent has just been furnished bv
its bid of 25 dollars a share for 700,000
American Zinc shares. The 17i million
dollars needed will come from a loan
arranged with a consortium of American
bankers. Full acceptance of the offer lifts
Consolidated's holding in American Zinc
from 11 to 63 p.c.
Australian share participation is ex-
pected when the Mount Goldsworthy
(WA) iron ore project, undertaken with
Cyprus Mines and Utah Construction,
becomes productive in about two years.
Growth of Retailers
A comprehensive survey produced by
a leading Sydney broker promulgates
the theory that investment in five
national retailers will provide a haven
not often found in equity investment.
A portfolio consisting of shares in
Myers, David Jones, G. J. Coles, Wool-
worths and Waltons produces a relatively
small immediate income, but minimal
risks and assurance of growth at least
in line with the population increase.
Their very size allows minimisation of
buying costs which allow attractive sell-
ing prices in itself a cushion against
economic set-backs.
The survey contends that these big
retailers will continue to get bigger —•
each is heavily involved in establishing
large new outlets —at the expense of the
parochial retailer. Their base may be
broadened further by handling the lines


First National Hire Purchase Company
3
Incorporated 1925
ISSUE OF
REGISTERED NOTES
6 to 10 years
7%
5 years, 6J% •
3 years, 6°/o •
4 years,
2 years, S\°/o
Short-term stock also available from 3 months at p.a.
Applications for Registered Notes can be accepted only on the
printed form included in the prospectus. Copies of the full
prospectus with application forms obtainable from any A.G.C.
branch, your Stockbroker and all branches of the Bank of
New South Wales in Australia, Papua and New Guinea.
PAID UP CAPITAL
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
Cnr. Phillip and Hunter Sts., Sydney « 2 0324
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide • Perfh • Hobart • Canberra
m
RN2-NB
of such specialist retailers as chemists,
stationers, grocers and greengrocers.
This is described as “intrusion at depth.”
The argument for buying a portfolio
of five retailers is that each is now
evaluated equally on a price-earnings
basis.
Historically, Myers and David Jones
have stood far above the others. If the
“spending population” of young people
produces the bulge expected from 1965
onwards, demanding clothing and fashion
goods followed by the “big ticket” lines
of furniture and appliances, then Myers
and DJs may again produce the greatest
growth.
Conversion of £2,691,003 in notes to
£1,345,501 ordinary capital may, how-
ever, weigh down David Jones’ climb in
earning rate.
The survey points out that Myers has
not sought funds from shareholders since
1929. Capital expansion has been by
issuing shares for takeovers, and by
generous bonuses to shareholders.
Referring to Myers, it said: “The new
method of development seems destined
to be along lines which require new
ventures rather than takeover of existing
ones. Possibilities for shareholder par-
ticipation are thus considerably better
than hitherto.”
After the survey had gone to print,
Myers announced plans to build a
Chadstone-style shopping centre on a 51-
acre site at East Preston, a northern Mel-
bourne suburb. Construction will begin
early next year, with scheduled comple-
tion date of December, 1965.
Sweet Handouts
Oomeone asked last week if he should
sell Pioneer Sugar now that a one-
for-five bonus has come along to sweeten
the palate.
Overseas observers keep saying that
sugar prices must ease back again after
such a strong rise. But, in recent weeks,
prices reached new peaks when European
beet sugar supplies were less than
expected.
Sooner or later sugar prices must fall.
But there is no gainsaying that Aus-
tralian sugar producers must have a good
year for 1963. And, at the moment,
there are prospects for maintaining
good results in 1964.
If holders sell their sugar shares, the
question must be asked if the money can
be reinvested in better propositions else-
where.
It would appear that the immediate
course is to hold on to the shares and
accept the sweet servings while they
appear.
New BH Satisfied
Tlelative health has come again to the
Barrier companies. Each fresh chair-
man's statement seems to add a bit more
muscle and should attract wider invest-
ment attention.
The latest to confirm a more stable and
predictably sound position among base
metals is the chairman of New Broken
Hill Consolidated (Mr. A. M. Baer).
Still speaking within the context of the
Barriers’ greatly lifted output, Mr Baer
is convinced that world production and
consumption of both lead and zinc now
look well balanced.
Things could be even better, for the
international price structure continues be-
devilled by quotas, subsidies and import
tariffs.
Mr Baer argues that their removal
would give a considerable improvement
to world prices and “the vast majority
of world producers,” even extending to
some underdeveloped countries.
New BH itself has achieved a sub-
stantial lower ng of operating costs by the
return to full-scale production. Lower
average lead and zinc prices during 1962
were more than countered.
Most overseas experts believe the
recently better supply and prices climate
will hold. They are fortified in this opin-
ion by suspicions, so far as zinc is con-
cerned, of producer collaboration.
The ss. New BH shares have slipped
a little from the 51s. touched a week or
two ago to give a top for the year. Sales
above the present levels around 50s. are
likely. At that price, yield on the 30 p.c.
dividend is 3 p.c.


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of
New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
PER ANNUM
5 TO 10 YEARS
also available
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
Rates from 6% p.a. for
6 months to 81% p.a. for
4 to 10 years.
Full details of these issues will be found in
the Company’s Prospectus which is available
at all branches of the Company’s Bankers,
the Bank of New South Wales,
any Member of the Stock Exchange,
or any office of
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited.
Applications may be made only on the forms
attached to the Prospectus.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George St., Sydney
'Phone: 27-8621
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • WAGGA • MELBOURNE
BRISBANE • ADELAIDE CCI62
Long-Term “Spec”
in New Zealand
II7HILE those two giants of the New
Zealand forestry industry, Tasman
Pulp and Paper Co. and NZ Forest
Products, have steadily increased their
status on the market, a third, much
smaller paper maker has almost silently
slipped out of sight. At around 315.,
New Zealand Paper Mills’ 20s. shares
are at their lowest level for several years
and they might go down even further if
the annual report, due soon, reveals as
poor a result as many expect.
Yet, by buying the shares now the
investor might find himself with a winner
in a few years.
The Dunedin company is the oldest
New Zealand paper manufacturer, mak-
ing such lines as kraft wrappings, bags
and toilet rolls. Its performance has
often been good but never spectacular,
and it had to defend itself against several
takeover bids until, in 1960, great
changes began to take place.
First, Fletchers took up 100,000 shares
and a year later Caxton Printing Works,
a large Auckland printer, acquired a
like interest. Fletchers has a £NZI mil-
lion interest in Tasman and the two com-
panies jointly own Caxton Paper Mills,
a successful tissue venture.
Although knowing that a lot had to
be spent to put NZ Paper Mills on a
better basis, Fletchers and Caxton were
prepared to pay a 100 p.c. premium for
their shares. This may have been a little
too much, for when Mr Maurice Hob-
day, former manager of Tasman and
Whakatane Board Mills, moved in as
managing director (a post for which he
was made available by Fletchers) he
found that the plant had been neglected
even worse than expected. But after
spending a lot of money on repairs and
new equipment, the company now has
a modern plant, equipped to produce a
much wider range of products. Next year
the results should become noticeable.
lIS firms seek contacts
Jambour Tool and Stamping Co., of
New York, is seeking an importer
in Australia for its line of “Bull Dog”
automotive replacement parts.
International Parts Corporation, of
Chicago, wants to contact Australian
importers of automobile mufflers, exhaust
systems and replacement parts for all
American vehicles and the more popular
foreign cars.
Further particulars may be obtained
from the US Consulate-General.


• • •
Your money is safe
while it earns good
bank interest on * Rural *
SHORT TERM DEPOSITS
3£% p.a. (12t015 months)
3£% p.a. (3 to 11 months)
An Authorised Trustee Investment
Get the most for yourself through the
hfg
Or vO^
h
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
FOR EVERY CUSS OF TRADING BANK BUSINESS
y?
h
X
SB*S
R3850/Bda
ONE TO BUY
Aust. Gypsum Ind. Ltd
/Cheaper finance now available should
stimulate the home building indus-
try in particular. It therefore may pay
investors to seek out those companies
which cater for this industry.
Australian Gypsum Industries Ltd
shares at 13s. 6d. yield 3.7 p.c. immedia-
tely, and carry prospects of price appre-
ciation in the medium term,
They have been narrowly traded this
year between 13s. 6d. and 14s. 4d., and
last year ranged in price from 12s. 3d.
to 17s.
The chairman said at the last annual
meeting, when sales for the September
quarter revealed little change on the year
before, that the plaster and plaster pro-
ducts industry was looking for an in-
crease in residential construction
throughout Australia.
The interim report issued at the end
of February in respect of the six months
to December 30, 1962, reported an im-
provement in sales and profits over the
previous corresponding period, and di-
rectors’ confidence that the full year’s
results could exceed those for 1961-62
The group is Australia’s major pro-
ducer of plaster and plaster products, with
mines in SA, NSW and Vic. There are
mills in Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, Thevenard (SA), Mildura,
(Vic.) and Auckland (NZ).
Plaster products are sold under
“Victor”, “Waratah” and “Insulwool”
brands. Gypsum is used to make plaster
of paris, portland cement and as a soil
improver. Bellco chalks have been feel-
ing the pinch from UK and Japanese im-
ports.
Introductory shipments of raw gyp-
sum were made last year to Japan and
the Philippines but this export business
is very dependent on satisfactory
freight rates.
There is also a wholly-owned sub-
sidiary which makes switches and timing
devices.
Substantial shareholders in the group
are the British Plaster Board group of
the UK, which subscribed for 1,000,000
ss. shares at 7s. premium in May, 1961.
Agreement has been reached with the
United States Gypsum Co. for an ex-
change of research and technical infor-
mation on mineral wool.
Australian Gypsum Industries Ltd was
formed in 1960 to amalgamate The Aus-
tralian Gypsum Ltd, The Victor Electric
Plaster Mills Ltd and Peninsula Plaster
Co. Ltd, which together held the issued
capital of the operating company, Aus-
tralian Gypsum Products Pty Ltd.
Each of these old holding companies
had a history of generous bonuses, and
the tidying up of their financial struc-
ture by amalgamation should not put an
end to that record.
Investors at present prices need have
little fear of the shares weakening
significantly. They have every chance of
seeing a larger earnings cover on their
10 p.c. dividend than the last profit rate
of 15.8 p.c. gave, when 1962-63 results
are published in September. The share
price should respond accordingly.


AUSTRALIAN EQUITY
CORPORATION LTD
(Formerly MOTOR CREDITS LIMITED)
A NEW ISSUE AT PAR OF £250,000
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
8
%
P.A.
5-10 YEARS
REGISTERED
UNSECURED
NOTES
I
2
%
P.A.
5 YEARS
(Also shorter term currencies)
Applications will proceed only on the form referred to and enclosed in the
prospectus which can be obtained from:
0 Australian Equity Corporation Ltd,
365 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Telephone: 67 7701
123 Ryrie Street, Geelong. 9 3597.
Branches at: Sydney, Perth, Adelaide, Brisbane.
9 Victorian Automobile Chamber of Commerce Insurance Co. Ltd,
200 Queen Street, Melbourne.
0 Any Branch of the Bank of N.S.W. in Victoria and other States.
0 Any Branch Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited in Victoria only.
0 Members of any recognised stock exchange in Australia.
UNDERWRITERS: J. B. WERE & SON
1281
SPECULATORS DIARY
In Defence of Car Dealers
IVfY attack continues against the Stock
Market. Instead of joining with
the University students in a rocket
barrage against the Coral Sea, I trained
my big guns on a number of poorly
defended targets surely underestimated
by others.
The first was LNC. Professor Han-
cock was a little more sober than the
major car manufacturers in estimating
the total car market. The “Financial
Review” grabbed onto this with the
headline “Record Motor Sales Forecast,
But Boom Is Fading.” Of course the
boom is fading, but nevertheless sales
will remain at a high level, and motor-
car distributors will continue to prosper.
LNC contributing shares slid down
to 3s. as I was fixing my sights. When
one remembers the shares w ; ere selling
at 4s. sd. after the capital reconstruction
announcement, this latest fall does not
seem justified. (Result of the reconstruc-
tion due to take place on October 31
will be a reduction in capital from
£1,150,000 to £750,000.)
Looking at the trading side, LNC’s
biggest seller, Volkswagen, is maintain-
ing 10 p.c. of the car market. The fall
off in demand of the “1200” model has
been compensated by the introduction
of the “1500” model. Already proving
a popular car, sales should increase once
deliveries become normal.
What about current profits? Last
year’s profit of £106,000 did not even
cover the I2i p.c. dividend. But this
was in a depressed year and included a
£160,000 loss from the Audio Visual
Division. This interest has now been
sold. So not only do you have a non-
recurring loss to add back into an
estimate of current profits, but also a
tax loss to be used against those profits.
A profit of £300,000 seems within
reason.
If I was prepared to buy 2000 shares
at 2s. Bd. before the reconstruction,
surely I should buy a similar number
now at 3s. I did.
Waugh and Josephson has suffered an
even greater fall in market price. A drop
of 50 p.c. in less than three months is
a little disheartening.
The interim report is not the most
cheerful statement. Key phrase in the
report is “profitability was not achieved.”
This, in spite of increased sales, bad
debts and an overvaluation of stock
probably were foremost in the reasons
for the downfall.
This financial year will be a write off.
Still, with the valuable Caterpillar and
John Deere agencies, next year could
tell a different story. At almost half
the par value, the share eventually should
stage some recovery. I bought 400 at
11s.
If you consider my first two purchases
as showing weak tendencies in recent
months, you will shudder at my showing
interest in A. J. Benjamin.
The market was not caught unawares
by the appointment of the Receiver. On
top of this was the announcement of a
loss of £206,000 for the six months to
February 28.
Shock as this was, it does not carry
the same ominous implications as Reid
Murray. It has some, but not extensive,
borrowed funds and it still has a
relatively simple retail structure.
Buying shares on bad news pays off
more often than not. The shares opened
at Is. 3d. In went my order for 1000.
Next day they reached a peak of
Is. 9d., and then settled back to Is. Bd.
The neat little profit of £l2 was just
too tempting.
While I have been launching forth in
a broadside attack, I have not neglected
control of the rearguard. A couple of
small profits with Kolotex (£7) and
Tasman (£2) were taken. I also felt
like dismissing BHP whose sluggish per-
formance is a contrast to the other
leaders. It has been given one last
chance.
Transactions for this week were:
SOLD
1000 Tasman, 1/4 £62
1000 Kolotex, 4/8 £225
1000 A. J. Benjamin, 1/8 £79
BOUGHT
2000 LNC ctg., 3/- £318
400 Waugh & Josephson, 11/- £226
1000 A. J. Benjamin, 1/3 £67
My portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1500 Hanimex 23/5/62 6/9 8/7
400 Jacoby Mitchell 12/11/62 15/- 14/6
1000 Courtaulds op. (14/-) 14/1/63 2/1 —
400 Fairy mead 21/1/63 41/- 47/-
600 David Jones notes 21/1/63 17/3 19/3
3000 Hooker 64 options 23/1 /63 1/— lid.
2000 Alliance 1/2/63 1/1 lOd.
1000 Petroleum Inv. 1/2/63 5/4 4/8
200 Philip Morris 14/2/63 34/6 35/-
400 Bennett & Wood 20/2/63 14/3 16/-
600 A. V. Jennings 28/2/63 9/10 9/9
200 BHP 8/3/63 52/6 51/3
500 Kay Corp. 14/3/63 8/10 9/-
1000 Woodside ctg. 14/3/63 3/3 2/2
2000 Gen. Ind. op.(8/9) 20/3/63 lid. —
1000 Aust. Factors, Vic. 27/3/63 8/6 9/3
500 Amagraze 8/4/63 7/6 8/-
1000 AN I 18/4/63 4/1 4/3
1000 Ferris ctg. 23/4/63 1/10 2/4
2000 Felt. rts. 24/4/63 3/3 3/3
2000 LNC ctg. 1/5/63 3/- 3/1
400 Waugh & Josephson 1/5/63 11/- 11/-


On time
every time
t' 1
mm
•v»s - '
Lu
- ■ ■
. .
j ■
X
_ /
L
/
©
*
«•*<*&»>* : i
.....
3181 /'■, '■»!#„ ’>
a
With a highly trained staff, pantechnicions and equipment
especially designed for fast safe transportation. Mayne Nickless
operate Australia's most reliable interstate freightways. To
facilitate the fast handling of all goods, Mayne Nickless main-
tain a large fleet of Radio Pick-up trucks.
MAYNE NICKLESS LTD.
. INCORPORATING ANTIU RANGER
Australia's most reliable Interstate Freightways
SYDHEY*MELBOURNE*BRISBANE*PERTH
ADELAIDE • CANBERRA • NEWCASTLE
PORT KEMBLA • LAUNCESTON • HOBART
Fast daily schedules
to all main centres.
■Aar-
fghfgh
FOR EVERY TRANSPORT NEED
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Kelvinator Plays It Cool
HThe ss. shares in Kelvinator Australia
A Ltd, manufacturer and distributor of
a range of consumer durable goods, priced
at around 20s. to yield 3.8 p.c. from the
15 p.c. dividend, are at present not much
cheaper than the all-time high price of
21s. 6d. reached during the 1960 boom
when many share prices were pushed to
irrational heights.
The reason springs from the prelimin-
ary report just published which shows an
earning rate of 34.26 p.c. for the year to
March and the highest profit in the com-
pany’s history.
A year ago the household refrigeration
market was extremely competitive with
effective retail prices being lowered.
Sales of room air conditioners were not
reaching anticipated volumes. Latest pro-
fit of £359,079 therefore comes as a
pleasant surprise.
A fair indication of the level of acti-
vity achieved in the consumer durable
field during 1962 (which covers most of
Kelvinator's financial year ending March
1963) can be obtained from the ANZ
Bank's recently released indices of fac-
tory production for each month of 1961
and 1962 (seasonally corrected). A
comparison is shown between the indices
for all groups (including power) and
those for household appliances (electric):
1962
Jan. April July Ocf. Dec.
All groups
(including power) 152 159 161 161 162
Household Appliances
(Electric) 122 96 98 128 120
Over the last decade or so, there have
been only two new share issues. In 1952
a one-for-two cash issue at 3d. pre-
mium was made, and almost three years
later another one-for-two cash issue
was made, this time at par. On each
occasion, however, the “bonus” content
was very low, as evidenced by the low
price that the “rights” commanded on
each occasion. Further, Kelvinator has
never made a bonus issue, which, for
a highly regarded stock, is something in
itself.
Over the last 11 years, if an investor
had in each of the two cash issues sold
his rights so that he could buy old shares,
thereby involving him, in no additional
capital outlay, then his dividend income
would have risen by about 21 p.c., or at
an average annual compound rate of 1.9
p.c. p.a.
However, as far as a potential new
investor is concerned, if he is desirous of
obtaining a 7 p.c. return on his invest-
ment, a rate obtainable on long-term
fixed interest securities, then over the
next ten years dividend income would
need to increase at 3.0 p.c. p.a. com-
pound to justify the recent price of about
20s. This condition would be met, for
example, if during the next ten years
(which may well not turn out to be as
profitable as the previous ten, both for
the company in particular and the econ-
omy in general) the dividend rate were
gradually increased from 15 p.c. to 224
p.c., or alternatively a one-for-two bonus
were made and the 15 p.c. dividend
maintained.
This dividend lift is unlikely to occur,
as the company in the past has of
necessity ploughed back its high deprecia-
tion allowances, together with a sub-
stantial portion of earnings.
This is because Kelvinator is operating
in an industry where technological im-
provements occur rapidly and, as a con-
sequence, substantial capital expenditure
has to be incurred in modernising and
improving plant and equipment to meet
these changes.
It is perhaps worth pointing out that
if dividend income over the next ten
years was expected to increase at 1.9
p.c. p.a. compound — i.e., the rate it has
increased over the previous ten years —
then, based on a desired “growth yield”
of 7 p.c., the current appropriate pricing
of Kelvinator would be about 15s.
But the latest lift in earning rate to
34.26 p.c. has been interpreted by the
market as a good augury for additional
benefits in the future. Hence the lift in
share prices.
However, because of what has been
said previously, it is felt that, at current
prices, Kelvinator’s shares are fully
valued.
SUMMARY OF BALANCE SHEETS AND
PROFIT STATEMENTS (£'000)
Year to March 31 1958 1959 1960 1961 1952
Ord. capital 5s. 1012 1012 1012 1012 1012
Capital reserves 318 318 318 318 318
Revenue surplus 1021 1097 1245 1417 1559
Ord. SHF 2351 2427 2575 2747 2839
Pret. capital 230 230 230 230 230
Loan capital 429 415 402 338 375
Total capital 3010 3072 3207 3365 3494
Represented by:
Working capital 744 1270 859 1259 1194
Land and
buildings 637 587 575 617 611
Other fixed
assets 1129 1215 1073 1039 1009
Investments 500 — 700 450 680
3010 3072 3207 3365 3494
Operating income n.a. 604 880 959 772
Earnings 227 226 301 343 289
Depreciation n.a. 183 200 233 229
Taxation n.a. 160 344 349 220
Earnings p.c.
ord. capital 22.4 22.4 29.8 33.9 28.5
Ord: div. p.c. 15.0 15.0 15.0 15.0 15.0
Operating inc. p.c.
total capital n.a. 20.1 28.6 29.8 22.9
Dividend yield (a) 7.5 5.6 3.6 4.7 4.1
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 8.9 12.0 13.9 9.4 12.3
(a) Based on last sale, month account:? presented.


ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Ord, J. A. M. Minnett, M. A Gleeson-
White, lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft.
R. V. Betts
Non-Member Partners
13-15 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
Tel. 25 5711, 25 6011. Telex 5243
Branches at:
150 Queen St., Melbourne
359-369 Queen St., Brisbane
Cables & Telegrams:
‘Orderley’ Sydney. Melbourne & Brisbane
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members ot Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 linesJ No. IBB7W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6689.
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Henry Jones: Ripe for an Issue
market has lost some interest in
Henry Jones Co-Operative Ltd since
the chairman (Mr A. W. Palfreyman)
announced at the annual general meeting
in December the possibility of an issue
in mid-1963.
The issue, in the ratio of one-for-six
at par, will be made only if trading and
economic conditions encourage the in-
vestment of further funds in the group.
The 20s. shares, which rose in Decem-
ber from 725. 3d. to 765. 9d. on this
news, later retreated to 745. 6d. but re-
covered to 775. 6d. where they yield 2.6
p.c.
As can be seen from the price ranges
given in the accompanying table, this is
a fair average price compared with the
last couple of years, yet the issue is so
much closer.
If the issue is on, directors should
make the announcement at the same
time as the interim dividend, which is
usually declared early in May.
The last two capital moves in 1953
and 1958 were on the same terms.
The 10 p.c. dividend has been held for
the last 23 years.
The 1961 Victorian Companies Act
extracted a list of Henry Jones sub-
sidiaries for the first time in the 1962-63
accounts. These number 29 in Aus-
tralia (15 in Tasmania), four in New
Zealand, two in the UK and two in South
Africa.
The overseas subsidiaries have con-
tributed more in the last two years to
group profits than those within Aus-
tralia. Total net profit was an all-time
record, and represented the very satis-
factory earning rate of 30.7 p.c. on
capital.
Directors apparently do not entertain
any fears for the South African business,
nor were they unduly concerned at the
possibility of Britain joining the Com-
mon Market, although generally it was
considered, when Britain’s entry was
imminent, that the Australian fruit
industry would be severely hit.
The Australian business is well
integrated vertically, with subsidiaries
engaged in fruit and vegetable growing,
processing and packing jams, sauces,
pulp and preserves, exporting fresh fruit.
Activities also include timber mills and
box factories, stevedoring and shipping.
Hop-growing is undertaken in Tasmania
and Victoria.
Management is extremely conservative,
and finances exceptionally liquid. At
October 31, 1962, investments appearing
in the books at £903,100 had a market
value (where dealt in on prescribed stock
exchanges) of £210,000 more, and net
cash and bank balance was <£1,147,300.
(This is not an unusual cash position
at balance date for Henry Jones.)
Conversion of assets and earnings of
the subsidiaries in UK, NZ and South
Africa, as if £ sterling, £NZ and two
Rands were equal to the Australian £,
ignores the 25 p.c. premium which
these currencies have over that of Aus-
tralia, and is the key to substantial inner
reserves in the Henry Jones group
accounts.
Management justifies this practice on
the grounds that the original investments
abroad were made when those currencies
were on a par with Australia’s. Most of
it is locked up in fixed assets and
therefore not available for remittance to
Australia. If it were to be remitted,
it would be subject to Exchange Control
restrictions and perhaps further taxes.
The chairman was unable in Decem-
ber last to form a reliable estimate of
the new season’s fruit crops, but he
did caution that there was every pros-
pect of increasing competition in the
industry.
The consolidation of the Gordon
Edgell and Grocery and General Mer-
chants canneries and frozen food
divisions with Peters Ice Cream (Vic.) is
no doubt what he had in mind, as well as
the increased competition from imports
Directors pooh-pooh the idea of a
bonus from the very solid visible and
disguised reserves — they describe the
stock to the public as a long-term invest-
ment rather than the subject for short-
term speculation.
There has been no deterioration in
economic conditions since December, so
it seems a fair gamble to anticipate the
firm announcement of a cash issue. If
this does not eventuate, there should be
plenty of opportunities to get out at
higher prices if the buyer is not prepared
to wait for a more liberal attitude from
management.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
October 31 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 6253 7131 7467 7958 8515
Less current
liabilities 1862 18.40 1976 2161 1946
Working capital 4391 5297 5491 5797 6569
Investments 559 651 890 1024 903
Fixed assets 3678 3691 3788 3862 4027
Intangibles 51 47 47 55 55
8679 9686 10216 10738 11554
Outside interests 152 159 159 157 166
Ordinary capital 2435 2485 2485 2485 2485
Reserves 6042 7042 7572 8096 8903
8679 9686 10216 10738 11554
Within Australia:
Depreciation T32 157 163 149 156
Taxation 211 212 205 210 224
Net profit 280 383 345 320 351
Outside Australia:
Depreciation 115 115 139 201 147
Taxation 181 159 184 220 201
Net profit 277 256 330 392 411
Total net profit 557 639 675 712 762
Dividends 239 249 249 249 249
Surplus 318 390 426 463 513
Earning rate 23.3 25.7 27.2 23.6 30.7
Dividend rate 10 10 10 10 10
Dividend yield (a) 3.9 2.7 2.9 2.4 2.6
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 10.1 14.5 12.5 14.5 12.5
High orice (b) 62/9 84/- 82/- 83/6 89/-
Low price (b) 48/6 50/6 61/- 69/- 64/6
(a) End of December, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.


INVESTMENTS WANTED
FOR GENUINE CLIENTS
WITH CASH £15,000 to £50,000.
SHOPS (Inner Sub.),
FLATS (could be older Bldg.),
CITY PROPERTIES
SPEEDY INSPECTIONS —SALES ASSURED
S. KLIGER & CO., PTY. LTD.
406 Lonsdale St-., Melbourne
67-2587 67-5457
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM 2001. *
McPHERSONS LTD
No Bargain, but Sound
share market is, generally speaking,
quick to anticipate prosperity and
slow to recognise a deterioration in
trading conditions. But after the shocks
it has sustained in the last two years,
it appears a little tardy in acknowledging
the improved conditions in which Mc-
Pherson’s Ltd is operating.
As the largest maker and distributor
of machine tools in Australia, McPher-
son’s received a frontal attack from im-
ports after their de-restriction in Feb-
ruary 1960.
Profit declined from the 1959-60
record of £1,039,658 to £845,487 in
1960-61 and £719,924 in 1961-62, and
the earning rate on capital enlarged by
the June 1961 bonus (one-for-two) and
various takeovers, slumped from 24.6 p.c.
to 9.2 p.c. two years later.
In December 1962, however, higher
tariffs were granted on machine tools,
and the interim report released in mid-
February recorded that production in
all manufacturing divisions had increased.
Turnover of the parent company for
the six months to December 1962 was
back to the high level reached in the
similar period of 1960.
The higher level of activity in the
automotive industry would have been
a tonic to McPherson’s.
With prospects probably better than at
any time in the last two years, the 20s.
shares can now be picked up for 445. 3d.
at which they yield 3.8 p.c.
At present shareholders are receiving
no more income (in an 81 p.c. dividend
rate) than they did in pre-bonus days
(171 p.c.). It is conceivable that this
year the earning rate will improve to
maybe 13 p.c., which would permit some
increment in the dividend rate.
The company continued its long-term
policy of building up an integrated group
for the manufacture of goods for the
engineering trade and industry in gen-
eral by buying last February a 51 p.c.
interest in Steel Abrasive Co. Pty of
Brooklyn (Vic.), maker of chilled iron
shot and grit. Consideration was cash,
and the joint proprietor is Staveley In-
dustries Ltd of England.
Other members of the group are R.
M. Gibson Pty, Melbourne tool mer-
chant; Keep Bros and Wood Pty, Mel-
bourne motor accessory merchant; F.
W. Hercus Manufacturing Co. Ltd, Ade-
laide maker of machine tools; Tool
Equipment Co. Pty, Sydney maker of
taps and dies, milling cutters and
reamers; Thomas McPherson and Son
(Investment) Pty, tool merchant and sup-
plier of general engineering requirements,
of Sydney and Newcastle; Watts Mc-
Ritchie Engineering Co. Pty, Melbourne
repetition engineer; Patience and Nichol-
son Ltd of Maryborough (Vic.), maker
of twist drills, taps and dies and hack-
saw blades.
The 1961-62 accounts included for the
first time the accounts of Patience and
Nicholson’s two subsidiaries, Patience and
Nicholson (NZ) Ltd, which makes twist
drills at Kaiapoi, and Hedges and Bell
Ltd, Maryborough printer, publisher and
packager.
In accordance with the 1961 Vic-
torian Companies Act, Ajax GKN Ltd,
maker of bolts, nuts, rivets and hinges,
and Ajax Agencies Ltd, general mer-
chant (both of Lower Hutt, NZ), al-
though subsidiaries, were not incor-
porated in group accounts. (Hence the
apparent big rise in investments in
1961-62.)
The 1961-62 results were affected by
the reduced level of economic activity
in Australia which made industry shelve
its plans for expansion and re-equipment
of plant. Directors said the two bolt
plants at Richmond (Vic.) and Alex-
andria (NSW) had lower output because
of the severe cut-back in the automobile
and building industries.
Although there was not much evi-
dence of a better tone in the building
industry when directors made their re-
cent interim report, the lowering of inter-
est rates since that date must in time in-
fuse new life into these sections of Mc-
Pherson’s business.
Higher efficiency and standards of per-
formance should be a permanent legacy
of the squeeze, with consequent benefit
to future net profits.
Fixed assets are depreciated on the
basis allowed by the Tax Department, so
the 1962 tax provision of £488,549 was
in line with disclosed profit.
Good stock control was maintained
last year, so that stocks carried were re-
duced in accordance with lower demand,
without reducing the range available.
With industry now re-equipping itself
for expansion, McPherson’s shares, while
no bargain, look sound buying at up to
45s.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 8834 9762 11757 10695
Less
current liabilities 3428 4152 4285 3473
Working capital 5406 5610 7472 7222
Investments 171 313 200 665
Fixed assets 4343 4447 7991 7793
Intangibles 56 56 76 104
9976 10426 15739 15784
Deferred liabilities — — 1056 1223
Minority interests 744 781 910 680
Employees' capital 236 240 246 260
Ordinary capital 4222 4222 7511 7587
Reserves 4774 5183 6016 6034
9976 10426 15739 15784
Sales 16,815 1 9,770 20,371 18,837
Depreciation 260 288 314 291
Taxation 541 774 635 489
Net profit 837 1040 845 720
Employees' dividend 41 42 21
Ordinary dividend 528 528 626 632
Surplus 1069 1532 114
Earning rate 19.8 24.6 11.3 9.2
Dividend rafe 12£ 8J 83
Dividend yield (a) 3.9 4.1 3.9 3.9
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 16.1 12.5 18.9 22.4
High price (b) 68/6 88/3 75/- 497-
Low price (b) 53/3 55/- 41/9 37/9
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: MYRTLE GLADYS IRENE BAR WICK of
16 Merilba Street, Narromine, N.S.W. TAKE
NOTICE that BERT BARWICK has filed a
Petition No. 3803 of 1962 for divorce on the
ground of desertion. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
31st day of May, 1963, and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from M. V.
DUFFY, Solicitor, of Burroway Street, Narro-
mine, or from his Sydney agents, DUNCAN
BARRON & CO., Solicitors, of 81 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: JAN MOTL, formerly of Bathurst, in the
State of New South Wales, TAKE NOTICE
that ANNA MOTL has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3217 of 1962 on the ground of
desertion. If you wish to defend you may
file an answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 13th day of June, 1963. A copy
of the Petition may be obtained without
charge from MESSRS. PETER G. KEARNEY
& CO., Solicitors, 254 George Street, Sydney.
~~ C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
m
i
■
w®
m
;y.
li
WL
&
4:
'
%
■
mil
a i
ii
< ■ i&isi&lsS&y: y.X / 3 " v-y. $8 ¥$H5
m
why do I use that bank?
that’s m business!
Of course it is . . . strictly your own business. Australia has
thousands of bank branches competing for your business and
offering all the best in banking service at the lowest cost. When
you choose your bank to suit your own personal needs, remember
that there’s freedom in the right to take your pick.
EVERY
AUSTRALIAN
benefits
from competition
between banks
FREE ENTERPRISE BANKS
The A.N.Z. © the NATIONAL e the WALES • the C.B.C. • the C.B.A. • the Adelaide and E.S.&A.
C26OA
Italian Aluminium
Production Falls
"Production of aluminium in Italy to-
tailed 81,234 tons in 1962, com-
pared with 83,353 tons in 1961, but
exports increased slightly.
Bauxite production dropped 3.9 p.c. to
309,317 tons in 1962. Imports of alumin-
ium and aluminium alloys rose 79 p.c.
to 54,335 tons.
Production of both bauxite and alu-
minium may, however, rise sharply as a
result of major investment in mining
and reduction facilities in Sardinia.
Early Cut Hay Better
Tt has been proved conclusively that
A early cut hay has greater nutritional
qualities than late cut hay in stock
feeding. But why? As pastures mature
they become less leafy and more stemmy
and fibrous and less digestible. Animals
make less use of the nutrients in mature
pasture than in younger pasture.
The Victorian Department of Agri-
culture’s experiments some time ago at
its Pastoral Research Station at Hamil-
ton showed that at the haymaking stage
a good mixed clover and rye pasture
drops li to 2 p.c. in protein each week
simply because it is growing old.
“We don’t suggest that all pastures
should be cut early that might be
looking for trouble but it is necessary
to start early and keep going ,in small
areas,” said Mr E. K. Simmons, fodder
conservation officer.


Feiffer
m
fjr wtf
DHc
MOM&iX
Hum.
ime ar£
setem
messa g&.
FAITH CUltO AT 7AM. EWE 6M5 IF
hou ott <7Aa m m iv-oo ewe
MU KILL HERSELF. LOLA CAUEP
AT *3O.EAIP eW6 MU CALL
BACK LATER.
FAITH CALLED AT ILVo AMP SAIP IF W
POMT CALL HER 8H 3:00 SHE LOU RILE
mCELF. 14DVR. FATHER CMLEP AT IZ-OO
He mm m to call
HOUR MOTH ER, EOT
' mt ml her he
TOLU m TO. LOLA
CMLEP AT 1:00.
SAW SHE lOILL
CALL BACK LATER.
LOLA CUIZOkIW.m M
WILL LALL OACK LAT£P. LOLA
FAITHjmgP AT T(9 mw
HOU THAT IF W 09
dot m hsr m
3:00 m MIL
m msiE
ico r father cmc at zoo mo
mreo ro mio m m wr
CAIIEP tiOl/R MATHER. OHT IOWT
tele her he mp hou ro. faith
CMI6O AT 3:00 AW AA\Q IF HOU
mrcMi m w
r.oo she mu Km
HE&eiF. LOLA
TALLER AX
3:30. HO
HFAOA6F.
HOUR FATHER CALLED AT A 'DO AW SAID
if m mr cml m mother we
MOULD KILL HUSELF. LOLA CALLED
AT 4:30 AW SAID IF SHE VIDKTT
HFAR FROM. IiOV m 7:00 SHE
MOULD KILL HER-
SELF. FAITH CALLED
AT S’OT AW LEFT
MD THAT SHE
> MAS SOME TO
\ KILL HERSELF.
AMTHIU6
om m
THIW6
me,
SIR-
t'mvemiwf
your j \,oYt You!
I Cout YOU!
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 744
ACROSS
I—Wishbones having tipsy fancies? (13)
7—Without affectation, Gould and you have a long
exchange of shots in contesting a tennis point. (9)
10— The Latin’s light alternative for an ancient Egyptian
city. (5)
11— An Indian cook, pressed for time, does bustle. (5-6)
12— He careless takes on a considerable period. (3)
13— Tense character who keeps mum by the way. (4)
14— A nun dieted, (anagram) (10)
17—Fay put back a fish balancer before a high wind
woodpecker, according to Tennyson. (10)
20—Pole takes 13-across with
nothing good for an Aus-
tralian conductor. (4)
22 Tree in which a sloth drops
the lot. (3)
23 Equipment for broadcasting
art backed North and South
against a baseball glover. (11)
24 Raced into timber. (5)
25 Girl locating a famous French
painter in the site. (9)
26 Yearn about one affirmative
annihilation consistently over
a very long period. (4, 2,4, 3)
DOWN
1 and 2—Hardly the tax com-
missioner’s estimate of the
mail he receives on July 31.
(4, 5,7, 2,3, 3)
3 Not the underworld I
scrutinise, but a mountain
sacred to the muses. (7)
4 Hear about little Alfred
within six months. (4-4)
5 Witty forest oxen involved
when the English Civil War
began. (7-5-3)
6 The woman’s legside bird. (5)
8— Fish beams. (4)
9 Name of an S.A. peninsula
or key alterations. (5)
15—Don’t encourage the polite
little man what helps with
the wash-up? (9)
16—Flora includes this lie about
W’s identity number in opera.
(8)
18— King George mounted on a
cousin of the horse for its
food. (5)
19— Equipment for cobbling haw-
thorn this time in 1962. (4,3)
21— Wine looks bad in Vienna. (4)
22 Current credit given to a
Ghana capital. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 743


a
■
iV
-
n
r
'
■ :**
m
r
"•'-i
: * - x i
m
% >?#. .. -
-- «? • '
c , r s »*aM -
>
iiill
r V'. " Jgf •
5‘ «SSL ■
>*. *V .rvi •• - "
" AL* "~ J&S- - -C~
.
V v
sp» ■% ** n
4ll. :
■rmu
rf
■"...
'V : 3
*1
il©
-«Ji
v-
__ i
«! ■::
:*.
<#
jOT-
i
dT:
en
S-
*'... j
mmm
■ M
--
•••■-■
s
pglg& ,
ISS
*&t,ljnt
m
m
-' -
•s
PH
j&ae*
IS
-
a
<£,
K
■;j
ifc
i
v
iliiSlill
■
I :
■P
k
. "- 1
FAMOUS COVERS...
IMPORTANT COVER STORIES
In 1962, THE BULLETIN not only reported news. It made news, too.
• Australian paintings, some specially commissioned, made Australian
publishing history by appearing on BULLETIN covers. More are
planned for 1963.
• BULLETIN sales have increased 50% in the last two years.
• For 82 years the BULLETIN has been an Australian byword with a
high overseas reputation. Now special air express editions go to New
Guinea, New Zealand, Malaysia, London. It has subscribers in all
parts of the world.
• Everybody is talking about the "new look" BULLETIN, about its lively
features, local and overseas news, about Tanner, Boadicea, Discus and
Cellarmaster, about its interviews, profiles, reviews of books, theatre,
films and art.
THE BULLETIN is proud of its achievements in 1962, confident that
it will gain more readers in 1963, and that it will continue to
expand its services to all its readers in Australia and overseas.
ea ° u , can be sure of your copy of THE BULLETIN
J- week by filling in this subscription form.
U; J a friend happy in 1963 by giving
h,m a BULLETIN subscription
The Bulletin
The
m °gazine tor interesting people
Subscription Department, The Bulletin, Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.U ,jj -j-j ' .
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (by Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0 6 months £2 12 0
N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press Limited, 107 Fleet St., LONDON.
U S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press Limited, 229 West 43rd Street
NEW YORK 36, N'.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for months subscription to
THE BULLETIN.


k
m
\
m
*******
S''
~5 -•,
4
e. ...::
:.v..
5-S
\
.
mmi.
> ~ a ' $
•-
.
■
ygmgmmmmmm
Open the door on
a new world of
motoring
''
Open the door on a new Holden Premier. You’ll find it's got just about everything you could
possibly want to make personal motoring a new and delightful experience. It's completely
and beautifully appointed. Yet a new Premier can be yours for hundreds of pounds less than
other luxury cars. If you're a lover of fine cars, you should drive a Premier. You'll be
impressed by its smooth, spirited performance. Its superb comfort. Its wonderful silence.
You’ll really enjoy the armchair comfort of Holden’s exclusive "Red Carpet’’ ride. Your Holden’
Dealer has a beautiful new Premier ready and waiting for you to drive. See him today!
Price: £1,195 plus tax. General Motors-Holden’s Pty. Limited. * re ® d
SEE YOUR HOLDEN DEALER TODAY . . . DRIVE THE NEW
HOLDEN PREMIER
